Dr. Remondino: "where the latitude gives warmth and the sea or ocean
tempering winds, where the soil is warm and dry and the sun is also
bright and warm, where uninterrupted bright clear weather and a moderate
temperature are the rule, where extremes neither of heat nor cold are to
be found, where nothing may interfere with the exercise of the aged, and
where the actual results and cases of longevity will bear testimony as
to the efficacy of all its climatic conditions being favorable to a long
and comfortable existence."



In an unpublished paper Dr. Remondino comments on the extraordinary
endurance of animals and men in the California climate, and cites many
cases of uncommon longevity in natives. In reading the accounts of early
days in California I am struck with the endurance of hardship, exposure,
and wounds by the natives and the adventurers, the rancheros, horsemen,
herdsmen, the descendants of soldiers and the Indians, their
insensibility to fatigue, and their agility and strength. This is
ascribed to the climate; and what is true of man is true of the native
horse. His only rival in strength, endurance, speed, and intelligence is
the Arabian. It was long supposed that this was racial, and that but for
the smallness of the size of the native horse, crossing with it would
improve the breed of the Eastern and Kentucky racers. But there was
reluctance to cross the finely proportioned Eastern horse with his
diminutive Western brother. The importation and breeding of
thoroughbreds on this coast has led to the discovery that the desirable
qualities of the California horse were not racial but climatic. The
Eastern horse has been found to improve in size, compactness of muscle,
in strength of limb, in wind, with a marked increase in power of
endurance. The traveller here notices the fine horses and their
excellent condition, and the power and endurance of those that have
considerable age. The records made on Eastern race-courses by horses
from California breeding farms have already attracted attention. It is
also remarked that the Eastern horse is usually improved greatly by a
sojourn of a season or two on this coast, and the plan of bringing
Eastern race-horses here for the winter is already adopted.

Man, it is asserted by our authority, is as much benefited as the horse
by a change to this climate. The new-comer may have certain unpleasant
sensations in coming here from different altitudes and conditions, but
he will soon be conscious of better being, of increased power in all the
functions of life, more natural and recuperative sleep, and an accession
of vitality and endurance. Dr. Remondino also testifies that it
occasionally happens in this rejuvenation that families which have
seemed to have reached their limit at the East are increased after
residence here.

The early inhabitants of Southern California, according to the statement
of Mr. H. H. Bancroft and other reports, were found to be living in
Spartan conditions as to temperance and training, and in a highly moral
condition, in consequence of which they had uncommon physical endurance
and contempt for luxury. This training in abstinence and hardship, with
temperance in diet, combined with the climate to produce the astonishing
longevity to be found here. Contrary to the customs of most other tribes
of Indians, their aged were the care of the community. Dr. W. A. Winder,
of San Diego, is quoted as saying that in a visit to El Cajon Valley
some thirty years ago he was taken to a house in which the aged persons
were cared for. There were half a dozen who had reached an extreme age.
Some were unable to move, their bony frame being seemingly anchylosed.
They were old, wrinkled, and blear-eyed; their skin was hanging in
leathery folds about their withered limbs; some had hair as white as
snow, and had seen some seven-score of years; others, still able to
crawl, but so aged as to be unable to stand, went slowly about on their
hands and knees, their limbs being attenuated and withered. The organs
of special sense had in many nearly lost all activity some generations
back. Some had lost the use of their limbs for more than a decade or a
generation; but the organs of life and the "great sympathetic" still
kept up their automatic functions, not recognizing the fact, and
surprisingly indifferent to it, that the rest of the body had ceased to
be of any use a generation or more in the past. And it is remarked that
"these thoracic and abdominal organs and their physiological action
being kept alive and active, as it were, against time, and the silent
and unconscious functional activity of the great sympathetic and its
ganglia, show a tenacity of the animal tissues to hold on to life that
is phenomenal."



I have no space to enter upon the nature of the testimony upon which the
age of certain Indians hereafter referred to is based. It is such as to
satisfy Dr. Remondino, Dr. Edward Palmer, long connected with the
Agricultural Department of the Smithsonian Institution, and Father A. D.
Ubach, who has religious charge of the Indians in this region. These
Indians were not migratory; they lived within certain limits, and were
known to each other. The missions established by the Franciscan friars
were built with the assistance of the Indians. The friars have handed
down by word of mouth many details in regard to their early missions;
others are found in the mission records, such as carefully kept records
of family events--births, marriages, and deaths. And there is the
testimony of the Indians regarding each other. Father Ubach has known a
number who were employed at the building of the mission of San Diego
(1769-71), a century before he took charge of this mission. These men
had been engaged in carrying timber from the mountains or in making
brick, and many of them were living within the last twenty years. There
are persons still living at the Indian village of Capitan Grande whose
ages he estimates at over one hundred and thirty years. Since the advent
of civilization the abstemious habits and Spartan virtues of these
Indians have been impaired, and their care for the aged has relaxed.

Dr. Palmer has a photograph (which I have seen) of a squaw whom he
estimates to be 126 years old. When he visited her he saw her put six
watermelons in a blanket, tie it up, and carry it on her back for two
miles. He is familiar with Indian customs and history, and a careful
cross-examination convinced him that her information of old customs was
not obtained by tradition. She was conversant with tribal habits she had
seen practised, such as the cremation of the dead, which the mission
fathers had compelled the Indians to relinquish. She had seen the
Indians punished by the fathers with floggings for persisting in the
practice of cremation.

At the mission of San Tomas, in Lower California, is still living an
Indian (a photograph of whom Dr. Remondino shows), bent and wrinkled,
whose age is computed at 140 years. Although blind and naked, he is
still active, and daily goes down the beach and along the beds of the
creeks in search of drift-wood, making it his daily task to gather and
carry to camp a fagot of wood.



Another instance I give in Dr. Remondino's words: "Philip Crossthwaite,
who has lived here since 1843, has an old man on his ranch who mounts
his horse and rides about daily, who was a grown man breaking horses for
the mission fathers when Don Antonio Serrano was an infant. Don Antonio
I know quite well, having attended him through a serious illness some
sixteen years ago. Although now at the advanced age of ninety-three, he
is as erect as a pine, and he rides his horse with his usual vigor and
grace. He is thin and spare and very tall, and those who knew him fifty
years or more remember him as the most skilful horseman in the
neighborhood of San Diego. And yet, as fabulous as it may seem, the man
who danced this Don Antonio on his knee when he was an infant is not
only still alive, but is active enough to mount his horse and canter
about the country. Some years ago I attended an elderly gentleman, since
dead, who knew this man as a full-grown man when he and Don Serrano were
play-children together. From a conversation with Father Ubach I learned
that the man's age is perfectly authenticated to be beyond one hundred
and eighteen years."

In the many instances given of extreme old age in this region the habits
of these Indians have been those of strict temperance and
abstemiousness, and their long life in an equable climate is due to
extreme simplicity of diet. In many cases of extreme age the diet has
consisted simply of acorns, flour, and water. It is asserted that the
climate itself induces temperance in drink and abstemiousness in diet.
In his estimate of the climate as a factor of longevity, Dr. Remondino
says that it is only necessary to look at the causes of death, and the
ages most subject to attack, to understand that the less of these causes
that are present the greater are the chances of man to reach great age.
"Add to these reflections that you run no gantlet of diseases to
undermine or deteriorate the organism; that in this climate childhood
finds an escape from those diseases which are the terror of mothers, and
against which physicians are helpless, as we have here none of those
affections of the first three years of life so prevalent during the
summer months in the East and the rest of the United States. Then,
again, the chance of gastric or intestinal disease is almost incredibly
small. This immunity extends through every age of life. Hepatic and
kindred diseases are unknown; of lung affections there is no land that
can boast of like exemption. Be it the equability of the temperature or
the aseptic condition of the atmosphere, the free sweep of winds or the
absence of disease germs, or what else it may be ascribed to, one thing
is certain, that there is no pneumonia, bronchitis, or pleurisy lying in
wait for either the infant or the aged."



The importance of this subject must excuse the space I have given to it.
It is evident from this testimony that here are climatic conditions
novel and worthy of the most patient scientific investigation. Their
effect upon hereditary tendencies and upon persons coming here with
hereditary diseases will be studied. Three years ago there was in some
localities a visitation of small-pox imported from Mexico. At that time
there were cases of pneumonia. Whether these were incident to
carelessness in vaccination, or were caused by local unsanitary
conditions, I do not know. It is not to be expected that unsanitary
conditions will not produce disease here as elsewhere. It cannot be too
strongly insisted that this is a climate that the new-comer must get
used to, and that he cannot safely neglect the ordinary precautions. The
difference between shade and sun is strikingly marked, and he must not
be deceived into imprudence by the prevailing sunshine or the general
equability.




CHAPTER VI.

IS RESIDENCE HERE AGREEABLE?


After all these averages and statistics, and not considering now the
chances of the speculator, the farmer, the fruit-raiser, or the invalid,
is Southern California a particularly agreeable winter residence? The
question deserves a candid answer, for it is of the last importance to
the people of the United States to know the truth--to know whether they
have accessible by rail a region free from winter rigor and
vicissitudes, and yet with few of the disadvantages of most winter
resorts. One would have more pleasure in answering the question if he
were not irritated by the perpetual note of brag and exaggeration in
every locality that each is the paradise of the earth, and absolutely
free from any physical discomfort. I hope that this note of exaggeration
is not the effect of the climate, for if it is, the region will never be
socially agreeable.

There are no sudden changes of season here. Spring comes gradually day
by day, a perceptible hourly waking to life and color; and this glides
into a summer which never ceases, but only becomes tired and fades into
the repose of a short autumn, when the sere and brown and red and yellow
hills and the purple mountains are waiting for the rain clouds. This is
according to the process of nature; but wherever irrigation brings
moisture to the fertile soil, the green and bloom are perpetual the year
round, only the green is powdered with dust, and the cultivated flowers
have their periods of exhaustion.

I should think it well worth while to watch the procession of nature
here from late November or December to April. It is a land of delicate
and brilliant wild flowers, of blooming shrubs, strange in form and
wonderful in color. Before the annual rains the land lies in a sort of
swoon in a golden haze; the slopes and plains are bare, the hills yellow
with ripe wild-oats or ashy gray with sage, the sea-breeze is weak, the
air grows drier, the sun hot, the shade cool. Then one day light clouds
stream up from the south-west, and there is a gentle rain. When the sun
comes out again its rays are milder, the land is refreshed and
brightened, and almost immediately a greenish tinge appears on plain and
hill-side. At intervals the rain continues, daily the landscape is
greener in infinite variety of shades, which seem to sweep over the
hills in waves of color. Upon this carpet of green by February nature
begins to weave an embroidery of wild flowers, white, lavender, golden,
pink, indigo, scarlet, changing day by day and every day more brilliant,
and spreading from patches into great fields until dale and hill and
table-land are overspread with a refinement and glory of color that
would be the despair of the carpet-weavers of Daghestan.

This, with the scent of orange groves and tea-roses, with cool nights,
snow in sight on the high mountains, an occasional day of rain, days of
bright sunshine, when an overcoat is needed in driving, must suffice
the sojourner for winter. He will be humiliated that he is more
sensitive to cold than the heliotrope or the violet, but he must bear
it. If he is looking for malaria, he must go to some other winter
resort. If he wants a "norther" continuing for days, he must move on. If
he is accustomed to various insect pests, he will miss them here. If
there comes a day warmer than usual, it will not be damp or soggy. So
far as nature is concerned there is very little to grumble at, and one
resource of the traveller is therefore taken away.

But is it interesting? What is there to do? It must be confessed that
there is a sort of monotony in the scenery as there is in the climate.
There is, to be sure, great variety in a way between coast and mountain,
as, for instance, between Santa Barbara and Pasadena, and if the tourist
will make a business of exploring the valleys and uplands and cañons
little visited, he will not complain of monotony; but the artist and the
photographer find the same elements repeated in little varying
combinations. There is undeniable repetition in the succession of
flower-gardens, fruit orchards, alleys of palms and peppers, vineyards,
and the cultivation about the villas is repeated in all directions. The
Americans have not the art of making houses or a land picturesque. The
traveller is enthusiastic about the exquisite drives through these
groves of fruit, with the ashy or the snow-covered hills for background
and contrast, and he exclaims at the pretty cottages, vine and rose
clad, in their semi-tropical setting, but if by chance he comes upon an
old adobe or a Mexican ranch house in the country, he has emotions of a
different sort.



There is little left of the old Spanish occupation, but the remains of
it make the romance of the country, and appeal to our sense of fitness
and beauty. It is to be hoped that all such historical associations will
be preserved, for they give to the traveller that which our country
generally lacks, and which is so largely the attraction of Italy and
Spain. Instead of adapting and modifying the houses and homes that the
climate suggests, the new American comers have brought here from the
East the smartness and prettiness of our modern nondescript
architecture. The low house, with recesses and galleries, built round an
inner court, or patio, which, however small, would fill the whole
interior with sunshine and the scent of flowers, is the sort of dwelling
that would suit the climate and the habit of life here. But the present
occupiers have taken no hints from the natives. In village and country
they have done all they can, in spite of the maguey and the cactus and
the palm and the umbrella-tree and the live-oak and the riotous flowers
and the thousand novel forms of vegetation, to give everything a prosaic
look. But why should the tourist find fault with this? The American
likes it, and he would not like the picturesqueness of the Spanish or
the Latin races.

So far as climate and natural beauty go to make one contented in a
winter resort, Southern California has unsurpassed attractions, and both
seem to me to fit very well the American temperament; but the
associations of art and history are wanting, and the tourist knows how
largely his enjoyment of a vacation in Southern Italy or Sicily or
Northern Africa depends upon these--upon these and upon the aspects of
human nature foreign to his experience.

It goes without saying that this is not Europe, either in its human
interest or in a certain refinement of landscape that comes only by long
cultivation and the occupancy of ages. One advantage of foreign travel
to the restless American is that he carries with him no responsibility
for the government or the progress of the country he is in, and that he
leaves business behind him; whereas in this new country, which is his
own, the development of which is so interesting, and in which the
opportunities of fortune seem so inviting, he is constantly tempted "to
take a hand in." If, however, he is superior to this fever, and is
willing simply to rest, to drift along with the equable days, I know of
no other place where he can be more truly contented. Year by year the
country becomes more agreeable for the traveller, in the first place,
through the improvement in the hotels, and in the second, by better
roads. In the large villages and cities there are miles of excellent
drives, well sprinkled, through delightful avenues, in a park-like
country, where the eye is enchanted with color and luxurious vegetation,
and captivated by the remarkable beauty of the hills, the wildness and
picturesqueness of which enhance the charming cultivation of the
orchards and gardens. And no country is more agreeable for riding and
driving, for even at mid-day, in the direct sun rays, there is almost
everywhere a refreshing breeze, and one rides or drives or walks with
little sense of fatigue. The horses are uniformly excellent, either in
the carriage or under the saddle. I am sure they are remarkable in
speed, endurance, and ease of motion. If the visiting season had no
other attraction, the horses would make it distinguished.

A great many people like to spend months in a comfortable hotel,
lounging on the piazzas, playing lawn-tennis, taking a morning ride or
afternoon drive, making an occasional picnic excursion up some mountain
cañon, getting up charades, playing at private theatricals, dancing,
flirting, floating along with more or less sentiment and only the
weariness that comes when there are no duties. There are plenty of
places where all these things can be done, and with no sort of anxiety
about the weather from week to week, and with the added advantage that
the women and children can take care of themselves. But for those who
find such a life monotonous there are other resources. There is very
good fishing in the clear streams in the foot-hills, hunting in the
mountains for large game still worthy of the steadiest nerves, and good
bird-shooting everywhere. There are mountains to climb, cañons to
explore, lovely valleys in the recesses of the hills to be
discovered--in short, one disposed to activity and not afraid of
roughing it could occupy himself most agreeably and healthfully in the
wild parts of San Bernardino and San Diego counties; he may even still
start a grizzly in the Sierra Madre range in Los Angeles County. Hunting
and exploring in the mountains, riding over the mesas, which are green
from the winter rains and gay with a thousand delicate grasses and
flowering plants, is manly occupation to suit the most robust and
adventurous. Those who saunter in the trim gardens, or fly from one
hotel parlor to the other, do not see the best of Southern California in
the winter.




CHAPTER VII.

THE WINTER ON THE COAST.


But the distinction of this coast, and that which will forever make it
attractive at the season when the North Atlantic is forbidding, is that
the ocean-side is as equable, as delightful, in winter as in summer. Its
sea-side places are truly all-the-year-round resorts. In subsequent
chapters I shall speak in detail of different places as to climate and
development and peculiarities of production. I will now only give a
general idea of Southern California as a wintering place. Even as far
north as Monterey, in the central part of the State, the famous Hotel
del Monte, with its magnificent park of pines and live-oaks, and
exquisite flower-gardens underneath the trees, is remarkable for its
steadiness of temperature. I could see little difference between the
temperature of June and of February. The difference is of course
greatest at night. The maximum the year through ranges from about 65° to
about 80°, and the minimum from about 35° to about 58°, though there are
days when the thermometer goes above 90°, and nights when it falls below
30°.



To those who prefer the immediate ocean air to that air as modified by
such valleys as the San Gabriel and the Santa Ana, the coast offers a
variety of choice in different combinations of sea and mountain climate
all along the southern sunny exposure from Santa Barbara to San Diego.
In Santa Barbara County the Santa Inez range of mountains runs westward
to meet the Pacific at Point Conception. South of this noble range are a
number of little valleys opening to the sea, and in one of these, with a
harbor and sloping upland and cañon of its own, lies Santa Barbara,
looking southward towards the sunny islands of Santa Rosa and Santa
Cruz. Above it is the Mission Cañon, at the entrance of which is the
best-preserved of the old Franciscan missions. There is a superb drive
eastward along the long and curving sea-beach of four miles to the cañon
of Monticito, which is rather a series of nooks and terraces, of lovely
places and gardens, of plantations of oranges and figs, rising up to the
base of the gray mountains. The long line of the Santa Inez suggests the
promontory of Sorrento, and a view from the opposite rocky point, which
encloses the harbor on the west, by the help of cypresses which look
like stone-pines, recalls many an Italian coast scene, and in situation
the Bay of Naples. The whole aspect is foreign, enchanting, and the
semi-tropical fruits and vines and flowers, with a golden atmosphere
poured over all, irresistibly take the mind to scenes of Italian
romance. There is still a little Spanish flavor left in the town, in a
few old houses, in names and families historic, and in the life without
hurry or apprehension. There is a delightful commingling here of sea and
mountain air, and in a hundred fertile nooks in the hills one in the
most delicate health may be sheltered from every harsh wind. I think no
one ever leaves Santa Barbara without a desire to return to it.

Farther down the coast, only eighteen miles from Los Angeles, and a sort
of Coney Island resort of that thriving city, is Santa Monica. Its hotel
stands on a high bluff in a lovely bend of the coast. It is popular in
