masseur, had every hair plucked from 
his arms, legs and armpits; his flesh 
rubbed down with nard, his limbs 
polished with pumice; and then, 
wrapped in a scarlet robe, lined with 
fur, was sent home in a litter. "Strike 
them in the face!" cried Ctesar at 
Pharsalus, when the J'oung patricians 
made their charge; and the young 
patricians, who cared more for their 
looks than they did for victory, turned 
and fled. 
It was to the Field of Mars that 
Agrippa came, to whom Rome owed 
the Pantheon and the demand for a 
law which should inhibit the private 
ownership of a masterpiece. There, 
too, his eunuchs about him, Mecsenas 
lounged, companioned by Varus, by 
Horace and the mime Bathylle, all 
of whom he was accu-tonied to invite 
 
to that lovely villa of his which over- 
looked the blue Sabinian hills, and 
where suppers were given such ns 
those which Petronius has described 
so alertly and so well. 
In a hall like that of Mecienas', one 
divided against itself, the upper half 
containing the conches and tables, the 
other reserved for the service and the 
entertainments that follow, the ceiling 
was met by columns, the walls hidden by panels of gems. On a frieze 
twelve pictures, surmounted by the 
signs of the zodiac, represented the 
dishes of the different months. Beneath the bronze beds and silver 
tables mosaics were set in imitation 
of food that had fallen and had not 
been swept away. And there, in 
white ungirdled tunics, the head and 
neck circled with coils of amaranth  
the perfume of which in opening the 
pores neutralizes the fumes of wine  
 
the guests lay, fanned by boys, whose 
curly hair they used for napkins. 
Under the supervision of a butler the 
courses were served on platters so 
large that they covered the tables; 
sows' breasts with Lybian truffles; 
dormice baked in poppies and honey; 
peacock-tongues flavored with cin- 
namon; oysters stewed in garum — a 
sauce made of the intestines of fish — 
sea-wolves from the Baltic; sturgeons 
from Rhodes; fig-peckers from Samos; 
African snails; pale beans in pink 
lard; and a jxllow pig cooked after 
the Trojan fashion, from which, when 
carved, hot sausages fell and live 
thrushes flew. Therewith was the 
mulsum, a cup made of white wine, 
nard, roses, absinthe and honey; the
delicate sweet wines of Greece; and I 
crusty Falernian of the year six hundred and thirty-two. As the cups 
circulated, choirs entered, chanting 
 
sedately the last erotic song; lithe 
virgins, their bodies rubbed with oil, 
wrestled like athletes in the games; a 
clown danced on the top of a ladder, 
which he maintained upright as he 
danced, telling meanwhile untellable 
stories to the frieze; and host and 
guests, unvociferously, as good breeding dictates, chatted through the 
pauses of the service; discussed the 
disadvantages of death, the value of 
Ncevian iambics, the disgrace of Ovid, 
banished because of Livia's eyes. 
Such was the Rome of Augustus. 
"Caesar," cried a mime to him one 
day, "do you know that it is important for you that the people should be 
interested in Bathylle and in myself. " 
The mime was right. The sover- 
eign of Rome was not the Cgesar, nor 
yet the aristocracy. The latter was 
dead. It had been banished by barbarian senators, by barbarian gods; 
 
it had died twice, at Pharsalus, at 
Philippi; it was the people that was 
sovereign, and it was important that 
that sovereign should be amused — 
flattered, too, and fed. For thirty 
years not a Roman of note had died 
in his bed; not one but had kept by 
him a slave who should kill him when 
his hour had come; anarchy had been 
continuous; but now Rome was at 
rest and its sovereign wished to laugh. 
Made up of every nation and every 
vice, the universe was ransacked for 
its entertainment. The mountains 
sent its lions, the desert giraffes; there 
were boas from the jungles, bulls from 
the plains, and hippopotami from the 
waters of the Nile. Into the arenas 
patricians descended; in the amphitheatre there were criminals from 
Gaul; in the Forum philosophers from 
Greece. On the stage there were 
tragedies, pantomimes and farce; 
 
there were races in the circus, and 
in the sacred groves girls with the 
Orient in their eyes and slim waists 
that swayed to the crotals. For the 
thirst of the sovereign there were 
aqueducts, and for its hunger Africa, 
Egypt, Sicily contributed grain. 
Syria unveiled her altars, Persia the 
mystery and magnificence of her 
gods. 
Such was Rome. Augustus was 
less noteworthy; so unnecessary even 
that every student must regret Actium, Anthony's defeat, the passing 
of Cresar's dream. For Anthony was 
made for conquests; it was he who, 
fortune favoring, might have given 
the world to Rome. A splendid, an 
impudent bandit, first and foremost a 
soldier, vaunting himself a descendant 
of Hercules whom lie resembled; 
hailed at Ephcsus as Bacchus, in 
Egypt as Osiris ; Asiatic in lavishness, 
 
and Teuton in his capacity for drink; 
vomiting in the open Forum, and 
making and unmaking kings; weaving with that ipcr of the Nile a 
romance which is history; passing initiate into the inimitable life, it would 
have been curious to have watched 
him that last night when the silence 
was stirred by the hum of harps, the 
cries of bacchantes bearing his tute- 
lary god back to the Roman camp, 
while he bade farewell to love, to 
empire and to life. 
Augustus resembled him not at all. 
He was a colorless monarch; an 
emperor in ever3thing but dignity, a 
prince in everything but grace; a tactician, not a soldier; a superstitious 
braggart, afraid of nothing but danger; 
seducing women to learn their hus- 
bands' secrets; exiling his daughter, 
not because she had lovers, but because she had other lovers than himself; exiling Ovid because of Livia, 
who in the end poisoned her prince, 
and adroitly, too; illiterate, blundering 
of speech, and coarse of manner — a 
hypocrite and a comedian in one — so 
guileful and yet so stupid that while 
a credulous moribund ordered the 
gods to be thanked that Augustus 
survived him, the people publicly 
applied to him an epithet which designates an unnameable beast. 
Such was the individual whom 
school-girls are instructed to admire, 
though for what reason it is difficult 
to fancy, unless it be that he is 
regarded as a patron of letters of 
which he knew nothing, the host of 
pedantic bores. After Philippi and 
the suicide of Brutus; after Actium 
and Anthony's death, admittedly, for 
the first time in ages, the gates of the 
Temple of Janus were closed. There 
was peace in the world; but it was 
the sword of Csesar, not of Augustus, 
that brought the insurgents to book. 
At each of the victories he was either 
asleep or ill. At the time of battle 
there was always some god warning 
him to be careful. The battle won, 
he was brave, pitiless and ready of 
jest. A father and son begged for 
mercj-. He promised forgiveness to 
the son on condition that he killed 
his father. The son accepted and did 
the work; then he had the son des- 
patched. A prisoner begged but for 
a grave. "The vultures will see to 
it," he answered. When at the head 
of CECsar's legions, he entered Rome 
to avenge the latter's death, he announced beforehand that he would 
imitate neither Caesar's moderation 
nor Sylla's cruelty. There would be 
only a few proscriptions, and a price 
— and what a price, liberty! — was 
placed on the heads of hundreds of 
 
senators and thousands of knights. 
And these notables, who had more 
slaves than they knew by sight, slaves 
whom they tossed alive to fatten tish, 
slaves to whom they affected never 
to speak, and who were crucified did 
they so much as sneeze in their 
presence — at the feet of these slaves 
the aristocrats rolled, imploring them 
not to deliver them up. Now and 
then a slave was merciful ; Augustus 
never. 
Successes such as these made him 
ambitious. Having vanquished with 
the sword, he tried the pen. "Yon 
may grant the freedom of the city to 
your barbarians," said a wit to him 
one day, "but not to your solecisms." 
Undeterred he began a tragedy 
entitled AJax, and discovering his 
incompetence, gave it up. "And 
what has become of Ajax. " a parasite asked, "Ajax threw himself on 
 
a Sponge," replied Augustus, whose 
father, it is to be regretted, did not do I
likewise. Nevertheless, it were pleasant to have assisted at his funeral. 
A couch of ivory and gold, ten 
feet high, draped with purple, stood 
for a week in the atrium of the 
ace. Within the couch, hidden from 
view, the body of the emperor lay, 
ravaged by poison. Above was a- 
statue, recumbent, in wax, made after 
his image and dressed in imperial 
robes. Near by a little slave with a 
big fan protected the statue from flies. 
Each day ph3"sicians came, gazed at 
the closed wax mouth, and murmured, 
"He is worse." In the vestibule was a 
pot of burning ilex, and stretching 
out through the portals a branch of 
cypress warned the pontiffs from the 
contamination of the sight of death. 
At high noon on the seventh day 
the funeral crossed the city. First 
 
were the flaming torches; the statues 
of the House of Octavia; senators in 
blue; knights in scarlet; magistrates; 
Hctors ; the pick of the praetorian guard. 
Then, to the alternating choruses of 
boys and girls, the rotting body passed 
down the Sacred Way. Behind it 
Tiberius in a travelling-cloak, his 
hands unringed, marched meditating 
on the curiosities of life, while to the 
rear there straggled a troop of dancing satyrs, led by a mime dressed in 
resemblance of Augustus, whose defects he caricatured, whose vices he 
parodied and on whom the surging 
crowd closed in. 
On the Field of Mars the pyre had 
been erected, a great square structure 
of resinous wood, the interior filled 
with coke and sawdust, the exterior 
covered with illuminated cloths, on 
which, for base, a tower rose, three 
stones high. Into the first story flowers and perfumes were thrown, into 
the second the couch was raised, then 
a torch was applied. 
As the smoke ascended an eagle 
shot from the summit, circled a moment, and disappeared. For the sum 
of a million sesterces a senator swore 
that with the eagle he had seen the 
emperor's soul. 
Mention Tiberius, and the name 
evokes a sceptered butcher, ill with 
satyrisis; a taciturn tyrant, hideous 
and debauched; an unclean old man 
devising in the crypts of a palace infamies so monstrous that to describe 
them new words were coined. 
In the Borghese collection Tiberius 
is rather good-looking than otherwise, 
not an Antinous certainly, but manifestly a dreamer ; one whose eyes must 
have been almost feline in their ab- 
straction, and in the corners of whose 
mouth you detect pride, no doubt, but 
melancholy as well. The pride was 
congenital, the melancholy was not. 
Under Tiberius there was quiet, a 
romancer wrote, and the phrase in its 
 
significance passed into legend, forming as it passed one of those miscon- 
ceptions that shroud the unprotected 
dead. During the dozen or more  
years that Tiberius ruled in Rome, 
his wisdom, moderation, modesty and 
impartiality were recognized and attested. The Tiber overflowed, the 
senate looked for a remedy in the Sibyline Books. Tiberius set some eru.
gineers to work. A citizen swore by 
Augustus and swore falsely. The sen- 
ate sought to punish him, not for per- 
jury but for sacrilege. It is for Au-
gustus to punish, said Tiberius. The  
senate wanted to name a month after I
him. Tiberius declined. "Suppos- 
ing I were the thirteenth Caesar, what  
would you do ?" For years he reigned,  
popular and acclaimed, caring the I 
while nothing for popularity and less  
for pomp. Sagacious, witty even, believe  perhaps in little eise than fate  
 
and mathematics, yet maintaining the 
institutions of the land, striving resolutely for the best, outwardly impassible and inwardly mobile, he was a 
man and his patience had bounds. 
There were conspirators in the atrium, 
there was death in the courtier's 
smile; and finding his favorites false, 
his life threatened, danger at every 
turn, his conception of rulership 
changed. Where moderation had 
been suddenly there gleamed the axe. 
Tacitus, always dramatic, states 
that at the time terror dcvasted the 
citj". It so happened that under the 
republic there was a law against 
whomso diminished the majesty of 
the people. The republic was a god, 
one that had its temple, its priests, its 
altars. When the republic succumbed, its divinity passed to the 
emperor; he became Jupiter's peer, 
and, as such, possessed of a majesty 
which it was sacrilege to slight. 
Consulted on the subject, Tiberius 
replied that the law must be observed. 
Originally instituted in prevention of 
offenses against the public good, it 
was found to ciiange into a crime, a 
word, a gesture or a look. It was a 
crime to undress before a statue of 
Augustus, to mention his name in the 
latrinfe, to carry a coin with his image 
into a lupanar. The punishment was 
death. Of the property of the 
accused, a third went to the informer, 
the rest to the state. Then abruptly 
terror stalked abroad. No one was 
safe except the obscure, and it was the 
obscure that aLXused. Once an 
accused accused his accuser; the 
latter went mad. There was but one 
refuge — the tomb. If the accused had 
time to kill himself before he was 
tried, his property was safe from 
seizure and his corpse from disgrace. 
Suicide became endemic in Rome. 
Never among the rich were orgies as 
frenetic as then. There was a breathless chase after delights, which the 
summons, "It is time to die," might 
at any moment interrupt. 
Tiberius meanwhile had gone from 
Rome. It was then his legend began. 
He was represented living at Capri 
in a collection of twelve villas, each 
of which was dedicated to a particular form of lust, and there with the 
paintings of Parrhasius for stimulant 
the satyr lounged. He was then an old 
man; his life had been passed in public, his morals unreproved. If no one 
becomes suddenly base, it is rare for 
a man of seventy to become abruptly 
vile. "Whoso," Sakya Muni an- 
nounced — "whoso discovers that grief 
comes from affection, will retire into the 
jungles and there remain," Tiberius 
had made the discovery. The jungles 
 
he selected were the gardens by the 
sea. And in those gardens, gossip 
represented him devising new forms 
of old vice. On the subject every 
doubt is permissible, and even otherwise, morality then existed in but one 
form, one which the entire nation 
observed, wholly, absolutely, and with 
all its soul; that form was patriotism- 
Chastity was expected of the vestal, 
but of no one else. The matrons had 
certain traditions to maintain, certain 
appearances to preserve, but otherwise everybody was free enough, and 
that everybody made use of that 
freedom, the law Pappea Poppcea 
attests. 
In those days matrimony was not 
as frequent as it has since become. 
When it occurred, divorce was its 
natural consequence. Incompatibility 
was sufficient cause. Cicero, who has 
given it to history that the by
women counted the years not numerically, but by their different husbands, 
obtained a divorce on the ground that 
his wife did not idoHze him. Many 
a man on his return from a journey 
discovered that the lad}- he had left at 
the head of his house had obtained a 
divorce in his absence. According 
