they knew it was Elbridge coming to make the fire in the kitchen stove,
as he always did against the time his wife should come to get breakfast.
Suzette started up from her pillow, and pulled Adeline's face down on
her neck, so as to smother the sound of her sobs. "Hush! Don't let him
hear! And I wouldn't let any one know for the world that we didn't
agree! You can think it over all day, if you want; and I'll stop Mr.
Putney from writing till you think as I do. But be still, now!"

"Yes, yes! I will," Adeline whispered back. "And I won't quarrel with
you, Sue! I know we shall think alike in the end. Only, don't hurry me!
And let Elbridge get the doctor to come. I'm afraid I'm going to be down
sick."

She crept sighing back to bed, and after a little while, Suzette came,
dressed, to look after her. "I think I'm going to get a little sleep,
now," she said. "But don't forget to stop Mr. Putney."

Suzette went out into the thin, sweet summer morning air, and walked up
and down the avenue between the lodge and the empty mansion. She had not
slept, either; it was from her first drowse that Adeline had wakened
her. But she was young, and the breath of the cool, southwest wind was a
bath of rest to her fevered senses. She felt herself grow stronger in
it, and she tried to think what she ought to do. If her purpose of the
day before still seemed so wholly and perfectly just, it seemed very
difficult; and she began to ask herself whether she had a right to
compel Adeline's consent to it. She felt the perplexities of the world
where good and evil are often so mixed that when the problem passes from
thoughts to deeds, the judgment is darkened and the will palsied. Till
now the wrong had always appeared absolutely apart from the right; for
the first time she perceived that a great right might involve a lesser
wrong; and she was daunted. But she meant to fight out her fight wholly
within herself before she spoke with Adeline again.

That day Matt Hilary came over from his farm to see Wade, whom he found
as before, in his study at the church, and disposed to talk over
Northwick's letter. "It's a miserable affair; humiliating;
heart-sickening. That poor soul's juggle with his conscience is a most
pathetic spectacle. I can't bring myself to condemn him very fiercely.
But while others may make allowance for him, it's ruinous for him to
excuse himself. That's truly perdition. Don't you feel that?" Wade
asked.

"Yes, yes," Matt assented, with a kind of absence. "But there is
something else I wanted to speak with you about; and I suppose it's this
letter that's made it seem rather urgent now. You know when I asked you
once about Jack Wilmington--"

Wade shook his head. "There isn't the least hope in that direction. I'm
sure there isn't. If he had cared anything for the girl, he would have
shown it long ago!"

"I quite agree with you," said Matt, "and that isn't what I mean. But if
it would have been right and well for him to come forward at such a
time, why shouldn't some other man, who does love her?" He hurried
tremulously on: "Wade, let me ask you one thing more! You have seen her
so much more than I; and I didn't know--Is it possible--Perhaps I ought
to ask if you are at all--if you care for her?"

"For Miss Northwick? What an idea? Not the least in the world! Why do
you ask?"

"Because I do!" said Matt. "I care everything for her. So much that
when I thought of my love for her, I could not bear that it should be a
wrong to any living soul or that it should be a shadow's strength
between her and any possible preference. And I came here with my mind
made up that if you thought Jack Wilmington had still some right to a
hearing from her, I would stand back. If there were any hopes for him
from himself or from her, I should be a fool not to stand back. And I
thought--I thought that if you, old fellow--But now, it's all right--all
right--"

Matt wrung the hand which Wade yielded him with a dazed air, at first. A
great many things went through Wade's mind, which he silenced on their
way to his lips. It would not do to impart to Matt the impressions of a
cold and arrogant nature which the girl had sometimes given him, and
which Matt could not have received in the times of trouble and sorrow
when he had chiefly seen her. Matt's confession was a shock; Wade was
scarcely less dismayed by the complications which it suggested; but he
could no more impart his misgivings than his impressions; he could no
more tell Matt that his father would be embarrassed and compromised by
his passion than he could tell him that he did not think Sue Northwick
was worthy of it. He was in the helpless predicament that confidants
often find themselves in, but his final perception of his
impossibilities enabled him to return the fervid pressure of Matt's
hand, and even to utter some of those incoherencies which serve the
purpose when another wishes to do the talking.

"Of course," said Matt, "I'm ridiculous, I know that. I haven't got
anything to found my hopes on but the fact that there's nothing in my
way to the one insuperable obstacle: to the fact that she doesn't and
can't really care a straw for me. But just now that seems a mere
bagatelle." He laughed with a nervous joy, and he kept talking, as he
walked up and down Wade's study. "I don't know that I have the hope of
anything; and I don't see how I'm to find out whether I have or not, for
the present. You know, Wade," he went on, with a simple-hearted
sweetness, which Wade found touching, "I'm twenty-eight years old, and I
don't believe I've ever been in love before. Little fancies, of course;
summer flirtations; every one has them; but never anything serious,
anything like this. And I could see, at home, that they would be glad
to have had me married. I rather think my father believes that a good
sensible wife would bring me back to faith in commercial civilization."
He laughed out his relish of the notion, but went on, gravely: "Poor
father! This whole business has been a terrible trial to him."

Wade wondered at his ability to separate the thought of Suzette from the
thought of her father; he inferred from his ability to do so that he
must have been thinking of her a great deal, but he asked, "Isn't it all
rather sudden, Matt?" Wade put on a sympathetic, yet diplomatic, smile
for the purpose of this question.

"Not for me!" said Matt. He added, not very consequently, "I suppose it
must have happened to me the first moment I saw her here that day Louise
and I came up about the accident. I couldn't truly say that she had ever
been out of my mind a moment since. No, there's nothing sudden about it,
though I don't suppose these things usually take a great deal of time,"
Matt ended, philosophically.

Wade left the dangerous ground he found himself on. He asked, "And your
family, do they know of your--feeling?"

"Not in the least!" Matt answered, radiantly. "It will come on them like
a thunder-clap! If it ever comes on them at all," he added,
despondently.

Wade had his own belief that there was no cause for despondency in the
aspect of the affair that Matt was looking at. But he could not offer to
share his security with Matt, who continued to look serious, and said,
presently, "I suppose my father might think it complicated his relation
to the Northwicks' trouble, and I have thought that, too. It makes it
very difficult. My father is to be considered. You know, Wade, I think
there are very few men like my father?"

"There are none, Matt!" said Wade.

"I don't mean he's perfect; and I think his ideas are wrong, most of
them. But his conduct is as right as the conduct of any quick-tempered
man ever was in the world. I know him, and I don't believe a son ever
loved his father more; and so I want to consider him all I can."

"Ah, I know that, my dear fellow!"

"But the question is, how far can I consider him? There are times," said
Matt, and he reddened, and laughed consciously, "when it seems as if I
couldn't consider him at all; the times when I have some faint hope that
she will listen to me, or won't think me quite a brute to speak to her
of such a thing at such a moment. Then there are other times when I
think he ought to be considered to the extreme of giving her up
altogether; but those are the times when I know that I shall never have
her to give up. Then it's an easy sacrifice."

"I understand," said Wade, responding with a smile to Matt's
self-satire.

Matt went on, and as he talked he sometimes walked to Wade's window and
looked out, sometimes he stopped and confronted him across his desk.
"It's cowardly, in a way, not to speak at once--to leave her to suffer
it out to the end alone; but I think that's what I owe to my father. No
real harm can come to her from waiting. I risk the unfair chance I might
gain by speaking now when she sorely needs help; but if ever she came to
think she had given herself through that need--No, it wouldn't do! My
father can do more for her if he isn't hampered by my feeling, and
Louise can be her friend--What do you think, Wade? I've tried to puzzle
it out, and this is the conclusion I've come to. Is it rather
cold-blooded? I know it isn't at all like the lovemaking in the books. I
suppose I ought to go and fling myself at her feet, in defiance of all
the decencies and amenities and obligations of life, but somehow I can't
bring myself to do it. I've thought it all conscientiously over, and I
think I ought to wait."

"I think so, too, Matt. I think your decision is a just man's, and it's
a true lover's, too. It does your heart as much honor as your head," and
Wade gave him his hand now, with no mental reservation.

"Do you really think so, Caryl? That makes me very happy! I was afraid
it might look calculating and self-interested--"

"You self-interested, Matt!"

"Oh, I know! But is it considering my duty too much, my love too little?
If I love her, hasn't she the first claim upon me, before father and
mother, brother and sister, before all the world?"

"If you are sure she loves you, yes."

Matt laughed. "Ah, that's true; I hadn't thought of that little
condition! Perhaps it changes the whole situation. Well, I must go, now.
I've just run over from the farm to see you--"

"I inferred that from your peasant garb," said Wade, with a smile at the
rough farm suit Matt had on: his face refined it and made it look mildly
improbable. "Besides," said Wade, as if the notion he recurred to were
immediately relevant to Matt's dress, "unless you are perfectly sure of
yourself beyond any chance of change, you owe it to her as well as
yourself, to take time before speaking."

"I am perfectly sure, and I shall never change," said Matt, with a shade
of displeasure at the suggestion. "If there were nothing but that I
should not take a moment of time." He relented and smiled again, in
adding, "But I have decided now, and I shall wait. And I'm very much
obliged to you, old fellow, for talking the matter over with me, and
helping me to see it in the right light."

"Oh, my dear Matt!" said Wade, in deprecation.

"Yes. And oh, by the way! I've got hold of a young fellow that I think
you could do something for, Wade. Do you happen to remember the article
on the defalcation in the Boston Abstract?"

"Yes, I do remember that. Didn't it treat the matter, if I recall it,
very humanely--too humanely, perhaps?"

"Perhaps, from one point of view, too humanely. Well, it's the writer of
that article--a young fellow, not twenty-five, yet as completely at odds
with life as any one I ever saw. He has a great deal of talent, and no
health or money; so he's toiling feebly for a living on a daily
newspaper, instead of making literature. He was a reporter up to the
time he wrote that article, but the managing editor is a man who
recognizes quality; he's fond of Maxwell--that's the fellow's name--and
since then he's given him a chance in the office, at social topics. But
he hasn't done very well; the fact is, the boy's too literary, and he's
out of health, and he needs rest and the comfort of appreciative
friendship. I want you to meet him. I've got him up at my place out of
the east winds. You'll be interested in him as a type--the artistic type
cynicised by the hard conditions of life--newspaper conditions, and then
economic conditions."

Matt smiled with satisfaction in what he felt to be his very successful
formulation of Maxwell.

Wade said he should be very glad to meet him; and if he could be of any
use to him he should be even more glad. But his mind was still upon
Matt's love affair, and as they wrung each other's hands, once more he
said, "I think you've decided so wisely, Matt; and justly and
unselfishly."

"It's involuntary unselfishness, if it's unselfishness at all," said
Matt. He did not go; Wade stood bareheaded with him at the outer door of
his study. After awhile he said with embarrassment, "Wade! Do you think
it would seem unfeeling--or out of taste, at all--if I went to see her
at such a time?"

"Why, I can't imagine your doing anything out of taste, Matt."

"Don't be so smooth, Caryl! You know what I mean. Louise sent some
messages by me to her. Will you take them, or--"

"I certainly see no reason why you shouldn't deliver Miss Hilary's
messages yourself."

"Well, I do," said Matt. "But you needn't be afraid."




XI.


Matt took the lower road that wound away from Wade's church toward the
Northwick place; but as he went, he kept thinking that he must not
really try to see Suzette. It would be monstrous, at such a time; out of
all propriety, of all decency; it would be taking advantage of her
helplessness to intrude upon her the offer of help and of kindness which
every instinct of her nature must revolt from. There was only one thing
that could justify his coming, and that was impossible. Unless he came
to tell her that he loved her, and to ask her to let him take her burden
upon him, to share her shame and her sorrow for his love's sake, he had
no right to see her. At moments it seemed as if that were right and he
could do it, no matter how impossible, and then he almost ran forward;
but only to check himself, to stop short, and doubt whether not to turn
back altogether. By such faltering progresses, he found himself in the
Northwick avenue at last, and keeping doggedly on from the mansion,
which the farm road had brought him to, until he reached the cottage at
the avenue gate. On the threshold drooped a figure that the sight of set
his heart beating with a stifling pulse in his throat, and he floundered
on till he made out that this languid figure was Adeline. He could have
laughed at the irony, the mockery of the anti-climax, if it had not been
for the face that the old maid turned upon him at the approach of his
footfalls, and the pleasure that lighted up its pathos when she
recognized him.

"Oh, Mr. Hilary!" she said; and then she could not speak, for the
twitching of her lips and the trembling of her chin.

He took her hand in silence, and it seemed natural for him to do that
reverent and tender thing which is no longer a part of our custom; he
bent over it and kissed the chill, bony knuckles.

She drew her hand away to find her handkerchief and wipe her tears. "I
suppose you've come to see Suzette; but she's gone up to the village to
talk with Mr. Putney; he's our lawyer."

"Yes," said Matt.

"I presume I don't need to talk to you about that--letter. I think,--and
I believe Suzette will think so too in the end,--that his mind is
affected, and he just accuses himself of all these things because
they've been burnt into it so. How are your father and mother? And your
sister?"

She broke off with these questions, he could see, to stay herself in
what she wished to say. "They are all well. Father is still in Boston;
but mother and Louise are at the farm with me. They sent their love, and
they are anxious to know if there is anything--"

"Thank you. Will you sit down here? It's so close indoors." She made
room for him on the threshold, but he took the step below.

"I hope Miss Suzette is well?"

"Why, thank you, not very well. There isn't anything really the matter;
but we didn't either of us sleep very well last night; we were excited.
I don't know as I ought to tell you," she began. "I don't suppose it's a
thing you would know about, any way; but I've got to talk to somebody--"

"Miss Northwick," said Matt, "if there is anything in the world that I
can do for you, or that you even hope I can do, I beg you to let me
hear it. I should be glad beyond all words to help you."

"Oh, I don't know as anything can be done," she began, after the fresh
gush of tears which were her thanks, "but Suzette and I have been
talking it over a good deal, and we thought we would like to see your
father about it. You see, Suzette can't feel right about our keeping the
place here, if father's really done what he says he's done. We don't
believe he has; but if he has, he has got to be found somewhere, and
made to give up the money he says he has got. Suzette thinks we ought to
give up the money we have got in the bank--fifteen hundred or two
thousand dollars--and she wanted I should let her give up her half of
the place, here; and at first I did say she might. But come to find
out from Mr. Putney, the whole place would have to be sold before it
could be divided, and I couldn't seem to let it. That was what
we--disputed about. Yes! We had a dispute; but it's all right now, or it
will be, when we get the company to say they will stop the lawsuit
against father, if he will give up the money he's got, and we will give
up the place. Mr. Putney seemed to think the company couldn't stop it;
but I don't see why a rich corporation like that couldn't do almost
anything it wanted to with its money."

Her innocent corruption did not shock Matt, nor her scheme for defeating
justice; but he smiled forlornly at the hopelessness of it. "I'm afraid
Mr. Putney is right." He was silent, and then at the despair that came
into her face, he hurried on to say, "but I will see my father, Miss
Northwick; I will go down to see him at once; and if anything can be
honorably and fairly done to save your father, I am sure he will try to
do it for your sake. But don't expect anything," he said, getting to his
feet and putting out his hand to her.

"No, no; I won't," she said, with gratitude that wrung his heart.
"And--won't you wait and see Suzette?"

Matt reddened. "No; I think not now. But, perhaps, I will come back;
and--and--I will come soon again. Good-by!"

"Mr. Hilary!" she called after him. He ran back to her. "If--if your
father don't think anything can be done, I don't want he should say
anything about it."

"Oh, no; certainly not."

"And, Mr. Hilary! Don't you let Suzette know I spoke to you. I'll
tell her."

"Why, of course."

On his way to Boston the affair seemed to grow less and less impossible
to Matt; but he really knew nothing of the legal complications; and when
he proposed it to his father, old Hilary shook his head. "I don't
believe it could be done. The man's regularly indicted, and he's in
contempt of court as long as he doesn't present himself for trial.
That's the way I understand it. But I'll see our counsel. Whose scheme
is this?"

"I don't know. Miss Northwick told me of it; but I fancied Miss
Suzette--"

"Yes," said Hilary. "It must have cost her almost her life to give up
her faith in that pitiful rascal."

"But after she had done that, it would cost her nothing to give up the
property, and as I understood Miss Northwick, that was her sister's
first impulse. She wished to give up her half of the estate
unconditionally; but Miss Northwick wouldn't consent, and they
compromised on the conditions she told me of."

"Well," said Hilary, "I think Miss Northwick showed the most sense. But
of course, Sue's a noble girl. She almost transfigures that old
scoundrel of a father of hers. That fellow--Jack Wilmington--ought to
come forward now and show himself a man, if he is one. Any man might
be proud of such a girl's love--and they say she was in love with him.
But he seems to have preferred to dangle after his uncle's wife. He
isn't good enough for her, and probably he always knew it."

Matt profited by the musing fit that came upon his father, to go and
look at the picture over the mantel. It was not a new picture; but he
did not feel that he was using his father quite frankly; and he kept
looking at it for that reason.

"If those poor creatures gave up their property, what would they do?
They've absolutely nothing else in the world!"

"I fancy," said Matt, "that isn't a consideration that would weigh with
