war on this question at once. Besides, it is no 
 

use to begin as a hypocrite, when every act 
would tell her what I thought of him. Moreover, 
he will have more or less influence over 
her until her eyes are opened to his true worth. 
She will not believe me, of course, but she is 
a woman who only needs an impetus to do a 
good deal of thinking and noting." "I am 
going to make you angry," he said. "I am 
going to tell you that I do not share your ad- 
miration of your brother. He has ten thousand 
words for every idea, and although, God 
knows, we have more time than anything else 
in this land of the poppy where only the 
horses run, still there are more profitable ways 
of employing it than to listen to meaningless 
and bombastic words. Moreover, your brother 
is a dangerous man. No man is so safe in 
seclusion as the one of large vanities and small 
ambitions. He is not big enough to conceive 
a revolution, but is ready to be the tool of any 
unscrupulous man who is, and, having too 
much egotism to follow orders, will ruin a pro- 
ject at the last moment by attempting to think 
for himself. I do not say these things to wan- 
tonly insult you, senorita, only to let you know 
at once how I regard your brother, that you 
may not accuse me of treachery or hypocrisy 
later." 


He had expected and hoped that she would 
turn upon him with a burst of fury ; but she 
had drawn herself up to her most stately height, 
and was looking at him with cold hauteur. 
Her mouth was as hard as a pink jewel, and 
her eyes had the glitter of ice in them. 

"Senor," she said, "it seems to me that 
you, too, waste many words — in speaking of 
my brother ; for what you say of him cannot 
interest me. I have known him for twenty- 
two years ; you have seen him four or six times. 
What can you tell me of him ? Not only is he 
my brother and the natural object of my love 
and devotion, but he is Reinaldo Iturbi y Mon- 
cada, the last male descendant of his house, 
and as such I hold him in a regard only second 
to that which I bear to my father. And with 
the blood in him he could not be otherwise 
than a great and good man." 

Estenega looked at her with the first stab of 
doubt he had felt. ''She is Spanish in her 
marrow," he thought, — "the steadfast un- 
reasoning child of traditions. I could not well 
be at greater disadvantage. But she is mag- 
nificent." 

''Another thing which was unnecessary," 
she added, "was to defend yourself to me or to 
tell me how you felt toward my brother, and 


why. We are enemies by tradition and
instinct. We shall rarely meet, and shall 
probably never talk together again." 

"We shall talk together more times than 
you will care to count. I have much to say 
to you, and you shall listen. But we will 
discuss the matter no further at present. Shall 
we gallop ? " 

He spurred his horse, and once more they 
fled through the pine woods. Before long they 
entered the valley of Carmelo. The mountains 
were massive and gloomy, the little bay was 
blue and quiet, the surf of the ocean roared 
about Point Lobos, Carmelo River crawled be- 
neath its willows. In the middle of the valley 
stood the impressive yellow church, with its 
Roman tower and rose-window ; about it 
were the crumbling brown hovels of the 
deserted Mission. Once as they rode Estenega 
thought he heard voices, but could not be sure, 
so loud was the clatter of the horses' hoofs. 
As they reached the square they drew rein 
swiftly, the horses standing upright at the 
sudden halt. Then strange sounds came to 
them through the open doors of the church : 
ribald shouts and loud laughter, curses and 
noise of smashing glass, such songs as never 
were sung in Carmelo before; an infernal 

clash of sound which mingled incongruously, 
with the solemn mass of the surf Chonita's 
eyes flashed. Even Estenega's face darkened : 
the traditions planted in plastic youth arose and 
rebelled at the desecration. 

" Some drunken sailors, " he said " There — 
do you see that ? " A craft rounded Point 
Lobos. " Pirates!'' 

''Holy Mary ! " exclaimed Chonita. 

'* Let down your hair, " he said, peremptorily ; 
" and follow all that I suggest. We will drive 
them out." 

She obeyed him without question, excited 
and interested. Then they rode to the doors 
and threw them wide. 

The upper end of the long church was swarm- 
ing with pirates ; there was no mistaking those 
bold, cruel faces, blackened by sun and wind, 
half covered with ragged hair. They stood on 
the benches, they bestrode the railing, they 
swarmed over the altar, shouting and 
carousing in riotous wassail. Their coarse red shirts 
were flung back from hairy chests, their faces 
were distorted with rum and sacrilegious 
delight. Every station, every candlestick, had 
been hurled to the floor and trampled upon. 
The crucitix stood on its head. Sitting high 
on the altar, reeling and waving a communion 

goblet, was the drunken chief, singing a 
blasphemous song of the pirate seas. The voices 
rumbled strangely down the hollow body of 
the church ; to perfect the scene flames should 
have leaped among the swinging arms and 
bounding forms. 

"Come," said Estenega. He spurred his 
horse, and together they galloped down the 
stone pavement of the edifice. The men 
turned at the loud sound of horses' hoofs ; but 
the riders were in their midst, scattering them 
right and left, before they realized what was 
happening. 

The horses were brought to sudden halt. 
Estenega rose in his stirrups, his fine bold face 
looking down impassively upon the demoniacal 
gang who could have rent him apart, but who 
stood silent and startled, gazing from him to 
the beautiful woman, whose white gown looked 
part of the white horse she rode. Estenega 
raised his hand and pointed to Chonita. 

"The Virgin," he said, in a hollow, 
impressive voice. ''The Mother of God. She has 
come to defend her church. Go." 

Chonita's face blanched to the lips, but she 
looked at the sacrilegists sternly. Fortune 
favored the audacity of Estenega. The sunlight, 
drifting through the star-window above the 
doors at the lower end of the church, smote 
the uplifted golden head of Chonita, wreathing 
it with a halo, gifting the face with unearthly 
beauty. 

"Go ! " repeated Estenega, " lest she weep. 
With every tear a heart will cease to beat. " 

The chief scrambled down from the altar and 
ran like a rat past Chonita, his swollen mouth 
dropping. The others crouched and followed, 
stumbling one over the other, their dark evil 
faces bloodless, their knees knocking together 
with superstitious terror. They fled from the 
church and down to the bay, and swam to their 
craft. Estenega and Chonita rode out. They 
watched the ugly vessel scurry around Point 
Lobos ; then Chonita spoke for the first 
time. 

" Blasphemer ! " she exclaimed. ' ' Mother 
of God, wilt thou ever forgive me ? " 

'*Why not call me a Jesuit.? It was a case 
where mind or matter must triumph. And you 
can confess your enforced sin, say a hundred 
aves or so, and be whiter than snow again ; 
whereas, had our Mission of Carmelo been razed 
to the ground, as it was in a fair way to be, 
California would have lost an historical monu- 
ment." 

"And Junipero Serra's bones are there, and 

it was his favorite Mission," said the girl, 
unwillingly. 

" Exactly. And now that you are reasonably 
sure of being forgiven, will not you forgive 
me ? I shall ask no priest's forgiveness. " 

She looked at him a moment, then shook her 
head. "No : I cannot forgive you for having 
made me commit what may be a mortal sin. 
But, Holy Heaven ! — I cannot help saying it — 
you are very quick ! " 

"For each idea is a moment born. Upon 
whether we wed the two or think too late de- 
pends the success or the failure of our lives." 

" Suppose, " she said, suddenly, — ''suppose 
you had failed, and those men had seized me 
and made me captive : what then ? " 

" I should have killed you. Not one of them 
should have touched you. But I had no 
doubts, or I should not have made the attempt. 
I know the superstitious nature of sailors, 
especially when they are drunk. Shall we 
gallop back? They will have eaten all the 
dulces. " 



VIII. 



Monterey danced every night and all night of 
that week, either at Alvarado's or at the Custom- 
house, and every afternoon met at the races, the 
bull-fight, a merienda, or to climb the greased 
pole, catch the greased pig by its tail as it ran, or 
exhibit skill in horsemanship. Chonita, at times 
an imperious coquette, at others, indifferent, per- 
verse, or coy, was La Favorita without appeal, and 
the girls alternately worshipped her — she was ab- 
stractedly kind to them— or heartily wished her 
back in Santa Barbara. Estenega rarely attended 
the socialities, being closeted with Alvarado and 
Castro most of the time, and when he did she 
avoided him if she could. The pirates had fled 
and were seen no more ; but their abrupt retreat, 
as described by Chonita, continued to be an excit- 
ing topic of discussion. There were few of us who 
did not openly or secretly approve of Estenega's 
Jesuitism and admire the nimbleness of his mind. 
The clergy did not express itself. 

On the last night of the festivities, when the 
women, weary with the unusually late hours 
of the past week, had left the ball-room early 
and sought their beds, and the men, being at 
loss for other amusement, had gone in a body 


to a saloon, there to drink and gamble and set 
fire to each other's curls and trouser-seats, the 
Departmental Junta met in secret session. 
The night was warm, the plaza deserted ; all 
who were not in the saloon at the other end of 
the town were asleep ; and after the preliminary- 
words in Alvarado's office the Junta picked up 
their chairs and went forth to hold conclave 
where bulls and bears had fought and the large 
indulgent moon gave clearer light than 
adamantine candles. They drew close together, and, 
after rolling the cigarito, solemnly regarded 
the sky for a few moments without speaking. 
Their purpose was a grave one. They met to 
try Pio Pico for contempt of government and 
annoying insistence in behalf of his pet project 
to remove the capital from Monterey to Los 
Angeles ; Jose Antonio Carillo and Reinaldo 
Iturbi y Moncada for conspiracy ; and General 
Vallejo for evil disposition and unwarrantable 
comments upon the policy of the administra- 
tion. None of the offenders was present. 

With the exception of Alvarado, Castro, and 
Estenega, the members of the Junta were men 
of middle age, and represented the talent of 
California, — ^Jimeno, Gonzales, Argugllo, Re- 
quena, Del Valle. Their dark, bearded faces, 
upturned to the stars, made a -striking set of 


 

profiles, but the effect was marred by the silk 
handkerchiefs they had tied about their heads. 

Alvarado spoke, finally, and, after presenting 
the charges in due form, continued : 

"The individual enemy to the government 
is like the fly to the lion ; it cannot harm, but 
it can annoy. We must brush away the fly as 
a vindication of our dignity, and take precaution 
that he does not return, even if we have to 
bend our heads to tie his little legs. I do not 
purpose to be annoyed by these blistering mid- 
gets we are met to consider, nor to have my 
term of administration spotted with their gall. 
I leave it to you, my compatriots and friends, 
to advise me what is best to do. " 

Jimeno put his feet on the side rung of Cas- 
tro's chair, puffed a large gray cloud, and half 
closed his eyes. He then, for three-quarters of 
an hour, in a low, musical voice, discoursed 
upon the dignity of the administration and the 
depravity of the offenders. When, his brethren 
were beginning to drop their heads and breathe 
heavily, Alvarado politely interrupted him and 
referred the matter to Castro. 

" Imprison them ! " exclaimed the impetuous 
General, suddenly alert. " With such a 
Governor and such a people, this should be a land 
white as the mountain-tops, unblemished by 

the tracks of mean ambitions and sinful 
revolutions. Let us be summary, altough not cruel ; 
let no man's blood flow while there are prisons 
in the Californias ; but we must pluck up the 
roots of conspiracy and disquiet, lest a thou- 
sand suckers grbw about them, as about the 
half-cut trunks of our red wood- trees, and our 
Californias be no better than any degenerate 
country of the Old World. Let us cast them 
into prison without further debate." 

"The law, my dear Jose, gives them a trial," 
drawled Gonzales. And then for a half-hour 
he quoted such law as was known in the 
country. When he finished, the impatient and 
suppressed members of the Junta delivered 
their opinions simultaneously ; only Estenega 
had nothing to say. They argued and suggest- 
ed, cited evidence, defended and denounced, 
lashing themselves into a mighty excitement. 
At length they were all on their feet, gesticu- 
lating and prancing. 

'* Mother of God ! " cried Requena. '' Let us 
give Vallejo a taste of his own cruelty. Let us 
put him in atemascal and set those of his Indian 
victims who are still alive to roast him out " 

'* No 1 no ! Vallejo is maligned. He had no 
hand in that massacre. His heart is whiter 
than an angel's " 

"It is his liver that is white. His heart is 
black as a black snake's. To the devil with 
him ! " 

'* Make a law that Pio Pico can never put 
foot out of Los Angeles again, since he loves 
it so well " 

" His ugly face would spoil the next gener- 
ation " 

" Death to Carillo and Iturbi y Moncada ! 
Death to all ! Let the poison out of the veins 
of California ! " 

"No! no! As little blood in California as 
possible. Put them in prison, and keep them 
on frijoles and water for a year. That will 
cure rebellion : no chickens, no dulces, no 
aguardiente " 

Alvarado brought his staff of office down 
sharply upon a board he had provided for the 
purpose. 

" Gentlemen," he said, "will you not sit 
down and smoke another cigarito ? We must 
be calm." 

The Junta took to its chairs at once. Alva- 
rado never failed to command respect. 

'*Don Diego Estenega," said the Governor, 
" will you tell us what you have thought whilst 
the others have talked ? " 

Estenega, who had been star-gazing, turned 

to Alvarado, ignoring the Junta. His keen 
brilliant eyes gave the Governor a thrill of 
relief ; his mouth expressed a mind made up and 
intolerant of argument. 
