hab none on 'em," added Sopsy as he went to the pantry; but presently
returned with a plate of pickles in one hand and the whiskey bottle in
the other. "Does dem sea-hosses drink whisker, Massa Secon' Mate?"
"They never drink a drop of it."
"Dis colored pusson ain't no sea-hoss, and he do drink whiskey when
he kin git it," added the cook; and he half filled a tumbler with the
contents of the bottle, and drank it off at a single gulp.
He had hardly placed it on the table in the middle of the dishes before
the captain came below. His first step was to take a liberal potation
from the bottle. As he raised it to the swinging lamp, he discovered
that the fluid had been freely expended in his absence.
"You've punished this bottle all it deserves," said he when he perceived
that its level had been considerably lowered, and he did not ask the new
officer to join him. "That's all right, Mr. Sandman; but I don't want
you to take more than you can manage to-night, for we have a big job on
our hands, and we want our heads where we shall be able to find them.
Now go on deck, and learn what you can about the vessel, for we hain't
got but half an hour more before the Tallahatchie goes to sea. We may
have lots of music after we get outside; but I reckon our steamer can
outsail anything the Yankees have got on the blockade. Don't drink no
more, Mr. Sandman; and when we git to Nassau you can have a reg'lar
blowout."
"I won't touch another drop before we get out of the bay, Cap'n
Sullendine," protested Christy, without betraying the misdemeanor of
the cook, as doubtless it was.
"That's right, Mr. Sandman; we must all have our heads on our shoulders
to-night," said the captain, as he drank off the potion he had prepared.
Christy wished to hold the commander to his own advice; but that would
have been fighting on the wrong side for him, and Sopsy escaped a
reprimand, if not a kick or two, by his forbearance. By this time the
bottle was nearly empty; but the skipper put it under lock and key in
a closet, which seemed to be well filled with others like it. Christy
went on deck, in obedience to the order he had received, and found the
engineer on the quarter-deck buried in the fog, which was just then more
dense than at any time before.
"The captain's pretty well set 'up,' isn't he Christy?" said Graines in
a low tone.
"About half seas over; but he knows what he is about, though he took
another heavy potion just now," replied the lieutenant.
"All right; I think we can manage this craft very well without him,"
added Graines with a smile, which could not be seen in the darkness.
But the conversation was interrupted at this point by the appearance
of the cook, whose legs were more tangled up by his tipples than his
master's. He delivered the request of Captain Sullendine that they
should come into the cabin, and partake of the lunch which had been set
out for them. As they moved towards the companion, they saw Sopsy creep
over to the alley where Bokes had been sleeping, and take up the bottle
of apple-jack Christy had given him, and drink from it. It was evident
to them that the cook could not be much longer in condition for any
duty.
The two mates went below as invited, and found the captain at the table.
He had brought out the bottle of whiskey, and was eating of the dishes
before him, but plainly with little relish.
"Have another little drink, Mr. Balker; but I think Mr. Sandman had
better not take anymore," said the master, whose speech was rather thick
by this time.
"Thank you, Captain Sullendine; I will do a little in that way, for we
are likely to have a very damp night of it," replied Graines, as he
helped himself, though he did not take ten drops.
"A little does one good; but it don't do to take too much when we
have very important business on our hands. After that one, Mr. Balker,
I advise you not to take any more till we get clear of the blockaders,"
added the skipper, as he emptied the bottle into his glass.
The ham on the table was of excellent quality, and the two mates ate
heartily of it, with the ship-bread. The last dose the captain had taken
appeared to cap the climax, and he could no longer eat, or talk so as to
be clearly understood. When the mates had finished their lunch, they saw
that the skipper had dropped asleep in his chair. They rose from their
places, and rattled the stools. The noise roused the sleeper, and he
sprang to his feet with a violent start.
"What's time'z it, Mr. Zbalker?" he demanded, catching hold of the table
to avoid falling on the cabin floor.
He seemed to be conscious that he was not presenting a perfectly regular
appearance to his new officers; and he dropped into his chair, making a
ludicrous effort to stiffen his muscles and put on his dignity, but it
was a failure.
"Quarter-past two, Captain Sullendine," replied Graines in answer to the
question.
"Most an hour more 'fore we git started," stammered the invalid.
"I didn't sleep none last night, I'm sleepy. I'm go'n to turn in for
half an hour, 'n then I'll be on deck ready for busi-- ready for
buzness."
Graines assisted him to his stateroom, for he could not walk, and he was
afraid he would fall and hurt himself. He helped him into his berth, and
arranged him so that he could sleep it off, and he did not care if he
did not do so before the next day. He waited till he had dropped off
into a deep slumber, and then joined Christy in the cabin.
"If I had not been a temperance man before, I should be now," said the
lieutenant. "It is just as well that the captain is clean over the bay,
for we might have been obliged to shoot him if he had been sober."
"But we could have taken possession of the vessel in spite of him, if
the steamer had not interfered," replied Graines, as he led the way to
the deck. "I don't see that we have anything to do but wait for the
moving of the waters, or for the moving of the steamer. I suppose our
men are all right forward."
"I have no doubt of it, though I have not seen them lately. I gave one
of the bottles of apple-jack the captain sent forward for them to Bokes,
and poured the contents of the other into Mobile Bay. I think we had
better go forward and look the vessel over," said Christy.
They had gone but a few steps before they stumbled over the body of
Sopsy, who had evidently succumbed to the quantity of firewater he had
consumed. He had assisted Bokes to empty the bottle given to him, and
both of them were too far gone to give an alarm if they discovered at
any time that something was wrong about the movements of the West Wind.
They found the Belleviters lounging about on the cotton bales, some of
them asleep, and others carrying on a conversation in a low tone. They
were glad to see their officers, who told them the time for some sort of
action was rapidly approaching. Then they went to the bow of the vessel,
where they found that she was anchored, though the chain had been hove
short. The hawser by which she was to be towed to sea was made fast to
the bowsprit bitts, and led to the stern of the steamer, where it was
doubtless properly secured.
While they were looking over the bow, a boat approached from the
Tallahatchie, and an officer hailed, asking for Captain Sullendine.
"He is in the cabin; I am the mate," replied the engineer, "and the
captain has shipped a new crew, we are all right now."
"Weigh your anchor at three short whistles," added the officer.
"Understood, and all right," said the new mate.
The boat pulled back to the steamer.
CHAPTER IX
THE DEPARTURE OF THE TALLAHATCHIE
The fog, which had been coming and going during the whole of the night,
had now lifted so that everything in the vicinity of the fort could be
seen; but across the point, down the ship channel, it was dense, dark,
and black. The wind was fresh from the south-west, which rolled up the
fog banks, and then rolled them away. Such was the atmospheric condition
near Mobile Point, and Christy believed it was the same at the
southward. He thought it probable that the commander of the Tallahatchie
would wait for a more favorable time than the present appeared to be
before he got under way.
"All hands to the forecastle," he called to the men on the cotton bales.
All of them, knowing his voice as well as they knew their own names,
hastened to answer to the call.
"We have to heave up the anchor with a windlass, Mr. Graines," said he
to the engineer. "We had better get the hang of it while we have time to
do so. Ship the handspikes, my men."
Doubtless all of them had worked a windlass before, for every one of
them was an able seaman, which had been one of the elements in their
selection, and they went to work very handily. A turn or two was given,
which started the vessel ahead, showing that the anchor was not hove
entirely short. Graines went to the bow, and reported a considerable
slant of the cable with the surface of the water. Christy ordered the
six seamen to work the windlass, with French to take in the slack. They
continued to heave over with the handspikes for some time longer.
"Cable up and down, sir," reported Graines.
"Avast heaving!" added the lieutenant; and he had taken the command,
paying no attention to the fact that he was the second mate under the
new order of things, and the engineer did not remind him that he was
the chief officer. "Let off the cable a couple of notches, so that the
anchor will not break out. Make fast to the bitts, French, but don't
foul it with the towline."
"We are all right now," said Graines, as he moved aft from the heel of
the bowsprit.
"What time is it now?" asked the lieutenant. "Bring that lantern
forward, Lines."
"Ten minutes of three," replied the engineer, holding his watch up to
the light.
"The fog is settling down again, and I have no doubt the captain of
the steamer will get under way at about the hour named," said Christy,
putting his hand on the wire towline, and giving it a shake, to assure
himself that it was all clear. "Now, Mr. Graines, or rather, Mr. Balker,
as you are the mate and I am only the second mate, I think you had
better go aft and see that all goes well there."
"Very well, Mr. Sandman; I will leave you in charge of the forecastle,"
replied the engineer, with a light laugh; but they had been boys
together, and understood each other perfectly.
"Captain Sullendine is the only dangerous man on board, and I think you
had better look after him," added Christy. "If there is any lock on the
door of his stateroom, it would be well to turn the key."
"I will look after him at once, sir," answered Graines, as he leaped
upon the cotton bales and made his way to the quarter-deck.
On the way he examined the condition of Sopsy, and found him snoring
like a roaring lion, in an uneasy position. He turned him over on his
side, and then went to the lair of Bokes, who was in the same condition;
and he concluded that neither of them would come to his senses for a
couple of hours at least.
Captain Sullendine had been assisted to a comfortable position when he
turned in, and he was sleeping with nothing to disturb him. There was no
lock on the door, and Graines could not turn the key. The interior of
the cabin was finished in the most primitive manner, for the vessel had
not been built to accommodate passengers. The door of the captain's
stateroom was made of inch and a half boards, with three battens, and
the handle was an old-fashioned bow-latch. There was a heavy bolt on the
inside, as though the apartment had been built to enable the master to
fortify himself in case of a mutiny.
The engineer could not fasten the door with any of the fixtures on it;
but it opened inward, as is generally the case on shipboard, and this
fact suggested to the ingenious officer the means of securing it even
more effectually than it could have been done with a lock and key. In
the pantry he found a rolling-pin, which the cook must have left there
for some other purpose.
This implement he applied to the bow-handle of the fixture on the door.
It would not fit the iron loop, but he whittled it down on one side
with his pocket-knife till he made it fit exactly in its place with some
hard pressure. But shaking the door might cause it to drop out, and he
completed the job by lashing it to the handle of the door with a lanyard
he had in his pocket. When he had finished his work he was confident the
captain could not get out of his room unless he broke down the door,
which he lacked the means to accomplish.
"West Wind, ahoy!" shouted some one from the stern of the steamer before
the engineer had completed his work in the cabin.
Christy thought that French's voice was a better imitation of Captain
Sullendine's than his own, and he directed him to reply to the hail,
telling him what to say.
"On board the Tallahatchie!" returned the seaman at the lieutenant's
dictation.
"Are you all ready?" shouted the same officer.
"All ready, sir!" replied French.
"Captain Rombold will get under way in five minutes!" called the speaker
on the stern of the steamer. "Wait for three short whistles, and then
heave up your anchor!"
"Understood, and all right," added the spokesman of the West Wind.
"Captain Rombold!" exclaimed Christy to himself, as he heard for the
first time the name of the commander of the Tallahatchie.
The lieutenant, acting as the servant of the French detective at St.
George's in the Bermudas, had seen Captain Rombold, and had heard him
converse for an hour with Mr. Gilfleur, when he was in command of the
Dornoch, which had been captured by the Chateaugay, on board of which
Christy was a passenger. He was known to be a very able and brave
officer, and his defeat was owing more to the heavier metal of the loyal
ship than to any lack of skill or courage on the part of the Confederate
commander. The last the young officer knew about him, he was a prisoner
of war in New York, and had doubtless been exchanged for some loyal
officer of equal rank, for the enemy had plenty of them on hand.
"Man the windlass, my lads," said Christy in a quiet tone, though he was
still thinking of the commander of the steamer which was to tow out the
schooner.
While he was waiting for the three short whistles, Graines came forward
and reported in what manner he had secured the captain, and that the two
men on the cotton bales were still insensible.
"You may be sure the captain will not come out of his stateroom until we
let him out," added the engineer; and Christy proceeded to explain what
had passed between the schooner and the steamer.
"The Tallahatchie has one of the ablest commanders that sail the ocean,
for I have seen and know him," continued the lieutenant. "It is Captain
Rombold, now or formerly, of the British Navy. He is a gentleman and a
scholar, as well as a brave and skilful officer."
"Then Captain Breaker may have his hands full before he captures the
steamer," added the engineer.
"He certainly will; but a great deal depends upon the weight of the
Tallahatchie's metal."
"We shall soon have a chance to judge of that."
"I should like to know something more about this steamer, though my
father's letter gives us the principal details; but we have no time now
to examine her," continued Christy.
"Who's that?" demanded Graines, as he saw a man walking forward over the
bales of cotton.
It proved to be Bokes, who had slept off a part of the effects of the
debauch; but Sopsy had probably consumed a large portion of the contents
of his bottle.
"Does you uns happen to have any more apple-jack?" asked the fellow.
"Somehow I lost nigh all o' mine, and I'm sufferin', dyin' for a drink."
"French, take him to the deck-house, and fasten him in," said Christy in
a low tone.
"Come with me, my hearty, and we'll see what there is in the
deck-house," said the seaman, as he took the man by the arm and led him
to the place indicated. "Now go in and find your bunk. Get into it, and
I will look for a bottle here."
  [Illustration: "Dowse that glim in your fo'castle!" Page 111.]
Bokes crept to his bunk, and stretched himself out there. French took
the bottle the lieutenant had emptied into the bay, and gave it to him.
Then he closed the door, and finding a padlock and hasp on it, he locked
him in. Two of the three men who had remained on board of the schooner
were now prisoners; and Sopsy was considered as harmless as a fishworm.
French had hardly reported what he had done before the three short
whistles were sounded, and Christy gave the order to heave up the
anchor.
"West Wind, ahoy!" shouted the same officer who had spoken before.
"On board the steamer!" replied French, when he was directed to reply.
"Dowse that glim on your fo'castle!" shouted the officer, as with a
liberal dose of profanity he demanded if they were all fools on board of
the schooner. "Put out every light on board!"
"Ay, ay, sir!" responded French, as Graines extinguished the lantern on
the forecastle; and Christy directed him to do the same with the cabin
lamp.
He looked at his watch before he put it out, and found it was
quarter-past three. The captain of the steamer had evidently waited for
a favorable moment to start on his perilous voyage, and the engineer
noticed when he went forward after he had secured Captain Sullendine,
that the fog was again settling down on the bay.
"On board the steamer!" shouted French, as directed. "Anchor aweigh,
sir!" Then a minute later, "All clear, and the towline slack!"
From the sounds that came from the forward part of the steamer, it was
evident that she had heaved up her anchor before she gave the three
whistles for the schooner to do so.
"West Wind, ahoy!" called the officer from the Tallahatchie. "Stand by
your helm with your best man!"
Graines had just gone aft, and had taken the wheel of the vessel; but
Christy sent French to take his first trick at the helm. The tide was
still setting into the bay, and it was within half an hour of the flood.
The schooner was beginning to sway off from the shore as the tide struck
her, when the gong bell in the engine-room of the steamer was heard. She
went ahead very slowly, and straightened the towline. Christy took a
careful survey of its fastenings, to assure himself that it was all
right, and then mounted the cotton bales, to observe the progress of the
vessel.
Of course the steamer was under the direction of a skilful pilot,
doubtless the best that could be had, for the present venture was an
exceedingly important one to the Confederate cause. The Tallahatchie
was perhaps a better vessel than any of those which had done so much
mischief among the ships of the loyal American marine, and in no manner
could the Southern cause be more effectually assisted than by these
cruisers.
As the vessels headed to the southward, Christy went to the binnacle,
and watched the course.
CHAPTER X
THE CASTING OFF OF THE TOWLINE
Christy Passford had been through this channel at least half a dozen
times in the Bellevite, and knew all the courses and bearings, though
the latter did not count in the dense fog which had settled down on the
vicinity of the fort. The lights in the binnacle of the West Wind had
not been put out, though they could not be noticed outside of the
schooner. The great fortress could not be seen, and it was as silent
as a tomb.
"How does she head, Christy?" asked Graines, as they met at the wheel.
"South a quarter west," replied the lieutenant, "which is the correct
course. The fog is very dense just now. I think we have passed the
obstructions by this time, though I do not know precisely where they
are placed."
"I should call it mighty ticklish navigation just here," added the
engineer.
"It is all of that, or will be in five or ten minutes more. Sand Island
Lighthouse is not more than a quarter of a mile from the middle of the
channel, and at that point the course changes. Perhaps the pilot can
make out the lighthouse in the fog. If he don't he will run into five
or six feet of water in a few minutes, out of eight fathoms or more."
"I suppose you are prepared to let go the towline if anything goes
wrong, Mr. Passford?" added the engineer, perhaps as a suggestion rather
than as a question.
"I hope it will not come to that, for the schooner might get aground on
the Knoll before we could make sail," replied Christy.
"The steamer has shifted her helm," said Graines, to the great relief of
the lieutenant. "The fog is lifting again, and the pilot must have seen
the lighthouse. We are headed more to the eastward now."
"The course is south by west, three-quarters west, when the lighthouse
bears west by south. We are out of the woods now, and there will be no
trouble at all till some blockader stirs up the waters," said Christy.
"I wonder where the Bellevite is just now," added Graines, as he looked
all about him as the fog lifted a little more, though it was still too
thick to make out any vessel, if there were any near.
"If my messenger reached the ship in time, she will be found somewhere
near the channel," replied Christy. "Call Lines, if you please, Mr.
Graines."
The seaman presently appeared; and the lieutenant directed him to take
the wheel, French instructing him how to keep the vessel in line with
the steamer.
"I believe you have sailed a schooner, French," said Christy, when he
had taken the man to the quarter.
"Yes, sir; I was mate of a coaster for three years, and I should have
become master of her if the war had not come, and I felt that I ought to
go into the navy, though I haven't got ahead much yet, as I expected I
should; but I am satisfied to fight for my country where I am."
"That is patriotic; and I hope a higher position will be found for you.
But we have not time to talk about that now," continued Christy. "It may
be necessary or advisable for Mr. Graines and myself to leave the West
Wind at any moment now. In that case I shall place this vessel in your
charge, and you will take her off where the Bellevite was moored last
night, and come to anchor."
"Thank you, sir; and I will endeavor to do my duty faithfully," replied
French, touching his cap.
"Now call the men aft, and I will explain the matter to them."
The lieutenant explained the situation, and directed the other five
seamen to respect and obey the man he had selected as captain. Then he
directed French to cast off the stops from the foresail and mainsail,
and have the jib and flying-jib ready to set at a moment's notice.
"I don't think Captain Sullendine can get out of his stateroom, where
he has been confined, or Bokes out of the deck-house; but if either of
them should do so, you must secure them as you think best," continued
Christy. "Do you fully understand your orders, French?"
"Perfectly, Mr. Passford; and I will do my duty as well as I know how,"
answered the able seaman, who, like many others in the service, deserved
a better position.
The new officer and crew went to work on the sails, and in a few minutes
they were ready to be set. Another bank of fog was rolling up, in which
the two vessels would soon be involved. But the Tallahatchie was in a
position where it was plain sailing now, and her future troubles would
all come from the blockaders.
"There you are!" exclaimed the engineer, as the peal of a gun boomed
over the water from the westward. "The steamer has been seen by a
blockader, and she will catch it now."
"I don't believe that was one of the Bellevite's guns," added Christy.
"Captain Breaker would not take a position over to the westward, for
that would give him the outside track, and he always goes at anything by
the shortest way."
"We have the fog again for the next ten or fifteen minutes. The
blockader that fired that shot must have got a sight at the steamer, and
she is still pegging away at her. We may get knocked over by our own
guns," continued Graines.
"There is no danger at present. She can't hit anything in this fog
except by a chance shot."
"And one of them sometimes does the most mischief. The fog is heavier
just now than it has been at any time during the night. I can't see the
Tallahatchie just now."
"It is blacker than a stack of blackbirds," added Christy. "I am
confident that we are at least a mile south of the lighthouse, and we
will take advantage of the gloom to hoist the mainsail, and then the
foresail if it holds as it is now;" and he gave the order to French,
who was assisted by the engineer in the work.
The lieutenant took the wheel, and sent Lines to assist the others.
The blockader to the westward continued to discharge her guns; but her
