 

he went away. I hated to see father off 
so. It went against me awfully. He didn't 
look well, J., seemed to me. Did you 
notice ? I wish I could go home and see him 
again. But there 's this confounded 
rustication business." 

" Don't be too down," pleaded Jamie. 

" Oh, I am," said Don, with the cheerful 
ness of reviving expression. " I'm blue as 
they make em ! Why, J., I wasn't drunk, 
you know I wasn't ! " 

" No, indeed," said Jamie sympathetically. 

" I never got drunk in my life ! " urged 
Don. " I wouldn't be such a flat ! " 

" Of course you wouldn't," echoed Jamie. 
" But, Don, you did take something, you 
know. It isn't a good plan. It makes a 
fellow misunderstood. It 's best left alone." 

" That 's a fact ! " cried Don. " And so 
is a girl that will give it to you best left 
alone ! But I won't lay the blame on Merry. 
I never got into such a mess. I'm ashamed 
of it, too ; that 's the rub. If I could play 
aggrieved innocent, and that But it 's no 
use. I deserve it, and I'm ashamed of my 
self. I never was before," added Don can 
didly. " I always thought I was a pretty 
nice sort of fellow." 



CHAPTER XL 

RUSTICATED. 

IT was a cold December day in northerly 
Vermont. This is saying a cold thing. 
Donald Marcy was an out-of-doors boy, used 
to weather and able to stand it, but he had 
never known what cold was before. When 
he woke that morning, in the spare room of 
Dr. Fleet 's parsonage, and looked about him, 
and took in the details that presented them 
selves to his shivering senses, he said : 

" The dickens ! " and took a dive under 
the bed-clothes, where he buried his curly 
head and tried to collect his congealing 
courage. He had been at Dr. Fleet 's some 
weeks now, but there had never been any 
thing as cold as this. The frost on his win 
dows lay as thick as blue- white plush ; the 
paper shades stirred and crackled in the 
wind that pierced the loose, old-fashioned 
casements. The straw matting, covered here 
and there by home-made rugs, looked glazed 
to his eyes, like a thin sheet of ice. 



 

His breath froze in the bitter air when 
ever he dared to breathe. His pitcher, which 
he had been in Vermont long enough to learn 
to remove from the wash-stand by the win 
dow (why are wash-stands always set by win 
dows in cold climates ?), stood upon the straw 
matting, in full view, filled to the brim with 
ice. His fire was out. Beside the air-tight 
stove the wood-box stood, half full. He 
filled that wood - box himself ; it was 
expected of him ; Don had never done such a 
thing in his life, before. He was expected 
to build the fire, too ; there was no " sweep " 
at the parsonage ; one little maid-of -all-work 
was the only visible servant. 

It was a great surprise to Don that Mrs. 
Fleet, who was quite a lady, worked hard in 
her own kitchen, harder, he sometimes 
thought, than the very little maid ; and that 
the clergyman himself took care of Old Wil 
liam, the horse, and carried the wood and 
coal. Jamie did these things when he was 
at home. Don felt ashamed the tough 
fellow ! to back out of anything that J. 
could do ; delicate J., with his thin, studious 
face and untrained muscles. So, although 
a boarder in the minister 's family, he had 
adopted the fashions of it without protest. 





Indeed, he had a distant suspicion that the 
system of rustication sometimes involved 
little deviations of this sort from the habits 
of elegant young gentlemen ; and it pleased 
Don 's plucky spirit not to exhibit any as 
tonishment or displeasure. In fact, he had 
accepted Vermont thoroughly ; and the self- 
denials of the parsonage had begun to be 
come a familiar drama in his gay, luxurious, 
young life. 

He had found it rather " slow," it must be 
owned, so far, in the village of East Tipton ; 
the parsonage was by all odds the best part 
of that thin old town, which lay shivering at 
the feet of the awful, snow-clad mountains, 
like a freezing creature overtaken by the 
winter, and trying to warm its poor life at a 
heart of ice. East Tipton was a place in 
which nothing happened. Even Jamie was 
not coming home for the holiday recess. 
Jamie had a chance to tutor his old 
gentleman 's son, at two dollars an hour, through 
vacation ; and a fellow must be better off 
than Jamie to throw away two dollars an 
hour. He had written home a very manly 
letter (he was terribly disappointed, Don 
could see, but he would not show it), simply 
saying that he must stay in Harle, and that 
he was lucky to get the chance. 



 

Fay was coming home, it is true, at the 
holidays ; but Don had never seen Fay ; he 
did not feel an absorbing interest in the fact. 
He fancied her something of a blue-stocking, 
and not at all stylish. Don knew a plenty of 
what are called society girls in New York, 
and, of course, all sorts in Harle ; but the 
Professor 's daughters belonged to another 
class, as much so, in their way, as Merry 
Gorond herself in hers. Don had never 
happened to know any college girls very well ; 
he had notions about them, as gay fellows 
and good dancers are apt to. He thought 
Fay Fleet would probably matronize him, 
and wear spectacles, and a " cloud," like the 
girls in East Tipton whom he met at the 
post-office giggling over the advertising board 
for letters that they never received, and 
nudging each other when the handsome boy 
asked for the minister 's box. 

Still, on the whole, Donald was not sorry 
that the minister 's daughter was coming- 
home that day. It would be some sort of 
change. Don had taken sensibly to the quiet 
life of the parsonage, but there was no de 
nying that it was dull for a lively lad. Dr. 
Fleet put him at once hard at work, that he 
might keep up with his class. This was new 





business for Don ; six hours a day of close 
study, rain or shine, gay or stupid, happy 
or dismal, and not a scrape, not a freak, 
not a frolic, not a fellow to break the pull ! 
Donald had never done any such studying as 
that in all his light, young life. He was 
surprised to find it really interesting at times. 
Dr. Fleet had a " way " with books which 
was to a lazy lad like the Vermont 
mountain wind to a case of swamp malaria. 

For the rest of his days Don will 
remember that old parsonage study, with its shabby 
carpet and well-filled book-shelves, the big 
coal heater, noisy and black and ugly (but 
so much cheaper than the scholar 's luxury of 
an open fire that it was a matter of course), 
the faded shades and patched lounge, and 
the great, hearty rush of sunlight all over 
the rooms on bright days ; the early student- 
lamp with its green shade, when the after 
noons were dark, and the spare figure of 
the minister bent over all sorts of queer, 
rare books in German, French, Old English, 
and who knows what ; his refined face, 
with a strong brow and gentle lips, like 
Jamie s, starting like a medallion from a 
background of dark velvet, and, grown 
unconscious, brilliant and memorable, while he 



 

talked to the careless lad of scholars and of 
scholarly thoughts and deeds and dreams. 

Don had not been without his own ideas, 
as we have said, of that other, graver, higher 
life which some fellows went to college for 
from the start, and which he meant to stop 
and take along before he got through, much 
as he would have reined in and picked up a 
friend on a Saturday afternoon drive with 
his father 's span. 

In those long, lonely winter days, when 
he and the minister sat at their books in the 
pleasant parsonage study, and a man of self- 
denial, application, and consecration was 
intimately revealed for the first time to the 
gay boy, strange thoughts came to his mind, 
strange visions to his heart. Life looked to 
him like a puzzle, of which he had lost the 
key, or, perhaps, had never had it. At times 
he wished for it very much indeed. Dreamily 
and delicately as the light of the winter day 
came into the study, and lay upon the silent 
books, there stole into the lad 's soul the 
stirring of a force which he did not know well 
enough to recognize, aspiration. 

There was something, too, about the life 
of that plain home which amazed the boy. 
Sometimes it touched him deeply. 





Poor as the place was, harsh as the 
conditions of their poverty looked to the luxury- 
accustomed fellow, yet it sometimes seemed 
to him as if he had never truly felt at home 
before. Everything in that house, from the 
washing-day breakfast to the threadbare best 
coat of the preacher ; from the cold entries 
to the cold mutton, was as foreign to its 
guest as if he had been rusticating in 
Zanzibar. But there was something tolerable 
about it all, nevertheless, nay, something 
really pleasant, if you chose to think so. 

Mrs. Fleet was a quiet lady, but she was 
the sweetest-natured one in the world. She 
mothered Don from the first ; she petted him, 
and chatted with him, and cooked little dishes 
for him ; she knew, better than the parson, 
how such a way of life as theirs must strike 
the son of T. B. Marcy ; she used to visit in 
New York when she was a young lady ; and 
she never fussed about little things, or found 
fault with Don, or nagged anybody, or made 
much of matters. She accepted her peaceful, 
narrow lot as serenely as the book did the 
book-shelf, and as sweetly as no one but a 
gentle woman can accept what is downright 
hard to bear. Don wondered at her very 
much, and he came to like her, and to like to 



 

sit with her evenings, in the half-furnished 
little parlor ; such a room as his mother 
would have refitted for her maid. 

In fact, Don had adapted himself to his 
life in the parsonage very smoothly and 
good-naturedly ; but Don was young, and 
the minister and his wife were not, and the 
rusticated boy shook his curls and sighed for 
some other young thing, if only, he said, " to 
wink at." 

Fancy winking at Dr. Fleet ! And as for 
the little maid, she wore crimping-pins, 
and bare elbows, which she burned against 
the boiler, regularly, every Monday. She 
was the only other young creature on the 
place. Even the cat was old ; and she had 
eaten her kittens. 

So it was not without a certain renewed 
interest in life that Donald remembered, 
when he woke that icy December morning, 
that the daughter of the house was expected 
at the parsonage that night. 

This reflection added insensibly to the 
motives for getting up, which were not so 
strong as to be beyond need of relays. It 
occurred to Don that he would cram a little 
on Xenophon that morning ; he believed the 
Smith girls were very learned ; she would 





probably call him out on his Greek at once ; 
and floor him, too. He thought he would 
take an early start into a liberal education, 
to be prepared for the worst, and so plunged 
out of bed. Plunge was the only word. It 
was like to nothing on earth so much as a 
dive into a bath of ice-water. Don caught 
his breath at the shock, and bravely attacked 
the air-tight stove. Now the minister 's air 
tight stove made a conscientious point of 
refusing to burn whenever the thermometer 
went to zero ; and, as the mercury registered 
thirty degrees below, that balmy morning, 
bathing and dressing became a fine art. By 
the time Don had got his collar fastened 
with fingers so numb that he had to trust the 
button and the buttonhole to meet entirely 
on their own responsibility, and by the time 
he had melted his frozen tooth-brush in his 
mouth to brush his teeth therewith, the air 
tight started up merrily. When he got down 
to breakfast it went red-hot ; and before he 
had finished his omelette and griddle-cakes 
a smell of smoke drove the entire family fly 
ing to the guest-room, where that blazing air 
tight, with an air of duty well done, was 
comfortably setting fire to the mantelpiece, 
and had consumed a copy of Xenophon and 
half a pile of young ladies letters. 



 

These incidents were a tremendous 
agitation in East Tiptoii, and Don got to the 
post-office that morning somewhat excited, 
and a little late. 

It was bitingly, bitterly, brutally cold. 
The enormous fall of snow made running 
impossible, and walking an athlete 's job. 
The snow-plows were not yet on the ground ; 
the snow was too deep. The doctor and a man 
who wanted him (for a sick horse) were the 
only men to be seen on the streets besides 
the young collegian. Not a woman was 
visible. 

Don, a fine figure in his astrachan-trimmed 
ulster and long rubber boots and astrachan 
cap, from below which his curls keeled up 
with a sort of defiant jollity, tramped gayly 
through the drifts to the office, a good hard 
mile away. He whistled as he went, and 
sang scraps of college songs, all ending : 

" Here 's to happy Harle 
Drink her down! " 

Many a climate-worn, sorrow-soured woman, 
lank of face and lean of heart, breathed 
little spots in the frosted window, to see the 
stranger lad go by, and felt the warmer, 
somehow, for the sight. If she were an 
elderly woman, she wished she had a boy 





like that, to come tramping the merry snow 
into her entry. If she were a young girl, 
she breathed a bigger hole in the thick frost- 
curtain, and looked a little longer, and 
wished who knows what ? And where do 
all these pretty half - grown, half - known 
wishes come from, or go to, that flutter 
across the lives of denied young people in 
poor places, like visitors whose very names 
they never know, but who bring them a 
breath of some brighter world, as foreign as 
France and as far as Paradise ? And, on the 
whole, are they gladder or sadder for it, 
who can tell ? 

