puzzling thing, and marred the talk a little. It 





 

bothered the widow to such a degree that she 
presently dropped out of the conversation without 
knowing it, and fell to watching and guessing and 
talking to herself: 

"Now that hand is going to take that coffee to 
— no, it's gone to the other mouth; I can't under- 
stand it ; and now, here is the dark-complected hand 
with a potato on its fork, I'll see what goes with it 
— there, the light-complected head's got it, as sure 
as I live!" Finally Rowena said: 

"Ma, what is the matter with you? Are you 
dreaming about something?" 

The old lady came to herself and blushed; then 
she explained with the first random thing that came 
into her mind: "I saw Mr. Angelo take up Mr. 
Luigi's coffee, and I thought maybe he — sha'n't I 
give you a cup, Mr. Angelo?" 

"Oh no, madam, I am very much obliged, but I 
never drink coffee, much as I would like to. You 
did see me take up Luigi's cup, it is true, but if you 
noticed, I didn't carry it to my mouth, but to his." 

"Y-es, I thought you did. Did you mean to?" 

"How?" 

The widow was a little embarrassed again. She 
said: 

"I don't know but what I'm foolish, and you 
mustn't mind; but you see, he got the coffee I was 
expecting to see you drink, and you got a potato 
that I thought he was going to get. So I thought it 
might be a mistake all around, and everybody get- 
ting what wasn't intended for him." 

Both twins laughed and Luigi said: 

"Dear madam, there wasn't any mistake. We 
are always helping each other that way. It is a 
great economy for us both; it saves time and labor. 
We have a system of signs which nobody can notice 
or understand but ourselves. If I am using both 
my hands and want some coffee, I make the sign and 
Angelo furnishes it to me; and you saw that when 
he needed a potato I delivered it." 

"How convenient!" 

"Yes, and often of the extremest value. Take 
the Mississippi boats, for instance. They are always 
overcrowded. There is table-room for only half of 
the passengers, therefore they have to set a second 
table for the second half. The stewards rush both 
parties, they give them no time to eat a satisfying 
meal, both divisions leave the table hungry. It isn't 
so with us. Angelo books himself for the one table, 
I book myself for the other. Neither of us eats any- 
thing at the other's table, but just simply works — 
works. Thus, you see there are four hands to feed 
Angelo, and the same four to feed me. Each of us 
eats two meals." 

The old lady was dazed with admiration, and kept 
saying, "It is perfectly wonderful, perfectly wonder- 
ful!" and the boy Joe licked his chops enviously, 
but said nothing — at least aloud. 

"Yes," continued Luigi, "our construction may 
have its disadvantages — in fact, has — but it also 
has its compensations of one sort and another. 
Take travel, for instance. Travel is enormously ex- 
pensive, in all countries; we have been obliged to 
do a vast deal of it — come, Angelo, don't put any 





 

more sugar in your tea, I'm just over one indiges- 
tion and don't want another right away — been 
obliged to do a deal of it, as I was saying. Well, 
we always travel as one person, since we occupy but 
one seat; so we save half the fare." 

"How romantic!" interjected Rowena, with effu- 
sion. 

"Yes, my dear young lady, and how practical 
too, and economical. In Europe, beds in the hotels 
are not charged with the board, but separately — 
another saving, for we stood to our rights and 
paid for the one bed only. The landlords often 
insisted that as both of us occupied the bed we 
ought—" 

"No, they didn't," said Angelo. "They did it 
only twice, and in both cases it was a double bed — 
a rare thing in Europe — and the double bed gave 
thern some excuse. Be fair to the landlords; twice 
doesn't constitute 'often.'" 

"Well, that depends — that depends. I knew a 
man who fell down a well twice. He said he didn't 
mind the first time, but he thought the second time 
was once too often. Have I misused that word, 
Mrs. Cooper?" 

"To tell the truth, I was afraid you had, but it 
seems to look, now, like you hadn't." She stopped, 
and was evidently struggling with the difficult prob- 
lem a moment, then she added in the tone of one 
who is convinced without being converted, ' ' It seems 
so, but I can't somehow tell why." 

Rowena thought Luigi's retort was wonderfully 
quick and bright, and she remarked to herself with 
satisfaction that there wasn't any young native of 
Dawson's Landing that could have risen to the 
occasion like that. Luigi detected the applause in 
her face, and expressed his pleasure and his thanks 
with his eyes; and so eloquently withal, that the 
girl was proud and pleased, and hung out the deli- 
cate sign of it on her cheeks. 

Luigi went on, with animation: 

"Both of us get a bath for one ticket, theater 
seat for one ticket, pew-rent is on the same basis, 
but at peep-shows we pay double." 

"We have much to be thankful for," said Angelo, 
impressively, with a reverent light in his eye and 
a reminiscent tone in his voice, "we have been 
greatly blessed. As a rule, what one of us has 
lacked, the other, by the bounty of Providence, has 
been able to supply. My brother is hardy, I am 
not; he is very masculine, assertive, aggressive; I 
am much less so. I am subject to illness, he is 
never ill. I cannot abide medicines, and cannot 
take them, but he has no prejudice against them, 
and—" 

"Why, goodness gracious," interrupted the widow, 
"when you are sick, does he take the medicine for 
you?" 

"Always, madam." 

"Why, I never heard such a thing in my life! I 
think it's beautiful of you." 

"Oh, madam, it's nothing, don't mention it, it's 
really nothing at all." 

"But I say it's beautiful, and I stick to it!" cried 
the widow, with a speaking moisture in her eye. 





 

"A well brother to take the medicine for his poor 
sick brother — I wash I had such a son," and she 
glanced reproachfully at her boys. "I declare I'll 
never rest till I've shook you by the hand," and she 
scrambled out of her chair in a fever of generous 
enthusiasm, and made for the twins, blind with her 
tears, and began to shake. The boy Joe corrected 
her: 

"You're shaking the wrong one, ma." 

This flurried her, but she made a swift change and 
went on shaking. 

"Got the wrong one again, ma," said the boy. 

"Oh, shut up, can't you!" said the widow, em- 
barrassed and irritated. "Give me all your hands, 
I want to shake them all ; for I know you are both 
just as good as you can be." 

It was a victorious thought, a master-stroke of 
diplomacy, though that never occurred to her and 
she cared nothing for diplomacy. She shook the 
four hands in turn cordially, and went back to her 
place in a state of high and fine exultation that 
made her look young and handsome. 

"Indeed I owe everything to Luigi," said Angelo, 
affectionately. "But for him I could not have sur- 
vived our boyhood days, when we were friendless 
and poor — ah, so poor! We lived from hand to 
mouth — lived on the coarse fare of unwilling charity, 
and for weeks and weeks together not a morsel of 
food passed my lips, for its character revolted me 
and I could not eat it. But for Luigi I should have 
died. He ate for us both." 

"How noble!" sighed Rowena. 



'Do you hear that?" said the widow, severely, 
to her boys. "Let it be an example to you — I 
mean you, Joe." 

Joe gave his head a barely perceptible disparaging 
toss and said: "Et for both. It ain't anything — 
I'd 'a' done it." 

"Hush, if you haven't got any better manners 
than that. You don't see the point at all. It 
wasn't good food." 

"I don't care — it was food, and I'd 'a' et it if it 
was rotten." 

"Shame! Such language! Can't you under- 
stand? They were starving — actually starving — 
and he ate for both, and — " 

"Shucks! you gimme a chance and I'll — " 

"There, now — close your head! and don't you 
open it again till you're asked." 

[Angelo goes on and tells how his parents the Count and 
Countess had to fly from Florence for political reasons, and died 
poor in Berlin bereft of their great property by confiscation; 
and how he and Luigi had to travel with a freak-show during 
two years and suffer semi-starvation.] 

"That hateful black-bread; but I seldom ate 
anything during that time; that was poor Luigi's 
affair—" 

"I'll never Mister him again!" cried the widow, 
with strong emotion, "he's Luigi to me, from this 
out!" 

"Thank you a thousand times, madam, a thousand 
times! though in truth I don't deserve it." 

"Ah, Luigi is always the fortunate one when 
honors are showering," said Angelo, plaintively; 
"now what have I done, Mrs. Cooper, that you 
leave me out? Come, you must strain a point in 
my favor." 

"Call you Angelo? Why, certainly I will; what 
are you thinking of! In the case of twins, why — " 

"But, ma, you're breaking up the story — do let 
him go on." 

"You keep still, Rowena Cooper, and he can go 
on all the better, I reckon. One interruption don't 
hurt, it's two that makes the trouble." 

"But you've added one, now, and that is three." 

"Rowena! I will not allow you to talk back at 
me when you have got nothing rational to say." 



CHAPTER in 

ANGELO IS BLUE 

[After breakfast the whole village crowded in, and there was a 
grand reception in honor of the twins; and at the close of it the 
gifted "freak" captured everybody's admiration by sitting down 
at the piano and knocking out a classic four-handed piece in 
great style. Then the Judge took it — or them — driving in his 
buggy and showed off his village.] 

ALL along the streets the people crowded the 
windows and stared at the amazing twins. 
Troops of small boys flocked after the buggy, ex- 
cited and yelling. At first the dogs showed no 
interest. They thought they merely saw three men 
in a buggy — a matter of no consequence; but 
when they found out the facts of the case, they 
altered their opinion pretty radically, and joined the 
boys, expressing their minds as they came. Other 
dogs got interested; indeed, all the dogs. It was a 
spirited sight to see them come leaping fences, 
tearing around corners, swarming out of every by- 
street and alley. The noise they made was some- 
thing beyond belief — or praise. They did not seem 
to be moved by malice but only by prejudice, the 
common human prejudice against lack of conformity. 
If the twins turned their heads, they broke and fled 
in every direction, but stopped at a safe distance 
and faced about; and then formed and came on 
again as soon as the strangers showed them their 





 

back. Negroes and farmers' wives took to the 
woods when the buggy came upon them suddenly, 
and altogether the drive was pleasant and animated, 
and a refreshment all around. 

[It was a long and lively drive. Angelo was a Methodist, Luigi 
was a Free-thinker. The Judge was very proud of his Free- 
thinkers' Society, which was flourishing along in a most pros- 
perous way and already had two members — himself and the 
obscure and neglected Pudd'nhead Wilson. It was to meet 
that evening, and he invited Luigi to join; a thing which Luigi 
was glad to do, partly because it would please himself, and 
partly because it would gravel Angelo.] 

They had now arrived at the widow's gate, and 
the excursion was ended. The twins politely ex- 
pressed their obligations for the pleasant outing 
which had been afforded them; to which the Judge 
bowed his thanks, and then said he would now go 
and arrange for the Free-thinkers ' meeting, and 
would call for Count Luigi in the evening. 

"For you also, dear sir," he added hastily, turn- 
ing to Angelo and bowing. "In addressing myself 
particularly to your brother, I was not meaning to 
leave you out. It was an unintentional rudeness, 
I assure you, and due wholly to accident — accident 
and preoccupation. I beg you to forgive me." 

His quick eye had seen the sensitive blood mount 
into Angelo's face, betraying the wound that had 
been inflicted. The sting of the slight had gone 
deep, but the apology was so prompt, and so evident- 
ly sincere, that the hurt was almost immediately 
healed, and a forgiving smile testified to the kindly 
Judge that all was well again. 





 

Concealed behind Angelo's modest and unas- 
suming exterior, and unsuspected by any but his 
intimates, was a lofty pride, a pride of almost ab- 
normal proportions, indeed, and this rendered him 
ever the prey of slights; and although they were 
almost always imaginary ones, they hurt none the 
less on that account. By ill fortune Judge Driscoll 
had happened to touch his sorest point, i.e., his 
conviction that his brother's presence was welcomer 
everywhere than his own ; that he was often invited, 
out of mere courtesy, where only his brother was 
wanted, and that in a majority of cases he would 
not be included in an invitation if he could be left 
out without offense. A sensitive nature like this 
is necessarily subject to moods; moods which trav- 
erse the whole gamut of feeling; moods which know 
all the climes of emotion, from the sunny heights of 
joy to the black abysses of despair. At times, in 
his seasons of deepest depressions, Angelo almost 
wished that he and his brother might become seg- 
regated from each other and be separate individuals, 
like other men. But of course as soon as his mind 
cleared and these diseased imaginings passed away, 
he shuddered at the repulsive thought, and earnest- 
ly prayed that it might visit him no more. To be 
separate, and as other men are! How awkward it 
would seem; how unendurable. What would he 
do with his hands, his arms? How would his legs 
feel? How odd, and strange, and grotesque every 
action, attitude, movement, gesture would be. To 
sleep by himself, eat by himself, walk by himself — 
how lonely, how unspeakably lonely! No, no, any 



