"I suppose so," said Mrs. Dene, with a shade 
more of reserve. 
"Miss Dene, you shall kill the first chamois 
that I see!" 
"I fear, Mr. Gethryn, the Duke Alfons Adal 
bert Maximilian in Baiern will have something 
to say about that!" 
"Oh h h ! Preserved ?" 
"Yes, indeed, preserved!" 
"But they told me I might shoot on the 
Sonnewendjoch." 
"Ah! But that's in Tyrol, just across the 
line. You can see it from here. Austrian game 
laws aren't Bavarian game laws, sir!" 
 
"How much of this country does your duke 
own ?" 
"Just half a dozen mountains, and half a dozen 
lakes, and half a hundred trout streams, with 
all the splendid forests belonging to them." 
"Lucky duke! And is the game preserved 
in the whole region? Can't one get a shot?" 
"One cannot even carry a gun without a per 
mit." 
Rex groaned. "And the trout I suppose they 
are preserved, too?" 
"Yes, but the Herr Forster has the right to 
fish and so have his guests. There are, how 
ever, conditions. The fish you take are not 
yours. You must buy as many of them as you 
want to keep, afterward. And they must be 
brought home alive or as nearly alive as is 
consistent with being shut up in a close, round, 
green tin box, full of water which becomes tepid 
as it is carried along by a peasant boy in the 
heat. They usually die of suffocation. But to 
the German mind that is all right. It is only 
not right when one kills them instantly and lays 
them in a cool creel, on fresh, wet ferns and 
moss," 
"Nevertheless, I think we will dispense with 
the boy and the green box, in favor of the ferns 
and moss, assisted by a five franc piece or two." 
"It isn't francs any more; you're not in 
France. It's marks here, you know." 
"Well, I have the same faith in the corrupt 
ing power of marks, as of francs, or lire, or 
shillings, or dollars." 
"And I think you will find your confidence 
justified," said Mrs. Dene, smiling. 
"Mamma trying to be cynical!" said Ruth, 
teazingly. "Isn't she funny, Rex!" 
A thoughtful look stole over her mother's 
face. "I can be terrible, too, sometimes " she 
said in her little,clear, high soprano voice; and 
she gazed musingly at the edge of a letter, 
which just appeared above the table, and then 
sank out of sight in her lap. 
"A letter from papa! It came with the stage! 
What does he say?" 
"He says several things; for one, he is com 
ing back to-morrow instead of the next day." 
"Delightful! But there is more?" 
Mrs. Dene's face became a cheerful blank, 
"Yes, there is more," she said. A pause. 
 
"Mamma," began Ruth, "do you think Griffins 
desirable as mothers?" 
"Very, for bad children!" Mrs. Dene relapsed 
into a pleasant reverie. Ruth looked at her 
mother as a kitten does in a game of tag, when 
the old cat has retired somewhere out of reach, 
and sits up smiling through the barrier. 
"You find her sadly changed!" she said to 
Gethryn, in that silvery, mocking tone which 
she had inherited from her mother. 
"On the contrary, I find her the same adorable 
gossip she always was. Whatever is in that 
letter, she is simply dying to tell us all about 
it." 
"Suppose we try not speaking, and see how 
long she can stand that?" 
Rex laid his repeater on the table. Two pairs 
of laughing eyes watched the dear little old lady. 
At the end of three minutes she raised her own, 
blue, sweet, running over with fun and kind 
ness. 
"The colonel has a polite invitation from the 
duke for himself and his party, to shoot on the 
Red Peak." 
CHAPTER XIII. 
In July the sun is still an early riser, but long 
before he was up next day a succession of raps 
on the door woke Gethryn, and a voice outside 
inquired, "Are you going fishing with me to 
day, you lazy beggar?" 
"Colonel!" cried Rsx, and springing up and 
throwing open the door, he threatened to mingle his pajamas with the natty tweeds waiting 
there, in a loving embrace. The colonel backed 
away, twisting his white mustache. "How do, 
Reggy! Same boy, eh? Yes. I drove from 
Schicksalsee this morning." 
"This morning? Wasn't it last night?" said 
Rex, looking at the shadows on the opposite 
mountain. 
"And I am going to get some trout," continued 
the colonel, ignoring the interruption. "So's 
Daisy. See my new waterproof rig?" 
"Beautiful! but is it quite the thing to wear 
a flower in one's fishing coat?" 
 
"I'm not aware " began the other stiffly, 
but broke down, shook his seal ring at Rex, 
and walking over to the glass, re-arranged the 
bit of wild hyacinth in his buttonhole with care. 
"And now," he said, "Daisy and I will give 
you just three quarters of an hour." Rex sent 
a shower from the water basin across the room. 
"Look out for those new water-proof clothes, 
Colonel." 
"I'll take them out of harm's way," said the 
colonel, and disappeared. 
Before the time had expired Rex stood under 
the beech tree with his rod case and his creel. 
The colonel sat reading a novel. Mrs. Dene 
was pouring out coffee. Ruth was coming down 
a path which led from a low shed, the door of 
which stood wide open, suffering the early 
sunshine to fall on something that lay stretched 
along the floor. It was a stag, whose noble 
head and branching antlers would never toss in 
the sunshine again. 
"Only think!" cried Ruth breathlessly, "Fed- 
erl shot a stag of ten this morning at daybreak 
on the Red Peak, and he's frightened out of his 
wits, for only the duke has a right to do that. 
Federl mistook it for a stag of eight. And 
they're in the velvet, besides!" she added rather 
incoherently. "What luck! Poor Federl! I 
asked him if that meant strajen, and he said he 
guessed not, only zankcn" 
"What's strafen, and what's zanken, Dai 
sy?" asked the Colonel, pronouncing the latter 
like z in buzz, 
Ruth went up to her father and took his face 
between her hands, dropping a light kiss on his 
eye -brow. 
"Strafen is when one whips bad boys, and 
t-s-za/i&e/i, is when one only scolds them. 
Which shall we do to you, dear? Both?" 
"We'll take coffee first, and then we'll see 
which there's time for before we leave you hem 
ming a pocket handkerchief while Rex and I go 
trout fishing." 
"Such parents!" sighed Ruth, nestling down 
beside her father, and looking over her cup at 
Rex, who gravely nodded sympathy. 
After breakfast, as Ruth stood waiting by the 
table where the fishing tackle lay, perfectly 
composed in manner, but unable to keep the 
color from her cheek, and the sparkle of impa- 
tience from her eye, Gethryn thought he had 
seldom seen anything more charming. 
A soft gray Tarn crowned her pretty hair. A 
caped coat, fastened to the throat, hung over 
the short kilt skirt, and rough gaiters buttoned 
down over a wonderful little pair of hob-nailed 
boots. 
"I say! Ruth! what a stunner you are !" cried 
he with enthusiasm. She turned to the rod 
case, and began lifting and arranging the rods. 
"Rex," she said, looking up brightly, "I feel 
about sixteen to-day." 
"Or less, judging from your costume," said 
her mother. "Schicksalsee isn't Rangely, you 
know. I only hope the good people in the little 
ducal court won't call you theatrical." 
"A theatrical stunner!" mused Ruth, in her 
clearest tones. "It is good to know how one 
strikes one's friends." 
"The disciplining of this young person is to 
be left to me," said the colonel. "Daisy, every 
thing else about you is all wrong, but your frock 
is all right." 
"That is simple, and comprehensive and reassuring," murmured Ruth absently, as she bent 
over the fly-book with Gethryn. 
After much consultation, and many thought 
ful glances at the bit of water which glittered 
and dashed through the narrow meadow in front 
of the house, they arranged the various colored 
lures and leaders, and standing up, looked at 
Colonel Dene, reading his novel. 
"What? Oh! Come along, then!" said he, 
on being made aware that he was waited for, 
and standing up also, he dropped the volume 
into his creel, and lighted a cigar. 
"Are you going to take that trash along, 
dear?" asked his daughter. 
"What trash? The work of fiction? That's 
literature, as the gentleman said about Dante." 
"Rex," said Mrs. Dene, buttoning the colonel's coat over his snowy collar, "I put this expedition into your hands. Take care of these 
two children." 
She stood and watched them until they passed 
the turn beyond the bridge. Mr. Blumenthal 
watched them too, from behind the curtains in 
his room. His leer went from one to the other, 
but always returned and rested on Rex. Then, 
as there was a mountain chill in the morning 
air, he crawled back into bed, hauling his night 
 
cap over his generous ears, and rolling himself 
in a cocoon of featherbeds, until he should emerge 
about noon, like some sleek, fat moth. 
The anglers walked briskly up the wooded 
road, chatting and laughing, with now and then 
a sage and critical glance at the water, of which 
they caught many glimpses through the trees. 
Gethryn and Ruth were soon far ahead. The 
colonel sauntered along, switching leaves with 
his rod, and indulging in bursts of Parisian mel 
ody. 
"Papa," called Ruth, looking back, "does your 
hip trouble you to-day, or are you only lazy?" 
"Trot along, little girl; I'll be there before you 
are," said the colonel airily, and stopped to 
replace the wild hyacinth in his coat by a prim 
little pink and white daisy. Then he lighted a 
fresh cigar and started on, but their voices were 
already growing faint in the distance. Observing this, he stopped and looked up and down 
the road. No one was in sight. He sat down 
on the bank with his hand on his hip. His face 
changed from a frown to an expression of sharp 
pain. In five minutes he had grown from a 
fresh elderly man into an old man, his face drawn 
and gray, but he only muttered "the devil!" and 
sat still. A big bronze-winged beetle whizzed 
past him, z-z-ip! "like a bullet," he thought, 
and pressed both hands now on his hip. "Twenty- 
five years ago pshaw! I'm not so old as that!" 
But it was twenty-five years ago when the blue- 
capped troopers, bursting in to the rescue, found 
the dandy th, scorched and rent and black 
ened, still reeling beneath a rag crowned with a 
gilt eagle. The exquisite befeathered and gold 
laced th. But the shells have rained for hours 
among the "Dandies" and some are dead, 
and some are wishing for death, like that young 
ster lying there with the shattered hip. 
Colonel Dene rose up presently and re-lighted 
his cigar; then he flicked some dust from the 
new tweeds, picked a stem of wild hyacinth, 
and began to whistle. "Pshaw! I'm not so old 
as all that!" he murmured, sauntering along the 
pleasant wood-road. Before long he came in 
sight of Ruth and Gethryn, who were waiting. 
But he only waved them on laughing. 
"Papa always says that old wound of his does 
not hurt- him, but it does. I know it does," 
said Ruth. 
 
Rex noted what tones of tenderness there 
were in her cool, clear voice. He did not answer, for he could only agree with her, and 
what could be the use of that? 
They strolled on in silence, up the fragrant 
forest road. Great glittering dragon flies drifted 
along the river bank, or hung quivering above 
pools. Clouds of lazy sulphur butterflies 
swarmed and floated, eddying up from the road 
in front of them, and settling down again in 
their wake like golden dust. A fox stole across 
the path, but Gethryn did not see him. The 
mesh of his landing net was caught just then in 
a little gold clasp that he wore on his breast. 
"How quaint!" cried Ruth; "let me help you; 
there! One would think you were a French 
legitimist, with your fleur-de-lis." 
"Thank you" was all he answered, and 
turned away, as he felt the blood burn his 
face. But Ruth was walking lightly on and had 
not noticed. The fleur-de-lis, however, reminded her of something she had to say, and she be 
gan again, presently 
"You left Paris rather suddenly, did you not, 
Rex?" 
This time he colored furiously, and Ruth 
turning to him saw it. She flushed too, fearing 
to have made, she knew not what blunder, but 
she went on seriously, not pausing for his an 
swer: 
"The year before, that is three years ago now, 
we waited in Italy, as we had promised to do, 
for you to join us. But you never even wrote 
to say why you did not come. And you haven't 
explained it yet, Rex." 
Gethryn grew pale. This was what he had 
been expecting. He knew it would have to 
come; in fact he had wished for nothing more 
than an opportunity for making all the amends 
that were possible under the circumstances. 
But the possible amends were very, very inade 
quate at best, and now that the opportunity 
was here his courage failed, and he would have 
shirked it if he could. Besides, for the last five 
minutes, Ruth had been innocently stirring 
memories that made his heart beat heavily. 
And now she was waiting for her answer. 
He glanced at the clear profile, as she walked 
beside him. Her eyes were raised a little; they 
seemed to be idly following the windings of a 
 
path that went up the opposite mountain side; 
her lips rested one upon the other in quiet curves. 
He thought he had never seen such a pure, 
proud looking girl. All the chivalry of a gener 
ous and imaginative man brought him to her 
feet. 
"I cannot explain. But I ask your forgive 
ness. Will you grant it? I won't forgive my 
self!" 
She turned instantly and gave him her hand, 
not smiling, but her eyes were very gentle. 
They walked on a while in silence, then Rex 
said: 
"Ever since I came, I have been trying to 
find courage to ask pardon for that unpardon 
able conduct, but when I looked in your dear 
mother's face, I felt myself such a brute that I 
was only fit to hold my tongue. And I be 
lieved," he added after a pause, "that she would 
forgive me too. She was always better to me 
than I deserved." 
"Yes," said Ruth. 
"And you also are too good to me," he con 
tinued, "in giving me this chance to ask your 
pardon." His voice took on the old caressing 
tone in which he used to make peace after their 
boy and girl tiffs. "I knew very well that with 
you I should have a stricter account to settle 
than with your mother," he said, smiling. 
"Yes," said Ruth again. And then with a little 
effort and a slight flush she added: 
"I don't think it is good for men when too 
many excuses are made for them. Do you?" 
"No, I do not," answered Rex, and thought, 
if all women were like this one how much easier 
it would be for men to lead a good life! His 
heart stopped its heavy beating. The memories 
which he had been fighting for two years, faded 
away once more; his spirits rose, and he felt 
like a boy as he kept step with Ruth along the 
path, which had now turned and ran close be 
side the stream. 
"Now tell me something of your travels," 
said Ruth. "You have been in the East." 
"Yes, in Japan, But first I stopped awhile 
in India, with some British officers, nice fel 
lows. There was some pheasant shooting." 
"Pheasants! No tigers?" 
"One tiger." 
"You shot him! Oh! tell me about it!" 
 
"No, I only saw him." 
"Where?" 
"In a jungle." 
"Did you fire?" 
"No, for he was already dead, and the odor 
which pervaded his resting place made me hurry 
away as fast as if he had been alive." 
"You are a provoking boy!" 
Rex laughed. "I did shoot a cheetah in 
China." 
"A dead one?" 
"No, he was snarling over a dead buck." 
"Then you do deserve some respect." 
"If you like. But it was very easy. One 
bullet settled him. I was fined afterward." 
"Fined! for what?" 
"For shooting the Emperor's trained cheetah. 
After that I always looked to see if the game 
wore a silver collar before I fired." 
Ruth would not look as if she heard. 
Rex went on teasingly: "I assure you it was 
embarrassing when the pheasants were bursting 
cover, to be under the necessity of inquiring at 
the nearest house if those were really pheasants 
or only Chinese hens." 
"Rex," exclaimed Ruth, indignantly, "I hope 
you don't think I believe a word you are saying." 
They had stopped to rest, beside the stream, 
and now the colonel sauntered into view, his 
hands full of wild-flowers, his single eye-glass 
gleaming beside his delicate straight nose. 
"Do you know," he asked, strolling up to 
Ruth, and tucking a cluster of blue-bells under 
her chin, "do you know what old Hugh Mont 
gomery would say if he were here?" 
"He'd say," she replied promptly, "that we 
couldn't take no traout with the pesky sun a 
shinin and a brilin the hull crick. " 
"Yes," said Rex. "Rise at four, east wind, 
cloudy morning, that was Hugh. But he could 
