
It astonished Jim to hear him talk so, and he 
broke in and says, kind of pleading and dis- 
tressed : 

' Mars Tom, please don't say sich things in sich 
an awful time as dis. You ain't only reskin' yo' 
own self, but you's reskin' us— same way like Anna 
Nias en Suffira. De lake wuz dah — I seen it jis' as 
plain as I sees you en Huck dis minute.' 

I says : 

' Why, he seen it himself ! He was the very 
one that seen it first. Noic, then.' 

' Yes, Mars Tom, hit's so — you can't deny it. 
We all seen it, en dat prove it was dah.' 

' Proves it ! How does it prove it ? ' 

' Same way it does in de courts en everywheres, 
Mars Tom. One pusson might be drunk or dreamy 
or suthin',en he could be mistaken; en two might, 
maybe; but I tell you, sah, when three sees a thing, 
drunk er sober, it's so. Dey ain't no gittin' aroun' 
dat, en you knows it, Mars Tom.' 


'I don't know nothing of the kind. There used 
to be forty thousand million people that seen the 
sun move from one side of the sky to the other 
every day. Did that prove that the sun done it ? ' 

' 'Course it did. En, besides, dey warn't no 
'casion to prove it. A body 'at's got any sense 
ain't gwyne to doubt it. Dah she is now — a sailin' 
thoo de sky des like she allays done.' 

Tom turned on me then, and says : 

' What do you say — is the sun standing still ? ' 

' Tom Sawyer, what's the use to ask such a 
jackass question ? Anybody that ain't blind can 
see it don't stand still.' 

' Well,' he says, ' I'm lost in the sky with no 
company but a passel of low-down animals that 
don't know no more than the head boss of a uni- 
versity did three or four hundred years ago. W r hy, 
blame it, Huck Finn, there was Popes, in them 
days, that knowed as much as you do.' 

It warn't fair play, and I let him know it. I 
says : 

'Throwin' mud ain't arguin', Tom Sawyer.' 

' Who's throwin' mud ? ' 

' You done it.' 

' I never. It ain't no disgrace, I reckon, to 
compare a backwoods Missouri muggins like you to 
a Pope, even the orneriest one that ever set on the 
throne. Why it's an honour to you, you tadpole ; 
the Pope's the one that's hit hard, not you, and you 
couldn't blame him for cussing about it, only they 
don't cuss. Not now they don't, I mean.' 
' Sho, Tom, did they ever ? ' 
' In the Middle Ages ? Why, it was their com- 
mon diet.' 

' No ! You don't really mean they cussed ? ' 
That started his mill a-going, and he ground out 
a regular speech, the way he done sometimes when 
he was feeling his oats ; and I got him to write 
down some of the last half of it for me, because it 
was like book-talk and tough to remember, and had 
words in it that I warn't used to, and is pretty 
tiresome to spell : 

' Yes, they did. I don't mean that they went 
charging around the way Ben Miller does, and put 
the cuss-words just the same way he puts them. 
No ; they used the same words, but they put them 

together different, because they'd been learnt by 
the very best masters, and they knowed hmr, 
which Ben Miller don't, because he just picked it 
up here and there and around, and hadn't had no 
competent person to learn him. But they knowed. 
It warn't no frivolous random cussing, like Ben 
Miller's, that starts in anywheres and comes out 
nowheres — it was scientific cussing, and systematic ; 
and it was stern, and solemn, and awful — not a 
thing for you to stand off and laugh at, the way 
people does when that poor ignorant Ben Miller 
gits a-going. Why, Ben Miller's kind can stand up 
and cuss a person a week, steady, and it wouldn't 
phaze him no more than a goose cackling ; but it 
was a mighty different thing in them Middle Ages 
when a Pope, educated to cuss, got his cussing- 
things together and begun to lay into a king, or a 
kingdom, or a heretic, or a Jew, or anybody that 
was unsatisfactory and needed straightening out. 
He didn't go at it harum-scarum ; no, he took that 
king or that other person, and begun at the top, 
and cussed him all the way down in detail. He 
cussed him in the hairs of his head, and in the 

bones of his skull, and in the hearing of his ears, 
and in the sight of his eyes, and in the breath of 
his nostrils, and in his vitals, and in his veins, and 
in his limbs and his feet and his hands, and the 
blood and flesh and bones of his whole body ; and 
cussed him in the loves of his heart and in his 
friendships, and turned him out in the world, and 
cussed anybody that give him food to eat, or shelter 
and bed, or water to drink, or rags to cover him 
when he was freezing. Land ! that was cussing 
worth talking about ; that was the only cussing 
worth shucks that's ever been done in this world — 
the man it fell on, or the country it fell on, would 
better 'a' been dead forty times over. Ben Miller ! 
The idea of him thinking he can cuss ! Why, the 
poorest little one-horse back-country bishop in the 
Middle Ages could cuss all around him. We don't 
know nothing about cussing nowadays.' 

' Well,' I says, * you needn't cry about it ; I 
reckon we can get along. Can a bishop cuss now 
the way they useter ? ' 

' Yes, they learn it because it's part of the polite 
learning that belongs to his lay-out — kind of bells 
letters, as you may say — and although he ain't got 
no more use for it than Missouri girls has for 
French, he's got to learn it, same as they do, 
because a Missouri girl that can't polly-voo and a 
bishop that can't cuss ain't got no business in 
society.' 

' Don't they ever cuss at all now, Tom ? ' 
' Not but very seldom. P'r'aps they do in Peru, 
but amongst people that knows anything it's 
played out, and they don't mind it no more than 
they do Ben Miller's kind. It's because they've 
got so far along that they know as much now as 
the grasshoppers did in the Middle Ages.' 
' The grasshoppers ? ' 

' Yes. In the Middle Ages, in France, when the 
grasshoppers started in to eat up the crops, the 
bishop would go out in the fields and pull a solemn 
face and give them a most solid good cussing. Just 
the way they done with a Jew or a heretic or a 
king, as I was telling you.' 

' And what did the grasshoppers do, Tom ? ' 
' Just laughed, and went on and et up the crop, 
same as they started in to do. The difference 
betwixt a man and a grasshopper, in the Middle 
Ages, was that the grasshopper warn't a fool.' 

' Oh, my goodness, oh, my goodness gracious, 
dah's de lake a'gin ! ' yelled Jim just then. ' Now, 
Mars Tom, what you gwyne to say ? ' 

Yes sir, there was the lake again, away yonder 
across the Desert, perfectly plain, trees and all, 
just the same as it was before. I says : 

'I reckon you're satisfied now, Tom Sawyer.' 

But he says, perfectly cam : 

' Yes, satisfied there ain't no lake there.' 

Jim says : 

' Don't talk so, Mars Tom — it sk'yers me to hear 
you. It's so hot, en you's so thirsty, dat you ain't 
in yo' right mine, Mars Tom. Oh, but don't she 
look good ! 'Clah I doan' know how I's gwyne 
to wait tell we gits dah, I's so thirsty.' 

' Well, you'll have to wait ; and it won't do you 
no good, either, because there ain't no lake there, I 
tell you.' 

I says : 

 Jim, don't you take your eye off of it, and I 
won't either.' 



' 'Deed I won't ; en bless you, honey, I couldn't 
ef I wanted to.' 

We went a-tearing along towards it, piling the 
miles behind us like nothing, but never gaining an 
inch on it— and all of a sudden it was gone again ! 
Jim staggered and 'most fell down. When he got 
his breath he says, gasping like a fish : 

' Mars Tom, hit's a ghos', dats what it is, en I
hopes to goodness we ain't gwyne to see it no mo'. 
Dey's ben a lake, en suthin's happened, en de lake's 
dead, en we's seen its ghos' ; we's seen it twyste, 
and dat's proof. De Desert's ha'nted — it's ha'nted, 
sho. Oh, Mars Tom, le's git outen it — I'd rather die 
than have de night ketch us in it ag'in, en de ghos' 
er dat lake come a-mournin' aroun' us, en we asleep 
en doan' know de danger we's in.' 

' Ghost, you gander ! it ain't anything but air 
and heat and thirstiness pasted together by a 
person's imagination. If I Gimme the glass ! 

He grabbed it, and begun to gaze off to the 
right. 

' It's a flock of birds,' he says. ' It's getting 
towards sundown, and they're making a bee-line 

across our track for somewheres. They mean 
business — maybe they're going for food or water, or 
both. Let her go to starboard ! — port your helium ! 
Hard down! There— ease up— steady, as you 

go-'  

We shut down some of the power, so as not to 
out-speed them, and took out after them. We 
went skimming along a quarter of a mile behind 
them, and when we had followed them an hour and 
a half and was getting pretty discouraged, and 
thirsty clean to unendurableness, Tom says : 

' Take the glass, one of you, and see what that 
is, away ahead of the birds.' 

Jim got the first glimpse, and slumped down 
on a locker, sick. He was 'most crying, and 
says : 

' She's dah agi'n, Mars Tom — she's dah ag'in, en 
I knows I's gwyne to die, 'case when a body sees 
a ghos' de third time, dat's what it means. I 
wisht I'd never come in dis balloon, dat I does.' 

He wouldn't look no more, and what he said 
made me afraid too, because I knowed it was true, 
for that has always been the way with ghosts ; so 
then I wouldn't look any more either. Both of us 
begged Tom to turn off and go some other way, but 
he wouldn't, and said we was ignorant superstitious 
blatherskites. Yes, and he'll git come up with one 
of these days, I says to myself, insulting ghosts 
that way. They'll stand it for awhile, maybe, but 
they won't stand it always, for anybody that knows 
about ghosts knows how easy they are hurt, and 
how revengeful they are. 

So we was all quiet and still, Jim and me being 
scared, and Tom busy. By-and-by Tom fetched 
the balloon to a standstill, and says : 

' Now get up and look, you sapheads!' 

We done it, and there was the sure-enough 
water right under us ! — clear, and blue, and cool, 
and deep, and wavy with the breeze, the loveliest 
sight that ever was. And all about it was grassy 
banks, and flowers, and shady groves of big trees, 
looped together with vines, and all looking so 
peaceful and comfortable, enough to make a body 
cry, it was so beautiful. 

Jim did cry, and rip and dance and carry on, 
he was so thankful and out of his mind for joy. It 
was my watch, so I had to stay by the works, but 
Tom and Jim dumb down and drunk a barrel 
apiece, and fetched me up a lot, and I've tasted a 
many a good thing in my life, but nothing that 
ever begun with that water. Then they went down 
and had a swim, and then Tom come up and spelled 
me, and me and Jim had a swim, and then Jim 
spelled Tom, and me and Tom had a foot-race and 
a boxing-mill, and I don't reckon I ever had such a 
good time in my life. It warn't so very hot, 
because it was close on to evening, and we hadn't 
any clothes on, anyway. Clothes is well enough 
in school, and in towns, and at balls, too, but there 
ain't no sense in them when there ain't no civilisa- 
tion nor other kinds of bothers and fussiness 
around. 

' Lions a-comin' ! — lions ! Quick, Mars Tom ! 
Jump for yo' life, Huck ! ' 

Oh, and didn't we? We never stopped for 
clothes, but walzed up the ladder just so. Jim 
lost his head straight off — he always done it when- 
ever he got excited and scared : and so now, 
'stead of just easing the ladder up from the ground 
a little, so the animals couldn't reach it, he turned 
on a raft of power, and we went whizzing up and 
was dangling in the sky before he got his wits to- 
gether and seen what a foolish thing he was doing. 
Then he stopped her, but had clean forgot what 
to do next ; so there we was, so high that the 
lions looked like pups, and we was drifting off on 
the wind. 

But Tom he shinned up and went for the works 
and begun to slant her down, and back towards the 
lake, where the animals was gathering like a camp 
meeting, and I judged he had lost his head, too ; 
for he knowed I was too scared to climb, and did 
he want to dump me amongst the tigers and 
things '? 

But no ; his head was level — he knowed what he 
was about. He swooped down to within thirty or 
forty foot of the lake, and stopped right over the 
centre, and sung out : 

' Leggo, and drop ! ' 

I done it, and shot down, feet first, and seemed 
to go about a mile towards the bottom ; and when 
I come up, he says : 

' Now lay on your back and float till you're 
rested and got your pluck back ; then I'll dip the 
ladder in the water and you can climb aboard.' 

I done it. Now, that was ever so smart in Tom, 
because if he had started off somewheres else to 
drop down on the sand, the menagerie would 'a' 
come along too, and might 'a' kept us hunting a 
safe place till I got tuckered out and fell. 

And all this time the lions and tigers was sorting 
out the clothes, and trying to divide them up so 
there would be some for all, but there was a mis- 
understanding about it somewheres, on accounts of 
some of them trying to hog more than their share ; 
so there was another insurrection, and you never see 
anything like it in the world. There must 'a' been 
fifty of them, all mixed up together, snorting and 
roaring and snapping and biting and tearing, legs and 
tails in the air, and you couldn't tell which belonged 
to which, and the sand and fur a-flying. And when 
they got done, some was dead, and some was limping 
off crippled, and the rest was setting around on the 
battlefield, some of them licking their sore places 
and the others looking up at us and seemed to be 
kind of inviting us to come down and have some 
fun, but which we didn't want any. 

As for the clothes, there warn't any any more. 
Every last rag of them was inside of the animals ; 
and not agreeing with them very well, I don't reckon, 
for there was considerable many brass buttons on 
them, and there was knives in the pockets, too, and 
smoking-tobacco, and nails and chalk and marbles 
and fishhooks and things. But I wasn't caring. 
All that was bothering me was that all we had now 
was the professor's clothes — a big enough assort- 
ment, but not suitable to go into company with, if 
we come across any, because the britches was as 
long as tunnels, and the coats and things according. 
Still, there was everything a tailor needed, and Jim 
was a kind of a jack-legged tailor, and he allowed he 
could soon trim a suit or two down for us that 
would answer. 


CHAPTER IX 

Still, we thought we would drop down there a 
minute, but on another errand. Most of the pro- 
fessor's cargo of food was put up in cans, in the 
new way that somebody had just invented, the rest 
was fresh. When you fetch Missouri beefsteak to 
the Great Sahara, you want to be particular and 
stay up in the coolish weather. Ours was all right 
till we stayed down so long amongst the dead people. 
That spoilt the water, and it ripened up the beef- 
steak to a degree that was just right for an English- 
man, Tom said, but was 'most too gay for 
Americans ; so we reckoned we would drop down 
into the lion market and see how we could make 
out there. 

