as the Falstaffian column approached the village, in order to prevent
the news of their coming from being circulated too soon. At any rate,
Deck came down the slope at the best speed Ceph could make some time
before the sergeant expected to see him.
"Coming, be they, Deck?" inquired he when Deck reined in before him.
"They are hurrying up, pounding their horses with their heels and the
butts of their guns," replied Deck. "I don't believe there is a nag in
the procession that can make over six miles an hour."
"Have they left the blocusses on foot behind?"
"No; but I fancy they are about out of wind by this time, for they are
running to keep up."
"All right, Deck. I have seen your pa, and you can go down and tell him
all you know; for I am posted here to signal him when the right time
for him to move has come."
Deck obeyed the order; but he had nothing special to report, except the
nearer approach of the ruffians. He fell back when he had said what he
had to say, and watched eagerly for the signal from the sergeant. He was
to keep near the major, to carry his orders if any were to be sent out;
but this would not prevent him from taking part in the fight. Even his
father had provided himself with a sabre, which he was ready to wield in
the conflict if occasion required; not otherwise. The carbines of the
platoon had been unslung, and the men were in readiness to fire a volley
when the time came.
"There is Knox's signal, father!" exclaimed Deck, as the major had
turned away to answer a question of the colonel.
The commander had seen the sergeant waving his cap very vigorously at
the corner. The time had come. The colonel and the clergyman, with those
surrounding them, were the only ones who were excited. The platoon was
as steady as though it was to march to a prayer-meeting.
"Gallop--march!" said the major to Lieutenant Gilder, who was in command
of the body.
Both the magnate and the minister had provided themselves with rifles,
and insisted upon doing their share of the fighting, though Major Lyon
assured them that he had force enough to handle double that of the
enemy. The lieutenant gave the orders in detail, and the command was off
in a moment. The major rode on the flank of the platoon, and the
citizens followed him. Deck kept at the side of his father. Artie was
with the captain; and his office was to carry any report or information
to the major, if the circumstances should require.
We prefer to look through the eyes of Deck at the scene that followed.
As soon as he reached the corner, somewhat in advance of the body of the
company, he discovered the enemy. The mounted men were riding at the
best speed of the miserable animals on which they were mounted; and very
soon they reached what Knox called "the great circle," which was laid
out to set off the grand entrance to Greeltop, the name of the estate of
the colonel; and the village had taken its designation from the stately
mansion and grounds. Before they reached this arena, they set up a
series of frightful yells, evidently intended to intimidate the people
of the village, and make them believe that the imps of the infernal
regions had all broken in upon them at once.
The avenue was very wide, and the platoon resolved itself into "company
front" at the command of the lieutenant. This was the first view the
enemy had of the Union force waiting for them. The body advanced at a
gallop, till the officer reduced the speed, and then formed them in a
double rank. Lieutenant Gilder gave the orders in detail, which resulted
in a volley, before which half-a-dozen saddles were emptied.
"Sling--carbine!" shouted the lieutenant before the smoke enabled the
men to see what execution they had executed. "Draw--sabre!"
As the smoke rolled away the enemy was seen to be badly broken up, and
the leader was using his best efforts to rally his undisciplined
soldiers. But his men had fired as soon as they saw the troopers in
front of them, and two of the latter had been wounded. The volley had
hardly been discharged by the portion of the company in front of the
marauders, when Captain Gordon was seen at the head of his men. He drew
them up in such a position as to avoid sending the bullets into the
midst of the other portion of his company.
Another volley followed from his men; and more of the wretches in front
of them dropped from their saddles, or fell over if they were not
mounted. A panic seized the enemy; and the major ordered his lieutenant
not to charge upon the guerillas in accordance with the usual programme
of the squadron.
"Dexter!" called the commander.
"Here, Major!" replied the orderly promptly, as he saluted the
commander, with his drawn sabre ready for the charge.
"Ride around the flank of the enemy as quick as you can, and give
Captain Gordon my order not to charge till I send him word," said the
major. "Be careful of yourself, and return if you find the passage
dangerous."
It did not look like a perilous undertaking to the father, or he would
not have sent his son with the message. The action had come to look like
a mere butchery to him, and he was not willing to engage in any inhuman
slaughter. Deck dashed along the front of the company; for there was a
space of at least a hundred feet between them and the enemy. The
unmounted men were crushing in a mass to get behind the horses; for they
expected another murderous volley.
Deck forced his horse into the broad gutter; for Ceph was more inclined
to leap into the crowd of guerillas, as he had been trained to do. He
saw the captain several rods from him, and he urged his steed forward to
reach him. His uniform seemed to be a hateful sight to the banditti; and
a couple of them rushed in front of him to intercept his passage. One of
them raised his musket to fire at him; but the intrepid trooper struck
it down with his sabre. The other did not attempt to shoot him, and
probably his gun was not loaded. Both of the men kept their places in
front of him, and were trying to beat him down with their clubbed
weapons.
This was just the sport for Ceph; and, at the right signal from his
rider, he made a spring into the air, with the evident intention of
leaping over the obstacle in front of him. At the same time Deck made a
vigorous use of his sabre, and hit the foremost of the men in the head,
which caused him to spread himself out on the ground. Ceph went clear
over the other, and the rider gave him a blow with the weapon in his
hand as he did so.
Ceph went flying the rest of the way; and the guerillas did not attempt
to stop him. The young horseman had a good chance to see the condition
of the enemy at a glance. The footmen had hemmed in the horses in their
efforts to escape the expected bullets; and there was no question in his
mind that the horde had already been effectually defeated. If the
sergeant's big bag had been ready, they were all ready to go into it.
"Good Heaven, Deck!" exclaimed Captain Gordon, rushing up to him with
all the speed of his horse. "Did you cut through the enemy?"
"Not exactly, Captain," replied Deck. "I am here to deliver to you Major
Lyon's order not to charge the enemy without a special order to that
effect."
"I haven't given that order yet, for the enemy are about crushed
already; but I intended to follow up the charge of the rest of the
company on the other side. But I saw you, Deck, engaged against two men
in front of you only a few minutes ago; and I was about to order the
platoon to charge in order to rescue you. I thought the first company
had lost one of its best soldiers then."
"But I have come through all right, Captain," added Deck, laughing at
the excitement of his officer. "Ceph always does me a good turn when I
get into a tight place, and he did this time."
"There come some more of the men from the other side of the house,"
added the captain, as he pointed to the way the orderly had come.
Deck looked, and saw Life Knox, with a dozen troopers, rushing along the
gutter through which he had come; but the guerillas did not attempt to
molest them, for they were formidable enough to have beaten the whole
squad of the enemy, even before they had lost a man.
"Major Lyon sent me after you, Deck," said the sergeant, as he stopped
his horse in front of him. "You had a narrow squeak of it that time, my
boy."
"No, I didn't, Life; what's the use of making such a to-do about
nothing? I'm all right," replied Deck, who thought his father and the
rest of them were treating him like an infant.
"But your pa was tearing his hair like a mother that had lost her baby,
to think he had sent you into such a tight place," added Knox. "He would
'a' sent the whole company after you in two minutes more. But you are
safe, and I thought you'd gone to feed the worms sure."
"The worms will not dine on me just yet. I am going back now to my place
on the other side of the enemy," said Deck. "You can come when you get
ready, Life."
As he spoke he wheeled his trusty steed, and intimated to him that he
was ready; whereupon Ceph made a spring, and darted off at a breakneck
speed.
"Hold on, Baby!" shouted the sergeant, calling him by a name he had used
before, to which Deck did not object as long as the Kentuckian did not
treat him like an infant. "We uns kim over to escort you back!"
"Obey your orders, Life," returned the furious young rider, without even
looking behind him.
Knox started after him with all the hurry there was in his steed; but
there was hardly a horse in the squadron that could run as fast as
Ceph, for he had been trained to this branch of his equine profession as
a racer. But none of the guerillas were disposed to meddle with him
again; and perhaps the two who had attacked him before had mistaken his
intentions. He rode into the presence of the major, saluted him
gracefully; and the cavalrymen who had witnessed his encounter broke out
in a cheer.
"Captain Gordon replied that he did not give the order to charge,
because he was waiting for you to begin on this side of the enemy," said
Deck.
"Thank Heaven that you are safe, Dexter!" replied the father devoutly.
"Heaven and Ceph," added the young hero.
The father was busy just then, and he said no more. As soon as Deck had
started with his message, Major Lyon realized that the action would
become a slaughter, and he was anxious to stay the flow of blood. He was
not willing to cut down the men in front of him with the sabres of his
soldiers; for they appeared to be helpless, as much from panic as from
the want of proper arms.
"Do you surrender?" he shouted at the top of his lungs, directing his
voice to the mass of the wretches gathered in the centre of the great
circle.
No one answered him, and probably no one heard him. He ordered
Lieutenant Gilder to move his men forward very slowly. This officer was
in front of his troopers; and he led the way as directed, the major
remaining on the flank.
The lieutenant raised his white handkerchief on his sabre, and waved it
in the air to indicate his peaceful intentions. When he had gone half
the distance to the enemy, he halted the platoon.
"Do you surrender?" he shouted at the top of his voice.
The answer was the discharge of half-a-dozen muskets by the mounted
guerillas who held the front of the mass. Lieutenant Gilder dropped from
his horse to the ground; and something like a confused cheer went up
from the men who had fired the volley. Sergeant Knox was the next in
command; and, pushing his horse to the front, he waved his sabre in the
air.
"Draw--pistol!" he cried. "Ready--aim--fire!"
The pistols were all ready for use, and the men fired them into the
front rank of the enemy, which seemed to contain all the fighting
ability there was left in the band. They were reloading their old guns;
but some of them did not live to complete the operation. Dr. Farnwright,
who had been near the major, rushed forward, and Knox sent two men to
assist him. Regardless of the danger of the position, the surgeon rushed
to the front to attend to the lieutenant.
"Platoon--charge!" shouted the sergeant, afraid that the work of the
doctor would be impeded by the senseless operations of the mob.
The troopers, with the sergeant in front of them, darted at the mass of
banditti in the circle; but they fell back only to precipitate
themselves upon the command of Captain Gordon behind them. At this
moment Major Lyon ordered his bugler to sound the recall. The soldiers
fell back only a very short distance in obedience to the signal, and
they had hardly struck a blow. They held the enemy where they were.
CHAPTER XXXIII
CAPTAIN STINGER THE FIRE-EATER
As soon as Dr. Farnwright reached the prostrate form of Lieutenant
Gilder, he shook his head as he glanced at the major; for the advance of
the platoon had left them in the rear. He examined his patient, who had
passed beyond human aid. The ball had struck him in the chest, and had
doubtless penetrated his heart. His body was borne to the rear. Major
Lyon was sad; but the loss of the noble young man did not affect him as
it did the sergeant, for there was nothing revengeful in his nature.
Knox was disposed to annihilate the rabble in front, of him; but he was
an obedient soldier, though he had ordered the discharge of pistols
without orders; for the firing of the ruffians, and especially the fall
of the gallant lieutenant, seemed to render any commands unnecessary.
The major directed him to move his platoon forward, and he kept on the
flank himself as he did so.
Half-a-dozen of the enemy attempted to run by the troopers on the side
of the colonel's house, where Deck had passed the mob; and the sergeant
ordered a file of his men to arrest them. Only two of them had a musket
in their hands, and one of them had a sword at his side. Major Lyon
observed the movement, and ordered the man with the side arm to be
brought to him. Most of the soldiers thought the commander was too
tender of such a horde of ruffians; but he regarded it as little better
than murder to shoot or cut down the enemy, now entirely in his power.
The man wearing the sword appeared to be of a better class of citizens
than the majority of the freebooters. He wore a neat business suit, and
was rather small in stature. He held his head up with something like
dignity in his bearing, and bestowed frequent glances upon his
companions in arms whom he had deserted. The five others were put under
guard where they were captured, and informed that they would be shot if
they attempted to escape. A couple of soldiers drove the one called for
over to the commander.
"Who and what are you?" demanded the major, without any savagery in his
voice or manner.
"I am Lieutenant Garbold; and I am second in command of the force in
front of you," replied the prisoner civilly enough.
"And you have deserted your companions in arms?" added the commander.
"Yes, if you choose to call it by that name; but Captain Stinger and
myself disagreed, and I was not willing to stand there and be shot down
by about three times our own number," replied Garbold.
"Are you and the other man provided with commissions from any source?"
"Not yet; but we claim to be in the service of the Confederate States of
America, waiting for our commissions, and for our men to be mustered in.
We belong to the regular service."
"Hardly," added the major, with something as near like a sneer as he
could gather about his mouth. "You will excuse me if I regard you simply
as unorganized freebooters, land pirates. Your mission is to rob and
outrage the citizens of this village; and the ringleaders ought not to
object to being hung on the first convenient tree."
"We don't rob nor injure any true citizens of Kentucky," replied Garbold
rather sullenly. "As to hanging any of us, we are willing to die in the
good cause; and two Yankee officers will swing for every one of us you
serve in that way."
"That question can be settled later in the day, and our business is with
the present moment," added Major Lyon with becoming dignity. "Who
commands that rabble in front of us?"
"Captain Jeruel Stinger."
"Upon what did you disagree with him?"
"To explain my own action, and not to gratify your curiosity, I will
answer the question," replied Garbold, who evidently intended to be as
"gamy" as one who had run away from his command could be. "I was not in
favor of standing there and allowing our men to be butchered after
resistance was useless. I said as much to Stinger, and I told him I
should step out."
"You were sensible," replied the major. "I am not disposed to sacrifice
your men if it can be avoided. Is Captain Stinger still of the same
mind?"
"I presume he is. He is an out-and-out fire-eater; and there is no more
reason in him than there is in a mule."
"The night is coming on, and we have no time to trifle with the
question. If you will return to Captain Stinger with a squad of troopers
under a flag of truce, I"--
"Me!" exclaimed Garbold. "Stinger would shoot me at sight. I will not
go. I had rather be hanged by the enemy than shot by my friends,"
interposed Garbold.
"Then the loss of any more of your men must rest on your shoulders, and
not on mine. Take him away," replied the commander.
Major Lyon was still unwilling to charge upon the rabble; for they had
ceased to fire their rusty firelocks. It was getting dark, and something
must be done. He called Deck, and gave him a mass of instructions, which
the orderly took in without any repetitions, for Captain Gordon. Colonel
Coffee volunteered to conduct the messenger though his grounds to a gate
near the position of the other portion of the company; and Deck
delivered his message. He was rather sorry he was not permitted to
proceed as he had before; for he had abundant confidence in his ability
to take care of himself.
The commander rode up a bank at the side of the road, where he could see
over the heads of the enemy as soon as his son returned to him. A moment
later he saw Captain Gordon deploy a line of skirmishers, which extended
entirely across the broad avenue, with another rank behind them. Both
advanced in slow time, with none of the fury of a regular charge; but it
was soon evident that they "meant business."
Captain Stinger seemed to be confused, and failed to understand the slow
movement of his foe, and gave no orders. At the same time, and in the
same manner, Sergeant Knox led his men forward; and the "fire-eater" in
command of the rabble could not help seeing that his command was to be
pinched between the two approaching bodies of troopers. Life kept
himself well in advance of his skirmishers; and possibly he felt more
like a brigadier-general than ever before in his life. He watched the
enemy with the eye of an eagle ready to swoop down upon his prey.
Captain Stinger evidently realized that if his men fired in either
direction, the troopers would charge upon them, and it would be but the
work of a minute or two to slaughter the whole of them. He was seen to
make a gesture to a man who was preparing to fire without orders, and
the ruffian refrained from doing so. He plainly knew not what to do,
since there was nothing he could do. But when the front rank of Knox was
within twenty feet of him, with the sergeant ahead of it, he seemed to
be unable to "hold in" any longer, and unslung the rifle at his back.
Knox saw that he was to be the first victim of the irate fire-eater; and
he jammed his heels into the flanks of his spirited steed, the animal
making a long spring, which brought him up with the front line of the
enemy. Still pressing the steed forward, he upset two or three men, and
brought up, when the horse could go no farther, alongside the captain.
The doughty sergeant did not wait to trifle with any weapons, but,
leaning over, he seized the captain by the collar of his coat, dragged
him from his horse, and placed him across his holsters. Bending over his
victim, he held him in his place by the pressure of his body, while he
wheeled his horse, and made his way out of the crowd.
"Take 'em that way!" he shouted to the men.
But there was hardly one of them who had the physical strength to
accomplish such a feat, though they soon grappled with the guerillas,
and dragged them out of the mêlée. The men on the other side of the
enemy resorted to the same sort of tactics, which was not laid down in
the regular manual for the instruction of the cavalry.
Captain Stinger was not a model Kentuckian physically any more than his
lieutenant; if he had been, Knox could hardly have handled him so
conveniently. The pressure of the sergeant's chest upon his backbone had
a tendency to tame him; but he was trying to get at some weapon
concealed upon his person. Knox had his pockets under command, and took
two revolvers from them, which he thrust into his breast. He had his
sabre dangling by the tassel knot at his right wrist, while he held the
reins with his left hand. His right was at liberty to seize the pistols.
He hurried his horse to the place where the guards had the six prisoners
in charge. There he hurled his victim to the ground, and ordered the men
to look out for him, and not let him escape, if they had to put a bullet
through him. The sentinels were all mounted; and, as the last prisoner
had been disarmed, there was no danger that he would run away.
Knox returned to his command; but, as he expressed it, "the fun had all
gone out of the guerillas," and it was hardly necessary to drag out any
more of them, for they were all as tame as sick kittens. The men had
secured about a dozen of them, taking them to the guard-house, as they
called the locality of the captives. The major had followed up the
movement, and he could not refrain from laughing at the novel tactics of
the first sergeant.
He directed Knox to fall back with his men, and sent Deck to the captain
to drive the remaining freebooters before him. The ruffians moved before
them at the order of the officer. They were halted in the middle of the
square, and there disarmed, those who had not thrown away their weapons.
While the commander was observing this ceremony, a trooper rode up, and
saluted him.
"A message from Captain Truman," said the cavalryman as he did so.
"What is it?" demanded the major, fearful that the second company had
been attacked by a superior force, and needed a re-enforcement.
"A messenger came from a place called Plain Hill, saying that a band of
mounted men was approaching the village, and they feared the place would
be plundered," replied the messenger. "Captain Truman has just marched
for the place, leaving only a guard at the camp."
"All right; his action is approved, and I hope he will get there in
season to capture the enemy, as we have done here," replied Major Lyon,
as he looked about him for Colonel Coffee and Mr. Elbroon. "Where is the
colonel, Dexter?"
"He is looking over the prisoners as they bring them in," replied Deck.
The major rode over to him. Most of the prisoners were tame and
submissive; but the fire-eater and his lieutenant were figuratively at
swords' points: and it was fortunate for one or both of them that they
had been disarmed, for the former had pitched into the latter with his
fists, and the guards had been obliged to pull them apart.
"That Captain Stinger wanted to be sent to Congress before the war; but
the people wouldn't do it. He is a politician, and a mischievous cur,"
said the colonel, when he saw the major at his side.
"Put him in irons, or tie his arms behind him, Styles," said the
commander, addressing the sergeant of the guard, "if he don't behave
himself. I have a message from the camp, Colonel Coffee," continued he,
turning to the magnate of Greeltop. "Where is Plain Hill, sir?"
"Five miles to the south of us, Major; a village about the size of
Greeltop. Any news from there?" inquired the colonel with decided
interest.
"Captain Truman, of our second company, whom I left at the camp, has had
a message from the place, to the effect that a band of guerillas were
approaching the place; and he marched at once with all his company but a
camp-guard."
"Good!" exclaimed the magnate.
"Heaven be praised!" added the reverend gentleman with a gun in his
hand. "It is a mercy that your company was at hand."
"Good! I say," almost shouted Captain Stinger. "Heaven be praised that
Vinegold is getting there! Our prayers will all go the same way!"
The fire-eater was near enough to hear what the major said.
"I only hope he will burn every house in the place," added the captain.
"There is not such another nest of traitors in Kentucky, unless Greeltop
is the other."
"Who is Vinegold, Captain Stinger?" asked the commander.
"Major Vinegold is a man after my own heart," answered the prisoner.
"If he is your friend, you will be likely to see him before morning,"
added the major, as he turned away.
The prisoners were placed in the centre of the united company, and
marched to the camp just as the darkness was beginning to gather on the
landscape. All the people in Greeltop were in the roads, and greeted the
soldiers with applause and cheers as they marched by them. The officers
and most of the privates were loaded with bouquets on the way.
Several times the magnate, who returned to the camp with the troopers,
