
A CONVERSATION WITH THE DISAGREEABLE WOMAN.


One afternoon between five and six o'clock I was passing the Star
Theatre, when I overtook the Disagreeable Woman.

I had only exchanged a few remarks with her at the table, and scarcely
felt acquainted. I greeted her, however, and waited with some curiosity
to see what she would have to say to me.

"Dr. Fenwick, I believe?" she said.

"Yes; are you on your way to supper?"

"I am. Have you had a busy day?"

As she said this she looked at me sharply.

"I have had two patients, Miss Blagden. I am a young physician, and not
well known yet. I advance slowly."

"You have practised in the country?"

"Yes."

"Pardon me, but would it not have been better to remain there, where you
were known, than to come to a large city where you are as one of the
sands of the sea?"

"I sometimes ask myself that question, but as yet I am unprepared with
an answer. I am ambitious, and the city offers a much larger field."

"With a plenty of laborers already here."

"Yes."

"I suppose you have confidence in yourself?"

Again she eyed me sharply.

"Yes and no. I have a fair professional training, and this gives me some
confidence. But sometimes, it would be greater if I had an extensive
practise, I feel baffled, and shrink from the responsibility that a
physician always assumes."

"I am glad to hear you say so," she remarked, approvingly. "Modesty is
becoming in any profession. Do you feel encouraged by your success thus
far?"

"I am gaining, but my progress seems slow. I have not yet reached the
point when I am self-supporting."

She looked at me thoughtfully.

"Of course you would not have established yourself here if you had not a
reserve fund to fall back upon? But perhaps I am showing too much
curiosity."

"No, I do not regard it as curiosity, only as a kind interest in my
welfare."

"You judge me right."

"I brought with me a few hundred dollars, Miss Blagden--what was left to
me from the legacy of a good aunt--but I have already used a quarter of
it, and every month it grows less."

"I feel an interest in young men--I am free to say this without any
fear of being misunderstood, being an old woman--"

"An old woman?"

"Well, I am more than twenty-nine."

We both smiled, for this was the age that Mrs. Wyman owned up to.

"At any rate," she resumed, "I am considerably older than you. I will
admit, Dr. Fenwick, that I am not a blind believer in the medical
profession. There are some, even of those who have achieved a certain
measure of success, whom I look upon as solemn pretenders."

"Yet if you were quite ill you would call in a physician?"

"Yes. I am not quite foolish enough to undertake to doctor myself in a
serious illness. But I would repose unquestioning faith in no one,
however eminent."

"I don't think we shall disagree on that point. A physician understands
his own limitations better than any outsider."

"Come, I think you will do," she said, pleasantly. "If I am ill at any
time I shall probably call you in."

"Thank you."

"And I should criticise your treatment. If you gave me any bread pills,
I should probably detect the imposture."

"I should prefer, as a patient, bread pills to many that are
prescribed."

"You seem to be a sensible man, Dr. Fenwick. I shall hope to have other
opportunities of conversing with you. Let me know from time to time how
you are succeeding."

"Thank you. I am glad you are sufficiently interested in me to make the
request."

By this time we had reached the boarding-house. We could see Mrs. Wyman
at the window of the reception room. She was evidently surprised and
amused to see us together. I was sure that I should hear more of it, and
I was not mistaken.

"Oh, Dr. Fenwick," she said playfully, as she took a seat beside me at
the table. "I caught you that time."

"I don't understand you," I said, innocently.

"Oh, yes, you do. Didn't I see you and Miss Blagden coming in together?"

"Yes."

"I thought you would confess. Did you have a pleasant walk?"

"It was only from the Star Theatre."

"I see you are beginning to apologize. You could say a good deal between
Waverley Place and the Star Theatre."

"We did."

"So I thought. I suppose you were discussing your fellow boarders,
including poor me."

"Not at all."

"Then my name was not mentioned?"

"Yes, I believe you were referred to."

"What did she say about me?" inquired the widow, eagerly.

"Only that she was older than you."

"Mercy, I should think she was. Why, she's forty if she's a day. Don't
you think so?"

"I am no judge of ladies' ages."

"I am glad you are not. Not that I am sensitive about my own. I am
perfectly willing to own that I am twenty seven."

"I thought you said twenty-nine, the other evening?"

"True, I am twenty-nine, but I said twenty-seven to see if you would
remember. I suppose gentlemen are never sensitive about their ages."

"I don't know. I am twenty-six, and wish I were thirty-six."

"Mercy, what a strange wish! How can you possibly wish that you were
older."

"Because I could make a larger income. It is all very well to be a young
minister, but a young doctor does not inspire confidence."

"I am sure I would rather call in a young doctor unless I were very
sick."

"There it is! Unless you were very sick."

"But even then," said the widow, coquettishly, "I am sure I should feel
confidence in you, Dr. Fenwick. You wouldn't prescribe very nasty pills,
would you?"

"I would order bread pills, if I thought they would answer the purpose."

"That would be nice. But you haven't answered my question. What were you
and Miss Blagden talking about?"

"About doctors; she hasn't much faith in men of my profession."

"Or of any other, I fancy. What do you think of her?"

"That is a leading question, Mrs. Wyman; I haven't thought very much
about her so far, I have thought more of you."

"Oh, you naughty flatterer!" said the widow, graciously. "Not that I
believe you. Men are such deceivers."

"Do ladies never deceive?"

"You ought to have been a lawyer, you ask such pointed questions.
Really, Dr. Fenwick, I am quite afraid of you."

"There's no occasion. I am quite harmless, I do assure you. The time to
be afraid of me is when you call me in as a physician."

"Excuse me, doctor, but Mrs. Gray is about to make an announcement."

We both turned our glances upon the landlady.




CHAPTER VI.

COUNT PENELLI.


Mrs. Gray was a lady of the old school. She was the widow of a merchant
supposed to be rich, and in the days of her magnificence had lived in a
large mansion on Fourteenth Street, and kept her carriage. When her
husband died suddenly of apoplexy his fortune melted away, and she found
herself possessed of expensive tastes, and a pittance of two thousand
dollars.

She was practical, however, and with a part of her money bought an old
established boarding-house on Waverley Place. This she had conducted for
ten years, and it yielded her a good income. Her two thousand dollars
had become ten, and her future was secure.

Mrs. Gray did not class herself among boarding-house keepers. Her
boarders she regarded as her family, and she felt a personal interest in
each and all. When they became too deeply in arrears, they received a
quiet hint, and dropped out of the pleasant home circle. But this did
not happen very often.

From time to time when she had anything which she thought would interest
her "family," she made what might be called a "speech from the throne."
Usually we could tell when this was going to take place. She moved about
a little restlessly, and pushed back her chair slightly from the table.
Then all became silent and expectant.

This morning Mrs. Wyman augured rightly. Mrs. Gray was about to make an
announcement.

She cleared her throat, and said: "My friends, I have a gratifying
announcement to make. We are about to have an accession to our pleasant
circle."

"Who is it?" asked the widow, eagerly.

Mrs. Gray turned upon her a look of silent reproof.

"It is a gentleman of high family. Count Antonio Penelli, of Italy."

There was a buzz of excitement. We had never before had a titled fellow
boarder, and democratic as we were we were pleased to learn that we
should sit at the same board with a nobleman.

Probably no one was more pleasantly excited than Mrs. Wyman. Every male
boarder she looked upon as her constituent, if I may use this word, and
she always directed her earliest efforts to captivate any new masculine
arrival.

"What does he look like, Mrs. Gray?" she asked, breathless.

"He looks like an Italian," answered the landlady, in a practical tone.
"He has dark hair and a dark complexion. He has also a black moustache,
but no side whiskers."

"Is he good looking?"

"You will have to decide for yourselves when you see him."

"When shall we see him?"

"He is to be here to-night at supper."

"The day will seem very long," murmured the widow.

"You seem to regard him already as your special property."

This of course came from the lips of the Disagreeable Woman.

"I presume you are as anxious to see him as I am," snapped Mrs. Wyman.

"I once knew an Italian Count," said Miss Blagden reflectively.

"Did you? How nice!"

"I do not know about that. He turned out to be a barber."

"Horrible! Then he was not a count."

"I think he was, but he was poor and chose to earn a living in the only
way open to him. I respected him the more on that account."

Mrs. Wyman was evidently shocked. It seemed to dissipate the halo of
romance which she had woven around the coming boarder.

"Count Penelli did not appear to be in any business?" she asked,
anxiously, of the landlady.

"He said he was a tourist, and wished to spend a few months in America."

The widow brightened up. This seemed to indicate that he was a man of
means.

Prof. Poppendorf did not seem to share in the interest felt in the
Count.

"I do not like Italians," he said. "They are light, frivolous; they are
not solid like the Germans."

"The Professor is solid enough," said Mrs. Wyman, with a titter.

This could not be gainsaid, for the learned German certainly tipped the
scales at over two hundred pounds. There was a strong suspicion that he
imbibed copious potations of the liquid so dear to his countrymen,
though he never drank it at table.

"The poor man is jealous," continued Mrs. Wyman, making the remark in a
low tone for my private hearing. "He thinks we won't notice him after
the Count comes."

This might be true, for Prof. Poppendorf was our star boarder. He was
not supposed to be rich, but his title of Professor and his ancient
intimacy with Bismarck, gave him a prestige among us all. When he first
came Mrs. Wyman tried her blandishments upon him, but with indifferent
success. Not that the grizzled veteran was too old for the tender
passion, as we were soon to learn, but because he did not appreciate the
coquettish ways of the widow, whom he considered of too light calibre
for his taste.

"Don't you think the Professor very homely?" asked Mrs. Wyman, in a
confidential whisper.

"He certainly is not handsome," I answered. "Neither is Bismarck."

"True, but he is a great man."

"We should respect him on account of his learning--probably much more so
than the Count whom we are expecting."

"That may be. We don't expect noblemen to be learned," said the widow,
disdainfully.

Immediately after breakfast she began to sound Mrs. Gray about the
Count.

"When did he apply for board?" she asked.

"Yesterday afternoon about four o'clock."

"Had he heard of you? What led him here?"

"I think he saw the sign I had out."

"I should have supposed he would prefer a hotel."

"He's staying at a hotel now."

"Did he say at what hotel? Was it the Fifth Avenue?"

"He did not say. He will move here early this afternoon."

"And what room will he have?"

"The back room on the third floor--the one Mr. Bates had."

"I should hardly think that room would satisfy a nobleman."

"Why not? Is it not clean and neat?"

"Undoubtedly, dear Mrs. Gray, but you must admit that it is not stylish,
and it is small."

"It is of the same size as the Professor's."

"Ah, the Professor! He is not a man of elegant tastes. I once looked
into his room. It smells so strong of tobacco, I could not stay in there
ten minutes without feeling sick."

"I think the Count smokes."

"Perhaps he does, but he wouldn't smoke a dirty clay pipe. I can imagine
him with a dainty cigarette between his closed lips. But, Mrs. Gray, I
am going to ask you a great favor."

"What is it?"

"Let me sit beside the Count. I wish to make his acquaintance. He will
be reserved and silent with most of the boarders. I will try to make him
feel at home."

"I thought you wished to sit beside Dr. Fenwick."

"So I did, but he and I are friends, and he won't mind my changing my
seat."

When I came to supper that evening I was not wholly surprised to find
myself removed to the opposite side of the table, but this I did not
regret when I found that I was now next neighbor to the Disagreeable
Woman.

In my old seat there was a slender young man of middle height, with dark
eyes and hair. Mrs. Wyman had already established herself in
confidential relations with him, and was conversing with him in a low
