lately. I cannot leave Belmonte."
"But Dr. Hotham thinks you can," interposed Mrs. Tracy, soothingly; "he
knows how much strength you have. We are all going with you, and the
journey will be very easy. You used to like Vevey."
"Let me stay here; I wish to stay here."
"But we have never intended to spend our lives at Bellosguardo,"
answered Mrs. North, drawing her towards the divan and making her sit
down.
"Let me stay a little while longer, mamma."
"You mean that you will be willing to go later? But, we think that now
is the time. You have nothing to do save to rest here quietly, and then
go to sleep; you will open your eyes in Vevey."
Dorothy, seated, her hands extended on her knees, looked up at her
mother. "Mamma, you don't know. There's an ache that will not leave me.
I haven't told you about it. But I'm so unhappy!"
Mrs. Tracy, hurrying forward, put her arm round the girl protectingly.
Mrs. North, her face slightly flushed, whispered to Nora:
"She is wandering. Please go and send some one immediately for the
doctor. Write a note for the man to take with him."
In this way she got rid of Nora.
Dorothy, alone with her mother and aunt, went on talking: "I didn't know
what it meant myself for ever so long. But now I do, and it's all
simple. I shall just stay quietly here. This is the best place. And you
mustn't mind, for it makes me very happy."
"My darling, have you written? What do you mean?" asked Mrs. Tracy.
"What do I mean?" Dorothy repeated. She smiled; into her white face came
a flush of color. "I mean that I shall see him very soon now. It won't
be long to wait."
"She has sent for him," thought the aunt. "I was right; it is Owen."
"That is why I wish to stay here," Dorothy went on. "Everything here is
associated with Alan; he liked Belmonte so much."
"Alan?" breathed the aunt, amazed, but instantly concealing her
amazement. Mrs. North quickly measured some drops from a phial
containing a sedative.
Dorothy let her head sink back against the cushions. "In the beginning
I didn't in the least know that I was going to feel it so. But that ache
came, and it wouldn't stop. I tried all sorts of things--don't you
remember? I tried studying. I tried music lessons. He used to urge me to
sing. He liked long walks, and I never would go; so then I took long
walks. You haven't forgotten them, have you? But the ache went on, and I
could not stand it. So I asked you to go to Paris. Paris has always been
so funny and amusing. But it wasn't funny any more. When we came back
here I thought that perhaps some one coming up every day and staying a
long time would make me forget. But having Waddy was worse than being
alone, and at last I hated him. Owen Charrington, too! Owen used to make
me laugh; I thought he would make me laugh again. But he didn't at all.
And when he asked me that last day to ride it was like a knife; for Alan
always went with me, and would never say anything to spoil my pleasure.
Yet he did not care about it really, though I insisted upon going day
after day. That is the way it was about everything. But I'm paying for
it now; I miss him so--I miss him so! Alan! Alan!--" And putting her
thin hands over her face, Dorothy burst into miserable heart-broken
sobs.
Nora came running in; Mrs. North handed her the medicine glass.
"Hysterics," she said. "Give her those drops as soon as you can."
"I look to you, doctor, to get us out of this new difficulty," said this
lady the next day to Dr. Hotham. "She has taken this fixed idea that she
does not wish to leave Belmonte. But the fixed idea of a girl of
nineteen ought not to be a trouble to you. Can't you suggest
something? Has science no resources for such a case?"
Dr. Hotham's resource was to send to Rome for a colleague. The most
distinguished English physician in Italy was called to Florence, and
there was a consultation at Bellosguardo. When it was over Mrs. North
came in to see the great man.
His sentences were agreeable; they were also encouraging. After a time
he spoke of the varying forms of nervous prostration; then he asked
whether this very interesting young lady could have, by any possibility,
something weighing upon her mind?
"No, nothing," replied the mother.
"Ah! In that case time, I trust, is all that is necessary for a complete
recovery."
"My own idea would be to take her north in spite of her disinclination
to go," Mrs. North went on. "A disinclination ought not to be important.
The journey would soon be over. She could be kept under the influence of
sedatives. But Dr. Hotham will not give his consent."
"I agree with him, madam. Do not force her; the effect upon the nervous
system might be bad. Let her do whatever she fancies. Amuse her. What a
pity there is no Corney Grain in Italy!"
"Everything in the way of amusement has been tried. That is why I wish
to take her away."
"Ah! I understood you to say, I think, that there is no hidden cause, no
wish, no mental--ah--err--strain?"
"Nothing of any consequence. She is hysterical sometimes; but that is
owing to her physical weakness," Mrs. North answered. And she said what
she believed.
A month later Dorothy, lying on a couch in her room, put out her hand to
Nora. "I must give you some of my money, Nora, for your poor
people--your orphans and the school and the hospital. I will give it to
you to-morrow."
"You can help Nora to distribute it," said Mrs. Tracy.
"Dear Aunt Charlotte, how you hate to hear me speak of it! But I talk to
Nora, you know, just as I please in the night."
"No; talk to me, too. Say whatever you like," answered Mrs. Tracy,
quickly.
"It is so warm this evening that I can have all the windows open,"
Dorothy went on. "Take the lamp out, Nora, please, and let in the
moonlight; I like to see it shining across the floor." She lay in
silence for some minutes looking at the radiance. They had cut off her
hair, thinking that its length and thickness might be taking something
from her small store of strength. Her face, with the boyish locks,
looked very childlike. "Do you remember that song, Aunt
Charlotte,'Through the long days'? The moonlight makes me think of it.
First, Felicia Philipps sang it one moonlight evening over at Villa
Dorio. Then, after we were married, some one sang it here in the garden,
and Alan said, when it was over-- Oh, if I could only tell him once, just
once, that I did love him! He never believed it--he never knew--"
"Don't cry, dear. Don't."
"No; I don't cry very often now," Dorothy answered, her breast rising in
one or two long sobs. "Last spring Waddy dared to sing that song
again--Alan's song! I could not see him after that.
    "Through the long days, the long days and the years--"
"It will tire you to sing, dear."
"No; I like it." And then, in a faint little thread of a voice, barely
audible, but very sweet, she sang, lying there in the moonlight, the
beautiful song:
    "Through the long days, the long days and the years,
             What will my loved one be,
             Parted from me, parted from me,
     Through the long days and years?
    "Never, ah, never on earth again--"
It was her last song. Three days later she died. She passed away so
quietly that they did not know it was death; they thought she was
asleep.
When at last they learned what it was, Mrs. North, standing beside the
couch, white and stern, said, with rigid lips, "The doctors did not tell
us."
But the doctors did not know.
A TRANSPLANTED BOY
I
Lorenzo came into the hall, bell in hand.
Putting down his white gloves at the feet of the goddess Flora, he began
his promenade: ding-dong past Jupiter and Juno; ding-dong past Mars and
Venus, Neptune and Diana, Minerva and Apollo, until the last pedestal on
the east was reached; here there was no goddess, only a leaping flame.
There was a corresponding tongue of fire on the last pedestal of the
west side opposite, and both of these architectural ornaments were made
of wood, painted scarlet. On the north side there towered six windows as
high as those of a church. These windows faced a flight of stone steps
that went down in a dignified sweep, eighteen feet wide, to a landing
adorned with a Muse; here, dividing into two wings, the staircase turned
to the right and the left in noble curves, and descended to the square
hall below. The massive iron-clamped portals of this lower hall were
open; they were swung back early in the morning, in order that the
horses might pass through on their way to the street; for there were
horses in the stables of the court-yard within. They did pass through,
making with the carts to which they were harnessed a thundering clatter
which would have deafened the inmates of an American dwelling. But the
old Pisan palace had been built in another fashion. This lower hall with
its heavy pavement and great doors, the gallery above with the rows of
life-sized statues, the broad sweep of the stone stairways--all these, a
space that could have swallowed many modern houses entire, were but its
entrance; and so massive were the floors that no one in the long ranges
of rooms above had any intimation of the moment when their hallway was
turned into a street. The outer portals remained swung back all day; but
the light inner doors were opened and closed on demand by old Bianca,
the portress, who lived in a dusky den under the staircase. This evening
the sunset was so brilliant that even these inner doors stood open, and
Bianca herself had come to the threshold, blinking a little as the
radiance fell upon her patient, cloistered face.
She was looking at a boy who was leaning over the parapet opposite. This
boy, with one arm round a small dog whom he had lifted to the top of the
wall by his side, was gazing at the tawny water of the Arno as it glided
past the house; for the old palace was in the Lung' Arno of Pisa, the
sunny street that follows the river like a quay, its water-side lying
open to the stream, protected by a low wall. Bianca was evidently
thinking of this boy and the summons of the clanging bell above; whether
he cared for the bell or not, he seemed to feel at last the power of her
mild gaze directed upon his back, for, swinging himself down from the
parapet, he crossed the street, and with his dog at his heels, entered
the palace. He went up the right-hand stairway, glancing as he passed at
the two stone caryatides which upheld the balustrade at the landing;
these were girls who had probably been intended for mermaids; but their
fish endings were vague compared with the vividly human expression of
their anxious young countenances--an anxiety oddly insisted upon by the
unknown house-sculptor who had chiselled them according to his fantasy
hundreds of years before. Freshly arrived Americans, not yet broken in
to the light foreign breakfast, and frozen from January to March, were
accustomed to declare that the faces of these caryatides reflected in
advance all the miseries of the pension, that is, all the hardship of
winter life in Italy which assails the surprised and undefended pilgrim
from the United States. But the boy who was coming up the stairs, though
American, was not freshly arrived; in his mind the caryatides
illustrated, more or less, a charming story which his mother had told
him--the story of the Little Mermaid; he was fond of their anxious stone
cheeks on that account.
The Casa Corti was not an ordinary pension. In the first place, it had
the distinction of occupying the whole of the Rondinelli palace, with
the great shield of the Rondinellis (showing their six heraldic swallows
sitting on their tails) over its door; in the second, it had been in the
hands of one family for four generations, and was to go down in the same
line. The establishment could accommodate seventy persons. Three-fourths
of the seventy were always English, drawn hither by the fact that Madame
Corti was of English descent. A few Americans were allowed to enter, and
an occasional foreigner was received as a favor. In the pension
phraseology the English were "we," their transatlantic cousins "the
Americans," and all the rest "foreigners." As Lorenzo's bell ceased many
doors opened, and from the various quarters into which the old
Ghibelline residence had for its present purposes been divided--from
high rooms overlooking the river and adorned with frescos to low-browed
cells in the attic under the eaves; from apartments that looked upon
small inner courts like yellow wells, wells that resounded with the
jingle of dish-washing from morning till night; from short staircases
descending at unexpected points, and from others equally unlocked for
which mounted from secret chambers in the half-story (chambers whose
exact situation always remained a mystery to the rest of the
house)--from all of these, and from two far-off little dwellings perched
like tents on the roof, came the guests of the pension on their way to
the dining-room and dinner. For they were all guests: the word patron or
boarder was unknown. In the same way the head of the establishment was
not by any means the boarding-house-keeper or the landlady: she was the
proprietress. She had inherited her pension as other people inherit an
estate, and she managed it in much the same autocratic fashion.
When all her guests were seated, this proprietress herself rustled in, a
little late. Her attire was elaborate: a velvet gown made with a train,
an amber star in the hair, and a chain of large amber beads wound three
times round the throat, and falling in a long loop to the belt. She
entered with a gliding step, pressing her dimpled hands together as she
advanced, and giving a series of little bends from the waist upward,
which were intended as general salutation to the company; her smile
meanwhile gradually extended itself, until, as her chair was drawn out
with a flourish by Lorenzo, it became broad enough to display her teeth
as she sank gracefully into her place at the head of her table, and,
with a final bow to the right and the left, unfolded her napkin. Her
duty as regarded civility being now done, she broke off a morsel of
bread, and took a rapid survey of her seventy, with the mixture of sharp
personal dislike and the business views which forced her to accept them
visible as usual in her eyes behind her smile.
Her seventy appeared, as they always did, eminently respectable. There
were three English curates; there were English husbands and wives of the
travelling and the invalid varieties; there were four or five blooming
English girls with pink cheeks and very straight backs; and there were
dozens of English old maids, and of that species of relict that returns
naturally to spinsterhood after the funeral, without having acquired,
from passing through it, any of the richer tints and more ample outlines
that belong to the married state. In addition there were several
Americans, and a few "foreigners."
Lorenzo and his assistants were carrying away the soup-plates when two
more guests entered late. This was high crime. Madame's eyes, looking
smaller than ever, gleamed like two sparks as they passed. For if one
were so unfortunate as to be late for dinner at Casa Corti the custom
was to make an apologetic little bow to madame as one entered--entered
with hasty, repentant step (having passed, outside the door, the whole
miscellaneous force of the establishment gathered together with cans of
hot water to wash the forks). But these two had made no bow, and madame
had known that they would not; so she talked to her right-hand neighbor,
Captain Sholto Fraser, R.N., and carefully pretended not to see them.
The delinquents were Americans (madame would have said "Of course!"), a
pretty little woman who looked much younger than her age (which was
thirty-three), and the boy who had adorned the parapet with his
sprawling person--a mother and son. They found their empty chairs
waiting for them at the far end of the room. The boy's place was at his
mother's left hand; on her right she had one of the curates.
"Late again!" began this gentleman. "We shall have to impose a fine upon
you, Mrs. Roscoe; we shall indeed." And he made, playfully, a menacing
gesture with his large, very well kept hand.
"Ought I to come for the soup?" inquired the lady, surveying the
plateful before her with a slight curl of her lip.
"Nay; when it is cold!" remonstrated her neighbor. "Be more reasonable,
pray." He regarded her smilingly.
"Oh, reasonable women are horrid!" responded Mrs. Roscoe. "I should
never think of coming down until later," she went on, "only Maso--he
likes the soup." The boy was eating rapidly. She watched him for a
moment. "I don't see how he can!" she added.
"Perhaps Tommaso is hungry," suggested an English lady who sat opposite.
"Maso, please," corrected Mrs. Roscoe; "Tommaso is as ugly as Thomas."
"I dare say he has not nourishment enough," continued the first speaker;
"at his age that is so important. Why not order for him an extra chop at
luncheon?"
"Thank Mrs. Goldsworthy for her interest in you, Maso," said his
mother.
Maso grew red, and hastily crammed so much bread into his mouth that
both of his cheeks were widely distended at the same time.
"I have read in the journal, Madame Roscoe, of a gerate fire in your
countree--a town entire! I hope you lose not by it?" This inquirer was a
grave little woman from Lausanne, the widow of a Swiss pastor.
Mrs. Roscoe gave a shrug. "My interests are not of that kind. Where was
the fire, may I ask?"
"But in your countree, Amereekar. Voyons: the citee of Tam-Tampico."
Mrs. Roscoe laughed as she helped herself to fish--a fish tied with
yellow ribbons, and carrying a yellow lily in his mouth. "When we were
at Mentone an old lady informed me one day of the arrival of some of my
'countrypeople.' 'Now,' she said, 'you will not be the only Americans in
the house.' At dinner they appeared. They were Chilians. I said to my
friend, 'They are not my countrypeople; they are South Americans.' She
answered, severely: 'I suppose you say that because they are
Southerners! But now that so many years have passed since that dreadful
war of yours was brought to a close, I should think it would be far
wiser to drop such animosities.'" No one laughed over this story save an
American who was within hearing.
This American, a Vermont man, had arrived at the pension several days
before, and already he had formed a close and even desperate friendship
with Mrs. Roscoe, pursuing her, accompanied by his depressed wife, to
her bedroom (she had no sitting-room), where, while trying to find a
level place on her slippery yellow sofa, he had delivered himself as
follows: "Wife--she kept saying, 'You ought to go abroad; you aren't
well, and it'll do you good; they say it's very sociable over there if
you stay at the pensions.'" (He gave this word a political
pronunciation.) "All I can say is--if this is their pension!" And he
slapped his thigh with a resounding whack, and laughed sarcastically.
The beef now came round, a long slab of mahogany color, invisibly
divided into thin slices, the whole decked with a thick dark sauce which
contained currants, citron, and raisins.
"We miss Mr. Willoughby sadly," observed Mrs. Goldsworthy, with a sigh,
as she detached a slice. "Only last night he was here."
"I cannot say I miss him," remarked Mrs. Roscoe.
"You do not? Pray tell us why?" suggested the curate, eagerly.
"Well, he's so black-letter; so early-English; so 'Merrily sungen the
monks of Ely.' In Baedeker, you know."
"He is very deep, if you mean that," said Mrs. Goldsworthy, reprovingly.
"Deep? I should call him wide; he is all over the place. If you speak of
a cat, he replies with a cataract; of a plate, with Plato; of the cream,
with cremation. I don't see how he manages to live in England at all;
there isn't standing-room there for his feet. But perhaps he soars; he
is a sort of a Cupid, you know. What will become of him if they make him
a bishop? For how can a bishop flirt? The utmost he can do is to say, 'I
will see you after service in the vestry.'"
The curate was laughing in gentlemanlike gulps. He was extremely happy.
The Rev. Algernon Willoughby, of Ely, had been admired, not to say
adored, in that pension for seven long weeks.
The dinner went on through its courses, and by degrees the red wine flew
from the glasses to the faces. For as wine of the country in abundance,
without extra charge, was one of the attractions of Casa Corti, people
took rather more of it than they cared for, on the thoroughly human
principle of getting something for nothing. At length came a pudding,
violently pink in hue, and reposing on a bed of rose-leaves.
"Why, the pudding's redder than we are!" remarked Mrs. Roscoe, with
innocent surprise.
Her own cheeks, however, looked very cool in the universal flush; her
smooth complexion had no rose tints. This lack of pink was, in truth,
one of the faults of a face which had many beauties. She was small and
fair; her delicately cut features were extremely pretty--"pretty enough
to be copied as models for drawing-classes," some one had once said. Her
golden hair, which fell over her forehead in a soft, rippled wave, was
drawn up behind after the latest fashion of Paris; her eyes were blue,
and often they had a merry expression; her little mouth was almost like
that of a child, with its pretty lips and infantile, pearly teeth. In
addition, her figure was slender and graceful; her hands and feet and
ears were noticeably small. To men Violet Roscoe's attire always
appeared simple; the curate, for instance, if obliged to bear witness,
would have said that the costume of each and every other lady in the
room appeared to him more ornamented than that of his immediate
neighbor. A woman, however, could have told this misled male that the
apparently simple dress had cost more, probably, than the combined
attire of all the other ladies, save perhaps the rich velvet of Madame
Corti.
After nuts and figs, and a final draining of glasses, Madame Corti gave
the signal (no one would have dared to leave the table before that
sign), and her seventy rose. Smiling, talking, and fanning themselves,
they passed across the hall to the salon, where presently tea was served
in large gold-banded coffee-cups, most of which were chipped at the
edges. The ladies took tea, and chatted with each other; they stood by
the piano, and walked up and down, before beginning the regular
occupations of the evening--namely, whist, chess, the reading of the
best authorities on art, or doing something in the way of embroidery and
wool-work, or a complicated construction with bobbins that looked like a
horse-net. There were jokes; occasionally there was a ripple of mild
laughter. Madame Corti, intrenched behind her own particular table, read
the London Times with the aid of a long-handled eye-glass. How she did
despise all these old maids, with their silver ornaments, and their
small economies, with their unmounted photographs pinned on the walls of
their bedrooms, and their talk of Benozzo, and Nicolo the Pisan! She
hated the very way they held their teacups after dinner, poised
delicately, almost gayly, with the little finger extended, as if to give
an air of festal lightness to the scene. Promptly at nine o'clock she
disappeared; an hour later her brougham was taking her to an Italian
gathering, where there would also be conversation, but conversation of a
very different nature. Teresa Corti, when she had escaped from her
pension, was one of the wittiest women in Pisa; her wit was audacious,
ample, and thoroughly Italian. There was, indeed, nothing English about
her save her knowledge of the language, and the trace of descent from
an English great-grandfather in her green eyes and crinkled yellow
hair.
Mrs. Roscoe did not remain in the drawing-room five minutes; she never
took tea, she did not play whist or chess, and she detested fancy-work.
She was followed to the stairway by her curate, who was urging her to
remain and play backgammon. "It's not such a bad game; really it's not,"
he pleaded, in his agreeable voice.
"Nothing is a bad game if one is amused," answered Mrs. Roscoe,
severely. She was seldom severe. But this evening she was tired.
"Oh, how early you've come up! I'm awful glad," said Maso, as she
entered her bedroom on the third floor. It was a large room, shabbily
furnished in yellow, the frescoed walls representing the Bay of Naples.
Maso was lying on the rug, with his dog by his side.
"Why are you in the dark?" said his mother. There was a smouldering fire
on the hearth; for though the day had been fine (it was the 15th of
March), the old palace had a way of developing unexpected shivers in the
evening. In spite of these shivers, however, this was the only room
where there was a fire. Mrs. Roscoe lighted the lamp and put on the pink
shade; then she drew the small Italian sticks together on the hearth,
threw on a dozen pine cones, and with the bellows blew the whole into a
brilliant blaze. Next she put a key into the Bay of Naples, unlocked a
wave, and drew out a small Vienna coffee-pot.
"Are we going to have coffee? Jolly!" said the boy.
His mother made the coffee; then she took from the same concealed
cupboard, which had been drilled in the solid stone of the wall, a
little glass jug shaped like a lachrymal from the catacombs, which
contained cream; sugar in a bowl; cakes, and a box of marrons glacés.
Maso gave a Hi! of delight as each dainty appeared, and made his dog sit
on his hind legs. "I say, mother, what were they all laughing about at
dinner? Something you said?"
