"I'll send my boy down and see how you like him. I think he would fancy
the place, and during the month you might find some one to take it
permanently. There seems to be no lack of boys."

"You can't always find the right sort," said Mr. Gerard. "Yes, I shall
be glad to try him."

Mr. Reed did not set forth the matter too attractively to his wife, not
even to Charles, who had learned to restrain his enthusiasm before his
mother. And though she made numerous objections, and the thought of bad
company seemed to haunt her, she reluctantly decided to let him try it
for a week. He would go down in the morning with his father, so he could
not possibly begin his day in mischief.

Charles was delighted. The city was not over-crowded then. The Park gave
"down-town" quite a breathing space.

Now a boy would think it very hard not to have any vacation after eleven
months of study. He would be so tired and worn and nervous that ten
weeks would be none too much. The children then studied hard and played
hard and were eager to have a good time, and generally did have it. And
now Charles was delighted with the newness of the affair. He walked up
at night fresh and full of interest, and was quite a hero to the girls
over on Mrs. Dean's stoop.

"I hope you will bring them down even if you shouldn't want to buy
anything. Mr. Gerard said the stock was low now, as it is the dullest
season of the year. But there are such beautiful articles for gifts,
china cups and saucers and dainty pitchers and vases, and sets like
yours, Josie, some ever so much smaller, and a silver knife and fork and
spoon in a velvet case, and lovely little fruit-knives and nut-picks and
ever so many things I have never heard of. And musical instruments,
flutes and flageolets and violins, and oh, the accordeons! There are
German and French. Oh, I wish I could own one. I know I could soon
learn to play on it!" declared Charles eagerly.

In that far-back time an accordeon really was considered worth one's
while. A piano was quite an extravagance. A good player could evoke real
music out of it, and at that period it had not been handed over to the
saloons. In fact, saloons were not in fashion.

The children listened enchanted. It was a great thing to know any one in
such a store. Mrs. Dean promised to take them all down.

Hanny had a new source of interest. Dr. Joe had told her a very moving
story when he was up to tea on Sunday evening, about a little girl who
had been two months in the hospital and who had just come home for good
now, who lived only a little way below them. It was Daisy Jasper, whom
they had seen a little while last summer in a wheeling chair, and who
had disappeared before any one's curiosity could be satisfied. She was
an only child, and her parents were very comfortably well off. When
Daisy was about six years old, a fine, healthy, and beautiful little
girl, she had trodden on a spool dropped by a careless hand and fallen
down a long flight of stairs. Beside a broken arm and some bruises she
did not seem seriously injured. But after a while she began to complain
of her back and her hip, and presently the sad knowledge dawned upon
them that their lovely child was likely to be a cripple. Various
experiments were tried until she became so delicate her life appeared
endangered. Mr. Jasper had been attracted to this pretty row of houses
standing back from the street with the flower gardens in front. It
seemed secluded yet not lonely. She grew so feeble, however, that the
doctors had recommended Sulphur Springs in Virginia, and thither they
had taken her. When the cool weather came on they had gone farther south
and spent the winter in Florida. She had improved and gained sufficient
strength, the doctors thought, to endure an operation. It had been
painful and tedious, but she had borne it all so patiently. Dr. Mott and
Dr. Francis had done their best, but she would always be a little
deformed. The prospect was that some day she might walk without a
crutch. Joe had seen a good deal of her, and at one visit he had told
her of his little sister who was just her age, as their birthdays were
in May.

Hanny had cried over the sorrowful tale. She thought of her early story
heroine, "Little Blind Lucy," whose sight had been so marvellously
restored. But Daisy could never be quite restored to straightness.

After supper Joe had taken her down to call on Daisy. Oh, how pretty the
gardens were, a beautiful spot of greenery and bloom, such a change from
the pavements! A narrow brick walk ran up to the house, edged with rows
of dahlias just coming into bloom. On the other side there were circles
and triangles and diamond-shaped beds with borders of small flowers, or
an entire bed of heliotrope or verbena. The very air was fragrant. Up
near the house was a kind of pavilion with a tent covering to shield one
from the sun.

Daisy, with her mother and aunt, were sitting out here when Dr. Joe
brought his little sister. Daisy's chair was so arranged that the back
could be adjusted to any angle. It was of bamboo and cane with a soft
blanket thrown over it, a pretty rose color that lighted up the pale
little girl whose languor was still perceptible.

After a little Mrs. Jasper took Dr. Joe into the house, as she wanted to
question him. Then Hanny and Daisy grew more confidential. Daisy asked
about the children in the neighborhood and thought she would like to see
Nora and Pussy Gray. She was very fond of cats, but theirs, a very good
mouser, was bad-tempered and wanted no petting. And then the Dean girls
and Flossy and Elsie Hay, and last but not least of all, Charles Reed
with his beautiful voice.

"I do so dearly love music," said Daisy longingly. "Auntie plays but she
doesn't sing. Mamma knows a good many old-fashioned songs that are
lovely. When I am tired and nervous she sings to me. I don't suppose I
can ever learn to play for myself," she ended sadly.

Hanny told her she was learning and could play "Mary to the Saviour's
Tomb" for her father. And there were the boys and Stephen and her lovely
married sister Dolly and her own sister Margaret.

"Oh, how happy you must be!" cried Daisy. "I should like such a lot of
people. I never had any brothers or sisters, and I do get so lonesome.
And the doctor is so pleasant and sweet; you must love him a great
deal."

"I can't tell which one is best. Steve teases and says funny things, and
is--oh, just as nice as any one can be! And John is splendid, too. And
Ben is going to learn to make books, and I can have all the books I
want."

Daisy sighed. She was very fond of reading, but it soon tired her.

"I should so like to see you all. You know I've never been much with
children. And I like live people. I want to hear them talk and sing and
see them play. One gets tired of dolls."

"If you would like I will bring Nora and Pussy Gray. And I know Josie's
mother will let them come. If you could be wheeled up on our sidewalk."

"Oh, that would be delightful!" and the soft eyes glowed.

Hanny had taken Nora the very next afternoon, and Pussy Gray had been
just too good for anything. Daisy had to laugh at the conversations
between him and Nora. It really did sound as if he said actual words.
And they told Daisy about the time they went to the Museum and had a
double share for their money. Daisy laughed heartily, and her pale
cheeks took on a pretty pink tint.

"You are so good to come," said Mrs. Jasper. "My little girl has had so
much suffering in her short life that I want her to have all the
pleasure possible now."

Josie and Tudie Dean had been out spending the day, and really, there
was so much to tell that it was nine o'clock before it was all
discussed. Charles was very much interested in Daisy Jasper.

"You know I can tell just how she feels about not having any brothers
and sisters," he exclaimed. "I've wished for them so many times. And I
do think Hanny is the luckiest of the lot; she has so many. It is like
a little town to yourself."

"I'm so glad it is vacation," declared Josie. "If we were going to
school we wouldn't have half time for anything."

Mr. Underhill came for his little girl. While he was exchanging a few
words with Mr. Dean Hanny caught one hand in both of hers and hopped
around on one foot. She was so glad she could do it. Poor Daisy, with
her beautiful name, who could never know the delight of exuberant
spirits.

Hanny's thoughts did not take in the long word, but that was what she
felt in every fibre of her being.

Charles wondered how she dared. He was frightened when he caught his
father's hand with an impulse of gratitude. But in pure fun!

There was quite a stir with the little clique in the upper end of the
block. Mrs. Underhill, Mrs. Dean, and Margaret called on their neighbor,
and the wheeled chair came up the street a day or two after. It had to
go to the corner and cross on the flagging, as the jar would have been
too great on cobble stones. They had a young colored lad now who kept
the garden in order, did chores, and waited upon "Missy" as he called
her.

The sidewalk was generally sunny in the afternoon, but this day it was
soft and gray without being very cloudy. The chariot halted at the
Underhills'. The little girls brought their dolls to show Daisy, their
very best ones, and Nora dressed up Pussy Gray in the long white baby
dress, and pussy was very obliging and lay in Daisy's arms just like a
real baby. The child felt as if she wanted to kiss him.

What a pretty group of gossips they were! If Kate Greenaway had been
making pictures then, she would have wanted them, though their attire
was not quite as quaint as hers. They went up and down the steps, they
told Daisy so many bright, entertaining things, and the fun they had
with their plays. Josie's party was described, the closing exercises at
school, and the many incidents so important in child life. Sometimes two
or three talked together, or some one said, "It's my turn, now let me."
They referred to Charles so much it really piqued Daisy's curiosity.

"Jim calls him a 'girl-boy,' because he plays with us," said Hanny, "and
in some ways I like girl-boys best. Ben is a sort of girl-boy. I'm going
to bring him over to see you. Jim's real splendid and none of the boys
dare fight him any more," she added loyally.

"And first, you know," began Tudie in a mysteriously confidential
manner, "we thought it so queer and funny. His mother called him John
Robert Charles. And she used to look out of the window and ask him if he
had his books and his handkerchief, and tell him to come straight home
from school, and lots of things. Oh, we thought we wouldn't have her
for our mother, not for a world!"

"How did he come by so many names?" Daisy smiled.

"Well, grandfather and all," replied Tudie rather ambiguously. "His
father calls him Charles. It sounds quite grand, doesn't it? We all
wanted to call him Robert. And Hanny's big sister sings such a lovely
song--"Robin Adair." I'd like to call him that."

"I should so like to hear him sing. I'm so fond of singing," said Daisy
plaintively.

"Now if we were in the back yard we could all sing," rejoined Josie.
"But of course we couldn't in the street with everybody going by."

"Oh, no!" Yet there was a wistful longing in Daisy's face, that was
beginning to look very tired.

There were not many people going through this street. Houston Street was
quite a thoroughfare. But the few who did pass looked at the merry group
of girls and at the pale invalid whose chair told the story, and gave
them all a tender, sympathetic thought.

All except Lily Ludlow. She was rather curious about the girl in the
chair and made an errand out to the Bowery. When Hanny saw who was
coming she turned around and talked very eagerly to Elsie Hay, and
pretended not to know it. Lily had her President, and Jim admired her,
that was enough.

"You're very tired, Missy," Sam said presently.

"Yes," replied Daisy. "I think I'll go home now. And will you all come
to see me to-morrow? Oh, it is so nice to know you all! And Pussy Gray
is just angelic. Please bring him, too."

They said good-by. For some moments the little girls looked at each
other with wordless sorrow in their eyes. I think there were tears as
well.




CHAPTER XVII

SOME OF THE OLD LANDMARKS


"Yes, all of us," said Ben. "We can tuck in the Deans. I only wish
Charles could go. Well, the house won't run away. And Mr. Audubon has
travelled all over the world. Mr. Whitney wrote an article about him.
That's the work I'd like to do--go and see famous people and write about
them."

Interviewing was not such a fine art in those days. Ben had enough of it
later on.

Dr. Joe had asked Mr. Audubon's permission to bring a crowd of children
to see him and his birds. He was getting to be quite an attraction in
the city.

When they packed up they found a crowd sure enough. But Dr. Hoffman took
Margaret and the little girl with him, as Charles had been allowed a
half day off for the trip. The drive was so full of interest. They went
up past the old Stuyvesant place and took a look at the pear-tree that
had been planted almost two hundred years ago and was still bearing
fruit. Then they turned into the old Bloomingdale Road, and up by
Seventy-fifth Street they all stopped to see the house where Louis
Philippe taught school when he was an emigrant in America. And now he
was on the throne, King of the French people, a grander and greater
position, some thought, than being President of the United States.

"For of course," said Jim, "he can stay there all his life, and the
President has only four years in the White House. After all, it is a big
thing to be a king."

And in a little more than two years he was flying over to England for
refuge and safety, and was no longer a king. Mr. Polk was still in the
White House.

It was an odd, low, two-story frame house where royalty had been
thankful to teach such boys as Ben and Jim and Charles. There was a
steep, sloping roof with wide eaves, a rather narrow doorway in the
middle of the front, carved with very elaborate work, and an old knocker
with a lion's head, small but fierce. The large room on one side had
been the schoolroom, and the board floor was worn in two curious rows
where the boys had shuffled their feet. The fireplace was what most
people came to see. It was spacious and had a row of blue and white
Antwerp tiles with pictures taken from the New Testament. They were
smoked and faded now, but they still told their story. The mantelpiece
and the doors were a mass of the most elaborate carving.

There were still some old houses standing in New York that had been
built with bricks brought from Holland. Charles was very much interested
in these curiosities and had found one of the houses down in Pearl
Street.

Then they drove up through McGowan's Pass, where Washington had planned
to make a decisive stand at the battle of Harlem Heights. There was the
ledge of rock and the pretty lake that was to be Central Park some day.
It was all wildness now.

There was so much to see that Dr. Joe declared they had no more time to
spend following Washington's retreat.

"But it was just grand that he should come back here to be inaugurated
the first President of the United States," said Charles. "I am proud of
having had that in New York."

"The city has a great many famous points," said Dr. Joe; "but we seem to
have lost our enthusiasm over them. Beyond there," nodding his head over
east, "is the Murray House that can tell its story. Handsome Mrs.
Murray, and she was a Quaker, too, made herself so charming in her
hospitality to the British generals that she detained them long enough
for Silliman's brigade to retreat to Harlem. Washington was awaiting
them at the Apthorpe House, and they had left that place not more than
fifteen minutes when the British came flying in the hot haste of
pursuit. So but for Mrs. Murray's smiles and friendliness they might
have captured our Washington as well as the city."

"That was splendid," declared Charles enthusiastically.

"And maybe as a boy Lindley Murray might have thought up his grammar
that he was to write later on to puzzle your brains," continued Dr. Joe.

"Well, that is odd, too. I'll forgive him his grammar," said Ben, with a
twinkle in his eye.

"And if we don't go on we will have no time for Professor Audubon and
the birds. But we could ramble about all day."

"I didn't know there were so many interesting things in the city. They
seem somehow a good ways off when you are studying them," replied
Charles.

He really wished Hanny was in the carriage. She was so eager about all
these old stories.

Then they went over to Tenth Avenue. There was the old Colonial house,
with its broad porch and wide flight of steps. It was country then with
its garden and fields, its spreading trees and grassy slopes.

And there was Professor Audubon on the lawn with his wife and two
little grandchildren. He came and welcomed the party cordially. He had
met both doctors before. He was tall, with a fine fair face and long
curling hair thrown back, now snowy white. Once with regard to the
wishes of some friends while abroad he had yielded and had it cut
"fashionable," to his great regret afterward, and the reminiscence was
rather amusing. His wide white collar, open at the throat, added to his
picturesque aspect. Then he had a slight French accent that seemed to
render his hospitality all the more charming.

Ben and Charles knew that he had been nearly all over the Continent, and
had hardships innumerable and discouragements many, and had in spite of
them succeeded in writing and illustrating one of the most magnificent
of books. And when they trooped into the house and saw the stuffed birds
and animals, the pictures he had painted, and the immense folio volumes
so rich with drawings, it hardly seemed possible that one brain could
have wrought it all.

Everything, from the most exquisite hummingbird to an eagle and a wild
turkey. There was no museum of natural history then. Mr. Barnum's
collection was considered quite a wonder. But to hear this soft-voiced
man with his charming simplicity describe them, was fascination itself.

The little girl really wavered in her admiration for Mayor Harper. He
had been her hero par excellence up to this time. A man who could
govern a city and make boots had seemed wonderful, but here was a man
who could keep the birds quite as if they were alive. You almost
expected them to sing.

He was very fond of children and Mrs. Audubon was hardly less
delightful. They could not see half the treasures in such a brief while,
and they were glad to be invited to come again. Ben did find his way up
there frequently, and Charles gleaned many an entertaining bit of
knowledge. When the little girl went again, the tender, eager eyes had
lost their sight, and the enthusiasm turned to a pathos that was sorrow
itself. But there was no hint of it this happy day, which remained one
of their most delightful memories.

Now that they were so near, Margaret said they must go and see Miss
Lois. Dr. Joe was quite a regular visitor, for Miss Lois was growing
more frail every week. Josie and Tudie thought they would like to see
another old house, and a harp "taller than yourself." Charles was much
interested. Jim had his mind so full of birds and hunting adventures he
could think of nothing else, and said he would rather walk around.

Miss Lois was quite feeble to-day, and said Margaret must be the
hostess. They went into the old parlor and examined the quaint articles
and some of the old-fashioned books. Josie wished they might try the
harp and see how it would sound, but no one would propose it if Miss
Lois was so poorly.

"It's very queer," said Hanny. "She played for me once. The strings are
rusted and broken, and it sounds just like the ghost of something, as if
you were going way, way back. I didn't like it."

The German woman was out in the kitchen and gave them each a piece of
cake. There was a quaint old dresser with some pewter plates and a
pitcher, and old china, and a great high mantel.

"You seem way out in the country," said Charles. "But it's pretty, too.
And the trees and the river and Fort Washington. Why, it's been like an
