before the house. I am very grateful to you for the honor to my name
and family which is contemplated by the excellent member on the other
side of the table; but for reasons of my own, I must beg the gentleman
to withdraw his motion."
"He cannot withdraw without the consent of the house--of the club, I
mean," said Frank, blushing at his blunder.
"It is customary when no objection is made," replied Captain Sedley
gravely, "to permit a motion to be withdrawn."
"Mr. Chairman," said Charles, rising, "for the obvious reasons
mentioned by the honorable and distinguished gentleman, I withdraw my
motion."
At the risk of disturbing the dignity of the meeting, Captain Sedley
remarked that he had stated no reasons.
"I move that the room be called Zephyr Hall," said Tony Weston.
"Second the motion," said Charles.
Frank stated the question, and observed that it was open for any
remarks. But the members, not feeling disposed to indulge in any
flights of eloquence before Captain Sedley, maintained an obstinate
silence for full five minutes. The chairman, impressed with the idea
that some speeches must be made, anyhow, did not interrupt the
dignified quiet by putting the question.
At last the silence was broken by a hearty laugh on the part of Captain
Sedley.
"Why don't you put the question, Frank?" asked he.
"The debate has not taken place yet."
"There are some questions which it is not necessary to debate."
"Question!" said Fred Harper, who had been to town meeting.
"Those in favor of calling the room Zephyr Hall, please manifest it by
raising the right hand."
"All up!" cried Fred Harper.
"It is a unanimous vote," added the chairman.
"Let the clerk record the vote," whispered Captain Sedley to his son.
"We have no clerk yet."
"Doing business without a clerk!" laughed his father.
"The next business will be to choose a clerk," continued Frank,
laughing. "Please to bring in your ballots for a clerk."
There were paper and pens at the other end of the table; and Fred
Harper, who seemed to have a very good idea of "the manner in which the
public business is transacted," commenced writing votes. In a few
moments they were all supplied.
"I move that a committee of three be appointed by the chair to collect,
sort, and count the votes, and report to the meeting," said Fred.
"Second the motion," added Tom Greene.
The motion was put and carried.
"The chair appoints Frederic Harper, Thomas Greene, and Mark Leman."
The votes were collected and reported.
"Whole number of votes, thirteen," repeated Frank; "necessary for a
choice, seven; Frederic Harper has one; Anthony Weston has twelve, and
is elected."
Captain Sedley clapped his hands at this evidence of good will on the
part of the members, and the club all joined heartily in the
demonstration. Three days before, the grand jury had found a bill
against Tony; but his friends still continued to regard and treat him
as an innocent person.
"I thank you for your kindness," said Tony, rising; "I am sure, I--"
but the poor fellow choked up, and could say no more.
His heart was full, and the great tears rolled down his cheeks.
"Never mind it, Tony; here is the record-book," said Fred Harper,
taking it from the library case.
Tony wiped away his tears, and seated himself at the foot of the table,
where a small desk had been placed for the use of the clerk.
"Mr. Chairman," said Charles Hardy.
Frank nodded to him to indicate that he had the floor.
"I move that a committee of three be appointed to draft and report a
constitution for the club."
"Second the motion," added Sam Harper.
The motion prevailed. Charles Hardy, Tony Weston, and Fred Harper were
nominated "at large," and chosen to serve on this committee. Leaving
the hall, they retired to the boat-room for deliberation; but the
constitution had already been prepared by Frank and Charles, with the
assistance of Captain Sedley. To make the business look more important
and dignified, Charles insisted on remaining out a few moments, during
which time they talked over the matter with Uncle Ben.
When they returned, the constitution was duly reported, and adopted
article by article.
Perhaps my young readers would not readily appreciate the moral of my
story without reading this important document; therefore I add, in
full, the
    CONSTITUTION.
    ARTICLE I.
    This association shall be called the Zephyr Boat Club.
    ARTICLE II.
    The objects of the association shall be the instruction and
    amusement of the members, and the acquiring of good morals, good
    manners, and good habits in general.
    ARTICLE III.
    The officers of the club shall consist of a coxswain, as president,
    and a clerk.
    ARTICLE IV.
    It shall be the duty of the coxswain to command the boat, to
    preside at the meetings of the club, and to exercise a general
    supervision over its affairs. He shall hold his office for two
    weeks.
    ARTICLE V.
    The clerk shall keep a record of the meetings, and of all business
    pertaining to the club, and shall hold his office for four weeks.
    ARTICLE VI.
    No member of this club shall use profane language at any time. No
    member shall neglect his school, or his duties at home. No member
    shall use vulgar or indecent language. No member shall provoke a
    quarrel with another person, but shall do all he can to prevent
    fighting and unkindly feelings one towards another. No member shall
    use tobacco, or ardent spirits as a beverage, in any form. All
    members shall obey the coxswain while in the boat. Any member
    offending against either of the requirements of this article shall
    be liable to suspension, and if incorrigible, to expulsion from the
    club.
    ARTICLE VII.
    In order the more perfectly to carry out the beneficent and
    reformatory purposes of the founder of the club, to whose bounty
    we are indebted for the opportunities of instruction and amusement
    the association affords us, we appoint him our Director. All
    violations of Article VI., and all violations of the spirit of our
    organization set forth in Article II., whether in word or in deed,
    shall be reported to our Director, and the delinquent shall be
    subject to such penalty as he shall determine.
    ARTICLE VIII.
    The hall and library shall be open every Wednesday and Saturday
    afternoon, at such other times as the Director or coxswain may
    order, and every evening except Sunday till nine o'clock.
    ARTICLE IX.
    This constitution may be altered or amended by a vote of two-thirds
    of the members.
This constitution was transferred to the record book, and duly signed.
Some other business was transacted, and the meeting adjourned.
"Put on your uniforms," said Frank, as he rose from his chair, "and we
will make our first appearance."
"At twelve o'clock there will be a collation ready for you on Centre
Island, to which you are all invited," said Captain Sedley.
"Hurrah!" shouted Charles Hardy, as he rushed into the boat-room.
CHAPTER XIII
THE THUNDERBOLT
The appearance of the Zephyr Club in uniform was unique and pleasing,
and each of the members was "every inch a sailor." Uncle Ben was
delighted with the change; "they looked so much more shipshape than in
their shore togs."
"Come, Uncle Ben, we are all ready," said Frank.
"I arn't goin' with you this time."
"You must go without him to-day, Frank," added Captain Sedley. "Uncle
Ben must take the things over to the island for the collation."
"Are we to go alone?"
"Certainly."
"Hurrah!" cried Charles, who always used this word to express his
gratification.
"But, boys, you must preserve good discipline. According to the
constitution you must all obey the coxswain. And, Frank, be very
careful; don't get aground on the rocks at the north shore, and if you
go down the river, don't go too near the dam."
"I will not, father," replied Frank, who was fully impressed by the
responsibility of his position as commander of the Zephyr. "Take your
places in the boat. Tony, number them."
The doors which gave egress from the boat-house to the lake were thrown
open by Uncle Ben.
"Now, back her steady," continued Frank, standing up in the
stern-sheets. "Don't let her rub, Tony. Steady; one hard push; now she
goes;" and the Zephyr shot out into the lake.
"The flags, Frank," said Charles.
"Ay, ay; Tony, hoist yours;" and at the same time Frank raised the
American flag at the stern.
"Ready; now for the oars. Up oars!"
"Let fall!"
"Give way together!"
Frank felt like a prince as the Zephyr darted away.
"Where are you going, Frank?" asked Charles.
"I don't know; anywhere that the club wish to go."
"Up to Squaw Rock," suggested one.
"Down to Rippleton," said another.
"Over to the sawmill," added a third.
"Way enough!" cried Frank. "Lay on your oars, and we will decide it."
"What do you say to circumnavigating the lake?" said Fred Harper.
"So I say," cried several.
"Those in favor of going round the lake say 'Ay.'"
"Ay," shouted a large majority.
"Round it is," said Frank. "Give way!"
Taking a course in the direction of Rippleton village, Frank kept the
boat as near the shore as her safety would permit. The boys rowed with
remarkable precision, but with a very slow and measured stroke, so as
to reserve their strength for the long pull before them.
"I wonder where the Bunkers are," said Charles.
"They haven't been seen on their raft for several days."
"I suppose they got sick of it when they saw the Zephyr," suggested
Fred Harper.
"Very likely; their old raft didn't look much like our craft when we
went round them the other day," added Mark Leman.
Charles laughed at the contrast.
"What do you say to landing at Rippleton?" suggested he, as they
approached the outlet of the lake.
"What for?" asked Frank.
"They haven't seen our new uniform down here," replied Charles.
"I think we had better not," said the coxswain.
"Why not, Frank? Let us march through the streets, and get up a
sensation."
"I would rather not. Some accident might happen to the boat while we
are gone."
"Oh, nonsense!"
"Suppose the Bunkers should happen to see it?" suggested Frank.
"They wouldn't dare to touch it," replied Charles.
"I am afraid they would."
"If I were coxswain, I would let you land," said Charles sulkily.
"That isn't fair," said Tony.
"Humph!" sneered Charles.
"Don't get cross, Charley," interposed Frank.
"Who's cross?" said Charles, throwing down his oar.
"Mutiny!" laughed Fred Harper.
"Well, I ain't a-going to be snubbed round in that way."
"Charley, I haven't said a word that you need take offence at," said
Frank in a conciliatory tone.
"That he hasn't," interposed several.
"Yes, you have; and you needn't think you are going to tyrannize over
me in that way," persisted Hardy.
"Pull steady," said Frank calmly, as he put the helm hard up.
The boat came round in a graceful circle; and to the surprise of all,
the coxswain headed her directly for the boat-house.
"I thought you were going round the lake," said Sam Harper.
"Not now," replied Frank quietly.
The boys pulled in silence for several minutes, and Charles Hardy
leaned over the gunwale and moodily watched the ripples on the side of
the boat. He was conscious that he was introducing dissension into the
club; but it seemed to him that Frank was ill-natured in not gratifying
him when he proposed to land at Rippleton.
The Zephyr was rapidly approaching the boat-house, and Frank was
sweeping her round so as to run her into the slip. The consequences of
his behavior occurred to him. The provisions of article six of the
constitution, and the penalty, came to his mind with appalling force.
His conduct would be immediately reported to the Director, and probably
he would be suspended, or expelled from the club. He could not bear to
think of such a thing.
The boat in a minute more would shoot into the boat-house, and it would
be too late to apologize. He could not endure the idea of "giving up,"
and owning that he was in the wrong, but to be suspended or expelled
was a more bitter reflection.
"Frank," said he in a gentle, insinuating tone.
"Way enough!" cried the coxswain promptly. "Stern all!"
"Forgive me, Frank," said the rebellious oarsman.
"You are rather late, Charley; but better late than never. We are
almost into the boat-house."
"I won't give you any more trouble, I solemnly promise it, if you won't
say anything about it this time."
"According to the constitution your conduct must be reported."
"Let him slide this time," interposed Fred Harper.
"I freely forgive the offence, so far as I am concerned."
"Your father won't say anything."
"He must know it," insisted Frank firmly.
"What is the matter, boys?" called Captain Sedley from the shore.
"Now we are in for it!" added Fred.
Charles Hardy hung his head with shame. Gladly would he have recalled
his hasty words of anger, but it was too late. They had been spoken,
and he must abide the consequences.
"Give way!" said Frank sadly, for he would fain have avoided the
explanation which his father demanded.
The oarsmen pulled, and the boat was run into the house.
"Keep your places," said Frank, as he leaped out of the boat, and
hastened to meet his father.
Captain Sedley was much astonished when he heard the story of Charles's
sulkiness, and insisted that he should come ashore; but Frank pleaded
for him, and the Director finally consented, as it was the first
offence under the new constitution, to pardon it.
Frank, delighted with his success, returned to the boat. Giving the
necessary orders, the Zephyr shot out from her berth; and he steered,
as before, towards Rippleton. Charles was deeply mortified when he
reflected upon his quarrelsome behavior, and mentally resolved never to
be guilty of such conduct again. But he was anxious to know what
disposition Captain Sedley had made of his case, and whether he should
be held to answer for his disobedience when they went ashore. He did
not like to say anything about it, though, at first; but after more
reflection, his better nature overcame his pride.
"Frank," said he with a smile.
"Well, Charley."
"I am sorry for what I did."
"I knew you were; and for that reason I begged my father to excuse it,
and have nothing more said about it."
"You are too generous, Frank; I don't deserve it of you."
"It was an offence against the club more than against me," replied
Frank. "I am glad you think better of it."
"I never will do it again."
"I hope not, Charley. You know the constitution provides for a new
coxswain every two weeks; when you are chosen, I shall obey your
orders."
"I don't deserve to be coxswain."
"Well, never mind it. It is all right now."
Good feeling was again restored, and the boys once more began to enjoy
themselves. The Zephyr worked admirably, and Frank deported himself
with so much dignity and firmness that the boys rendered the most
unqualified obedience to all his orders. But he was not tyrannical nor
overbearing. When there was a difference of opinion, he was always
ready to yield his own inclination to the wishes of the majority.
The boat passed round the lower end of the lake, and was approaching
its upper extremity.
"What's that?" exclaimed Frank, rising from his seat, as he discovered
a boat lying near the shore full of boys.
"Way enough!" said he.
"It is the Bunkers!" exclaimed Tony. "I see Tim in the stern."
"It is Joe Braman's boat," added Fred Harper. "Here they come."
"Twig the flags!" cried Charles Hardy.
"In imitation of the Zephyr," said Frank, laughing heartily.
The boat approached near enough for them to examine her. It was, as
Fred had declared, Joe Braman's boat; but she had been very much
altered. Apparently she had been sawed in two and lengthened out. She
had been painted bright yellow, with a red streak round her; and on the
bows, after the manner of the Zephyr, was inscribed, in black letters,
the name "Thunderbolt," which was in accordance with Tim Bunker's
taste. She was pulled by eight oars, and the redoubtable leader of the
gang sat in the stern-sheets as coxswain. Forward floated a blue cotton
rag, with the letter "T" daubed upon it in white paint, and surrounded
by half a dozen ill-shaped stars. At the stern was a ragged piece of
bunting, which had once been the flag of the Republic, but which had
been curtailed of nine of its stripes and a part of its stars.
The Bunkers evidently had not practised rowing much; for their stroke
was irregular, and they splashed the water about like so many
porpoises. Occasionally one of them got hit in the back by his
neighbor's oar, which produced a great deal of swearing and wrangling
among them. They made but slow progress through the water, and the
Zephyrs could scarcely refrain from laughing at the singular spectacle.
CHAPTER XIV
THE COLLISION
Joe Braman, the alleged proprietor of the Thunderbolt, was an idle,
dissolute fellow, who employed his time in gunning, fishing, and
loitering about the dramshops of Rippleton. He lived on the north
shore. How he obtained his living, it would have been difficult to
determine.
Tim Bunker was an especial favorite with Braman, and people said it was
because there was a natural sympathy between them. Joe's boat was a
long, flat-bottomed affair, not very graceful in its form or
construction. With the exception of Captain Sedley's sailboat and the
club boat, it was, perhaps, the only boat on the lake; and small
parties occasionally engaged Joe to take them out fishing in it.
The history of its present appearance was sufficiently plain to the
Zephyrs. It had been lengthened out, a sharp, false bow attached to it,
painted, and such other improvements made as would fit it for the
purposes of a club boat.
"Isn't she one of the boats?" laughed Charles.
"Silence, forward!" said Frank, shaking his head as a gesture of
warning to the boys not to provoke any ill nature.
"Who yer lookin' at?" cried Tim Bunker, as the Thunderbolt came near
the Zephyr.
"Good-morning, Tim," said Frank pleasantly.
"Why don't yer pull, yer lubbers?" shouted Tim.
"You have a new boat, I see."
"I'll bet we have," replied Tim, bringing the Thunderbolt round the
stern of the Zephyr.
"Isn't that Joe Braman's boat?" asked Charles.
"No, sir-ee! It's my boat," answered Tim.
"Did you buy it off him?"
"Didn't do nothin' else."
"What did you give?"
"Ten dollars, and five for fixin' her up," replied Tim with a great
deal of importance.
"She looks very well," continued Charles.
"She'll go some, you better believe."
Tony Weston could not help smiling at this conversation, and Tim Bunker
unfortunately perceived the funny expression on his face. It roused his
anger.
"Who stole the wallet?" said he.
This taunt roused a feeling of indignation in the soul of Fred Harper;
and he so far forgot the requirements of the constitution as to
reply,--
"Tim Bunker."
"Le's lick 'em," said one of the Bunkers.
"Give way!" exclaimed Frank with energy, when he saw the storm brewing.
Mindful of the discipline of the club, every member obeyed the order,
and the Zephyr darted away from the belligerent Thunderbolts.
"Pooh! Frank, I wouldn't run away from them," said Charles.
"I have no desire to quarrel with such fellows," replied Frank; "and I
hope none of you will say anything to provoke them. That was very
thoughtless of you, Fred."
"I know it; but somehow I couldn't help it; the taunt was so mean and
contemptible. If I had been on shore, I should have knocked him over."
"Article six," said Frank.
"Here they come after us," added Tony.
The boys all laughed involuntarily at the idea of the old "gundelow,"
as Fred called it, chasing them.
"They can't catch us," continued Frank.
"I guess not," said Charles.
"But I am sorry we provoked them, for I had a little plan in my head."
"What is it, Frank?"
"Way enough! Never mind it now; we are a quarter of a mile from them,
and we can easily keep out of their way."
"Frank, we are running too near the shore," interposed Tony. "The water
is shoal here, you know."
"Stern all! Give way!" exclaimed the coxswain. "I was watching the
Bunkers so closely that I did not mind where we were going."
But it was too late. The Zephyr had not lost her headway, and darted
forward, burying her keel in the mud-bank at the bottom of the lake,
off the mouth of a brook.
"By gracious!" exclaimed Charles Hardy; "we are in for it now."
"And the Bunkers are upon us," added Frank, very much perplexed by the
difficulties which suddenly surrounded them.
"What shall be done?" asked Tony.
"Let them come on," replied Fred. "We can't get rid of them now."
"I don't want to fight with them," added Frank.
The Thunderbolt was approaching them, not very rapidly, it was true;
but a few minutes would involve them in a quarrel, which Frank and a
large majority of the club were very anxious to avoid. Tim Bunker was
standing up in the stern-sheets of his boat, watching them with
malignant interest.
"Hurrah! they are aground!" cried Tim, as soon as he understood the
nature of the calamity which had befallen the Zephyr. "We have them
now; they can't run away, the cowardly long faces!"
"Come aft, some of you," said Frank, when he heard these threatening
words. "The water is deep enough under the stern. We have only run into
