" And you think, I suppose," said Westover, " that 
she wouldn't have cared any more than you cared if 
she had known what you did." 
" I can't say anything about that." 
The painter continued, bitterly : " You used to come 
in here, the first year, with notions of society women 
that would have disgraced a Goth, or a gorilla. Did 
you form your estimate of Miss Lynde from those 
premises ? " 
"I'm not a boy now," JefE answered, "and I 
haven't stayed all the kinds of a fool I was." 
 
" Then you don't think Miss Lynde would speak to 
you, or look at you, after she knew what you had 
done ? " 
" I should like to tell her and see," said JeS, with 
a hardy laugh. "But I guess I sha'n't have the 
chance. I've never been a favorite in society, and I 
don't expect to meet her again." 
" Perhaps you'd like to have me tell her ? " 
" Why, yes, I believe I should, if you could tell 
me what she thought — not what she said about it." 
"You are a brute," answered Westover, with a puz- 
zled air. What puzzled him most and pleased him 
least was the fellow's patience under his severity, which 
he seemed either not to feel or not to mind. It was 
of a piece with the behavior of the rascally boy whom 
he had cuffed for fr'ghtening Cynthia and her little 
brother long ago, and he wondered what final malvo- 
lence it portended. 
Jeff said, as if their controversy were at an end and 
they might now turn to more personal things : " You 
look pretty slim, Mr. Westover. A'n't there some- 
thing I can do for you — get you ? I've come in with 
a message from mother. She says if you ever want 
to get that winter view of Lion's Head, now's your 
time. She wants you to come up there ; she and Cyn- 
thia both do. They can make you as comfortable as 
you please, and they'd like to have a visit from you. 
Can't you go ? " 
Westover shook his head ruefully. " It's good of 
them, and I want you to thank them for me. But I 
don't know when I'm going to get out again." 
 
"Oh, you'll soon get out," said JefE. "I'm going 
to look after you a little," and this time Westover 
was too weak to protest. He did not forbid Jeff's 
taking off his overcoat ; he suffered him to light his 
spirit-lamp and make a punch of the whiskey which 
he owned the doctor was giving him ; and when Jeff 
handed him the steaming glass, and asked him, 
"How's that?" he answered with a pleasure in it 
which he knew to be deplorable, " It's fine." 
Jeff stayed the whole evening with him, and made 
him more comfortable than he had been since his cold 
began. Westover now talked seriously and frankly with 
him, but no longer so harshly, and in his relenting he 
felt a return of his old illogical liking for him. He 
fancied in Durgin's kindness to himself an indirect 
regret, and a desire to atone for what he had done, 
and he said : " The effect is in you — the worst effect. 
I don't think either of the young Lyndes very exem- 
plary people. But you'd be doing yourself a greater 
wrong than you've done them if you didn't recognize 
that you had been guilty towards them." 
Jeff seemed struck by this notion. " What do you 
want me to do ? What can I do ? Chase myself out 
of society ? Something like that ? I'm willing. It's 
too easy, though. As I said, I've neyer been wanted 
much, there, and I shouldn't be missed." 
" Well, then, how would you like to leave it to the 
people at Lion's Head to say what you should do ? " 
Westover suggested. 
" I shouldn't like it," said Jeff, promptly. " They'd 
judge it as you do — as if they'd done it themselves. 
That's the reason women are not fit to judge." His 
gay face darkened. " But tell 'em if you want to." 
" Bah ! " cried the painter. " Why should I want 
to ? I'm not a woman in everything." 
" I beg your pardon, Mr. Westover. I didn't mean 
that. I only meant that you're an idealist. I look at 
this thing as if some one else had done it ; I believe 
that's the practical way ; and I shouldn't go in for 
punishing any one else for such a thing very severely." 
He made another punch-for himself this time, he 
said; but Westover joined him in a glass of it. 
" It won't do to take that view of your faults, JefE," 
he said, gravely. 
"What's the reason?" JefE demanded; and now 
either the punch had begun to work in Westover's 
brain, or some other influence of like force and quality. 
He perceived that in this earth-bound temperament 
was the potentiality of all the success it aimed at. 
The acceptance of the moral fact as it was, without 
the unconscious effort to better it, or to hold himself 
strictly to account for it, was the secret of the power 
in the man which would bring about the material re- 
sults he desired ; and this simplicity of the motive 
involved had its charm. Westover was aware of liking 
Durgin at that moment tnuch more than he ought, and 
of liking him helplessly. In the light of his good- 
natured selfishness, the injury to the Lyndes showed 
much less a sacrilege than it had seemed ; Westover 
began to see it with JefE's eyes, and to see it with 
reference to what might be low and mean in them, 
instead of what might be fine and high. 
 
He was sensible of the growth Jefi had made intel- 
lectually. He had not been at Harvard nearly four 
years for nothing. He had phrases and could handle 
them. In whatever obscure or perverse fashion, he 
had profited by his opportunities. The fellow who 
could accuse him of being an idealist, and could in 
some sort prove it, was no longer a naughty boy to be 
tutored and punished. The revolt latent in him would 
be violent in proportion to the pressure put upon him, 
and Westover began to be without the wish to press 
his fault home to him so strongly. In the optimism 
generated by the punch, he felt that he might leave 
the case to JefE himself ; or else in the comfort we all 
experience in sinking to a lower level, he was unwilling 
to make the effort to keep his own moral elevation. 
But he did make an effort to save himself by saying : 
" You can't get what you've done before yourself as 
you can the action of some one else. It's part of you, 
and you have to judge the motive as well as the 
effect." 
"Well, that's what I'm doing," said Jeff; "but it 
seems to me that you're trying to have me judge of 
the effect from a motive I didn't have. As far as I 
can make out, I hadn't any motive at all. 
He laughed, and all that Westover could say was, 
"Then you're still responsible for the result." But 
this no longer appeared so true to him. 
XXXVIII. 
It was not a condition of Westover's welcome at 
Lion's Head that he should seem peculiarly the friend 
of JefE Durgin, but he could not help making it so, 
and he began to overact the part as soon as he met 
JefE's mother. He had to speak of him in thanking 
her for remembering his wish to paint Lion's Head in 
the winter, and he had to tell her of JefE's thoughtf ill- 
ness during the past fortnight ; he had to say that he 
did not believe he should ever have got away if it had 
not been for him. This was true ; Durgin had even 
come in from Cambridge to see him off on the train ; 
he behaved as if the incident with Lynde and all their 
talk about it had cemented the friendship between 
Westover and himself, and he could not be too de- 
voted. It now came out that he had written home all 
about Westover, and made his mother put up a stove 
in the painter's old room, so that he should have the 
instant use of it when he arrived. 
It was an air-tight wood-stove, and it filled the 
chamber with a heat in which Westover drowsed as 
soon as he entered it. He threw himself on the bed, 
and slept away the fatigue of his railroad journey and 
 
the cold of his drive with Jombateeste from the sta- 
tion. His nap was long, and he woke from it in a 
pleasant languor, with the dream-clouds still hanging 
in his brain. He opened the damper of his stove, and 
set it roaring again ; then he pulled down the upper 
sash of his window and looked out on a world whose 
elements of wood and snow and stone he tried to co- 
ordinate. There was nothing else in that world but 
these things, so repellent of one another. He suffered 
from the incongruity of the wooden bulk of the hotel, 
with the white drifts deep about it, and with the gran- 
ite cliffs of Lion's Head before it, where the gray crags 
darkened under the pink afternoon light which was 
beginning to play upon its crest from the early sunset. 
The wind that had seemed to bore through his thick 
cap and his skull itself, and that had tossed the dry 
snow like dust against Ms eyes on his way from the 
railroad, had now fallen, and an incomparable quiet 
wrapped the solitude of the hills. A teasing sense of 
the impossibility of the scene, as far as his art was 
concerned, filled him full of a fond despair of render- 
ing its feeling. He could give its light and color and 
form in a sufficiently vivid suggestion of the fact, but 
he could not make that pink flush seem to exhale, like 
a long breath, upon those rugged shapes ; he could 
not impart that sentiment of delicacy, almost of ele- 
gance which he found in the wilderness, while every 
detail of civilization physically distressed him. In 
one place the snow had been dug down to the pine 
planking of the pathway round the house ; and the 
contact of this woodenness with the frozen ground 
 
pierced his nerves and set his teeth on edge like a 
harsh noise. When once he saw it he had to make 
an effort to take his eyes from it, and in a sort un- 
known to him in summer he perceived the offence of 
the hotel itself amidst the pure and lonely beauty of 
the winter landscape. It was a note of intolerable 
banality, of philistine pretence and vulgar convention, 
such as Whitwell's low, unpainted cottage at the foot 
of the hUl did not give, nor the little red school-house, 
on the other hand, showing through the naked trees. 
There should have been really no human habitation 
visible except a wigwam in the shelter of the pines, 
here and there ; and when he saw Whitwell making 
bis way up the hill-side road, Westover felt that if 
there must be any human presence it should be some 
savage clad in skins, instead of the philosopher in his 
rubber boots and his clothing-store ulster. He pre- 
ferred the small, wiry shape of Jombateeste, in his 
blue woollen cap, and his Canadian foot-gear, as he 
rau round the corner of the house towards the barn, 
and left the breath of his pipe in the fine air behind 
him. 
The light began to deepen from the pale pink to a 
crimson which stained the tops and steeps of snow, 
and deepened the dark of the woods massed on the 
mountain slopes between the irregular fields of white. 
The burnished brown of the hard-wood trees, the dull 
carbon shadows of the evergreens, seemed to wither 
to one black as the red strengthened in the sky. 
Westover realized that he had lost the best of any 
possible picture in letting that first delicate color 
 
escape him. This crimson was harsh and vulgar in 
comparison ; it would have almost a chrorno quality ; 
he censured his pleasure in it as something gross and 
material, like that of eating; and on a sudden he felt 
hungry. He wondered what time they would give 
him supper, and he took slight account of the fact 
that a caprice of the wind had torn its hood of snows 
from the mountain summit, and that the profile of the 
Lion's Head showed almost as distinctly as in sum- 
mer. He stood before the picture which for that day 
at least was lost to him, and questioned whether there 
would be a hearty meal, something like a dinner, or 
whether there would be something like a farm-house 
supper, mainly of doughnuts and tea. 
He pulled up his window and was going to lie down 
again, when some one knocked, and Frank Whitwell 
stood at the door. " Do you want we should bring 
your supper to you here, Mr. Westover, or will you — " 
" Oh, let me join you all ! " cried the painter eagerly. 
" Is it ready — shall I come now ? " 
" Well, in about five minutes, or so." Frank went 
away, after setting down in the room the lamp he had 
brought. It was a lamp which Westover thought he 
remembered from the farm-house period, and on his 
way down he realized as he had somehow not done in 
his summer sojourns, the entirety of the old house in 
the hotel which had encompassed it. The primitive 
cold of its stairways and passages struck upon him as 
soon as he left his own room, and he found the parlor 
door closed against the chill. There was a hot stove- 
fire within, and a kerosene-lamp turned low, but there 
was no one there, and lie had the photograph of his 
first picture of Lion's Head to himself in the dim 
light. The voices of Mrs. Durgin and Cynthia came 
to him from the dining-room, and from the kitchen 
beyond, with the occasional clash of crockery, and 
the clang of iron upon iron about the stove, and the 
quick tread of women's feet upon the bare floor. 
With these pleasant noises came the smell of cooking, 
and later there was an opening and shutting of doors, 
with a thrill of the freezing air from without, and the 
dull thumping of Whitwell's rubber boots, and the 
quicker flapping of Jombateeste's soft leathern soles. 
Then there was the sweep of skirted feet at the parlor 
door, and Cynthia Whitwell came in without perceiv- 
ing him. She went to the table by the darkening 
window, and quickly turned up the light of the lamp. 
In her ignorance of his presence, he saw her as if she 
had been alone, almost aS if she were out of the body ; 
he received from her unconsciousness the impression 
of something rarely pure and fine, and he had a sud- 
den compassion for her, as for something precious that 
is fated to be wasted or misprized. At a little move- 
ment which he made to relieve himself from a sense 
of eavesdropping, she gave a start, and shut her lips 
upon the little cry that would have escaped from an- 
other sort of woman. 
"I didn't know you were here," she said; and she 
flushed with the shyness of him which she always 
showed at first. She had met him already with the 
rest, but they had scarcely spoken together ; and he 
knew of the struggle she must now be making with 
 
herself when she went on : "I didn't know you had 
been called. I thought you were still sleeping." 
" Yes. I seemed to sleep for centuries," said West- 
over, " and I woke up feeling coeval with Lion's 
Head. But I hope to grow younger again." 
She faltered, and then she asked, " Did you see the 
light on it when the sun went down ? " 
" I wish I hadn't. I could never get that light — 
even if it ever came again." 
" It's there every afternoon, when it's clear." 
".I'm sorry for that; I shall have to try for it, 
then." 
" Wasn't that what you came for?" she asked, by 
one of the eflEorts she was making with everything she 
said. He could have believed he saw the pulse throb- 
bing in her neck. But she held herself stone-still, 
and he divined her resolution to conquer herself, if 
she should die for it. 
" Yes, I came for that," said Westover. " That's 
what makes it so dismaying. If I had only happened 
on it, I shouldn't have been responsible for the failure 
I shall make of it.'' 
She smiled, as if she liked his lightness, but 
doubted if she ought. "We don't often get Lion's 
Head clear of snow." 
" Yes ; that's another hardship," said the painter. 
" Everything is against me ! If we don't have a snow 
overnight, and a cloudy day to-morrow, I shall be in 
despair." 
She played with the little wheel of the wick; she 
looked down, and then, with a glance flashed at him, 
 
she gasped, " I shall have to take your lamp for the 
table — tea is ready." 
" Oh, well, if you will only take me with it. I'm 
frightfully hungry." ' 
Apparently she could not say anything to that. He 
tried to get the lamp to carry it out for her, but she 
would not let him. " It isn't heavy," she said, and 
hurried out before him. 
It was all nothing, but it was all very charming, and 
Westover was richly content with it ; and yet not con- 
tent, for he felt that the pleasure of it was not truly 
his, but was a moment of merely borrowed happiness. 
The table was laid in the old farm-house sitting- 
room where he had been served alone when he first 
came to Lion's Head. But now he sat down with the 
whole family, even to Jombateeste, who brought in a 
faint odor of the barn with him. 
They had each been in contact with the finer world 
which revisits nature in the summer-time, and they 
must all have known something of its usages, but they 
had reverted in form and substance to the rustic living 
of their neighbors. They had steak for Westover, 
and baked potatoes ; but for themselves they had such 
farm fare as Mrs. Durgin had given him the first time 
he supped there. They made tlioir meal chiefly of 
doughnuts and tea, and hot biscuit, with some sweet 
dishes of a festive sort added in recognition of his 
presence ; and there was mince-pie for all. Mrs. Dur- 
gin and Whitwell ate with their knives, and Jomba- 
teeste filled himself so soon with every implement at 
hand that he was able to ask excuse of the others if he 
 
left them for the horses before they had half finished. 
Frank Whitwell fed with a kind of official or func- 
tional conformity to the ways of summer folks ; but 
Cynthia, at whom Westover glanced with anxiety, only 
drank some tea and ate a little bread-and-butter. He 
was ashamed of his anxiety, for he had owned that it 
ought not to have mattered if she had used her knife 
like her father ; and it seemed to him as if he had 
prompted Mrs. Durgin.by his curious glance to say: 
" We don't know half the time how the child lives. 
Cynthy ! Take something to eat ! " 
Cynthia pleaded that she was not hungry; Mrs. 
Durgin declared that she would die if she kept on 
as she was going; and then the girl escaped to the 
kitchen on one of the errands which she made from 
time to time between the stove and the table. 
" I presume it's your coming, Mr. Westover," 
Mrs. Durgin went on, with the comfortable superi- 
ority of elderly people to all the trials of the young. 
"I don't know why she should make a stranger of 
you, every time. You've known her pretty much all 
her life." 
" Ever since you give Jeff what he deserved for 
scaring her and Frank here with his dog," said Whit- 
well. - 
" Poor Fox ! " Mrs. Durgin sighed. " He did have 
the least sense for a dog I ever saw. And Jeff used 
to be so fond of him ! Well, I guess he got tired of 
him, too, towards the last." 
" He's gone to the happy hunting-grounds now. 
Colorady didn't agree with him — or old age," said 
 
Whitwell. " I don't see why the Injuns wa'n't right," 
he pursued, thoughtfully. " If they've got souls, why 
ha'n't their dogs? I suppose Mr. Westover here 
would say there wa'n't any certainty about the Injuns 
themselves ! " 
"You know my weak point, Mr. Whitwell," the 
painter confessed. " But I can't ro?;« they haven't." 
" Nor dogs, neither, I guess," said Whitwell, tol- 
erantly. " It's curious, though, if animals have got 
souls, that we ha'n't ever had any communications 
from 'em. You might say that ag'in the idea." 
" No, I'll let you say it," returned Westover. 
" But a good many of the communications seem to 
come from the lower intelligences, if not the lower 
animals." 
Whitwell laughed out his delight in the thrust. 
" Well, I guess that's something so. And them old 
Egyptian devils, over there, that you say discovered 
the doctrine of immortality, seemed to think a cat was 
