



eyes, only turning his own pensively to the differ 
ent dainties on the table. " If I do take a great 
deal for granted," he went on, " you must remem 
ber that you brought me up to it." 

Mrs. Beever found only after an instant a reply. 
Then, however, she uttered it with an air of 
triumph. "I may have brought you up but I 
didn't bring up Jean ! " 

" Well, it's not of her I'm speaking," the young 
man good-humouredly rejoined ; " though I might 
remind you that she has been here again and 
again, and month after month, and has always 
been taught so far as you could teach her 
to regard me as her inevitable fate. Have you 
any real doubt," he went on, " of her recognising 
in a satisfactory way that the time has come ? " 

Mrs. Beever transferred her scrutiny to the 
interior of her teapot. "No!" she said after a 
moment. 

"Then what's the matter?" 

" The matter is that I'm nervous, and that your 
stolidity makes me so. I want you to behave to 
me as if you cared and I want you still more 
to behave so to her" Paul made, in his seat, a 
movement in which his companion caught, as she 
supposed, the betrayal of a sense of oppression; 





and at this her own worst fear broke out. " Oh, 
don't tell me you don't care for if you do I 
don't know what I shall do to you ! " He looked 
at her with an air he sometimes had, which 
always aggravated her impatience, an air of 
amused surprise, quickened to curiosity, that 
there should be in the world organisms capable 
of generating heat. She had thanked God, 
through life, that she was cold-blooded, but now 
it seemed to face her as a Nemesis that she was 
a volcano compared with her son. This trans 
ferred to him the advantage she had so long 
monopolised, that of always seeing, in any relation 
or discussion, the other party become the specta 
cle, while, sitting back in her stall, she remained 
the spectator and even the critic. She hated to 
perform to Paul as she had made others perform 
to herself; but she determined on the instant 
that, since she was condemned to do so, she 
would do it to some purpose. She would have 
to leap through a hoop, but she would land on 
her charger's back. The next moment Paul was 
watching her while she shook her little flags at 
him. "There's one thing, my dear, that I can 
give you my word of honour for the fact that 
if the influence that congeals, that paralyses you 



 

happens by any chance to be a dream of what 
may be open to you in any other quarter, the 
sooner you utterly dismiss that dream the better 
it will be not only for your happiness, but for 
your dignity. If you entertain with no matter 
how bad a conscience a vain fancy that you've 
the smallest real chance of making the smallest 
real impression on anybody else, all I can say is 
that you prepare for yourself very nearly as 
much discomfort as you prepare disgust for your 
mother." She paused a moment; she felt, before 
her son's mild gape, like a trapezist in pink tights. 
" How much susceptibility, I should like to know, 
has Miss Armiger at her command for your great 
charms ? " 

Paul showed her a certain respect; he didn't 
clap her that is, he didn't smile. He felt some 
thing, however, which was indicated, as it always 
was, by the way his eyes grew smaller: they con 
tracted at times, in his big, fair face, to mere little 
conscious points. These points he now directed 
to the region of the house. " Well, mother," he 
quietly replied, " if you would like to know it 
hadn't you better ask her directly? " Rose Armi 
ger had come into view; Mrs. Beever, turning, 
saw her approach, bareheaded, in a fresh white 





dress, under a showy red parasol. Paul, as she 
drew near, left his seat and strolled to the ham 
mock, into which he meditatively dropped. Ex 
tended there, while the great net bulged and its 
attachments cracked with his weight, he spoke 
with the same plain patience. "She has come 
to give me up the ornament." 



XVI 

"THE great cake has at last arrived, dear 
lady ! " Rose gaily announced to Mrs. Beever, 
who waited, before acknowledging the news, long 
enough to suggest to her son that she was per 
haps about to act on his advice. 

" I'm much obliged to you for having gone to 
see about it," was, however, what, after a moment, 
Miss Armiger's hostess elected to reply. 

" It was an irresistible service. I shouldn't have 
got over on such a day as this," said Rose, "the 
least little disappointment to dear little Jean." 

" To say nothing, of course, of dear little Erne," 
Mrs. Beever promptly rejoined. 

"It comes to the same thing the occasion so 
mixes them up. They're interlaced the cake 
with their initials and their candles. There 
are plenty of candles for each," Rose laughed, 
"for their years have been added together. It 
makes a very pretty number ! " 







" It must also make a very big cake," said Mrs. 
Beever. 

" Colossal." 

"Too big to be brought out?" 

The girl considered. " Not so big, you know," 
she archly replied, "as if the candles had to be 
yours and mine ! " Then holding up the " orna 
ment " to Paul, she said : " I surrender you my 
trust. Catch ! " she added, with decision, mak 
ing a movement to toss him a small case in red 
morocco, which, the next moment, in its flight 
through the air, without altering his attitude, he 
intercepted with one hand. 

Mrs. Beever's excited mistrust dropped at the 
mere audacity of this: there was something per 
ceptibly superior in the girl who could meet half 
way, so cleverly, a suspicion she was quite con 
scious of and much desired to dissipate. The 
lady of Eastmead looked at her hard, reading her 
desire in the look she gave back. "Trust me, 
trust me," her eyes seemed to plead ; " don't at 
all events think me capable of any self-seeking 
that's stupid or poor. I may be dangerous to my 
self, but I'm not so to others ; least of all am I so 
to you" She had a presence that was, in its way, 
like Tony Bream's : it made, simply and directly, 



 

a difference in any personal question exposed to 
it. Under its action, at all events, Mrs. Beever 
found herself suddenly feeling that she could 
after all trust Rose if she could only trust Paul. 
She glanced at that young man as he lay in the 
hammock, and saw that in spite of the familiarity 
of his posture which indeed might have been 
assumed with a misleading purpose his dimin 
ished pupils, fixed upon their visitor, still had 
the expression imparted to them by her own last 
address. She hesitated ; but while she did so 
Rose came straight up to her and kissed her. It 
was the very first time, and Mrs. Beever blushed 
as if one of her secrets had been surprised. Rose 
explained her impulse only with a smile ; but the 
smile said vividly : " I'll polish him off ! " 

This brought a response to his mother's lips. 
" I'll go and inspect the cake ! " 

Mrs. Beever took her way to the house, and as 
soon as her back was turned her son got out of 
the hammock. An observer of the scene would 
not have failed to divine that, with some pro 
fundity of calculation, he had taken refuge there 
as a mute protest against any frustration of his 
interview with Rose. This young lady herself 
laughed out as she saw him rise, and her laugh 





would have been, for the same observer, a tribute 
to the natural art that was mingled with his 
obvious simplicity. Paul himself recognised its 
bearing and, as he came and stood at the tea-table, 
acknowledged her criticism by saying quietly: 
"I was afraid my mother would take me away." 

" On the contrary ; she has formally sur 
rendered you." 

"Then you must let me perform her office 
and help you to some tea." 

He spoke with a rigid courtesy that was not 
without its grace, and in the rich shade of her 
umbrella, which she twirled repeatedly on her 
shoulder, she looked down with detachment at 
the table. "I'll do it for myself, thank you; 
and I should like you to return to your ham 
mock." 

"I left it on purpose," the young man said. 
"Flat on my back, that way, I'm at a sort of 
disadvantage in talking with you." 

" That's precisely why I make the request. I 
wish you to be flat on your back and to have 
nothing whatever to reply." Paul immediately 
retraced his steps, but before again extending 
himself he asked her, with the same grave con 
sideration, where in this case she would be 



 

seated. " I sha'n't be seated at all," she an 
swered; "I'll walk about and stand over you 
and bully you." He tumbled into his net, sitting 
up rather more than before ; and, coming close 
to it, she put out her hand. "Let me see that 
object again." He had in his lap the little box 
he had received from her, and at this he passed 
it back. She opened it, pressing on the spring, 
and, inclining her head to one side, considered 
afresh the mounted jewel that nestled in the 
white velvet. Then, closing the case with a 
loud snap, she restored it to him. "Yes, it's 
very good ; it's a wonderful stone, and she knows. 
But that alone, my dear, won't do it." She 
leaned, facing him, against the tense ropes of 
the hammock, and he looked up at her. " You 
take too much for granted." 

For a moment Paul answered nothing, but at 
last he brought out : " That's just what I said 
to my mother you had already said when she 
said just the same." 

Rose stared an instant; then she smiled again. 
" It's complicated, but I follow you ! She has 
been waking you up." 

"She knows," said her companion, "that you 
advise me in the same sense as herself." 





"She believes it at last her leaving us to 
gether was a sign of that. I have at heart per 
fectly to justify her confidence, for hitherto she 
has been so blind to her own interest as to sup 
pose that, in these three weeks, you had been so 
tiresome as to fall in love with me." 

"I particularly told her I haven't at all." 

Paul's tone had at its moments of highest 
gravity the gift of moving almost any interlocutor 
to mirth. "I hope you'll be more convincing 
than that if you ever particularly tell anyone 
you have at all ! " the girl exclaimed. She gave 
a slight push to the hammock, turning away, 
and he swung there gently a minute. 

" You mustn't ask too much of me, you know," 
he finally said, watching her as she went to the 
table and poured out a cup of tea. 

She drank a little and then, putting down 
the cup, came back to him. "I should be ask 
ing too much of you only if you were asking 
too much of her. You're so far from that, and 
your position's so perfect. It's too beautiful, 
you know, what you offer." 

"I know what I offer, and I know what I 
don't," Paul returned; "and the person we 
speak of knows exactly as well. All the ele- 



 

ments are before her, and if my position's so 
fine it's there for her to see it, quite as well 
as for you. I agree with you that I'm a decent 
sort, and that, as things are going, my business, 
my prospects, my guarantees of one kind and 
another, are substantial. But just these things, 
for years, have been made familiar to her, and 
nothing, without a risk of greatly boring her, 
can very well be added to the account. You 
and my mother say I take too much for granted ; 
but I take only that." This was a long speech 
for our young man, and his want of accent, his 
passionless pauses, made it seem a trifle longer. 
It had a visible effect on Rose Armiger, whom 
he held there with widening eyes as he talked. 
There was an intensity in her face, a bright 
sweetness that, when he stopped, seemed to give 
itself out to him as if to encourage him to go on. 
But he went on only to the extent of adding: 
" All I mean is that if I'm good enough for her 
she has only to take me." 

" You're good enough for the best girl in the 
world," Rose said with the tremor of sincerity. 
"You're honest and kind; you're generous and 
wise." She looked at him with a sort of intelli 
gent pleasure, that of a mind fine enough to be 





touched by an exhibition of beauty even the 
most occult. "You're so sound you're so safe 
that it makes any relation with you a real luxury 
and a thing to be grateful for." She shed on 
him her sociable approval, treating him as a 
happy product, speaking of him as of another 
person. " I shall always be glad and proud that 
you've been, if only for an hour, my friend ! " 

Paul's response to this demonstration consisted 
in getting slowly and heavily on his feet. "Do 
you think I like what you do to me ? " he abruptly 
demanded. 

It was a sudden new note, but it found her 
quite ready. " I don't care whether you like it 
or not ! It's my duty, and it's yours it's the 
right thing." 

He stood there in his tall awkwardness ; he 
spoke as if he had not heard her. " It's too 
strange to have to take it from you" 

" Everything's strange and the truest things 
are the strangest. Besides, it isn't so extraordi 
nary as that comes to. It isn't as if you had an 
objection to her ; it isn't as if she weren't beauti 
ful and good really cultivated and altogether 
charming. It isn't as if, since I first saw her 
here, she hadn't developed in the most admirable 



 

way, and also hadn't, by her father's death, come 
into three thousand a year and into an oppor 
tunity for looking, with the red gold of her 
hair, in the deepest, daintiest, freshest mourning, 
lovelier far, my dear boy, than, with all respect, 
any girl who can ever have strayed before, or 
ever will again, into any Wilverley bank. It 
isn't as if, granting you do care for me, there 
were the smallest chance, should you try to 
make too much of it, of my ever doing anything 
but listen to you with a pained ' Oh, dear ! ' pat 
you affectionately on the back, and push you 
promptly out of the room." Paul Beever, when 
she thus encountered him, quitted his place, 
