yet I feel sure that no one who loves and 
honors her could refuse it ; for I believe that if 
the whole of it were told, it might live to 
enhance the nobility of her name and fame as 
long as Uncle Tom himself. It was told me, 
as such things go, from lip to lip of personal 
friends who take pride in cherishing the sweetest 
thoughts and facts about those whom they 
love and revere. 

During the latter part of her life Mrs. Stowe 
has been one of those devout Christian believers 
whose consecration takes high forms. She 
has placed faith in prayer, and given herself to 
the kind of dedication which exercises and cultivates it. 
There came a time in her history 
when one who was very dear to her seemed 
about to sink away from the faith in which she 
trusted, and to which life and sorrow had taught 
her to cling as only those who have suffered, 
and doubted, and accepted, can. 

This prospect was a crushing grief to her, 
and she set herself resolutely to avert the 
calamity if, and while, she could. Letter after 
letter some of them thirty pages long- 
found its way from her pen to the foreign town 
in which German rationalism was doing its 
worst for the soul she loved. She set the full 
force of her intellect intelligently to work upon 
this conflict. She read, she reasoned, she wrote, 




she argued, she pleaded. Months passed in 
a struggle whose usefulness seemed a pitiable 
hope, to be frustrated in the effort. 

Then she laid aside her strong pen, and 
turned to her great faith. As the season of 
the sacred holiday approached, she shut herself 
into her room, secluding herself from all but 
God, and prayed, as only such a believer as 
only such a woman may. As she had set 
the full force of her intellect, so now she set 
the full power of her faith to work upon her 
soul's desire. One may not dwell in words 
upon that sacred battle. But the beautiful part 
of the story, as I have been told it, is, that a 
few weeks after this a letter reached her, say 
ing only : " At Christmas time a light came to 
me. I see things differently now. I see my 
way to accept the faith of my fathers ; and 
the belief in Christianity which is everything 
to you has become reasonable and possible to 
me at last." 

Andover is but twenty miles from Boston, 
and it was an easy slide from the Hill to town 
life. For many years my winters were practically 
spent among Boston friends. Nothing, 
however, can ever make a real country girl into 
a cockney ; and my tendency towards town has 
never been a law of gravitation. I cannot 
remember the time when I was not happy to 
get back to country horizons ; to the ice-storm 
on the heavily-hanging, glittering elms ; to the 
blue snow that succeeds the rose of a clear, 
cold sunset ; to the etching of the fine twigs 
against a winter sky at noon ; to the white 
powder on the spruce boughs, and the deep 
color of the pines ; to the noble brow of 
Wachusett solemnly greeting me from its distant 
watch ; to the peace and the purity of unspotted 
drifts and snow-fields, and the stillness of long 
nights broken only by the starting and crack 
ing of ice in the solid crust about the silent 
house; or even to the roar of the northwest 
gale, straight from the mountains, unobstructed 
and almighty, thundering against the quivering 
windows like the soul of "a strong, wicked 
man" (as Blake pictured him) set adrift in 
space : and always to the huge, open fires such 
as no city hearth ever knows, generously or 
namenting the furnace-heated house with the 
glow and the gladness that belong only to the 
heart of unstinted flame. I came home early 
and often (like the busy voter), and the soul 
of the true suburban who cannot long look 
upon town as a place to " stay," grew in me. 
I can remember but once when the deprivations 
of the country in midwinter gave me a kind of 
distaste amounting almost to horror, and like 
 

most of our strong or unnatural aversions, that 
was pathological. I was on crutches ; and 
Andover Hill was in ice. The world wore a mail 
of frozen fire that lasted for many weeks. The 
snow-plough had abandoned the battle with the 
sidewalks, which rolled underfoot with broken 
icicles writhing upon solid ice. 

The dignified elms whose attitudes were not 
less stately in January than in June, bent like 
mutilated gods beneath their cruel loads. Their 
broken boughs and mangled branches lay frozen 
into the crust all over the Hill a pitiable ruin. 
To this day, some of the finest trees in 
Andover have not recovered from the devastation 
of that winter. It was weeks before the mercy 
of the thaw befell them and us. Sometimes, 
then, the " shut in," glancing at the world of 
ice which she dared not watch, thought with a 
certain Arctic desolation of laughing streets, of 
the sound of shovel and ice-pick on traversable 
pavements, of bright interiors, and welcoming 
eyes, and mettlesome conversation, and the 
little physical and large mental luxuries of the 
town, where winter is but a pleasant stage- 
scene in a warm theatre, shifting in its turn 
among the other diversions of life. 

Among the charming homes towards which 
my good fortune led me in those years, were a 
few especially known in Boston for their 
graceful power in attracting distinguished guests. 
Of the friends who presided over these centres 
of delightful entertainment, all but one  are 
yet living : it is therefore scarcely permitted 
me excepting in his case to put my affectionate 
debt in words. 

So much has been written of Mr. Fields, and 
his interesting personality is still so well 
remembered, that perhaps I have little to add 
that is new to the appreciation in which he is 
yet held. He was a man not always under 
stood ; sometimes a little envied ; but widely be 
loved. Perhaps no man in our country and in 
our times has commanded more personal friend 
ships with valuable natures. His position at 
the head of one of the leading publishing houses 
of the land brought him, of course, into 
frequent relation with selected people. This great 
house, which has always aimed to publish litera 
ture, owes much of its position and power to his 
personality. It seems to me I knew him well 

fully as remarkable a personality now, at this 
distance of time, as I thought it when, as a 
frightened young author, I first accepted Mrs. 
Fields's hospitality, and the friendship of both. 

As a publisher, his courtesy amounted to 

1 This was written before the recent death of Mrs. Claflin, 

a brilliant and gracious hostess, a dear and cherished 
friend. 

 

beneficence. It used often to be said of him, 
that Mr. Fields could refuse a manuscript and 
send a rejected author away happier than any 
other man could by accepting it. He had one 
of the kindest hearts I ever knew ; and his 
good-will to men was a fountain, springing up 
to continual life. From the first day when the 
letter about "The Gates Ajar" came to Andover,
that pretty, personal letter, not left to 
any secretary to write for him, telling a hope 
less girl that "the book was moving grandly," 
I received nothing but good measure from a 
publisher and a friend, whose memory will 
always stand apart to me as that of one of the 
valuable influences of my life. I am but one 
of many who would say as much, and more, 
than this. After his death, the tributes which 
poured in would have astonished those who 
only knew Mr. Fields as a man of the world, a 
gay converser, a delightful host, a connoisseur 
in letters, and a distinguished publisher. 

" He rendered me a great service." In the 
darkest hour of my life, he came, giving light and 
hope." "He was to me, as to so many others, 
the helpful friend when I most needed help. 
Such men are the heralds of the Millennium." 
"His mind," said Doctor Holmes, "was as hospitable 
as his roof ; whifh accepted famous
writers and quiet friends alike, as if it had been their 

own." Whittier, who had known Mr. Fields 
for forty years, wrote to me of him in these 
words. " He loved much, pitied much, and 
never hated. He was Christ-like in sympathy 
and kindness, and in doing good. My turn will 
soon come. God grant I may meet it with half 
his cheerfulness and patience." 

It was written of him long ago : " Society 
will pass on Mr. Fields's stories for years to 
come ; but when these are forgotten, silent 
men and women will cherish their sacred share 
of Mr. Fields's kindness." 

One of his favorite dinner-table stories was 
of the man who was " a firm friend to every 
one who did not need a friend." His laughing 
eye lay in wait to see if one would tumble into 
his little trap, and its merry respect for one's 
self-protecting intellect, if one perceived the 
net, was as refreshing as after-dinner coffee. 

One of the prettiest stories I ever heard 
about Mr. Fields, I think, may have been 
already told in his memoirs ; but I am sure I 
shall not be forbidden to recall it here. 

On one of his lecture tours at the West, in a 
small town, an inexperienced young person had 
engaged him without suitable advertisements or 
arrangements. It was a bitter night, and the 
audience was so scanty that the poor young 
man who, presumably, had not a dollar where- 
 

with to meet his liabilities, was overcome with 
anguish. Mr. Fields, used to the best audiences 
in America, exhibited no discomfort, but 
quietly took the young manager apart, released 
him from all pecuniary obligation to the 
lecturer, and inquired the extent of his indebted 
ness for all other expenses. These were quietly 
met out of the lecturer's own pocket ; and that 
young man went away adoring. 

I remember one instance which, -undoubt 
edly, was but one of many like it, never brought 
to the knowledge of his friends, where Mr. 
Fields's observant eye discovered a well-known 
author under one of the lapses of fortune so 
common in our struggling calling, sicky neglected,
and poor past the edge of want. . The 
publisher hunted up the poor fellow, made a 
call of courtesy, talked a little in his cheerful 
way  and left. But that afternoon came to the 
sufferer the proceeds -of his visitor's last lecture. 
" I have just cashed the check," wrote the 
happy-natured Samaritan, " and am convinced 
the bills are counterfeit. I have no kind of use 
for them. Do get them off my hands." 

Mr. Fields was a man of marked chivalry of 
nature, and, at a time when it was not fashion 
able to help the movements for the elevation of 
women, his sympathy was distinct, fearless, and 
faithful. In a few instances we knew and he 
 

knew that this fact deprived him of the posses 
sion of certain public honors which would other 
wise have been offered him. 

He advocated the political advancement of 
our sex, coeducation, and kindred movements, 
without any of that apologetic murmur so
common among the half-hearted or the timid. His 
fastidious and cultivated literary taste was 
sensitive to the position of women in letters. He 
was incapable of that literary snobbishness which 
undervalues a woman's work because it is a 
woman s. A certain publishing enterprise which 
threatened to treat of eminent men came to his 
notice. He quickly said : " The time has gone 
by for that ! Men and women ! Men and 
women !" 

"When the war is over," he said to Mrs. 
Livermore, when she appealed to him for some 
help (which he generously gave) in behalf of 
the Sanitary Commission, "you must give us 
a book of your experience, and show us the 
heavenly side of the War." 

I remember one day after his mortal illness 
was upon him, that I chanced to be passing 
through the hall, as he was preparing to go out. 
He was too weak to put on his own overcoat, 
and he was obliged to ask a servant to do it for 
him. I was struck with the manner in which 
he did this : " Lisa " - he said gently, " I am 
 

afraid I must trouble you." Any thoughtful 
gentleman might have said as much ; but how 
many would have given a servant an order in 
such a tone as his ? It is not possible to 
reproduce the delicacy and chivalry of it ; as if, be 
cause she was a woman, he would have spared 
her that trifling, personal service. 

I thought of this when I heard recently the 
testimony of a refined young woman who, to 
aid herself in her education, had taken service 
in a New York family, determined to try the 
experiment of "lady help," of which the 
employer talks so much, and concerning which 
the employee is often so mysteriously silent. 
"I left the situation," she said. "The gentle 
men of the family came in and handed me their 
dripping umbrellas on a wet day without a 
glance or a word not as if I were a human 
being just as if I had been an umbrella stand. 
I could not bear it." 

Bryant said of Mr. Fields that no one could 
impress upon the people of this country so well 
as he the value and importance of the study of 
English literature. This I believe to have been 
no exaggerated view of the usefulness and 
quality of his lectures and writings. Personal 
acquaintance with him was an intellectual
privilege, of which it is impossible to speak
otherwise than gratefully. 

 

My individual debt to Mr. Fields, in respect to 
my own work, is one which I cannot and would 
not omit to acknowledge. He often helped 
me about my titles, and one of the best ever 
given to any book of mine " Men, Women, 
and Ghosts" was of his creation. In his 
fine literary judgment I had great confidence, 
and would have accepted almost any criticism 
from him trustfully. But perhaps his quick 
intuition perceived that I should be too easily 
disheartened, for I remember almost exclusively 
the pleasant, the hopeful, the appreciative words 
with which he stimulated my courage and my 
work. 

I recall an occasion when I had ventured into 
an entirely new avenue of effort, and was in 
that chaos succeeding work and preceding pub 
lication, which one may call the author's abyss, 
so hopeless was I of the success of my 
undertaking. How did he know ? for I had not 
said this to any person ; but before the article 
came out, while it was yet in press, swiftly 
came the little note : * A better paper never 
appeared in this or any other magazine ! " I 
held up my head and breathed again, until that 
dreaded and dreadful number of the " Atlantic " 
had gone by. 

I was once introduced by a clever man to a 
gentleman in these words, " Let me present 
 

to you one of your natural foes: he is a pub 
lisher." Such kindness and thoughtfulness 
as that of Mr. Fields endeared the publisher 
to his authors, and made of them his natural 
friends. 

His sense of delicacy in literary, as in all 
other matters, was of a high and fine quality. 
I remember once dining at his table with a 
public singer who, though a woman of 
irreproachable character and position, had acquired 
a little something slipshod in her way of talk 
ing ; of the sort that is common among people 
of the stage. She used a certain expression, 
perfectly simple and suitable to her view, but 
one which we were not accustomed to hear at 
that table. The face of the host, a moment 
before shining with geniality and fun, froze 
instantly. The perfect silence in which that 
unfortunate word was received, was the only 
rebuke possible under the circumstances ; but 
it was enough. The guest understood, I think ; 
though she looked as much astonished as 
embarrassed. 

Before "The Story of Avis " went to press, 
I read the manuscript to Mr. and Mrs. Fields ; 
it was the only time, I believe, that I imposed 
such a burden on these good friends. When I 
came to the chapter where Ostrander sits late 
at the piano with Barbara, while his sick wife 
 

sleeps upstairs, Mr. Fields interrupted me with 
an expression of recoil. " Oh, no ! " he cried ; 
" no, no ! Not that ! Don't introduce any 
