while the color rose in her face. " I have found a 
place that I shall not easily give up. I love my 
work. Perhaps it does take some of the romantic 
halo out of a woman's life, though why, I do not un 
derstand." She paused a moment, proud and erect. 
" A man loves to provide for his wife, to care 
for her," he said, with a conscious weakness that 
pained him. 
" And if both provide, if both have leisure to 
enjoy, does it matter if she does one kind of work 
or another? If she is capable of making a home " 
" If a man must seek admittance into it I 
should despise myself if I were as weak as that." 
" I told you I had settled some things. You 
must listen to me ; " she began with a curious 
sense of defiance. " I have taken my brother's 
child. I love her. I cannot now relinquish her. 
I would not, even if I could honorably. So let us 
go on," she cried impatiently, turning away. "We 
seem to stand on opposite shores." 
Was there a touch of regret in her tone ? 
He caught her hand. " Tell me that I am 
never to come over, but to keep my side rigorously. 
Then out of the ruins I may build up some new 
shelter or rule to guide me in the future " 
 
His voice was husky, and wavered a little at the 
last word. Thirza was silent. 
" You shall say you despise me ; that you could 
not, would not, take the best I have to offer." 
" Have you offered me the best ? " 
" Thirza ! " He glanced into hdr eyes an in 
stant They were not obdurate eyes ; they had a 
strange, soft mistiness. 
" I offer you all I have ; my very soul, my life, 
and all that may be in it. I may never win any 
great name or high position ; you may do better 
alone ; but I shall love you to the end of my life, 
you, and no other woman." 
There was a smile in her eyes now. Did she 
incline toward him, or was he dreaming? They 
had walked farther into the edge of the wood, and 
now he clasped her in his arms. 
" All this while you have been afraid," she said 
softly. " And you know a woman likes courage, 
earnestness." 
He was studying her in a dazed, mysterious 
fashion. " Can you give up so much ? " he asked, 
wonderingly. 
" I am not going to give up much," she said, in 
a light, tender, daring tone. " I told you I liked 
my work just as you like your teaching. And 
now I have taken another life and soul with all 
its capabilities into my care. I could not put this 
burthen on you, on any one, but I think it will not 
interfere with my home-making, since a home I 
must have in any event. And suppose I say I 
like you better just here in Westhorpe than strug 
gling to attain some greater thing, that may come 
when one is fitted for it ? " 
They stood there, the man and the woman, look 
ing at life with the seriousness of a true, high pur 
pose, but not with any wild theories. Perhaps 
both felt there was much to learn and much to 
forget, and that the present excess of emotion was 
not all of love, but there were finer and truer 
heights that it would be their delight to attain. 
But there was a light shining in her eyes that 
gladdened his very heart. 
" Dear," he said, with deep feeling, " I must 
learn to love you as you deserve. I have been 
despairing and jealous and prideful." 
" You have only to be your own generous self, 
as you were at first. Yet if you had spoken then, 
I might have been to-day only a commonplace 
woman " she paused, thinking of her sister, of 
Laura. No, her experience with the world had 
not injured any noble womanly capacity, whatever 
others might think. 
Helen and several others came around the turn 
of the woods. They simply joined them, and for 
the remainder of the afternoon she devoted herself 
to the party with a zest that was infectious. Was 
it because she was happy ? 
She was asking herself in a perplexed state of 
mind if she had been too easily won. She had 
half guessed Bernard Ward's secret, and that he 
was fighting against some preconceived notion. 
She knew all her happiness did not depend on 
marriage until she had elected it for her future 
lot. She had many other resources, even now. 
But if she once yielded to the seductive dream, 
to a companionship that should comprehend one's 
most sacred nature, to have some one delight in 
her smiles, her words, her little daily doings, to 
have hours and days imbued with happiness, not 
only for a year, but a lifetime ! And she knew 
what it was to her by the pang the thought of 
death gave. 
Edith ran down the road to meet the party on 
their return, her eyes intense in their longing. 
" Oh, Aunt Thirza, I thought you never would 
come," she cried in a tone of tender upbraiding. 
" Oh, please, Mr. Palmer, let me climb in ! " 
Thirza was on the front seat and held out her 
hand. The child scrambled up and seated herself 
on her aunt's knee. Palmer smiled. 
" Was it a very long day ? " he asked mirth 
fully. 
" Oh, endless ! And I tried to be so good. I 
practised my music over and over, and I ate my 
dinner as I promised." 
Edith was very capricious in this respect. The 
small hand crept round Aunt Thirza's neck. The 
man sitting back of her envied the nearness. Edith 
always chattered to Mr. Palmer while she was very 
shy with most people. When he lifted her out he 
kissed the eager little face. 
" He should have children of his own," Ward 
thought, with a pang. 
They both accepted the invitation to supper, but 
Thirza was as elusive as a bird, and the only com 
fort Ward had was the quick rift of color when his 
eyes intercepted hers. 
Palmer proposed an early return, as he was quite 
sure the ladies were tired. It would be useless to 
demur, Ward thought. Thirza walked down the 
path with him, while Palmer went for the horses. 
"Oh," she cried, just under her breath, "think 
well before you decide, for you see I cannot give 
up Edith now." 
" I shall be horribly jealous of her, but that is 
no new experience. There are so many things to 
talk over. May I come to-morrow ? " 
" No ; I must work all day. There is another 
point to consider. Oh, are you quite sure ? " 
" It is almost seven years since I first saw you," 
he answered gravely. "A man might be tolerably 
sure in that time. To-morrow night, then. Walk 
down to the great oak at the turn of the road. Let 
me have a few moments quite alone." 
She experienced the shyness of sixteen over her 
secret. She and Helen sat on the porch a long 
while in the moonlight, talking of Palmer, but 
Ward's name was not mentioned. If he had been 
slow to resolve, he was impatient enough now, as 
she found the next evening. Edith was in bed, so 
she was at ease on that score, and Helen had com 
plained of a headache, an unusual thing for her. 
There was much to discuss about the new house ; 
he would not listen to her plan of purchasing one. 
At least in this point she might yield to him, and 
give him the pleasure of providing a shelter for 
his bonnie bird. 
" I shall look about at once," he began. " Why 
should we wait, or run the risk of any misconstruc 
tion?" 
" But you are to go away. You need the 
change." 
" Nonsense ! As if a change to 'happiness from 
uncertainty was not enough ! " 
" You must go all the same. You must have an 
opportunity of changing your mind." 
" As if you wished me such a miserable fate ! " 
CHAPTER XVII 
FILLING HER PLACE 
THIRZA carried her point Not that she was 
doubtful of her lover, hardly of herself, though 
she found her mind in that dangerous state of 
assent in which she felt that she might presently 
yield all. She had never considered the delight- 
fulness of giving her own soul, though she had 
given her time and interest, her strength and 
her money, for others. But her lover asked none 
of these except her time, with that and her 
love he was secure. She was glad to shut her 
self up in her studio for the next fortnight and 
work with all diligence, as if she dreaded a closer 
examination of her own purposes. What if she, 
too, should make a direful mistake ! Perhaps 
she might attain to Clara's complacency she 
smiled a little over the ridiculousness of compar 
ing the two men. Clara had been much en 
grossed with her new house, and, though she 
would not have confessed it, she did not feel 
at home with her sister's friends. She had not 
approved of the plan, but she felt curious to 
know what Thirza would do next. 
 
" Of course, we should have room enough to 
take her in now," she said to her mother. " She 
can't stay in the Palmer house all winter, and 
the plan of buying is simply ridiculous ! It's 
just announcing herself as an out-and-out old 
maid ! And with that child, there'll be some 
queer surmises by strangers. But you can't talk 
any reason into Thirza. I suppose that's the 
natural result of being a business woman ! " 
Bernard Ward remained away a few days be 
yond the fortnight, and then the secret could be 
no longer kept. Helen Otis was rather puzzled 
at first, but Mrs. Otis gave it an unqualified 
approval. Palmer had more than half suspected, 
and rejoiced heartily with his friend. Mr. Otis 
joined the party and was warmly welcomed. 
" But I can't help wishing it had been Palmer's 
good fortune," he said. " Why could they not 
have understood before he took that wretched 
step ! " 
" But you see he really suits Thirza better 
than Mr. Palmer would," said Helen. " She 
likes the scholarly side. I suppose love settled 
it, though." 
"As it settles most things," said her father, 
with a smile. But he admitted that Thirza 
seemed well satisfied. She had indeed adapted 
herself to the change in her life with very little 
friction. She realized that it was generous in 
her lover to begin his new experience with her 
brother's child in his household. The point be 
ing conceded, she cheerfully strove to make all 
amends. 
Helen and her aunt were to remain until in the 
autumn; until the marriage, Thirza decided, in 
order that there should be no present change. 
Another incident had occurred that quite divided 
the interest with her affairs. This was Palmer's 
nomination for assemblyman in his district. It 
had come about in a manner that surprised even 
himself, but he hardly knew how strong the influ 
ence back of him really was from men tired of 
political intrigues. They had been discussing it 
the night before his acceptance, and Miss Otis 
was an enthusiastic partisan. Then Thirza and 
her lover had strayed off for a little confidential 
talk. Palmer rose to go presently. He felt lost 
now if he did not come over every day or evening. 
What would the old house be when they were 
all away ! 
" I feel that I shall succeed because you wish 
me to," he said to Miss Otis. " There are several 
friends in the town to whom my election will be 
a sort of triumph over some questionable political 
intrigues. For their sakes, as well, I hope to be 
victorious. And I want you to consider, to be- 
 
lieve, that if I ever achieve anything worthy, it 
will be the result of an impetus given by you the 
summer we first met. You roused the ambitions 
lying dormant within me." 
Helen Otis gave a proud, sweet smile. She 
had done some good work then in very ignorance. 
For an instant she was human enough to hate the 
woman who had so marred his young manhood. 
" Yes, that summer was a revelation to me. I 
began a new life. I learned, slowly indeed, what 
manner of man I was, what it was possible for me 
to become. How and why I should have blun 
dered into such a fatal misstep I cannot now ex 
plain. I hope to overlive it and to make the kind 
of man who will justify any friend's regard. I 
cannot resist saying this to you. I did not know 
then that we should ever meet again, but I held 
you in my mind with a sacredness and honor that 
has given me courage to attempt a course that if I 
had not known you might not have seemed possi 
ble, and whatever worthy purpose I may achieve 
will be due to this influence." 
He held her hand in a strong, warm clasp, and 
felt it tremble. Each knew of a wordless sym 
pathy. " Good night ! " without raising his eyes 
to hers. " Heaven bless you ! " 
She stood still many minutes after he had gone. 
She heard Thirza's soft laugh- from the adjoining 
room, and she knew now why Thirza had reached 
such a great content. For her there was not even 
years of waiting with a possible hope. If she 
could have saved him from that snare in the ill- 
fated summer ! Had she cared even then ? She 
experienced a thrill of pride that she had influ 
enced him ; that his mistake had not been able to 
drag him down. Further than that she had no 
right. She shivered as she said it. 
As for Palmer, he strode fiercely down the path, 
glad of the shelter of darkness. By slow degrees 
the man within him had evolved. He might have 
plodded on but for her coming ; have been simply 
a good fellow with a reasonable share of pros 
perity, and quite content. The advance into the 
new world of experience and knowledge was fas 
cinating, and he should go onward now. Only 
some signal success would content him. She was 
proud of his efforts and spurred him to his best. 
What would it be to live always under this influ 
ence ! Some day he would snap the bond that 
should never have been, that was false to all true 
manhood and womanhood, and step out from under 
the shadow. And then 
He stopped suddenly. Had he anything a 
proud man could offer to such a woman ? The 
deserted husband of another ! A legal freedom, 
to be sure, but would not he often think of the 
 
poor little butterfly dancing her way through the 
world, and perhaps losing its favor presently ? 
He knew now how so many of these lives ended. 
What if he should be called upon to rescue her 
from a fate he could hardly contemplate. Almost 
like a horrible presentiment a misgiving came to 
him that she might make some sign when she 
heard he had attained to a wider sphere. If she 
should tire of her frivolous aims and return ? He 
had promised the door should be open to her. 
He had no right to dream of this other woman ; 
it was sacrilege. After that one impassioned 
moment when he had realized what she of all 
others might be to him, he put her image away 
reverently, a lost possibility in God's keeping. 
Westhorpe was a little startled at Thirza's en 
gagement. It had somehow settled to the belief 
that any business life was incompatible with a 
woman's marriage. Yet when the first surprise 
had expended itself there was a very cordial 
acceptance of the fact. They were glad to have 
the right to enjoy her successes. And they were 
the two people of all others to blend in taste and 
intelligence. 
Clara Kent, it must be admitted, was disap 
pointed. She would have preferred Royal Palmer 
with a divorce, a hundred times over. How Ber 
nard Ward could make anything beyond a comfort- 
able living she couldn't see. Even when he was 
offered a Greek professorship in the new Seminary 
she could not be appeased. 
"Thirza could have done much better if she 
hadn't been so set on that foolish sort of work. 
Pictures and all that seem well enough for chil 
dren, and a book cover doesn't require any great 
amount of common sense. I only hope Ward 
won't get disgusted with her ignorance of house 
keeping." 
But Thirza had attained to the other grand 
knowledge, that of home-making. She deferred 
sufficiently to her sister to be married from her 
house, though she obstinately decided to go to 
church in her travelling dress and start at once on 
a brief journey. The new house had been pur 
chased and was undergoing a few repairs. She 
sent her belongings there and would go home at 
once on their return. It was queer, of course, 
but Thirza was not like other people. 
Miss Otis had settled the perplexity about Edith. 
" Let me take her home with me. She can go on 
with her music, and the different conditions will 
enlarge her thoughts and interests. When she 
returns she will more readily accept the new life 
and the second place." 
"You are very thoughtful." Thirza smiled a 
little, then colored vividly. 
 
" I am afraid that I am very much in love in the 
old womanly fashion. I had hardly suspected 
myself of the power to respond so entirely. 
Every day is a new revelation, a delicious aban 
donment of one's self ; and it was really generous 
in Bernard to assent so readily to my interest in 
Edith. Yes, I shall be very glad to trust her to 
you. She does not seem to assimilate readily with 
my sister's children, and Mrs. Kent has her hands 
so full just now. It is very thoughtful of you." 
" I am so interested in her. She is an unusual 
child." 
" I am not sure but that it is a wise dispensation 
of nature that most people and most children 
should be simply ordinary. And I am glad to 
have Edith enlarge her view and appreciation 
of friends. Yet all this summer I have had only 
two rivals, yourself and Mr. Palmer." 
Helen flushed and smiled. But it was true. 
Still Royal Palmer had loved the child devotedly, 
and with him there had been no ground for 
jealousy. 
Thirza's marriage was not the only topic of dis 
cussion. There was a good deal of party spirit 
and not a little anxiety about the coming election 
that had gone rather outside of strict party lines. 
But Palmer had a decided triumph, and with him 
was the best of the party element. Westhorpe 
was proud of his success. He quite expected to 
hear from Bessie. He shrank from a horrible mis 
giving that she would propose a half-reconciliation 
that would admit of her keeping her position as 
his wife ; but no word came. Even when he 
assumed his new duties at the capitol of his state, 
she made no sign. There had never been so long 
an interval of silence on her part. She had been 
quite used to announcing the special changes of 
location, but now he did not really know where 
she was. This was desertion in its plainest sense. 
Yet he kept the fact steadily before himself that 
