In one instance they sold a man a gallon of rum worth two 
dollars for a piece of property which was sold some years later 
for $100,000. 
When the colony was about eighteen or twenty years old it 
was discovered that the land was specially fitted for the wool 
culture. Prosperity followed, commerce with the world began, 
by and by rich mines of the noble metals were opened, immi- 
grants flowed in, capital likewise. The result is the great and 
wealthy and enlightened commonwealth of New South "Wales. 
It is a country that is rich in mines, wool ranches, trams, 
railways, steamship lines, schools, newspapers, botanical gar- 
dens, art galleries, libraries, museums, hospitals, learned socie- 
ties ; it is the hospitable home of every species of culture and of 
every species of material enterprise, and there is a church at 
every man's door, and a race-track over the way. 
CHAPTER XL 
We should be careful to get out of an experience only the wisdom that is in it — 
and stop there ; lest we be like the cat that sits down on a hot stove-lid. She will 
never sit down on a hot stove-lid again — and that is well ; but also she will never 
sit down on a cold one any more. — Puddnhead Wilaon's New Calendar. 
ALL English-speaking colonies are made up of lavishly 
hospitable people, and New South Wales and its capi- 
tal are like the rest in this. The English-speaking 
colony of the United States of America is always called lav- 
ishly hospitable by the English traveler. As to the other 
English-speaking colonies throughout the world from Canada 
all around, I know by experience that the description fits them. 
I will not go more particularly into this matter, for I find that 
when writers try to distribute their gratitude here and there 
and yonder by detail they run across difficulties and do some 
ungraceful stumbling. 
Mr. Gane (" New South Wales and Victoria in 1885 "), 
tried to distribute his gratitude, and was not lucky : 
"The inhabitants of Sydney are renovpned for their hospitality. The 
treatment which we experienced at the hands of this generous-hearted people 
will help more than anything else to make us recollect with pleasure our stay 
amongst them. In the character of hosts and hostesses they excel. The 
' new chum ' needs only the acquaintanceship of one of their number, and he 
becomes at once the happy recipient of numerous complimentary invitations 
and thoughtful kindnesses. Of the towns it has been our good fortune to 
visit, none have portrayed home so faithfully as Sydney." 
Nobody could say it finer than that. If he had put in his 
cork then, and stayed away from Dubbo — but no; heedless 
man, he pulled it again. Pulled it when he was away along 
in his book, and his memory of what he had said about Sydney 
had grown dim : 
"We cannot quit the promising town of Dubbo without testifying, in 
warm praise, to the kind-hearted and hospitable usages of its inhabitants. 
Sydney, though well deserving the character it bears of its kindly treatment 
of strangers, possesses a little formality and reserve. In Dubbo, on the con- 
trary, though the same congenial manners prevail, there is a pleasing degree 
of respectful familiarity which gives the town a homely comfort not often met 
with elsewhere. In laying on one side our pen we feel contented in having 
been able, though so late in this work, to bestow a panegyric, however un- 
pretentious, on a town which, though possessing no picturesque natural sur- 
roundings, nor interesting architectural productions, has yet a body of citi- 
zens whose hearts cannot but obtain for their town a reputation for benevo- 
lence and kind-heartedness." 
I wonder what soured him on Sydney. It seems strange 
that a pleasing degree of three or four 
fingers of respectful familiarity should fill 
a man up and give him the panegyrics so 
bad. For he has them, the worst way — 
any one can see that. A man who is 
perfectly at himself does not throw cold 
detraction at people's architectural pro- 
ductions and picturesque surroundings, 
and let on that what he prefers is a Dub- 
bonese dust-storm and a pleasing degree 
of respectful familiarity No, these are 
old, old symptoms; and when they ap- 
pear we know that the man has got the panegyrics. 
Sydney has a population of 400,000. When a stranger 
from America steps ashore there, the first thing that strikes 
him is that the place is eight or nine times as large as he was 
expecting it to be ; and the next thing that strikes him is that 
it is an English city with American trimmings. Later on, in 
Melbourne, he will find the American trimmings still more in 
evidence; there, even the architecture will often suggest 
America ; a photograph of its stateliest business street might 
be passed upon him for a picture of the finest street in a large 
American city. I was told that the most of the fine residences 
were the city residences of squatters. The name seemed out 
of focus somehow. When the explanation came, it offered a 
new instance of the curious changes which words, as well as ani- 
mals, undergo through, change of habitat and climate. "With 
us, when you speak of a squatter you are always supposed to 
be speaking of a poor man, but in Australia when you speak 
of a squatter you are supposed to be speaking of a millionaire ; 
in America the word indicates the possessor of a few acres and 
a doubtful title, in Australia it indicates a man whose land- 
front is as long as a railroad, and whose title has been per- 
fected in one way or another ; in America the word indicates 
a man who owns a dozen head of live stock, in Australia a 
man who owns anywhere from fifty thousand up to half a 
million head ; in America the word indicates a man who is 
obscure and not important, in Australia a man who is promi- 
nent and of the first importance ; in America you take off 
your hat to no squatter, in Australia you do ; in America if 
your uncle is a squatter you keep it dark, in Australia you ad- 
vertise it ; in America if your friend is a squatter nothing 
comes of it, but with a squatter for your friend in Australia 
you may sup with kings if there are any around. 
In Australia it takes about two acres and a half of pasture- 
land (some people say twice as many), to support a sheep ; and 
when the squatter has half a million sheep his private domain 
is about as large as Rhode Island, to speak in general terms. 
His annual wool crop may be worth a quarter or a half million 
dollars. 
He will live in a palace in Melbourne or Sydney or some 
other of the large cities, and make occasional trips to his 
sheep-kingdom several hundred miles away in the great plains 
to look after his battalions of riders and shepherds and other 
hands. He has a commodious dwelling out there, and if he 
approve of you lie will invite you to spend a week in it, and 
will make you at home and comfortable, and let you see the 
great industry in all its details, and feed you and slake you 
and smoke you with the best that money can buy. 
On at least one of these vast estates there is a considerable 
town, with all the various businesses and occupations that go 
to make an important town; and the town and the land it 
stands upon are the property of the squatters. I have seen 
that town, and it is not unlikely that there are other squatter- 
owned towns in Australia. 
Australia supplies the world not only with tine wool, but 
with mutton also. The modern invention of cold storage and 
its application in ships has created this great trade. In Syd- 
ney I visited a huge establishment where they kill and clean 
and solidly freeze a thousand sheep a day, for shipment to 
England. 
The Australians did not seem to me to differ noticeably 
from Americans, either in dress, carriage, ways, pronunciation, 
inflections, or general appearance. There were fleeting and 
subtle suggestions of their English origin, but these were not 
pronounced enough, as a rule, to catch one's attention. The 
people have easy and cordial manners from the beginning — 
from the moment that the introduction is completed. This is 
American. To put it in another way, it is English friendliness 
with the English shyness and self-consciousness left out. 
Kow and then — but this is rare — one hears such words as 
piper for paper, lydy for lady, and tyhle for table fall from 
lips whence one would not expect such pronunciations to come. 
There is a superstition prevalent in Sydney that this pronunci- 
ation is an Australianism, but people who have been "home" 
— as the native reverently and lovingly calls England — know 
better. It is " costermonger." All over Australasia this pro- 
nunciation is nearly as common among servants as it is in Lon- 
don among the uneducated and the partially educated of all 
sorts and conditions of people. That mislaid y is rather strik- 
ing when a person gets enough of it into a short sentence to 
enable it to show up. In the hotel in Sydney the chamber- 
maid said, one morning — 
"The tyble is set, and here is the piper; and if the lydy is 
ready I'll tell the wyter to bring up the breakfast." 
I have made passing mention, a moment ago, of the native 
Australasian's custom of speaking of England as " home." It 
was always pretty to hear it, and often it was said in an un- 
consciously caressing way that made it touching; in a way 
which transmuted a sentiment into an embodiment, and made 
one seem to see Australasia as a young girl stroking mother 
England's old gray head. 
In the Australasian home the table-talk, is vivacious and 
unembarrassed ; it is without stiffness or restraint. This does 
not remind one of England so much as it does of America. 
But Australasia is strictly democratic, and reserves and re- 
straints are things that are bred by differences of rank. 
English and colonial audiences are phenomenally alert and 
responsive. Where masses of people are gathered together in 
England, caste is submerged, and with it the English reserve ; 
equality exists for the moment, and every individual is free; 
so free from any consciousness of fetters, indeed, that the Eng- 
lishman's habit of watching himself and guarding himself 
against any injudicious exposure of his feelings is forgotten, 
and falls into abeyance — and to such a degree indeed, that he 
will bravely applaud all by himself if he wants to — an exhi- 
bition of daring which is unusual elsewhere in the world. 
But it is hard to move a new English acquaintance when he 
is by himself, or when the company present is small, and new 
to him. He is on his guard then, and his natural reserve is to 
the fore. This has given him the false reputation of being 
without humor and without the appreciation of humor. 
Americans are not Englishmen, and American humor is not 
English humor; but both the American and his humor had 
their origin in England, and have merely undergone changes 
brought about by changed conditions and a new environment. 
About the best humorous speeches I have yet heard were a 
couple that were made in Australia at club suppers — one of 
them by an Englishman, the other by an Australian, 
CHAPTER XII. 
There are those who scoff at the schoolboy, calling him frivolous and shallow, 
Yet it was the schoolboy who said " Faith is believing what you know ain't so." 
— Puddn?iead Wilsons New Calendar. 
IN Sydney I had a large dream, and in the course of talk I 
told it to a missionary from India who was on his way to 
visit some relatives in New Zealand. I dreamed that the 
visible universe is the physical person of God ; that the vast 
worlds that we see twinkling millions of miles apart in the fields 
of space are the blood corpuscles in His veins; and that we 
and the other creatures are the microbes that charge with 
multitudinous life the corpuscles. 
Mr. X., the missionary, considered the dream awhile, then 
said: 
" It is not surpassable for magnitude, since its metes and bounds are the 
metes and bounds of the universe itself ; and it seems to me that it almost' ac- 
counts for a thing which is otherwise nearly unaccountable — the origin of 
the sacred legends of the Hindoos. Perhaps they dream them, and then hon- 
estly believe them to be divine revelations of fact. It looks like that, for the 
legends are built on so vast a scale that it does not seem reasonable that 
plodding priests would happen upon such colossal fancies when awake." 
He told some of the legends, and said that they were im- 
plicitly believed by all classes of Hindoos, including those of 
high social position and intelligence; and he said that this 
universal credulity was a great hindrance to the missionary in 
his work. Then he said something like this : 
"At home, people wonder why Christianity does not make faster progress 
in India. They hear that the Indians believe easily, and that they have a 
natural trust in miracles and give them a hospitable reception. Then they 
argue like this : since the Indian believes easily, place Christianity before them 
and they must believe ; confirm its truths by the biblical miracles, and they 
will no longer doubt. The natural deduction is, that as Christianity makes 
but indifferent progress in India, the fault is with us : we are not fortunate in 
presenting the doctrines and the miracles. 
" But the truth is, we are not by any means so well equipped as they think. 
We have not the easy task that they imagine. To use a military figure, we 
are sent against the enemy with good powder in our guns, but only wads for 
bullets ; that is to say, our miracles are not eilective ; the Hindoos do not care 
for them ; they have more extraordinary ones of their own. All the details of 
their own religion are proven and established by miracles ; the details of ours 
must be proven in the same way. When I first began my work in India I 
greatly underestimated the difficulties thus put upon my task. A correction 
was not long in coming. I thought as our friends think at home — that to 
prepare my childlike wonder-lovers to listen with favor to my grave message 
I only needed to charm the way to it with wonders, marvels, miracles. With 
full confidence I told the wonders performed by Samson, the strongest man 
that had ever lived — for so I called him. 
" At first I saw lively anticipation and strong interest in the faces of my 
people, but as I moved along from incident to incident of the great story, I 
was distressed to see that I was steadily losing the sympathy of my audience. 
I could not understand it. It was a surprise to me, and a disappointment. 
Before I was through, the fading sympathy had paled to indifference. 
Thence to the end the indifference remained ; I was not able to make any im- 
pression upon it. 
" A good old Hindoo gentleman told me where my trouble lay. He 
said ' We Hindoos recognize a god by the work of his hands — we accept no 
other testimony. Apparently, this is also the rule with you Christians. And 
we know when a man has his power from a god by the fact that he does 
things which he could not do, as a man, with the mere powers of a man. 
Plainly, this is the Christian's way also, of knowing when a man is working 
by a god's power and not by his own. You saw that there was a supernatural 
property in the hair of Samson ; for you perceived that when his hair was 
gone he was as other men. It is our way, as I have said. There are many 
nations in the world, and each group of nations has its own gods, and will pay 
no worship to the gods of the others. Each group believes its own gods to 
be strongest, and it will not exchange them except for gods that shall be proven 
to be their superiors in power. Man is but a weak creature, and needs the 
help of gods — he cannot do without it. Shall he place his fate in the hands 
of weak gods when there may be stronger ones to be found ? That would be 
foolish. No, if he hear of gods that are stronger than his own, he should not 
turn a deaf ear, for it is not a light matter that is at stake. How then shall 
he determine which gods are the stronger, his own or those that preside over 
the concerns of other nations ? By comparing the known works of his own 
gods with the works of those others ; there is no other way. Now, when we 
make this comparison, we are not drawn towards the gods of any other nation. 
Our gods are shown by their works to be the strongest, the most powerful. 
The Christians have but few gods, and they are new — new, and not strong, 
as it seems to us. They will increase in number, it is true, for this has hap- 
pened with all gods, but that time is far away, many ages and decades of 
agea away, for gods multiply slowly, as is meet for beings to whom a thou- 
sand years is but a single moment. Our own gods have been born millions 
of years apart. The process is slow, the gathering of strength and power is 
similarly slow. In the slow lapse of the ages the steadily accumulating power 
of our gods has at last become prodigious. We have a thousand proofs of 
this in the colossal character of their personal acts and the acts of ordinary men 
to whom they have given supernatural qualities. To your Samson was given 
supernatural power, and when he broke the withes, and slew the thousands 
with the jawbone of an ass, and carried away the gates of the city upon his 
shoulders, you were amazed — and also awed, for you recognized the divine 
source of his strength. But it could not profit to place these things before 
your Hindoo congregation and invite their wonder ; for they would compare 
them with the deed done by Hanuman, when our gods infused their divine 
strength into his muscles ; and they would be indififerent to them — as you 
saw. In the old, old times, ages and ages gone by, when our god Rama was 
warring with the demon god of Ceylon, Rama bethought him to bridge the 
sea and connect Ceylon with India, so that his armies might pass easily 
over ; and he sent his general, Hanuman, inspired like your own Samson with 
divine strength, to bring the materials for the bridge. In two days Hanuman 
strode fifteen hundred miles, to the Himalayas, and took upon his shoulder a 
range of those lofty mountains two hundred miles long, and started with it 
toward Ceylon. It was in the night ; and, as he passed along the plain, the 
people of Govardhun heard the thunder of his tread and felt the earth rocking 
under it, and they ran out, and there, with their snowy summits piled to 
heaven, they saw the Himalayas passing by. And as this huge continent swept 
along overshadowing the earth, upon its slopes they discerned the twinkling 
lights of a thousand sleeping villages, and it was as if the constellations were 
filing in procession through the sky. While they were looking, Hanuman 
stumbled, and a small ridge of red sandstone twenty miles long was jolted 
loose and fell. Half of its length has wasted away in the course of the ages, 
but the other ten miles of it remain in the plain by Govardhun to this day as 
proof of the might of the inspiration of our gods. You must know, your- 
self, that Hanuman could not have carried those mountains to Ceylon except 
by the strength of the gods. You know that it was not done by his own 
strength, therefore, you know that it was done by the strength of the gods, 
just as you know that Samson carried the gates by the divine strength and not by 
his own. I think you must concede two things : First, That in carrying the 
gates of the city upon his shoulders, Samson did not establish the supe- 
riority of his gods over ours ; secondly, That his feat is not supported by any 
but verbal evidence, while Hanuman's is not only supported by verbal evi- 
dence, but this evidence is confirmed, established, proven, by visible, tangi- 
ble evidence, which is the strongest of all testimony. We have the sandstone 
ridge, and while it remains we cannot doubt, and shall not. Have you the 
gates ? '" 
HANUMAN MOVING TUB MOUNTAINS. 
CHAPTER XIII. 
The timid man j'earns for full value and asks a tenth. The bold man strikes 
for double value and compromises on par. — PuddnUiead Wihmis New Calendar. 
NE is sure to be struck by the liberal way in which 
Australasia spends money upon public works — such 
as legislative buildings, town halls, hospitals, asylums, 
parks, and botanical gardens. I should say that where minor 
towns in America spend a hundred dollars on the town hall 
and on public parks and gardens, the like towns in Australasia 
spend a thousand. And I think that this ratio will hold good 
in the matter of hospitals, also. I have seen a costly and well- 
equipped, and architecturally, handsome hospital in an Aus- 
tralian village of fifteen hundred inhabitants. It was built by 
private funds furnished by the villagers and the neighboring 
planters, and its running expenses were drawn from the same 
sources. I suppose it would be hard to match this in any 
country. This village was about to close a contract for light- 
ing its streets with the electric light, when I was there. That 
is ahead of London. London is still obscured by gas — gas 
pretty widely scattered, too, in some of the districts ; so widely 
indeed, that except on moonlight nights it is difficult to find 
the gas lamps. 
The botanical garden of Sydney covers thirty-eight acres, 
beautifully laid out and rich with the spoil of all the lands and 
all the climes of the world. The garden is on high ground in 
the middle of the town, overlooking the great harbor, and it 
adjoins the spacious grounds of Government House — fifty-six 
acres ; and at hand also, is a recreation ground containing 
eighty-two acres. In addition, there are the zoological gardens, 
the race-course, and the great cricket-grounds where the inter- 
national matches are played. Therefore there is plenty of 
room for reposeful lazying and lounging, and for exercise too, 
for such as like that kind of work. 
There are four specialties attainable in the way of social 
pleasure. If you enter your name on the Visitor's Book at 
Government House you will receive an invitation to the next 
ball that takes place there, if nothing can be proven against 
you. And it will be very pleasant ; for you will see everybody 
except the Governor, and add a number of acquaintances and 
several friends to your list. The Governor will be in England. 
He always is. The continent has four or five governors, and I 
do not know how many it takes to govern the outlying 
archipelago ; but anyway you will not see them. When they 
are appointed they come put from England and get inaugurated, 
and give a ball, and help pray for rain, and get aboard ship 
and go back home. And so the Lieutenant-Governor has to 
do all the work. I was in Australasia three months and a half, 
and saw only one Governor. The others were at home. 
The Australasian Governor would not be so restless, per- 
haps, if he had a war, or a veto, or something like that to call 
for his reserve-energies, but he hasn't. There isn't any war, 
and there isn't any veto in his hands. And so there is really 
little or nothing doing in his line. The country governs itself, 
and prefers to do it ; and is so strenuous about it and so jealous 
of its independence that it grows restive if even the Imperial 
Government at home proposes to help ; and so the Imperial 
veto, while a fact, is yet mainly a name. 
Thus the Governor's functions are much more limited than 
are a Governor's functions with us. And therefore more 
fatiguing. He is the apparent head of the State, he is the real 
head of Society. He represents culture, refinement, elevated 
sentiment, polite life, religion ; and by his example he propa- 
gates these, and they spread and flourish and bear good fruit. 
He creates the fashion, and leads it. His ball is the ball of 
balls, and his countenance makes the horse-race thrive. 
He is usually a lord, and this is well ; for his position com- 
pels him to lead an expensive life, and an English lord is 
generally well equipped for that. 
Another of Sydney's social pleasures is the visit to the 
Admiralty House ; which is nobly situated on high ground 
overlooking the water. The trim boats of the service convey 
the guests thither ; and there, or on board the flag-ship, they 
have the duplicate of the hospitalities of Government House. 
The Admiral commanding a station in British waters is a 
magnate of the first degree, and he is sumptuously housed, as 
becomes the dignity of his office. 
Third in the list of special pleasures is the tour of the 
harbor in a fine steam pleasure-launch. Your richer friends 
own boats of this kind, and they will invite you, and the joys 
of the trip will make a long day seem short. 
And finally comes the shark-fishing. Sydney Harbor is 
populous with the finest breeds of man-eating sharks in the 
world. Some people make their living catching them ; for the 
Government pays a cash bounty on them. The larger the 
shark the larger the bounty, and some of the sharks are twenty 
feet long. You not only get the bount}, but everything that 
is in the shark belongs to you. Sometimes the contents are 
quite valuable. 
