asked, in a hesitating manner. " My poor Edgar's 
appetite is so wretched. He has had a bad spell, 
and eats next to nothing." 
"Yes, I can find you half-a-dozen, I know. Our 
hens are afflicted a little with summer laziness," 
and Jennie smiled. " We have been baking to-day, 
and I wish you would accept a loaf of bread. I 'll
send this little cousin up with them." 
" Oh, don't trouble ! I will come down." 
" I shall be glad to do it," said Hanny, with a 
gentle eagerness. 
 
Cousin Jennie put the bread and the eggs, - - she 
found seven, - - and part of a cake, in a little basket, 
and said, " Run along, Little Red Riding Hood. 
There are no wolves to catch you." 
They teased Cousin Jennie a little because the 
tall young man with bright eyes was named Woolf. 
Mrs. Clemm received the little girl's parcel with 
her usual quiet air, and thanked her for coming. 
And before she could hunt up her ever-scanty 
purse the child had said Good-evening, and 
vanished. 
Hanny heard the " spells " rather rudely explained 
a day or two after, and understood the melancholy 
shadow that hung about the house. People were 
not any more delicate in gossiping about their 
neighbour's short-comings then than now, when all 
the little faults and frailties of heroes are paraded 
to the public gaze and comment. 
But the exquisite care with which the mothei 
watched over the son of her heart, made her one 
of the little girl's heroines later on, when she could 
fully appreciate the tender solicitude that tried to 
shield him and save him from temptation, when 
possible, bearing her burthen with such heroic 
dignity that she w r as fain to persuade her own 
soul that she covered it from critical eyes. When 
one woman suffers bravely to the death, amid 
untold privation, and another takes up the dropped 
burthen with a devotion no anxiety can wear out, 
is it not proof that there must have been some 
charm in the poet seen more clearly by those 
who loved him? 
WITH A POET 
There was a new book by Miss Macintosh among 
those they had brought home ; and this Hanny de- 
voured eagerly, sitting on her high perch, while the 
rest were busy in the household routine. In the 
afternoon, she read aloud while the others sewed. 
Sometimes the Major came in to listen ; but he 
thought there were no novels written nowadays 
like " The Mysteries of Udolpho," " The Children 
of the Abbey," and "The Vicar of Wake field." 
" Oh," said the little girl, " isn't this funny ! 
We have the first volume of 'The Grumbler' 
and the second of 'The Grandfather.' I con't 
believe I can piece them together," with a bright, 
mirthful expression. 
" And I picked those up myself. No ; we are 
interested in the ' Grumbler ' now and must know 
what became of him." 
They were English novels by a Miss Pickering, 
long since forgotten, while less worthy ones are 
remembered. 
" We 'll walk up after supper and change them," 
continued Cousin Jennie. 
But visitors came in shortly afterward to stay to 
supper. People were not specially invited then; 
and the hostess did not expect to prepare a feast 
on ordinary occasions. So Jennie said Hanny 
might go up alone, if she didn't mind. 
She started gladly, yet a sense of diffidence 
oppressed her as she stood at the door, a half 
guilty consciousness, as if she had no right to the 
secret Mrs. Clemm was trying so assiduously to 
hide. 
The poet was pacing up and down the room ; 
but his pallid face and strange, shining eyes 
seemed looking out from some other world. Mrs. 
Clemm sat by the window with a magazine in her 
hand. 
Hanny preferred her request timidly. 
" Oh, come in and hunt them up. Your cousin 
is quite welcome to anything. Then there are 
some upstairs, though I brought down that pile 
over in the corner this very morning." 
The corner looked attractive. Hanny went 
thither, and knelt down on the checked matting. 
There were two books of engravings containing 
portraits of famous people, some old volumes of 
verse, some. 1 nev ores, and magazines. 
The volumes she wanted were not among them. 
But she exhumed something else that made her 
forget the slight, nervous man pacing up and 
down, and the woman at the window. Turning 
the leaves of an old novel that had lost one cover, 
she came across the name of one of her heroes, 
" Richard of the Lion Heart." She had a passion, 
just then, for English history. And there was 
Bulwer's "White Rose of England," in paper 
covers with a Harper imprint. 
" Could I take these beside?' she asked, with 
some hesitation. 
He glanced over at them as he came to that end 
of the room. 
"Those old novels? Yes. Do they let you 
read novels?' 
" I read almost anything," and Hanny glanced 
up with rising colour. " But there are not so many 
books up here I live in New York," she added, 
by way of explanation. 
A half smile crossed his face, but its melancholy 
haunted the little girl long afterward. 
Then she went over to the closet, and soon found 
her missing volumes, and uttered her gentle Good- 
afternoon. Mrs. Clemm had folded her sewing, 
and came out on the porch where the water-pail 
stood empty, so she started to the well. 
" Please thank your cousin for her kindness," 
she said in a soft tone. " I am glad she is fond of 
books." 
The modern realistic school, or even the analytic 
school, would flout Madame Cottin's old novel of 
"The Saracen" to-day. Perhaps in the year two 
thousand the novels of to-day will be wondered at. 
The next morning, the little girl was up in her 
eyrie in the corner of the porch, and began her 
story. She was deeply interested in the Crusaders 
as well. Richard, Saladin, and his noble and 
knightly brother Mclck held her spell-bound. 
She let the patchwork lie unheeded. 
Queen Joan, Richard's sister, beautiful and un- 
fortunate in her marriage, almost a prisoner for 
years, rescued and taken to the Holy Land in 
company with Berengaria, and treated with Ori- 
ental suavity and honour, and loved by Melck 
Adel, indeed, almost married to him, though his- 
tory considers it only as one of the many feints 
of Eastern diplomacy, roused all Hanny's youth- 
ful ardour. And Saladin's young nephew, taking 
 
knighthood at Richard's hands on Easter morning, 
was so striking a picture that the child could not 
understand why Turks and Christians should be 
bitter enemies, when friendships like this could be 
cemented, and apparently appreciated by men of 
such qualities. 
She lost interest in the " Grumbler," and I am 
afraid her mind wandered as she read aloud. She 
was really glad that for several days there were no 
children to play with. She sat out of doors, and 
was pretty sure that would answer Doctor Joe's 
requirements; and the Major took her out driving, 
but she smuggled in her book. She was not quite 
so pale, though that might have been due to sun- 
burn. 
She had just finished her enchanting story one 
morning, and was glancing idly down the hill, 
watching the toilers who bent over as if they were 
carrying heavy loads, or drawing something behind 
them. Physical culture had not yet been applied 
to the fine art of walking. 
A barouche, drawn by two nodding horses, came 
slowly along. There were four ladies in it ; but 
one especially attracted the child. She wore a 
gown of softest cerulean blue, a bonnet of blue 
crape with delicate pink roses, and a large bow 
of airy tulle tied under her chin. Her long 
ringlets, the fashion of the day, drooped about 
her lovely face, that smiled and dimpled as she 
talked. Her hands were daintily gloved, and one 
held her parasol up high so she could glance 
about. Hanny was quite sure she espied her, 
WITH A POET 
for her companion leaned out and looked 
also. 
She left the child in a daze as she went by. 
Hanny had a secret, exultant consciousness that 
she had seen her ideal poet; then she smiled and 
wondered if she could write poems. Dolly was 
quite as pretty, but she could n't; and Margaret 
was handsomer. She could not quite associate 
the sad, abstracted man up the road with " Anna- 
bel Lee." What a puzzle it all was! 
She went downstairs presently, and was sitting 
on the area steps watching Cousin Jennie iron, 
when the tall figure in her shabby black hat and 
veil, which she invariably wore, came up the outer 
steps. Hanny ran to open the gate. 
Mrs. Clemm was always quietly dignified. It 
was the intangible good breeding that distinguished 
her from the ordinary country-folk. She had a 
small tin kettle in her hand, and her manner was 
apologetic. 
"They had some unexpected visitors from the 
city, dear friends of Eddie's" (she oftener called 
him that than any other name, and she often said 
" My poor dear Eddie ! "). " Could they spare her 
some milk, and a few eggs ? They had no milk at 
the store. " 
"With pleasure," said Jennie, who went to the 
milk-room, and cast a glance around to see if 
there was not something else that would help out 
the feast. 
The little girl wanted to ask some questions, 
but she hesitated from diffidence. 
She wondered afterward how the quiet, almost 
listless woman could concoct dainty feasts for 
these illustrious people out of her poverty ; for 
they were illustrious in their day. \Yere the wit 
and poesy and knowledge the successive desserts, 
and bright gossip the sparkle of the Barmecide 
wine? She thought of the little cottage, when she 
read of Madame Scarron among the French wits. 
She described them to Cousin Jennie when the 
tall black figure was going slowly up the road. 
"Yes, they have a good many visitors," said 
Jennie. "They did last summer, when poor Mrs. 
Poe was alive." 
" Was she very beautiful ? ' 
"Oh, child, beauty isn't everything!' and 
Jennie smiled. "Yes; it was said she was. But 
she was so thin and pale. She used to sit out 
there on the porch, wrapped in a white shawl, with 
his arm about her, or her head resting on his 
shoulder. You see no one knew much about 
them then, and they kept so to themselves. 
Then there is his unfortunate habit, that you can- 
not help feeling ought not to belong to a person of 
his intelligence. It is a great pity." 
Hanny sighed. She was to know a great deal 
more about the world later on, and the apprecia- 
tion that was spread as a garment about the poet 
when his life's fitful fever ended. 
There was an influx of quite elderly people one 
afternoon; and Hanny, gathering up some books, 
stole up to the little cottage, quite assured no 
one would need her, or even miss her. 
The corner of books had been "cleared up." 
In the wide fireplace, there was a jar of feathery 
asparagus, and on the table a vase of flowers. 
There were a number of pictures, Hanny noticed. 
She had hardly glanced about the room before, 
the plain, low-ceiled room to which people 
were to make pilgrimages as time went on. 
The poet sat by the table in a dreamy, indolent 
mood. 
" Did you find what you wanted the other day? ' 
he asked gently. 
" Oh, yes ! And I have read ' The Saracen. ' It 
interested me so, I couldn't leave it a moment. 
I didn't want to like Saladin so much; but I had 
to. But I shall never give up Richard. ' 
He smiled a little at that, kindly, cordially, 
and her heart warmed to him. The pervasive 
eyes were so deep and beautiful ! In spite of the 
pallor and attenuation, the face had a rare charm. 
" So Richard is your hero? Well, you will 
doubtless change your heroes a good many times 
before you get through with life. I think I had 
a boy's fancy for Salaclin once. Yet heroes come 
to be quite common-place people after all. I 
wonder if I have anv more that YOU would like? ' 
J J 
Hanny said they had several books yet, and 
she was going down to West Farms in a few 
days. She wanted to finish " The White Rose of 
England. " 
"History in romance,- -I d.ire say that suits 
young people best." 
She stood in a sort of vague uncertainty. 
 
"Well?' in a voice of suggestive inquiry, as 
if she might ask him anything. 
" Oh ! ' she cried, summoning all her courage, 
and flushing as she did so, "will you please tell 
me who the pretty lady in blue was, who came up 
the other day in the carriage? She looked like a 
poet!" 
He did laugh then, softly, as if laughing was 
a little strange. 
"Is that your idea of a poet? Well, she is 
one, - -an airy, light-winged poet with dainty con- 
ceits, and a charming woman, too. I must tell 
her she captured you at sight. That is Frances 
Sargent Osgood. And beside her sat Mrs. Gove 
Nichols, one of the new lights. Stay, I think I 
can find a poem or two of Fanny Osgood's for you. ' 
He hunted up two or three magazines. Hanny 
sat down on the doorsill; it was so softly, so 
enchantingly bright out-of-doors, and the room a 
little gloomy. She wanted to have a glimpse of 
sunshine, for Mrs. Osgood looked as if she 
belonged to the brighter world. 
They were dainty and bright. One was set to 
music afterward; and the little girl learned to 
sing it very prettily : - 
" I 've something sweet to tell you, 
And the secret you must keep, 
For remember, if it isn't night, 
I 'm talking in my sleep." 
Then they talked about poetry. I dare say he 
was amused at a little girl whose ideal poem was 
" Genevieve, " by Coleridge, and who knew " Chris* 
tobel," "The Ancient Mariner," and "The Lady 
of the Lake ' half by heart. When, in her young 
womanhood, she read some of his sharp, scathing 
criticisms, she wondered at his sweetness that 
afternoon. With a little more courage, she would 
have asked him what was really meant by "the 
hicrh-born kinsman; but she did not know as it 
O 
was quite proper to talk to him about his own 
verses. 
The wood-robins were singing in the tall trees, 
and the sun made dancing shadows on the stoop 
that was always clean as a floor. Mrs. Clemm 
brought her splint rocker out, and begged her to 
try it, and asked after the cousins, sending thanks 
for the cake that she had found in her basket, and 
the pot-cheese that had proved such a treat to her 
visitors. 
She thanked Mrs. Clemm prettily for the chair, 
but said she must go home. The poet nodded. 
He had taken up his pen then, and she wondered 
what the spell was like that inspired a poem. 
The next forenoon, they saw Mr. Poe going 
down to the station. Cousin Jennie shook her 
head; and the stout old Major said, ' It was a pity 
Mrs. Clemm couldn't keep him at home steadily." 
She was never to see him again; but when she 
heard of his tragic death, her heart ached for the 
poor desolate mother. 
' 
CHAPTER XI 
THE KING OF TERRORS 
THEY all admitted that Hanny had improved a 
good deal. She seemed to have grown every way. 
Her mother was sure she must let her skirts 
down; and her last winter's frocks were too tight 
about the shoulders, and too short in the sleeves. 
She had absolutely gained five pounds, and her 
little face had rounded out. But still she was 
smaller than most girls of her age. 
She had so much to talk about that her mother 
said she was a regular little gossip. Her father 
liked to hear about grandmother and the kindly, 
large-hearted Major. She had found out that 
when grandmother was a young girl her name was 
Hannah Underbill, now it was Horton. So many 
elderly people had been visiting at Fordham, and 
her father knew most of them. But Ben and 
Doctor Joe were interested in the poet Poe; Joe 
knew more about him than he confessed to his 
little sister. 
Oh, how glad she was to get back to school ! 
There were so many things to learn. But Dolly 
had to have her one Saturday; and Mrs. French 
came over and took her to the house Beautiful. 
Ben was quite in love with Mrs. French. And 
now they were filling up the conservatory for 
winter blooming; and Hanny wished they could 
have some house-flowers. Her mother had 
hydrangeas and an oleander; but they were put 
in the end of the stable for winter. 
Now and then she went up to Margaret's to 
stay all night. Daisy was growing to be almost 
as lovely as Stevie had been; and though she did 
not suggest Daisy Jasper, the name always recalled 
her dear friend. And Stevie was quite a big boy. 
He was getting some rough ways, too, and wanted 
to drive Hanny about for a horse, just as he did 
papa. Great-grandmother Van Kortland had 
knit him some beautiful horse-lines. 
And Annie was such a sweet little thing! 
Stevie wished she was a little brother, " 'tause 
dirls ain't no doocl, " he said. " You'm dot to be 
so tareful. " He talked quite crooked, and could 
not pronounce "g" at all. He said "umbebella 1 ' 
and "peaapoket" and "tea-tettletel." Philadel- 
phia always floored him. But then he had been 
H army's first love, and she could never forget the 
Christmas morning when he came. 
o 
There had been another exciting matter as 
well, and this was a presidential election. 
Zachary Taylor, Old Rough and Ready, as he was 
called, had become a great hero to her. She 
found that he had served gallantly in the War of 
1812, fought against the mighty Tecumseh, and 
been in the Black Hawk War, beside all the late 
Mexican engagements, where he had so distin- 
"  
guished himself. At the nomination, she had 
been a little sorry to have her old favourite Harry 
Clay superseded, and General Scott was a war- 
veteran as well. Then there had been famous 
Daniel Webster, whose speeches were the favourite 
of school-boys, though they had not banished 
