bauchery, and the most divine inno- 
cence of love, accept all the characters, 
wantons and virgins, princes and moun- 
tebanks, pass quickly from trivial buf- 
foonery to lyrical sublimities, listen al- 
ternately to the quibbles of clowns and 
the songs of lovers. The drama even, 
in order to satisfy the prolixity of their 
nature, must take all tongues, pompous, 
inflated verse, loaded with imagery, and 
side by side with this vulgar prose ; 
more than this, it must distort its natu- 
ral style and limits, put songs, poetical 
devices in the discourse of courtiers and 
the speeches of statesmen ; bring on the 




 

stage the fairy world of opera, as Mid- 
dleton says, gnomes, nymphs of the 
land and sea, with their groves and 
meadows; compel the gods to descend 
upon the stage, and hell itself to furnish 
its world of marvels. No other theatre 
is so complicated, for nowhere else do 
we find men so complete." 

M. Taine heightens this picture in 
generalizations splashed with innumera- 
ble blood-red details of English life and 
character. The English is the most 
warlike race in Europe, most redoubt- 
able in battle, most impatient of slavery. 
" English savages " is what Cellini calls 
them ; and the great shins of beef with 
which they fill themselves nourish the 
force and ferocity of their instincts. To 
harden them thoroughly, institutions 
work in the same groove as nature. 
The nation is armed. Every man is a 
soldier, bound to have arms according to 




 

his condition, to exercise himself on 
Sundays and holidays. The State re- 
sembles an army ; punishments must 
inspire terror ; the idea of war is ever 
present. Such instincts, such a history, 
raises before them with tragic severi- 
ty the idea of life ; death is at hand, 
wounds, blood, tortures. The fine pur- 
ple cloaks, the holiday garments, else- 
where signs of gayety of mind, are stain- 
ed with blood and bordered with black. 
Throughout a stern discipline, the axe 
ready for every suspicion of treason ; 
" great men, bishops,achancellor,princes, 
the king's relations, queens, a protector 
kneeling in the straw, sprinkled the 
Tower with their blood; one after the 
other they marched past, stretched out 
their necks ; the Duke of Bucking- 
ham, Queen Anne Boleyn, Queen Cath- 
erine Howard, the Earl of Surrey, Ad- 
miral Seymour, the Duke of Somerset, 




 

Lady Jane Grey and her husband, the 
Duke of Northumberland, the Earl of 
Essex, all on the throne, or on the steps 
of the throne, in the highest ranks of 
honor, beauty, youth, genius ; of the 
bright procession nothing is left but 
senseless trunks, marred by the tender 
mercies of the executioner." 

The gibbet stands by the highways, 
heads of traitors and criminals grin on 
the city gates. Mournful legends mul- 
tiply, church-yard ghosts, walking spir- 
its. In the evening, before bedtime, in 
the vast country houses, in the poor 
cottages, people talk of the coach which 
is seen drawn by headless horses, with 
headless postilions and coachmen. All 
this, with unbounded luxury, unbridled 
debauchery, gloom, and revelry hand in 
hand. " A threatening and sombre fog 
veils their mind like their sky, and joy, 
like the sun, pierces through it and 
i



 

upon them strongly and at intervals." 
All this riot of passion and frenzy of 
vigorous life, this madness and sorrow, 
in which life is a phantom and destiny 
drives so remorselessly, Taine finds on 
the stage and in the literature of the 
period. 

To do him justice, he finds something 
else, something that might give him a 
hint of the innate soundness of English 
life in its thousands of sweet homes, 
something of that great force of moral 
stability, in the midst of all violence 
and excess of passion and performance, 
which makes a nation noble. " Op- 
posed to this band of tragic figures," 
which M. Taine arrays from the dramas, 
"with their contorted features, brazen 
fronts, combative attitudes, is a troop 
(he says) of timid figures, tender before 
everything, the most graceful and love- 
worthy whom it has been given to man 




 

to depict. In Shakespeare you will 
meet them in Miranda, Juliet, Desde- 
mona, Virginia, Ophelia, Cordelia, Imo- 
gen ; but they abound also in the oth- 
ers ; and it is a characteristic of the race 
to have furnished them, as it is of the 
drama to have represented them. By 
a singular coincidence the women are 
more of women, the men more of men, 
here than elsewhere. The two natures 
go to its extreme — in the one to bold- 
ness, the spirit of enterprise and resist- 
ance, the warlike, imperious, and unpol- 
ished character ; in the other to sweet- 
ness, devotion, patience, inextinguisha- 
ble affection (hence the happiness and 
strength of the marriage tie), a thing 
unknown in distant lands, and in France 
especially : a woman here gives herself 
without drawing back, and places her 
glory and duty in obedience, forgiveness, 
adoration, wishing, and pretending only 
i



 

to be melted and absorbed daily deeper 
and deeper in him whom she has freely 
and forever chosen." This is an old 
German instinct. The soul in this race 
is at once primitive and serious. Wom- 
en are disposed to follow the noble 
dream called duty. " Thus, supported 
by innocence and conscience, they in- 
troduce into love a profound and up- 
right sentiment, abjure coquetry, vanity, 
and flirtation ; they do not lie, they are 
not affected. When they love they are 
not tasting a forbidden fruit, but are 
binding themselves for their whole life. 
Thus understood, love becomes almost 
a holy thing ; the spectator no longer 
wishes to be malicious or to jest; wom- 
en do not think of their own happi- 
ness, but of that of the loved ones ; 
they aim not at pleasure, but at devo- 
tion." 

Thus far M. Taine's brilliant antith- 




 

eses — the most fascinating and most 
dangerous model for a young writer. 
But we are indebted to him for a most 
suggestive study of the period. His 
astonishment, the astonishment of the 
Gallic mind, at what he finds, is a meas- 
ure of the difference in the literature of 
the two races as an expression of their 
life. It was natural that he should 
somewhat exaggerate what he regards 
as the source of this expression, leaving 
out of view, as he does, certain great 
forces and currents which an outside 
observer cannot feel as the race itself 
feels. We look, indeed, for the local 
color of this English literature in the 
manners and habits of the times, traits 
of which Taine has so skilfully made a 
mosaic from Harrison, Stubbes, Stowe, 
Holinshed, and the pages of Reed and 
Drake ; but we look for that which 
made it something more than a mirror 




 

of contemporary manners, vices, and 
virtues, made it representative of uni- 
versal men, to other causes and forces — 
such as the Reformation, the immense 
stir, energy, and ambition of the age 
(the result of invention and discovery), 
newly awakened to the sense that there 
was a world to be won and made trib- 
utary ; that England, and, above all 
places on the globe at that moment, 
London, was the centre of a display of 
energy and adventure such as has been 
scarcely paralleled in history. And un- 
derneath it all was the play of an un- 
easy, protesting democracy, eager to 
express itself in adventure, by changing 
its condition, in the joy of living and 
overcoming, and in literature, with small 
regard for tradition or the unities. 

When Shakespeare came up to Lon- 
don with his first poems in his pocket, 
the town was so great and full of mar- 




 

vels, and luxury, and entertainment, as 
to excite the astonishment of continen- 
tal visitors. It swarmed with soldiers, 
adventurers, sailors who were familiar 
with all seas and every port, men with 
projects, men with marvellous tales. It 
teemed with schemes of colonization, 
plans of amassing wealth by trade, by 
commerce, by planting, mining, fishing, 
and by the quick eye and the strong 
hand. Swaggering in the coffee-houses 
and ruffing it in the streets were the 
men who had sailed with Frobisher and 
Drake and Sir Humphrey Gilbert, Haw- 
kins, and Sir Richard Granville ; had 
perhaps witnessed the heroic death of 
Sir Philip Sidney, at Zutphen ; had 
served with Raleigh in Anjou, Picardy, 
Languedoc, in the Netherlands, in the 
Irish civil war ; had taken part in the 
dispersion of the Spanish Armada, and 
in the bombardment of Cadiz; had filled 




 

their cups to the union of Scotland with 
England; had suffered shipwreck on the 
Barbary Coast, or had, by the fortune 
of war, felt the grip of the Spanish In- 
quisition ; who could tell tales of the 
marvels seen in new-found America and 
the Indies, and, perhaps, like Captain 
John Smith, could mingle stories of the 
naiVe simplicity of the natives beyond 
the Atlantic, with charming narratives 
of the wars in Hungary, the beauties of 
the seraglio of the Grand Turk, and 
the barbaric pomp of the Khan of Tar- 
tary. There were those in the streets 
who would see Raleigh go to the block 
on the scaffold in Old Palace Yard, who 
would fight against King Charles on the 
fields of Newbury or Naseby, Kineton or 
Marston Moor, and perchance see the 
exit of Charles himself from another 
scaffold erected over against the Ban- 
queting House. 





 

Although London at the accession of 
James I. (1603) had only about one 
hundred and fifty thousand inhabitants 
— the population of England then num- 
bering about five million — ■ it was so 
full of life and activity, that Frederick, 
Duke of Wtirtemberg, who saw it a few 
years before, in 1592, was impressed 
with it as a large, excellent, and mighty 
city of business, crowded with people 
buying and selling merchandise, and 
trading in almost every corner of the 
world, a very populous city, so that one 
can scarcely pass along the streets on 
account of the throng; the inhabitants, 
he says, are magnificently apparelled, 
extremely proud and overbearing, who 
scoff and laugh at foreigners, and no one 
dare oppose them lest the street boys 
and apprentices collect together in im- 
mense crowds and strike to right and left 
unmercifully without regard to persons. 





 

There prevailed an insatiable curios- 
ity for seeing strange sights and hearing 
strange adventures, with an eager de- 
sire for visiting foreign countries, which 
Shakespeare and all the play -writers 
satirize. Conversation turned upon the 
wonderful discoveries of travellers, whose 
voyages to the New World occupied 
much of the public attention. The ex- 
aggeration which from love of impor- 
tance inflated the narratives, the poets 
also take note of. There was also a 
universal taste for hazard in money as 
well as in travel, for putting it out on 
risks at exorbitant interest, and the 
habit of gaming reached prodigious ex- 
cess. The passion for sudden wealth 
was fired by the success of the sea- 
rovers, news of which inflamed the im- 
agination. Samuel Kiechel, a merchant 
of Ulrri, who was in London in 1585, 
records that, " news arrived of a Spanish 




•  

ship captured by Drake, in which it was 
said there were two millions of un- 
coined gold and silver in ingots, fifty 
thousand crowns in coined reals, seven 
thousand hides, four chests of pearls, 
each containing two bushels, and some 
sacks of cochineal — the whole valued 
at twenty-five barrels of gold ; it was 
said to be one year and a half's tribute 
from Peru." 

The passion for travel was at such a 
height that those who were unable to 
accomplish distant journeys, but had 
only crossed over into France and Italy, 
gave themselves great airs on their re- 
turn. " Farewell, monsieur traveller," 
says Shakespeare ; " look, you lisp, and 
wear strange suits ; disable all the ben- 
efits of your own country ; be out of 
love with your nativity, and almost 
chide God for making you that counte- 
nance you are, or I will scarce think 




 

you have swam in a gondola." The 
Londoners dearly loved gossip, and in- 
dulged in exaggeration of speech and 
high-flown compliment. One gallant 
says to another : " O, signior, the star 
that governs my life is contentment; 
give me leave to interre myself in your 
