winning attentions which had once been hers given to another, I think
it began to dawn upon her that they had never meant anything from the
first. They were subjective, if I may put it so: a part of the man's
nature, the trophy of any one who knew the password. Then the whole
woman hardened. She reproached him no more. If he showered on her some
of the unspent coin of his affection, she took it graciously, not
treasuring it even in thought; because she dared not build again a
house upon the sand. Her individuality grew mightily meantime. She
became a creature of a wonderful strength and depth of thought; but her
heart is dead within her. Sometimes I can see that she is even amused,
in a pathetic way, at finding how lightly his indifference can pass
over her. Now this was a good man, as men go. He would have scorned a
sin larger than this romantic peccadillo,--but he was a man! He had
waked up and found himself bored. And so would you! So far as I have
been able to unravel it, what we call love is only a compound of
selfishness and vanity. The lover gives so long as the return amuses
him. He buys with his devotion a counter-devotion calculated to make
him supremely happy; but when the story grows old, he yawns and goes
elsewhere, either to smoke, run for office, write a book, or worship
another woman. Never imagine that I decry men and exalt my own poor
kind. Woman is the more constant only because she has been taught,
through nature and inheritance, to give once and forever; and God made
man to be gregarious.

I have told you my friend's secret. Now I will tell you mine. There is
a man in the world--not you--who holds for me the fascination we are
accustomed to call love. God knows, it is an earth-born attraction, for
he is one who loves himself far more than he even professes to love me,
and there is not one higher aspiration of my soul to which he would
minister. He would tire of me, and he would break my heart. Therefore I
will have none of him, though a mighty hand seems ever dragging me
toward him, and though that part of me which is in love with the
intoxications of life bids me make one throw for happiness and then die
in despair. And neither will I have aught of you, though you seem to me
a young St. Michael with lance of honor and shield of strength.

[Sidenote: Francis Hume to Zoe Montrose]

I do not know why, but for some reason your letter has not killed my
hope. Perhaps it would have done so, but I took it into the woods, the
deeper woods, where I have begun to go of late to be wholly alone. For
now even the tents by day-light seem to me like multitudes of eyes, and
my father, also, breaks in on my dream. So I carried it to the woods
where the light flickered and the shadows of little leaves played upon
their larger mates. They seemed to me like the phantasmagoria of being.
I had not begun to think of such things till I saw you. Life has grown
infinitely sad, as well as infinitely beautiful. It has a haze: the
haze of twilight. Well, the letter! It jarred upon me; that is a matter
of course. It removed you from me, immeasurably, with its hints of a
knowledge which I may never attain. When shall I be your equal, even in
the wisdom of this world? You have known so many people; I only one.
That of itself makes me sad. And then when I came to the inexplicable
fact that there was one you might love, I felt within me a savage pain,
a rising of hot blood, such as I never knew. What was it? Has it a
name? Does it mean a futile passion because life, destiny, have treated
us so brutally, setting you there and me here, so that your loves grew
away from me, and the tendrils of your nature twined another way? And
thus I sat suffering. But soon the wood drew me into her arms. I have
never thought much about beauty; it has always been about me. But of
late it has spoken with a new voice. O the quivering of the blue
sky-patches, the duskiness of shade! The tree-trunks were black from
the morning rain, and everything set upon a stem waved and fluttered,
though so slightly that it was rhythm and not motion. The faint shadow
on the tiarella leaf seemed to me divine; the maiden-hair rustled
greenly, and far off, in other arches, the thrush smote softly on his
silver bells. And you were the soul of it. I should not have been
surprised to see you there in some dim vista, with the sun upon your
hair. But I shall never be surprised again at seeing you. You are in my
world now; and my world cannot move without you. O, but I wish you were
not so wise! I would you had never learned this strange and intricate
game they call society. What profit is in it for you, but what infinite
pain is there in it to me! These are the ironies of Those Who are above
us. (That is my father's phrase; he talks of Them sometimes, in the
night when he cannot sleep, and walks up and down the cabin as if he
wished it were a world for width. The ironies of the immortal gods! I
begin to understand my father a little now. I thought I understood him
before.) We two, you and I, should have been born like twin birds in a
nest, and gone singing away to the south. (Yet O my bird of the shining
wing, O my bird! I would not have you other than you are.) We should
have grown together, twin plants, from the sweet black earth, to twine
and blossom and die. But it was not so to be; and therein I see what
they call the hardships of life, and against such will I take my lance
and shield, and ride forth. I will watch beside my arms, and draw down
holiness from heaven, to be worthy to fight for you, and wear your
favor. Not worthy of winning you--O, mistake me not in that! No heart
was ever humbler than mine before its lady. Yet, as I am a man, my
reward must come. I will win the world's delight, and I will wear her
in the eye of the world: I, her plain and humble squire, whose only
pride is to keep unsmirched for her fair sake. I have not your wisdom,
but I begin to believe that I have a will to conquer; and it shall be
bent upon my quest as if the world,--aye, and the sun!--were made for
that. But tell me, you who know the lore of men, when we really begin
to live, do we always ache so at the heart?

[Sidenote: Zoe Montrose to Francis Hume]

My child,--Your questions are delicious. What you felt on reading my
letter? Yes, Sir Innocence, it hath a name: Jealousy. 'Tis a very
legitimate passion, so I think, but it hath earned in the world a bad
repute. You white-armored child! this meeting a soul so dense to its
own emotions is like cooling drink in a desert. You complain because I
am your senior and a trifle world-worn, and you do not know that you
are complaining. You wish we had been born at the same minute. Pretty!
poetic! but in plain prose, "I would you were not my elder!" And so
would I; for if I were set back those five years, it would give me just
five years more to hack away at my plays. I will not say how your
moonings and mouthings would affect me; possibly then I might be caught
by such pretty sweets. The last question of all: Does the world feel
immortal pain at its heart? Frankly, yes. Nobody can be really happy
except imbeciles and children; and not they, if they chance to be
underfed. But be of good cheer. Only women ache all their lives long,
every day of every year. They are an unintelligent lot, not to have
learned self-protection. They wear their souls outside; and not being
in the least original, they have not yet invented a thoroughly
satisfactory coat of mail. For you, belonging to the lords of the
earth, there will, after a time, be immunity. You will break your
heart. (O, how infinitely wearisome to reflect that you have determined
to break it about me!) Then you will waken to a vapid interest in work,
discover your own nice talent for manipulating words, put all your past
woes into verse, and by the time your reputation is made, you won't
despise a good cigar and a club dinner. Nature has provided you as she
has the lobster. Never fear; your claws will grow, though they may be
often nipped. It is plain that you are to suffer, but I don't very much
pity you. Unless you take to drink or any other unhygienic habit, you
are sure to get something out of life. If you riddle your nerves, I
won't answer for you. But, at the present moment, one thing must be
done. Your letters must simply cease to be drenched with the night-dew
of flimsy sentiment. Wring it out, and send them dry. Otherwise you get
no answers. Do you hear, you gentle barbarian?

And I don't like your style overmuch. It isn't improving as I hoped.
You don't want to drag out long, saccharine sentences, dripping with
sugar as they crawl. Tell something! Let it be real,--or let it not be
at all.

[Sidenote: Francis Hume to Zoe Montrose]

O the irony stamped on those four little letters! Real! And my whole
heart in it, a man's whole heart. That means something. But I obey you.
Last night I dreamed all night long, one picture after another. First
came this: I stood upon a dusty way, and multitudes of people were
passing. They looked like you and like my father, but they were sad.
They were bowed down, and many of them carried great brown bundles on
their backs, bundles of wood, it seemed to me, or withered grass. Then
I, too, grew very sad and heavy because every one else seemed so; but
suddenly my eye fell on a great light, and I wondered that I had not
seen it before, and that none of them saw it. There, in the midst, by
the roadside, stood the Apollo, warm, rosy, afire with life. His mantle
was purple touched with rose: such color as we see in the east before
the sun comes, and in the west after he is gone. His hair was long, and
ran down his back in a great tawny river,--darker than yours,--and he
stretched out his arm fearlessly holding the bow. Yet no one saw him
but me. I fancied, even in my dream, that the arrow he would shoot
might teach them a happier way to travel; but no one even knew he was
there, or heard the twanging of the string or saw the cleaving of the
arrow's flight. Then I sank down into darkness like a gulf, and only
rose again to the splendor of another dream. The world seemed very
large, larger than it does when you stand on the peak of Lone Mountain,
with not a shade to cover you. There were many people, in an agony of
terror and pain, as Pierre was the night after I found him wounded and
delirious from his fight with the bears. The people were old, and poor,
and shabby, but still they looked like you, and their agony was
dreadful to behold. They were all gazing upward, and I, too, turned my
eyes to see, and lo! the heavens were all burning and brazen, and I saw
that the heat was greater than I could endure. The sorrow and fear of
those about me grew more terrible; they wept and wrung their
hands,--still like Pierre, when he imagined he was again pursued. One
thought came over me; and it seemed to me more awful than anything I
saw. The trees! the sweet, faithful trees in all their newest green.
They would be burned too. There would be no more sunrise or sunset.
This was the last day of all, and not only should we burn, but so, too,
would the little tender leaves. I dropped on my face, and kept saying
softly--for it seemed as if One heard as much as if I cried
aloud--"Mighty One, save the trees, only save the trees!" I did not
know to whom I spoke, but I kept on saying it into the hot earth; and
presently I heard a great shout from the throats of all the people. I
rose slowly to my knees, to my feet, and everybody was laughing and
throwing their arms about in joy. Still they were looking up, and I
looked, too; and there, in the midst of the burning sky, was one little
cool, clear patch of blue, as large as a maple leaf, and it was
spreading fast. A fresh wind sprang up and blew from the west; and as
the blue spread, little white clouds arose and danced over it. Even
before we could get used to so great a bliss, the heaven was all blue
and fleecy-winged, and the happy trees rustled greenly.

Again I dropped adown that darkling sea of death in life, and rose up
again to find myself in a boat, floating, floating, on the wavelike
ripples of a larger lake. So I knew it was the sea. I was near the
shore, but yet not going in; and as I turned my eyes that way, I saw a
height overhung with sky so blue! I have never seen such sky. But
beneath and built upon the height was something more radiant than the
sky itself: a temple with a wilderness of columns and vistas of
columned shade within. The temple was of marble, mellowed and creamy,
and rosy also, from some inner light, it seemed to me: something that
glowed perennially and generated beauty as it glowed. And as I looked,
wonder-stricken and alive with pure delight, one of the columns melted
into air, and in the larger space it gave, stood you, my lady, clothed
in white falling in folds more wonderful than the whorling of a bud
within its sheath. You held a cup, and reached it to me with a smile
divinely kind. I rose and plunged; the water closed over me, and sleep
enwrapped me over.

And then again I rose, and I knew I was in Paradise; for it was a sunny
forest of newly-budded trees, and I heard strange music and knew you
would be with me soon and that all would be infinitely well with us
forever. I sank back into measureless peace, the perfect patience of
waiting. As I lay there, one came toward me, and although I could not
see his face, I knew, this is an angel! He asked me some
question,--what, I cannot tell; but I was in love with my pleasure of
mind, and told him what was only half true. (You know they were talking
of truth and lies at the camp the other night, and I was puzzled. Now I
know what it is to tell a half-truth.) But as I spoke, the leaves of
the trees withered and fell, and the birds left their contented harmony
and began screaming in discord. The angel was gone, and I knew that
heaven was destroyed, and I had done it. I woke, grasping my arms so
tightly with either hand that the pressure hurt. I was sobbing for
breath. But I was alive, and my heaven lay yet before me.

Have I done well? Here have I written you page upon page, only to earn
a letter in return, when I long to fill these sheets with hot
protestations, with petitions for your gentle ruth. At first it was
enough to love you. At first? for the instant of recognizing my royal
destiny; but now I would have all. Love me! love me! my heart cries and
cries, for unless you know me for your own, what shall hinder me from
losing you in this whirling progress of the days. You will go away; I
heard them talking about it this morning. What am I to do then, I ask
you? What am I to do? Mateless, solitary, left in the nest I was so
long in building, while you fly south, the sun upon your shining wings.
What am I to do?

[Sidenote: Zoe Montrose to Francis Hume]

Your last letter pleased me very well, all save its note of melancholy.
Byronism is out of fashion. It isn't vendible, or it won't be in a few
years, mark my words. In the time that is coming, men-children will
rise up in literature and slash and slay and troll out hearty songs,
born in the childhood of the race, and tell us of the love of woman,
and the joy of martial blows. No more splitting of psychological hairs!
The reaction is coming, and I thank the gods who make for us to mar.
Moreover, you were hysterical at the end. Reform it altogether. No
woman of any sense of humor was ever won by tears in the man who should
be fighting for her. Take Tristram of Brittany for your model, not some
laddie who should be in petticoats. Else you will never win fair lady.
I speak generally, for it is understood from the start that this
specific fair lady is not to be won at all. Woo her you may, so you do
it amusingly, robustly, with no whining like a hungry dog. She has
little heart for "crumbling the hounds their messes." Now to business.
I lay my commands upon you. A visitor is coming to camp: a man. While
he is here, I shall have no time either to write or read, and I shall
not visit the hollow tree. Moreover, you, as you be loyal and true, are
to treat him fairly and kindly. If you hate my tendance of him as a
stranger and a guest, you are to be only the more courteous. In short,
as a knight peerless, you are to suffer manfully and in silence. For in
silence lies the only true dignity left us by the chances of life. You
see I own at once that you will suffer. That is inevitable; but I ask
you to take the screw like a gentleman. There is no better word yet
made.

[Sidenote: To the Unknown Friend]

I am forbidden to write her. I must speak to some one, to something. He
came three days ago. He is tall, black-eyed, with a laugh that rings.
When I hear that laugh, I cannot even moisten my dry tongue. I have
learned the meaning of hate. Yesterday she ran to the spring to bring
him a glass of water. (He lay lazily and let her.) I followed.

"Is that the man you said you might love?" I whispered.

It looked as if the whisper burned her cheek. She turned red to the
roots of her yellow hair. She could not look at me.

"Sir Knight," she said at last, "in the world we do not ask such
things."

So I knew.

As to my manner, I think I have obeyed her. At least, I have been
silent. But if this is to be my portion, death must come soon. For all
my body is under the sway of this great trouble. I cannot eat. My hands
seem helpless, they are so cold. My throat is choked. When have I
slept? I think my father knows, and, though I cannot speak to him,
understands, if a man for whom life is over can ever understand one at
the beginning. Yet how can he? how can he? For my mother loved him, and
gave herself to him. There is in all the world no sorrow like this of
mine. To stand by and see another man help her into the boat and row
away! To see him pin a flower in her hair with those daring hands! And
I would have died to do it. Yet last night, as I stormed through the
forest like the north wind that hates the clinging leaves, blind in the
darkness, blind from within,--and only through some forest instinct
keeping myself from crashing into tree and bush,--a moment of calm
enwrapped me as quickly as if a gossamer veil had fallen from above. I
seemed to see the meaning of things, the true meaning and value. That
he should give her a flower, should take her hand, should win her
smile--nay, the touch of her cheek, her lips--words I can scarcely
write, even here,--what are these perishable gifts? Gauds of time! Did
some poet say that, or have I made the phrase? The foolish broidery on
the web of life, to wear and wear with years! But what lies behind to
engender the token--ah, that is the eternal! I cannot penetrate her
heart to see the living thoughts that thus denote themselves; but I
know my own. I challenge time itself to match them with a brood more
great. My love, my faith in her, my sacrifice, these are giants,
springing into sudden Titanic birth, and Homer's heroes are pygmies to
them. So the night calmed me, and I thanked God (did I ever write that
word before? Did I ever really think it?) that my soul was born. But in
the morning the mood had passed. I knew still what I had learned, but I
could not feel it. My father, my dear father! He sits all day with
Homer open on his knee, and does not read. Once after the others had
been here, and he saw me wince when she and the man went laughing off
together, he said to me, almost as if he were afraid to say it:--

"Don't overestimate the little familiarities of social life." He said
it, but I could not answer.

[Sidenote: Zoe Montrose to Francis Hume]

Well--child! (You are nothing more--nothing!) Our guest has gone. Now
let us hope you will straightway begin to get back your color. You look
like the travesty of Hope Deferred. Dress you for Pierrot, and you'd
serve well for the ghost of youthful folly. But you have behaved
excellently. Socially speaking, you have watched beside your arms.
Consider yourself knighted. Shall I tell you a secret? The Forest of
Arden is not a proper trysting-place for folk who have met in the town;
at least, if one of them has been learning the sweet directness of the
woods. For I, whom this man somewhat enchains and always did,--when I
saw him among the trees, I knew he was very worldly and a trifle fat!
And he does not swim well. And he slept o' mornings, and I could not
help thinking of you wandering--albeit like a zany whose bauble is
hid--in the dewy brake. Understand plainly, you are at this moment dear
to me. The thought of you is sweet as Endymion to Diana; yet I who am
no Dian, but a poor fin de siècle spinster, her being distorted by
culture, would withdraw from you were you here, as the chaste huntress
from Actæon. I like you; but I mean nothing by the saying, nothing,
nothing! Nay, and I said "I love," it would be but lightly, as if we
were both in a little play: a play which nobody wrote, and no man saw
acted, and which the actors themselves will speedily forget. Think of
the thistle-downiest thing you ever saw, the most fleeting: the glow
that rises in the sunset sky and flees before the sight. That is what I
mean when I say you are dear to me. Do not make me repent having said
it.

[Sidenote: Francis Hume to Zoe Montrose]

    June was it, June, sweet mistress of the changing year,
    (She of the brow serene, unpressed by cypress fear,
    Nor darkened under bitter bud and leaf
    By earth's old travail and the gray world's grief,--
    Delighted by her changeful diadem
    And fringed with roses round her mantle hem,)
    Who laid thy hand in mine,
    And said, with voice divine,
    Like low-toned winds that wander to and fro
    Searching out reedy pipes wherein to blow:
    "This is your sacrament.
    Drink ye, and be content.
    This is life's flowering.
    Now are ye queen and king."

    O thought too poor and pale!
    O words that wanly fail
    For godlike Love's divine expressing,
    And all the rhythm of his sweet confessing,
    Whose full-voiced cry should be
    Harmonious ecstasy.

    Now are ye rulers of the upper air;
    And though men surge below, not one shall dare
    To scale the summit of your mystic height,
    Nor breathe your breath, nor face your burning light.
    The seed shall break for you, the seasons pass,
    And you, serene, shall view as in a glass
    The moving pageant of the happy year,
    Fleeting from naked twig and garment sere,
    To wrap itself in snows, to dream and dream
    On budding boughs, and all the elusive gleam
    Of happy rivers kissed
    By sweet, bewildering mist.
    And so to dream again, and rise in power
    To the full glory of a new birth-hour.
    The earth is thine, the starry spaces even,
    The hour is thine, and maketh its own heaven--

I to write a marriage song, I! Shall mortal man hymn worthily his own
love? Yet here is the initial note, the first faint stammering.
Remember this, my love, my lady, my soul,--if I had known what your
consent would be, I could never have waited for it all these years,
here in the still woods. I should have died of hunger. Think of it! one
only can bring bread for me, one only give me to drink. Be merciful to
me, my bread-giver! One word--not on paper! One minute--let me see you
alone!

[Sidenote: Zoe Montrose to Francis Hume]

Do not write verse until you fail to express yourself in prose. Verse
should glide full-winged over the surface of the waters where the
spirit of God lies sleeping. It should deal carelessly with poor things
like prepositions and pronouns. They are but the spray-bubbles beaten
back by its wings. Your smaller words are staffs falling as regularly
and heavily as a tread on a board walk. Your phrases march; they do not
fly. You will say that these lines were written under a pressure of
strong emotion; but that's no reason. So might a prosy divine put forth
