in the voluminous sleeves of the smart 
brown cassock. Other people watched 
those hands too they seemed to poss 
a magnetism of their own ; and everv one 

showed this priest great deference : he was 
one of the most successful disciplinarians 
in the Department of California, a bril 
liant speaker, an able adviser in matters 
of state, and a man of many social graces. 


" More agreeable to meet in the sala of 
the Mission than in a cave at midnight
thought Roldan. "Still " His scent for 
danger, particularly if it involved a match 
ing of wits, was very keen. 

The word was given. The race began. 
The dons shouted, the lovely faces between 
the bright folds of the rebosos flushed ex 
pectantly. From the black mass of Indians 
opposite came a mighty gurgle, which grad 
ually broke into a roar, 

" The black ! Fifty hides on the black ! " 

"The little bronze! She is a length 
ahead! Maclre cle dios! Six doubloons 
of Mexico on the little bronze ! " 

The priest pushed his way to the 
speaker, a wealthy ranchero who had been 
more than once to Mexico. 

" The white against the bronze, senor," 
he said. " Twenty otter skins to the six 
doubloons of Mexico." 

" Done, your reverence. I am honoured 
that you bet with me. But the white 
have you thought well, my father? " 

"She breathes well, and her legs are 
very clean." 



 

" True, my father, but look at the 
muscles of the little bronze. How they 
swell ! And the fire in the nostrils ! " 

" True, Don Jaime ; and if she wins, the 
skins are yours." 

As the horses darted down the track 
almost neck to neck, the excitement 
routed Spanish dignity. The dons stood 
up in their saddles, shouting and betting 
furiously. The women clapped their white 
idle hands, and cheered, and bet but 
with less recklessness : a small jewel or a 
second-best mantilla. As they could not 
remember what they had bet when the 
excitement was over, these debts were never 
paid ; but it pleased them mightily to 
make their little wagers. The men were 
betting ranchitas, horses, cattle, and, finally, 
their jewels and saddles and serapes. For 
each horse represented a different district 
of the Department, and there was much 
rivalry. 

The priest did not shout, and he made 
no more bets, but his eyes never left those 
figures speeding like arrows from the bow, 
the riders motionless as if but the effigies
of men strapped to the creatures of 
fire beneath. Sometimes the black gained, 
then the little bronze; once the white 
dashed a full three yards beyond his
fellows, and Roldan saw the great hands of 
the priest, which had been clinched against 
his shoulders, open spasmodically, then 
close harder than ever as the white quickly 
dropped back again. 

It was a very close race. The excite 
ment grew tense and painful. Even Rol 
dan felt it finally, and forgot the priest. 
The big bronze had quite dropped out 
of it and was lagging homeward, hardly 
greeted by a hiss. The others were almost 
neck and neck, the little bronze slightly in 
the lead. "She wins," thought Roldan, 
"No! No! The black! the black! Ay, 
no, the bronze! but no! no! Ay! Ay! 
Ay!" A roar went up that ended in a 
shriek. The black had won. 

Roldan looked at the priest. His skin 
was livid, his nostrils twitching. But his 
mouth and eyes told nothing. 

The crowd rode home, still excited, 
gay, cheerful. Their losses mattered not. 



 

Were not their acres numbered by the 
hundred thousand ? Did they not have 
more horses and cattle than they would 
ever count ? In those days of pleasure 
and plenty, of luxury and unconsidered 
generosity, a rancho, a caponara the less, 
meant a loss neither to be felt nor 
remembered. 

After the bountiful supper the guests 
loitered for a time in the courtyard, then 
the sala was cleared and the dance began. 
Several of the girls danced alone, while 
the caballeros clapped and shouted. Then 
all waltzed or took part in their only square 
dance, the contradanza. They kept it up 
until morning. Needless to say, our 
heroes went to bed at an early hour. 

They were up the next morning with 
the dawn, and in company with Rafael and 
the other guests of their own age, went for 
their canter. This time they avoided the 
hills behind the Mission, as they had no 
wish to share their secret, and a chance 
word might divulge all. They rode toward 
the hills at the head of the valley. Roldan 
was still the hero of the hour, and Rafael, 



 

although the most generous of boys, 
resented it a little. He was not without 
ambitions of his own, and determined to 
seize the first opportunity to remind his 
companions that the son of Don Tiburcio 
Carillo, the greatest ranchero of that
section of the Californias, had not the habit 
to occupy the humble position of tag- 
behind even to so brilliant and adventur 
ous a guest as Rolclan Castaiiada. 

He soon found his opportunity. 

As they reached the first hill they saw a 
bull feeding on its summit. " Aha ! " cried 
the young don of the Rancho Encarna- 
cion. " Now I will make for you a little 
morning entertainment, my friends. Col- 
iar! coliar!" 

"No! no! "cried the boys. "The hill 
is too steep. It is like the side of a 
house. You will break your neck, my 
friend." 

Roldan said : " It is dangerous, but it 
could be done." 

" I can do it," said Rafael, proudly, 
"and I shall." 

The other boys, good sportsmen as they 



 

all were, shouted, " No ! no ! " again ; but 
Rafael laughed gaily, and forced his horse 
up the almost perpendicular declivity, l
eisurely unwinding his lariat from the high 
pommel of his saddle, and tossing it into 
big snake-like loops, which he gathered 
one by one into his hand, the last about 
his thumb. The bull fed on unsuspecting, 
for the early green of winter was very de 
licious after eight months of unrelenting 
sunshine. When Rafael reached the summit
he rode back for some distance, then 
came at the bull full charge, yelling like 
a demon. The bull, terrified and indig 
nant, gave a mighty snort and leaped over 
the brow of the hill. It was much like 
descending the slightly inclined side of a 
cliff, but he kept his footing. The boys 
held their breath as Rafael rode straight 
over the brow in the wake of the bull. 
With one hand he held the bridle in a 
tight grip, in the other he held aloft the 
coils of the lariat. It looked like a huge 
snake, and quivered as if aware that it was 
about to spring. There was no cheering; 
the boys were too much alarmed. A mis- 



 

step and there would be a hideous heap 
at the foot of the hill. 

The little mustang appeared scarcely to 
touch the uneven surface of the descent. 
He looked as if galloping in air, and 
tossed his head fiercely as though to shake 
the rising sun out of his eyes. The bull 
seemed continually gathering himself for 
a great leap, his clumsy bulk heaving from 
side to side. But a quarter of the distance 
had been traversed when the great curves 
of the lasso sprang forward, and, amidst a 
hoarse murmur from the boys, caught the 
bull below the horns. But that was all. 
The bull would not down ! There would 
be no coliar! He merely ran on the 
brute! the beast! jerking his horns 
defiantly, putting down his head, nearly 
dragging Rafael from the saddle. But 
no ! but no ! Rafael has risen in his saddle, 
he has forced his mustang the harder, he 
is almost level with the bull he has 
passed ! He gives a great jerk, dragging 
the bull to his knees, then another, and 
the bull is on his side and rolling over and 
over down the hill, Rafael following fast, 



 

slackening his lariat. The boys now cheer 
wildly, although danger is not over yes, 
in another moment it is, and Rafael, smiling
complacently, is at the foot of the hill, 
disengaging the humbled bull. 

" Bravo ! " said a voice from behind the 
horses. All turned with a start. It was 
the priest. " Coliar was never better 
done," he added graciously; and Rafael 
felt that the day was his. 

The priest had ridden up unnoted in 
the tense excitement of the last few mo 
ments. He sat a big powerful horse, and 
his bearing was as military as that of the 
two great generals of the Californias, 
Castro and Vallejo. 

As the boys, congratulations and modest 
acknowledgement over, were making for 
home and breakfast, the priest pressed his 
horse close to Roldan's. " I interested 
you much at the race yesterday, Don 
Roldan," he said, with a good-humoured 
smile. "Why was that?" 

Roldan was not often embarrassed, but 
he was so taken aback at the abrupt sally 
he forgot to be flattered-that the priest had 



 

evidently thought it worth while to inquire 
his name ; and stammered : " I well, you 
see, my father, you are not like other 
priests." Which was not undiplomatic. 

The priest smiled, this time with a faint 
flush of unmistakable pleasure. " You are 
right, my son, I am not as other priests in 
this wilderness. Would to Heaven I were, 
or " 

" Or that you were in Spain ? " Roldan 
could not resist saying, then caught his 
breath at his temerity. 

The priest turned about and faced him 
squarely. " Yes," he said deliberately, 
" and that I were a cardinal of Rome. 
Such words I have never uttered to mortal 
before; but if I am not as other men, neither 
are you as other lads. Some day you will 
be a Castro or an Alvarado; it is written 
in your face. Perhaps something more, 
for changes may come and your oppor 
tunities be greater. But I I am no 
longer young ; there is no hope in 
California for me." 

" Why do you not return to Spain ? " 

" I have written. They will not answer. 



 

In my youth I was wild. They forced 
me to come here. I had no money. I 
was obliged to obey. I have christianised 
a few hundred worthless savages who were 
better off in their barbarism, and I have 
made myself a power among a few thou 
sand men of whom the outer world, the 
great world, knows nothing. My Mission 
is the most prosperous in the Californias 
and I " he set and ground his teeth. 
Roldan thought of the gold. "When 
I am governor of the Californias, my 
father," he said, " I shall send you back to 
Spain, for then I shall have great
influence and much o^old." 



At the last word the priest's eyes flamed 
with so fierce a light that Roldan shrank 
back repelled, feeling himself in the pres 
ence of a passion of which he had no 
knowledge. But the priest controlled him 
self at once. " Thank you, my son," he 
said with a brilliant smile. " And I do 
not ask you to guard as your own what I 
have said. It is a part of the power of 
such natures as yours that you know what 
to repeat and what to leave unsaid." Then 

as they approached the house he suddenly 
took Roldan's slender elegant hand in one 
of his mighty paws, shook it heartily, and 
flinging his bridle to a vaquero, sprang 
lightly to the ground and entered the 
courtyard, leaving our hero in a condition 
of flattered bewilderment. 



XVI 

THAT day there was to be a grand 
rodeo, or " round-up : " the branding 
of cattle ; not only of the stock belonging 
to Don Tiburcio, but of many of his neigh 
bours, which would be driven over to his 
rancho for the operation. This was one 
of the great occasions of the year. Im 
mediately after breakfast the neighbours 
began to arrive, magnificently mounted, 
sparkling with gold and silver lace, their 
wives and daughters each surrounded by 
her cavalcade. About ten the gorgeous 
company, led by the host, started for an 
immense corral about three miles from 
the house. The boys were well to the 
front, and established themselves on the 
wall of the corral. The rest of the party 
remained on their horses, but mounted the 
little slopes. The green winter landscape 



 

had suddenly become a blaze of colour, 
and never was there a more animated 
scene. Over all hung a light haze. The 
distant mountains, which could be seen 
from the outer valley, were almost invisible.
The priest, a huge brown figure, on 
his big brown horse, stood on the very 
apex of the highest knoll. 

Presently, from various directions rose 
a low deep murmur, then a rumble of 
growing volume as of an approaching 
earthquake. Men and women grasped 
their bridles with firmer fingers, and 
pressed still nearer to the crests of the 
many mounds. Then over the hills on 
every side came a mass of tossing horns 
