I said that I saw, but I had suddenly a wild wish that it were
practicable for me to speak to Miss Gage.  I should have liked to have a
peep into a girl’s heart at just such a moment, when it must be quivering
with the unconfessed sense of love, and the confident hope of being
loved, but while as yet nothing was assured, nothing was ascertained.  If
it would not have been shocking, if it would not have been sacrilegious,
it would have been infinitely interesting, and from an æsthetic point of
view infinitely important.  I thought that I should have been willing to
undergo all the embarrassment of such an inquiry for the sake of its
precious results, if it had been at all possible; but I acquiesced that
it would not be possible.  I felt that I was getting off pretty lightly
not to have it brought home to me again that I was the cause of all this
trouble, and that if it had not been for me there would have been, as far
as Mrs. March was concerned, no Miss Gage, and no love-affair of hers to
deal with.  I debated in my mind a moment whether I had better urge her
to let me speak to Kendricks after all; but I forbore, and in the morning
I waited about in much perturbation, after I had sent Miss Gage to her,
until I could know the result of their interview.  When I saw the girl
come away from her room, which she did rather trippingly, I went to her,
and found her by no means the wreck I had expected the ordeal to leave
her.
“Did you meet Miss Gage?” she asked.
“Yes,” I returned, with tremulous expectation.
“Well, don’t you think she looks perfectly divine in that gown?  It’s one
of Mme. Cody’s, and we got it for thirty dollars.  It would have been
fifty in New York, and it was, here, earlier in the season.  I shall
always come here for some of my things; as soon as the season’s a little
past they simply fling them away.  Well, my dear!”
“Well, what?”
“I didn’t speak to her after all.”
“You didn’t!  Don’t you think she’s in love with him, then?”
“Dead.”
“Well?”
“Well, I couldn’t somehow seem to approach the subject as I had expected
to.  She was so happy, and so good, and so perfectly obedient, that I
couldn’t get anything to take hold of.  You see, I didn’t know but she
might be a little rebellious, or resentful of my interference; but in the
little gingerly attempts I did make she was so submissive, don’t you
understand?  And she was very modest about Mr. Kendricks’ attentions, and
so self-depreciatory that, well—”
“Look here, Isabel,” I broke in, “this is pretty shameless of you.  You
pretend to be in the greatest kind of fidge about this girl; and you make
me lie awake all night thinking what you’re going to say to her; and now
you as much as tell me you were so fascinated with the modest way she was
in love that you couldn’t say anything to her against being in love on
our hands in any sort of way.  Do you call this business?”
“Well, I don’t care if I did encourage her—”
“Oh, you even encouraged her!”
“I didn’t encourage her.  I merely praised Mr. Kendricks, and said how
much you thought of him as a writer.”
“Oh! then you gave the subject a literary cast.  I see!  Do you think
Miss Gage was able to follow you?”
“That doesn’t matter.”
“And what do you propose to do now?”
“I propose to do nothing.  I think that I have done all my duty requires,
and that now I can leave the whole affair to you.  It was your affair in
the beginning.  I don’t see why I should worry myself about it.”
“It seems to me that this is a very strange position for a lady to take
who was not going to close an eye last night in view of a situation which
has not changed in the least, except for the worse.  Don’t you think you
are rather culpably light-hearted all of a sudden?”
“I am light-hearted, but if there is any culpability it is yours, Basil.”
I reflected, but I failed to find any novelty in the fact.  “Very well,
then; what do you propose that I should do?”
“I leave that entirely to your own conscience.”
“And if my conscience has no suggestion to make?”
“That’s your affair.”
I reflected again, and then I said, more than anything to make her
uncomfortable, I’m afraid: “I feel perfectly easy in my conscience,
personally, but I have a social duty in the matter, and I hope I shall
perform it with more fidelity and courage than you have shown.  I shall
speak to Kendricks.”
She said: “That is just what you ought to do.  I’m quite surprised.”
After this touch of irony she added earnestly, “And I do hope, my dear,
you will use judgment in speaking to him, and tact.  You mustn’t go at it
bluntly.  Remember that Mr. Kendricks is not at all to blame.  He began
to show her attention to oblige us, and if she has fallen in love with
him it is our fault.”
“I shall handle him without gloves,” I said.  “I shall tell him he had
better go away.”
I was joking, but she said seriously, “Yes; he must go away.  And I don’t
envy you having to tell him.  I suppose you will bungle it, of course.”
“Well, then, you must advise me,” I said; and we really began to consider
the question.  We could hardly exaggerate the difficulty and delicacy of
the duty before me.  We recognised that before I made any explicit demand
of him I must first ascertain the nature of the whole ground and then be
governed by the facts.  It would be simple enough if I had merely to say
that we thought the girl’s affections were becoming engaged, and then
appeal to his eager generosity, his delicate magnanimity; but there were
possible complications on his side which must be regarded.  I was to
ascertain, we concluded, the exact nature of the situation before I
ventured to say anything openly.  I was to make my approaches by a series
of ambushes before I unmasked my purpose, and perhaps I must not unmask
it at all.  As I set off on my mission, which must begin with finding
Kendricks at his hotel, Mrs. March said she pitied me.  She called me
back to ask whether I thought I had really better do anything.  Then, as
I showed signs of weakening, she drove me from her with, “Yes, yes!  You
must!  You must!”
XVII
IT was still so early that I had my doubts whether I should find
Kendricks up after the last night’s revelry, but he met me half-way
between our hotel and his.  He said he was coming to see how Mrs. March
was bearing Miss Gage’s immense success at the ball; but perhaps this was
not his sole motive.  He asked frankly how the young lady was, and
whether I thought Mrs. March would consider a lunch at a restaurant by
the lake a good notion.  When I said I had very little doubt she would,
and proposed taking a turn in the park before I went back with him, he
looked at his watch and laughed, and said he supposed it was rather
early yet, and came very willingly with me.
We had the pretty place almost to ourselves at that hour.  There were a
half-dozen or so nursemaids, pushing their perambulators about, or
standing the vehicles across the walk in front of the benches where they
sat, in the simple belief of all people who have to do with babies that
the rest of the world may be fitly discommoded in their behalf.  But they
did not actively molest us, and they scarcely circumscribed our choice of
seats.  We were by no means driven to the little kiosk in the lake for
them, and I should rather say that we were fatefully led there, so apt
were the associations of the place to my purpose.  Nothing could have
been more natural than that I should say, as we sat down there, “This was
where I first saw Miss Gage with her friends”; and it was by a perfectly
natural transition that I should go on to speak, in a semi-humorous
strain, of the responsibility which Mrs. March and myself had incurred by
letting our sympathy for her run away with us.  I said I supposed that if
we had not been willing from the first to try to realise for her some of
the expectations we imagined she had in coming to Saratoga, she never
would have fallen to our charge; that people really brought a great many
more things upon themselves than they were willing to own; and that fate
was perhaps more the fulfilment of our tacit ambitions than our overt
acts.  This bit of philosophy, which I confess I thought fine, did not
seem to impress Kendricks.  He merely said that it must be great fun to
have the chance of baffling the malice of circumstance in a case like
that, and I perceived that he felt nothing complex in the situation.  In
fact, I doubt whether youth perceives anything complex in life.  To the
young, life is a very plain case.  To be sure, they are much more alarmed
than their elders at getting tangled up in its web at times, but that is
because they have not had our experience in getting untangled, and think
they are never going to get out alive.  When they do, they think that it
is the only tangle they are ever going to be in, and do not know that
they are simply going on from one to another as long as there is enough
of them left to be caught in a mesh.  To Kendricks we Marches were simply
two amiable people, who had fancied doing a pleasant thing for a
beautiful girl that accident had thrown it in our power to befriend, and
were by no means the trembling arbiters of her destiny we felt ourselves
to be.  The difference between his objective sense and my subjective
sense was the difference between his twenty-seven years and my fifty-two,
and while this remained I saw that it would be useless to try to get on
common ground with him, or to give him our point of view.  If I were to
speak to him at all, it must be with authority, with the right of one who
stood in the place of the girl’s parents, and had her happiness at heart.
That is, it was something like that; but my words say it too bluntly.  I
found myself beginning, “I have rather had a notion that her father might
come on, and take the enterprise off our hands,” though, to tell the
truth, I had never imagined such a thing, which came into my head at that
moment through an association with the thought of parents.
“Have you any idea what sort of man he is?” asked Kendricks.
“Oh, some little local magnate, president of the village and president of
the village bank; I fancy the chief figure in the place, but probably as
ignorant of our world as a Cherokee.”
“Well, I don’t know,” said the young fellow.  “Do you think that follows
because he doesn’t live in it?”  I could see that he did not quite like
what I had said.  “I suppose ours is rather a small world.”
“The smallest of all worlds,” I answered.  “And in the eyes of Papa Gage,
if they could once be focused upon it, our world would shrivel to an
atom.”
“Do you think,” he asked, with a manifest anxiety, “that it would in
hers?”
“No; she is not the American people, and her father is, as I fancy him.
I make out from the vague hints that Brother Deering (as Fulkerson would
call him) dropped when he talked about him that Papa Gage is a shrewd,
practical, home-keeping business man, with an eye single to the main
chance, lavish, but not generous, Philistine to the backbone, blindly
devoted to his daughter, and contemptuous of all the myriad mysteries of
civilisation that he doesn’t understand.  I don’t know why I should be
authorised to imagine him personally long and lank, with possibly a
tobacco habit of some sort.  His natural history, upon no better
authority, is that of a hard-headed farmer, who found out that farming
could never be more than a livelihood, and came into the village, and
began to lend money, and get gain, till he was in a position to help
found the De Witt Point National Bank, and then, by weight of his moneyed
solidity, imposed himself upon the free and independent voters of the
village—a majority of them under mortgage to him—and became its
president.  It isn’t a pleasant type, but it’s ideally American.”
“Yes,” said Kendricks ruefully.
“But his daughter,” I continued, “is probably altogether different.
There is something fine about her—really fine.  Our world wouldn’t
shrivel in her eye; it would probably swell up and fill the universe,” I
added by an impulse that came from nowhere irresistibly upon me: “that
is, if she could see you in it.”
“What do you mean?” he asked with a start.
“Oh, now I must tell you what I mean,” I said desperately.  “It’s you
that have complicated this case so dreadfully for us.  Can’t you think
why?”
“No, I can’t,” he said; but he had to say that.
His fine, sensitive face flamed at once so fire-red that it could only
turn pale for a change when I plunged on: “I’m afraid we’ve trifled with
her happiness”; and this formulation of the case disgusted me so much
that I laughed wildly, and added, “unless we’ve trifled with yours, too.”
“I don’t know why you call it trifling with happiness,” he returned with
dignity, but without offence.  “If you will leave her out of the
question, I will say that you have given me the greatest happiness of my
life in introducing me to Miss Gage.”
“Now,” I demanded, “may I ask what you mean?  You know I wouldn’t if I
didn’t feel bound for her sake, and if you hadn’t said just what you have
said.  You needn’t answer me unless you like!  It’s pleasant to know that
you’ve not been bored, and Mrs. March and I are infinitely obliged to you
for helping us out.”
Kendricks made as if he were going to say something, and then he did not.
He hung his head lower and lower in the silence which I had to break for
him—“I hope I haven’t been intrusive, my dear fellow.  This is something
I felt bound to speak of.  You know we couldn’t let it go on.  Mrs. March
and I have blamed ourselves a good deal, and we couldn’t let it go on.
But I’m afraid I haven’t been as delicate with you—”
“Oh! delicate!”  He lifted his head and flashed a face of generous
self-reproach upon me.  “It’s I that haven’t been delicate with you.
I’ve been monstrously indelicate.  But I never meant to be, and—and—I was
coming to see you just now when we met—to see you—Miss Gage—and ask
her—tell her that we—I—must tell you and Mrs. March—Mr. March!  At the
hop last night I asked her to be my wife, and as soon as she can hear
from her father—But the first thing when I woke this morning, I saw that
I must tell Mrs. March and you.  And you—you must forgive us—or me,
rather; for it was my fault—for not telling you last night—at once—oh,
thank you! thank you!”
I had seized his hand, and was wringing it vehemently in expression of my
pleasure in what he had told me.  In that first moment I felt nothing but
pure joy and an immeasurable relief.  I drew my breath, a very deep and
full one, in a sudden, absolute freedom from anxieties which had been
none the less real and constant because so often burlesqued.  Afterward
considerations presented themselves to alloy my rapture, but for that
moment, as I say, it was nothing but rapture.  There was no question in
it of the lovers’ fitness for each other, of their acceptability to their
respective families, of their general conduct, or of their especial
behaviour toward us.  All that I could realise was that it was a great
escape for both of us, and a great triumph for me.  I had been afraid
that I should not have the courage to speak to Kendricks of the matter at
all, much less ask him to go away; and here I had actually spoken to him,
with the splendid result that I need only congratulate him on his
engagement to the lady whose unrequited affections I had been wishing him
to spare.  I don’t remember just the terms I used in doing this, but they
seemed satisfactory to Kendricks; probably a repetition of the letters of
the alphabet would have been equally acceptable.  At last I said, “Well,
now I must go and tell the great news to Mrs. March,” and I shook hands
with him again; we had been shaking hands at half-minutely intervals ever
since the first time.
XVIII
I SAW Mrs. March waiting for me on the hotel verandah.  She wore her
bonnet, and she warned me not to approach, and then ran down to meet me.
“Well, my dear,” she said, as she pushed her hand through my arm and
began to propel me away from the sight and hearing of people on the
piazza, “I hope you didn’t make a fool of yourself with Kendricks.
They’re engaged!”
She apparently expected me to be prostrated by this stroke.  “Yes,” I
said very coolly; “I was just coming to tell you.”
“How did you know it?  Who told you?  Did Kendricks?  I don’t believe
it!” she cried in an excitement not unmixed with resentment.
“No one told me,” I said.  “I simply divined it.”
She didn’t mind that for a moment.  “Well, I’m glad he had the grace to
do so, and I hope he did it before you asked him any leading questions.”
Without waiting to hear whether this was so or not, she went on, with an
emphasis on the next word that almost blotted it out of the language,
“She came back to me almost the instant you were gone, and told me
everything.  She said she wanted to tell me last night, but she hadn’t
the courage, and this morning, when she saw that I was beginning to hint
up to Mr. Kendricks a little, she hadn’t the courage at all.  I sent her
straight off to telegraph for her father.  She is behaving splendidly.
And now, what are we going to do?”
“What the rest of the world is—nothing.  It seems to me that we are out
of the story, my dear.  At any rate, I shan’t attempt to compete with
Miss Gage in splendid behaviour, and I hope you won’t.  It would be so
easy for us.  I wonder what Papa Gage is going to be like.”
I felt my thrill of apprehension impart itself to her.  “Yes!” she
gasped; “what if he shouldn’t like it?”
“Well, then, that’s his affair.”  But I did not feel so lightly about it
as I spoke, and from time to time during the day I was overtaken with a
cold dismay at the thought of the unknown quantity in the problem.
When we returned to the hotel after a tour of the block, we saw Kendricks
in our corner of the verandah with Miss Gage.  They were both laughing
convulsively, and they ran down to meet us in yet wilder throes of
merriment.
“We’ve just been comparing notes,” he said, “and at the very moment when
I was telling you, Mr. March, Julia was telling Mrs. March.”
“Wonderful case of telepathy,” I mocked.
“Give it to the Psychical Research.”
They both seemed a little daunted, and Miss Gage said, “I know Mr. March
doesn’t like the way we’ve done.”
“Like it!” cried Mrs. March, contriving to shake me a little with the
hand she still had in my arm.  “Of course he likes it.  He was just
saying you had behaved splendidly.  He said he wouldn’t attempt to
compete with you.  But you mustn’t regard him in the least.”
I admired the skill with which Isabel saved her conscience in this
statement too much to dispute it; and I suppose that whatever she had
said, Miss Gage would have been reassured.  I cannot particularly praise
the wisdom of her behaviour during that day, or, for the matter of that,
the behaviour of Kendricks either.  The ideal thing would have been for
him to keep away now till her father came, but it seemed to me that he
was about under our feet all the while, and that she, so far from making
him remain at his own hotel, encouraged him to pass the time at ours.
Without consulting me, Mrs. March asked him to stay to dinner after he
had stayed all the forenoon, and he made this a pretext for spending the
afternoon in our corner of the verandah.  She made me give it up to him
and Miss Gage, so that they could be alone together, though I must say
they did not seem to mind us a great deal when we were present; he was
always leaning on the back of her chair, or sitting next her with his
hand dangling over it in a manner that made me sick.  I wondered if I was
ever such an ass as that, and I quite lost the respect for Kendricks’s
good sense and good taste which had been the ground of my liking for him.
I felt myself withdrawn from the affair farther and farther in sympathy,
since it had now passed beyond my control; and I resented the strain of
the responsibility which I had thrown off, I found, only for a moment,
and must continue to suffer until the girl’s father appeared and finally
relieved me.  The worst was that I had to bear it alone.  It was
impossible to detach Mrs. March’s interest from Miss Gage, as a girl who
had been made love to, long enough to enable her to realise her as a
daughter with filial ties and duties.  She did try in a perfunctory way
to do it, but I could see that she never gave her mind to it.  I could
not even make her share my sense of my own culpability, a thing she was
only too willing to do in most matters.  She admitted that it was absurd
for me to have let my fancy play about the girl when I first saw her
until we felt that I must do something for her; but I could not get her
to own that we had both acted preposterously in letting Mrs. Deering
leave Miss Gage in our charge.  In the first place, she denied that she
had been left in our charge.  She had simply been left in the hotel where
we were staying, and we should have been perfectly free to do nothing for
her.  But when Kendricks turned up so unexpectedly, it was quite natural
we should ask him to be polite to her.  Mrs. March saw nothing strange in
all that.  What was I worrying about?  What she had been afraid of was
that he had not been in love with the girl when she was so clearly in
love with him.  But now!
“And suppose her father doesn’t like it!”
“Not like Mr. Kendricks!”  She stared at me, and I could see how
infatuated she was.
I was myself always charmed with the young fellow.  He was not only good
and generous and handsome, and clever—I never thought him a first-class
talent—but he was beautifully well bred, and he was very well born, as
those things go with us.  That is, he came of people who had not done
much of anything for a generation, and had acquired merit with themselves
for it.  They were not very rich, but they had a right to think that he
might have done nothing, or done something better than literature; and I
wish I could set forth exactly the terms, tacit and explicit, in which
his mother and sisters condoned his dereliction to me at a reception
where he presented me to them.  In virtue of his wish to do something, he
had become a human being, and they could not quite follow him; but they
were very polite in tolerating me, and trying to make me feel that I was
not at all odd, though he was so queer in being proud of writing for my
paper, as they called it.  He was so unlike them all that I liked him
more than ever after meeting them.  Still, I could imagine a fond father,
as I imagined Miss Gage’s father to be, objecting to him, on some grounds
at least, till he knew him, and Mrs. March apparently could not imagine
even this.
I do not know why I should have prefigured Miss Gage’s father as tall and
lank.  She was not herself so very tall, though she was rather tall than
short, and though she was rather of the Diana or girlish type of goddess,
she was by no means lank.  Yet it was in this shape that I had always
thought of him, perhaps through an obscure association with his
fellow-villager, Deering.  I had fancied him saturnine of spirit,
slovenly of dress, and lounging of habit, upon no authority that I could
allege, and I was wholly unprepared for the neat, small figure of a man,
very precise of manner and scrupulous of aspect, who said, “How do you
do, sir?  I hope I see you well, sir,” when his daughter presented us to
each other, the morning after the eventful day described, and he shook my
hand with his very small, dry hand.
I could not make out from their manner with each other whether they had
been speaking of the great matter in hand or not.  I am rather at a loss
about people of that Philistine make as to what their procedure will be
in circumstances where I know just what people of my own sort of
sophistication would do.  These would come straight at the trouble, but I
fancy that with the other sort the convention is a preliminary reserve.
I found Mr. Gage disposed to prolong, with me at least, a discussion of
the weather, and the aspects of Saratoga, the events of his journey from
De Witt Point, and the hardship of having to ride all the way to Mooer’s
Junction in a stage-coach.  I felt more and more, while we bandied these
futilities, as if Mr. Gage had an overdue note of mine, and was waiting
for me, since I could not pay it, to make some proposition toward its
renewal; and he did really tire me out at last, so that I said, “Well,
Mr. Gage, I suppose Miss Gage has told you something of the tremendous
situation that has developed itself here?”
I thought I had better give the affair such smiling character as a jocose
treatment might impart, and the dry little man twinkled up responsively
so far as manner was concerned.  “Well, yes, yes.  There has been some
talk of it between us,” and again he left the word to me.
“Mrs. March urged your daughter to send for you at once because that was
the right and fit thing to do, and because we felt that the affair had
now quite transcended our powers, such as they were, and nobody could
really cope with it but yourself.  I hope you were not unduly alarmed by
the summons?”
“Not at all.  She said in the despatch that she was not sick.  I had been
anticipating a short visit to Saratoga for some days, and my business was
in a shape so that I could leave.”
“Oh!” I said vaguely, “I am very glad.  Mrs. March felt, as I did, that
circumstances had given us a certain obligation in regard to Miss Gage,
and we were anxious to discharge it faithfully and to the utmost.  We
should have written to you, summoned you, before, if we could have
supposed—or been sure; but you know these things go on so obscurely, and
we acted at the very first possible moment.  I wish you to understand
that.  We talked it over a great deal, and I hope you will believe that
we studied throughout—that we were most solicitous from beginning to end
for Miss Gage’s happiness, and that if we could have foreseen or
imagined—if we could have taken any steps—I trust you will believe—”  I
was furious at myself for being so confoundedly apologetic, for I was
thinking all the time of the bother and affliction we had had with the
girl; and there sat that little wooden image accepting my
