be misused. Yet it is said that he was afterwards of 
the Council which declared that there had been no 
marriage. 

So, being sure, the Queen went to the King and 
told him to his face that she had meant to marry a 
king, and not a monk as he was, and that she had 
now found out that her marriage was no marriage, 
wherefore he was living in mortal sin ; and if he 
would save his soul he must repudiate her as soon 
as they should have returned to France. At this 
the King was overcome with grief and wept bit- 
terly, not because he was to be delivered from the 
woman of Belial, as he had prayed, . but because he 
had unwittingly lived in such great sin so many 
years. She laughed and went away, leaving him 
weeping. 

From that time she spent her days and her even- 
ings in consultation with Count Raymond, and they 
were continually closeted together in her apartment, 
which was in one of the western towers of the palace 
and looked out over the city walls towards the sea. 
It was early spring, and the air smelt of Syrian 
flowers and was tender to breathe. 

Although the King was now sure that Eleanor was 
not his wife, he continued to be very jealous of her, 
because he had once loved her in his dull fashion, 
and she was very beautiful. Therefore, when he was 
not praying, he was watching and spying, to see 
whether she were alone with Count Raymond. Cer- 
tain writers have spoken of the great Saladin at this 
time, saying that she met him secretly, for the de- 





liverance of her kinsman Sandebeuil de Sanzay, who 
had been taken prisoner, and that she loved Saladin 
for his generosity, and that the King was jealous of 
him ; which things are lies, because Saladin was at 
that time but seven years old. 

Daily, as he watched, the King grew very sure that 
Raymond loved Eleanor, and he swore by his hope 
of salvation that such things should not be. In this 
way the feast of Easter passed, and there were great 
rejoicings, and feastings, and all manner of delight. 
Also during this time Gilbert saw Beatrix freely, so 
that their love grew more and more ; but he seldom 
spoke with the Queen, and then briefly. 

Now Eleanor lived in the western tower, and only 
one staircase led up to the vestibule of her apartments, 
by which way Count Raymond came, and the great 
nobles when she summoned them, and the guards 
also. But beyond her inner chamber there was a 
door opening into the long wing of the palace where 
all her ladies were lodged, and by that door she went 
to them and they came to her. Often the Lady 
Anne came in, and Beatrix, and some of the others 
who were more especially her familiars, and they 
found the Queen and Count Raymond sitting in 
chairs, and talking without constraint, and some- 
times playing at chess by the open window which 
looked out on the west balcony. They thought no 
evil, for they knew that he had become her counsel- 
lor in the matter of the repudiation ; and Beatrix 
cared not, for she knew well that the Queen loved 
Gilbert, and she never saw him there. 

On an evening in the week after Easter the King 



 

determined that he would see the Queen himself and 
tell her his mind. He therefore took two nobles for 
an escort, with torchbearers and a few guards ; and 
when he had descended into the main court, he 
walked across to the west side and went up into 
Eleanor's tower ; for he would not go through the 
ladies' wing, lest his eyes should see some fair and 
noble maiden, or some young dame of great beauty, 
whereby his pious thoughts might be disturbed ever 
so little. 

Having come to the vestibule, he demanded admit- 
tance to the Queen's chamber ; and the young Lord 
of Sanzay, who was in waiting, begged him to wait 
while he himself inquired if the Queen were at leis- 
ure. Then the King was angry, and said that he 
waited for no one, and he went forward to go in. 
But Sanzay stood before the door and bade the 
Gascon guards form in rank and keep it till he 
should come back. The King saw that he had 
small chance of forcing a way, and he stood still, 
repeating some prayers the while, lest he should 
draw his sword and fight, out of sheer anger. Then 
Sanzay came back. 

"My lord King," he said in a clear voice, "her 
Grace bids me say that she has no leisure now, and 
that when she has need of a monk she will send 
for him." 

At the great insult, swords were out as soon as the 
words, and the broken reflections of steel flashed red 
under the high lamps and in the torchlight ; for the 
King drew to strike down Sanzay where he stood, and 
his nobles and guards drew with him, while the Gas- 





cons were as quick as they. But Sanzay would not 
draw his sword, for he had once saved the King's life 
in battle, and he thought it not knightly. Then 
some blows were exchanged and blood was shed ; but 
presently, being at a disadvantage, the King stepped 
back and lowered his point. 

" Sirs," he said, " it is not seemly that we of the 
Cross should kill one another. Let us go." 

When Sanzay heard this, he called his guards back, 
and the King went away discomfited. In the court- 
yard he turned aside and sat down upon a great 
stone seat. 

" Fetch me Sir Gilbert Warde," he said, " and let 
him come quickly." 

He waited silently till the knight came and stood 
before him in his surcoat and mantle, with only his 
dagger in his belt ; and the King bade all his at- 
tendants go away to a distance, leaving a torch 
stuck in the ring in the wall. 

He desired of Gilbert that he should take a force 
of trusted men who would obey him, and go up the 
west tower to bring the Queen out a prisoner ; for he 
would not stay in Antioch another night, nor leave 
her behind, and he meant to ride down to the har- 
bour and take ship for Ptolemais, leaving the army 
to follow him on the morrow. But for a space 
Gilbert answered nothing. 

At first it seemed to him impossible to do such a 
deed, and but for courtesy he would have turned on his 
heel and left the King sitting there. But as he stood 
thinking, it seemed to him that he had better seem to 
obey, and go and warn the Queen of her danger. 




' FOK A SPACE GILBERT ANSWERED NOTHING ' 



 

"My lord," he answered at last, "I will go." 

Though he said not what he would do, the King 
was satisfied, and rose and went toward his own 
apartments, to order his departure. 

Then Gilbert went and sought out ten knights 
whom he knew, and each of them called ten of their 
men-at-arms, and they took their swords with them, 
and torches ; but Gilbert had only his dagger, for 
those he had chosen were all of them Queen's men 
and would have died for her. So they went together 
up the broad steps of the tower, and the Gascons heard 
the hundred footfalls in fear and much trembling, 
supposing that the King had come back with" a great 
force to slay them and go in. Then Sanzay drew 
his sword and stood at the head of the stairs, 
bidding his men keep the narrow way till they 
should all be dead for the Queen's sake. They 
were Gascons, and were ready to die, but they held 
their breath as they listened to the steady tramping 
on the stone steps below. 

In the torchlight they saw Gilbert's face, and 
the faces of Queen's men, and that there were no 
swords out ; nevertheless, they kept theirs drawn 
and stood in the doorway, and on the landing 
Gilbert stood still, for they did not make way for 
him. 

" Sir Gilbert," said Sanzay, " I am here to keep 
the Queen's door, and though we be friends, I shall 
not let you pass while I live, if you mean her any 
violence." 

"Sir," answered Gilbert, "I come unarmed, as 
you see, and by no means to fight with you. I pray 





you, sir, go in and tell the Queen that I am without, 
and have her men with me, and would speak with 
her for her safety." 

Then Sanzay bade his men stand back, and the 
knights and men-at-arms crowded the vestibule, 
while he went in ; and immediately he came out 
again, with a clear face. 

" The Queen is alone, and bids the Guide of 
Aquitaine pass," he said. 

All stood aside, and he, taller than they, and 
grave and keen of face, went in ; and the door was 
closed behind him, and within that there was a 
heavy Eastern curtain, so that no voices could be 
heard from one side to the other. 

Eleanor sat under the warm lamplight, near the 
open window, for the night was warm. Her head 
was uncovered, her russet-golden hair fell in great 
waves upon her shoulders and to the ground behind 
her chair, and she wore no mantle, but only a close- 
fitting gown of cream-white silk with deep em- 
broideries of silver and pearls. She was very 
beautiful, but very pale, and her eyes were veiled. 
Gilbert came and stood before her, but she did not 
hold out her hand, as he had expected. 

" Why have you come to me ? " she asked after a 
time, looking out at the balcony, and not at him. 

"The King, Madam, has bidden me take you a 
prisoner to him, in order that he may carry you 
away by sea to Ptolemais and to Jerusalem." 

While he was speaking, she slowly turned her face 
to him, and stared at his coldly. 

" And you are come to do as you are bidden, get- 



 

ting admittance to me stealthily, with men of my own 
who have betrayed me ? " 

Gilbert turned white, and then he smiled as he 
answered her. 

"No. I am come to warn your Grace and to 
defend you against all violence, with my life." 

Eleanor's face changed and softened, and again she 
looked out at the balcony. 

"Why should you defend me?" she asked sadly, 
after a pause. " What am I to you, that you should 
fight for me? I sent you out to die — why should 
you wish me to be safe ? " 

"You have been the best friend to me, and the 
kindest, that ever woman was to man." 

"A friend? No. I was never your friend. I 
sent you out to death, because I loved you, and 
trusted that I might see you never again, and that 
you might die honourably for the Cross and your 
vows. Instead, you won glory, and saved us all — 
all but me ! You owe me no thanks for such friend- 
ship." 

She looked at him long, and he was silent. 

" Oh, what a man you are ! " she cried suddenly. 
" What a man ! " 

He blushed like a girl at the praise, for her soul 
was in the words, and her great love for him, the 
only thing in all her life that had ever been above 
herself. 

" What a man you are ! " she said again, more 
softly. " Eleanor of Aquitaine, the Queen, the fair- 
est woman in the world, would give you her soul and 
her body and the hope of her life to come — and you 





are faithful to a poor girl whom you loved when you 
were a boy ! A hundred thousand brave men stand 
by to see me die, and you alone take death by the 
throat and strangle him off, as you would strangle a 
bloodhound, with those hands of yours ! I send you 
out — oh, how selfishly ! — that you may at least 
die bravely for your vow and leave me at sad peace 
with your memory, and you fight through a hell of 
foes and save the King and me and all, and come 
back to me in glory — my Guide of Aquitaine ! " 

She had risen and stood before him, her face dead 
white with passion, and her eyes deep-fired by a love 
that was beyond any telling. And though she would 
not move, her arms went out toward him. 

" How can any woman help loving you ! " she 
cried passionately. 

She sank into her chair again, and covered her face 
with her hands. He stood still a moment, and then 
came and knelt on one knee beside her, resting his 
hand upon the carved arm of her chair. 

"I cannot love you, but in so far as I may be 
faithful to another I give you my whole life," he 
said very gently. 

As he spoke the last words, the curtain of the 
inner apartments was softly raised, and Beatrix 
stood there ; for she had thought that the Queen 
was alone. But she heard not the beginning of the 
speech, and she grew quite cold, and could not speak 
nor go away. 

Eleanor's hands left her face and fell together upon 
Gilbert's right. 

" I have not mine to give," she answered in a low 



 

voice. " It is yours already — and I would that you 
were not English, that I might be your sovereign 
and make you great among men — or that I were 
England's Queen — and that may come to pass, and 
you shall see what I will do for love of you — I 
would marry that boy of the Plantagenets, if it 
could serve you ! " 

"Madam," said Gilbert, "think of your own 
present safety — the King is very angry — " 

" Did I think of your safety when I sent you out 
to lead us? Now if you are here, am I not safe? 
Gilbert — " 

She let her voice caress his name, and her lips 
lingered with it, and she laid her hands upon his 
shoulders. As he knelt beside her — she bent to his 
face. 

" Best and bravest living man " — it was a whisper 
now — " love of my life — heart of my heart — this 
last time — this only once — and then good-by." 

She kissed him on the forehead, and leapt from 
her seat in horror, for there was another voice in the 
room, with a hurt cry. 

"Oh, Gilbert! Gilbert!" 

Beatrix was reeling on her feet, and caught the 
curtain, lest she fall, and her face of agony was still 
turned toward the two, as they stood together. Gil- 
bert sprang forward, when he understood, and caught 
the girl in his arms and brought her to the light, 
trembling like a falling leaf. Then she started in 
his arms and struggled wildly to be free, and twisted 
her neck lest he should kiss her; but he held her 
fast. 





" Beatrix ! You do not understand — you did not 
hear ! " He tried to make her listen to Mm. 

"I heard ! " she cried, still struggling. "I saw ! I 
know ! Let me go — oh, for God's sake, let me go ! " 

Gilbert's arms relaxed, and she sprang back from 
him two paces, and faced the Queen. 

" You have won ! " she cried, in a breaking Toice. 
" You have him body and soul, as you swore you 
