"Yes, we will go back. Have you ever been as far as this before?"

"No."

"Then we had better not say anything about it. Your papa might not
like it."

"All right, Ernest. Will you read to me when you go back?"

"Yes, Frank."

Ernest was glad to comply with the little boy's request, as he thought
he might in this way put the thoughts of their exploration out of his
mind.

They were fortunate enough to get back without exciting the attention
of Juba, who was busy in the kitchen.

Her work, however, was soon over, and she brought her sewing into the
room where the two boys were seated. The garment on which she was
engaged seemed to be a dress of rough cloth.

"Well, Massa Frank, what am you doing?"

"Ernest is reading to me. Why don't you ever read to me, Juba?"

"O lor', chile, you know I can't read."

"But why can't you read? You're old enough."

"Yes, honey, I'm old enough, but I never had no chance to learn."

"Why didn't you?" persisted Frank. "Didn't you go to school when you
was little?"

"No, chile, never went to school. They didn't have no schools where I
was raised."

"Where was that?"

"In ole Virginny."

"Were you a slave, Juba?" asked Ernest, getting interested.

"Yes, massa, I was a slave."

"And how did you get here?"

"It was all along of the war. Ole massa, he went to the war and got
killed. Then young massa went, and he got killed, too. Then one day
there came an officer--one of Abe Linkum's officers--and he told us we
were free and might go where we pleased. That was a drefful time."

"Why was it dreadful? Weren't you glad to be free?" asked Ernest.

"No, honey, we didn't know where to go, nor what to do. We'd allus had
some one to look after us and take care of us, but now there wasn't
anybody."

"Were you married, Juba?"

"Yes, but I don't know whether my ole man is livin' or not. He was
sold down in Georgie, to a cousin of ole massa."

"Then he may be living yet?"

"Yes, honey."

"How old are you, Juba?" asked Frank.

"I don't know, chile. I's powerful old. Specs I's a hundred."

Ernest smiled.

"No, Juba," he said, "you are not nearly a hundred. You may be sixty."

"All right, massa, you know best."

"Juba, did you ever hear about Uncle Tom?"

"Yes, chile, I knew Uncle Tom," was the unexpected reply. "He was
raised on Mr. Jackson's place, next to ours."

Ernest asked some questions about this Uncle Tom, but learned, as he
expected, that it was quite a different person from the negro
immortalized by Mrs. Stowe.

In looking over Frank's books Ernest found an old copy of "Uncle Tom's
Cabin," and taking it down, he read some portions, particularly those
relating to Topsy.

Both Frank and Juba were very much entertained.

"Did you know Topsy, Juba?" asked Frank.

"No, chile, never knowed Topsy. She must have been a no account young
nigga. If she'd lived on our plantation she'd have got flogged for her
impudence."

"How did you come here, Juba?" asked Frank.

"One of them officers took me to Chicago. I lived out with a lady, but
when she died, after a good many years, I went to a 'telligence
office, and there I met your papa. He brought me out here. I didn't at
first like livin' down under the ground, but I don't mind it now.
Massa Fox treats me well, and I ain't no wish to change."

This was the substance of what Juba had to communicate. The rest of
the day passed quietly. At nightfall James Fox came home looking very
sober. But he came alone. His brother was not with him.




CHAPTER XX.

ERNEST EXPLORES THE CAVE.

James Fox had very little to say during the evening. He was evidently
preoccupied and anxious. He paid scant attention to the boys, but left
them to their own devices.

Frank knew so little of his father's business, or occupation, that he
could conceive of no cause for worriment. When his advances met with
little response he asked, "Have you got a headache, papa?"

"No--yes, child. My head troubles me some. Be as quiet as you can."

"Will it disturb you if I play checkers with Ernest, papa?"

"No, I should like to have you amuse your self," answered the outlaw.

He directed the boys to go to bed early. As before, they slept
together, and he threw him self on the lounge without taking off his
clothes.

Ernest slept well. When he woke up at eight o'clock he saw that Frank
was still sleeping, but his host was already up.

Juba came into the room.

"Get up, children," she said. "Breakfast is ready."

"Where is papa?" asked Frank.

"He took breakfast an hour ago, honey."

"What made him get up so early?"

"'Portant business called him away, he said."

"Where's Uncle John?"

"He hasn't been home."

"Has he got 'portant business, too?"

"'Specs he has, honey."

"It doesn't seem nice to take breakfast without papa," said the
little boy.

"You may consider me your papa, Frank," observed Ernest.

"But you're not big enough to be a papa."

"At any rate, I am not old enough."

When breakfast was over there was the long day before them to be
filled up in some way.

"Don't you ever wish to go out of the cave, Frank?" asked Ernest.

"Where?" asked the little boy.

"Into the bright sunshine, out on the green grass, and under the
trees."

"Yes; I think I should like it," answered Frank, thoughtfully. "But
papa does not want me to go. I don't know why. Do many little boys
live in caves like me?"

"No; I don't think so."

"Can they walk about in the sunshine, and play?"

"I always did."

"Do you like it better than living here?"

"Yes."

"Then what made you come here?"

This was an embarrassing question, and Ernest felt that he must be
careful in answering.  "Your papa wanted me to make you a visit," he
replied after a pause.

"And I am glad you came. It isn't so lonely for me. Before, I had only
Juba."

"Wouldn't she play with you?" asked Ernest with a smile.

Frank laughed merrily.

"Juba is too old to play. I hope you will stay with me a good while."

Ernest could not echo this wish, so he answered evasively,

"I can't tell yet how long I shall stay. But the time will come when
you will leave the cave and live like other little boys in a house."

"Did papa tell you that?"

"He told me that he should send you to school before long."

"What is a school like?" asked the little boy anxiously.

Few boys of ten would have been obliged to put this question, but
Frank had been secluded from the world ever since he was a baby.

"There will be a good many boys, some older, some younger, than
yourself. You will study lessons together, and play together."

"I think that will be nice."

"Yes; I am sure you will enjoy it."

"Did you ever go to school?"

"Oh, yes; I went to school for some years. I wish I could go again."

"Perhaps you will go to school with me."

"I can't tell," answered Ernest, vaguely. "Perhaps Juba will go to
school with you."

Frank laughed.

"She would look funny going to school," he said.

"What's dat you sayin' 'bout Juba, Massa Ernest?" asked the old woman,
entering the room.

"I told Frank you might go to school with him."

"Maybe I'd go and take care of him, honey."

"But you wouldn't want to study."

"I wouldn't study nohow. I's a poor, ignorant nigger. Never shall know
nuffin', I expect."

"Don't you think you could learn to read, Juba?"

"No, I couldn't. It takes white folks to read."

"No, Juba; when I went to school there was a colored boy in my class,
and he was one of the smartest scholars we had."

"And was he a nigger?" asked Juba, interested.

"We didn't call him that, but he was a colored boy. If he could learn
to read, I am sure you could."

"It's no use, chile. I'm too old now."

Much as he liked Frank, it was irksome to Ernest to remain all day in
the cave. It was imprisonment under pleasant circumstances, but still
imprisonment.

They got through the forenoon somehow, taking dinner at twelve
o'clock.

About two o'clock Frank complained of being sleepy.

"You won't mind if I go to sleep for an hour, Ernest?" he said.

"Oh, no," answered Ernest. "I can read, you know."

Since his exploration of the day before, Ernest had been longing to
visit once more the same portion of the cave. But he wanted to go
alone. He had a hope that through the aperture in the roof he might
effect his escape. It would not do to have Frank with him, as this
would interfere with his plan. Now the longed-for opportunity was
almost at hand.

He took a volume from the book-shelf, and sitting down beside the bed
began to read. But his mind was not on the book, though at another
time he would have enjoyed it. He watched Frank, and in less than
fifteen minutes had the satisfaction of seeing that he was fast
asleep.

Then he left the room, Juba being occupied in the kitchen. He secured
his hat, as he would need it in case he effected his escape.

As he passed through that apartment in the cave where there were
trunks and boxes, it occurred to him to open one of them. He was
rather surprised that it should be unlocked, but so it was.

It was filled with a miscellaneous assortment of articles, but on top,
to his surprise and joy, he recognized the envelope containing the
bonds that had been taken from him.

If he left the cave he would want these, and therefore he had no
hesitation in taking them. He put them in the inside pocket of his
vest, and kept on his way.

In a short time he reached the spot lighted by the aperture in the
roof.

The opening was quite large enough for him to get through, but the
difficulty was that it was fully fifteen feet above the floor of the
cave. Ernest was something of a gymnast, but it was out of his power
to reach the opening through which alone he could obtain deliverance.

He looked about him to see if there were any articles which he could
pile upon one an other so as to attain the aperture. But the cave was
quite empty of articles of any description, nor could he find any that
he could move in the portions which he had already traversed.

It was certainly very aggravating to be so near freedom, and yet
unable to obtain it. There just above him he could see the blue sky
and the cheerful sunshine, while he was a prisoner in a dark cavern.

Was there no way of reaching the opening? he asked himself.

If he had to give up hope, he would feel obliged to return the
envelope to the box from which he had taken it. Were its loss
discovered, he would of course be searched, and kept in stricter
seclusion than before.

In the room used by the outlaw as a sitting-room--the apartment he had
just left--he might be able to find what he needed. But he could not
remove anything without being detected, and should he return there he
would possibly find Frank awake, which would spoil all.

It looked as if he would have to give up the chance that had come to
him. In thoughtful mood he walked slowly back. All at once an idea
struck him. In the room where the trunks and boxes were stored he had
seen a long, stout rope. Could he do anything with it?

Looking up at the aperture, he noticed a jagged projection on one
side.

"If I could attach the rope to that," he reflected, "I could draw
myself up hand over hand till I reached the top, and then it would go
hard if I didn't get out."

With new hope in his heart, he retraced his steps rapidly till he
reached the store-room.

He knew just where to look for the rope. He examined it carefully, and
found it very stout and strong.

He took it back with him. Then making a loop at one end, he stood
under the opening and threw it up as he would a lasso. He had to try a
dozen times before he contrived to circle the projection with the
loop.

Then pulling it taut, he began to climb hand over hand, as he had many
a time done in sport. Now his deliverance depended upon it.

Slowly, foot by foot, he approached the opening, not knowing whether,
even if he reached it, he would be able to draw himself through the
hole.




CHAPTER XXI.

OUT OF THE FRYING-PAN INTO THE FIRE.

Arrived at the opening, Ernest found that there was a trap-door which
was ordinarily closed, but through some misadventure had been left open.
It was, however, a serious problem to draw himself up so as to profit by
what he had already done.

Twice he failed, and nearly lost his grip on the rope. Then he caught
hold of the projection from which the rope depended, and by a supreme
effort he succeeded, helping himself by means of the trap-door, in
emerging from his subterranean prison.

Stretching himself, he took a deep breath, and realized joyfully not
only that he was free, but that he had recovered the valuable bonds of
which he had been placed in charge.

He began to look around him, and tried to conjecture in what direction
he must go to reach Lee's Falls. He was quite at a loss, as he had
been carried into the cave blindfolded. But help seemed to be at hand.
He saw at a little distance, rapidly approaching him, a man of middle
height, whom he concluded to be a resident of some place in the
vicinity.

"Can you tell me in what direction I must go to reach Lee's Falls?" he
asked.

The stranger paused and examined him sharply.

