
Mrs. Gracedew was upon him again. “Excuse me if I just deprecate a
misconception. The elegant wood-work Italian--the tapestry on the left
Flemish.” Suddenly she put it to him before them all, pleading as
familiarly and gaily as she had done when alone with him, and looking
now at the others, all round, gentry and poor folk alike, for sympathy
and support. She had an idea that made her dance. “Do you really
mind if I just do it? Oh, I know how: I can do quite beautifully
the housekeeper last week at Castle Gaunt.” She fraternised with
the company as if it were a game they must play with her, though
this first stage sufficiently hushed them. “How do you do? Ain’t
it thrilling?” Then with a laugh as free as if, for a disguise,
she had thrown her handkerchief over her head or made an apron of her
tucked-up skirt, she passed to the grand manner. “Keep well together,
please--we’re not doing puss-in-the-corner. I’ve my duty to all
parties--I can’t be partial to one!”

The contingent from Gossage had, after all, like most contingents, its
spokesman--a very erect little personage in a very new suit and a very
green necktie, with a very long face and upstanding hair. It was on
an evident sense of having been practically selected for encouragement
that he, in turn, made choice of a question which drew all eyes. “How
many parties, now, can you manage?”

Mrs. Gracedew was superbly definite. “Two. The party up and the
party down.” Chivers gasped at the way she dealt with this liberty,
and his impression was conspicuously deepened as she pointed to
one of the escutcheons in the high hall-window. “Observe in the
centre compartment the family arms.” She did take his breath
away, for before he knew it she had crossed with the lightest but
surest of gestures to the black old portrait, on the opposite wall,
of a long-limbed gentleman in white trunk-hose. “And observe the
family legs!” Her method was wholly her own, irregular and broad;
she flew, familiarly, from the pavement to the roof and then dropped
from the roof to the pavement as if the whole air of the place were an
element in which she floated. “Observe the suit of armour worn at
Tewkesbury--observe the tattered banner carried at Blenheim.” They
bobbed their heads wherever she pointed, but it would have come home
to any spectator that they saw her alone. This was the case quite as
much with the opposite trio--the case especially with Clement Yule,
who indeed made no pretence of keeping up with her signs. It was the
signs themselves he looked at--not at the subjects indicated. But he
never took his eyes from her, and it was as if, at last, she had been
peculiarly affected by a glimpse of his attention. All her own, for
a moment, frankly went back to him and was immediately determined by
it. “Observe, above all, that you’re in one of the most interesting
old houses, of its type, in England; for which the ages have been
tender and the generations wise: letting it change so slowly that
there’s always more left than taken--living their lives in it, but
letting it shape their lives!”

Though this pretty speech had been unmistakeably addressed to the
younger of the temporary occupants of Covering End, it was the elder
who, on the spot, took it up. “A most striking and appropriate
tribute to a real historical monument!” Mr. Prodmore had a natural
ease that could deal handsomely with compliments, and he manifestly,
moreover, like a clever man, saw even more in such an explosion of them
than fully met the ear. “You do, madam, bring the whole thing out!”

The visitor who had already with such impunity ventured had, on
this, a loud renewal of boldness, but for the benefit of a near
neighbour. “Doesn’t she indeed, Jane, bring it out?”

Mrs. Gracedew, with a friendly laugh, caught the words in their
passage. “But who in the world wants to keep it in? It isn’t
a secret--it isn’t a strange cat or a political party!” The
housekeeper, as she talked, had already dropped from her; her sense of
the place was too fresh for control, though instead of half an hour
it might have taken six months to become so fond. She soared again,
at random, to the noble spring of the roof. “Just look at those
lovely lines!” They all looked, all but Clement Yule, and several
of the larger company, subdued, overwhelmed, nudged each other with
strange sounds. Wherever she turned Mrs. Gracedew appeared to find a
pretext for breaking out. “Just look at the tone of that glass, and
the gilding of that leather, and the cutting of that oak, and the dear
old flags of the very floor.” It came back, came back easily, her
impulse to appeal to the lawful heir, and she seemed, with her smile
of universal intelligence, just to demand the charity of another moment
for it. “To look, in this place, is to love!”

A voice from the party she had in hand took it up with an artless
guffaw that resounded more than had doubtless been meant and that, at
any rate, was evidently the accompaniment of some private pinch applied
to one of the ladies. “I say--to love!”

It was one of the ladies who very properly replied. “It depends on
who you look at!”

Mr. Prodmore, in the geniality of the hour, made his profit of the
simple joke. “Do you hear that, Captain? You must look at the right
person!”

Mrs. Gracedew certainly had not been looking at the wrong one. “I
don’t think Captain Yule cares. He doesn’t do justice----!”

Though her face was still gay, she had faltered, which seemed to strike
the young man even more than if she had gone on. “To what, madam?”

Well, on the chance she let him have it. “To the value of your
house.”

He took it beautifully. “I like to hear you express it!”

“I can’t express it!” She once more looked all round, and so
much more gravely than she had yet done that she might have appeared
in trouble. She tried but, with a sigh, broke down. “It’s too
inexpressible!”

This was a view of the case to which Mr. Prodmore, for his own reasons,
was not prepared to assent. Expression and formulation were what he
naturally most desired, and he had just encountered a fountain of these
things that he couldn’t prematurely suffer to fail him. “Do what
you can for it, madam. It would bring it quite home.”

Thus excited, she gave with sudden sombre clearness another
try. “Well--the value’s a fancy value!”

Mr. Prodmore, receiving it as more than he could have hoped, turned
triumphant to his young friend. “Exactly what I told you!”

Mrs. Gracedew explained indeed as if Mr. Prodmore’s triumph was
not perhaps exactly what she had argued for. Still, the truth was too
great. “When a thing’s unique, it’s unique!”

That was every bit Mr. Prodmore required. “It’s unique!”

This met, moreover, the perception of the gentleman in the
green necktie. “It’s unique!” They all, in fact, demonstratively--almost
vociferously now--caught the point.

Mrs. Gracedew, finding herself so sustained, and still with her eyes
on the lawful heirs, put it yet more strongly. “It’s worth anything
you like.”

What was this but precisely what Mr. Prodmore had always striven to
prove? “Anything you like!” he richly reverberated.

The pleasant discussion and the general interest seemed to bring them
all together. “Twenty thousand now?” one of the gentlemen from
Gossage archly inquired--a very young gentleman with an almost coaxing
voice, who blushed immensely as soon as he had spoken.

He blushed still more at the way Mrs. Gracedew faced him. “I
wouldn’t look at twenty thousand!”

Mr. Prodmore, on the other hand, was proportionately uplifted. “She
wouldn’t look at twenty thousand!” he announced with intensity to
the Captain.

The visitor who had been the first to speak gave a shrewder
guess. “Thirty, then, as it stands?”

Mrs. Gracedew looked more and more responsible; she communed afresh
with the place; but she too evidently had her conscience. “It would
be giving it away!”

Mr. Prodmore, at this, could scarcely contain himself. “It would be
giving it away!”

The second speaker had meanwhile conceived the design of showing that,
though still crimson, he was not ashamed. “You’d hold out for
forty----?”

Mrs. Gracedew required a minute to answer--a very marked minute during
which the whole place, pale old portraits and lurking old echoes and
all, might have made you feel how much depended on her; to the degree
that the consciousness in her face became finally a reason for her not
turning it to Gossage. “Fifty thousand, Captain Yule, is what I think
I should propose.”

If the place had seemed to listen it might have been the place that,
in admiring accents from the gentleman with the green tie, took up the
prodigious figure. “Fifty thousand pound!”

It was echoed in a high note from the lady he had previously
addressed. “Fifty thousand!”

Yet it was Mr. Prodmore who caught it up loudest and appeared to make
it go furthest. “Fifty thousand--fifty thousand!” Mrs. Gracedew had
put him in such spirits that he found on the spot, indicating to her
his young friend, both the proper humour and the proper rigour for any
question of what anyone might “propose.” “He’ll never part with
the dear old home!”

Mrs. Gracedew could match at least the confidence. “Then I’ll go
over it again while I have the chance.” Her own humour enjoined that
she should drop into the housekeeper, in the perfect tone of which
character she addressed herself once more to the party. “We now pass
to the grand staircase.” She gathered her band with a brave gesture,
but before she had fairly impelled them to the ascent she heard herself
rather sharply challenged by Captain Yule, who, during the previous
scene, had uttered no sound, yet had remained as attentive as he was
impenetrable. “Please let them pass without you!”

She was taken by surprise. “And stay here with you?”

“If you’ll be so good. I want to speak to you.” Turning then to
Chivers and frowning on the party, he delivered himself for the first
time as a person in a position. “For God’s sake, remove them!”

The old man, at this blast of impatience, instantly fluttered
forward. “We now pass to the grand staircase.”

They all passed, Chivers covering their scattered ascent as a shepherd
scales a hillside with his flock; but it became evident during the
manœuvre that Cora Prodmore was quite out of tune. She had been
standing beyond and rather behind Captain Yule; but she now moved
quickly round and reached her new friend’s right. “Mrs. Gracedew,
may I speak to you?”

Her father, before the reply could come, had taken up the
place. “After Captain Yule, my dear.” He was in a state of
positively polished lucidity. “You must make the most--don’t you
see?--of the opportunity of the others!”

He waved her to the staircase as one who knew what he was about,
but, while the young man, turning his back, moved consciously and
nervously away, the girl renewed her effort to provoke Mrs. Gracedew
to detain her. It happened, to her sorrow, that this lady appeared for
the moment, to the detriment of any free attention, to be absorbed
in Captain Yule’s manner; so that Cora could scarce disengage her
without some air of invidious reference to it. Recognising as much,
she could only for two seconds, but with great yearning, parry her own
antagonist. “She’ll help me, I think, papa!”

“That’s exactly what strikes me, love!” he cheerfully replied.
“But I’ll help you too!” He gave her, toward the stairs,
a push proportioned both to his authority and to her weight;
and while she reluctantly climbed in the wake of the visitors, he laid
on Mrs. Gracedew’s arm, with a portentous glance at Captain Yule,
a hand of commanding significance. “Just pile it on!”

Her attention came back--she seemed to see. “He doesn’t like it?”

“Not half enough. Bring him round.”

Her eyes rested again on their companion, who had fidgeted further
away and who now, with his hands in his pockets and unaware of this
private passage, stood again in the open doorway and gazed into the
grey court. Something in the sight determined her. “I’ll bring him
round.”

But at this moment Cora, pausing half-way up, sent down another
entreaty. “Mrs. Gracedew, will you see me?”

The charming woman looked at her watch. “In ten minutes,” she
smiled back.

Mr. Prodmore, bland and assured, looked at his own. “You could
put him through in five--but I’ll allow you twenty. There!” he
decisively cried to his daughter, whom he quickly rejoined and hustled
on her course. Mrs. Gracedew kissed after her a hand of vague comfort.


IV

The silence that reigned between the pair might have been registered
as embarrassing had it lasted a trifle longer. Yule had continued to
turn his back, but he faced about, though he was distinctly grave, in
time to avert an awkwardness. “How do you come to know so much about
my house?”

She was as distinctly not grave. “How do you come to know so
little?”

“It’s not my fault,” he said very gently. “A particular
combination of misfortunes has forbidden me, till this hour, to come
within a mile of it.”

These words evidently struck her as so exactly the right ones to
proceed from the lawful heir that such a felicity of misery could only
quicken her interest. He was plainly as good in his way as the old
butler--the particular combination of misfortunes corresponded to the
lifelong service. Her interest, none the less, in its turn, could only
quicken her pity, and all her emotions, we have already seen, found
prompt enough expression. What could any expression do indeed now but
mark the romantic reality? “Why, you poor thing!”--she came toward
him on the weary road. “Now that you’ve got here I hope at least
you’ll stay.” Their intercourse must pitch itself--so far as she
was concerned--in some key that would make up for things. “Do make
yourself comfortable. Don’t mind me.”

Yule looked a shade less serious. “That’s exactly what I wanted to
say to you!”

She was struck with the way it came in. “Well, if you had been
haughty, I shouldn’t have been quite crushed, should I?”

The young man’s gravity, at this, completely yielded. “I’m never
haughty--oh, no!”

She seemed even more amused. “Fortunately then, as I’m never
crushed. I don’t think,” she added, “that I’m really as
crushable as you.”

The smile with which he received this failed to conceal completely
that it was something of a home thrust. “Aren’t we really all
crushable--by the right thing?”

She considered a little. “Don’t you mean rather by the wrong?”

He had got, clearly, a trifle more accustomed to her being
extraordinary. “Are you sure we always know them apart?”

She weighed the responsibility. “I always do. Don’t you?”

“Not quite every time!”

“Oh,” she replied, “I don’t think, thank goodness, we have
positively ‘every time’ to distinguish.”

“Yet we must always act,” he objected.

She turned this over; then with her wonderful living look, “I’m
glad to hear it,” she exclaimed, “because, I fear, I always
do! You’ll certainly think,” she added with more gravity, “that
I’ve taken a line today!”

“Do you mean that of mistress of the house? Yes--you do seem in
possession!”

“You don’t!” she honestly answered; after which, as to
attenuate a little the rigour of the charge: “You don’t comfortably
look it, I mean. You don’t look”--she was very serious--“as I
want you to.”

It was when she was most serious that she was funniest. “How do you
‘want’ me to look?”

She endeavoured, while he watched her, to make up her mind, but seemed
only, after an instant, to recognise a difficulty. “When you look
at me, you’re all right!” she sighed. It was an obstacle to her
lesson, and she cast her eyes about. “Look at that chimneypiece.”

“Well----?” he inquired as his eyes came back from it.

“You mean to say it isn’t lovely?”

He returned to it without passion--gave a vivid sign of mere
disability. “I’m sure I don’t know. I don’t mean to say
anything. I’m a rank outsider.”

It had an instant effect on her--she almost pounced upon him. “Then
you must let me put you up!”

“Up to what?”

“Up to everything!”--his levity added to her earnestness. “You
were smoking when you came in,” she said as she glanced
about. “Where’s your cigarette?”

The young man appreciatively produced another. “I thought perhaps I
mightn’t--here.”

“You may everywhere.”

He bent his head to the information. “Everywhere.”

She laughed at his docility, yet could only wish to presume upon
it. “It’s a rule of the house!”

He took in the place with greater pleasure. “What delightful
rules!”

“How could such a house have any others?”--she was already
launched again in her brave relation to it. “I may go up just once
more--mayn’t I--to the long gallery?”

How could he tell? “The long gallery?”

With an added glow she remembered. “I forgot you’ve never seen
it. Why, it’s the leading thing about you!” She was full, on the
spot, of the pride of showing it. “Come right up!”

Clement Yule, half seated on a table from which his long left leg
nervously swung, only looked at her and smiled and smoked. “There’s
a party up.”

She remembered afresh. “So we must be the party down? Well, you
must give me a chance. That long gallery’s the principal thing I came
over for.”

She was strangest of all when she explained. “Where in heaven’s
name did you come over from?”

“Missoura Top, where I’m building--just in this style. I came for
plans and ideas,” Mrs. Gracedew serenely pursued. “I felt I must
look right at you.”

“But what did you know about us?”

She kept it a moment as if it were too good to give him all at
once. “Everything!”

He seemed indeed almost afraid to touch it. “At ‘Missoura
Top’?”

“Why not? It’s a growing place--forty thousand the last census.”
She hesitated; then as if her warrant should be slightly more personal:
“My husband left it to me.”
