
Back we trudged by my air-line, well-worn but narrow. I fancy that my
father took note of my familiarity with the path, but he did not speak
of it. I marched in front of him, gloomy and desperate. Some of the
others talked low as they straggled along. The girls kept up a hissing
whispering, for which I hated them with my whole soul. I think that my
mother and Miss Davidson shed some furtive tears, for my case was black,
and they were tender-hearted.

Spotswoode was looking after his plough-horses, as my father had
conjectured. At his master's shout, he emerged from the stalls and
presented himself in the stable door. Ungainly, dirty, bare-footed, his
ragged wool hat on the back of his unkempt woolly poll, his jaw dropping
in idiotic amazement at sight of the party--he was a ludicrous figure in
the bath of late sunshine that brought out every uncomely item of the
picture. Preoccupied and distraught as I was, I saw how the dust from
the stable floor floated in golden clouds to the cobwebbed rafters, as
the sun struck past the man in the doorway and glorified the murky
interior.

I rushed through the yard, heedless of manure heaps, and young pigs and
calves scattered by my impetuous approach.

"Oh, Spotswoode!" in a voice that cracked and went to pieces as I ran,
"somebody has stolen my beet! You can tell father--"

A hot valve closed in my windpipe and shut out the rest.

Spotswoode's jaw hung more loosely; his eyes were utterly vacant.

"Ya-as, little Mistis!" he drawled, and slunk back into the stable.

"What do you mean, sir? Come back here, this minute!" called his master.

When he reappeared, he carried in both hands, extended, after the
similitude of a pre-historic monkey making a votive offering--something
dark-red and pot-bellied, and more immense than I had dreamed it could
look. A cluster of cropped leaves crowned it, a taper root, a foot
long, depended from the bottom.

"I done been dig it up fo' you an' wash it, dis ebenin', 'stid o'
termorrer," drawled my vindicator. "So's ter hab it all ready fur the
Fyar."

Mute and triumphant, I received it in a rapturous embrace, set it on a
bench by the stable door, and passed the hem of my muslin apron about
it. The ends just met.

"That's how I knew how big it was," I said simply. "Mother told me that
my apron was a yard wide. I measured it while it was in the ground."

The beet--and its history--went to the Fair, and a prize was awarded to
"Miss Mary Hobson Burwell, For best specimen of Mangel Wurzel, raised
by Herself."

[Illustration]




Chapter XIII

Two Adventures


[Illustration]

In a country neighborhood where half the people were cousins to the
other half, gossip could not but spring up and flourish as lushly as
pursley,--named by the Indians, "the white man's foot."

The gossip was usually kindly; sometimes it was captious, now and then
it was almost malicious. Everything depends upon the medium through
which the floating matter in the air is strained.

Cousin Molly Belle's best friends thought and said that she chose
judiciously in marrying the clean-lived, high-minded gentleman who had
loved her before she was grown and whom she loved dearly in return. Her
next best friends intimated that the most popular girl in the county
might have done better for herself than to take Frank Morton, as fine a
fellow as ever lived, but whose share of his father's estate was a small
plantation with a tolerable house upon it, a dozen "hands" and, maybe, a
thousand dollars or so in bonds and stocks. The girls she had
out-belled, the girls' mothers, and sundry youths to whom Mrs. Frank
Morton had given the mitten in her singlehood, said openly that she had
quite thrown herself away in settling down to house-keeping,
poultry-raising, and home-making in an out-of-the-way farmstead, with
little society except that of a man ten years older, and thirty years
soberer, than herself.

What a different story I could have told to those who doubted, and those
who pitied! Nowhere in all our broad and bonny State did human lives
flow on more smoothly and radiantly than in the white house nestled
under the great oak that was a landmark for miles around. It had but
five rooms, kitchen, store-room, smoke-house, and other domestic offices
being in detached buildings, as was the custom of the region and times.
If there had been fifty they could not have held the happiness that
streamed through the five as lavishly as the sunshine, and, like the
sunshine, was newly made every day.

I was going on ten years old when my sweet mother gave a little sister
to Bud and me. She had been with us but three days when Cousin Molly
Belle drove over for me and the small hair trunk that meant a visit of
several days when it went along. This time it signified four of the very
loveliest weeks of my life, and two Adventures.

The blessèd grandchildren, at whose instance these tales of that
all-so-long-ago are written with flying pen and brimming heart, and
sometimes eyes so moist that the lines waver and swim upon the page,
will have it--as their parents insisted before them--that "we never,
never can have such good times and so many happenings as you had when
you were new."

If I smile quietly in telling over to myself the simple elements and
few, out of which the good times were made, and how tame the happenings
would be to modern young folk, I cannot gainsay the truth that my daily
life was full and rich, and that every hour had a peculiar interest.

For one thing, there was a baby at Oakholme, a bouncing boy, sturdy of
limb and of lung, and so like both his parents in all the good qualities
possible to a baby, as to leave nothing to be desired by the best
friends aforesaid, and no room for criticism on the part of the
malcontents. Out-of-doors were chickens, ducks, turkeys, guinea-fowls,
pigs, calves, pigeons, and a couple of colts,--all, like the baby boy,
the best of their kind. What time was left on our hands after each had
had its meed of attention, was more than consumed by a library such as
few young planters had collected in a county where choice literature was
as much household plenishing as beds, tables, and candlesticks.

It was July, and the days were at their longest according to the
Warrock's Almanac that hung over Cousin Frank's desk in a corner of the
dining room. They were never so short to me before.

Adventure No. 1 befell us one forenoon, as Cousin Molly Belle and I were
topping and tailing gooseberries for tarts, on the side porch. Baby
Carter was on the mat at our feet, bulging his eyes and swelling his
cheeks in futile efforts to extort a squeak from a chinquapin whistle
his father had made for him. The kind that, as you may recollect, kept
the whistle in them over night, and did not shrivel up.

"It's there, old fellow, if you really know how to get it out," Cousin
Frank told his son and heir. "Everything depends upon yourself."

"Like other things that people fret for," moralized the mother.

Nevertheless, she reached down for the whistle, wiped the mouthpiece
dry, and sent the baby into ecstasies by executing "Yankee Doodle"
flourishingly upon it. A chinquapin fife lends itself more readily to
the patriotic, step-and-go-fetch-it melody than to any other in the
national répertoire. Carter crowed, opened his mouth wide, and beat
his fat pink palms together.

"Just as they applaud the clown at the circus!" said the performer. "He
already recognizes his mother's talents."

"If he ever fails to do that, I'll flog him out of his boots!" retorted
the father.

A wild commotion at "the quarters" cut his speech short. Women shrieked,
children bellowed, men roared, and two words disentangled themselves
from the turmoil.

"Mad dog! mad dog!" pronounced, as the warning cry is spoken
everywhere at the South, with a heavy accent on the first word.

Cousin Frank whipped up the baby; Cousin Molly thrust her hand under the
collar of Hector, a fine pointer who lay on the floor, and, urging me
before them, they hustled us all into the house in the half twinkle of
an eye. In another, Cousin Frank was driving a load of buckshot into his
gun faster than it was ever loaded before, even by him, and he was a
hunting expert.

"Dear!" his wife caught the hand laid on the door-knob; her eyes were
wild and imploring.

"Yes, my darling!"

He was out and the door was shut.

We flew to the window. Right up the path leading by the quarters from
the spring at the foot of the hill, trotted an enormous bull dog. Half a
dozen men were pelting him with stones from a respectful distance. He
paid no attention to stones or shouts. Keeping the straight path, his
brute head wagging drunkenly, he was making directly for the open
yard-gate, from which a gravel walk led to the porch where we had been
sitting. Snap, his master's favorite hunter, and the petted darling of
his mistress, was hitched to the rack by the gate, ready-saddled for
Cousin Frank's morning round of the plantation. At the noise behind him,
the intelligent creature threw up his handsome head, glanced over his
shoulder, and began to plunge and snort, as if aware of the danger. His
master spoke soothingly as he planted his own body between him and the
ugly beast.

"Steady, old boy! steady!"

In saying it he raised the gun to his shoulder. It was all done so
quickly that I had hardly seen the livid horror in Cousin Molly Belle's
face when the good gun spoke, the muzzle within ten yards of the dog's
head, and he rolled over in the path.

"What if you had missed him! He would have been upon you before you
could reload!" shuddered the wife, as we ran out to meet Cousin Frank.

"I did not mean to miss him. If I had, I should have clubbed my gun and
brained him. No, dear love! it would not 'have done as well had I fired
at him over the palings.' Snap was on the other side of the gate.
And"--with an arch flash he might have learned from her--"you and
Namesake and I think the world and all of Snap, you know."

It was the only allusion he ever made in my hearing to the escapade that
won him his wife.

We learned, within a few hours, that the dog had bitten several cows,
five other dogs, and a valuable colt, before he reached Oakholme.

I was always very fond of Cousin Frank. Henceforward, he stepped into
the vanguard of my heroes. I did not believe that Israel Putnam could
have done anything more daring than what I had witnessed in the safe
place in which he put us "before he sallied forth into the very jaws of
death." That was the way I described it to myself.

Tramping through the lower pasture at his side that afternoon I tried to
voice my admiration to him, but used less inflated language. I dearly
enjoyed these long walks over the plantation in his company. He was an
excellent farmer, and kept no overseer. I learned a great deal of
forestry and botany from his talk. If he adapted himself, consciously,
to my understanding, he did not let me perceive it. The recollection of
his unfailing patience and his apparent satisfaction in the society of
the child who worshipped him and his wife, has been a useful lesson to
me in my intercourse with the young. I had told Cousin Molly Belle, a
long time ago, that he "talked straight to children," with none of the
involved meanings and would-be humorous turns of speech with which some
grown-uppers diverted themselves and mystified us.

When he smiled at my well-mouthed, "Do you know, Cousin Frank, that your
bravery may have saved at least four lives--Cousin Molly Belle's, and
baby's, and Snap's, and mine?"--I felt that he was not laughing at me
inside, as the manner of some is.

"I don't know about that, Namesake." Nobody but himself and his wife was
allowed to call me that. They were one, you know. "All of you would
probably have got out of the way, except Snap. It would have been a
great pity to have him bitten. But here is a wee bit of a thing that
could, and would, save a good many lives if people were as well
acquainted with it as they ought to be. I am surprised that it is so
little known in a part of the country where snakes abound as they do
about here."

He stooped to gather, and gave to me, some succulent sprigs from a plant
that grew in profusion along the branch running through the meadow.

"It is a cure for a snake-bite if bruised into a poultice and bound upon
the place soon after one is bitten. My father showed it to me a great
many years ago, when I was a little shaver, and told me how he had
learned about it from an old Indian herb-doctor. He tried it several
times for moccasin-and adder-and copperhead-bites among his servants,
and it was a cure in every instance. It grows on both sides of this
branch, and nowhere else that I know of on the plantation. My father was
an admirable botanist."

"So are you," said I, stoutly.

"Oh, no. As the saying is, his chips were worth more than my logs."

No law of nature is more nearly invariable than that Events are twins,
and often triplets. That very evening, after supper, Cousin Frank was on
his way from the stables to the house, and saw what he mistook for a
carriage whip lying in the walk. The moon was shining and he had no
doubt as to what the thing was when he stooped to pick it up. Before he
touched it, it made one swift writhe and dart and struck him on the
wrist.

Cousin Molly Belle was laying Carter in the cradle, the last note of her
lullaby upon her lips when her husband entered. He clutched his right
wrist tightly with the left hand and was pale, but his voice was steady
and gentle.

"Dear," he said, "don't be frightened, but I have been bitten by a
snake. A copperhead, I think. Get me some whiskey, please."

"The whiskey, Flora! Quick!" called the wife to her maid who stood by.
"Pour out a tumblerful and give it to him."

For herself, she fell upon her knees, seized her husband's wrist and
carried it to her mouth. This I saw, and heard the first words of his
startled protest as the dear lips closed upon the wound. I was out of
the room and clear of the house the next minute and speeding down the
path and hill to the lower pasture.

The snake was at large, and might waylay me from any bush or tuft of
grass. The moonbeams were ghostly and the stillness of the wide solitude
was eerie. Being but a child,--and a girl-child,--I thought of these
things, and of the likelihood of meeting runaway negroes, and mad dogs,
and stray sane curs whose duty it was to attack nocturnal trespassers,
and of a vicious bull never let out to roam the pasture except at night.
I was afraid of them all, intellectually. My heart was too full of a
mightier dread to let bugbears turn me back. I ran right on until the
branch, a silver ribbon on the dark bosom of the meadow, was before me.
Grasses and weeds were laden with dew, and the water whirled and
whispered about the roots. I could have believed that the purling formed
itself into words when I knelt down to fumble for the snake-bite cure. I
would not let myself be scared. I kept saying over and over--"To save
his life! to save his life!"

In the intensity of my excitement, language that I was afraid was
blasphemous, yet could not exclude from my mind, pressed upon me:--

"He saved others. Himself he cannot save!"

He might be dying now. He had said that the poultice ought to be applied
at once. Horrid stories of what had happened to people who were bitten
by rattlesnakes and cobras tormented me, and would not be beaten off.

"A copperhead, I think he said. How could he know that it was not a
cobra? Would he swell up, turn black, and expire in convulsions before I
could reach him?" I said "expire in convulsions," out of a book.
Everyday Virginia vernacular fell short of the exigency.

My feet were drenched, my pantalettes and skirts were bedraggled up to
the knees, my eyes were large and black in my colorless face, when I
burst into the chamber, and threw the bunch of priceless herbs into
Cousin Molly Belle's lap. I was too spent for speech.

Cousin Frank's coat and vest were off; his right shirt-sleeve was rolled
up to the shoulder, and he was holding his hand and wrist in a deep
bowl of warm water. The air reeked with the fumes of whiskey and
hartshorn.

I concluded, when I came to think of it the next day, that the whiskey
must have been doing antidotal work by getting into his head, for he
laughed outright at sight of the specific I had brought. Then,
tears--real tears and plenty of them--suffused his eyes and made his
voice weak and husky. Or--was it the whiskey?

"You are a dear, brave, thoughtful Namesake!" he said, clearing his
throat. "Darling!" to his wife who was eyeing the herbs
wonderingly,--"She has been all the way to the lower meadow for those. I
showed her the snake-bite cure to-day. Bruise them and put them on my
wrist. Then Namesake must get off her wet clothes and go to bed. The
danger is over."

I was thirty years old before I found out that what I had risked so much
to procure was not the panacea he had showed me, but common jewel-weed,
or wild touch-me-not, a species of the Impatiens of botanists,
harmless, but not curative.

And they had never let me guess what a blunder I had made!

[Illustration]




Chapter XIV

Miss Nancy's Nerves


The Gateses were our distant relatives. Not nearer than fourth
cousins-in-law, I fancy, but we counted them among our "kinfolks" in
Virginia, calling Mrs. Gates "Cousin Nancy," and Captain Gates, "Cousin
'Ratio." His proper name was Horatio, of course, and he belonged to the
family that gave the Revolutionary hero, Horatio Gates, to his country.

I was slowly getting over the whooping-cough, having taken it, as I took
most "catching" things that fell in my way,--with all my might. I began
to whoop the last of April, and kept it up all summer, when every other
child on the plantation was entirely well.

Captain Gates drove over to our house by the time the breakfast-table
was cleared one sultry August day, bringing in his roomy double buggy a
basket of Georgia peaches--brunettes with crimson cheeks--and the
biggest watermelon I had ever seen, as a neighborly gift to my mother.

"Miss Nancy gave me no peace of my life till I got off with them," he
said in his loud, breezy tones. "There's none of her kin she sets more
store by than by Cousin Ma'y Anna Burwell. And she's as proud as a
peacock of our fruit. I tell her a judgment will come upon her for it.
As I take it, Old Marster sends the rain upon the unjust as well as upon
the just, and if it's our turn this year, somebody else's turn will come
next year, and yet we'll be as good Christians then as we are now. It's
one of His ways that's past finding out. Howdy'e, little lady!" putting
out a brawny hand to pull me between his knees.

I was standing a yard or so away, but right in front of him, my hands
behind me, my eyes and ears, and, I'm afraid, my mouth, open to his
hearty talk. I had never heard God called "Old Marster" before, and if I
had not been taught that children ought not to criticise what grown
people say and do, I should have been quite sure that it was wrong. I
did not want to think any harm of Cousin 'Ratio, and determined that I
would not, when he drew a great finger gently over my thin cheek, and
looked down at me with kindly, pitying eyes.

"Tut! tut! tut! this is too bad! too bad! We must fill up this gulley
somehow, Cousin Ma'y Anna. Other folks' victuals are the best physic I
know for that sort of work. Miss Nancy would cry her eyes out if I was
to go home with the story that little Molly Burwell had coughed her
bones pretty near as bare as barrel-staves, and I didn't try to cover
them up again. A week in my peach-orchard and watermelon-patch, with
quarts of cream and Miss Nancy's breakfasts, dinners, and suppers--is
