
“I’d rather have my liberty, and be my own boss. I guess I make as much
money, any way.”

“You could dress better, and be cleaner,” suggested Barclay, surveying
the ragged costume and soiled face and hands of the bootblack.

“What’s the use of being clean?” asked Tom, with calm philosophy. “You
don’t feel no better. Besides, you’re sure to get dirty again. It’s all
foolishness.”

“Right you are, my boy,” said Barclay, with a smile. “There isn’t much
of that foolishness about you.”

Here the boy struck the box smartly with his brush, as a sign that the
job was completed.

Barclay put down his foot and prepared to go.

“You haven’t paid, boss,” said the bootblack.

“I gave you a dollar.”

“That was for something else. You haven’t paid for the shine.”

“You ought to throw that in,” said Barclay.

“Don’t do business that way, boss.”

“Here’s your money, then,” said Barclay, throwing a nickel on the
ground at his feet. He had intended all the time to give it, but amused
himself by teasing the boy. “Supposing I should want you again, shall I
find you here?”

“Yes, boss; this is my office,” answered Tom, humorously. “If it’s more
convenient, you kin call at my house on Fifth Avenue.”

James Barclay left the park in a state of high satisfaction. It was
important to his schemes to find his father, and now there seemed to be
no further difficulty in the way. Then, too, he rather plumed himself
on his success as a detective. Old Jerry, prompted probably by Paul,
had removed his residence with the object of avoiding him and putting
him off the track. But it had all proved useless. Thanks, as he assured
himself, to his remarkable sharpness, he had foiled the old man and
found out what he had attempted to conceal.

“How glum he will look when he sees me coming into his room!” he
chuckled to himself. “It’ll be worth five dollars to see his scared
face. Serves him right, too, for tryin’ to deceive his own flesh and
blood.”

It was no little additional satisfaction that Paul, too, against whom
he had a grudge for his interference with his attempt at burglary,
would be disappointed and discomfited.

Should he go at once to call on his father? By the City Hall clock it
lacked a quarter of ten. There was no hurry, for he had his address,
and could find him any time. He wanted to make another call first, and
decided to do so. What this call was, is not essential to my story. It
is sufficient to say that it occupied him two hours, and that it was a
little past twelve when he reached the new residence of his father in
Ludlow Street.

There was a woman standing at the door.

“Is there an old man and a telegraph boy living here?” asked Barclay.

“Yes,” answered the woman. “Head of the stairs on the third floor.”

“Thank you, ma’am. I’m much obliged.”

James Barclay ascended the stairs, smiling to himself all the way.




CHAPTER XIX. OLD JERRY RECEIVES A VISIT.


Though old Jerry was more sensible than some misers in resisting the
temptation of keeping all his money at home, where he might feast his
eyes in the contemplation of it, he had a little hoard of gold pieces
which he secreted in his room, and which from time to time he took out
and counted with gloating eyes.

This very day he had taken them from their place of concealment, and,
spreading them on the bed, was counting them over with trembling
fingers when his son quietly opened the door, and entered the room.

The old man looked around, pale and alarmed, and clutched at the gold
in the hope of hiding it before the intruder, whoever it might be,
could catch a glimpse of it. But he was nervous, and had only thrust a
part of the gold hurriedly into his pocket when James entered.

Over the old man’s face there crept an expression of dire dismay. There
was no one in the world whom he less wished to see than his son.

The latter’s keen glance detected his father’s employment, and did not
fail to observe the half dozen gold pieces still remaining on the bed
spread, though old Jerry, as quickly as possible, gathered them up, and
thrust them into his pocket.

“Good morning, dad!” said James, in a jocular tone. “I am afraid you
are not glad to see me.”

Old Jerry stared at him in mute consternation.

“Considering that I am your only son, you might give me a better
welcome,” said James, carefully closing the door, and sinking into a
chair.

“Go away, go away!” said the old man, hoarsely. “You--you are a bold,
bad man, and I don’t want to see you.”

“Come, dad, that is unkind!” said James Barclay, in a bantering tone.
“You mustn’t forget that I am your son.”

“I wish I could forget it,” muttered the old man.

“I am not so bad as you think I am, father. Seeing that we are all that
is left of the family, it’s only right that we should live friendly.
I’m glad to see you are not so poor as you pretend.”

“You--you are mistaken, James,” whined old Jerry. “I am very poor.”

“That don’t go down, dad. What were you doing when I came in?”

Old Jerry looked confused.

“How many gold pieces have you got there? Let me count them.”

“Three--or four,” stammered Jerry, unable to deny the statement
entirely.

“Three or four!” repeated James, mockingly. “Thirty or forty, more
likely.”

“You--you are quite wrong, James,” said Jerry, in nervous alarm.
“It’s--it’s all I have in the world.”

“Perhaps it is, and perhaps it isn’t. When I was here before, you
pretended you didn’t have any money at all. What are you going to do
with it?”

“I am keeping it to--to bury me,” answered Jerry.

“Then you’d better give it to me. You can’t bury yourself, you know.
I’ll see you buried all right when the time comes.”

“I couldn’t do it, James. I must keep it as long as I live. When I
die--”

“It comes to me, I suppose.”

“Ye--es.”

“Then I might as well have it now, don’t you think so, dad?”

“Go away! I don’t feel well. I want to be left alone,” stammered Jerry,
with a terrified look at the stout, broad shouldered visitor, whom he
could hardly believe to be his son, so great was the difference between
the burly strength of the one, and the shrinking weakness of the other.

“Look here, dad, you ain’t treating me well. You don’t seem to consider
that I am your only son. Are you saving up your money for that young
telegraph brat that lives with you?”

“Paul is a good boy,” mumbled Jerry. “He doesn’t scare and trouble me
like you, James.”

“That isn’t answering my question. Are you going to leave him all your
money?”

“I--I have very little--to leave, James,” returned the old man, lapsing
into his usual whine. “There won’t be anything left when my funeral
expenses are paid.”

“What there is will go to me, will it?”

“I--I suppose so,” faltered Jerry.

“Then I think you’d better make your will and say so. Otherwise that
boy will claim all.”

“Paul is a good boy. I--I should starve but for what he brings me every
week.”

“You look half starved as it is. Come, are you willing to make your
will in my favor?”

“I--I’ll think of it, James.”

“And give it to me to keep.”

“It--it won’t do you any good, I--I am so poor.”

“I’ll take the chance of that. You’ve got more money in your pocket
than would bury you five times over.”

“No--no,” protested the old man in alarm. “You--you frighten me,
James. I don’t feel well. Won’t you go away?”

“There is no need to be scared, dad. I don’t want your money.”

“Is that true, James?” said the old man, in a tone of relief. “I have
so little it wouldn’t do you any good.”

“Didn’t that boy tell you I wanted to make you a present?”

“Yes, he said so.”

“Yet you hid away from me and wouldn’t let me know where you lived.”

“Did Paul tell you? How did you find me out, James?”

“No, he didn’t tell me, but I found out all the same. Never mind how!
Only I warn you it won’t do you any good to hide from me in future. I
have ways of finding you out. But let me convince you that I don’t need
your money. Do you see that?”

As he spoke he drew out a roll of counterfeit bills and exhibited them
to the astonished eyes of old Jerry.

The old man regarded him with new respect as the possessor of such
unexpected wealth.

“Are--are they square?” he asked.

“Of course they are,” answered James. “I intended to give you a present
if you hadn’t treated me so coolly--”

“I meant no offense, James,” said the old man, eying the money with a
look of greed.

“Well, if you apologize, it’s all right!” said James, with noble
magnanimity. “You’ll find you haven’t judged me right. I can do more
for you than that telegraph kid. But I want you to trust me, and treat
me kind, do hear?”

“Yes,” answered Jerry, meekly.

“To show you that I’m in earnest, I’ll make you a fair offer. Give me
two of those five dollar gold pieces, and I’ll give you these two ten
dollar bills. If that isn’t a handsome offer, I don’t know what is.”

Jerry was dazzled by this offer. The fact that it was made by such a
scapegrace as he knew his son to be should have put him on his guard,
but cupidity blinded him.

“Do you mean it, James?” he asked, surveying the bills with avidity.

“Certainly I do. I make the present just to show you that I don’t bear
no grudge, and want to live friendly.”

“Let me see the bills, James.”

“There, take them in your hand if you like.”

Old Jerry took the bills, and eyed them at first longingly, but as he
marked their new appearance a suspicion entered his mind. If they were
counterfeit his son’s unexpected liberal offer would be accounted for.
James’s character, too, made it very probable that he would engage in
circulating counterfeit bills.

“I--I would rather keep the gold, James,” he said, handing back the
bills.

“Then you’re a fool!” said James Barclay roughly. “I see you don’t want
to be friendly. I wanted to be on good terms with you, seein’ you’re my
father, but now I don’t care. Give me that gold!”

“Go away!” said the old man, in renewed alarm.

James Barclay’s reply was to rise from his seat, and stride over to
where his father was sitting on the bed. He seized the old man roughly
by the shoulder, and made a motion to search the pocket containing the
gold pieces.

“Give it up peaceably or I’ll hurt you!” he said.

Jerry uttered a shrill cry, and tried to make a feeble opposition, but
he was like a child in the hands of the burly ruffian.

“Stop your whimpering!” said James, fiercely. “That gold I mean to
have, and you’d best give it up.”

Jerry again uttered a cry, which was heard by Mrs. Hogan, an opposite
neighbor, who, opening the door, saw, unnoticed by either, the uneven
struggle between Jerry and his assailant.

Mrs. Hogan was a brave woman. She dashed back into her own room, and
returned in an instant with a dipper of hot water. Armed with this she
was prepared for hostilities.

“Let the old man alone, you thafe of the worruld!” she exclaimed,
indignantly.

James Barclay turned, and, seeing that it was a woman, replied
scornfully, “Get out of here, woman, or it’ll be the worse for you!”




CHAPTER XX. JAMES BARCLAY COMES TO GRIEF.


“Get out yourself!” retorted Mrs. Hogan, as with undaunted mien she
faced the ruffian. “What are you doin’ to old Jerry?”

“Mind your business, woman, and leave the room, if you don’t want to
get hurt!”

James Barclay still retained his grip upon the old man as he spoke.

He was as bold as his father was timid, and did not mean to be
frightened away by a woman.

“I’m no more a woman than yourself,” said Mrs. Hogan, angrily, who
preferred to be addressed as a lady.

“Well, you’re dressed like one, any way,” rejoined Barclay, with a
smile of amusement. “My father and I have a little business together,
and you’re not wanted.”

“Is he your son, Jerry?” asked Mrs. Hogan, not certain whether the
statement was true.

“Yes,” answered Jerry, feebly, “but he wants to rob me. Take him away,
Mrs. Hogan.”

“Ain’t you ashamed of yourself to trate your old father so manely?”
demanded Mrs. Hogan, indignantly.

“Give me the money, father, and I’ll go,” said Barclay, thinking it
politic to get away as soon as possible.

“Take him away!” said old Jerry, feebly.

“I’ll do it!” responded Mrs. Hogan. “I’ll tache him, the murtherin’
thafe!”

She suited the action to the word, and dashed the scalding hot water
into the face of James Barclay.

He uttered a hoarse cry of mingled rage and pain, and, leaving his
father, dashed after his bold assailant.

He was partially blinded, however, by the pain, and she easily escaped.

Scarcely knowing where he went, he ran against an athletic, broad
shouldered man, who was bringing up a basket of coal.

“O, that’s your game, is it?” said the newcomer, fancying the assault
intentional. “I don’t know who you are, but I’ll give ye all ye want.
No man can hit Dennis O’Brien widout gettin’ as good as he gives.”

In a trice the two men were grappling, and, losing their balance,
tumbled down the stairs, receiving some hard knocks on the way. The
result was that both were arrested by a passing policeman, and locked
up.

James Barclay, whose burns were severe, was sent to the hospital on the
Island, and it was thirty days before he was free to pursue his plans
again.

Old Jerry, picking himself up after his narrow escape, carefully
counted his gold pieces, and to his great relief found that none were
missing.

He breathed a sigh of relief when he learned that his son had been
arrested, and determined to deposit his gold in the savings bank, so as
to guard against future robbery.

It was about this time that Paul, called up town by some errand, was
crossing Madison Square, when he heard his name called.

Looking up he recognized, with no little pleasure the smiling face of
Jennie Cunningham.

She was accompanied by a boy of about Paul’s size, fashionably dressed,
and wearing an expression of high self appreciation on his rather
narrow face.

“How are you, Paul? It’s an age since I saw you,” said the young
heiress, cordially, offering her hand.

“I am glad to see you, Miss Jennie,” responded Paul.

“Why haven’t you been up to see us? I have been expecting you for a
long time.”

“I wasn’t sure I wouldn’t be intruding.”

“Then I’ll tell you once for all, you needn’t be a bit afraid. I want
to beat you at dominoes. You beat me last time, didn’t you?”

“I believe so,” said Paul.

“Then I want my revenge. When will you come?”

