have been rather heedless with it, but I am glad to have 
something to offer you beside my salary, not that one 
would need to starve on that." 
He hated to leave her, but he would not stop to 
luncheon. He was a very earnest lover, after all. The 
strange, sweet knowledge that he alone of all the world 
had the power and privilege of making this girl happy, 
gave him an exquisite sense of responsibility and de- 
light. 
As Princess was going through the hall, she espied the 
pile of letters. Two for her — one from Ray, one from 
papa. She broke the seal of that first and ran her eye 
along the lines. There was some solicitude about Sher- 
burne, and then a message for her very self and some 
fatherly counsel. 
Mr. Sevier had begged the privilege of addressing her 
on the tender and grave subject of marriage. 
" The young man is unexceptionable in every way and 
has none of the society vices of the present clay," her 
father wrote. "Then I think he has it in him to come 
up to some higher position and take a hand in public life. 
If you care for him, Princess, or think you can in time to 
come, you have my most cordial assent, and I know your 
mother will agree in whatever is for your happiness." 
Princess' pulses gave such a throb that her slight figure 
shook tremulously. Would she have had the courage to 
stand up boldly for love's sake, an unknown love, one 
that might be forever in her soul and find no answering 
sympathy ? 
It was like a miracle, as love always is to youth. It 
was as if she could see the finger of a diviner power. 
This that had come to her was the best love of her soul, 
and any other would have missed the perfect, mysterious 
joy. 
" But I should have been brave enough to say no un- 
der any circumstances," she thought, "or I would not 
be worthy of this perfect blessing." Yet she had liked 
Mr. Sevier very much, and her father approved of him 
in every way. He was more to a girl's fancy. But she 
wanted something more purposeful, something with a 
higher reach than mere material pleasure. There would 
always be a depth in her soul that Mr. Sevier would not 
care to fathom, since he would only go far enough to 
content himself. 
Of course papa would have a little twinge of disap- 
pointment. He was desirous of the world's approval, he 
had a good deal of ambition, and Sherburne was not in 
a fair way to gratify it. She sighed a little. Was hap- 
piness for one purchased with sorrow for another? 
Aunt Lyndell was much occupied with some cases she 
wished to lay before her husband. No one remarked 
the exquisite joy in the young girl's face, the first glow 
of the sweet consciousness that she holds the happiness 
of another in her hands, and that her power can evoke 
joy or tears. She wanted to tell Aunt Neale, but she 
must write first of all to her mother. 
How much she had to say ! Then she put on her 
coat and hat — she must make one little call upon Aunt 
Milly, who was wondering where she kept herself, since 
she had seen so little of her. And Nora was complain- 
ing. 
"But there are so many," she said in her naive pretty 
way. " Aunt Milly, I ought to be twins." 
"And then we wouldn't be able to decide which one 
we liked the best," returned Aunt Milly, smilingly. 
She longed yet dreaded to see Mrs. Kenneth. And 
she wished, somehow, that Ruth might not be in. 
She had her wish. Mrs. Kenneth was alone. 
" You dear little midget, where have you been loiter- 
ing all the afternoon? Ruth went out an hour ago. 
How delightful it is that everybody talks about every- 
thing from a voyage to the North Pole to the interior of 
Africa ! You do not have to race through volumes to 
find a few facts. There they are, concise, labeled, ready 
to stow away in your memory. Ruth is much interested 
and when I said you were coming, wondered, dear soul, 
if I could spare her for a while, and if you would not 
feel hurt ! So I sent her off and have been counting the 
moments. O, my dear, dear child ! " 
Mrs. Kenneth held her to her heart in a long, tender 
embrace. 
" Princess, you are quite sure you have not made any 
mistake?" she inquired, softly. 
"I should feel that," was the half breathless answer. 
"It is a new world of joy to me, and I am glad, yes, 
truly glad," with a delicious little laugh, " to be invited 
in." 
"There have been some misgivings on Eric's part. I 
wish he was five and twenty, that would be quite old 
enough for you, but he did not have as good a position 
at that period ; and, really, I think he is younger in 
heart now than he was then. Your mother knows, so I 
do not feel worried. Erie came home from Washington 
in such high feather, and yet he had not said a word to 
you, except perhaps in love's mysterious language." 
Princess blushed to her utmost capacity which was 
great. 
" It seems very odd, doesn't it to you ? What chances 
there are in the world ! Just the way we all met on 
the boat, and then that Eric should go off exploring that 
little Maine island because some one had told him about 
many curious specimens not to be had elsewhere. O my 
child, I hope you may be very happy, and be spared to 
each other many a year. ' ' 
The earnest, tender voice touched the young girl. Yes 
— years and years — oh, how could one endure to be sep- 
arated ! 
She took off her wrap and brought a low rocker close 
up to the reclining chair. Of course they talked of 
Eric, there was no subject so absorbing to either of them 
just then. And before they had said half the delightful 
things, and it is strange how many virtues love can find,, 
the door of the private hall opened, and a girl's clear 
voice with a soft, happy ring in it sounded. A graver, 
deeper voice replied. 
« ' Are you sitting here in the dark ? Has Princess 
come ? " 
Princess wanted to see Ruth Ensign's face. Ah, what 
if the story should give her a pang ? 
" Let me," said the professor, taking the lighted match 
from her hand. The face was bright and eager and 
Ruth turned to her friend and kissed her with joyousness. 
"I met the professor and have been entertaining him 
with the deep and mysterious aspects of our talk this 
afternoon that goes far to invalidate the stone age and 
the different ages, since nations are found in different 
places in all these ages. One scientist comes to hand 
and upsets another. I don't know whether the nail is 
driven out, or only a little further in." 
She laughed again merrily as she lighted the piano 
lamp with its soft pink shade, looked if the heat was 
right and then went out to the kitchen department to stir 
up the handmaid. The table was already arranged ex- 
cept the few touches the young mistress always gave. 
And then she made the coffee — she had some especial 
art, and Mrs. Kenneth came out on her brother's arm, 
and they took their places. 
Ruth wondered a little what kept the color coming and 
going in Princess' face. And was there a rare, unusual 
sound in her voice, a mysterious depth ? It made her 
prettier than usual. But the professor seemed interested 
in drawing the main fact of the "talk" out of Ruth, 
since it had been given by one of the new scientific 
women who was being discussed as the future president 
of a college. 
Afterward Princess played and sang and charmed 
them all. Then Eric Kenneth put on her wraps rather 
awkwardly, but with a curiously delicate touch and took 
her back to Doctor Carew's. 
Ruth went to look at the fire in the study, returned 
and put out the lamps, leaving the gas to shine through 
the ground globe. All this time a curious thought was 
floating about her mind. Was she glad ? Could she 
wish it otherwise ? 
"If it is so she will be very happy," Ruth said, under 
her breath. 
There was no envying or jealousy. If such a thing 
had come to her she would be very happy. Perhaps no 
girl ever looked on another's joy without the secret hope 
that it might some day thrill her with rapture. But hers 
would come from some one quite different. She had her 
ideal and was in no hurry. Life was delightful to her at 
present. 
She sat down by Mrs. Kenneth and was very quiet. 
"What are you thinking about?" Mrs. Kenneth 
asked, presently. 
" About them," she answered, with a slight inclina- 
tion of the head. " Princess has always liked him so 
much. And it came in my mind that he was almost or 
quite in love with her." 
" Quite; " with a gratified intonation. 
" O, that is delightful ! Princess is such a darling. 
And she will have to live in the city — afterward." 
" Yes, the others' loss will be our gain." 
" I was wondering how you could plan so calmly to 
give him up when Mrs. Phillips came home." 
"O, I thought I couldn't put any more burthens on 
Margaret." 
Then they lapsed into silence. 
Princess said good-night to her lover and was flying 
upstairs when Bertram caught her. 
"Did you go out?" he asked. "I wanted to come 
to dinner, but the professor said — well, I can't remember, 
only he put me off, and he seldom does, you know. It's 
like another home around there, and I am always wel- 
come. Then I heard you had gone, and it seemed 
queer." 
"Bert, have you taken out a mortgage on the pro- 
fessor?" she asked, laughingly, glad he could not see 
her scarlet cheeks. 
" Princess ! " called Aunt Lyndell. 
Princess paused in the doorway of Auntie Dell's study 
and library. The children often spent their evenings 
here, but now she was alone. 
" Princess dear — did you have a pleasant time? Un- 
cle Con has been here. I think I ought to tell you — he 
and Sherburne had a — quarrel — quite a desperate one I 
fancy. Do you know anything they could quarrel 
about?" 
Princess turned pale, then red, and looked extremely 
troubled, but was silent. 
"Was it anything about Gertrude Maurice?" 
"Yes," answered Princess, faintly. 
"I've been putting several little things together and 
the sum total seemed Mrs. Murray. Sherburne used to 
be at Mrs. Townsend's a good deal, but I never thought 
of such a thing. There were so many people, young 
men and old men. And Miss Maurice, as she was then, 
seemed a very sensible sort of girl who was not likely to 
take to a young fellow ' with all the world before him 
where to choose.' And Uncle Con was nearly always 
there." 
Princess was very much embarrassed. It did not seem 
to her either of her two lovers had had very much en- 
couragement, yet they had both resolved upon a proposal. 
Was Gertrude altogether at fault ? 
" Sherburne hasn't been going on at all well, latterly. 
Uncle Carew is quite discouraged with him. And Ber- 
tram is a splendid boy, and student. Uncle is puz- 
zled to know what to do about it. Your father could 
command Jiim to return, but that is such a peremp- 
tory step. And uncle hates to find fault. But I 
wish he had been at home to-night. Uncle Con 
went away without seeing any one, but he left word that 
you were to come around to-morrow morning and stay to 
luncheon. Then Sherburne went out and has not come 
in yet. He stays out too late." 
Princess had been considering. " Yes, Auntie Dell, 
there was some trouble. Sherburne thought himself ill- 
used." 
" Well —  I think we would all have considered it a very 
bad move on Gertrude's part to entertain a thought of 
Sherburne as a candidate for her hand, or to consent to 
a long and uncertain engagement. And it seems that it 
was no sudden move on Uncle Con's side." 
"No," answered Princess, in an assured tone. 
" I dare say you were in his confidence." There was 
a smiling brightness in Aunt Lyndell's eyes. "And 
I think it an excellent match. Beside, Princess, Uncle 
Con isn't the sort of man to stand any poaching on his 
preserve, so unless Gertrude was very deceitful, I think 
there couldn't have been much flirting between them. I 
am sorry enough, but Sherburne ought to have more 
sense, and when Gertrude married there was an end of 
it. But I notice he has been gloomy and cynical and 
cross. My dear child, I think you had better write to 
your mother. She has such good sense and judgment 
and patience. Or perhaps it would be best to wait and 
hear Uncle Con's version. Dear, what a shame to bother 
you, but I did not have uncle to confer with, and he will 
come in dead tired from a medical meeting. You look 
tired, too. Kiss me and run to bed." 
Her secret was too sacred to be brought out after this. 
The consciousness of some one caring for her who would 
take up any burthen of hers quite as if it was his own, 
comforted her greatly. She was beginning to understand 
that the mysterious sympathy was deeper, or that it went 
farther into one's life than that of parents even. O, was 
that ungrateful ? 
She could not be wholly unhappy. In a half dream 
she floated out upon that rosy sea, where love held the 
tiller and the current defying any analysis, drifted her 
through narrows and out to sunny breadths, past 
shaded nooks and islands fragrant with bloom, on and 
on to the enchanted land where youth is glorified. 
Sherburne was sullen and silent the next morning, and 
hurried out before Princess could have a word with him. 
She dreaded to meet Gertrude, but she knew it was best. 
Aunt Millicent came in and asked her to drive and also 
to look at a fine collection of paintings at the art gal- 
leries. She was very glad to defer her evil hour as long 
as possible, but it had to come at length. Aunt Milly 
put her down at her uncle's. 
" I am so glad you have come," Gertrude began, hold- 
ing her hand, but not offering her the cordial kiss trem- 
bling on her lips, for Princess looked so serious and dig- 
nified. "And if I have done anything to trouble or 
annoy you, Princess, I am truly sorry. I do regret last 
evening. Con went around to see you and he stumbled 
over Sherburne, whom he had not met since our mar- 
riage. Sherburne said something that offended him, and 
though he seems so easy and jolly, he has quite a hot 
temper on occasions," smiling a little. " And so they 
had rather high words. Sherburne has told you the story 
as he looks at it. I wish you would let me tell mine." 
She had been removing Princess' wraps and now seated 
her in an easy-chair. There was such a frank cordiality 
in her manner, that the young girl's prejudices seemed 
swept away in spite of the obstacles and protections she 
summoned back hastily. For somehow Gertrude looked 
charming this morning, softened, entreating, but Princess 
remembered it was her brother and resolved not to yield 
too easily, and to judge fairly. 
"Yes," in a tone of gracious permission, rather than 
cordial assent. 
Gertrude's temper flared up a bit and flushed her 
cheek. But she had resolved her patience should make 
amends for Con's hastiness. 
" I am going to begin way back in the first of all," she 
said, with a little tremble in her voice, but smiling over it 
and crowding it down. " Princess, if I had let myself I 
should have fallen desperately in love with your uncle 
that summer at Melchias. And I know now that he took 
a warm interest in me. Young as I was it influenced me 
in this way — I began to measure other men by him and 
contrast them with what he said and did. And I 
honestly believe if he had not asked me to marry him I 
should have gone on with Mrs. Townsend for years. 
When I did not see him I could put him out of my 
mind, but when he came " 
Gertrude smiled and flushed. Princess flushed a little 
as well. She, too, had been trying to put some one out 
of her mind, and there was a secret sympathy. 
Then she began with the first day she had met Sher- 
burne, and told the little story straightforwardly. 
" You see it would have been folly to listen to such a 
thing, and when I was really in love with some one else. 
Of course if I had been ambitious on certain lines, or 
susceptible to youth and a handsome face ! Young men do 
take freaks of unreasonable adoration, and recover from it. 
And it is foolish to go on caring when it is so utterly hope- 
less. I wonder if that isn't obstinacy as well as prefer- 
ence ? ' ' 
Princess gave a long sigh. 
" You see I had no idea of any special earnestness on 
his part, except the indulgence of a youthful fancy. If I 
could have listened and consented to an engagement, I 
do honestly believe that Sherburne would have found it 
irksome and been first to tire of it. And I know all 
your family would have considered it extremely unwise." 
Yes, Princess understood that. Sherburne had exag- 
gerated some points, but when Gertrude became en- 
gaged to Uncle Con he should have given her up in a 
manly fashion and not accused her of mercenary mo- 
tives, for Princess had become suddenly wise, and she 
knew by the lights and depths and tenderness in her 
friend's eyes at the mention of Uncle Con's name, where 
her true interest had always lain. 
" And we both supposed the marriage would end Sher- 
burne's unfortunate fancy, but it seems not to. I do not 
want it to go on and make trouble. And Sherburne has 
no right to allow it to distract his attention from other 
matters that are important to his coming life. When he 
gets over it he will wonder at his foolishness." 
Princess looked up with large, soft, wistful eyes. Was 
there anything else to be said ? 
Gertrude threw herself on a hassock and leaned against 
the girl's knee, taking both small hands in hers. 
"And, Princess, you may never know how rare ami 
difficult it is to keep the golden mean of acquaintance- 
ship when it is your business to be agreeable to every- 
body, and when you have a secret longing to be liked, 
perhaps a little more than liked. You have had so much 
love in your life there have never been dry, hungry 
places hard to get over as desert sands. I've always en- 
vied you, and one thing made Con more precious to me 
— the large circle of family relations, the intelligent and 
charming people, whose esteem I hope to gain and keep. 
And if in the beginning I did little gracious things that 
look like flirtation, I am very sorry. But I told him 
frankly, decisively, before your uncle spoke, that I could 
not marry him, and since then I certainly have not been 
to blame." 
Gertrude's eyes were dewy almost to tears, and Prin- 
cess' impulse of tenderness went out to her. For had 
not she known something of this ? Had she not tried to 
do more than like Mr. Sevier ? What if in the end he 
should accuse her of flirting ? He could not in reason 
accuse her of being mercenary. 
"That is almost a smile, Princess. What does it 
mean ? And this mysterious elusive sweetness " 
Princess buried her face on Gertrude's shoulder. 
"Perhaps I know more about love, and that difficult 
golden mean than you think," she replied, with a whis- 
pered tremulousness. "And you can understand " 
She was glad she had written to her mother. Of 
course some of the elders ought to have been told, and 
Ruth was more her chosen friend than Gertrude, but this 
inexplicable touch of the sweetest of all knowledge made 
them friends as they had never been before, and for all 
time. 
"And it's queer," declared Gertrude, laughing through 
her tears, "that you haven't given your heart to a gay 
young fellow to go dancing down the next half dozen 
years. But after all, youth is such a gay, glad time, and 
there is but one youth. 
"I thought it would be a case of propinquity," Ger- 
trude continued, after a pause. " Do you know that 
Ruth Ensign is a very charming home girl ? She can 
always see the most delightful thing to be done, she loves 
to minister to people ; she has so many sweet, dainty 
ways. She makes goodness lovable, and a great many 
people think it ought to stand on its own foundation 
quite alone as mere goodness. But you had written your 
name on his heart before that. Melchias has a great 
deal to answer for. When we all get old we ought to go 
up there and have an experience meeting." 
Uncle Con was delighted when he came home and 
found the two women the best of friends. He looked a 
trifle grave over Princess' engagement — he had counted 
