"I remember the circumstances."

"I think you made some objection--a foolish one, to which you were
instigated probably by your son Mark."

"I remember that too."

"No doubt the boy was honest in his advice, but I need hardly suggest to
you how incompetent a boy of his age is as an adviser in a serious
business matter. Well, I have come this morning on the same business,
but I wish to be liberal. I think it only fair to take your
circumstances into consideration. I am ready to give you a hundred
dollars if you will sign the paper I have here."

"Let me see the paper, Solon."

Mr. Talbot took from his pocket a folded document which he placed before
his sister-in-law.

It ran thus:

"I hereby acknowledge that I have received from Solon Talbot,
administrator of the estate of my late father, Elisha Doane, my full
share in that estate, and I hereby release him from all further claim on
my part to said estate."

"Sign here, if you please," said Solon suavely, "and I will give you the
sum promised."

As he spoke he drew from his wallet a roll of ten ten-dollar bills,
which he judged would look tempting to a woman of Mrs. Mason's limited
means.

"If you will leave this paper here, Solon," said the widow, "I will show
it to Mark when he gets home, and ask his advice."

Mr. Talbot frowned and looked vexed.

"Ask advice of a boy of sixteen!" he sneered. "Surely you are better
able to judge what is best than he."

"I am not sure about that. At any rate he is interested, and I prefer to
wait till I see him."

"Then the offer of a hundred dollars is withdrawn."

"Just as you think best, Solon. I shall not sign without consulting
Mark."

"Well, I will leave the paper, then," said Talbot, finding it hard to
conceal his chagrin. "I hope for your sake that Mark will advise you
sensibly."

"I think he will. He is young, but he has always shown good judgment."

"Confound the woman!" muttered Talbot, as he left the house. "It is most
provoking to have her act in this way. Should she hear of the Golden
Hope mine it would be most disastrous. Once let me obtain her release
and I can sell it out for my own advantage."




CHAPTER XXII.

A CRAFTY SCHEMER.


"YOUR uncle has been here, Mark," said Mrs. Mason, when Mark reached
home.

"I can tell you what business he came about, mother."

"He wanted my signature to a paper acknowledging that I had received my
full share of father's estate."

"You didn't give it?" inquired Mark anxiously.

"No; I would not take such an important step without your knowledge."

"I feel much relieved. I have not told you what I found on my journey to
Niagara."

"What is it?"

"That Uncle Solon is trying to cheat you out of a large sum of money."

"Is that possible? But father did not leave a fortune."

"So we all supposed. What if I should tell you that he left you enough
to make you comfortable for life on your share."

Mrs. Mason looked incredulous.

"Here, read this memorandum, mother," and Mark explained briefly how he
came into possession of it.

"Tell me what it all means, Mark. I have a poor head for business."

"It means that grandfather owned four hundred shares of the Golden Hope
mine in Colorado. Probably he bought it for a small sum. But it has
proved unexpectedly rich, and it will probably soon be worth one hundred
dollars a share. That means twenty thousand dollars for you, mother."

"And Solon Talbot wants me to relinquish my claim for a hundred
dollars!" exclaimed Mrs. Mason indignantly.

"Exactly so, mother."

"Then I will give him a piece of my mind when he comes here this
afternoon."

"Don't do it, mother. It is our policy to make him think we are ignorant
of the existence of this important item in grandfather's estate. Only
you must steadily refuse to sign a release."

"I will. I hope you will be here when he calls."

"I will get off for the afternoon. I wish to be here myself. I have a
little headache, which will give me an excuse."

When Solon Talbot called on his sister-in-law about three o'clock in
the afternoon he was rather disgusted to find Mark at home. He knew that
Mark was much more clear-sighted than his mother, and he feared that he
would influence her to refuse her signature.

"Good afternoon, Ellen," he said suavely.

"Take a seat, Mr. Talbot," said Mrs. Mason coldly.

"How do you happen to be at home, Mark?" asked Solon, regarding Mark
with a slight frown.

"I got excused for the afternoon. I have a headache."

"Perhaps you won't mind going out for a few minutes. I wish to speak to
your mother on business."

"Do you wish me to go out, mother?" asked Mark.

"No. Whatever affects you affects me. Besides, I may want your advice."

"I don't ask Edgar for advice," returned Solon Talbot dryly.

"I suppose not. You are a business man, and can judge better than he. I
am not a business man."

"You are older than Mark."

"I have always found Mark a safe and good adviser."

"You will spoil him by such flattery."

"I am not afraid of it."

"Very well. I will humor your prejudices. Mark may have more judgment
than I give him credit for."

This he said because he saw that it was necessary under the
circumstances to propitiate Mark. The telegraph boy understood his
uncle's object very well and was amused, but remained outwardly grave.

"Thank you, uncle," he said briefly.

"I will address myself, then, to both of you. You will remember that I
offered you a hundred dollars in cash--I have the money with me," he
added, tapping his pocket--"if you will sign acknowledgment that you
have received your full share of your father's estate. It is a mere
form, but I want to wind the whole business up and have it off my
hands."

"I can't sign such a paper at present, Solon."

"Why not?"

"Because I am not sure that I have received my full share."

"Don't you believe my assurance to that effect?" said Solon Talbot
impatiently.

"It is an important matter, and I have no evidence but your word."

"Do you doubt my word?"

"In this matter your interests and mine might clash."

"Then let me tell you that you are getting more than your share--that
is, when I have paid you the hundred dollars. The fact is, your father
left a very small estate. After paying his funeral expenses and debts
there was scarcely anything over, and off that little you have already
had your share. Still I understand your position and sympathize with you
in your poverty, and therefore I am willing to strain a point and give
you a hundred dollars."

If Mr. Talbot expected his sister-in-law to look grateful he was doomed
to disappointment.

"A hundred dollars," he continued, "is a good deal of money, especially
in your circumstances. I am sure Mark will agree with me in this."

"It is more than all the money we have," replied Mark.

"Precisely. It will make things easy for you for a year to come. By that
time Mark will probably be earning higher pay than at present, and so
your mind will be quite at ease."

"You are very considerate, Solon, but I think I would rather not sign."

"Why, this is midsummer madness. I am sure Mark will not advise you to
refuse."

"I quite agree with my mother," said Mark.

"Well," returned Talbot angrily, "I have heard of foolish people, but I
must own that you two beat the record."

"Why are you so anxious that my mother should sign a release, Uncle
Solon," asked Mark quietly.

"Because I wish to have the whole matter settled and off my hands, as I
have told you. I have business interests exclusively my own that demand
my attention, and I don't want to be bothered by this small matter."

"I have no doubt you have good reasons for wishing mother to sign," said
Mark.

"What do you mean?" demanded Solon suspiciously.

"Only that you are a good business man, and understand your own
interests."

"I wish I could say the same for you," retorted Solon Talbot sharply.

"Perhaps we do."

"I ought not to be surprised at meeting opposition from a woman and a
boy, both ignorant of business. As a rule those who know nothing think
they know the most and are most suspicious. However, I can afford to
overlook your unexpected obstinacy. I will do what I had no idea of
doing when I entered the room. I will increase my offer to a hundred and
twenty-five dollars. That is certainly handsome, and I shall not let
Mrs. Talbot and Edgar know how foolishly I have acted."

[Illustration: "Here is a pen," he said. "You can sign at once."--Page
179.

Mark Mason's Victory.]

As he spoke he laid the paper before Mrs. Mason.

"Here is a fountain pen," he said. "You can sign at once."

"I don't care to sign, Solon."

"Have you been talking to your mother, Mark?" demanded Talbot sharply.
"Have you put her up to this?"

"We had a little talk together, but I think she is just as determined on
the subject as I am."

"Then," said Solon Talbot, "I can only regard your refusal as an act of
hostility. Evidently you want to break with me and mine. It was my
intention to invite you both to take dinner at my house to-morrow; but,
as matters stand, we cannot receive you, and I shall forbid Mrs. Talbot
to call upon you."

"I shall be sorry to be separated from my sister," said Mrs. Mason in a
pained tone, "but I cannot sign away my own and my children's rightful
inheritance."

"I don't know what you mean by this nonsense. I have offered you more
than your share of your rightful inheritance, as you see fit to call it.
If you choose to return my kindness with ingratitude, I can only leave
you to the consequences of your own folly."

He looked first at Mark and then at his mother to see how this speech
affected them, but both looked firm, and there seemed to be nothing to
do but to leave them. He took his hat and strode to the door, his hands
trembling with nervous anger. But at the door he paused.

"If you come to your senses," he said, "and desire to accept my offer,
Mark can call on me. I hate to see you so blind to your own interests."

After he had left the room Mark and his mother looked at each other.

"Uncle Solon seemed very much in earnest," said Mark.

"Yes; I am now ready to believe that he is conspiring to cheat us. It is
shameful! He is a rich man already, and we are so poor."

"But we shan't be long, mother."

"You must take good care of that memorandum, Mark."

"I shall carry it to a young lawyer whom I know well, and ask his advice
about it. When the right time comes I shall bring it forward. I will ask
him to keep it in his safe."

"Very well, Mark. I think that will be wise."

The next day Mark received a letter at the office where he was employed.
On the left-hand upper corner was the imprint:

LUTHER ROCKWELL,
  Broker and Banker.

"He is going to take you into partnership, 79," said A. D. T. 80.

"If he does I'll make you my office-boy," said Mark in a jocular tone.
"I hope the old gentleman has quite recovered from his dynamite scare."




CHAPTER XXIII.

MARK'S GOOD LUCK.


MARK presented himself at Mr. Rockwell's office at eleven o'clock.

The letter which he had received was a simple invitation to call, signed
by the banker himself.

"Is Mr. Rockwell in?" he asked.

"Yes," said the clerk smiling pleasantly, for Mark was a favorite in the
office.

Mark went over to the open door, and stood on the threshold with his hat
in his hand.

The banker looked up.

"Oh, it is my young friend the messenger boy!" he said cordially,
holding out his hand.

"I hope you are quite recovered, sir," said Mark respectfully.

"Yes, I believe so. The visit of our dynamite friend was quite a shock
to me, and at my age it takes longer to recover from the effects of such
an incident than at yours. You must not think that I have forgotten what
a service you rendered me."

"I am very glad to have done you a service, sir, but I am afraid I must
confess that I was thinking partly of myself."

"I don't think any the less of you for your frankness. Still I am
sensible that your promptness and presence of mind saved me from a
terrible death--I feel that I ought to do something to show my
gratitude."

"You have already repaid me, sir, by your kind words."

"Kind words are well enough, but they are not practical. I should like
to take you into my employ but I have no vacancy, and I do not like to
discharge any of my old and trusted employees."

"I should not be willing to displace any of them, sir."

"But there may be another way. Are your parents living?"

"My mother is living, and I have a little sister."

"And I suppose they are dependent upon you partly for support."

"Yes, sir."

"Probably you are poor?"

"Yes, sir; our means are very limited."

"So I suppose. What is your name?"

"Mark Mason."

Mr. Rockwell turned to his desk, and opening his check book,
deliberately filled up a check. He tore it off and handed it to Mark.

Mark read it in amazement. It was a check for one thousand dollars,
payable to the order of Mark Mason.

"A thousand dollars!" he ejaculated.

"Yes, does it seem to you a large amount? I assure you that I value my
life a great deal higher than this sum, so I shall remain your debtor."

"It seems a fortune to me, Mr. Rockwell. How can I thank you for your
generous gift?"

"My boy, generosity is a variable quality--I am blessed by fortune, and
for me it is a small sum to bestow in return for the heroic act. Would
you like to have Mr. Nichols go with you to identify you at the bank?"

"I don't think I should like to draw it all, sir. I should be afraid to
have so much money in my possession."

"Then you can leave it with me as a deposit subject to your call. How
much of it would you like to draw now?"

