

 

fullest recognition that there was something he was there 
to discuss with her, but with the assurance in every soft 
sound of him that no height to which she might lift the 
discussion would be too great for him to reach. His 
every cadence and every motion was an implication, as 
from one to the other, of the exquisite. Oh, he could 
sustain it ! " Well, I mean the establishment of some- 
thing between us. I mean your arranging somehow that 
we shall be drawn more together — know together some- 
thing nobody else knows. I should like so terrifically to 
have a secret with you.'' 

'' Oh, if that's all you want, you can be easily gratified. 
Rien de plus facile, as mamma says. I'm full of se- 
crets — I think I'm really most secretive. Til share al- 
most any one of them with you — that is if it's a good 
one." 

Mitchy hesitated. ' You mean you'll choose it your- 
self ? You won't let it be one of mine ?" 

Nanda wondered. " But what's the difference ?" 

Her companion jumped up again, and for a moment 
pervaded the place.  '' When you say such things as that, 
you're of a beauty — ! May it," he asked as he stopped 
before her, "be one of mine — a perfectly awful one?" 

She showed her clearest interest. "As I suppose the 
most awful secrets are the best — yes, certainly." 

"I'm hideously tempted." But he hung fire; then 
dropping into his chair again: "It would be too bad. 
I'm afraid I can't." 

" Then why won't this do, just as it is ?" 

"'This'?" He looked over the big bland room. 
"Which?" 

"Why, what you're here for ?" 

"My dear child, I'm here — most of all — to love you 
more than ever ; and there's an absence of favoring mys- 
tery about that — " 

She looked at him as if seeing what he meant, and 




  

only asking to remedy it. '  There's a certain amount of 
mystery we can now malce — that it strikes me in fact we 
must make. Dear Mitchy' she continued almost with 
eagerness, "I don't think we can really tell." 

He had fallen back in his chair, not looking at her 
now, and with his hands, from his supported elbows, 
clasped to keep himself more quiet. "Are you still talk- 
ing about Aggie ?" 

"Why, I've scarcely begun !" 

 '  Oh !" It was not irritation he appeared to express, 
but the slight strain of an effort to get into relation with 
the subject. Better to focus the image he closed his 
eyes awhile. 

"You speak of something that may draw us together,
and I simply reply that if you don't feel how near to- 
gether we are in this I shouldn't imagine you ever would. 
You must have wonderful notions," she presently wentj 
on, " of the ideal state of union. I pack every one off for
you — I banish everything that can interfere, and I don't 
in the least mind your knowing that I find the conse-; 
quence delightful. You may talk, if yon like, of whati 
will have passed between us, but I shall never mention iti 
to a soul; literally not to a living creature. What do 
you want more than that ?" He opened his eyes in defer- 
ence to the question, but replied only with a gaze as un- 
assisted as if it had come through a hole in a curtain. 
" You say you're ready for an adventure, and it's just an 
adventure that I propose. If I can make you feel for 
yourself as I feel for you, the beauty of your chance to 
go in and save her — " 

"Well, if you can ?"— Mitchy at last broke in. "I 
don't think, you know," he said after a moment, "you'll 
find it easy to make your two ends meet." 

She thought a little longer. " One of the ends is 
yours, so that you'll act ivitli me. If I wind you up so 
that you go — " 





 

" You'll just happily sit and watch me spin ? Thank 
you ! That will be my reward ?"' 

Nanda, on this, rose from her chair as with the im- 
pulse of protest.  ' ShaVt you care for my gratitude, 
my admiration ?" 

''Oh yes" — Mitchy seemed to muse. ''I shall care 
for them. But I don't quite see, you know, what you owe 
to Aggie. It isn't as if — " But with this he faltered. 

''As if she cared particularly for me? Ah, that has 
nothing to do with it; that's a thing without which, 
surely, it's but too possible to be exquisite. There are 
beautiful, quite beautiful people who don't care for me. 
The thing that's important to one is the thing one sees 
one's self, and it's quite enough if I  see what can be 
made of that child. Marry her, Mitchy, and you'll see 
who she'll care for !" 

Mitchy kept his position ; he was for the moment — his 
image of shortly before reversed — the one who appeared 
to sit happily and watch. " It's too awfully pleasant 
your asking me anything whatever !" 

"Well then, as I say, beautifully, grandly save her." 

"As you say, yes " — he sympathetically inclined his 
head. " But without making me feel exactly what you 
mean by it." 

"Keep her," Nanda returned, "from becoming like 
the Duchess." 

" But she isn't a bit like the Duchess in any of her 
elements. She's a totally different thing." 

It was only for an instant, however, that this objection 
seemed to count. "That's exactly why she'll be so per- 
fect for you. You'll get her away — take her out of her 
aunt's life." 

Mitchy met it all now in a sort of spellbound stillness. 
" What do you know about her aunt's life ?" 

" Oh, I know everything !" She spoke with her first 
faint shade of impatience. 





  

It produced for a little a husli between them, at tne 
end of which her companion said with extraordinary 
gentleness and tenderness : " Dear old Nanda V Her 
own silence appeared consciously to continue, and the 
suggestion of it might have been that for intelligent ears 
there was nothing to add to the declaration she had just 
made and which Mitchy sat there taking in as with a 
new light. What he drew from it indeed he presently 
went on to show. " You're too awfully interesting. Of 
course — you know a lot. How shouldn't you — and 
why ?" 

" ' Why'? Oh, that's another affair ! But you don'J 
imagine what I know ; I'm sure it's much more thi 
you've a notion of. That's the kind of thing, now, oi 
is — just except the little marvel of Aggie. What o\ 
earth," the girl pursued, " do you take us for ?" 

" Oh, it's all right !" breathed Mitchy, divinely pacifi( 

'  I'm sure I don't know whether it is ; I shouldnl 
wonder if it were in fact all wrong. But what at least 
certainly right is for one not to pretend anything els( 
There I am for you, at any rate. Now the beauty 
Aggie is that she knows nothing — but absolutely, uttei 
ly : not the least little tittle of anything." 

It was barely visible that Mitchy hesitated, and h( 
spoke quite gravely.  '  Have you tried her?" 

 ' Oh yes. And Tishy has." His gravity had been leg 
than Nanda's. '' Nothing, nothing." The memory 
some scene or some passage might have come back to h( 
with a charm. ''Ah, say what you will — it is the waj 
we ought to be !" 

Mitchy, after a minute of much intensity, had stopped 
watching her; changing his posture and with his elbo  
on his knees, he dropped for a while his face into hil 
hands. Then he jerked himself to his feet. " There' 
something I wish awfully I could say to you. But 
can't." 



 

Nanda with a slow head-shake, covered him with one 
of the dimmest of her smiles. "You needn't say it. 
I know perfectly which it is." She held him an instant, 
after which she went on : '' It's simply that you wish me 
fully to understand that youWe one who, in perfect sin- 
cerity, doesn't mind one straw how awful — " 

" Yes, how awful V lie had kindled, as she paused, 
with his new eagerness. 

" Well, one's knowledge may be. It doesn't shock in 
you a single hereditary prejudice.'  

"Oh, 'hereditary!' — " Mitchy ecstatically murmured. 

"You even rather like me the better for it ; so that one 
of the reasons why you couldn't have told me — though 
not, of course, I know, the only one — is that you would 
have been literally almost ashamed. Because, you know," 
she went on, "it is strange." 

"My lack of hereditary — ?" 

" Yes, discomfort in the presence of the fact I speak 
of. There's a kind of sense you don't possess." 

His appreciation again fairly goggled at her. "Oh, 
you do know everything !" 

"You're so good that nothing shocks you," she lucidly 
persisted. '' There's a kind of delicacy you haven't got." 

He was more and more struck. " I've only that — as it 
were — of the skin and the fingers ?" he appealed. 

" Oh, and that of th  mind. And that of the soul. And. 
some other kinds, certainly. But not the kind." 

" Yes" — he wondered — "I suppose that's the only way 
one can name it." It appeared to rise there before him. 
 

" The kind that would make me painful to you. Or 
rather not me perhaps," she added as if to create between 
them the fullest possible light; "but my situation, my 
exposure — all the results of them that I show. Doesn't 
one become a sort of a little drain-pipe with everything 
flowing through ?" 





  

" Why don't you call it more gracefully?' Mitcliy 
ed, freshly struck, "a little aeolian-harp set in the d 
ing-room window and vibrating in the breeze of conver- 
sation !' 

'' Oh, because the harp gives out a sound, and we — a 
least we try to — give out none." 

 '  What you take, you mean, you keep ?" 

"Well, it sticks to us. And that's what you don' 
mind ! '' 

Their eyes met long on it. "Yes — I see. I don'i  
mind. I've the most extraordinary lacunae." 

"'Oh, I don't know about others," Nanda replied ; 
haven't noticed them. But you've that one, and it'j 
enough." 

He continued to face her with his queer mixture 
assent and speculation. "Enough, my dear, for what 
To have made me impossible for you because the only
man you could, as they say, have ' respected ' would be 
man who would have minded ?" Then as under the cool
soft pressure of the question she looked at last away  
from him: "The man with '  ekind,' as you call it
happens to be just the type you can love ? But what's th( 
use," he persisted as she answered nothing, "in loving 
a person with the prejudice — hereditary or other — tc 
which you're precisely obnoxious ? Do you positivel
like to love in vain ?" 

It was a question, the way she turned back to hii 
seemed to say, that deserved a responsible answerj 
"Yes." 

But she had moved off after speaking, and Mitchy'g 
eyes followed her to different parts of the room as, witl 
small pretexts of present attention to it, small touches 
for symmetry, she slowly measured it. " What's extraor- 
dinary then is your idea of my finding any charm inj 
Aggie's ignorance." 

She immediately put down an old snuff-box. "Why,! 




 

il's the one sort of thing you don't know. You can't 
imagine' she said as she returned to him, "the effect it 
will produce on you. You must get really near it and 
see it all come out to feel all its beauty. You'll like it, 
Mitchy "—and Nanda's gravity was wonderful—" better 
than anything you have known." 

The clear sincerity of this, even had there been noth- 
ing else, imposed a consideration that Mitchy now fla- 
grantly could give, and the deference of his suggestion 
of difficulty only grew more deep. " I'm to do then, 
with this happy condition of hers, what you say you've 
done — to try it ?" And then as her assent, so directly 
challenged, failed an instant : " But won't my approach 
to it, however cautious, be just what will break it up and 
spoil it." 

Nanda thought. " Why so — if mine wasn't ?" 

" Oh, you're not me !" 

"But I'm just as bad." 

" Thank you, my dear !" Mitchy rang out. 

"Without," Nanda pursued, "being as good." She 
had, on this, in a different key, her own sudden explo- 
sion. "Don't you see, Mitchy dear — for the very heart 
of it all — how good I delieve you ?" 

She had spoken as with a flare of impatience at some 
justice he failed to do her, and this brought him, after a 
startled instant, close enough to her to take up her hand. 
She let him have it, and, in mute, solemn reassurance, 
he raised it to his lips, saying to her thus more things 
than he could say in any other way; which yet, just 
after, when he had released it and a motionless pause 
had ensued, didn't prevent him from adding three words. 
"Oh, Nanda, ISTanda !" 

The tone of them made her again extraordinarily gen- 
tle. " Don't ' try ' anything then. Take everything for 
granted." 

He had turned away from her and walked mechani- 




  



cally, with his air of blind emotion, to the window, where,
for a minute, he looked out. '' It has stopped raining," 
he said at last ;  ''it s going to brighten." 

The place had three windows, and Nanda went to the 
next. ''Not quite yet — but I think it luill.'  

Mitchy soon faced back into the room, where, after a
brief hesitation, he moved, as quietly — almost as cau- 
tiously — as if on tiptoe, to the seat occupied by his com- 
panion at the beginning of their talk. Here he sanl 
down, watching the girl, who stood awhile longer witl 
her eyes on the garden. '' You want me, you say, to tak( 
her out of the Duchess's life ; but where am I myself, ii 
we come to that, but even more in the Duchess's life thai 
Aggie is ? I'm in it by my contacts, my associations, ni
indifferences — all my acceptances, knowledges, amuse- 
ments. I'm in it by my cynicisms — those that circum- 
stances somehow from the first, when I began, for myself, 
to look at life and the world, committed me to and 
steeped me in ; I'm in it by a kind of desperation that 
I shouldn't have felt perhaps if you had got hold oi 
me sooner with just this touch with which you've go\ 
hold of me to-day; and I'm in it, more than all — you'll 
yourself admit — by the very fact that her aunt desires, 
as you know, much more even than you do, to bring th( 
thing about. Then we sliould be — the Duchess and I- 
shoulder to shoulder !" 

Nanda heard him, motionless, to the end, taking als< 
another minute to turn over what he had said. " What 
is it you like so in Lord Petherton ?" she asked as she
came to him. 

