charges are correct. Of course you will not expect me to keep you in
charge of my nephew."

"Will you wait till Mr. Holbrook returns?" pleaded Jed, who felt sad at
the prospect of parting with Chester.

"No; I shall not feel justified in doing so. I will pay you up to date,
and assume the charge of Chester myself."

She drew a bill from her pocket and handed it to Jed, who took it
mechanically and left the room with a sober face. He was dismissed from
his position in disgrace, a disgrace which he felt was not deserved.

What was he to do next?




CHAPTER XX.

JED'S POOR PROSPECTS.


Jed walked around to the office of his friend Harry Bertram.

The telegraph operator noticed at once that he looked disturbed.

"What has happened, Jed?" he asked.

"I am discharged! That is all."

"Discharged? Who discharged you?"

"Miss Holbrook."

"What is her reason? What have you done?" asked Bertram, much surprised.

"I have done nothing, but she has discovered that I was brought up in
the Scranton poorhouse," announced Jed despondently.

"As if that made you any the worse!" ejaculated Bertram indignantly.

"It isn't to my credit, at any rate. I am ashamed of it myself."

"I don't know why you should be ashamed. You have left it, and are now
earning your own living."

"I was, but I am out of work now, and I may find it hard to get another
position."

"You can perhaps go back to the stage."

"If I can take my part in the 'Gold King' I shall be satisfied," said
Jed hopefully. "When will the season commence?"

"September 7--three weeks from next Thursday."

At that moment one of the bell boys came to the telegraph office with a
letter in his hand.

"I have a letter for you, Mr. Bertram," he said.

"Ha! This is from Mordaunt. Now we shall know."

He tore open the envelope hastily. His countenance fell, and he handed
it in silence to Jed.

This is the letter.


     DEAR BERTRAM:

     Season of the Gold King opens at Jersey City on the seventh of
     September. As we shall have two new actors I shall call rehearsals
     for the Tuesday previous. Please report at Middleton Agency in New
     York on the first.

     JOHN MORDAUNT, Manager.

     P. S.--Ralph Clinton has recovered from his sickness, and will be
     ready to resume his part.


"That settles it!" said Jed soberly, as he handed back the letter. "That
opening is closed to me."

"I am awfully sorry, Jed," returned Bertram in a tone of sympathy.
"Perhaps if you enroll your name at the agency you can get a chance in
some other play. I will speak a good word for you, and so I am sure will
Mordaunt."

Jed shook his head.

"I don't think my chance would be very good," he said, "as I have had so
little experience. Besides, it is three weeks from now. I must try to
get work before then."

"Stay here, Jed. I will pay your expenses."

"Thank you, Mr. Bertram, but I have more than money enough for that, and
you will need all yours. It will be better for me to leave Sea Spray,
and go out in the world in search of work."

"I hate to have you go, Jed. I shall feel lonesome."

"So shall I, Mr. Bertram, but we are sure to meet again," said Jed with
forced cheerfulness.

"You must promise if things don't go well with you to write to me. You
can learn from the Clipper or any of the dramatic papers where we are
playing."

"I'll promise that, Harry," said Jed, pressing the hand of his friend.

"That's right, Jed! Don't call me Mr. Bertram again."

"I will remember."

"Don't go till to-morrow."

"No, I won't. I shall need a little time to get ready."

At this point a message came for Bertram to transmit, and Jed walked
over to the beach, feeling dull and despondent. As he sauntered on
slowly with his eyes on the sand some one called out, "Hallo, there!"

Looking up, he met the gaze of Percy Dixon.

"Where's Chester?" asked Percy.

"In the hotel, I suppose."

"Why isn't he with you?"

"Because he is no longer under my charge," answered Jed eyeing Percy
fixedly.

"Ho, ho! you don't mean to say that you're bounced!" queried Percy, with
a look of malicious pleasure.

"That is about the size of it."

"Well, I am surprised," returned Percy cheerfully. "What have you been
up to?"

"Nothing."

"Then why are you discharged?" asked Percy with a look of innocent
wonder.

"I don't think you need ask, Percy Dixon," said Jed coldly. "If you had
not made your appearance at Sea Spray I should have kept my place."

"Ho, ho! What have I been doing, I should like to know?" asked Percy
smiling.

"I don't need to tell you. You told Miss Holbrook that I had been
brought up in the Scranton poorhouse."

"Well, it's true, isn't it?"

"Yes, it is true, but you understood very well what would be the result
of your communication."

"As she asked me about you, I had to tell."

"You gave her the name of Mr. Fogson, and led to her writing to him."

"So he's written, has he."

"Yes; Miss Holbrook showed me the letter this morning."

"What did he say?" asked Percy, smiling.

"Probably Miss Holbrook will show you the letter if you ask her."

"I will. I should like to see what old Fogson says. He don't admire you
very much."

"There is no love lost between us."

"Well, what are you going to do?" inquired Percy, whose weak point was
curiosity.

"I shall try to get another position."

"Do you expect to go back to the stage?"

"No; my old part in the 'Gold King' has been taken by the actor whose
place I filled during his sickness."

"Then you haven't anything in view."

"Nothing particular."

"Then I advise you to go back to the poorhouse. Fogson will be glad to
see you. I will arrange it with father."

"You are very kind, but I have no more idea of returning to the
poorhouse than you have of making your home there."

"I'll thank you not to mention my name in connection with the
poorhouse," said Percy, coloring and speaking angrily.

"I will make the same request of you."

"You are getting on your high horse," remarked Percy sarcastically.

"Perhaps so. Good morning."

"That fellow's the proudest beggar I ever saw," mused Percy, as he stood
still on the beach and watched Jed's receding figure. "It's so
ridiculous, too! A boy brought up in a poorhouse! I wonder if he has any
idea what a fool he is making of himself."

"Why is Percy so malicious?" thought Jed, as he pursued his way,
feeling, if anything, a little more despondent than before. "If our
situations were changed I should delight in helping him along. He seems
determined to force me back to the poorhouse. But I won't go! I'll
starve first."

To one who has been steadily employed enforced idleness is tedious and
tiresome. As Jed paced the sands his life seemed perfectly aimless, and
he wondered how he was going to get through the day.

Moreover he missed Chester. The boy's warm heart and affectionate ways
had endeared him to his young guardian, and Jed felt sad to think that
in all probability he should never again be on terms of intimacy with
the little fellow.

Plunged in thought and despondent he sauntered along till suddenly he
heard a young fresh voice, that brought a brighter look to his face.

"Jed, Jed!"

Jed turned, and saw only a couple of rods distant the boy of whom he had
been thinking, walking beside his tall and stately aunt, who, after
discharging Jed, had felt obliged to undertake the charge of her young
nephew herself.

"Why, Chester!" said Jed with a bright smile.

Chester broke away from his aunt, and running up to Jed took his hand
confidingly.

"Aunt Maria says you are going away!" he broke out. "What makes you go
away?"

"Your aunt has sent me away," announced Jed.

"But I won't let you go," said the little boy, taking a firmer grip of
Jed's hand.

"Come back directly, Chester!" said Miss Holbrook frowning.

"I want to stay with Jed," said Chester rebelliously.

"But I don't want you to stay with him. Come back directly, you naughty
boy!" exclaimed Miss Holbrook angrily.

"I'd rather stay with Jed!"

"Jedediah!" said Miss Holbrook, turning a look of displeasure upon Jed.
"I am sorry that you incite Chester to acts of disobedience."

"Miss Holbrook," returned Jed independently, "I don't think I have done
what you charge me with. I like Chester, and I cannot drive him away."

"That is all very well, but I understand your motives. You want to force
me to take you back."

"Excuse me, I have no such thought. If your brother will take me back I
shall be glad to return to him."

"I will see that he does not recall you. Chester, if you don't come
back at once I will punish you."

Looking at his aunt's angry face, Chester very reluctantly felt
compelled to obey.

"Kiss me, Jed!" he said.

Jed bent over and kissed the little boy. Tears nearly came to his eyes
when he felt that it might be for the last time.

"I trust, Jedediah," said Miss Holbrook stiffly, "that your sense of
propriety will prevent your speaking to Chester again."

"Miss Holbrook," said Jed with a tremor in his voice, "as I am to leave
Sea Spray to-morrow morning I shall hardly meet Chester again."

Then, as Chester walked away unwillingly with his aunt, Jed's heart sank
within him. In all the world he seemed to be alone, and he cared little
at that moment what was to become of him in the future.




CHAPTER XXI.

JED ARRIVES IN NEW YORK.


Jed counted over his money and found he had thirty-nine dollars and
thirty-seven cents. He would have had more, but he had supplied himself
with clothes, so that he was on the whole very well provided in that
way.

He resolutely refused to borrow from Harry Bertram, though the actor
pressed a loan upon him.

"No, Harry," he said, "I have almost forty dollars, and I am sure that
will last me till I can earn some more."

"Well, perhaps so," replied the actor, "but you have no idea how fast
money melts away. What are your plans?"

"I am afraid I haven't any," answered Jed, looking perplexed. "I want to
make a living, but I don't know what I am fit for."

"Where do you mean to go?"

"I think I should like to go to New York," answered Jed. "I have never
been there."

"You will find the city very dull at this time of year. Business is very
quiet in August."

"But there must be a good many chances in a city of over a million
inhabitants."

"Well, perhaps you may as well find out for yourself. I am afraid you
will be disappointed."

Jed attached considerable importance to the opinion of his friend
Bertram, but in his own mind there was a conviction that the other
exaggerated the chances of failure. He was of a sanguine temperament
himself, and this made him hopeful.

There were two ways of reaching New York from Sea Spray. One was a
combination of cars and boat, the other took one all the way by steamer.
This, on the whole, Jed preferred.

With his modest gripsack in his hand he passed over the gang-plank and
took a seat forward. Next to him was a tall, thin man, dressed in shabby
attire, who did not appear to have shaved for several days. Though the
weather was warm, he had his coat buttoned tight across his chest,
possibly to conceal the lack of a vest.

When the boat had been perhaps fifteen minutes under way, he turned and
eyed Jed with some attention.

"Are you staying at Sea Spray this summer, young man?" he asked.

"I have spent some weeks there," answered Jed.

"I suppose you are going to New York for the day?"

"No; I am going for good. That is I hope I am going for good."

"You are going to fill a business position, perhaps?"

"I hope so, but I have none engaged."

"Are you acquainted in New York?"

"No; I have never been there. This will be my first visit."

"Indeed! This is very interesting. I should be glad to help you to a
position."

Jed thought privately that his new acquaintance must stand quite as much
in need of a place as he, but courtesy led him to say, "Thank you."

"Have you any particular choice as to the business you take up?"

"No; anything that will enable me to pay my expenses will satisfy me."

"Just so. You have heard of H. B. Claflin, probably?"

"Yes; he is a dry goods merchant."

"On a very large scale. I have a mind to give you a letter to him."

"Do you know him?" asked Jed doubtfully.

"Yes; Horace and I used to go to school together. He was older than I,
but we were pretty intimate."

"Why don't you apply for a position for yourself?"

"Dry goods are not in my line. I am an editor--that is, an editorial
writer."

"Indeed!"

Jed had read from time to time squibs and witty paragraphs touching the
poverty of editors, and this seemed to explain the shabby appearance of
his new friend.

