man (both of whom, she knew through Le*ontine, ad- 
mired her extravagantly) saw it, dashed her spirits to 
zero, and she fell into an unreasoning rage with Senator 
North. 

"I am going to New York to-morrow, and you are 
not to follow me," she said with a final effort at playfulness. " I have been at such a nervous strain over 
this wretched war that I must be frivolous and feminine for two whole weeks and what so serious as 
being engaged? " 

Burleigh sighed. His spirits were unaccountably 
low. He had forgotten his country for an entire day, 
and rushed up to the house ten minutes before the 
appointed hour, his spirits as high as a boy's on his 
way to the cricket field. But his apple had turned to 



 

ashes in a funereal gown, and there seemed no color 
about it anywhere. 

"Of course you want a change," he said, "but I 
hope you will write to me." 

" I'll write you a little note every day," she said 
with sudden contrition. "I know I'll feel and 
look ever so much better in a few days." 

" There ! " she thought with a sigh, I 've made this 
wretched sacrifice for nothing, and I'll never forget 
how I 'm looking at the present moment, to my dying 
day. I know I'll wear my most distracting gown the 
next time he comes. Well, what difference ? I've got 
to marry him, anyhow." 

She shook hands cordially with him when he rose to 
go, an hour later, but she did not leave her mother's side. 
He did not attempt to smile, but shook hands silently 
with both and left the room as rapidly as dignity would 
permit. 

Mrs. Madison put her handkerchief to her eyes and 
burst into tears. 

"Poor dear man ! " she exclaimed. "I felt exactly 
as if we were having our last dinner together before he 
went off to the war to get killed. I never spent such 
a dismal evening in my life. And what on earth made 
you put on that horrid gown ? You look a fright 
you almost look older than he does." 

" Don't turn the knife round, please. I 'm rather 
sorry, to tell the truth, but I didn't.want him to be 
too overjoyed. I couldn't.have stood it." 

" Are you sorry that you have engaged yourself to 
him?" 

"No, I am glad very glad." But she said it 
without enthusiasm. 



 

When she went up to her room, she presented the 
black gown to Le"ontine and sent her to bed. Then 
she put on a peignoir of pink silk and lace and examined herself in the mirror. She looked fifteen years 
younger and wholly charming; there was no doubt 
of it. 



XVII 

THE next day, before starting for New York, she 
wrote a note to Senator North : 

I am going to marry Robert Burleigh. On Tuesday 
morning I almost went to your house to bring you back 
with me here. I came to my senses in time ; but I might 
not again. I want you to understand. 

I wish he were not on the winning side. But he is the 
only man I can even think of marrying. 

I do not think this much is disloyal to him. But I will 
not say other things. B. M. 

Burleigh came to the train to see her off, and Betty 
looked so charming in her rich brown travelling frock 
and little turban, and smiled so gayly upon him, that 
his heavy spirit lifted its wings and he begged to be allowed to go to New York on Saturday. But to this she 
would not listen, and he was forced to content himself 
with making elaborate preparations for her comfort in 
the little drawing-room, and buying a copy of every 
paper and magazine the newsboy had on sale. 

" I am sure he will make an ideal husband," said 
Mrs. Madison, as she waved her hand to him from the 
window. 



 

" He certainly is very much of a man," admitted 
Betty, " but what on earth are we to do with all these 
papers? I haven't.room to turn round." 

The excitement in Washington, great as it was, had 
been mostly within doors ; in New York it appeared 
to be entirely in the streets, if one excepted the corridors of the hotels. The population, still pale and 
nervously talkative, surged up and down the sidewalks. 
On the morrow the city put forth her hundred thousand flags. The very air seemed to turn to stars and 
stripes. 

The Madisons went to the Waldorf-Astoria, and in 
its refreshing solitudes felt for the first time in months 
that they must go in search of excitement if they 
wanted it ; none would reach them here. 

"Now that the war is declared, I am sorry," admitted Mrs. Madison, " for so many Americans will 
be killed." 

" Instead of Cubans. I 've done with the war. I 
won't even regret." 

For three days Betty shopped furiously, or held long 
consultations with her dressmaker. On Sunday, after 
church, she read to her mother, but refused to discuss 
her engagement, and on Monday she resumed her 
shopping. She wrote to Burleigh immediately after 
breakfast every morning, then dismissed him from her 
mind for twenty-four hours. 

The beautiful spring fabrics were in the shops, and 
she bought so many things she did not want, even for 
a trousseau, that she wondered if Mrs. Mudd would 
accept a trunk full of" things." She envied Mrs. Mudd, 
and would find a contradictory pleasure in making her 
happy. Miss Trumbull never had manifested any false 



 

pride, and matrimony had altered her little in other 
ways. 

At night she slept very well, and if she did not think 
of Burleigh, neither would she think of Senator North. 

She did not open a newspaper. What the country 
did now had no interest for her ; it was marching to 
its drums, and nothing could stop it. And she would 
have her fill of politics for the rest of her natural 
life. As Mrs. Madison always was content with a 
novel, she made no complaint at the absence of news- 
papers, particularly as the fighting had not begun. 
Moreover, Betty took her to the theatre every evening, 
a dissipation which her invalidism endured without a 
protest. 

It was on Wednesday afternoon that Betty, returning 
to her rooms, met Sally Carter in a corridor of the 
hotel. The two girls kissed as if no war had come 
between them, and Miss Carter announced that she 
was going to Cuba to nurse the American soldier. 

" I almost feel conscience-stricken," she remarked, 
" now that we actually are in for it. I don't think I 
believed it ever really could happen. It was more 
like a great drama that was about to take place somewhere on the horizon. But if the American boys 
have to be shot, I 'm going to be there to do what I 
can." 

They entered the parlor of Mrs. Madison's suite, and 
that good lady, who had read until her eyes ached, 
welcomed Sally with effusion and demanded news of 
Washington. 

"We haven't seen a paper or a soul," she said. 
" We have our meals up here, and I feel as if I were a 
Catholic in retreat. It 's been a relief in a way, especially after the salon, but I should like to know if 
Washington has burned down, or anything." 

" Washington is still there and still excited," said Miss 
Carter, dropping into a chair and taking off her hat, 
which she ran the pin through and flung on the floor. 
" How it keeps it up is beyond the comprehension of 
one poor set of nerves. I am now dead to all emo- 
tion and longing for work. I 'm even sorry I painted 
my best French handkerchiefs red, white, and blue. If 
you haven't seen the papers I suppose you don't know 
that Mrs. North is dead. She died suddenly of paralysis 
on the twenty-second. The strength she got in the 
Adirondacks soon began to leave her by degrees ; the 
doctor who is mine, you know told me the other 
day that it meant nothing but a temporary improvement at any time; but he had hoped that she would 
live for several years yet. Betty, what on earth do 
you find so interesting in Fifth Avenue? I hate it, 
with its sixty different architectures." 

" But it looks so beautiful with all the flags," said 
Betty, "and the one opposite is really magnificent." 

It was a half-hour before Sally ceased from chat- 
tering and went in search of her father. Betty had 
managed to control both her face and her knees, and 
listened as politely as a person may who longs to 
strangle the intruder and achieve solitude. The moment Sally had gone Betty went straight to her room, 
avoiding her mother's eyes, which turned themselves 
intently upon her. 

She did not reappear for dinner, as her mother was 
made cheerful by the society of the Carters ; but as Sally 
passed her room on her way to bed, she called her in, 
and the two girls had a few moments' conversation. 




XVIII 

" MOLLY," said Betty, the next morning, "I should 
like to go up to the Adirondacks alone for a few 
weeks. Would you mind staying here with the Colo- 
nel and Sally for another ten days and then returning 
with them? Sally says she will move into my room 
and that she and the Colonel will take you to the 
theatre and do everything they can to make you happy. 
You know the Colonel delights to be with you." 

" I understand, of course, that you are going," said 
Mrs. Madison. " I shall not be bored, if that is what 
you mean. I hope you will telegraph at once, so that 
the house will be warmed at least a day before you 
arrive. I suppose you have got to a point in your affairs 
where you must have solitude, but I wish you had not, 
and I wish you would go where it is warmer." 

" Oh, I shall be comfortable enough." She added 
in a moment, " Don't think I do not appreciate your 
consideration, for I do." 

Then she sat down at the desk and wrote a note to 
Burleigh. It was a brief epistle, but she was a long 
while writing it. Her previous notes had been dashed 
off in ten minutes, and usually related to the play of the 
previous evening. His replies had been a curious 
mingling of half-offended pride and a passion which 
was only restrained by the fear that the lady was not 
yet ready for it. 

Finally Betty concocted the missive to the satisfaction 
of her mind's diplomatic condition. She had not yet 
brought herself to begin any of her notes to him formally. " Dear Robert " was as yet unnatural, and 
" Dear Mr. Burleigh " absurd ; so she ignored the 
convention. 

" I suddenly have made up my mind to go to the Adirondacks for a month, quite alone" she wrote. " When 
one is going to take a tremendous step, one needs solitude 
that one may do a great deal of hard thinking. I don't 
wonder that some Catholic women go into retreat. At all 
events, Washington, * the world,' even my mother, even 
you, who always are so kind and considerate, seem impossible to me at present ; and if I am to live with some one 
else for the rest of my life, I must have one uninterupted 
month of solitary myself. Doubtless that will do me till 
the end of my time ! So would you mind if I asked you 
not even to write to me ? I have enjoyed your notes so 
much, but I want to feel absolutely alone. Don't think 
this is petty egoism. It goes far deeper than that ! If we 
ever are to understand each other I am sure I need not 
explain myself further. B. M." 

" It has a rather heartless ring," she thought with 
a sigh, " but it will intrigue him, and who knows ? 
As heaven is my witness, I do not. But I do know 
this, that unless I get away from them all and fairly inside of myself, whatever I do will seem the wrong 
thing and I might end by making a dramatic fool of 
myself." 



XIX 

THE ice was on the lake this time, although it was 
melting rapidly, but the sun shone all day. She had 
to wear her furs in the woods, but the greens had never 
looked so vivid and fresh, and save for an occasional 



 

woodchopper and her own servants, there was not a 
soul to be met in that high solitude. The hotel across 
the lake would not open for a month. Even the birds 
still lingered in the South. 

After she had been alone for two days she wondered 
why, when in trouble before, she had not turned instinctively to solitude in the forest. It is only the shallow 
mind that dislikes and fears the lonely places of Nature : the intellect, no matter what vapors may be sent 
up from the heart, finds not only solace in retirement, 
but another form of that companionship of the ego 
which the deeply religious find in retreat. The intellectual may lack the supreme self-satisfaction of the 
religious, but they find a keen pleasure in being able to 
make the very most of the results of years of consistent 
effort. 

Betty, whether alone by a roaring fire of pine cones 
in the living-room, or wandering along the edge of the 
lake in the cold brilliant sunshine, or in the more mysterious depths of the forest, listening to the silence or 
watching the drops of light fall through the matted tree- 
tops, felt more at peace with the world than she had 
done since her fatal embarkation on the political sea. 
She put the memory of Harriet Walker, insistent at 
first, impatiently aside, and in a day or two that shadow 
crept back to its grave. 

For a few days her mind, in its grateful repose, hesi- 
tated to grapple with the question which had sent her 
to the mountains ; and on one of them, while thinking 
idly on the great political questions which had mag- 
netized so much of her thought during the past year, 
the inspiration for which she had so often longed shot 
up from the concentrated results of thinking and experience, and revealed in what manner she could be of 
service to her country. This was, whatever her personal life, to gather about her, once a week, as many 
bright boys of her own condition as she could find, 
and interest and educate them in the principles of patriotic statesmanship. With her own burning interest 
in the subject and her personal fascination, she could 
accomplish far more than any weary professor could 
do. 

She had come up to these fastnesses to decide the 
future happiness of one or two of three people, and 
she felt sober enough ; but for almost a week she wished 
that she could live here alone for the rest of her life : 
she believed that in time she would be serenely content. She had the largest capacity for human happiness, but she guessed that the imagination could be so 
trained that when far from worldly conditions it could 
create a world of its own, and would shrink more and 
more from the practical realities. For Imagination has 
the instinct of a nun in its depths and loves the cloister of a picturesque solitude. It is a Fool's Paradise, 
but not inferior to the one which mortals are at liberty 
to enter and ruin. 

But Betty could not live here alone, she could not 
ignore her responsibilities in any such primitive fashion ; and so long as her heart was alive it would make 
battle for real and tangible happiness. 

She had a question to decide which involved not 
only the heart but the mind : if she made a mistake 
now, she would be at odds with her higher faculties for 
the rest of her life. She dreaded the sophistry which 
sat on either side of the subject ; and it was a question 
whether the very strength of her impulse toward the 



 

man she had loved for a year was not the strongest 
argument in its favor. 

But she had given her word to another man, and she 
had the high and almost fanatical sense of honor of the 
Southern race. On the other hand, she had a practical modern brain, and during the last year she had 
been living in close contact with much hard common- 
sense. She had imagination, and she knew that she 
already had made Burleigh suffer deeply, and had it in 
her power to raise that suffering to acuteness ; and if 
that buoyant nature were soured, a useful career might 
be seriously impaired. On the other hand, she had 
made a greater man more miserable still, and while he 
was finding life black enough she had rushed into the 
camp of the enemy ; and his capacity for suffering was 
far deeper and more enduring than that of the younger 
man. 

She tried to put herself as much aside from the question as possible, but she had her rights and they made 
themselves heard. She knew, had known at once, that 
she had outraged all she held most dear, in engaging 
herself to one man when she loved another, and she 
had begun to wonder in irresistible flashes before 
the news had come which sent her to the mountains, if 
she should falter at the last moment. But breeding 
has carried many a woman over the ploughshares of 
life, and her mind was probably strong enough to go 
on to the inevitable without theatric climax. At the 
same time the idea of marriage with one man when she 
loved another was abhorrent ; that it was particularly 
so since marriage with the other had become possible, 
she understood perfectly. And although she continued 
to reason and to argue, she had a lurking suspicion that 



