
MAGGIE. Dinner is served, Mrs. Thorne.

DR. THORNE. I must run up and change my coat, first--no, I won’t. I
haven’t time. I am driven to death. Come along, Helen. (Strides out
before her; then recalls himself from his discourtesy, and steps back.
DR. THORNE is a tall, well-built, handsome man, of distinguished
bearing, but with a slight limp; his face is disfigured by a frown, as
he looks at his wife. He repeats) I am driven to death! I haven’t time
to call my soul my own.

MRS. THORNE (archly). I thought you hadn’t any soul, dear. Or I
thought you thought you hadn’t.

DR. THORNE (crossly). Soul? Rubbish! It is more than I can do to
manage bodies. Soul? Stuff! What have you got for dinner?

(They seat themselves at the table.)

MRS. THORNE. You poor boy! You poor, tired, hungry fellow! I hope the
dinner will please you? (Timidly.)

DR. THORNE (testily). Really, I hadn’t time to come at all. I’ve got
to go again in ten minutes. But I supposed you would worry if I didn’t
show myself. It’s a foolish waste of time. I wish I hadn’t come.

MRS. THORNE (speaking in a low, controlled, articulate voice). You
need not. On my account. You need never come again.

DR. THORNE (irritably). It is easier to come than to know you sit here
making yourself miserable because I don’t.

MRS. THORNE (gently). Have I ever fretted you about coming, Esmerald?
I did not know it.

DR. THORNE. It would be easier if you did fret. I’d rather you’d say a
thing than look it. Any man would.... This soup is burned!

MRS. THORNE. Too bad! I gave special orders to Jane--that is really too
bad. Let me send it away.

DR. THORNE (excitedly). No, I’ve got to get down something. Bring on
the rest--if there is anything fit to eat. I’m due at the Hospital in
twenty-two minutes. Gazell is behaving like the devil. If I’m not to
handle him, nobody can. The whole staff is afraid of him--everybody but
me. We sha’n’t get the new ward built these two years if he carries the
day to-night. I’ve got a consultation at Decker’s. The old lady is
dying. It’s no use dragging a tired man out there; I can’t do her any
good. But they will have it. I’m at the beck and call of every whim. I
wish I’d had time to change my boots! My feet are wet. My head aches
horribly. I had an enormous office--sixty people; forty here--twenty
down-town--besides my calls. I’ve seen eighty sick people to-day. I was
a fool to agree to that noon office hour.--I’ve lost ten thousand
dollars in this panic. Brake telephoned me to get down to Stock Street
to save what I could. I couldn’t get off.... I lost a patient this
morning--that little girl at the Harrohart’s. She was a poor little
scrofulous thing, but they are terribly cut up about it.--I wish you’d
had a good, clear soup. I hate these opaque things.

MRS. THORNE. But last time we had consommé, you said--

DR. THORNE. I said! I said! Who cares what he says?

MRS. THORNE (in a low voice). That seems to be quite true.

DR. THORNE. What did you say? Do speak louder. I hate to hear women
mumble their words.--I hope you have some roast beef; better than the
last. You mustn’t let Parsnip cheat you. Quail? There’s no nourishment
in quail for a man in my state-- (Pushes away his plate crossly.)
Well, I suppose I’ve got to eat something. I was a fool not to dine at
the club.--The gas leaks. Can’t you have it attended to? Pudding? No. I
see enough of spoon food in sick rooms. I might have eaten a good,
hearty pie.

MRS. THORNE. But the last pie we had, you said--

DR. THORNE (again). I said! I said! What does it signify what a man
says? How many times must I say that? Hurry up the coffee. I must
swallow it, and go. I’ve got more than ten men could do.

MRS. THORNE (gently, but with perceptible dignity). It seems to be
more than one woman can do--

DR. THORNE. What’s that? Do speak so I can hear you.--If you’re going to
speak at all.

MRS. THORNE. I said it seems to be more than one woman can do to rest
you.

DR. THORNE (carelessly). Do ring for a decent cup of coffee. I can’t
drink this.

MRS. THORNE. Esmerald--

DR. THORNE (crossly). Oh, what? I can’t stop to talk. There! I’ve
burned my tongue now. If there’s anything I can’t stand, it’s going to a
consultation with a burned tongue.

MRS. THORNE (tenderly). How tired you are, Esmerald! It even gets into
your poor foot.--You limp more to-night. I was only going to say that I
am sorry. I can’t let you go without saying that.

DR. THORNE (rising, and walking irritably through the rooms). I can’t
see that that helps it any. I am so tired I don’t want to be touched.
(Mrs. Thorne brings his overcoat. He repulses her.) Never mind my
coat. I’ll put it on myself. Tell Joe--No. I left the horse standing; I
don’t want Joe. I suppose Donna is uneasy by this time. She won’t stand
at night--She’s got to. I’ll get that whim out of her.--Now don’t look
that way! The horse is safe enough.

MRS. THORNE. I haven’t bothered you about the horse, have I? But I don’t
feel--quite--easy. She is such a nervous creature, and so--

DR. THORNE (imperiously). Don’t you suppose I know how to drive?
You’re always having opinions of your own against mine. There! I must be
off.--Where’s the boy, Helen? Where’s Laddie?

MRS. THORNE (gently). Laddie isn’t just right, somehow, Esmerald. I
hated to bother you, for you never think it’s anything. Molly is with
him. I’ve been a little troubled about him. He has cried all the
afternoon.

DR. THORNE. He cries because you coddle him! It is all nonsense, Helen.
Nothing ails the child. I won’t encourage this sort of thing. I’ll see
him when I come home. I can’t possibly wait--I am driven to death--for
every little whim. (Rushes towards the door, but pauses, irresolute.)
I suppose I shall have to go up--if you’ve got this fixed idea in your
head. I’ll take a look at him on the way out.

MRS. THORNE (more gently; without reproach, but regarding him
steadily). Good-by, Esmerald.

DR. THORNE. Oh, bother!--I can’t stop for fooling, now.

MRS. THORNE (with sudden change of manner, breaks down, and hides her
face in her arms. She weeps quietly). He has always kissed me
good-by--before--ever since we have been married. He never, never missed
before!

Re-enter DR. THORNE. (He holds the
child in his arms, and strides in impetuously,
still limping; lays LADDIE,
wrapped in a silk robe, upon the sofa.
Tries to make the child sit up; but
the little fellow languidly falls back
upon the pillows.)

(MRS. THORNE moves quickly over, and supports the child.)

DR. THORNE. Helen, I must have an end to this nonsense! Nothing ails
Laddie. He is only a trifle feverish, with a little toothache--possibly
there’s a slight cold. The child should be out of the nursery. He will
sleep better for the change. Let him stay awhile--and don’t make a fool
of yourself over him. It really is very unpleasant to me that you make
such a fuss every time he is ailing. If you had married a green grocer,
it might have been pardonable. Pray remember that you have married a
physician who understands his business, and do leave me to manage it....
There! (Consults his watch.) I’m eight minutes behindhand already, all
for this senseless anxiety of yours. It’s a pity you can’t trust me,
like other men’s wives. I wish I had married a woman with a little
wifely spirit ... or else not married at all.

[Exit DR. THORNE. (He does not bid
his wife good-by. At the threshold of
the door he seems to hesitate, makes
as if he would turn back, but goes out.)

MRS. THORNE. Oh-h-h me! (Utters one long, low cry; she does not speak
any words. She releases her hold of LADDIE, who drops back sleepily
upon the sofa pillow. She seems to forget the child. She stands still,
in the middle of the library, with her face towards the window; her
hands are crossed before her, and clenched tightly together. A solemn
expression grows upon her face. Her tears dry upon her cheeks. Her eyes
widen and darken. Her mouth quivers pitifully. Still she does not speak.
She moves slowly to the window, and draws the curtains back. She stands
there looking out; she shades her eyes with her hand. The hand
trembles.)

THE CHILD (cries). Mamma! Mamma!

MRS. THORNE (does not respond to the child. She moans).
Esmerald!--Es--mer--ald!



END OF SCENE I.


SCENE II.

A dwelling street in the city, seen in an almost deserted
condition. The time is early evening. The wreck
of a buggy lies crushed against a curbstone; the traces
are broken, the horse having released herself and disappeared.
The wreck lies in shadow, and the prostrate
form of a man is but dimly discerned. After a
few moments of suspense and silence, slowly crawling
to his feet,

Arises DR. THORNE. (He is dressed
for driving, as when he left home; his overcoat
disarranged, muddy, and torn; his hat
gone; his face has a singular pallor, and
his whole appearance is agitated. As he
rises, he throws a carriage robe back over
the spot where he had been lying. He
speaks.)

DR. THORNE. That dastardly brute has
done it, now! I’ll sell Donna for this.--It
will play the mischief with that old
injury. I shall exchange an interesting
limp for crutches, now.--Hil-loa! (Walks
to and fro with perfect ease.) The shock
has acted like a battery on the nerve centres.
Instead of a broken neck I have a cured leg.
I’m a lucky fellow--as usual. (Laughs
lightly; turns to examine the condition of
the ruined buggy; suddenly looks confused,
and puts his hand to his head.) Curious
cerebral symptoms I have! Queer, there isn’t
a crowd round. They must have missed the
trail when Donna bolted. She’ll be at the
stable by this time.--She won’t go home.
Helen won’t know.... I shouldn’t like to
be the man that had to tell Helen!... I
must get to her--I must get home as soon
as I’ve been to the Hospital. I’m afraid I
was a little short with Helen. I wish-- (Presses
both hands to his temples as if to
command himself; looks more and more
bewildered.) I must have been pretty well
stunned--seems to me there was a collision.
I ran down somebody. It was a landau--we
crashed--I saw it overturn--there
were people in it I knew--patients....
Who?... Who? (Stamps the pavement
peremptorily, and impatiently strikes his
own head.) Who was it?--Horrible! The
brain cells do not obey me--me! (Walks
about frenziedly.) ... Ach--ch! It is
worse to remember than to forget. I have
it now--the sweetest woman of them all--Helen’s
friend--the gentlest, the most obedient,
most trustful, the bravest patient I ever
had--Mrs. Fayth. I saw her face as the carriage
went over.... She stretched out her
hands, and said: “Doctor!” It was Mary
Fayth. (His face falls into his hands.
For a moment he sinks down on the wreck of
the buggy; but springs up.) Now that accounts
for it.--The crowd are all there. The
accident was so bad nobody has thought of
me. She is the victim. I have escaped.
Dead or alive, she is done for. She never
could recover from a shock like that. I
must go and find her. I must find Mrs.
Fayth. (Starts and hurriedly walks down
the street, peering everywhere.)

       [Exit DR. THORNE.

(In his absence no person passes the street.)

       Re-enter DR. THORNE.

Strange! How strange! I cannot find her. I cannot find anything--nor
anybody that a man would naturally meet under such circumstances. Not a
trace of the accident--yet I’m as sure of it as I am that I’m alive.
(Pronounces these words slowly, and paces the sidewalk, irresolute.)
It all came from my being overdue at the Hospital. I suppose I did drive
Donna pretty fast. I wonder if I struck her? I am always in such an
infernal hurry--I never have had time to live. I am driven to death.
(He says the last five words, not impatiently, but with a certain
solemn deliberation.) I must go at once to Mrs. Fayth’s house. They
must have carried Mary there--I wish I could spare time to see
Helen!--I’ll go right home as soon as I’ve been to Fayth’s. Odd! How
these brain symptoms last. I must have had quite a blow. I don’t--I
can’t--it is mortifying to feel so confused.

       [Exit DR. THORNE.

(In his absence the street remains deserted.)

Re-enter DR. THORNE.

Enter behind him a tall Woman. (She is
wrapped in a long ash-colored veil, or
mantle, beneath which shows a gleaming
gown of flame-color. She follows
DR. THORNE silently. She keeps at a
distance from him. Her step is a gliding,
stealthy one. The Woman does
not speak.)

DR. THORNE. There must be serious cerebral congestion. I cannot find the
street. I cannot find Fayth’s house. What part of this bewitched town am
I in? I have lost my way--I, Esmerald Thorne, with a clientele of twenty
years from end to end of the city--I cannot find my way.

Enter a Suburban, a Loafer, and a
Priest. (The Woman draws her veil,
and looks solemnly at DR. THORNE
as she passes. Her face is pale and
wretched, but possesses singular
beauty.)

       [Exit the Woman.

(DR. THORNE does not notice the Woman.)

(The Loafer leans against a post. He stares stupidly at the wreck.)

(The Priest walks slowly, reciting an Ave.)

(The Suburban hurries on, making a wide circle to avoid the ruins of
the carriage.)

DR. THORNE (addressing the Suburban). Can you tell me?--Here! Hold on
a minute! Man, can’t you answer a civil question? Will you tell me--

THE SUBURBAN (pays no attention to DR. THORNE, but hurries on.
Consults his watch; speaks.) I shall lose my train!

       [Exit Suburban, running.

DR. THORNE (with puzzled impatience, addressing the Loafer).
Here!--You! Why, it’s Jerry! Just tell me, will you, Jerry, where the
accident was, and how much was the lady hurt?

(The Loafer stares stupidly at DR. THORNE, but makes no answer.)

       [Exit Loafer.

DR. THORNE (with trouble on his face, more gently addresses the
Priest, whom he slightly touches on the arm). Sir!--Oh, Father
Sullivan! Look here, Father! I’m ashamed to confess, I have lost my way.
Would you direct me to the house of the well-known merchant, Frederick
Fayth? I am due there on an urgent professional errand, and--I cannot
explain the phenomenon--but I have lost my way!

(The Priest repeats an Ave under his breath. He looks DR. THORNE
full in the face, but does not reply.)

DR. THORNE. And will you be so kind as to tell me whether you have heard
of a carriage accident down-town--and how much was the lady hurt? Did
you--

PRIEST(looks blindly over DR. THORNE’S head; mutters). Nay--Nay. I
see nothing. (He crosses himself). Ave Sanctissima! Ora pro nobis!
(He lifts his arms and, with a troubled and confused expression, makes
the sign of the cross in the air over DR. THORNE. Priest passes on.)

DR. THORNE (gently). Thank you, Father.

       [Exit Priest.

DR. THORNE (stands sunken in thought for a few moments; suddenly starts
and knots his hands together, then separates them with the motion of one
blind or of one feeling his way in the dark). I must see Helen! I must
go to Helen!--Helen! Helen!

(Sudden darkness settles. When it passes, the wreck of the buggy is
removed.)

Enter DR. THORNE. (Walks rapidly and
perplexedly, still with the manner of a
man who has lost his way.)

       [Exit.


Re-enter.

       [Exit.

Re-enter (speaks).

I must get home. I will get home. I will see Helen! (Stops
sharply, as if smitten by an unseen force; cannot take another step;
contends, as if with an invisible power; droops, as if vanquished;
turns, and retraces his way; his head hangs to his breast. He speaks.)
What thwarts me from my home? Who constrains me from my wife?
(Lifts his face angrily to the sky.) Is this hypnotism? (Laughs
sarcastically.) Am I an infant--or a maniac? It must be anæsthesia
passing off. Perhaps I was etherized by some blank fool after that
shock.--The accident! That is it, of course, of course! It is the
cerebral concussion--a simple case.... I shouldn’t like this to get out.
I believe I’ll go into my office--if I can find my office--and wait till
this passes off. It is a perfectly simple case. (Walks feverishly up
and down the street, searching for his own office; mutters.) Ever since
I yielded to that demand for a noon office hour downtown for business
men--it has crowded me without mercy. If they hadn’t been my old
patients, I wouldn’t have succumbed to it. It’s just another strand in
the whiplash that has driven me to death. Well (draws a long
breath)--I seem to be out of sorts to-night. I shall get over all this
nonsense when I see Helen. Helen will set me right. Helen will make a
live man of me again.


