“Perhaps,” said David, “it is because you are so good yourself.” But
Helen interrupted him at that with a quick rejoinder: “Do you forget
that I too have a sorrow upon my conscience?” Afterwards, as she saw
that the eager remark caused the other to smile in spite of himself,
she checked him gravely with the words, “Have you really forgotten
so soon? Do you suppose I do not ever think now of how I treated
poor Arthur, and how I drove away from me the best friend of my
girlhood? He wrote me that he would think of me no more, but, David,
sometimes I wonder if it were not just an angry boast, and if he
might not yet be lonely and wretched, somewhere in this great cold
world where I cannot ever find him or help him.”

The girl paused; David was regarding her earnestly, and for a long
time neither of them spoke. Then suddenly the man bent down, and
pressed a kiss upon her forehead. “Let us only love each other,
dear,” he whispered, “and try to keep as right as we can while the
time is given us.”

There was a long silence after that while the two sat gazing out
across the blue lake; when Helen spoke again it was to say, “Some
day you must tell me all about it, David, because I can help you;
but let us not talk about these dreadful things now.” She stopped
again, and afterwards went on thoughtfully, “I was thinking still of
what you said about immortality, and how very strange it is to think
of ceasing to be. Might it not be, David, that heaven is a place not
of reward, but of the same ceaseless effort as you spoke of?”

“Ah, yes,” said the other, “that is the thought of ‘the wages of
going on.’ And of course, dear, we would all like those wages; there
is no thought that tempts me so much as the possibility of being
able to continue the great race forever; but I don’t see how we have
the least right to demand it, or that the facts give us the least
reason to suppose that we will get it. It seems to me simply a
fantastic and arbitrary fancy; the re-creating of a worn-out life in
that way. I do not think, dearest, that I am in the least justified
in claiming an eternity of vision because God gives me an hour; and
when I ask Him the question in my own heart I learn simply that I am
a wretched, sodden creature that I do not crowd that hour with all
infinity and go quite mad at the sight of the beauty that He flings
wide before me.”

Helen did not reply for a while, and then she asked: “And you think,
David, that our life justifies itself no matter how much suffering
may be in it?”

“I think, dearest,” was his reply, “that the soul’s life is
struggle, and that the soul’s life is sacred; and that to be right,
to struggle to be right, is not only life’s purpose, but also life’s
reward; and that each instant of such righteousness is its own
warrant, tho the man be swept out of existence in the next.” Then
David stopped, and when he went on it was in a lower voice. “Dear
Helen,” he said, “after I have told you what I feel I deserve in
life, you can understand my not wishing to talk lightly about such
things as suffering. Just now, as I sit here at my ease, and in fact
all through my poor life, I have felt about such sacred words as
duty and righteousness that it would be just as well if they did not
ever pass my lips. But there have come to me one or two times, dear,
when I dared a little of the labor of things, and drank a drop or
two of the wine of the spirit; and those times have lived to haunt
me and make me at least not a happy man in my unearned ease. There
come to me still just once in a while hours when I get sight of the
gleam, hours that make me loathe all that in my hours of comfort I
loved; and there comes over me then a kind of Titanic rage, that I
should go down a beaten soul because I have not the iron strength of
will to lash my own self to life, and tear out of my own heart a
little of what power is in it. At such times, Helen, I find just
this one wish in my mind,--that God would send to me, cost what it
might, some of the fearful experience that rouses a man’s soul
within him, and makes him live his life in spite of all his dullness
and his fear.”

David had not finished, but he halted, because he saw a strange look
upon the girl’s face. She did not answer him at once, but sat gazing
at him; and then she said in a very grave voice, “David, I do not
like to hear such words as that from you.”

“What words, dearest?”

“Do you mean actually that it sometimes seems to you wrong to live
happily with me as you have?”

David laid his hand quietly upon hers, watching for a minute her
anxious countenance. Then he said in a low voice: “You ought not to
ask me about such things, dear, or blame me for them. Sometimes I
have to face the very cruel thought that I ought not ever to have
linked my fate to one so sweet and gentle as you, because what I
ought to be doing in the world to win a right conscience is
something so hard and so stern that it would mean that I could never
be really happy all my life.”

David was about to go on, but he stopped again because of Helen’s
look of displeasure. “David,” she whispered, “that is the most
unloving thing that I have ever heard from you!”

“And you must blame me, dear, because of it?” he asked.

“I suppose,” Helen answered, “that you would misunderstand me as
long as I chose to let you. Do you not suppose that I too have a
conscience,--do you suppose that I want any happiness it is wrong
for us to take, or that I would not dare to go anywhere that your
duty took you? And do you suppose that anything could be so painful
to me as to know that you do not trust me, that you are afraid to
live your life, and do what is your duty, before me?”

David bent down suddenly and pressed a kiss upon the girl’s
forehead. “Precious little heart,” he whispered, “those words are
very beautiful.”

“I did not say them because they were beautiful,” answered Helen
gravely; “I said them because I meant them, and because I wanted you
to take them in earnest. I want to know what it is that you and I
ought to be doing, instead of enjoying our lives; and after you have
told me what it is I can tell you one thing--that I shall not be
happy again in my life until it is done.”

David watched her thoughtfully a while before he answered, because
he saw that she was very much in earnest. Then he said sadly,
“Dearest Helen, perhaps the reason that I have never been able all
through my life to satisfy my soul is the pitiful fact that I have
not the strength to dare any of the work of other men; I have had
always to chafe under the fact that I must choose between nourishing
my poor body, or ceasing to live. I have learned that all my
power--and more too, as it sometimes seemed,--was needed to bear
bravely the dreadful trials that God has sent to me.”

Helen paled slightly; she felt his hand trembling upon hers, and she
remembered his illness at her aunt’s, about which she had never had
the courage to speak to him. “And so, dear heart,” he went on
slowly, “let us only be sure that we are keeping our lives pure and
strong, that we are living in the presence of high thoughts and
keeping the mastery of ourselves, and saying and really meaning that
we live for something unselfish; so that if duty and danger come, we
shall not prove cowards, and if suffering comes we should not give
way and lose our faith. Does that please you, dear Helen?”

The girl pressed his hand silently in hers. After a while he went on
still more solemnly: “Some time,” he said, “I meant to talk to you
about just that, dearest, to tell you how stern and how watchful we
ought to be. It is very sad to me to see what happens when the great
and fearful realities of life disclose themselves to good and kind
people who have been living without any thought of such things. I
feel that it is very wrong to live so, that if we wished to be right
we would hold the high truths before us, no matter how much labor it
cost.”

“What truths do you mean?” asked Helen earnestly; and he answered
her: “For one, the very fearful fact of which I have just been
talking--that you and I are two bubbles that meet for an instant
upon the whirling stream of time. Suppose, sweetheart, that I were
to tell you that I do not think you and I would be living our lives
truly, until we were quite sure that we could bear to be parted
forever without losing our faith in God’s righteousness?”

Helen turned quite white, and clutched the other’s hands in hers;
she had not once thought of actually applying what he had said to
her. “David! David!” she cried, “No!”

The man smiled gently as he brushed back the hair from her forehead
and gazed into her eyes. “And when you asked for sternness, dear,”
 he said, “was it that you did not know what the word meant? Life is
real, dear Helen, and the effort it demands is real effort.”

The girl did not half hear these last words; she was still staring
at her husband. “Listen to me, David,” she said at last, still
holding his hand tightly in hers, her voice almost a whisper; “I
could bear anything for you, David, I know that I could bear
anything; I could really die for you, I say that with all my
soul,--that was what I was thinking of when you spoke of death. But
David, if you were to be taken from me,--if you were to be taken
from me--” and she stopped, unable to find a word more.

“Perhaps it will be just as well not to tell me, dear heart,” he
said to her, gently.

“David,” she went on more strenuously yet, “listen to me--you must
not ever ask me to think of that! Do you hear me? For, oh, it cannot
be true, it cannot be true, David, that you could be taken from me
forever! What would I have left to live for?”

“Would you not have the great wonderful God?” asked the other
gently--“the God who made me and all that was lovable in me, and
made you, and would demand that you worship him?” But Helen only
shook her head once more and answered, “It could not be true,
David,--no, no!” Then she added in a faint voice, “What would be the
use of my having lived?”

The man bent forward and kissed her again, and kissed away a little
of the frightened, anxious look upon her face. “My dear,” he said
with a gentle smile, “perhaps I was wrong to trouble you with such
fearful things after all. Let me tell you instead a thought that
once came to my mind, and that has stayed there as the one I should
like to call the most beautiful of all my life; it may help to
answer that question of yours about the use of having lived. Men
love life so much, Helen dear, that they cannot ever have enough of
it, and to keep it and build it up they make what we call the arts;
this thought of mine is about one of them, about music, the art that
you and I love most. For all the others have been derived from
things external, but music was made out of nothing, and exists but
for its one great purpose, and therefore is the most spiritual of
all of them. I like to say that it is time made beautiful, and so a
shadow picture of the soul; it is this, because it can picture
different degrees of speed and of power, because it can breathe and
throb, can sweep and soar, can yearn and pray,--because, in short,
everything that happens in the heart can happen in music, so that we
may lose ourselves in it and actually live its life, or so that a
great genius can not merely tell us about himself, but can make all
the best hours of his soul actually a part of our own. This thought
that I said was beautiful came to me from noticing how perfectly the
art was one with that which it represented; so that we may say not
only that music is life, but that life is music. Music exists
because it is beautiful, dear Helen, and because it brings an
instant of the joy of beauty to our hearts, and for no other reason
whatever; it may be music of happiness or of sorrow, of achievement
or only of hope, but so long as it is beautiful it is right, and it
makes no difference, either, that it cost much labor of men, or that
when it is gone it is gone forever. And dearest, suppose that the
music not only was beautiful, but knew that it was beautiful; that
it was not only the motion of the air, but also the joy of our
hearts; might it not then be its own excuse, just one strain of it
that rose in the darkness, and quivered and died away again
forever?”

When David had spoken thus he stopped and sat still for a while,
gazing at his wife; then seeing the anxious look still in possession
of her face, he rose suddenly by way of ending their talk.
“Dearest,” he said, smiling, “it is wrong of me, perhaps, to worry
you about such very fearful things as those; let us go in, and find
something to do that is useful, and not trouble ourselves with them
any more.”




CHAPTER II


  “O Freude, habe Acht!
    Sprich leise,
  Dass nicht der Schmerz erwacht!”

It was late on the afternoon of the day that Helen’s father had left
for home, and David was going into the village with some letters to
mail. Helen was not feeling very well herself and could not go, but
she insisted upon his going, for she watched over his exercise and
other matters of health with scrupulous care. She had wrapped him up
in a heavy overcoat, and was kneeling beside his chair with her arms
about him.

“Tell me, dear,” she asked him, for the third or fourth time, “are
you sure this will be enough to keep you warm?--for the nights are
so very cold, you know; I do not like you to come back alone
anyway.”

“I don’t think you would be much of a protection against danger,”
 laughed David.

“But it will be dark when you get back, dear.”

“It will only be about dusk,” was the reply; “I don’t mind that.”

Helen gazed at him wistfully for a minute, and then she went on: “Do
you not know what is the matter with me, David? You frightened me
to-day, and I cannot forget what you said. Each time that it comes
to my mind it makes me shudder. Why should you say such fearful
things to me?”

“I am very sorry,” said the other, gently.

“You simply must not talk to me so!” cried the girl; “if you do you
will make me so that I cannot bear to leave you for an instant. For
those thoughts make my love for you simply desperate, David; I cry
out to myself that I never have loved you enough, never told you
enough!” And then she added pleadingly, “But oh, you know that I
love you, do you not, dear? Tell me.”

“Yes, I know it,” said the other gently, taking her in his arms and
kissing her.

“Come back soon,” Helen went on, “and I will tell you once more how
much I do; and then we can be happy again, and I won’t be afraid any
more. Please let me be happy, won’t you, David?”

“Yes, love, I will,” said the man with a smile. “I do not think that
I was wise ever to trouble you.”

Helen was silent for a while, then as a sudden thought occurred to
her she added: “David, I meant to tell you something--do you know if
those horrible thoughts keep haunting me, it is just this that they
will make me do; you said that God was very good, and so I was
thinking that I would show him how very much I love you, how I could
really never get along without you, and how I care for nothing else
in the world. It seems to me to be such a little thing, that we
should only just want to love; and truly, that is all I do want,--I
would not mind anything else in the world,--I would go away from
this little house and live in any poor place, and do all the work,
and never care about anything else at all, if I just might have you.
That is really true, David, and I wish that you would know it, and
that God would know it, and not expect me to think of such dreadful
things as you talk of.”

As David gazed into her deep, earnest eyes he pressed her to him
with a sudden burst of emotion. “You have me now, dearest,” he
whispered, “and oh, I shall trust the God who gave me this precious
heart!”--He kissed her once more in fervent love, and kissed her
again and again until the clouds had left her face. She leaned back
and gazed at him, and was radiant with delight again. “Oh--oh--oh!”
 she cried. “David, it only makes me more full of wonder at the real
truth! For it is the truth, David, it is the truth--that you are all
mine! It is so wonderful, and it makes me so happy,--I seem to lose
myself more in the thought every day!”

“You can never lose yourself too much, little sweetheart,” David
whispered; “let us trust to love, and let it grow all that it will.
Helen, I never knew what it was to live until I met you,--never knew
how life could be so full and rich and happy. And never, never will
I be able to tell you how much I love you, dearest soul.”

“Oh, but I believe you without being told!” she said, laughing. “Do
you know, I could make myself quite mad just with saying over to
myself that you love me all that I could ever wish you to love me,
all that I could imagine you loving me! Isn’t that true, David?”

“Yes, that is true,” the man replied.

“But you don’t know what a wonderful imagination I have,” laughed
the girl, “and how hungry for your love I am.” And she clasped him
to her passionately and cried, “David, you can make me too happy to
live with that thought! I shall have to think about it all the time
that you are gone, and when you come back I shall be so wonderfully
excited,--oh--oh, David!”

Then she laughed eagerly and sprang up. “You must not stay any
longer,” she exclaimed, “because it is getting late; only hurry
back, because I can do nothing but wait for you.” And so she led him
to the door, and kissed him again, and then watched him as he
started up the road. He turned and looked at her, as she leaned
against the railing of the porch, with the glory of the sunset
falling upon her hair; she made a radiant picture, for her cheeks
were still flushed, and her bosom still heaving with the glory of
the thought she had promised to keep. There was so much of her love
in the look which she kept upon David that it took some resolution
to go on and leave her.

As for Helen, she watched him until he had quite disappeared in the
forest, after which she turned and gazed across the lake at the gold
and crimson mountains. But all the time she was still thinking the
thought of David’s love; the wonder of it was still upon her face,
and it seemed to lift her form; until at last she stretched wide her
arms, and leaned back her head, and drank a deep draft of the
evening air, whispering aloud, “Oh, I do not dare to be as happy as
I can!” And she clasped her arms upon her bosom and laughed a wild
laugh of joy.

Later on, because it was cold, she turned and went into the house,
singing a song to herself as she moved. As she went to the piano and
sat down she saw upon the rack the little springtime song of Grieg’s
that was the first thing she had ever heard upon David’s violin; she
played a few bars of it to herself, and then she stopped and sat
still, lost in the memory which it brought to her mind of the night
when she had sat at the window and listened to it, just after seeing
Arthur for the last time. “And to think that it was only four or
five months ago!” she whispered to herself. “And how wretched I
was!”

“I do not believe I could ever be so unhappy again,” she went on
after a while, “I know that I could not, while I have David!” after
which her thoughts came back into the old, old course of joy. When
she looked at the music again the memory of her grief was gone, and
she read in it all of her own love-glory. She played it through
again, and afterwards sat quite still, until the twilight had begun
to gather in the room.

Helen then rose and lit the lamp, and the fire in the open
fire-place; she glanced at the clock and saw that more than a
quarter of an hour had passed, and she said to herself that it could
not be more than that time again before David was back.

“I should go out and meet him if I were feeling quite strong,” she
added as she went to the door and looked out; then she exclaimed
suddenly: “But oh, I know how I can please him better!” And the girl
went to the table where some of her books were lying, and sat down
and began very diligently studying, glancing every half minute at
the clock and at the door. “I shall be too busy even to hear him!”
 she said, with a sudden burst of glee; and quite delighted with the
effect that would produce she listened eagerly every time she
fancied she heard a step, and then fixed her eyes upon the book, and
put on a look of most complete absorption.

Unfortunately for Helen’s plan, however, each time it proved to be a
false alarm; and so the fifteen minutes passed completely, and then
five, and five again. The girl had quite given up studying by that
time, and was gazing at the clock, and listening to its ticking, and
wondering very much indeed. At last when more than three-quarters of
an hour had passed since David had left, she got up and went to the
door once more to listen; as she did not hear anything she went out
on the piazza, and finally to the road. All about her was veiled in
shadow, which her eyes strove in vain to pierce; and so growing
still more impatient she raised her voice and called, “David,
David!” and then stood and listened to the rustling of the leaves
and the faint lapping of the water on the shore.
