"Town scandal," said the officer.
"It may be a lie," observed a young man mounted on a powerful gray.
"It is a lie," I said, with an ugly emphasis.
"Is that remark addressed to me, sir?" demanded the Sudbury officer,
sharply.
"And to company, also," I replied.
"Gentlemen!" cried the Roxbury officer, "are we to have quarrels among
us at such a time?"
"Certainly," said I, "if you or your company affront me. Tattle is
dirty work for a gentleman's tongue, and the sooner that tongue is
stopped with honest mud the better."
"I've called a gentleman out for less than that," said an old officer,
dryly.
"I am at your service," I replied, disgusted.
"And I'm with you, lad," said Mount, walking up to my stirrup. "I have
no stomach for those who wink at a woman's name."
"I also," said the young man on the gray, gravely.
A constrained silence followed, broken by the Sudbury officer.
"Hats off to the beautiful Mrs. Hamilton, gentlemen! Cardigan is
right, by God! If we stand not for our women, who will?"
And he stretched out his hand in the rain. I took it; others offered
me their hands.
"I ride to Province House," I said, briefly. "Jack, fetch a cloak to
hide your buckskins and wait me here. Gentlemen, I wish you fortune in
your journey."
As I rode out into Cambridge Street, thunder boomed in the east, and I
saw the forked lightning racing through inky heavens, veining the
storm with jewelled signs.
"God writes on heaven's wall!" I said, aloud.
A strange exultation stirred me; the dark world lay free and wide
before me, and I would ride it, now, from end to end, till Silver
Heels was mine and Butler's soul had dropped back into that pit from
whence it had crawled to hide within his demon's body.
In Hillier's Lane I put Warlock to a gallop, but drew bridle in muddy
Sudbury Street, where, from the darkness, a strident voice called on
me to halt.
"Who comes there?" repeated the voice. I heard the trample of horsemen
and the clink of sabres striking stirrups.
"Coureur-de-bois for Province House!" I answered, calmly. A chafing
temper began to heat my blood; I gathered my bridle and dropped one
hand on my hatchet.
"On whose affairs ride you?" demanded the spectral dragoon, laying his
horse broadside across mine.
"On my own affairs!" I cried, angrily; "pull out there!--do you hear
me, fellow?"
A lanthorn was lifted to my face.
"Let the forest wild-cat go," muttered an officer, riding back to the
picket as I crowded my horse against the dragoon who had hailed me.
Without giving them a glance I pushed through the cluster of horsemen,
and heard them cursing my insolence as I wheeled into School Street
and cantered along Governor's Alley.
There were torches lighted in the mews; an hostler took Warlock; I
swung out of the saddle and stepped back to a shelter from the storm.
Through the rain, up Marlborough Street, down School Street, and along
Cornhill, drove the coaches and carriages of the Tory quality, all
stopping at the brilliantly lighted mansion, where, as an hostler
informed me, the Governor was giving a play and a supper to the
wealthy Tory families of Boston and to all the officers of the British
regiments quartered in the city. I knew the latter statement was
false.
I stood for a while in the rain among the throng of poor who had come
to wait there, in patience, on the chance of a scrap from the
servants' quarters after the servants had picked the bones their
surfeited masters would scarcely deign to lick.
At first, as the coaches dashed up and the chairs jogged into the
gateway, a few squalid watchers in the crowd fought to open the
carriage-doors, hoping for a coin flung to them for their pains; but
the sentinels soon put a finish to this, driving the ragged rabble
savagely, with thrusts of their musket-butts, out into Marlborough
Street. Under the gate-lanthorn's smeared reflections I saw the poor
things huddled in a half-circle, pinched and chattering and white with
hunger, soaked to the bone with the icy rain, yet lingering, God knows
why, for a brief glimpse of My Lady in pink silk and powder, picking
her way from her carriage across the puddles, while My Lord minced at
her side and the footman ran behind to cover them both with a
glistening umbrella.
The stony street echoed with the clatter of shod horses, the rattle of
wheels, the shouts of footmen, and the bawling of chair-bearers.
Once, when the wind sharpened, shifted, and blew the slanting rain
from the north, a warm odour of roasted butcher's meats came to us,
and I could hear a hollow sound rising from the throng, which was like
a groan.
In the Province House fiddlers were fiddling; it was chill enough in
the street, but it was doubtless over-hot within, for servants came
and threw open the windows and we could hear the fiddles plainly and
the sweet confusion of voices and a young girl's laughter.
A hoarse cry broke out, wrung from the very vitals of the wretches
around me.
"Silence!" shouted the officer of the gate-guard, striding out in his
long rain-cloak and glaring about him, with tasselled stick upraised.
The rain powdered his gilded French hat and laced vest, and he stepped
back hastily under shelter.
There was perfect quiet for an instant, then a movement near me, a
mutter, a quick surging of people, a cry: "Give room! Back there! Bear
him up!"
A voice broke out, "He is starving; the smell o' meat sickens him!"
Two men staggered past, supporting a mere lad, whose deathly face hung
on his rain-soaked cotton shirt.
"He has the spotted sickness!" muttered a chair-bearer near me; "it's
death to take his breath! Let me pass!"
"The pest!" cried another, shrinking back, and stumbling away in a
panic.
The officer watched the scene for a moment, then his heavy, inflamed
face darkened.
"Back there! Be off, I say!" he bawled. "Ye stinking beggars, d'ye
mean to poison us all with the pest? Turn out the gate-guard! Drive
those filthy whelps up Cornhill!" he shouted to the corporal of the
guard.
The soldiers came tumbling out of the gate-lodge, but before they
could move on the throng another officer hurried up, and I heard him
sharply recalling the soldiers and rebuking the officer who had given
the order.
"No, no, that will not do," he said. "The town would flame if you
drive the citizens from their own streets. Let them stand there. What
harm are they doing?"
"The lout yonder fell down with the spotted pest," remonstrated the
first officer. "Faugh! The rabble's rotten with scurvy or some filthy
abomination--"
"They'll harm no one but themselves," replied the other in a sad
voice, which sounded strangely familiar to me, so familiar that I
involuntarily stepped out into the lighted space under the gate and
peered at him through the rain, shielding my eyes with my hands.
The officer was Mr. Bevan.
Should I speak to him? Should I count on his friendship for me to get
me an audience with the Governor? Here was a chance; he could vouch
for me; so could Mrs. Hamilton.
As I hesitated somebody beside me clutched my elbow, and I swung
around instantly, one hand on my hunting-knife.
The next moment Saul Shemuel almost rolled at my feet in an ecstasy of
humble delight, sniffling, writhing, breathing hard, and clawing at my
sleeve in his transports at sight of me.
I seized his arm, drew him along the wall, and into the dusky mews.
Impatient, yet touched, I suffered his mauling, demanding what news he
might have, and he, beside himself with joy and excitement, could
scarce find breath to pant out the news which concerned me. "I haf
seen Foxcroft," he gasped. "Mr. Foxcroft he hass come to-day on dot
Pomona frigate to Scarlet's Wharf, twelve weeks from Queenstown,
sir. It wass printed in dot Efening Gazette, all apout Foxcroft how
he iss come from Sir Peter Warren to make some troubles for Sir John
Johnson mit dot money he took from Miss Warren, sir!"
"Foxcroft! Here?" I stammered.
"Yess, sir; I ran mit my legs to Queen Street, und I told him how you
wass in dot prison come, und he run mit his legs to Province House,
but too late, for we hear dot bell ring und dose guns shooting. Und I
said, 'Gott of Isaac, I bet you Jack Mount he hass run avay!' Und Mr.
Foxcroft he sees some dragoon soldiers come into Cornhill, calling
out: 'Dose highwaymens is gone! Vatch 'em by dot Mall!' So Mr.
Foxcroft he comes to Province House mit me, sir, und he iss gone in to
make some troubles mit Governor Gage apout Sir John Johnson und dot
money of Miss Warren! Ach, here iss Mr. Foxcroft, now, sir--"
I turned to confront a stout, florid gentleman, swathed in a
riding-cloak, whose little, angry eyes snapped as he cried: "Governor
Gage is a meddling ass! I care not who listens to me, and, I repeat,
he is a meddlesome ass! Sir Peter Warren shall hear of this, damme! Am
I a free agent, damme? I take it that I am a free agent, yet I may not
leave this town to-night for lack of a pass. But I'll go! They shall
not stop me! No, damme if they shall!"
The hostlers were all staring at him; I stepped towards him, eagerly,
but the peppery and inflamed barrister waved me off.
"Damme, sir!" he bawled; "who the devil are you, sir? Take your hands
from me, sir! I wish to go to my client in Lexington, and this Tory
peacock will give me no pass! I will not suffer this outrage; I will
appeal to--"
I gave him a jerk that shook the breath from his body, whispering in
his ear: "Be silent, in Heaven's name, sir! I am Michael Cardigan!"
At first, in his passion, astonishment, and incredulity, he found no
voice to answer me; but as Shemuel eagerly vouched for me, Mr.
Foxcroft's fury and suspicion subsided.
"You? Cardigan?" he repeated. "Well, where the devil have you been,
sir, and what the devil have you been about, sir? Eh? Answer me that,
now!"
"I've been in prison, under sentence of death," I replied. "Where have
you been, sir, to leave your client, Miss Warren, at the mercy of
Walter Butler?"
At that he took fire, and, with trembling fist quivering towards
heaven, he justified his absence in warm terms.
"I've been in England, sir, that's where I've been!" he cried. "I've
been there to find out why your blackguard of a kinsman, Sir John
Johnson, should rob my client of her property. And I've found out that
your blackguard Sir John has not only robbed her of her means, but of
the very name she has a right to! That's what I've done, sir. And if
it does not please you, you may go to the devil!"
His impudence and oaths I scarcely noted, such a fierce happiness was
surging through me to the very bones. I could have hugged the choleric
barrister as he stood there, affronting me at every breath; I fairly
beamed upon him when he bade me go to the devil, and, to his
amazement, I seized his fat hands and thanked him so gratefully that
the defiance died on his lips and he stared at me open-mouthed.
"My dear sir, my dear, dear friend," I cried, "I will get you your
pass to clear the Neck to-night, and we will go together to find my
cousin, Miss Warren. Wait me here, sir; I will leave Boston this night
or my name is not Cardigan!"
Then bidding Shemuel keep an eye on Warlock, I hurried around to the
gate-house, where the rabble still slunk, watching the lighted windows
with famished eyes.
The clouds in mid-heaven had caked into snowy jets of fleece, and now
the full moon of April flooded the soaked pavements with pools of
silver.
The sentry halted me as I entered the court-yard, but when I asked for
Mr. Bevan, he called to a comrade to take my message. The next moment
Bevan stepped out into the moonlight.
"What is it, my man? Can I serve you?" he said, pleasantly, peering at
me.
"Do you not know me, Mr. Bevan?" I asked.
"Cardigan!" he stammered, "is that you, Cardigan--"
He was close to me at a stride, both hands on my shoulders, his
kindly, troubled eyes full of wonder and pity. Perhaps I appeared to
him somewhat haggard and careworn, and then the rain had chilled and
pinched me.
"I am not in want," I said, trying to smile.
"But--but why are you not among the guests at Province House?" he
asked, quickly. "The son of Captain Cardigan needs no friend at court,
I fancy."
He linked his gilded sleeve in my arm and drew me past the
guard-house, and ere I could protest, I found myself inside the
cloak-room among a company of old beaux and young fops, all in the
hands of footmen and body-servants who were busily dusting the
hair-powder from silken shoulders, smoothing out laces, hanging hats
and cloaks to dry, and polishing sword-hilts for their languid,
insolent-eyed masters.
"Can we not find a quiet corner hereabouts?" I asked. "I came to
demand a pass for Lexington. Will you use your privilege with the
Governor, Bevan?"
"A pass!" he exclaimed, stopping short in his tracks.
"To Lexington," I repeated.
"To-night?"
"Yes."
He raised his honest, perplexed eyes to me.
"I must have a pass; it concerns the welfare of Miss Warren," I began,
then hesitated, remembering that I was also to take Jack Mount in my
company, whose business in Lexington was very different from mine.
"Cardigan," he said, with troubled eyes on me, "I cannot lend myself
to such a service, even for Miss Warren's sake, unless you first give
me your word of honour that your journey concerns only Miss Warren's
welfare."
My heart sank; I could not betray the comrade who counted on me. Jack
Mount must get free o' Boston as well as I. But how could I lie to
Bevan or requite his courtesy with treachery? Yet honour forbade me to
leave Jack Mount, even for Silver Heels's sake.
"Pass or no pass, I go this night," I said, sullenly.
"Hush!" he said; "don't talk here."
He led me through the card-rooms, where a score of old bucks and
purple-necked officers sat, all playing picquet in owlish silence,
then through a partition, where a fountain sprayed beds of tall ferns,
out into a lamp-illumined circular alcove, hung with China silks, and
bowered deep in flowers and tiny, blossoming trees no higher than
one's knee-buckle.
"The Chinese alcove," he observed. "Nobody will disturb us here, I
fancy. You have heard of the Chinese alcove, Cardigan? There is the
door to the famous golden gallery."
I glanced at the gilded door in the corner, half-hidden by Chinese
drapery. I had heard that the Governor's sweetheart dwelt here.
Bevan reached up and pulled a velvet cord. Presently a servant brought
us a silver bowl of steaming punch made with tea and fruit in the
Regent's fashion.
"I drink no tea," I said, shortly.
"I suppose not," observed Bevan, laughing, and commanded the servant
to fetch me a bowl without tea.
"Your courtesy to a rebel is extraordinary," I said, after an
interval.
"Oh, I'm half rebel myself," he laughed. "I'd be in my shirt-sleeves
out Middlesex way, drilling yokels--Minute Men, I believe--were it not
that--that--oh, well, I'll wear the red jacket as long as I live and
let the future weed out the goats from the sheep."
"It's different with you," I said. "You are English bred."
"Ay, and the red o' the uniform has dyed my flesh to the bone," he
replied.
"You mean that you will fight--us?" I asked.
"Tooth and nail, my dear fellow," he said, gayly; "foot, horse, and
dragoons! But what can I do to serve you--first?"
I tasted a glass of punch, then set it down impatiently. "I tell you I
must ride to Lexington," I said, firmly, "and I mean to take friends
if I choose--"
"Tell me no more, Cardigan," he broke in, "else I must refuse you what
little service I may render. You know as well as I why the gates on
the Neck are closed to-night. If you do not know, listen to me. The
rebels have been storing war materials. Last October we gave their
spokesmen full warning that we could no longer tolerate the collecting
of arms and ammunition. We sent expeditions into the country to
destroy what stores they had gathered."
He hesitated; a perplexed smile passed over his face. "You know
perfectly well," he said, "that we have good reasons for closing the
city gates to-night. I cannot give you a pass. Yet, for Miss Warren's
sake"--he lifted his hat as he spoke--"I have done what I could in
honour. Now I must leave you."
"What have you done?" I asked, angrily.
"I have conducted you to the Chinese alcove, my friend."
"The ante-chamber of the Governor's mistress," I retorted. "Am I to
find my pass here among these flowers and blossoms?"
He looked down at the glasses on the table beside us, stirred the
contents of his own, and nodded.
"What do you mean?" I demanded, hotly.
"I mean, Cardigan, that, except the Governor, there is only one
person to-night in Boston who can secure you a pass for Lexington. If
she chooses to do so, it is not my affair."
"If who chooses to do so?"
"She."
"Who?"
"Wait and--ask her," he said, gravely.
He was gone, wading waist-deep in flowers, ere I could compose my mind
to think or protest, leaving me speechless; standing by the table.
A minute passed; through the thickets of sweet-smelling blossoms the
candles flamed like those slender witch-lights that dance over
nature's gardens, where bergamot and cardinal robe our dim woods in
crimson glory under the October stars.
"What does he mean by leaving me here?" I muttered, pacing to and fro
through the fragrant, flowering lane. Then, as I stood still,
listening, far away I heard a glass door close with a crystalline
clash; there came the rustle of brocade sweeping like a breeze along
the passage; the door of the golden gallery swung outward; a figure
all silk and lace stood poised on the step above me, screened to the
knees behind the flowers.
"Where is the forest-runner who desires a pass to Lexington?" she
began; then, perceiving my lank, dark form against the candle-light,
she laughed a sweet, contented little laugh and bade me approach.
I saw that exquisite, indolent head bending towards me, the smiling
eyes seeking my features, the jewels ablaze at her throat.
"Marie Hamilton!" I stammered.
All her neck and face flamed, then whitened to the hue of death as she
stepped swiftly towards me, her brocade sweeping through the flowers
with a sound like the wind tearing silken petals. Suddenly she stood
still, clearing her startled eyes with one jewelled hand; her knees
fell a-trembling; she swayed and caught at the stiff, golden curtains,
half tearing them from the wall.
Into a carved chair, all glittering with dragon's wings, she fell, a
crumpled heap of lace and jewels, and buried her face in her hands,
pressing her fingers into the plump skin.
I watched her miserably; she twisted her white hands before her face;
her quivering mouth, her delicate body bent and writhing, all these
told me what no words could tell, and her agonized silence shouted her
shame to the midnight skies of heaven.
In the hush that followed, the door of the golden gallery swung idly
back and forth with a deadened, muffled beat like the noise of great
wings flapping.
"Michael," she said, at last.
"Yes," I whispered, in hopeless grief.
Presently she sat up, wearily, one hand on her pale, smooth brow. I
could not meet her eyes; I bent my head.
"Oh, God, what punishment is mine!" she sobbed.
She dropped her hands, clasped them, and looked wildly at me through
her tears.
"If I am what I am, it was because I had lost you," she said. "I had
eaten my heart out--you never came--I never thought you cared--I never
thought you cared!" she wailed, twisting her interlocked fingers in
helpless agony. "I had loved you so long; I tried to make you
understand it, but you would not. I was mortally hurt--I said bitter
things--but my heart was yours, Michael, yours for the asking, and so
was I; you had only to take me; I would have gone with you from the
first word you spoke to me in Johnson Hall--I would have followed
you--from the first glance you gave me. Wrong? What is wrong? Love? It
is never wrong! I would have died for a touch of your lips; I did
almost die when you kissed me there, using me so shamelessly with your
boyish cruelty! You went away in the night; I searched Johnstown, and
I listened and questioned until I believed you had gone to Pittsburg.
And I followed you, madly jealous of Felicity, crazed at the thought
that she, too, was going to Pitt to be near you. But you were not at
Fort Pitt; I waited, and I was calm because I believed that Felicity
meant to wed with Dunmore. Then Harrod sent in his list of killed--my
husband was among the dead. I went back to Albany. I meant to come to
Boston to sell my house: I needed money. You found me there on the
road that night; I could have died from happiness, but you would not
understand me, Michael!" she ended, piteously.
I kept my eyes on the floor.
"And now, since you have been in Boston, all these long months," she
cried, "I have not seen you; I could not find you, nor could I find
anybody who had ever seen you. God knows I did not think to see you
here since I, destitute, utterly desperate, caring nothing for life,
took--this--shameful--step--"
She covered her hot face with her hands.
"Can you believe I love you still?" she sobbed.
I could endure no more; already I had stumbled through the flowery
hedge towards the door, blindly forcing a path amid the blossoms which
threw out a hundred tendrils to bar my way.
Once I looked back. She lay in the glittering chair, eyes following
me. The next step, and a great bunch of roses blotted her face from my
sight.
Through the card-room I hurried, aware of people around me, yet seeing
nothing; down the stairway, jostled by people who were descending or
mounting, and at last into the cloak-room and out through the
court-yard, which was now bright with moonlight shining in the puddles
of rain.
Shemuel came from the mews to meet me, leading Warlock. Mr. Foxcroft
stalked behind him.
"Where is the pass?" he demanded. "Did you procure the pass, sir?
What! Empty-handed! Now, by Heaven!" he cried, in a towering fury,
"this Tory Governor presumes too far!"
"Be silent!" I said, sharply; "do you wish to have us all arrested? I
shall go to Lexington to-night, I tell you, pass or no pass; and,
before I go, you shall tell me where I may find Miss Warren."
"A mile out of Lexington on the Bedford Road," he replied. "How can
you pass the Neck guard, without the Governor's leave, sir?"
"I will show you," said I, "if you choose to accompany me."
"You mean to ride for it?" he asked, excitedly.
I was silent.
"And risk a chain-shot from their twenty-four-pounders?" he
persisted.
"Mr. Foxcroft," I said, "you may do as you please, but there is
nothing under the moon, yonder, which can keep me from going to
Lexington. Have you a horse stabled here? No? Can you hire one? Then
hire him, in Heaven's name, and get into your saddle if you mean to go
