
the true purposes of religion, the advancement of 
humanity.” 

“But are women never laughed at? There was the 
Hotel Rambouillet and La Precieuses in Paris ” 

Yes. Mrs. Murch knew about them. And kings and 
queens and wars and conquests. 

“But that is not learning English,” said Mrs. Murch, 
with a faint smile. “I have brought a primer with me. 
Have you any books ?” 

Gervaise had left one of his. 

Sylvie was delighted and eager. She too was a little 
tired of the round, of Laure’s inconsequent complaining, 
of Hortense’s passionate adoration. As for Zenobie, she 
held her head loftily these days. And the crane appeared 
to have reached the limit of his educational faculties. 
Hylas alone never wearied her. 

Mrs. Murch was to come three days in a week. The 
salary seemed much too high for the services she de- 
clared. Angelique thought it rather meagre, but their 
own income was not large. Barbe was quite stiff at first, 
but she soon became interested in the poor woman, who 
must at one time have been such a lady. They could 
hardly understand how a person of so much refinement 
could cheerfully consent to take up menial employments 
even in her own home. 

Hylas approved of her. He was rather aristocratic 
too. And when one Sunday the boys were allowed to 
come up and renew acquaintance with him, they were 
wild with delight. Anthon had once carried Mr. Nor- 
ton’s valise for him, though the little negroes or big ones 
either, generally took such jobs as their share. Dick was 
younger ; both were blue-eyed and sunburned, even as to 
hair. No one knew what their mother suffered when 
they started off in their shrunken white suits, and bare- 




footed ; still they were clean and merry, and thought New 
Orleans a marvellous place. 

“But we’re sure to go back,” said Anthon, decidedly. 
“I shouldn’t want to live here always unless I could have 
a garden and a house like this.” 

“I never saw such a funny crane,” laughed Dick. “I’ve 
seen performing dogs, and I think you could teach Hylas 
anything, only he is so fine and grand you would hate to 
see him do ridiculous things ! Think of his trying to 
dance like Telano!” and the boy laughed heartily. 

The conversation was carried on in a rather funny 
manner. The boys had picked up a good deal of French 
and Spanish, but when they talked in real earnest they 
ran off on a siding which was English. Sylvie had to 
question and puzzle her brain, then they would all laugh 
at the misunderstandings. 

“It’s been splendid!” declared Sylvie, breathlessly. “I 
like boys better than girls. They have so many things to 
talk about. And they are not so silly. Then they do 
not keep telling you ” 

Sylvie paused suddenly and turned scarlet. 

“How to behave?” inquired Angelique, mirthfully. 
“And all your little faults?” 

Sylvie was about to say, “How beautiful and how dear 
you are!” For Hortense had begun to weary her with 
'‘mere ange! My little heart! My sweetest flower; my 
star of light, I love you !” And yet as the boys were 
going away, Dick looked her straight in the face and ex- 
claimed, with the candor of one not yet in his teens : 

“I never saw any one as beautiful as you. Miss Sylvie. 
You look like an angel with all that golden hair and your 
eyes just the color of heaven.” 

So the little girl locked that up with her other secrets. 
It had not even called a blush to her cheek. 


Hylas had enjoyed the boys wonderfully, too. He had 
run races with them, being compelled by his wilful 
mistress to give them long odds and then distance them 
in the end. They had rolled and tumbled about until the 
white suits were almost the color of the dog. He had 
found articles hidden away, he had brought sticks, and if 
he could not dance, the supple curves of his long lithe 
body and slim legs were splendid. 

Sylvie was tired and swung in the hammock. Hylas 
went over to Angelique, who sat puzzling over some 
words in the barbarous language that sounded so strong 
and forceful as the boys uttered the ringing sentences. 

“Why do you look at me so,” she asked, with a kind 
of sweet indignation. “It is as if you knew — every- 
thing !” 

Yes, it was as if he said, “Do you remember my 
master? Wherever he goes he carries about with him 
your image. He never forgets you any more than I 
forget him.” 

Then she kept her eyes fixed steadily on her book. 

So they studied and blundered and laughed and 
listened to Mrs. Murch’s stories about girls at the East, 
and books and wonderful lives of dead and gone people 
that were fast spoiling them for the dreamy, languid life 
and the chatter about lovers to come, and settlements for 
the future. Letters too from Gervaise. They had found 
some tidings of Hugh. He had been in several Indian 
skirmishes, wounded in one and carried off a prisoner, 
nursed by an old Indian woman in a solitary wigwam. 

Some one had found it later on burned to the ground. 
It was said a friend had taken the sick man to the South. 
And there all trace of him stopped. They were going 
on to the eastward, would visit some of the larger cities 
and see the President of this great, new nation. “Oh,” 





Gervaise wrote, "T do not wonder Norton is an enthusi- 
astic American. The wonderful achievements are almost 
enough to turn one’s brain.” 

And now autumn was coming on with its greater rich- 
ness of foliage, its luscious fruits, its gorgeous flowers, 
its sunsets full of splendor, the soft languor giving way 
to a kind of briskness even in pleasure. 

One day Claire Fleurien surprised them by a visit. 
Eugene had come down to see some sugar-buyers, Claire 
for a visit home, and they were to bring back Angelique 
and the little Sylvie. 

“But she is no longer little,” in amaze. “Papa 
Fleurien held Felice on his knee and told her baby stories, 
but, merci! Sylvie is a big girl. And now you will be in 
season to see the sugar-making. There is so much on a 
big plantation. Ours is large, but M. Poydras’s is like 
a little town, only not gay with balls and cafes and bal- 
conies full of pretty, gayly dressed women. Ah, New 
Orleans is charming, and I shall come down when the 
holidays set in for a visit. Eugene and I — papa has 
consented, and we shall dance and be merry to our heart’s 
content.” 

Claire was a little rounder and rosier and suggested 
her mother, so fresh and vivacious that she made one’s 
blood start with enjoyment and hope. 

To make a visit on a big plantation and to stay at the 
sugar-making! They had gone out to Monsieur de 
Bore’s for a day at a time, but this would be quite dif- 
ferent. And Claire with all her brightness ! 

“If I could only take Hylas and Telano,” sighed 
Sylvie. “Nothing is ever quite perfect.” 

Telano had spent many sad hours since the advent of 
Hylas. 

“It is queer,” Sylvie had complained a little to Barbe, 





“that if there are two to care for you, one is always jealous. 
Hortense adores Zenobie herself, but she does not want 
me to like her very much, and Zenobie always flings out 
about Hortense, and can’t see why I should care for her. 
And then she accuses me of a penchant for poor Laure, 
who has no one to love her. Not that Laure is really 
lovable, but one feels sorry for her. Madame Milhet is 
good in a duty way, but Laure is soon going to live in the 
convent.” 

“The best place for her, since she has no people.” 

“And if I had none, would I have been put in a convent, 
Barbe?” 

“God forbid !” Barbe embraced her fondly. “Though 
the Sisters are good to the poor and the orphans and the 
friendless, and try to civilize the little Indians. There 
must be good in any belief that leads you to worship God 
and be upright and honest and love your neighbor. Per- 
haps all cannot believe alike.” 

Barbe sighed a little. She had grown broader in this 
new country. 

“So I cannot take you, Hylas,” Sylvie said to the dog, 
who listened with sorrowful eyes. “But the little 
Murch boys shall come up on Sunday ; they are so fond 
of you, and you can have a good romp with them. If 
you only could understand Telano you might condole with 
each other, for he will miss me still more than you. Jaques 
is so fond of you, and Father Antoine when he comes 
over, while no one but Viny can sympathize with poor 
Telano.” 

Hylas understood it all, but his answer had a plaint 
in it, and he put his nose in Sylvie’s small hand, while his 
eyes were sorrowful. 

“And M’sieu Norton doesn’t forget you either.” 





The whine had a sound of tender appreciation in it. 
The ears were erect, he looked as if he could fly. 

Barbe at the last was quite unwilling to have the child 
go. She had never been separated from her. But Ange- 
lique had grown so staid and careful, and would see that 
no misfortune happened to her. 

“Why, Pm not a baby any longer,” laughed Sylvie. 
“Jaques finds me heavy when he carries me over marshy 
places, and even Viny says I am a load to lift. Before 
very long I shall be twelve years old.” 


CHAPTER XV. 

Up the river they went in the brilliant morning 
sunshine. They had been down around the lakes, clear 
down to the curious wide-spreading delta, with its tortuous 
channels, its low swampy lands green with the luxuriance 
of tropical growths and often brilliant with strange 
flowers, as well as all manner of animal life that made the 
child shudder and shut her eyes. They had been up a 
short distance sailing, but since Gervaise had gone and 
Henri had been taken into his father’s counting-house, 
pleasures of this kind had been restricted. 

The yellow mud banks were cut into by crevasses that 
still swept and swirled and made picturesque whirlpools, 
then washed out to the channel as if suddenly possessed 
by some superior ambition to reach the Gulf. Great 
inroads had been made here and there, whole slices torn 
away and a bay formed. 





“It was here in one of the hurricanes that Monsieur 
d’Arvirs house was swept away,” said Claire. “The 
river had eaten into the bank and he had been warned, 
but the house stood on a little bluff. He had gone down 
to the city on business when the storm came up. It was 
terrific ! All the sky in the blackness of the deepest night, 
when not even a star is out ! And such a rush of wind 
that nothing could live in it. There were his wife and 
his three little children, and his mother. One could not 
hear in the crashing of the storm that uprooted trees and 
howled like a demon. The slaves left their quarters for 
very terror and huddled about their mistress. And sud- 
denly there was a great roar and crash and the house 
went over into the river. A few of the slaves escaped. 
Monsieur d’Arvil went crazy over the loss.” 

“Oh, how terrible !” cried Angelique. 

It was now a little arm of the river with muddy banks 
and slimy growths, with wild fowl drowsing in the nooks. 
Snakes squirmed and rose to the surface, dodged again, 
and from the hoary trees left, some blackened by lightning, 
swung long filmy veils of moss that one could almost take 
for a procession of ghosts. Back of this the sun gilded 
the tops of the wide stretch of woods, and all about was 
bewildering light and color. 

Here and there was a large rambling planter’s house, 
a dock with a few boats being loaded or lying idly at 
anchor; great fields and plantations as far as the eye 
could reach. Settlements that were to be busv little 
towns later on; a river tranquil, almost lonely now, for 
it was hardly time for the small rush of freight they 
called business then. 

They sat under the wide awning that protected them 
from the heat of the sunshine. Claire had a piece of lace- 
work, and gossiped in her soft, purling voice. Angelique 

 


hardly knew whether she listened or not, it was so strange 
and captivating. A bit of Latin she had read with Ger- 
vaise came into her mind — something about a voyager 
and sirens tempting him to rest on charmed shores. 
Would they come out of these beautiful woods if one 
waited long enough? And those other earlier explorers 
and voyagers, how did it look to them when they saw it 
for the first time ? Oh, where did it begin up in that wild 
and wonderful northland? 

A canoe of Indians passed them, some flat-bottomed 
boats loaded with produce with which they exchanged 
greetings, some one coming down with all their worldly 
eflfects, emigrants, children running about, and now 
staring at their passing neighbor. Sylvie ran around, 
guarded by Nourette, Claire’s maid, full of gay, wonder- 
ful surprise, chattering in French and limited Spanish, 
with now and then a word of her recently acquired 
English. 

It was slow travelling in those days, though some im- 
provements had been made. Yet these people had not 
been smitten with the rush of haste, nor impressed with 
the preciousness of time that leads to new inventions. 
They were still to a degree idyllic. 

When they came up to the wharf there were the 
plantation wagons, clumsy enough with their bevy of 
slaves, to unload and load again. And there was Claire’s 
team of pretty white mules beautifully kept as if to 
emphasize the difference between white and black or 
the many shades of brown. 

“Papa! papa! Ah, have you been lonely all this long 
while? I sent a prayer night and morning. And I am 
so loaded with remembrances that it will take a week to 
give them all to you. It has been, oh, just delicious! but 
I am glad to come back to you.” 




The small elderly man kissed his blooming daughter 
on both cheeks. She was glad to get back to him. That 
brightened all the hours of loneliness as if the sun had 
suddenly shone in a cave. 

And here was Mademoiselle Saucier. 

There ensued a pretty, courtly greeting. He raised 
the soft young hand to his lips. People were polite in 
those days. 

“Ah, Bebe,” to Claire, “you promised a little girl,” as 
he studied Sylvie half in disappointment. 

“No I am not a little girl any more,” said Sylvie, with 
an enchanting smile. “I was when we came from 
France.” 

“Ah, pretty blossom, so was I little, just eight years 
old. It is long ago. I have thought to go back, but 
why — when old friends have passed elsewhere?” 

“I do not want to go back,” returned Sylvie. “I like 
the river better ; you can see the banks and the trees are 
almost like people, but the ocean is so wide and dreary. 
And the pirates !” 

“Ah, yes, my child!” smiling. “But thou wilt be 
proud to tell thy grandchildren. A little girl from old 
France, La Belle France! Mademoiselle,” to Angelique, 
“thou at least must remember a good deal ?” 

“She saw the poor King and Queen that they put to 
death,” exclaimed Sylvie. “But I only knew De Brienne 
and Dessiers. I like this better because there are so many 
more people.” 

Monsieur Fleurien smiled and nodded as a tall slave 
assisted them in. He and his son went in another 
vehicle. 

Angelique thought the Lavalettes’ a spacious old house, 
but it seemed as if to this there was no end. On to the 
somewhat massive brick cottage had been added ells and 




wings, some of them but one story, with curious peaked 
roofs where little windows hung out, enlarged by a 
