at the hotel, where the windows were still open to the high balconies
and the flames of the candles, behind the pink shades--disposed as for
the vigil of watchers--were motionless in the air in which the season
lay dead. What was presently settled among them was that Milly, who
betrayed on this occasion a preference more marked than usual, should
not hold herself obliged to climb that evening the social stair,
however it might stretch to meet her, and that, Mrs. Lowder and Mrs.
Stringham facing the ordeal together, Kate Croy should remain with her
and await their return. It was a pleasure to Milly, ever, to send Susan
Shepherd forth; she saw her go with complacency, liked, as it were, to
put people off with her, and noted with satisfaction, when she so moved
to the carriage, the further denudation--a markedly ebbing tide--of her
little benevolent back. If it wasn't quite Aunt Maud's ideal, moreover,
to take out the new American girl's funny friend instead of the new
American girl herself, nothing could better indicate the range of that
lady's merit than the spirit in which--as at the present hour for
instance--she made the best of the minor advantage. And she did this
with a broad, cheerful absence of illusion; she did it--confessing even
as much to poor Susie--because, frankly, she was good-natured. When
Mrs. Stringham observed that her own light was too abjectly borrowed
and that it was as a link alone, fortunately not missing, that she was
valued, Aunt Maud concurred to the extent of the remark: "Well, my
dear, you're better than nothing." To-night, furthermore, it came up
for Milly that Aunt Maud had something particular in mind. Mrs.
Stringham, before adjourning with her, had gone off for some shawl or
other accessory, and Kate, as if a little impatient for their
withdrawal, had wandered out to the balcony, where she hovered, for the
time, unseen, though with scarce more to look at than the dim London
stars and the cruder glow, up the street, on a corner, of a small
public-house, in front of which a fagged cab-horse was thrown into
relief. Mrs. Lowder made use of the moment: Milly felt as soon as she
had spoken that what she was doing was somehow for use.

"Dear Susan tells me that you saw, in America, Mr. Densher--whom I've
never till now, as you may have noticed, asked you about. But do you
mind at last, in connection with him, doing something for me?" She had
lowered her fine voice to a depth, though speaking with all her rich
glibness; and Milly, after a small sharpness of surprise, was already
guessing the sense of her appeal. "Will you name him, in any way you
like, to her"--and Aunt Maud gave a nod at the window; "so that you
may perhaps find out whether he's back?"

Ever so many things, for Milly, fell into line at this; it was a
wonder, she afterwards thought, that she could be conscious of so many
at once. She smiled hard, however, for them all. "But I don't know that
it's important to me to 'find out.'" The array of things was further
swollen, however, even as she said this, by its striking her as too
much to say. She therefore tried as quickly to say less. "Except you
mean, of course, that it's important to you." She fancied Aunt Maud
was looking at her almost as hard as she was herself smiling, and that
gave her another impulse. "You know I never have yet named him to
her; so that if I should break out now----"

"Well?"--Mrs. Lowder waited.

"Why, she may wonder what I've been making a mystery of. She hasn't
mentioned him, you know," Milly went on, "herself."

"No"--her friend a little heavily weighed it--"she wouldn't. So it's
she, you see then, who has made the mystery."

Yes, Milly but wanted to see; only there was so much. "There has been
of course no particular reason." Yet that indeed was neither here nor
there. "Do you think," she asked, "he is back?"

"It will be about his time, I gather, and rather a comfort to me
definitely to know."

"Then can't you ask her yourself?"

"Ah, we never speak of him!"

It helped Milly for the moment to the convenience of a puzzled pause.
"Do you mean he's an acquaintance of whom you disapprove for her?"

Aunt Maud, as well, just hung fire. "I disapprove of her for the poor
young man. She doesn't care for him."

"And he cares so much----?"

"Too much, too much. And my fear is," said Mrs. Lowder, "that he
privately besets her. She keeps it to herself, but I don't want her
worried. Neither, in truth," she both generously and confidentially
concluded, "do I want him."

Milly showed all her own effort to meet the case. "But what can I do?"

"You can find out where they are. If I myself try," Mrs. Lowder
explained, "I shall appear to treat them as if I supposed them
deceiving me."

"And you don't. You don't," Milly mused for her, "suppose them
deceiving you."

"Well," said Aunt Maud, whose fine onyx eyes failed to blink, even
though Milly's questions might have been taken as drawing her rather
further than she had originally meant to go--"well, Kate is thoroughly
aware of my views for her, and that I take her being with me, at
present, in the way she is with me, if you know what I mean, as a loyal
assent to them. Therefore as my views don't happen to provide a place,
at all, for Mr. Densher, much, in a manner, as I like him"--therefore,
therefore in short she had been prompted to this step, though she
completed her sense, but sketchily, with the rattle of her large fan.

It assisted them perhaps, however, for the moment, that Milly was able
to pick out of her sense what might serve as the clearest part of it.
"You do like him then?"

"Oh dear, yes. Don't you?"

Milly hesitated, for the question was somehow as the sudden point of
something sharp on a nerve that winced. She just caught her breath, but
she had ground for joy afterwards, she felt, in not really having
failed to choose with quickness sufficient, out of fifteen possible
answers, the one that would best serve her. She was then almost proud,
as well, that she had cheerfully smiled. "I did--three times--in New
York." So came and went for her, in these simple words, the speech that
was to figure for her, later on, that night, as the one she had ever
uttered that cost her most. She was to lie awake, at all events, half
the night, for the gladness of not having taken any line so really
inferior as the denial of a happy impression.

For Mrs. Lowder also, moreover, her simple words were the right ones;
they were at any rate, that lady's laugh showed, in the natural note of
the racy. "You dear American thing! But people may be very good, and
yet not good for what one wants."

"Yes," the girl assented, "even I suppose when what one wants is
something very good."

"Oh, my child, it would take too long just now to tell you all I
want! I want everything at once and together--and ever so much for you
too, you know. But you've seen us," Aunt Maud continued; "you'll have
made out."

"Ah," said Milly, "I don't make out"; for again--it came that way in
rushes--she felt an obscurity in things. "Why, if our friend here
doesn't like him----"

"Should I conceive her interested in keeping things from me?" Mrs.
Lowder did justice to the question. "My dear, how can you ask? Put
yourself in her place. She meets me, but on her terms. Proud young
women are proud young women. And proud old ones are--well, what I am.
Fond of you as we both are, you can help us."

Milly tried to be inspired. "Does it come back then to my asking her
straight?"

At this, however, finally, Aunt Maud threw her up. "Oh, if you've so
many reasons not----!"

"I've not so many," Milly smiled "but I've one. If I break out so
suddenly as knowing him, what will she make of my not having spoken
before?"

Mrs. Lowder looked blank at it. "Why should you care what she makes?
You may have only been decently discreet."

"Ah, I have been," the girl made haste to say.

"Besides," her friend went on, "I suggested to you, through Susan, your
line."

"Yes, that reason's a reason for me."

"And for me," Mrs. Lowder insisted. "She's not therefore so stupid as
not to do justice to grounds so marked. You can tell her perfectly that
I had asked you to say nothing."

"And may I tell her that you've asked me now to speak?"

Mrs. Lowder might well have thought, yet, oddly, this pulled her up.
"You can't do it without----?"

Milly was almost ashamed to be raising so many difficulties. "I'll do
what I can if you'll kindly tell me one thing more." She faltered a
little--it was so prying; but she brought it out. "Will he have been
writing to her?"

"It's exactly, my dear, what I should like to know." Mrs. Lowder was at
last impatient. "Push in for yourself, and I dare say she'll tell you."

Even now, all the same, Milly had not quite fallen back. "It will be
pushing in," she continued to smile, "for you" She allowed her
companion, however, no time to take this up. "The point will be that if
he has been writing she may have answered."

"But what point, you subtle thing, is that?"

"It isn't subtle, it seems to me, but quite simple," Milly said, "that
if she has answered she has very possibly spoken of me."

"Very certainly indeed. But what difference will it make?"

The girl had a moment, at this, of thinking it natural that her
interlocutress herself should so fail of subtlety. "It will make the
difference that he will have written to her in answer that he knows me.
And that, in turn," our young woman explained, "will give an oddity to
my own silence."

"How so, if she's perfectly aware of having given you no opening? The
only oddity," Aunt Maud lucidly professed, "is for yourself. It's in
her not having spoken."

"Ah, there we are!" said Milly.

And she had uttered it, evidently, in a tone that struck her friend.
"Then it has troubled you?"

But ah, the inquiry had only to be made to bring the rare colour with
fine inconsequence, to her face. "Not, really, the least little bit!"
And, quickly feeling the need to abound in this sense, she was on the
point, to cut short, of declaring that she cared, after all, no scrap
how much she obliged. Only she felt at this instant too the
intervention of still other things. Mrs. Lowder was, in the first
place, already beforehand, already affected as by the sudden vision of
her having herself pushed too far. Milly could never judge from her
face of her uppermost motive--it was so little, in its hard, smooth
sheen, that kind of human countenance. She looked hard when she spoke
fair; the only thing was that when she spoke hard she likewise didn't
look soft. Something, none the less, had arisen in her now--a full
appreciable tide, entering by the rupture of some bar. She announced
that if what she had asked was to prove in the least a bore her young
friend was not to dream of it; making her young friend at the same
time, by the change in her tone, dream on the spot more profusely. She
spoke with a belated light, Milly could apprehend--she could always
apprehend--from pity; and the result of that perception, for the girl,
was singular: it proved to her as quickly that Kate, keeping her
secret, had been straight with her. From Kate distinctly then, as to
why she was to be pitied, Aunt Maud knew nothing, and was thereby
simply putting in evidence the fine side of her own character. This
fine side was that she could almost at any hour, by a kindled
preference or a diverted energy, glow for another interest than her
own. She exclaimed as well, at this moment, that Milly must have been
thinking, round the case, much more than she had supposed; and this
remark could, at once, affect the girl as sharply as any other form of
the charge of weakness. It was what everyone, if she didn't look out,
would soon be saying--"There's something the matter with you!" What one
was therefore one's self concerned immediately to establish was that
there was nothing at all. "I shall like to help you; I shall like, so
far as that goes, to help Kate herself," she made such haste as she
could to declare; her eyes wandering meanwhile across the width of the
room to that dusk of the balcony in which their companion perhaps a
little unaccountably lingered. She suggested hereby her impatience to
begin; she almost overtly wondered at the length of the opportunity
this friend was giving them--referring it, however, so far as words
went, to the other friend, breaking off with an amused: "How
tremendously Susie must be beautifying!"

It only marked Aunt Maud, none the less, as too preoccupied for her
allusion. The onyx eyes were fixed upon her with a polished pressure
that must signify some enriched benevolence. "Let it go, my dear. We
shall, after all, soon enough see."

"If he has come back we shall certainly see," Milly after a moment
replied; "for he'll probably feel that he can't quite civilly not come
to see me. Then there," she remarked, "we shall be. It wouldn't then,
you see, come through Kate at all--it would come through him. Except,"
she wound up with a smile, "that he won't find me."

She had the most extraordinary sense of interesting her interlocutress,
in spite of herself, more than she wanted; it was as if her doom so
floated her on that she couldn't stop--by very much the same trick it
had played her with her doctor. "Shall you run away from him?"

She neglected the question, wanting only now to get off. "Then," she
went on, "you'll deal with Kate directly."

"Shall you run away from her?" Mrs. Lowder profoundly inquired, while
they became aware of Susie's return through the room, opening out
behind them, in which they had dined.

This affected Milly as giving her but an instant; and suddenly, with
it, everything she felt in the connection rose to her lips in a
question that, even as she put it, she knew she was failing to keep
colourless. "Is it your own belief that he is with her?"

Aunt Maud took it in--took in, that is, everything of the tone that she
just wanted her not to; and the result for some seconds, was but to
make their eyes meet in silence. Mrs. Stringham had rejoined them and
was asking if Kate had gone--an inquiry at once answered by this young
lady's reappearance. They saw her again in the open window, where,
looking at them, she had paused--producing thus, on Aunt Maud's part,
almost too impressive a "Hush!" Mrs. Lowder indeed, without loss of
time, smothered any danger in a sweeping retreat with Susie; but
Milly's words to her, just uttered, about dealing with her niece
directly, struck our young woman as already recoiling on herself.
Directness, however evaded, would be, fully, for her; nothing in fact
would ever have been for her so direct as the evasion. Kate had
remained in the window, very handsome and upright, the outer dark
framing in a highly favourable way her summery simplicities and
lightnesses of dress. Milly had, given the relation of space, no real
fear she had heard their talk; only she hovered there as with conscious
eyes and some added advantage. Then indeed, with small delay, her
friend sufficiently saw. The conscious eyes, the added advantage were
but those she had now always at command--those proper to the person
Milly knew as known to Merton Densher. It was for several seconds again
as if the total of her identity had been that of the person known to
him--a determination having for result another sharpness of its own.
Kate had positively but to be there just as she was to tell her he had
come back. It seemed to pass between them, in fine, without a word,
that he was in London, that he was perhaps only round the corner; and
surely therefore no dealing of Milly's with her would yet have been so
direct.


XV

It was doubtless because this queer form of directness had in itself,
for the hour, seemed so sufficient that Milly was afterwards aware of
having really, all the while--during the strange, indescribable session
before the return of their companions--done nothing to intensify it. If
she was most aware only afterwards, under the long, discurtained ordeal
of the morrow's dawn, that was because she had really, till their
evening's end came, ceased, after a little, to miss anything from their
ostensible comfort. What was behind showed but in gleams and glimpses;
what was in front never at all confessed to not holding the stage.
Three minutes had not passed before Milly quite knew she should have
done nothing Aunt Maud had just asked her. She knew it moreover by much
the same light that had acted for her with that lady and with Sir Luke
Strett. It pressed upon her then and there that she was still in a
current determined, through her indifference, timidity, bravery,
generosity--she scarce could say which--by others; that not she but the
current acted, and that somebody else, always, was the keeper of the
lock or the dam. Kate for example had but to open the flood-gate: the
current moved in its mass--the current, as it had been, of her doing as
Kate wanted. What, somehow, in the most extraordinary way in the world,
had Kate wanted but to be, of a sudden, more interesting than she had
ever been? Milly, for their evening then, quite held her breath with
the appreciation of it. If she hadn't been sure her companion would
have had nothing, from her moments with Mrs. Lowder, to go by, she
would almost have seen the admirable creature "cutting in" to
anticipate a danger. This fantasy indeed, while they sat together,
dropped after a little; even if only because other fantasies multiplied
and clustered, making fairly, for our young woman, the buoyant medium
in which her friend talked and moved. They sat together, I say, but
Kate moved as much as she talked; she figured there, restless and
charming, just perhaps a shade perfunctory, repeatedly quitting her
place, taking slowly, to and fro, in the trailing folds of her light
dress, the length of the room, and almost avowedly performing for the
pleasure of her hostess.

Mrs. Lowder had said to Milly at Matcham that she and her niece, as
allies, could practically conquer the world; but though it was a speech
about which there had even then been a vague, grand glamour, the girl
read into it at present more of an approach to a meaning. Kate, for
that matter, by herself, could conquer anything, and she, Milly
Theale, was probably concerned with the "world" only as the small scrap
of it that most impinged on her and that was therefore first to be
dealt with. On this basis of being dealt with she would doubtless
herself do her share of the conquering: she would have something to
supply, Kate something to take--each of them thus, to that tune,
something for squaring with Aunt Maud's ideal. This in short was what
it came to now--that the occasion, in the quiet late lamplight, had the
quality of a rough rehearsal of the possible big drama. Milly knew
herself dealt with--handsomely, completely: she surrendered to the
knowledge, for so it was, she felt, that she supplied her helpful
force. And what Kate had to take Kate took as freely and, to all
appearance, as gratefully; accepting afresh, with each of her long,
slow walks, the relation between them so established and consecrating
her companion's surrender simply by the interest she gave it. The
interest to Milly herself we naturally mean; the interest to Kate Milly
felt as probably inferior. It easily and largely came for their present
talk, for the quick flight of the hour before the breach of the
spell--it all came, when considered, from the circumstance, not in the
least abnormal, that the handsome girl was in extraordinary "form."
Milly remembered her having said that she was at her best late at
night; remembered it by its having, with its fine assurance, made her
wonder when she was at her best and how happy people must be who had
such a fixed time. She had no time at all; she was never at her
best--unless indeed it were exactly, as now, in listening, watching,
admiring, collapsing. If Kate moreover, quite mercilessly, had never
been so good, the beauty and the marvel of it was that she had never
really been so frank; being a person of such a calibre, as Milly would
have said, that, even while "dealing" with you and thereby, as it were,
picking her steps, she could let herself go, could, in irony, in
confidence, in extravagance, tell you things she had never told before.
That was the impression--that she was telling things, and quite
conceivably for her own relief as well; almost as if the errors of
vision, the mistakes of proportion, the residuary innocence of spirit
still to be remedied on the part of her auditor had their moments of
proving too much for her nerves. She went at them just now, these
sources of irritation, with an amused energy that it would have been
open to Milly to regard as cynical and that was nevertheless called
for--as to this the other was distinct--by the way that in certain
connections the American mind broke down. It seemed at least--the
American mind as sitting there thrilled and dazzled in Milly--not to
understand English society without a separate confrontation with all
the cases. It couldn't proceed by--there was some technical term she
lacked until Milly suggested both analogy and induction, and then,
differently, instinct, none of which were right: it had to be led up
and introduced to each aspect of the monster, enabled to walk all round
it, whether for the consequent exaggerated ecstasy or for the still
more as appeared to this critic disproportionate shock. It might, the
monster, Kate conceded, loom large for those born amid forms less
developed and therefore no doubt less amusing; it might on some sides
be a strange and dreadful monster, calculated to devour the unwary, to
abase the proud, to scandalize the good; but if one had to live with it
one must, not to be for ever sitting up, learn how: which was virtually
in short to-night what the handsome girl showed herself as teaching.
