you awake."
XI
HOW JIM LEONARD PLANNED FOR PONY
BAKER TO RUN OFF ON A RAFT
Now we have got to go back to Pony Baker again. The summer went along till
it got to be September, and the fellows were beginning to talk about when
school would take up. It was almost too cold to go in swimming; that is,
the air made you shiver when you came out, and before you got your clothes
on; but if you stood in the water up to your chin, it seemed warmer than
it did on the hottest days of summer. Only now you did not want to go in
more than once a day, instead of four or five times. The fellows were
gathering chinquapin acorns most of the time, and some of them were
getting ready to make wagons to gather walnuts in. Once they went out to
the woods for pawpaws, and found about a bushel; they put them in
cornmeal to grow, but they were so green that they only got rotten. The
boys found an old shanty in the woods where the farmer made sugar in the
spring, and some of the big fellows said they were coming out to sleep in
it, the first night they got.
It was this that put Jim Leonard in mind of Pony's running off again. All
the way home he kept talking to Pony about it, and Pony said he was going
to do it yet, some time, but when Jim Leonard wanted him to tell the time,
he would only say, "You'll see," and wag his head.
Then Jim Leonard mocked him and dared him to tell, and asked him if he
would take a dare. After that he made up with him, and said if Pony would
run off he would run off, too; and that the way for them to do would be to
take the boards of that shanty in the woods and build a raft. They could
do it easily, because the boards were just leaned up against the
ridge-pole, and they could tie them together with pawpaw switches, they
were so tough, and then some night carry the raft to the river, after the
water got high in the fall, and float down on it to the city.
"Why, does the river go past the city?" Pony asked.
"Of course it does," said Jim Leonard, and he laughed at Pony. "It runs
into the Ohio there. Where's your geography?"
Pony was ashamed to say that he did not suppose that geography had
anything to do with the river at the Boy's Town, for it was not down on
the map, like Behring Straits and the Isthmus of Suez. But he saw that Jim
Leonard really knew something. He did not see the sense of carrying the
raft two miles through the woods when you could get plenty of drift-wood
on the river shore to make a raft of. But he did not like to say it for
fear Jim Leonard would think he was afraid to be in the woods after dark,
and after that he came under him more than ever. Most of the fellows just
made fun of Jim Leonard, because they said he was a brag, but Pony began
to believe everything he said when he found out that he knew where the
river went to; Pony had never even thought.
Jim was always talking about their plan of running off together, now; and
he said they must fix everything so that it would not fail this time. If
they could only get to the city once, they could go for cabin-boys on a
steamboat that was bound for New Orleans; and down the Mississippi they
could easily hide on some ship that was starting for the Spanish Main, and
then they would be all right. Jim knew about the Spanish Main from a book
of pirate stories that he had. He had a great many books and he was always
reading them. One was about Indians, and one was about pirates, and one
was about dreams and signs, and one was full of curious stories, and one
told about magic and how to do jugglers' tricks; the other was a
fortune-telling book. Jim Leonard had a paper from the city, with long
stories in, and he had read a novel once; he could not tell the boys
exactly what a novel was, but that was what it said on the back.
After Pony and he became such friends he told him everything that was in
his books, and once, when Pony went to his house, he showed him the books.
Pony was a little afraid of Jim Leonard's mother; she was a widow woman,
and took in washing; she lived in a little wood-colored house down by the
river-bank, and she smoked a pipe. She was a very good mother to Jim, and
let him do whatever he pleased--go in swimming as much as he wanted to,
stay out of school, or anything. He had to catch drift-wood for her to
burn when the river was high; once she came down to the river herself and
caught drift-wood with a long pole that had a nail in the end of it to
catch on with.
By the time school took up Pony and Jim Leonard were such great friends
that they asked the teacher if they might sit together, and they both had
the same desk. When Pony's mother heard that, it seemed as if she were
going to do something about it. She said to his father:
"I don't like Pony's going with Jim Leonard so much. He's had nobody else
with him for two weeks, and now he's sitting with him in school."
Pony's father said, "I don't believe Jim Leonard will hurt Pony. What
makes you like him, Pony?"
Pony said, "Oh, nothing," and his father laughed.
"It seems to be a case of pure affection. What do you talk about
together?"
"Oh, dreams, and magic, and pirates," said Pony.
His father laughed, but his mother said, "I know hell put mischief in the
child's head," and then Pony thought how Jim Leonard always wanted him to
run off, and he felt ashamed; but he did not think that running off was
mischief, or else all the boys would not be wanting to do it, and so he
did not say anything.
His father said, "I don't believe there's any harm in the fellow. He's a
queer chap."
"He's so low down," said Pony's mother.
"Well, he has a chance to rise, then," said Pony's father. "We may all be
hurrahing for him for President some day." Pony could not always tell
when his father was joking, but it seemed to him he must be joking now. "I
don't believe Pony will get any harm from sitting with him in school, at
any rate."
After that Pony's mother did not say anything, but he knew that she had
taken a spite to Jim Leonard, and when he brought him home with him after
school he did not bring him into the woodshed as he did with the other
boys, but took him out to the barn. That got them to playing in the barn
most of the time, and they used to stay in the hay-loft, where Jim Leonard
told Pony the stories out of his books. It was good and warm there, and
now the days were getting chilly towards evenings.
Once, when they were lying in the hay together, Jim Leonard said, all of a
sudden, "I've thought of the very thing, Pony Baker."
Pony asked, "What thing?"
"How to get ready for running off," said Jim Leonard, and at that Pony's
heart went down, but he did not like to show it, and Jim Leonard went on:
"We've got to provision the raft, you know, for maybe we'll catch on an
island and be a week getting to the city. We've got to float with the
current, anyway. Well, now, we can make a hole in the hay here and hide
the provisions till we're ready to go. I say we'd better begin hiding them
right away. Let's see if we can make a place. Get away, Trip."
He was speaking to Pony's dog, that always came out into the barn with him
and stayed below in the carriage-room, whining and yelping till they
helped him up the ladder into the loft. Then he always lay in one corner,
with his tongue out, and looking at them as if he knew what they were
saying. He got up when Jim Leonard bade him, and Jim pulled away the hay
until he got down to the loft floor.
"Yes, it's the very place. It's all solid, and we can put the things down
here and cover them up with hay and nobody will notice. Now, to-morrow you
bring out a piece of bread-and-butter with meat between, and I will, too,
and then we will see how it will do."
Pony brought his bread-and-butter the next day. Jim said he intended to
bring some hard-boiled eggs, but his mother kept looking, and he had no
chance.
"Let's see whether the butter's sweet, because if it ain't the provisions
will spoil before we can get off."
He took a bite, and he said, "My, that's nice!" and the first thing he
knew he ate the whole piece up. "Well, never mind," he said, "we can begin
to-morrow just as well."
The next day Jim Leonard brought a ham-bone, to cook greens with on the
raft. He said it would be first-rate; and Pony brought bread-and-butter,
with meat between. Then they hid them in the hay, and drove Trip away from
the place. The day after that, when they were busy talking, Trip dug the
provisions up, and, before they noticed, he ate up Pony's bread-and-butter
and was gnawing Jim Leonard's ham-bone. They cuffed his ears, but they
could not make him give it up, and Jim Leonard said:
"Well, let him have it. It's all spoilt now, anyway. But I'll tell you
what, Pony--we've got to do something with that dog. He's found out where
we keep our provisions, and now he'll always eat them. I don't know but
what we'll have to kill him."
"Oh no!" said Pony. "I couldn't kill Trip!"
"Well, I didn't mean kill him, exactly; but do something. I'll tell you
what--train him not to follow you to the barn when he sees you going."
Pony thought that would be a good plan, and he began the next day at noon.
Trip tried to follow him to the barn, and Pony kicked at him, and motioned
to stone him, and said: "Go home, sir! Home with you! Home, I say!" till
his mother came to the back door.
"Why, what in the world makes you so cross with poor Trip, Pony?" she
asked.
"I'll teach him not to tag me round everywhere," said Pony.
His mother said: "Why, I thought you liked to have him with you?"
"I'm tired of it," said Pony; but when he put his mother off that way he
felt badly, as if he had told her a lie, and he let Trip come with him
and began to train him again the next day.
It was pretty hard work, and Trip looked at him so mournfully when he
drove him back that he could hardly bear to do it; but Jim Leonard said it
was the only way, and he must keep it up. At last Trip got so that he
would not follow Pony to the barn. He would look at him when Pony started
and wag his tail wistfully, and half jump a little, and then when he saw
Pony frown he would let his tail drop and stay still, or walk off to the
woodshed and keep looking around at Pony to see if he were in earnest. It
made Pony's heart ache, for he was truly fond of Trip; but Jim Leonard
said it was the only way, and so Pony had to do it.
They provisioned themselves a good many times, but after they talked a
while they always got hungry, or Jim Leonard did, and then they dug up
their provisions and ate them. Once when he came to spend Saturday
afternoon with Pony he had great news to tell him. One of the boys had
really run off. He was a boy that Pony had never seen, though he had
heard of him. He lived at the other end of the town, below the bridge, and
almost at the Sycamore Grove. He had the name of being a wild fellow; his
father was a preacher, but he could not do anything with him.
Now, Jim Leonard said, Pony must run off right away, and not wait for the
river to rise, or anything. As soon as the river rose, Jim would follow
him on the raft; but Pony must start first, and he must take the pike for
the city, and sleep in fence corners. They must provision him, and not
eat any of the things before he started. He must not take a bundle or
anything, because if he did people would know he was running off, or
maybe they would think he was a runaway slave from Kentucky, he was so
dark-complexioned. At first Pony did not like it, because it seemed to him
that Jim Leonard was backing out; but Jim Leonard said that if two of them
started off at the same time, people would just know they were running
off, and the constable would take them up before they could get across
the corporation line. He said that very likely it would rain in less than
a week, and then he could start after Pony on the raft, and be at the Ohio
River almost as soon as Pony was.
He said, "Why, you ain't afraid, are you, Pony?" And Pony said he was not
afraid; for if there was anything that a Boy's Town boy hated, it was to
be afraid, and Pony hated it the worst of any, because he was sometimes
afraid that he was afraid.
They fixed it that Pony was to sleep the next Friday night in the barn,
and the next morning, before it was light, he was to fill his pockets with
the provisions and run off.
Every afternoon he took out a piece of bread-and-butter with meat between
and hid it in the hay, and Jim Leonard brought some eggs. He said he had
no chance to boil them without his mother seeing, but he asked Pony if he
did not know that raw eggs were first-rate, and when Pony said no, he
said, "Well, they are." They broke one of the eggs when they were hiding
them, and it ran over the bread-and-butter, but they wiped it off with
hay as well as they could, and Jim Leonard said maybe it would help to
keep it, anyway.
When he came round to Pony's house the next Friday afternoon from school
he asked him if he had heard the news, and when Pony said no, he said that
the fellow that ran off had been taken up in the city by the watchman. He
was crying on the street, and he said he had nowhere to sleep, and had not
had anything to eat since the night before.
Pony's heart seemed to be standing still. He had always supposed that as
soon as he ran off he should be free from all the things that hindered and
vexed him; and, although he expected to be sorry for his father and
mother, he expected to get along perfectly well without them. He had never
thought about where he should sleep at night after he got to the city, or
how he should get something to eat.
"Now, you see, Pony," said Jim Leonard, "what a good thing it was that I
thought about provisioning you before you started. What makes you look
so?"
Pony said, "I'm not looking!"
Jim Leonard said, "You're not afraid, are you, just because that fellow
got took up? You're not such a cowardy-calf as to want to back out now?"
The tears came into Pony's eyes.
"Cowardy-calf yourself, Jim Leonard! You've backed out long ago!"
"You'll see whether I've backed out," said Jim Leonard. "I'm coming round
to sleep in the barn with you to-night, and help you to get a good start
in the morning. And maybe I'll start myself to-morrow. I will if I can get
anybody to help me make the raft and bring it through the woods. Now let's
go up into the loft and see if the provisions are all safe."
They dug the provisions up out of the hay and Jim Leonard broke one of the
eggs against the wall. It had a small chicken in it, and he threw it away.
Another egg smelt so that they could hardly stand it.
"I don't believe these eggs are very good," said Jim Leonard. "I got them
out of a nest that the hen had left; mother said I might have them all."
He broke them one after another, and every one had a chicken in it, or
else it was bad. "Well, never mind," he said. "Let's see what the
bread-and-butter's like." He bit into a piece, but he did not swallow any.
"Tastes kind of musty; from the hay, I reckon; and the meat seems kind of
old. But they always give the sailors spoilt provisions, and this
bread-and-butter will do you first-rate, Pony. You'll be so hungry you can
eat anything. Say, you ain't afraid now, are you, Pony?"
"No, not now," said Pony, but he did not fire up this time as he did
before at the notion of his being afraid.
Jim Leonard said, "Because, maybe I can't get mother to let me come here
again. If she takes a notion, she won't. But I'm going to watch out, and
as soon as supper's over, and I've got the cow into the lot, and the
morning's wood in, I'm going to try to hook off. If I don't get here to
stay all night with you I'll be around bright and early in the morning, to
wake you and start you. It won't be light now much before six, anyway."
XII
HOW JIM LEONARD BACKED OUT, AND
PONY HAD TO GIVE IT UP
It all seemed very strange to Pony. First, Jim Leonard was going to run
off with him on a raft, and then he was going to have Pony go by land and
follow him on the raft; then suddenly he fixed it so that Pony was going
alone, and he was going to pass the last night with him in the barn; and
here, all at once, he was only coming, maybe, to see him off in the
morning. It made Pony feel very forlorn, but he did not like to say
anything for fear Jim Leonard would call him cowardy-calf.
It was near sunset, on a cool day in the beginning of October, and the
wind was stirring the dry blades in the corn-patch at the side of the
barn. They made a shivering sound, and it made Pony lonesomer and
lonesomer. He did not want to run off, but he did not see how he could
help it. Trip stood at the wood-house door, looking at him, but he did not
dare to come to Pony as long as he was near the barn. But when Pony
started towards the house Trip came running and jumping to him, and Pony
patted him and said, "Poor Trip, poor old Trip!" He did not know when he
should see such another dog as that.
The kitchen door was open, and a beautiful smell of frying supper was
coming out. Pretty soon his mother came to the open door, and stood
watching him patting Trip. "Well, have you made up with poor old Trip,
Pony? Why don't you come in, child? You look so cold, out there."
Pony did not say anything, but he came into the kitchen and sat in a
corner beyond the stove and watched his mother getting the supper. In the
dining-room his sisters were setting the table and his father was reading
by the lamp there. Pony would have given almost anything if something had
happened just to make him tell what he was going to do, so that he could
have been kept from doing it. He saw that his mother was watching him all
the time, and she said: "What makes you so quiet, child?"
Pony said, "Oh, nothing," and his mother asked, "Have you been falling out
with Jim Leonard?"
Pony said no, and then she said, "I almost wish you had, then. I don't
think he's a bad boy, but he's a crazy fool, and I wish you wouldn't go
with him so much. I don't like him."
All of a sudden Pony felt that he did not like Jim Leonard very much
himself. It seemed to him that Jim Leonard had not used him very well, but
he could not have told how.
After supper the great thing was how to get out to the barn without any
one's noticing. Pony went to the woodshed door two or three times to look
out. There were plenty of stars in the sky, but it seemed very dark, and
he knew that it would be as black as pitch in the barn, and he did not see
how he could ever dare to go out to it, much less into it. Every time he
came back from looking he brought an armload of wood into the kitchen so
that his mother would not notice.
The last time she said, "Why, you dear, good boy, what a lot of wood
you're bringing for your mother," for usually Pony had to be told two or
three times before he would get a single armload of wood.
When his mother praised him he was ashamed to look at her, and so he
looked round, and he saw the lantern hanging by the mantel-piece. When he
saw that lantern he almost wished that he had not seen it, for now he knew
that his last excuse was gone, and he would really have to run off. If it
had not been for the lantern he could have told Jim Leonard that he was
afraid to go out to the barn on account of ghosts, for anybody would be
afraid of ghosts; Jim Leonard said he was afraid of them himself. But now
Pony could easily get the lantern and take it out to the barn with him,
and if it was not dark the ghosts would not dare to touch you.
He tried to think back to the beginning of the time when he first intended
to run off, and find out if there was not some way of not doing it; but he
could not, and if Jim Leonard was to come to the barn the next morning to
help him start, and should not find him there, Pony did not know what he
would do. Jim Leonard would tell all the fellows, and Pony would never
hear the last of it. That was the way it seemed to him, but his mind felt
all fuzzy, and he could not think very clearly about it.
When his mother finished up her work in the kitchen he took the lantern
from the nail and slipped up the back stairs to his little room, and then,
after he heard his sisters going to bed and his father and mother talking
together quietly, he lit the lantern and stole out to the barn with it.
Nobody noticed him, and he got safely inside the barn. He used to like to
carry the lantern very much, because it made the shadows of his legs, when
he walked, go like scissors-blades, and that was fun; but that night it
did not cheer him up, and it seemed as if nothing could cheer him up
again. When Trip first saw him come out into the woodshed with the lantern
he jumped up and pawed Pony and licked the lantern, he was so glad, but
when Pony went towards the barn Trip stopped following him and went back
into the wood-house very sadly. Pony would have given almost anything to
have Trip come with him, only, as Jim Leonard said, Trip would whine or
bark, or something, and then Pony would be found out and kept from running
off.
The more he wanted to be kept from running off the more he knew he must
not try to be, and he let Trip go back when he would have so gladly helped
him up into the hay-loft and slept with him there. He would not have been
afraid with Trip, and now he found that he was dreadfully afraid. The
lantern-light was a charm against ghosts, but not against rats, and the
first thing Pony knew when he got into the barn a rat ran across his foot.
Trip would have kept the rats off. They seemed to just swarm in the loft
when Pony got up there, and after he hung the lantern on a nail and lay
down in the hay they did not mind him at all. They played all around, and
two of them got up on their hind legs once and fought, or else danced,
Pony could not tell which. He could not sleep, and after a while he felt
the tears coming and he began to cry, and he kept sobbing, and could not
stop himself.
When Pony's mother was ready to go to bed she said to Pony's father: "Did
Pony say good-night to you?" and when he said no, she said, "But he must
have gone to bed," and she ran up the stairs to see. She came down again
in about half a second and she said, "He doesn't seem to be there," and
she raced all through the house hunting for him. In the kitchen she saw
that the lantern was gone and then she said: "I might have known he was up
to some mischief, he was so quiet. This is some more of Jim Leonard's
work. Henry, I want you to go right out and look for Pony. It's half-past
nine."
Then Pony's father knew that it would be no use to talk and he started
out. But the whole street was quiet, and all the houses were dark as if
the people had gone to bed. He went up town and to all the places where
the big boys were apt to play at night, and he found Hen Billard and Archy
Hawkins, but neither of them had seen Pony since school. They were both
sitting on Hen Billard's front steps, because Archy Hawkins was going to
stay all night with him, and they were telling stories. When Pony's father
asked about Pony and seemed anxious they tried to comfort him, but they
could not think where Pony could be. They said perhaps Jim Leonard would
know.
Then Pony's father went home, and the minute he opened the front door
Pony's mother called out: "Have you found him?"
His father said: "No. Hasn't he come in yet?" and he told her how he had
been looking everywhere, and she burst out crying.
"I know he's fallen into the canal and got drowned, or something," and she
wrung her hands together; and then he said that Hen Billard and Archy
Hawkins thought Jim Leonard would know, and he had only stopped to see
whether Pony had happened to come in, and he was going straight to Jim
Leonard's mother's house; and Pony's mother said: "Oh, go, go, go!" and
fairly pushed him out of the house.
By this time it was ten o'clock and going on eleven, and all the town was
as still as death, except the dogs. Pony's father kept on until he got
down to the river-bank, where Jim Leonard's mother lived, and he had to
knock and knock before he could make anybody hear. At last Jim Leonard's
mother poked her head out of the window and asked who was there, and
Pony's father told her.
He said: "Is Jim at home, Mrs. Leonard?" and she said:
"Yes, and fast asleep three hours ago. What makes you ask?"
Then he had to tell her. "We can't find Pony, and some of the boys thought
Jim might know where he is. I'm sorry to disturb you, Mrs. Leonard.
Good-night," and he went back home.
When he got there he found Pony's mother about crazy. He said now they
must search the house thoroughly; and they went down into the cellar
first, because she said she knew Pony had fallen down the stairs and
killed himself. But he was not there, and then they hunted through all the
rooms and looked under the tables and beds and into the cupboards and
closets, and he was not there. Then they went into the wood-house and
looked there, and up into the wood-house loft among the old stoves and
broken furniture, and he was not there. Trip was there, and he made them
think so of Pony that Pony's mother took on worse than she had yet.
"Now I'm going out to look in the barn," said Pony's father. "You stay
quietly in the house, Lucy."
Trip started to go with Pony's father, but when he saw that he was going
to the barn he was afraid to follow him, Pony had trained him so; and
Pony's father went alone. He shaded the candle that he was carrying with
his hand, and when he got into the barn he put it down and stood and
looked and tried to think how he should do. It was dangerous to go around
among the hay with the candle, and the lantern was gone.
Almost from the first Pony's father thought that he heard a strange noise
like some one sobbing, and then it seemed to him that there was a light up
in the loft. He holloed out: "Who's there?" and then the noise stopped,
but the light kept on. Pony's father holloed out again: "Pony! Is that
you, Pony?" and then Pony answered, "Yes," and he began sobbing again.
In less than half a second Pony's father was up in the loft, and then down
again and out of the barn and into the yard with Pony.
His mother was standing at the back door, for she could not bear to stay
in the house, and Pony's father holloed to her: "Here he is, Lucy, safe
