
The unequal duel went on.  Presently The Fox stepped back, his arm
gashed.  He cursed and took up his sword with his left hand.  They
tried to lure the Chevalier from his vantage point; but he took no
step, forward or backward.  He was like a wall.  The old song of battle
hummed in his ears.  Would that Victor were here.  It would be a good
fight.

"These Pérignys are living sword blades," murmured the vicomte.  "Come,
come; this must end."

They were all hardy men, the blood was rich, the eye keen, the wrist
sure; but they could not break down the Chevalier's guard.  They knew
that in time they must wear him out, but time was very precious to the
vicomte.  The Chevalier's point laid open the rascal's cheek, it ripped
open Frémin's forehead, it slid along Pauquet's hand.  A cold smile
grew upon the Chevalier's lips and remained there.  They could not
reach him.  There was no room for four blades, and soon the vicomte
realized this.

"Satan of hell, back, three of you!  We can gain nothing this way.  Let
me have him alone for a while."

The vicomte's allies drew away, not unreluctantly; and the two engaged.
Back a little, then forward a little, lunging, parrying, always that
strange, nerve-racking noise of grating steel.  It seemed to madame
that she must eventually go mad.  The vicomte tried all the tricks at
his command, but to no avail; he could make no impression on the man in
the doorway.  Indeed, the vicomte narrowly escaped death three or four
different times.  The corporal, alive to the shade of advantage which
the Chevalier was gaining and to the disaster which would result from
the vicomte's defeat, crept slowly up from the side.  Madame saw him;
but her cry of warning turned into a moan of horror.  It was all over.
The Chevalier lay motionless on the ground, the blood trickling from a
ragged cut above the temple.  The corporal had used the hilt of his
heavy sword, and no small power had forced the blow.

The vicomte sprang forward just as madame was groping for the knife.
He put his foot on it, laughing.

"Not at present, Madame; later, if you are inclined that way.  That was
well done, Corporal."

The vicomte bound the Chevalier's hands and ankles securely and took
the dripping hat from Pauquet, dashing the contents into the
Chevalier's face.

"Help me set him up against the wall."

The Chevalier shuddered, and by and by opened his eyes.  The world came
back to him.  He looked at his enemies calmly.

"Well?" he said.  He would waste no breath asking for mercy.  There was
no mercy here.

"You shall be left where you are, Monsieur," replied the vicomte,
"while I hold converse with madame inside.  You are where you can hear
but not see.  Corporal, take the men to the canoe and wait for me.
Warn me if there is any danger.  I shall be along presently.
Chevalier, I compliment you upon your fight.  I know but a dozen men in
all France who are your match."

"What are you going to do?"  The Chevalier felt his heart swell with
agony.

"What am I going to do?  Listen.  You shall hear even if you can not
see."  The vicomte entered the hut.

Madame was standing in a corner. . . .  The Chevalier lived.  If she
could but hold the vicomte at arm's length for a space!

"Well, Madame, have you no friendly welcome for one who loves you
fondly?  I offered to make you my wife; but now!  What was it that
Monsieur Shakspere says? . . .  'Sit you down, sweet, till I wring your
heart'?  Was that it?"

All her courage returned at the sound of his voice.  Her tongue spoke
not, but the hate in her eyes was a language he read well enough.

"Mine! . . .  For a day, or a week, or for life!  Has it not occurred
to you, sweet?  You are mine.  Here we are, alone together, you and I;
and I am a man in all things, and you are a beautiful woman."  His
glance, critical and admiring, ran over her face and form.  "You would
look better in silks.  Well, you shall have them.  You stood at the
door of a convent; why did you not enter?  You love the world too well;
eh? . . .  Like your mother."

Her eyes were steady.

"In my father's orchards there used to be a peach-tree.  It had the
whimsical habit of bearing one large peach each season.  When it
ripened I used to stand under it and gloat over it for hours, to fill
my senses with its perfect beauty.  At length I plucked it.  I never
regretted the waiting; the fruit tasted only the sweeter. . . .  You
are like that peach, Madame.  By the Cross, over which these Jesuits
mumble, but you are worth a dance with death!"

"Had you a mother, Monsieur?"

This unexpected question made him widen his eyes.  "Truly, else I had
not been here."

"Did she die in peace?"

He frowned.  "It matters not how she died."  He sat on the edge of the
table and swung one leg to and fro.  "Some men would give their chance
of heaven for a taste of those lips."

"Your chance of heaven, Monsieur, is remote."  The setting sun came in
through the door and filled her eyes with a golden haze.  If there was
any fear, the pride on her face hid it.

"Ye gods, but you are a beauty!  I can wait no longer for that kiss."

His leg slid from the table.  He walked toward her, and she shrank back
till she met with the wall.  He sprang forward, laughing.  She
struggled in his strong arms, uselessly.  With one hand he pressed up
her chin and kissed her squarely on the lips.  Then he let her go.  She
drew her hand across her mouth and spat upon the floor.

"What!  So soon, Madame?"

Her bosom rose and fell quickly, as much from rage and hate as from the
exertion of the struggle.

"God will punish you, Monsieur, as he punishes all men who abuse their
strength as you have done,--punish you for the misery you have brought
upon me."

"What! and I bring you love?"

She wiped her lips again, this time on her sleeve.

"Does it burn like that, then?" laughing.

"It is poison," simply.

Outside the Chevalier writhed and twisted and strained.  The agony!
She was alone in there, helpless.  To be free, free!  He wept, strove
vainly to loose his bonds.  He cried aloud in his anguish.  And the
vicomte heard him.  He came to the door where he could see his enemy in
torture and at the same time prevent madame's escape.

"Is that you, Chevalier?  Do you recollect the coin?  I am a generous
debtor.  I am paying you a hundred for one.  Madame and I shall soon be
on the way to Montreal.  Remember her kindly.  And you will tarry here
till they find you, eh?"

"Vicomte, you were a brave man once.  Be brave again.  Do not torture
me like this.  Take your sword and run it through my heart, and I shall
thank you."

Somberly the vicomte gazed down at him.  He drowned the glimmer of pity
in the thought of how this man had thwarted him in the past.  "What!"
he said, "spoil the comedy with a death-scene?  I am too much of an
artist, Monsieur.  I had rather you should live."  He went back into
the hut.  "The Chevalier grows restive, like an audience which can not
see what is going on behind the curtain.  Will you give me a kiss of
your own volition, or must I use force again?  It is like sin; the
first step leads to another."

Madame stood passive.  She would have killed this man with laughter on
her lips had a knife been in her hand.  He came toward her again.  She
strove to put the table between.  He laughed, leaping the table
lightly.  She fled to the door, but ere she had taken a dozen steps he
was in front of her.  The Chevalier heard all these sounds.  He prayed
to God to end his miseries quickly.

"One more kiss, and we take the river, you and I.  We will find some
outcast priest to ease your conscience.  The kisses will not be so
fresh after that."

Far away came a call, but the vicomte did not hear it.  He was too busy
feasting his eyes.  He had forgotten.

"So be it," he said.  "This kiss shall last a full breath.  Then we
must be on the way."

A shadow darkened the doorway.

"Monsieur, here is a kiss for you, cold with death."

Madame cried out in joy.  The vicomte whirled around, with an oath, his
sword in his hand.  Victor, pale but serene and confident, stood
between him and freedom.




CHAPTER XXXII

THE ENVOI OF A GALLANT POET

Brother Jacques had done a wise thing.  On the morning after the
vicomte's singular confession, he had spoken a few words to the Black
Kettle.  From that hour the vicomte made no move that was not under the
vigilant eye of the Onondaga.  Wherever he went the Black Kettle
followed with the soundless cunning of his race.  Thus he had warned
the settlement of what was going on at the hunting hut.  Victor, having
met him on his way up the trail, was first to arrive upon the scene.

"The poet!" said the vicomte airily.  He was, with all his lawlessness,
a gallant man.  "Did I not prophesy that some day we should be at each
other's throats?"

"Gabrielle," Victor said, "help is close at hand.  I can keep this man
at bay.  If I should die, Gabrielle . . . you will not forget me?"

"How affecting!  I am almost moved to tears!" mocked the vicomte.

"Well, Monsieur, let us go about our work without banter.  There is no
edict here, no meddling priests, only you and I.  Engage!"  Bare-headed
he stood, scarce but a youth, no match ordinarily for the seasoned
swordsman before him.  But madame saw the courage of Bayard in his
frank blue eyes.  She turned her face toward the wall and wept.  "Have
patience, Paul," Victor called; "they will liberate you soon."

"So."  The vicomte stretched out his arm.  "Well, my writer of
rondeaux, I have but little time to spare.  As the fair Juliet says, 'I
must be gone and live, or stay and die.'  I can not fight the
settlement which will soon be about my ears.  You first, then your
friend.  I should scorn to separate, either on earth or in hades, such
loving Orestes and Pylades.  Madame, that kiss has cost me the joy of
having your presence for the time being.  Here shall the poet die, at
his beloved's feet!  Which is very fine."  His blade darted out toward
Victor's throat, and the last battle was begun.  The vicomte was
fighting for his liberty, and the poet was fighting to kill.  They were
almost evenly matched, for the vicomte was weary from his contest with
D'Hérouville and the Chevalier.  For many years madame saw this day in
her dreams.

The blades clashed; there was the soft pad-pad of feet, the involuntary
"ah!" when the point was nicely avoided; there were lunges in quart,
there were cuts over and under, thrusts in flanconade and tierce, feint
and double-feint, and sudden disengagements.  The sweat trickled down
the vicomte's face; Victor's forehead glistened with moisture.
Suddenly Victor stooped; swift as the tongue of an adder his blade bit
deeply into the vicomte's groin, making a terrible wound.  The vicomte
caught his breath in a gasp of exquisite pain.

. . . Death!  The skull and the hollow eyes stared him in the face.  He
was dying!  But before Victor could recover and guard the vicomte
lunged, and his point came out dully red between Victor's
shoulder-blades.  The lad stood perfectly still.  There was a question
on his face rather than a sign of pain.  His weapon clanged upon the
hardened clay of the floor.  He took a step toward madame, tottered,
and fell at her feet.  He clutched the skirts of her Indian garb and
pressed it convulsively to his bleeding lips.

"Gabrielle . . .  Gabrielle!" he murmured.  His head fell back loosely.
He was dead.  Gallant poet!

Madame's flesh seemed turned into marble; she could not move, but
leaned against the wall, her arms half extended on each side.

"See, Madame," said the vicomte; "see what love does! . . .  It is
sudden.  But do not worry; I too, have said my little part . . . not
very well, either."  He steadied himself by catching hold of the table.
The blood gushed from his wound, soaking his leg, and forming a pool on
the clay.  "Why, he was worth more than them all, for all he scribbled
verses.  Bah!  I have come the ragged way, and by the ragged way I go.
. . .  It is a pity: either men should be born blind or women without
beauty.  The devil of the priests is in it all.  And this is what love
does!"

The door darkened again, and the Chevalier, Nicot, Father Chaumonot and
four soldiers came in hurriedly.  The Chevalier was first.  With a cry
he dropped beside Victor.

"Lad, lad!" he cried in anguish.  "Speak to me, lad!"  He touched the
poet's hands, and rose.  Like an angry lion he faced the vicomte.

"Ha!" said the vicomte, rousing from the numbness which was stealing
away his senses.  "So it is you?  I had each hair on your head separate
and standing; and but for a kiss you would now be mad.  To have come
all this way and to have stopped a moment too long!  That is what they
call irony.  But I would give my soul to ten Jesuit hells could I meet
you once again with the sword.  You have always plucked the fruit out
of my grasp.  We walked together, but the sun was always on you and the
cloud on me.  Ah, well, your poet is dead . . . and I had no real
enmity toward him. . . .  He was your friend.  He will write no more
ballades, and rondeaux, and triolets; eh, Madame? . . .  Well, in a
moment," as if he heard a voice calling.  He balanced himself with
difficulty.

Life returned to madame.  Sobbing she sank beside Victor, calling to
him wildly, fondled his head, shook his warm but nerveless hands,
kissed his damp forehead, her tears falling on his yellow hair.

"He is gone!" she said piteously.  "Victor is dead; he will not speak.
Poor boy, poor boy!"

They were strong men; the tender quick of pity had grown thick.  Yet
they turned away.  Father Chaumonot raised her gently.

"Yes, my daughter, he is dead.  God will deal kindly with him, brave
boy."

"Dead . . . as I shall soon be."  The vicomte's dulling eyes roved from
one face to another till they rested on madame.  "He will sing no more;
he will not fly southward this winter, nor next.  Ah, Madame, will you
forget that kiss?  I believe not.  Listen: . . .  I did not kiss simply
your lips; 'twas your memory.  Ever shall that kiss stand between you
and your lover's lips."

"It is true," she said brokenly.  "You had a wicked heart, Monsieur.
You, you have brought about all this misery.  You have wantonly cast a
shadow upon my life."

"Have I done that?  Well, that is something . . . something."

"I forgive you."

"Eh?  I am growing deaf!"  He reeled toward the door, and the men made
way for him.  "I am growing blind, besides."  He braced himself against
the jamb of the door.  "My faith! it is a pretty world. . . .  I regret
to leave it."  He stared across the lake, but he could see nothing.  A
page of his youth came back.

"Monsieur," said Chaumonot, "you have many sins upon your soul.  Shall
I give you absolution?"

"Absolution?"  The vicomte's lips grimaced; it might have been an
attempt to smile.  "Absolution for me?  Where is Brother Jacques?  That
would be droll. . . .  Those eyes!  Absolution?  That for your heaven,"
snapping his fingers, "and that for your hell.  I know.  It is all
silence.  There is nothing.  I wonder. . . ."  His knees suddenly
refused to support the weight of his body.  He raised himself upon his
hands.  The trees were merging together; the lake was red and blurred.
"Gabrielle, Gabrielle, I loved you after my own fashion! . . .  The
devil take that grey cloak!"  And the vicomte's lawless soul went forth.

The men took the three bodies and placed them in the canoes.  They were
somewhat rough with the vicomte's.

"Gently, my brothers," said Nicot.  "He was a rascal, but he was a man."

Madame and the Chevalier were alone.  To both of them it seemed as
though years had passed.  Madame was weary.  She would have liked to
lie down and sleep . . . forever.  The Chevalier brushed his eyes.  He
was a man.  Weeping over death and in pity was denied him.  At present
he was incapable of accepting the full weight of the catastrophe.  His
own agony was too recent.  Everything was vague and dreamy.  His head
ached painfully from the blow he had received in the fight.

"What did he do to you?" he asked, scarce knowing what he said.

"He kissed me; kissed me on the mouth, Monsieur."  She wiped her lips
again.  "It is of no use.  It will always be there."

"You are Madame de Brissac?"

"Yes."  The hopelessness of her tone chilled him.

"And you loved Victor?"

Her head drooped.  She was merely tired; but he accepted this as an
affirmative answer.

"It would have been well, Madame, had I died in his place."

"Let us go," she said; "they are calling."

That was all.


Victor lay in the living-room of the fort.  A shroud covered all but
his face.  A little gold crucifix, belonging to Father Chaumonot, lay
against his lips.  Candles burned at his head and at his feet.  There
was quiet in his breast, peace on his boyish face.

"Come, Anne," said madame softly.

"Let me watch," said Anne.  "I have always loved him."


They buried Victor under the hill, at the foot of a kingly pine where a
hawk had builded his eery home.  A loving hand had carved upon the tree
these words: "Here lies Victor de Saumaise, a brave and gallant
Frenchman, a poet, a gentleman, and soldier.  He lived honorably and he
died well."  Close to the shores of the lake they buried the vicomte
and the last of the D'Hérouvilles.  But only a roll of earth tells
where they lie.  Thus, a heart of sunshine and two hearts of storm
repose in the eternal shadow, in peace, in silence.  The same winds
whisper mournfully above them, or sing joyously, or breathe in thunder.
The heat of summer and the chill of winter pass and repass; the long
grasses grow and die; the sun and the moon and the throbbing stars
spread light upon these sepulchers.  Two hundred and fifty years have
come and gone, yet do they lie as on that day.  After death,
inanimation; only the inanimate is changeless.




CHAPTER XXXIII

HOW GABRIELLE DIANE DE MONTBAZON LOVED

How Brother Jacques, the Chevalier, Madame de Brissac and Anne de
Vaudemont, guided by the Black Kettle, reached Quebec late in November,
