
“No, I’ll be jiggered if I will!”

“Then I am afraid you will have to remain here.”

“If you will pay three thousand scudi we will release you and the boy,”
 said the interpreter.

“What, and leave me here?” exclaimed the American.

“It is your own fault, signor.”

After considerable conversation a plan was agreed upon, in which Amos
Sanderson unwillingly acquiesced.




CHAPTER XXXI.  WALTER CUNNINGHAM’S MISSION.

|It was decided that Cunningham himself should go to Naples, carrying
with him not only his own letter of credit, but Amos Sanderson’s as
well. He was to draw three thousand scudi on his own account, and two
thousand on account of the American, and come back with this sum, on the
receipt of which the three would be released.

“If you don’t come back,” said the interpreter, “this gentleman and the
boy will have to take a long journey.”

“Where?” asked Amos Sanderson, with some curiosity.

“To the next world,” answered the interpreter grimly.

“Mr. Cunningham, you will not fail us?” said Sanderson nervously.

“You may rely on me. What do you take me for?”

“I thought perhaps when you found yourself at liberty you would choose
to remain so. You have no particular interest in me.”

“Even if that were so, do you think I would leave Bernard exposed to
danger?”

“Enough said. I am sure now that you will return. But,” continued the
American, who was inclined to be suspicious, “perhaps these gentlemen,
when they get the money, will keep us and demand another ransom.”

This was interpreted to the bandits, who looked angry.

“Tell the signor,” said the chief proudly, “that we are men of honor.
When we give our word we keep it.”

“I have heard that there is honor among thieves,” muttered Sanderson.

“What does he say?” asked the chief suspiciously.

“What did you say, signor?” inquired the interpreter.

“I said that you looked like men of honor.”

“That is well. You will not be disappointed.”

In half an hour Walter Cunningham was on his way to Naples. The door was
again bolted on the outside, and Bernard and Amos Sanderson were left to
their reflections.

“This ain’t exactly cheerful, Bernard,” said Amos. “Here we are, free
born American citizens, locked up as if we were criminals. It ain’t very
creditable to any country to have such things going on. I’d like to have
a short interview with the king of Italy.”

“What would you say to him?”

“What would I say? I’d give him a piece of my mind. I’d tell him that he
didn’t know how to govern.”

“Probably he can’t stop this brigandage.”

“Then he ought to resign, and let somebody fill his place that could
stop it. Do you think if old General Jackson were king that he would let
these rascals stop and plunder travelers? However, the time will come
when there will be a different government.”

“Do you think so, Mr. Sanderson?”

“Yes, I do.”.

“When will that be?”

“When Italy is under the Stars and Stripes.” Bernard looked surprised.

“Surely you don’t think that will ever happen?”

“I am sure of it,” said Amos Sanderson, in a positive tone. “It’s the
manifest destiny of the United States to annex the rest of the world.
Within fifty years England will form a part of the great American
republic.”

“I wonder what Mr. Cunningham would say to that?”

“He would deny it, it’s likely. These Britishers are mighty conceited.”

“Perhaps he would think it more likely that we should belong to Great
Britain.”

“Never! England tried to conquer us twice, and she got whipped each
time.”

“I am glad of one thing,” said Bernard, smiling.

“And what is that?”

“That we shan’t have to stay here till the Stars and Stripes float over
Italy.”

“I don’t know as I should care to wait, myself. I don’t say it will be
soon. You may be an old man before it happens. But it’s bound to come
some day.”

“I wonder how soon we may expect Mr. Cunningham back. Do you know how
long it will take to go to Naples?”

“No, but it isn’t very far. Perhaps we shall see him back in three
days.”

“I don’t expect him so soon. He will have to see the bankers.”

“Look here, Bernard,” said the American, after a pause, “I have been
thinking that we might find some way of escape.”

Bernard shook his head.

“What good would it do?” he rejoined. “Mr. Cunningham wouldn’t know of
it, and he would bring the money. When he does that we shall be released
at any rate.”

Amos Sanderson was impressed by this consideration, and no longer
allowed his mind to dwell on plans of escape.

Meals were served to the captives twice a day. This was probably as
often as the bandits ate themselves, for of all nations Italians are
perhaps the least fond of the pleasures of the table, and probably eat
scarcely more than half as much as an average Englishman or American.
They treated their captives as well as themselves, but this did not
satisfy Amos Sanderson, who from his boyhood had been a hearty eater.

“They might as well feed us on bread and water and be done with it,” he
said. “When I get through eating I am just as hungry as before. It’s as
bad as prison fare.”

“Well, Mr. Sanderson, we are prisoners, are we not?”

“But not convicts. They might remember that we are gentlemen.”

Bernard was not as much disturbed by the scanty fare as his companion.
True, he would have liked more abundant meals, but he had patience and
reflected that the present inconvenience would probably last only a
short time. Nevertheless, he and Amos Sanderson counted the days, and
every morning said to each other: “One more day is past. It won’t be
long before Mr. Cunningham returns, and we are released.”

“If he does come back,” suggested Sanderson.

“Do you doubt that he is honorable?” asked Bernard angrily.

“Well, no; but the temptation is great. If he stays away he will be five
thousand scudi in, and be his own master besides.”

“Would you yield to any such temptation?”

“No.”

“Then you doubt whether he is as honorable as yourself?”

“Don’t get riled, Bernard. I can’t help thinking how much depends on
your friend’s return.”

“He will return. You needn’t be afraid.”

But when the sixth morning came, and Mr. Cunningham was still absent,
even Bernard became somewhat anxious.

“Well, he isn’t here yet,” said the American significantly.

“No.”

“Do you still have confidence in him?”

“Certainly.”

“All I can say, then, is that he isn’t hurrying much. Why, it isn’t far
to Naples. If I had gone I’ll guarantee I would have been back within
three days.”

Bernard did not answer.

“I notice you don’t look so chipper as you did.”

“No. I have just as much confidence in Mr. Cunningham, but he may have
met with some accident.”

“Very likely,” said Amos Sanderson sarcastically. “Or, he may have
fallen into the hands of another gang of bandits on his way here.”

“It won’t be very lucky for us if he has. That’s all I’ve got to say.”

There was another cause for anxiety. The bandits, who, during the first
three or four days, had treated their captives politely and even
courteously, now wore a different expression. They looked gloomy and
frowned ominously when they entered the apartment where their captives
were confined. They made no conversation with them, but their looks were
hostile. Finally--it was on the morning of the seventh day--they entered
the room in a body, accompanied by the interpreter.

They took seats, and the interpreter addressed himself to Mr. Sanderson.

“Signor,” he said, “your friend has not returned.”

“I know it, and I am blamed sorry for it.”

“This is the seventh day since he started.”

“Correct, squire. It seemed as much as seven weeks to me.”

“Naples is not far off,” continued the interpreter significantly.

“That’s so.”

“Don’t you think he has had time to go there and return?”

“Yes, I do,” blurted out Sanderson. “I think he’s been infernally slow.
If you’d only let me go instead of him I’d have been back long ago.”

“I see the signor agrees with me. He has been gone much longer than is
necessary.”

“I think so, too.”

“Perhaps there has been some accident,” suggested Bernard.

“My friends are not willing to wait much longer,” said the interpreter.

“I don’t see that we can do anything to hurry him back.”

“No, but if he should delay another day it might be very uncomfortable
for you and the boy.”

“What do you mean by that?”

“I mean that if he is not here by to-morrow we will think that he does
not mean to come at all.”

“And what then?”

The interpreter shrugged his shoulders.

“Probably the signor can conjecture?”

“You will keep us in captivity then?”

“No, we will give you a passport to another world.”

“You will murder us?” inquired Amos Sanderson, horror-struck, for he had
a natural love for the world in which his money secured him a liberal
share of enjoyment.

“The signor has said it.”

“Why, that would be outrageous!” exclaimed the American, big drops of
perspiration forming on his forehead.

“Then your friend should come back with the money.”

“But it won’t be our fault if he does not.”

“True, but it will be very disagreeable for you.”

“Look here, what good is it going to do you to kill me?” asked Amos
Sanderson, in an argumentative tone.

“I don’t care to argue. Our friends here wish to prepare you for the
worst. If your friend does not appear to-morrow at noon you and the boy
must die.”

“Do you hear that, Bernard?” asked Sanderson.

“Yes,” answered Bernard, in a low voice.

The boy’s face was pale, and a feeling of awe was in his heart as he
felt that the end of his life might be near. He did not feel inclined to
argue the matter like Sanderson, but he inwardly prayed for Walter
Cunningham’s return.




CHAPTER XXXII.  SUSPENSE.

|Neither Bernard nor his companion slept much that night. Both realized
that it might be the last night of their lives. Bernard felt solemn, but
mingled with Sanderson’s alarm and anxiety was a feeling of intense
anger against Walter Cunningham for his desertion of them.



“It is a mean, contemptible trick that Cunningham has played upon us,”
 he said. “For the sake of saving his paltry money he has doomed us both
to death.”

“I am sure it isn’t his fault.”

“Oh, you may excuse him if you will. I won’t do it. I understand him
better than you do.”

“I don’t feel like disputing you,” said Bernard gravely, “but I know him
well, and I am sure he would not leave me in the lurch.”

They tossed about on their beds and neither one slept. They woke and
rose unrefreshed.

Breakfast was brought them, but neither could eat a mouthful.

“I can’t eat anything. It would choke me,” said Sanderson.

“Walter Cunningham may come yet,” said Bernard, but his hope was very
faint.

“Then he had better hurry, that’s all I have got to say. I wish I could
communicate with the American minister. Our government should send over
a fleet of war vessels and blow Naples sky high.”

“You must remember that these men are outlaws--that it is their work,
and not the work of the government.”

“Then the government should suppress them. I wish,” Amos Sanderson
continued, with a groan, “that I had never set foot in this forsaken
country. I should have stood a better chance in a savage land.”

“The signor is not hungry?” said the bandit who had brought in the
breakfast. He spoke in Italian, but Bernard understood.

“No,” he answered,  “we are not hungry.”

“How can you expect a man to have an appetite when he’s going to be
murdered?” growled Sanderson.

The bandit did not understand, and merely looked at him gravely.

“It’s too bad,” went on the American, “to leave the world, when a man
has made a fortune and is able to enjoy it. Why, I ought to live
twenty-five years yet. I am only forty-seven.”

“And I am not yet seventeen,” said Bernard.

“Yes, it’s hard luck for us both. And to think Cunningham has doomed us
to all this! I’d like to wring his neck. If I had gone it would have
been different.”

Bernard felt too despondent to defend his friend. In his secret heart he
felt that Cunningham ought to have managed somehow to come back and save
them from the doom which now awaited them.

“It is half past eleven,” said the American, drawing out his watch,
which, perhaps because it was only of silver, the bandits had not
confiscated.

“Then we have half an hour to live. If only Mr. Cunningham would appear
in that time!” sighed Bernard.

Slowly the minutes passed, but there was no arrival.

Punctually at twelve o’clock the door opened and the bandits entered,
accompanied by the interpreter. There was a stern gravity upon the faces
of the three Italians, which caused the hearts of the captives to sink
within them.

“Well,” said the interpreter, “your friend has not come.”

“No, confound him!” exclaimed Sanderson fiercely. “I’d like to strangle
him.”

“Give him another day,” pleaded Bernard. “He must have met with some
delay.”

The interpreter shrugged his shoulders.

“Naples is only fifteen miles away, and it is now the seventh day.
Doubtless he is enjoying himself. He has no thought of returning.”

“I have no doubt you are right,” said Amos Sanderson bitterly.

“The signor agrees with me, then.”

“You should have let me go.”

“Would it have been any better?” asked the interpreter gravely.

“Yes. I give you my word it would.”

Then a sudden thought came to Mr. Sanderson.
