race, to his great delight. We had gone out, and I must 
say my inmost heart was stirred at the sight, but I had 
not thought the laurel wreath would descend to us. It 
was a perfect ovation. And that night he came home 
much the worse for drinking, and he and father had 
quite a desperate quarrel. 

"I should like to shoot the mare!" declared 
father. 

"He'd move heaven and earth to get another," and 
mother put her arm over father's shoulder. "Dan is 
a pretty good boy in the main, and I'm hoping he will 
get a wife some day to steady him." 

"Polly Morrison !" flung out father scornfully. 

"No," I hope it won't be Polly Morrison." 

Polly was a slim, lithe slip of a girl that no two 
people ever agreed about. Her skin was of lily fair- 



ness no matter what she did. Her eyes were large, and 
although glorious does not seem the proper adjective, 
that is what they were. Brown, with golden lights 
that could flash and laugh and turn so tender, you were 
sure they were in tears. She had a rather wide mouth, 
full of curves and dimples. The one thing that laid 
her open to criticism was her hair. Somehow red hair 
was not in high favor, and though her admirers 
quarrelled about it, red it surely was, the deep rich sort 
of mahogany red, with a gloss as if the sun shone upon 
it. There were great waves from the white parting to 
the coil which covered the back of her head. Occa 
sionally she shook it down, and it was a glistening 
cloud about her, looking like something alive. She was 
a harum-scarum sort of a girl, could row equal to a 
man, ride bareback, run races, dance like a creature 
bewitched, go to church on Sunday and look as demure 
as a saint. 

That summer Chicago was all astir. It didn't matter 
to anybody whether Martin Van Buren was President 
or not. There were processions of grain coming in, 
ox loads, precursors of trains that no one dreamed of 
then, bringing it in sheets and blankets, begged of 
the housewives when bags were filled, and there was 
the crude elevator, the grain hoisted by hand with 
block and tackle, and dumped into the hold of the big 
Osceola. Twenty-nine hundred bushels to be sent to 
Black Rock, New York State, the beginning of the 
mighty contribution that was to enrich not only the 
city, but the east as well, and in future times to stand 
between the world and starvation. 



 

Crowds went to see it. How proud everybody was. 
John Gaynor rubbed his hands in glee. 

"What did I tell you!" he kept saying in triumph. 
"This will sometime be the great city of the world, and 
those blasted fools at Washington can't see that we 
need anything, not even to have the canal finished. 
Well, we will surprise them yet." 

He was not much given to swearing, though pro 
fanity seemed rather in the air. The good parsons 
preached against it, and some of the best men rarely 
used an oath. 

For days nothing was talked of but the exploit. 
The Osceola had gone off with the cheers of the 
crowd. But when the jubilation subsided a little, 
new plans were made for the elevator to use 
horsepower instead of hand, and to enlarge its 
capacity. 

Crops of all kinds had been good. The yield of corn 
was tremendous. Pigs were in demand ; there was 
plenty to fatten them. We were almost as likely to 
have a boom in these products as there had been 
in real estate a few years before. 

Mr. Dole had been slaughtering and packing cattle 
of both kinds down on Dearborn and South Water 
streets. The small log building where he first lived 
stood three doors east of the warehouse, but now he 
had built a more commodious dwelling. Mr. Thomp 
son was in his new office and still busy surveying and 
mapping out lots, and making trades that, as father 
said, kept the log rolling without any money. Mr. 
Thomas Church had enlarged his store, and the women 





had a gala time going to see the pretty things every 
few months when a new stock came in. 

The older inhabitants still kept to weaving linsey 
woolsey and common grades of woollen, as well as 
some of the coarser cotton cloths. Spinning and knit 
ting was much in vogue, but the girls beginning to 
grow up rather protested against the labor. And the 
goods coming from the States and abroad were so 
pretty and tempting. So butter and eggs were bartered 
off, strong sacking stuff, pork and woollen stockings 
for the boatmen and the voyagers. 

Mr. Carpenter was building a fine house over on 
the west side and setting out choice fruits that stirred 
others up to emulation. Then we had a daily paper, 
the American having started a precarious venture that 
most men predicted would be a failure, and ''where 
could any one find news enough to fill up a daily 
paper?" was on the tongues of the objectors. It might 
not have been the highest intellectual pabulum, but we 
were not educated up to that mark, and somehow we 
took to the effort most cordially and wondered how 
we could have done without it. 

"You can't wash out a hankercheer now an' hang 
it on a bush, a'thought everybody knowin' it," grum 
bled Grandmother Green, "an' I kin hear all the news 
I want on prayer-meetin' night. I hain't got no 
money to go foolin' round stores an' other people 
wouldn't 'nother if they paid ther' just debts." 



CHAPTER VI 

THEN THE UNCOMMON 

THAT autumn a theatre was opened on the west side 
of Dearborn Street, over a general store, a plain, 
wooden building. The second floor was seated and a 
stage erected with rather crude paraphernalia. It was 
called the Rialto. A Mr. McKenzie was manager and 
stage director, and some very good plays were given 
with William Warren, Mrs. Ingersol and Mr. Jeffer 
son, with little Joe in his first attempts. They had very 
fair audiences, and it was a step above the card playing. 
There were also some lectures given, and several edu 
cational plans brought to the fore. If they were to be 
a great city they must rouse themselves on every 
side. 

I went to the theatre with Ruth and Mr. Gaynor. 
He, it seems, had seen several plays. Ruth was 
curiously interested. 

"Why, it is like what people say and do all the 
time," she said with a rather puzzled air. "Not as 
funny as some of the stories they tell. And somehow, 
you seem to lose the thread. You want to know what 





they did in between. I believe I'd rather read the 
whole story." 

I began to be curious about Shakespeare's plays, and 
talked them over with Mr. Harris. 

"Oh, if you want to read them aloud to a little girl, 
I will let you have Charles and Mary Lamb's stories," 
he said. "You will enjoy them better." 

And enjoy them we surely did. 

But one night we had a great alarm. There had 
been occasional fires, still so many of the houses being 
small and detached no great harm had been done. But 
the Tremont Hotel took fire, and though strenuous 
efforts were made to extinguish it the men soon found 
their labor was in vain. Then the near-by houses be 
gan to go and terror filled everybody. Those at a dis 
tance started to carry out their choice belongings that 
they had worked so hard to accumulate. Near-by 
houses were demolished in the hope of staying the 
flames. 

We were safe enough, but I had some fear for the 
Gaynors, and ran over as fast as I could. The streets 
were packed with people pushing, shouting and swear 
ing, and if noise could have deadened the flames the 
brilliant sheets and spires would soon have turned to a 
dull smoke. I pushed my way along, once encounter 
ing Dan, who struck out at me, which I dodged. 

"You start home, youngster, 'fore you git hurt," 
he cried, but the next moment I was lost in the 
crowd. 

I could not think the Gaynors were in any real dan 
ger, and they were not. M'liss had run up with her 



 

baby in her arms, while her husband had gone to the 
fire, and they were standing in the small front yard. 

"I declare to man! How did you get over here?" 
ejaculated John Gaynor. "Now that you are here I'll 
just take a stroll over and see the damage. Splendid 
sight, if it wasn't burning up what 'twill be hard 
to get together again. You can't make much out 
of ashes, though it's mighty good for growing 
corn." 

Ruth clung to me. We talked this night over years 
afterward, when we were fleeing from an awesome and 
terrible army of flames that seemed bent upon our very 
lives. 

"Will there be any one burned up ?" she asked trem 
ulously. "If it wasn't houses, it would be magnificent." 

"Oh, no," reassuringly. Then I felt I was not sure. 
I had not thought of the sacrifice of human lives. 

Out of the black smoke would shoot up a great spire 
of flame, showering sparks like an immense Roman 
candle. We knew little about fireworks then, but I 
never see one going to pieces without recalling this 
scene. Fortunately there was not much wind or all 
Chicago would have gone then. 

You could hear the roar and the crackle and it was 
really frightful. She began to cry from overwrought 
nerves, and I tried to soothe her. M'liss was full of 
queer comments at which I had to laugh in the midst 
of my anxiety. Then the baby woke and set up a howl. 

It was after midnight when Mr. Gaynor returned. 
The danger of the flames spreading had been con 
quered, the brilliant blaze subdued from lack of further 





food on which to vent its ravenous appetite. It was 
now a thick black smoke that penetrated everywhere. 

"Well, that's something of a fire for a town like 
this," declared Mr. Gaynor. "Awfully unlucky, as if 
times were not bad enough without all this loss. It 
will take years for the town to get over it. There's 
eighteen or twenty houses burned besides the hotel." 

We knew most of the owners, and certainly they 
were deserving of sympathy. I stayed all night and the 
next morning made one of the crowd gathered at the 
ruins. Seventeen buildings had been burned and there 
lay a long tract of cinders and ashes. The condolence 
was sincere and offers of assistance hearty. The hotel 
would be rebuilt as soon as possible. The courage 
evidenced the indomitable pluck that was to be tested 
more than once and show an undaunted front. 

The ruins would be cleared away at once. More 
stringent rules about buildings and fires were dis 
cussed. There was a finer public spirit in all this. We 
were to be a town of note presently. The canal came 
up again for a more earnest share of attention. Streets 
must be improved, wharfage extended, better docks 
built they were very crude indeed. 

But winter settled in and most of the improvements 
had to stop. There was no end of trouble about money 
matters. The State banks suspended payment. One 
could never tell just what the money of any other State 
would be worth. The new President had brought no 
especial prosperity such as his party had predicted, 
and some of his warmest adherents denounced him 
as if he alone shaped the policy of the Government. 



 

The Little Girl and I did not meddle our heads about 
any of these things. I could see that John Gaynor, 
in a certain way, was getting to have quite a place in 
Chicago affairs as far as advice went. In other mat 
ters he kept closely to his own business. He picked 
up pieces of property, giving oftentimes labor, or 
grain, or pork in exchange. Game was plentiful if 
you went far enough for it. Often a party of men 
would go out for a three or four days' hunt and come 
home laden with spoils. Still, there was a demand for 
domestic poultry and eggs, and Gaynor's stock of all 
kinds was considered first class. 

He was out quite often in the evening, and I fell 
into the habit of stopping as I came from work. 

"Just take a bite with us, Norman," he would say. 
"I'm going to Green Tree or down to Baubein's, and 
I'll be home by nine. But I can't leave Ruth alone; 
don't know but I shall have to hire you for steady 
company," with a laugh. 

Sometimes I ran off home after that, at others re 
mained all night. Dan was very gay and seldom in 
before eleven. But as the Little Girl was too young for 
dances or merrymakings we amused ourselves. M'liss 
occasionally added to our fun by her droll experiences 
and views on everything, in an uncouth dialect. Her 
granny, now near a hundred, knew all about the first 
people who came to Chicago, and M'liss sometimes 
was very interesting, though I used to think granny 
must have drawn on her imagination for some of the 
tales, but they so captured Ruth's romantic side that I 
let them pass. 





At other times we read and really studied about the 
different States. The Mississippi, with DeSota, La 
Salle and Tonti, was a mine of treasure to her. Later 
New Orleans, with its changes of government, Napo 
leon's marvellous history and the purchase of the West, 
was a great source of interest to us both. Mr. Harris 
was my mentor. Between getting and giving I added 
much to my incomplete boyish education. 

But it was not all history. Every volume of poems 
I met with I borrowed, and we read the old ones over. 
I think we both knew pages of "The Lady of the 
Lake," our first love. 

One evening an odd incident happened to me that 
in the beginning was rather a source of annoyance. I 
was to go to Mr. Harris's and had a list of inquiries in 
my mind to talk over. At the side of the cheerful fire 
in the arm-chair with the high cushioned back sat 
a gentleman of distinguished appearance that I had 
caught sight of in the warehouse, a tall man with a 
rather spare but not thin figure, a fine face that, no 
doubt, had been handsome in youth. The forehead 
was high, but rather narrow, the hair, that now had 
only a few dark threads in it, but a certain silvery 
gloss, an aquiline nose, and the beard, snowy-white, 
trimmed in the Van Dyck fashion. The eyes held me. 
They were large and dark, but with a kind of winning 
softness. The eyebrows were still dark and so were 
the long lashes. 

"This is Mr. LeMoyne, Norman, and this," turning 
to the gentleman, "is the young friend I was telling 
you of." 



 

He did not rise, but extended his hand with such a 
grace that I felt self-condemned for my discourteous 
thought. 

"We have been talking about you," he began, and 
there was something in his voice that completed his 
sudden ascendency over me. "Mr. Harris was saying 
you were much interested in New Orleans, and that 
you had never seen any of our larger cities. I have 
been in that quaint southern French town for some 
months." 

I knew I smiled with pleasure. There was such a 
charm in his manner. But I felt tongue-tied, abashed. 

"You cannot have much of an idea of it from this 
place, except as Mr. Harris tells me that you are 
almost in a sea of mud except when you are frozen up. 
They have a great deal of it in the way of inundations, 
and part of the city lies very low. But there is no real 
winter and everything is abloom with roses. Such 
luxurious trees, indeed all kinds of vegetation. It is 
really a French city, much more so than St. Louis. 
The States seem to have taken in almost every nation 
and I wonder how they will assimilate them." 

"I should like to see the year 1900," laughed Mr. 
Harris. "We are not half through a wonderful cen 
tury. It is not sixty years yet since we achieved our 
