"Was the son down there at the seaside? Did 
you like him ?" 
"He is a sort of big, rather over-indulged boy. 
just beginning his education," she replied with 
a gleam of amusement. 
"I like them all very much. They really enjoy 
life. But it seems as if the others had too much, 
they are continually studying what amusement 
they shall have next. Someone said: *Oh, 
there isn't anything new, only you have to invent 
new ways of doing old things.' Some of the 
guests were envying Miss Duer's trip abroad, and 
she said: 'Oh, there won't be anything new to 
see, I've done it all. Only we may go round the 
world.' Think of seeing all the countries of the 
world!" 
It was after they had made a circle round the 
cheerful fireplace that Mrs. Bell inquired sug- 
gestively about Mr. Duer. 
"What astonishes me in the matter is that he 
should really want to marry Daisy when there 
are rich society girls on every hand," was Wil- 
lard's reply. "Of course Daisy has charming 
manners and is a well educated girl as girls go, 
and some of the society belles I thought rather 
rude and commonplace, perhaps it was the con- 
trast with the finer breeding. And two of them 
really threw themselves at Mr. Duer. I'm afraid 
you will have to give in ma mire, for he is devoted 
to Daisy. And she just held her way regally. She 
 
certainly has a very fascinating adaptiveness. 
But I like Larry worlds better, not because he 
is a parson either. After awhile I should think 
life would begin to feel so useless. What is your 
opinion of it, Miss Helen ?" 
''I haven't tried much of the pure pleasure side, 
and nothing of the overflowing wealth. I was 
delighted when I found myself enough of an 
heiress to be sure of going to college. Though 
I think I should have worked my way through 
somehow." 
"And what about this remarkable book you had 
a hand in? Why, you are almost an antiquarian." 
"Do I look like one?" She flushed and laughed. 
"I only copied and sometimes straightened out 
involved sentences and transcribed some notes 
of father's." 
"He was quite a wonderful scholar, it seems. 
It is good there are some men willing to 'leave 
the warm precincts of the cheerful day' and root 
among the ruins of bygone ages. I could not 
do it. I love the cheerful day and the people 
in it, but we find those old barbarians were quite 
grand folks after all. We shall leave no such 
ruins behind us." 
"But we may leave something really better on 
humanitarian lines," said his father. "Knowledge 
and kindliness are more widely diffused. We 
have had the Golden Rule, though we do not all 
live up to it." 
They had a delightful evening, though Mrs. 
Bell told Willard in a sweet, motherly fashion 
that he might be excused if he was tired after his 
dissipation, and when she saw that he was re- 
solved not to accept the permission she proposed 
that they should all retire early. 
"What a charming girl Helen Grant is!" Mr. 
Bell said enthusiastically. "They were almost 
like two comrades comparing notes, and laughing 
over episodes. There's nothing boyish about her 
either, and none of that acting for effect, and 
she looks at you with such clear, honest eyes. 
She knows so many interesting topics to talk 
about. Her description of the sun rising up out 
of the sea was fine. She uses her eyes for better 
purposes than to study her neighbors' clothes." 
It was almost noon when Willard rose and 
then he berated himself soundly for losing time. 
Mr. Bell had gone down to the city. The day 
was raw and cold, with now and then a dash 
of snow in small round pellets. 
But they had a very enjoyable time, talking, 
reading, playing checkers, and finding no end of 
amusing things to laugh about, referring often 
to Mrs. Bell quite as if she were their compeer. 
It was pleasant not to be set a little aside as was 
often the case with the older people. 
Saturday morning Willard had to go to the 
city, but Marjorie and her lover came up to lunch. 
"We were so glad you could come when it turned 
out this way," she said to Helen. "It was quite a 
break in our usual home festival. We had such 
a gay Christmas last year. It is natural for 
young people to go their way and make new cen- 
tres, but I realize that it is hard for those left 
behind. I shall not go very far. And we did 
hope Daisy would have a long, happy girlhood, 
for she still seems such a child to us. I do hope 
you have not felt you were neglected." 
"Fve had such a lovely time with your mother," 
Helen rejoined, her face in a glow of satisfac- 
tion. "Oh, I couldn't ever feel that way here. 
The very house has a home atmosphere that goes 
to your heart." 
It was dusk when the three arrived home, Mr. 
Bell smiling and feeling as if he had rescued his 
daughter from a grave danger, Willard rather 
annoyed from some cause, but Daisy such an 
incarnation of style and prettiness and indescriba- 
ble charm that Helen stood amazed. Her dark 
green broadcloth suit with its beautiful fur trim- 
mings, her hat to match with two drooping white 
plumes and a knot of soft pink under the brim, 
made her a truly lovely picture. But on a second 
glance you saw that she was pale and her eyes 
were heavy. 
Her mother pressed her fondly to her heart. 
Marjorie gave her the warmest of welcomes, and 
Helen's tone was full of tenderness. They would 
not let her go up stairs ; Marjorie took her coat 
and hat and put her in a chair by the fire for she 
was cold from her drive. 
Then they had dinner, but Daisy declared she 
wasn't a bit hungry, the "breakfast" had been so 
long and so elaborate, and she discoursed elo- 
quently upon that and the bride who was nearly 
smothered with flowers upon the steamer. 
Afterward she exclaimed: "Now I'm going 
upstairs and put on a wrapper and lie on the 
bed and have Helen tell me all about school and 
the girls. I'm not a bit sleepy, but awfully tired, 
and you've had Helen all this time and now it is 
my turn. Come, Helen." 
Helen rose smilingly. 
"I should think you'd want to sleep two full 
days after all this carousing," said Willard. 
"You might be more refined." There was a 
touch of fretfulness in Daisy's voice. 
 
"Don't tease, Willard," said his mother. "We 
have had a delightful time with Helen." 
"And it was my plan," subjoined Daisy. 
"Shall I come and help you?" asked Marjorie. 
"No, Helen will be lady's maid. I've really 
had a maid and I found it delightful. She 
thought I had lovely hair. And some girls do 
have such a skimpy little lot that they have to 
wear almost a wig," and Daisy gave a rather 
thin, sarcastic laugh. 
The two girls went upstairs. The room was 
delightfully warm, there was a table of small 
plants in bloom over by the window. 
"Help me off with some of these things. Isn't 
my suit elegant? It was my Christmas present 
from the family. I told mamma they could put 
all their money together, and get me a lovely silk- 
lined suit. The cloth feels like satin. And the 
making is simply exquisite. And look here !" 
She slipped a ring on her finger. Iridescent 
rays seemed to flash about the room. 
"Oh, Daisy ! Are you really engaged ?" 
"Well—" Daisy flushed, then laughed a little. 
"It was my Christmas, for I promised mamma 
I would not make a real engagement And I 
have the loveliest bracelet — all the bridesmaids 
had them, only the jewels were different Mine 
is turquoise because I was so fair, and it is fine, 
I can tell you. Hang up my skirts in the closet 
and put my waist over that little chair. Marjorie 
made this white eiderdown wrapper for me, isn't 
it a dear ! And hunt up those crocheted slippers 
there in the bag. Now I'm going to lie here 
among the pillows and you sit just there, so I 
can see your face without turning, for I want to 
tell you the whole story from beginning to — oh," 
checking herself suddenly. "I like to have said 
'end'. The end will be marriage of course. I'm 
not going to have a year's engagement either. 
But it's been the dearest, sweetest romance, and 
such a surprise I Why, I never imagined such a 
thing! I felt that somehow he was a general 
admirer of pretty girls, rather a butterfly. He 
has a way of making the loveliest speeches, and 
his manners are simply elegant." She had been 
settling herself on the bed and pulling the fleecy 
blanket over her, pushing and kneading the pil- 
lows, and then gave a sigh of content. 
"But you were not to talk — " interposed Helen. 
"You are pale as a ghost." 
"Oh, don't you want to hear? That's unkind 
of you! A friend ought to be all eagerness to 
know about her friend's good fortune." 
"Why, yes ; but you are tired — " 
 
"Oh, I've danced and been driven about and 
had all sorts of fun, and seen the most magnificent 
things, gowns and jewels and everything. It's 
been splendid ! Of course I'd naturally be tired, 
but lying here is so comfortable. Only — if you 
do not want to hear," with a rather fretful em- 
phasis. 
"Of course I am interested. And — surprised." 
"Mamma has told you ?" 
"A little, yes. That you had a very ardent 
lover." 
"He is magnificent and I love him. I know 
I can never love anyone else," and she gave a 
sigh of rapture. 
CHAPTER XII 
WHICH IS BETTER, LOVE OR FRIENDSHIP? 
"I can't see why he isn't taken up as cordially 
as Gerald Towne— or — well I suppose a clergy- 
man is put up on a little higher plane. And the 
other girls made their choice. Then I don't see 
why Mr. Duer should be toiling and moiling 
when he has plenty of money to live on. It 
might be taking away business from some one 
who needed it. And, oh, Helen, it is too utterly 
splendid to have everything you want without 
considering whether you can aflford it or not. I 
didn't think first that he really cared for me. I 
liked Evelyn so much. We traveled together, you 
know, and she took one of those overwhelming 
fancies to me. She is just a year older than I 
am. And when Mr. Duer spoke I was — well, I 
did sort of resent. I wasn't going to be flattered 
and perhaps laughed at afterwards for being so 
— credulous. So I think I was careful enough. 
But he was so earnest and he made love so 
splendidly that I just couldn't put him off or 
disbelieve. He was very manly about it and ex- 
plained to papa at once. Why, I think almost any 
onfe would be glad to have a daughter marry so 
well, but truly I did not think of the money at 
first Then they both said I was too young and 
the acquaintance had been too short, and a dozen 
foolish objections. Mamma coaxed me to give 
him up. Papa said we knew so little about him. 
But he gave some fine references; Mr. Newell 
and the trustee who manages the estate, and still 
they wouldn't consent to an engagement. It was 
really unjust. Suppose he had turned angry 
and gone off — why my heart would just have 
broken. He wrote such darling letters, they 
would have convinced any one. Oh, Helen, love 
is the sweetest thing in the world, and it isn't my 
nature to take it tranquilly like the other girls. 
They are so different in temperament. Then 
Evelyn's lover wrote about his coming over to be 
married, and they asked both of us to join the 
bridal party. Mother thought I ought to decline, 
but our bridal gowns were to be made in New 
York, a gift of course ; and Evelyn and Mr. Duer 
came and mamma positively couldn't resist. 
Evelyn had the loveliest fashion of coaxing. And 
then Harlan pleaded for an engagement, but 
papa only promised to take it into consideration. 
But Harlan says we are just as truly engaged 
 
before God as if the whole world had con- 
sented. He has been so sweet about it. Papa 
isn't sure but he has some bad habits, as if young 
men with no end of money were not always a 
little gay and giving suppers and all that. Why, 
there isn't anything else for them to do. And 
we had the loveliest time these few days. Some 
of the girls made big eyes at him, I tell you, and 
I couldn't help feeling proud. For I did not try 
to catch him, truly, though girls are doing that 
all the time. Don't you think it's very hard not 
to have it all clear sailing?" 
"But your father and mother want to do the 
very best they can for your future happiness, and 
marriage is such a solemn thing," protested 
Helen. 
"This is best because it is the happiness I 
want." 
"But you have only known him such a littje 
while." 
"I don't believe that counts for very much. 
There is a girl, a woman rather, down in the 
town that used to be quite a friend of my sister 
Annis. She was engaged three years, and had 
known her lover quite a long while. They went 
away after they were married and last summer she 
came home with her baby not two years old. 
Her husband drank and neglected her and finally 
knocked her down one day and hurt her dread- 
fully. Then her father went and brought her 
home. And I suppose if it had been a six months' 
engagement everybody would have blamed it to 
that." 
Helen was silent. Mr. and Mrs. Bell must 
have some good reasons for their course, she 
thought. 
"He is coming in about a fortnight and then 
he wants the thing settled so that he can visit me 
as often as he likes. And Mrs. Newell was very 
sweet to me and asked me to come and spend a 
week with them in the city house, before they go 
to Bermuda. It's just splendid to be able to 
travel about wherever the wish takes you." 
"Oh, my dear Daisy, you are desperately tired, 
and we must stop. You have done all the 
talking." 
"Oh, I could talk all night. Are there any 
engaged girls in the class?" 
"Yes, two or three." 
"But won't it make a stir when mine is an- 
nounced!" and Daisy gave a thin, exhausted 
laugh. 
"I am going to bed." Helen rose, leaned over 
and kissed her. "Your eyes are set in the violet 
shades of fatigue. Now that is poetical. All 
the rest you shall tell me to-morrow, no — on 
Monday." 
"It won't hurt to descant on your happiness if 
it is Sunday. Helen, you are growing staid and 
cold. You havenl a bit of enthusiasm," in a 
complaining tone. 
"Good-night. Good-night. And that is your 
mother's voice." 
Helen pushed the door wider open, and smiled 
at Mrs. Bell. 
"I was coming to inquire if the confidence was 
nearing its end," she remarked pleasantly. 
"The conclave has broken up, and we are both 
sleepy, or ought to be. Good-night," and Helen 
passed to her room. 
But she did not sleep at first. The subject had 
two such decided, such opposite sides. She was 
quite sure, deep in her heart, that Mr. and Mrs. 
Bell were right. They were tender and fond and 
desired Daisy's happiness most of all. They had 
experience and were better able to judge. Yet 
she had been deeply moved by the fascinating 
mystery of love. She had never come near the 
romantic side before. Mrs. Wilmarth now and 
then adverted to her young days, but love had 
flowed in a tranquil stream. She really wanted 
 
Daisy to have her heart's desire, but would it be 
best? It was a perplexing tangle and like a 
healthy girl she fell asleep in the midst of it. 
Daisy did not come down the next morning. 
She was soundly asleep and her mother would 
not disturb her. 
"I am afraid fashionable life would wear her 
out," Mrs. Bell said with some anxiety. "She 
seems well as a general thing, but I do not think 
she has much reserve strength." 
"But weddings do not happen every day, even 
in high life, I mean in the same families," laughed 
Willard. 
"But the guests go from one to the other, and 
to house parties. A cousin of Gerald's was in one 
day, complaining of the multiplicity of engage- 
ments, and said every week was filled until 
Easter," commented Marjorie. "It seems a regu- 
lar treadmill round. And so many functions are 
just alike. There is no time for real thought or 
enjoyment." 
Helen went to church with Mr. Bell, Marjorie 
and Willard, and though the morning was cold, 
the sun shone with a splendor that almost de- 
ceived one. She felt so tranquilized with the 
beautiful service, which was almost like that of 
Christmas day, and Mr. Hollis' sermon was full 
of comfort and joy. Helen was truly sorry when 
it ended. 
Marjorie was to stay to luncheon with a friend. 
Through the wintry weather there was a short 
afternoon service after Sunday School, then Mr. 
Hollis would bring Marjorie home and remain 
all night. 
Daisy was still in her room. She had taken 
her bath, eaten a little toast and then gone back 
to her bed. Helen ran in, alert and glowing. 
Daisy had been crying. 
"I can't help it," she sobbed. "I've been so 
supremely happy for a week, and now mamma 
has just plunged me into misery. She thinks she 
cannot consent to my liking Harlan and it is so 
cruel. It isn't always what one says, you feel 
it in the tone, you see it in the eyes. There, run 
down and get your lunch and then come up to 
me. I should die if I didn't have some one to 
talk to, and Helen you must take my side." 
She entered the dining room with a rather 
grave face, but it soon relaxed in the comforting 
talk of the higher purposes of life. Mr. Bell 
had no extravagant views of sacrifice, but kept 
the cheerful tenor of a belief in the lovable quali- 
ties that helped each one on his journey, that 
 
smoothed rough ways, that counted in "the least 
of these." 
Helen almost dreaded to go back to Daisy. 
"Read her to sleep again," suggested Willard. 
