"How far will you follow him?"

"As far as it's necessary. If he thinks he can git away from me he'll
find out, sooner or later, he is mistaken."

"You don't know when you'll be back?"

"No. It may be I'll have to wait in town till the squire opens his
office--that is, if I can't find Nat."

"But you are going to look for him yourself first?"

"Yes."

With this answer Abner Balberry drove off in the darkness. Mrs. Felton
watched him and heaved a long and deep sigh.

"Too bad!" she murmured. "If he catches Nat it will surely go hard with
that boy. Well, I didn't think he was bad enough to set fire to a
barn!"




CHAPTER V

THE SALE OF A COW


Totally unconscious of what had taken place at the farm after his
departure, Nat, in company with his friend, Sam Price, proceeded on his
way to Brookville.

On the journey Nat told his friend of many things that had happened to
him and of his uncle's meanness.

"I don't wonder you want a change," said Sam. "I'd want a change
myself."

At last they came in sight of Brookville, and Nat drove the cow to the
yard of Jackson the butcher.

The butcher was a fat, good-natured man of middle age. But he was a
shrewd business man and first-class at driving a bargain.

"What do you want, boy?" he asked of Nat.

"Do you want to buy a cow, Mr. Jackson? Sam says you were out looking
for cows day before yesterday."

"I did want cows then, but I've got nearly all I want now."

"Oh, then I'll go elsewhere," answered Nat.

"Hold on, not so fast. What do you want for your cow?"

"Thirty dollars."

"Phew! you don't want much."

"She's worth it. You can milk her or use her for meat, just as you
choose."

"Whose cow is she?"

"Mine."

"Yours?" And the butcher gazed at Nat curiously.

"Yes. I've owned her ever since she was a little calf."

"And now you are tired of her?"

"Not exactly that, but I want to use the money. Will you buy her?"

"Yes, but not for thirty dollars."

"How much will you give?"

"Twenty dollars."

"I don't care to sell for twenty dollars."

"That's the best I can do."

"Then I'll have to go elsewhere. Come, Jennie," and Nat turned to drive
the cow from the butcher's yard again.

"Hold on!" cried the meat man. "I'll give you twenty-two dollars."

"Make it twenty-five and I'll accept. I can't take less. I ought to get
thirty dollars."

There was some more talk, and in the end, the butcher agreed to pay
twenty-five dollars and did so. He wanted a receipt, and Nat wrote it
out for him.

"So you are Nat Nason," said the butcher. "I used to know your father. A
very nice man."

"He was a nice man."

"Live with your uncle now, don't you?"

"I have been living with him, yes. Good-day, and much obliged," returned
the boy, and to avoid being questioned further he left the yard at once,
followed by Sam.

"You made a good bargain on the cow," said Sam. "I reckon you got every
cent she was worth."

"She was a good cow, Sam. I'm rather sorry to part with her. She was
almost like a friend."

"What are you going to do next?"

"Strike out for the city."

"I wish you luck."

"You won't tell my uncle?"

"Not a word. But, say."

"Well?"

"When you get to the city write and tell me how you like it."

"I will, Sam, and you must tell me the news from home, and how my uncle
gets along without me."

So it was arranged; and a few minutes later the two lads separated, and
Sam Price started for home.

Brookville was on a small branch railroad running to Cleveland, and by
consulting a time-table Nat learned that a train for Cleveland would
leave in ten minutes. He lost no time in purchasing a ticket, and spent
the rest of the time in eating some of the lunch he had brought along.
With over twenty-three dollars still in his pocket he felt rich, and
bought some peanuts and a cake of sweet chocolate.

When the train came along there were scarcely any passengers aboard, so
he had little difficulty in getting the seat he wanted. He sat down by a
window, with his bundle beside him, and gave himself up to thinking and
to looking at the scenery as it whirled past.

Nat had traveled but little on the cars, so the ride to Cleveland was
intensely enjoyable. The different places passed were so interesting
that he soon forgot to think about his prospects, or of what he was to
do when he arrived at the city on the lake.

"Next stop is Cleveland!" cried the conductor, standing at the open
doorway. "All change, for trains east and west!"

A moment later the train rolled into the smoky station, and bundle in
hand, Nat left the car and stepped onto the platform. From there he
walked to the street, where he gazed in some bewilderment at the crowds
of people and the swiftly moving street cars.

"Paper!" cried a newsboy. "Morning paper?"

"No, I don't want any paper," answered Nat.

"All about the big fire in Chicago, boss. Take a paper?"

"Yes, I'll take one," said Nat, and passed over the necessary change.
Off darted the newsboy, to be lost in the crowd on the other side of the
street. Nat gazed at the paper, to find that a tenement had burned out
in Chicago, with the loss of one life.

"That's not such a terrible thing--for a big city like Chicago," he
mused, and then noticed that the newspaper was two days old.

"That boy stuck me!" he muttered, and a cloud crossed his face. "I
wonder where he is?"

The boy could not be found, and in a moment Nat concluded it would be a
waste of time to look for him.

"He caught me for a greeny, true enough," he thought. "I've got to keep
my eyes open after this."

From one street Nat passed to another, gazing into the shop windows,
and wondering what he had best do next. He had at first calculated to go
to New York without delay, but now thought it would do no harm to remain
in Cleveland a day or two.

"Perhaps I'll never get here again," he reasoned. "And I might as well
see all there is to see."

Noon found him on one of the main streets. He was now hungry again, and
coming to a modest-looking restaurant, he entered and sat down at a side
table.

"What will you have?" asked the waiter, coming up to him.

"Give me a regular dinner," said Nat, seeing the sign on the wall:

     Regular Dinner, 11 to 2. 30 cents.

The waiter walked off, and presently returned with some bread and
butter.

"Pea or tomato soup?" he asked.

"What's that?" questioned the boy.

"Pea or tomato soup?"

"I don't want any soup--I want a regular dinner."

At this the waiter smiled, for he saw that Nat was green.

"We serve soup first--if the customer wants it."

"And what do you serve after that?"

"One kind of meat, vegetables, coffee or milk, and pie or pudding."

"Oh! Well bring me the meat and other stuff. I never cared for soup
anyway."

"Roast beef or lamb?"

"Roast beef."

The waiter went off, and presently Nat was supplied with all he cared to
eat. The food was good, and he took his time, finishing off with a piece
of lemon meringue pie, a dainty of which he was exceedingly fond, but
which Mrs. Felton had seldom dared to make.

"Thirty cents, but I guess it was worth it," he thought, as he left the
restaurant.

Nat had never seen Lake Erie, and toward the middle of the afternoon he
walked down in the direction of the water. The shipping interested him
greatly, and it was dark before he realized that the day was gone
without anything definite being accomplished.

"Gracious, how time flies when one is in the city!" he thought.
"To-morrow, I must make up my mind what to do next. If I don't, I'll
have my money spent, and no job, either."

As it grew darker the boy felt the necessity of looking for
accommodations for the night. Seeing a sign on a house, Furnished Rooms
by the Day, Week, or Month, he ascended the stoop, and rang the bell. A
young Irish girl answered his summons.

"Can I get a bed for to-night?" asked Nat.

"I guess yez can--I'll call Mrs. O'Hara," said the girl.

The landlady soon showed herself, and said she could let Nat have a hall
room for fifty cents. To the boy's notion this seemed rather high.

"I can't take less," said Mrs. O'Hara, firmly.

"Very well; I'll take the room for to-night," answered Nat. "Can I put
my bundle up there now?"

"To be sure."

Fortunately for Nat, the room proved clean and well-kept, and the bed
was better than the one he had used at the farm. Tired out, the boy
slept soundly until seven o'clock, when he lost no time in dressing and
going below.

"Will you want the room again to-night, Mr. Nason?" asked the landlady.

"I don't think so," answered Nat. It made him feel a foot taller to be
addressed as Mr. Nason. "If I want it, I'll let you know by supper
time."

"Very well."

With his bundle under his arm, Nat left the house, and walked down the
street toward one of the main thoroughfares of Cleveland. Then he
stopped at a restaurant for breakfast.

"Now, I've got to make up my mind what to do," he told himself. "Maybe I
had better go back to the depot and see about a train and the fare to
New York."

After making several false turns, the boy found his way to the depot,
and there hunted up the ticket office, and procured a time-table. He was
just looking into the time-table when he felt a heavy hand placed on his
shoulder.

"So I've found you, have I?" came harshly from Abner Balberry. "You
young rascal, what do you mean by runnin' away?"




CHAPTER VI

NAT ON LAKE ERIE


Nat was so completely astonished by the unexpected appearance of his
uncle and guardian, that for the moment he did not know what to say or
do.

"Thought you was goin' to run away, didn't you?" continued Abner
Balberry, with a gleam of triumph in his small eyes.

"Let go of me," answered Nat, trying to pull away.

"I ain't a-goin' to, Nat Nason. You're a-goin' back with me, an' on the
next train."

"I'm not going back, Uncle Abner."

"What!"

"I said I'm not going back, so there," repeated Nat, desperately. "You
don't treat me half decently, and I'm going to strike out for myself."

"Jest to hear the boy! You are a-goin' back. Nice doin's, I must say!
What did you mean by trying to burn down the barn?"

"Burn down the barn?"

"That's wot I said."

"I never burned down any barn. Is the barn burned down?"

"No; because I put out the fire."

"When was this?"

"You know well enough."

"I don't know a word about it, Uncle Abner."

"You set the barn afire."

"Never!"

"You did! An' you've got to go back."

"Uncle Abner, I never set fire to a thing," gasped Nat. "I left because
you worked me to death, and because you wouldn't let me have my supper.
After this, I'm going to earn my own living in my own way."

"You're goin' back," snarled the farmer.

For answer, Nat gave a sudden jerk and pulled himself from his uncle's
grasp. Then he started to run from the depot at his best speed.

"Hi! stop!" yelled the farmer. "Stop thet boy. I'm his guardian, and he
is runnin' away from me."

The cry was taken up on all sides, and soon a crowd of a dozen men and
boys were in pursuit of Nat, who by this time had reached the street.

Nat had always been fleet of foot, and now a new fear lent strength to
his flying feet. He was accused of setting fire to the barn! Perhaps his
uncle would have him arrested and sent to prison.

"He shan't do it," he muttered. "I must get away, somehow."

Down one street after another went poor Nat, with the crowd behind him
growing steadily larger. Some thought they were after a thief, and some
a murderer, and soon two policemen joined in the chase.

Coming to an alley way, Nat darted through it to a side street, and then
around a corner to a thoroughfare leading down to the docks. This threw
the crowd off the trail for a moment, and gave him a brief breathing
spell.

Reaching the docks fronting the lake, the boy came to a halt. Not far
off was a steamboat, getting ready to cast off.

"Where does that boat go to?" he asked of a man standing near.

"That's the boat for Buffalo," was the answer.

"And when does she leave?"

"She is getting ready to leave now."

"Then that's the boat I want," came from Nat, and he rushed to the end
of the dock, and up the gangplank with all speed. A moment later the
gangplank was withdrawn, and the steamboat started on her trip down Lake
Erie.

Trembling with excitement, Nat entered the cabin, and from the window
looked back to the dock they had just left. It was not long before he
beheld Abner Balberry and several others, on the dock, gazing up and
down in perplexity. They did not know whether the boy was on the boat,
or in hiding close by.

"What a narrow escape!" thought Nat, when the dock had faded from view.
"In another minute Uncle Abner would have collared me, sure."

"Had to run pretty hard to catch the boat, didn't you?" remarked a man
sitting beside him.

"Yes," answered Nat.
