ship's bandy little legs trotting beside him, the soaking 
gaiters and shoes slopping at every step. 
Mortimer, his mottled skin now sufficiently distended, 
greeted the story with a yawn from ear to ear ; his lord- 
ship, blinking madly, burst into that remarkable laugh 
which seemed to reveal the absence of certain vocal cords 
requisite to perfect harmony ; and Siward smiled in his 
listless, pleasant way, and turned off down his corridor, 
unaware that the Sagamore pup was following close at 
his heels until he heard Quarrier's even, colourless voice : 
" Fen-all, would you be good enough to send Sagamore 
to your kennels? " 
" Oh — he's your dog ! I forgot," said Siward turn- 
ing around. 
Quarrier looked at him, pausing a moment. 
" Yes," he said coldly, " he's my dog." 
For a fraction of a second the two men's eyes encountered ; then Siward glanced at the dog, and turned on his 
heel with the slightest shrug. And that is all there was 
to the incident — an anxious, perplexed puppy lugged 
off by a servant, turning, jerking, twisting, resisting, 
looking piteously back as his unwilling feet slid over 
the polished floor. 
So Siward walked on alone through the long eastern 
wing to his room overlooking the sea. He sat down on 
the edge of his bed, glancing at the clothing laid out 
for him. He felt tired and disinclined for the exertion 
of undressing. The shades were up ; night quicksilvered 
the window-panes so that they were like a dark mirror 
reflecting his face. He inspected his darkened features 
curiously ; the blurred and sombre-tinted visage returned the stare. 
" Not a man at all — the shadow of a man," he said 
aloud — " with no will, no courage — always putting off 
the battle, always avoiding conclusions, always skulking. 
What chance is there for a man like that? " 
As one who raises a glass to drink wine and unex- 
pectedly finds water, he shrugged his shoulders disgustedly and got up. A bath followed ; he dressed leisurely, 
and was pacing the room, fussing with his collar, when 
Ferrall knocked and entered, finding a seat on the bed. 
" Stephen," he said bluntly, " I haven't seen you since 
that break of yours at the club." 
" Rotten, wasn't it.'' " commented Siward, tying his 
tie. 
" Perfectly. Of course it doesn't make any differ- 
 
ence to Grace or to me, but I fancy you've already heard 
from it." 
" Oh, yes. All I care about is how my mother took 
it." 
" Of course ; she was cut up I suppose ? " 
" Yes, you know how she would look at a thing of 
that sort; not that any of the nine and seventy jarring 
sets would care, but those few thousands invading the 
edges, butting in — half or three-quarters inside — are 
the people who can't afford to overlook the victim of a 
fashionable club's displeasure — those, and a woman like 
my mother, and several other decent-minded people who 
happen to count in town." 
Ferrall, his legs swinging busily, thought again; 
then : " Who was the girl, Stephen ? " 
" I don't think the papers mentioned her name," 
said Siward gravel}'. 
" Oh — I beg your pardon ; I thought she was some 
notorious actress — everybody said so. . . . Who were 
those callow fools who put you up to it.? . . . Never 
mind if you don't care to tell. But it strikes me they 
are candidates for club discipline as well as you. It 
was up to them to face the governors I think " 
" No, I think not." 
Ferrall, legs swinging busily, considered him. 
" Too bad," he mused ; " they need not have dropped 
you " 
" Oh, they had to. But as long as the Lenox takes 
no action I can live that down." 
Ferrall nodded: "I came in to say something — a 
message from Grace — confound it ! what was it ? Oh — 
could you — before dinner — now — just sit down and 
with that infernal facility of yours make a sketch of a 
man chasing a gun-shy dog.' " 
" Why yes — if Mrs. Ferrall wishes " 
He walked over to the desk in his shirt-sleeves, sat 
down, drew a blank sheet of paper toward him, and, 
dipping his pen, drew carelessly a gun-shy setter dog 
rushing frantically across the stubble, and after him, 
bare-headed, gun in hand, the maddest of men. 
" Put a Vandyke beard on him," grinned Ferrall over 
his shoulder. " There ! O Lord ! but you have hit it ! 
Put a ticked saddle on the cur — there ! " 
" Who is this supposed to be.? " began Siward, look- 
ing up. But " Wait ! " chuckled his host, seizing the 
still wet sketch, and made for the door. 
Siward strolled into the bath-room, washed a spot or 
two of ink from his fingers, returned and buttoned his 
waistcoat, then, completing an unhurried toilet, went out 
and down the stairway to the big living-room. There 
were two or three people there — Mrs. Leroy Mortimer, 
very fetching with her Japanese-like colouring, black 
hair and eyes that slanted just enough; Rena Bonnes- 
del, smooth, violet-eyed, blonde, and rather stunning in 
a peculiarly innocent way ; Miss Caithness, very pale 
and slimly attractive; and the Page boys, Willis and 
Gordon, delightfully shy and interested, and having a 
splendid time with any woman who could afford the in- 
tellectual leisure, 
Siward spoke pleasantly to them all. Other people 
drifted down — Marion Page who looked like a school- 
marm and rode like a demon ; Eileen Shannon, pink and 
white as a thorn blossom, with the deuce to pay lurking 
in her grey eyes; Kathryn Tassel and Mrs. Vendenning 
whom he did not know, and finally his hostess Grace Fer- 
rall with her piquant, almost boyish, freckled face and 
sweet frank eyes and the figure of an adolescent. 
She gave Siward one pretty sun-browned hand and 
 
laid the other above his, holding it a moment in her 
light clasp. 
" Stephen ! Stephen ! " she said under her breath, 
" it's because I've a few things to scold you about that 
Pve asked you to Shotover." 
" I suppose I know," he said. 
" I should hope you do. I've a letter to-night from 
your mother," 
" From my mother? " 
" I want you to go over it — with me — if we can find 
a minute after dinner." She released his hand, turning 
partly around : " Kemp, dinner's been announced, so cut 
that dog story in two ! Will you give me your arm 
Major Belwether.? Howard!" — to her cousin, Mr. 
Quarrier, who turned from Miss Landis to Hsten — " will 
you please try to recollect whom you are to take in — and 
do it.'' " And, as she passed Siward, in a low voice, mis- 
chievous and slangy : " Sylvia Landis for yours — as she 
says she didn't have enough of you on the cliffs." 
The others appeared to know how to pair according 
to some previous notice. Siward turned to Sylvia Landis 
with the pleasure of his good fortune so plainly visible 
in his face, that her own brightened in response. 
" You see," she said gaily, " you cannot escape me. 
There is no use in looking wildly at Agatha Caith- 
ness " — he wasn't — " or pretending you're pleased," 
slipping her rounded, bare arm through the arm he 
offered. " You can't guess what I've done to-night — no- 
body can guess except Grace Ferrall and one other per- 
son. And if you try to look happy beside me, I may tell 
you — somewhere between sherry and cognac — Oh, yes ; 
I've done two things : I have your dog for you ! " 
" Not Sagamore.? " he said incredulously as he was 
seating her. 
" Certainly Sagamore. I said to Mr. Quarrier, ' I 
want Sagamore,' and when he tried to give him to me, 
I made him take my cheque. Now you may draw an- 
other for me at your leisure, Mr. Siward. Tell me, are 
you pleased?" — for she was looking for the troubled 
hesitation in his face and she saw it dawning. 
" Mr. Quarrier doesn't like me, you know " 
" But  do," she said coolly. " I told him how much 
pleasure it would give me. That is sufficient — is it not.'' 
— for everybody concerned." 
" He knew that you meant to " 
" No, that concerns only you and me. Are you try- 
ing to spoil my pleasure in what I have done ? " 
'' I can't take the dog, Miss Landis " 
" Oh," she said, vexed ; " I had no idea you were 
vindictive " 
There was a silence ; he bent forward a trifle, gravely 
scrutinising a " hand-painted " name card, though it 
might not have astonished him to learn that somebody's 
foot had held the brush. Somewhere in the vicinity 
Grace Ferrall had discovered a woman who supported 
dozens of relatives by painting that sort of thing for 
the summer residents at Vermillion Point down the coast. 
So being charitable she left an order, and being thrifty, 
insisted on using the cards, spite of her husband's gibes. 
People were now inspecting them with more or less 
curiosity ; Siward found his " hand-painting " so unat- 
tractive that he had just tipped it over to avoid seeing 
it, when a burst of laughter from Lord Alderdene made 
everybody turn. Mrs. Vendenning was laughing ; so was 
Rena Bonnesdel looking over Quarrier's shoulder at a 
card he was holding — not one of the " hand "-decorated, 
but a sheet of note-paper containing a drawing of a 
man rushing after a gun-shy dog. 
 
The extraordinary cackling laughter of his lord- 
ship obliterated other sounds for a while ; Rena Bonnesdel possessed herself of the drawing and held it up amid 
a shout of laughter. And, to his excessive annoyance, 
Siward saw that, unconsciously, he had caricatured Quar- 
ter — Ferrall's malicious request for a Vandyke beard 
making the caricature dreadfully apparent. 
Quarrier had at first flushed up; then he forced a 
smile; but his symmetrical features were never cordial 
when he smiled. 
" Who on earth did that? " whispered Sylvia Landis 
apprehensively. " Mr. Quarrier dislikes that sort of 
thing — but of course he'll take it well." 
" Did he ever chase his own dog.'' " asked Siward, 
biting his lip. 
" Yes — so Blinky says — in the Carolinas last season. 
It's Blinky ! — that's his notion of humour. Did you 
ever hear such a laugh.? No wonder Mr. Quarrier is 
annoyed." 
The gay uproar had partly subsided, renewed here 
and there as the sketch was passed along, and finally, 
making the circle, returned like a bad penny to Quarrier. 
He smiled again, symmetrically, as he received it, nodding his compliments to Alderdene. 
" Oh, no," cackled his lordship ; " I didn't draw it, 
old chap ! " 
" Nor I ! I only wish I could," added Captain 
Voucher. 
" Nor I — nor I — who did it.? " ran the chorus along
the table. 
"  didn't do it ! " said Sylvia gravely, looking across 
at Quarrier. And suddenly Quarrier's large, handsome 
eyes met Siward's for the briefest fraction of a second, 
then were averted. But into his face there crept an 
expressionless pallor that did not escape Siward — no, 
nor Sylvia Landis. 
Presently under cover of a rapid fire of chatter she 
said: " Did you draw that? " 
" Yes ; I had no idea it was meant for him. You 
may imagine how likely I'd be to take any liberty with 
a man who already dislikes me." 
" But it resembles him — in a very dreadful way." 
" I know it. You must take my word for what I 
have told you." 
She looked up at him : " I do." Then : " It's a pity ; 
Mr. Quarrier does not consider such things humourous. 
He — he is very sensitive. . . . Oh, I wish that fool Englishman had been in Ballyhoo ! " 
" But he didn't do it ! " 
" No, but he put you up to it — or Grace Ferrall did. 
I wish Grace would let Mr. Quarrier alone; she has 
always been perfectly possessed to plague him ; she 
seems unable to take him seriously and he simply hates 
it. I don't think he'd tolerate her if she were not his 
cousin." 
" I'm awfullj sorry," was all Siward said ; and for 
a while he gloomily busied himself with whatever was 
brought to him. 
" Don't look that way," came a low voice beside him. 
"Do I show everything as plainly as that.''" he 
asked, curiously. 
" I seem to read you — sometimes." 
" It's very nice of j'ou," he said. 
"Nice.?" 
" To look at me — now and then." 
" Oh," she cried resentfully, " don't be grateful." 
" I — really am not you know," he said laughing. 
" That," she rejoined slowly, " is the truth. You 
 
say conventional things in a manner — in an agreeably 
personal manner that interests women. But you are 
so grateful to anybody for anything ; you are indifferent, and you can't help being nice to people, so — some 
day — some girl will think you are grateful, and will 
have a miserable time of it." 
" Miserable time? " 
" Waiting for you to say what never will enter your 
head to say." 
" You mean I— I " 
" Flirt ? No, I mean that you don't flirt ; that you 
are always dreamily occupied with your own affairs, 
from which listlessly congenial occupation, when drawn, 
you are so unexpectedly nice that a girl immediately 
desires to see how nice you can be." 
" What a charming indictment you draw ! " he said, 
amused. 
" It's a grave one I assure you. I've been talking 
about you to Grace Ferrall ; I asked to be placed beside 
you at dinner; I told her I hadn't had half enough of 
you on the cliff. Now what do you think of yourself for 
being too nice to a susceptible girl.''  tliink it's immoral." 
They both were laughing now ; several people glanced 
at them, smiling in sympathy. Alderdene took that opportunity to revert to the sketch, furnishing a specimen 
of his own inimitable laughter as a running accompaniment to the story of Quarrier and his dog in North Caro- 
lina, until he had everybody, as usual, laughing, not 
at the story but at him. All of wliich demonstration 
was bitterly offensive to Quarrier. He turned his 
eyes once on Miss Landis and on Siward, then dropped 
them. 
The hostess arose ; a rustle and flurry of silk and lace 
and the scraping of chairs, a lingering word or laugh, 
and the colour vanished from the room leaving a circle 
of men in black standing around the table. 
Here and there a man, lighting a cigarette, bolted 
his coffee and cognac and strolled out to the gun-room. 
Ferrall, gesticulating vigoi'ously, resumed his preprandial dog story to Captain Voucher; Belwether buttonholed Alderdene and bored him with an interminably 
facetious tale until that nobleman, threatened with maxillary dislocation, fairly wrenched himself loose and came 
over to Siward, squinting furiously. 
" Old ass ! " he muttered ; " his chop whiskers look 
like the chops of a Southdown ram — and he's got the 
wits of one. Look here, Stephen, I hear you fell into 
no end of a scrape in town " 
" Tw qtLoque, Blinky.'' Oh, read the newspapers and 
let it go at that ! " 
" Just as you like old chap ! " returned his lordship 
unabashed. " All I meant was — anything Voucher and 
I can do — of coarse " 
" You're very good. I'm not dead you know." 
" ' Not dead, you know '," repeated Major Belwether 
coming up behind them with his sprightly step ; " that 
reminds me of a good one — " He sat down and lighted 
a cigar, then, vainly attempting to control his countenance as though roguishly anticipating the treat awaiting them, he began another endless story. 
Tradition had hallowed the popular notion that 
Major Belwether was a wit. The sycophant of the outer 
world seldom even awaited his first word before burst- 
ing into premature mirth. Besides he was very wealthy. 
Siward watched him with mixed emotions ; the lam- 
bent-eyed, sheepy expression had given place to the 
buck rabbit; his smooth baby-pink skin and downy 
 
white side whiskers quivered in premature sympathy 
with his listener's overwhelming hilarity. 
The Page boys, very callow, very much delighted, 
and a little in awe of such a celebrated personage, 
laughed heartily. And altogether there was sufficient 
attention and sufficient laughter to make a very respectable noise. This, being the major's cue for an exit, 
he rose, one sleek hand raised in sprightly protest as 
though to shield the invisible ladies, to whose bournes 
he was bound, from an uproar too masculine and mighty 
for the ears of such a sex. 
" Ass ! " muttered Alderdene, getting up and pat- 
tering about the room in his big, shiny pumps. " Give 
me a peg — somebody ! " 
Mortimer swallowed his brandy, lingered, lifted the 
decanter, mechanically considering its remaining contents and his own capacity ; then : 
"Bridge, Captain.?" 
" Certainly," said Captain Voucher briskly. 
" I'll go and shoo the major into the gun-room," 
observed Ferrall — " unless — " looking questioningly at 
Siward. 
" I've a date with your wife," observed that young 
man, strolhng toward the hall. 
The Page boys, Rena Bonncsdel, and Eileen Shan- 
non were seated at a card table together, very much 
engaged with one another, the sealed pack lying neg- 
lected on the green cloth, a vast pink box of bon-bons 
beside it, not neglected. 
O'Hara and Quarrier with Marion Page and Mrs. 
IVIortimer were immersed in the game, already stony 
faced and oblivious to outer sounds. 
About the rooms were distributed girls en tete-a- 
tete, girls eating bon-bons and watching the cards — 
among them Sylvia Landis, hands loosely clasped be- 
hind her, standing at Quarrier's elbow to observe and 
profit by an expert performance. 
As Siward strolled in she raised her dainty head 
for an instant, smiled in silence, and resumed a study of 
her fiance's game. 
A moment later, when Quarrier had emerged brilliantly from the melee, she looked up again, trium- 
phantly, supposing Siward was lingering somewhere 
waiting to join her. And she was just a trifle surprised 
and disappointed to find him nowhere in sight. She had 
wished him to observe the brilliancy of Mr. Quarrier's 
game. 
But Siward, outside on the veranda, was saying at 
that moment to his hostess : " I shall be very glad to 
read my mother's letter at any time you choose." 
" It must be later, Stephen. I'm to cut in when 
Kemp sends for me. He has a lot of letters to attend to. 
. . . Tell me, what do you think of Sylvia Landis? " 
" I like her, of course," he replied pleasantly. 
Grace Ferrall stood thinking a moment : " That 
sketch you made proved a great success, didn't it.'' " 
And she laughed under her breath. 
"Did it.'' I thought Mr. Quarrier seemed annoyed " 
" Really ? What a muiF that cousin of mine is. 
He's such a muff, you know, that the very sight of his 
pointed beard and pompadour hair and his complacency 
sets me in fidgets to stir him up." 
" I don't think you'd best use me for the stick 
next time," said Siward. " He's not my cousin you 
know." 
Mrs. Ferrall shrugged her boj'ish shoulders : " By 
the way " — she said curiously — " who was that girl.'' " 
 
" What girl," he asked coolly, looking at his hostess, 
now the very incarnation of delicate mockery with her 
pretty laughing mouth, her boyish sunburn and freckles. 
" You won't tell me I suppose? " 
" I'm sorry '' 
" Was she pretty, Stephen ? " 
" Yes," he said sulkily ; " I wish you wouldn't " 
" Nonsense ! Do you think I'm going to let you off 
without some sort of confession? If I had time now — 
but I haven't. Kemp has business letters: he'll be 
furious ; so I've got to take his cards or we won't have 
any pennies to buy gasoline for our adored and shriek- 
ing Mercedes." 
She retreated backward with a gay nod of malice, 
turned to enter the house, and met Sylvia Landis face 
to face in the hallway. 
" You minx ! " she whispered ; " aren't you 
ashamed? " 
" Very much, dear. What for? " And catching 
sight of Siward outside in the starlight, divined perhaps something of her hostess' meaning, for she lauglied 
uneasily, like a child who winces under a stem eye. 
" You don't suppose for a moment," she began, 
" that I have " 
" Yes I do. You always do." 
" Not with that sort of man," she returned naively ; 
" he won't." 
Mrs. Ferrall regarded her suspiciously : " You always pick out exactly the wrong man to play with " 
