" What is it? ''he demanded. " What has happened! " 

" Life has moved slowly in Sitka during your 
absence, Excellency," replied Davidov. " There 




lias been little work done on the Avos, It will not 
be finished for a month or six weeks.' 

Then, had the young men been possessed by a 
not infrequent mood, they would have glowed with 
a sense of just satisfaction. Rezanov felt himself 
turn so white that he wheeled about and left the 
tent. A month or six weeks ! And the speed and 
safety of his journey across Siberia depended 
upon his making the greater part of it before the 
heavy autumn rains swelled the rivers and flooded 
the swamps. Winter or summer the journey from 
Okhotsk to St. Petersburg might be made in four 
months; with the wealth and influence at his 
command, possibly in less; but in the deluge 
between he was liable to detentions lasting 
nearly as long again, to say nothing of 
illness caused by inevitable exposure. He stood 
staring at the palisades for many minutes. 
The separation must be long enough, the dangers 
numerous enough if he started within the week, 
but at least he had in a measure accustomed himself to the idea of not seeing Concha again for 
" the best part of two years," and the sanguineness of his temperament had led him to hope that 
the time might be reduced to eighteen months. If 
he delayed too long, only by means of an unprecedented run of good fortune would he reach St. 
Petersburg but a month behind his calculations. 
And the chances were in favor of four, or three 
at the best! Never since the morning that the 
real nature of his feeling for Concha had declared 
itself had he yearned toward her as at that moment; never since the dictum of what she called 
their '' tribunal " had he so rebelled against the 
long delay. And yet he hesitated. To leave 
Japan unpunished for the senseless humiliations 
to which it had subjected Russia in his person was 
not to be thought of, and yet did he leave without 
seeing the Avos finished, the two boats supplied 
with armaments at Okhotsk, and under way before he started across Siberia, he knew it was 
doubtful if the expedition took place before his 
return; in that case might never take place, for 
these two young men might have drifted elsewhere, 
and he knew of no one else to whom he could entrust such a commission. In spite of their idiosyncrasies he could trust them implicitly — up to a 
certain point. That point involved keeping them 
in sight until exactly the right moment and leaving 
nothing to their executive which could be certainly accomplished by himself alone. Did he 
sail five days hence on the Juno one of the officers 




would be exposed for an indeterminate time 
to the temptations of Okhotsk, the ship, perhaps, 
at the mercy of some sudden requirement of the 
Company. His authority was absolute when en- 
forced in person, but it was a proverb west of the 
Ural: '' God reigns and the Tsar is far away.' 
If the Juno were wanted the manager at Okhotsk 
would argue that two years was a period in which 
an ardent servant of the Company could find many 
an excuse to justify its seizure. 

And here in Sitka it was doubtful if the work 
on the Avos proceeded at all. Baranhov was not 
in sympathy with the enterprise against the Japanese, fearing the consequences to himself in the 
event of the Tsar's disapproval, and resenting 
the impressment of the promuschleniki into a service that deprived him of their legitimate work. 
Moreover, although he loved Rezanov personally, 
he had enjoyed supreme power in the wilderness 
too long not to chafe under even the temporary 
assumption of authority by his high-handed 
superior. With the best of intentions Davidov 
could make little headway against the passive resistance of the Chief-Manager, and those intentions would be weakened by the consolations the 
Company so generously afforded. 




The result was hardly open to doubt. If he left 
Sitka before the completion of the Avos, Eussia 
would go unavenged for the present. Or himself! 
Eezanov, sanguine and imaginative as he was, even 
to the point of creating premises to rhyme with 
ends, was very honest fundamentally. He turned 
abruptly on his heel, and calling to the officers that 
he would announce his decision on the morrow, 
ordered the sentry to open the gate and passed 
out of the enclosure. 

He crossed the clearing and entered the forest. 
The warlike tribes themselves had trodden paths 
through the dense undergrowth of young trees 
and ferns. Eezanov, despite Baranhov's warning, 
had tramped the forest many times. It was the 
one thing that reconciled him to Sitka, for there 
are few woods more beautiful. In spite or 
because of the incessant rains, it is per- 
vaded by a rich golden gloom, the result of the 
constant rotting of the brown and yellow bark, 
not only on the prostrate trees, but of the 
many killed by crowding and unable to seek the 
earth with the natural instinct of death. And 
above, the green of hemlock and spruce was perennially fresh and young, glistening and fragrant. 
Here and there was a small clearing where the 




clans had erected their ingenious and hideous 
totem poles, out of place in the ancient beauty of 
the wood. 

The ferns brushed his waist, the roar of the 
river came to his ears, the forest had never looked 
more primeval, more wooing to a man burdened 
with civilization, but Eezanov gave it less heed 
than usual, although he had turned to it instinctively. He was occupied with a question to which 
Nature would turn an aloof disdainful ear. Was 
his own wounded vanity at the root of his desire 
to humiliate Japan? Eussia was too powerful
too occupied, for the present at least, greatly to 
care that her overtures and presents had been 
scorned. Upon her ambassador had fallen the full 
brunt of that wearisome and incomparably mortifying experience, and unfortunately the ambassador happened to be one of the proudest and most 
autocratic men in her empire. No man of Eezanov 's calibre but accommodates that sort of personal vanity that tenaciously resents a blow to the 
pride of which it is a part, to the love of power it 
feeds. As well exjDect a lover without passion, a 
state without corruption. Eezanov finally 
shrugged his shoulders and admitted the impeachment, but at the same time he recognized that the; 




desire for vengeance still held, and that the tenacity of his nature, a tenacity that had been no 
mean factor in the remodelling of himself from a 
voluptuous young sprig of nobility into one of the 
most successful business men and subjugators of 
other men that the Eussian Empire could show, 
was not likely to weaken when its very roots 
had been stiff with purpose for fifteen months. 
Power had been Eezanov's ruling passion for 
many years before he met Concha Argiiello, and 
although it might mate very comfortably with 
love, it was not to be expected that it would remain submerged beyond the first enthusiasm, nor 
even assume the position of the " party of the 
second part." Eezanov was Eezanov. He was 
also in that interval between youth and age when 
the brain rules if it is ever to rule at all. That the 
ardor of his nature had awakened refreshed after 
a long sleep was but just proven, as well as the 
revival of his early ideals and capacity for genuine love; but the complexities, the manifold interests and desires of the ego had been growing 
and developing these inany years; and no mere 
mortal that has given up his life for a considerable period to the thirst for dominance can ever, 
save in a brief exaltation, sacrifice it to anything 



so normal as the demands of sex and spirit. For 
good or ill, the man who has burned with ambition, 
exulted in the exercise of power, bitterly resented 
the temporary victories of rivals and enemies, 
fought with all the resources of brain and character against failure, is in a class apart from 
humanity in the mass. Eezanov loved Concha 
Argtiello to the very depths of his soul, but he had 
lived beyond the time when even she could engage 
successfully with the ruthless forces that had 
moulded into immutable shape the Eezanov she 
knew. Her place was second, and it is probable 
that she would have loved him less had it been 
otherwise; she, in spite of her fine intellect and 
strong will, being all woman, as he, despite his 
depth of intuition, was all man. Equality is pos- 
sible in no relation or condition of life. When 
woman subjugates man the conquered will enjoy 
a sense of revenge proportionate to the meanness 
of his state. 

It is possible that had Concha awaited Eezanov 
in St. Petersburg her attraction would have focused his desires irresistibly; but his mind had 
resigned itself to the prospect of separation for 
a definite period, and while it had not relegated 
her image to the background, her part in his life 




had been settled there among many future possibilities, and all the foreground was crowded with 
the impatient symbols of the intervening time. 
Moreover, he well knew that the savor would be 
gone from his happiness with the woman were the 
taste of another failure acrid in his mouth. 

As he realized that the die was cast, the san- 
guineness of his temperament rushed to do battle 
against apprehension and self-accusing. After 
all, he was rarely balked of his way, accustomed to 
ride down obstacles, to the amiable cooperation of 
fate. He could arrive in Okhotsk late in September or early in October. Captain D'Wolf, who 
had been detained at Sitka during his absence by 
the same indifference that had operated against 
the comjjletion of the Avos would precede him 
and order that all be in readiness at Okhotsk both 
for the ships and his journey to Yakutsk. He 
could proceed at once; and no doubt with twice 
the number of horses needed would make the 
first and most difficult stage of the journey in 
the usual time, and with no great embarrassment 
from the rains. From Yakutsk to Irkutsk the 
greater part of the travel was by water in any 
case, and after that the land was flat for the most 
part and bridges were more numerous. The governor of every town in Siberia would be his obse- 
quious servant, the entire resources of the country 
would be at his disposal. He was sound in health 
again, as resistant against hardships as when he 
had sailed from Kronstadt. And God knew, he 
thought with a sigh, his will and purpose had 
never been stronger. 



XXVI 

Eeza-ov disembarked from the Juno at Ok- 
hotsk during the first days of October. Had it 
not been for a touch of fever that had returned 
in the fiJth and warm dampness of Sitka he would 
have felt almost as buoyant in mind and body as 
in those days when California had gone to his 
head. The Juno had touched at Kadiak, Oona- 
laska, and others of the more important settlements, and he had found his schools and libraries 
in good condition, seals and otters rapidly increasing in their immunity from indiscriminate 
slaughter, new and stronger forts threatening the 
nefarious Bostonian and Briton. At Okhotsk he 
learned that the embassy of Count Golofkin to 
China had failed as signally as his own, and this 
alone would have put him in the best of tempers 
even had he not found his armament and caravan 
awaiting him, facilitating his immediate departure. He wrote a gay letter to Concha giving her 
the painful story of the naturalist attached to 
the Golofkin embassy, Dr. Redovsky, who had remained in the east animated by the same scientific enthusiasm as that of liis colleague, the good 
Langsdorff; parted some time since from his too 
exacting master. Rezanov had written Concha 
many letters during his detention in Sitka, and 
left them with Baranhov to send at the first opportunity. The Chief-Manager, deeply interested in 
the romance of the mighty Chamberlain with 
whom he alone dared to take a liberty, vowed to 
guard all that came to his care and sooner or later 
to send them to California. Rezanov had also 
written comprehensively to the Tsar and the directors of the Russian-American Company, 
adroitly placing his marriage in the light of a diplomatic manoeuvre, and painting California in 
colors the more vivid and enticing for the sullen 
clouds and roaring winds, the dripping forests and 
eternal snows of that unknown corner of Earth 
where he had been stranded so long. He had also, 
when Langsdorff announced his intention to start 
upon a difficult journey in the interest of science, 
provided him not only with letters of recom- 
mendation, but with all the comforts procurable 
in a land where the word comfort was the stock 
in trade of the local satirist. But Langsdorif, 
although punctiliously acknowledging the favors, 
never quite forgave the indifference of a mere ambassador and cliamberlain, rejoicing in the dignity of an honorary membership in the St. 
Petersburg Academy of Sciences, to the supreme 
division of natural history. 

The first stage of the journey — from Okhotsk 
to Yakutsk — was about six hundred and fifty 
English miles, not as the crow flew, but over the 
Stanovoi mountains in a southwesterly direction 
to the Maya river, along the latter 's wavering 
course to the Youdoma, then northwest to the 
Aldan, and south along the Lena. The beaten 
track lay entirely alongside the rivers at this 
season, upon their surface in winter ; and besides 
these great streams there were many too unim- 
portant for the map, but as erratic in course and 
as irresistible in energy after the first rains of 
autumn. 

Captain D'Wolf had proved himself capable 
and faithful, and a caravan of forty horses 
had been in Okhotsk a week: twenty for immediate use, twenty for relief, or substitutes in almost certain emergency. As there were but one 
or two stations of any importance between 
Okhotsk and Yakutsk, and as a week might pass 
without the shelter of so much as a hut, it was 
necessary to take tents and bearskin beds for the 



Cliamberlam, Ms Cossack guard, valet-de-cliambre, cook and other servants, one set of fine 
blankets and linen, cooking utensils, axes, arms, 
tinder-boxes, provisions for the entire trip, besides 
a great quantity of personal luggage. 

Eezanov lost no time. He had changed his orig- 
inal plan and dispatched Davidov on the Avos 
from Oonalaska. Guns and provisions awaited the 
Juno at Okhotsk, and in less than a week after his 
arrival Eezanov was able to start on his long 
journey with a mind at rest. Although the almost 
extravagant delight that his body had taken in the 
comforts of his manager's home, after ten weeks 
on the Juno, warned him that he might be in a 
better condition to start on a journey of ten thousand versts, he hearkened neither to the hint 
nor to the insistence of his host. His impatient 
energy and stern will, combined with the pas- 
sionate wish to accomplish the double object 
of his journey, returning in the least possible 
time to California with his treaty and the consent of the Pope and King to his marriage, 
would have carried him out of Okhotsk in 
forty-eight hours had disease declared itself. 
Nor were there any inducements aside from a comfortable bed and refined fare, in the flat unhealthy. 




town with its everlasting rattle of chains, and the 
hideous physiognomies of criminals always at 
work to the rumbling accompaniment of Cossack 
oaths. 

For the first week the exercise he loved best and 
the long days in the crisp open air renewed his 
vigor, and he even looked forward to the four 
months of what was then the severest travelling 
in the world, in a boyish spirit of adventure. He 
reflected that he might as well give his brain a 
relief from the constant revolving of schemes and 
plans for the advancement of his country, his 
company, and hunself, and let his thoughts have 
their carnival of anticipation with the unparalleled 
happiness and success that awaited him in the 
future. There was no possible doubt of the 
acquiescence and assistance of the Tsar, and no 
man ever looked down a fairer prospective than 
he, as he galloped over the ugly country, often far 
ahead of his caravan, splashing through bogs and 
streams, fording rivers without ferries, camping 
at night in forests so dense the cold never escaped 
their embrace, muffled to the eyes in furs as he 
made his way past valleys whose eternal ice fields 
chilled the country for miles about; sometimes 
able to procure a little fresh milk and butter, 




oftener not; occasionally passing a caravan returning for furs, generally seeing nothing but a 
stray reindeer for hours together, once meeting 
the post and finding much for himself that in no- 
wise dampened his spirit. 

But on the eighth day the rains began; a fine 
steady mist, then in torrents as endless. Wrapped 
in bearskins at night within the shelter of a tent 
or of some wayside hut, and closely covered by 
day, Rezanov at first merely cursed the inconven- 
ience of the rain; but while crossing the river 
Allach Juni, his guides without consulting him 
having taken him miles out of his way in order to 
avoid the hamlet of the same name where the small- 
pox was raging, but where there was a government ferry, his horse lost his footing in the rapid 
swollen current and fell. Rezanov managed to retain his seat, and pulled the frightened plunging 
beast to its feet while his Cossacks were still 
shouting their consternation. But he was soaked 
to the skin, his personal luggage was in the 
same condition, and they did not reach a hut 
where a fire could be made until nine hours later. 
It was then that the seeds of malaria, accumulated 
during the last three years in unsanitary ports 
and sown deep by exceptional hardships, but 




which he believed had taken themselves off during 
his six weeks in California, stirred more vigorously than in Sitka or Okhotsk. He rode on the 
next day in a burning fever. Jon, minding Langsdorff's instructions, doctored him — not without 
difficulty — from the medicine chest, and for a day 
or two the fever seemed broken. But Jon, sick 
with apprehension, implored him to turn back. 
He might as well have implored the sky to turn 
blue. 

'' How do you think men accomplish things in 
this world f ' ' asked Rezanov angrily. ' ' By turning back and going to bed every time they have 
a migraine? " 

'' No, Excellency," said the man humbly. " But 
health is necessary to the accomplishment of 
everything, and if the body is eaten up with 
fever " 

" What are drugs fori Give me the whole 
