around the house and amuse themselves by 
playing croquet and other games ; but Jennie’s 
cousin Horace whispered to her that he 
thought it a bore. 

They started off presently, with a servant 
to carry some luggage for them. It was a 
warm walk to the woods, but, once there, they 
found it cool and shady. They amused them- 
selves awhile with play, and then Horace won- 
dered if they could n’t find something better 
to do. 

“Where ’s uncle’s boat?” he asked. “I might 
give you all a sail.” 



“O splendid!” exclaimed Jennie. “Let us 
go down to the river;” and she and Horace 
headed the party. “What are you lagging for, 
Grace Howard?” 

“I think we ought not,” Grace said with 
sudden courage. “Mamma would n’t like it.” 

“What a baby! You had better go back if 
you are afraid.” 

“Pooh!” said two or three of the others, 
and Grace’s resolution wavered. They kept 
on, and she followed slowly. Jennie began 
to show her vexation, for she could not endure 
that any one should interfere with her plans. 
Presently they reached the river’s edge. All 
this time Grace had been debating within her- 
self. She had been positively forbidden to go 
upon the river ; but how lovely it looked in the 
shimmering light! Spikes of crimson cardinal 
flowers lined the shore, and farther down there 
were clusters of lilies. She need not tell, and 
perhaps her parents would never hear. 

“Well, Miss Tender-Conscience,” began 
Jennie mockingly, “what shall you do?” 


Grace flushed redly. 

“You ’re a little marplot in everything; put- 
ting on airs as if you were better than other 
people. I ’m sorry I asked you; I ’ll never 
invite you anywhere again.” 

That made Grace angry, and she answered 
back. One or two of the girls would have 
taken her part, but they were restrained by 
their girlish admiration of Jennie; so poor 
Grace had to fight her battle alone; but that 
gave her the bravery she needed. She turned 
proudly away. 

“Let her go,” said Horace. “What ’s the 
use of making such a row?” 

Alone by herself, Grace began to weep pas- 
sionately, and declare, as she had several 
times before, that she never would go any- 
where again with Jennie. She sat down under 
a tree, feeling utterly miserable. Her day was 
a failure. Not an hour of it had been real 
happy. If she had taken her mother’s advice ! 
Would it be too late to go and read to Alice? 

 


— then her day would not be entirely wasted. 
A gay laugh floated from the river, and for 
half a moment she wished herself with the 
girls. 

“It is best and right,” she said reluctantly, 
and began to find her way out of the wood. 

It was a long walk to Mrs. Dean’s cottage. 
She was warm and tired when she reached the 
place, and still nervous from her recent dis- 
pute. But Alice recognized the voice, and 
held out her thin white hand. 

“I ’m so glad you have come!” and a little 
flush brightened her face. 

Grace did not feel much like talking, so she 
found her book and began to read, growing 
more tranquil with the effort. Presently her 
old interest in the story returned, and she went 
on until Mrs. Dean began to set the supper- 
table. 

“You must have a cup of tea with Alice,” 
Mrs. Dean said. “I don’t believe your mamma 
will be displeased.” 





“ ‘ It is best and right, ’ she said 




Alice was delighted to be propped up in her 
easy-chair by the table. The two girls had a 
nice, cosy time, as delightful as the supper in 



“Grace began to read” 


the woods, Grace thought. But Alice was very 
tired afterward. 

‘‘Perhaps I had better not finish,’' Grace 

said, glancing at the book. 

 


“Oh! do, please, I am so interested!” and 
Grace read on to the last word. 

“I don’t know how I can ever thank you. 
It has been such a pleasure to hear them all. 
And Gracie, if you would only sing 'Glory to 
Thee, my God.’ Is it too late?” 

Grace sat on the edge of the bed and sang in 
her sweet voice, which was calm ‘and musical 
enough now. Alice held her hand all the 
while. 

“Oh!” she said, “what a lovely afternoon it 
has been ! How good you are, Grace !” 

“Not very,” said Grace soberly, for yester- 
day she had thought this work of love a hard- 
ship. “I wish I could be real good.” 

Alice kissed her tenderly, and made her 
promise to come soon again. 

It was dusk when Grace reached home. 
Mamma returned soon after; and, at the first 
glimpse of her daughter’s face, asked tenderly 
if she had enjoyed herself all day. 

“Come, sit down and let me talk to you, 

Mamma. I did n’t have the pleasure I 
expected, but I had something better after- 
ward. It ’s quite a story, and I think you are 

 


right about Jennie Carlton. She is proud and 
selfish and disagreeable.” 

‘‘I don’t say that. There may be some fault 
in you as well.” 

get angry easily, and then Jennie calls 
me spitfire. And I was n’t good to-day, only I 
did obey you in one thing.” So Grace told her 
story. 

‘‘My darling, how thankful I am that you 
had the courage to do right;” and Mrs. How- 
ard drew her daughter closer to her heart. 

“Don’t praise me. Mamma. Perhaps, if Jen- 
nie had been sweet and pleasant, I might have 
been tempted to go. But I am so glad I read 
to Alice! O Mamma! your plan for the day 
was better than mine. I wish I could always 
think so in the beginning.” 

“We all gain a good deal of our wisdom by 
experience, my little girl; but now you must 
go to bed, for I think you have had enough 
excitement for one day.” 

It was quite late when Grace came down the 

next morning. “Ah! honey,” said Bridget, 
“you may be glad you did n’t go sailing with 
the girls. They were upset, and Miss Jennie 
came near getting drowned.” 

Some one stood on the porch; it was Mrs. 
Dean’s nearest neighbor, and Grace ran out 
to ask after Alice. 

“She ’s up in heaven. Miss,” answered the 
woman solemnly. “She died in the night, as 
peaceful as she always lived. If ever there 
was an angel, she is one.” 

“O Mamma !” said Grace, with her eyes full 
of tears, “it is better to make others happy 
than to be thinking only of one’s self. I am 
so glad now !” 

And when she looked on Alice Dean’s still 
white face, she prayed that she might be less 
selfish and more thoughtful for the happiness 
of those around her. 



The Crosby boys knew little Miss 
Wing by sight — she went to the 
same church, and had a seat in the 
same aisle, nearer down by the door. 
An odd, quaint body, not larger than a girl of 
fourteen, with white side-curls done upon 
combs — once they had been flaxen. Her face 
was wrinkled, but her step retained all its 
youthful quickness, though her voice had a 
little cracked sound. 

Then she lived in the same street. A nest 
of a cottage, painted brown, but overgrown 
with vines; one large window full of flowers 
in winter, and in summer the prettiest garden 
for the size that you could imagine. It was 
Miss Wing’s delight. Early and late, you 
might find her working in it. Then she had an 
enormous Angora cat, a dainty little King 



Charles spaniel, and canary birds by the doz- 
ens. Here she lived with old black Hannah, 
her one servant-maid, for she had come here 
with her father when she was quite a young 
girl. 

At that time the place had been country in- 
deed. Now the city was stretching out to it. 
People of means had built pretty villas and 
cottages along the street, and it had become 
quite stylish. The Crosbys lived at the end 
nearer the city. 

One day Miss Wing had a letter from her 
cousin, who was a traveling agent for a com- 
mercial house; a widower with an only son, 
thirteen years of age. 

‘I want to send Frank to you,” he wrote; 
‘‘and please do not refuse me. He has been 
two years at boarding-school, and has given 
out — he always was rather delicate. The doctor 
says he must spend at least six months in 
the country, running about, and hardly looking 
inside a book. None of his mother’s 
people can take him, and I am compelled to go 
South and West immediately. I will pay you 
well for your trouble, for I know that you will 
take good care of him. Just let him play 
around and have a good time.’^ 

Little Miss Wing read the letter in the ut- 
most consternation. What could she do with 
a boy! 

Then she went out to consult Hannah, who 
was as much astonished as her mistress. 

Still she had n’t the heart to refuse, espe- 
cially as this cousin had been like a brother to 
her. And so in May Frank Murray came, ’his 
sole companion a traveling trunk. A pale, 
slender boy, neither pretty nor plain exactly, 
but with great soft dark eyes. She took him 
to her heart at once. 

He was a regular boy — a boy who, for three 
years, had not known a mother’s care or a 
home. He tormented the cat and cut off his 
whiskers; he stuck Tiny’s silken coat full of 
dry burrs that he found somewhere ; he stum- 

 


bled over the flower-beds ; brought in loads of 
dirt that vexed Hannah’s cleanly soul, and 
made a commotion in the house generally. 

Yet he was not a bad boy. He had days of 
being very good and obedient to Aunt Sarah, 
but he was restless, and, most of all, wanted 
companionship. 

There were very few boys in the street. Up 
above, a family that Miss Wing did not ad- 
mire very much — two sharp, shrewd boys, 
who sold papers and did various little odd 
jobs to earn money, and then spent it in folly. 
Their father was not a very steady man, and 
their mother did dressmaking for the neigh- 
borhood around. A thriftless kind of house- 
hold, not at all to Miss Wing’s taste. 

But the Crosbys had won her heart. Three 
fine, sturdy boys — sixteen, fourteen, and 
twelve; and then there were two little girls, 
younger. They always went to church on 
Sunday with their parents, were regular at 
Sunday-school, and everybody spoke in their 




praise. Then they seemed to have such a 
happy time playing ball and croquet in their 
own grounds, or reading under the shady 
trees. 

The first Sunday Frank had a headache and 
did not go out. On the second he went to 
church, but did not want to attend Sunday- 
school, as he did n’t know any of the boys. 

Miss Wing studied a long while on the sub- 
ject, and at last her courage was brought to 
the point by a remark of Frank’s. 

‘I’d like to know those Crosby boys,” he 
said earnestly. “They seem to have such 
jolly times. I watched them playing croquet 
yesterday. It ’s awful dull here. Aunt Sarah.” 

She had a misgiving that it was, though she 
tried to make it as entertaining as possible, 
taking him down-town of errands, and trying 
to instruct him in gardening, for which he had 
very little taste, it must be confessed. 

They came up the street one evening, and 
found the three boys on the grassy slope of 
the lawn, looking very bright and happy. 

 


Miss Wing made a little halt, and cast her 
eyes wistfully toward them. 

‘‘Good evening,” said Randolph, the eldest, 
with a bow and a pleasant smile. They were 
always very polite. 

Miss Wing’s heart was up in her throat. 
Here was her golden opportunity, and another 
might not occur in a long while. 

“If you will be kind enough — ” and she 
paused, turning quite red. 

“If we can be of any service,” and the cour- 
teous Arthur sprang up. 

“I would like to introduce my nephew to 
you. He is a stranger, and going to spend the 
summer with me, and is a good deal at loss 
for companions. If you would come and see 
him—” 

“Thank you. He must come in and see us ;” 
and the three boys responded to the introduc- 
tion. 

“You always appear to be enjoying your- 
selves so much here — there are so many of you 




and you can hardly realize how lonely it is for 
one,’ she exclaimed in a confused, hesitating 
way. 

