delayed by some mistake) arrived. 

" Has Dr. Strang been here ? " she asked at 
once. 

" The case is in Dr. Dane's hands," answered 
Cara, with a certain pride which she made no 
effort to conceal. The nurse — she proved to be 
a Miss Black — looked more surprised than she 

 

knew she ought to look, but received the young 
physician's orders with more respect than she had 
expected to feel. She got to her post with despatch 
and an admirable skill ; and the sick man, breath- 
ing feebly but evenly, slept. 

The daughter and the doctor looked at each 
other with a glad gravity. Each drew a long, full 
breath. Cara felt her head whirl a little, and turned 
instinctively towards the low window which opened 
on the piazza towards the sea. 

" Miss Sterling," whispered the nurse, " you will 
take cold." 

Then Cara, looking down, flushed faintly from 
her forehead to her chin. She had forgotten how 
thinly clad she was, in the hastily caught clothes 
she had thrown on when her father's bell sum- 
moned her two hours and a half ago. She glanced 
at her bare feet in their rose-pink leather slippers. 
Her tumbled hair hung in two braids down her 
back, like a little girl's. Her long, white woolen 
gown took heavy folds such as marble takes, and 
draped her like a statue. 

" I 'll give it up, then," she said, shrinking. 

" Go back and wrap yourself up, and come," 
commanded the doctor. " It is just what you need. 
Air first, — then food, — then sleep." 

Cara obeyed him gratefully. She hurried into 
some stockings and wool-lined shoes, and, folded 

 



in a long, hooded, gray cloak, whose fluttering 
white fur fringe fell from throat to foot, she stole 
out. Dane put her into a steamer chair, and covered 
her with a blanket, which he seemed to have 
brought out for the purpose. 

" Get the doctor something to eat, Kathleen," 
she said, " and go straight to bed. I shall do the 
same in ten minutes. And you ? " she asked, turning 
her sweet, haggard face to the young physician. 

"I shall not go farther from him than this, 
until Strang comes. I must see Dr. Strang." 

Kathleen brought milk and sandwiches, and 
went away. Miss Black did not move. The sick 
man slept. 

"So few people think to offer a doctor any 
nourishment, — even in long, hard cases," said 
Dane, gratefully. "You wouldn't believe how 
rare it is." 

Within the house and without it was so still 
that it seemed an offense to speak. Dane found 
himself whispering as one whispers in the presence 
of some great and solemn function, if one 
speak at all. He had a commendable idea of 
bringing the girl's mind and heart down out of 
the strain where they had clung all night. But 
his words seemed so trivial to him that he was 
ashamed of them as soon as they were out. 

It was almost three o'clock. The scent of coming d
awn was on the leaves and blades of grass. 
A stir of expectancy thrilled and filled the
summer world. It was as if the sky spoke, and the 
earth listened, and the ocean witnessed a vast 
miracle as imposing and as absorbing as it was 
when the evening and the morning were the first 
day. It seemed to him as if he had never seen 
the sun rise before. In point of fact, it was a 
common experience with him. But Cara so seldom 
saw the day break that she looked on it with 
the eyes of Eve and the sensibilities of Eden. 

" You have saved my father's life ! " she breathed. 
Her eyes brimmed slowly. The prelude to the 
dawn was on her face as she turned it, looking at 
him half timidly. Her profile was cut delicately 
on the rose lining of her hood. The white fur on 
her throat and breast stirred with her breath. Her 
gray cloak wrapped her as if it had been chain 
armor of fine, woven steel. 

Though he had thrown himself at her feet and 
worshiped her, he felt that he could no more 
have touched her than he could a ladv of glamour 
and romance, with armies at her call, and nations 
fighting for her smile. It seemed to him as if 
poets might have sung of her until they died, and 
dreamers dreamed of her until they awoke, and 
any man and all men contended for her, and 
never won her, and loved her none the less for 

 

that, but held her in their hearts forever, unclasped, 
unkissed, inviolate, very woman of very woman, 
as he had called her in his own devout thoughts 
— the eidolon of all that is human and high, 
tender, and remote; a woman to make a man all that 
he might be, and not to scorn him for what he 
was. Yes, and to make and to leave him a better 
man forever, though he never won her, but stood 
afar off, and dared not lift up so much as his eyes 
unto the heaven of her love. 

In such measures and in such images the young 
man dreamed. For he was a man, and young. 
And she was the sweetest woman he had ever 
known. So they sat together, side by side, spent 
with vigil, set apart by a shared and solemn 
experience. Then, while they watched the sea, not 
speaking to each other, the sunburst flashed into 
her face. She got to her feet like a Mussulman 
at prayer, and stood with her hands outstretched. 

" I was thinking," she whispered, " that he might 
never have seen any more sunshine. . . . Dear 
Papa!" 

He looked at her without answering. He saw 
her lip tremble. She put out her hand. He took 
it, and bowed his head above it. 

" I don't know what to say to you," pleaded 
Cara, as if she were a child at fault. " But I feel — " . 

"Don't try!" he said. 

 



She left her hand lying trustfully, and it 
appeared quite contentedly, in his. His lips touched, 
but did not press it. She removed it slowly. 

" I must go in," she hesitated. 

" Go right to sleep," he answered, in a resolute 
tone. " Sleep until we call you. You don't realize 
how much you need it." 

"And you?" She turned, in the long, low window, 
looking back. 

"Oh, I'm used to it," urged Dane, smiling. 
" But you haven't any diploma." 

The birds were now singing madly. Every tree 
thrilled. The dipping sails, elusive and mysterious, 
were cut in cloth of gold or in pale crimson tapestry. 
The June flowers in the garden, drenched in 
dew, offered a wonderful perfume. The scent of 
seaweed came up, for it was half tide. 

The whistle of the milk train shrilled along the 
valley, between the woodlands and the village. As 
the two stood listening, it panted into the station, 
and stopped. 

" There 's Dr. Strang," said Dane. " I 'll meet 
him at the avenue. I hope Tibbs was on time 
with the carriage." He stepped in through the 
piazza window after her, scrutinizing his patient, 
and slipped away. The nurse sat immovable beside 
the bed. She nodded brightly at Miss Ster- 
ling. Cara looked at her father longingly, but did 

 

not venture to approach him. He slept peacefully, 
and his breathing was quite regular. She slid into 
her white room, and shut the door. 

When she awoke it was late morning, for she 
had heavily overslept, and no one had aroused her. 
She wondered how she could have done it, throwing 
off everything on the doctor, like a child. She 
hurried out remorsefully; her father, with the 
quick recuperation of his malady, was sitting up 
against his pillows, happily watching for her door 
to open. The nurse sat smiling. Dr. Dane was 
gone. Dr. Strang had returned to town. 

"And he says he couldn't have done better 
himself. He says you don't need to send for him 
another time." Miss Black hastened to proffer this 
intelligence with a certain half-amused but wholly 
deferent sense of its acceptability. 

When Cara, in her fresh dimity, with her shining 
eyes, went out to her breakfast, she saw 
through the open front door a titanic figure
sitting humbly on the piazza steps. Sterling Hart 
rose and stood bareheaded. 

" Cousin Carolyn," he said reproachfully, " why 
didn't you send Tibbs for me last night ? " 

" Why, Papa was so very sick — and I hadn't 
time to think — and I thought — and the doctor 
came — and there seemed to be nothing you could 
do." She stumbled over her words. The truth was 



that it had not occurred to her. She had not 
thought of her cousin, on whose massive devotion 
to the family she had leaned ever since her mother 
died ; she had not once thought of him all night 
long. Leaning becomes a matter of course; and 
the solid surface behind us, whether granite wall 
or porphyry pillar, whether iron bar or gate of pearl, 
melts into the consciousness like the atmosphere, 
and may be treated accordingly. 

Dane, on the contrary, got no sleep at all. His 
eyes were brilliant and feverish, his brain ablaze. 
He needed neither food nor sleep. 

For he on honey dew had fed, 
And drunk the milk of Paradise. 

After the consultation he went to the station 
with Dr. Strang, and then took a short cut across 
the fields directly to his boarding-house. All he 
wanted was to be alone, and stay alone until he 
could clarify his thoughts. Up to this moment it 
could be scarcely said that he thought at all. His 
feeling mastered him like a storm of wind. 

His professional success in last night's emergency — 
the evident impression it had made on 
his eminent city colleague — absorbed the smallest 
possible measure of his attention. 

A girl in a long, gray, hooded cloak seemed to 
float in the morning air before him. She kept a 

 

little way ahead all the time, like those allegorical 
figures that one sees in old pictures which set 
forth the battle of life or the pursuit of fortune. 
The white fur fringe on her throat and breast 
stirred with her gentle breath. Her eyes, gray blue 
and candid, lifted themselves to him timidly. Her 
hand, a marvel of perfume and velvet, lay in his. 

For him, he held his young head like one of 
the gods ; his eyes, seeing nothing, looked straight 
before him ; and his lithe figure swung across the 
meadow with a vibrant, beautiful buoyancy. He 
trod on the morning clouds. 

Seeing nothing, and coming up against the 
stone wall bounding a little side road which led to 
a wharf, a stable, and a boathouse, he had all but 
stumbled over the prostrate figure of a man. 
Uttering no exclamation, for he was poised in some 
star where a man did not find it natural to swear, 
Dane stopped and turned the figure over, so that 
the day fell fully on its face. 

It was Timothy George, the caterer. His men 
were feeding the horses in the stable. A boy was 
washing the team, from which the signs of Mrs. 
Marriot's entertainment were not yet entirely removed. 
George himself was quite drunk. Nobody 
seemed to think it necessary to pay any attention 
to him, and Dane, on reflection, concluded that 
he was not called upon to trouble himself about 

 



the fellow. But he did say, " Poor Nannie ! " impulsively, 
aloud. 

" Hey ? " muttered George, rousing stupidly at 
the word. "What the blank — Doncher tell 
Nan," he muttered, and relapsed into a comfort- 
able stupor. 

Dane walked away, touched with merciless dis- 
gust. It seemed to him almost a profanation of 
his own sublimated experience that he should 
have happened upon so vulgar and debased a scene. 
He hurried as fast as possible from the caterer, 
got himself into his office without seeing any one, 
and locked the door upon his ecstasy. 



CHAPTER VI 

June blossomed into July, and July blazed into 
August. It was a severe summer, but Balsam Groves 
knew little or nothing about that. To a shielded 
class, fortunate with most of the other privileges of 
life, was given the elect of luxuries, that of being 
able to keep cool in hot weather. Even the re- 
flected discomfort of those who couldn't was spared 
one. The cooks were downstairs. And nobody 
else on the East Shore looked too warm. 

Life touched these pleasant people lightly; on 
its surface, at all events. With the exception of one 
or two stragglers, — it was remembered that Tracie 
Benton had unexpectedly sailed for England, and 
that Dr. Frost had engagements in Bar Harbor, 
— the usual groups were quite unbroken, and 
their familiar faces appeared at the usual round of 
things. The Country Club fell headlong into a gulf 
of golf and polo. Society in the artfully artless 
water-front houses plunged into a series of 
entertainments but recently favored in Balsam Groves, 
whose earlier summers had been more simply 
passed. The late dinners, the later dances, the 
elaborate ceremonies and toilettes of town, replaced the 

 

inadequate aspirations of years when guests, and 
not too many of them, were expected to take their 
hall candles by ten o'clock, when ladies found it 
the correct thing to affect plain wash gowns and 
broad shade hats, to cultivate the acquaintance of 
one's children, to spend the evenings with one's 
husband, — in extreme cases, even alone with him, 
— and to contemplate life without a kitchen maid, 
or a footman. 

Douce Marriot did not call her villa a cottage, 
and her personal amusements were cast on the 
scale of an establishment luxurious even in Balsam 
Groves. These diversions were as elaborate as 
her decorations, and as lavish as her check book ; 
while she guided them within the geometry of the 
respectable, her standards of decorum were her 
own. She had no summer, but a " season." Men 
who knew her were divided into three kinds, — 
those who shunned, those who followed, and those 
who cursed. Women did not love, yet they did 
not remove her ; she was far from declassee. 

"Do you know her?" asked Dane one day, 
when he had driven over from a professional visit 
on a picturesque neuralgia of Mrs. Marriot's to 
see the chronic patient whose case had added to 
the young physician's practice in Balsam Groves. 
" She seems a kind-hearted, light-headed woman." 

Cara was struck with Dane's definition, and its 

tone. Both belonged to a man more accustomed 
to a complicated social life than she had allowed 
herself to suppose that Dane's had been. 

" Oh, I know her as we all do," said Cara,
hesitating. " Mamma did not like to have me go there. 
And Papa does not like to have her come here." 

In truth, Miss Sterling belonged to a class of 
people who did not discuss Mrs. Marriot. 

" I am not to the manner born with this Northern 
society," said Dane, frankly. " It puzzles me 
sometimes. I was brought up anyhow," he added almost 
roughly, " not like you." 

He leaned towards her, with the unmistakable 
look. Hers dropped before it. 

" I am going to tell you about it — about myself," 
