"Oh, Phil, must I listen to all those fulminations before you come
down to the plain fact? And it's plain to me as the nose on your
countenance; and I don't know what to do about it! I certainly was a
perfect fool to confide in you, for you are exhibiting the coolness and
sagacity of a stampeded chicken."
He laughed in spite of himself; then, realising a little what her
confidence had meant, he turned a richer red and slowly lifted his
fingers to his moustache, while his perplexed gray eyes began to narrow
as though sun-dazzled.
"I am, of course, obliged to believe that you are mistaken," he said; "a
man cannot choose but believe in that manner. . . . There is no very
young girl--nobody, old or young, whom I like as thoroughly as I do
Eileen Erroll. She knows it; so do you, Nina. It is open and
above-board. . . . I should be very unhappy if anything marred or
distorted our friendship. . . . I am quite confident that nothing will."
"In that frame of mind," said his sister, smiling, "you are the
healthiest companion in the world for her, for you will either cure her,
or she you; and it is all right either way."
"Certainly it will be all right," he said confidently.
For a few moments he paced the room, reflective, quickening his pace all
the while; and his sister watched him, silent in her indecision.
"I'm going up to see the kids," he said abruptly.
The children, one and all, were in the Park; but Eileen was sewing in
the nursery, and his sister did not call him back as he swung out of the
room and up the stairs. But when he had disappeared, Nina dropped into
her chair, aware that she had played her best card prematurely; forced
by Rosamund, who had just told her that rumour continued to be very busy
coupling her brother's name with the name of the woman who once had been
his wife.
Nina was now thoroughly convinced of Alixe's unusual capacity for making
mischief.
She had known Alixe always--and she had seen her develop from a
talented, restless, erratic, emotional girl, easily moved to generosity,
into an impulsive woman, reckless to the point of ruthlessness when
ennui and unhappiness stampeded her; a woman not deliberately selfish,
not wittingly immoral, for she lacked the passion which her emotion was
sometimes mistaken for; and she was kind by instinct.
Sufficiently intelligent to suffer from the lack of it in others,
cultured to the point of recognising culture, her dangerous unsoundness
lay in her utter lack of mental stamina when conditions became
unpleasant beyond her will, not her ability to endure them.
The consequences of her own errors she refused to be burdened with; to
escape somehow, was her paramount impulse, and she always tried to--had
always attempted it even in school-days--and farther back when Nina
first remembered her as a thin, eager, restless little girl scampering
from one scrape into another at full speed. Even in those days there
were moments when Nina believed her to be actually irrational, but there
was every reason not to say so to the heedless scatterbrain whose
father, in the prime of life, sat all day in his room, his faded eyes
fixed wistfully on the childish toys which his attendant brought to him
from his daughter's nursery.
All this Nina was remembering; and again she wondered bitterly at
Alixe's treatment of her brother, and what explanation there could ever
be for it--except one.
Lately, too, Alixe had scarcely been at pains to conceal her contempt
for her husband, if what Rosamund related was true. It was only one more
headlong scrape, this second marriage, and Nina knew Alixe well enough
to expect the usual stampede toward that gay phantom which was always
beckoning onward to promised happiness--that goal of heart's desire
already lying so far behind her--and farther still for every step her
little flying feet were taking in the oldest, the vainest, the most
hopeless chase in the world--the headlong hunt for happiness.
And if that blind hunt should lead once more toward Selwyn? Suppose,
freed from Ruthven, she turned in her tracks and threw herself and her
youthful unhappiness straight at the man who had not yet destroyed the
picture that Nina found when she visited her brother's rooms with the
desire to be good to him with rocking-chairs!
Not that she really believed or feared that Philip would consider such
an impossible reconciliation; pride, and a sense of the absurd, must
always check any such weird caprice of her brother's conscience; and
yet--and yet other amazing and mismated couples had done it--had been
reunited.
And Nina was mightily troubled, for Alixe's capacity for mischief was
boundless; and that she, in some manner, had already succeeded in
stirring up Philip, was a rumour that persisted and would not be
annihilated.
To inform a man frankly that a young girl is a little in love with him
is one of the oldest, simplest, and easiest methods of interesting that
man--unless he happen to be in love with somebody else. And Nina had
taken her chances that the picture of Alixe was already too unimportant
for the ceremony of incineration. Besides, what she had ventured to say
to him was her belief; the child appeared to be utterly absorbed in her
increasing intimacy with Selwyn. She talked of little else; her theme
was Selwyn--his influence on Gerald, and her delight in his
companionship. They had, at his suggestion, taken up together the study
of Cretan antiquities--a sort of tender pilgrimage for her, because,
with the aid of her father's and mother's letters, note-books, and
papers, she and Selwyn were following on the map the journeys and
discoveries of her father.
But this was not all; Nina's watchful eyes opened wider and wider as she
witnessed in Eileen the naissance of an unconscious and delicate
coquetry, quite unabashed, yet the more significant for that; and Nina,
intent on the new phenomena, began to divine more about Eileen in a
single second, than the girl could have suspected of herself in a month
of introspection and of prayer.
Love was not there; Nina understood that; but its germ was--still
dormant, but bedded deliciously in congenial soil--the living germ in
all its latent promise, ready to swell with the first sudden heart-beat,
quicken with the first quickening of the pulse, unfold into perfect
symmetry if ever the warm, even current in the veins grew swift and hot
under the first scorching whisper of Truth.
       
Eileen, sewing by the nursery window, looked up; her little Alsatian
maid, cross-legged on the floor at her feet, sewing away diligently,
also looked up, then scrambled to her feet as Selwyn halted on the
threshold of the room.
"Why, how odd you look!" said Eileen, laughing: "come in, please;
Susanne and I are only mending some of my summer things. Were you in
search of the children?--don't say so if you were, because I'm quite
happy in believing that you knew I was here. Did you?"
"Where are the children?" he asked.
"In the Park, my very rude friend. You will find them on the Mall if you
start at once."
He hesitated, but finally seated himself, omitting the little formal
hand-shake with which they always met, even after an hour's separation.
Of course she noticed this, and, bending low above her sewing, wondered
why.
It seemed to him, for a moment, as though he were looking at a woman he
had heard about and had just met for the first time. His observation of
her now was leisurely, calm, and thorough--not so calm, however, when,
impatient of his reticence, bending there over her work, she raised her
dark-blue eyes to his, her head remaining lowered. The sweet, silent
inspection lasted but a moment, then she resumed her stitches, aware
that something in him had changed since she last had seen him; but she
merely smiled quietly to herself, confident of his unaltered devotion in
spite of the strangely hard and unresponsive gaze that had uneasily
evaded hers.
As her white fingers flew with the glimmering needle she reflected on
conditions as she had left them a week ago. A week ago, between him and
her the most perfect of understandings existed; and the consciousness of
it she had carried with her every moment in the country--amid the icy
tumble of the surf, on long vigorous walks over the greening hills where
wild moorland winds whipped like a million fairy switches till the young
blood fairly sang, pouring through her veins.
Since that--some time within the week, something evidently had
happened to him, here in the city while she had been away. What?
As she bent above the fine linen garment on her knee, needle flying, a
sudden memory stirred coldly--the recollection of her ride with
Rosamund; and instinctively her clear eyes flew open and she raised her
head, turning directly toward him a disturbed gaze he did not this time
evade.
In silence their regard lingered; then, satisfied, she smiled again,
saying: "Have I been away so long that we must begin all over, Captain
Selwyn?"
"Begin what, Eileen?"
"To remember that the silence of selfish preoccupation is a privilege I
have not accorded you?"
"I didn't mean to be preoccupied--"
"Oh, worse and worse!" She shook her head and began to thread the
needle. "I see that my week's absence has not been very good
for you. I knew it the moment you came in with all that guilty
absent-minded effrontery which I have forbidden. Now, I suppose I
shall have to recommence your subjection. Ring for tea, please. And,
Susanne"--speaking in French and gathering up a fluffy heap of mended
summer waists--"these might as well be sent to the laundress--thank you,
little one; your sewing is always beautiful."
The small maid, blushing with pleasure, left the room, both arms full of
feminine apparel; Selwyn rang for tea, then strolled back to the window,
where he stood with both hands thrust into his coat-pockets, staring out
at the sunset.
A primrose light bathed the city. Below, through the new foliage of the
Park, the little lake reflected it in tints of deeper gold and amber
where children clustered together, sailing toy ships. But there was no
wind; the tiny sails and flags hung motionless, and out and in, among
the craft becalmed, steered a family of wild ducks, the downy yellow
fledglings darting hither and thither in chase of gnats, the mother bird
following in leisurely solicitude.
And, as he stood there, absently intent on sky and roof and foliage, her
soft bantering voice aroused him; and turning he found her beside him,
her humorous eyes fixed on his face.
"Suppose," she said, "that we go back to first principles and resume
life properly by shaking hands. Shall we?"
He coloured up as he took her hand in his; then they both laughed at the
very vigorous shake.
"What a horribly unfriendly creature you can be," she said. "Never a
greeting, never even a formal expression of pleasure at my return--"
"You have not returned!" he said, smiling; "you have been with me
every moment, Eileen."
"What a pretty tribute!" she exclaimed; "I am beginning to recognise
traces of my training after all. And it is high time, Captain Selwyn,
because I was half convinced that you had escaped to the woods again.
What, if you please, have you been doing in town since I paroled you?
Nothing? Oh, it's very likely. You're probably too ashamed to tell me.
Now note the difference between us; I have been madly tearing over
turf and dune, up hills, down hillocks, along headlands, shores, and
shingle; and I had the happiness of being half-frozen in the surf before
Nina learned of it and stopped me. . . . Come; sit over here; because
I'm quite crazy to tell you everything as usual--about how I played
marbles with the children--yes, indeed!--down on my knees and shooting
hard! Oh, it is divine, that sea-girdled, wind-drenched waste of moor
and thicket!--the strange little stunted forests in the hollows of the
miniature hills--do you remember? The trees, you know, grow only to the
wind-level, then spread out like those grotesque trees in fairy-haunted
forests--so old, so fantastic are these curious patches of woods that I
am for ever watching to see something magic moving far in the twilight
of the trees! . . . And one night I went out on the moors; oh, heavenly!
celestial!--under the stretch of stars! Elf-land in silence, save for
the bewitched wind. And the fairy forests drew me toward their edges,
down, down into the hollow, with delicious shivers.
"Once I trembled indeed, for the starlight on the swamp was suddenly
splintered into millions of flashes; and my heart leaped in pure fright!
. . . It was only a wild duck whirring headlong into the woodland
waters--but oh, if you had been there to see the weird beauty of its
coming--and the star-splashed blackness! You must see that with me,
some time. . . . When are you coming to Silverside? We go back very
soon, now. . . . And I don't feel at all like permitting you to run wild
in town when I'm away and playing hopscotch on the lawn with Drina!"
She lay back in her chair, laughing, her hands linked together behind
her head.
"Really, Captain Selwyn, I confess I missed you. It's much better fun
when two can see all those things that I saw--the wild roses just a
tangle of slender green-mossed stems, the new grass so intensely green,
with a touch of metallic iridescence; the cat's-paws chasing each other
across the purple inland ponds--and that cheeky red fox that came
trotting out of the briers near Wonder Head, and, when he saw me, coolly
attempted to stare me out of countenance! Oh, it's all very well to tell
you about it, but there is a little something lacking in unshared
pleasures. . . . Yes, a great deal lacking. . . . And here is our
tea-tray at last."
Nina came up to join them. Her brother winced as she smiled triumphantly
at him, and the colour continued vivid in his face while she remained in
the room. Then the children charged upstairs, fresh from the Park,
clamouring for food; and they fell upon Selwyn's neck, and disarranged
his scarf-pin, and begged for buttered toast and crumpets, and got what
they demanded before Nina's authority could prevent.
"I saw a rabbit at Silverside!" said Billy, "but do you know, Uncle
Philip, that hunting pack of ours is no good! Not one dog paid any
attention to the rabbit though Drina and I did our best--didn't we,
Drina?"
"You should have seen them," murmured Eileen, leaning close to whisper
to Selwyn; "the children had fits when the rabbit came hopping across
the road out of the Hither Woods. But the dogs all ran madly the other
way, and I thought Billy would die of mortification."
Nina stood up, waving a crumpet which she had just rescued from
Winthrop. "Hark!" she said, "there's the nursery curfew!--and not one
wretched infant bathed! Billy! March bathward, my son! Drina,
sweetheart, take command. Prune soufflé for the obedient, dry bread for
rebels! Come, children!--don't let mother speak to you twice."
"Let's go down to the library," said Eileen to Selwyn--"you are dining
with us, of course. . . . What? Yes, indeed, you are. The idea of your
attempting to escape to some dreadful club and talk man-talk all the
evening when I have not begun to tell you what I did at Silverside!"
They left the nursery together and descended the stairs to the library.
Austin had just come in, and he looked up from his solitary cup of tea
as they entered:
"Hello, youngsters! What conspiracy are you up to now? I suppose you
sniffed the tea and have come to deprive me. By the way, Phil, I hear
that you've sprung the trap on those Siowitha people."
"Neergard has, I believe."
"Well, isn't it all one?"
"No, it is not!" retorted Selwyn so bluntly that Eileen turned from the
window at a sound in his voice which she had never before heard.
"Oh!" Austin stared over his suspended teacup, then drained it. "Trouble
with our friend Julius?" he inquired.
"No trouble. I merely severed my connection with him."
"Ah! When?"
"This morning."
"In that case," said Austin, laughing, "I've a job for you--"
"No, old fellow; and thank you with all my heart. I've half made up my
mind to live on my income for a while and take up that Chaosite matter
again--"
"And blow yourself to smithereens! Why spatter Nature thus?"
"No fear," said Selwyn, laughing. "And, if it promises anything, I may
come to you for advice on how to start it commercially."
"If it doesn't start you heavenward you shall have my advice from a safe
distance. I'll telegraph it," said Austin. "But, if it's not personal,
why on earth have you shaken Neergard?"
And Selwyn answered simply: "I don't like him. That is the reason,
Austin."
The children from the head of the stairs were now shouting demands for
their father; and Austin rose, pretending to grumble:
"Those confounded kids! A man is never permitted a moment to himself. Is
Nina up there, Eileen! Oh, all right. Excuses et cetera; I'll be back
pretty soon. You'll stay to dine, Phil?"
"I don't think so--"
"Yes, he will stay," said Eileen calmly.
And, when Austin had gone, she walked swiftly over to where Selwyn was
standing, and looked him directly in the eyes.
"Is all well with Gerald?"
"Y-yes, I suppose so."
"Is he still with Neergard & Co.?"
"Yes, Eileen."
"And you don't like Mr. Neergard?"
"N-no."
"Then Gerald must not remain."
He said very quietly: "Eileen, Gerald no longer takes me into his
confidence. I am afraid--I know, in fact--that I have little influence
with him now. I am sorry; it hurts; but your brother is his own master,
and he is at liberty to choose his own friends and his own business
policy. I cannot influence him; I have learned that thoroughly. Better
that I retain what real friendship he has left for me than destroy it by
any attempt, however gentle, to interfere in his affairs."
She stood before him, straight, slender, her face grave and troubled.
"I cannot understand," she said, "how he could refuse to listen to a man
like you."
"A man like me, Eileen? Well, if I were worth listening to, no doubt
he'd listen. But the fact remains that I have not been able to hold his
interest--"
"Don't give him up," she said, still looking straight into his eyes. "If
you care for me, don't give him up."
"Care for you, Eileen! You know I do."
"Yes, I know it. So you will not give up Gerald, will you? He is--is
only a boy--you know that; you know he has been--perhaps--indiscreet.
But Gerald is only a boy. Stand by him, Captain Selwyn; because Austin
does not know how to manage him--really he doesn't. . . . There has been
another unpleasant scene between them; Gerald told me."
"Did he tell you why, Eileen?"
"Yes. He told me that he had played cards for money, and he was in debt.
I know that sounds--almost disgraceful; but is not his need of help all
the greater?"
Selwyn's eyes suddenly narrowed: "Did you help him out, this time?"
"I--I--how do you mean, Captain Selwyn?" But the splendid colour in her
face confirmed his certainty that she had used her own resources to help
her brother pay the gambling debt; and he turned away his eyes, angry
and silent.
"Yes," she said under her breath, "I did aid him. What of it? Could I
refuse?"
"I know. Don't aid him again--that way."
She stared: "You mean--"
"Send him to me, child. I understand such matters; I--that is--" and in
sudden exasperation inexplicable, for the moment, to them both: "Don't
touch such matters again! They soil, I tell you. I will not have Gerald
go to you about such things!"
"My own brother! What do you mean?"
"I mean that, brother or not, he shall not bring such matters near you!"
"Am I to count for nothing, then, when Gerald is in trouble?" she
demanded, flushing up.
"Count! Count!" he repeated impatiently; "of course you count! Good
heavens! it's women like you who count--and no others--not one single
other sort is of the slightest consequence in the world or to it.
Count? Child, you control us all; everything of human goodness, of human
hope hinges and hangs on you--is made possible, inevitable, because of
you! And you ask me whether you count! You, who control us all, and
always will--as long as you are you!"
She had turned a little pale under his vehemence, watching him out of
wide and beautiful eyes.
What she understood--how much of his incoherence she was able to
translate, is a question; but in his eyes and voice there was something
simpler to divine; and she stood very still while his roused emotions
swept her till her heart leaped up and every vein in her ran fiery
pride.
"I am--overwhelmed . . . I did not consider that I counted--so
vitally--in the scheme of things. But I must try to--if you believe all
this of me--only you must teach me how to count for something in the
world. Will you?"
"Teach you, Eileen. What winning mockery! I teach you? Well, then--I
teach you this--that a man's blunder is best healed by a man's sympathy;
. . . I will stand by Gerald as long as he will let me do so--not alone
for your sake, nor only for his, but for my own. I promise you that. Are
you contented?"
"Yes."
She slowly raised one hand, laying it fearlessly in both of his.
"He is all I have left," she said. "You know that."
"I know, child."
"Then--thank you, Captain Selwyn."
"No; I thank you for giving me this charge. It means that a man must
raise his own standard of living before he can accept such
responsibility. . . . You endow me with all that a man ought to be; and
my task is doubled; for it is not only Gerald but I myself who require
surveillance."
He looked up, smilingly serious: "Such women as you alone can fit your
brother and me for an endless guard duty over the white standard you
have planted on the outer walls of the world."
"You say things to me--sometimes--" she faltered, "that almost hurt with
the pleasure they give."
"Did that give you pleasure?"
"Y-yes; the surprise of it was almost too--too keen. I wish you would
not--but I am glad you did. . . . You see"--dropping into a great velvet
chair--"having been of no serious consequence to anybody for so many
years--to be told, suddenly, that I--that I count so vitally with men--a
man like you--"
She sank back, drew one small hand across her eyes, and rested a moment;
then leaning forward, she set her elbow on one knee and bracketed her
chin between forefinger and thumb.
"You don't know," she said, smiling faintly, "but, oh, the exalted
dreams young girls indulge in! And one and all centre around some
power-inspired attitude of our own when a great crisis comes. And most
of all we dream of counting heavily; and more than all we clothe
ourselves in the celestial authority which dares to forgive. . . . Is it
not pathetically amusing--the mental process of a young girl?--and the
paramount theme of her dream is power!--such power as will permit the
renunciation of vengeance; such power as will justify the happiness of
forgiving? . . . And every dream of hers is a dream of power; and,
often, the happiness of forbearing to wield it. All dreams lead to it,
all mean it; for instance, half-awake, then faintly conscious in
slumber, I lie dreaming of power--always power; the triumph of
attainment, of desire for wisdom and knowledge satisfied. I dream of
friendships--wonderful intimacies exquisitely satisfying; I dream of
troubles, and my moral power to sweep them out of existence; I dream of
self-sacrifice, and of the spiritual power to endure it; I dream--I
dream--sometimes--of more material power--of splendours and imposing
estates, of a paradise all my own. And when I have been selfishly happy
long enough, I dream of a vast material power fitting me to wipe poverty
from the world; I plan it out in splendid generalities, sometimes in
minute detail. . . . Of men, we naturally dream; but vaguely, in a
curious and confused way. . . . Once, when I was fourteen, I saw a
volunteer regiment passing; and it halted for a while in front of our
house; and a brilliant being on a black horse turned lazily in his
saddle and glanced up at our window. . . . Captain Selwyn, it is quite
useless for you to imagine what fairy scenes, what wondrous perils, what
