woman in the world. And if you did, I swear that you should be happy."
"I am happy, and in my own way. I get something out of every moment. Do
you think I am going to run the risk of losing all that for anything so
dubious as this old game of sex?"
"Very good game if it is played properly. I have a mind to teach you."
"Well, you will not!"
"I think I shall. It is either marry you or leave California."
"That is a threat unworthy of you."
"No threat at all. If you will not permit me to protect you in one way I
must in another. I leave and throw everything over with great éclat. You
have discarded me and I cannot stand the proximity."
"They might merely think that you were running away from me."
"I shall take good care they think what I choose. Women are more
romantic and sentimental than malignant, the bulk. All they want is a
starter."
"But you need not leave California. You can move to San Francisco."
"Now you are talking like a child. I shall return to England. As to my
American career, my only chance lies here. I hate the rest of the
country, and the best material is in California, anyhow. Yesterday I
received a letter from my solicitor, enclosing one from Jimmy, who
informed me that I was on every tongue, that the public curiosity was
piqued, that the newspapers were demanding that I should return and
accept my responsibilities, and that without doubt a place would be made
for me in the new Liberal Cabinet. It is a propitious moment for
return. If there is a time when a Liberal peer can make any running it
is when his party is in power."
There was a pause for several moments. Gwynne filled and lit another
pipe. Isabel stared at a ring she twisted about her finger, Mr. Clink at
the geranium stump. The low dull roar in the forest tops was unceasing,
but for other sound of life they might have swung off into space.
Finally Isabel spoke. "I won't marry you," she said. "But all ends will
be served if we announce an engagement. We can state that we think it
best not to marry until your law studies are concluded. It can be
postponed once or twice on other pretexts, then fall through. By that
time gossip will be forgotten, people will have lost interest in us. In
San Francisco they are not likely to hear of this at all, or if they do
it will not matter, and if you fall in love with any of the cotillon
beauties I will release you in due form and give you my blessing."
"I have not the least intention of undertaking life with a cotillon
beauty. Your compromise will do for the present, but you will understand
that my proposal is a bona fide one, should you arrive at a more
rational frame of mind."
"I sha'n't fall a victim to any irrational state of mind. I won't marry.
Why, even people that like me too much interfere with my sense of
liberty."
Gwynne laughed. "We had better be starting," he said.
XXXI
They parted at the foot of the mountain, and as Isabel approached her
own house she saw Anabel Colton's trap tied to the garden gate. She set
her teeth and slackened the pace of her horse, but Anabel and Miss
Boutts had seen her, and leaned over the edge of the veranda, calling to
her impatiently. She gave her horse a cut with the whip and rode rapidly
to the stable. When she finally reached the veranda she greeted her
friends courteously enough, and then, as she noted their expression of
defiant loyalty, remarked, sweetly:
"Of course you have been expecting to hear that I am engaged to Mr.
Gwynne, but I only really made up my mind to-day."
"Isabel!" Both fell on her neck, Dolly with tears, and she responded
with what enthusiasm was in her, and gently deposited them into two of
the veranda chairs. With a very fair simulation of the engaged girl she
answered their rapid fire of questions, and even informed Anabel that
she would prefer silver to china when the day for presents arrived, and
promised that she should come to the rehearsal of the ceremony, since,
unfortunately, the young matron's own happy state debarred her from
officiating at the altar. But she was averse from lying, even by
implication, and was glad to see them go. After they had turned for the
last time to blow her a kiss, she went within, slammed all the doors on
the lower floor, stamped her feet, and hurled a book across the room.
Finally she swore. After that she felt better and sat down to read a
letter from Mrs. Hofer that awaited her.
       *       *       *       *       *
"... I can't do anything with your Lady Victoria" [the lively young
matron ran on after a few preliminary enthusiasms]. "She went everywhere
at first, but just sat round looking like a battered statue out of the
Vatican with some concession in the way of clothes--not so much.
Literally she made no effort whatever, and, you know, American men
won't stand that. Perhaps that's the reason she suddenly called off and
refused to go anywhere. But what can she expect? American women may talk
too much, but at any rate they are the sort American men know like a
book, and our knights have no use for inanimate beauties a good many
years younger than my Lady Victoria.
"Now she appears to do nothing but walk--stalk rather. She goes over
these hills as if she had on seven-league boots. One would think she was
possessed by the furies; or perhaps she is afraid of getting fat.
"I am simply dying to see you again. If you don't mind--I like you
better than any one I ever met. You combine everything, and although you
make me feel as fresh as paint and as Irish as Paddy Murphy's pig, still
you always put me in a better humor with myself than ever. How do you do
it? You suggest all sorts of things that I can't define at all. Comes of
living alone and making a success of it, I suppose, getting ahead of
mere femininity and all the pettinesses of life. That's flying rather
high for me, so I'd better come down. Please make Mr. Gwynne come to
my party. I intend that party to be the greatest thing ever given in
California--since the old Monte Cristo Ralston days, anyhow: and have
all sorts of surprises that I won't tell even you. The ballroom is quite
finished and is a perfect success. It is too fine to think that you
will make your formal début in it. Everybody is coming. Mr. Gwynne
simply must. I know of about a dozen girls who would have given him the
cotillon if he had asked them, and even now, when they are all
engaged, I know of at least two who would not hesitate to throw their
men over. We all like him tremendously, the men as well as the women.
Mr. Hofer and I--do you know, we have just a dark suspicion--where is
Elton Gwynne, anyway? That would be too good to be true. He could own
the town. We know an individual when we see one, and wouldn't we
appreciate the compliment! We'd like him all the better for having
accepted him when he was plain John Gwynne, and we'd like ourselves
better still. You know how we make up our own minds out here. Look at
the famous actors and singers we've rejected, and the reputations we've
made. Not like New York, that never expresses an opinion until a sort of
consensus has sweated up to the surface. I hate New York. Can't you come
down and pay me a visit of a week? I should love it. Call me up on the
telephone."
       *       *       *       *       *
Isabel pondered over this missive for a few moments and then reread
parts of a long letter she had received the day before from Flora
Thangue.
       *       *       *       *       *
"... I almost wish Jack would return, although at first I approved of
his going. His case seemed so desperate. But since the elections there
has been so much talk of him, so many prophecies as to what he will do
when he returns--they believe him to be travelling in South America--so
much seems to be expected of him, especially now that the Liberals are
in, and there is so much dissatisfaction with the Cabinet--I really
believe he would be the one to keep the party in power and that his
becoming prime-minister would be a question of only a few years. Not
such a bad outlook! But I don't care to say all this to Jack--or even to
Vicky. You are responsible for the present state of affairs, and I am
sure you realize what a tremendous responsibility it is. Besides, you
know every side of the question over there as I do not. Think it over,
dear Isabel.... Julia Kaye, I happen to know, has been trying to get his
address. So far, she has not landed another big fish, and no doubt
thinks that Jack's disgust and enthusiasm have both worn themselves out
by this time. Don't send him back, but bring him. Of course he has
fallen in love with you. Besides, you could accomplish any mortal thing
you put your will to. Do, please, think it all over. A few years' delay,
and he might return and find it too late. The public memory is short.
There are rivals. The one he had most to fear from has an
Under-secretaryship, and lets no one forget him. There will be deep
resentment at too long an absence, especially if he should become an
American citizen meanwhile. They would never forgive that.
"... About Vicky. I wish I could have gone with her, but she did not
feel that she could afford to take me, and Vicky's spasms of economy are
not to be discouraged. But, thank heaven, she has you and Jack. Perhaps
all she really needed was a change: she was always an individual, but
she got to be distinctly peculiar after you left--nerves, I suppose:
only instead of being merely irritable like other women she sealed
herself up like a Mahatma preparing for astral flight. I only wish she
was one. Women of her class no longer take to religion, when the fires
are dead, but they certainly need a substitute, and I should think
theosophy would be as good as any. It is such a delightful mixture of
vagueness and cock-sureness, and even more picturesque than Romanism. It
is time for me to follow the fashion and write a book, and I think I'll
paint the mysterious delights of India as a late autumn resort. I am so
sick of all these public mausoleums for youth! It would be a positive
relief to think of all our erstwhile beauties stretched out in some
frescoed cave with their ears and eyes and noses sealed up with wax,
while their ever-youthful spirits sallied forth for new conquests on the
astral plane. But Vicky never 'made up': one must say that much for her.
Only this terrible fetish of youth! Heavens! the tragedies my
sympathetic soul has endeavored to see as tragedies only. Not that
growing old seems to be the worst of it. The underlying tragedy is that
they can't care enough, and this they take to be the real end of youth,
and patter up and down the old worn-out track of device, trying to fool
themselves as well as others. But Vicky, as I said, is an individual: a
touch or two more and she might have been a genius. She is like the mass
of women in many things, heaven knows, but her divergences are the more
startling; and the point of divergence lies down in the roots of her
pride. She suddenly felt the complete loss, the final departure of
youth, and she accepted it like a fallen goddess, and refused even the
sudden and startling renewal of Sir Cadge Vanneck's devotions. She had
nothing left to give him, and although her pride may have urged her to
show the world that she still could capture a man like that, I think he
really bored her to death, and she was satisfied to parade him for a
time and then publicly throw him over. And she once loved him, I am
certain of it. That is tragedy, if you like. I fancy she has desperate
moments, but she will pull through in her own way. Don't delude yourself
with the notion that she is sitting down in sackcloth and ashes with her
past! Those women don't repent, for they never admit that the laws of
common mortals apply to them. What is their royal pleasure to do they
do, and when it is over a square inch of their memory might have gone
with it. To mull themselves, commit some flagrant error that lands them
in the divorce court, or high and dry in the outskirts--that is another
matter. They repent then, sans doute; and get no mercy. We overlook
everything at this apex of civilization but stupidity. We respect the
high-handed but not the light-headed. That is one reason those
long-winded novels of sin and repentance--generally over one slip and
when the man has wearied--leave us cold. We know too much. It seems such
a lot of fuss about so little. If some of these good, painstaking,
and--let us whisper it--bourgeoise novelists had seen one-tenth of the
pagan disregard for all they cherish most highly, that I have seen, and
if they could only be made to comprehend--which they never could--how
absolutely admirable these same women are in many other respects--such
capacity for deep undying friendship, such uncalculating loyalty, such
racial possibilities of heroism--well, they would do a good deal harder
thinking than they have had to do yet, if they attempted to readjust
their traditions to the actual facts of life. But the old traditions get
back at our women all the same, although they don't suspect it. They pay
the penalty in that late--sometimes not so late--intolerable maddening
ennui. Heavens! how many women I have heard wish they were dead. Thank
God I am a virgin!
"Of course, dear Isabel, I would not write like this about Vicky to any
one on earth but yourself. But she is on your hands, so to speak, and I
feel you should have some sort of comprehension of her. To understand
her fully is impossible. She is unhappy, that is the main thing--what
with all I have intimated, and the great change in her fortunes--I can
hardly imagine Vicky without Capheaton and the reflected glory of
'Elton Gwynne'; and, no doubt, she finds California an exile and has
realized by this time that she can be of little use to Jack. Better make
a fortune for her in your wonderful American way and bring them both
home."
XXXII
Isabel called up Mrs. Hofer on the telephone, and after being switched
off and on half a dozen times, and crossed wires and all the other
mishaps peculiar to the California telephone service had reduced both to
a state of furious indifference, Mrs. Hofer accepted Miss Otis's
inability to go down to San Francisco until the day of the party, and
her promise to pay the visit during Christmas week, with equal
philosophy.
The party was to be on the night of the 24th, and Isabel did not see
Gwynne again until the evening of the same day. Judge Leslie went to
Santa Barbara to spend the holidays with his son, and his pupil to
Burlingame and Menlo Park for a week. After the polo and various other
sports at the former resort, with a set that bore an outline resemblance
to the leisure class of his own country, the gay life at the Club and
the multitude of pretty girls always flitting amid compact masses of
flowers, he found the now unfashionable borough of Menlo Park somewhat
dull; although he had good snipe-shooting on the marsh with his host,
Mr. Trennahan. The whole valley, however, had a peculiar charm for him;
when riding alone past the fields of ancient oaks with the great
mountains on either side, almost a sense of possession. For all this
magnificent and richly varied sweep of land, now cut up into a few large
estates and an infinite number of small ones, into towns, and villages,
hamlets, and even cities, had once been the Rancho El Pilar, and the
property of his Mexican ancestor, Don José Argüello. He knew that in
those old days it must have looked like a vast English park, and he felt
some resentment that his ancestors had not had the wit to hold fast to
it until his time came to inherit.
Mrs. Trennahan's father, Don Roberto Yorba, had bought a square mile
from one of the Argüello heirs, and a few rich men of his time had
followed his example; and slept in their country-houses during six
months of the year while their women yawned the days away, deriving
their principal solace in contemplation of their unchallenged
exclusiveness. Stray members of those old families were left, and were,
if anything, more exclusive than their parents, disdaining the
light-hearted people of Burlingame, unburdened with traditions.
This was still the set that never even powdered, faithful to the
ancient code that it was not respectable, and who spent the greater
part of the year in the country, finding their pleasures in the
climate--soporific--excellent old Chinese or Spanish cooks, and in
reminiscences of the time when the fine estates had not been cut up into
little suburban homesteads for heaven only knew whom.
Mrs. Trennahan had sold her father's place, and bought a superb estate
in the foothills, where she entertained in the simple fashion of the
Eighties. Trennahan still took the haughty spirit of his chosen borough
with all his old humor, but he liked no place so well, even in
California. A New-Yorker is always a New-Yorker, however long he may
live in California, but he becomes more and more attached to the
independent life, the even climate, above all to the cooking; and
Trennahan was no exception. He had found Magdaléna the most comfortable
of companions, she had presented him with two fine boys--who were
preparing for college, at present--and a lovely daughter; and he was, in
a leisurely way, collecting earthquake data, for future publication, and
amused himself with a seismograph; which worried Magdaléna, who thought
the instrument much too intimate with earthquakes to be a safe piece of
household furniture. Gwynne liked them both as well as any people he had
met in California, and engaged the beautiful Inez--who would seem to
have embodied all her mother's old passionate longing for physical
loveliness--to dance several times with him at the great ball which was
to be the medium of her introduction to society.
"I am still old-fashioned," Mrs. Trennahan confided to Gwynne, with a
sigh. "I never have liked new people and I never shall; Mr. Trennahan
has not laughed it out of me. But what will you? They are seven-eighths
strong in San Francisco, I have a daughter who naturally demands the
rights of her youth--so I make the best of a bad bargain. But I
protest."
When Gwynne arrived at the house on Russian Hill late in the evening it
occurred to him to tap on Isabel's door and tell her that he had obeyed
her orders, recalled all the traditions down in their common ancestor's
old domain, and "got the feel" of the place. He had never crossed the
threshold of this room although he had brushed his hair many times in
the spotless bower by the marsh, and he was surprised, after a moment's
colloquy through the panels, by an invitation to enter. He was still
more surprised to find Isabel sitting before her dressing-table in full
regalia, although they were not to start for the party until eleven
o'clock. She wore the white tulle gown with the dark-blue lilies in
which she had created a sensation at Arcot, and looked more radiant than
he had ever seen her. Her eyes were like stars, her cheeks were pink;
her red lips were parted, the upper trembling with excitement.
"Come! Look!" she cried. "See what your mother has given me. I had to
dress at once to see the whole effect."
She lifted and fingered rapturously a row of splendid pearls that lay on
her neck.
"Did you ever see anything so beautiful? All my life I have wanted a
string of pearls--real pearls that you read about, although I thought
myself fortunate to have that old string of Baha California pearls, and
never expected anything better. At first I wouldn't take them, but
Cousin Victoria said they were her mother's, a gift from her father
when she married, so that I ought to inherit them, anyhow; and might as
well have them while I was young. She vowed she should never wear them
again, as her skin was no longer white enough for pearls. I can't
believe it!"
Gwynne looked at her curiously. "I had no idea you cared for those
things. I could have given you pearls. Your pose has always been to
scorn the common weaknesses of your sex."
"You are just a dense man! I have all my sex's love of personal
adornment, if you like to call that a weakness. Do you suppose I admire
myself in that riding-habit or those overalls? Don't I always dress for
supper even when alone? Have I not a lot of lovely gowns? Look at this
one! I am so glad I never wore it again until to-night. As for jewels, I
adore them, and when I am a millionaire I shall have little shovels full
like those you see in jewellers' windows, just to handle; and the most
lovely combinations to wear. But I don't ruin my complexion pining for
what I can't have--or have lost. Of course poor mamma had beautiful
jewels, but they went the way of all things."
Gwynne looked at his watch. "I shall get a bite in town," he said. "The
shops will be open till midnight. Hofer will endorse a check for me; I
have sold three farms in the past week and have a pot of money in the
bank. There is something else I want you to wear to-night--"
"I won't take jewels from you--"
"You are not only my fiancée but my cousin--"
"Nonsense!"
"I shall be back in about two hours. Mind you are sitting just there
when I arrive."
As he went swiftly out and closed the door, she shrugged her shoulders,
and her eyes danced with anticipation. After all, she could return his
present when the farce was over, and she was in a mood to have the world
poured into her lap.
She dined alone with her Puritan and Spanish ancestors, and when the
brief meal was over, went up and exhibited herself to Lady Victoria, who
was in a state of silent fury at being the victim of a headache. She
complimented Isabel upon her appearance, however, and added:
"I hope this pretended engagement will end in reality. You are of our
blood. I recognize it more and more. I am thankful he escaped Julia
Kaye. You are--could be--all I am afraid I compelled myself to believe
she was."
"Do you want him to go back to England?" asked Isabel. "I had a letter
from Flora the other day, and she thinks it is my mission to restore him
to his country."
"I don't care. What difference does it make? I want him to be happy, and
he can have a career anywhere. In your case beauty is not a curse, and I
should be glad to see you concentrate your gifts where you can find and
give real happiness. Now, enjoy yourself like a girl to-night and don't
bother about Jack or any one else--certainly not about me," as Isabel
stood looking down upon her with a puckered brow.
Lady Victoria, in a négligée of salmon pink under a red light, and
reclining on her divan with a box of cigarettes beside her, and a French
novel in her hand, looked little less handsome than when she had
captivated Isabel's girlish fancy a year ago. It was only the utter
weariness of the eyes, and a subtle hardening of the whole mask of the
always immobile face, that betrayed the sudden rupture with a long
complacent youth. But she looked at Isabel's glorious youth without a
pang of envy in her cynical, if not yet philosophical, soul, and said
again, with emphasis:
"Marry him. You can do it. Any woman can marry any man she wants. That
is the reason we are never really happy. We never love men, as we
imagine that we could love. We have fevers for them that last a few
weeks, and then we become maternal and endure them. We might love a
demi-god, never man as we know him. Perhaps in some other world--who
knows?"
Isabel pricked up her ears. Was Lady Victoria meditating the
consolations of the Church--or of Flora's more modern substitute? What a
solution! But she dared not ask. She was still a little afraid of her
complicated relative. She begged her not to read too late, and went out,
promising to conciliate the offended Mrs. Hofer.
As she walked down the hall she stooped absently and picked up a scrap
of paper, hardly aware that she held it in her hand until she sat down
once more before her mirror. Then she glanced at it. To her surprise it
was an advertisement of a prize-fight, cut from a newspaper; and on the
margin an illiterate hand had scrawled, "Nine o'clock sharp." She
wondered which of the servants was indulging in the distractions of the
ring. All except Lady Victoria's maid were Japs. Could the Frenchwoman
have found a lover who had introduced her to the forbidden pleasures of
the town? Obviously it was not Gwynne's for the date was two days old,
and he had been in Menlo Park at the time. But she had more interesting
things to ponder over. Being a good housekeeper, she folded the scrap
and hid it under one of the little silver trays, intending to give it in
the morning to Lady Victoria, who was the temporary mistress of the
mansion. Then she fell to counting her pearls, wound them twice about
her throat, decided that she preferred the single long ellipse falling
among the blue flowers on her bosom, marvelled, in an abandon of
femininity, at the dazzling whiteness of her skin. She was beautiful, no
doubt of that; it might be as Lady Victoria and Flora Thangue asserted,
that any future she chose was hers to command; and, as the latter had
intimated, to be an English peeress, with her husband at the head of the
state, was no mean destiny. To-night, her almost fanatical love of
California was dormant. She felt wholly personal. Whatever the future,
she wanted to be the most admired girl at this party to-night, to
dominate its long-heralded splendors as a great soprano rises high and
triumphant above the orchestral thunders of a Wagner opera. Old
instincts were stirring subtly. She had the rest of her life for great
ideals. To-night she would be an old-time belle: as Concha Argüello had
been just a century ago, as Guadalupe Hathaway, Mrs. Hunt McLane, Nina
Randolph, and "The Three Macs," had been in the city's youth; as Helena
Belmont had been but twenty years before. She recalled the oft-told
story of the night of Mrs. Yorba's great ball, in the house next to the
one which was to be the theatre of her own début, when Magdaléna Yorba,
Tiny Montgomery, Ila Brannan, and the wonderful Helena had been
introduced to San Francisco, and the most distracting belle the town had
ever known had turned the heads of fifty men. It was far easier to be a
belle in that simpler time than to-day, when the San Franciscan vied
