Reggie Mann, who happened in, fresh from talking over the itinerary of
the foreign prince with Mrs. Ridgley-Clieveden, and bringing a
diverting account of how Mrs. R.-C. had had a fisticuffs with her maid.

Montague mentioned the invention casually, and with no idea that his
brother would have an opinion one way or the other. But Oliver had
quite a vigorous opinion: "Good God, Allan, you aren't going to let
yourself be persuaded into a thing like that!"

"But what do you know about it?" asked the other. "It may be a
tremendous thing."

"Of course!" cried Oliver. "But what can you tell about it? You'll be
like a child in other people's hands, and they'll be certain to rob
you. And why in the world do you want to take risks when you don't have
to?"

"I have to put my money somewhere," said Montague.

"His first fee is burning a hole in his pocket!" put in Reggie Mann,
with a chuckle. "Turn it over to me, Mr. Montague; and let me spend it
in a gorgeous entertainment for Alice; and the prestige of it will
bring you more cases than you can handle in a lifetime!"

"He had much better spend it all for soda water than buy a lot of coal
chutes with it," said Oliver: "Wait awhile, and let me find you some
place to put your money, and you'll see that you don't have to take any
risks."

"I had no idea of taking it up until I'd made certain of it," replied
the other. "And those whose judgment I took would, of course, go in
also."

The younger man thought for a moment. "You are going to dine with Major
Venable to-night, aren't you?" he asked; and when the other answered in
the affirmative, he continued, "Very well, then, ask him. The Major's
been a capitalist for forty years, and if you can get him to take it
up, why, you'll know you're safe."

Major Venable had taken quite a fancy to Montague--perhaps the old
gentleman liked to have somebody to gossip with, to whom all his
anecdotes were new. He had seconded Montague's name at the
"Millionaires'," where he lived, and had asked him there to make the
acquaintance of some of the other members. Before Montague parted with
his brother, he promised that he would talk the matter over with the
Major.

The Millionaires' was the show club of the city, the one which the
ineffably rich had set apart for themselves. It was up by the park, in
a magnificent white marble palace which had cost a million dollars.
Montague felt that he had never really known the Major until he saw him
here. The Major was excellent at all times and places, but in this club
he became an edition de luxe of himself. He made his headquarters here,
keeping his suite of rooms all the year round; and the atmosphere and
surroundings of the place seemed to be a part of him.

Montague thought that the Major's face grew redder every day, and the
purple veins in it purpler; or was it that the old gentleman's shirt
bosom gleamed more brightly in the glare of the lights? The Major met
him in the stately entrance hall, fifty feet square and all of Numidian
marble, with a ceiling of gold, and a great bronze stairway leading to
the gallery above. He apologized for his velvet slippers and for his
hobbling walk--he was getting his accursed gout again. But he limped
around and introduced his friend to the other millionaires--and then
told scandal about them behind their backs.

The Major was the very type of a blue-blooded old aristocrat; he was
all noblesse oblige to those within the magic circle of his
intimacy--but alas for those outside it! Montague had never heard
anyone bully servants as the Major did. "Here you!" he would cry, when
something went wrong at the table. "Don't you know any better than to
bring me a dish like that? Go and send me somebody who knows how to set
a table!" And, strange to say, the servants all acknowledged his
perfect right to bully them, and flew with terrified alacrity to do his
bidding. Montague noticed that the whole staff of the club leaped into
activity whenever the Major appeared; and when he was seated at the
table, he led off in this fashion--"Now I want two dry Martinis. And I
want them at once--do you understand me? Don't stop to get me any
butter plates or finger-bowls--I want two cock-tails, just as quick as
you can carry them!"

Dinner was an important event to Major Venable--the most important in
life. The younger man humbly declined to make any suggestions, and sat
and watched while his friend did all the ordering. They had some very
small oysters, and an onion soup, and a grouse and asparagus, with some
wine from the Major's own private store, and then a romaine salad.
Concerning each one of these courses, the Major gave special
injunctions, and throughout his conversation he scattered comments upon
them: "This is good thick soup--lots of nourishment in onion soup. Have
the rest of this?--I think the Burgundy is too cold. Sixty-five is as
cold as Burgundy ought ever to be. I don't mind sherry as low as
sixty.--They always cook a bird too much--Robbie Walling's chef is the
only person I know who never makes a mistake with game."

All this, of course, was between comments upon the assembled
millionaires. There was Hawkins, the corporation lawyer; a shrewd
fellow, cold as a corpse. He was named for an ambassadorship--a very
efficient man. Used to be old Wyman's confidential adviser and buy
aldermen for him.--And the man at table with him was Harrison,
publisher of the Star; administration newspaper, sound and
conservative. Harrison was training for a cabinet position. He was a
nice little man, and would make a fine splurge in Washington.--And that
tall man coming in was Clarke, the steel magnate; and over there was
Adams, a big lawyer also--prominent reformer--civic righteousness and
all that sort of stuff. Represented the Oil Trust secretly, and went
down to Trenton to argue against some reform measure, and took along
fifty thousand dollars in bills in his valise. "A friend of mine got
wind of what he was doing, and taxed him with it," said the Major, and
laughed gleefully over the great lawyer's reply--"How did I know but I
might have to pay for my own lunch?"--And the fat man with him--that
was Jimmie Featherstone, the chap who had inherited a big estate. "Poor
Jimmie's going all to pieces," the Major declared. "Goes down town to
board meetings now and then--they tell a hair-raising story about him
and old Dan Waterman. He had got up and started a long argument, when
Waterman broke in, 'But at the earlier meeting you argued directly to
the contrary, Mr. Featherstone!' 'Did I?' said Jimmie, looking
bewildered. 'I wonder why I did that?' 'Well, Mr. Featherstone, since
you ask me, I'll tell you,' said old Dan--he's savage as a wild boar,
you know, and won't be delayed at meetings. 'The reason is that the
last time you were drunker than you are now. If you would adopt a
uniform standard of intoxication for the directors' meetings of this
road, it would expedite matters considerably.'"

They had got as far as the romaine salad. The waiter came with a bowl
of dressing--and at the sight of it, the old gentleman forgot Jimmie
Featherstone. "Why are you bringing me that stuff?" he cried. "I don't
want that! Take it away and get me some vinegar and oil."

The waiter fled in dismay, while the Major went on growling under his
breath. Then from behind him came a voice: "What's the matter with you
this evening, Venable? You're peevish!"

The Major looked up. "Hello, you old cormorant," said he. "How do you
do these days?"

The old cormorant replied that he did very well. He was a pudgy little
man, with a pursed-up, wrinkled face. "My friend Mr. Montague--Mr.
Symmes," said the Major.

"I am very pleased to meet you, Mr. Montague," said Mr. Symmes, peering
over his spectacles.

"And what are you doing with yourself these days?" asked the Major.

The other smiled genially. "Nothing much," said he. "Seducing my
friends' wives, as usual."

"And who's the latest?"

"Read the newspapers, and you'll find out," laughed Symmes. "I'm told
I'm being shadowed."

He passed on down the room, chuckling to himself; and the Major said,
"That's Maltby Symmes. Have you heard of him?"

"No," said Montague.

"He gets into the papers a good deal. He was up in supplementary
proceedings the other day--couldn't pay his liquor bill."

"A member of the Millionaires'?" laughed Montague.

"Yes, the papers made quite a joke out of it," said the other. "But you
see he's run through a couple of fortunes; the last was his
mother's--eleven millions, I believe. He's been a pretty lively old boy
in his time."

The vinegar and oil had now arrived, and the Major set to work to dress
the salad. This was quite a ceremony, and Montague took it with amused
interest. The Major first gathered all the necessary articles together,
and looked them all over and grumbled at them. Then he mixed the
vinegar and the pepper and salt, a tablespoonful at a time, and poured
it over the salad. Then very slowly and carefully the oil had to be
poured on, the salad being poked and turned about so that it would be
all absorbed. Perhaps it was because he was so busy narrating the
escapades of Maltby Symmes that the old gentleman kneaded it about so
long; all the time fussing over it like a hen-partridge with her
chicks, and interrupting himself every sentence or two: "It was Lenore,
the opera star, and he gave her about two hundred thousand dollars'
worth of railroad shares. (Really, you know, romaine ought not to be
served in a bowl at all, but in a square, flat dish, so that one could
keep the ends quite dry.) And when they quarrelled, she found the old
scamp had fooled her--the shares had never been transferred. (One is
not supposed to use a fork at all, you know.) But she sued him, and he
settled with her for about half the value. (If this dressing were done
properly, there ought not to be any oil in the bottom of the dish at
all.)"

This last remark meant that the process had reached its climax--that
the long, crisp leaves were receiving their final affectionate
overturnings. While the waiter stood at respectful attention, two or
three pieces at a time were laid carefully upon the little silver plate
intended for Montague. "And now," said the triumphant host, "try it! If
it's good, it ought to be neither sweet nor bitter, but just
right."--And he watched anxiously while Montague tasted it, saying, "If
it's the least bit bitter, say so; and we'll send it out. I've told
them about it often enough before."

But it was not bitter, and so the Major proceeded to help himself,
after which the waiter whisked the bowl away. "I'm told that salad is
the one vegetable we have from the Romans," said the old boy, as he
munched at the crisp green leaves. "It's mentioned by Horace, you
know.--As I was saying, all this was in Symmes's early days. But since
his son's been grown up, he's married another chorus-girl."

After the salad the Major had another cocktail. In the beginning
Montague had noticed that his hands shook and his eyes were watery; but
now, after these copious libations, he was vigorous, and, if possible,
more full of anecdotes than ever. Montague thought that it would be a
good time to broach his inquiry, and so when the coffee had been
served, he asked, "Have you any objections to talking business after
dinner?"

"Not with you," said the Major. "Why? What is it?"

And then Montague told him about his friend's proposition, and
described the invention. The other listened attentively to the end; and
then, after a pause, Montague asked him, "What do you think of it?"

"The invention's no good," said the Major, promptly.

"How do you know?" asked the other.

"Because, if it had been, the companies would have taken it long ago,
without paying him a cent."

"But he has it patented," said Montague.

"Patented hell!" replied the other. "What's a patent to lawyers of
concerns of that size? They'd have taken it and had it in use from
Maine to Texas; and when he sued, they'd have tied the case up in so
many technicalities and quibbles that he couldn't have got to the end
of it in ten years--and he'd have been ruined ten times over in the
process."

"Is that really done?" asked Montague.

"Done!" exclaimed the Major. "It's done so often you might say it's the
only thing that's done.--The people are probably trying to take you in
with a fake."

"That couldn't possibly be so," responded the other. "The man is a
friend--"

"I've found it an excellent rule never to do business with friends,"
said the Major, grimly.

"But listen," said Montague; and he argued long enough to convince his
companion that that could not be the true explanation. Then the Major
sat for a minute or two and pondered; and suddenly he exclaimed, "I
have it! I see why they won't touch it!"

"What is it?"

"It's the coal companies! They're giving the steamships short weight,
and they don't want the coal weighed truly!"

"But there's no sense in that," said Montague. "It's the steamship
companies that won't take the machine."

"Yes," said the Major; "naturally, their officers are sharing the
graft." And he laughed heartily at Montague's look of perplexity.

"Do you know anything about the business?" Montague asked.

"Nothing whatever," said the Major. "I am like the German who shut
himself up in his inner consciousness and deduced the shape of an
elephant from first principles. I know the game of big business from A
to Z, and I'm telling you that if the invention is good and the
companies won't take it, that's the reason; and I'll lay you a wager
that if you were to make an investigation, some such thing as that is
what you'd find! Last winter I went South on a steamer, and when we got
near port, I saw them dumping a ton or two of good food overboard; and
I made inquiries, and learned that one of the officials of the company
ran a farm, and furnished the stuff--and the orders were to get rid of
so much every trip!"

Montague's jaw had fallen. "What could Major Thorne do against such a
combination?" he asked.

"I don't know," said the Major, shrugging his shoulders. "It's a case
to take to a lawyer--one who knows the ropes. Hawkins over there would
know what to tell you. I should imagine the thing he'd advise would be
to call a strike of the men who handle the coal, and tie up the
companies and bring them to terms."

"You're joking now!" exclaimed the other.

"Not at all," said the Major, laughing again. "It's done all the time.
There's a building trust in this city, and the way it put all its
rivals out of business was by having strikes called on their jobs."

"But how could it do that?"

"Easiest thing in the world. A labour leader is a man with a great deal
of power, and a very small salary to live on. And even if he won't sell
out--there are other ways. I could introduce you to a man right in this
room who had a big strike on at an inconvenient time, and he had the
president of the union trapped in a hotel with a woman, and the poor
fellow gave in and called off the strike."'

"I should think the strikers might sometimes get out of hand," said
Montague.

"Sometimes they do," smiled the other. "There is a regular procedure
for that case. Then you hire detectives and start violence, and call
out the militia and put the strike leaders into jail."

Montague could think of nothing to say to that. The programme seemed to
be complete.

"You see," the Major continued, earnestly, "I'm advising you as a
friend, and I'm taking the point of view of a man who has money in his
pocket. I've had some there always, but I've had to work hard to keep
it there. All my life I've been surrounded by people who wanted to do
me good; and the way they wanted to do it was to exchange my real money
for pieces of paper which they'd had printed with fancy scroll-work and
eagles and flags. Of course, if you want to look at the thing from the
other side, why, then the invention is most ingenious, and trade is
booming just now, and this is a great country, and merit is all you
need in it--and everything else is just as it ought to be. It makes all
the difference in the world, you know, whether a man is buying a horse
or selling him!"

Montague had observed with perplexity that such incendiary talk as this
was one of the characteristics of people in these lofty altitudes. It
was one of the liberties accorded to their station. Editors and bishops
and statesmen and all the rest of their retainers had to believe in the
respectabilities, even in the privacy of their clubs--the people's ears
were getting terribly sharp these days! But among the real giants of
business you might have thought yourself in a society of
revolutionists; they would tear up the mountain tops and hurl them at
each other. When one of these old war-horses once got started, he would
tell tales of deviltry to appall the soul of the hardiest muck-rake
man. It was always the other fellow, of course; but then, if you pinned
your man down, and if he thought that he could trust you--he would
acknowledge that he had sometimes fought the enemy with the enemy's own
weapons!

But of course one must understand that all this radicalism was for
conversational purposes only. The Major, for instance, never had the
slightest idea of doing anything about all the evils of which he told;
when it came to action, he proposed to do just what he had done all his
life--to sit tight on his own little pile. And the Millionaires' was an
excellent place to learn to do it!

"See that old money-bags over there in the corner," said the Major.
"He's a man you want to fix in your mind--old Henry S. Grimes. Have you
heard of him?"

"Vaguely," said the other.

"He's Laura Hegan's uncle. She'll have his money also some day--but
Lord, how he does hold on to it meantime! It's quite tragic, if you
come to know him--he's frightened at his own shadow. He goes in for
slum tenements, and I guess he evicts more people in a month than you
could crowd into this building!"

Montague looked at the solitary figure at the table, a man with a
wizened-up little face like a weasel's, and a big napkin tied around
his neck. "That's so as to save his shirt-front for to-morrow," the
Major explained. "He's really only about sixty, but you'd think he was
eighty. Three times every day he sits here and eats a bowl of graham
crackers and milk, and then goes out and sits rigid in an arm-chair for
an hour. That's the regimen his doctors have put him on--angels and
ministers of grace defend us!"

The old gentleman paused, and a chuckle shook his scarlet jowls. "Only
think!" he said--"they tried to do that to me! But no, sir--when Bob
Venable has to eat graham crackers and milk, he'll put in arsenic
instead of sugar! That's the way with many a one of these rich fellows,
though--you picture him living in Capuan luxury, when, as a matter of
fact, he's a man with a torpid liver and a weak stomach, who is put to
bed at ten o'clock with a hot-water bag and a flannel night-cap!"

The two had got up and were strolling toward the smoking-room; when
suddenly at one side a door opened, and a group of men came out. At the
head of them was an extraordinary figure, a big powerful body with a
grim face. "Hello!" said the Major. "All the big bugs are here
to-night. There must be a governors' meeting."

"Who is that?" asked his companion; and he answered, "That? Why, that's
Dan Waterman."

Dan Waterman! Montague stared harder than ever, and now he identified
the face with the pictures he had seen. Waterman, the Colossus of
finance, the Croesus of copper and gold! How many trusts had Waterman
organized! And how many puns had been made upon that name of his!

"Who are the other men?" Montague asked.

"Oh, they're just little millionaires," was the reply.

The "little millionaires" were following as a kind of body-guard; one
of them, who was short and pudgy, was half running, to keep up with
Waterman's heavy stride. When they came to the coat-room, they crowded
the attendants away, and one helped the great man on with his coat, and
another held his hat, and another his stick, and two others tried to
talk to him. And Waterman stolidly buttoned his coat, and then seized
his hat and stick, and without a word to anyone, bolted through the
