that she suffered. But girls exaggerate their sufferings. 
I suppose you told her not to think of it any more ?" 
 
Verrian gave an odd laugh. " Well, not uncondi- 
tionally. I tried to give her my point of view. And 
I stipulated that she should tell Jerusha Brown all about 
it, and keep her from having a nervous fever, too." 
" That was right. You must see that even cowardice 
couldn't excuse her selfishness in letting that girl take 
all the chances." 
" And I'm afraid I was not very unselfish myself in 
my stipulations," Verrian said, with another laugh. " I 
think that I wanted to stand well with the postmaster." 
There was a note of cynical ease in this which Mrs. 
Verrian found morally some octaves lower than the 
pitch of her son's habitual seriousness in what con- 
cerned himself, but she could not make it a censure to 
him. " And you were able to reassure her, so that she 
needn't think of it any more ?" 
" What would you have wished me to do ?" he re- 
turned, dryly. "Don't you think she had suffered 
enough ?" 
" Oh, in this sort of thing it doesn't seem the ques- 
tion of suffering. If there's wrong done the penalty 
doesn't right it." 
The notion struck Verrian's artistic sense. " That's 
true. That would make the donnee of a strong story. 
Or a play. It's a drama of fate. It's Greek. But I 
thought we lived under another dispensation." 
" Will she try to get more of the kind of thing she 
was doing for Mrs. Westangle at once? Or has she 
some people?" 
" No ; only friends, as I understand." 
" Where is she from ? Up country ?" 
" No, she's from the South." 
" I don't like Southerners !" 
" I know you don't, mother. But you must honor 
the way they work and get on when they come North 
 
and begin doing for themselves. Besides, Miss Shirley's 
family went South after the war — " 
" Oh, not even a real Southerner !" 
"Mother!" 
" I know ! I'm not fair. I ought to beg her pardon. 
And I ought to be glad it's all over. Shall you see 
her again ?" 
" It might happen. But I don't know how or when. 
We parted friends, but we parted strangers, so far as 
any prevision of the future is concerned," Verrian said. 
His mother drew a long breath, which she tried to 
render inaudible. " And the girl that asked her the 
strange questions, did you see her again ?" 
" Oh yes. She had a curious fascination. I should 
like to tell you about her. Do you think there's such 
a thing as a girl's being too innocent V 
" It isn't so common as not being innocent enough." 
"But it's more difficult ?" 
" I hope you'll never find it so, my son," Mrs. Ver- 
rian said. And for the first time she was intentionally 
personal. " Go on." 
" About Miss Andrews ?" 
" Whichever you please." 
" She waylaid me in the afternoon, as I was coming 
home from a walk, and wanted to talk with me about 
Miss Shirley." 
" I suppose Miss Shirley was the day's heroine after 
what had happened ?" 
" The half-day's, or quarter-day's heroine, perhaps. 
She left on the church train for town yesterday morn- 
ing soon after I saw her. Miss Andrews seemed to 
think I was an authority on the subject, and she ap- 
proached me with a large-eyed awe that was very amus- 
ing, though it was affecting, too. I suppose that girls 
must have many worships for other girls before they 
 
have any worship for a man. This girl couldn't sepa- 
rate Miss Shirley, on the lookout for another engage- 
ment, from the psychical part she had played. She 
raved about her; she thought she was beautiful, and 
she wanted to know all about her and how she could 
help her. Miss Andrews's parents are rich but respect- 
able, I understand, and she's an only child. I came 
in for a share of her awe ; she had found out that I was 
not only not Verrian the actor, but an author of the 
same name, and she had read my story with passionate 
interest, but apparently in that unliterary way of many 
people withoiit noticing who wrote it; she seemed to 
have thought it was Harding Davis or Henry James; 
she wasn't clear which. But it was a good deal to have 
had her read it at all in that house ; I don't believe any- 
body else had, except Miss Shirley and Miss Mac- 
royd." 
Mrs. Verrian deferred a matter that would ordinarily 
have interested her supremely to an immediate curiosity. 
" And how came she to think you woiild know so much 
about Miss Shirley ?" 
Verrian frowned. " I think from Miss Macroyd. 
Miss Macroyd seems to have taken a grandmotherly con- 
cern in my affairs through the whole week. Perhaps 
she resented having behaved so piggishly at the station 
the day we came, and meant to take it out of Miss 
Shirley and myself. She had seen us together in the 
woods, one day, and she must have told it about. Mrs. 
Westangle wouldn't have spoken of us together, because 
she never speaks of anything unless it is going to count ; 
and there was no one else who knew of our acquaint- 
ance." 
" Why, my son, if you went walking in the woods 
with the girl, any one might have seen you." 
" I didn't. It was quite by accident that we met 
there. Miss Shirley was anxious to keep her presence 
in the house a secret from everybody." 
Mrs. Verrian would not take any but the open way 
with this. She would not deal indirectly with it, or 
in any wise covertly or surreptitiously. " It seems to 
me that Miss Shirley has rather a fondness for secrecy," 
she said. 
" I think she has," Verrian admitted. " Though, in 
this case, it was essential to the success of her final 
scheme. But she is a curious study. I suppose that 
timidity is at the bottom of all fondness for secrecy, 
isn't it?" 
" I don't know. She doesn't seem to be timid in 
everything." 
" Say it out, mother !" Verrian challenged her with 
a smile. " You're not timid, anyway !" 
" She had the courage to join in that letter, but not 
the courage to own her part in it. She was brave enough 
to confess that she had been sick of a nervous fever 
from the answer you wrote to the Brown girl, but she 
wouldn't have been brave enough to confess anything at 
all if she had believed she would be physically or moral- 
ly strong enough to keep it." 
" Perhaps nobody — nobody but you, mother — is 
brave in the right time and place." 
She knew that this was not meant in irony. " I am 
glad you say that, Philip." 
" It's only your due. But aren't you a little too hard 
upon cowards, at times ? For the sort of person she is, 
if you infer the sort from the worst appearance she 
has made in the whole business, I think she has done 
pretty well." 
" Why had she left the Brown girl to take all your 
resentment alone for the last six or eight months ?" 
" She may have thought that she was getting her share 
 
of the punishment in the fever my resentment brought 
on?" 
" Philip, do you really believe that her fever, if she 
had one, came from that ?" 
" I think she believes it, and there's no doubt but she 
was badly scared." 
" Oh, there's no doubt of that !" 
" But come, mother, why should we take her at the 
worst? Of course, sbe has a complex nature. I see 
that as clearly as you do. I don't believe we look at 
her diversely, in the smallest particular. But why 
shouldn't a complex nature be credited with tbe same 
impulses towards tbe truth as a single nature ? Why 
shouldn't we allow that Miss Shirley had the same wish 
to set herself right with me as Miss Andrews would 
have had in her place ?" 
" I dare say she wished to set herself right with you, 
but not from the same wish that Miss Andrews would 
have had. Miss Andrews would not have wished you 
to know the truth for her own sake. Her motive would 
have been direct — straight." 
" Yes ; and we will describe her as a straight line, 
and Miss Shirley as a waving line. Why shouldn't the 
waving line, at its highest points, touch the same alti- 
tude as the straight line ?" 
" It wouldn't touch it all the time, and in character, 
or nature, as you call it, that is the great thing. It's 
at the lowest points that the waving line is dangerous." 
" Well, I don't deny that. But I'm anxious to be 
just to a person who hasn't experienced a great deal of 
mercy for what, after all, wasn't such a very heinous 
thing as I used to think it. You must allow that she 
wasn't obliged to tell me anything about herself." 
" Yes, she was, Philip. As I said before, she hadn't 
the physical or moral strength to keep it from you when 
 
she was brought face to face with you. Besides — " 
Mrs. Verrian hesitated. 
" Out with it, mother ! We, at least, won't have any 
concealments." 
" She may have thought she could clinch it in that 
way." 
"Clinch what?" 
" You know. Is she pretty ?" 
" She's — interesting." 
" That can always be managed. Is she tall ?" 
" No, I think she's rather out of style there ; she's 
rather petite." 
" And what's her face like ?" 
" Well, she has no particular complexion, but it's not 
thick. Her eyes are the best of her, though there isn't 
much of them. They're the ' waters on a starry night ' 
sort, very sweet and glimmering. She has a kind of 
ground-colored hair and a nice little chin. Her mouth 
helps her eyes out; it looks best when she speaks; it's 
pathetic in the play of the lips." 
" I see," Mrs. Verrian said. 
XX 
The following week Verrian and his mother were 
at a show of paintings, in the gallery at the rear of a 
dealer's shop, and while they were bending together 
to look at a picture he heard himself called to in a 
girlish voice, " Oh, Mr. Verrian !" as if his being there 
was the greatest wonder in the world. 
His mother and he lifted themselves to encounter a 
tall, slim girl, who was stretching her hand towards him, 
and who now cried out, joyously, " Oh, Mr. Verrian, 
I thought it must be you, but I was afraid it wasn't as 
soon as I spoke. Oh, I'm so glad to see you; I want 
so much to have you know my mother — Mr. Verrian," 
she said, presenting him. 
" And I you mine," Verrian responded, in a violent 
ellipse, and introduced his own mother, who took in 
the fact of Miss Andrews's tall thinness, topped with 
a wide, white hat and waving white plumes, and her 
little face, irregular and somewhat gaunt, but with a 
charm in the lips and eyes which took the elder woman's 
heart with pathos. She made talk with Mrs. Andrews, 
who affected one as having the materials of social 
severity in her costume and manner. 
" Oh, I didn't believe I should ever see you again," 
the girl broke out impulsively upon Verrian. " Oh, I 
wanted to ask you so about Miss Shirley. Have you 
seen her since you got back ?" 
" No," Verrian said, " I haven't seen her." 
" Oh, I thought perhaps you had. I've been to the 
»  
address that Mrs. Westangle gave me, but she isn't there 
any more; she's gone up into Harlem somewhere, and 
I haven't been able to call again. Oh, I do feel so 
anxious about her. Oh, I do hope she isn't ill. Do 
you think she is ?" 
" I don't believe so," Verrian began. But she swept 
over his prostrate remark. 
" Oh, Mr. Verrian, don't you think she's wonderful ? 
I've been telling mother about it, and I don't feel at 
all the way she does. Do you ?" 
"How does she feel? I must know that before I 
say." 
" Why, of course ! I hadn't told you ! She thinks 
it was a make-up between Miss Shirley and that Mr. 
Bushwick. But I say it couldn't have been. Do you 
think it could?" 
Verrian found the suggestion so distasteful, for a 
reason which he did not quite seize himself, that he 
answered, resentfully, " It could have been, but I don't 
think it was." 
" I will tell her what you say. Oh, may I tell her 
what you say?" 
" I don't see why you shouldn't. It isn't very im- 
portant, either way, is it ?" 
" Oh, don't you think so ? Not if it involved pre- 
tending what wasn't true ?" 
She bent towards him in such anxious demand that 
he could not help smiling. 
" The whole thing was a pretence, wasn't it ?" he 
suggested. 
" Yes, but that would have been a pretence that we 
didn't know of." 
" It would be incriminating to that extent, certainly," 
Verrian owned, ironically. He found the question of 
Miss Shirley's blame for the collusion as distasteful as 
 
the supposition of the collusion, but there was a fascina- 
tion in the innocence before him, and he could not help 
playing with it. 
Sometimes Miss Andrews apparently knew that he 
was playing with her innocence, and sometimes she did 
not. But in either case she seemed to like being his 
jest, from which she snatched a fearful joy. She was 
willing to prolong the experience, and she drifted with 
him from picture to picture, and kept the talk recur- 
rently to Miss Shirley and the phenomena of Seeing 
Ghosts. 
Her mother and Mrs. Verrian evidently got on to- 
gether better than either of them at first expected. 
When it came to their parting, through Mrs. Andrews's 
saying that she must be going, she shook hands with 
Mrs. Verrian and said to Philip, " I am so glad to have 
met you, Mr. Verrian. Will you come and see us ?" 
" Yes, thank you," he answered, taking the hand she 
now offered him, and then taking Miss Andrews's hand, 
while the girl's eyes glowed with pleasure. " I shall 
be very glad." 
" Oh, shall you ?" she said, with her transparent sin- 
cerity. " And you won't forget Thursdays ! But any 
day at five we have tea." 
" Thank you," Verrian said. I might forget the 
Thursdays, but I couldn't forget all the days of the 
week." 
Miss Andrews laughed and blushed at once. " Then 
we shall expect you every day." 
" Well, every day but Thursday," he promised. 
When the mother and daughter had gone Mrs. Ver- 
rian said, " She is a great admirer of yours, Philip. 
She's read your story, and I suspect she wants an op- 
portunity to talk with you about it." 
" You mean Mrs. Andrews ?" 
 
" Yes. I suppose the daughter hasn't waited for an 
opportunity. The mother had read that publisher's 
paragraph about your invalid, and wanted to know if 
you had ever heard from her again. Women are per- 
sonal in their literary interests." 
Philip asked, in dismay, " You didn't give it away 
did you, mother ?" 
" Certainly not, my dear. You have brought me up 
too carefully." 
" Of course. I didn't imagine you had." 
Then, as they could not pretend to look at the pict- 
ures any longer, they went away, too. Their issue into 
the open air seemed fraught with novel emotion for 
Mrs. Verrian. " Well, now," she said, " I have seen 
the woman I would be willing my son should marry." 
" Child, you mean," Philip said, not pretending that 
he did not know she meant Miss Andrews. 
" That girl," his mother returned, " is innocence it- 
self. Oh, Philip, dear, do marry her !" 
" Well, I don't know. If her mother is behaving as 
sagely with her as you are with me the chances are that 
she won't let me. Besides, I don't know that I want 
to marry quite so much innocence." 
" She is conscience incarnate," his mother uttered, 
perfervidly. " You could put your very soul in her 
keeping." 
" Then you would be out of a job, mother." 
" Oh, I am not worthy of the job, my dear. I have 
always felt that. I am too complex, and sometimes I 
can't see the right alone, as she could." 
Philip was silent a moment while he lost the personal 
point of view. " I suspect we don't see the right when 
we see it alone. We ought to see the wrong, too." 
" Ah, Philip, don't let your fancy go after that girl !" 
" Miss Andrews ? I thought — " 
 
" Don't you be complex, my dear. You know I mean 
Miss Shirley. What has become of her, I wonder. I 
heard Miss Andrews asking you." 
" I wasn't able to tell her. Do you want me to try 
telling you ?" 
" I would rather you never could." 
Philip laughed sardonically. " Now, I shall forget 
Thursdays and all the other days, too. You are a very 
unwise parent, mother." 
They laughed with each other at each other, and 
treated her enthusiasm for Miss Andrews as the joke 
it partly was. Mrs. Verrian did not follow him up 
about her idol, and a week or so later she was able to 
affect a decent surprise when he came in at the end of 
an afternoon and declined the cup of tea she proposed 
on the ground that he had been taking a cup of tea with 
the Andrewses. " You have really been there ?" 
" Didn't you expect me to keep my promise ?" 
" But I was afraid I had put a stumbling-block in the 
way." 
" Oh, I found I could turn the consciousness you 
created in me into literary material, and so I was rather 
eager to go. I have got a point for my new story out 
of it. I shall have my fellow suffer all I didn't suffer 
in meeting the girl he knows his mother wants him to 
marry. I got on very well with those ladies. Mrs. 
Andrews is the mother of innocence, but she isn't in- 
nocence. She managed to talk of my story without 
asking about the person who wanted to anticipate the 
conclusion. That was what you call complex. She was 
insincere; it was the only thing she wanted to talk 
about." 
" I don't believe it, Philip. But what did Miss 
Andrews talk about ?" 
" Well, she is rather an optimistic conscience. She 
 
talked about books and plays that some people do not 
think are quite proper. I have a notion that, where the 
point involved isn't a fact of her own experience, she 
is not very severe about it. You think that would be 
quite safe for me ?" 
" Philip, I don't like your making fun of her !" 
" Oh, she wasn't insipid ; she was only limpid. I 
really like her, and, as for reverencing her, of course I 
feel that in a way she is sacred." He added, after a 
breath, " Too sacred. We none of us can expect to 
marry Eve before the Tall now; perhaps we have got 
over wanting to." 
" You are very perverse, my dear. But you will get 
over that." 
" Don't take away my last defence, mother." 
Verrian began to go rather regularly to the Andrews 
house, or, at least, he was accused of doing it by Miss 
Macroyd when, very irregularly, he went one day to 
see her. " How did you know it ?" he asked. 
" I didn't say I knew it. I only wished to know it. 
Now I am satisfied. I met another friend of yours 
on Sunday." She paused for him to ask who; but 
he did not ask. " I see you are dying to know what 
