panion, founded on I know not what fact, that the hall 
in which the Pilgrims were tried was a large upper 
chamber which we found occupied by a boys' school. 
The door stood partly ajar, and we could see the master 
within walking up and down before some twenty boys, 
as if waiting for one of them to answer some question 
he had put them. Perhaps it was a question of local 
history, for none of them seemed able to answer it; 
presently when a boy came out on some errand, and 
we stopped him, and asked him where it was the Pil- 
grims had been tried, he did not know, and apparently 
he had never heard of the Pilgrims. He was a very 
nice-looking boy, and otherwise not unintelligent; cer- 
tainly he was well-mannered, as nice-looking English 
boys are apt to be with their elders; perhaps he had 
heard too much of the Pilgrims, and had purposely for- 
gotten them. This might very well have happened in a 
place like Boston where such hordes of Americans are 
coming every year, and asking so many hard ques- 
tions concerning an incident of local history not 
wholly creditable to the place. He could justly have 
said that the same or worse might have happened to 
the Pilgrims anywhere else in England, under the dread 
lord there then was, and in fact something of the same 
hardship did befall them afterward at the place a lit- 
tle northeast of Boston, which we were now to visit for 
their piteous sake. 
" The nexte spring after," as Bradford continues the 
narrative of their sorrows, " ther was another attempte 
made by some of these & others, to get over at an other 
 
place. And so it fell out, that they light of a Dutch- 
man at Hull, having a ship of his owne belonging to 
Zealand; they made agreemente with him, and ac- 
quainted him with their condition, hoping to find 
more faithfullnes in him, then in the former of their 
owne nation. He bad them not fear, for he would 
doe well enough. He was by appointment to take 
them in betweene Grimsbe & Hull, where was a large 
comone a good way distante from any towne. Now 
against the prefixed time, the women & children, with 
the goods, were sent to the place in a small barke, which 
they had hired for that end ; and the men were to meete 
them by land. But it so fell out, that they were ther 
a day before the shipe came, and the sea being rough, 
and the women very sicke, prevailed with the seamen 
to put into a creeke hardby, wher they lay on ground 
at lowwater. The nexte morning the shipe came, but 
they were fast, & could not stir till about noone. In 
the mean time, the shipe maister, perceiveing how the 
matter was, sente his boate to be getting the men abord 
whom he saw ready, walking aboute the shore. But 
after the first boat full was gott abord, & she was 
ready to goe for more, the Mr. espied a greate company, 
both horse & foote, with bills, & gunes, & other weapons ; 
for the countrie was raised to take them. The Dutch- 
man seeing this swore his countries oath, c sacremente 
and having the wind faire, waiged his Ancor, hoysed 
sayles, & away. But the poore men which were gott 
abord, were in great distress for their wives and chil- 
dren, which they saw thus to be taken, and were left 
destitute of their helps; and them selves also, not hav- 
ing a cloath to shifte them with, more then they had 
on their baks, & some scarce a peney aboute them, all 
they had being abord the barke. It drew tears from 
their eyes, and any thing they had they would have 
 
given to have been a shore againe; but all in vaine, 
ther was no remedy, they must thus sadly part. The 
rest of the men there were in greatest clanger, made 
shift to escape away before the troope could surprise 
them: those only staying that best might, to be assist- 
ante unto the women. But pitifull it was to see the 
heavie case of these poore women in this distress : what 
weeping & crying on every side, some for their hus- 
bands, that were carried away in the ship as is before 
related; others not knowing what should become of 
them, their little ones ; others again melted in teares, 
seeing their poore little ones hanging aboute them, cry- 
ing for feare, and quaking with could. Being thus 
aprehanded, they hurried from one place to another, 
and from one justice to another, till in the ende they 
knew not what to doe with them; for to imprison so 
many women & innocent children for no other cause 
(many of them) but that they must goe with their 
husbands, seemed to be unreasonable and all would 
crie out of them; and to send them home againe was 
as difficult, for they aleged, as the trueth was, they 
had no homes to goe to, for they had either sould, or 
otherwise disposed of their houses livings. To be 
shorte, after they had been thus turmoyled a good while, 
and conveyed from one constable to another, they were 
glad to be ridd of them in the end upon any termes : for 
all were wearied & tired with them. Though in the 
mean time they (poore sonles) indured miserie enough ; 
and thus in the end necessitie forste a way for them." 
vir 
If there is any more touching incident in the his- 
tory of man's inhumanity to man, I do not know it, 
or cannot now recall it ; and it was to visit the scene of 
 
it near " Grimsbe," or Great Grimsby, as it is now 
called, that we set out, after viewing their prison in 
Boston, over wide plains, with flights of windmills 
alighted on them everywhere. Here and there one 
seemed to have had its wings clipped, and we were 
told by a brighter young fellow than we often had 
for a travelling companion that this was because steam 
had been put into it as a motive power more constant 
than wind, even on that wind-swept coast. There seems 
to have been nothing else, so far as my note-book wit- 
nesses, to take up our thoughts in the short run to Great 
Grimsby, and for all I know now I may have drowsed 
by many chicken-yards marking the birthplace of our 
discoverers and founders. We got to Great Grimsby in 
time for a very lamentable lunch in a hostelry near the 
station, kept, I think, for such " poore people " as the 
Pilgrims were, with stomachs not easily turned by 
smeary marble table - tops with a smeary maid hav- 
ing to take their orders, and her ineffective napkin 
in her hand. The honesty as well as the poverty of 
the place was attested, when, returning to recover a 
forgotten umbrella, we were met at the door by this 
good girl, who had left her bar to fetch it in anticipa- 
tion of all question. 
At Great Grimsby, it seemed, there was no vehicle 
but a very exceptional kind of cab, looking like a 
herdic turned wrongside fore, and unable to orient it- 
self aright, available for the long drive to that " large 
comone a good way distante from any towne," which 
we were to make, if we wished to visit the scene of the 
Pilgrims' sufferings in their second attempt to escape 
from their dread lord. In this strange equipage, there- 
fore, we set out, and nine long miles we drove through 
a country which seemed to rise with increasing surprise 
at us and our turnout on each inquiry we made for the 
 
way from chance passers. Just beyond the suburbs of 
the town we entered the region of a vast, evil smell 
which we verified as that of the decaying fish spread 
upon the fields, for a fertilizer after they had missed 
their market in that great fishing centre. Otherwise 
the landscape was much the ordinary English land- 
scape of the flatter parts, but wilder and rougher than 
in the south or west, and constantly growing more so 
as we drove on and on. Our cabman kept a good 
courage, as long as the highway showed signs of much 
travel, but when it began to falter away into a country 
road, he must have lost faith in our sanity, though he 
kept an effect of the conventional respect for his nomi- 
nal betters which English cabmen never part with ex- 
cept in a dispute about fares and distances. We stayed 
him as well as we could with some grapes and pears, 
which we found we did not want after our lunch, and 
which we handed him up through his little trap-door, 
but a plaintive quaver grew into his voice, and he let 
his horse lag in the misgiving which it probably shared 
with him. Nothing of signal interest occurred in our 
progress except at one point, near a Methodist chapel, 
where we caught sight of a gayly painted blue van, 
lettered over with many texts and mottoes, which my 
friend explained as one of the vans intinerantly used 
by extreme Protestants of the Anne Askew persuasion 
to prevent the spread of Romanism in England. 
The signs of travel had not only ceased, but a little 
in front of us the way was barred by a gate, and beyond 
this gate there was nothing but a sort of savage pasture, 
with many red and brown cattle in it, gathered ques- 
tioningly about the barrier, or lifting their heads in- 
differently from the grass. Just before we reached the 
gate we passed a peasant's cottage, where he was so- 
ciably getting in his winter's coal, and he and his wife 
 
and children, and the carter, all leaned upon whatever 
supports they found next them, and stared at the 
extraordinary apparition of two, I hope, personable 
strangers driving in a hansom of extreme type into a 
cow pasture. But we were not going to give ourselves 
away to their too probable ignorance by asking if that 
were the place where the Pilgrims who founded New 
England were first stopped from going to Holland. 
My friend dismounted, and opened the gate, and we 
drove in among the cattle, and after they had satisfied 
a peaceful curiosity concerning us, they went about 
their business of eating grass, and we strayed over 
" the large comone," and tried to imagine its looks 
nearly three hundred years before. They could not 
have been very different ; the place could hardly have 
been much wilder, and there was the " creeke hardby 
wher they lay," the hapless women and children, in 
their boat " at lowwater," while the evening came on, 
no doubt, just as it was doing with us, the weather 
clearing, and the sunset glassy and cold. Off yonder, 
away across the solitary moor, was the course of the 
Humber, marked for us by the trail of a steamer's 
smoke through the fringes of trees, and for them by 
the sail of the Dutchman, who, when he saw next day 
that " great company, both horse and foote, with bills 
and gunes, and other weapons," coming to harry those 
poor people, " swore his countries oath, ( sacremente,' 
and having the wind faire, waiged his ancor, hoysed 
sails, and away," leaving those desolate women and 
their little ones lamenting. 
VIII 
On our way back we stopped at a little country 
church, so peaceful, so very peaceful, in the evening 
 
light, where it stood, withdrawn from the highway, 
Gorman and Gothic without, and within all so sweet 
and bare and clean, that we could not believe in the 
old ecclesiasticism which persecuted the Puritans into 
the exile whither they carried the persecuting spirit 
with them. A pretty child, a little girl, opened the 
churchyard gate and held it for us to pass, and her 
gentleness made me the more question the history of 
those dreadful days in the past. When I saw a young 
lady, in the modern dress which I had so often lost 
my heart to at the Church Parade in Hyde Park, 
going up a leafy lane, toward the vicarage, from 
having been for tennis and afternoon tea at some 
pleasant home in the neighborhood, I denied the atro- 
cious facts altogether. She had such a very charm- 
ing hat on. 
The suburbs of Great Grimsby, after you reach them 
through that zone of bad smell, are rather attractive, 
and you get into long clean streets of small stone houses, 
like those of Plymouth or Southampton, and presently 
you reach the Humber, which is full of the steamers 
and sail, both fishing and deep sea, of the prosperous 
port, with great booms of sawlogs from ]STorway, half 
filling the channel, and with a fringe of tall chimneys 
from the sawmills along the shores. Great Grimsby 
is not only the centre of a vast distributing trade in 
coal and lumber, but of a still vaster trade in fish. It 
cuts one's pride, if one has believed that Gloucester, 
Massachusetts, is the greatest fishing port in the world, 
to learn that Grimsby, with a hundred more fishing 
sail, is only " one of the principal fishing ports " of 
the United Kingdom. What can one do against those 
brutal British statistics? We think our towns grow 
like weeds, but London seems to grow half such a weed 
as Chicago in a single night. 
After we were got well into the town, we found 
ourselves part of an immense bicycle parade, with bi- 
cyclers of both sexes on their wheels, in masks and 
costumes, Pierrots, and Clowns, and Harlequins and 
Columbines, in a competition for the prettiest and fan- 
ciest dress. 
When we came to start from the station on our run 
to London, we reflected that there were a great many 
of these bicyclers, and that they would probably crowd 
us in our third-class compartment. So, as we had 
bought an excellent supper in baskets, such as they 
send you on the trains everywhere in England, and 
wished to eat it in quiet, we sought out the guard who 
was lurking near for the purpose, and bribed him to 
shut us into that compartment, and not let any one else 
in. There we remained in darkness, with our curtains 
drawn, and w r hen, near train-time, the bicyclers began 
to swarm about the carriages, we heard them demand- 
ing admittance to our compartment from our faithful 
guard, if that is the right way to call him. He turned 
them away with soft answers, answers so very soft that 
we could not make out what he said, but he seemed to 
be inviting them into other compartments, which he 
doubtless pretended were better. The murmurs would 
die away, and then rise again, and from time to time 
we knew that a baffled bicycler was pulling at our door, 
or vainly bumping against it. We listened with our 
hearts in our mouths ; but no one got in, and the train 
started, and we opened our baskets and began to eat 
and to drink, like two aristocrats or plutocrats. What 
made our inhuman behavior worse was that we were 
really nothing of the kind, but both professed friends 
of the common people. The story might show that 
when it comes to a question of selfishness men are all 
alike ready to profit by the unjust conditions. How- 
 
ever, it must be remembered that those people were 
only bicyclers. If we could have conceived of them 
as masses we should have known them for brothers, and 
let them in, probably. 
IT is only some six or seven hours by train from Lon- 
don to Aberystwyth, but if you will look at the names 
on a map of the Cambrian railways, when you begin the 
Welsh part of your journey, you will seem to be in a 
stranger and farther country than that of Prester John. 
Pwllheli, Cerrig y Drudion, Gwerful Goch, Festiniog, 
Bryn Eglwys, Llanidloes, Maertwro, Carnedd Fibast, 
Clynog Fwr, Llan-y-Mawddwy Machynlleth, Dirffws, 
are a few out of the hundred names in the hills or 
along the valleys, giving the near neighborhood of Eng- 
land an effect of more than mid - Asian remoteness. 
The eye starts at their look; but if the jaw aches at 
the thought of pronouncing them, it is our own wilful 
orthographical usage that is at fault ; the words, whose 
sound the letters faithfully render, are music, and they 
largely record a Christian civilization which was cen- 
turies old when the Saxons came to drive the Britons 
into the western mountains and to call them strangers 
in the immemorial home of their race. The Britons 
of the Roman conquest, who became the Welsh of the 
baffled Saxon invaders, and are the Cymry of their own 
history and poetry, still stand five feet four in their 
stockings, where they have stood from the dawn of time, 
an inexpugnable host of dark little men, defying the 
Saeseneg in their unintelligible, imperishable speech. 
 
Of course, except in the loneliest and farthest places, 
they speak English as well as "Welsh; and they mis- 
place their aspirates, which they lost under the Nor- 
mans as the Saxons did. But this did not happen to 
them by conquest as it did to the Saxons; they were 
beguiled of their h's when they were cheated with a 
Welsh - born prince instead of the Welsh prince they 
were promised in the succession of their ancient lines. 
They had been devout Christians, after their manner, 
in the earliest centuries; as the prefix Llan, or Saint, 
everywhere testifies, the country abounded in saints, 
whose sons inherited their saintship; and at the Ref- 
ormation they became Calvinists as unqualifiedly as 
their kindred, the Bretons, remained Catholics. They 
have characterized the English and Americans with 
their strong traits in a measure which can be dimly 
traced in the spread of their ten or twenty national 
names, and they have kept even with the most modern 
ideals quite to the verge of co-education in their col- 
leges. It is a fact which no Welshman will deny that 
Cromwell was of Welsh blood. Shakespeare was un- 
questionably of Welsh origin. Henry VII. was that 
Welsh Twdwr (or Tudor, as the Saeseneg misspell it), 
who set aside the Plantagenet succession, and was the 
grandsire of " the great Elizabeth," not to boast of 
Bloody Mary or Henry VIII. But if these are not 
enough, there is the present Chancellor of the Ex- 
chequer, Mr. Lloyd-George, who is now the chief figure 
of the English cabinet. 
The bad name which their own half-countryman, 
Giraldus Cambrensis, gave the Welsh in the twelfth 
century, clings to them yet in the superstition of all 
 
Norman-minded and Saxon-minded men, so that the 
Englishman I met on the way from Edinburgh was 
doubtless speaking racially rather than personally when 
he said that the Welsh were the prize liars of the uni- 
verse. I for my part heard no lies in Wales except 
those I told myself ; but as I am of Welsh stock, perhaps 
my experience is not wholly refutive of that English- 
man's position. I can only urge further the noted 
philological fact that the Welsh language is so full of 
imagery that it is almost impossible to express in it 
the brute veracities in which the English speech is so 
apt. Otherwise I should say that nowhere have I been 
used with a more immediate and constant sincerity than 
in Wales. The people were polite and they were al- 
most always amiable, but in English, at least, they did 
not say the thing that was not; and their politeness 
was without the servile forms from lower to higher 
which rather weary one in England. They said " Yes," 
and " No," but as gently as if they had always added 
" Sir." If I have it on my conscience to except from 
my sweeping praise of sincerity the expressman at 
Aberystwyth who promised that our baggage should 
be at our lodgings in an hour, and did not bring it 
in five, I must add that we arrived on the last day 
of a great agricultural fair, when even the New York 
Transfer Company might have given a promise of more 
than wonted elasticity. 
ii 
In the station of Aberystwyth there were about three 
or four thousand Welshmen of the national height, vol- 
ubly waiting for the trains to bear them away to their 
farms and villages ; but they made way most amiably 
for the dismounting travellers, who in our case were 
led through them by the most energetic porter I ever 
knew. They did not stare down upon us from the un- 
seemly altitude of other national statures, and often 
during our stay I saw like crowds of civil men in the 
street markets who were no taller, and sometimes there 
were women who had not scaled the heights reached by 
our American girls. They would probably have com- 
peted fairly well with these in the courses of the col- 
leges to which the Welsh send their daughters as well 
as their sons ; but I will not pretend that the good looks 
of either the men or women was of the American aver- 
age. I cannot even say that these contemporary ancient 
Britons had the advantage of the toothless English peas- 
antry in the prompt dentistry which is our peculiar 
blessing. In Great Britain, though I must not say 
Ireland, for I have never been there, a few staggering 
incisors seem a formidable equipment of the jaw in 
lower-class middle life and even tender youth. The 
difference is a tremendous advantage which, if it does 
not make for the highest character in us, will doubtless 
stand us in good stead in any close with the well-toothed 
Japanese, and when we are beaten, our gold-fillings will 
go far to pay our indemnity. 
After all those thousands at the station had departed, 
there were still visitors enough left in Aberystwyth to 
distend the hotels uncomfortably; and the next morn- 
