now is quite enterprising. And I felt I must 
take a share in the real work of life, so why 
not here? When I get tired and a longing 
comes for outside pleasures, I hie me to some 
city and take my fill of delights, musical and 
intellectual. But truly, I did not consider how 
dull it might be for a young girl fresh from 
the real enjoyments of life.” 
“ But it hasn’t been dull,” protested Helen. 
“ I have been interested in my work and have 
found some new types of humanity. And I 
have had a few struggles with boys, who were 
rather an unknown quantity to me before.” 
“ And she has succeeded admirably,” dedared 
Mr. Hildreth with an appreciative 
smile. 
“ Oh, do not make me vain ! ” she pleaded 
mirthfully. “ The worst may be yet to come. 
We had better wait until the close of the school 
year. I may be set aside as incapable.” 
“ Hardly,  ’ said the gentleman. 
“ And about the queer people ? ” suggested 
Shirley. “ I came from Virginia, an old- 
time settlement. Except being rather lonely 
I didn’t see much to complain of. But after 
the delightful college life — and I was an 
awfully stupid student, it took me two years 
to get through the freshman class, and I was 
a pretty good Latin scholar when I entered. 
I know I should have been dropped but for 
Miss Grant’s kindly assistance. And when I 
went home with my new experience and wider 
outlook people seemed so queer, quite be- 
nighted.” 
“ We are not altogether benighted, are we, 
Miss Grant ? Speak a good word for us,” and 
there was a mirthful twinkle in his eye. 
“ Westfield isn’t benighted at all. The clergy 
are of a high grade. We really have a nice li- 
brary and quite a fine Athletic Club, I believe. 
I did not go to the match football that was 
played. But I have been out to tea and found 
some nice people. Will it be scandal if I talk 
about the Goulds? ” and she raised her eyes to 
Mr. Hildreth with a merry light shining in 
them. 
“ I do not believe you could talk scandal.” 
“ I wonder some one does not interview 
them and put them in a book. Think of three 
elderly women belonging to different persua- 
sions, keeping house separately, having differ- 
ent ideas as to diet, yet never disputing. In- 
telligent, well-bred, as I suppose people were 
thirty or forty, oh, fifty years ago.” 
“ Why, I never heard of such a thing! ” and 
Mrs. Bell leaned over, all interest. 
“ It is all true. They are fine women. I 
wish there were more like them,” declared Mr. 
Hildreth. 
“ They came to call on me. They are very 
punctilious. Then they invited Mrs. Stirling 
and myself to tea. And it was just lovely. It’s 
a great spacious house, full of all manner of 
queer things, some beautiful, some ugly. We 
were in the real dining-room. One sister was 
at either end of the table, one in the middle; 
that was Hetty, the youngest, who was just 
seventy. We were opposite her, and she 
poured our tea. She believes in all the good 
things of life. Miss Mary had her bread, some 
apples chopped fine for a salad, some potatoes 
treated the same way but cold, and sliced toma- 
toes — they have a mysterious way of keeping 
them up to Christmas; Miss Eliza had some 
sliced smoked salmon garnished with boiled 
egg, she never eats meat either; Miss Hetty 
had some delicious cold chicken, canned fruit, 
pot cheese that was a dream, it was so rich and 
toothsome; and cake galore. Miss Mary gave 
us some of her apple salad that had a bit of 
nutmeg that flavored it in a lovely fashion. 
And I tasted Miss Eliza’s fish. No one com- 
mented on the other’s taste, they simply said, 
‘ I do so or so,’ with the utmost sweetness, and 
the perfect right which is very attractive. Miss 
Mary uses her great grandmother’s china, Miss 
Eliza her grandmother’s, and Miss Hetty her 
mother’s. There doesn’t seem to be any fric- 
tion.” 
 
“ There is not,” interposed Mr. Hildreth 
earnestly. “ And I have known them for 
years. Then did Miss Mary play for you? ” 
“ Oh, yes. One of the others said Mary, 
you go and play for Miss Grant and we will 
wash up the dishes.’ It is a thin-legged old- 
fashioned piano, but she made it yield a tender 
sweetness. Such beautiful hymns as she sang, 
many of them I had never heard before, but 
it seemed as if ‘ Praise the Lord ’ was in all of 
them. It was like the song of the three chil- 
dren in the fiery furnace. Why, I felt as if 
I had been at a camp meeting, though really I 
don’t know anything about that.” 
Helen’s face was glowing with the remem- 
bered enjoyment. Mrs. Bell came over and 
took her hand. 
“ My dear, you have given me some heart- 
felt enjoyment. I am glad to know there is 
some of the leaven of the Lord’s love still in 
the different places and I do trust that it will 
leaven the world. Why can’t we all be gra- 
cious and lovely with our own, and our daily 
life?” 
“ Then they are so unaffected with their 
goodness. It is their daily life, not mere Sun- 
day religion.” 
“ I can’t see why any one should laugh about 
them,” exclaimed Helen indignantly. 
“ Can any one be cruel enough to do that? ” 
“ They have peculiarities, of course; we all 
do. The newer people term them characteris- 
tics, and that makes them seem the proper 
touch,” and Helen laughed brightly. 
“ I really would make a pilgrimage to see 
your ladies and feel well repaid. Can’t you in- 
vite me when summer comes again?” asked 
Mrs. Bell. 
“ We shall all be glad to welcome any friend 
of Miss Grant’s, and Westfield is lovely in the 
summer. And now I must thank you for a 
great deal of pleasure,” and Mr. Hildreth 
turned eager, smiling eyes to Shirley. “ We are 
off on a holiday, and I have to-morrow to de- 
vote to these ladies. I have seats for the 
‘ Huguenots ’ — there is a wonderful new tenor 
singing in it. And can I propose the Histori- 
cal Society Rooms in the morning for your im- 
provement, Miss Grant? ” glancing at her in an 
amused but persuasive fashion. “ You see I do 
 
not wish you to forget your college lore while 
you are shaping these youthful minds to receive 
it.” 
Shirley excused herself, though she under- 
stood that she was graciously included. The 
two girls assented with pleasure. 
“What a delightful man!” exclaimed the 
elder Mrs. Bell. “ Why, Westfield must be 
rather extraordinary, or do you look at people 
through rose-colored glasses, Helen? I think 
we could not all have had them on to-night. I 
could wish he were twenty years younger.” 
“Why?” asked Willard curiously, though 
he thought of a reason himself. 
“ Because he would have that much longer 
to serve the world and enjoy it,” she answered 
with sweet gravity. 
CHAPTER IX 
DUTIES AND PLEASURES 
“ Shirley,” Willard said, “ don’t tease 
Helen about Mr. Hildreth. One can see that he 
admires her very much. But she is different 
from most girls and it would spoil a nice 
friendship for her.” 
“Oh, you saw that?” There was a saucy 
piquancy in the young wife’s face. 
“ I don’t know how he could help it. You 
see they are brought together a good deal and 
I think she feels rather indebted to him for 
several things. But you know it may not be 
real love on his part. He must have seen num- 
bers of charming women by this time. And 
Helen has a curious sensitiveness about such 
matters. She is the youngest and the wisest 
girl I even knew, so truthful and straightfor- 
ward, yet never making it unpleasant for any 
one. You see she is so interested in all things 
outside of herself that she is never thinking 
 
 
what that or this thing means. She never stud- 
ies over the compliments men pay her, or the 
preferences they show her, to see what she can 
extract out of them that is purely personal. She 
makes them general, the coin of society that is 
dealt out to every one.” 
“ He would be worlds too old, anyhow,” said 
Shirley reflectively. 
“ She likes him because there isn’t any dan- 
ger, but if another person suggested it, she 
would draw in the attractive frankness that is 
such a charm. I remember how father took 
to her, and you see how sincere and friendly 
she was with Mr. Morse, and how delighted 
she was with her friend’s engagement. She is 
so purely truthful and honorable with herself 
that she really compels others to be the same. 
She isn’t thinking a bit about marriage.” 
“ But I want her to be married,” protested 
the young wife. 
“ I want her to have the man she can love 
with her whole heart, and it will be a love 
worth untold treasures. But so far I haven’t 
seen any one splendid enough.” 
“ I should be jealous if you were not entirely 
splendid enough for me,” she returned ten- 
derly. “ But I think we must confess our secret 
to Miss Craven. You see she will be buying 
Christmas gifts soon, and examining the 
pretty things in the stores, and she might write 
to her ” 
“ You wise little woman! I don’t believe we 
can wait until Christmas. It might get noised 
about.” 
They both laughed, but a shining moisture 
was in her lovely eyes. 
Mr. Hildreth came for the ladies the next 
morning and they had a most enjoyable as well 
as instructive time over the treasures from all 
lands. It seemed to Helen that she could hardly 
get her fill. Suppose sometime she should turn 
into such a student as Miss Coultas at the col- 
lege, or her father ! She was beginning to un- 
derstand the fascination and thought more ten- 
derly of him. 
The opera was fine and the tenor marvelous 
in sweetness and pathos. 
“ I don’t know how to thank you,” she said 
with her good-by to Mr. Hildreth, who was 
to take the train for home. 
 
“ You deserved a bright holiday after the 
three hard months,” he returned. “ I am sorry 
it could not have been made easier.” 
“ I don’t want to get spoiled in the begin- 
ning,” and she glanced up with a sweet, merry 
archness. 
“ Mr. Underwood doesn’t stand for much 
spoiling. I hope you will have a pleasant 
Sunday. I think I shall take tea with the 
Goulds. I am a privileged visitor.” 
“ I am glad you are going there,” she said 
unaffectedly. 
Their Sunday was happy as well. Mrs. 
Travis had insisted upon their spending it with 
her, and they had a heart-cheering talk about 
the old summer at the seaside. Jack had de- 
veloped into quite a manly fellow, still thinking 
a good deal of himself and his opinions. Bea- 
trice was a really pretty young girl, and the 
two little boys were big now, one fitting for 
Columbia. 
It was rather hard to get up so early in the 
morning. The skies were gray and lowering 
and the east wind blew up quite sharp. Wil- 
lard would see her safely on the train, and then 
the towns and villages flew by quickly until 
Westfield was announced. 
She had not time to go home, but she was 
glad to be not a moment late. She shrank a 
little from the day’s work, but there were 
cordial greetings from the children. And Mr. 
Underwood said : 
“ Well, did you find anything to be specially 
thankful for ? ” There was something in the 
tone that jarred upon her, his mood savored of 
sarcasm. 
“ Oh, so much ! I believe I shall appoint a 
special thanksgiving for myself. Two mag- 
nificent operas, a morning at that splendid 
Museum, and the loveliest of all visiting 
times,” in a kind of jubilant tone. 
“ Well, you were in luck!” 
The children were difficult to manage. Reci- 
tations were poor, and the problems were 
enough to make one scream, she thought. A 
teacher’s task was not an easy one. She won- 
dered if a specialty would not have been more 
satisfactory. 
But that afternoon, and now it had settled 
into a fine, sullen rain, came two nice boxes 
with handles to lift them about, and a paper 
package of something round and hard, ex- 
plained by a note from Mr. Hildreth. There 
were crocuses, hyacinths, and tulips. “ It might 
be entertaining for the children to plant them 
and watch their growth. In six weeks some of 
them would bloom in the warmth of the atmos- 
phere.” 
A few of the larger girls did not care. It 
was such messy work and soiled your hands. 
But there were enough to take an eager interest 
and make it pleasant. Several of the boys 
joined, and it was quite dark when they were 
through. Now it was raining hard. 
“ It’s been really lonesome without you,” 
said Mrs. Stirling. “ I hope you have brought 
a budget of news from New York. Sometimes 
I think we are quite benighted. Mr. Hil- 
dreth had a number of the school folks and 
their wives to dinner, and I do suppose 
lots of turkeys suffered. We didn’t go any- 
where.” 
Helen told them about the two beautiful 
operas, describing the singers and following 
the stories. 
“ Why, it is next to going yourself!” de- 
clared Mrs. Stirling. “ Miss Grant, you do 
make everything so interesting. Do you know, 
sometimes I wish I were a little girl going to 
school to you.” 
“ But when it came to Latin and those awful 
problems, and analysis, you would be glad you 
were grown up,” said the big girl. 
Helen had been used to cliques in college, 
some of them not at all admirable, but they 
seemed quite ridiculous here, with the few in 
number. She had tried earnestly to make them 
fraternize, but the older ones considered them- 
selves young ladies, and quite tabooed the next 
in age. As for the real children she found 
them the most tractable, the most eager to 
learn, ready for any experimental knowledge. 
Some of the boys kept their standing with the 
grammar school ball club. She had tried to 
rouse some enthusiasm among the older ones, 
but it had been severely discouraged and 
laughed at by Eastman, Lang, and Benson. The 
gymnasium training had not been a success 
either except among the younger ones. The 
young ladies complained that the Indian clubs 
 
were too heavy, that the bars roughened one’s 
hands, that the vaulting was unladylike. About 
every other “ gym ” day two or three excuses 
would be brought from the easily persuaded 
mothers. 
“ We are not going to train for athletics,” 
said Georgia Winters. “ I am not booked for 
college, but father thinks I ought to graduate 
here. I’d like to go to some school in New 
York where they train girls for real society 
ladies, and have dancing and afternoon teas 
and all that. I met a girl last summer who was 
at one, and every fortnight they had regular 
parties and could ask in their men friends. 
They don’t say, gentlemen, any more.” 
“ And that’s queer, too. Mr. Conover said 
the other day that Mr. Hildreth was a perfect 
gentleman. I like the term.” 
“ Well, it isn’t fashionable now.” 
“ I think Miss Grant ought to have some 
stylish society ways. I don’t see that college 
training has done much for her, except to make 
her run through the geometry problems like a 
race horse. They might as well be in San- 
scrit.” 
“ What is Sanscrit? ” asked another. 
“ Oh, one of those old dead languages that 
no one ever converses in. Why, we ought to 
be studying French. There’s some fine French 
poetry and — plays.” 
“ Girls ! ” exclaimed Katherine Ford, “ I 
have a splendid idea! Let us form a club. 
They have them in college and they are such 
fun ! ” 
“ Don’t for pity’s sake ask us to read or study 
anything more,” sighed Hattie Dinsmore. 
“ I’m worn out now, and just sick and tired of 
Shakespeare. Could you make anything out 
of ‘ The Tempest ’ ? Mother thought it wasn’t 
the things for girls to read, Miranda falling in 
love as soon as she had seen Ferdinand, with- 
out knowing whether he was respectable or 
not.” 
“ I don’t mean that kind of a club. I’ve read 
in stories where college girls went to each 
other’s rooms at night and made fudge and 
coffee and had lots of goodies. They had a 
chafing dish. I can cook oysters splendidly on 
our chafing dish.” 
“ But we couldn’t come here in the evening. 
 
And cooking doesn’t look very inviting to me. 
Candy-making is better when you ask in the 
boys. Why not have a regular party ? ” 
“ I don’t mean that,” returned Miss Ford 
with dignity. “ It is stylish now to have a club 
where you vote the girls in, and if you don’t 
like any girl you can blackball her and she 
must stay out. I should want it very select. 
And we’d have a password ” 
“ But what would you do ? ” was the query. 
“ Oh, we’d sit around and discuss our likes 
and dislikes, and, well, I don’t just know. 
Men talk politics, but we don’t care about that. 
We might take up the fashions, or read a novel 
and talk about it. Oh, we'd find things to do. 
Let’s hunt up some of the college stories and 
