added. "But that night when I entered your 
room, the disposition of it was such that I 
saw at first but your head. The next night 
I saw you as before, with this difference 
however, Malakoff was with you with you 
I say, for it was but recently I learned that 
that night you were at Frascati's and that 
your room was occupied by a Mme. Oppensheim, a person whom I did not know ex 
isted." 
On the music stool behind her the girl sank 
down. The flush had gone from her face but 
the disdain remained. 
"Do you know of her?" Welden asked. 
Maud, without unbending, bent a little; 
"She reached the villa as I was leaving it." 
"Then you are aware of the resemblance 
between you. Her hair is precisely the colour of yours. Now do me this favour; put 
yourself in my place. Had you seen me as 
I thought I saw you, would you not have 
acted as I did?" 
The girl straightened herself. "No," she 
answered shortly. 
"Do you mean that it would not have affected your relations with me?" 
"I mean nothing of the kind." 
"Without indiscretion, may I ask then 
what you do mean?" 
"Because I happened to fancy that you 
were volage, I myself would not have be 
come so." 
"Forgive me, Maud, I do not quite follow 
you." 
"Nor can I allow you, nor do I wish to. 
 
Admitting your delusion, one by the way 
which must have been almost self-evident, 
the slightest effort on your part would have 
corrected it." 
"Maud, believe me, I had no oppor 
tunity." 
"I do believe you, your opportunity lay 
elsewhere." 
"No," Welden protested, "it did not. 
Moreover, the opportunity to which you refer came months later, and though utilised 
then, it was only for the wretchedest and 
therefore the most human of reasons, in or 
der that I might at least be revenged." 
"On Malakoff ?" the girl tauntingly threw 
at him. 
"Damn me, sir," some one was angrily 
calling, "when I instructed my servant to 
show you the door " 
Welden turned. Before him the general 
stood. Immediately Maud interposed her 
self between them. 
"Father," she said, pushing him as she 
spoke, toward the adjoining room, "go in 
there, I must speak to you." 
"You told me," the old man remonstrated, 
trying vainly to resist. "You told me " 
"I have not a doubt of it," Maud, pushing 
still, replied. "But I told you also never to 
believe a word a woman said." 
The door closed suddenly. Welden could 
at last put down his hat and coat. He had 
not, he knew, demolished all the intrenchments, but in view of the girl's defence of 
him, he f elfthat he had sapped their base. 
He was quite in error. None the less, in 
a few moments, when Maud-issued unaccompanied from the conflict in the outer room, 
her parliamentaries there may have suggest 
ed a temporary truce. She stopped at the 
table, took up the book of verse, looked at 
it, replaced it and with tolerable irrelevance 
remarked : 
"That was very terrible about Sally. 
 
Have you any suspicion who did it?" 
"No," Welden answered. "None what 
ever." 
"I ought, I suppose, to condole with you, 
but I cannot. Neither of you I think be 
haved very well. She knew about Mme. Oppensheim even if, as you say, you did not. It 
was because of her that she got the decree. 
Everybody knew that. It was not in the 
papers, but it was common talk. Were you 
deaf at the time?" 
"Partially," Welden replied. "At Chan- 
tilly I made rather a mess of it." 
Of that mess the girl had been informed. 
At the time and since she had thought it not 
unmerited. What she did not know and 
what she never learned was the fact that the 
mess was intentional. For there are some 
things that some men do not talk about. 
Even otherwise, there are times and seasons 
when any compliment, however unique, falls 
flat. 
"Afterward," Welden resumed, "it was 
quite a bit before I was about." 
"But when you were, did you not hear?" 
"When I was, Sally told me that it was 
you who were the co." 
Maud lifted her hands. "She told you 
that! She told you that I was the co-respondent!" 
"In so many words." 
"When did you learn that I was not?" 
"The other day at Santa Barbara. It 
came about rather oddly. We were on the 
lawn, the wind was blowing, it disarranged 
her hair. Her hair, if you will notice. She 
wanted a barrette. There was no one within 
call. She asked me to get it. It was in some 
case, in some bag. She told me where and 
where the keys were. She was very explicit 
about it all. But I misunderstood. I opened 
the wrong bag or the wrong box. In it I 
found a letter addressed to me. I know it 
by heart. July the Fourth, Villa Portugaise. Dearest: They have just wired me 
from Frascati's that my father has been 
injured. I am going over on the noon 
boat. Join me there to-morrow. Mille 
baisers, M. " 
"She had concealed it!" 
"Evidently." 
"What did you do?" 
Welden made a gesture. At the time 
when he found the letter his mind had shot 
backward. Facts and incidents trivial in 
themselves and long since forgotten, mount 
ed from those cellars of memory where what 
ever we do or say or see is noted, registered, 
catalogued and preserved. In a sort of retrograde vision the madness of a night returned. He beheld the silent villa and Sally, 
her hand on his arm, saying: "Don t." He 
recalled the singularity of her attitude; the 
avid movement with which, when in the hall 
below, she had taken and concealed the note ; 
her subsequent eagerness to have him fight; 
her stupid insistence that he should tell no 
one why ; her speeches and answers at Chantilly: and suddenly a curtain rose. He saw, 
if not the truth, at least the lie. 
"What did you do?" Maud repeated. 
"I went to her and asked whom Malakoff 
had been entertaining that evening. It was 
a little before I could get her to admit that 
it was not you. Finally she acknowledged 
that it was Mme. Oppensheim." 
Again Maud lifted her hands. "It is in 
credible!" 
"Yes, particularly as from the start she 
quite played on my mistake, at first, I suppose, in order to have me kill Malakoff and 
later on, perhaps, because she felt compro 
mised by the duel." 
Maud considered these premises and then 
supplied the deduction. 
"That is why she asked you to marry her." 
"I did not say that." 
"No, men never do say such things but 
 
sometimes women infer them. How long 
afterward did she die?" 
"The same night, or rather the next morn 
ing." 
Maud considered that also, but more 
longly. 
"Don't you see," she said at last, "were 
these things known, you would be suspected, 
arrested perhaps?" 
"Naturally. If ever a man had a motive 
I had one. On the night when I went to the 
room which you had occupied and saw what 
I took to be you, Sally was at my elbow. She 
had come to surprise Malakoff , and finding 
me there and divining my error, took advantage of us both. I am sorry now for Mala 
koff. I intended to kill him. He knew it, 
knew the reason, knew that it was all a mis 
take. But, bounder that he is, he could not 
like an ordinary cad come to me with an ex 
planation." 
"No," said Maud. "Men never explain 
and women always do. None the less 
"None the less," Welden ran on, "though 
I can be sorry for him, I cannot be for Sally. 
What happened to her was the judgment of 
God." 
That verdict Maud examined and at once 
indorsed. 
"Yes, for with a word she could have set 
you straight." 
Welden nodded. "It has been a tragedy 
of errors. Yet, of course, if the police at 
Santa Barbara had so much as an inkling 
of it, I would be in jail there now. They 
suspect me as it is, I think." 
"But I read that you offered a reward." 
"Yes, and it was then I felt that I was 
suspected." 
Maud looked that over also, but without 
seeming to get the point of it. 
"Surely they could not fancy that you 
would offer a reward for your own convic 
tion?" 
"No, but they could readily fancy that I 
offered it to divert suspicion, for that is precisely what a bungler would have done." 
Welden paused. Presently he added: 
"I did not realise that until afterward." 
At this, Maud, who had remained at the 
table, crossed the room and seated herself 
on the sofa. Welden took a seat beside her. 
"What do you propose to do now?" She 
asked. 
"Beg you to marry me." 
The girl shook her head. "You need not. 
I have no intention of it." 
"For the same reason as before?" 
"Partly. But for others also." 
It was now Welden's turn to consider 
things. While he was at it, she helped him. 
"It is not that I cannot forgive you," she 
explained. "But I have so long regarded 
you as unforgivable that I cannot immediately forget. Besides, that you should 
have suspected me is one thing, but that you 
should have consoled yourself is quite an 
other." 
"Consoled!" retorted Welden. "The word 
does not fit. I had no relations with Sally." 
Maud turned and looked at him. She had 
never known him to lie, but she was not credulous and Sally, whatever her demonism, 
had been a very pretty woman. 
"That's as may be," she answered. "The 
point is you hurt me and meant to. I think 
I could not have done that to you." 
For a second she hesitated, her hands ly 
ing interclasped in her lap. She opened 
them and slowly added: 
"But I am quite sure I could have done 
a little harm to her." 
"The little harm has been done," Welden 
remarked. 
But that Maud could not have found her 
self quite able to concede. 
"By another," she answered, "and incompletely." 
 
In what manner the harm could have been 
completer she did not say, nor did Welden 
ask, but he marvelled at the girl, who, in 
spite of the character of their previous intimacy, now, for the first time, revealed to 
him her naked soul. 
She stood up, went to the piano and with 
one hand struck the keys into notes violent 
and discordant. 
Then, as she turned, displaying the oval 
of her perfect face, and stood there, elaborately gowned, her head erect, she might per 
haps, to any other, have presented but a 
genre picture of a society girl, ultra smart. 
To Welden she was something else, something higher or it may be, lower; a being intensely human, vibrant with elemental passion. 
"She was made for me," he told himself, 
and crossing the room, he looked her in the 
eyes. 
But however vibrant the girl may have 
been, however primitive also, she was not in 
a mood for caresses. Dumbly against him 
she felt the revolt which women have for the 
man who comes to them from the arms of 
another. Those arms were lifeless now and 
such enfoldings as they had given perhaps 
were scant, but some at least there had been, 
and at the thought of them she recoiled in 
stinctively. 
"No," she said in answer to that look. 
"Not now, perhaps never. I cannot tell. 
Do not try to ask me." 
"Good night," she added after a moment, 
when Welden, who knew better than to urge 
against her will, had taken up his hat and 
coat. 
The fatigues compressed in a journey 
across the continent are of a completeness 
that satiates the sturdiest. On leaving Madison avenue, Welden slept thirteen hours, 
awoke, tubbed, dressed, drank some coffee, 
read a telegram, also a newspaper and, other 
details terminated, drove to the Grand Central where he arranged to repeat the trip. 
The telegram, a night message from San 
ta Barbara, marked Collect and signed 
Wicks, was as follows: 
Perkins Indicted on evidence personalty obtained. 
Rings recovered, trial to-morrow. I claim rewards. 
"The imbecile," Welden muttered as the 
message fell from him. 
But the purport of it he found repeated 
in a morning paper, strung out there with 
sensational details, stories of full confession, 
others of priceless jewels the property of 
the murdered woman with whom Welden 
had eloped and then been shot by the out 
raged husband the usual farrago of fiction, 
garnished in this instance with a picture of 
White Peacocks which resembled the scene 
of the crime about as closely as it did the 
Plaza. 
Beneath the ribbon of rubbish there was 
none the less a fact. There was also a possibility. There had been an indictment, con 
viction might follow. 
The rooms which Welden occupied gave 
on Central Park. For a moment, from a 
window, he stood looking at the rain of sun 
shine, the leisurely motors, the gingerly stepping horses, the parade of nurses out with 
their charges for the midday air. Yet, though 
he looked, he did not see, or rather it was not 
the Park that he saw, but Santa Barbara 
and the obligation to return there. 
 
The prospect was not agreeable. He had, 
however, contemplated it before. Now, with 
no thought of shirking, he .contemplated it 
again. Then, the letter written, other details terminated, he went down Madison 
avenue for a word with Maud. 
But the girl was not at home. William 
assured him of that, assured him that this 
time there was no mistake, that she was really out, gone but a little before in her 
brougham. 
Welden took from a pocket the letter 
which he had written. 
"Here is a note for Miss Barhyte. Give 
it to her yourself and say that it is not to be 
opened until she hears from me. I leave 
town to-day and I will wire shortly, but the 
letter is not to be opened until then. Do you 
understand? You do? You are sure you 
do? The letter is not to be opened until I 
wire. Very good. Here is something for 
you." 
"Thank you, Mr. Welden. Thank you." 
The man bowed Welden out, after which 
he put the letter on the hall table where, later 
that afternoon, Maud letting herself in with 
a latch-key as was her custom, found and 
read it. 
Welden then was on his way to Chicago. 
The press there supplied him with fresh 
news from Santa Barbara, at Omaha there 
was more. But thereon, over the plains and 
through the hamlets which in a sort of horrible coquetry vie in hideousness with each 
other, there was a silence that continued 
until Ogden was reached. 
Ogden too has its coquetries. But the 
news of the day may be had there. There 
is also a stop. 
The stop is brief, yet it sufficed for Wel 
den. He wired to Maud, got his trunks from 
the baggage car, his bags from the Pullman 
and boarded a returning train. 
In a Salt Lake sheet he had read that, the 
 
prosecution collapsing, Perkins had been released. It was then that he wired. The wire 
was a request that his letter should not be 
opened. Four days later he was in New 
York. 
On the evening of that fourth day, a bit 
fatigued, the motion of the train actively 
continuing in his head, but in a white tie, a 
white waistcoat between which two small 
black studs served to indicate his recent 
mourning he was again in Madison ave 
nue, this time in the parlour, as the local 
drawing-room is sometimes called and on 
this occasion very properly, for a parlour or 
parloir is a talking place and Welden found 
himself called upon to say more than he had 
expected, and on a subject at that concerning 
which he had not intended to talk at all. 
Maud was not present when he entered 
and he looked at the faded frescoes with a 
yawn. In a moment however, from the din 
ing-room beyond, the girl appeared. 
Her neck and arms were bare. Her gown 
was white, striated with violet. As she entered she stooped to arrange or to release afold. The attitude, but momentarily maintained, was so graceful that Welden forgot 
his fatigue. Then, as she straightened and 
approached, one hand just upholding a hem, 
the picture she presented indemnified him 
for the little horrors of the trip. 
The week previous he saw that she had 
altered. Now he realised that she had 
changed again. It was as though when 
bending at the door, her whole manner had 
unbent. 
She took his hand. "Dearest, another 
would say that what you went from here to 
do was noble. I do not. It was You." 
Passably perplexed, Welden stared. In 
the stare the perplexity was reflected. 
The girl smiled. Her hand still in his, 
she led him to the S in upholstery, in one of 
the curves of which she seated herself while 
 
he, guided by her, seated himself in the 
other. 
"Dearest, will you promise me some 
thing?" 
Welden nodded. 
"Will you promise not to he annoyed?" 
Welden nodded again. 
