of doing. He dropped into Lyddy's own chair by the 
window. 

"Well, my son," said he, "what next?" 

Hunter, having seen who it was, and that old Winter- 
bourne wasn't to be eluded like the petticoats before whom 
he had feared he might have to justify himself, took up the 
dust very deftly and looked about him with an anxious eye, 
to see what had escaped him. The kitchen was a marvel of 
tidiness. Winterbourne, now his attention was called to it, 
could see that. One point only seemed to afford Hunter a 
perfect gratification, that because it mirrored an unusual 
deed perfectly accomplished. 

"Cast your eye over that stove," said he. "At first I 



 





couldn't find the blacking. Look at it shine." Then he 
grinned. 

" Hunter," said Winterbourne judicially, "are you bring- 
ing the treasured lore of young manhood into my kitchen 
as a trophy to lay at Celia's feet?" 

"Celia be hanged," said Hunter, returning the broom to 
its nail and looking about him with a concentrated energy. 

" Her stock is very well up, I 'd have you know," Win- 
terbourne assured him. "I 've been getting quotations. Oh, 
you 'd better not sniff at Celia." 

Hunter was paying no attention at all. 

" Lyddy 's gone to bed," said he, " cantankerous as an old 
witch. She says she's got sciatica, and there were folks 
enough in the house before. The devil 's in her, that 's all. 
You bear too much from that old cormorant." 

"Are you laying the pride of your young manhood at 
Lyddy's feet then?" Winterbourne inquired pleasantly, yet 
resolved to push it. 

" Oh, come, hush up ! " Hunter flushed a little. " She 
went upstairs and left the kitchen on its head. She won't 
stir her old stumps to get breakfast. You see if she does. 
And somebody else'll have to do it, and it 's a mighty dis- 
couraging thing to find the kitchen upside down." 

He sounded quarrelsome. 

" So it is, Hercules, so it is. Celia is going to find it right- 
side up when she comes" Ih. to make the morning coffee." 

"Celia be blowed, I tell you !" 

" Young man, Celia is my daughter." 

" No, she isn't either. You don't care a straw about her." 

"Then it's evident you haven't done it to please me." 
Winterbourne seemed to be musing. 

" I 'm not pleasing you to any great extent nowadays," 
said Hunter. He looked angry enough and willing to show 



 





it. "I don't seem to care about the way things are going on 
here. If you had the spirit of a rabbit, you 'd get a good girl 
into this house — " 

"And have Lyddy hang herself to the bed-post by her 
garters?" 

"Lyddy! I'm sick of Lyddy. What business have you 
got anyway, taking a girl into your house and then working 
her to death to make things go as that old beldame wants 
'cm to ? You 've got to make a change and do it quick, or 
something's going to happen." 

Winterbourne liked him very much in his red-hot anger, 
his brown hands gripping the chair-back he had been put- 
ting straight, and his jaw set firm. Hunter was "mad," as 
school-boys had seen him years ago, and as he hadn't found 
occasion to be since, he had dominated the world so simply 
and it had so obeyed him. But Winterbourne wasn't going 
to give in. After all, it was his kitchen and Bess was his 
chosen kid. He got up from the chair, and yawned a little. 

"All right. Hunter," he agreed. " I 've got to go to bed. 
So 've you. There 's another day coming." 

" I mean it," Dwight assured him. " A man's laziness can 
go too far." 

Winterbourne had opened the door and stood looking out. 
But there was something in the air that made it likely he ex- 
pected Dwight to go, and the youth blunderingly did, feeling 
righteous but somehow crude and foolish. Yet he was awake 
to the injustice of it all. A man like Winterbourne, as clever 
as he, he thought, could make you feel young by just stand- 
ing by and laughing. But he had no business to. He 'd better 
get a capable girl into the kitchen and stop talking about 
Jupiter and Theocritus. Dwight had loved the talk about 
Theocritus until it became apparent that Bess was being 
lashed too hard. That sent Theocritus up in smoke. 



 





" Dwight," Winterbourne called him. 

"Well," said Dwight, pausing in the path. 

" You 're certain you don't consider Celia a lily in a garden 
of spice?" 

To this Dwight had no answer. The quizzical twist in the 
tone of it sent him swinging on his heel and down the path. 

"Well," said Winterbourne to the stars, "it's evident 
I 've got no friends." 

He went to bed, laughing softly and not entirely with 
mirth. But the next morning it was at last decreed that he 
should see his wife. He went in on a lumbering tiptoe, trying 
to get used to the queerness of it — a woman in health over 
night and then in a state of fragility where you mustn't ex- 
cite her, mustn't even gainsay her, as he understood. She 
lay in her bed, very pretty and young, with the lines smoothed 
out of her face, wistfully charming, but evidently entirely ac- 
quiescent in her task of not getting up. Winterbourne felt an 
instant pity of her. It swallowed up the impish wonder he 
had felt over the situation while it was imperfectly under- 
stood. 

" Well, young lady," said he, standing by the bedside. 
" Want me to read to you ? " 

She made the slightest motion of her head on the pillow. 
It was negation accomplished with the smallest amount of 
energy. Immediately Winterbourne felt that, contrary to 
her usual faithful habit, she did not wish him to stay. She 
expected him to go. 

" Bess wants me to say my prayers," she informed him, in 
a tone of wonder. 

" Well," said Winterbourne, covering the issue as well as 
he could, in the dark as he was over the theological aspect 
of it, "it wouldn't do most of us any harm." 

" She says I must do it when I 'm afraid." 



 





" Oh, come, Cat, you 're not afraid. You 've got that up 
to scare the rest of us." 

" I am," she insisted. " I'm afraid." 

"Want me to go now? " he asked, answering something 
in her eyes. 

She nodded, and he went. On the stairs he met Bess in 
afternoon trim, calm as a lake without a ripple. She seemed 
to him the only relieving incident in a world of tedium and 
madness. He stopped on the landing to let her pass. 

" Bess," said he, in spite of himself offering her his per- 
sonal pocket of complaint, " the times are most infernally 
out of joint." 

" I 'm glad you didn't stay," said Bess, intent as ever 
upon the direct issue. " I 'm going to tell her about Mrs. 
Ramsay." 

" Doesn't she know that woman 's here ? " 

" No. I guess I 'd better tell her. Mrs. Ramsay keeps 
sending her messages, only she can't remember the word, 
and I get all mixed up." 

" Bess, doesn't it seem to you as if this house was a par- 
ticular bedlam broke loose ? " 

She was meeting his frowning gaze with her calm scrutiny. 

" Why, no," she said, unmoved. " It seems to me about 
as everything is all the time." 

" Does there seem to you anything unusual in the fact that 
you 're working night and day to keep this old scow afloat ? " 

" No," said Bess, apparently thinking it over as something 
deserving consideration though it had not occurred to her 
before. " 'Most everybody 's got all they can do everywhere 
all the time." 

This seemed to cover the matter, but he had one word 
more for her — this left from the blows Hunter had dealt him. 
That arrow had hit, and the place was stinging yet. 



 





" You 're going to have a maid, Bess. You 're not going 
to be Cinderella any longer." 

"A maid? What for?" 

" To keep you from breaking your back over this infernal 
house." 

"Well, I guess I 'm not," said Bess with promptitude. 
" Where 'd Lyddy be ? You can get all the girls you want 
to, but they won't come into Lyddy's kitchen if I can help 
it. There!" 

It was the first sign of intemperate heat he had seen in 
her. It quite touched her up to something imperfect and 
human, and he liked it. She went on to her task, and he to 
his pipe downstairs and his reflections on the changing 
pageant of the world. 



 



XIX 

CELIA wanted a garden of life, pretty posy-beds to 
bloom and wave their ribbons and banners, all the 
world meantime saying, "How fine your garden is! 
How much better than other gardens, and how clever you 
were to make it! " But she had crude ways of arriving. Some 
even tawdry-minded girl born with an easy recognition of men 
and spoils could have taught her many things: yet those are 
the clevernesses that come by nature, and really no teaching 
ever avails. She was no sportsman. She never trod delicately 
enough, and even having winged the bird, she was apt to 
pounce too quickly, and holding him for one moment in her 
impetuous hands, start back frightened at the ebbing warm 
life of him, the blood she had drawn, and drop him, herself 
to run away into deeper coverts. 

There is one endowment of woman that comes by grace 
and not by learning, — the power to manage a man, and it 
is distributed with as much eccentricity as the glory of the 
singing voice, or the instinct of seeing a sunset as it will 
look in paint. Is not music a gift, heaven-descended ? So is 
innate coquetry, and as capriciously given. The daughter of 
all the Caesars may go earless and croaking, and some slave 
sprung out of ignominy may carry divinest airs to the heaven 
that gave them birth or coax them out of wood and string. 
There is no reason in this save the unexplained reasons of 
Nature, who brazenly shows her hand, though no one is game 
enough to play against her. Cleopatra is as likely to be born 
one of a hovel as in gilded wedlock. 

There are unwashed, uncombed maidens enough in the 



 





world who with the unconsciousness of instinct can lead men 
by a silken leash ; but Celia was not of them, and would not, 
by instinct, have wished to be. She had all the virginal with- 
drawals, panics, even, that made her sister so austere. If she 
could have been a princess, unapproached save for obei- 
sances, that would have pleased her mightily, and she would 
have kept her throne inviolate. Prince consorts were not for 
her. But here she was in the wrong place, colored by ideals 
that kept her smarting. The world, she conceived through 
Catherine's teaching, was an assemblage of competitive ranks 
where it is necessary to seem wonderful. In a subordinate 
place, she was surfeited with favors she never could repay, 
except according to the dull old recipe of being a good girl ; 
this put her nature on its mettle, bade it somehow reach the 
top, wherever that might be, and justify itself. And since she 
hadn't a talent or an aptitude to bless her, she must, as the 
game was to be played anyway, fall back on the cleverer ones 
and coax them, through tact alone, to play for her. 

Celia was never wilfully self-seeking. She was only an 
egotist, a little wood-animal doubling and darting because 
it must, a creature with the instinct of self-preservation inor- 
dinately developed. And because she must live, as she con- 
ceived it, she made love to the more fortunate, and did it 
badly. It had been her course all through her stay abroad. 
If she had not been so startlingly pretty, men would have 
said she was too intense, too near the verge of forwardness 
with no irresponsible " go '' in her to complete the fun. She 
was always a mystery in the end, for she invariably had panic 
when the emotion she seemed to have challenged made its 
own demand. But even then she had not cared so passion- 
ately as she did now to enter into some kind of a kingdom 
and take Bess with her. ftefore, there had been a dozen col- 
ored strands of action, none of them so very strong, to make 



 





her court supremacy — gratitude to Catherine, affection for 
her, it might be, the bitter knowledge that in no way save that 
of making good could she wipe off her score after all Cather- 
ine had done for her. But now there was Bess, passionately 
loved, a part of her, born of the same parents, unpicturesque 
though they might be, and Bess had the treasure that might 
set them both right with a world that demanded fireworks. 

So she sat with Lovell in the arbor one summer dusk, 
waiting for Bess to finish her cares and come out to them, 
and thought, while she talked in her soft voice with the lovely 
thrill in it, of his money and how Bess might possibly come 
into it, and whether Bess could even marry him. She knew 
persons of a genial mind were ready enough to lend money 
to young musicians weighted with an untrained talent, and 
Lovell, above all men she ever saw, seemed to her careless 
enough to saunter the way of a fancy, if it were picturesque. 
So she talked of Bess, how dear she was, how wilfully sacri- 
ficed to commonplace cares, and how the universe ought 
to rock with horror while such a voice was being sacrificed 
that Bess might save old Lyddy's pains. 

Lovell was a willing voyager on the flow of it. Whatever 
she talked about, the topic pleased him best. Her chal- 
lenge, the intensity of her, had been the piercing call to 
rouse him from his ease and make him swear at himself for 
the grotesque futility of the past behind him. His life had 
one beauty-spot, the time of his short consulship, when 
Italy showed him her lovely face, and poetry cried to him 
through the nights that were but golden bridges between 
ecstatic days. He was off his head then, he knew, with youl:h 
and the newness of the world — too much of a boy to have 
been there, except as a wandering student, but put into the 
place ostensibly from his extraordinary capacities and really 
because his father had a friend at Washington. This was the 



 





brief time of his perfect accord with life as he found it there, 
running back over the strings of the past, his fingers evoking 
a thin music of their own, all aglow in the present, and the 
certainty that never was the world going to see a life like his 
life. Then the swift foolish drama, — the Italian nobleman, 
wearer of a title entwined with memories, of the American 
and the American's wife, and the duel, and he, the Ameri- 
can consul, on the grounds with them in a fever of youthful 
pomp and chivalry. But the duel ended in smoke, and the 
American lady was taken to England, and the Italian was 
doubly picturesque with more trophies at his sword-hilt; 
