or two a day--if you’re doing any writing of your own?” he threw out
interrogatively.

“No. I’ve given all that up. I’m in an office now--business. But it
doesn’t take all my time, or pay enough to keep me alive.”

“In that case, my dear fellow--if you could come every morning; but
it’s mostly awful bosh, you know,” Betton again broke off, with growing
awkwardness.

Vyse glanced at him humorously. “What you want me to write?”

“Well, that depends--” Betton sketched the obligatory smile. “But I was
thinking of the letters you’ll have to answer. Letters about my books,
you know--I’ve another one appearing next week. And I want to be
beforehand now--dam the flood before it swamps me. Have you any idea of
the deluge of stuff that people write to a successful novelist?”

As Betton spoke, he saw a tinge of red on Vyse’s thin cheek, and his own
reflected it in a richer glow of shame. “I mean--I mean--” he stammered
helplessly.

“No, I haven’t,” said Vyse; “but it will be awfully jolly finding out.”

There was a pause, groping and desperate on Betton’s part, sardonically
calm on his visitor’s.

“You--you’ve given up writing altogether?” Betton continued.

“Yes; we’ve changed places, as it were.” Vyse paused. “But about these
letters--you dictate the answers?”

“Lord, no! That’s the reason why I said I wanted somebody--er--well used
to writing. I don’t want to have anything to do with them--not a thing!
You’ll have to answer them as if they were written to you--” Betton
pulled himself up again, and rising in confusion jerked open one of the
drawers of his writing-table.

“Here--this kind of rubbish,” he said, tossing a packet of letters onto
Vyse’s knee.

“Oh--you keep them, do you?” said Vyse simply.

“I--well--some of them; a few of the funniest only.”

Vyse slipped off the band and began to open the letters. While he was
glancing over them Betton again caught his own reflection in the
glass, and asked himself what impression he had made on his visitor.
It occurred to him for the first time that his high-coloured well-fed
person presented the image of commercial rather than of intellectual
achievement. He did not look like his own idea of the author of “Diadems
and Faggots”--and he wondered why.

Vyse laid the letters aside. “I think I can do it--if you’ll give me a
notion of the tone I’m to take.”

“The tone?”

“Yes--that is, if I’m to sign your name.”

“Oh, of course: I expect you to sign for me. As for the tone, say just
what you’d--well, say all you can without encouraging them to answer.”

Vyse rose from his seat. “I could submit a few specimens,” he suggested.

“Oh, as to that--you always wrote better than I do,” said Betton
handsomely.

“I’ve never had this kind of thing to write. When do you wish me to
begin?” Vyse enquired, ignoring the tribute.

“The book’s out on Monday. The deluge will begin about three days after.
Will you turn up on Thursday at this hour?” Betton held his hand out
with real heartiness. “It was great luck for me, your striking that
advertisement. Don’t be too harsh with my correspondents--I owe them
something for having brought us together.”



II


THE deluge began punctually on the Thursday, and Vyse, arriving as
punctually, had an impressive pile of letters to attack. Betton, on his
way to the Park for a ride, came into the library, smoking the cigarette
of indolence, to look over his secretary’s shoulder.

“How many of ‘em? Twenty? Good Lord! It’s going to be worse than
‘Diadems.’ I’ve just had my first quiet breakfast in two years--time
to read the papers and loaf. How I used to dread the sight of my
letter-box! Now I sha’n’t know I have one.”

He leaned over Vyse’s chair, and the secretary handed him a letter.

“Here’s rather an exceptional one--lady, evidently. I thought you might
want to answer it yourself--”

“Exceptional?” Betton ran over the mauve pages and tossed them down.
“Why, my dear man, I get hundreds like that. You’ll have to be pretty
short with her, or she’ll send her photograph.”

He clapped Vyse on the shoulder and turned away, humming a tune. “Stay
to luncheon,” he called back gaily from the threshold.

After luncheon Vyse insisted on showing a few of his answers to the
first batch of letters. “If I’ve struck the note I won’t bother you
again,” he urged; and Betton groaningly consented.

“My dear fellow, they’re beautiful--too beautiful. I’ll be let in for a
correspondence with every one of these people.”

Vyse, at this, meditated for a while above a blank sheet. “All
right--how’s this?” he said, after another interval of rapid writing.

Betton glanced over the page. “By George--by George! Won’t she see
it?” he exulted, between fear and rapture.

“It’s wonderful how little people see,” said Vyse reassuringly.

The letters continued to pour in for several weeks after the appearance
of “Abundance.” For five or six blissful days Betton did not even have
his mail brought to him, trusting to Vyse to single out his personal
correspondence, and to deal with the rest according to their agreement.
During those days he luxuriated in a sense of wild and lawless freedom;
then, gradually, he began to feel the need of fresh restraints to break,
and learned that the zest of liberty lies in the escape from specific
obligations. At first he was conscious only of a vague hunger, but in
time the craving resolved into a shame-faced desire to see his letters.

“After all, I hated them only because I had to answer them”; and he told
Vyse carelessly that he wished all his letters submitted to him before
the secretary answered them.

At first he pushed aside those beginning: “I have just laid down
‘Abundance’ after a third reading,” or: “Every day for the last month
I have been telephoning my bookseller to know when your novel would be
out.” But little by little the freshness of his interest revived, and
even this stereotyped homage began to arrest his eye. At last a day came
when he read all the letters, from the first word to the last, as he had
done when “Diadems and Faggots” appeared. It was really a pleasure to
read them, now that he was relieved of the burden of replying: his new
relation to his correspondents had the glow of a love-affair unchilled
by the contingency of marriage.

One day it struck him that the letters were coming in more slowly and in
smaller numbers. Certainly there had been more of a rush when “Diadems
and Faggots” came out. Betton began to wonder if Vyse were exercising
an unauthorized discrimination, and keeping back the communications
he deemed least important. This sudden conjecture carried the
novelist straight to his library, where he found Vyse bending over the
writing-table with his usual inscrutable pale smile. But once there,
Betton hardly knew how to frame his question, and blundered into an
enquiry for a missing invitation.

“There’s a note--a personal note--I ought to have had this morning. Sure
you haven’t kept it back by mistake among the others?”

Vyse laid down his pen. “The others? But I never keep back any.”

Betton had foreseen the answer. “Not even the worst twaddle about my
book?” he suggested lightly, pushing the papers about.

“Nothing. I understood you wanted to go over them all first.”

“Well, perhaps it’s safer,” Betton conceded, as if the idea were new to
him. With an embarrassed hand he continued to turn over the letters at
Vyse’s elbow.

“Those are yesterday’s,” said the secretary; “here are to-day’s,” he
added, pointing to a meagre trio.

“H’m--only these?” Betton took them and looked them over lingeringly.
“I don’t see what the deuce that chap means about the first part of
‘Abundance’ ‘certainly justifying the title’--do you?”

Vyse was silent, and the novelist continued irritably: “Damned cheek,
his writing, if he doesn’t like the book. Who cares what he thinks about
it, anyhow?”

And his morning ride was embittered by the discovery that it was
unexpectedly disagreeable to have Vyse read any letters which did not
express unqualified praise of his books. He began to fancy there was
a latent rancour, a kind of baffled sneer, under Vyse’s manner; and he
decided to return to the practice of having his mail brought straight to
his room. In that way he could edit the letters before his secretary saw
them.

Vyse made no comment on the change, and Betton was reduced to
wondering whether his imperturbable composure were the mask of complete
indifference or of a watchful jealousy. The latter view being more
agreeable to his employer’s self-esteem, the next step was to conclude
that Vyse had not forgotten the episode of “The Lifted Lamp,” and would
naturally take a vindictive joy in any unfavourable judgments passed on
his rival’s work. This did not simplify the situation, for there was
no denying that unfavourable criticisms preponderated in Betton’s
correspondence. “Abundance” was neither meeting with the unrestricted
welcome of “Diadems and Faggots,” nor enjoying the alternative of an
animated controversy: it was simply found dull, and its readers said so
in language not too tactfully tempered by regretful comparisons with its
predecessor. To withhold unfavourable comments from Vyse was, therefore,
to make it appear that correspondence about the book had died out; and
its author, mindful of his unguarded predictions, found this even more
embarrassing. The simplest solution would be to get rid of Vyse; and to
this end Betton began to address his energies.

One evening, finding himself unexpectedly disengaged, he asked Vyse
to dine; it had occurred to him that, in the course of an after-dinner
chat, he might delicately hint his feeling that the work he had offered
his friend was unworthy so accomplished a hand.

Vyse surprised him by a momentary hesitation. “I may not have time to
dress.”

Betton stared. “What’s the odds? We’ll dine here--and as late as you
like.”

Vyse thanked him, and appeared, punctually at eight, in all the
shabbiness of his daily wear. He looked paler and more shyly truculent
than usual, and Betton, from the height of his florid stature, said to
himself, with the sudden professional instinct for “type”: “He might be
an agent of something--a chap who carries deadly secrets.”

Vyse, it was to appear, did carry a deadly secret; but one less
perilous to society than to himself. He was simply poor--inexcusably,
irremediably poor. Everything failed him, had always failed him:
whatever he put his hand to went to bits.

This was the confession that, reluctantly, yet with a kind of
white-lipped bravado, he flung at Betton in answer to the latter’s
tentative suggestion that, really, the letter-answering job wasn’t worth
bothering him with--a thing that any type-writer could do.

“If you mean you’re paying me more than it’s worth, I’ll take less,”
 Vyse rushed out after a pause.

“Oh, my dear fellow--” Betton protested, flushing.

“What do you mean, then? Don’t I answer the letters as you want them
answered?”

Betton anxiously stroked his silken ankle. “You do it beautifully,
too beautifully. I mean what I say: the work’s not worthy of you. I’m
ashamed to ask you--”

“Oh, hang shame,” Vyse interrupted. “Do you know why I said I shouldn’t
have time to dress to-night? Because I haven’t any evening clothes. As
a matter of fact, I haven’t much but the clothes I stand in. One thing
after another’s gone against me; all the infernal ingenuities of chance.
It’s been a slow Chinese torture, the kind where they keep you alive to
have more fun killing you.” He straightened himself with a sudden blush.
“Oh, I’m all right now--getting on capitally. But I’m still walking
rather a narrow plank; and if I do your work well enough--if I take your
idea--”

Betton stared into the fire without answering. He knew next to nothing
of Vyse’s history, of the mischance or mis-management that had brought
him, with his brains and his training, to so unlikely a pass. But a pang
of compunction shot through him as he remembered the manuscript of “The
Lifted Lamp” gathering dust on his table for half a year.

“Not that it would have made any earthly difference--since he’s
evidently never been able to get the thing published.” But this
reflection did not wholly console Betton, and he found it impossible, at
the moment, to tell Vyse that his services were not needed.



III


DURING the ensuing weeks the letters grew fewer and fewer, and Betton
foresaw the approach of the fatal day when his secretary, in common
decency, would have to say: “I can’t draw my pay for doing nothing.”

What a triumph for Vyse!

The thought was intolerable, and Betton cursed his weakness in not
having dismissed the fellow before such a possibility arose.

“If I tell him I’ve no use for him now, he’ll see straight through it,
of course;--and then, hang it, he looks so poor!”

This consideration came after the other, but Betton, in rearranging
them, put it first, because he thought it looked better there, and
also because he immediately perceived its value in justifying a plan of
action that was beginning to take shape in his mind.

“Poor devil, I’m damned if I don’t do it for him!” said Betton, sitting
down at his desk.

Three or four days later he sent word to Vyse that he didn’t care to go
over the letters any longer, and that they would once more be carried
directly to the library.

The next time he lounged in, on his way to his morning ride, he found
his secretary’s pen in active motion.

“A lot to-day,” Vyse told him cheerfully.

His tone irritated Betton: it had the inane optimism of the physician
reassuring a discouraged patient.

“Oh, Lord--I thought it was almost over,” groaned the novelist.

“No: they’ve just got their second wind. Here’s one from a Chicago
publisher--never heard the name--offering you thirty per cent. on your
next novel, with an advance royalty of twenty thousand. And here’s a
chap who wants to syndicate it for a bunch of Sunday papers: big offer,
too. That’s from Ann Arbor. And this--oh, this one’s funny!”

He held up a small scented sheet to Betton, who made no movement to
receive it.

“Funny? Why’s it funny?” he growled.

“Well, it’s from a girl--a lady--and she thinks she’s the only person
who understands ‘Abundance’--has the clue to it. Says she’s never seen a
book so misrepresented by the critics--”

“Ha, ha! That is good!” Betton agreed with too loud a laugh.

“This one’s from a lady, too--married woman. Says she’s misunderstood,
and would like to correspond.”

“Oh, Lord,” said Betton.--“What are you looking at?” he added sharply,
as Vyse continued to bend his blinking gaze on the letters.

“I was only thinking I’d never seen such short letters from women.
Neither one fills the first page.”

“Well, what of that?” queried Betton.

Vyse reflected. “I’d like to meet a woman like that,” he said wearily;
and Betton laughed again.

The letters continued to pour in, and there could be no farther question
of dispensing with Vyse’s services. But one morning, about three weeks
later, the latter asked for a word with his employer, and Betton, on
entering the library, found his secretary with half a dozen documents
spread out before him.

“What’s up?” queried Betton, with a touch of impatience.

Vyse was attentively scanning the outspread letters.

“I don’t know: can’t make out.” His voice had a faint note of
embarrassment. “Do you remember a note signed Hester Macklin that
came three or four weeks ago? Married--misunderstood--Western army
post--wanted to correspond?”

Betton seemed to grope among his memories; then he assented vaguely.

“A short note,” Vyse went on: “the whole story in half a page. The
shortness struck me so much--and the directness--that I wrote her: wrote
in my own name, I mean.”

“In your own name?” Betton stood amazed; then he broke into a groan.

“Good Lord, Vyse--you’re incorrigible!”

The secretary pulled his thin moustache with a nervous laugh. “If you
mean I’m an ass, you’re right. Look here.” He held out an envelope
stamped with the words: “Dead Letter Office.” “My effusion has come back
to me marked ‘unknown.’ There’s no such person at the address she gave
you.”

Betton seemed for an instant to share his secretary’s embarrassment;
then he burst into an uproarious laugh.

“Hoax, was it? That’s rough on you, old fellow!”

Vyse shrugged his shoulders. “Yes; but the interesting question is--why
on earth didn’t your answer come back, too?”

“My answer?”

“The official one--the one I wrote in your name. If she’s unknown,
what’s become of that?”

Betton stared at him with eyes wrinkled by amusement. “Perhaps she
hadn’t disappeared then.”

Vyse disregarded the conjecture. “Look here--I believe all these
letters are a hoax,” he broke out.

Betton stared at him with a face that turned slowly red and angry. “What
are you talking about? All what letters?”

“These I’ve spread out here: I’ve been comparing them. And I believe
they’re all written by one man.”

Burton’s redness turned to a purple that made his ruddy moustache seem
pale. “What the devil are you driving at?” he asked.

“Well, just look at it,” Vyse persisted, still bent above the letters.
“I’ve been studying them carefully--those that have come within the last
two or three weeks--and there’s a queer likeness in the writing of some
of them. The g‘s are all like corkscrews. And the same phrases keep
recurring--the Ann Arbor news-agent uses the same expressions as the
President of the Girls’ College at Euphorbia, Maine.”
