And the young lawyer answered, " Come and 
work with us a while and see for yourself." 



CHAPTER XXIX 

SAMUEL went home and faced a surprising 
experience. There was a dapper and well- 
dressed young man waiting to see him. " My 
name is Pollard," he said, " and I'm from the 
Lockmanville Express. I want to get a story 
from you." 

" A story from me? " echoed the boy in per- 
plexity. 

" An interview," explained the other. " I want 
to find out about that meeting you're going to 
hold." 

And so Samuel experienced the great thrill, 
which comes sooner or later to every social re- 
former. He sat in Mrs. Stedman's little parlor, 
and told his tale yet again. Mr. Pollard was 
young and just out of college, and his pencil 
fairly flew over his notebook. " Gosh! " he ex- 
claimed. "But this is hot stuff!" 

To Samuel it was an extraordinary revelation. 

He was surprised that the idea had not occurred 

to him before. What was the use of holding 

meetings and making speeches, when one could 

have things printed in the papers? In the papers 

everyone would read it; and they would get it 



straight — there would be no chance of error. 
Moreover, they would read it at their leisure, and 
have time to think it all over! 

And after Mr. Pollard had gone, he rushed 
off in great excitement to tell Everley about it. 
" You won't need to print those circulars," he 
said. " For I told him where the meeting was 
to be." 

But Everley only smiled at this. " We'll get 
out oxir stuff just the same," he said. " You'd 
better wait until you've seen what the Express 
prints." 

" What do you mean? " asked the boy. But 
Everley would not explain — he merely told Sam- 
uel to wait. He did not seem to be as much ex- 
cited as he should have been. 

Samuel went home again. And later on in 
the afternoon, while Mrs. Stedman had gone out 
to the grocer's, there came a knock on the door, 
and he opened it, and to his amazement found 
himself confronted by Billy Finnegan. 

" Hello, young fellow! " said Finnegan. 

"Hello!" said Samuel. 

"What's this I hear about your making a 
speech? " asked Finnegan. 

" I'm going to," was the reply. " But how 
did you know? " 

" I got it from Callahan. Slattery told 
him." 





" Slattery! Has he heard about it? " 

" Gee, young fellow! What do you think he's 
boss for? " 

And Finnegan gazed around the room, to 
make sure that they were alone. 

" Sammy," he said, " I've come to give you a 
friendly tip; I hope you'll have sense enough to 
take it." 

" What is it? " asked the other. 

" Don't try to make any speech." 

" Why not? " 

" Because you ain't a-going to be let to make 
it, Sammy." 

" But how can they stop me? " 

" I dunno, Sammy. But they am't a-going 
to let you." 

There was a pause. 

" It's a crazy thing you're tryin' to do," said 
the other. " And take my word for it — some- 
thin' will happen to you if you go on." 

"What will happen?" 

" I dunno, my boy — maybe you'll fall into the 
river." 

"Fall into the river!" 

" Yes ; or else run yom* head into a slungshot 
some night, in a dark alley. I can't tell you what 
— only you won't make the speech." 

Samuel was dumfounded. " You can't mean 
such things ! " he gasped. 




" Sure I mean them," was the reply. " Why 
not? " 

Samuel did not respond. " I don't know why 
you're tryin' to do this thing," went on the other, 
" nor who's backing you. But from what I can 
make out, you've got the goods, and you've got 
them on most everybody in the town. You've 
got Slattery, and you've got Pat McCullagh, 
and you've got the machine. You've got Wy- 
gant and Hickman — you've even got something 
on Bertie Lockman, haven't you? " 

" I suppose I have," said Samuel. " But I'm 
not going to tell that." 

" Well, they don't know what you're going to 
tell, and they won't take any chances. They 
won't let you tell anything." 

" But can such things be done? " panted the 
boy. 

" They're done all the time," said the other. 
" Why, see — it stands to reason. Wouldn't folks 
be findin' out things hke this, and wouldn't iiiey 
be tellin' them? " 

" To be sure," said Samuel. " That's what 
puzzled me." 

" Well," said the bartender, " they ain't let to. 
Don't you see? " 
r " I see," whispered the boy. 

" There's a crowd that runs this town, Sam- 
my; and they mean to go on runnin' it. And 





don't you think they can't find ways of shutftin' 
up a kid like you! " 

" But Mr. Finnegan, it would be murder! " 

" Well, they wouldn't have to do it themselves, 
would they? When Henry Hickman wants a 
chicken for dinner, he don't have to wring its 
neck with his own hands." 

Samuel could find nothing to reply to that. 
He sat dumb with horror. 

" You see," continued Finnegan after a bit, 
" I know about this game, and I'm givin' you a 
friendly word. What the hell does a kid like you 
want to be reformin' things for anyway? " 

" What else can I do? " asked Samuel. 

To which the other answered, "Do? Get 
yourself a decent job, and find some girl you 
like and settle down. You'll never know what 
there is in hfe, Sammy, till you've got a baby." 

But Samuel only shook his head. The plan 
did not appeal to him. " I'll try to keep out 
of trouble," he said, "but I must make that 
speech ! " 

So Finnegan went out, shaking his head and 
grumbling to himself. And Samuel hurried off 
to see his lawyer friend again. The result of the 
visit was that Everley exacted from him a solemn 
promise that he would not go out of the house 
after dark. 

" I know what was done in this town during 





the strike," said the other, " and I don't want to 
take any chances. Now that they have finished 
the unions, there's nohody left hut us." 

So Samuel stayed at home, and told Sophie 
and her mother all about his various experiences, 
and about the people he had met. The child was 
almost beside herself with delight. 

" Oh, I knew that help would come! " she kept 
saying, " I knew that help would come! " 

Worn out as he was, the young reformer could 
hardly sleep that night, for all the excitement. 
And early in the morning he was up and out 
hunting for a copy of the Express. 

He stood on the street-comer and opened it. 
He glanced at the first page — there was nothing 
there. He glanced at the back page, and then 
at one page after another, seeking for the one 
that was given up to the story. But there was 
no such page. And then he went back and read 
over the headings of each column — and still he 
did not find it. And then he began a third time, 
reading carefully each tiny item. And so, after 
nearly an hoxir's search, when he foimd himself 
lost in a maze of advertisements, he brought him- 
self to realize that there was not a line of the story 
in the paper! 

When Everley arrived at his office that morn- 
ing, Samuel was waiting for him on the steps. 
Seeing the paper in the other's hand, the young 





lawyer laughed. " You found out, have you? " 
he said. 

" It's not here! " cried Samuel. 

" I knew just what would happen," said the 
other. " But I thought I'd let you see for your- 
self." 

" But what does it mean? " demanded the hoy. 

" It means," was the answer, " that the Lock- 
man estate has a mortgage of one hundred thou- 
sand dollars on the Express." 

And Samuel's jaw fell, and he stood s tarin g 
at his friend. 

" Now you see what it is to be a Socialist ! " 
laughed Everley. 

And Samuel saw. 



CHAPTER XXX 

AFTER supper that evening came Everley 
L. with Friederich Bremer, to take Samuel to 
the meeting of the local, where he was to tell his 
story. 

The " local " met in an obscure hall, over a 
'grocery shop. There were present those whom 
Samuel had met the night before, and about a 
score of others. Most of them were working- 
men, but there were several who appeared to be 
well-to-do shopkeepers and clerks. Samuel no- 
ticed that they all called one another " comrade " ; 
and several of them addressed him thus, which 
gave him a queer feeling. Also he noted that 
there were women present, and that one of them 
presided at the meeting. 

Everley made a speech, reading Samuel's 
manifesto, and telling how it had been given out. 
Then he called upon Samuel. The boy stood 
upon his feet — and suddenly a deadly terror 
seized hold upon him. Suppose he should not be 
able to make a speech after all! Suppose he 
should be nervous! What would they think of 
him? But he clenched his hands — what did it 
matter what they thought of him? The poor 

were suffering, and tHe trutH was crying out for 
vindication! He would tell these men what had 
happened to him. 

So he began. He told how he had been robbed, 
and how he had sought in vain for work, and 
how he had been arrested. And because he 
saw that these were people who understood, he 
found himself at ease, and thinking no longer 
about himself. He talked for nearly half an 
hour, and there was quite a sensation when he 
finished. 

Then Everley rose to his feet again. " Com- 
rades," he said, " for the past year I have been 
urging that the local must make a fight for free 
speech in this town. And it seems to me that the 
occasion has now come. If we do not take up 
this fight, we might just as well give up." 

" That's right," cried Beggs, the old car- 
penter. 

" I took the liberty of ordering circulars," con- 
tinued Everley. " There was no time to be lost, 
and I felt sure that the comrades would back me. 
I now move that the local take charge of the 
meeting to-morrow evening, and that the two 
thousand circulars I have here be given out se- 
cretly to-night." 

" I second that motion," said Mrs. Barton. 

" It must be understood," added Everley, 
" that we can't expect help from the papers. And 





our people ought to hear this story, as well as the 
memhers of the church." 

And then he read the cu*culars, and the motior 
was put, and carried unanimously. 

" Now," said Everley, " I suggest that the lO' 
cal make this the occasion of a contest for the 
right to hold street meetings in Lockmanville 
As you know, the police have refused permit! 
ever since the strike. And I move that beginning 
with Thursday evening, we hold a meeting on the 
corner of Market and Main streets, and tell thii 
story to the public. And that we continue to hole 
a meeting every night thereafter until we have 
made good our right." 

Samuel could see from the faces of the mer 
what a serious proposition this was to them 
Everley launched into an impassioned speech 
The workingmen of the town had lost their las 
hope in the unions ; they were suffering from th( 
hard times ; and now, if ever, was the time to opei 
their eyes to the remedy. And the Socialist 
were powerless, because they had permitted th( 
pohce to frighten them. Now they must mak 
a stand. 

" You realize that it will mean going to jail? ' 
asked Dr. Barton. 

" I realize it," said Everley. " We shall prob 
ably have to go several times. But if we nAki 
up our minds from the beginning, we can w?i 





we shall have the sympathy of the people — and 
also we can break the conspiracy of silence of the 
newspapers." 

" That is the thing we must think of," said the 
woman in the chair. 

" I am ready to do what I can," added the law- 
