She shook her head.
"Then what were you doing out here all alone with your head buried in
your arms?"
"Thinking," she said....  "Would you care to walk to the house with me,
Mr. Inwood?"
"Would you mind remaining here a little while?"
"My gown is damp with dew."
"Then perhaps we had better go?"
"I think so."
Neither stirred.
"It is so warm and beautiful to-night," he said, "that I can’t imagine
anybody taking cold out here."
"It is a bad outlook for the flight shooters."
"Yes, indeed.  There is no frost in this wind."
"It may shift overnight," she said.  "If to-morrow is a magnificent and
cloudless day, with just a hint of silver in the horizon blue, then it
means a frost and a flight to-morrow night."
"And that," he said, "would mean an end to—the roses."
"Yes."
"An end to anybody sitting out here again this year."
"Probably."
"So it seems a pity," he went on, "not to enjoy it while we may, Miss
Rivett."
"I have enjoyed it—for an hour."
"You are not very generous."
"Why?  You may remain another hour if you wish?" she said, smiling.
"Alone?"
"I was alone during my hour."
"I have been alone for an entire year," he said under his breath.
"What?"
She had heard him, but her abrupt question seemed to have been beaten
out sharply from her startled heart.
He made no reply; she stood, one hand clasping the chain, not looking at
him, conscious of the clamor of her heart.
"Miss Rivett," he said, "am I too much of a fool—too hopeless a thing
for you to listen to?"
"What do you mean?" she said faintly.
"I mean that—this night, now, for the first time since I knew you—I can
use, decently, honorably, whatever liberty of speech you permit me."
Presently her white hand relaxed, the chain slipped through her fingers;
she sank down on the swinging seat.
After a moment he stepped toward her.  She raised her head in the
moonlight, and he saw the tears in her eyes.
"Christine," he said under his breath.
"Are we free to speak to each other?" she faltered.
"Thank God, yes!"
"Thank God," she whispered.
But for a long, long while they did not use the inestimable privilege of
free, articulate speech.  There seemed to be no need of it further than
apparently irrelevant fragments such as, "My darling!" and, "Oh, Billy,
if you only knew!"
Far away beyond them Diana came out on the terrace with young Wallace,
and gazed very earnestly down at the rose garden.
"Shall we walk there?" he said persuasively.
[Illustration: "’Oh, dear,’ she said, ’there’s somebody down there
already.’"]
Suddenly Diana’s face sparkled.  "Oh, dear," she said, "there’s somebody
down there already—two of them!  And—and it looks to me as though they
were spooning.  What a world this is, Mr. Wallace!  I think I’d better
go in and play bottle pool."
That night she wrote to Edgerton:
"DEAR JIM:
"You have not answered my letter—but men were made to pardon.
"Somehow—and I don’t quite know how—that wretched and melancholy Inwood
man, fortified by a gentle push from me, contrived to get up sufficient
momentum to carry my little Christine by assault.  The darling has just
been in here to whisper her happiness to me.  We wept together, which is
our feminine fashion of uttering three cheers.
"There is, of course, papa to inform.  I don’t envy Christine.  Papa has
a will of his own, but so has his infant daughter.
"Even yet I can’t understand why this Inwood boy has lost all this time
dingling and dangling around Mrs. Wemyss.  Evidently he wasn’t doing it
because he was having a good time.  I was inclined to suppose him either
blighted or a mooner.
"But you should see the change in your intimate friend now!  Why, Jim,
he fairly pranced up to me as I was saying good night, and he wrung my
hand and said, ’Thanks, awf’lly, Miss Tennant!’  And all I had done was
to give him a rendezvous with me in an arbor, and then go off to walk
with Scott Wallace.
"Scott’s a nice boy.  You’d like him; he’s a terrible tease.  It seems
that he’s really a dead wing shot, and has just been jollying me all
this time.  I really enjoy him, which is more than I can say for the
remainder of the sporting fraternity now investing this place. They’re a
hard young lot, without, perhaps, being really very hard; but they are a
loud, careless, irresponsible bunch of wealthy young men who, as far as
I can learn, spend their entire time in shooting at something or other,
including clay birds.
"They seem to be Wall Street men when occupied at all, and all betray a
very healthy respect for Mr. Rivett.  People say he is a factor to be
reckoned with in New York; but I don’t care.  He’s nice to me, and his
wife is adorable.  As for Christine, I dearly love her, Jim.  No girl is
more fitted for happiness, and I’m glad she’s got her Inwood boy at
last.
"And now, Jim, dear, there are two matters which very sorely perplex me;
and, somehow, I turn to you to help me solve them....  No, only one of
them, because I shall not bother about the other matter yet.
"But about the matter which is really nearer my heart, Jim—we must leave
this place; and the reason is this: Jack Rivett is making himself
miserable over Silvette.
"Silvette doesn’t love him; at least, I don’t think she does.  She
couldn’t do it honorably, anyway.  She told me so, and I quite see it,
because she and I are employed here under the Rivetts’ roof, practically
in a position of trust, and dedicated to their service.
"It is not a loyal thing to permit the son of the house to lose his
head, and Silvette tries so hard not to let him.  But he’s doing it, and
she can’t keep him from being nice to her; and she and I know perfectly
well what his father’s plans for him are, and that they include a
fashionable marriage.
"Of course, that argues well for Christine. The Inwoods are fashionable
people, are they not?  But poor Silvie!  Alas! her connection with your
race isn’t near enough to impress Jack’s father; besides, Silvette
doesn’t love him, and the boy is in a bad way all around.
"Now, what ought we to do?  If we offer to sever social and business
relations with Mr. Rivett, he will ask why we do it.
"Shall we tell him?  Is that square to poor Jack?  Or shall we lie?  Or
shall we simply remain and let Jack suffer and make Silvie miserable?
"Oh, wise young sir, inform a suppliant at your knee!
"There is nothing more to tell you about, except that your progress
makes me very happy.  You are doing only what you would ultimately have
done without any impudent advice from me.  You have found yourself, Jim;
you are climbing the rungs very quickly.
"Jim, I am not yet very old—but I might easily be younger....  I was
thinking the other day—and to-night—that sometime I shall be too old and
unattractive to practice this not very dignified profession; and I’m
disinclined to do anything more strenuous.  I don’t want to struggle and
grub and starve along respectably as a feminine physician.  It’s too
late for that, anyway.
"So I don’t know what to do, ultimately, unless I accomplish what I
started out to do—marry a wealthy man.  I mean the first agreeable one I
encounter.
"Well, I won’t bother with that problem to-night; my head aches a
little.
"Good night, Jim.
"JAPONETTE."
Diana finished her letter, sealed and stamped it, and kissed the
superscription.  She always did when she wrote his name.
Then she laid her aching temples on her arms and, leaning limply on the
desk, thought about him.
Hers was a strange, sweet pride in him—a fierce jealousy lest he should
not take the place in the world to which he was entitled, and prove
himself every inch a man.
Nor did she pretend to hide from herself what his return among his own
friends must ultimately mean.  If the love he had offered her had not
been totally extinguished by her light mockery and smiling insolence,
then this return to his own set would do it ultimately. The standards
that measured women there would be fatal to her; nor could he choose but
apply them, sooner or later.
She knew this when she sent him back among his own sort.  She realized
perfectly that if any love for her survived her irony and flippancy—her
airy but trenchant scorn—it could not survive very long when he came to
his cool-headed and reasoning self, and looked around him at the women,
and at the families and relatives of the women among whom he had always
lived.
Already he had spoken of little Aliss Ellis—a mere child, of
course—yet—yet it was a straw prophesying a change in the wind to her.
She knew; she had accomplished what she had desired.  She had done this
thing to herself, to her whole life, for his sake.  What more could she
wish for?
Sick at heart, she lifted her throbbing head and kissed his name once
more where she had written it on the envelope.  Then she placed it on
the desk, and lay down on the bed to wait for Silvette before ringing
for the maid who attended them; and after a little while she fell
asleep.
                             *CHAPTER XII*
                           *NUNC AUT NUNQUAM*
Warm weather continued; no flight occurred.  The men thrashed about with
the dogs after grouse and a few native woodcock bred in the willows
along the river, or rode, motored, and played cards.  One or two had to
give up, and return to the city.
Colonel Curmew was at his best on these gay occasions—gallant, jocose,
busy, everybody’s friend, including Jack Rivett’s, who quietly began to
hate him.
In the midst of the general tension and expectancy concerning the
long-awaited flight, Christine one morning entered her father’s study
and found the author of her being conferring with Mr. Dineen.
"This won’t do, Christine," he said.  "I’m busy."
"No, it won’t do," she admitted, looking so significantly at Mr. Dineen
that the jolly, big Irishman laughed.
"You want me to go out!" he said, shaking an enormous forefinger at
her.
"Please—for a few minutes."
"Sure," said Mr. Dineen with an amused glance at Rivett, who sat
inspecting his offspring with a face entirely devoid of expression.
When the big Mr. Dineen had closed the door behind him, Christine, a
trifle pale, walked resolutely to her father and laid her hand on his
shoulder.
"Dad?"
"What?"
"I’ve practically asked Billy Inwood to marry me."
Her father’s eyes bored through and through her.
"Who did the asking, Chrissy?"
"Both of us."
"What?" he barked.
"It wasn’t asking, exactly.  I have loved him for a year, and he has
loved me.  There has been a misunderstanding."
"About what?"
His daughter’s eyes never flinched.
"About a point of honor, father," she said quietly.
He grunted.
She went on, still resting her hand on his shoulder.
"We were very unhappy; but the point of honor involved straightened
itself out.... I happened to be in the rose arbor that evening.  He came
in by accident....  After we had talked a little, he told me that he was
free to speak if I would listen to him....  Then, somehow, we merely
looked at each other, and—and presently—presently we kissed each
other....  I don’t remember much else ... except that I said I would
marry him—before he asked me——"
"Did you also set the date?" inquired her father sarcastically.
"No....  Mother and I are considering.... Are you happy over it, dad?"
"Not violently."
"Why?"
"I don’t know anything about him," he snapped.
"Yes, you know that I’m in love with him."
"Certainly; of course.  Very worthy young man, no doubt."
"Also," continued his daughter calmly, "you know that Jim Edgerton is
his closest friend."
"That," said Rivett, "counts some."
"And mother likes him," concluded the girl.
Her father sat staring at her in silence. Suddenly she put her arms
around his neck, and the little man hid his spectacles on her breast for
a second.
"Thank you, dad, darling," she whispered.
"Chrissy—Chrissy—so soon!  I wanted you awhile yet." ... He jerked his
head free, produced a handkerchief, and began busily to polish his
eyeglasses.
"All right," he said brusquely, "I’ll talk it over with your mother....
She knows.... She knows more than I do.  They wouldn’t believe that in
Wall Street, but it’s true."
"Dad?"
"Yes, child."
"Couldn’t we live with you and mother?"
"Sure.  D’you think I’d let any young jackanapes take you entirely away?
You tell him I’ll scalp him if he talks that kind of thing to you." ...
He laughed harshly.  "But I’m a fool, Chrissy; you and I are talking
foolish.... You won’t come back to stay.  You won’t want to."
"I will!"
"No, dear; you don’t know yet....  Your mother and I made our own home.
It was a rough one, Chrissy, but it was ours.  You’ll do the same
ultimately.  It’s part of the game....  Tell your young man to come
here."
The girl slipped away; in a few moments Inwood knocked and entered.  Mr.
Rivett gave him a level and murderous look.
"How about that complication you got yourself into?" he asked harshly.
Inwood turned scarlet.
"I’m out of it."
"With honor?"
"Honorably."
"What was it?"
"You don’t mean to ask me that?"
"Yes, I do! ... But I didn’t expect an answer....  Can you support my
little girl decently?"
"Decently."
"Not in the style to which I have accustomed her?"
"No, sir."
"All right," he snapped.
After a silence the young fellow said:
"Do you disapprove of me?"
"How the devil can I?  I don’t know you. If you make my little girl a
good husband, I’ll love you like a son; if you don’t, I’ll—kill you. You
look all right; but there’s no use talking.... You show me what stuff
you’re made of, and I’ll do my part."
"All right," said Inwood, smiling.
Something in his smile interested Rivett.
"Was your mother a Lawrence?" he demanded suddenly.
"She was born Elizabeth Lawrence."
"Betty Lawrence," he repeated, staring at the younger man.
"Did you know her?" asked Inwood.
"I taught her in school....  Betty Lawrence....  Only two people ever
smiled like that—you and your mother....  You have good blood in you,
Inwood....  I know your father—in Wall Street.  We are on good terms....
Don’t ever be a fool again, will you?"
"No, sir."
They shook hands seriously.  As Inwood left, Dineen came in.
Rivett looked at Dineen without speaking for a full minute, then he said
slowly:
"My daughter is going to be married."
"God bless my soul!" ejaculated the big Irishman—"not that child!"
"Yes; I guess she means business, John."
"When?—in the name of the saints!"
"When she’s ready, I presume....  She’s a good girl....  They’re good
children. They’ve stayed as long as they could.  Their time is nearly
up....  But the smallest hut is a big barn when the children have taken
wing.... I wish I could have seen more of my father and mother....  But
I had to go out into a lean world and hunt a living."
"The best of us have passed that way," observed Dineen; and, after a
moment: "Who’s the lucky divil, Jacob?"
"Young Inwood."
"Stuart Inwood’s boy?"
"That’s the one."
Dineen lit a cigar and, drawing it into vaporous action, ruminated with
enormous thumbs joined.
"It’s good stock," he said, finally; "none better betwixt the Bowling
Green and Patroon Van Courtlandt’s old shebang.  There’s money, too; and
an opera box and a bit of a shack at Newport.  What kind of a lad is
it?"
"He can look me in the face," said Rivett. "Otherwise he looks like
everybody else of his sort, and probably resembles them, too. Ah!"—he
broke out angrily—"these sleek-headed, tailor-made, smooth-faced young
pups from New York, with their pleasant manners when they want anything,
and their ways and means and by-ways and ten-cent brains—God! Dineen, do
they really ever turn into men?  Answer me that!  You’ve lived long
enough to see a new-born snob grow to be thirty.  Do they ever turn into
anything except the harmless fools they’re born?"
Dineen slowly revolved his thumbs and squinted at a sunbeam, while the
smoke from the cigar in his cheek rose to the ceiling in a straight,
thin column.
[Illustration: "Dineen slowly revolved his thumbs and squinted at a
sunbeam."]
"Some of them become men," he said deliberately.  "The most o’ them is
born spots and rots; or, if they’re not, college addles ’em. But, God be
praised! if it wasn’t for them the good people of Reno, Palm Beach, and
Paris, France, would starve entirely.... Jacob, they say there’s a use
even for the San José scale; and cursing would become a lost art barring
the mosquito."
"What do you know about young Inwood?" asked Rivett.
"Nothing; he’s a broker."
"Then we’ve nothing to learn, I guess," said Rivett dryly, "unless he
gets into the papers.... Well, my wife likes him....  She’s always
right, John.  I’ll go and talk to her presently....  What were you
saying about young Edgerton before my daughter came?"
"I said that he’s the same as all the Edgertons. By jimmy!  I started
him on ink wells to see would he stand for it, and he was there every
morning at seven; and he cleaned those ink wells and desks till nobody
knew them—with his busted arm and all.  Then I set him at the ledgers,
and I let him stew for a week. A week was enough to see a good man
wasting his fist and eyes at fifteen per.
"’G’wan into the designing room,’ I said to him, using Doolan as meejum
for my remarks; and I let him stew there with his compass and his
tracing paper, doping out the work of worse than he.
"Then I gave Williamson the kitty-wink. ’Give us a pair of gates for a
gentleman’s estate,’ said Williamson, very damn polite, knowing who was
backin’ the lad for a place.... They’re using the sketch now."
"I told you so," said Rivett calmly.
"Ah, go on!  I told you so!  Let it go at that, Jacob.  So I talked to
Everly, and Everly sent him into the laboratory.  When he isn’t there
he’s nosing around the shops, or asking questions of Cost and McCorkle
over in Jersey, or he’s investigating the Holmes Construction plant."
"He’s got his eye on the game."
"Sure; it’s in him.  There’s iron in every Edgerton.  They’re all full
of ore.  He’s taken longer to open his eyes than the usual litter,
that’s all....  Got playing the art game, you say—like a kitten with a
paper ball.... There’s art in him, too, I guess.  Those gates were all
right....  But—you mean to give him his chance?"
Rivett nodded.  "I am Edgerton, Tennant & Co.  I’d like to have Edgerton
go back there some day....  They were square people.... I might have
used them a little easier.... My wife likes Edgerton....  She wishes
it."
"She wants him to have his chance," mused Dineen.
"What she wants, I want," said Rivett.... "And I might have been
easier on Edgerton, Tennant & Co....  I would have been—if we hadn’t
needed the plant."
Dineen nodded gravely.
"Sure!  A poor corporal of industry like you, Jake, needs what he can
pick up out o’ the ash can."
For a full minute neither spoke.  A slight flush faded from Rivett’s
cheek bones.
"You damned Irishman," he said, wincing, "when are you going back?"
"To-night, I think....  There’s an ash can I haven’t raked over—the
Carrol-Baker Company."
"You’d better fix that," said Rivett dryly; "there may be a lump of slag
or two we can use for filling in ballast."
Dineen winked, rose, deposited the ashes from his cigar on the window
ledge, and sauntered forth—to meet Jack walking swiftly and firmly
toward his father’s study.
"Hello, young man!" exclaimed Dineen, "is the house afire, or has the
brown jug below run dry?"
"No fear," said the young man, smiling, but continuing on his way.
Dineen looked after him with shrewd, blue eyes.
"I’m a monkey," he said to himself, "if that young man isn’t on some
such errand as took his sister to the same place an hour ago. If he is,
God help him! for Jacob’s still sore all over with the news from the
front stoop."
Jack knocked, and his father, who had settled himself for five minutes’
hard thinking, rapped out: "Who’s there?"
"It’s Jack.  May I come in?"
"Come on," said his father grimly, "I am—" but catching sight of his
son’s face he stopped short.
"Father?"
"What?" snapped Rivett senior, instinctively squaring his shoulders.
"May I talk to you as two men ought to talk together, or must I assume
the attitude of a child to its father?"
"Talk as you feel.  I had a notion that you were still my son—maybe I’m
mistaken.  In that case you may try to bully me if you care to.  Go on."
"I didn’t mean that, dad."
"I know you didn’t; but you’ve come in here with your mind already made
up that I won’t do what you want me to do.  That’s no good, Jack.  Go
into everything cocksure that you’ll win out.  It’s the only way you
stand any chance at all.  Proceed."
The boy sat down and gazed absently out of the window; after a few
moments he turned his head and looked at his father.
"Dad," he said, "I’m in love."
Rivett senior regarded him in angry amazement, for a second only; then
the grim mask of a face resumed its weasel-eyed and expressionless
immobility.
"Babies have to go through teething, too," he observed.
Jack said pleasantly: "Wouldn’t you rather I came to you and told you
about it?"
"Yes; a boy is all right who tells his parents.  Who is the girl?"
"Silvette."
An unaccustomed color dyed Mr. Rivett’s pallid temples.
