and clergyman buys farm to teach his doctrines !" 
There was a picture of Darrell, standing upon a ladder 
and nailing up an announcement of his defiance to the 





institution of marriage; and there were pictures of 
his wife and child, and of the farm he had bought, and 
a long account of the colony which he was organizing, 
and in which he meant to preach and practice his ideas 
of "free love". 

Thyrsis was half dazed. "I don't believe it!" he 
cried ; whereat his mother wrung her hands. 

"Not believe it!" she exclaimed. "Why, the paper 
even gives the price he paid for the place !" 

So Thyrsis took the article and went to see Henry 
Darrell again ; and there followed one of the most pain- 
ful experiences of his life. 

He found his friend like a man blasted by a stroke 
of lightning. His very physical appearance was 
altered; his voice shook and his eyes were wild, and he 
paced the room, his whole aspect one cry of agony. 

He pointed Thyrsis to a lot of clippings that lay 
upon the table the first editorial comments upon this 
new pronouncement. There was one from an evening 
paper, which had close upon a million circulation, and 
had devoted its whole editorial page to a scathing de- 
nunciation, in which it was declared that "Prof. Dar- 
rell's morality is that of the higher apes." 

"Think of it !" the man cried. "And the thing will 
go from one end of the country to the other !" 

"But" gasped Thyrsis, bewildered "then it is not 
true?" 

"True?" cried Darrell. "True? How can you ask 
me?" 

"But the colony ! What is it to be?" 

"There is not going to be any colony. I never 
dreamed of such a thing!" 

"And haven't you bought any farm?" 



 

"My wife bought a farm, over a year ago because 
we wanted to live in the country !" 

"But then," gasped Thyrsis "how dare they?" 

"They dare anything with me!" cried the other. 
"Anything!" 

"And have you no redress?" 

"Redress? What redress?" 

He went on to tell Thyrsis what had happened. He 
and Mrs. Darrell had gone down to the farm to see 
about getting it ready, and a woman had come, repre- 
senting that she wished to write a magazine article about 
"the country-homes of literary Americans". Upon 
this pretext she had secured a photograph of the place, 
and of Darrell, and of his wife and child. She had 
even attempted to secure a photograph of his wife's 
aged mother, who lived with her, and who was involved 
in the affair because the money belonged to her. Then 
the woman had gone away and a couple of weeks later 
had come this ! 

"And I thought they were through with us!" Dar- 
rell whispered, with a shudder. "I thought it was all 
over !" 

He sat in a chair, with his face hid in his arms. 
Thyrsis put his hand upon his shoulder, and the man 
caught it. "Listen," he exclaimed. "You can see this 
thing from the outside, you know the literary world. 
Do you think that I can ever rise above this? Is there 
any use in trying?" 

"How do you mean?" Thyrsis asked, perplexed. 

"I mean is it worth while for me to go on writing? 
Can I ever have any influence?" 

Thyrsis was shocked at the question as he had been 
at the way Darrell took the whole thing. He knew 
that his friend had money enough to live comfortably ; 





and why should any sort of criticism matter to a man 
who was economically free? 

"Brother," he said, "you have forgotten your Dante." 

"How do you mean?" asked the other. 

"Segui il tuo corso e lascia dir le gente!" quoted 
Thyrsis ; and then he added, "You don't seem to realize 
that these are newspapers, and nobody really credits 
them." 

"Ah, but they do !" cried Darrell. "You don't know 
what I have been through with ! My oldest friends hare 
cut me! Clergymen have refused to sit at table with 
me ! The organization that I gave ten years of my life 
to founding has gone all to pieces. I have been utterly 
ruined I have been wiped out, destroyed!" 

"But, my dear man," Thyrsis argued, "you are set- 
ting out to teach a new doctrine, one that is abhorrent 
to people. And how can you expect to avoid being at- 
tacked? It seems to me that either you ought not to 
have done it, or else been prepared for some of this 
uproar." 

"But because a man becomes a Socialist, are they to 
libel him in these foul ways?" 

"I don't mean that. It's not only that you are a 
Socialist, but that you have defied their marriage-laws." 

"But I haven't !" exclaimed Darrell. 

"What do you mean?" asked Thyrsis, perplexed. 

"I have defied no law nor even any convention. I 
have done everything that the world requires." 

Thyrsis stared at him, amazed. "Why, surely," he 
gasped, "you and and Mrs. Darrell you are not 
married?" 

"Married!" exclaimed the other. "We were married 
here in New York, by a regularly-ordained clergyman !" 

Thyrsis could not find words to express his dis- 



 

may. "I I had no idea of that!" he gasped. "I 
thought " 

"You see the lies !" cried the other. "Even you had 
swallowed them !" 

It took Thyrsis some time to adjust himself to this 
new point of view. He had thought of his friend as 
a man who had boldly defied the convention of marriage ; 
and instead of that he was apparently a man cowering 
under the lash of the world's undeserved rage. But if 
so what an amazing and incredible thing was the 
mesh of slander and falsehood in which he had been 
entangled ! 

12. LITTLE by little Thyrsis drew from Darrell the 
story of his marital experience. Before he had been 
of age, as a poor student, he had boarded with a woman 
many years his senior, who had set out to lure him into 
marrying her. "I don't believe that she ever loved me 
one hour," he said. "She had made up her mind that 
I was a man of brilliant parts, and that I would have 
worldly success. To me the thing was like an evil 
dream I couldn't realize it. And I can't tell you about 
it now it was too horrible. She was older than I, 
and so different she was more like a man. And 
for twenty years she held me ; I had to stay I was ut- 
terly at her mercy !" 

The man's voice fell to a whisper, and he pressed 
Thyrsis' hand convulsively; there were tears upon his 
cheeks. "I could not tell it all to anyone," he said. 
''It makes me cry like a child to think of it. I'm only 
getting over it little by little realizing how I was tor- 
tured. This woman had no interest in me, intellectual 
or spiritual ; she brought up my children to despise me. 
I would stay upstairs in my study, writing sermons 





that was all my life ! For twenty years I waded through 
my own blood !" 

Darrell paused to get control of himself, and then 
went on. 

"One of my parishioners was my present wife's 
mother. She was one of the old-time abolitionists, and 
she was wealthy ; and now, in her old age, she saw the 
new light, and became a Socialist. This, of course, 
was like gall to her family ; they were powers in the 
state the railroad people, who control the legislature 
and run the government. And so their newspapers de- 
nounced me, and denounced the university where I 
taught. 

"Then came her daughter a young girl out of col- 
lege. I was at their home often, and we became friends. 
She saw how unhappy I was, and she tried to open my 
wife's eyes, and to win her over to me. But, of course, 
she failed in that ; and then, little by little we found that 
we loved each other. You know me you know that I 
am not a base man, nor a careless man ; and you will 
believe me when I tell you that there was nothing be- 
tween us that the world could have called wrong. We 
knew that we loved, and we knew that there was no 
hope. And that went on for eight years ; for eight 
years I renounced and strove with every power of my 
heart and soul to make something out of that renuncia- 
tion, to transmute it into spiritual power. And I 
failed I could not do it ; and in the end I knew the 
reason. It was not beauty and nobility it was mad- 
ness and horror; it was not life it was death! The 
time came when I knew that our renunciation was simply 
a crime against the soul. Can you see what I mean?" 

"Yes," said Thyrsis, "I can see." 

"And see what that meant to me the situation I 



 

faced! I was a clergyman and preaching a new cru- 
sade to the world. It was like being in a cage, with 
bars of red-hot metal. A hundred times I would go 
towards them and a hundred times I would shrink 
back. But I had to grasp them in the end." 

"I see!" whispered the other. 

"The thing was becoming a scandal anyway; the 
world was bound to make a scandal of it, whether we 
would or no. It was a scandal that I visited in another 
woman's home, it was a scandal that I spent her money 
in my propaganda. The very children on the streets 
would taunt my children about it. And then, my health 
broke down from overwork ; and the mother was going 
abroad, and she invited me to go with her and her 
daughter ; and, of course, that made it worse. So at 
last the old lady came to me. 'You love my daughter,' 
she said, 'and the world has thrown her into your arms. 
You must let a divorce be arranged, and then marry 
my daughter.' 

"And you got the divorce yourself?" asked Thyrsis. 

"No," said Darrell. "There were grounds enough ; 
but it would have meant to attack my wife in the public 
prints, and I would not do it. I had to let her charge 
me with desertion, and say nothing." 

"And, of course, they distorted that," said Thyrsis. 

"They distorted everything!" cried the other. "My 
present wife gave my first wife all her patrimony ; and 
I thought that was generous I thought it was a proof 
of love. But the newspapers made it that she had 
bought me!" 

"And they distorted your second marriage?" asked 
Thyrsis. 

"They lied about it deliberately," was Darrell's reply. 
"Some of our friends gave little addresses of greeting; 





and so the newspapers called it a new kind of wedding 
a 'Socialist wedding', which we had designed for our 
new kind of unions ! And now, when we buy a farm, 
so that we can live quietly in the country, they turn 
that into a 'free love colony' !" 

13. THYRSIS went away from this interview with 
some new problems to ponder upon. He had seen a 
little of this power of the newspapers to defile and 
torment a man ; but he had never dreamed of anything 
as bad as this. This was murderous, this was mon- 
strous. He saw these papers now as gigantic engines 
of exploitation and oppression irresponsible, unscrup- 
ulous, wanton turned loose in society to crush and 
destroy whom they would. 

They had taken this man Darrell and they had poured 
out their poisons upon him; they had tortured him 
hideously, they had burned him up as with vitriol. As 
a public force he was no longer a human being at all 
he was a deformity, a spectre conjured up to bring 
fright to the beholder. And through it all he was 
utterly helpless as much at their mercy as an infant 
in the hands of savages. And what had he done? Why 
had the torture been visited upon him? 

Thyrsis pictured the men who had led in this soul- 
hunt. They were supposed to be enlightened Americans 
at the dawn of the twentieth century ; and did they 
truly hold to the superstition of marriage as a religious 
sacrament, not to be dissolved by mortal power? Did 
they really believe that a man who had once been drawn 
into matrimony was obligated for life no matter how 
unhappy he might be, no matter to what indignities he 
might be subjected? Or, if they did recognize the 
permissibility of divorce then why this hue and cry 



4S 

after Darrell, who had borne his punishment for twenty 
years, and had waited for eight or ten years to test 
the depths of his new love? 

The question answered itself; and the answer 
fanned Thyrsis' soul into a blaze of indignation. All 
this patter about the deserted wife, pitting at home with 
her children and weeping her eyes out all that was 
so much hocus-pocus for the ears of the mob. The 
chiefs of this Inquisition and their torturers and slaves 
wrote it with their tongues in their cheeks. What they 
saw was that they had got securely strapped upon their 
rack the man who had threatened their power, who had 
laid bare its sources and exposed its iniquity. And 
they meant that if ever he came out of their torture- 
chamber, it should be so mangled and crippled that 
never again would he lift a finger against them ! 

The gist of the "Darrell case", when you got right 
down to it, was a quarrel over property ; it was the 
snarling of wolves who had been disturbed at their 
feeding. Darrell had denounced wealth and the ex- 
ploiters of wealth, and now he had married a woman 
of wealth ; and was he to get away with his prize ? That 
was the meaning of all the loud halloo for that the 
hounds were unleashed and the hunting-horns sounded. 

Thyrsis pictured the men who "wrote up" the Dar- 
rell story. He had known them in the newspaper-world 
the servants of the giant publicity-machine ; living 
and working in the roar and rush of it, in a stifling at- 
mosphere where the finer qualities of the soul were 
poisoned and withered over night. They lived their 
lives, almost without exception, by means of alcohol and 
coffee and tobacco; they were scornful, disillusioned, 
cynical beyond all telling and all belief. Their only 
god in heaven or earth or the waters under the earth 





was "copy". To such men there were two possible 
bonds of interest in a woman the first being lust, and 
the second money. In the case of Henry Darrell they 
found both these motives ; and so how clear the story 
was to them ! 

Thyrsis thought, also, of the men who owned and 
managed the papers ; those who had turned loose the 
hunt and directed it. Rich men were they, who had 
built these publicity machines for their own purposes. 
And what were they in their private lives? Some of 
them were notoriously dissolute; and still others hid 
their ways under a veil of hypocrisy just as in their 
editorials they hid their class-interests under pretenses 
of principle. And how easy it would have been for 
Darrell to get what he wanted without losing his repu- 
tation if only he had been willing to follow the ex- 
ample of these eminent citizens! Thyrsis knew one 
man, the editor of an appallingly respectable journal, 
who had invited a young girl to his wife's home and 
there attempted to seduce her. He knew the proprietor 
of another, whose cheerful custom it was to go about 
among his newly-married women-friends and suggest 
that, inasmuch as he was a "superman," and their hus- 
bands were weaklings, they should let him become in 
secret the father of their children. This amateur 
