      printer. It is that rather unusual suit of black plate-mail,
      called 'Brigandine Armour,' a XV century suit from Aragon; and the
      quilted under-jacket has been ruined by moths and has gone
      completely to pieces. It is a very valuable suit.

      "Would you tell me what to do?

  "Very sincerely yours,
  "JACQUELINE NEVERS."

An hour later he still sat there with the letter in his hand, gazing at
nothing. And until the telephone beside him rang twice he had not
stirred.

"Who is it?" he asked finally.

At the reply his face altered subtly, and he bowed his head to listen.

The distant voice spoke again, and:

"Silverwood?" he asked.

"Yes, here's your party."

An interval filled with a vague whirring, then:

"Mr. Desboro?"

"Yes. Good-morning, Miss Nevers."

"Good-morning. Have you a note from me?"

"Yes, thank you. It came this morning. I was just reading it--again."

"I thought I ought to consult you in such a matter."

"Certainly."

"Then--what are your wishes?"

"My wishes are yours."

"I cannot decide such a matter. It will be very expensive----"

"If it is worth the cost to you, it is worth it to me."

"I don't know what you mean. The burden of decision lies with you this
time, doesn't it?"

"With us both. Unless you wish me to assume it."

"But it is yours to assume!"

"If you wish, then. But I may ask your opinion, may I not?"

There was a silence, then:

"Whatever you do I approve. I have no--opinion."

"You do not approve all I do."

The rejoinder came faintly: "How do you know?"

"I--wrote to you. Do you approve my writing to you?"

"Yes. If you do."

"And do you approve of what I wrote?"

"Not of all that you wrote."

"I wrote that I would not see you again."

"Yes."

"Do you think that is best?"

"I--do not think about it."

He said: "That, also, is best. Don't think of it at all. And about the
armour, do exactly what you would do if you were in my place. Good-bye."

"Mr. Desboro----"

"Yes."

"Could you wait a moment? I am trying to think----"

"Don't try, Jacqueline!"

"Please wait--for me!"

There was a silence; a tiny spot of blood reddened his bitten lip before
she spoke again; then:

"I wished to tell you something. I knew why you wrote. Is it right for
me to tell you that I understood you? I wanted to write and say so,
and--say something else--about how I felt--but it seems I can't.
Only--we could be friends more easily now--if you wish."

"You have not understood!" he said.

"Yes, I have, Mr. Desboro. But we can be friends?"

"Could you be mine, after what I have written?"

"I thought I couldn't, at first. But that day was a--long one. And when
a girl is much alone she becomes very honest with herself. And it all
was entirely new to me. I didn't know what I ought to have done about
it--only what I wished to do."

"And--what is that, Jacqueline?"

"Make things as they were--before----"

"Before I wrote?"

"Yes."

"All up to that time you wish might be again as it was? All?"

No answer.

"All?" he repeated.

"Don't ask me. I don't know--I don't know what I think any more."

"How deeply do you suppose I feel about it?"

"I did not know you felt anything very deeply."

There was a long pause, then her voice again:

"You know--you need not be afraid. I did not know enough to be until you
wrote. But I understand, now."

He said: "It will be all right, then. It will be quite all right,
Jacqueline. I'll come up on the noon train."

       *       *       *       *       *

His car met him at the station. The snow had melted and the wet macadam
road glittered under a declining winter sun, as the car rolled smoothly
away through the still valleys of Westchester.

Mrs. Quant, in best bib and tucker and lilac ribbons, welcomed him, and
almost wept at his pallor; but he shrugged impatiently and sprang up
the low steps. Here the necessity for self-control stopped him short on
his way to the armoury. He turned to Mrs. Quant with an effort:

"Is everything all right?"

"No, Mr. James. Phibby broke a cup and saucer Saturday, and there is new
kittens in the laundry--which makes nine cats----"

"Oh, all right! Miss Nevers is here?"

"Yes, sir--in the liberry--which ain't been dusted right by that Phibby
minx----"

"Tell Phoebe to dust it!" he said sternly. "Do you suppose Miss Nevers
cares to handle dirty books!" His restless glance fell on the clock:
"Tell Farris I'm here and that Miss Nevers and I will lunch as soon as
it's served. And say to Miss Nevers that I'll be down in a few minutes."
He turned and mounted the stairs to his room, and found it full of
white, clove-scented carnations.

Mrs. Quant came panting after him:

"Miss Nevers, she cut them in the greenhouse, and told me to put 'em in
your room, sayin' as how clove pinks is sanitary. Would you--would you
try a few m-m-magic drops, Mr. James, sir? Miss Nevers takes 'em
regular."

"Oh, Lord!" he exclaimed, laughing in sheer exuberance of spirits. "I'll
swallow anything you like, only hurry!"

She dosed him with great content, he, both hands in soap-suds, turning
his head to receive the potion. And at last, ablutions finished, he ran
down the stairs, checked himself, and managed to stroll leisurely
through the hall and into the library.

She was writing; looked up, suddenly pale under her golden crown of
hair; and the red lips quivered, but her eyes were steady.

She bent her head again, both hands abandoned to him, sitting in silence
while his lips rested against her fingers.

"Is all well with you, Jacqueline?"

"Yes. And with you?"

"All is well with me. I missed you--if you know what that really means."

"Did you?"

"Yes. Won't you even look at me?"

"In a moment. Do you see all these piles of manuscript? All that is your
new catalogue--and mine," she added, with a faint smile; but her head
remained averted.

"You wonderful girl!" he said softly. "You wonderful girl!"

"Thank you. It was a labor of--pleasure." Colour stole to the tips of
her ears. "I have worked--worked--every minute since----"

"Yes."

"Really, I have--every minute. But somehow, it didn't seem to tire me.
To-day--now--I begin to feel a little tired." She rested her cheek on
one hand, still looking away from him.

"I took a peep into the porcelain and jade rooms," she said, "just a
glance over what lies before me. Mrs. Quant very kindly gave me the
keys. Did you mind?"

"Do I mind anything that it pleases you to do? What did you find in the
jade room?"

She smiled: "Jadeite, of course; and lapis and crystals--the usual."

"Any good ones?"

"Some are miracles. I don't really know, yet; I gave just one swift
glance and fled--because you see I haven't finished in the armoury, and
I ought not to permit myself the pleasures of curiosity."

"The pleasures of curiosity and of anticipation are the only real ones.
Sages have said it."

She shook her head.

"Isn't it true?" he insisted.

She looked up at him at last, frank-eyed but flushed:



"Which is the real pleasure," she asked, "seeing each other, or
anticipating the--the resumption of the entente cordial?"

"You've smashed the sages and their philosophy," he nodded, studying the
exquisite, upturned features unsmilingly. "To be with you is the
greater--content. It's been a long time, hasn't it?"

She nodded thoughtfully: "Five days and a half."

"You--counted them, too?"

"Yes."

This wouldn't do. He rose and walked over to the fire, which needed a
log or two; she turned and looked after him with little expression in
her face except that the blue of her eyes had deepened to a lilac tint,
and the flush on her cheeks still remained.

"You know," she said, "I didn't mean to take you from any business in
New York--or pleasures----"

He shuddered slightly.

"Did I?" she asked.

"No."

"I only wished you to come--when you had time----"

"I know, Jacqueline. Don't show me your soul in every word you utter."

"What?"

He turned on his heel and came back to her, and she shrank a little, not
knowing why; but he came no nearer than her desk.

[Illustration: "'The thing to do,' he said ... 'is for us both to keep
very busy'"]

"The thing to do," he said, speaking with forced animation and at
random, "is for us both to keep very busy. I think I'll go into
farming--raise some dinky thing or other--that's what I'll do. I'll go
in for the country squire business--that's what I'll do. And I'll have
my neighbours in. I'm never here long enough to ask 'em. They're a funny
lot; they're all right, though--deadly respectable. I'll give a few
parties--ask some people from town, too. Betty Barkley could run the
conventional end of it. And you'd come floating in with other unattached
girls----"

"You want me!"

He said, astonished: "Well, why on earth do you suppose I'm taking the
trouble to ask the others?"

"You want me--to come--where your friends----"

"Don't you care to?"

"I--don't know." The surprise of it still widened her eyes and parted
her lips a little. She looked up at him, perplexed, encountered
something in his eyes which made her cheeks redden again.

"What would they think?" she asked.

"Is there anything to think?"

"N-no. But they don't know who I am. And I have nobody to vouch for me."

"You ought to have a companion."

"I don't want any----"

"Of course; but you ought to have one. Can you afford one?"

"I don't know. I don't know what they--they cost----"

"Let me fix that up," he said, with animation. "Let me think it out. I
know a lot of people--I know some indigent and respectable old terrors
who ought to fill the bill and hold their tongues as long as their
salary is paid----"

"Oh, please don't, Mr. Desboro!"

He seated himself on the arm of her chair:

"Jacqueline, dear, it's only for your sake----"

"But I did understand your letter!"

"I know--I know. I just want to see you with other people. I just want
to have them see you----"

"But I don't need a chaperon. Business women are understood, aren't
they? Even women whom you know go in for house decoration, and cigarette
manufacturing, and tea rooms, and hats and gowns."

"But they were socially known before they went in for these things. It's
the way of the world, Jacqueline--nothing but suspicion when
intelligence and beauty step forward from the ranks. And what do you
suppose would happen if a man of my sort attempts to vouch for any
woman?"

"Then don't--please don't try! I don't care for it--truly I don't. It
was nice of you to wish it, Mr. Desboro, but--I'd rather be just what I
am and--your friend."

"It can't be," he said, under his breath. But she heard him, looked up
dismayed, and remained mute, crimsoning to the temples.

"This oughtn't to go on," he said, doggedly.

She said: "You have not understood me. I am different from you. You are
not to blame for thinking that we are alike at heart; but, nevertheless,
it is a mistake. I can be what I will--not what I once seemed to be--for
a moment--with you--" Her head sank lower and remained bowed; and he saw
her slender hands tightening on the arm of the chair.

"I--I've got to be honest," she said under her breath. "I've got to
be--in every way. I know it perfectly well, Mr. Desboro. Men seem to be
different--I don't know why. But they seem to be, usually. And all I
want is to remain friends with you--and to remember that we are friends
when I am at work somewhere. I just want to be what I am, a business
woman with sufficient character and intelligence to be your friend
quietly--not even for one evening in competition with women belonging to
a different life--women with wit and beauty and charm and savoir
faire----"

"Jacqueline!" he broke out impulsively. "I want you to be my guest
here. Won't you let me arrange with some old gorgon to chaperon you? I
can do it! And with the gorgon's head on your moral shield you can
silence anybody!"

He began to laugh; she sat twisting her fingers on her lap and looking
up at him in a lovely, distressed sort of way, so adorably perplexed and
yet so pliable, so soft and so apprehensive, that his laughter died on
his lips, and he sat looking down at her in silence.

After a while he spoke again, almost mechanically:

"I'm trying to think how we can best be on equal terms, Jacqueline. That
is all. After your work is done here, I want to see you here and
elsewhere--I want you to come back at intervals, as my guest. Other
people will ask you. Other people must be here, too, when you are. I
know some who will accept you on your merits--if you are properly
chaperoned. That is all I am thinking about. It's fairer to you."

But even to himself his motive was not clear--only the rather confused
idea persisted that women in his own world knew how to take care of
themselves, whatever they chose to do about it--that Jacqueline would
stand a fairer chance with herself, and with him, whatever his
intentions might really be. It would be a squarer deal, that was all.

She sat thinking, one slim forefinger crook'd under her chin; and he saw
her blue eyes deep in thought, and the errant lock curling against her
cheek. Then she raised her head and looked at him:

"Do you think it best?"

"Yes--you adorable little thing!"

She managed to sustain his gaze:
