indeed. Chan felt as if there was something he 
did not quite understand, but he was going to keep 
his part of the secret loyally. 

So they said good-by. Dan would take the little 
boy over home. 

The neighbors wondered at the many boxes and 
packages they watched going into the Mann house. 

Mrs. Greer, who lived on the lower side, ran in 
to Mrs. Chedister’s. 

“ What do you suppose is going on? ” she asked 
in a sort of fever heat. Can it be that Mr. 
Mann is planning to be married, yet it does seem 
like it. I wonder if it is to his housekeeper. 
She’s a very nice-appearing person, but it would 
make it quite awkward. Of course we are not 
expected to be on calling terms with house- 
keepers.” 

It is embarrassing when a man does that, and 
I think it a very ill-judged step. The woman 
hasn’t any real social position. It seems to me 
Mr. Mann might look higher. He has a nice 
business standing and is a man of means, and the 
men like him, and he doesn’t seem afraid of spend- 
ing his money.” 

That’s a beautiful team of his'” 


 

“ Yes. Now if we kept a man I’d put him 
up to finding out something by that Dan. But 
I suppose we’ll learn by and by. Only one 
wouldn’t know just how to receive the new Mrs. 
Mann.” 

So they gossiped up and down the avenue. 

Over at the little red house they talked about 
Christmas. It seemed to Marigold that her 
mother acted quite indifferent. They had very 
little money, to be sure, for she had not been 
doing much. She went over to Mrs. Townsend’s 
on Monday and helped make mince pies and put 
up curtains, and do various odds and ends as they 
were going to have a Christmas eve party for the 
young folks. Marigold made over Laurel’s rag 
doll, put in blue eyes and black eyebrows, and 
begged a little red ink for the lips. She and Rilla 
had been knitting the twins new hoods. Prim 
made a picture-book, cutting flowers out of old 
garden calendars her father had laid away, and 
pasting them into an old blank-book. 

“ Oh dear, if we could only have a real rich 
Christmas for once,” and she sighed. Mother, 
aren’t you going to make anything?” 

I’m going to the store to-morrow to get a 
few things. Oh, yes. I’ll make some crullers ” 

“ And gingerbread men ! It wouldn’t be Christ- 


 

mas without them. We’ll hang up our stockings 
anyhow. And maybe ” 

She didn’t hardly dare let the maybe ” fly. 
If she had she would have said, “ Maybe Mr. 
Mann will bring us something,” but she thought 
her mother acted rather queer when his name was 
mentioned. 

Amaryllis was making various little things. 
New white aprons for the twins out of some old 
white dimity she had found in the rummage heap. 
If she could have spent a little money. Well, they 
would go to the Sunday-school room on Christmas 
afternoon and get a cornucopia of candy, an 
orange, and a book. That would be something. 

Chan was very quiet, too, somehow. But then 
the children were in school all day and stopped 
coming home to have a little fun. So there was 
only the evening. School was dismissed Tuesday 
afternoon, and they could have all day Wednesday. 

If Dan would come and take us out in the 
big sleigh wouldn’t it be splendid ! ” cried Primrose, 
and they all gave a long, deep sigh. 

Mother came home with quite a big parcel, 
and of course no one would peep into it. Then 
she made crullers and a hot johnny-cake for sup- 
per, and before they were through Linn came in 
whistling. 


 

‘‘ Why, Linn, what sent you home? To-morrow 
isn’t Christmas ! ” said Rilla. 

It’s first cousin to it, though.” Then he looked 
at his mother and laughed. She flushed up, and 
then rose and went to the stove as something there 
needed her. 

And I have a Santa Claus dollar,” went on 
Linn. “ I think it is a real Santa Claus when it 
is something you don’t expect. And it was funny, 
but Mr. Beers always says on Saturday, ' Now 
you’ll be down bright and early Monday morning,’ 
and he never said a word about Friday. But he 
did say, ' Linn, you’ve been a good, faithful boy 
and I wish you the best Christmas you ever had.’ 
Mother, you don’t think he means to let me go, do 
you? I’ve been doing my very best. You had a 
long talk with him,” and the boy’s bright face was 
very anxious. 

‘‘ No, Linn, dear. He said to me you gave good 
satisfaction and he should be very sorry to have 
you go.” 

“ Then I’m not going. You may bet your bot- 
tom dollar on that.” 

Come and have some supper.” 

They stuffed me down there. A chunk of 
raisin cake, lickin’ good, too, two doughnuts, and 
a great piece of mince pie. Next Christmas I 




mean to be rich enough to have mince pies — and 
a turkey.” 

May I be there, here, or wherever it is to 
share them,” appended Marigold. 

It was enough like other nights, except Linn’s 
being home, yet there seemed something different 
in the atmosphere. The twins were put to bed, 
Lai begging that her stocking should be hung up. 
Tip got his arms around Chandler and insisted 
upon hearing over again the wonderful things that 
were in the New York stores. Great stuffed ani- 
mals, cats that could mew, dogs that could bark, 
sheep that could ba-a, splendid drums and curious 
toys and such piles of candies. Linn dropped 
down on the old lounge and went fast asleep. 

Mrs. Firth lighted a lamp, put a shawl around 
her, and went upstairs. There were some things 
she wanted to look over. She opened the old 
chest that had been grandmother’s. Her wedding 
dress of youth, a plain, simple muslin, was in it. 
She had meant next summer to make it over for 
Rilla. There was a hand-wrought lace shawl that 
her own mother had worked, and some pieces of 
finery she had never needed for herself. Papers, 
various things she had tucked away, and a pair 
of silk stockings, cream color now. She would 
wear them on Christmas day. Then she dropped 


 

down in a little huddle and cried. Was it true 
some one was going to take her and the eight 
children, and that she was to have no more anxiety, 
no more struggles with poverty, and be happy, be 
loved! It did not seem true. Wouldn’t some- 
thing happen! One always asks it on the eve of 
a great joy. She had been loved before, but not 
in this fashion. Mr. Firth had been twelve years 
older, and though she and Mr. Mann had come to 
middle life, it seemed like a new youth to her. 

She packed a few things into a basket, and 
then came downstairs. Oh, how good the warmth 
felt ! She held her hands over the cheering stove. 

Momsey, you look blue and cold, and as if 
you had been crying. What made you stay so 
long up in that cold garret ? ” asked Marigold. 

Why, you sleep up there all night.” Her heart 
leaped at the thought of the comfort they were 
going to have. 

Well, that’s different. We have the good 
warm brick, and we just cuddle down in the 
blankets and go to sleep before you can say ‘ Jack 
Robinson.’ ” 

“ Why do you have to say ‘ Jack Robinson ’ ? ” 
inquired Tip sleepily. 

Well — I don’t know, unless he carries about 
a bag of sleepy powder. Tip, do go to bed.” 




Chan convoyed him into the bedroom, and soon 
had him tucked in. Then he came back and placed 
one small arm about his mother’s waist, and whis- 
pered, I know. He told me we were to go over 
for Christmas.” 

She colored as she bent and kissed him. There 
was no need of keeping part of the secret any 
longer. The other he must tell himself. 

“Children,” — there were only five now, the 
others were in bed — “ children, we are all go- 
ing over to Grafton to-morrow to spend our 
Christmas ” 

“ Oh, mother ! ” and Marigold sprang up and 
gave her a tremendous hug that nearly pushed her 
over. “ Is that what’s made you so sort of queer 
and as if you didn’t take much interest in fixing 
anything? We have been talking about it, and 
somehow it seemed as if it would be a rather 
doleful Christmas. Oh, I’m so glad! I could 
hop around on one foot.” 

With that she caught Prim, and they pirouetted 
round the room as if they were born ballet dancers. 

It’s so delightful,” said Amaryllis sedately. 

Mother, doesn’t Mr. Mann think of the nicest 
things? ” 

“ That’s why I have a holiday to-morrow, I 
s’pose.” Linn had been wondering all the time. 


 

‘‘ And Mr. Beers was so pleasant about it I thought 
he couldn’t mean to discharge me. Hurray ! It’ll 
beat Thanksgiving I bet a cow ! ” 

“ And if you lose you haven’t any cow to pay 
with,” appended Chan. 

Children, you must all go to bed now. It’s 
getting late. Yes, it was — it was splendid,” she 
could think of no other word without betraying 
herself, “ splendid in him to ask us to share his 
Christmas when we had so little of our own. And 
I hope you will all be grateful and try your best, 
for it seems as if Heaven had sent us its choicest 
blessing.” 

Then she kissed them and hurried them off lest 
she should give way to the emotions that surged 
within her. 


CHAPTER XVIII 


A WEDDING AND CHRISTMAS 

It was a glorious winter morning. The sun 
came up out of a sea of iridescent light and pres- 
ently settled to a flawless blue. There was still 
sleighing, it took only a little snow to renew it in 
country places. The older children did up the 
chores. Linn brought in two armfuls of wood 
and piled it up behind the stove so that it would 
get thoroughly dry. Then he fed the chickens and 
said laughingly — 

“ Why, it seems like old times. But how will 
they manage these two days ? ” 

“ Oh, some one will have to come over and see 
to them.” 

Will we come home to-morrow night, think? ” 

Why ” His mother made a sudden 

errand into the bedroom to hide her embarrass- 
ment. 

Circumstances had favored secrecy and saved 
Mrs. Firth from curious questioning. The road 
from Grafton ran straight along until it met the 

 

old north road. That was all big farms, though 
it led down to the village. This little sort of back 
lane took in the rear of them. With the exception 
of the little old red house there was no other for 
about half a mile and that was Squire Briggs’s. 
After that the real village began, mostly on the 
other side, where cottages were closer together. 
Then the matter had been so sudden and strange 
to her. She had felt that she ought to confide 
in Mrs. Burnham, but Mr. Mann had said, Leave 
that to me. I’ll settle it all right.” He was not 
going to have her criticised or commented upon. 
The children put on their best clothes. 

“ Mother, I don’t know what we would have 
done this winter without old Aunt Kitty’s bundle,” 
said thoughtful Amaryllis. “ And it’s funny but 
we didn’t like it much at first. You can do a 
great many things when you take time to consider. 
If necessity is the mother of invention, I think 
poverty must be the father.” 

Yes,” with a smiling nod. 

“ There’s the sleigh — oh, only the little sleigh ! ” 
Mr. Mann sprang out and blanketed Bonnie, 
then marched into the house with a merry general 
greeting, and walked straight over to Mrs. Firth, 
taking her in his arms and kissing her dozens of 
times while the children stood in astonishment. 


 

Then he turned her around facing them, but she 
did not look up. 

He was so bright and fresh, clean-shaven, and 
immaculate in attire, and his face fairly shone 
with joyous satisfaction, the dimple deeper than 
ever. 

“ Children,” and his voice seemed richer and 
tenderer, I have asked your mother to marry 
me, and she has consented. I wanted Chan at 
first and bargained for him, then on Thanksgiving 
I found I wanted you all and your mother in the 
bargain. So you are all to come over, and this 
afternoon your mother is going to give me herself 
and all of you children until you are grown men 
and women. I am to be your father, and my 
home is to be yours. We are to love each other, 
to share whatever comes, to make each other as 
happy as we can for her dear sake.” 

There was a curious silence. It was not possi- 
ble to take it in at a moment. But Amaryllis, who 
was standing nearest, suddenly put out both hands 
and clasped his one free arm. 

Oh,” she cried, I think you are the best and 
sweetest and dearest man, better than any one in 
a story book because you are real. And there’s 
so many of us ” 

The spell was broken. They swarmed around 


 

him like bees and he was kissing brows and rosy 
cheeks and sweet lips. 

Oh, was this what you meant ? ” said Chan 
in a breathless sort of voice. 

We've wished we had a father just like you,’’ 
began Primrose with winning frankness. When 
we read the Sunday-school books, and there’s some 
one nice in them, we say, ‘ Oh, that’s like Mr. 
Mann, isn’t it?’ There isn’t many of the fathers 
that we like all the way through, but we plan 
about it and imagine, and have a nicer house than 
this, but we never thought of anything quite like 
yours, and oh. I’m so glad I can’t hardly hold in. 
I want to run and shout.” 

Maybe you won’t like me all the way through.” 
There was such a funny expression in his face, 
as if he were trying to look severe and couldn’t, 
and a quiver of mirth all around his mouth. 

