the jungle to hide its hurts, when, truth be known, he had taken the ways
of the jackass for a model. He saw plainly enough now. More than this,
where there had been mere obstacles to overcome there were now steep
mountains, perhaps inaccessible for all he knew. His jaw set, and the
pressure of his lips broke the sweep of his mustache, converting it into
bristling tufts, warlike and resolute.
As he was leaving, a square of light attracted his attention. He looked up
to see the outline of the bearded Russ in the window. Poor devil! He was
going to have a merry time of it. Well, that was his affair. Besides,
Russians, half the year chilled by their bitter snows, were susceptible to
volcanoes; they courted them as a counterbalance. Perhaps he had spoken
roughly, but his temper had not been under control. One thing he recalled
with grim satisfaction. He had sent a barbed arrow up the tube to disturb
the felicity of the dove-cote. The duke would be rather curious to know
what was meant in referring to the night she had come to his,
Courtlandt's, room. He laughed. It would be a fitting climax indeed if the
duke called him out.
But what of the pretty woman in the Taverne Royale? What about her? At
whose bidding had she followed him? One or the other of them had not told
the truth, and he was inclined to believe that the prevarication had its
source in the pomegranate lips of the Calabrian. To give the old barb one
more twist, to learn if its venomous point still held and hurt; nothing
would have afforded the diva more delight. Courtlandt glared at the window
as the shade rolled down.
When the taxicab joined the long line of carriages and automobiles
opposite the Austrian ambassador's, Courtlandt awoke to the dismal and
disquieting fact that he had formulated no plan of action. He had done no
more than to give the driver his directions; and now that he had arrived,
he had the choice of two alternatives. He could wait to see her come out
or return at once to his hotel, which, as subsequent events affirmed,
would have been the more sensible course. He would have been confronted
with small difficulty in gaining admission to the house. He knew enough of
these general receptions; the announcing of his name would have conveyed
nothing to the host, who knew perhaps a third of his guests, and many of
these but slightly. But such an adventure was distasteful to Courtlandt.
He could not overstep certain recognized boundaries of convention, and to
enter a man's house unasked was colossal impudence. Beyond this, he
realized that he could have accomplished nothing; the advantage would have
been hers. Nor could he meet her as she came out, for again the odds would
have been largely in her favor. No, the encounter must be when they two
were alone. She must be surprised. She must have no time to use her ready
wit. He had thought to wait until some reasonable plan offered itself for
trial; yet, here he was, with nothing definite or recognizable but the
fact that the craving to see her was not to be withstood. The blood began
to thunder in his ears. An idea presented itself. It appealed to him at
that moment as quite clever and feasible.
"Wait!" he called to the driver.
He dived among the carriages and cars, and presently he found what he
sought,--her limousine. He had taken the number into his mind too keenly
to be mistaken. He saw the end of his difficulties; and he went about the
affair with his usual directness. It was only at rare times that he ran
his head into a cul-de-sac. If her chauffeur was regularly employed in her
service, he would have to return to the hotel; but if he came from the
garage, there was hope. Every man is said to have his price, and a French
chauffeur might prove no notable exception to the rule.
"Are you driver for Madame da Toscana?" Courtlandt asked of the man
lounging in the forward seat.
The chauffeur looked hard at his questioner, and on finding that he
satisfied the requirements of a gentleman, grumbled an affirmative. The
limousine was well known in Paris, and he was growing weary of these
endless inquiries.
"Are you in her employ directly, or do you come from the garage?"
"I am from the garage, but I drive mademoiselle's car most of the time,
especially at night. It is not madame but mademoiselle, Monsieur."
"My mistake." A slight pause. It was rather a difficult moment for
Courtlandt. The chauffeur waited wonderingly. "Would you like to make five
hundred francs?"
"How, Monsieur?"
Courtlandt should have been warned by the tone, which contained no unusual
interest or eagerness.
"Permit me to remain in mademoiselle's car till she comes. I wish to ride
with her to her apartment."
The chauffeur laughed. He stretched his legs. "Thanks, Monsieur. It is
very dull waiting. Monsieur knows a good joke."
And to Courtlandt's dismay he realized that his proposal had truly been
accepted as a jest.
"I am not joking. I am in earnest. Five hundred francs. On the word of a
gentleman I mean mademoiselle no harm. I am known to her. All she has to
do is to appeal to you, and you can stop the car and summon the police."
The chauffeur drew in his legs and leaned toward his tempter. "Monsieur,
if you are not jesting, then you are a madman. Who are you? What do I know
about you? I never saw you before, and for two seasons I have driven
mademoiselle in Paris. She wears beautiful jewels to-night. How do I know
that you are not a gentlemanly thief? Ride home with mademoiselle! You are
crazy. Make yourself scarce, Monsieur; in one minute I shall call the
police."
"Blockhead!"
English of this order the Frenchman perfectly understood. "Là, là!" he
cried, rising to execute his threat.
Courtlandt was furious, but his fury was directed at himself as much as at
the trustworthy young man getting down from the limousine. His eagerness
had led him to mistake stupidity for cleverness. He had gone about the
affair with all the clumsiness of a boy who was making his first
appearance at the stage entrance. It was mightily disconcerting, too, to
have found an honest man when he was in desperate need of a dishonest one.
He had faced with fine courage all sorts of dangerous wild animals; but at
this moment he hadn't the courage to face a policeman and endeavor to
explain, in a foreign tongue, a situation at once so delicate and so
singularly open to misconstruction. So, for the second time in his life he
took to his heels. Of the first time, more anon. He scrambled back to his
own car, slammed the door, and told the driver to drop him at the Grand.
His undignified retreat caused his face to burn; but discretion would not
be denied. However, he did not return to the hotel.
Mademoiselle da Toscana's chauffeur scratched his chin in perplexity. In
frightening off his tempter he recognized that now he would never be able
to find out who he was. He should have played with him until mademoiselle
came out. She would have known instantly. That would have been the time
for the police. To hide in the car! What the devil! Only a madman would
have offered such a proposition. The man had been either an American or an
Englishman, for all his accuracy in the tongue. Bah! Perhaps he had heard
her sing that night, and had come away from the Opera, moonstruck. It was
not an isolated case. The fools were always pestering him, but no one had
ever offered so uncommon a bribe: five hundred francs. Mademoiselle might
not believe that part of the tale. Mademoiselle was clever. There was a
standing agreement between them that she would always give him half of
whatever was offered him in the way of bribes. It paid. It was easier to
sell his loyalty to her for two hundred and fifty francs than to betray
her for five hundred. She had yet to find him untruthful, and to-night he
would be as frank as he had always been.
But who was this fellow in the Bavarian hat, who patrolled the sidewalk?
He had been watching him when the madman approached. For an hour or more
he had walked up and down, never going twenty feet beyond the limousine.
He couldn't see the face. The long dark coat had a military cut about the
hips and shoulders. From time to time he saw him glance up at the lighted
windows. Eh, well; there were other women in the world besides
mademoiselle, several others.
He had to wait only half an hour for her appearance. He opened the door
and saw to it that she was comfortably seated; then he paused by the
window, touching his cap.
"What is it, François?"
"A gentleman offered me five hundred francs, Mademoiselle, if I would
permit him to hide in the car."
"Five hundred francs? To hide in the car? Why didn't you call the
police?"
"I started to, Mademoiselle, but he ran away."
"Oh! What was he like?" The prima donna dropped the bunch of roses on the
seat beside her.
"Oh, he looked well enough. He had the air of a gentleman. He was tall,
with light hair and mustache. But as I had never seen him before, and as
Mademoiselle wore some fine jewels, I bade him be off."
"Would you know him again?"
"Surely, Mademoiselle."
"The next time any one bothers you, call the police. You have done well,
and I shall remember it. Home."
The man in the Bavarian hat hurried back to the third car from the
limousine, and followed at a reasonably safe distance.
The singer leaned back against the cushions. She was very tired. The opera
that night had taxed her strength, and but for her promise she would not
have sung to the ambassador's guests for double the fee. There was an
electric bulb in the car. She rarely turned it on, but she did to-night.
She gazed into the little mirror; and utter weariness looked back from out
the most beautiful, blue, Irish eyes in the world. She rubbed her fingers
carefully up and down the faint perpendicular wrinkle above her nose. It
was always there on nights like this. How she longed for the season to
end! She would fly away to the lakes, the beautiful, heavenly tinted
lakes, the bare restful mountains, and the clover lawns spreading under
brave old trees; she would walk along the vineyard paths, and loiter under
the fig-trees, far, far away from the world, its clamor, its fickleness,
its rasping jealousies. Some day she would have enough; and then, good-by
to all the clatter, the evil-smelling stages, the impossible people with
whom she was associated. She would sing only to those she loved.
The glamour of the life had long ago passed; she sang on because she had
acquired costly habits, because she was fond of beautiful things, and
above all, because she loved to sing. She had as many moods as a bird, as
many sides as nature. A flash of sunshine called to her voice; the beads
of water, trembling upon the blades of grass after a summer shower,
brought a song to her lips. Hers was a God-given voice, and training had
added to it nothing but confidence. True, she could act; she had been told
by many a great impressario that histrionically she had no peer in grand
opera. But the knowledge gave her no thrill of delight. To her it was the
sum of a tremendous physical struggle.
She shut off the light and closed her eyes. She reclined against the
cushion once more, striving not to think. Once, her hands shut tightly.
Never, never, never! She pressed down the burning thoughts by recalling
the bright scenes at the ambassador's, the real generous applause that had
followed her two songs. Ah, how that man Paderewski played! They two had
cost the ambassador eight thousand francs. Fame and fortune! Fortune she
could understand; but fame! What was it? Upon a time she believed she had
known what fame was; but that had been when she was striving for it. A
glowing article in a newspaper, a portrait in a magazine, rows upon rows
of curious eyes and a patter of hands upon hands; that was all; and for
this she had given the best of her life, and she was only twenty-five.
The limousine stopped at last. The man in the Bavarian hat saw her alight.
His car turned and disappeared. It had taken him a week to discover where
she lived. His lodgings were on the other side of the Seine. After
reaching them he gave crisp orders to the driver, who set his machine off
at top speed. The man in the Bavarian hat entered his room and lighted the
gas. The room was bare and cheaply furnished. He took off his coat but
retained his hat, pulling it down still farther over his eyes. His face
was always in shadow. A round chin, two full red lips, scantily covered by
a blond mustache were all that could be seen. He began to walk the floor
impatiently, stopping and listening whenever he heard a sound. He waited
less than an hour for the return of the car. It brought two men. They were
well-dressed, smoothly-shaven, with keen eyes and intelligent faces. Their
host, who had never seen either of his guests before, carelessly waved his
hand toward the table where there were two chairs. He himself took his
stand by the window and looked out as he talked. In another hour the room
was dark and the street deserted.
In the meantime the prima donna gave a sigh of relief. She was home. It
was nearly two o'clock. She would sleep till noon, and Saturday and Sunday
would be hers. She went up the stairs instead of taking the lift, and
though the hall was dark, she knew her way. She unlocked the door of the
apartment and entered, swinging the door behind her. As the act was
mechanical, her thoughts being otherwise engaged, she did not notice that
the lock failed to click. The ferrule of a cane had prevented that.
She flung her wraps on the divan and put the roses in an empty bowl. The
door opened softly, without noise. Next, she stopped before the mirror
over the mantel, touched her hair lightly, detached the tiara of emeralds
... and became as inanimate as marble. She saw another face. She never
knew how long the interval of silence was. She turned slowly.
"Yes, it is I!" said the man.
Instantly she turned again to the mantel and picked up a
magazine-revolver. She leveled it at him.
"Leave this room, or I will shoot."
Courtlandt advanced toward her slowly. "Do so," he said. "I should much
prefer a bullet to that look."
"I am in earnest." She was very white, but her hand was steady.
He continued to advance. There followed a crash. The smell of burning
powder filled the room. The Burmese gong clanged shrilly and whirled
wildly. Courtlandt felt his hair stir in terror.
"You must hate me indeed," he said quietly, as the sense of terror died
away. He folded his arms. "Try again; there ought to be half a dozen
bullets left. No? Then, good-by!" He left the apartment without another
word or look, and as the door closed behind him there was a kind of
finality in the clicking of the latch.
The revolver clattered to the floor, and the woman who had fired it leaned
heavily against the mantel, covering her eyes.
"Nora, Nora!" cried a startled voice from a bedroom adjoining. "What has
happened? Mon Dieu, what is it?" A pretty, sleepy-eyed young woman, in a
night-dress, rushed into the room. She flung her arms about the singer.
"Nora, my dear, my dear!"
"He forced his way in. I thought to frighten him. It went off
accidentally. Oh, Celeste, Celeste, I might have killed him!"
The other drew her head down on her shoulder, and listened. She could hear
voices in the lower hall, a shout of warning, a patter of steps; then the
hall door slammed. After that, silence, save for the faint mellowing
vibrations of the Burmese gong.
CHAPTER V
CAPTIVE OR RUNAWAY
At the age of twenty-six Donald Abbott had become a prosperous and
distinguished painter in water-colors. His work was individual, and at the
same time it was delicate and charming. One saw his Italian landscapes as
through a filmy gauze: the almond blossoms of Sicily, the rose-laden walls
of Florence, the vineyards of Chianti, the poppy-glowing Campagna out of
Rome. His Italian lakes had brought him fame. He knew very little of the
grind and hunger that attended the careers of his whilom associates. His
father had left him some valuable patents--wash-tubs, carpet-cleaners, and
other labor-saving devices--and the royalties from these were quite
sufficient to keep him pleasantly housed. When he referred to his father
(of whom he had been very fond) it was as an inventor. Of what, he rarely
told. In America it was all right; but over here, where these inventions
were unknown, a wash-tub had a peculiar significance: that a man should be
found in his money through its services left persons in doubt as to his
genealogical tree, which, as a matter of fact, was a very good one. As a
boy his schoolmates had dubbed him "The Sweep" and "Suds," and it was only
human that he should wish to forget.
His earnings (not inconsiderable, for tourists found much to admire in
both the pictures and the artist) he spent in gratifying his mild
extravagances. So there were no lines in his handsome, boyish, beardless
face; and his eyes were unusually clear and happy. Perhaps once or twice,
since his majority, he had returned to America to prove that he was not an
expatriate, though certainly he was one, the only tie existing between him
and his native land being the bankers who regularly honored his drafts.
And who shall condemn him for preferring Italy to the desolate center of
New York state, where good servants and good weather are as rare as are
flawless emeralds?
Half after three, on Wednesday afternoon, Abbott stared moodily at the
weather-tarnished group by Dalou in the Luxembourg gardens--the Triumph
of Silenus. His gaze was deceptive, for the rollicking old bibulous
scoundrel had not stirred his critical sense nor impressed the delicate
films of thought. He was looking through the bronze, into the far-away
things. He sat on his own folding stool, which he had brought along from
his winter studio hard by in the old Boul' Miche'. He had arrived early
that morning, all the way from Como, to find a thunderbolt driven in at
his feet. Across his knees fluttered an open newspaper, the Paris edition
of the New York Herald. All that kept it from blowing away was the tense
if sprawling fingers of his right hand; his left hung limply at his side.
It was not possible. Such things did not happen these unromantic days to
musical celebrities. She had written that on Monday night she would sing
in La Bohème and on Wednesday, Faust. She had since vanished, vanished
as completely as though she had taken wings and flown away. It was unreal.
She had left the apartment in the Avenue de Wagram on Saturday afternoon,
and nothing had been seen or heard of her since. At the last moment they
had had to find a substitute for her part in the Puccini opera. The maid
testified that her mistress had gone on an errand of mercy. She had not
mentioned where, but she had said that she would return in time to dress
for dinner, which proved conclusively that something out of the ordinary
had befallen her.
The automobile that had carried her away had not been her own, and the
chauffeur was unknown. None of the directors at the Opera had been
notified of any change in the singer's plans. She had disappeared, and
they were deeply concerned. Singers were generally erratic, full of sudden
indispositions, unaccountable whims; but the Signorina da Toscana was one
in a thousand. She never broke an engagement. If she was ill she said so
at once; she never left them in doubt until the last moment. Indecision
was not one of her characteristics. She was as reliable as the sun. If the
directors did not hear definitely from her by noon to-day, they would have
to find another Marguerite.
The police began to move, and they stirred up some curious bits of
information. A man had tried to bribe the singer's chauffeur, while she
was singing at the Austrian ambassador's. The chauffeur was able to
describe the stranger with some accuracy. Then came the bewildering
episode in the apartment: the pistol-shot, the flight of the man, the
astonished concierge to whom the beautiful American would offer no
explanations. The man (who tallied with the description given by the
chauffeur) had obtained entrance under false representations. He claimed
to be an emissary with important instructions from the Opera. There was
nothing unusual in this; messengers came at all hours, and seldom the same
one twice; so the concierge's suspicions had not been aroused. Another
item. A tall handsome Italian had called at eleven o'clock Saturday
morning, but the signorina had sent down word that she could not see him.
The maid recalled that her mistress had intended to dine that night with
the Italian gentleman. His name she did not know, having been with the
signorina but two weeks.
Celeste Fournier, the celebrated young pianist and composer, who shared
the apartment with the missing prima donna, stated that she hadn't the
slightest idea where her friend was. She was certain that misfortune had
overtaken her in some inexplicable manner. To implicate the Italian was
out of the question. He was well-known to them both. He had arrived again
at seven, Saturday, and was very much surprised that the signorina had not
yet returned. He had waited till nine, when he left, greatly disappointed.
He was the Barone di Monte-Verdi in Calabria, formerly military attaché at
the Italian embassy in Berlin. Sunday noon Mademoiselle Fournier had
notified the authorities. She did not know, but she felt sure that the
blond stranger knew more than any one else. And here was the end of
things. The police found themselves at a standstill. They searched the
hotels but without success; the blond stranger could not be found.
Abbott's eyes were not happy and pleasant just now. They were dull and
blank with the reaction of the stunning blow. He, too, was certain of the
Barone. Much as he secretly hated the Italian, he knew him to be a
fearless and an honorable man. But who could this blond stranger be who
appeared so sinisterly in the two scenes? From where had he come? Why had
Nora refused to explain about the pistol-shot? Any woman had a perfect
right to shoot a man who forced his way into her apartment. Was he one of
those mad fools who had fallen in love with her, and had become desperate?
Or was it some one she knew and against whom she did not wish to bring any
charges? Abducted! And she might be, at this very moment, suffering all
sorts of indignities. It was horrible to be so helpless.
The sparkle of the sunlight upon the ferrule of a cane, extending over his
shoulder, broke in on his agonizing thoughts. He turned, an angry word on
the tip of his tongue. He expected to see some tourist who wanted to be
informed.
"Ted Courtlandt!" He jumped up, overturning the stool. "And where the
dickens did you come from? I thought you were in the Orient?"
"Just got back, Abby."
The two shook hands and eyed each other with the appraising scrutiny of
friends of long standing.
"You don't change any," said Abbott.
"Nor do you. I've been standing behind you fully two minutes. What were
you glooming about? Old Silenus offend you?"
"Have you read the Herald this morning?"
"I never read it nowadays. They are always giving me a roast of some kind.
Whatever I do they are bound to misconstrue it." Courtlandt stooped and
righted the stool, but sat down on the grass, his feet in the path.
"What's the trouble? Have they been after you?"
Abbott rescued the offending paper and shaking it under his friend's nose,
said: "Read that."
Courtlandt's eyes widened considerably as they absorbed the significance
of the heading--"Eleonora da Toscana missing."
"Bah!" he exclaimed.
"You say bah?"
"It looks like one of their advertising dodges. I know something about
singers," Courtlandt added. "I engineered a musical comedy once."
"You do not know anything about her," cried Abbott hotly.
"That's true enough." Courtlandt finished the article, folded the paper
and returned it, and began digging in the path with his cane.
"But what I want to know is, who the devil is this mysterious blond
stranger?" Abbott flourished the paper again. "I tell you, it's no
advertising dodge. She's been abducted. The hound!"
Courtlandt ceased boring into the earth. "The story says that she refused
to explain this blond chap's presence in her room. What do you make of
that?"
"Perhaps you think the fellow was her press-agent?" was the retort.
"Lord, no! But it proves that she knew him, that she did not want the
police to find him. At least, not at that moment. Who's the Italian?"
suddenly.
"I can vouch for him. He is a gentleman, honorable as the day is long,
even if he is hot-headed at times. Count him out of it. It's this unknown,
I tell you. Revenge for some imagined slight. It's as plain as the nose on
your face."
"How long have you known her?" asked Courtlandt presently.
"About two years. She's the gem of the whole lot. Gentle, kindly,
untouched by flattery.... Why, you must have seen and heard her!"
"I have." Courtlandt stared into the hole he had dug. "Voice like an
angel's, with a face like Bellini's donna; and Irish all over. But for all
that, you will find that her disappearance will turn out to be a diva's
whim. Hang it, Suds, I've had some experience with singers."
"You are a blockhead!" exploded the younger man.
"All right, I am." Courtlandt laughed.
"Man, she wrote me that she would sing Monday and to-night, and wanted me
to hear her. I couldn't get here in time for La Bohème, but I was
building on Faust. And when she says a thing, she means it. As you said,
she's Irish."
"And I'm Dutch."
"And the stubbornest Dutchman I ever met. Why don't you go home and settle
down and marry?--and keep that phiz of yours out of the newspapers?
Sometimes I think you're as crazy as a bug."
"An opinion shared by many. Maybe I am. I dash in where lunatics fear to
tread. Come on over to the Soufflet and have a drink with me."
"I'm not drinking to-day," tersely. "There's too much ahead for me to
