  "Jatthon-ten-yonk, Lois!
  "Jin-isaya-dawen-ken-wed-e-wayen.
  [Here was drawn in outline the foot and claws of a forest lynx.]
  "Niyi-eskah-haghs, na-yegh-nyasa-kenra-dake, niya-wennonh!" [Then a
  white symbol.]

For a long time I gazed at the writing in shocked silence. Then I asked
her if she suspected what was written there in the Canienga dialect.

"I never have had it read. Indians refuse, shake their heads, and look
askance at me, and tell me nothing; interpreters laugh at me, saying
there is no meaning in the lines. Is there, Euan?"

"Yes," I said.

"You can interpret?"

"Yes."

"Will you?"

I was silent, pondering the fearful meaning which had been rendered
plainer and more hideous by the painted symbols.

"It has to do with the magic of the Seneca priesthood," I muttered.
"Here is a foul screed--and yet a message, too, to you."

Then, with an effort I found courage to read, as it was written:

"I speak! Thou, Lois, mightest have been destroyed! Thus! (Here the
white dog.) But I will frustrate their purpose. Keep listening to me,
Lois. That which has befallen you we place it here (or, 'we draw it
here'--i. e., the severed foot and claws of a lynx). Being born white
(literally, 'being born having a white neck'), this happened." And the
ghastly sign of Leshi ended it.

"But what does it all signify?" she asked, bewildered.

And even as she spoke, out of the dull and menacing horror of the
symbols, into my mind, leaped terrible comprehension.

I said coolly: "It must have been Amochol--and his Erie sorcerers! How
came you in Catharines-town?"

"I? In Catharines-town!" she faltered. "Was I, then, ever there?"

I pointed at the drawing of the dead white dog.

"Somebody saved you from that hellish sacrifice. I tell you it is plain
enough to read. The rite is practiced only by the red sorcerers of the
Senecas.... Look! It was because your 'neck' was 'white'! Look again!
Here is the symbol of the Cat-People--the Eries--the acolytes of
Amochol--here! This spread lynx-pad with every separate claw extended!
Yet, it is drawn severed--in symbol of your escape. Lois! Lois! It is
plain enough. I follow it all--almost all--nearly--but not quite----"

I hesitated, studying the bark intently, pausing to look at her with a
new and keenly searching question in my gaze.

"You have not shown me all," I said.

"All that is written in the Iroquois tongue. But there were other
things in the packet with this bark letter." She opened it again upon
her lap.

"Here is a soldier's belt-buckle," she said, offering it to me for my
inspection.

It was made of silver and there were still traces of French gilt upon
the device.

"Regiment de la Reine," I read. "What regiment is that, Lois? I'm sure
I've heard of it somewhere. Oh! Now I remember. It was a very
celebrated French regiment--cut all to pieces at Lake George by Sir
William Johnson in '55. This is an officer's belt-buckle."

"Was the regiment, then, totally destroyed?"

"Utterly. In France they made the regiment again with new men and new
officers, and call it still by the same celebrated name."

"You say Sir William Johnson's men cut it to pieces--the Regiment de la
Reine?" she asked.

"His Indians, British and Provincials, left nothing of it after that
bloody day."

She sat thoughtful for a while, then, bestirring herself, drew from the
deerhide packet a miniature on ivory, cracked across, and held together
only by the narrow oval frame of gold.

There was no need to look twice. This man, whoever he might be, was
this girl's father; and nobody who had ever seen her and this miniature
could ever doubt it.

She did not speak, nor did I, conscious that her eyes had never left my
face and must have read my startled mind with perfect ease.

Presently I turned the portrait over. There was a lock of hair there
under the glass--bright, curly hair exactly like her own. And at first
I saw nothing else. Then, as the glass-backed locket glanced in the
lantern-light, I saw that on the glass something had been inscribed
with a diamond. This is what I read, written across the glass:

"Jean Coeur a son coeur cheri."

I looked up at her.

"Jean Coeur," I repeated. "That is no name for a man----" Suddenly I
remembered, years ago--years and years since--hearing Guy Johnson
cursing some such man. Then in an instant all came back to me; and she
seemed to divine it, for her small hand clutched my arm and her eyes
were widening as I turned to meet them.

"Lois," I said unsteadily, "there was a man called Jean Coeur, deputy
to the adventurer, Joncaire. Joncaire was the great captain who all but
saved this Western Continent to France. Captain Joncaire was feared,
detested, but respected by Sir William Johnson because he held all
Canada and the Hurons and Algonquins in the hollow of his hand, and had
even gained part of the Long House--the Senecas. His clever deputy was
called Jean Coeur. Never did two men know the Indians as these two did."

I thought a moment, then: "Somewhere I heard that Captain Joncaire had
a daughter. But she married another man--one Louis de Contrecoeur----"
I hesitated, glanced again at the name scratched on the glass over the
lock of hair, and shook my head.

"Jean Coeur--Louis de Contrecoeur. The names scarce hang
together--yet----"

"Look at this!" she whispered in a low, tense voice, and laid a bit of
printing in my hand.

It was a stained and engraved sheet of paper--a fly-leaf detached from
a book of Voltaire. And above the scroll-encompassed title was written
in faded ink: "Le Capitaine Vicomte Louis Jean de Contrecoeur du
Regiment de la Reine." And under that, in a woman's fine handwriting:
"Mon coeur, malgre; mon coeur, se rendre a Contrecoeur, dit Jean Coeur;
coeur contre coeur."

"That," she said, "is the same writing that the birch bark bears, sewed
in my moccasins."

"Then," I said excitedly, "your mother was born Mademoiselle Joncaire,
and you are Lois de Contrecoeur!"

She sat with eyes lowered, fingering the stained and faded page. After
a moment she said:

"I wrote to France--to the Headquarters of the Regiment de la
Reine--asking about my--father."

"You had an answer?"

"Aye, the answer came.... Merely a word or two.... The Vicomte Louis
Jean de Contrecoeur fell at Lake George in '55----" She lifted her
clear eyes to mine. "And died--unmarried."

A chill passed through me, then the reaction came, taking me by the
throat, setting my veins afire.

"Then--by God!" I stammered. "If de Contrecoeur died unmarried, his
child shall not!"

"Euan! I do not credit what they wrote. If my father married here
perhaps they had not heard."

"Lois! Dearest of maids--whichever is the truth I wish to marry you!"

But she stopped her ears with both palms, giving me a frightened look;
and checked, but burning still, I stared at her.

"Is that then all you are?" she asked. "A wisp of tow to catch the
first spark that flies? A brand ever smouldering, which the first
breath o' woman stirs to flame?"

"Never have I loved before----"

"Love! Euan, are you mad?"

We both were breathing fast and brokenly.

"What is it then, if it be not love!" I asked angrily.

"What is it?" she repeated slowly. Yet I seemed to feel in her very
voice a faint, cool current of contempt. "Why, it is what always urges
men to speak, I fancy--their natural fire--their easily provoked
emotions.... I had believed you different."

"Did you not desire my friendship?" I asked in hot chagrin.

"Not if it be of this kind, Euan."

"You would not have me love you?"

"Love!" And the fine edge of her contempt cut clean. "Love!" she
repeated coolly. "And we scarcely know each other; have never passed a
day together; have never broken bread; know nothing, nothing of each
other's minds and finer qualities; have awakened nothing in each other
yet except emotions. Friendships have their deeps and shallows, but are
deathless only while they endure. Love hath no shallows, Euan, and
endures often when friendship dies.... I speak, having no knowledge.
But I believe it. And, believing nobly of true love--in ignorance of
it, but still in awe--and having been assailed by clamours of a
shameful passion calling itself love--and having builded in my heart
and mind a very lofty altar for the truth, how can I feel otherwise
than sorry that you spoke--hotly, unthinkingly, as you did to me?"

I was silent.

She rose, lifted the lantern, laid open the trap-door.

"Come," she whispered, beckoning.

I followed her as she descended, took the lantern from her hand,
glanced at the shadowy heap, asleep perhaps, on the corner settle, then
walked to the door and opened it. A thousand, thousand stars were
sparkling overhead.

On the sill she whispered:

"When will you come again?"

"Do you want me?" I said sullenly.

She made no answer for a moment; suddenly she caught my hand and
pressed it, crushing it between both of hers; and turning I saw her
almost helpless with her laughter.

"Oh, what an infant have I found in this tall gentleman of Morgan's
corps!" said she. "A boy one moment and a man the next--silly and wise
in the same breath--headlong, headstrong, tender, and generous, petty
and childish, grave and kind--the sacred and wondrous being, in point
of fact, known to the world as man! And now he asks, with solemn mien
and sadly ruffled and reproachful dignity whether a poor, friendless,
homeless, nameless girl desires his company again!"

She dropped my hand, caught at her skirt's edge, and made me a mocking
reverence.

"Dear sir," she said, "I pray you come again to visit me tomorrow,
while I am mending regimental shirts at tuppence each----"

"Lois!" I said sadly. "How can you use me so!"

She began to laugh again.

"Oh, Euan, I can not endure it if you're solemn and sorry for
yourself----"

"That is too much!" I exclaimed, furious, and marched out, boiling,
under the high stars. And every star o' them, I think, was laughing at
the sorriest ass who ever fell in love.

Nevertheless, that night I wrote her name in my letter to Mr. Hake; and
the ink on it was scarce sanded when an Oneida runner had it and was
driving his canoe down the Mohawk River at a speed that promised to win
for him the bonus in hard money which I had promised for a swift
journey and a swift return.

And far into the July morning I talked with the Sagamore of Amochol and
of Catharines-town; and he listened while he sat tirelessly polishing
his scalping-knife and hatchet.



CHAPTER VIII

OLD FRIENDS

The sunrise gun awoke me. I rolled out of my blanket, saw the white
cannon-smoke floating above the trees, ran down to the river, and
plunged in.

When I returned, the Sagamore had already broken his fast, and once
more was engaged in painting himself--this time in a most ghastly
combination of black and white, the startling parti-coloured
decorations splitting his visage into two equal sections, so that his
eyes gleamed from a black and sticky mask, and his mouth and chin and
jaw were like the features of a weather-bleached skull.

"More war, O Mayaro, my brother?" I asked in a bantering voice. "Every
day you prepare for battle with a confidence forever new; every night
the army snores in peace. Yet, at dawn, when you have greeted the sun,
you renew your war-paint. Such praiseworthy perseverance ought to be
rewarded."

"It has already been rewarded," remarked the Indian, with quiet humour.

"In what manner?" I asked, puzzled.

"In the manner that all warriors desire to be rewarded," he replied,
secretly amused.

"I thought," said I, "that the reward all warriors desire is a scalp
taken in battle."

He cast a sly glance at me and went on painting.

"Mayaro," said I, disturbed, "is it possible that you have been out
forest-running while I've slept?"

He shot a quick look at me, full of delighted malice.

And "Ho!" said he. "My brother sleeps sounder than a winter bear. Three
Erie scalps hang stretched, hooped, and curing in the morning sun,
behind the bush-hut. Little brother, has the Sagamore done well?"

Straightway I whirled on my heel and walked out and around the hut.
Strung like drying fish on a willow wand three scalps hung in the
sunshine, the soft July breeze stirring the dead hair. And as soon as I
saw them I knew they were indeed Erie scalps.

Repressing my resentment and disgust, I lingered a moment to examine
them, then returned to the hut, where the Siwanois, grave as a
catamount at his toilet, squatted in a patch of sunshine, polishing his
features.

"So you've done this business every night as soon as I slept," said I.
"You've crept beyond our outer pickets, risking your life, imperilling
the success of this army, merely to satisfy your vanity. This is not
well, Mayaro."

He said proudly: "Mayaro is safe. What warrior of the Cat-People need a
Sagamore of the Siwanois dread?"

"Do you count them warriors then, or wizards?"

"Demons have teeth and claws. Look upon their scalp-locks, Loskiel!"

I strove to subdue my rising anger.

"You are the only reliable guide in the army today who can take us
straight to Catharines-town," I said. "If we lose you we must trust to
Hanierri and his praying Oneidas, who do not know the way even to
Wyalusing as well as you do. Is this just to the army? Is it just to
me, O Sagamore? My formal orders are that you shall rest and run no
risk until this army starts from Lake Otsego. My brother Mayaro knew
this. I trusted him and set no sentry at the hut door. Is this well,
brother?"

The Sagamore looked at me with eyes utterly void of expression.

"Is Mayaro a prisoner, then?" he asked quietly.

Instantly I knew that he was not to be dealt with that way. The
slightest suspicion of any personal restraint or of any military
pressure brought to bear on him might alienate him from our cause, if
not, perhaps, from me personally.

I said: "The Siwanois are free people. No lodge door is locked on them,
not even in the Long House. They are at liberty to come and go as the
eight winds rise and wane--to sleep when they choose, to wake when it
pleases them, to go forth by day or night, to follow the war-trail, to
strike their enemies where they find them.

"But now, to one of them--to the Mohican Mayaro, Sagamore of the
Siwanois, Sachem of the Enchanted Clan, is given the greatest mission
ever offered to any Delaware since Tamenund put on his snowy panoply of
feathers and flew through the forest and upward into the air-ocean of
eternal light.

"A great army of his embattled brothers trusts in him to guide them so
that the Iroquois Confederacy shall be pierced from Gate to Gate, and
the Long House go roaring up in flames.

"There are many valiant deeds to be accomplished on this coming
march--deeds worthy of a war-chief of the Lenni-Lenape--deeds fitted to
do honour to a Sagamore of the Magic Wolf.

"I only ask of my friend and blood-brother that he reserve himself for
these great deeds and not risk a chance bullet in ambush for the sake
of an Erie scalp or two--for the sake of a patch of mangy fur which
grows on these Devil-Cats of Amochol."

At first his countenance was smooth and blank; as I proceeded, he
became gravely attentive; then, as I ended, he gave me a quick,
unembarrassed, and merry look.

"Loskiel," he said laughingly, "Mayaro plays with the Cat-People. A
child's skill only is needed to take their half-shed fur and dash them
squalling and spitting and kicking into Biskoonah!"

He resumed his painting with a shrug of contempt, adding:

"Amochol rages in vain. Upon this wizard a Mohican spits! One by one
his scalped acolytes tumble and thump among the dead and bloody forest
leaves. The Siwanois laugh at them. Let the red sorcerer of the Senecas
make strong magic so that his cats return to life, and the vile fur
grows once more where a Mohican has ripped it out!"

"Each night you go forth and scalp. Each morning you paint. Is this to
continue, Sagamore?"

"My brother sees," he said proudly. "Cats were made for skinning."

There was nothing to do about it; no more to be said. I now
comprehended this, as I stood lacing my rifle-shirt and watching him at
his weird self-embellishment.

