''It will be a scandal!" George exclaimed. 

"You will avoid one far greater," the 
other replied. 

Suddenly George set his lips with resolu- 
tion. He rose from his seat. He took 
several twenty-franc pieces from his 
pocket and laid them quietly upon the 
doctor's desk — 'paying the fee in cash, so 
that he would not have to give his name 
and address. He took up his gloves, his 
cane and his hat, and rose. 

"I will think it over," he said. "I 
thank you, Doctor. I will come back next 
week as you have told me. That is — 
probably I will." 

He was about to leave. 

The doctor rose, and he spoke in a voice 



 

of furious anger. ''No.' he said, ''I shan't 
see you next week, and you won't even 
think it over. You came here knowing 
what you had; you came to ask advice of 
me, with the intention of paying no heed 
to it, unless it conformed to your wishes. 
A superficial honesty has driven you to 
take that chance in order to satisfy your 
conscience. You wanted to have some- 
body upon whom you could put off, bye 
and bye, the consequences of an act whose 
culpabihty you understand! No, don't 
protest! Many of those who come here 
think and act as you think, and as you 
wish to act; but the marriage made 
against my will has generally been the 
source of such calamities that now I am 
always afraid of not having been per- 
sup-'ive enough, and it even seems to me 
that I am a little to blame for these mis- 
fortunes. I should have been able to pre- 
vent them; they would not have happened 
if those who are the authors of them knew 
what I know and had seen what I have 
seen. Swear to me, sir, that you are 
going to break off that marriage!" 



 

George was greatly embarrassed, and 
unwilling to reply. ''I cannot swear to 
you at all, Doctor; I can only tell you 
again that I will think it over.' 

''Think it over?'' 

''What you have told me." 

"What I have told you is true! You 
cannot bring any new objections; and I 
have answered those which you have pre- 
sented to me; therefore, your mind ought 
to be made up." 

Groping for a reply, George hesitated. 
He could not deny that he had made 
inquiry about these matters before he had 
come to the doctor. But he said that he 
was not at all certain that he had this 
disease. The doctor declared it, and per- 
haps it was true, but the most learned 
physicians were sometimes deceived. 

He remembered something he had read 
in one of the medical books. ''Dr. Ricord 
maintains that after a certain period the 
disease is no longer contagious. He has 
proven his contentions by examples. 
Today you produce new examples to show 
that he is wrong! Now, I want to do 



 

what's right, but surely I have the right 
to think it over. And when I think it 
over, I reahze that all the evils with which 
you threaten me are only probable evils. 
In spite of your desire to terrify me, you 
have been forced to admit that possibly 
my marriage would not have any trouble- 
some consequence for my wife.' 

The doctor found difficulty in restraining 
himself. But he said, ''Go on. I will 
answer you afterwards." 

And George blundered ahead in his 
desperation. ''Your remedies are power- 
ful, you tell me; and for the calamities of 
which you speak to befall me, I would have 
to be among the rare exceptions — also my 
wife would have to be among the number 
of those rare exceptions. If a mathemati- 
cian were to apply the law of chance to 
these facts, the result of his operation 
would show but slight chance of a catas- 
trophe, as compared with the absolute 
certainty of a series of misfortunes, suffer- 
ings, troubles, tears, and perhaps tragic 
accidents which the breaking of my engage- 
ment would cause. So I say that the 



 

mathematician — 'who is, even more than 
you, a man of science, a man of a more 
infallible science — 'the mathematician would 
conclude that wisdom was not with you 
doctors, but with me.'' 

"You believe it, sir!" exclaimed the 
other. "But you deceive yourself." And 
he continued, driving home his point with 
a finger which seemed to George to pierce 
his very soul. "Twenty cases identical 
with your own have been patiently ob- 
served, from the beginning to the end. 
Nineteen times the woman was infected 
by her husband; you hear me, sir, nineteen 
times out of twenty! You believe that the 
disease is without danger, and you take to 
yourself the right to expose your wife to 
what you call the chance of your being 
one of those exceptions, for whom our 
remedies are without effect. Very well; 
it is necessary that you should know every- 
thing; it is necessary that you should 
know the disease which your wife, without 
being consulted, will run a chance of con- 
tracting. Take that book, sir; it is the 
work of my teacher. Read it yourself. 
Here, I have marked the passage." 



 

He held out the open book; but George 
could not lift a hand to take it. 

''You do not wish to read it?'' the other 
continued. '' Listen to me.'' And in a 
voice trembling with passion, he read: " 'I 
have watched the spectacle of an xmfor- 
tunate young woman, turned into a veri- 
table monster by means of a syphilitic 
infection. Her face, or rather let me say 
what was left of her face, was nothing but 
a flat surface seamed with scars.' '' 
* George covered his face, exclaiming, 
"Enough, sir! Have mercy!'' 

But the other cried, "No, no! I will go 
to the very end. I have a duty to per- 
form, and I will not be stopped by the 
sensibility of your nerves." 

He wxnt on reading: " 'Of the upper lip 
not a trace was left; the ridge of the upper 
gums appeared perfectly bare.' " But then, 
at the young man's protests, his resolution 
failed him. "Come," he said, "I will stop. 
I am sorry for you — 'you who accept for 
another person, for the woman you say 
you love, the chance of a disease which 
you cannot even endure to hear described. 



 

Now, from whom did that woman get 
syphilis? It is not I who am speaking, it 
is the book. 'From a miserable scoundrel 
who was not afraid to enter into matrimony 
when he had a secondary eruption. All 
that was established later on — 'and who, 
moreover, had thought it best not to let his 
wife be treated for fear of awakening her 
suspicions!' '' 

The doctor closed the book with a bang. 
"What that man has done, sir, is what you 
want to do.'' 

George was edging toward the door; he 
could no longer look the doctor in the eye. 
"I should deserve all those epithets and 
still more brutal ones if I should marry, 
knowing that my marriage would cause 
such horrors. But that I do not believe. 
You and your teachers — you are specialists, 
and consequently you are driven to at- 
tribute everything to the disease you make 
the subject of your studies. A tragic case, 
an exceptional case, holds a kind of fascina- 
tion for you; you think it can never be 
talked about enough." 

''I have heard that argument before," 
said the doctor, with an effort at patience. 



 

"Let me go on, I beg you," pleaded 
George. "You have told me that out of 
every seven men there is one syphilitic. 
You have told me that there are one hun- 
dred thousand in Paris, coming and going, 
alert, and apparently well.'' 

"It is true," said the doctor, "that there 
are one hundred thousand who are actually 
at this moment not visibly xmder the 
influence of the disease. But many thou- 
sands have passed into our hospitals, vic- 
tims of the most frightful ravages that our 
poor bodies can support. These — 'you do 
not see them, and they do not count for 
you. But again, if it concerned no one but 
yourself, you might be able to argue thus. 
What I declare to you, what I affirm with 
all the violence of my conviction, is that 
you have not the right to expose a human 
creature to such chances — rare, as I know, 
but terrible, as I know still better. 
What have you to answer to that?" 

"Nothing," stammered George, brought 
to his knees at last. "You are right about 
that. I don't know what to think." 

"And in forbidding you marriage," con- 



 

tinued the doctor, ''is it the same as if I 
forbade it forever? Is it the same as if I 
told you that you could never be cured? 
On the contrary, I hold out to you every 
hope; but I demand of you a delay of 
three or four years, because it will take me 
that time to find out if you are among the 
number of those unfortunate ones whom I 
pity with all my heart, for whom the 
disease is without mercy; because during 
that time you will be dangerous to your 
wife and to your children. The children 
I have not yet mentioned to you.' 

Here the doctor's voice trembled slightly. 
He spoke with moving eloquence. ''Come, 
sir, you are an honest man; you are too 
young for such things not to move you; 
you are not insensible to duty. It is 
impossible that I shan't be able to find a 
way to your heart, that I shan't be able to 
make you obey me. My emotion in speak- 
ing to you proves that I appreciate your 
suffering, that I suffer with you. It is in 
the name of my sincerity that I implore 
you. You have admitted it — that you 
have not the right to expose your wife to 



 

such miseries. But it is not only your wife 
that you strike; you may attack in her 
your own children. I exclude you for a 
moment from my thought — you and her. 
It is in the name of these innocents that I 
implore you; it is the future, it is the race 
that I defend. Listen to me, listen to me! 
Out of the twenty households of which I 
spoke, only fifteen had children; these 
fifteen had twenty-eight. Do you know 
how many out of these twenty-eight sur- 
vived? Three, sir! Three out of twenty- 
eight ! Syphilis is above everything a mur- 
derer of children. Herod reigns in France, 
and over all the earth, and begins each 
year his massacre of the innocents; and 
if it be not blasphemy against the sacred- 
ness of life, I say that the most happy are 
those who have disappeared. Visit our 
children's hospitals! We know too well 
the child of syphilitic parents; the type is 
classical; the doctors can pick it out any- 
where. Those httle old creatures who 
have the appearance of having already 
lived, and who have kept the stigmata of 
all our infirmities, of all our decay. They 



 

are the victims of fathers who have mar- 
ried, being ignorant of what you know — 
things which I should like to go and cry 
out in the public places.' 

The doctor paused, and then in a solemn 
voice continued: ''I have told you all, 
without exaggeration. Think it over. 
Consider the pros and cons; sum up the 
possible misfortunes and the certain miseries. 
But disregard yourseK, and consider that 
there are in one side of the scales the mis- 
fortunes of others, and in the other your 
own. Take care that you are just.'' 

George was at last overcome. ''Very 
well," he said, ''I give way. I won't get 
married. I will invent some excuse; I 
will get a delay of six months. More than 
that, I cannot do." 

The doctor exclaimed, ''I need three 
years — 'I need four years!" 

''No, Doctor!" persisted George. "You 
can cure me in less time than that." 

The other answered, "No! no! no!" 

George caught him by the hand, implor- 
ingly. "Yes! Science is all powerful!" 

"Science is not God," was the reply. 
"There are no longer any miracles." 



 

''If only you wanted to do it!'' cried the 
young man, hysterically. ''You are a 
learned man; seek, invent, find something! 
Try some new plan with me; give me 
double the dose, ten times the dose; make 
me suffer. I give myself up to you; I will 
endure everything — 'I swear it! There 
ought to be some way to cure me within 
six months. Listen to me! I tell you I 
can't answer for myself with that delay. 
Come; it is in the name of my wife, in the 
name of my children, that I implore you. 
Do something for them!" 

The doctor had reached the Hmit of 
his patience. ''Enough, sir!" he cried. 
"Enough!" 

But nothing could stop the wretched 
man. "On my knees!" he cried. "I put 
myseK on my knees before you! Oh! if 
only you would do it! I would bless you; 
I would adore you, as one adores a god! 
All my gratitude, all my hfe — 'have my 
fortune! For mercy's sake, Doctor, do 
something; invent something; make some 
discovery — 'have pity!" 

The doctor answered, gravely, "Do you 



 

wish me to do more for you than for the 
