“ An’ tan’t I hang up my stockin’ ? ” asked 
Laurel. 
“ Oh, you must wait until Christmas. Rilla, will 
you take them to bed ? ” 
Mr. Mann put them down, but they went reluctantly. 
“ The children will begin to think they must 
have every wish gratified. You are laying up 
trouble for yourself,’' and Bessy tried to put some 
severity in her tone. 
I have a great many Christmases to make 
up,” he answered in a humorous manner, and 
there was a twinkle in his eye. 
Linn went off in a joyous mood the next morning. The girls each had some house duty, for 
their mother did not want them to lapse into idle 
habits. Rilla put Chan’s room in order; he liked 
her quiet ways. Then he sat down at his desk. 
There lay a temptation in Stevenson’s “ Child’s 
Garden of Verse.” He opened it and read a poem 
or two. 
No, I must not, truly I must not,” and he laid 
it back on the shelf. There was his history and 
geography, and he had liked them so much. Then 
there was “ Science of Common Things,” and 
language. Oh, dear! But he really had loved 
to study before all these entrancing dreams floated 
through his brain. 
Rilla and Prim made themselves ready for their 
errand. 
“ Girls,” their mother said, do be a little careful what you say, for anything Aunty Betts hears 
goes all over the neighborhood.” 
Prim thought privately that the astonishment of 
the Denby people was rather good fun. The 
schoolgirls had all played together; there were no 
strictly-drawn lines. She wished now that her 
mother had not needed to go out sewing or help- 
ing in emergencies. Miss Case, the dressmaker, 
went out, and many of the women worked on a 
sewing machine at home. Why any one should 
make a fuss about a family of children when they 
were not asked to provide for them, she could not 
understand. 
Mrs. Betts lived over on the east side. Dan 
drove through the town and around the store. 
The house was not much more pretentious than 
their old home, and needed painting quite as 
badly. It was only one story with a peaked roof, 
but had an ell and a porch. 
It was not very good going, but the sleigh was 
to please Prim. The sound of the bells brought 
Aunty Betts to the door. She had a little red 
and black shawl around her shoulders, and a strip 
of gray flannel tied over her ears in lieu of a hood. 
A tall, thin woman of sixty or thereabouts, much 
wrinkled and rather severe-looking, but still showing sturdy country strength. 
‘'Well! well!” she exclaimed. “I thought it 
must be some grand high duke with all the spread. 
And it’s only you Firth young uns! How fine we 
have grown! ’Tain’t jest the time fer stylish 
callin’. Folks gen’ally ain’t finished up Sat’day’s 
work.” 
‘‘We came over to see if you were very busy.” 
Amaryllis had a way of softening matters with 
her friendly smile. 
“ What ye got ? ” Dan was bringing up the 
bag. 
“We want a little carpet woven ” 
“ Oh, I thought you folks were so grand over 
to Graf’n that you’d stick up your noses at rag 
carpet. Humph ! ” 
“ Oh, no. It’s only a little that we began in 
the old house, and now we have found use for it,” 
said Prim. 
“ Massy me ! I’m s’prised. Do come in an’ 
not keep me standin’ out here. I was jest goin’ 
to sweep off my stoop.” 
“We thought you might not be very busy,” began Primrose. “ And we’d like it soon as you 
can do it.” 
“ Oh, yes. When folks want a thing, it’s hurry 
your life out. Here, you, man, jest dump that 
bag down here in the loom-room. Well, I s’pose 
you’re awful grand over there, but it’s queer now 
that you should want rag carpet. I heerd the 
house was all furnished.” 
Aunty Betts had a way of punctuating her 
sentences with a nod of her head, and what might 
be termed a shrug of her elbows, which was 
rather funny. 
“ It’s for a room that the children will play in,” 
explained Amaryllis. 
Got to have a playroom! Well, that’s fine. 
Beats all the luck some folks have. Now here’s 
your mother with eight young uns, a widow only 
five or six year, when long comes a rich man an’ 
marries her, an’ here I’ve been a widow nigh onto 
twenty year, an’ not a man has come along to 
marry me ! ” 
She stared at the girls in a fierce fashion, as 
if it had been largely their fault. Prim wanted 
to laugh, but she gave the bag a little hitch and 
said : 
“ About the weaving — if you’re not busy ” 
Do let me get my breath. To think of you 
folks bein’ born in that little old red house, which 
was reely a charity of your grandmother’s ” 
“ Why, mother was her only heir,” interposed 
Amaryllis. 
Well, people kin will their property to 
churches an’ missions an’ sich. An’ then, where 
would your mother have been? ” 
Why, father would have gone away to some 
better place.” Prim was feeling rather annoyed. 
About the carpet — have you any red warp ? ” 
No, I hain’t,” crossly. 
‘‘ Father might get some in the city,” said 
Amaryllis. 
“ Oh, I kin dye it well enough, only it’ll take 
time. An’ I’ve got some stuff.” 
“ I’d like it this way : a broad strip of red in the 
middle, then gray, then yellow, that’s copperas, 
then gray again,” explained Prim. 
Well, you air goin’ to be fine! Lemme see,” 
tumbling out the balls. Why, you’ve enough 
for six or seven yards.” 
We want six or a little over. And if you 
could get it done in two weeks ” 
Well, depends on the weather an’ dryin’. I 
don’t like to be druv to death, an’ days are short. 
Yes — I s’pose in about two weeks. What’d you 
do with all the things that old creetur sent you? ” 
“ Oh, we cut some up into carpet rags.” 
“ And what’s your mother goin’ to do with her 
old things?” 
“ We took what we wanted, and some were sold. 
Mrs. Bachman will be glad to have the rest.” 
“ Now, there’s luck agin. Them Dutch people, 
poor as poverty’s hind foot, will get a lot of useful 
things. I’ll lay a penny. And I have to work for 
all I have. That’s the way of this oneven world.” 
You might have some of the rags if they 
would do you any good,” Prim said, to keep from 
laughing. 
‘‘Well, now! When it comes on to rain porridge my dish is upside down. Now, if I’d had 
them there rags last summer, ’twould been a god- 
send. There was a woman over here from Kent’s 
Lake who just built a bungle something ” 
“ Bungalow,” said Amaryllis. She had been 
reading an illustrated article in a magazine, and 
was proud of her knowledge. 
“ They must be silly things, ’cordin’ to account. 
They git old furniture — she wanted to buy some 
of mine, an’ they’re hotfoot on rag carpet; I didn’t 
have half enough rags — if I’d known of them of 
your mother’s ” 
“We didn’t have them then. And we didn’t 
know we should move.” 
“ Your mother’s lucky to rent that place. Ain’t 
it ’most ready to tumble down? It’s nigh onto a 
hundred years old. An’ I suppose you are dreadfully set up. I heard you had a servant and another woman. What can your mother find to do ? 
And I hope she won’t spend that man’s money 
buildin’ one of them outlandish bungle things. 
Good plain houses ought to answer.” 
Amaryllis glanced out of the window. Dan 
had been driving down the road, and was now 
coming back, so she said hurriedly: 
‘‘ Well, then, you’ll dye the warp next week 
and put it in the loom. We would like to have it 
as soon as we can.” . 
They were in the ell room. There was the big 
loom and the smaller one, a spinning-wheel, and a 
reel. Mrs. Betts had woven linsey-woolsey be- 
fore the days of cheap goods. 
“ Leave your pattern so’s I sha’n’t forgit. I 
don’t happen to be specially busy jest now, but 
land alive ! you never can tell. It’ll soon be house- 
cleanin’ time, an’ Denby people ain’t above rag 
carpet yet, though they don’t follow fashions. 
An’ now come in the settin’-room an’ be sociable 
like. I want to hear ’bout the man that married 
your mother. Is he bein’ good to you children ? ” 
He’s splendid!” rejoined Prim. But there 
comes Dan, and we must go,” walking to the door. 
Aunty Betts was eager for a good gossip, and 
was therefore disappointed. So she snapped : 
’Twould be more to Dan’s credit to stay with 
his poor dyin’ wife than gallivantin’ round with 
you gals.” 
Amaryllis flushed indignantly and returned with 
spirit : “ Mr. Mann pays him by the month to do 
whatever he is told, and the money goes to take 
care of her. If he did not work for Mr. Mann, 
he would have to do it for some one else.” 
“ Oh, you needn’t be so snappy. But I s’pose 
you do feel set up ” 
‘‘ Oh, very much,” laughed Prim. “ That’s the 
reason we want rag carpet. We’ll send over to 
see how you get along.” 
Amaryllis opened the door and hurried out. 
Mrs. Borden crossed the street just as Dan was 
handing her into the sleigh. 
“ Well, I declare ! I’m powerful glad to see 
you! So your mother’s married and living with 
the quality over at Grafton, and keeps a servant. 
I should think she’d hardly know herself! You 
mustn’t set yourselves up too high, for fear you 
might have an awful tumble. Is your stepfather 
as rich as they say?” 
‘‘ We are very happy and comfortable,” Rilla 
replied with dignity, as Dan started up the 
horses. 
Mrs. Borden ran in to see Aunty Betts, and the 
two agreed that “ them girls ” were set up beyond 
measure, and that it was scandalous for them to 
be riding round with Dan, while his poor wife 
was dying. “ And Mr. Beers said this Mr. Mann 
was an everyday sort of person, and it was doubt- 
ful if he was so very rich, after all. But what 
could have possessed him to marry a widow with 
eight children ? ” 
As for Prim, she laughed until she was out of 
breath, and catching it, laughed on. 
“ Why can’t people let us be happy in our own 
way? And why are they so curious? And to 
think she’s been a widow twenty years and no one 
has come to marry her ! ” 
What is that? ” asked Dan. 
Prim told over the remark. 
Well, ’Lijah Betts was a poor drunken thing, 
and she was well rid of him. She’s been a smart 
woman, too, but she can’t let her neighbors alone 
in peace, and she is always grumbling at the good 
fortune of others.” 
“ It’s queer that people can’t or don’t or won’t 
rejoice in your good fortune,” said Amaryllis. 
“ Why, I was always glad when any girl had a 
new frock or a new hat or any present.” 
And last winter, when Mamie Davis had her 
pretty turquoise ring, she let most of the girls 
wear it a little while. I thought it ever so sweet 
of her. Oh, I'd just like to go to Denby school 
some day. Wouldn’t it be fun! But I wouldn’t 
wear any chain and locket, for I should not like to 
lend it ’round, and I would hate to refuse. But I 
mean to rejoice with everybody who has any good 
fortune.” 
That’s the thing to do,” commented Dan with 
a nod. “ Why, it would make the world a jollier 
place.” 
When they told their mother about the inter- 
view, she praised them and said they had been very 
discreet, and that presently the gossips would have 
something new to talk about. 
Chan had gone over everything but the exam- 
ples when Miss Raynor came, so he went down- 
stairs for his music lesson. But that was very 
different from making chords of sweet sounds to 
himself, and almost as bad as other studies. Yet 
he caught at everything so rapidly, and had such a 
good ear for time that Miss Raynor was really 
delighted with him. 
But Amaryllis was a trial to herself as well as 
her teacher, and yet she loved musical sounds, and 
had a very fair voice for singing. 
I am very stupid, am I not ? ” she asked her 
teacher. 
“ Oh, you must not get discouraged,” with a 
sweet smile. ‘‘ There is a good deal of drudgery 
in the beginning.” 
“ But Marigold can do better than I. She goes 
over Chan’s lessons, and she has learned the names 
of the notes. My fingers are so awkward, yet I 
can do so many other things with them. I don’t 
understand,” with perplexity in her eyes. 
‘‘ You are very diffident. Of course, you will 
go to school ? I think a boarding-school would be 
improving to you.” 
Oh, I couldn’t go away from mother,” and 
Rilla turned pale at the thought. 
You all love your mother very much.” 
The girl gave a winsome smile, then added : 
But I’m learning to play because father wishes 
it. I think mother wouldn’t mind.” 
Miss Raynor thought she would like Marigold 
best. It would be a great satisfaction to have 
Chan. Mr. Evans had not overpraised him. 
Mrs. Mann came in to hear the verdict. 
** Amaryllis is to be tried for a quarter, her 
father thinks she should have the first chance. 
After that ” — pausing and adding — ‘‘ if you find 
her too much trouble ” 
‘‘ It isn’t always those who begin best that make 
the most satisfactory scholars. I have a simple 
exercise-book I will bring next time. You need 
practice but half an hour at a time, but do it two 
or three times a day.” 
. The girls wonder if you would play a little for 
them as a favor?” 
Oh, with pleasure.” 
Prim and Goldie came in, followed presently 
by the twins. The music was so gay and charm- 
ing that Prim sprang up suddenly and, catching 
Laurel’s baby hands, they danced about the room. 
Rhoda thought she would not be outdone, so she 
began for herself, but the turns mystified her, and 
she sat down in disdain, but, plucking up courage, 
said : 
I can sing ' Mary’s Lamb.’ ” 
Well,” said Miss Raynor smilingly and she 
adapted an accompaniment suited to the child’s 
voice. 
Now that was very well done,” said Miss 
Raynor. 
“ The children have been used to amusing 
themselves in almost any fashion,” explained their 
mother deprecatingly. 
And a very good plan it is,” was the hearty 
answer. After all, so many of them do enter- 
tain each other. I always feel sorry for a child 
alone. That little girl next door has such a 
lonely time. I suppose you know her quite well.” 
We have been waiting for the neighbors to 
signify whether they wanted us or not,” ex- 
plained Mrs. Mann, with a sweet sort of dignity. 
Several of them have called. And I have been 
very much occupied. It takes some time to get 
settled in new ways.” 
Yes. But we are very glad of you, Mrs. 
Mann. I'm sure I am pleased with my two music 
scholars, and sister will be glad of the addition to 
her school. For the present I think one lesson 
a week will be sufficient. I would rather a pupil 
would get it by heart than rush on to the next. 
And, Amaryllis, you must not feel discouraged. I 
know the fingering is hard and tedious. I had an 
awful time learning to hem when I was a little girl, 
but the music came easy.” 
Then she made a very kindly adieu. 
“ I have had the most delightful time,” Clara 
said to her sister. “ They are a picturesque lot of 
children, and quite a number of singers among 
them. The oldest girl is painfully shy; I am sorry 
for that.” 
The two at school will be smart to learn, but 
they do show a lack of training. The boy is quite 
headstrong, and has some queer ideas. He quotes 
the hired man for almost everything. His mother 
ought not to allow that.” 
She suggests wild roses and clover blooms. 
And I don’t blame Mr. Mann for wanting them 
all.” 
Miss Raynor was a good deal of a formalist, 
full of old-fashioned refinements, and clinging to 
the past methods of training, which she often 
found were at variance with the children of 
to-day. 
Linn came home in high spirits. I’ve really 
been useful,” he said, and the man at the desk 
showed me how they kept books. I know I can 
learn. And Miss King said it was just possible 
that I’d be promoted. I’m not fond of physics 
and language, but when it comes to figures I’m 
all there.” 
I wish you’d help me after dinner,” said 
Chan. I was awful last week, except in spell- 
ing and deportment. I’ve been going over the les- 
sons and done some of the sums, but there are 
five that bother me.” 
Why, I’d have helped you any time if you’d 
said a word,” returned Linn cordially. 
Mr. Mann patted his boy’s shoulder. Have 
you had a good day ? ” he asked. 
Yes, I studied all the time except when I 
was taking my music lesson. And I’ll try for a 
good card next week.” 
He stooped and kissed him, and Chan was glad 
he had not gone to the city. His heart swelled 
with a feeling of duty well done, and he was 
thrilled with an earnest endeavor to stand up to 
the mark. 
CHAPTER XI 
OF VARIOUS MATTERS 
Sunday morning there was a fine rain and sleet, 
growing colder in the afternoon, with a fierce 
wind and a snow that gained rapidly. Linn went 
to Sunday-school, but the others stayed at home 
and read and talked. On Monday morning the 
sun came out in splendor. The snow had drifted 
a good deal, and the snow man had a furry cloak 
on, quite awry, and presented a funny appearance. 
The snowplow came along and cleared a space on 
the walks. 
Dan had better take you to school,” said Mr. 
Mann. The trolley may be uncertain. You 
will see when you get down to the Park.” 
But the trolley was on time, and there was a 
throng of boys and girls, so Dan came back, and 
Mr. Mann proposed going over to the little house 
to decide about the inside repairs and the clean- 
ing. Rilla said there were a few more articles 
they wanted, and she would go with them. 
The boys were in good time. Chan went up to 
