     Where the rushing shuttles fly,
     Weaving dreams across the Loom,
     Picturing a common doom!
    "How, Beloved, can we die--
     We Immortals, Thou and I?"
He smiled: "Death seems very far away," he said.
"Nothing dies.... If only this world could understand.... Did I tell
you that mother has been with me often while you were away?"
"No."
"It was wonderfully sweet to see her in the room. One night I fell
asleep across her knees."
"Does she ever speak to you, Athalie?"
"Yes, sometimes we talk."
"At night?"
"By day, too.... I was sitting in the living-room the other morning,
and she came up behind me and took both my hands. We talked, I lying
back in the rocking chair and looking up at her.... Mrs. Connor came
in. I am quite sure she was frightened when she heard my voice in
there conversing with nobody she could see."
Athalie smiled to herself as at some amusing memory evoked.
"If Mrs. Connor ever knew how she is followed about by so many purring
pussies and little wagging dogs--I mean dogs and pussies who are no
longer what we call 'alive,'--I don't know what she'd think. Sometimes
the place is full of them, Clive--such darling little creatures. Hafiz
sees them; and watches and watches, but never moves."
Clive was staring a trifle hard; Athalie, lazily stretching her arms,
glanced at him with that humorous expression which hinted of gentlest
mockery.
"Don't worry; nothing follows you, Clive, except an idle girl who
finds no time for anything else, so busy are her thoughts with you."
He bent forward and kissed her; and she clasped both hands behind his
head, drawing it nearer.
"Have you missed me, Athalie?"
"You could never understand how much."
"Did you find me in your crystal?"
"No; I saw only the sea and on the horizon a stain of smoke, and a
gull flying."
He drew her closely into his arms: "God," he breathed, "if anything
ever should happen to you!--and I--alone on earth--and blind--"
"Yes. That is the only anxiety I ever knew ... because you are blind."
"If you came to me I could not see you. If you spoke to me I could
not hear. Could anything more awful happen?"
"Do you care for me so much?"
In his eyes she read her answer, and thrilled to it, closer in his
arms; and rested so, her cheek against his, gazing at the sunset out
of dreamy eyes.
       
They had been slowly pacing the garden paths, arm within arm, when
Mrs. Connor came to summon them to dinner. The small dining-room was
flooded with sunset light; rosy bars of it lay across cloth and fruit
and flowers, and striped the wall and ceiling.
And when dinner was ended the pale fire still burned on the thin silk
curtains and struck across the garden, gilding the coping of the wall
where clustering peaches hung all turned to gold like fabled fruit
that ripens in Hesperides.
Hafiz followed them out under the evening sky and seated himself upon
the grass. And he seemed mildly to enjoy the robins' evening
carolling, blinking benevolently up at the little vesper choristers,
high singing in the sunset's lingering glow.
Whenever light puffs of wind set blossoms swaying, the jet from the
fountain basin swerved, and a mellow raining sound of drops swept the
still pool. The lilac twilight deepened to mauve; upon the surface of
the pool a primrose tint grew duller. Then the first bat zig-zagged
across the sky; and every clove-pink border became misty with the
wings of dusk-moths.
On Athalie's frail white gown one alighted,--a little grey thing
wearing a pair of peacock-tinted diamonds on its forewings; and as it
sat there, quivering, the iridescent incrustations changed from
burnished gold to green.
"Wonders, wonders, under the moon," murmured the girl--"thronging
miracles that fill the day and night, always, everywhere. And so few
to see them.... Sometimes, to me the blindness of the world to all the
loveliness that I 'see clearly' is like my own blindness to the hidden
wonders of the night--where uncounted myriads of little rainbow
spirits fly. And nobody sees and knows the living splendour of them
except when some grey-winged phantom strays indoors from the outer
shadows. And it astonishes us to see, under the drab forewings, a
blaze of scarlet, gold, or orange."
"I suppose," he said, "that the unseen night world all around us is no
more wonderful than what, in the day-world, the vast majority of us
never see, never suspect."
"I think it must be so, Clive. Being accustomed to a more densely
populated world than are many people, I believe that if I could see
only what they see,--merely that small portion of activity and life
which the world calls 'living things,' I should find the sunlit world
rather empty, and the night but a silent desolation under the stars."
After a few minutes' thought he asked in a low voice whether at that
moment there was anybody in the garden except themselves.
"Some people were here a little while ago, looking at the flowers. I
think they must have lived here many, many years ago; perhaps when
this old house was new."
"Could you not ask them who they were?"
"No, dear."
"Why?"
"If they were what you would call 'alive' I could not intrude upon
them, could I? The laws of reticence, the respect for privacy, remain
the same. I am conscious of no more impertinent curiosity concerning
them than I am concerning any passer in the city streets."
"Have they gone?"
"Yes. But all the evening I have been hearing children at play just
beyond the garden wall.... And, when I was a child, somebody killed a
little dog down by the causeway. He is here in the garden, now,
trotting gaily about the lawn--such a happy little dog!--and Hafiz has
folded his forepaws under his ruff and has settled down to watch him.
Don't you see how Hafiz watches, how his head turns following every
movement of the little visitor?"
He nodded; then: "Do you still hear the children outside the wall?"
She sat listening, the smile brooding in her eyes.
"Can you still hear them?" he repeated, wistfully.
"Yes, dear."
"What are they saying?"
"I can't make out. They are having a happy time somewhere on the outer
lawns."
"How many are there?"
"Oh, I don't know. Their voices make a sweet, confused sound like bird
music before dawn. I couldn't even guess how many children are playing
there."
"Are any among them those children you once saw here?--the children
who pleaded with you--"
She did not answer. He tightened his arm around her waist, drawing her
nearer; and she laid her cheek against his shoulder.
"Yes," she said, "they are there."
"You know their voices?"
"Yes, dearest."
"Will they come again into the garden?"
Her face flushed deeply:
"Not unless we call them."
"Call them," he said. And, after a silence: "Dearest, will you not
call them to us?"
"Oh, Clive! I have been calling. Now it remains with you."
"I did not hear you call them."
"They heard."
"Will they come?"
"I--think so."
"When?"
"Very soon--if you truly desire them," she whispered against his
shoulder.
       
Somewhere within the house the hour struck. After a long while they
rose, moving slowly, her head still lying on his shoulder. Hafiz
watched them until the door closed, then settled down again to gaze on
things invisible to men.
       
Hours of the night in dim processional passed the old house unlighted
save by the stars. Toward dawn a sea-wind stirred the trees; the
fountain jet rained on the surface of the pool or, caught by a sudden
breeze, drifted in whispering spray across the grass. Everywhere the
darkness grew murmurous with sounds, vague as wind-blown voices; sweet
as the call of children from some hill-top where the stars are very
near, and the new moon's sickle flashes through the grass.
Athalie stirred where she lay, turned her head sideways with infinite
precaution, and lay listening.
Through the open window beside her she saw a dark sky set with stars;
heard the sea-wind in the leaves and the falling water of the
fountain. And very far away a sweet confused murmuring grew upon her
ears.
Silently her soul answered the far hail; her heart, responding, echoed
a voiceless welcome till she became fearful lest it beat too loudly.
Then, with infinite precaution, noiselessly, and scarcely stirring,
she turned and laid her lips again where they had rested all night
long and, lying so, dreamed of miracles ineffable.
CHAPTER XXVIII
Clive's enforced idleness had secretly humiliated him and made him
restless. Athalie in her tender wisdom understood how it was with him
before he did himself, and she was already deftly guiding his balked
energy into a brand new channel, the same being a bucolic one.
At first he had demurred, alleging total ignorance of husbandry; and,
seated on the sill of an open window and looking down at him in the
garden, she tormented him to her heart's content:
"Ignorant of husbandry!" she mimicked,--"when any husband I ever heard
of could go to school to you and learn what a real husband ought to
be! Why will you pretend to be so painfully modest, Clive, when you
are really secretly pleased with yourself and entirely convinced that,
in you, the world might discover a living pattern of model
domesticity!"
"I'm glad you think so--"
"Think! If I were only as certain of anything else! Never had I
dreamed that any man could become so cowed, so spiritless, so
perfectly house and yard broken--"
"If I come upstairs," he said, "I'll settle you!"
Leaning from the window overlooking the garden she lazily defied him;
turned up her dainty nose at him; mocked at him until he flung aside
the morning paper and rose, bent on her punishment.
"Oh, Clive, don't!" she pleaded, leaning low from the sill. "I won't
tease you any more,--and this gown is fresh--"
"I'll come up and freshen it!" he threatened.
"Please don't rumple me. I'll come down if you like. Shall I?"
"All right, darling," he said, resuming his newspaper and cigarette.
She came, seated herself demurely beside him, twitched his newspaper
until he cast an ominous glance at his tormentor.
"Dear," she said, "I simply can't let you alone; you are so bland and
self-satisfied--"
"Athalie--if you persist in tormenting me--"
"I torment you? I? An humble accessory in the scenery set for you?
I?--a stage property fashioned merely for the hero of the drama to sit
upon--"
"All right! I'll do that now!--"
But she nestled close to him, warding off wrath with both arms
clasping his, and looking up at him out of winning eyes in which but a
tormenting glint remained.
"You wouldn't rumple this very beautiful and brand new gown, would
you, darling? It was so frightfully expensive--"
"I don't care--"
"Oh, but you must care. You must become thrifty and shrewd and
devious and close, or you'll never make a successful farmer--"
"Dearest, that's nonsense. What do I know about farming?"
"Nothing yet. But you know what a wonderful man you are. Never forget
that, Clive--"
"If you don't stop laughing at me, you little wretch--"
"Don't you want me to remain young?" she asked reproachfully, while
two tiny demons of gaiety danced in her eyes. "If I can't laugh I'll
grow old. And there's nothing very funny here except you and
Hafiz--Oh, Clive! You have rumpled me! Please don't do it again!
Yes--yes--yes! I do surrender! I am sorry--that you are so
funny--Clive! You'll ruin this gown!... I promise not to say another
disrespectful word.... I don't know whether I'll kiss you or
not--Yes! Yes I will, dear. Yes, I'll do it tenderly--you heartless
wretch!--I tell you I'll do it tenderly.... Oh wait, Clive! Is Mrs.
Connor looking out of any window? Where's Connor? Are you sure he's
not in sight?... And I shouldn't care to have Hafiz see us. He's a
moral kitty--"
She pretended to look fearfully around, then, with adorable
tenderness, she paid her forfeit and sat silent for a while with her
slim white fingers linked in his, in that breathless little revery
which always stilled her under the magic of his embrace.
He said at last: "Do you really suppose I could make this farm-land
pay?"
And that was really the beginning of it all.
       
Once decided he seemed to go rather mad about it, buying agricultural
paraphernalia recklessly and indiscriminately for a meditated assault
upon fields long fallow.
Connor already had as much as he could attend to in the garden; but,
like all Irishmen, he had a cousin, and the cousin possessed
agricultural lore and a pair of plough-horses.
So early fall ploughing developed into a mania with Clive and Athalie;
and they formed a habit of sitting side by side like a pair of birds
on fences in the early October sunshine, their fascinated eyes
following the brown furrows turning where one T. Phelan was breaking
up pasture and meadow too long sod-bound.
In intervals between tenderer and more intimate exchange of sentiments
they discussed such subjects as lime, nitrogen, phosphoric acid, and
the rotation of crops.
Also Athalie had accumulated much literature concerning incubators,
brooders, and the several breeds of domestic fowl; and on paper they
had figured out overwhelming profits.
The insidious land-hunger which attacks all who contemplate making two
dozen blades of grass grow where none grew before, now seized upon
Clive and gnawed him. And he extended the acreage, taking in woods and
uplands as far as the headwaters of Spring Pond Brook, vastly to
Athalie's delight.
So the October days burned like a procession of golden flames passing
in magic sequence amid yellowing woods and over the brown and spongy
gold of salt meadows which had been sheared for stable bedding. And
everywhere over their land lay the dun-coloured velvet squares of
freshly ploughed fields awaiting unfragrant fertilizer and the autumn
rains.
The rains came heavily toward the end of October; and November was
grey and wet and rather warm. But open fires became necessary in the
house, and now they regularly reddened the twilight in library and
living-room when the early November dusk brought Athalie and Clive
indoors.
Hither they came, the fire-lit hearth their trysting place after they
had exchanged their rain-drenched clothes for something dry; and there
they curled up on the wide sofas and watched the swift darkness fall,
and the walls and ceiling redden.
It was an hour which Athalie had once read of as the "Children's Hour"
and now she understood better its charming significance. And she kept
it religiously, permitting herself to do nothing, and making Clive
defer anything he had to do, until after dinner. Then he might read
his paper or book, and she could take up her sewing if she chose, or
study, or play, or write the few letters that she cared to write.
Clive wrote no more, now. In this first year together they desired
each other only, indifferent to all else outside.
It was to her the magic year of fulfilment; to him an enchanted
interlude wherein only the girl beside him mattered.
Athalie sewed a great deal on odd, delicate, sheer materials where
narrowness and length ruled proportions, and where there seemed to be
required much lace and many little ribbons. Also she hummed to
herself as she sewed, singing under her breath endless airs which had
slipped into her head she scarce knew when or how.
An odd and fragrant freshness seemed to cling to her making her almost
absurdly youthful, as though she had suddenly dropped back to her
girlhood. Clive noticed it.
"You look about sixteen," he said.
"My heart is younger, dear."
"How young?"
"You know when it was born, don't you? Very well, it is as many days
old as I have been in love with you. Before that it was a muscle
capable merely of sturdy friendship."
One day a packet came from New York for her. It contained two rings,
one magnificent, the other a plain circlet. She kissed him rather
shyly, wore both that evening, but not again.
"I am not ashamed," she explained serenely. "Folkways are now a matter
of indifference to me. Civilisation must offer me a better argument
than it has offered hitherto before I resign to it my right in you, or
deny your right to me."
He knew that civilisation would lock them out and remain unconcerned
as to what became of them. Doubtless she knew it too, as she sat there
sewing on the frail garment which lay across her knee and singing
blithely under her breath some air with cadence like a berceuse.
       
During the "Children's Hour" she sat beside him, always quiet; or if
stirred from her revery to a brief exchange of low-voiced words, she
soon relapsed once more into that happy, brooding silence by the
firelight.
Then came dinner, and the awakened gaiety of unquenched spirits; then
the blessed evening hours with him.
But the last hour of these she called her hour; and always laid
aside her book or sewing, and slipped from the couch to the floor at
his feet, laying her head against his knees.
       
Snow came in December; and Christmas followed. They kept the mystic
festival alone together; and Athalie had a tiny tree lighted in the
room between hers and Clive's, and hung it with toys and picture
books.
It was very pretty in its tinsel and tinted globes; and its faint
light glimmered on the walls and dainty furniture of the dim pink
room.
Afterward Athalie laid away tinsel and toy, wrapping all safely in
tissue, as though to be kept secure and fresh for another
Christmas--the most wonderful that any girl could dream of. And
perhaps it was to be even more wonderful than Athalie had dreamed.
       
December turned very cold. The ice thickened; and she skated with
Clive on Spring Pond. The ice also remained through January and
February that winter; but after December had ended Athalie skated no
more.
Clive, unknown to her, had sent for a Shaker cloak and hood of
scarlet; and when it arrived Athalie threw back her lovely head and
laughed till the tears dimmed her eyes.
"All the same," he said, "you don't look much older in it than you
looked in your red hood and cloak the first day I ever set eyes on
you."
"You poor darling!--as though even you could push back the hands of
Time! It's the funniest and sweetest thing you ever did--to send for
this red, hooded cloak."
However she wore it whenever she ventured out with him on foot or in
the sleigh which he had bought. Once, coming home, she was still
wearing it when Mrs. Connor brought to them two peach turnovers.
A fire had been lighted in the ancient stove; and they went out to the
sun-parlour,--once the bar--and sat in the same old arm-chairs exactly
as they had been seated that night so long ago; and there they ate
their peach turnovers, their enchanted eyes meeting, striving to
realise it all, and the intricate ways of Destiny and Chance and Fate.
       
February was a month of heavy snows that year; great drifts buried the
fences and remained until well into March. April was April,--and very
much so; but they saw the blue waters of the bay sometimes; and
dogwood and willow stems were already aglow with colour; and a
premature blue-bird sang near Athalie's garden. Crocuses appeared
everywhere with grape hyacinths and snow-drops. Then jonquil and
narcissus opened in all their loveliness, and soft winds stirred the
waters of the fountain.
May found the garden uncovered, with tender amber-tinted shoots and
exquisite fronds of green wherever the lifted mulch disclosed the
earth. Also peonies were up and larkspur, and the ambitious promise of
the hollyhocks delighted Athalie.
Pink peach buds bloomed; cherry, pear, and apple covered the trees
with rosy snow; birds sang everywhere; and the waters of the pool
mirrored a sky of purest blue. But Athalie now walked no further than
the garden seat,--and walked slowly, leaning always on Clive's arm.
In those days throughout May her mother was with her in her room
almost every night. But Athalie did not speak of this to Clive.
CHAPTER XXIX
Spring ploughing had been proceeding for some time now, but Athalie
did not feel equal to walking cross-lots over ploughed ground, so she
let Clive go alone on tours of inspection.
But these absences were brief; he did not care to remain away from
Athalie for more than an hour at a time. So, T. Phelan ploughed on,
practically unmolested and untormented by questions, suggestions, and
advice. Which liberty was to his liking. And he loafed much.
In these latter days of May Athalie spent a great deal of her time
among her cushions and wraps on the garden seat near the fountain. On
his return from prowling about the farm Clive was sure to find her
there, reading or sewing, or curled up among her cushions in the sun
with Hafiz purring on her lap.
And she would look up at Clive out of sleepy, humorous eyes in which
glimmered a smile of greeting, or she would pretend surprise and
disapproval at his long absence of half an hour with: "Well, C.
Bailey, Junior! Where do you come from now?"
The phases of awakening spring in the garden seemed to be an endless
source of pleasure to the girl; she would sit for hours looking at the
pale lilac-tinted wistaria clusters hanging over the naked wall and
watching plundering bumble-bees scrambling from blossom to blossom.
And when at the base of the wall, the spiked buds of silvery-grey iris
unfolded, and their delicate fragrance filled the air, the exquisite
mingling of the two odours and the two shades of mauve thrilled her as
no perfume, no colour had ever affected her.
The little colonies of lily-of-the-valley came into delicate bloom
under the fringing shrubbery; golden bell flower, pink and vermilion
cydonia, roses, all bloomed and had their day; lilac bushes were
weighted with their heavy, dewy clusters; the sweet-brier's green
tracery grew into tender leaf and its matchless perfume became
apparent when the sun fell hot.
In the warm air there seemed to brood the exquisite hesitation of
happy suspense,--a delicious and breathless sense of waiting for
something still more wonderful to come.
And when Athalie felt it stealing over her she looked at Clive and
knew that he also felt it. Then her slim hand would steal into his and
