Already she was hoping that the man or woman who had left it might
never come back.

The child grew.  Regularly each year, upon a certain date, Miss Farlow
received a registered letter with money.  These letters came from all
parts of the world; always the same sum, always the same line--"I am
watching."

Thus seventeen years passed; and to Susan Farlow each year seemed
shorter than the one before.  For she loved the child with all her
heart.  She had not trained young girls all these years without
becoming adept in the art of reading the true signs of breeding.  There
was no ordinary blood in Florence; the fact was emphasized by her
exquisite face, her small hands and feet, her spirit and gentleness.
And now, at any day, some one with a broken bracelet might come for
her.  As the days went on the heart of Susan Farlow grew heavy.

"Never mind, aunty," said Florence; "I shall always come back to see
you."

She meant it, poor child; but how was she to know the terrors which lay
beyond the horizon!


The house of Stanley Hargreave, in Riverdale, was the house of no
ordinary rich man.  Outside it was simple enough, but within you
learned what kind of a man Hargreave was.  There were rare Ispahans and
Saruks on the floors and tapestries on the walls, and here and there a
fine painting.  The library itself represented a fortune.  Money had
been laid out lavishly but never wastefully.  It was the home of a
scholar, a dreamer, a wide traveler.

In the library stood the master of the house, idly fingering some
papers which lay on the study table.  He shrugged at some unpleasant
thought, settled his overcoat about his shoulders, took up his hat, and
walked from the room, frowning slightly.  The butler, who also acted in
the capacity of valet and was always within call when his master was
about, stepped swiftly to the hall door and opened it.

"I may be out late, Jones," said Hargreave.

"Yes, sir."

Hargreave stared into his face keenly, as if trying to pierce the grave
face to learn what was going on behind it.  "How long have you been
with me?"

"Fourteen years, sir."

"Some day I shall need you."

"My life has always been at your disposal, sir, since that night you
rescued me."

"Well, I haven't the least doubt that when I ask you will give."

"Without question, sir.  It was always so understood."

Hargreave's glance sought the mirror, then the smileless face of his
man.  He laughed, but the sound conveyed no sense of mirth; then he
turned and went down the steps slowly, like a man burdened with some
thought which was not altogether to his liking.  He had sent an order
for his car, but had immediately countermanded it.  He would walk till
he grew tired, hail a taxicab, and take a run up and down Broadway.
The wonderful illumination might prove diverting.  For eighteen years
nearly; and now it was as natural for him to throw a glance over his
shoulder whenever he left the house as it was for him to breathe.  The
average man would have grown careless during all these years; but
Hargreave was not an average man; he was, rather, an extraordinary
individual.  It was his life in exchange for eternal vigilance, and he
knew and accepted the fact.

Half an hour later he got into a taxicab and directed the man to drive
down-town as far as Twenty-third Street and back to Columbus circle.
The bewildering display of lights, however, in nowise served to lift
the sense of oppression that had weighed upon him all day.  South of
Forty-second Street he dismissed the taxicab and stared undecidedly at
the brilliant sign of a famous restaurant.  He was neither hungry nor
thirsty; but there would be strange faces to study and music.

It was an odd whim.  He had not entered a Broadway restaurant in all
these years.  He was unknown.  He belonged to no clubs.  Two months was
the longest time he had ever remained in New York since the disposal of
his old home in Madison Avenue and his resignation from his clubs.
This once, then, he would break the law he had written down for
himself.  Boldly he entered the restaurant.

Some time before Hargreave surrendered to the restless spirit of
rebellion, bitterly to repent for it later, there came into this
restaurant a man and a woman.  They were both evidently well known, for
the head waiter was obsequious and hurried them over to the best table
he had left and took the order himself.

The man possessed a keen, intelligent face.  You might have marked him
for a successful lawyer, for there was an earnestness about his
expression which precluded a life of idleness.  His age might have been
anywhere between forty and fifty.  The shoulders were broad and the
hands which lay clasped upon the table were slim but muscular.  Indeed,
everything about him suggested hidden strength and vitality.  His
companion was small, handsome, and animated.  Her frequent gestures and
mutable eyebrows betrayed her foreign birth.  Her age was a matter of
importance to no one but herself.



They were at coffee when she said: "There's a young man coming toward
us.  He is looking at you."

The man turned.  Instantly his face lighted up with a friendly smile of
recognition.

"Who is it?" she asked.

"A chap worth knowing; a reporter just a little out of the ordinary.
I'm going to introduce him.  You never can tell.  We might need him
some day.  Ah, Norton, how are you?"

"Good evening, Mr. Braine."  The reporter, catching sight of a pair of
dazzling eyes, hesitated.

"The Countess Perigoff, Norton.  You're in no hurry, are you?"



"Not now," smiled the reporter.

"Ah!" said the countess, interested.  It was the old compliment, said
in an unusual way.  It pleased her.

The reporter sank into a chair.  When inactive he was rather a
dreamy-eyed sort of chap.  He possessed that rare accomplishment of
talking upon one subject and thinking upon another at the same time.
So while he talked gaily with the young woman on varied themes, his
thoughts were busy speculating upon her companion.  He was quite
certain that the name Braine was assumed, but he was also equally
certain that the man carried an extraordinary brain under his thatch of
salt and pepper hair.  The man had written three or four brilliant
monographs on poisons and the uses of radium, and it was through and by
these that the reporter had managed to pick up his acquaintance.  He
lived well, but inconspicuously.

Suddenly the pupils of Braine's eyes narrowed; the eye became cold.
Over the smoke of his cigarette he was looking into the wall mirror.  A
man had passed behind him and sat down at the next table.  Still gazing
into the mirror, Braine saw Norton wave his hand; saw also the open
wonder on the reporter's pleasant face.

"Who is your friend, Norton?" Braine asked indifferently, his head
still unturned.

"Stanley Hargreave.  Met him in Hongkong when I was sent over to handle
a part of the revolution.  War correspondence stuff.  First time I ever
ran across him on Broadway at night.  We've since had some powwows over
some rare books.  Queer old cock; brave as a lion, but as quiet as a
mouse."

"Bookish, eh?  My kind.  Bring him over."  Underneath the table Braine
maneuvered to touch the foot of the countess.

"I don't know," said the reporter dubiously.  "He might say no, and
that would embarrass the whole lot of us.  He's a bit of a hermit.  I'm
surprised to see him here."

"Try," urged the countess.  "I like to meet men who are hermits."

"I haven't the least doubt about that," the reporter laughed.  "I'll
try; but don't blame me if I'm rebuffed."

He left the table with evident reluctance and approached Hargreave.
The two shook hands cordially, for the elder man was rather fond of
this medley of information known as Jim Norton.

"Sit down, boy; sit down.  You're just the kind of a man I've been
wanting to talk to to-night."

"Wouldn't you rather talk to a pretty woman?"

"I'm an old man."

"Bah!  That's a hypocritical bluff, and you know it.  My friends at the
next table have asked me to bring you over."

"I do not usually care to meet strangers."

"Make an exception this once," said the reporter, who had seen Braine's
eyes change and was curious to know why the appearance of Hargreave in
the mirror had brought about that metally gleam.  Here were two unique
men; he desired to see them face to face.

"This once.  My fault; I ought not to be here; I feel out of place.
What a life, though, you reporters lead!  To meet kings and presidents
and great financiers, socialists and anarchists, the whole scale of
life, and to slap these people on the back as if they were every-day
friends!"

"Now you're making fun of me.  For one king there are always twenty
thick brogans ready to kick me down the steps; don't forget that."

Hargreave laughed.  "Come, then; let us get it over with."

The introductions were made.  Norton felt rather chagrined.  As far as
he could see, the two men were total strangers.  Well, it was all in
the game.  Nine out of ten opportunities for the big story were fake
alarms; but he was always willing to risk the labor these nine entailed
for the sake of the tenth.

At length Braine glanced at his watch, and the countess nodded.  Adieux
were said.  Inside the taxicab Braine leaned back with a deep, audible
sigh.

"What is it?" she asked.

"The luck of the devil's own," he said.  "Child of the Steppes, for
years I've flown about seas and continents, through valleys and over
mountains--for what?  For the sight of the face of that man we have
just left.  At first glance I wasn't sure; but the sound of his voice
was enough.  Olga, the next time you see that reporter, throw your arms
around his neck and kiss him.  What did I tell you?  Without Norton's
help I would not have been sure.  I'm going to leave you at your
apartment."

"The man of the Black Hundred?" she whispered.

"The man who deserted and defied the Black Hundred, who broke his vows,
and never paid a kopeck for the privilege; the man who had been
appointed for the supreme work and who ran away.  In those days we
needed men of his stamp, and to accomplish this end...."

"There was a woman," she interrupted, with a touch of bitterness.

"Always the woman.  And she was as clever and handsome as you are."

"Thanks.  Sometimes..."

"Ah, yes!" ironically.  "Sometimes you wish you could settle down,
marry and have a family!  Your domesticity would last about a month."

She made no retort because she recognized the truth of this statement.

"There's an emerald I know of," he said ruminatively.  "It's quite
possible that you may be wearing it within a few days."

"I am mad over them.  There is something in the green stone that
fascinates me.  I can't resist it."

"That's because, somewhere in the far past, your ancestors were
orientals.  Here we are.  I'll see you to-morrow.  I must hurry.  Good
night."

She stood on the curb for a moment and watched the taxicab as it
whirled around a corner.  The man held her with a fascination more
terrible than any jewel.  She knew him to be a great and daring rogue,
cunning, patient, fearless.  Packed away in that mind of his there were
a thousand accomplished deeds which had roused futilely the police of
two continents.  Braine!  She could have laughed.  The very name he had
chosen was an insolence directed at society.

The subject of her thoughts soon arrived at his destination.  A flight
of stairs carried him into a dimly lighted hall, smelling evilly of
escaping gas.  He donned a black mask and struck the door with a series
of light blows; two, then one, then three, and again one.  The door
opened and he slipped inside.  Round a table sat several men, also
masked.  They were all tried and trusted rogues; but not one of them
knew what Braine looked like.  He alone remained unknown save to the
man designated as the chief, who was only Braine's lieutenant.  The
mask was the insignia of the Black Hundred, an organization with all
the ramifications of the Camorra without their abiding stupidity.  From
the assassination of a king, down to the robbery of a country
post-office, nothing was too great or too small for their nets.  Their
god dwells in the hearts of all men and is called greed.

The ordinary business over, the chief dismissed the men, and he and
Braine alone remained.

"Vroon, I have found him," said Braine.

"There are but few: which one?"

"Eighteen years ago, in St. Petersburg."

"I remember.  The millionaire's son.  Did he recognize you?"

"I don't know.  Probably he did.  But he always had good nerves.  He is
being followed at this moment.  We shall strike quick; for if he
recognized me he will act quick.  He is cool and brave.  You remember
how he braved us that night in Russia.  Jumped boldly through the
window at the risk of breaking his neck.  He landed safely; that is the
only reason he eluded us.  Millions--and they slipped through our
fingers.  If I could only find some route to his heart!  The lure we
held out to him is dead."



"Or in the fortress, which is the same thing.  What are your plans?"

"I have in mind something like this."

And Hargreave was working out his plans, too; and he was just as much
of a general as Braine.  He sat at his library table, the maxillary
muscles of his jaws working.  So they had found him?  Well, he had
broken the law of his own making and he must suffer the consequences.
Braine, who was Menshikoff in Russia, Schwartz in Germany, Mendoza in
Spain, Cartucci in Italy, and Du Bois in France; so the rogue had found
him out?  Poor fool that he had been!  High spirited, full of those
youthful dreams of doing good in the world, he had joined what he had
believed a great secret socialistic movement, to learn that he had been
trapped by a band of brilliant thieves.  Kidnapers and assassins for
hire; the Black Hundred; fiends from Tophet!  For nearly eighteen years
he had eluded them, for he knew that directly or indirectly they would
never cease to hunt for him; and an idle whim had toppled him into
their clutches.

He wrote several letters feverishly.  The last was addressed to Miss
Susan Farlow and read: "Dear Madam: Send Florence Gray to New York, to
arrive here Friday morning.  My half of the bracelet will be
identification.  Inclosed find cash to square accounts."  He would get
together all his available funds, recover his child, and fly to the
ends of the world.  He would tire them out.  They would find that the
peaceful dog was a bad animal to rouse.  He rang for the faithful Jones.

"Jones, they have found me," he said simply.

"You will need me, then?"

"Quite possible.  Please mail these and then we'll talk it over.  No
doubt some one is watching outside.  Be careful."

"Very good, sir."

Hargreave bowed his head in his hands.  Many times he had journeyed to
the school and hung about the gates, straining his eyes toward the
merry groups of young girls.  Which among them was his, heart of his
heart, blood of his blood?  That she might never be drawn into this
abominable tangle, he had resolutely torn her out of his life
completely.  The happiness of watching the child grow into girlhood he
had denied himself.  She at least would be safe.  Only when she was
safe in a far country would he dare tell her.  He tried in vain to
conjure up a picture of her; he always saw the mother whom he had loved
and hated with all the ardor of his youth.

Many things happened the next day.  There was a visit to the hangar of
one William Orts, the aviator, famous for his daredevil exploits.
There were two visitors, in fact, and the second visitor was knocked
down for his pains.  He had tried to bribe Orts.

There were several excited bankers, who protested against such large
withdrawals without the usual formal announcement.  But a check was a
check, and they had to pay.



Hargreave covered a good deal of ground, but during all this time his
right hand never left the automatic in his overcoat pocket, except at
those moments when he was obliged to sign his checks.  He would shoot
and make inquiries afterward.

Far away a young girl and her companion got on the train which was to
carry her to New York, the great dream city she was always longing to
see.

And the spider wove his web.

Hargreave reached home at night.  He put the money in the safe and was
telephoning when Jones entered and handed his master an unstamped note.

"Where did you get this?"

"At the door, sir.  I judge that the house is surrounded."

Hargreave read the note.  It stated briefly that all his movements
during the day had been noted.  It was known that he had collected a
million in paper money.  If he surrendered this he would be allowed
twenty-four hours before the real chase began.  Otherwise he should die
before midnight.  Hargreave crushed the note in his hand.  They might
kill him; there was a chance of their accomplishing that; but never
should they touch his daughter's fortune.

"Jones, you go to the rear door and I'll take a look out of the front.
We have an hour.  I know the breed.  They'll wait till midnight and
then force their way in."

Hargreave saw a dozen shadows in the front yard.

"Men all about the back yard," whispered Jones down the hall.

The master eyed the man.

"Very well, sir," replied the latter, with understanding.  "I am ready."

The master went to the safe, emptied it of its contents, crossed the
hall to the bedroom, and closed the door softly behind him, Jones
having entered the same room through another door to befool any
possible watcher.  After a long while, perhaps an hour, the two men
emerged from the room from the same doors they had entered.  So
whispered the watcher to his friends below.

"Hargreave is going up-stairs."

"Let him go.  Let him take a look at us from the upper windows.  He
will understand that nothing but wings will save him."
