collapses into her chair.

Ashley, springing toward her: "Miss Ramsey, are you--you are ill!"

Miss Ramsey: "No, no! The window! A little faint--it's so
close-- There, it's all right now. Or it will be--when--I've
had--another cigarette." She leans forward to take one; Ashley gravely
watches her, but says nothing. She lights her cigarette, but, without
smoking, throws it away. "Go on."

Ashley: "I wasn't saying anything!"

Miss Ramsey: "Oh, I forgot. And I don't know what we were talking
about myself." She falls limply back into her chair and closes her
eyes.

Ashley: "Sha'n't I ring for the maid? I'm afraid--"

Miss Ramsey, imperiously: "Not at all. Not on any account." Far less
imperiously: "You may pour me a cup of tea if you like. That will make
me well. The full strength, please." She motions away the hot-water
jug with which he has proposed qualifying the cup of tea which he
offers her.

Ashley: "One lump or two?"

Miss Ramsey: "Only one, thank you." She takes the cup.

Ashley, offering the milk: "Cream?"

Miss Ramsey: "A drop." He stands anxiously beside her while she
takes a long draught and then gives back the cup. "That was perfect."

Ashley: "Another?"

Miss Ramsey: "No, that is just right. Now go on. Or, I forgot. You
were not going on. Oh dear! How much better I feel. There must have
been something poisonous in those cigarettes."

Ashley: "Yes, there was tobacco."

Miss Ramsey: "Oh, do you think it was the tobacco? Do throw the
whole box into the fire! I shall tell Bob never to get cigarettes with
tobacco in them after this. Won't you have one of the chocolates? Or a
mallow? I feel as if I should never want to eat anything again. Where
was I?" She rests her cheek against the side of her chair cushion, and
speaks with closed eyes, in a weak murmur. Mr. Ashley watches her at
first with anxiety, then with a gradual change of countenance until a
gleam of intelligence steals into his look of compassion.

Ashley: "You asked me to throw the cigarettes into the fire. But I
want you to let me keep them."

Miss Ramsey, with wide-flung eyes: "You? You said you wouldn't
smoke."

Ashley, laughing: "May I change my mind? One talks better." He
lights a cigarette. "And, Miss Ramsey, I believe I will have a
cocktail, after all."

Miss Ramsey: "Mr. Ashley!"

Ashley, without noting her protest: "I had forgotten that I had a
corkscrew in my pocket-knife. Don't trouble yourself to ring for one."
He produces the knife and opens the bottle; then, as Miss Ramsey rises
and stands aghast, he pours out a glass and offers it to her, with
mock devotion. As she shakes her head and recoils: "Oh! I thought you
liked cocktails. They are very good after cigarettes--very reviving.
But if you won't--" He tosses off the cocktail and sets down the
glass, smacking his lips. "Tell your brother I commend his taste--in
cocktails and"--puffing his cigarette--"tobacco. Poison for poison,
let me offer you one of my cigarettes. They're milder than these."
He puts his hand to his breast pocket.

Miss Ramsey, with nervous shrinking: "No--"

Ashley: "It's just as well. I find that I hadn't brought mine with
me." After a moment: "You are so unconventional, so fearless, that I
should like your notion of the problem in a book I've just been
reading. Why should the mere fact that a man is married to one woman
prevent his being in love with another, or half a dozen others; or
vice versa?"

Miss Ramsey: "Mr. Ashley, do you wish to insult me?"

Ashley: "Dear me, no! But put the case a little differently. Suppose
a couple are merely engaged. Does that fact imply that neither has a
right to a change of mind, or to be fancy free to make another
choice?"

Miss Ramsey, indignantly: "Yes, it does. They are as sacredly bound
to each other as if they were married, and if they are false to each
other the girl is a wretch, and the man is a villain! And if you think
anything I have said can excuse you for breaking your engagement, or
that I don't consider you the wickedest person in the world, and the
most barefaced hypocrite, and--and--I don't know what--you are very
much mistaken."

Ashley: "What in the world are you talking about?"

Miss Ramsey: "I am talking about you and your shameless perfidy."

Ashley: "My shameless perf-- I don't understand! I came here
to tell you that I love you--"

Miss Ramsey: "How dare you! To speak to me of that, when-- Or
perhaps you have broken with her, and think you are free to hoodwink
some other poor creature. But you will find that you have chosen the
wrong person. And it's no excuse for you her being a little--a
little--not so bright as some girls, and not so good-looking. Oh, it's
enough to make any girl loathe her own looks! You mustn't suppose you
can come here red-handed--yes, it's the same as a murder, and any true
girl would say so--and tell me you care for me. No, Walter Ashley, I
haven't fallen so low as that, though I have the disgrace of your
acquaintance. And I hope--I hope--if you don't like my smoking, and
offering you cocktails, and talking the way I have, it will be a
lesson to you. And yes!--I will say it! If it will add to your
misery to know that I did respect you very much, and thought
everything--very highly--of you, and might have answered you very
differently before, when you were free to tell me that--now
I have nothing but the utmost abhorrence--and--disapproval of you.
And--and-- Oh, I don't see how you can be so hateful!" She hides her
face in her hands and rushes from the room, overturning several chairs
in her course toward the door. Ashley remains staring after her, while
a succession of impetuous rings make themselves heard from the street
door. There is a sound of opening it, and then a flutter of skirts and
anxieties, and Miss Garnett comes running into the room.


                                  VI

                       MISS GARNETT, MR. ASHLEY

Miss Garnett, to the maid hovering in the doorway: "Yes, I must have
left it here, for I never missed it till I went to pay my fare in the
motor-bus, and tried to think whether I had the exact dime, and if I
hadn't whether the conductor would change a five-dollar bill or not,
and then it rushed into my mind that I had left my purse somewhere,
and I knew I hadn't been anywhere else." She runs from the mantel to
the writing-desk in the corner, and then to the sofa, where, peering
under the tea-table, she finds her purse on the shelf. "Oh, here it
is, Nora, just where I put it when we began to talk, and I must have
gone out and left it. I--" She starts with a little shriek, in
encountering Ashley. "Oh, Mr. Ashley! What a fright you gave me! I was
just looking for my purse that I missed when I went to pay my fare in
the motor-bus, and was wondering whether I had the exact dime, or the
conductor could change a five-dollar bill, and--" She discovers, or
affects to discover, something strange in his manner. "What--what is
the matter, Mr. Ashley?"

Ashley: "I shall be glad to have you tell me--or any one."

Miss Garnett: "I don't understand. Has Isobel--"

Ashley: "Miss Garnett, did you know I was engaged?"

Miss Garnett: "Why, yes; I was just going to congrat--"

Ashley: "Well, don't, unless you can tell me whom I am engaged to."

Miss Garnett: "Why, aren't you engaged to Emily Fray?"

Ashley: "Not the least in the world."

Miss Garnett, in despair: "Then what have I done? Oh, what a
fatal, fatal scrape!" With a ray of returning hope: "But she told me
herself that she was engaged! And you were together so much, last
summer!" Desperately: "Then if she isn't engaged to you, whom is she
engaged to?"

Ashley: "On general principles, I shouldn't know, but in this
particular instance I happen to know that she is engaged to Owen
Brooks. They were a great deal more together last summer."

Miss Garnett, with conviction: "So they were!" With returning doubt:
"But why didn't she say so?"

Ashley: "I can't tell you; she may have had her reasons, or she may
not. Can you possibly tell me, in return for my ignorance, why the
fact of her engagement should involve me in the strange way it seems
to have done with Miss Ramsey?"

Miss Garnett, with a burst of involuntary candor: "Why, I did
that. Or, no! What's she been doing?"

Ashley: "Really, Miss Garnett--"

Miss Garnett: "How can I tell you anything, if you don't tell me
everything? You wouldn't wish me to betray confidence?"

Ashley: "No, certainly not. What was the confidence?"

Miss Garnett: "Well-- But I shall have to know first what she's been
doing. You must see that yourself, Mr. Ashley." He is silent. "Has
she--has Isobel--been behaving--well, out of character?"

Ashley: "Very much indeed."

Miss Garnett: "I expected she would." She fetches a thoughtful sigh,
and for her greater emotional convenience she sinks into an easy-chair
and leans forward. "Oh dear! It is a scrape." Suddenly and
imperatively: "Tell me exactly what she did, if you hope for any help
whatever."

Ashley: "Why, she offered me a cocktail--"

Miss Garnett: "Oh, how good! I didn't suppose she would dare! Well?"

Ashley: "And she smoked cigarettes--"

Miss Garnett: "How perfectly divine! And what else?"

Ashley, coldly: "May I ask why you admire Miss Ramsey's behaving out
of character so much? I think the smoking made her rather faint, and--"

Miss Garnett: "She would have let it kill her! Never tell me that
girls have no moral courage!"

Ashley: "But what--what was the meaning of it all?"

Miss Garnett, thoughtfully: "I suppose if I got her in for it, I
ought to get her out, even if I betray confidence."

Ashley: "It depends upon the confidence. What is it?"

Miss Garnett: "Why-- But you're sure it's my duty?"

Ashley: "If you care what I think of her--"

Miss Garnett: "Oh, Mr. Ashley, you mustn't think it strange of
Isobel, on my bended knees you mustn't! Why, don't you see? She was
just doing it to disgust you!"

Ashley: "Disgust me?"

Miss Garnett: "Yes, and drive you back to Emily Fray."

Ashley: "Drive me ba--"

Miss Garnett: "If she thought you were engaged to Emily, when you
were coming here all the time, and she wasn't quite sure that she
hated to have you, don't you see it would be her duty to sacrifice
herself, and-- Oh, I suppose she's heard everything up there, and--"
She catches herself up and runs out of the room, leaving Ashley to
await the retarded descent of skirts which he hears on the stairs
after the crash of the street door has announced Miss Garnett's
escape. He stands with his back to the mantel, and faces Miss Ramsey
as she enters the room.


                                 VII

                         MISS RAMSEY, ASHLEY

Miss Ramsey, with the effect of cold surprise: "Mr. Ashley? I
thought I heard-- Wasn't Miss Garnett--"

Ashley: "She was. Did you think it was the street door closing on
me?"

Miss Ramsey: "How should I know?" Then, courageously: "No, I didn't
think it was. Why do you ask?" She moves uneasily about the room, with
an air of studied inattention.

Ashley: "Because if you did, I can put you in the right, though I
can't restore Miss Garnett's presence by my absence."

Miss Ramsey: "You're rather--enigmatical." A ring is heard; the maid
pauses at the doorway. "I'm not at home, Nora." To Mr. Ashley: "It
seems to be very close--"

Ashley: "It's my having been smoking."

Miss Ramsey: "Your having?" She goes to the window and tries to
lift it.

Ashley: "Let me." He follows her to the window, where he stands
beside her.

Miss Ramsey: "Now, she's seen me! And you here with me. Of course--"

Ashley: "I shouldn't mind. But I'm so sorry if--and I will go."

Miss Ramsey: "You can't go now--till she's round the corner. She'll
keep looking back, and she'll think I made you."

Ashley: "But haven't you? Aren't you sending me back to Miss Fray to
tell her that I must keep my engagement, though I care nothing for
her, and care all the world for you? Isn't that what you want me to
do?"

Miss Ramsey: "But you're not engaged to her! You just--"

Ashley: "Just what?"

Miss Ramsey, desperately: "You wish me to disgrace myself forever in
your eyes. Well, I will; what does it matter now? I heard you telling
Esther you were not engaged. I overheard you."

Ashley: "I fancied you must."

Miss Ramsey: "I tried to overhear! I eavesdropped! I wish you to
know that."

Ashley: "And what do you wish me to do about it?"

Miss Ramsey: "I should think any self-respecting person would know.
I'm not a self-respecting person." Her wandering gaze seems to fall
for the first time upon the tray with the cocktails and glasses and
cigarettes; she flies at the bell-button and presses it impetuously.
As the maid appears: "Take these things away, Nora, please!" To Ashley
when the maid has left the room: "Don't be afraid to say what you
think of me!"

Ashley: "I think all the world of you. But I should merely like to
ask--"

Miss Ramsey: "Oh, you can ask anything of me now!"

Ashley, with palpable insincerity: "I should like to ask why you
don't respect yourself?"

Miss Ramsey: "Was that what you were going to ask? I know it wasn't.
But I will tell you. Because I have been a fool."

Ashley: "Thank you. Now I will tell you what I was really going to
ask. Why did you wish to drive me back to Miss Fray when you knew that
I would be false to her a thousand times if I could only once be true
to you?"

Miss Ramsey: "Now you are insulting me! And that is just the
point. You may be a very clever lawyer, Mr. Ashley, and everybody says
you are--very able, and talented, and all that, but you can't get
round that point. You may torture any meaning you please out of my
words, but I shall always say you brought it on yourself."

Ashley: "Brought what on?"

Miss Ramsey: "Mr. Ashley! I won't be cross-questioned."

Ashley: "Was that why you smoked, and poured cocktails out of an
unopened bottle? Was it because you wished me to hate you, and
remember my duty, and go back to Miss Fray? Well, it was a dead
failure. It made me love you more than ever. I am a fool too, as you
call it."

Miss Ramsey: "Say anything you please. I have given you the right. I
shall not resent it. Go on."

Ashley: "I should only repeat myself. You must have known how much I
care for you, Isobel. Do you mind my calling you Isobel?"

Miss Ramsey: "Not in the least if you wish to humiliate me by it. I
should like you to trample on me in every way you can."

Ashley: "Trample on you? I would rather be run over by a
steam-roller than tread on the least of your outlying feelings,
dearest. Do you mind my saying dearest?"

Miss Ramsey: "I have told you that you can say anything you like. I
deserve it. But oh, if you have a spark of pity--"

Ashley: "I'm a perfect conflagration of compassion, darling. Do you
object to darling?"

Miss Ramsey, with starting tears: "It doesn't matter now." She has
let her lovely length trail into the corner of the sofa, where she
desperately reclines, supporting her elbow on the arm of it, and
resting her drooping head on her hand. He draws a hassock up in front
of her, and sits on it.

Ashley: "This represents kneeling at your feet. One doesn't do it
literally any more, you know."

Miss Ramsey, in a hollow voice: "I should despise you if you did,
and"--deeply murmurous--"I don't wish to despise you."

Ashley: "No, I understand that. You merely wish me to despise
you. But why?"

Miss Ramsey, nervously: "You know."

Ashley: "But I don't know--Isobel, dearest, darling, if you will
allow me to express myself so fully. How should I know?"

Miss Ramsey: "I've told you."

Ashley: "May I take your hand? For good-by!" He possesses himself of
it. "It seems to go along with those expressions."

Miss Ramsey, self-contemptuously: "Oh yes."

Ashley: "Thank you. Where were we?"

Miss Ramsey, sitting up and recovering her hand: "You were saying
good-by--"

Ashley: "Was I? But not before I had told you that I knew you were
doing all that for my best good, and I wish--I wish you could have
seen how exemplary you looked when you were trying to pour a cocktail
