"Thanks," said Warner dryly.  "You may stick to the bowl of black soap
until your class is summoned."
Asticot looked at him earnestly.
"If I have to go with my class, will M’sieu’ speak a word for me that it
shall be the line and not Biribi again?"
"Yes, if you behave yourself."
"A—a certificate of honest employment?—A few kind words that I have
diligently labored in the service of M’sieu’?"
"Yes, I’ll do that."
Asticot squirmed with delight.  And Warner, poling steadily up stream,
saw him making his toilet in the grey light, dipping his fists into the
water, scrubbing his battered features, carefully combing out favoris
and rouflaquette and greasing both from the contents of a knotted
bandana handkerchief which he drew from the capacious pocket of the coat
which the charity of Warner had bestowed upon him.
He was as merry as a washer-raccoon over his ablutions; all care for the
future had fled, and an animal-like confidence in this terrible young
patron of his reigned undisturbed in the primitive brain of Asticot.
There was now only one impelling force in life for him—the instinctive
necessity of running rather close to Warner’s heels, wherever that might
lead him. Anxiety for personal comfort and well-being he dismissed; he
would eat when his master thought best; he would find shelter and warmth
and clothing when and where it pleased the man after whom he tagged.  He
was safe, he was comfortable.  That dominating physical strength which
had nearly destroyed him, coupled with that awesome intellectual power
which now held him in dumb subjection, would in future look out for him
and his needs.  Tant mieux!  Let his master do the worrying.
Carefully combing out his favoris with a broken comb and greasing them
with perfumed pomade flat over his sunken cheekbones, he fairly wriggled
with his new sense of security and bodily comfort.
Now and then he scratched his large, outstanding ears, trying to realize
his good fortune; now and then, combing his rouflaquette with
tenderness and pride, he lifted his mean, nasal voice in song:
    "Depuis que j’suis dans c’tte p—n d’Afrique
    A faire l’chameau avec une bosse su’ l’dos,
    Mon vieux frangin, j’suis sec comme un coup d’trique,
    J’ai b’entôt p’us que d’la peau su’les os!
      Et v’là l’Bat. d’Af. qui passe,
      Ohé! ceux d’la classe!—"
Combing away and plastering his lovelocks by the help of a fragment of
mirror, Asticot whined out his dreadful ballads of Africa, throwing all
the soul he possessed into the tragic recital and sniffling
sentimentally through his nose:
    A Biribi c’est là qu’on marche,
      Faut pas flancher;
    Quand l’chaouch crie: ’En avant!  Marche!’
      I’faut marcher,
    Et quand on veut fair’ des épates,
      C’est peau d’zébi:
    On vous fiche les fers au quat’ pattes
      A Biribi!
    A Biribi c’est là qu’on crève
      De soif et d’ faim,
    C’est là qu’i’ faut marner sans trêve
      Jusqu’ à la fin! ...
    Le soir on pense à la famille
      Sous le gourbi....
    On pleure encor’ quand on roupille
      A Biribi!"
He was still chanting when the punt glided in among the rushes of the
eastern bank.  He followed Warner to the land, aided him to beach the
punt, then trotted docilely at heel as the American struck out across
the quarry road and mounted the retaining wall of the vineyard-clad
hill.
Up they climbed among the vines; and Asticot with a leer, but keeping
his mousy eyes on Warner, ventured to detach a ripe bunch here and there
and breakfast as he trotted along.
The thunder of the cannon had become very distinct; daylight came slowly
under the heavy blanket of grey clouds; the foggy sky was still stained
with rose over Ausone; red flashes leaped from the fort; the paler glare
of the German guns played constantly across the north.
And now, coming out on the hill’s crest among the vines, Warner caught
sight of Ausone town far below, beyond the Château forest.  Here and
there houses kindled red as coals in a grate; the sluice and wheel of a
mill by the Récollette seemed to be on fire; beyond it haystacks were
burning and smothering all the east in smoke.
"Mazette," remarked Asticot, with his mouth full of stolen grapes.
"It appears to Bibi that their church of Sainte Cassilda is frying the
stone saints inside!"
And then, adjusting his field glasses, Warner discovered what the
mouse-eyes of Asticot had detected: Sainte Cassilda the beautiful was
merely a hollow shell within which raged a sea of fire crimsoning the
gaping doors and windows, glowing scarlet through cracks and fissures in
the exquisitely carved façade, mounting through the ruined roof in a
whirl of rosy vapors that curled and twisted and glittered with swarming
golden sparks.
Another fire burned in the ruins of what had been the Chalons railway
station; the Café and Cabaret de Biribi were level wastes of stones and
steaming bricks, over which fire played and smoke whirled upward; the
market was a long heap of live coals; even trees were afire by the
river, and Warner could see flames here and there among the bushes and
whole thickets burning fiercely along the river and beyond, where the
Bois d’Ausone touches it with a fringe of splendid oaks.
As day broke, a watery light illuminated the still landscape.  Smoke
hung heavy over Ausone Fort; the great cupola guns flashed redly through
it; a wide, high bank of vapor towered above Ausone, stretching away to
the west and north.  Whole rows of burning houses in Ausone glowed and
glimmered, marking the courses of streets; the Hôtel de Ville seemed to
be intact, but the Boulevard d’Athos was plainly on fire; and, over the
rue d’Auros, an infernal light flickered as flame and smoke alternately
lighted the street or blotted it from view.
"The town is done for," said Warner calmly.  "The fort is still
replying, but very slowly.  It looks rather bad to me.  It looks like
the end."
Asticot scratched one large ear and furtively helped himself to another
bunch of grapes.  Warner seated himself on the ground and raised his
field glasses.  Asticot squatted on his haunches, his little, mousy eyes
fixed wistfully on the burning town.  Looting ought to be good in
Ausone—dangerous, of course, but profitable. A heaven-sent opportunity
for honest pillage was passing.  Asticot sighed and licked his lips.
After a while, and imbued now with the impudent confidence of a
tolerated mongrel, he ventured to rise and nose around a bit, keeping,
however, his new master carefully in sight.
The sour little wine grapes had allayed his thirst and hunger; he
prowled at random around the summit of the hill, surveying the river
valley and the hills beyond.  By chance he presently kicked up a big
hare, which cleared out at full speed, doubling and twisting before the
shower of stones hurled after it by Asticot. He ran after it a little
way among the vines, hoping that a chance missile might have bowled over
the toothsome game.  Craning his neck, he peeped discreetly down the
hillside, reconnoitering; then suddenly ducked; squatted for a moment as
though frozen to a statue, and, dropping on his belly, he crawled back
to Warner, who still sat there with his field glasses bracketed on
Ausone.
"M’sieu’!"
Warner turned at the weird whisper, lowering his glasses.
"Las Bosches!" whispered Asticot.
"Where?" demanded Warner incredulously.
"Riding up this very hill where we are sitting!  I saw them—six of them
on their horses!"
"They must be French!"
"No, Bosches!  Uhlans!"
"Did they see you?"
"No."
Along the upper retaining wall of the vineyard a line of low bushes grew
in patches, left there, no doubt, so that the roots might make firmer
the steep bank of earth and dry-laid stone.
Warner rose, and, stooping low, ran toward this thatch of cover,
followed by Asticot.
Under the bushes they crept, stretched themselves flat, and lay
listening.
They had not long to wait; straight through the rows of vines toward the
crest of the hill rode an Uhlan, walking his big, hard-breathing horse
to the very verge of the northern slope.
His lance, with pennon furled, slanted low from the arm loop; he sat his
high saddle like a statue, and looked out across the valley toward the
burning town beyond.
He was so near that Warner could see the grey uniform in detail—the
ulanka piped with dark crimson, shoulder straps bearing the number 2,
collar with the eagle-button insignia of the Guard.  A grey helmet-slip
covered the mortar board and leather body of the schapska; boots and
belt were of russet leather.
Another Uhlan rode up, showing the star of an oberleutnant on the
pattes-d’épaules.
Four others followed, picking their way among the vines, cautiously yet
leisurely.  At the stirrups of the oberleutnant strode a man on foot—a
big, shambling, bald-headed man wearing a smock and carrying a felt hat
in his huge hand.  And when he turned to wipe his hairless face on his
sleeve, Asticot clutched Warner’s arm convulsively.
The man was Wildresse.
The officer of Uhlans sat very straight in his saddle, his field glasses
sometimes focussed on the burning town, sometimes sweeping the landscape
to the north and west, sometimes deliberately studying the valley below.
Presently he lowered his glasses and turned partly around to look down
at Wildresse, who was standing among the vines by his stirrup.
"Wohin führt diese Weg?" he demanded with a nod toward the quarry road
below.
"Nach Drieux, Excellenz!"
"Zeigen Sie mir die Richtung nach Dreslin mit der Hand!"
Wildresse raised his arm and pointed, tracing the quarry road north and
west.
"Also!  Wie tief ist dieser Fluss?  Ist eine Brücke?"
The harsh, deep rumble of Wildresse’s voice, the mincing, nasal tones of
the Prussian, the snort of horses receded as the Uhlans rode slowly over
toward the right—evidently a precaution to escape observation from the
valley below.
For a while they sat their big horses there, looking out over the
valley; then, at a signal from the ober-leutnant, they turned their
mounts and rode slowly off down the eastern slope of the vineyard,
taking with them the double traitor, Wildresse.
Asticot’s eyes were like two minute black sparks; he was shivering now
from head to foot as he lay there; and it became very evident to Warner
that this young ruffian had had no knowledge of that sort of villainy on
the part of Wildresse.
"Ah, le cochon!" hissed Asticot, grasping two fistfuls of earth in his
astonishment and fury.  "Is he selling France then to the Bosches?"
"Didn’t you know it?" inquired Warner coldly.
"I?  Nom de Dieu!  For what do you take me then? Whatever I am, I am not
that!  Ah, le sale bougre de Wildresse!  Ah!  Les salauds de saligauds
de Bosches! Ah, Wildresse!—Fumier, viande à corbeau, caserne à puces,
gadou’, morceau d’chausett’s russes—que j’te dis que j’t’engeule et que
j’t’abomine, vermine malade, canard boiteux——"
Ashy white, his mouth twisted with rage, Asticot lay shivering and
cursing the treachery of his late employer, Wildresse.  And Warner
understood that, low as this creature was, ignorant, treacherous,
fierce, ruthless, and cowardly, the treason of Wildresse had amazed and
horrified and enraged him.
"It’s the last depths of filth," stammered Asticot. "Ah, non, nom de
Dieu!  One does not do that!—Whatever else one does!  I’ll have his
skin for this.  It becomes necessary to me that I have his skin!  Minc’
de Marseillaise!  Viv’ la république!  En avant l’armée!  Gare au coup
d’scion, eh, vache d’apache! Les coutcaur sont faits pour les chiens,
mince de purée!  C’est vrai qu’ Squelette c’est un copain à moi—but if
he is in this—he and the père Wildresse, et bon!—Faut leur-z-y casser la
geule——"
"That’s enough!" interrupted Warner, who for a moment had been struck
dumb by the frightful fluency of an invective he never dreamed existed,
even in the awful argot of voyous like Asticot.
He rose.  Pale and still trembling, Asticot stumbled to his feet, his
pasty face twisted with unuttered maledictions.
Moving cautiously to the eastern edge of the vineyard, they saw, far
below them, six Uhlans riding slowly eastward toward the Bois de Saïs,
and a gross figure on foot shuffling ahead and evidently acting as pilot
toward the wilder uplands of the rolling country beyond.
Warner watched them through his glasses until they disappeared in the
woods, then he turned, looked at the burning town in the north for a few
moments, closed his field glasses and slung them, and, nodding to
Asticot, descended the western slope toward the river.
There were no people visible anywhere, either on the quarry road or
across the river.  The fugitives from Ausone must have gone west toward
Dreslin.
Asticot crawled into the punt; Warner shoved off and poled for
midstream, where he let the current carry him down toward Saïs.
"Asticot?"
"M’sieu’?"
"That was only one small scouting party of Uhlans. Perhaps there are
more of them along the river."
Asticot began to curse again, but Warner stopped him.
"Curb that charmingly fluent flow of classic eloquence," he said.  "It
may sound well on the outer boulevards, but I don’t care for it."
The voyou gulped, swallowed a weird oath, and shivered.
"Asticot, that man Wildresse ought to be apprehended and shot.  Have you
any idea where his hiding place is?"
"In the Bois d’Ausone.  It was there.  Animals travel."
"Could you find the place?"
Asticot shrugged and rubbed his pock-marked nose. The forest of Ausone
was too near the cannon to suit him, and he said so without hesitation.
"Very well," said Warner.  "When we meet any of our soldiers or
gendarmes you can explain where Wildresse has been hiding.  He won’t
come out, I suppose, until the occupation of Ausone by the Germans
reassures him.  He ought to be caught and executed."
"If the cannon would only stop their ugly noises I’d go myself,"
muttered Asticot.  "Tenez, M’sieu’, it would be a pleasure for me to
bleed that treacherous hog——"
"I don’t doubt it," said Warner pleasantly, "but, odd as it may appear
to you, Asticot, I have a personal prejudice against murder.  It’s
weak-minded of me, I know.  But if you have no objection, we’ll let
military law catch Wildresse and deal with him if it can."
Asticot looked at him curiously:
"Is it then distasteful to M’sieu’ that I bleed this espèce de pig for
him?"
"I’m afraid it is."
"You do not desire me to settle the business of this limace?"
"No."
"For what purpose is an enemy?" inquired the voyou.  "For revenge.
And of what use is revenge if you do not use it on your enemy?"
"You can’t understand me, can you, Asticot?"
"No," said Asticot naïvely, "I can’t."
                             *CHAPTER XXX*
It was still very early as Warner walked up to the Golden Peach, but
Magda and Linette were astir and a delicious aroma of coffee floated
through the hallway.
Warner surveyed his most recent acquisition with a humorous and slightly
disgusted air.  As it appeared impossible to get rid of Asticot, there
seemed nothing to do but to feed him.
So he called out Linette and asked her to give some breakfast to the
young voyou; and Linette showed Asticot into the bar and served
breakfast with a scorn and aloofness which fascinated Asticot and also
awed him.
None of the leering impudence, none of the easy effrontery of the outer
boulevards, aided Asticot to assert himself or helped him toward any
attempt at playfulness toward this wholesome, capable, business-like
young woman.
She served him with a detached and supercilious air, placed cover and
food with all the nonchalance of serving a house cat with its morning
milk.  And Asticot dared not even look at her until her back was turned;
then only did he venture to lift his mousy eyes to study the
contemptuous girl who had provided him with what he spoke of as the
"quoi d’boulotter."
As for Warner, he had sauntered into the kitchen, where Madame Arlon
greeted him heartily, and was prettily confused and flattered when he
seated himself and insisted on having breakfast with her.
Over their café-au-lait they discussed the menace of invasion very
quietly, and the stout, cheery landlady told him that she had concluded
to keep the inn open in any event.
"What else is there for me to do?" she asked.  "To leave my house is to
invite robbery; perhaps even destruction, if the Prussians arrive.  I
had rather remain and protect my property if I can.  At any rate, it
will not be for long, God willing!"
"I do not believe it will last very long, this headlong rush of the
Germans into France," he said thoughtfully. "It seems to me as though
they had the start of us, but nothing more serious.  I’m very much
afraid we are going to see them here in the Récollette Valley before
they are driven back across the frontier."
Linette’s cheeks grew very red.
"I had even rather serve that frightful voyou in there than be forced
to set food before a Prussian," she said in a low voice.
"Wait a bit longer," said Warner.  "—A little patience, perhaps a little
more humiliation, but, sooner or later, surely, surely the liberation of
the Vosges—the return of her lost children to France, the driving out of
German oppression, arrogance, and half-cooked civilization forever....
It’s worth waiting for, worth endurance and patience and sacrifice."
"It is worth dying for," said Magda simply.
"If," added Linette, "one only knew how best to serve France by offering
one’s life."
"It is best to live if that can be accomplished honorably," said Madame
Arlon.  "France is in great need of all her children."
The three women spoke thoughtfully, naturally, with no idea of heroics,
expressing themselves without any self-consciousness whatever.
After a silence Warner said to Linette with a smile:
"So you don’t admire my new assistant, Monsieur Asticot?"
"Monsieur Warner!  That dreadful voyou in your service!"
Warner laughed:
"It seems so.  I didn’t invite him.  But I can’t get rid of him.  He
sticks like a lost dog."
"Send him about his business—which doubtless is to pick pockets!" cried
Linette.  "Monsieur has merely to whisper ’Gendarmes!’ to him, and he
does not stop running until he sights the Eiffel Tower!"
Madame Arlon smiled:
"He really is a dreadful type," she said.  "The perfume of Paris
gutters clings to him.  Monsieur Warner had better get rid of him before
articles begin to be missed."
"Oh, well," remarked Warner, "he’ll probably scuttle away like a scared
rabbit when the Germans come through Saïs.  I’m not worrying.
Meanwhile, he carries my field kit and washes brushes—if I ever can make
up my mind to begin painting again.... That heavy, steady thunder from
the north seems to take all ambition out of me."
"It affects me like real thunder," nodded Madame Arlon.  "The air is
lifeless and dead; one’s feet drag and one’s head grows heavy.  It is
like the languor which comes over one before a storm.
"Do the guns seem any louder to you since last night?"
"I was wondering....  Well, God’s will be done.... But I do not believe
it is in His heart to turn the glory of His face from France....  Magda,
if we are to make the preserves today, it will be necessary for you to
gather plums this morning.  Linette, is that type still eating?"
"He stuffs himself without pause," replied the girl scornfully.  "Only a
guinea pig can eat like that!"
She went into the bar café and bent a pair of pretty but hostile eyes
upon Asticot, who stared at her with his mouth full, then, still
staring, buttered another slice of bread.
"Voyons," she said impatiently, "do you imagine yourself to be at
dinner, young man?  Permit me to remind you that this is
breakfast—café-au-lait—not a banquet at the Hôtel de Ville!"
"I am hungry," said Asticot simply.
"Really?" she retorted, exasperated.  "One might almost guess as much,
what with the tartines and tranches you swallow as though you had
nothing else to do.  Come, stand up on what I suppose you call your
feet.  Your master is out in the road already, and I don’t suppose that
even you have the effrontery to keep him waiting."
Asticot arose; a gorged sigh escaped him.  He stretched himself with the
satisfaction of repletion, shuffled his feet, peeped cunningly and
sideways out of his mousy eyes at Linette.
"Allons," she said coldly, "it’s paid for.  Fichez-moi le camp!"
There was a vase of flowers on the bar.  Asticot shuffled over, sniffed
at them, extracted the largest and gaudiest blossom—a yellow dahlia—and,
with a half bold, half scared smirk, laid it on the table as an offering
to Linette.
The girl was too much astonished and incensed to utter a word, and
Asticot left so hurriedly that when she had recovered her power of
speech he was already slouching along down the road a few paces behind
Warner.
The latter had hastened his steps because ahead of him walked Sister
Eila; and he meant to overtake and escort her as far as the school, and
then back to the Château, if she were returning.
As he joined her and they exchanged grave but friendly greetings, he
suddenly remembered her as he had last seen her, kneeling asleep by the
chapel pillar.
And then he recollected what she had murmured, still drowsy with dreams;
and the memory of it perplexed him and left his face flushed and
troubled.
"How is your patient, Sister?" he inquired, dropping into step beside
her.
"Much better, Mr. Warner.  A little care is all he needs.  But I wish
his mind were at rest."  She glanced behind her at Asticot, plainly
wondering who he might be.
"What worries Gray?" inquired Warner.
"The prospect of being taken prisoner, I suppose."
"Of course.  If the Germans break through from the north they’ll take
him along.  That would be pretty hard luck, wouldn’t it?—To be taken
before one has even a taste of battle!"
Sister Eila nodded:
"He says nothing, but I know that is what troubles him.  When I came in
this morning, I found him up and trying to walk.  I sent him back to
bed.  But he tells me he does not need to use his legs in his branch of
the British service, and that if he could only get to Chalons he would
be fit for duty.  I think, from things he has said, that both he and Mr.
Halkett belong to the Flying Corps."
Warner was immensely interested.  Sister Eila told him briefly why she
suspected this to be true, then, casting another perplexed glance behind
her, she asked in a low voice who might be the extremely unprepossessing
individual shuffling along the road behind them. And Warner told her,
humorously; but she did not smile.
Watching her downcast eyes and grave lips in the transparent shadow of
her white coiffe, he thought he had never seen a human face so pure, so
tender—with such infinite capacity for charity.
She said very gently:
"My duties have led me more than once into the Faubourgs.  There is
nothing sadder to me than Paris.... Always I have believed that sin and
degradation among the poor should be treated as diseases of the mind....
Poor things—they have no doctor, no medicines, no hospital to aid them
