
"Ow." 

" And half of em unruly Yankees the 
most objectionable half, you know." 

"A bad lot," remarked the Honorable Algy. 

"Not at all," said the B. M. 0. compla 
cently; "I've a relative of sorts with em 
leftenant, I believe a Yankee brother-in-law, in point of fact." 

"Ow." 

"Married a step-sister in the States. Must 
look him up some day," concluded the B. M. 
0., adjusting his field glasses and focussing 
them on two dark dots moving across a distant waste of alpine roses along the edge 
of a chasm. 

One of the dots happened to be the "relative of sorts" just mentioned; but the 
B. M. 0. could not know that. And a moment afterward the dots became invisible 
against the vast mass of the mountain, and 
did not again reappear within the field of 
the English officer's limited vision. So he 
never knew he had seen his relative of sorts. 

Up there on the alp, one of the dots, which 
at near view appeared to be a good-looking, 






bronzed young man in khaki, puttees, and 
mountain shoes, said to the other officer who 
was scrambling over the rocks beside him: 

"Did you ever see a better country for 
sheep?" 

"Bear, elk, goats it's sure a great lay 
out," returned the younger officer, a Canadian 
whose name was Stent. 

"Goats," nodded Brown "sheep and goats. 
This country was made for them. I fancy 
they have chamois here. Did you ever see 
one, Harry!" 

"Yes. They have a thing out here, too, 
called an ibex. You never saw an ibex, did 
you, Jim!" 

Brown, who had halted, shook his head. 
Stent stepped forward and stood silently be 
side him, looking out across the vast cleft in 
the mountains, but not using his field glasses. 

At their feet the cliffs fell away sheer 
into tremendous and dizzying depths; fir 
forests far below carpeted the abyss like 
wastes of velvet moss, amid which glistened 
a twisted silvery thread a river. A world 
of mountains bounded the horizon. 







"Better make a note or two," said Stent 
briefly. 

They unslung their rifles, seated themselves 
in the warm sun amid a deep thicket of 
alpine roses, and remained silent and busy 
with pencil and paper for a while two in 
conspicuous, brownish-grey figures, cuddled 
close among the greyish rocks, with nothing 
of military insignia about their dress or their 
round grey wool caps to differentiate them 
from sportsmen wary stalkers of chamois 
or red deer except that under their unbelted 
tunics automatics and cartridge belts made 
perceptible bunches. 

Just above them a line of stunted firs 
edged limits of perpetual snow, and rocks 
and glistening fields of crag-broken white 
carried the eye on upward to the dazzling 
pinnacle of the Col de la Eeine, splitting the 
vast, calm blue above. 

Nothing except peaks disturbed the tran 
quil sky to the northward; not a cloud hung 
there. But westward mist clung to a few 
mountain flanks, and to the east it was snowing on distant crests. 









Brown, sketching rapidly but accurately, 
laughed a little under his breath. 

"To think," he said, "not a Boche dreams 
we are in the Carnic Alps. It's very funny, 
isn't it? Our surveyors are likely to be here 
in a day or two, I fancy." 

Stent, working more slowly and method 
ically on his squared map paper, the smoke 
drifting fragrantly from his brier pipe, 
nodded in silence, glancing down now and 
then at the barometer and compass between 
them. 

"Mentioning big game," he remarked pres 
ently, "I started to tell you about the ibex, 
Jim. I've hunted a little in the Eastern 
Alps." 

"I didn't know it," said Brown, interested. 

"Yes. A classmate of mine at the Munich 
Polytechnic invited me Siurd von Glahn a 
splendid fellow educated at Oxford just 
like one of us nothing of the Boche about 
him at all- 
Brown laughed: "A Boche is always 
a Boche, Harry. The black Prussian 
blood " 









"No; Siurd was all white. Really. A 
charming, lovable fellow. Anyway, his dad 
had a shooting where there were chamois, 
reh, hirsch, and the king of all Alpine big 
game ibex. And Siurd asked me." 

"Did you get an ibex?" inquired Brown, 
sharpening his pencil and glancing out across 
the valley at a cloud which had suddenly 
formed there. 

"I did." 

"What manner of beast is it?" 

"It has mountain sheep and goats stung 
to death. Take it from me, Jim, it's the last 
word in mountain sport. The chamois isn't 
in it. Pooh, I've seen chamois within a hundred yards of a mountain macadam high 
way. But the ibex? Not much! The man 
who stalks and kills an ibex has nothing 
more to learn about stalking. Chamois, red 
deer, Scotch stag make you laugh after you've 
done your bit in the ibex line." 

"How about our sheep and goat?" inquired 
Brown, staring at his comrade. 

"It's harder to get ibex." 

"Nonsense !" 









"It really is, Jim." 

"What does your ibex resemble?" 

"It's a handsome beast, ashy grey in summer, furred a brownish yellow in winter, and 
with little chin whiskers and a pair of big, 
curved, heavily ridged horns, thick and flat 
and looking as though they ought to belong 
to something African, and twice as big." 

"Some trophy, what?" commented Brown, 
working away at his sketches. 

"Bather. The devilish thing lives along the 
perpetual snow line ; and, for incredible stunts 
in jumping and climbing, it can give points 
to any Eocky Mountain goat. You try to get 
above it, spend the night there, and stalk it 
when it returns from nocturnal grazing in the 
stunted growth below. That's how." 

"And you got one?" 

"Yes. It took six days. We followed it for 
that length of time across the icy mountains, 
Siurd and I. I thought I'd die." 

"Cold work, eh?" 

Stent nodded, pocketed his sketch, fished out 
a packet of bread and chocolate from his pocket 
and, rolling over luxuriously in the sun among 









the alpine roses, lunched leisurely, flat on his 
back. 

Brown presently stretched out and reclined 
on his elbow ; and while he ate he lazily watched 
a kestrel circling deep in the gulf below him. 

"I think," he said, half to himself, "that this 
is the most beautiful region on earth." 

Stent lifted himself on both elbows and gazed 
across the chasm at the lower slopes of the aim 
opposite, all ablaze with dewy wild flowers. 
Down it, between fern and crag and bracken, 
flashed a brook, broken into in silvery sections 
amid depths of velvet green below, where evidently it tumbled headlong into that thin, shin 
ing thread which was a broad river. 

"Yes," mused Stent, "Siurd von Glahn and 
I were comrades on many a foot tour through 
such mountains as these. He was a delight 
ful fellow, my classmate Siurd " 

Brown's swift rigid grip on his arm checked 
him to silence; there came the clink of an 
iron-shod foot on the ledge ; they snatched their 
rifles from the fern patch; two figures stepped 
around the shelf of rock, looming up dark 
against the dazzling sky. 





CHAPTER V 

PABNASSTJS 

Brown, squatting cross-legged among the 
alpine roses, squinted along his level rifle. 

"Halt!" he said with a pleasant, rising in 
flection in his quiet voice. "Stand very still, 
gentlemen," he added in German. 

"Drop your rifles. Drop em quick!" he 
repeated more sharply. "Up with your hands 
hold them up high ! Higher, if you please ! 
quickly. Now, then, what are you doing on this 
alp?" 

What they were doing seemed apparent 
enough two gentlemen of Teutonic persua 
sion, out stalking game deer, rehbok or chamois one a tall, dark, nice-looking young fellow wearing the usual rough gray jacket with 
stag-horn buttons, green felt hat with feather, 
and leather breeches of the alpine hunter. His 









knees and aristocratic ankles were bare and 
bronzed. He laughed a little as he held up his 
arms. 

The other man was stout and stocky rather 
than fat. He had the square red face and 
bushy beard of a beer-nourished Teuton and 
the spectacles of a Herr Professor. He held 
up his blunt hands with all ten stubby fingers 
spread out wide. They seemed rather soiled. 

From his rucksack stuck out a butterfly 
net in two sections and the deeply scalloped, 
silver-trimmed butt of a sporting rifle. Edel 
weiss adorned his green felt hat; a green tin 
box punched full of holes was slung from his 
broad shoulders. 

Brown, lowering his rifle cautiously, was already getting to his feet from the trampled 
bracken, when, behind him, he heard Stent's 
astonished voice break forth in pedantic German: 

"Siurd! Is it thou then?" 

"Harry Stent!" returned the dark, nice-looking young fellow amiably. And, in a delightful voice and charming English: 

"Pray, am I to offer you a shake hands," he 






"Drop your rifles. Drop cm, quick!" he repeated more 

sharply. 







inquired smilingly; "or shall I continue to in 
voke the Olympian gods with classically up 
lifted and imploring arms?" 

Brown let Stent pass forward. Then, step 
ping back, he watched the greeting between 
these two old classmates. His rifle, grasped 
between stock and barrel, hung loosely between 
both hands. His expression became vacantly 
good humoured ; but his brain was working like 
lightning. 

Stent's firm hand encountered Von Glahn's 
and held it in questioning astonishment. Look 
ing him in the eyes he said slowly: "Siurd, it 
is good to see you again. It is amazing to 
meet you this way. I am glad. I have never 
forgotten you. . . . Only a moment ago I was 
speaking to Brown about you of our won 
derful ibex hunt! I was telling Brown my 
comrade " he turned his head slightly and 
presented the two young men "Mr. Brown, 
an American " 

"American!" repeated Von Glahn in his gen 
tle, well-bred voice, offering his hand. And, in 
turn, becoming sponsor, he presented his stocky 
companion as Dr. von Dresslin; and the ceremony instantly stiffened to a more rigid etiquette. 

Then, in his always gentle, graceful way, 
Von Glahn rested his hand lightly on Stent's 
shoulder : 

"You made us jump you two Americans 
as though you had been British. Of what could 
two Americans be afraid in the Carnic Alps 
to challenge a pair of wandering ibex stalkers ?" 

"You forget that I am Canadian," replied 
Stent, forcing a laugh. 

"At that, you are practically American and 
civilian " He glanced smilingly over their 
equipment, carelessly it seemed to Stent, as 
though verifying all absence of military in 
signia. "Besides," he added with his gentle 
humour, "there are no British in Italy. And 
no Italians in these mountains, I fancy; they 
have their own affairs to occupy them on the 
Isonzo I understand. Also, there is no war be 
tween Italy and Germany." 

Stent smiled, perfectly conscious of Brown's 
telepathic support in whatever was now to 
pass between them and these two Germans. He 







knew, and Brown knew, that these Germans 
