eyes. He would wake in the night and wish there were one straight path.
If he could have known that at this time Reardon and Alston Choate had
also, in differing ways, this same consciousness of Esther's calling it
could not have surprised him. He would not have known, in his own
turmoil, whether to urge them to go or not to go. Esther did not seem
to him a disturbing force, only a disconcerting one. You might have to
meet it to have done with it.

But now at Weedon's office door he paused a moment, hearing a voice, the
little man's own, slightly declamatory, even in private, and went in.
And he wished he had not gone, for Miss Amabel sat at the table, signing
papers, and he instantly guessed the signatures were not in the
pursuance of her business but to the advantage of Weedon Moore. Whatever
she might be doing, she was not confused at seeing him. Her designs
could be shouted on the housetops. But Moore gave him a foolishly
cordial greeting mingled with a confused blotting of signatures and a
hasty shuffling of the papers.

"Sit down, sit down," he said. "You haven't looked me up before, not
since--"

"No," said Jeff. "Not since I came back. I don't think I ever did. I've
come now in reference to a rather scandalous business."

Miss Amabel moved her chair back. She was about to rise.

"No, please," said Jeff. "Don't go. I'd rather like you to know that I'm
making certain threats to Moore here, in case I have to carry them out.
I'd rather you'd know I have some grounds. I never want you to think the
worst of me."

"I always think the best of you," said Miss Amabel, with dignity yet
helplessly. She sat there in an attitude of waiting, her grave glance
going from one to the other, as she tried to understand.

"Madame Beattie," said Jeff curtly to Moore, "is likely to give you some
personal details of her life. If you print them you'll settle with me
afterward."

"O Jeffrey!" said Miss Amabel. "Why put it so unpleasantly? Mr. Moore
would never print anything which could annoy you or any one. We mustn't
assume he would."

Moore, standing, one fat and not overclean hand on the table, looked a
passionate gratitude to her. He seemed about to gush into protest. Of
course he wouldn't. Of course he would publish only what was of the
highest character and also what everybody wanted him to.

"That's all," said Jeff. He, too, was standing and he now turned to go.

"I wish--" said Miss Amabel impulsively. She got on her feet and stood
there a minute, a stately figure in spite of her blurred lines. "I wish
we could have your cooperation, Jeff. Mr. Moore is going to run for
mayor."

"So I hear," said Jeff, and his mind added, "And you are financing his
campaign, you old dear, and only a minute ago you were signing over
securities."

"It means so much," said Miss Amabel, "to have a man who is a friend of
labour. We ought to combine on that. It's enough to heal our
differences."

"Pardon me," said Jeff. "I have to go. But mayn't I take you home?"

"No," said Amabel; "I've another bit of business to settle. But think it
over, Jeff. We can't afford to let personal issues influence us when the
interest of the town is at stake."

"Surely not," said Jeff. "Addington forever!"

As he went down the stairs he smiled a little, remembering Weedie had
not spoken a word after his first greeting. But Jeff didn't waste much
thought on Weedie. He believed, at the crisis, Weedie could be managed.
Miss Amabel had startled his mind broad awake to what she called the
great issues and what he felt were vital ones. He went on over the
bridge, and up the stairs of the old Choate Building to Alston's
office, and, from some sudden hesitancy, tapped on the door.

"Come in," called Alston, and he went.

Alston sat at the table, not reading a novel as Lydia and too many of
his clients had found him, but idle, with not even a book at hand. There
were packets of papers, in a methodical sequence, but everything on the
table bore the aspect of an order not akin to work. Choate looked pale
and harassed. "You?" said his upward glance. "You, of all the people
I've been thinking of? What are you here for?"

There was though, in the look, a faint relief. Perhaps he thought
something connected with the harassing appeal of Esther, the brutalising
stir of her in the air, could be cleared up. Jeff was to surprise him.

"Choate," said he, "have you been asked to run for mayor?"

Choate frowned. He wasn't thinking of public office.

"I've been--approached," he said, as if the word made it the more
remote.

"What did you say?"

"Said I wouldn't. Jeff, I believe you started the confounded thing."

"I've talked a lot," said Jeff. "But any fool knows you've got to do it.
Choate, you're about the only hope of tradition and decency here in
Addington. Don't you know that?"

"I'm a weak man," said Alston, looking up at him unhappily. "I don't
half care for these things. I like the decent thing done, but, Jeff, I
don't want to pitch into the dirty business and call names and be called
names and uncover smells. I'd rather quit the whole business and go to
Europe."

"And let Addington go to pot? Why, we'd all rather go to Europe, if
Addington could be kept on her pins without us. But she can't. We've got
to see the old girl through."

"She's gone to pot anyway," said Choate. "So's the country. There aren't
any Americans now. They're blasted aliens."

"Ain't you an American?" asked Jeff, forgetting his grammar. "I am. And
I'm going to die in my tracks before I'm downed."

"You will be downed."

"I don't care. I don't care whether in a hundred years' time it's stated
in the history books that there was once a little tribe called New
Englanders and if you want to learn about 'em the philologists send you
to the inscriptions of Mary Wilkins and Robert Frost."

(This was before Robert Frost had come into his fame, but New England
had printed a verse or two and then forgotten them.)

"I didn't know you were such a fellow," said Choate, really interested,
in an impersonal way. "You go to my head."

"Sometimes I think," said Jeff, not half noticing him, "that what really
was doing in me in jail was country--country--patriotism, a kind of
irrational thing--sort of mother love applied to the soil--the thing men
die for. Call it liberty, if you want to, but it's all boiled down now
to Addington. Choate, don't you see Addington took hold on eternal
things? Don't you know how deep her roots go? She was settled by
English. You and I are English. We aren't going to let east of Europe or
south of Europe or middle Europe come over here and turn old Addington
into something that's not Anglo-Saxon. O Choate, wake up. Come alive.
Stop being temperate. Run for mayor and beat Weedie out of his skin."

"Dear fellow," said Choate, looking at him as if for an instant he too
were willing to speak out, "you live in a country where the majority
rules. And the majority has a perfect right to the government it wants.
And you will be voted down by ten aliens this year and a hundred next,
and so on, because the beastly capitalist wants more and more aliens
imported to do his work and the beastly politician wants them all thrown
into citizenship neck and heels, so he can have more votes. You're
defeated, Jeff, before you begin. You're defeated by sheer numbers."

"Then, for God's sake," said Jeff, "take your alien and make an American
of him."

"You can't. Could I take you to Italy and make an Italian of you, or to
Germany and make a German? You might do something with their children."

"They talk about the melting-pot," said Jeff rather helplessly.

"They do. It's a part of our rank sentimentalism. You can pour your
nationalities in but they'll no more combine than Tarquin's and
Lucretia's blood. No, Jeff. America's gone, the vision, as she was in
the beginning. They've throttled her among them."

Jeff stood looking at him, flushed, dogged, defiant. He had a vivid
beauty at the moment, and Alston woke to a startled sense of what the
young Jeff used to be. But this was better. There was something beaten
into this face finer far than youth.

Jeff seemed to be meeting him as if their minds were at grapples.

"The handful of us, old New England, the sprinkling of us that's left,
we've got to repel invasion. The aliens are upon us."

"They've even brought their insect pests," put in Alston.

"Folks," said Jeff, "that know no more about the passions and
faithfulnesses this government was founded on than a Hottentot going
into his neighbour's territory."

"Oh, come," said Alston, "give 'em a fair show. They've come for
liberty. You've got to take their word for it."

"Some of 'em have come to avoid being skinned alive, by Islam, some to
get money enough to go back with and be rentiers. The Germans have
come to show us the beatitude of their specially anointed way of life."

"Well," said Alston curtly, "we've got 'em. And they've got us. You
can't leaven the whole lump."

"I can't look much beyond Addington," said Jeff. "I believe I'm dotty
over the old girl. I don't want her to go back to being Victorian, but I
want her to be right--honest, you know, and standing for decent things.
That's why you're going to be mayor."

Alston made no answer, but when, in a few weeks' time, some citizens of
weight came to ask him again if he would accept the nomination, he said,
without parley, that he would. And it was not Jeff that had constrained
him; it was the look in his mother's eyes.




XXXIV


The late autumn had a profusion of exhilarating days. The crops kept
Jeff in the garden and brought his father out for his quota of pottering
care. When the land was cleared for ploughing and even the pile of
rubbish burned, Jeff got to feeling detached again, discontented even,
and went for long tramps, sometimes with Alston Choate. Esther, seeing
them go by, looked after them in a consternation real enough to blanch
her damask cheek. What was the bond between them? Whatever bond they had
formed must be to the exclusion of her and her dear wishes, and their
amity enraged her.

Once, in walking, she saw Jeff turn in at Miss Amabel's gate, and she
did not swerve but actually finished her walk and came back that way
praying, with the concentration of thought which is an assault of will,
that he might be coming out and meet her. And it happened according to
her desire. There, at the gate was Jeff, handsomer, according to a
woman's jealous eye, than she had ever seen him, fresh-coloured, his
face set in a determination that was not feigned, hard, fit for any
muscular task more than the average man might do. Esther was looking her
prettiest. She continued to look her prettiest now, so far as woman's
art could serve her, for she could not know what moment might summon her
to bring her own special strength to bear. Jeff, at sight of her, took
off his hat, but stopped short standing inside the gate. Esther
understood. He wasn't going to commit her to walk with him where
Addington might see. She, too, stopped, her heart beating as fast as she
could have desired and giving her a bright accession of colour. Esther
greatly prized her damask cheek.

Jeff, feeling himself summoned, then came forward. He looked at her
gravely, and he was at a loss. How to address her! But Esther, with a
beguiling accent of gentleness, began.

"Isn't it strange?" she said, wistfully and even humbly, as if it were
not a question but a reflection of her own, not necessarily to be
answered.

"What is strange?" asked Jeff, with a kindly note she found reassuring.

"You and me," said Esther, "standing here, when--I don't believe you
were going to speak."

Her poor little smile looked piteous to him and the lift of her brows.
Jeff was sorry for her, sorry for them both. At that moment he was not
summoning energy to distrust her, and this was as she hoped.

"I'm sorry, Esther," he said impulsively. "I did mean to speak. It
wasn't that. I only don't mean to make you--in other folks' eyes, you
know--seem to be having anything to do with me when--when you don't want
to."

"When I don't want to!" Esther repeated. There was musing in the soft
voice, a kind of wonder.

"It's an infernal shame," said Jeff. He was glad to tell her he hated
the privation she had to bear of having cast him off and yet facing her
broken life without him. "I know what kind of time you have as well as
you could tell me. You've got Madame Beattie quartered on you. There's
grandmother upstairs. No comfort in her. No companionship. I've often
thought you don't go out as much as you might for fear of meeting me.
You needn't feel that. If I see it's going to happen I can save you
that, at least."

Esther stood looking up at him, her lips parted, as if she drank what he
had to say through them, and drank it thirstily.

"How good you are!" she said. "O Jeff, how good! When I've--" There she
paused, still watching him. But Esther had the woman's instinctive trick
of being able to watch accurately while she did it passionately.

Jeff flushed to his hair, but her cleverness did not lead her to the
springs of his emotion. He was ashamed, not of her, but of himself.

"You're off," he said, "all wrong. I do want to save you from this
horrible mix-up I've made for you. But I'm not good, Esther. I'm not the
faithful chap it makes me seem. I'm different. You wouldn't know me. I
don't believe we ever knew each other very well."

Something like terror came into her beautiful eyes. Was he, that inner
terror asked her, trying to explain that she had lost him? Although she
might not want him, she had always thought he would be there.

"You mean--" she began, and strove to keep a grip on herself and decide
temperately whether this would be best to say. But some galled feeling
got the better of her. The smart was too much. Hurt vanity made her
wince and cry out with the passion of a normal jealousy. "You mean," she
continued, "you are in love with another woman."

It was a hit. He had deserved it, he knew, and he straightened under it.
Let him not, his alarmed senses told him, even think of Lydia, lest
these cruelly clever eyes see Lydia in his, Lydia in his hurried breath,
even if he could keep Lydia from his tongue.

"Esther," he said, "don't say such a thing. Don't think it. What right
have I to look at another woman while you are alive? How could I insult
a woman--" He stopped, his own honest heart knocking against his words.
He had dared. He had swept his house of life and let Lydia in.

"Yes," said Esther thoughtfully, and, it seemed, hurt to the soul, "you
love somebody else. O Jeff, I didn't think--" She lifted widened eyes to
his. Afterward he could have sworn they were wet with tears. "I stand in
your way, don't I? What can I do, not to stand in your way?"

"Do?" said Jeff, in a rage at all the passions between men and women.
"Do? You can stop talking sentiment about me and putting words into my
mouth. You can make over your life, if you know how, and I'll help you
do it, if I can. I thought you were trying to free yourself. You can do
that. I won't lift a hand. You can say you're afraid of me, as you have
before. God knows whether you are. If you are, you're out of your mind.
But you can say it, and I won't deny you've just cause. You mustn't be a
prisoner to me."

"Jeff!" said Esther.

"What is it?" he asked.

She spoke tremblingly, weakly really as if she had not the strength to
speak, and he came a step nearer and laid his hand on the granite
gatepost. It was so hard it gave him courage. There were blood-red vines
on it, and when he disturbed their stems they loosened leaves and let
them drift over his hand.

"Now I see," said Esther, "how really alone I am. I thought I was when
you were away, but it was nothing to this."

She walked on, listlessly, aimlessly even though she kept the path and
she was going on her way as she had elected to before she saw him. But
to Jeff she seemed to be a drifting thing. A delicate butterfly floated
past him, weakened by the coldness of last night and fluttering on into
a night as cold.

"Esther," he called, and hurried after her. "You don't want me to walk
with you?" he asked impatiently. "You don't want Addington to say we've
made it up?"

"I don't care about Addington," said Esther. "It can say what it
pleases--if you're kind to me."

"Kind!" said Jeff. "I could have you trounced. You don't play fair. What
do you mean by mixing me all up with pity and things--" Esther's lids
were not allowed to lift, but her heart gave a little responsive bound.
So she had mixed him up!--"Getting the facts all wrong," Jeff went on
irritably. "You ignore everything you've felt before to-day. And you
begin to-day and say I've not been kind to you."

Now Esther looked at him. She smiled.

"Scold away," she said. "I've wanted you to scold me. I haven't been so
happy for months."

"Of course I scold you," said Jeff. "I want to see you happy. I want to
see you rid of me and beginning your life all over, so far as you can.
You're not the sort to live alone. It's an outrage against nature. A
woman like you--"

But Esther never discovered what he meant by "a woman like you." He had
gone a little further than her brain would take her. Did he mean a woman
altogether charming, like her--or? She dropped the inquiry very soon,
because it seemed to lead nowhere and it was pleasanter to think the
things that do not worry one.

Jeff remembered afterward that he had known from the beginning of the
walk with her that they should meet all Addington. But it was not the
Addington he had irritably dreaded. It was Lydia. His heart died as he
saw her coming, and his brain called on every reserve within him to keep
Esther from knowing that here was his heart's lady, this brave creature
whose honour was untainted, who had a woman's daring and a man's
endurance. He even, after that first alarm of a glance, held his eyes
from seeing her and he kept on scolding Esther.

"What's the use," he said, "talking like that?" And then his mind told
him there must be no confusion in what he said. He was defending Lydia.
He was pulling over her the green leaves of secrecy. "I advise you," he
said, "to get away from here. Get away from Madame Beattie--get away
from grandmother--" Lydia was very near now. He felt he could afford to
see her. "Ah, Lydia!" he said casually, and took off his hat.

They were past her, but not before Esther had asked, in answer:

"Where shall we go? I mean--" she caught herself up from her wilful
stumbling--"where could I go--alone?"

They were at her own gate, and Jeff stopped with her. Since they left
Lydia he had held his hat in his hand, and Esther, looking up at him saw
that he had paled under his tan. The merciless woman in her took stock
of that, rejoicing. Jeff smiled at her faintly, he was so infinitely
glad to leave her.

"We must think," he said. "You must think. Esther, about money, I'll
try--I don't know yet what I can earn--but we'll see. Oh, hang it! these
things can't be said."
