not spoil him — he was so right and nice as he 
was. I remember he used really to exasperate 
me almost by seeming not to have wants, unless 
indeed it was by having only those that could 
be satisfied over there as a kind of matter of 
course and that were those I didn't myself have — 
in any degree at least that could make up for 
the non-satisfaction of my others. I suppose it 
amounted really," said Horton, "to the fact 
that, being each without anything to speak of 
in our pockets, or. then any prospect of anything, 
he accepted that because he happened to like 
most the pleasures that were not expensive. I 
on my side raged at my inability to meet or to 
cultivate expense — which seemed to me good and 
happy, quite the thing most worth while, in it- 
self: as for that matter it still seems. 'La lecture 





 

et la promenade,' which old Roulet, our pasteur 
at Neuchatel used so to enjoin on us as the highest 
joys, really appealed to Gray, to all appearance, 
in the sense in which Roulet regarded, or pre- 
tended to regard, them — once he could have pic- 
tures and music and talk, which meant of course 
pleasant people, thrown in. He could go in for 
such things on his means — ready as he was to do 
all his travelling on foot (I wanted as much then 
to do all mine on horseback,) and to go to the 
opera or the play in the shilling seats when he 
couldn't go in the stalls. I loathed so everything 
but the stalls — the stalls everywhere in life — that 
if I couldn't have it that way I didn't care to 
have it at all. So when I think it stakes me I 
must have liked him very much not to have 
wanted to slay him — for I don't remember hav- 
ing given way at any particular moment to threats 
or other aggressions. That may have been be- 
cause I felt he rather extravagantly liked me — 
as I shouldn't at all wonder at his still doing. 
At the same time if I had found him beyond a 
certain point objectionable his showing he took 
me for anything wonderful would have been, I 
think," the young man reflected, "but an ag- 
gravation the more. However that may be, I'm 
bound to say, I shan't in the least resent his taking 
me for whatever he likes now — if he can at all 
go on with it himself I shall be able to hold up 
my end. The dream of my life, if you must know 





 

all, dear — the dream of my life has been to be 
admired, really admired, admired for all he's 
worth, by some awfully rich man. Being admired 
by a rich woman even isn't so good — though I've 
tried for that too, as you know, and equally failed 
of it; I mean in the sense of their being ready to 
do it for all they are worth. I've only had it from 
the poor, haven't I ? — and we've long since had 
to recognise, haven't we? how little that has 
done for either of us." So Horton continued — 
so, as if incited and agreeably, irresistibly in- 
spired, he played, in the soft stillness and the 
protected nook, before the small salt tide that 
idled as if to listen, with old things and new, with 
actualities and possibilities, on top of the ancien- 
tries, that seemed to want but a bit of talking 
of in order to flush and multiply. "There's one 
thing at any rate I'll be hanged if I shall allow," 
he wound up; "I'll be hanged if what we may do 
for him shall — by any consent of mine at least 
— spoil him for the old relations without inspir- 
ing him for the new. He shan't become if I can 
help it as beastly vulgar as the rest of us." 

The thing was said with a fine sincere ring, 
but it drew from Cissy a kind of quick wail of 
pain. "Oh, oh, oh — what a monstrous idea, 
Haughty, that he possibly could, ever!" 

It had an immediate, even a remarkable effect; 
it made him turn at once to look at her, giving 
his lightest pleasantest laugh, than which no 





 

sound of that sort equally manful had less of 
mere male stridency. Then it made him, with 
a change of posture, shift his seat sufficiently 
nearer to her to put his arm round her altogether 
and hold her close, pressing his cheek a moment, 
with due precautions, against her hair. "That's 
awfully nice of you. We will pull something off. 
Is what you're thinking of what your friend out 
there dans le temps, the stepfather, Mr. Wen- 
dover, was it ? told you about him in that grand 
manner?" 

"Of course it is," said Cissy in lucid surrender 
and as if this truth were of a flatness almost to 
blush for. "Don't you know I fell so in love 
with Mr. Northover, whose name you mispro- 
nounce, that I've kept true to him forever, and 
haven't been really in love with you in the least, 
and shall never be with Gray himself, however 
much I may want to, or you perhaps may even 
try to make me ? — any more than I shall ever be 
with anyone else. What's inconceivable," she 
explained, "is that anyone that dear delicious 
man thought good enough to talk of to me as he 
talked of his stepson should be capable of any- 
thing in the least disgusting in any way." 

"I see, I see." It made Horton, for reasons, 
hold her but the closer— yet not withal as if 
prompted by her remarks to affectionate levity. 
It was a sign of the intercourse of this pair that, 
move each other though they might to further 





 

affection, and therewith on occasion to a con- 
gruous gaiety, they treated no cause and no effect 
of that sort as waste; they had somehow already 
so worked off, in their common interest, all pos- 
sible mistakes and vain imaginings, all false 
starts and false pursuits, all failures of unanimity. 
"Why then if he's really so decent, not to say 
so superior," Haughty went on, "won't it be the 
best thing in the world and a great simplification 
for you to fall — that is for you to be — in love 
with him ? That will be better for me, you know, 
than if you're not; for it's the impression evi- 
dently made on you by the late Northover that 
keeps disturbing my peace of mind. I feel, though 
I can't quite tell you why," he explained, "that 
I'm never going to be in the least jealous of Gray, 
and probably not even so much as envious; so 
there's your chance — take advantage of it all 
the way. Like him at your ease, my dear, and 
God send he shall like you ! Only be sure it's 
for himself you do it — and for your own self; 
as you make out your possibilities, de part et 
d'autre, on your getting nearer to them." 

"So as to be sure, you mean," Cissy inquired, 
"of not liking him for his money ?" 







II 

He waited a moment, and if she had not imme- 
diately after her words sighed "Oh dear, oh 
dear!" in quite another, that is a much more 
serious, key, the appearance would perhaps have 
been that for once in a blue moon she had put 
into his mind a thought he couldn't have. He 
couldn't have the thought that it was of the least 
importance she should guard herself in the way 
she mentioned; and it was in the air, the very next 
thing, that she couldn't so idiotically have strayed 
as to mean to impute it. He quickly enough made 
the point that what he preferred was her not 
founding her interest in Gray so very abjectly 
on another man's authority — given the uncanny 
fact of the other man's having cast upon her a 
charm which time and even his death had done 
so little to abate. Yes, the late Northover had 
clearly had something about him that it worried 
a fellow to have her perpetually rake up. There 
she was in peril of jealousy — his jealousy of the 
queer Northover ghost; unless indeed it was she 
herself who was queerest, ridden as her spirit 
seemed by sexagenarian charms ! He could look 
after her with Gray — they were at one about 
Gray; what would truly alienate them, should 
she persist, would be his own exposure to com- 





 

parison with the memory of a rococo Briton he 
had no arms to combat. Which extravagance of 
fancy had of course after a minute sufficiently 
testified to the clearance of their common air that 
invariably sprang from their feeling thejnselves 
again together and finding once more what this 
came to — all under sublime palpability of proof. 
The renewed consciousness did perhaps nothing 
for their difficulties as such, but it did everything 
for the interest, the amusement, the immediate 
inspiration of their facing them: there was in 
that such an element of their facing each other 
and knowing, each time as if they had not known 
it before, that this had absolute beauty. It had 
unmistakably never had more than now, even 
when their freedom in it had rapidly led them, 
under Cissy's wonderment, to a consideration of 
whether a happy relation with their friend (he 
was already thus her friend too, without her ever 
having seen him !) mightn't have to count with 
some inevitable claim, some natural sentiment, 
asserted and enjoyed on Rosanna's part, not to 
speak of the effect on Graham himself of that 
young woman's at once taking such an interest 
in him and coming in for such a fortune. 

"In addition to which who shall pretend to 

deny," the girl earnestly asked, "that Rosanna 

has in herself the most extraordinary charm?" 

"Oh you think she has extraordinary charm?" 

"Of course I do — and so do you: don't be 





 

absurd ! She's simply superb," Cissy expounded, 
"in her own original way, which no other woman 
over here — except me a little perhaps ! — has so 
much as a suspicion of anything to compare with; 
and which, for all we know, constitutes a luxury 
entirely at Graham's service." Cissy required 
but a single other look at it all to go on: "I 
shouldn't in the least wonder if they were already 
engaged." 

"I don't think there's a chance of it," Haughty 
said, "and I hold that if any such fear is your 
only difficulty you may be quite at your ease. 
Not only do I so see it," he went on, "but I know 
why I do." 

C ssy just waited. "You consider that because 
she refused Horton Vint she'll decline marriage 
altogether ? " 

"I think that throws a light," this gentleman 
smiled — "though it isn't all my ground. She 
turned me down, two years ago, as utterly as I 
shall ever have been turned in my life — and if I 
chose so to look at it the experience would do for 
me beautifully as that of an humiliation served 
up to a man in as good form as he need desire. 
That it was, that it still is when I live it through 
again; that it will probably remain, for my com- 
fort — in the sens% that I'm likely never to have 
a worse. I've had my dose," he figured, "of 
that particular black draught, and I've got the 
bottle there empty on the shelf." 

' 



 

"And yet you signify that you're all the same 

glad ?" Cissy didn't for the instant wholly 

follow. 

"Well, it all came to me then; and that it did 
all come is what I have the advantage of now — 
I mean, you see, in being able to reassure you as 
I do. I had some wonderful minutes with her — 
it didn't take long," Haughty laughed. "We 
saw in those few minutes, being both so horribly 
intelligent; and what I recognised has remained 
with me. What she did is her own affair — and 
that she could so perfectly make it such, without 
leaving me a glimmer of doubt, is what I have, 
as I tell you, to blink at forever. I may ask my- 
self if you like," he pursued, "why I should 'mind' 
so much if I saw even at the moment that she 
wasn't at any rate going to take someone else — 
and if you do I shall reply that I didn't need 
that to make it bad. It was bad enough just in 
itself. My point is, however," Horton concluded, 
"that I can give you at least the benefit of my 
feeling utterly sure that Gray will have no chance. 
She's in the dreadful position — and more than 
ever of course now — of not being able to believe 
she can be loved for herself." 

"You mean because you couldn't make her 
believe it ?" asked Cissy after taking this in. 

"No — not that, for I didn't so much as try. 
I didn't — and it was awfully superior of me, you 
know — approach her at all on that basis. That," 





 

said Horton, "is where it cuts. The basis was 
that of my own capacity only — my capacity to 
serve her, in every particular, with every apti- 
tude I possess in the world, and which I could 
see she saw I possess (it was given me somehow 
to send that home to her !) without a hair's breadth 
overlooked. I shouldn't have minded her taking 
me so for impossible, blackly impossible, if she 
had done it under an illusion; but she really 
believed in me as a general value, quite a first- 
rate value — that I stood there and didn't doubt. 
And yet she practically said 'You ass !' " 

His encircling arm gained, for response to this, 
however, but the vibration of her headshake — 
without so much as any shudder at the pain he 
so vividly imaged. "She practically said that 
she was already then in love with Mr. Graham, 
and you wouldn't have had a better chance had 
a passion of your own stuck out of you. If I 
thought she didn't admire you," Cissy said, "I 
shouldn't be able to do with her at all — it would 
be too stupid of her; putting aside her not accept- 
ing you, I mean — for a woman can't accept every 
man she admires. I suppose you don't at present 
object," she continued, "to her admiring Mr. 
Graham enough to account for anything; espe- 
cially as it accounts so for her having just acted 
on his behalf with such extraordinary success. 
Doesn't that make it out for him," she asked, 
"that he's admired by twenty millions plus the 





 

amount that her reconciliation of him with his 
uncle just in time to save it, without an hour to 
spare, will represent for his pocket ? We don't 
know what that lucky amount may be " 

"No, but we more or less shall " — Horton took 
her straight up. "Of course, without exaggera- 
tion, that will be interesting — even though it 
will be but a question, I'm quite certain, of com- 
paratively small things. Old Betterman — there 
are people who practically know, and I've talked 
with them — isn't going to foot up to any faint 
likeness of what Gaw does. That, however, has 
nothing to do with it: all that is relevant — since 
I quite allow that, speculation for speculation, 
our association in this sort represents finer fun 
than it has yet succeeded in doing in other sorts 
— all that's relevant is that when you've seen 
Gray you mayn't be in such a hurry to figure him 
as a provoker of insatiable passions. Your in- 
sidious Northover has, as you say, worked you 
up, but wait a little to see if the reality corre- 
sponds." 

"He showed me a photograph, my insidious 
Northover," Cissy promptly recalled; "he was 
naif enough, poor dear, for that. In fact he 
made me a present of several, including one of 
himself; I owe him as well two or three other 
mementos, all of which I've cherished." 

