development of her mental powers for centuries. Certainly nothing in the whole history of mankind is so 
startling as the abrupt awakening of woman and her 
demand for a position in the world equal to that of 
the dominant male. 
I use the word abrupt, because in spite of the scattered instances of female prosiliency throughout history, and the long struggle beginning in the last century for the vote, or the individual determination to 
strive for some more distinguished fashion of coping 
with poverty than school-teaching or boarding-house 
keeping, the concerted awakening of the sex was 
almost as abrupt as the European War. Like many 
fires it smouldered long, and then burst into a menacing conflagration. But I do not for a moment apprehend that the conflagration will extinguish the complete glory of the male any more than it will cause a 
revulsion of nature in the born mother. 
 
But may there not be a shuffling of the cards ? Take 
the question of servant-girls for instance. Where 
there are two or more servants in a family their lot is 
far better than that of the factory girl. But it is 
quite a different matter with the maid-of -all- work, the 
household drudge, who is increasingly hard to find, 
partly because she, quite naturally, prefers the department store, or the factory, with its definite hours and 
better social status, partly because there is nothing in 
the "home" to offset her terrible loneliness but interminable hours of work. In England, where many 
people live in lodgings, fashionable and otherwise, and 
have all meals served in their rooms, it is a painful 
sight to see a slavey toiling up two or three flights 
of stairs — and four times a day. In the United States, 
the girls who come over from Scandinavia or Germany with roseate hopes soon lose their fresh color 
and look heavy and sullen if they find their level in 
the household where economy reigns. 
Now, why has no one ever thought of men as 
"maids" of all work? On ocean liners it is the stewards that take care of the state-rooms, and they keep 
them like wax, and make the best bed known to 
civilization. The stewardesses in heavy weather attend to the prostrate of their sex, but otherwise do 
nothing but bring the morning tea, hook up, and receive tips. Men wait in the diningroom (as they 
do in all first-class hotels), and look out for the passengers on deck. Not the most militant suffragette 
but would be intensely annoyed to have stewardesses 
 
scurrying about on a heaving deck with the morning 
broth and rugs, or dancing attendance in a nauseous 
sea. 
The truth of the matter is that there is a vast 
number of men of all races who are fit to be nothing 
but servants, and are so misplaced in other positions 
where habit or vanity has put them, that they fail 
far more constantly than women. All "men" are not 
real men by any means. They are not fitted to play 
a man's part in life, and many of the things they 
attempt are far better done by strong determined 
women, who have had the necessary advantages, and 
the character to ignore the handicap of sex. 
I can conceive of a household where a well-trained 
man cooks, does the "wash," waits on the table, 
sweeps, and if the mistress has a young child, or 
is indolent and given to the rocking-chair and a novel- 
a-day, makes the beds without a wrinkle. He may 
lack ambition and initiative, the necessary amount of 
brains to carry him to success in any of the old masculine jobs, but he inherits the thoroughness of the 
ages that have trained him, and, if sober, rides the 
heavy waves of his job like a cork. I will venture 
to say that a man thus employed would finish his work 
before eight p.m. and spend an hour or two before 
bed-time with his girl or at his club. 
Many a Jap in California does the amount of work 
I have described, and absorbs knowledge in and out 
of books during his hours of leisure. Sometimes they 
do more than I have indicated as possible for the white 
 
man. Energetic boys, who want to return to Japan 
as soon as possible, or, mayhap, buy a farm, make a 
hundred dollars a month by getting up at five in the 
morning to wash a certain number of stoops and sweep 
sidewalks, cook a breakfast and wash up the dinner 
dishes in one servantless household, the lunch dishes 
in another, clean up generally in another, cook the 
dinner, wait on the table, clean up in still another. 
As white men are stronger they could do even more, 
and support a wife in an intensive little flat where her 
work would be both light and spiritually remunerative. Domestic service would solve the terrible problem of life for thousands of men, and it would 
coincidentally release thousands of girls from the factory, the counter, and the exhausting misery of a 
'-'home" that never can be their own. At night he 
could feel like a householder and that he lived to some 
purpose. If he is inclined to complain that such a life 
is not "manly," let him reflect that as he is not first-
rate anyhow, and never can compete with the fully 
equipped, he had best be philosophical and get what 
comfort out of life he can. Certainly the increased 
economic value of thousands of men, at present slav- 
ing as underpaid clerks and living in hall bedrooms, 
would thin the ranks of the most ancient of all industries, if, according to our ardent reformers, they are 
recruited from the ranks of the lonely servant-girl, 
the tired shop-girl, and the despairing factory hand. 
For it is largely a question of muscle and biology. 
I have stated elsewhere that I believe in equal suffrage, if only because women are the mothers of men 
and therefore their equals. But I think there are several times more reasons why American women at least 
should not overwork their bodies and brains and wear 
themselves out trying to be men, than why it is quite 
right and fitting they should walk up to the polls and 
cast a vote for men who more or less control their 
destinies. 
To digress a moment : When it comes to the arts, 
that is quite another matter. If a woman finds herself 
with a talent (I refrain from such a big word as 
genius, as only posterity should presume to apply that 
term to any one's differentiation from his fellows), by 
all means let her work like a man, take a man's chances, 
make every necessary sacrifice to develop this blessed 
gift; not only because it is a duty but because the rewards are adequate. The artistic career, where the 
impulse is genuine, furnishes both in its rewards and 
in the exercise of the gift itself far more happiness, 
or even satisfaction, than husband, children, or home. 
The chief reason is that it is the supreme form of 
self-expression, the ego's apotheosis, the power to 
indulge in the highest order of spiritual pride, differentiation from the mass. These are brutal truths, and 
another truth is that happiness is the universal goal, 
whatever form it may take, and whatever form human 
 
hypocrisy may compel it to take, or even to deny. 
Scientific education has taught us not to sacrifice others 
too much in its pursuit. That branch of ancestral 
memory known as conscience has morbid reactions. 
To create, to feel something spinning out of your 
brain, which you hardly realize is there until formulated on paper, for instance; the adventurous life 
involved in the exercise of any art, with its uncertain- 
ties, its varieties, its disappointments, its mistakes; 
the fight, the exaltations, the supreme satisfactions — 
all this is the very best life has to offer. And as art 
is as impartial as a microbic disease, women do achieve, 
individually, as much as men; sometimes more. If 
their bulk has not in the past been as great, the original 
handicaps, which women in general, aided by science 
and a more enlightened public, are fast shedding, alone 
were to blame. Certainly as many women as men in 
the United States are engaged in artistic careers ; more, 
if one judged by the proportion in the magazines. 
Although I always feel that a man, owing to the 
greater freedom of his life and mental inheritances, 
has more to tell me than most women have, and I 
therefore prefer men as writers, still I see very little 
difference in the quality of their work. Often, indeed, 
the magazine fiction (in America) of the women 
shows greater care in phrase and workmanship than 
that of the men (who are hurried and harried by 
expensive families), and often quite as much virility. 
No one ever has found life a lake. Life is a 
stormy ocean at best, and if any woman with a real 
 
gift prefers to sink rather than struggle, or to float 
back to shore on a raft, she deserves neither sympathy 
nor respect. Women born with that little tract in 
their brain sown by Nature with bulbs of one of the 
arts, may conquer the world as proudly as men, although not as quickly, for they rouse in disappointed 
or apprehensive men the meanest form of sex jealousy; but if they have as much courage as talent, if 
they are willing to dedicate their lives, not their off 
hours, to the tending of their rich oasis in the general 
desert of mind, success is theirs. Biological differences between the sexes evaporate before these' impersonal sexless gifts (or whims or inadvertencies) of 
conservative Nature. 
Of course women have worked themselves to death 
in their passionate devotion to art. So have men. 
Women have starved to death in garrets, their fine 
efforts rejected by those that buy, and sell again to 
an uncertain public. So have men. The dreariest 
anecdotes of England and France, so rich in letters, 
are of great men-geniuses who died young for want 
of proper nourishment or recognition, or who struggled on to middle-age in a bitterness of spirit that 
corroded their high endowment. I do not recall that 
any first-rate women writers have died for Want of 
recognition, possibly because until now they have been 
few and far between. The, Brontes died young, but 
mainly because they lived in the midst of a damp old 
churchyard and inherited tubercular tendencies. The 
graves and old box tombs crowd the very walls of the 
 
parsonage, and are so thick you hardly can walk, between them. I spent a month in the village of 
Haworth, but only one night in the village inn. at the 
extreme end of the churchyard; I could read the inscriptions on the tombs from my windows. 
Charlotte had immediate recognition even from such 
men as Thackeray, and if the greater Emily had to 
wait for Swinburne and posterity it was inherited consumption that carried her off in her youth. Although 
much has been made of their poverty I don't think 
they were so badly off for their times. The parsonage is a well-built stone house, their father had his 
salary, and the villagers told me that the three girls 
looked after the poor in hard winters, often supplying 
whole families with coal. Of course they led lives 
of a maddening monotony, but they were neither hungry nor bitter, and at least two of them developed 
a higher order of genius than was possible to the gifted 
Jane Austin in her smug life of middle-class plenty, 
and, to my mind, far more hampering restrictions. 
Even if the Brontes had been sufficiently in advance 
of their times to "light out" and seek adventure and 
development in the great world, their low state of 
health would have kept them at home. So impressed 
was I wjth the (to a Californian) terrible pictures of 
poverty in which the Brontes were posed by their biographers that I grew up with the idea that one never 
could develop a gift or succeed in the higher manner 
unless one lived in a garret and half starved. I never 
had the courage to try the regimen, but so deep was 
 
the impression that I never have been able to work 
except in austere surroundings, and I have worked 
in most abominably uncomfortable quarters with an 
equanimity that was merely the result of the deathless insistence of an old impression sunk deep into a 
mind then plastic. 
Let me hasten to add that many successful authors 
work in the most luxurious quarters imaginable. It is 
all a matter of temperament, or, it may be, of accident. Moreover this outer evidence of prosperity 
makes a subtle appeal to the snobbery of the world 
and to a certain order of critic, by no means to be 
despised. Socially and in the arts we Americans are 
the least democratic of people, partly because we are 
so damnably unsure of ourselves; and if I were beginning my career to-day I doubt if I should be so 
unbusiness-like as to take the lowly Brontes as a 
model. 
If I have digressed for a moment from the main 
theme of this book it has been not only to show what 
the influence of such brave women as the Brontes has 
been on later generations of writers, but that biology 
must doff its hat at the tomb in Haworth Church. 
Their mental virility and fecundity equalled that of 
any man that has attained an equal eminence in letters, 
and they would have died young and suffered much 
if they never had written a line. They had not a 
constitution between the four of them and they spent 
their short lives surrounded by the dust and the corruption of death. 
 
IV 
But when it comes to working like men for the 
sake of independence, of avoiding marriage, of "doing 
something," that is another matter. To my mind it 
is abominable that society is so constituted that 
women are forced to work (in times of peace) for 
their bread at tasks that are far too hard for them, 
that extract the sweetness from youth, and unfit them 
physically for what the vast majority of women want 
more than anything else in life — children. If they 
deliberately prefer independence to marriage, well and 
good, but surely we are growing civilized enough 
(and this war, in itself a plunge into the dark ages, 
has in quite unintentional ways advanced civilization, 
for never in the history of the world have so many 
brains been thinking) so to arrange the social machinery that if girls and young women are forced to 
work for their daily bread, and often the bread of 
others, at least it shall be under conditions, including 
double shifts, that will enable them, if the opportunity comes, as completely to enjoy all that home 
means as falls to the lot of their more fortunate sisters. Even those who launch out in life with no- 
heavier need than their driving independence of 
spirit should be protected, for often they too, when 
worn in body and mind, realize that the independent 
life per se is a delusion, and that their completion as 
well as their ultimate happiness and economic security 
lies in a brood and a husband to support it. 
There used to be volumes of indignation expended 
 
upon the American mother toiling in the home, at the 
wash-tub for hire, or trudging daily to some remunerative task, while her daughters, after a fair education, idly flirted, and danced, and read, and finally 
married. Now, although that modus operandi sounds 
vulgar and ungrateful it is, biologically speaking, 
quite as it should be. Girls of that age should be 
tended as carefully as young plants; and, for that 
matter, it would be well if women until they have 
passed the high- water mark of reproductivity should 
be protected as much as possible from severe physical 
and mental strain. If women ever are to compete 
with men on anything like an equal basis, it is when 
they are in their middle years, when Nature's handicaps are fairly outgrown, child-bearing and its intervening years of lassitude are over, as well as the recurrent carboniferous wastes and relaxations. 
Why do farmers' wives look so much older than 
city women of the same age in comfortable circumstances? Not, we may be sure, because of exposure 
to the elements, or even the tragic loneliness that was 
theirs before the pervasion of the automobile. Women 
in city flats are lonely enough, but although those 
that have no children or "light housekeeping" lead 
such useless lives one wonders why they were born, 
they outlast the women of the small towns by many 
years because of the minimum strain on their bodies. 
As a matter of fact in the large cities where the 
struggle of life is superlative they outlast the men. 
*The French are far too clever to let the women in the munition factories injure themselves. They have double, treble, and even quadruple 
shifts. 
 
About the time the children are grown, the husband, 
owing to the prolonged and terrific strain in competing with thousands of men as competent as himself, 
to keep his family in comfort, educate his children, 
pay the interest on his life insurance policy, often 
finds that some one of his organs is breaking down 
and preparing him for the only rest he will ever find 
time to take. Meanwhile his prospective widow (there 
is, by the way, no nation in the world so prolific of 
widows and barren of widowers as the United States) 
is preparing to embark on her new career as a club 
woman, or, if she foresees the collapse of the family 
income, of self-support. 
And in nine cases out of ten, if she has the intelligence to make use of what a combination of aver- 
age abilities and experience has developed in her, she 
succeeds, and permanently; for women do not go to 
pieces between forty and fifty as they did in the 
past. They have learned too much. Work and multifarious interests distract their mind, which formerly 
dwelt upon their failing youth, and when they sadly 
composed themselves in the belief that they had given 
the last of their vitality to the last of their children; 
to-day, instead of sitting down by the fireside and 
waiting to die, they enter resolutely upon their second 
youth, which is, all told, a good deal more satisfactory than the first. 
Every healthy, and courageous woman's second 
vitality is stronger and more enduring than her first. 
Not only has her body, assisted by modern science, 
 
settled down into an ordered routine that is impregnable to anything but accident, but her mind is delivered from the hopes and fears of the early sex 
impulses which so often sicken the cleverest of the 
younger women both in body and mind, filling the 
body with lassitude and the mind either with restless 
impatience or a complete indifference to anything but 
the tarrying prince. To blame them for this would 
be much like cursing Gibraltar for not getting out of 
the way in a storm. They are the tools of the race, 
the chosen mediums of Nature for the perpetuation 
of her beloved species. But the fact remains — that 
is to say, in the vast majority of girls. There is, as 
we all know, the hard-shell division of their sex who, 
even without a gift, infinitely prefer the single and 
independent life in their early youth, and only begin 
to show thin spots in their armor as they approach 
thirty, sometimes not until it is far too late. But if 
you will spend a few days walking through the department stores, for instance, of a large city and observing 
each of the young faces in turn behind the counters, 
it will be rarely that you will not feel reasonably certain that the secret thoughts of all that vast army 
circle persistently about some man, impinging or 
potential. And wherever you make your studies, from 
excursion boats to the hour of release at the gates of 
a factory, you must draw the same conclusion that 
sex reigns, that it is the most powerful factor in life 
and will be so long as Earth at least continues to 
spin. For that reason, no matter how persistently 
 
girls may work because they must or starve, it is the 
competent older women, long since outgrown the 
divine nonsense of youth, who are the more satisfactory workers. Girls, unless indifferently sexed, do 
not take naturally to work in their youth. Whether 
they have the intelligence to reason or not, they know 
that they were made for a different fate and they 
resent standing behind a counter all day long or 
speeding up machinery for a few dollars a week. Even 
the highly intelligent girls who find work on news- 
papers often look as if they were at the end of their 
endurance. It is doubtful if the world ever can run 
along without the work of women but the time will 
surely come when society will be so constituted that 
no woman in the first flush of her youth will be forced 
to squander it on the meager temporary reward, and 
forfeit her birthright. If she wants to, well and 
good. No one need be deeply concerned for those 
that launch out into life because they like it. Women 
in civilized countries are at liberty to make their own 
lives ; that is the supreme privilege of democracy. But 
the victims of the propelling power of the world are 
greatly to be pitied and Society should come to their 
rescue. I know that the obvious answer to this is 
"Socialism." But before the rest of us can swallow 
Socialism it must spew out its present Socialists and 
get new ones. Socialists never open their mouths that 
they do not do their cause harm ; and whatever virtues 
their doctrine may contain we are blinded to it at 
present. This war may solve the problem. If Socialism should be the inevitable outcome it would at least 
come from the top and so be sufferable. 
It is all very well to do your duty by your sex and 
keep up the birth-rate, and there are compensations, no 
doubt of that, when the husband is amiable, the income 
adequate, and the children are dears and turn out well ; 
but the second life is one's very own, the duty is to 
one's self, and, such is the ineradicable selfishness of 
human nature after long years of self-denial and devotion to others, there is a distinct, if reprehensible, satis- 
faction in being quite natural and self-centered. If, 
on the other hand, circumstances are such that the 
capable middle-aged woman, instead of living entirely 
for herself, in her clubs, in her increasing interest in 
public affairs, and her chosen work, finds herself with 
certain members of her family dependent upon her, 
she also derives from this fact an enormous satisfaction, for . it enables her to prove that she can fill a 
man's place in the world, be quite as equal to her job. 
Instead of breaking down, this woman, who has 
outlived the severest handicap of sex without parting 
with any of its lore, grows stronger and more poised 
every year, retaining (or regaining) her looks if she 
has the wisdom to keep her vanity alive ; while the girl 
forced to spend her days on her feet behind a counter 
(we hear of seats for these girls but we never see 
them occupied), or slave in a factory (where there is 
 
no change of shift as in the munition factories of the 
European countries in war time), or work from morn- 
ing until night as a general servant — "one in help" — 
wilts and withers, grows pasee, fanee, is liable to ultimate breakdown unless rescued by some man. 
The expenditure of energy in these girls is enormous, especially if they combine with this devitalizing 
work an indulgence in their natural desire to play. 
Rapid child-bearing would not deplete them more; 
and it is an intensely ignorant or an intensely stupid 
or, in the United States, an exceptionally sensual 
woman who has a larger family than the husband can 
keep in comfort. Moreover, unless in the depths of 
poverty, each child means a period of rest, which is 
more than the girl behind the counter gets in her entire 
working period. 
These women, forced by a faulty social structure 
