

 

meant only to advise him foolishly. Greene held his most 
rigid attitude. His unmeaning air of spurious dignity 
had come over him. He was remembering that he was the 
squire. 

"If anybody lays an ax to one o' them trees," said 
he, " little or big, I'll have the law on him." 

And still Neale stared at him. 

" You act for all the world," said the squire, nettled 
because the man's silence gave him no point of attack, 
" as if I hadn't bought the lot an' paid for it." 

"Bought it?" said Neale foolishly. "Paid for it?" 

" Yes, you know that as well as I do. It's recorded, 
an' you can see it any day you're a mind to. An' if you're 
cemin' up here to make trouble, I'm ready for ye." 

Suddenly Neale realized that it was true. They were 
both literal men. The one would not have invented a 
foolish fiction. The other was compelled to accept it. 
In some mad way, Neale knew, the deed had been done. 
He took up his ax again, put it over his shoulder and 
turned, without a look at Greene. The bars were down 
and he stepped over them and did not pause to put them 
up again. Greene after a moment also left the lot, and he 
did put up the bars. In silence Neale went down the hill 
and silently Greene followed him. 




Neale walked home in a burning anger he had never 
felt since long past days when his natural governors 
assumed the right to curb him. If he had been a more 
apprehensive man, he might have shrunk from the turmoil 
of his blood. But he was built to meet all issues with 
unconcern, even the revolt of his own body. When he 
reached home, he left his ax in the shed and walked into 
the sitting-room where Mary sat alone, dreaming over 
Hugh's last letter and a haunting phrase about the pop- 
lar trees of France. That, strangely to her, had made 
him seem farther away than any fact of distance. When 
she heard her husband's step, she tucked the letter into 
her pocket, and it was thus, guiltily conscious of her haste, 
that she looked up at him with a moved, startled front. 
His face was terrible to her, flushed deeply and set as she 
had seen it perhaps twice in their lives together. He put 
his question, short and mandatory: 

" Has she sold the wood lot? " 

Mary knew now the crisis had come, and again she 
schooled herself not to flinch. It was not only that she 
must stand by Tabitha, but her inner self told her she 
could never support life if she dodged that issue or if, 
being stronger than Aunt Tab, she did not take the full 
burden of it. So, though her heart quaked, she looked 
at him steadily and answered : 

« Yes, she has." 

" When? " The one word seemed all he could articu- 
late and that with di£Sculty. 

 



 

" I don't know the date exactly," said Mary, and this 
was true. " Some weeks ago." 
« What d' she get for it? " 

" I don't know," said Mary, and this also was true. 
" It's a lie," said Neale. " You do know." 
Mary looked at him, at a complete loss for an answer to 
that. The fact was that she was apprehensive for him, 
warned by the color in his face, the insane glitter of 
his eyes. She shrank from the end toward which this 
might be leading him. When Hugh was little and had 
fallen into fits of rage and held his breath until he seemed 
on the verge of bursting, Mary could never, although the 
doctor told her he was safe enough, keep down her anguish 
of terror. And this she felt for her husband. She was 
all a maternal panic for him. It seemed to her a cruel in- 
vention of circumstance that, now he had hardened him- 
self in his own tyranny, the punishment for it should hit 
him in a place where it could hurt him most. 

" You made up your mind," he pursued, " not to tell 
me?" 

" Thomas," said she, " true as I live, I don't know. 
And don't you ask Tabitha. I don't believe she'd answer 
you." 

An ugly scorn darkened his face and brought the flicker 
of a smile. He would see whether Tabitha would answer. 
He turned toward the hall and she knew where he was 
going. She ran past him and put herself at the foot of 
the stairs and faced him. Mary was beautiful then, 
though to him she was only an obstacle that barred his 
will. Her face was a glow of entreaty, for Tabitha, for 
Hugh perhaps, who would be found to have the money: 
most of all for Neale himself. 

" Thomas," she said, " don't you go up there." 
" Stand one side," said he. 



 

Mary put her hand on his arm. He shook it off, but 
she persisted. 

" It's no way, to go up into her room." Why, she 
could not have told him, but she knew Aunt Tab must not 
be terrified up there in her own intimate retreat, or she 
might never be able to sleep within those walls again. 
Besides if she came down Mary could stand beside her. 
She did not wait to persuade him further, because she 
knew he could not be persuaded. " Tabitha ! '' she called, 
and immediately Aunt Tab's door opened. " Come 
down," said Mary, in a clear untroubled voice that carried 
all the reassurance her rising heart willed to it. " Thomas 
wants to speak to you." 

But as she called her, Mary was sure she would not 
obey. Aunt Tab, she thought, would close her door and 
turn the key. And then, Mary was certain, Thomas would 
break down the door, though this, she determined, not 
until he in some way broke her first. But Aunt Tab came 
immediately out and down the stairs. Neale gave one 
look at her as she began the descent, muttered, " God ! " 
below his breath and went back into the sitting-room. 
And indeed a stranger figure than Aunt Tab's could not 
have been imagined. She had had that morning one of 
her moments of childlike desire for pleasure, for balls at 
Saratoga and slim-waisted admirers with long curling 
locks, as she saw them in Godey's, and she had opened one 
of her magic chests and taken out a remnant of light blue 
gauze, and lute-string ribbon, and pink roses. In a de- 
lirium of pleasure she had wound them about her and 
crowned herself ; and now, forgetful of her finery, her face 
blanched, her blue eyes glittering with fear of Thomas, 
she came down to him. 

" Step right into the sitting-room," said Mary quietly. 

She was rather glad of Aunt Tab's masquerade. She 



 

judged Thomas would think her crazy , and that might 
make him merciful. Tabitha went into the room where 
he stood awaiting her, and if Mary's hand had not re- 
strained her at a moderate distance, she would have walked 
up, " into his face and eyes," as Mary thought, before her 
stunned mind halted her. But there she stood now, smil- 
ing at him foolishly, her eyes, fascinated, fixed upon his 
angry face. 

" How much d'he pay you." " asked Neale, and then she 
knevir she was in for her great interrogation. She had 
really known it when Mary called her. This was the sum- 
mons she had expected all these weeks ; but it was more 
terrible than she had thought. Perhaps, too, it was 
slightly less so: for she had not counted on the merciful 
numbing of her faculties. 

" Come," said Neale, " you better answer. How much 
d'he pay you for the lot? " 

And Aunt Tab did not speak. Mary, who had taken 
her hand, as it hung at her side, gave it a little warning 
pressure, not so much in sympathy as to tell her the time 
had come. 

" Do you mean to say you ain't goin' to answer me? " 
asked Neale, in a low voice. 

Mary started at the voice. She was afraid of it. 
With a sick certainty, it came to her that she knew how 
crimes befell in houses safe as .this: some savage inner 
devil, decently hidden but never slain, lay in men and 
women and suddenly sprang out to desperate deeds. 

" D'you go to him an' offer it to him? " asked Neale, 
" or did he come to you? If he stepped into this house, 
by—" 

He stopped and Mary said impulsively: 
" He didn't, Thomas, never since the night he talked to 
you." 



 

She was innocently harrying him and he felt a small 
sudden rage against her, a whifF from the greater wind 
of his large anger. He turned upon her and seized her 
wrist, and Mary found he was dragging her out into the 
hall. And then Aunt Tab began to scream. 

" O my soul ! " she cried over and over, " don't you 
hurt Mary ! Don't you hurt Mary ! " 

And Mary, revolting under the indignity of it, called 
over her shoulder: 

" Don't be a fool, Tabitha. He isn't hurting me." 

But he was bruising her soft wrist: only now the pain 
was less because she was not resisting him, but walking 
with her head up. Once she warned him : 

" Thomas, you'd better not, Thomas, dear — " she 
had not called him that for years — " remember." 

Thomas did not hear her. He had no rage against 
her, only she was the obstacle in his path. He took her, 
in one sweep of striding haste, across the other front 
room, pushed her into the bedroom behind it and locked 
the door upon her. And Aunt Tab, seeing that Mary was 
indeed not to be killed, slipped noiselessly through the 
kitchen and the shed and ran for the barn. She plunged 
into its dusty cavern and the cows rattled their chains 
at her, thinking she meant more fodder; but she saw the 
ladder at the mow and fled up over the rounds. And 
Neale, striding into the barn behind her, too set in his 
dignity to run, saw the streaming of her drapery and the 
last white ankle vanish into the hay. He went to the foot 
of the ladder and called up to her : 

" Don't be more of a fool than you can help. You come 
down here an' answer my questions or I'll know the reason 
why. Come down, I say." 

Aunt Tab did not speak. She hVd burrowed into the 
hay in the comer where the boys used to keep their 



 

ginger beer and cards at times when such treasure became 
unsafe in the house. The hay was sticking to her poor 
finery, and the dust of it made her sneeze. If Neale had 
been himself even he might have laughed then at the imag- 
ined plight of Tabitha's gewgaws; but he was still furi- 
ous at being withstood and ragingly conscious under- 
neath that he had been made ridiculous. Squire Greene 
would bear it in mind to his dying day how he had had to 
shoulder his ax and walk off defeated. So poor a thing as 
Tabitha would remember she hadn't answered him because 
she didn't choose. The spectacle of Tabitha up there 
in a foolish state of defense did present itself to him, but 
only as something that made him the more absurd. 

" I give you one more chance," said he, " to come down 
ofPn there." Tabitha, at the moment, was no more to 
him than the little Tabitha he had ruled over and ignored 
when they were children. "You hear me? I'll count 
three. If you ain't made up your mind to come down 
that ladder then, I'll go up an' fetch you. An' — " here 
his foolishness of rage came over him as he recalled the cer- 
tainty that he had been ridiculous, " I'll shake you like a 
dog shakin' a rat. Then we'll see 'f you'll tell." He 
counted slowly, angrier still because now he began to re- 
member that Tabitha was a grown woman, though with 
crazy pink roses in her hair : " One — two — "three." 

And still Aunt Tab neither spoke nor moved, nor was 
there the slightest rustling in the hay. He set his foot 
on the ladder and climbed rapidly. And somehow — per- 
haps his stiff knee betrayed him, perhaps his mind climbed 
faster than his foot and so confused him — the ladder 
swayed and shook him off, and he fell and lay there at its 
foot. The ladder itself did not fall. It sprang back to 
rest, but Tabitha heard the heavy thud of his impact, and 
wallowed out from her dusty hiding-place to creep as near 



 

the edge of the mow as she dared and look over at him. 
He lay on his back, one arm under him, and she thought 
he had fallen across an old ox-yoke she had noticed in her 
flight. His eyes were closed, and he grimaced a little, as 
if in discomfort; but he was not apparently trying; to 
move. 

" Thomas," said she, peering down at him, "you 
hurt? '' 

He did not answer, and she reviewed her own position. 
She ought, of course, to go down the ladder and summon 
Mary; but it seemed unlikely that he could be hurt, so 
masterful was he over circumstance. This might be, she 
thought, a feint to betray her into coming down. She 
remembered difficult times in their childhood when he had 
pretended and then jumped out at her. She was not in 
bodily fear of him ; but she did think he might seize her by 
the ankle or the dress, and terrify her into answering. 
He lay too near the ladder to be absolutely harmless. 
She became irritated with him for making her so much 
trouble, and also, now that he had given up the ladder, 
she felt irrationally safe. She began to talk to him. 

" Thomas," said she, "I wouldn't for the world keep 
you from knowin' about the wood lot; only I feel as if 
'twas about , the only thing I ever had 'twas mine, an' 
seems 'f I had a right to sell. An' I jsold. You never 
tell me anything about your business, Thomas, an' I 
dunno why I should tell you." She peered over her slip- 
pery refuge and a new alarm seized her. " Thomas, be 
you hurt? You open your eyes an' look at me, if you be. 
You needn't say a word, an' I'll holler for Trueman, 
loud's ever I can." 

Here he did move his head slightly, but he did not look 
at her. Tabitha in her nervousness, lost patience. 

" Don't you see," she said, "I can't get down while 



 

you're layin' there? You used to ketch my ankles. 
Don't you know you did? '' Her voice rose upon a high 
hysterical note. " Thomas, what under the sun possesses 
you to act so? I know you're doin' it to get the better 
o' me, but it scares me 'most out o' my senses." Old 
wrongs rushed upon her, the cruelties of his silence and 
bis hardness of heart toward the boys whose miseries she 
resented more than her own. " I never thought the time'd 
come when I'd set here an' tell you to your face you're no 
kind of a husband to Mary nor no kind of a father to 
your boys. The way you've felt towards me — that's 
neither here nor there. But you've turned your boys 
against you, an' one of 'em's run away because he had to 
— Thomas, you ain't hurt, be you? " 

Her sanity came back, the mood, valid as the hys- 
terical prophesying of an enthusiast, passed from her and 
she knew that he was really hurt and that she must go 
down the ladder. She rose and swung herself about and, 
holding to the comer buttress, gingerly set her foot. But 
irrational fear was strong upon her, and when she had got 
within a half dozen rounds of the bottom, she carefully 
turned herself about, let go her hold and jumped. She 
was agile, and the jiunp took her safely over him. And 
then she stayed not, but ran with all speed to the house 
and unlocked the bedroom door, calling upon Mary, who, 
surprisingly at ease, sat there darning stockings. Mary, 
her first anger over, had detmnined that no one should 
see her disquieted at these indignities ; so she had got her 
work and, in an agony, darned while she listened. Aunt 
Tab, her gauzy raiment all awry and the straws like bed- 
lam in her hair, was no more reassuring than her speech. 

" Thomas fell in the bam," she panted. " I guess he's 
killed himself." 

Mary dropped her stocking and ran out of the house. 



 

Aunt Tab behind her, and there on the bam floor she 
found him. Now he opened his eyes. 

" Can you move? " she asked him, in such tenderness 
that it melted her sweet voice to an exceeding beauty. 
He shook his head slightly, and then he glanced at Aunt 
Tab there in her absurdity, and she, meeting the look, 
was aghast at the blackness of it, and turned and fled. 
" I'll get somebody," said Mary. " You wait." 
He could not choose but wait. In half an hour the 
neighborhood knew Tom Neale had " fell off the mow." 
The Gleasons saw Aunt Tab rushing by in her tatters 
and her straw, to summon Trueman and Hannah, and, 
stopping her to learn the news, had started out like run- 
ners after a battle, to carry it. Mary had telephoned for 
the doctor and asked him to bring Ben with him in his 
