I know Oswald better than you do.  I know that he has felt your attitude
keenly, though he never admitted it even to me.

"He is a man of few friends, admired but not well liked; he is
wretchedly poor, fiercely proud, sensitive——"

"What!"

"Did you think he wasn’t?" she asked.  "He is painfully sensitive;
pitiably so.  I think women divine it, and it attracts them."

"He hasn’t the reputation of being very thin-skinned," remarked Cleland
drily.

"The average man who is sensitive would die to conceal it.  You ought to
know that, Jim; it’s your business to dissect people, isn’t it?"

She thrust a second pin through the crown of her hat and adjusted it
deftly.

"Anyway," she said, "you are a nice, polite boy to go to see him, and
you have made me very happy. Good-bye!  I must run——"

"Have you lunched?"

"No, but I’m going to."

"With whom?" he asked incautiously.

"A man."

"You’re usually just going out to lunch or dine with some man," he said
sullenly.

"I like men," she said, smiling at him.

"What you probably mean is that you like admiration."

"I do.  It’s agreeable; it’s sanitary; it’s soothing. It invigorates
one’s self-confidence and self-respect. And it doesn’t disarrange one’s
hair and rumple one’s gown.  Therefore, I prefer the undemonstrative
admiration of a man to the indiscreet demonstrations of a boy."

"Do you mean me?" he asked, furious.

But she ignored the question:

"Boys are funny," she said, swinging her velvet reticule in circles.
"Any girl can upset their equilibrium. All a girl has to do is to look
at a boy sideways—the way Lady Button-eyes looked at you yesterday
afternoon——"

"What!"

"At the Rochambeau.  And you got up and went over and renewed your
friendship with her.  Helen and I saw you."

"I was merely civil," he said.

"So was she.  She fished out a card and wrote on it.  I don’t know
what she wrote."

"She wrote her telephone call.  There isn’t the slightest chance of my
using it."

Stephanie laughed:

"He certainly is the nicest, politest boy in all Manhattan, and sister
is very, very proud of him. Good-bye, James——"

She offered her lips to him audaciously, bending forward on tip-toe,
both hands clasped behind her.  But her grey eyes were bright with
malice.

"Nice, polite boy," she repeated.  "Kiss little sister."

"No," he said gloomily, "I’m fed up on sisterly kisses——"

"You insulting wretch!  Do you mean you won’t? Then you shall——!"

She started toward him, wrath in her eyes, but he caught her wrists and
held her.

"You’re altogether too well satisfied with yourself," he said.  "You’ve
no emotions inside your very lovely person except discreet ones.
Otherwise, you’ve got the devil inside you and it’s getting on my
nerves."

"Jim!  You beast!"

"Yes, I am.  What of it?  Beasts have emotions. Yours have either been
cultivated out of you or you were born without any.  I’m glad I am part
beast.  I’m glad you know it.  The rest of me is human; and the
combination isn’t a very serious menace to civilization. But the sort of
expurgated girl you are is!"

"Don’t you think I’m capable of any deep emotions?" she asked.  The
smile had died on her lips.

"Maybe.  I don’t know."

"Who should, if you don’t?"

He shrugged:

"Your husband, perhaps."

"Jim!  I told you not to call him that!"

"Well, a spade is a spade——"

"Do you mean to be offensive?"

"How can that offend you?"

She released her wrists and shot a curious, inexplicable look at him.

"I don’t understand you," she said.  "You can be so generous and
high-minded and you can be so unkind and insolent to me."

"Insolent?"

"Yes.  You meant it insolently when you spoke of Oswald as my husband.
You’ve done it before, too. Why do you?  Do you really want to hurt me?
Because you know he isn’t my husband except by title. He may never be."

"All right," he said.  "I’m sorry I was offensive. I’m just tired of
this mystery, I suppose.  It’s a hopeless sort of affair for me.  I
can’t make you love me; you’re married, besides.  It’s too much for me—I
can’t cope with it, Steve....  So I won’t ever bother you again with
importunities.  I’ll go my own way."

"Very well," she said in an even voice.

She nodded to him and went out, saying as she passed:

"There’ll be tea at five, if you care for any."  And left him planted.

Which presently enraged him, and he began to pace the studio, pondering
on the cruelty, insensibility and injustice of that devilish sex which
had created man as a convenience.

"The thing to do," he said savagely to himself, "is to exterminate the
last trace of love for her, tear it out, uproot it, trample on it
without remorse——"

The studio bell rang.  He walked to the door and opened it.  A
bewilderingly pretty girl stood there.

"Miss Davis?" she inquired sweetly.  "I have an appointment."

"Come in," said Cleland, the flush of wrath still on his countenance.

The girl entered; he offered her a chair.

"Miss Davis happens to be out at the moment," he said, "but I don’t
believe she’ll be very long."

"Do you mind my waiting?" asked the pretty girl.

"No, I don’t," he said, welcoming diversion.  "Do you mind my being
here?  Or are you going to put me out?"

She looked surprised, then she laughed very delightfully:

"Of course not.  Miss Davis and I have known each other for a long
while, and I owe her a great deal and I am devoted to her.  Do you think
I’d be likely to banish a friend of hers?  Besides, I’m only one of her
models."

"A model?" he repeated.  "How delightful!  I also am a model—of good
behaviour."

They both laughed.

"Does it pay?" she inquired mischievously.

"No, it doesn’t.  I wish I had another job."

"Why not take the one I’ve just left?"

"What was it?"

"I was dancing at the Follies."

"All right.  Will you try me out?"

"With pleasure."

"I’ll turn on that music-box."

The girl laughed her enchanting little laugh, appraised him at a glance,
then turned her pretty head and critically surveyed the studio.

"I believe," she said, "I’m to pose for Miss Davis seated on a winged
horse.  Isn’t that exciting?"

"You’d be delightful on a winged horse," he said.

"Do you think so?"

"I suspect it.  What did you do in the Follies?"

"Nothing very interesting.  Have you seen the Follies?"

"You ought to know I haven’t," he said reproachfully. "Do you suppose I
could have forgotten you?"

She rose and dropped him a Florodora curtsey. They were getting on very
well.  She glanced demurely at the music box.  He jumped up and turned
it on. The battered disc croaked out a tango.

"Shall I take up those rugs?" he inquired.

"What on earth would Miss Davis say if she found us dancing?"

"She isn’t here to say anything.  Shall I?"

"Very well....  I’ll help you."

They dragged the rugs aside.

The studio was all golden with the sun, now, and the brilliant rays
bathed them as she laid her gloved hand in his and his arm encircled her
waist.

She was a wonderful dancer; her supple grace and professional perfection
enchanted him.

From time to time he left her to crank up the music-box; neither of them
tired.  Occasionally she glanced at her jewelled wrist-watch and
ventured to voice her doubts as to the propriety of continuing in the
imminence of Miss Davis’s return.

"Then let’s come up to my studio," he said.  "I’ve a music-phone of
sorts.  We can dance there until you’re tired, and then you can come
down and see Miss Davis."

She demurred: the music-box ran down with a squawk.

"Shall we take one more chance here?" he asked.

"No, it’s too risky....  Shall I run up to your place for just one
little dance?"

"Come on!" he said, taking her hand.

They went out and he closed the door.  Then, hand-in-hand, laughing like
a pair of children, they sped up the stairs and arrived breathless
before his door, which he unlocked.  And in another minute they were
dancing again while a scratched record croaked out a fox-trot.

"I must go," she said, resting one gloved hand on his arm.  "I’d love
to stay but I mustn’t."

"First," he said, "we’ll have tea."

"No!"

But presently they were seated on his desk, a plate of sweet biscuits
between them, their glasses of sherry touching.

"Unknown but fascinating girl," he said gaily, "I drink to your health
and fortune.  Never shall I forget our dance together; never shall I
forget the charming stranger who took tea with me!"

"Nor shall I forget you!—you very nice boy," she said, looking at him
with smiling intentness.

"Would it spoil if we saw each other again?"

"You know that such delightful encounters never bear repetition," she
answered.  "Now I’m going. Farewell!"

She laughed at him, touched her glass with her lips, set it aside, and
slipped to the floor.

"Good-bye!" she said.  He caught her at the door, and she turned and
looked up gravely.

"Don’t spoil it," she whispered, disengaging herself.

So he released her, and she stretched out her hand, smiled at him, and
stepped out.  The music-phone continued to play gaily.

A girl who was coming upstairs saw her as she left Cleland’s studio;
and, as the pretty visitor sped lightly past her, the girl who was
mounting turned and watched her.  Then she resumed her ascent, came
slowly to Cleland’s open door, stood there resting a moment as though
out of breath.

Cleland, replacing the rugs, glanced up and caught sight of Stephanie;
and the quick blood burnt his face.

She came in as though still a trifle weary from the ascent.  Neither
spoke.  She glanced down at the two empty wine glasses on his desk, saw
the decanter, the biscuits and cigarettes.  The music-phone was expiring
raucously.

"Who is that girl?" she asked in an even, colourless voice.

"A girl I met."

"Do you mind telling me her name?"

"I—don’t know it," he said, getting redder.

"Oh.  Shall I enlighten you?"

"Thank you."

"She’s Mary Cliff, of the Follies.  I’ve seen her dance."

"Really," he said carelessly.

Stephanie leaned against the desk, resting one hand on it.  An odd sense
of mental fatigue possessed her; things were not clear in her mind; she
was not very sure of what she was saying:

"I came up to say—that I’m sorry we quarrelled.... I’m sorry now that I
came.  I’m going in a moment....  You’ve already had tea, I see.  So you
won’t care for any more."

After a flushed silence, he said:

"Did you have a successful lesson, Steve?"

"I’ve had two—lessons.  Yes, they were quite—successful."

"You seem tired."

"No."  She turned and walked to the door.  He opened it for her in
silence.

"Good night," she said.

"Good night."




                            *CHAPTER XXIII*


Cleland’s unhappy interpretation of the episode was masculine and
therefore erroneous—the interpretation of a very young man whose
reverence for the restless sex might require revision some day or other
unless he died exceedingly young. For he concluded, now, that he had
thoroughly disgusted Stephanie Quest; first by his vulgar flirtation
with Lady Button-eyes, then by losing his temper and admitting to her
his own odious materialism; and, furthermore and flagrantly, by his
hideous behaviour with a pretty girl whose name even he had not known
when he entertained her at his impromptu thé-dansant.

He saw himself quite ruined in the unemotional grey eyes of a girl who,
herself, was so coldly aloof from the ignoble emotions lurking ever and
furtively in the masculine animal.

He had had little enough chance with Stephanie, even when his conduct
had been exemplary.  Now he was dreadfully certain that his chances were
less than none at all; that he had done himself in.  What had he to hope
of her now?

To this unconventional yet proud, pure-hearted girl had been offered the
very horrid spectacle of his own bad temper and reprehensible behaviour.
And, although there had been no actual harm in it, she could never,
never understand or forgive it.  Never!

Her virginal ears had been insulted by the cynical avowal of his own
masculine materialism.  Of the earth, earthy, he had vaunted himself in
his momentary exasperation—"of humanity, a shamelessly human example."

With her own incredulous, uncontaminated eyes she had seen him pocket
Lady Button-eye’s telephone number.  Her shrinking ears had heard the
mutilated record in his music-phone dying out in a tipsy two-step; her
outraged gaze had beheld a perfectly strange young girl’s gaily informal
exit from his own bachelor apartment, where sherry still stood in both
glasses and the rugs lay scattered in disorder against the wall.
Elimination was naturally the portion he had to expect. And he gloomily
schooled himself to endure annihilation.

According to his philosophy there was nothing else on earth to do about
it.  Doubtless she’d ultimately forgive him, but her respect he couldn’t
hope for at present; and as for any deeper sentiment, if ever there had
been any hope in his heart that he might one day awaken it, now he knew
it was wriggling in its death-throes, making him, by turns, either
frightfully unhappy or resentfully reckless.

The hopeless part of it was that, unlike weaker men, he had no desire to
drown sorrow in any irregular and unworthy fashion.

Many men of many minds turn to many things seeking the anodyne in one
form or another—the nepenthe of forgetfulness, rarer than the
philosopher’s stone.

Neither wine nor the dreary quest for heart-ease among frailer
companions ever appeals to any but weak minds.  And the boy, not knowing
what to do, turned to his work with a renewed energy resembling
desperation.

