Lampsacus worshipped a very great god and worshipped him uniquely. New
York, more devout and less narrow, has worshipped him also and has knelt
too to a god almost as great. Their combined rituals have exalted the
temple into a department-store where the pilgrim obtains anything he can
pay for, which is certainly a privilege. Youth, beauty, virtue, even
smiles, even graciousness, Priapus and Mammon bestow on the faithful
that garland the altars with cash.

In Park Avenue, on this radiant afternoon, Mrs. Austen and Paliser were
occupied with their devotions. Mrs. Austen was priestess and Paliser was
saying his prayers; that is, he was jingling his money, not audibly, but
none the less potently in the lady's uplifted eyes.

"Yes," said the lady, who as usual did not mean it. "It is too bad.
Margaret, the dear child, is so inexperienced that I feel that I must
blame myself. I have kept from her--how shall I put it? Well,
everything, and when she learned about this, I could not tell her that
it was all very usual. It would have offended her modesty too much."

Pausing, Mrs. Austen smiled her temple smile. "I could not tell her, as
somebody expressed it, that actresses happen in the best of families,
but I left her to decide whether she cared to have them happen in her
ménage."

The priestess, looking to the north and south, resumed: "It might have
been different if she had been older, more experienced and had really
cared for him. But how could she care? The child's nature is dormant.
She does not know what love is. He is very nice, I have not a word to
say against him, not one, but a lamp-post would be quite as capable of
arousing her affection. She accepted him, I grant you that and you may
well ask why. I know I asked myself the same thing, until I remembered
that Mr. Austen offered to take me to Niagara Falls and I married him
just to go there. At the time I was a mere chit and Margaret is little
more. Now, I am not, I hope, censorious and I do not say that she had a
lucky escape, but I can say she thinks so. It was such a relief that it
gave her neuralgia. But the child will be up and about in no time and
then you must come and dine. You got my note?"

Paliser stifled a yawn. The priestess was, he knew, entirely willing to
deliver whatever he wanted at temple rates. But he knew, too, there were
forms and ceremonies to be observed. Being bored was one of them.

At another portal he has been obliged to go through the forms with
Carlotta Tamburini. She also had wearied him, though less infernally
than Mrs. Austen, and of the two he preferred her. The ex-diva was
certainly canaille, but her paw was open and ready, whereas this woman's
palm, while quite as itching, was delicately withheld. Their gods were
identical. It was the shrines that differed. The one at which the
Tamburini presided was plain as a pikestaff. The Austen's was bedecked
like a girl on her wedding-day. Behind each Priapus leered. Above both
was the shining face of Mammon.

In the present rites, that which wearied Paliser was the recital of the
reason of the broken engagement. It was broken, that was the end of it,
an end which, in ordinary circumstances, he would have regretted.
Ordinarily it would have made the running too easy. The hurdles were
gone. There were no sticks, no fences. It would not even have been a
race, just a canter. The goal remained but the sporting chance of
beating Lennox to it would have departed. That is the manner in which
ordinarily he would have regarded it. But the war, that was to change us
all, already had changed his views. The draft act had not then been
passed, yet it was realised that some such act would be passed, and
generally it was assumed that among the exempt would be men with wives
dependent on them and cogently he had reflected that if he married that
would be his case precisely. At the same time he could not take a
possible bride by the scruff of the neck and drag her off to a
clergyman. Though it be to save your hide, such things are not done.
Even in war-time there are wearisome preliminaries and these
preliminaries, which a broken engagement abridged, the neuralgia of a
possible bride prolonged. That was distinctly annoying and a moment
later, when he had the chance, he vented the annoyance on Lennox.

"You got my note?" Mrs. Austen was asking.

"Yes," he replied, "and I will come with pleasure. Meanwhile, if my
sympathy is not indiscreet, please convey it to your daughter." The kick
followed. "Though, to be sure, Lennox is a loose fish."

"He is?" Mrs. Austen unguardedly exclaimed. Not for a moment had she
suspected it and, in her surprise, her esteem for him jumped. Good
heavens! she thought. How I have maligned him!

In the exclamation and the expression which her eyes took on, Paliser
divined some mental somersault, divined too that behind it was something
obscure, something that she was keeping back. Warily he backed.

"Oh, as for that, loose fish may mean anything. It is a term that has
been applied to me and I dare say very correctly. If I did not live like
a monk, I should be jailed for my sins."

He is his father all over again, Mrs. Austen cheerfully reflected and
absently asked: "How is he?"

"Lennox? I haven't an idea."

"I mean your father."

"In a great hurry, thank you. The war has gone to his head."

"At his age? Surely----"

"He wants me to go," said Paliser, who had no intention of it whatever
and whom subsequent events completely exempted. "He is in a hurry for me
to enlist and in a greater hurry to have me marry."

Austerely, this pleasant woman grabbed it. "It is your duty!"

That was too much for Paliser, who, knowing as well as she did what she
was driving at, wanted to laugh. Like the yawn, he suppressed it.

The priestess's austerity faded. A very fair mimic of exaltation
replaced it. "Whoever she is, how proud she will be! A war-bride!"

But Paliser, who had his fill, was rising and, abandoning histrionics,
she resumed: "The 24th at eight; don't forget!" Then as he passed from
the portal, the priestess lifted her hands. "What a fish! Fast or loose,
what a fish!"

Above her Mammon glowed, behind her leered Priapus.

Through the sunny streets, Paliser drove to the Athenæum, where
everybody was talking war. The general consensus of ignorance was quite
normal.

Lennox, seated with Jones at a window, was summarising his own point of
view. "In a day or two I shall run down to Mineola, Perhaps they will
take me on at the aviation field. Anyway I can try."

Jones crossed himself. He is signing his death-warrant, he thought. But
he said: "Take you, Icarus. They will fly away with you. You will become
a cavalier of the clouds, a toreador of the aerial arena, an archangel
soaring among the Eolian melodies of shrapnel. I envy, I applaud, but I
cannot emulate. The upper circles are reserved for youth and over musty
tomes I have squandered mine. I am thirty-two by the clock and I should
hie me to the grave-digger that he may take my measure. And yet if I
could--if I could!--I would like to be one of the liaison chaps and fall
if I must in a shroud of white swords."

Sombrely Lennox considered his friend. "Your shroud of white swords is
ridiculous."

Jones agreed with him. To change the subject, he rattled a paper. "Have
you seen this? There is an account here of a man who shot his girl. He
thought her untrue. Probably she was."

"Reason enough then," said Lennox, who latterly had become very
murderous.

"I wonder! Anyway, though the paper does not say so, that was not his
reason. The poor devil killed her not because she had been untrue, but
because he loved her. He killed the thing he loved the best out of sheer
affection. Unfortunately, for his virtues, he loved her innocently,
ignorantly, as most men do love, without any idea that the one affection
worth giving is a love that nothing can alter, a love that can not only
forgive but console."

"Is that what you call originality?" Lennox severely enquired. "If so, I
have never run across any of it in your books."

"Heaven forbid that you should, dear boy. I live by the sweat of my pen.
Originality never has, and never will make a best-seller."

It was while Jones was airing these platitudes that Paliser entered the
room. He approached the two men. Lennox at once got up, turned his back,
marched away.

A few days later, Jones, in reviewing the incident, wondered whether
Lennox could, even then, have suspected. But, at the moment, in apology
for him, he merely lied.

"I frightened him off with shop-talk."

Paliser took the vacant seat "What are you writing?"

"Cheques. There is nothing simpler and, except cash, nothing so easily
understood. To keep my hand in I will write one now."

Then Jones too got up. Paliser, to whom solitude was always irksome,
found himself alone. But his solitude was not prolonged. A man joined
him. Another followed. Presently there was a group.

From the table where Jones had gone, the inkbeast saw and seeing
thought: Empires may totter, nations fall. The face of the earth will be
changed. But the toady endureth forever.




XVI


It was another perfect day, a forenoon after Veronese, a day of which
the charm was heightened by the witcheries that Harlem knows--the
shouted temptations of push-carts; the pastimes of children, so noisy,
so dirty, so dear! the engaging conversation of German ladies; the
ambient odour of cabbage and the household linen fluttering gaily on the
roofs. It was rapturous. Just beyond was a sewer--the Hudson. But above
was the turquoise of the mid-April day.

Cassy went by and on, turned a corner, crossed the street, descended
into a cave, smiled sweetly at a man who was closing a door and who,
seeing that smile, smiled at it, smiled wantonly, held the door open,
yet, noting then but an arid blankness where her smile had been, banged
the door and shouted fiercely: "Hundred-thirty-seven-street-next."

The train crashed on. Cassy, her nose in the air, assumed a barbed-wire
attitude, her usual defensive against the conjecturing eyes of old men
and the Hello, Kid! glances of New York's subtle youth. This attitude,
which enabled her to ignore everything and everybody, enabled her also
to think of what she liked, or of what she did not like, a circumstance
that happened to her then and which was induced by her father.

That day he had been terrible. The tragedies of the fated Atrides, what
were they to his? A lamentation longer than Jeremiah's followed. His
arm, his skill, his art, his strength, his money, everything, for all he
knew even his daughter, was taken from him. How long, O Lord, how long!
And presto! da capo, all over and afresh she had it.

Then, shaking a finger, he cried: "Where were you last night?"

Cassy, reduced to tears, exclaimed at him. "Why here. Where else?"

Darkly he eyed her. "Yes, but earlier, before you came in, where were
you?"

Cassy could not help it, she shook. A moment before she had been crying
whole-heartedly, associating herself, as a daughter may, in her father's
woe. But that was too much. With the tears still in her eyes, she
laughed. "Gracious goodness! You don't take me for a fly-by-night?"

The noble marquis, who had been standing, sat down. Before him, on the
ginger of the wall, hung the portrait of the gorgeous swashbuckler.
Behind the latter were portraits, dim, remote, visionary, of other
progenitors who probably never existed. But he was convinced that they
had, convinced that always, sword in hand, they had upheld the honour of
the Casa-Evora. No, surely, his daughter had not forfeited that. No,
certainly, he did not suspect her. But there was much that he did not
understand. The misery of the mystery of things overcame him. He wept
noisily.

Cassy, who had been seated, stood up. She had on her rowdy frock. She
also had on a hat--if you can call a tam-o'-shanter a hat. Therewith
were white gloves which she had got at the basilica and which as yet
were free from benzine. Her father had distressed her inhumanly, but she
had survived it, as youth survives anything, and she looked then, not
tear-stained in the least, but, as usual, very handsome.

Bending forward, she touched him. "There, you dear old thing, don't take
on so. I have been planning something fat for you. Everything will come
out right Just wait and see--and when you're hungry, there's some nice
cold veal in the kitchy."

But though in the kitchen there was cold veal, which it were perhaps
poetic to describe as nice, yet even the poetry of that was exceeded by
the poetry of the plan. Cassy had planned nothing lean or fat, nothing
whatever. She had spoken as a little mother may, in an effort to
console, though perhaps prompted subconsciously by the inscrutable
possibilities of life. Anything may happen. Already on the stage of
which destiny is the scene-shifter, the fates, in their eternal rôle of
call-boy, were summoning the actors to the drama in which the leading
rôle was hers and on which the curtain was about to rise.

Her father, comforted by the imaginary, looked up. She had gone. From
the sling he took his arm. The elbow was stiff, though less stiff than
it had been. Moreover the wrist moved readily and the fingers were as
flexible as before. Consoled by that, comforted already, he shuffled
into the kitchen and consumed the cold veal.

Now, in the crashing car, Cassy's thoughts went forward and back. Her
father's question, that had succeeded in being both pointed and
pointless, returned. She smiled at it. It would take another Don Juan
than Mozart's to entice me, she serenely reflected. Yet, after all,
would he have to be so remarkable? At any rate he would have to be fancy
free and not engaged as was a certain person who had not so much as said
Boo!

Cassy coloured. Always corsetless, she was not straight-laced. Given the
attraction and with it the incentive, and that tam-o'-shanter might have
gone flying over the windmill. The tam was very safe. There was no
incentive and, though there was no moral corset either, she was
temperamentally unable to go poaching on another's preserves. Barring
the chimerical, that any girl may consider and most girls do, she was
straight as a string. A shabby old man had no need to ask.

"Seventy-second!" The trainman bawled unmollifiably at her.

Cassy left a certain person there. Into her thoughts another man had
hopped. She surveyed him. He was good-looking. He was rich. These
attributes said nothing. A beautiful male--always an anomaly--never
attracts a beautiful woman. That other anomaly, a man of inherited
wealth, is disgusting to the anarchist. Cassy was a beauty and an
anarchist. She was also an aristocrat. The tattered portières of the
House of Casa-Evora, the bedrabbled robes of the marquisate, all that
was ridiculous to her. She was an aristocrat none the less. She had a
high disdain for low things. In the kitchen, which she called the
kitchy, she bent her back but not her head. Her head was unbowed. She
sullied her hands but not her conscience. A dirty act she could not
perform. Aristocrat and anarchist, she was also an artist. With simple
things and simple people, she was simple as you please. Stupidity and
pretentiousness enraged her. The philistine and the ignoble she loathed.

Now, through the windows of her soul, she surveyed him. His looks, his
money, said nothing. On the other hand there was about him an aroma that
appealed. The aroma was not the odour that local society exhales. At
that Cassy's nose was in the air. A lot of nobodies occupied with
nothing--and talking about it! Such was her opinion of the gilded gang,
an opinion which Paliser--to do him the justice that the historian
should--would have had put to music and arranged for trumpets. It was
not that, therefore. The aroma was more fetching. The man talked her
language, liked what she liked, never presumed. In considering these
factors, she considered her gloves. Thank God, they did not smell of
benzine!

"Grand Central!"

Cassy, abandoning Paliser there, went on to Fifth Avenue, where, with
the protection of cross-town traffic, she attempted to get to the other
side. But half-way, she saw, or thought she saw, the young woman to whom
a certain person was engaged. She turned to look, backed into the
traffic-sign and put it in motion. Instantly motors were careering at
each other. Instantly a purple policeman grown suddenly black, was
smitten with St. Vitus.

Dancing and bellowing as he danced, he righted the sign and swore at
Cassy, who, for added outrage, had flung herself at him and was smiling
sweetly in his swollen face. About them the torrent poured. Then all at
once, in a riot that afterwards seemed to her phantasmagoric, the
policeman raised a forefinger in salute. From the maelstrom she was
hoisted bodily into a car. Somebody, the policeman probably, was
boosting her from behind. Never had she suffered such indignities! To
accentuate them, somebody else was shouting in her face.

"I've saved your life, you'll have to marry me."

"Well, I declare!" Cassy, horribly ruffled, exclaimed at Paliser, who
had the impudence to laugh. She smoothed the smock, patted the hat,
passed a gloved hand over her nose.

"You're all there," Paliser, amused by the mimic, was telling her. "What
is more, one pick-me-up deserves another."

With his stick, he poked at the mechanician, gestured with it,
indicating a harbour.

The car veered and stopped at a restaurant that had formerly resided in
Fourteenth Street, but which had moved, as the heart of Manhattan moved,
and was then thinking of moving again.

In the entrance were Cantillon and Ogston, agreeable young men, who
stood aside for Cassy, raised their hats at Paliser, nudging each other
with unfathomable good-fellowship.

"A peach!"

"No, a pair!"

Their pleasantries were lost. Cassy and Paliser moved on and in to the
Fifth Avenue room, crowded as usual on this high noon. But what are
head-waiters for? Promptly there was a table, one not too near the
orchestra and yet which gave on the street.

"What would you dislike the least?" Paliser from over a bill-of-fare
inquired. He had brought his hat and stick with him and, in spite of a
waiter's best efforts, had put both on the floor.

I am not fit to be seen, thought Cassy, looking about at two and three
hundred dollar frocks and at blouses that were almost as cheap.

Paliser, turning to the waiter, translated passages from the menu.
"Surprised tomatoes, cocottish eggs, suprême on a sofa, ice Aurora
Borealis. And a baked potato." He turned to Cassy. "Barring the ice, a
baked potato is the only thing in which they can't stick grease."

"Et comme vin, monsieur?" enquired the waiter who ought to have been at
the front.

"Aqua pura. But probably you have not got it. Celestial Vichy, then." He
looked again at Cassy. "What else might displease your ladyship?"

"Do stop talking like a low comedian," Cassy vexatiously retorted. "If
you had not used force I would not be here. I could not make a row at
the door."

"No, one scene on Fifth Avenue is enough for one day."

"I should say so and it was you who made it. I was going quietly about
my business when I was derricked into your car."

"Not at all. You threw yourself at my head. If it had not been for me,
the policeman would have marched you off to prison."

Cassy laughed. "The dear man! He knew I would be worse off with you."

"Yes. He was certainly perspicacious. Where did you say you were going?"

Cassy removed her gloves. "Before I was attacked? To a music-shop. There
is a song I want to get for Mrs. Thingumagig's, Mrs. Beamish----"

"Mrs. Who?" Paliser asked. Again he had forgotten the lady. But from one
of memory's pantries her wraith peered out. "Ah, yes, of course! Well,
