To think of it madded me, because Mr. Fonda had three wealthy sons
living near him, who could care for him properly with their ample means
and all their servants and slaves. And why in God's name Captain John
Fonda, Major Jelles Fonda, or Major Adam Fonda did not take some means
of moving themselves and their families into the Queens Fort, or, better
still, into Albany, I can not comprehend.
But it was a fact, as Christie related to me, that scarce a soul had
fled from Caughnawaga. All the landed gentry remained; all people of
high or low degree were still there--folk like the Veeders, Sammons,
Romeyns, Hansens, Yates, Putmans, Stevens, Fishers, Gaults.
That night my dreams were horrible: I seemed to see Dries Bowman's body
spinning in the sunshine, whilst he darted his swollen tongue at me like
a snake. And always I seemed all wet with blood and could not dry myself
or escape the convulsed embrace of the Little Maid of Askalege.
Moaning, waking with a cry on my lips to gaze on the red embers of our
fire and see my Indians stir under their blankets and open slitted eyes
at me--or to lie exhausted in body and all trembling in my thoughts,
while the slow, dark hours dragged to the dead march beating in my
heart--thus passed the night at Stone House, full of visions of the
dead.
Long ere the cavalry trumpet pealed and the tired troopers awakened
after near fifty miles of riding the day before, I had dragged my weary
Indians from their sleep; and almost immediately we were on our way,
eating a pinch of salted corn from the palms of our hands as we moved
forward. For, after a brief ceremony in the Wood of Brakabeen, I meant
to make Johnstown without a halt. My mind was full of anxiety for
Caughnawaga, and for her who had promised herself to me when again I
should come to seek her.
But first we must halt in the Wood of Brakabeen to fulfill in ceremony
that office due to the memory of a brave and faithful Oneida
warrior--our little Maid of Askalege.
It was not yet dawn, and the glades of Brakabeen Wood were dark and
still; and on the ferns and grasses rested myriads of fire-flies, all
pulsating with faint phosphorescence.
I thought of Thiohero as I had beheld her in this glade, swaying on her
slender feet amid a dizzy whirl of fire-flies.
Tahioni had gathered a dry faggot; Kwiyeh carried a bundle of
cherry-birch, samphire, and witch-hopple. The Water-snake laid the fire.
All seated themselves; I struck flint, blew the tinder to a coal, and
lighted a silver birch-shred.
The scented smoke mounted straight up through the trees; I rose in
silence; and when the first burning stick fell into soft white ashes, I
took a few flakes in my palm and rubbed them across my forehead. Then I
spoke, facing the locked gates of morning in the dark:
"Now--now I hear your voice coming to us through the forest in the
night.
"Now our hearts are heavy, little sister. The gates of morning are still
locked; the forest is still; everywhere there is thick darkness.
"Thiohero, listen!
"Now we Oneidas are depressed in our minds. You were a prophetess. You
foretold events. You were a warrior. We were your clansmen of the Little
Red Foot. You were a sorceress. Empty moccasins danced when you touched
the witch-drum. Now, in white plumes, you have mounted to the stars like
morning mist.
"Oyaneh! Continue to listen.
"Our lodge is empty without you. Our fire is lonely without you. Our
hearts are desolate, O Thiohero Oyaneh!
"Little Sister, continue to listen!
"We have heard your voice at this hour coming to us through the Wood of
Brakabeen. It comes in darkness like light when the gates of morning
open.
"Thiohero Oyaneh, virgin warrior of the People of the Rock, we are come
to the Wood of Brakabeen to greet and thank you.
"We give you gratitude and love. You were a warrior and wore the Little
Red Foot. You struck your enemies where you found them. They are dead
and without scalps, your enemies. The Canienga howl. Your war-axe sticks
in their heads. The Hessians are swine. Your scarlet arrows turn them
into porcupines. The green-coats flee and your bullets burn their
bowels.
"O my little sister, listen now!
"Our trail is very lonely without you. We are dejected. We move like
old men and sick. We need your wisdom. We are less wise than those
littlest ones still strapped to the cradle board.
"Thiohero!
"We have placed food and a cup of water for you lest you hunger and
thirst.
"We have laid a bow and scarlet arrows near you so that you shall hunt
when you wish.
"We have given you moccasins so that the strange, bright trail shall not
hurt your feet.
"We have placed paint for you so that Tharon shall know you by your
clan. And we have made for your grave a cross of silver-birch, so that
our white Lord Christ shall meet you and take you by the hand in a land
so new and strange.
"Oyaneh!
"We have said what is in our hearts and minds. We think that is all we
have to say. We turn our eyes to the morning. When the gates open we
shall depart."
As I ended, the three Oneidas rose and faced the east in silence. All
the sky had become golden. Minute after minute passed. Suddenly a
blinding lance of light pierced the Wood of Brakabeen.
"Haih!" they exclaimed softly. "Nai Thiohero Oyaneh!"
Tahioni covered the fire. The Screech-owl marked us all with a coal
still warm.
Then, in silence, I led my people from the misty Wood of Brakabeen.
CHAPTER XXX
A LONG GOOD-BYE
On the evening of the 15th of August, the Commandant of Johnstown Fort
stood aghast to see a forest-running ragamuffin and three scare-crow
Indians stagger into headquarters at the jail.
"Gad a-mercy!" says he as I offered the salute, "is it you, Mr.
Drogue!"
I was past all speech; for we had wolf-jogged all the way up from the
river, but from my rags I fished out my filthy papers and thrust them at
him. He was kind enough to ask me to sit; I nodded a like permission to
my Oneidas and dropped onto a settle; a sergeant fetched new-baked
bread, meat, buttermilk, and pipes for my Indians; and for me a draught
of summer cider, which presently I swallowed to the dregs when I found
strength to do it.
This refreshed me. I asked permission to lodge my Oneidas in some
convenient barn and to draw for them food, pay, tobacco, and clothing;
and very soon a corporal of Continentals arrived with a lantern and led
the Oneidas out into the night.
Then, at the Commandant's request, I gave a verbal account of my scout,
and reminded him of my instructions, which were to report at Saratoga.
But he merely shuffled my papers together and smiled, saying that he
would attend to that matter, and that there were new orders lately
arrived for me, and a sheaf of letters, among which two had been sent in
with a flag, and seals broken.
"Sir," he said, still smiling in kindly fashion, "I have every reason to
believe that patriotic service faithfully performed is not to remain too
long unrecognized at Albany. And this business of yours amounts to that,
Mr. Drogue."
He laughed and rubbed his powerful hands together, peering
good-humouredly at me out of a pair of small and piercing eyes.
"However," he added, "all this is for you to learn from others in higher
places than I occupy. Here are your letters, Mr. Drogue."
He laid his hand on a sheaf which lay near his elbow on the table and
handed them to me. They were tied together with tape which had been
sealed.
"Sir," said he, "you are in a woeful plight for lack of sleep; and I
should not detain you. You lodge, I think, at Burke's Tavern. Pray, sir,
retire to your quarters at your convenience, and dispose of well-earned
leisure as best suits you."
He rose, and I got stiffly to my feet.
"Your Indians shall have every consideration," said he. "And I dare
guess, sir, that you are destined to discover at the Tavern news that
should pleasure you."
We saluted; I thanked him for his kind usage, and took my leave, so
weary that I scarce knew what I was about.
How I arrived at the Tavern without falling asleep on my two legs as I
walked, I do not know. Jimmy Burke, who had come out with a light to
greet me, lifted his hands to heaven at sight of me.
"John Drogue! Is it yourself, avic? Ochone, the poor lad! Wirra the
day!" says he,--"and luk at him in his rags and thin as a clapperrail!"
And, "Magda! Betty!" he shouts, "f'r the sake o' the saints, run fetch a
wash-tub above, an' b'ilin' wather in a can, and soft-soap, too, an'
a-bite-an'-a-sup, or himself will die on me two hands----"
I heard maids running as I climbed the stairway, gripping at the rail to
steady me. I was asleep in my chair when some one shook me.
Blindly I pulled the dirty rags from my body and let them fall anywhere;
and I near died o' drowning in the great steaming tub, for twice I fell
asleep in the bath. I know not who pulled me out. I do not remember
eating. They say I did eat. Nor can I recollect how, at last, I got me
into bed.
I was still deeply asleep when Burke awoke me. He had a great bowl of
smoking soupaan and a pitcher of sweet milk; and I ate and drank, still
half asleep. But now the breeze from the open window and the sunshine in
my room slowly cleared my battered senses. I began to remember where I
was, and to look about the room.
Mine was the only bed; and there was nobody lying in it save only
myself, yet it was evident that another gentleman shared this room with
me; for yonder, on a ladder-back chair, lay somebody's clothing neatly
folded,--a Continental officer's uniform, on which I perceived the
insignia of a staff-captain.
Spurred boots also stood there, and a smartly cocked hat.
And now, on a peg in the wall, I discovered this unknown officer's
watch-coat, and his sword dangling by it, and a brace o' pistols.
But where the devil the owner of these implements might be I could not
guess.
And now my eyes fell upon the sheaf of letters lying on the table beside
me. I broke the sealed tape that bound them; they fell upon the bed
clothes; and I picked up the first at hazard, which was a packet, and
broke the seal of it. And sat there in my night shift, utterly astounded
at what I beheld.
For within the packet were two papers. One was a captain's commission in
the Continental Line; and my own name was writ upon it.
And the other paper was a letter, sent express from the Forest of Dean,
five days since, and it was from Major General Lord Stirling to me,
acquainting me that he had taken the liberty to request a captain's
commission in the Line for me; that His Excellency had concurred in the
request; that a commission had been duly granted and issued; and
that--His Excellency still graciously concurring and General Schuyler
endorsing the request--I had been transferred from the State Rangers to
the Line, and from the Line to the military family of General Lord
Stirling. And should report to him at the Forest of Dean.
To this elegant and formal and amazing letter, writ by a secretary and
signed by my Lord Stirling, was appended in his own familiar hand this
postscript:
"Jack Drogue will not refuse his old friend, Billy Alexander. So for
God's sake leave your rifle-shirt and moccasins in Johnstown and put on
the clothing which I have bespoken of the same Johnstown tailoress who
made your forest dress and mine when in happier days we hunted and
fished with Sir William in the pleasant forests of Fonda's Bush."
I sat there quite overcome, gazing now upon my commission, now upon my
friend's kind letter, now at my beautiful new uniform which his
consideration had procured for me while I was wandering leagues away in
the Northern bush, never dreaming that a celebrated Major General had
time to waste on any thought concerning me.
There was a bell-rope near my bed, and now I pulled it, and said to the
buxom wench who came that I desired a barber to trim me instantly, and
that the pot-boy should run and fetch him and bid him bring his irons
and powder and an assortment of queue ribbons for a club.
The barber arrived as I, having bathed me, was dressing in fresh
underwear which I found rolled snug in the pack I had left here when I
went away.
Lord, but my beard and hair were like Orson's; and I gave myself to the
razor with great content; and later to the shears, bidding young Master
Snips shape my pol for a club and powder in the most fashionable and
military mode then acceptable to the service.
Which he swore he knew how to accomplish; so I took my letters from the
bed and disposed myself in a chair to peruse them while Snips should
remain busy with his shears.
The first letter I unsealed was from Nick Stoner, and written from
Saratoga:
     "FRIEND JACK,
     "I take quill and ink to acquaint you how it goes with us here in
     the regiment.
     "I am fifer, and when in action am stationed near to the colours
     for duty. Damn them, they should give me a gun, also, as I can
     shoot better than any of 'em, as you know.
     "My brother John is a drummer in our regiment, and has learned all
     his flamms and how to beat all things lively save the devil.
     "My father is a private in our regiment, which is pleasant for all,
     and he is a dead shot and afeard of nothing save hell.
     "I have got into mischief and been punished on several occasions. I
     like not being triced up between two halbards.
     "I long to see Betsy Browse. She hath a pretty way of kissing. And
     sometimes I long to see Anne Mason, who has her own way, too. You
     are not acquainted with that saucy baggage, I think. But she lives
     only two miles from where my Betsy abides. And I warrant you I was
     put to it, sparking both, lest they discover I drove double
     harness. And there was Zuyler's pretty daughter, too--but enough of
     tender memories!
     "Anna has raven hair and jet black eyes and is snowy otherwise. I
     don't mean cold. Angelica Zuyler is fair of hair but brown for the
     rest----
     "Well, Jack, I think on you every day and hope you do well with
     your Oneidas, who, we hear, are out with you on the Schoharie.
     "Our headquarters runner is your old Saguenay, and he is much
     trusted by our General, they say. Sometimes the fierce fellow comes
     to visit me, but asks only for news of you, and when I say I have
     none he sits in silence. And always, when he leaves, he says very
     solemnly: 'Tell my Captain that I am a real man. But did not know
     it until my Captain told me so.'
     "Now the news is that Burgoyne finds himself in a pickle since the
     bloody battle at Oriskany. I think he flounders like a big
     chain-pike stranded belly-deep in a shallow pool which is slowly
     drying up around him.
     "We are no longer afeard of his Germans, his General Baum-Boom, his
     famous artillery, or his Indians.
     "What the Tryon County lads did to St. Leger we shall surely do to
     that big braggart, John Burgoyne. And mean to do it presently.
     "I send this letter to you by Adam Helmer, who goes this day to
     Schenectady, riding express.
     "I give you my hand and heart. I hope Penelope is well.
     "And beg permission to remain, sir, your most humble and obliged
     and obedient servant,
     "NICHOLAS STONER."
I laid aside Nick's letter, half smiling, half sad, at the thoughts it
evoked within me.
Young Master Snips was now a-drying of my hair. I opened another letter,
which bore the inscription, 'By flag.' It had been unsealed, which, of
course, was the rule, and so approved and delivered to me:
     "DEAR JACK,
     "I am fearfully unhappy. This day news is brought of the action at
     Oriska, and that my dear brother is dead.
     "I pray you, if it be within your power, to give my poor Stephen
     decent burial. He was your boyhood friend. Ah, God, what an
     unnatural strife is this that sets friend against friend, brother
     against brother, father against son!
     "Can you not picture my wretchedness and distress to know that my
     darling brother is slain, that my husband is at this moment facing
     the terrible rifle-fire of your infuriated soldiery, that many of
     my intimate friends are dead or wounded at this terrible Oriskany
     where they say your maddened soldiers flung aside their muskets and
     leaped upon our Greens and Rangers with knife and hatchet, and tore
     their very souls out with naked hands.
     "I pray that you were not involved in that horrible affair. I pray
     that you may live through these fearful times to the end, whatever
     that end shall be. God alone knows.
     "I thank you for your generous forbearance and chivalry to us on
     the Oneida Road. I saw your painted Oneida Indians crouching in
     the roadside weeds, although I did not tell you that I had
     discovered them. But I was terrified for my baby. You have heard
     how Iroquois Indians sometimes conduct.
     "Dear Jack, I can not find in my heart any unkind thought of you. I
     trust you think of me as kindly.
     "And so I ask you, if it be within your power, to give my poor
     brother decent burial. And mark the grave so that one day, please
     God, we may remove his mangled remains to a friendlier place than
     Tryon has proven for me and mine.
     "I am, dear Jack, with unalterable affection,
     "Your unhappy,
     "POLLY."
My eyes were misty as I laid the letter aside, resolving to do all I
could to carry out Lady Johnson's desires. For not until long afterward
did I hear that Steve Watts had survived his terrible wounds and was
finally safe from the vengeance of outraged Tryon.
Another letter, also with broken seal, I laid open and read while Snips
heated his irons and gazed out of the breezy window, where, with fife
and drum, I could hear the garrison marching out for exercise and
practice.
And to the lively marching music of The Huron, I read my letter from
Claudia Swift:
     "Oneida; Aug: 7th, 1777.
     "MY DEAREST JACK,
     "I am informed that I may venture to send this epistle under a flag
     that goes out today. No doubt but some Yankee Paul Pry in
     blue-and-buff will crack the seal and read it before you receive
     it.
     "But I snap my fingers at him. I care not. I am bold to say that I
     do love you. And dearly! So much for Master Pry!
     "But, alas, my friend, now indeed I am put to it; for I must
     confess to you a sadder and deeper anxiety. For if I love you, sir,
     I am otherwise in love. And with another! I shall not dare to
     confess his name. But you saw and recognized him at Summer House
     when Steve was there a year ago last spring.
     "Now you know. Yes, I am madly in love, Jack. And am racked with
     terrors and nigh out o' my wits with this awful news of the Oriska
     battle.
     "We hear that Captain Walter Butler is taken out o' uniform within
     your lines; and so, lacking the protection of his regimentals, he
     is like to suffer as a spy. My God! Was he alone when
     apprehended by Arnold's troops? And will General Arnold hang him?
     "This is the urgent news I ask of you. I am horribly afraid. In
     mercy send me some account; for there are terrible rumours afloat
     in this fortress--rumours of other spies taken by your soldiery,
     and of brutal executions--I can not bring myself to write of what I
     fear. Pity me, Jack, and write me what you hear.
     "Could you not beg this one mercy of Billy Alexander, that he send
     a flag or contrive to have one sent from your Northern Department,
     explaining to us poor women what truly has been,--and is like to
     be--the fate of such unfortunate prisoners in your hands?
     "And remember who it is appeals to you, dear Jack; for even if I
     have not merited your consideration,--if I, perhaps, have even
     forfeited the regard of Billy Alexander,--I pray you both to
     remember that you once were a little in love with me.
     "And so, deal with me gently, Jack. For I am frightened and sick at
     heart; and know very little about love, which, for the first time
     ever in my life, has now undone me.
     "Will you not aid and forgive your unhappy,
     "CLAUDIA."
Good Lord! Claudia enamoured! And enamoured of that great villain, Henry
Hare! Why, damn him, he hath a wife and children, too, or I am most
grossly in error.
I had not heard that Walter Butler was taken. I knew not whether
Lieutenant Hare had been caught in Butler's evil company or if, indeed,
he had fought at all with old John Butler at Oriska.
Frowning, disgusted, yet sad also to learn that Claudia could so rashly
and so ignobly lavish her affections, nevertheless I resolved to ask
Lord Stirling if a flag could not be sent with news to Claudia and such
other anxious ladies as might be eating their hearts out at Oneida, or
Oswego, or Buck Island.
And so I laid aside her painful letter, and unfolded the last missive.
And discovered it was writ me by Penelope:
     "You should not think harshly of me, Jack Drogue, if you return and
     discover that I am gone away from Johnstown.
     "Douw Fonda is returned to Cayadutta Lodge. He has now sent a
     carriage for to fetch me. It is waiting while I write. I can not
     refuse him.
     "If, when we meet again, you desire to know my mind concerning
     you, then, if you choose to look into it, you shall discover that
     my mind contains only a single thought. And the thought is for you.
     "But if you desire no longer to know my mind when again--if
     ever--we two meet together, then you shall not feel it your duty to
     concern yourself about my mind, or what thought may be within it.
     "I would not write coldly to you, John Drogue. Nor would I
     importune with passion.
     "I have no claim upon your further kindness. You have every claim
     upon my life-long gratitude.
     "But I offer more than gratitude if you should still desire it; and
     I would offer less--if it should better please you.
     "Feel not offended; feel free. Come to me if it pleaseth you; and,
     if you come not, there is in me that which shall pardon all you do,
     or leave undone, as long as ever I shall live on earth.
     "PENELOPE GRANT."
When Snips had powdered me and had tied my club with a queue-ribbon of
his proper selection, he patched my cheek-bone where a thorn had torn
me, and stood a-twirling his iron as though lost in admiration of his
handiwork.
When I paid him I bade him tell Burke to bring around my horse and fetch
my saddle bags; and then I dressed me in my regimentals.
When Burke came with the saddle-bags, we packed them together. He
promised to care for my rifle and pack, took my new light blanket over
his arm, and led the way down stairs, where I presently perceived Kaya
saddled, and pricking ears to hear my voice.
Whilst I caressed her and whispered in her pretty ear the idle
tenderness that a man confides to a beloved horse, Burke placed my
pistols, strapped saddle-bags and blanket, and held my stirrup as I
gathered bridle and set my spurred boot firmly on the steel.
And so swung to my saddle, and sat there, dividing bridles, deep fixed
in troubled thought and anxiously concerned for the safety of the
unselfish but very stubborn girl I loved.
       
I had said my adieux to Jimmy Burke; I had taken leave of the Commandant
at the palisades jail. I now galloped Kaya through the town, riding by
way of Butlersbury;[42] and saw the steep roof of the Butler house
through the grove, and shuddered as I thought of the unhappy young man
who had lived there and who, at that very moment, might be hanging by
