

DR. TALBOT had confided to Mrs. McLane that His wife was inclined to be a has 
bleu and he wanted her broken of an unfeminine love of books. Mrs. McLane, who knew 
that a reputation for bookishness would be fatal 
in a community that regarded " Lucile " as a 
great poem and read little but the few novels 
that drifted their way (or the continued stories 
in Godey's Lady's Book), promised him that 
Madeleine's intellectual aspirations should be 
submerged in the social gaieties of the season. 

She kept her word. Dinners, receptions, 
luncheons, theatre parties, in honor of the bride, 
followed in rapid succession, and when all had 
entertained her, the less personal invitations 
followed as rapidly. Her popularity was not 
founded on novelty. 

No girl in her first season had ever enjoyed 
herself more naively and she brought to every 
entertainment eager sparkling eyes and danc- 
ing feet that never tired. She became the 
reigning toast.'' At parties she was surrounded  by a bevy of admirers or forced to 
divide her dancesj for it was soon patent there 
was no jealousy in Talbot's composition and 
that he took an equally naive pride in his wife's 
success. When alone with women she was 
quite as animated and interested; and, more- 
over, invited them to copy her gowns. Some 
had been made in Paris, others in New York. 
The local dressmakers felt the stirrings of ambition, and the shops sent for a more varied assortment of fabrics. 

Madeleine Talbot at this time was very 
happy, or, at least, too busy to recall her earlier 
dreams of happiness. The whole-hearted devotion to gaiety of this stranded little community, its elegance, despite its limitations, its unbounded hospitality to all within its guarded 
portals, its very absence of intellectual criticism, made the formal life of her brief past appear dull and drab in the retrospect. The 
spirit of Puritanism seemed to have lost heart 
in those trackless wastes between the Atlantic 
and the Pacific and turned back. True, the 
moral code was rigid (on the surface) ; but far 
from too much enjoyment of life, of quaffing 
eagerly at the brimming cup, being sinful, they 



 

would have held it to be a far greater sin not to 
have accepted all that the genius of San Francisco so lavishly provided. 

Wildness and recklessness were in the air, 
the night life of San Francisco was probably 
the maddest in the world j nor did the gambling 
houses close their doors by day, nor the women 
of Dupont Street cease from leering through, 
their shuttered windows} a city bom in delirium and nourished on crime, whose very atmosphere was electrified and whose very 
foundations were restless, would take a quarter 
of a century at least to manufacture a decent 
thick surface of conventionality, and its self- 
conscious respectable wing could no more escape 
its spirit than its fogs and winds. But evil excitement was tempered to irresponsible gaiety, 
a constant whirl of innocent pleasures. When 
the spirit passed the portals imtempered, and 
drove women too highly-strung, too unhappy, 
or too easily bored, to the divorce courts, to 
drink, or to reckless adventure, they were summarily dropped. No woman, however guiltless, could divorce her husband and remain a 
member of that vigilant court. It was all or 
nothing. If a married woman were clever 



 

enough to take a lover undetected and merely 
furnish interesting surmise, there was no attempt to ferret out and punish her for no society can exist without gossip. 

But none centered about Madeleine Talbot. 
Her little coquetries were impartial and her devotion to her husband was patent to the most 
infatuated eye. Life was made very pleasant 
for her. Howard, during that first winter, 
accompanied her to all the dinners and parties, 
and she gave several entertainments in her large 
suite at the Occidental Hotel. Sally Ballinger 
was a lively companion for the mornings and 
was as devoted a friend as youth could demand. Mrs. Abbott petted her, and Mrs. 
Ballinger forgot that she had been born in 
Boston. 

When it was discovered that she had a sweet 
lyric soprano, charmingly cultivated, her popularity winged another flight} San Francisco 
from Its earliest days was musical, and she made 
a brilliant success as La Belle Helene in the 
amateur light opera company organized by 
Mrs. McLane. It was rarely that she spent 
an evening alone, and the cases of books she 
had brought from Boston remained in the cellars of the Hotel. 



SOCIETY went to the country to escape the 
screaming winds and dust clouds of summer. A few had built country houses, the rest 
found abundant amusement at the hotels of 
The Geysers, Warm Springs and Congress 
Springs, taking the waters dutifully. 

As the city was constantly swept by epidemics 
Dr. Talbot rarely left his post for even a few 
days' shooting, and Madeleine remained with 
him as a matter of course. Moreover, she 
hoped for occasional long evenings with her 
husband and the opportunity to convince him 
that her companionship was more satisfying 
than that of his friends at the Club. She had 
not renounced the design of gradually converting him to her own love of literature, and 
pictured delightful hours during which they 
would discuss the world's masterpieces together. 

But he merely hooted amiably and pinched 
her cheeks when she approached the subject 

 

tentatively. He was infernally over-worked 
and unless he had a few hours' relaxation at 
the Club he would be unfit for duty on the morrow. She was his heart's delight, the prettiest 
wife in San Francisco j he worked the better 
because she was always lovely at the breakfast 
table and he could look forward to a brief dinner in her always radiant company. Thank 
God, she never had the blues nor carried a 
bottle of smelling salts about with her. And 
she hadn't a nerve in her body! God! How 
he did hate women's nerves. No, she was a 
model wife and he adored her unceasingly. 
But companionship? When she timidly uttered 
the word, he first stared uncomprehendingly, 
then burst into loud laughter. 

"Men don't find companionship in women, 
my dear. If they pretend to they're after 
something else. Take the word of an old stager 
for that. Of course there is no such thing as 
companionship among women as men understand the term, but you have Society, which is 
really all you want. Yearnings are merely a 
symptom of those accursed nerves. For God's 
sake forget them. Flirt all you choose — there 
are plenty of men in townj have them in for 



 

dinner if you like — but if any of those young 
bucks talks companionship to you put up your 
guard or come and tell me, I'll settle his 
hash.'' 

"I don't want the companionship of any 
other man, but I'd like yours." 

"You don't know how lucky you are. You 
have all of me you could stand. Three or four 
long evenings — ^well, we'd yawn in each other's 
faces and go to bed. A bull but true enough." 

"Then I think I'll have the books unpacked, 
not only those I brought, but the new case papa 
sent to me. I have lost the resource of Society 
for several months, and I do not care to have 
men here after you have gone. That would 
mean gossip." 

"You are above gossip and I prefer the men 
to the books. You'll ruin your pretty eyes, 
and you had the makings of a fine bluestocking 
when I rescued you. A successful woman — 
with her husband and with Society — has only 
sparkling shallows in her pretty little head. 
Now, I must run. I really shouldn't have 
come all the way up here for limch." 

Madeleine wandered aimlessly to the window and looked down at the scurrying throngs 



 

on Montgomery Street. There were few women. The men bent against the wind, clutching at their hats, or chasing them along the un- 
even wooden sidewalks, tripping perhaps on a 
loose board. There were tiny whirlwinds of 
dust in the unpaved streets. The bustling little 
city that Madeleine had thought so pictiu-esque 
in its novelty suddenly lost its glamour. It 
looked as if parts of it had been flung together 
in a night between solid blocks imported from 
the older communities} so furious was the desire 
to achieve immediate wealth there were 
only three or four buildings of architectural 
beauty in the city. The shop windows on 
Montgomery Street were attractive with the 
wares of Paris, but Madeleine coveted nothing 
in San Francisco. 

She thought of Boston, New York, Washington, Europe, and for a moment nostalgia 
overwhelmed her. If Howard would only 
take her home for a visit! Alas! he was as 
little likely to do that as to give her the 
companionship she craved. 

But she had no intention of taking refuge in 
tears. Nor would she stay at home and mope. 
Her friends were out of town. She made up 



 

her mind to go for a walk, although she hardly 
knew where to go. Between mud and dust 
and hills, walking was not popular in San Francisco. However, there might be some excitement in exploring. 

She looped her brown cloth skirt over her 
balmoral petticoat, tied a veil round her small 
hat and set forth. Although the dust was flying she dared not lower her veil until she 
reached the environs, knowing that if she did 
she would be followed j or if recogniixd, 
accused of the unpardonable sin. The heavy 
veil in the San Francisco of that day, save when 
driving in aggressively respectable company, 
was almost an interchangeable term for assignation. It was as inconvenient for the virtuous as indiscreet for the carnal. 

Madeleine reached the streets of straggling 
homes and those long impersonal rows depressing in their middle-class respectability, and 
lowered the veil over her smarting eyes. 
She also squared her shoulders and strode 
along with an independent swing that must 
convince the most investigating mind she was 
walking for exercise only. 

Almost unconsciously she directed her steps 



 

toward the Cliff House Road where she had 
driven occasionally behind the doctor's spanking 
team. It was four o'clock when she entered 
it and the wind had fallen. The road was 
thronged with buggios, tandems, hacks, phaetons, and four-in-hahds. Society might be 
out of town but the still gayer world was not. 
Madeleine, skirting the edge of the road to 
avoid disaster stared eagerly behind her v^l. 
Here were the reckless and brilliant women of 
the demi-monde of whom she had heard so 
much, but to whom she had barely thrown a 
glance when driving with her husband. They 
were painted and dyed and kohled and their 
plumage would have excited the envy of birds 
in Paradise. San Francisco had lured these 
ladies " round the Horn " since the early Fifties: a different breed from the camp followers 
of the late Forties. Some had fallen from a 
a high estate, others had been the mistresses of 
rich men in the East, or belles in the half world 
of New York or Paris. Never had they found 
life so free or pickings so easy as in San Francisco. 

Madeleine knew that many of the eminent 
citizens she met in Society kept their mistresses 



 

and flaunted them openly. It was, in fact, 
almost a convention. She was not surprised to 
see several men who had taken her in to dinner 
tooling these gorgeous cyprians and looking 
far prouder than when they played host in the 
world of fashion. On one of the gayest of the 
coaches she saw f oiu- of the yoimg men who 
Were among the most devoted of her cavaliers 
at dances: Alexander Groome, Amos Lawton, 
Ogden Bascom, and "Tom'' Abbott, Jr. 
Groome was paying his addresses to Maria 
Ballinger, " a fine figure of a girl '' who had 
inherited little of her mother's beauty but 
all of her virtue, and Madeleine wondered if he would reform and settle down. 
Abbott was engaged to Marguerite McLane 
and looked as if he were having his last 
glad fling. Ogden Bascom had proposed 
to Guadalupe Hathaway every month for 
five years. It was safe to say that he 
would toe the mark if he won her. But he did 
not appear to be nursing a blighted heart at 
present. 

Madeleine's depression left her. That, at 
least, Howard would never do. She felt full 
of hope and buoyancy once more, not realizing 



 

that it is easier to win back a lover than change 
the nature of man. 

When Madeleine reached the Cliff House, 
that shabby innocent-looking little building 
whose evil fame had run round the world, she 
stared at it fascinated. Its restaurant over- 
hung the sea. On this side the blinds were 
down. It looked as if awaiting the undertaken 
She pictured Howard's horror when she told 
him of her close contact with vice, and anticipated with a pleasurable thrill the scolding he 
would give her. They had never quarrelled 
and it would be delightful to make up. 

" Not Mrs, Talbot ! No ! Assuredly not ! ''

Involuntarily Madeleine raised her veil. She 
recognized the voice of " Old " Ben Travers 
(he was only fifty but bald and yellow), the 
Union Club gossip, and the one man in San 
Francisco she thoroughly disliked. He stood 
with his hat in his hand , an expression of 
ludicrous astonishment on his face. 

" Yes, it is I,'' said Madeleine coolly. " And 
I am very much interested." 

" Ah? Interested? " He glanced about.
If this were an assignation either the man was 
late or had lost courage. But he assumed an 



 

expression of deep respect. " That I can well 
imagine, cloistered as you are. But, if you will 
permit me to say so, it is hardly prudent. 
Surely you know that this is a place of ill repute 
and that your motives, however innocent, 
might easily be misconstrued." 

" I am alone ! " said Madeleine gaily, "and 
my veil is up! Not a man has glanced at me, 
I look so tiresomely respectable in these stout 
walking clothes. Even you, dear Mr. Travers, 
whom we accuse of being quite a gossip, understand perfectly." 

" Oh, yes, indeed. I do understand. And 
Mrs. Talbot is like Caesar's wife, but never- 
theless — there is a hack. It is waiting, but I 
think I can bribe him to take us in. You really 
must not remain here another moment — and 
you surely do not intend to walk back — six 
miles? " 

" No, I'll be glad to drive — but if you will 
engage the hack — I shouldn't think of bothering you further." 

"I shall take you home," said Travers 
firmly. " Howard never would forgive me if 
I did not — that is — that is — " 

Madeleine laughed merrily. " If I intend 


 

to tell him! But of course I shall tell him. 
Why not? '' 

" Well, yes, it would be best. I'll speak to 
the man." 

The Jehu was reluctant, but a bill passed and 
he drove up to Madeleine. " Guess I can do 
it," he said, " but I'll have to drive pretty fast." 

Madeleine smiled at him and he touched his 
hat. She had employed him more than once. 
"The faster the better, Thomas," she said. 
" I walked out and am tired." 

" I saw you come striding down the road, 
ma'am," he said deferentially, " and I knew 
you got off your own beat by mistake. I think 
I'd have screwed up my courage and said something if Mr. Travers hadn't happened along." 

Madeleine nodded carelessly and entered 
the hack, followed by Travers, in spite of her 
protests. 

"I too walked out here and intended to ask 
some one to give me a lift home. I am the unfortunate possessor of a liver, my dear yoimg 
lady, and must walk six miles a day, although 
