" It seems to me we do nothing but talk," 
said Bessie, after a long evening on the piazza 
with several visitors. 
" The dog-days were intended for conversa- 
tion," said Hugh. " Our hands and our brains 
are busily employed all the rest of the year, but 
when the thermometer gets up into the nineties, 
the tongue talks its share and gives the other 
members a rest." 
" I hope you don't mean to insinuate that our 
 
brains are not employed in our conversation," 
said Bessie. 
"Not much brain in dog-day conversation," 
said Hugh, laughing. "I know that I have 
been talking nonsense this evening, and from 
what I have overheard, I suspect the others 
have not done much better." 
" Oh, you slanderer ! " cried Bessie. 
" But nonsense is appropriate to the season, 
Queen Bess. We don't eat much solid food 
now ; then how can we hear much solid talk ! 
Aunt Faith's ' trifle ' is the chief of our diet, and 
the result is, naturally, trifling conversation." 
August was a happy month to Aunt Faith. 
She rejoiced in Sibyl's happiness, and she re- 
joiced in the triumph of unselfish love and 
Christian humility over the worldliness and am- 
bition which had sullied her niece's good quali- 
ties. Sibyl was not impulsive ; it was not an 
impulse which had led her to renounce a life of 
fashionable gayety and wealth for Mr. Leslie. It 
was a sudden realization of the truth, a sudden 
 
conviction of the strength of her own feelings, a 
sudden horror of the wickedness of falsifying 
them, and a sudden appreciation of the hollow- 
ness of worldly ambition when brought face to 
face with death. There was no hesitating vacil- 
lation in Sibyl's character. She had been self- 
deceived, but, as soon as she felt the truth, she 
threw aside errors with all her might, and gave 
herself up boldly, wholly and heartily to her 
new life. Aunt Faith understood her niece 
thoroughly, and she knew there would be no 
danger of a relapse into the mistakes of the past ; 
other faults, other temptations would assail her, 
but these were harmless. Having once seen and 
realized the falsity of worldliness when compared 
with religion, the worthlessness of mere money, 
when compared with true affection, Sibyl could 
never forget the lesson, for firm reason and re- 
solve were parts of her nature. 
Aunt Faith saw, also, that Sibyl was very happy.
She was calm as usual, but there was a new 
light in her eyes, and a new glow on her cheeks. 
 
She found a new pleasure in instructing the 
children of the Chapel Sunday School, and her 
scholars loved her dearly ; she went about among 
the poor, and devoted much of her time and 
means to their service. She assisted in the house- 
hold work ; not the light graceful labors which 
generally fall to the daughters, but the real bur- 
den of the day, lifting it from Aunt Faith's pa- 
tient shoulders with cordial good will ; and in all 
she did there was anew charm, — the charm of a 
rare humility, the most difficult of all Christian 
graces to a proud, self-reliant spirit. 
One afternoon, towards the end of August, 
Aunt Faith found Sibyl resting on the lounge in 
the sitting-room. The house was still, the chil- 
dren were in the garden, and Bessie and Hugh 
had gone up to the studio ; Sibyl had been out 
visiting the sick all the morning, and, wearied 
with the walk, she had thrown herself down on 
the lounge for a rest before tea-time. 
" Do I disturb you, dear?" said Aunt Faith, 
as she entered. 
 
" Oh, no, aunt. I am not sleeping, only rest- 
ing." 
" I fear you are doing too much, Sibyl." 
" I think not, aunt. I know how much I can 
bear, and I would not be so foolish as to over- 
work myself. It would be a poor preparation 
for the life to which I look forward with so much 
hope." 
" It will be a pleasant life, I hope, my dear 
child." 
" Oh aunt ! pleasant seems too cold a word 
to express it ! I never knew what life was be- 
fore ; I was blind and deaf to real beauty and 
real happiness. I thought of nothing but money, 
ease and social fame. I shudder to think how 
near I came to bartering my life for what I sup- 
posed would give me the most happiness ; where- 
as, now I know how great would have been my 
misery, and how surely and quickly I should 
have discovered it. I was entirely blinded, but 
