Woodlea, Mrs. Maybin had seemed almost as much 
mistress as herself. Always, she had stood in awe of 
some one. 
They had heard of Mr. Tremaine's departure, and 
not only that, but Catherine's brief interview with him, 
as well. It puzzled Dora, a little, and }et she accepted 
the fact. She could be nothing more to him. She 
must school her yearning, longing heart into something 
like content. Ah, how hard it was. 
With September, the Colbys returned to the city. 
A quiet marriage for Isabel, and then a change in posi- 
tion and" living. Mrs. Colby would fain have kept her 
house, forming many impossible plans for economical 
management, but she was compelled to relinquish her 
dreams. Yet, it must be admitted that Mr. Colby stood 
higher with sterling business men, than if he bad re- 
sorted to dishonest expedients to preserve his social 
standing. Circumstances, and a strand of weakness in 
his own character, rather than caution, had kept him 
from rushing headlong into Jasper Cameron's villain- 
ous schemes, yet, now that all had ended, he plumed 
himself upon his strict integrity. 
Dora was deeply interested in the family. Perhaps 
she felt, most truly, what his disappointment had been. 
She fancied, too, that he had in some way delaj-ed or 
frustrated Cameron's plans. 
" I think we ought to do something for him, mam- 
ma," she said one day. " It must be very hard, when 
he was so near to being the heir. And to give up such 
a fortune ! " 
" My dear, it was the merest honesty to be true tc 
his trust. An energetic and well directed effort might 
have found us much earlier. Then, he was well paid 
for his trouble. I do, of course, sympathize with him 
in his disappointment." 
" And the daughter was married?" 
"Yes." Mrs. Walsingham's face warmed with a 
tender light. "You would hardly believe, my dear, 
how much interest I take in love affairs, but I want 
them to end happily. There are troubles enough, after- 
wards." 
Dora flushed. " Are there any more girls, mamma?" 
she asked, presently. 
' 'Yes, a daughter almost grown, then two bojs, and 
a charming little sprite, NeUy, by name. Mrs. Colby 
is very lady-like, but rather haughty, I think. 
Dora was casting about in her mind, to discover some 
plan whereby she might benefit these children, whom, it 
appeared to her, they had unwittingly wronged. 
"Mamma," she began again, "I have just thought 
of a pleasant surprise for these two girls. Their father 
will be poor now, and they must miss many of the lux- 
uries to which they have been accustomed. And I 
mean to bestow upon them a small portion, out of my 
abundance." 
" Dora ! " Yet her mother smiled. 
" Yes. Five thousand, apiece, will not be much, to 
be sure, but I spent no more than the interest of that 
yearly, when I lived with uncle Gilbert. — It will give 
 
them a wedding outfit, too, when they come to have a 
brave young lover ;" and Dora smiled brightly, though 
her face still wore its peculiar delicacy and languor. 
" But ten thousand, Dora ! " 
" Well, I have twelve thousand, that would not have 
come to me if I had not been considered Mr. Verner's 
niece. — I ought to devote that to some benevolent pur- 
pose, seeing what an impostor I have been all my life ? " 
"But if, some day, you were called to an account 
for spending it?" 
"That will never be, mamma." 
There was a perceptible sadness in Dora's tone. 
" But, my dear child, I do dream of seeing you happy 
again," the mother said, softly, with a look of ineffable 
tenderness in her eyes. 
"With jxra only," and Dora leaned her face upon 
her hands. " Let me give up all hope, frankly." 
"Then your Mr. Tremaine is a hard, cruel man, 
Dora, as Catherine seems to think. I believe any ten- 
ded, generous person would forgive, for it was a sad 
mistake, rather than any intentional sin." 
"I have never asked him, mamma, do not forget 
that. I wish now, I had gone, on that first fatal day, 
and told him the whole truth. But you can never know 
my fright and horror at seeing Jasper Cameron. I was 
so afraid, that I could not think. And, being deceived 
is the one thing Mr. Tremaine cannot bear. I feel that 
he was hard, too, but he had great provocation. _ And 
then — I bad never loved him half enough, "before. A 
troubled phantom always stood between me and perfect 
trust. I was often capricious, when I should have been 
tender, because it seemed dishonest to take so much 
love, without telling my secret, though I could never 
imagine that Cameron was alive." 
" Foolish child. He will return. Three months is 
not a life time." 
 ' Not to me, mamma. And you know — " flatteringly, 
' ' that I saw him. When I think of that night, I feel that 
reconciliation is quite impossible. " 
"Still, you do not know just what a highly colored 
