stick.” 
Then she went up stairs. The poor old 
body was lying in the reclining chair, her face 
distraught with fright. 
"Send for the doctor at once, something has 
happened to me, I can’t stir. My legs are 
heavy as lead. Where’s Marilla? I’ve rung 
and rung!” 
Manila’s fainted dead away. Yes, I’ll get 
the doctor,” and down Bridget flew to open 
the front door. 
"Oh for the love of heaven, will you come 
and talk to that thing in the wall an’ get the 
doctor! Why, I’m most crazy.” 
"Yes, what doctor?” Mrs. Seymour went to 
the telephone. 
"Doctor Baker, and then to Miss Armitage 
in Loraine place.” 
"Dr. Baker would come at once.” 
They found the lady’s number. She was 
just going out but would stop there first. 
Then she took Mrs. Seymour through to the 
nursery. The children were patting and pet- 
ting Marilla. 
'‘Get away, children, youVe had her smoth- 
ered.’’ 
‘Does she faint often? She seems so well 
and merry.” 
"She did that time last summer. She was 
out with the babies and fell off of a stoop, I 
believe, an’ she kept looking like a ghost for 
ever so long. That Miss Armitage took her 
to her house an’ took care of her. She’s a 
good woman, that she is. An’ it’s just my 
belief that Marilla isn’t strong enough for 
the rough an’ tumble of life. Some ain’t 
you know, an’ she’s tugged these fat babies 
about often; there isn’t but one nurse kept.” 
"Oh, they were too heavy for her to lift.” 
"Mrs. Borden didn’t want her to, much. 
I’ll say that for her. She was afraid the babies 
backs might get out of shape some way by a 
bad fall. She’s a fair dealin’ woman or I 
wouldn’t have staid with her all these years. 
But Marilla isn’t strong enough for the work, 
and the old Aunt wants a good deal of waiting 
on. It’s run up an’ down until you’d think 
her legs would just fall out. 
Mrs. Seymour had been trying various 
restoratives. Now Marilla gave a long shud- 
dering sigh, opened her eyes but closed them 
again. 
"What beautiful long lashes she has! And 
such silky hair — 
"Oh, the saints be praised! I began to 
think she was dead! Poor darlint! ’Rilla 
dear — its Bridget who'd do anything in the 
world for you.’’ 
Dr. Baker arrived. He entered the room, 
looked at Marilla, felt of her pulse, and listened 
to the faint heart beats. "Give her a little 
brandy,” he said. 'Where’s Mrs. Borden? 
I thought the old lady — ” 
'Oh, she is!” interrupted Bridget, "she can’t 
stir her legs one bit. She’s rale poorly, now I 
tell you, an’ this child’s been looking after her 
as well as the babies.” 
"That’s twice too much.” He ran- lightly 
up the stairs to meet with a torrent of up- 
braidings. 
thought I’d have to die here all alone! 
Where’s Marilla? I’ve rung and rung.” 
"The girl has been in a dead faint. She’s 
worn out. And you must have a regular 
nurse.” 
“Oh, dear!'' Aunt Hetty began to cry, 
“couldn’t I have her? ’Twouldn’t be as bad as 
them two young ones. And I’d pay her well, 
too. She’s so nice and good tempered with 
her face full of smiles and sunshine. Oh, if 
she’s going to be ill what shall we all do?” 
The brandy revived Marilla a little. She 
tried to speak but her lips felt stiff. They took 
her up carefully and laid her on the old lounge. 
The babies started to climb up over her at 
once, and howled fearfully when Bridget 
pulled them down with an ungentle shake and 
sat them on the floor. Then she went to 
answer the door bell and ushered in Miss 
Armitage. 
Dr. Baker came down at the same moment. 
“Can’t you shut those children up in some 
dungeon? They’ve voices like a foghorn. 
Ah, Miss Armitage. How is this patient?” 
“Oh, I’m — better,” raising up suddenly then 
falling back in a half faint. 
“Don’t stir, keep as still as you can. You’ve 
no strength to throw away on make believes. 
See here, babies,” and he disgorged a paper of 
peppermints that at once soothed broken 
