CHAPTER VIII. 
The going over the boat held them a long time, for Ellen's 
new friend took kind pains to explain to her whacever he 
thought he could make interesting ; he was amused to find 
how far she pushed her inquiries into the how and the why 
of things. For the time her sorrows were almost forgotten. 
" What shall we do now ?" said he, when they had at last 
gone through the whole ; — " would you like to go to your 
friends ?" 
" I haven't any friends on board, sir," said Ellen, with a 
swelling heart. 
" Haven't any friends on board ! what do you mean ? 
Are you alone ?" 
" No sir," said Ellen, — " not exactly alone ; my father put 
me in the care of a lady that is going to Thirlwall ; — but they 
are strangers and not friends." 
" Are they wrcfriends ? I hope you don't think Ellen, that 
strangers cannot be friends too?" 
" No indeed, sir, I don't ! " said Ellen, looking up with a 
face that was fairly brilliant with its expression of gratitude 
and love. But casting it down again, she added, " But they 
are not my friends, sir." 
" Well then," he said, smiling, " will you come with me ;" 
' yes sir ! if you will let me, — and if I sha'n't be a 
trouble to you, sir." 
" Come this way," said he, " and we'll see if we cannot 
find a nice place to sit down, where no one will trouble us." 
Such a place was found. And Ellen would have been 
quite satisfied though the gentleman had done no more than 
merely permit her to remain there by his side ; but he took 
out his little Bible, and read and talked to her for some time, 
so pleasantly that neither her weariness nor the way could be 
thought of. 
When he ceased reading to her and began to read to 
himself, weariness and faintness stole over her. She had had 
nothing to eat, and had been violently excited that day. A 
little while she sat in a dreamy sort of quietude, — then her 
thoughts grew misty, — and the end of it was, she dropped her 
head against the arm of her friend and fell fast asleep. He 
smiled at first, but one look at the very pale little face 
changed the expression of his own. He gently put his arm 
round her and drew her head to a better resting-place than 
it had chosen. 
And there she slept till the dinner-bell rang. Timmins 
was sent out to look for her, but Timmins did not choose to 
meddle with the grave protector Ellen seemed to have gained ; 
and Mrs. Dunscombe declared herself rejoiced that any other 
hands should have taken the charge of her. 
After dinner, Ellen and her friend went up to the promenade deck again, and there for a while they paced up and 
down, enjoying the pleasant air and quick motion, and the 
lovely appearance of everything in the mild hazy sunlight. 
Another gentleman however joining them, and entering into 
conversation, Ellen silently quitted her friend's hand and went 
and sat down at the side of the boat. After taking a few 
turns more, and while still engaged in talking, he drew his 
little hymn-book out of his pocket, and with a smile put it 
into Ellen's hand as he passed. She gladly received it, and 
spent an hour or more very pleasantly in studying and turning it over. At the end of that time, the stranger having 
left him, Ellen's friend came and sat down by her side. 
" How do you like my little book ?" said he. 
" very much indeed, sir." 
" Then you love hymns, do you?" 
" Yes I do, sir, dearly." 
" Do you sometimes learn them by heart ?" 
" yes, sir, often. Mamma often made me. I have 
learnt two since I have been sitting here." 
" Have you ?" said he ; — " which are they ?" 
" One of them is the one you showed me this nwning, sir." 
" And what is your mind now about the question I asked 
you this morning ?" 
Ellen cast down her eyes from his inquiring glance, and 
answered in a low tone, " Just what it was then, sir." 
" Have you been thinking of it since ?" 
" I have thought of it the whole time, sir." 
" And you are resolved you will obey Christ henceforth ?" 
" I am resolved to try, sir." 
" My dear Ellen, if you are in earnest you will not try in 
vain. He never yet failed any that sincerely sought him. 
Have you a Bible?" 
'' O yes, sh ! a beautiful one ; mamma gave it to me the 
other day." 
He took the hymn book from her hand, and turning over 
the leaves, marked several places in pencil. 
" I am going to give you this," he said, " that it may 
serve to remind you of what we have talked of to-day, and 
of your resolution." 
Ellen flushed high with pleasure. 
" I have put this mark," said he, showing her a particular 
one, " in a few places of this book, for you ; wherever you 
find it, you may know there is something I want you to take 
special notice of. There are some other marks here too, but 
they are mine : these are for you." 
" Thank you, sir," said Ellen, delighted ; " I shall not 
forget." 
He knew from her face what she meant ; — not the marks. 
The day wore on, thanks to the unwearied kindness of her 
friend, with great comparative comfort to Ellen. Late in 
the afternoon they were resting from a long walk up and 
down the deck. 
" What have you got in this package that you take such 
care of?" said he, smiling. 
" ! candies," said Ellen ; "I am always forgetting 
them. I meant to ask you to take some. Will you have 
some, sir?" 
" Thank you. What are they ?" 
" Almost all kinds, I believe, sir ; I think the almonds are 
the best." 
He took one. 
"Pray, take some more, sir," said Ellen; — " I don't care 
for them in the least." 
" Then I am more of a child than ycu, — in this at any 
rate, — for I do care for them. But I have a little headache 
to-day ; I mustn't meddle with sweets." 
" Then take some for to-morrow, sir ; — please do I' said 
Ellen, dealing them out very freely. 
" Stop, stop !" said he, — " not a bit more ; this won't 
do, — I must put some of these back again ; you'll want them 
to-morrow too." 
" I don't think I shall," said Ellen ; — " I haven't wanted to 
touch them to-day." 
