love hira — better than anybody in the world, except two. 
But oh !, I want my brother ! — I don't know how to be happy 
or good either without him. I want him all the while." 
" Miss Ellen, I kenned and loved your dear mither weel 
for mony a day — will ye mind if I speak a word to her 
bairn ?" 
" No, dear Mrs. Allen — I'll thank you ; — did you know 
my mother ?" 
" Wha suld if I didna? she was brought up in my arms, 
and a dear lassie. Ye're no muckle like her. Miss Ellen ; — 
ye're mair bonny than her ; and no a' thegither sae frack ; — 
though she was douce and kind too." 
" I wish" — Ellen began, and stopped. 
" My dear bairn, there is Ane abuve wha' disposes a 
things for us ; and he isna weel pleased when his children 
fash themselves wi' his dispensations. He has ta'en and 
placed you here, for your ain gude I trust, — I'm sure it's 
for the gude of us a', — and if ye haena a' things ye wad 
wish, Miss Ellen, ye hae Him ; dinna forget that my ain 
bairn." 
Ellen returned heartily and silently the embrace of the old 
Scotchwoman, and when she left her, set herself to follow 
her advice. She tried to gather her scattered thoughts and 
smooth her ruffled feehngs, in using this quiet time to tho 
best advantage. At the end of half an hour she felt like 
another creature ; and began to refresh herself with softly 
singing some of her old hymns. 
The argument which was carried on in the parlor sunk at 
length into silence without coming to any conclusion. 
" Where is Miss Ellen ?" Mrs. Lindsay asked of a servant 
that came in. 
" She is up in her room, ma'am, singing." 
" Tell her I want her." 
"No — stop," said Mr. Lindsay; — "I'll go myself." 
Her door was a little ajar, and he softly opened it without 
disturbing her. Ellen was still sitting on the floor before the 
window, looking out through it, and in rather a low tone 
singing the last verse of the hymn Rock of Ages." 
WTiile I draw this fleeting breath, — 
When my eyelids close in death, — 
When I rise to -worlds unknown, 
And behold thee on thy throne, — 
Rock of Ages, cleft for me. 
Let me hide myself in thee ! 
Mr. Lindsay stood still at the door. Ellen paused a minute, 
and then sung " Jerusalem my happy home." Her utter-ance was so distinct that he heard every word. He did not 
move till she had finished, and then he came softly in. 
" Singing songs to the moon, Ellen ?" 
Ellen started and got up from the floor. 
" No sir ; I was singing them to myself." 
" Not entirely, for I heard the last one. Why do you 
make yourself sober singing such sad things ?" 
" I don't, sir ; they are not sad to me ; they are delightful. 
I love them dearly." 
" How came you to love them ? it is not natural for a child 
of your age. What do you love them for, my little daughter ?" 
" sir, there are a great many reasons, — I don't know how 
many." 
"I will have patience, Ellen ; I want to hear them all." 
" I love them because I love to think of the things the 
hymns are about, — I love the tunes, dearly, — and I like both 
the words and the tunes better, I believe, because I have 
sung them so often with friends." 
" Humph ! I guessed as much. Isn't that the strongest 
reason of the three ?" 
" I don't know sir ; I don't think it is." 
" Is all your heart in America, Ellen, or have you any left 
to bestow on us ?" 
" Yes sir." 
" Not very much !" 
"I love you, father," said Ellen, laying her cheek gently 
alongside of his. 
" And your grandmother, Ellen ?" said Mr. Lindsay, 
clasping his arms around her. 
" Yes sir." 
But he well understood that the " yes" was fainter. 
" And your aunt ? — speak, Ellen." 
" I don't love her as much as I wish I did," said Ellen ; — 
" I love her a little I suppose. why do you ask me such 
a hard question, father ?" 
" That is something you have nothing to do with," said 
Mr. Lindsay half laughing. " Sit down here," he added, 
placing her on his knee, " and sing to me again." 
Ellen was heartened by the tone of his voice, and pleased 
with the request. She immediately sang with great spirit a 
little methodist hymn she had learned when a mere child. 
The wild air and simple words singularly suited each other. 
Canaan — bright Canaan — 
I am bound for the land of Canaan. 
O Canaan ! it is my happy, happy home— 
lamboundfor the land of Canaan. 
" Does that sound sad, sir ?" 
" Why yes, — I think it does, rather, Ellen. Does it make 
you feel merry ?" 
" Not merry, sir, — it isn't merry ; but I like it very much." 
" The tune or the words ?" 
" Both, sir." 
" What do yon mean by the land of Canaan ?" 
" Heaven, sir." 
And do you like to think about that ? at your age ?" 
" Why certainly, sir ! Why not ?" 
" Why do you ?" 
" Because it is a bright and happy place," said Ellen 
gravely ; — where there is no darkness, nor sorrow, nor death, 
neither pain nor crying ; — and my mother is there, and my 
dear Alice, and my Saviour is there ; and I hope I shall be 
there too." 
"You are shedding tears now, Ellen." 
" And if I am, sir, it is not because I am unhappy. It 
doesn't make me unhappy to think of these things — it makes 
me glad ; and the more I think of them the happier I am." 
" You are a strange child. I am afraid your grandmother 
is right, and that you are hurting yourself with poring over 
serious matters that you are too young for." 
" She would not think so if she knew," said Ellen sighing. 
I should not be happy at all without that, and you would 
not love me half so well, nor she either. father," she exclaimed, pressing his hand in botli her own and laying her 
face upon it, — " do not let me be hindered in that ! forbid me 
anything you please, but not that ! the better I learn to 
please my best Friend, the better I shall please you." 
