impressively, and, turning away, left the store.

The moment he was out of sight, Wilkinson tore the due-bills he had
cancelled into a score of pieces, and, as he scattered them on the
floor, said to himself--"Perish, sad evidences of my miserable folly!
The lesson would be salutary, were it not received at too heavy a cost.
Can I recover from this? Alas! I fear not. Fifteen hundred more to be
abstracted from my business, and in three weeks! How can it possibly be
done?"

To a certain extent, the lesson was salutary. During the next three
weeks, Wilkinson, who felt a nervous reluctance to enter a
drinking-house lest he should meet Carlton, kept away from such places,
and therefore drank but little during the time; nor did he once go out
in the evening, except in company with his wife, who was studious, all
the time, in the science of making home happy. But it was impossible
for her to chase away the shadow that rested upon her husband's brow.

Promptly, on a certain day in each week of that period, came the man
who held the due-bills given to Carlton, leaving Wilkinson five hundred
dollars poorer with each visitation--poorer, unhappier, and more
discouraged in regard to his business, which was scarcely stanch enough
to bear the sudden withdrawal of so much money.

Under such circumstances it was impossible for Wilkinson to appear
otherwise than troubled. To divine the cause of this trouble soon
became the central purpose in the mind of his wife. To all her
questions on the subject, he gave evasive answers; still she gathered
enough to satisfy her that every thing was not right in regard to his
business. Assuming this to be the case, she began to think over the
ways and means of reducing their range of expenses, which were in the
neighbourhood of fifteen hundred dollars per annum. The result will
appear.




CHAPTER X.


THE morning of the day came on which Wilkinson had to make his last
payment on account of the due-bills given to Carlton. He had nothing in
bank, and there were few borrowing resources not already used to the
utmost limit. At ten o'clock he went out to see what could be done in
the way of effecting further temporary loans among business friends.
His success was not very great, for at twelve o'clock he returned with
only two hundred dollars. Carlton's agent had called twice during the
time, and came in a few minutes afterwards.

"You're too soon for me," said Wilkinson, with not a very cheerful or
welcome expression of countenance.

"It's past twelve," returned the man.

"All the same if it were past three. I haven't the money."

The collector's brow lowered heavily.

"How soon will you have it?"

"Can't tell," replied Wilkinson, fretfully.

"That kind of answer don't just suit me," said the man, with some
appearance of anger. "I've been remarkable easy with you, and now"--

"Easy!" sharply ejaculated Wilkinson. "Yes; as the angler who plays his
trout. You've already received fifteen hundred dollars of the sum out
of which I was swindled, and with that I should think both you and your
principal might be content. Go back to him, and say that he is about
placing on the camel's back the pound that may break it."

"I have before told you," was replied, "that Mr. Carlton has no longer
any control in this matter. It is I who hold your obligations; they
have been endorsed to me, and for a valuable consideration; and be
assured that I shall exact the whole bond."

"If," said Wilkinson, after some moments' reflection, and speaking in a
changed voice and with much deliberation, "if you will take my note of
hand for the amount of your due-bills, at six months from to-day, I
will give it; if not"--

"Preposterous!" returned the man, interrupting him.

"If not," continued Wilkinson, "you can fall back upon the law. It has
its delays and chances; and I am more than half inclined to the belief
that I was a fool not to have left this matter for a legal decision in
the beginning. I should have gained time at least."

"If you are so anxious to get into court, you can be gratified," was
answered.

"Very well; seek your redress in law," said Wilkinson, angrily.
"Occasionally, gamblers and pickpockets get to the end of their rope;
and, perhaps, it may turn out so in this instance. My only regret now
is, that I didn't let the matter go to court in the beginning."

The man turned off hastily, but paused ere he reached the door, stood
musing for a while, and then came slowly back.

"Give me your note at sixty days," said he.

"No, sir," was the firm reply of Wilkinson. "I offered my note at six
months. For not a day less will I give it; and I don't care three
coppers whether you take it or no. I had about as lief test the matter
in a court of justice as not."

The man again made a feint to retire, but again returned.

"Say three months, then."

"It is useless to chaffer with me, sir." Wilkinson spoke sternly. "I
have said what I will do, and I will do nothing else. Even that offer I
shall withdraw if not accepted now."

The man seemed thrown quite aback by the prompt and decisive manner of
Wilkinson, and, after some hesitation and grumbling, finally consented
to yield up the balance of the due-bills for a note payable in six
months.

"Saved as by fire!" Such was the mental ejaculation of Wilkinson, as
