
When Ellen entered the room where her sister lay, the sight of her
expectant face (for the desire for nourishing, refreshing food had been
stronger than usual with Mary, and her fancy had been dwelling upon the
pleasant repast that was soon to be spread before her) made the task of
communicating the cruel repulse she had received tenfold more painful.
Without uttering a word, she threw herself upon the bed beside her
sister, and, burying her face in a pillow, endeavoured to smother the
sobs that came up convulsively from her bosom. Mary asked no question.
She understood the meaning of Ellen's agitation well; it told her that
she had been disappointed in the expectation of receiving the money for
her work.

Deep silence followed. Mary clasped her hands together and raised her
eyes upward, while Ellen lay motionless with her face hidden where she
had first concealed it. There was a knock at the door, but no voice
bade the applicant for admission enter. It was repeated; but, if heard,
it met no response. Then the latch was lifted, the door swung open, and
the tailor stepped into the room. The sound of his feet aroused the
passive sisters. The white face of Mary was to him, at first, a
startling image of death; but her large bright eyes opened and turned
upon him with an assurance that life still lingered in its earthly
tenement.

"Ellen, Ellen," said the sick girl, faintly.

Ellen, too, had heard the sound of footsteps on the floor, and she now
raised up slowly, and presented to Lawson her sad, tearful countenance.

"I was wrong to speak to you as I did," said the tailor without
preface, advancing towards the bed and holding out to Ellen the money
she had earned. "There is the price of the vest; it is better made than
I at first thought it was. To-morrow I will send you more work. Try and
cheer up. Are you so very poor?"

The last two sentences were uttered in a voice of encouragement and
sympathy. Ellen looked her thankfulness, but did not venture a reply.
Her heart was too full to trust her lips with utterance.

Feeling that his presence, under all circumstances, could not but be
embarrassing, Mr. Lawson, after taking two or three dollars from his
pocket and placing them on the table with the remark--"Take this in
advance for work," retired and left the poor sisters in a different
frame of mind from what they were in when he entered. Shortly after
they received a basket, in which was a supply of nourishing food.
Though no one's name was sent with it, they were not in doubt as to
whence it came.

Mr. Lawson was not an unfeeling man, but, like too many others in the
world, he did not always "think."




TAKING BOARDERS.


CHAPTER I.

A LADY, past the prime of life, sat thoughtful, as twilight fell
duskily around her, in a room furnished with great elegance. That her
thoughts were far from being pleasant, the sober, even sad expression
of her countenance too clearly testified. She was dressed in deep
mourning. A faint sigh parted her lips as she looked up, on hearing the
door of the apartment in which she was sitting open. The person who
entered, a tall and beautiful girl, also in mourning, came and sat down
by her side, and leaned her head, with a pensive, troubled air, down
upon her shoulder.

"We must decide upon something, Edith, and that with as little delay as
possible," said the elder of the two ladies, soon after the younger one
entered. This was said in a tone of great despondency.

"Upon what shall we decide, mother?" and the young lady raised her head
from its reclining position, and looked earnestly into the eyes of her
parent.

"We must decide to do something by which the family can be sustained.
Your father's death has left us, unfortunately and unexpectedly, as you
already know, with scarcely a thousand dollars beyond the furniture of
this house, instead of an independence which we supposed him to
possess. His death was sad and afflictive enough--more than it seemed I
could bear. But to have this added!"

The voice of the speaker sank into a low moan, and was lost in a
stifled sob.

"But what can we do, mother?" asked Edith, in an earnest tone, after
pausing long enough for her mother to regain the control of her
feelings.

"I have thought of but one thing that is at all respectable," replied
the mother.

"What is that?"

"Taking boarders."

"Why, mother!" ejaculated Edith, evincing great surprise, "how can you
think of such a thing?"

"Because driven to do so by the force of circumstances."

"Taking boarders! Keeping a boarding-house! Surely we have not come to
this!"

An expression of distress blended with the look of astonishment in
Edith's face.

"There is nothing disgraceful in keeping a boarding-house," returned
the mother. "A great many very respectable ladies have been compelled
to resort to it as a means of supporting their families."

"But to think of it, mother! To think of your keeping a
boarding-house! I cannot bear it."

"Is there any thing else that can be done, Edith?"

"Don't ask me such a question."

