or four years' labour thrown away into the bargain. But it's his luck!
So the world goes. He must try again. It will all go in his lifetime."
"Gray? Is that the man's name?" inquired Mr. Bolton. His voice was
changed.
"Yes. I thought I had mentioned his name."
"I didn't remark it, if you did. It's the farm adjoining Harvey's, on
the north?"
"Yes."
"I have had it in my mind, all along, that it was the one on the south."
"No."
"When did you see Mr. Gray?"
"He was here about half an hour ago."
"How does he feel about the matter?"
"He takes it hard, of course. Any man would. But it's his luck, and he
must submit. It's no use crying over disappointments and losses, in
this world."
Mr. Bolton mused for a long time.
"I'll see you again to-morrow," he said, at length. "Let every thing
remain as it is until then."
The man who had been for so many years sold, as it were, to
selfishness, found himself checked at last by the thought of another.
While just in the act of grasping a money advantage, the interest of
another arose up, and made him pause.
"If it had been any one else," said he to himself, as he walked slowly
homeward, "all would have been plain sailing. But--but"--
The sentence was not finished.
"It won't do to turn HIM away," was at length uttered. "He shall have
the farm at a very moderate rent."
Still, these concessions of selfishness did not relieve the mind of Mr.
Bolton, nor make him feel more willing to meet the man who had done him
so groat a kindness, and in such a disinterested spirit.
All that day, and for a portion of the night that followed, Mr. Bolton
continued to think over the difficulty in which he found himself
placed; and the more he thought, the less willing did he feel to take
the great advantage of the poor farmer at first contemplated. After
falling asleep, his mind continued occupied with the same subject, and
in the dreams that came to him, he lived over a portion of the past.
He was again a helpless invalid, and the kind farmer and his excellent
wife were ministering, as before, to his comfort. His heart was full of
grateful feelings. Then a change came suddenly. He stood the spectator
of a widely-spread ruin which had fallen upon the excellent Mr. Gray
and his family. A fierce tempest was sweeping over his fields, and
levelling all-houses, trees, and grain--in ruin to the earth. A word
spoken by him would have saved all; he felt this: but he did not speak
the word. The look of reproach suddenly cast upon him by the farmer so
stung him that he awoke; and from that time until the day dawned, he
lay pondering on the course of conduct he had best pursue.
The advantage of the purchase he had made was so great, that Mr. Bolton
thought of relinquishing it with great reluctance. On the other hand,
his obligation to the farmer was of such a nature, that he must, in
clinging to his bargain, forfeit his self-respect, and must suffer a
keen sense of mortification, if not dishonour, at any time that he
happened to meet Mr. Gray face to face. Finally, after a long struggle,
continued through several days, he resolved to forego the good he had
attempted to grasp.
How many years since this man had done a generous action! since he had
relinquished a selfish and sordid purpose out of regard to another's
well-being! And now it had cost him a desperate struggle; but after the
trial was past, his mind became tranquil, and he could think of what he
was about to do with an emotion of pleasure that was new in his
experience. Immediately on this resolution being formed, Mr. Bolton
called upon his agent. His first inquiry was:
"When did you see Gray?"
"The previous owner of your farm?"
"Yes."
"Not since the sale. You told me to let every thing remain as it was."
"Hasn't he called?"
"No."
"The loss of his farm must be felt as a great misfortune."
"No doubt of that. Every man feels his losses as misfortunes. But we
all have to take the good and the bad in life together. It's his luck,
and he must put up with it."
"I wonder if he hasn't other property?"
"No."
"Are you certain?"
"Oh, yes. I know exactly what he was worth. He had been overseer for
Elbertson for several years, and while there, managed to save seven
hundred dollars, with which he paid down the cash required in
purchasing his farm. Since then, he has been paying off the mortgage
that remained on the property, and but for the burning of his barn,
might have prevented a result that has been so disastrous to himself.
But it's an ill wind that blows nobody any good. In every loss,
somebody gains; and the turn of the die has been in your favour this
time."
Mr. Bolton did not appear to feel as much satisfaction at this view of
the case as the broker anticipated; and seeing this, he changed the
subject, by asking some question about the consummation of the sale
under the mortgage.
"I'll see you about that to-morrow," said Mr. Bolton.
"Very well," was replied.
After some more conversation, Mr. Bolton left the office of his agent.
For years, farmer Gray had been toiling late and early, to become the
full owner of his beautiful farm. Its value had much increased since it
had come into his possession, and he looked forward with pleasure to
the time when it would be his own beyond all doubt. But the loss of an
entire year's crop, through the burning of his barn, deeply tried and
dispirited him. From this grievous disappointment, his spirits were
beginning to rise, when the sudden foreclosure of the mortgage and
hurried sale of his farm crushed all his hopes to the earth.
Who the real purchaser of his farm was, Mr. Gray did not know, for the
broker had bought in his own name. So bewildered was the farmer by the
suddenly-occurring disaster, that, for several days subsequent to the
sale, he remained almost totally paralyzed in mind. No plans were laid
for the future, nor even those ordinary steps for the present taken,
that common prudence would suggest; he wandered about the farm, or sat
at home, dreamily musing upon what seemed the utter ruin of all his
best hopes in life. While in this state, he was surprised by a visit
from Mr. Bolton. The old gentleman, in taking him by the hand,
said--"What's the matter, my friend? You appear in trouble."
"And I am in trouble," was unhesitatingly answered.
"Not so deep but that you may get out of it again, I hope?"
Mr. Gray shook his head in a desponding way.
"What is the trouble?" Mr. Bolton inquired.
"I have lost my farm."
"Oh, no!"
"It is too true; it has been sold for a mortgage of fifteen hundred
dollars. Though I have already paid more than that sum on account of
the purchase, it only brought enough to pay the encumbrance, and I am
ruined."
The farmer was deeply disturbed, and Mr. Bolton's feelings were much
