"I wouldn't want any better for myself," said Barby,
determinately.

"I would for you," said Fleda.

She thought of Mr. Carleton's words again, and went on in
spite of herself.

"It is a mistake, Barby. The best of us do not deserve
anything good; and if we have the sight of a friend's face, or
the very sweet air we breathe, it is because Christ has bought
it for us. Don't let us forget that, and forget him."

"I do, always," said Barby, crying, "forget everything. Fleda,
I wish you'd pray for me when you are far away, for I aint as
good as you be."

"Dear Barby," said Fleda, touching her shoulder
affectionately, "I haven't waited to be far away to do that."

Barby sobbed for a few minutes, with the strength of a strong
nature that rarely gave way in that manner; and then dashed
her tears right and left, not at all as if she were ashamed of
them, but with a resolution not to be overcome.

"There won't be nothing good left in Queechy, when you're
gone, you and Mis' Plumfield  without I go and look at the
place where Hugh lies "

"Dear Barby," said Fleda, with softening eyes, "won't you be
something good yourself?"

Barby put up her hand to shield her face. Fleda was silent,
for she saw that strong feeling was at work.

"I wish't I could," Barby broke forth at last, "if it was only
for your sake."

"Dear Barby," said Fleda, "you can do this for me  you can go
to church, and hear what Mr. Olmney says. I should go away
happier if I thought you would, and if I thought you would
follow what he says; for, dear Barby, there is a time coming
when you will wish you were a Christian more then you do now,
and not for my sake."

"I believe there is, Fleda."

"Then, will you? Won't you give me so much pleasure?"

"I'd do a'most anything to do you a pleasure."

"Then do it, Barby."

"Well, I'll go," said Barby. "But now just think of that,
Fleda  how you might have stayed in Queechy all your days,
and done what you liked with everybody. I'm glad you aint,
though; I guess you'll be better off."

Fleda was silent upon that.

"I'd like amazingly to see how you'll be fixed," said Barby,
after a trifle of ruminating. "If 't wa'n't for my old mother,
I'd be 'most a mind to pull up sticks, and go after you."

"I wish you could, Barby; only I am afraid you would not like
it so well there as here."

"Maybe I wouldn't. I s'pect them English folks has ways of
their own, from what I've heerd tell; they set up dreadful,
don't they?"

"Not all of them," said Fleda.

"No, I don't believe but what I could get along with Mr.
Carleton well enough; I never see any one that knowed how to
behave himself better."

Fleda gave her a smiling acknowledgment of this compliment.

"He's plenty of money, ha'n't he?"

"I believe so."

"You'll be sot up like a princess, and never have nothing to
do no more."

"Oh, no!" said Fleda, laughing; "I expect to have a great deal
to do; if I don't find it, I shall make it."

"I guess it 'll be pleasant work," said Barby. "Well, I don't
care; you've done work enough since you've lived here that
wa'n't pleasant, to play for the rest of your days; and I'm
glad on't. I guess he don't hurt himself. You wouldn't stand
it much longer to do as you have been doing lately."

"That couldn't be helped," said Fleda; "but that I may stand
it to-morrow, I am afraid we must go to bed, Barby."

Barby bade her good-night, and left her; but Fleda's musing
mood was gone. She had no longer the desire to call back the
reminiscences of the old walls. All that page of her life, she
felt, was turned over; and, after a few minutes' quiet survey
of the familiar things, without the power of moralizing over
them as she could have done half an hour before, she left
them, for the next day had no eyes but for business.

It was a trying week or two before Mr. Rossitur and his family
were fairly on shipboard. Fleda, as usual, and more than usual
 with the eagerness of affection that felt its opportunities
numbered, and would gladly have concentrated the services of
years into days  wrought, watched, and toiled, at what
expense to her own flesh and blood Mrs. Rossitur never knew,
and the others were too busy to guess; but Mrs. Carleton saw
the signs of it, and was heartily rejoiced when they were
fairly gone and Fleda was committed to her hands.

For days, almost for weeks, after her aunt was gone, Fleda
could do little but rest and sleep  so great was the
weariness of mind and body, and the exhaustion of the animal
spirits, which had been kept upon a strain to hide her
