company to tea to-morrow  wont you come and help us?"
Aunt Miriam laid her hands upon Fleda's shoulders, and looked
at Cynthy.
"I came up to see if you wouldn't come down to-morrow, Mis'
Plumfield," said that personage, with her usual dry, business
tone, always a little on the wrong side of sweet; "your
brother has taken a notion to ask two young fellers from the
Pool to supper, and they're grand folks, I s'pose, and have
got to have a fuss made for 'em. I don't know what Mr. Ringgan
was thinkin' of, or whether he thinks I have got anything to
do or not; but anyhow, they're a comin', I s'pose, and must
have somethin' to eat; and I thought the best thing I could do
would be to come and get you into the works, if I could. I
should feel a little queer to have nobody but me to say
nothin' to them at the table."
"Ah, do come, aunt Miriam!" said Fleda; "it will be twice as
pleasant if you do; and besides, we want to have everything
very nice, you know."
Aunt Miriam smiled at Fleda, and inquired of Miss Gall what
she had in the house.
"Why, I don't know, Mis' Plumfield," said the lady, while
Fleda threw her arms round her aunt, and thanked her; "there
ain't nothin' particler  pork and beef, and the old story.
I've got some first-rate pickles. I calculated to make some
sort o' cake in the morning."
"Any of those small hams left?"
"Not a bone of 'em, these six weeks. I don't see how they've
gone, for my part. I'd lay any wager there were two in the
smoke-house when I took the last one out. If Mr. Didenhover
was a little more like a weasel I should think he'd been in."
"Have you cooked that roaster I sent down."
"No, Mis' Plumfield, I ha'n't; it's such a plaguy sight of
trouble!" said Cynthy, with a little apologetic giggle; "I was
keepin' it for some day when I hadn't much to do."
"I'll take the trouble of it. l'll be down bright and early in
the morning, and we'll see what's best to do. How's your last
churning, Cynthy?"
"Well, I guess it's pretty middlin', Mis' Plumfield."
" 'T isn't anything very remarkable, aunt Miriam," said Fleda,
shaking her head.
"Well, well," said Mrs. Plumfield, smiling; "run away down
home now, and I'll come to-morrow, and I guess we'll fix it.
But who is it that grandpa has asked?"
Fleda and Cynthy both opened at once.
"One of them is my cousin, aunt Miriam, that was at West
Point, and the other is the nicest English gentleman you ever
saw; you will like him very much; he has been with me getting
nuts all to-day."
"They're a smart enough couple of chaps," said Cynthia; "they
look as if they lived where money was plenty."
"Well, I'll come to-morrow," repeated Mrs. Plumfield, "and
we'll see about it. Good night, dear!"
She took Fleda's head in both her hands, and gave her a most
affectionate kiss; and the two petitioners set off homewards
again.
Aunt Miriam was not at all like her brother, in feature,
though the moral characteristics suited the relationship
sufficiently well. There was the expression of strong sense
and great benevolence; the unbending uprightness of mind and
body at once; and the dignity of an essentially noble
character, not the same as Mr. Ringgan's, but such as well
became his sister. She had been brought up among the Quakers,
and though now, and for many years, a staunch Presbyterian,
she still retained a tincture of the calm efficient gentleness
of mind and manner that belongs so inexplicably to them. More
womanly sweetness than was in Mr. Ringgan's blue eye, a woman
need not wish to have; and perhaps his sister's had not so
much. There was no want of it in her heart, nor in her manner,
but the many and singular excellences of her character were a
little overshadowed by super-excellent housekeeping. Not a
taint of the littleness that sometimes grows therefrom,  not
a trace of the narrowness of mind that over-attention to such
pursuits is too apt to bring;  on every important occasion
aunt Miriam would come out, free and unshackled, from all the
cobweb entanglements of housewifery; she would have tossed
housewifery to the winds, if need were, (but it never was, for
in a new sense she always contrived to make both ends meet).
It was only in the unbroken everyday course of affairs that
aunt Miriam's face showed any tokens of that incessant train
of small cares which had never left their impertinent
footprints upon the broad high brow of her brother. Mr.
Ringgan had no affinity with small cares; deep serious matters
received his deep and serious consideration; but he had as
dignified a disdain of trifling annoyances or concernments as
any great mastiff or Newfoundlander ever had for the yelping
of a little cur.
CHAPTER V.
Ynne London citye was I borne,
Of parents of grete note;
My fadre dydd a nobile arms
Emblazon onne hys cote.
CHATTERTON.
In the snuggest and best private room of the House at
Montepoole, a party of ladies and gentlemen were gathered,
awaiting the return of the sportsmen. The room had been made
as comfortable as any place could be in a house built for "the
season," after the season was past. A splendid fire of hickory
logs was burning brilliantly and making amends for many
deficiencies; the closed wooden shutters gave the reality if
not the look of warmth, for though the days might be fine and
mild, the mornings and evenings were always very cool up there
among the mountains; and a table stood at the last point of
readiness for having dinner served. They only waited for the
lingering woodcock hunters.
It was rather an elderly party, with the exception of one
young man whose age might match that of the absent two. He was
walking up and down the room with somewhat the air of having
nothing to do with himself. Another gentleman, much older,
stood warming his back at the fire, feeling about his jaws and
chin with one hand, and looking at the dinner-table in a sort
of expectant reverie. The rest, three ladies, sat quietly
chatting. All these persons were extremely different from one
another in individual characteristics, and all had the
unmistakable mark of the habit of good society; as difficult
to locate, and as easy to recognise, as the sense of freshness
which some ladies have the secret of diffusing around
themselves;  no definable sweetness, nothing in particular,
but making a very agreeable impression.
One of these ladies, the mother of the perambulating young
officer, (he was a class-mate of Rossitur's,) was extremely
