Hamilton Edmondson, the brother who had purchased his own freedom, made
great efforts to get good homes for his brothers and sisters in New
Orleans, so that they need not be far separated from each other. One
day, Mr. Wilson, the overseer, took Samuel away with him in a carriage,
and returned without him. The brothers and sisters soon found that he
was sold, and gone they knew not whither; but they were not allowed to
weep, or even look sad, upon pain of severe punishment. The next day,
however, to their great joy, he came to the prison himself, and told
them he had a good home in the city with an Englishman, who had paid a
thousand dollars for him.

After remaining about three weeks in this prison, the Edmondsons were
told that, in consequence of the prevalence of the yellow fever in the
city, together with the fact of their not being acclimated, it was
deemed dangerous for them to remain there longer;—and, besides this,
purchasers were loth to give good prices under these circumstances. Some
of the slaves in the pen were already sick; some of them old, poor or
dirty, and for these reasons greatly exposed to sickness. Richard
Edmondson had already been ransomed, and must be sent back; and, upon
the whole, it was thought best to fit out and send off a gang to
Baltimore, without delay.

The Edmondsons received these tidings with joyful hearts, for they had
not yet been undeceived with regard to the raising of the money for
their ransom. Their brother who was free procured for them many comforts
for the voyage, such as a mattress, blankets, sheets and different kinds
of food and drink; and, accompanied to the vessel by their friends
there, they embarked on the brig Union just at night, and were towed out
of the river. The brig had nearly a full cargo of cotton, molasses,
sugar, &c., and, of course, the space for the slaves was exceedingly
limited. The place allotted the females was a little close, filthy room,
perhaps eight or ten feet square, filled with cotton within two or three
feet of the top of the room, except the space directly under the
hatchway door. Richard Edmondson kept his sisters upon deck with him,
though without a shelter; prepared their food himself, made up their bed
at night on the top of barrels, or wherever he could find a place, and
then slept by their side. Sometimes a storm would arise in the middle of
the night, when he would spring up and wake them, and, gathering up
their bed and bedding, conduct them to a little kind of a pantry, where
they could all three just stand, till the storm passed away. Sometimes
he contrived to make a temporary shelter for them out of bits of boards,
or something else on deck.

After a voyage of sixteen days, they arrived at Baltimore, fully
expecting that their days of slavery were numbered. Here they were
conducted back to the same old prison from which they had been taken a
few weeks before, though they supposed it would be but for an hour or
two. Presently Mr. Bigelow, of Washington, came for Richard. When the
girls found that they were not to be set free too, their grief and
disappointment were unspeakable. But they were separated,—Richard to
go to his home, his wife and children, and they to remain in the
slave-prison. Wearisome days and nights again rolled on. In the mornings
they were obliged to march round the yard to the music of fiddles,
banjoes, &c.; in the day-time they washed and ironed for the male
slaves, slept some, and wept a great deal. After a few weeks their
father came to visit them, accompanied by their sister.

His object was partly to ascertain what were the very lowest terms upon
which their keeper would sell the girls, as he indulged a faint hope
that in some way or other the money might be raised, if time enough were
allowed. The trader declared he should soon send them to some other
slave-market, but he would wait two weeks, and, if the friends could
raise the money in that time, they might have them.

The night their father and sister spent in the prison with them, he lay
in the room over their heads; and they could hear him groan all night,
while their sister was weeping by their side. None of them closed their
eyes in sleep.

In the morning came again the wearisome routine of the slave-prison. Old
Paul walked quietly into the yard, and sat down to see the poor slaves
marched around. He had never seen his daughters in such circumstances
before, and his feelings quite overcame him. The yard was narrow, and
the girls, as they walked by him, almost brushing him with their
clothes, could just hear him groaning within himself, “O, my children,
my children!”

After the breakfast, which none of them were able to eat, they parted
with sad hearts, the father begging the keeper to send them to New
Orleans, if the money could not be raised, as perhaps their brothers
there might secure for them kind masters.

Two or three weeks afterwards Bruin & Hill visited the prison, dissolved
partnership with the trader, settled accounts, and took the Edmondsons
again in their own possession.

The girls were roused about eleven o’clock at night, after they had
fallen asleep, and told to get up directly, and prepare for going home.
They had learned that the word of a slave-holder is not to be trusted,
and feared they were going to be sent to Richmond, Virginia, as there
had been talk of it. They were soon on their way in the cars with Bruin,
and arrived at Washington at a little past midnight.

Their hearts throbbed high when, after these long months of weary
captivity, they found themselves once more in the city where were their
brothers, sisters and parents. But they were permitted to see none of
them, and were put into a carriage and driven immediately to the
slave-prison at Alexandria, where, about two o’clock at night, they
found themselves in the same forlorn old room in which they had begun
their term of captivity!

This was the latter part of August. Again they were employed in washing,
ironing and sewing by day, and always locked up by night. Sometimes they
were allowed to sew in Bruin’s house, and even to eat there. After they
had been in Alexandria two or three weeks, their eldest married sister,
not having heard from them for some time, came to see Bruin, to learn,
if possible, something of their fate; and her surprise and joy were
great to see them once more, even there. After a few weeks their old
father came again to see them. Hopeless as the idea of their
emancipation seemed, he still clung to it. He had had some encouragement
of assistance in Washington, and he purposed to go North to see if
anything could be done there; and he was anxious to obtain from Bruin
what were the very lowest possible terms for which he would sell the
girls. Bruin drew up his terms in the following document, which we
subjoin:

                                     Alexandria, Va., Sept. 5, 1848.

  The bearer, Paul Edmondson, is the father of two girls, Mary Jane
  and Emily Catharine Edmondson. These girls have been purchased by
