More accustomed to the feeble light that pervaded the chamber, Mrs.
Howland now perceived her boy in a corner, sitting upon the floor,
with his head reclining upon a low ottoman. He was asleep. Placing
the tray she had brought upon a table, Mrs. Howland lifted the child
in her arms, and as she did so, he murmured in a sad voice--

"Don't, papa! oh, don't strike so hard!"

Unable to repress her feelings, the mother's tears gushed over her
cheeks, and her bosom heaved with emotions that spent themselves in
sobs and moans.

For many minutes she sat thus. But the child slept on. Once or twice
she tried to awake him, that he might get the supper she had
brought; but he slept on soundly, and she refrained, unwilling to
call him back to the grief of mind she felt that consciousness would
restore. Undressing him, at length, she laid him in his bed, and
bending over his precious form in the deeper darkness that had now
fallen, lifted her heart, and prayed that God would keep him from
evil. For a long time did she bend thus over her boy, and longer
still would she have remained near him, for her heart was affected
with an unusual tenderness, had not the cries of her younger child
summoned her from the room.




CHAPTER II


THE tears of childhood are soon dried. Grief is but as the summer
rain. On the next morning, little Andrew's voice was heard singing
over the house, as merrily as ever. But the sound did not affect,
pleasantly, the mind of his father. He had not forgotten the scene
of the previous evening, and was far from having forgiven the
disobedience he had punished so severely. Had Andrew come forth from
his chamber silent and with a sober, abashed, and fearful
countenance, as if he still bore the weight of his father's
displeasure, Mr. Howland would have felt that he had made some
progress in the work of breaking the will of his child. But to see
him moving about and singing as gaily as a bird, discouraged him.

"Have I made no impression on the boy?" he asked himself.

"Father!" said Andrew, running up, with a happy smile upon his face,
as these thoughts were passing through the mind of Mr. Howland,
"won't you buy me a pretty book? Oh! I want one--"

"Naughty, disobedient boy!"

These were the words, uttered sternly, and with a forbidding aspect
of countenance, that met this affectionate state of mind, and threw
the child rudely from his father.

Andrew looked frightened for a moment or two, and then shrunk away.
From that time until his father left the house, his voice was still.
During the morning, he amused himself with his playthings and his
little sister, and seemed well contented. But after dinner he became
restless, and often exclaimed--

"Oh! I wish I had somebody to play with!"

At length, after sitting by the window and looking out for a long
time, he turned to his mother, and said--

"Mother, can't I go and see Emily Winters?"

"No, Andrew, of course not," replied Mrs. Howland.

"Why, mother? I like her, and she's good."

"Because your father doesn't wish you go to her house. Didn't he
punish you last evening for going there?"

At this the child grew impatient, and threw himself about with angry
gestures. Then he sat down and cried for a time bitterly, while his
mother strove, but in vain, to soothe him. For hours his
thoughts had been on his little friend, and now he cared for nothing
but to see her. Denied this privilege from mere arbitrary authority,
his mind had become fretted beyond his weak ability to control
himself.

It was, perhaps, an hour after this, that Mrs. Howland missed
Andrew, and fearful that he might have been tempted to disobey the
command laid upon him, raised the window and looked into the street.
Just as she did so, she saw him running back toward his home from
the house of Mr. Winters, on the steps of which sat Emily. Entering
quickly, she heard him close the street-door with a slight jar, as
if he designed making as little noise as possible.

"Where have you been, Andrew?" asked Mrs. Howland as soon as he came
up to her room, which he did soon after.

"Down in the kitchen with Jane," was replied without hesitation.

"Have you been nowhere else?" Mrs. Howland repented having asked
this question the moment it passed her lips, and still more when the
child answered as unhesitatingly as before, "No, ma'am."

Here was falsehood added to disobedience! Poor Mrs. Howland turned
her face away to grieve and ponder. She found herself in a narrow
path, and doubtful as to the steps to be taken. She said nothing
more, for she could not see clearly what it was best for her to say;
and she did nothing, for she could not see what it was best for her
to do. But she resolved to be watchful over her boy, lest he should
again be tempted into disobedience.

The mother's watchfulness, however, availed not. Ere night-fall
Andrew was with his little friend again. Unfortunately for him, the
pleasure he derived from her society caused him to forget the
passing of time, and his stolen delight was, in the end, suddenly
dispelled by the stern voice of his father, who passed the door of
Mr. Winters on his way homeward.

Slowly and in fear did the child obey the angry command to return
home. He knew that he would be punished with great severity, and he
was not mistaken. He was so punished. But did this avail anything?
No! On the next day he asked his mother to let him sit at the front
door.

