soon made the landlord's case look black enough; and the landlord
himself almost as frightened as a criminal just under arrest.

"It's bad business, and no mistake," said one.

"Yes, bad enough. I wouldn't be in his shoes for his coat," remarked
another.

"For his coat? No, not for his whole wardrobe," said a third.

"Nor for the 'Sickle and Sheaf thrown into the bargain," added a fourth.

"It will be a clear case of manslaughter, and no mistake. What is the
penalty?"

"From two to ten years in the penitentiary," was readily answered.

"They'll give him five. I reckon."

"No--not more than two. It will be hard to prove malicious intention."

"I don't know that. I've heard him curse the girl and threaten her many
a time. Haven't you?"

"Yes"--"Yes"--"I have, often," ran round the bar-room.

"You'd better hang me at once," said Slade, affecting to laugh.

At this moment, the door behind Slade opened, and I saw his wife's
anxious face thrust in for a moment. She said something to her husband,
who uttered a low ejaculation of surprise, and went out quickly.

"What's the matter now?" asked one of another.

"I shouldn't wonder if little Mary Morgan was dead," was suggested.

"I heard her say dead," remarked one who was standing near the bar.

"What's the matter, Frank?" inquired several voices, as the landlord's
son came in through the door out of which his father had passed.

"Mary Morgan is dead," answered the boy.

"Poor child! Poor child!" sighed one, in genuine regret at the not
unlooked for intelligence. "Her trouble is over."

And there was not one present, but Harvey Green, who did not utter some
word of pity or sympathy. He shrugged his shoulders, and looked as much
of contempt and indifference as he thought it prudent to express.

"See here, boys," spoke out one of the company, "can't we do something
for poor Mrs. Morgan? Can't we make up a purse for her?"

"That's it," was quickly responded; "I'm good for three dollars; and
there they are," drawing out the money and laying it upon the counter.

"And here are five to go with them," said I, quickly stepping forward,
and placing a five-dollar bill along side of the first contribution.

"Here are five more," added a third individual. And so it went on,
until thirty dollars were paid down for the benefit of Mrs. Morgan.

"Into whose hands shall this be placed?" was next asked.

"Let me suggest Mrs. Slade," said I. "To my certain knowledge, she has
been with Mrs. Morgan to-night. I know that she feels in her a true
woman's interest."

"Just the person," was answered. "Frank, tell your mother we would like
to see her. Ask her to step into the sitting-room."

In a few moments the boy came back, and said that his mother would see
us in the next room, into which we all passed. Mrs. Slade stood near
the table, on which burned a lamp. I noticed that her eyes were red,
and that there was on her countenance a troubled and sorrowful
expression.

"We have just heard," said one of the company, "that little Mary Morgan
is dead."

"Yes--it is too true," answered Mrs. Slade, mournfully. "I have just
left there. Poor child! she has passed from an evil world."

"Evil it has indeed been to her," was remarked.

"You may well say that. And yet, amid all the evil, she been an angel
of mercy. Her last thought in dying was of her miserable father. For
him, at any time, she would have laid down her life willingly."

"Her mother must be nearly broken-hearted. Mary is the last of her
children."

"And yet the child's death may prove a blessing to her."

"How so?"

"Her father promised Mary, just at the last moment--solemnly promised
her--that, henceforth, he would never taste liquor. That was all her
trouble. That was the thorn in her dying pillow. But he plucked it out,
and she went to sleep, lying against his heart. Oh, gentlemen! it was
the most touching sight I ever saw."

All present seemed deeply moved.

"They are very poor and wretched." was said.

"Poor and miserable enough," answered Mrs.' Slade.

"We have just been taking up a collection for Mrs. Morgan. Here is the
money, Mrs. Slade--thirty dollars--we place it in your hands for her
benefit. Do with it, for her, as you may see best."

"Oh, gentlemen!" What a quick gleam went over the face of Mrs. Slade.
"I thank you, from my heart, in the name of that unhappy one, for this
act of true benevolence. To you the sacrifice has been small, to her
the benefit will be great indeed. A new life will, I trust be commenced
by her husband, and this timely aid will be something to rest upon,
until he can get into better employment than he now has. Oh, gentlemen!
let me urge on you, one and all, to make common cause in favor of Joe
Morgan. His purposes are good now, he means to keep his promise to his
