out into what were the cloisters of the monastery. Here was 
that struggle — that mortal agony — that giant soul convulsing 
and wearing down that strong frame. These walls ! to what 
groans, to what prayers had they listened ! Could we suppose 
a living human form imperishable, capable of struggling and 
suffering, but not of dying, buried beneath the whole weight 
of one of these gloomy cathedrals, suffocating in mortal agony, 
hearing above the tramp of footsteps, the peal of organs, 
the triumphant surge of chants, and vainly striving to send 
up its cries under all this load, — such, it would seem, was the 
suffering of this mighty soul. The whole pomp and splendor 
of this gorgeous prison house was piled up on his breast, and 
his struggles rent the prison for the world ! 

On a piece of parchment which is here kept framed is in- 
scribed in Luther's handwriting, in Latin, " Death is swal- 
lowed up in Victory ! " Nothing better could be written on 
the walls of this cell. 

This afternoon I walked out a little to observe the German 
Sabbath. Not like the buoyant, voluble, social Sunday of 
Paris, though still consecrated to leisure and family enjoyment 
more than to religious exercises. As I walked down the 
streets, the doors were standing open, men smoking their 
pipes, women knitting, and children playing. One place of 
resort was the graveyard of an antiquated church. A grave- 
yard here is quite different from the solitary, dismal place 
where we lay our friends, as if to signify that all intercourse 
with them is at an end. Each grave was trimmed and gar- 
landed with flowers, fastened with long strings of black or 
white ribbon. Around and among the graves men, women, 
and children were walking, the men smoking and chatting, not 
noisily, but in a cheerful, earnest way. It seems to me that 



 

this way of treating the dead might lessen the sense of sep- 
aration. I believe it is generally customary to attend some 
religious exercise once on Sunday, and after that the rest of 
the day is devoted to this sort of enjoyment. 

The morning we started for Eisenach was foggy and rainy. 
This was unfortunate, as we were changing from a dead level 
country to one of extreme beauty. The Thuringian Forest, 
with its high, wooded points crowned here and there with 
many a castle and many a ruin, loomed up finely through the 
mist, and several times I exclaimed, " There is the Wartburg," 
or " That must be the Wartburg," long before we were near 




it It was raining hard when we reached Eisenach station, 
and engaged a carriage to take us to the Wartburg. The 
mist, which wreathed thickly around; showed us only glimpses 
as we wound slowly up the castle hill — enough, however, to 
pique the imagination, and show hoW beautiful it might be in 
fair weather. 

The grounds are finely kept : winding paths invite to many 
a charming stroll. When about half way up, as the rain had 
partially subsided, I left the carriage, and toiled up the laborious steep on foot, that I might observe better. You approach the castle by a path cut through the rock for about 
thirty or forty feet. At last I stood under a low archway of 
solid stone masonry, about twenty feet thick. There had evidently been three successive doors ; the outer one was gone, 
and the two inner were wonderfully massive, braced with iron, 
and having each a smaller wicket door swung back on its 
hinges. 

As my party were a little behind, I had time to stop and 
meditate. I fancied a dark, misty night, and the tramp of a 
party of horsemen coming up the rocky path to the gateway ; 
the parley at the wicket ; the unbarred doors, creaking on their 
rusty hinges, — one, two, three, — are opened ; in clatters the 
cavalcade. In the midst of armed men with visors down, a 
monk in cowl and gown, and with that firm look about the 
hps which is so characteristic in Luther's portraits. But here 
our party came up, and the vision was dispelled. As none of 
us knew a word of German, we stood rather irresolutely looking at the buildings which, in all shapes and varieties, surround the court. I went into one room — it was a pantry ; 
into another — it was a wash room; into a third — it was a 
sitting room, garnished with antlers, and hung round with 



hard old portraits of princes and^ electors, and occupied by 
Germans smoking and drinking beer. One is sure that in 
this respect one cannot fail of seeing the place as it was in 
Luther's time. If they were Germans, of course they drank 
beer out of tall, narrow beer glasses ; that is as immutable a 
fact as the old stones of the battlement. 

" H.," said C, " did the Germans use to smoke in Luther's 
day?" 

" No. Why ? " 

" O, nothing. Only, what could they do with them- 
selves ? " 

" I do not know, unless they drank the more beer." 

" But what could they do with their chimney -hood ? " 

So saying, the saucy fellow prowled about promiscuously 
a while, assailing one and another in French, to about as much 
purpose as one might have tried to storm the walls with discharges of thistle down ; all smoked and drank as before. 
But as several other visitors arrived, and it became evident 
that if we did not come to see the castle, it was not likely we 
came for any thing else, a man was fished up from some 
depths unknown, with a promising bunch of keys. He sallied forth to that part of the castle which is undergoing repairs. 

Passing through bricks and mortar, under scaffolds, &c, we 
came to the armory, full of old knights and steeds in complete armor ; that is to say, the armor was there, and, without peeping between the crevices, one could hardly tell that 
their owners were not at home in their iron houses. There 
sat the Elector of Saxony, in full armor, on his horse, which 
was likewise cased in steel. There was the suit of armor in 
which Constable Bourbon fell under the walls of Rome, and 


