aroused by a light footstep, and anon the neat form of Susan made its
appearance.

"Good morning, Miss Jones," said he, bowing.

Now, there is something very comical in the feeling, when little boys
and girls, who have always known each other as plain Susan or Joseph,
first meet as "Mr." or "Miss" So-and-so. Each one feels half disposed,
half afraid, to return to the old familiar form, and awkwardly fettered
by the recollection that they are no longer children. Both parties had
felt this the evening before, when they met in company; but now that
they were alone together, the feeling became still stronger; and when
Susan had requested Mr. Adams to take a chair, and Mr. Adams had
inquired after Miss Susan's health, there ensued a pause, which, the
longer it continued, seemed the more difficult to break, and during
which Susan's pretty face slowly assumed an expression of the ludicrous,
till she was as near laughing as propriety would admit; and Mr. Adams,
having looked out at the window, and up at the mantel-piece, and down at
the carpet, at last looked at Susan; their eyes met; the effect was
electrical; they both smiled, and then laughed outright, after which the
whole difficulty of conversation vanished.

"Susan," said Joseph, "do you remember the old school house?"

"I thought that was what you were thinking of," said Susan; "but,
really, you have grown and altered so that I could hardly believe my
eyes last night."

"Nor I mine," said Joseph, with a glance that gave a very complimentary
turn to the expression.

Our readers may imagine that after this the conversation proceeded to
grow increasingly confidential and interesting; that from the account of
early life, each proceeded to let the other know something of
intervening history, in the course of which each discovered a number of
new and admirable traits in the other, such things being matters of very
common occurrence. In the course of the conversation Joseph discovered
that it was necessary that Susan should have two or three books then in
his possession; and as promptitude is a great matter in such cases, he
promised to bring them "to-morrow."

For some time our young friends pursued their acquaintance without a
distinct consciousness of any thing except that it was a very pleasant
thing to be together. During the long, still afternoons, they rambled
among the fading woods, now illuminated with the radiance of the dying
year, and sentimentalized and quoted poetry; and almost every evening
Joseph found some errand to bring him to the house; a book for Miss
Susan, or a bundle of roots and herbs for Miss Silence, or some
remarkably fine yarn for her to knit--attentions which retained our hero
in the good graces of the latter lady, and gained him the credit of
being "a young man that knew how to behave himself." As Susan was a
leading member in the village choir, our hero was directly attacked with
a violent passion for sacred music, which brought him punctually to the
singing school, where the young people came together to sing anthems and
fuguing tunes, and to eat apples and chestnuts.

It cannot be supposed that all these things passed unnoticed by those
wakeful eyes that are ever upon the motions of such "bright, particular
stars;" and as is usual in such cases, many things were known to a
certainty which were not yet known to the parties themselves. The young
belles and beaux whispered and tittered, and passed the original jokes
and witticisms common in such cases, while the old ladies soberly took
the matter in hand when they went out with their knitting to make
afternoon visits, considering how much money Uncle Jaw had, how much his
son would have, and what all together would come to, and whether Joseph
would be a "smart man," and Susan a good housekeeper, with all the "ifs,
ands, and buts" of married life.

But the most fearful wonders and prognostics crowded around the point
"what Uncle Jaw would have to say to the matter." His lawsuit with the
sisters being well understood, as there was every reason it should be,
it was surmised what two such vigorous belligerents as himself and Miss
Silence would say to the prospect of a matrimonial conjunction. It was
also reported that Deacon Enos Dudley had a claim to the land which
constituted the finest part of Susan's portion, the loss of which would
render the consent of Uncle Jaw still more doubtful. But all this while
Miss Silence knew nothing of the matter, for her habit of considering
and treating Susan as a child seemed to gain strength with time. Susan
was always to be seen to, and watched, and instructed, and taught; and
Miss Silence could not conceive that one who could not even make
pickles, without her to oversee, could think of such a matter as setting
up housekeeping on her own account. To be sure, she began to observe an
extraordinary change in her sister; remarked that "lately Susan seemed
to be getting sort o' crazy-headed;" that she seemed not to have any
"faculty" for any thing; that she had made gingerbread twice, and forgot
the ginger one time, and put in mustard the other; that she shook the
saltcellar out in the tablecloth, and let the cat into the pantry half a
dozen times; and that when scolded for these sins of omission or
commission, she had a fit of crying, and did a little worse than before.
Silence was of opinion that Susan was getting to be "weakly and naarvy,"
and actually concocted an unmerciful pitcher of wormwood and boneset,
which she said was to keep off the "shaking weakness" that was coming
over her. In vain poor Susan protested that she was well enough; Miss
Silence knew better; and one evening she entertained Mr. Joseph Adams
with a long statement of the case in all its bearings, and ended with
demanding his opinion, as a candid listener, whether the wormwood and
boneset sentence should not be executed.

Poor Susan had that very afternoon parted from a knot of young friends
who had teased her most unmercifully on the score of attentions
received, till she began to think the very leaves and stones were so
many eyes to pry into her secret feelings; and then to have the whole
case set in order before the very person, too, whom she most dreaded.
"Certainly he would think she was acting like a fool; perhaps he did not
mean any thing more than friendship, after all; and she would not for
the world have him suppose that she cared a copper more for him than for
any other friend, or that she was in love, of all things." So she
sat very busy with her knitting work, scarcely knowing what she was
about, till Silence called out,--

"Why, Susan, what a piece of work you are making of that stocking heel!
What in the world are you doing to it?"

Susan dropped her knitting, and making some pettish answer, escaped out
of the room.

"Now, did you ever?" said Silence, laying down the seam she had been
cross-stitching; "what is the matter with her, Mr. Adams?"

"Miss Susan is certainly indisposed," replied our hero gravely. "I must
