fore morning, if we may judge by the fuss he made. 

The captain was angry at being called from the 
pilot house for nothing, and threatened to throw Tom 
overboard if he didn't stop his noise. The steward, 
however, was a kind-hearted man, and assured Bobby 
that passengers were often a great deal sicker than 
he was ; but he promised to do something for his re- 
lief, and Tom went with him to his state room for 
the desired remedy. 

The potion was nothing more nor less than a 
table spoonful of brandy, which Bobby, who had 
conscientious scruples about drinking ardent spa-its, 


at first refused to take. Then Tom argued the 
point, and the sick boy yielded. The dose made 
him sicker yet, and nature came to his relief, and in 
a little while he felt better. 

Tom behaved like a good nurse ; he staid by his 
friend till he went to sleep, and then " turned in " 
upon a settee beneath his berth. The boat pitched 
and tumbled about so in the heavy sea that Bobby 
did not sleep long, and when he woke he found Tom 
ready to assist him. But our hero felt better, and 
entreated Tom to go to sleep again. He made the 
best of his unpleasant situation. Sleep was not to 
be wooed, and he tried to pass away the dreary hours 
in thinking of Biverdale and,- the dear ones there. 
His mother was asleep, and Annie was asleep ; and 
that was about all the excitement he could get up 
even on the home question. He could not build 
castles in the air, fqr seasickness and castle building 
do not agree. The gold and purple clouds would be 
black in spite of him, and the aerial structure he es- 
sayed to build would pitch and tumble about, for all 
the world, just like a steamboat in a heavy sea. As 
often as he got fairly into it, he was violently rolled 



 

out, and in a twinkling found himself in his narrow 
berth, awfully seasick. 

He went to sleep again at last, and the long night 
passed away. When he woke in the morning, he felt 
tolerably well, and was thankful that he had got out 
of that scrape. But before he could dress himself, he 
heard a terrible racket on deck. The steam whistle 
was shrieking, the bell was banging, and he heard 
the hoarse bellowing of the captain. It was certain 
that something had happened, or was about to hap- 
pen. 

Then the boat stopped, rolling heavily in the sea. 
Tom was not there ; he had gone on deck. Bobby 
was beginning to consider what a dreadful thing a 
wreck was, when Tom appeared. 

"What's the matter?' asked Bobby, with some 
appearance of alarm. 

" Fog," replied Tom. " It is so thick you can cut 
it with a hatchet." 

" Is that all ? " 

" That's enough." 

" Where are we ? ' : 

" That is just what the pilot would like to know 



They can't see ahead a bit, and don't know 



we are.' 



Bobby went on deck. The ocean rolled beneath 
them, but there was nothing but fog to be seen above 
and around them. The lead was heaved every few 
moments, and the steamer crept slowly along till it 
was found the water shoaled rapidly, when the cap- 
tain ordered the men to let go the anchor. 

There they were ; the fog was as obstinate as a 
mule, and would not " lift." Hour after hour they 
waited, for the captain was a prudent man, and would 
not risk the life of those 011 board to save a few 
hours' time. After breakfast, the passengers began 
to display their uneasiness, and some of them called 
the captain very hard names, because he would not 
go on. Almost every body grumbled, and made them- 
selves miserable. 

" Nothing to do and nothing to read," growled a 
nicely-dressed gentleman, as he yawned and stretched 
himself to manifest his sensation of ennui. 

" Nothing to read, eh ? " thought Bobby. " We 
will soon supply that want." 

Calling Tom, they went down to the main deck, 
where the baggage had been placed. 





Now's our time," said he, as he proceeded to un- 
lock one of the trunks that contained his books. 
