"How much better that odd little black child liked you than
she did me," she went on with a change of subject and tone
together.

"You were a little further off," said Winthrop.

"Further off?" said Elizabeth.

"I suppose she thought so."

"Then one must come near people in order to do them good?"

"One mustn't be too far off," said Winthrop, "to have one's
words reach them."

"But I didn't mean to be far off," said Elizabeth.

"I didn't mean to be near."

Elizabeth looked at him, but he was grave; and then she
smiled, and then laughed.

"You've hit it!" she exclaimed. "I shall remember that."

"Take care, Miss Elizabeth," said Winthrop, as her foot
slipped in the muddy way, -- "or you will have more to remember
than would be convenient. You had better take my arm."

So she did; musing a little curiously at herself and that arm,
which she had seen in a shirt-sleeve, carrying a pickaxe on
shoulder; and making up her mind in spite of it all that she
didn't care! So the walk home was not otherwise than
comfortable. Indeed the beauty of it was more than once
remarked on by both parties.

"Well!" said Rose, when at last Elizabeth came into the room
where she was sitting, -- "have you got home?"

"Yes."

"What have you been doing all this while?"

"Getting very angry at you in the first place; and then
cooling down as usual into the reflection that it was not
worth while."

"Well, I hope Winthrop made good use of his opportunity?"

"Yes, he did," said Elizabeth coolly, taking off her things.

"And you have engaged him at last as your admirer?"

"Not at all; -- I have only engaged a little black girl to be
my servant."

"A servant! What?"

"What do you mean by 'what'?" said Elizabeth contemptuously.

"I mean, what sort of a servant?"

"I am sure I don't know -- a black servant."

"But what for?"

"To do my bidding."

"But what is she? and where did you pick her up?"

"She is an odd little fish called Clam; and I didn't pick her
up at all; -- Mr. Landholm did that."

"O ho!" said Rose, -- "it's a joint concern! -- that's it. But I
think you are beginning to make up your household very early."

Elizabeth flung down her shoe and lifted her head, and Miss
Cadwallader shrunk; even before her companion said with
imperious emphasis, "Rose, how dare you! --"

Rose did not dare, against the flushed face and eye of fire
which confronted her. She fell back into her chair and her
book and was dumb.


CHAPTER XX.


Ford. They do say, if money go before, all ways do lie open.
Fal. Money is a good soldier, sir, and will on.
MERRY WIVES OF WINDSOR.


Somewhat to Winthrop's surprise, Clam came the next day to
remind him of his promise; very much in earnest to wear a
clean frock and have her dinner regular. She was duly bound,
and entered into clean service accordingly. The indentures
were made out to Miss Haye; but for the present Clam was put
to learn her business under somebody that knew it; and for
that end was finally sent to Mrs. Landholm. A week or two with
Mrs. Nettley proved to the satisfaction of both parties that
neither would much advantage the other. At Shahweetah, Clam,
as Mrs. Landholm expressed it, "took a new start," and got on
admirably. What much favoured this, was the fact that she
speedily became very much attached to the whole family; with
the single exception of Karen, between whom and herself there
was an unallayed state of friction; a friction that probably
served only to better Clam's relish of her dinner, while poor
Karen declared "she didn't leave her no rest day nor night."

"She's not a bad child, Karen," said her mistress.

"Which part of her 's good?" said Karen. "'Taint her eyes,
nor her fingers; and if the Bible didn't say there wa'n't no
such a fountain, I should think her tongue was one o' them
fountains that sent out at the same place both salt water and
fresh."

"Her fingers are pretty good, Karen."

"There's a two-sided will in 'em, Mrs. Landholm."
