" Don't leave me yet," pleaded Harry. 

" Leave you ? What do you want of me ? I 



t 

luppose you want to tell me I advised you to burn 
the barn." 

"I didn't set the barn afire !" exclaimed Harry, 
now for the first time realizing the cause of his 
friend's displeasure. 

" Don't lie." 

" I speak the truth. I did not set it afire, or even 
know that it was going to be set on fire." 

Mr. Nason closed the door which he had opened 
to depart. The firm denial, as well as the tone and 
manner of the boy, arrested his judgment against 
him. He had learned to place implicit confidence in 
Harry's word ; for though he might have told lies 
to others, he never told them to him. 

" Who did burn the barn r " asked the keeper, 
locking sternly into the eye of the culprit. 

Harry hesitated. A sense of honor and magna- 
nimity pervaded his soul. He had obtained some 
f:ilse notions ; and he did not understand that he 
could hardly be false to one who had been false to 
himself — that to help a criminal conceal his cr'*ne 
was to onspire against the peace and happiness of 
his fellow-beings. Shabbily as lien Smart had used 




him, he could not at once make up his mind to be
ray him. 

" You don't answer," added Mr. Nason. 

" I didn't do it." 

" Rut who did ? " 

" I don't like to tell." 

" Very well ; you can do as you like. After what 
I had done for you, it was a little strange that you 
should do as you have." 

" I will tell you all about it, Mr. Nason, if you 
will promise not to tell." 

" I know all about it. You and I be Smart put 
your heads together to be revenged on the squire ; 
you set his barn afire, and then stole Leman's beat." 

" No, sir ; I didn't set the barn afire, nor steal 
the boat, nor help to do either." 

" You and he were together." 

' We were ; and if it wasn't for being mean to 
lien, I would tell you all about it." 

" Mean to Ben ! As soon as it was known that 
you and Ben were missing, every body in the village 
knew who set the barn afire. All you have got to 
do is to clear yourself, if you can ; Ben is condemned 
already." 



 

*' If you will hear my story I will tell you all 
ab)ut it." 

Harry proceeded to narrate every thing that had 
occurred since he left the house on the preceding 
night. It was a very clear and plausible statement. 
He ans vcred all the questions which Mr Nason pro- 
posed with promptness, and his replies were con- 
nistent. 

" I believe you, Harry," said the keeper, when he 
had finished his examination. " Somehow I couldn't 
believe you would do such a thing as set the squire's 
barn afire." 

" I wouldn't," replied Harry, warmly, and much 
pleased to find he had reestablished the confidence of 
his friend. 

" But it is a bad case. The fact of your being 
with Ben Smart is almost enough to convict you." 

" I shouldn't have been with him, if I had known 
be set the barn afire." 

" I don't know as I can dc any thing for you, 
Harry ; but I will try." 

" Thank you." 

Mr. Nason left him, and Harry had an opportunity 




to consider the desperate circumstances of his pos: 
tiun. It looked just as though he should he sen' 
to the house of correction, But he was innocent. 
Ue felt his innocence; as he expressed it to the 
