time idly, and in the company of one whose reputation in the
neighborhood was not very good.

"Stop a minute--won't you? I want to speak to you."

"I will; but be as quick as you can, for I am in a hurry."

"Don't you think I could sell candy?" continued Ann.

"I dare say you could. Why don't you try, if you want to?"

"But I haven't got no candy; and mother can't make it, as you can. If
you are a mind to let me have some, I will sell it for you, and you may
give me what you like."

The idea struck the little merchant very favorably. There were a great
many girls just like Ann Grippen, who were wasting their time about the
streets, and learning to be wicked. Why couldn't she employ them to
sell candy?

"I will try you," replied Katy.

"Well, I'm all ready to begin."

"Not yet," said the little candy merchant, with a smile.

"Yes, I am."

"Your face and hands are very dirty."

"What odds will that make?" asked Ann, rather indignantly.

"Do you suppose anybody would eat a stick of candy after you had
touched it with those dirty fingers? Your customers would be afraid of
being poisoned."

"I s'pose I can wash 'em," replied Ann, who seemed still to regard it
as a very unnecessary operation.

"It would be a good plan; and while you are about it you must not
forget your face."

"I ain't a-going to touch the candy with my face," added Ann,
triumphantly.

"Very true; but if people saw you with such a dirty face, they would be
afraid your candy was not very clean."

"Any way you like. I will wash my face and hands both, if that's all."

"But that isn't all. Your dress is very dirty and very ragged."

"I can't afford to dress like a lady," said Ann, who had some of her
brother's disposition, and under any other circumstances would have
resented Katy's plain home thrusts.

"You needn't dress like a lady; but the neater and cleaner you are, the
more candy you will sell."

"I will fix up as much as I can."

"Very well; if you will come to my house to-morrow morning, I will let
you have some candy."

"How much will you give me for selling it?" asked Ann.

"I can't tell now; I will think about it, and let you know when you
come."

Katy went her way, turning over and over in her mind the scheme which
Ann's application had suggested to her. She might employ a dozen girls,
or even more than that, and pay them so much a dozen for selling the
candy. She might then stop going out to sell herself, and thus gratify
her mother. She could even go to school, and still attend to her
business.

When she returned home at noon, she proposed the plan to her mother.
Mrs. Redburn was much pleased with it, though she suggested many
difficulties in the way of its success. The girls might not be honest;
but if they were not, they could be discharged. Many of them were
vicious; they would steal or be saucy, so that people would not permit
them to enter their stores and offices, and the business would thus be
brought into disrepute. Katy determined to employ the best girls she
could find, and to tell them all that they must behave like ladies.

The next morning Ann Grippen appeared with her face and hands tolerably
clean, and wearing a dress which by a liberal construction could be
called decent. She brought a dirty, rusty old tray, which was the best
she could obtain; yet in spite of all these disadvantages, the little
candy merchant looked upon it as a hopeful case.

"Now, Ann, you must be very civil to everybody you meet," said Katy, as
she covered the rusty tray with a sheet of clean white paper.

"I hope I know how to behave myself," replied Ann, rather crustily.

"I dare say you do;" and she might have hinted that there was some
difference between knowing how to do a thing and doing it. "I was only
going to tell you how to sell candy. If you don't want me to tell you,
I won't."

"I should like to have you tell me, but I guess I know how to behave."

"You must be very civil to everybody, even when they don't speak very
pleasant to you."

"I don't know about that," replied Ann, doubtfully, for it was contrary
to the Grippen philosophy to be very civil to any one, much less to
those who were not civil to them.

"When any one buys any candy of you, you must always say, 'Thank you';
and then the next time you meet the person he will buy again."

"How much you going to give me for selling?" demanded Ann, abruptly
cutting short the instructions.

"Mother thinks you ought to have four cents a dozen."

"Four cents? My mother says I ought to have half, and I ain't going to
sell your candy for no four cents a dozen."
