down to the earth and leaves her wings behind her--but that's not
humanity, Linden!"
"True servant of God, is as fair a name as angel," said Mr. Linden;
"and that is what humanity may be and often is. 'Though crowns are
wanting, and bright pinions folded.'"
"I don't know--" said the doctor. "I shouldn't have wondered any minute
yesterday to see the pinions unfold before me." Which remark was
received in silence.
"If such an angel were to take hold of me," the doctor went on
meditatively,--"I believe she might make me and carry me whither she
would. But I wonder if I shall be forbid the house now!"--He stopped
and looked at Mr. Linden with a face of comic enquiry.
"You may come and see me," said Mr. Linden, with comforting assurance.
"Do you think I may?" said the doctor. He sat down and threw his hat on
the floor.--"What shall I do with Mrs. Derrick? She will want to send
me off in a balloon, on some air journey that will never land me on
earth!--or find some other vanishing medium most prompt and
irrevocable--all as a penalty for my having ventured to leap a fence in
company with her daughter!"
But the prudent fit had perhaps come back upon Mr. Linden, for except a
sudden illumination of eye and face, the doctor's speech called forth
no opinion.
"The best driver on earth can't be a centaur, man! Horses in these days
will have heads of their own." But then the doctor rose up and came
gracefully and gravely again to take his friend and patient's hand.
"I agree to all you say!" said he, looking down with a goodhumoured
wilful expression to Mr. Linden's face;--"and I know no other man to
whom I would own as much, after such words and such silence as you
have bestowed on me. Good-bye. But really, remember, a man is not
answerable for all his horses--or all his wits--may do."
The doctor went; and then there was an interval of some length. Faith
had found several things to do in her down stairs department, which she
would not leave to her mother; especially after the shock Mrs.
Derrick's mind and heart had received from the communication of what
had happened the day before. So it was a little later than usual when
the light tap was heard at Mr. Linden's door and Faith and a cup of
cocoa came in. She set the cup down, and then went out again for a dish
of grapes and pears--Judge Harrison's and Farmer David's sending--which
she brought to the table.
"I didn't know which you would like best, Mr. Linden;--so I brought
both."
"I should like to be waiting on you," he said,--"Miss Faith, you ought
not to be waiting on me. I shall bestir myself and come down stairs."
There was expression in the kind of happy silence that answered him, as
she offered the cocoa.
"I don't know where to begin to talk to you this morning," said Mr.
Linden,--"everything demands the first place. Miss Faith, when you feel
that you can, will you tell me all about yesterday? I wish I could give
you this couch again, but I suppose in prudence I ought to lie still."
She saw him served with what he would have; then sat down, and a shadow
of sweet gravity came over her.
"The ride out was all very pleasant. There wasn't much talk, and I
could just enjoy everything. It's a long way, Mr. Linden," she said
glancing at him--she spoke generally with her eyes bent somewhere
else;--"it must be ten or twelve miles, for we went very fast; and it
was beautiful, with the wind and the driving clouds and shadows. So I
enjoyed all that part, and wasn't afraid of the horses, or not much
afraid--though they went very fast and I saw they felt very gay. I
liked the going fast and I thought the doctor could manage them." She
paused.
"Are you sure you want to talk of this now?" Mr. Linden said. "You know
we have other things to do--this can wait till you choose."
"I like to tell it," she said with another quick glance and a quick
breath,--"but the visit comes next--and I don't know how to tell you of
that. Mr. Linden, I wish you could see that woman!--And if you can't
soon, I must,--somehow."
"If I can't--or if I can, I will find you the 'somehow,' if you want to
go. And if you will let me," he added. "Is she really dying?"
"She says so--" Faith said low. And was silent a bit.
"Then we set out to come home, and all went very well till we were half
way on the road; but then the horses seemed to grow more frisky than
ever--I think the wind excited them; and Dr. Harrison had his hands
full, I could see, to hold them in, especially after we turned
Lamprey's corner and the wind was in their faces. I think it was
something suddenly flung over the fence, that started them off to
run--and then they ran faster and faster, and reins and bits were of no
use at all."
Faith was excited herself, and spoke slowly and low and with hindered
breath.
"I saw they were getting more and more furious,--and there were a few
minutes, Mr. Linden, when I thought I should maybe never see home
again.--And then I thanked you in my heart."
"Me?" he said with quick emphasis, and looking at her.
Faith did not look at him, but after a pause went on very quietly.
"I mean, on earth I thanked you. The end of it was, they took a new
fright at something, I believe, just at the top of a hill; and after
that it was all a whirl. I hardly knew anything--till I found myself
lying on the ground in the meadow. The horses had jumped the carriage
and all clean over the fence. The fence was just below the foot of the
hill; the road took a turn there.--Sam told you the rest--didn't he,
Mr. Linden?"
He said "yes," and not another word, but lay there still with those
closely shielded eyes; and lips unbent from their usual repose, with
grave humbleness and grief and joy. The silence lasted till Faith spoke
again. And that was some little space of time. A shade graver and lower
her tone was when she spoke.
"I shall never forget after this, that it is 'part of a Christian's
sailing-orders to speak every vessel he meets.'--I think I shall never
forget it again."
Mr. Linden did look then at the little craft that had begun her voyage
so undauntedly under the Christian colours, though what he thought of
her he said not; apparently his own words were not yet ready, though he
spoke.
"'Be strong and of a good courage; be not afraid, neither be thou
dismayed: for the Lord thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest.'"
Faith spoke no more. She sat in the absolutest quiet, of face and
figure both; looking into the fire that played in the chimney, with a
fixedness that perhaps told--in the beginning--of some doubtfulness of
self command. But the happy look of the face was in nowise changed.
A knock at the door was the first interruption, a knock so low down
that the latch seemed quite too high to match it; but by some exercise
of skill this was lifted, and Johnny Fax presented himself. He looked
very wide awake, and smiling, and demure, as was his wont, though
to-day the smiles were in the ascendant; owing perhaps to the weest of
all wee baskets which he held in his hand. Coming close up to Mr.
Linden, and giving him the privileged caress, Johnny stood there within
his arm and smiled benignly upon Faith, as if he considered her quite
part and parcel of the same concern. Who smiled back upon him, and
enquired "where he had come from?"
Johnny said "From home, ma'am," and looked down at his tiny basket as
