


 



CHAPTER II. 

PAUL IS COOL AND SELF-POSSESSED. 

Bayville is situated about seven or eight 
miles from Boston, on the line of on& of the 
principal railroads. A large portion of the in- 
habftants, even at the time of which I write, were 
gentlemen doing business in the city, though the 
place had a ship-yard and several wharves from 
which the surrounding country was supplied with 
wood, coal, and lumber. The town is located on 
both sides of Tenean River, the estuary of which 
forms a very good harbor, though the place has 
not yet attained to any considerable commercial 
importance. 

The ship-yard and the wharves were on the 
north side of the river, which was known as 
Mercantile Point. On the south side a penin- 
sula extended about half a mile out into the sea, 

at tKe extremity of which was the little cottage 
of Mr. Duncan, the ship carpenter. It was built 
upon the high bluff, and below it was the beach 
which had been formed by the continued caving 
of the earth from the high bank. The cottage 
was over a mile from the ship-yard, by the road, 
and not more than half the distance in a straight 
line acrSss the water. As an easy and pleasant 
way to get to his work, Mr. Duncan had pur- 
chased the old boat, in which Paul had just em- 
barked, for a few dollars, and in good weather 
generally went over to the ship-yard by water. 
He was a skilful boatman, and under his tuition 
his son had learned all the mysteries of sailing 
a boat. Like most boys, he was disposed to be 
more daring than was necessary, and it was often 
that his father and mother found occasion to 
check him in the pursuit of bold enterprises. 
Paul was passionately fond of the water, and was 
proud of his nautical skill and knowledge. 

Aquatic sports were all the rage at Bayville, 
and there were very few gentlemen who had the 




means that did not own boats of some kind. In 
the summer season, the harbor always presented 
a brilliant display of yachts, sail boats, and wherries. The largest of these was the Flyaway, a 
splendid yacht of fifty- two tons, which was jointly 
owned by Major Nettle and Captain Littleton. 
Even the boys of the High School had a club 
boat, which, in the warm season, not only afford- 
ed them fine sport, but plenty of healthy exercise 
for the proper development of their physical or- 
ganization. 

On the first day "of May, when our story opens, 
the scholars of the High School had a picnic 
at Tenean Point, and the boat club had gone 
down to participate in the festivities of the occasion. Thomas Nettle had been to the city in 
the morning, and had not returned in season 
to go down with the club, of which he was a 
member. It was four miles to the Point by 
the road, and only half that distance by water, 
when the wind permitted the passage in a straight 
line. He did not like the idea of walking so far, 



 

choosing rather to incur the danger of being 
drowned by the upsetting of Paul's old boat. 

In spite of the strong wind and the heavy 
sea, Paul kept the boat on her course, though, 
as the tide was against her, she did not make 
much headway. 

'' Can you weather South Point, Paul ? " asked 
Thomas, who had been silent for some time. 

"I'm afraid I can't; this old boat makes about 
as much leeway as headway." 

"It is pretty rough out here — isn't it?" 

" Rather," replied Paul, indifferently. 

" She takes in a good deal of water." 

" Mostly spray ; you can bale her out, if you 
have a mind to do so." 

Thomas was glad to have something in the 
shape of occupation, for it required all his power 
to conceal a certain nervousness, which he would 
not have had Paul see for all the world. He took 
the tin kettle, and worked as though the safety 
of the craft depended entirely upon his efforts. 

The wind seemed to increase rather than diminish 



in force, and the sail was becoming more exciting 
every moment ; but Paul maintained his self-pos- 
session, and though he had some doubts about his 
ability to keep the old craft right side up, he 
