"It's an indefinite sort of attack--all the worse for that!--the root
of which is hid from me. All you can do is to watch and wait. Have you
been here through the night?"

"Yes," Mr. Linden answered--and put the further question, "Do you think
there is any danger of contagion?"

"O no!--the fever, what there is, comes from some inward cause--a
complicated one, I judge. I can guess, and that's all. Are there no
women about the house?"

"None that are good for much." And looking at his watch, Mr. Linden
laid the child--who had fallen asleep again--out of his arms among the
pillows, arranging them softly and dextrously as if he were used to the
business.

"Reuben Taylor will stay with him for the present," he said as he
turned to Dr. Harrison.

"I'll come again by and by," the doctor said. "Meanwhile all that can
be done is to let him have this, as I told you."

The directions were given to Reuben, the doctor drove off, and Mr.
Linden set out on his quick walk home; after the confinement of the
night, the cold morning air and exercise were rather resting than
otherwise. It was a very thoughtful half hour--very sorrowful at first;
but before he reached home, thought, and almost feeling, had got beyond
"the narrow bounds of time," and were resting peacefully--even
joyfully--"where bright celestial ages roll."

He entered the house with a light step, and went first upstairs to
change his dress; but when he came down and entered the sitting-room,
there was the tone of the whole walk upon his face still. Faith put her
question softly, as if she expected no glad answer. And yet it was
partly that, though given in very gentle, grave tones.

"There is more to fear than to hope, dear Faith,--and there is
everything to hope, and nothing to fear!"

She turned away to the breakfast-table; and said little more till the
meal was over. Then she rose when he did.

"I am going now, Endy!"--The tone was of very earnest determination,
that yet waited for sanction.

"Yes," he answered--"Dr. Harrison says the fever is not contagious, I
waited to know that. If I can I shall get free before midday, so I may
meet you there. And can you prepare and take with you two or three
things?"--he told her what.

Faith set about them; and when they were done, Mr. Skip had finished
his breakfast and got Jerry ready. Some other preparations Faith had
made beforehand; and with no delay now she was on her swift way to
little Johnny's bedside. She came in like a vision of comfort upon the
sick room, with all sorts of freshness about her; grasped Reuben's
hand, and throwing back her hood, stooped her lips to Johnny's cheek.
And Johnny gave her his usual little fair smile--and then his eyes went
off to the doorway, as if he half expected to see some one else behind
her. But it was from no want of love to her, as she knew from the way
the eyes came back to her face and rested there, and took a sort of
pleased survey of her hood and, her fur and her dress.

"Dear Johnny!--Can you speak to me?" said Faith tenderly touching her
cheek again to his.

"Oh yes, ma'am," he said, in a quiet voice and with the same bit of a
smile. That was what Faith wanted. Then she looked up.

"Are you going to school now, Reuben?"

"I didn't expect to this morning, Miss Faith," Reuben said with a sober
glance at his little comrade.

"Then you can wait here a bit for me."

Leaving Reuben once more in charge, Faith went on a rummaging
expedition over the house to find some woman inmate. Not too easily or
speedily she was found at last, the housekeeper and all-work woman deep
in all work as she really seemed, and in an outer kitchen of remote
business, whither Faith had traced her by an exercise of determinate
patience and skill. Having got so fur, Faith was not balked in the
rest; and obtaining from her some of Johnny's clean linen which she
persuaded her to go in search of, she returned to the room where she
had left Reuben; and set about making the sick child as comfortable as
in his sickness he could be.

It was a day or two already since Johnny had lain there and had had
little effectual attention from anybody, till Mr. Linden came last
night. The child might well look at his new nurse, for her neat dress
and gentle face and soft movements were alone a balm for any sick
place. And in her quiet way, Faith set about changing the look of this
one. There was plenty of wood, and she made a glorious fire. Then
tenderly and dextrously she managed to get a fresh nightgown on Johnny
without disturbing him more than pleasantly with her soft
manipulations; and wrapping him in a nice little old doublegown which
she had brought with her and which had been a friend of her own
childish days, Faith gave him to Reuben to hold while she made up the
bed and changed the clothes, the means for which she had also won from
the housekeeper. Then having let down the chintz curtains to shield off
the intense glare of the sunny snow, Faith assumed Johnny into her own
arms. She had brought vinegar from home, and with it bathed the little
boy's face and hands and brushed his hair, till the refreshed little
head lay upon her breast in soothed rest and comfort.

"There, Johnny!"--she whispered as her lips touched his brow,--"Mr.
Linden may come as soon as he pleases--we are ready for him!"

The child half unclosed his eyes at the words, and then sunk again into
one of his fits of feverish sleep, the colour rising in his cheeks a
little, the breath coming quick. Reuben knelt down at Faith's side and
watched him.

"I used to wonder, Miss Faith," he said softly, "what would become of
him if Mr. Linden ever went away"--and the quiet pause told what
provision Reuben thought was fast coming for any such contingency.

"You can't think what Mr. Linden's been to Johnny, Miss Faith," he went
on in the same low voice,--"and to all of us," he added lower still.
"But he's taken such care of him, in school and out. It was only last
week Johnny told me he liked coming to school in the winter, because
