    photograph, if you can conveniently.

    Now, my dear soldier, be brave and true, and, above all, do not
    run away from the rebels with my socks on your feet. You may
    retreat when your officers order you to retire; but if you are a
    coward, and find yourself compelled to run away, please pull them
    off before you do so, for I should die with mortification if I
    thought I had knit a pair of socks for a Union soldier to run away
    in.

    Truly yours, for our flag and our country.

    LILIAN ASHFORD.

"Well, if that gal ain't a trump, then there ain't no snakes in Virginny!"
exclaimed Hapgood. "She's got the true grit, and no mistake."

"That's so," replied the recipient of the gift, thoughtfully, as he bent
down, and began to pull off the sock which encased his left foot.

"What are you doing?" demanded Hapgood, surprised at this new movement of
his companion.

"I can't wear these socks yet, uncle," replied he.

"Why not?"

Don't she say she wants them worn in a battle?"

"Tom, you are a little fool!" added the veteran, petulantly. "Are you
going with cold feet just to please a silly gal, whose head is as full of
moonshine as an egg is of meat. Put on the socks, and keep your feet warm.
If you don't, I'll write to her, and tell what a fool you are."

Tom did put them on, but he could not help feeling that uncle Hapgood, as
he was familiarly called in the camp, did not understand and appreciate
his sentiments. The socks seemed to be too precious to be worn in the
vulgar mud of Maryland. To him there was something ethereal about them,
and it looked a little like profanation to put any thing emanating from
the fairy fingers of the original of that photograph, and the author of
that letter, upon his feet.

"Now you act like a sensible fellow, as you are, Tom," said Hapgood, as
the sergeant put on his army brogans.

"Well, uncle, one thing is certain: I never will run away from the rebels
with these socks on," added Tom, with a rich glow of enthusiasm.

"If Gen'l McClennon don't stir his stumps pretty soon, you'll wear 'em out
afore you git a chance to run away."

Tom, almost for the first time since he had been in the army, wanted to be
alone. With those socks on, it seemed just as though he was walking the
streets of the New Jerusalem, with heaven and stacks of silver-fringed and
golden-tinged clouds beneath his feet, buried up to the eyes in floods of
liquid moonshine.

If "grandma" really thought that Lilian Ashford was a silly girl, and if
Lilian really supposed so herself, it must be added, in justification of
her conduct, that she had given the soldier boy a new incentive to do his
duty nobly, and kindled in his soul a holy aspiration to serve God and his
country with renewed zeal and fidelity.




CHAPTER XXVII.

THE CONFEDERATE DESERTER.


While Tom was in the hospital, he received a letter from his sister,
informing him that his brother John had actually entered the navy, and
with his mother's consent. The news from home was so favorable, that the
soldier boy was pleased to hear that Jack had realized his darling wish,
and that he was now in his element.

Intelligence from home, accompanied with letters, papers, books, comforts,
and luxuries of various kinds, reached him every two or three weeks; and
when the news went back that Tom had been made a sergeant for gallant
conduct, there was a great sensation in Pinchbrook. The letters which
reached him after the receipt of this gratifying announcement contained
all the gossip of the place in regard to the important event. Of course,
Tom was delighted by these letters, and was more than ever determined to
be diligent and faithful in the discharge of his duties, and never to
disgrace the name he bore. He was confident his friends would never have
occasion to blush for his conduct--including the original of the
photograph, the author of the letter and of the socks.

Tom recovered from the effects of his wound, as we have before intimated,
and took his place in the regimental line as a sergeant. January and
February passed away without any very stirring events; but in the month of
March came indications of activity. The rebels began to draw in their
lines, by abandoning various points, till the nation was startled by the
evacuation of their strongly fortified position at Manassas, and the forts
in front of Budd's Ferry were suddenly left for the occupation of the
Federal troops.

Hooker's men crossed the Potomac, and Tom was once more on the sacred soil
of Virginia. Skirmishers were sent out in various directions, and though a
deserted camp, which had been hastily abandoned, was found, there were no
rebels to be seen. The Union boys were not disposed to leave their
investigations at this interesting point, and they pursued their way still
farther into the country. Somehow or other, Tom and his party did not
receive the order to return, and the enterprising young hero continued his
march in search of further adventures. It was altogether too tame for him
and the congenial spirits in his section to retire without seeing a live
rebel or two; and I am not sure, if their desire had not been gratified,
that they would not have penetrated to Fredericksburg, and captured that
citadel of rebellion in advance to General Augur, who visited the place in
April.

As it was, they stumbled upon the pickets of a rebel force, and as soon as
their uniform was identified they had the honor of being fired upon,
though none of them had the honor of being killed in the midst of their
virtual disobedience of orders. But their appearance created a panic among
the Confederates, who had no means of knowing that they were not the
pioneers of a whole division of Union troops, for General McClellan had
removed the spell which bound the loyal army to its camps, and corps,
divisions, and brigades were pushing forward into the dominion of the
