himself, and sat regarding her with twinkling eyes, and his curly
pate in a high state of rumple, trying to appear innocently meek,
but failing signally.

“Now, then, up and tell,” commanded Dolly.

“Well, if you won’t take my head off till I’m done, I’ll tell you
the best joke of the season. Are you sure the pink domino with Bopp
wasn’t yourself,--for she looked and acted very like you?”

“Of course I am. I didn’t even know he was there, and think it very
rude and ungentlemanly in him not to come and speak to me. You know
it was Fan, so do go on.”

“But it wasn’t, for she changed her mind and wore a black domino; I
saw her put it on myself. Her Cousin Jack came unexpectedly, and she
thought if she altered her dress and went with him, you wouldn’t
know her.”

“Who could it have been, Dick?”

“That’s the mystery, for, do you know, Bopp proposed to her.”

“He didn’t!” and Dolly flew up with a startled look that, to adopt a
phrase from his own vocabulary, was “nuts” to her brother.

“Yes he did; I heard him.”

“When, where, and how?”

“In one of these flirtation boxes; they dropped the curtain, but I
heard him do it, on my honor I did.”

“Persons of honor don’t listen at curtains and key-holes. What did
they say?”

“Oh, if it wasn’t honorable to listen, it isn’t to hear; so I won’t
tell, though I could not help knowing it.”

“Mercy! don’t stop now, or I shall die with curiosity. I dare say I
should have done the same; no one minds at such a place, you know.
But I don’t see the joke yet,” said Dolly dismally.

“I do,” and Dick went off into a shout.

“You idiotic boy, take that pillow out of your mouth, and tell me
the whole thing,--what he said, what she said, and what they both
did. It was all fun of course, but I’d like to hear about it.”

“It may have been fun on her part, but it was solemn earnest on his,
for he went it strong I assure you. I’d no idea the old fellow was
so sly, for he appeared smashed with you, you know, and there he was
finishing up with this unknown lady. I wish you could have heard him
go on, with tears in his eyes”--

“How do you know if you didn’t see him?”

“Oh, well, that’s only a figure of speech; I thought so from his
voice. He was ever so tender, and took to Dutch when English was too
cool for him. It was really touching, for I never heard a fellow do
it before; and, upon my word, I should think it was rather a tough
job to say that sort of thing to a pretty woman, mask or no mask.”

“What did she say?” asked Dolly, with her hands pressed tight
together, and a curious little quiver of the lips.

“She said, No, as short as pie-crust; and when he rushed out with
his heart broken all to bits apparently, she just burst out
laughing, and went and polked at a two-forty pace for half an hour.”

Dora unclasped her hands, took a long breath, and cried out,--

“She was a wicked, heartless hussy! and if I know her, I’ll never
speak to her again; for if he was really in earnest, she ought to be
killed for laughing at him.”

“So ought you, then, for making fun of poor Fisher when he went down
on his knees behind the huckleberry bushes last summer. He was
earnest enough, for he looked as black-and-blue as his berries when
he got home. Your theory is all right, ma’am, but your practice is
all bosh.”

“Hold your tongue about that silly thing. Boys in college think they
know everything, can do everything, have everything, and only need
beckon, and all womankind will come and adore. It made a man of him,
and he’ll thank me for taking the sentimental nonsense and conceit
out of him. You will need just such a lesson at the rate you go on,
and I hope Fan will give it to you.”

“When the lecture is over, I’ll go on with the joke, if you want to
know it.”

“Isn’t this enough?”

“Oh, bless you, no! the cream of it is to come. What would you give
to know who the lady was?”

“Five dollars, down, this minute.”

“Very good, hand ‘em over, and I’ll tell you.”

“Truly, Dick?”

“Yes, and prove it.”

Dolly produced her purse, and, bill in hand, sat waiting for the
disclosure. Dick rose with a melo-dramatic bow,--

“Lo, it was I.”

“That’s a great fib, for I saw you flying about the whole evening.”

“You saw my dress, but I was not in it.”

“Oh! oh! who did I keep going to, then? and what did I do to
make a fool of myself, I wonder?”

Purse and bill dropped out of Dolly’s hand, and she looked at her
brother with a distracted expression of countenance. Dick rubbed his
hands and chuckled.
