between her husband and Mr. Carlisle she was very much held in on
Eleanor's subject; both insisting that she should let her alone. It was
difficult for Eleanor to be displeased with Mr. Carlisle in these
times; his whole behaviour was so kind and gentlemanly. The only fault
to be found with him was his pursuit of her. That was steady and
incessant; yet at the same time so brotherly and well-bred in manner
that Eleanor sometimes feared she gave him unconsciously too much
encouragement. Feeling really grateful to him, it was a little hard not
to shew it. For although Mr. Carlisle was the cause of her trouble, he
was also a shield between her and its more active manifestations. He
favoured her not dancing; that was like a jealous man, Mrs. Powle
said. He smiled at Eleanor's charities, and would have helped them if
he could. He would not have her scolded on the score of religious
duties; he preferred administering the antidote to them as quietly as
possible.
"Eleanor!" said Mrs. Powle, putting her head out of the drawing-room
door one Sunday evening as she heard somebody come in--"Eleanor! is
that you? come here. Where have you been? Here is Mr. Carlisle waiting
this hour to go with you to hear the Bishop of London preach."
Eleanor came into the room. She was dressed with extreme plainness, and
looking so calm and sweet that it was no wonder Mr. Carlisle's eyes
rested on her as on a new object of admiration. Few of his acquaintance
looked so; and Eleanor did not use it, in times past.
"Now here you are, child, almost too late. Make haste and get yourself
ready. Where have you been?"
"She cannot be more ready than she is," remarked the other member of
the party.
"I think, mamma, I will not go to-night. I am a little tired."
"That's nonsense, Eleanor! When were you ever too unwell to go to
church, this winter? Go and get ready. What Mr. Carlisle says is all
very well, but he does not see you with my eyes."
"I shall not take her if she is tired," said Mr. Carlisle gently. And
Eleanor sat still.
"Where have you been then, child, to tire yourself? You do try me,
Eleanor. What can you have found to do?"
"All London, mamma," said Eleanor pleasantly.
"All London! I should like to know what that means. All wrong, I
suppose, according to you. Well, what part of London have you been
attacking to-day? I should think the best thing for London would be to
hear its Bishop. What have you been about, Eleanor?"
"Only to school, mamma--Sunday school."
"But you went there this morning?"
"That was another."
Mrs. Powle looked appealingly to Mr. Carlisle, as saying, How long
would you let this go on? Turned her dissatisfied face again to Eleanor,
"What school is this, mistress? and where?"
"Mamma, if I tell you where it is, I am afraid you will be frightened.
It is a Ragged school."
"A Ragged school! What does that mean, Eleanor? What is a Ragged
school?"
"A school to teach ragged children, mamma. Or rather, for ragged
people--they are not most of them children; and perhaps I should not
say they are ragged; for though some of them are, others of them are
not. They are some of the wretchedest of the ragged class, at any rate."
"And Eleanor Powle can find nothing more suitable to do, than to go and
teach such a set! Why you ought to have a policeman there to take care
of you."
"We have several."
"Policemen!"
"Yes, ma'am."
"And it is not safe without them!"
"It is safe with them, mamma."
"Mr. Carlisle, what do you think of such doings?" said Mrs. Powle,
appealing in despair.
"They move my curiosity," he said quietly. "I hope Eleanor will go on
to gratify it."
"And can you really find nothing better than that to do, of a Sunday?"
her mother went on.
"No, mamma, I do not think I can."
"What do they learn?" Mr. Carlisle inquired.
"A little reading, some of them; but the main thing to teach them is
the truths of the Bible. They never heard them before, anywhere,--nor
can hear them anywhere else."
"Do you think they will hear them there?"
"I am sure they do."
"And remember?"
The tears filled Eleanor's eyes, as she answered, "I am sure some of
them will."
"And suppose you lose your life in this Ragged teaching?" said Mrs.
Powle. "You might catch your death of some horrid disease, Eleanor. Do
you think that right?"
"Mamma, there was One who did lay down his life for you and for me. I
am not going to offer mine needlessly. But I do not think it is in any
danger here. Many go besides me."
"She is a confirmed Methodist!" said Mrs. Powle, turning to Mr.
Carlisle. He smiled.
"Where does your school meet, Eleanor?"
"I am afraid of terrifying mamma, if I tell you."
"We will take care of her in case she faints. I am in no danger."
"It is the Field-Lane school, Mr. Carlisle."
"The Field-Lane? Won't you enlighten me?"
"Carter's Field-Lane; but it is only called Field-Lane. Did you never
hear of it? It was in a wretched place in Saffron Hill at first--now it
is removed to an excellent room in a better street."
"Where?"
"You know where Clerkenwell is?"
This name gave no intelligence whatever to Mrs. Powle, but Mr. Carlisle
looked enlightened. His face changed and grew dark with something very
like horror and alarm.
"Do you know that is one of the worst parts of London?" he said.
"Pretty bad," said Eleanor, "and the school used to be. It is
wonderfully improved now."
"There, you see, Eleanor, Mr. Carlisle thinks it is a very improper
place for you to be; and I hope you will go there no more. I do not
mean you shall."
Eleanor was silent, looking a little anxious, though not cast down. Mr.
Carlisle marked her.
"It is not safe for you, Eleanor," he said.
"It is perfectly safe," she answered with a smile that had a curious
brightness in it. "I run no risk whatever."
"You are a bold creature," said her mother, "and always were; but that
is no reason why you should be allowed to go your own crazy ways. I
will have no more of this, Eleanor."
"Mamma, I am perfectly safe. I have nothing at all to fear. I would not
fail of going for anything in the world." She spoke with an earnest and
shadowed face now. She felt it.
"Who goes with you? or do you go alone?"
"No, ma'am--Thomas is with me always."
"How came you to get into such a strange place?"
"I heard of it--and there is sure to be more to do in such a work than
