ing from the over anxiety she felt in reference to the two 
boys' return. 

"Why not? What would you do ?" Guy knit his 
brows, and looked sternly at his wife. She had betray 
ed herself, and he saw a little below the surface. " Isn't 
home the best and safest place for him ? Home, where 
father and mother can watch and guard, warn, lead, or 
admonish ? I know that temptation lurks in cities ; but 
home influence ought to be stronger than temptation. 
Let us see if it cannot be made so in John's case." 

" I can promise nothing," answered Mrs. Guy, draw 
ing coldly back into herself. " As for Adam and John, 
they have always acted with as much independence as 
if I were a nonentity. They have never clearly acknow 
ledged my rights in the household ; and, were I to at- 
tenipt control or influence, so far as they are concerned, 
open war would be the consequence. There is no use 
in concealing the fact, John is wholly beyond my reach ; 



 

and if, in bringing him home, you calculate anything on 
my power of restraint or direction, you build on a foundation of sand." 

Mr. Guy did not answer. What could he say ? The 
will of a woman like his wife, was too strong a thino- 


for him to act against ; particularly, when to the will 
was added a subtle and far-seeing spirit. He did not 
venture to speak of duty, forbearance and self-denial ; 
for these had never been elements of power in his own 
life ; and he doubted as to their existence, as moral forces, 
with any one. They might answer as catch words, and 
to make oratorical points in a sermon ; but were of little 
worth as ends of action certainly of no value in his 
home. No ; he did not speak to his wife of duty, fore- 
bearance, or self-denial, lest she should fling the words 
back in his face with cold contempt. 

" If Adam and John come home," resumed Mrs. 
Guy, Edwin must go away to school somewhere. He's 
nearly past me now, and, in league with his two older 
brothers, will set my authority aside, as nothing. The 
fact is, Mr. Guy, the house isn't large enough to hold us 
all ; and you might as well comprehend the fact first as 
last. Three to one are too many ; and I can't make 
my way against such odds. With Edwin alone, I am 
taxed to the utmost to maintain myself in peace. Put 
Adam and John on the enemies' side, and I shall be 
driven from the house in less than two months." 

"You speak wildly," said Mr. Guy, in a tone of 
impatience, beginning to stalk about the floor in quick, 
short turns. 

" Not wildly but soberly. Facts are stubborn things, 



 

sir. You don't know half of what Pm required to put 
up with from your children, old and young. They are 
the curse of my life ! " 

Mr. Guy stopped suddenly, before the woman who 
said this, and gazed at her with a countenance on which 
surprise blended with a shade of fear. 

" That is strange talk," he ventured to say. 

" And stranger that it is true talk," answered Mrs. 


Guy, firmly. " No woman could have done more than 
I have done for your children's well being and comfort ; 
but, they set themselves against me from the beginning, 
disputing every inch of ground I assumed in the family, 
and yearly gaining strength, until now, they are able to 
set me at defiance. If you go over to them, the end 
has come. I must step aside, and find protection some 
where else." 

" Woman ! Are you beside yourself? " exclaimed 
Mr. Guy. 

" No, sir," was the cold, steady reply. " I am in pos 
session of all my faculties, and able to comprehend, 
clearly, my position. The odds are against me. When 
Adam and John return, I shall, in all probability, have 
to take my children and seek another home. Submit to 
dictation and insult from them, I will not ! Enough 
has already been endured." 

There was a flashing light in her eyes, never seen by 
Mr. Guy until now. Hitherto calmness of purpose had 
marked all her actions. If she set herself in opposition 
to her husband's will, she wrought so in concealment 
that he had scarcely a suspicion of her purpose until it 
was accomplished. But now, she stood revealed in a 



 

sterner, more resolute, and more defiant character. She 
meant to come into open conflict with his elder children 
not recklessly and blindly ; nor in any doubt as to the 
issue, but well assured in her own mind of victory. 

"But, what am I to do with them ?" asked Mr. Guy. 
" They are my children, and this is their home." 

"Require their just submission," said his wife firmly. 

