cruise a year or two before she obtains her full cargo of oil."

"I hope not."

"But we may find some way to get home. I have all the money I saved from
the vessel, and we can pay our passage home."

The money reminded the orphan girl of her father, and she mused upon the
past. The boat sped on its way, and in a short time reached the ship.

"Hallo, Noddy!" shouted Mr. Lincoln, as the boat approached. "And Mollie
too!"

The mate was overjoyed to see them, and to find that they had been saved
from the wreck. He leaped into the boat, took Mollie in his arms, and
kissed her as though she had been his own child. He grasped the hand of
Noddy, and wrung it till the owner thought it would be crushed in his
grip.

"I was sure you were lost," said Mr. Lincoln.

"And we were sure you were lost," replied Noddy.

"How did it happen? The cabin was full of water when we left the
schooner."

"You didn't wait long, Mr. Lincoln."

"We couldn't wait long. The sea made a clean breach over the wreck. Only
four of us were saved; the rest were washed away, and we never saw
anything more of them!"

Noddy and Mollie were conducted to the deck of the whale ship, where
they were warmly welcomed by the captain and his officers. The three
sailors who had been saved from the wreck of the Roebuck were rejoiced
to see them alive and well. In the presence of the large group gathered
around himself and Mollie, Noddy told his story.

"Captain McClintock was lost, then?"

"Yes," replied Noddy, breaking through the crowd, for he did not like to
tell the particulars of his death in poor Mollie's presence.

At a later hour he found an opportunity to inform his late shipmates of
the manner in which the corpse of the captain had been found, and of its
burial on the island. In return, Mr. Lincoln told him that he had cast
off the boat a moment after the schooner struck the reef. The men who
happened to be on the quarter-deck with him had been saved; the others
were not seen after the shock. With the greatest difficulty they had
kept the boat right side up, for she was often full of water. For hours
they had drifted in the gale, and in the morning, when the storm
subsided, they had reached the island.

They had been kindly treated by natives, who were partially civilized by
their intercourse with vessels visiting the island, and with which they
carried on commerce, exchanging the products of the island for guns,
ammunition, and other useful and ornamental articles. The savages knew
that, if they killed or injured any white men, the terrible ships of war
would visit them with the severest punishment.

"What ship is this?" asked Noddy, when the past had been satisfactorily
explained by both parties.

"The Atlantic, of New Bedford," replied the mate. "She is full of oil,
and is homeward bound."

"Good!" exclaimed Noddy. "I suppose I have nothing further to do in this
part of the world, and I may as well go in her."

"This hasn't been a very profitable cruise to me," added Mr. Lincoln.

"Well, I suppose there is no help for it; and I hope you will have
better luck next time."

"I don't grumble; these things can't always be helped. We were lucky to
escape with our lives, and we won't say a word about the wages we have
lost."

"Perhaps you won't lose them," added Mollie; and there was a slight
flush on her fair cheeks, for her pride and her filial affection were
touched by the reflection that these men had suffered from her father's
infirmity.

The captain of the whale ship was entirely willing to take the exiles as
passengers; and Noddy told him he had saved a great many articles, which
might be of service to him. The next day, when the vessel had taken in
her water, she sailed for the beautiful island. Outside the reef she lay
to, and the boats were sent on shore to bring off such of the goods as
would be useful on the voyage.

Noddy and Mollie had an opportunity to visit their island home once
more; and, while the former assisted the men in selecting and loading
the goods, the latter gathered fresh flowers, and for the last time
strewed them on the grave of her father.

The "big heap thigs" was very much reduced by the visit of the boats;
but there was still enough left to reward the natives who had befriended
the young islanders for the service they had rendered. According to the
captain's estimate,--which was rather low,--he took about four hundred
dollars' worth of goods from the island. Mollie, as her father's heir,
was the owner of the property, subject to Noddy's claim for salvage.
With Mr. Lincoln's aid the accounts were settled. Mollie insisted upon
paying the mate and the three seamen their wages up to the time they
would reach their native land. This, with their own passage, consumed
nearly the whole sum.

Besides the property saved from the island, there were about sixteen
hundred dollars in gold and silver, and the valuable nautical
instruments of Captain McClintock, making a total of over two thousand
dollars. Though the disposition of this property was properly a subject
for the maritime courts to settle, Mr. Lincoln and the officers of the
ship talked it over, and decided that one half belonged to Mollie, in
right of her father, and the other half to Noddy, as salvage,--which is
the part of property saved from a wrecked imperilled ship, awarded to
those who save it.

Noddy at first positively objected to this decree, and refused to take a
dollar from the poor orphan girl; but when the captain told him that a
court would probably award him a larger share, and when Mollie almost
cried because he refused, he consented to take it; but it was with a
