anxious for the result that was pending, and each had 




his plan for overreaching the other. It was a long hour ; 
but at last Tom broke the spell which seemed to rest on 
both of them by declaring that he was " clean choked 
up," and must go and get a drink of water. At the 
same moment, Sorners heard the tramp of the soldiers 
in the road as they approached the house, and under- 
stood why his companion had suddenly become so 
thirsty. 

" No," said Somers, placing himself between the 
deserter and the door, with the revolver in his hand. 
" I don't want to be left alone. Somebody is coming to 
the house, half a dozen men. They are soldiers ! " he 
exclaimed, glancing out at the window. 

" Run right up chimley thar, and you'll be as safe as 
if you was t'other side of the river." 

" But they'll catch you too ! Come, Tom, up chim- 
ney with you, and I'll follow. If any one attempts tt> 
follow us, I'll shoot him with my pistol. Be in a hurry. 
Tom ! We have no time to spare," urged Somers, driv- 
ing the coward before him towards the fire-place. 

" You go up fust," pleaded Tom, in mortal terror of 
the revolver. 

" Up with you, or I'll blow your brains out ! " added 
Somers in a low, fierce tone, which frightened his com- 
panion half out of his wits. 

" Don't fire, and I will," replied the wretch, as he 
stepped into the fire-place, and commenced the ascent of 
the chimney. 



 



" Up with you ! " repeated Somers. " Now, if you 
attempt to come down, I'll shoot you." 

The voice of the farmer, leading the soldiers to then 
prey, was now heard close to the house ; and Somer 
deemed it prudent no longer to remain in the room. 
Darting out into the entry, he made his way to the 
cellar, closing the door behind him just as the rebels 
were about to enter. 

"Where is he?" demanded the sergeant, who belonged 
to the battery at the works near the house. 

" In this room," replied the farmer, putting his hand 
on the door of the apartment where he had seen the 
victim lie down to sleep an hour before. " But yer 
must be keerful with him. He had a pistol, and mebbe 
he mought shoot some on us." 

" We aren't afraid of all the Yankees this side of the 
North Pole," added the sergeant, as he pushed the door 
open and entered the room, followed by his squad of 
soldiers. " Where is he ? There aren't no Yankee 
here." 

" Well, he was here an hour ago," said the farmer. 

" See here, old man, if you've been makin' a fool of 
us this hot day, I'll spit you on my bayonet. We heard 
that a deserter and a Yankee had been taken, and that 
the cavalry iost one of them." 



" That 'was the Yankee. They lost him, and I found 
him again." 



 



"Where is he, then?" 

" He aren't far from here," said the farmer, walking 
up to the fire-place, and pointing up the chimney, where 
he had no doubt the victim had retired when he heard 
the soldiers approaching. 

"Up there?' 

" That's where the feller hid when the troopers was 
lookin' for him ; and yer kin be sure he's up there now
But yer must be keerful ; fur he's got a pistol, and is a 
mighty savage fellow." 

" We'll soon bring him down," added the sergeant, as 
he stepped into the fire-place, and looked up the chimney. 
" I see him ; but he's half way up to the top. I reckon 
we can smoke him out best. Come, old man, take some 
of this pitch-wood : that will make a big smoke, and 
kindle a fire." 

" We'll soon have him," said the farmer as he obeyed 
the order. 

" I say, Yank ! " shouted the sergeant up the chimney ; 
" if you don't want to be smoked out, come down." 

No answer came to this polite suggestion ; and then 
one of the soldiers proposed to fire his musket up the 
chimney ; which so terrified the occupant thereof, that he 
begged for mercy. 
