fondness no fault could ever destroy. 
" Dick ! " she began, in a voice that sounded as if it 
came through waves of tears ; and what she could not say 
was lost in kisses. 
" I know all, my darling. God sent Daisy to be an angel 
to us. She always finds the shortest path out to the light." 
" Yes. And I am so happy ! I believe I never knew 
what happiness was until last night. And, Richard, will 
you I mean the trouble was all my fault, and he " 
" Shall have his dear, naughty girl, with my blessing, 
Lily. But one doesn't need two such lessons in a life. I 
can trust you henceforward ? " And he glanced deeply into 
her eyes. 
They filled with tears. " Yes," she answered, quite 
humbly. 
" Now for Ulric." 
Lily was delighted to hear him use Mr. Auchester's Chris- 
tian name. There had always been a fine, indescribable 
formality between the two. 
The gentleman answered for himself, by advancing to 
meet them. A warm color suffused his noble face, as, 
reaching out his hand, he said, in a tone that clearly asked 
a favor, 
" Dr. Bertrand, will you not give me a brother's place in 
your heart, as well as your household ? " 
" Willingly, joyfully ; " and the two hands rested in a olasp 
cordially fraternal. 
" If you can trust me, I hope to redeem the past." 
" And I think Lily understands better what she is doing 
than she did six months ago. We have all made some mis- 
takes about it except Daisy." 
They entered the room again. The manner in which Lily 
clung to Richard touched him deeply. The conversation 
unconsciously fell into a sweet, half sorrowful strain. 
 
Afterwards Richard and Mr. Auchester discussed the 
subject by themselves, and arrived at a most amicable con- 
clusion. 
" I am sorry to go away, on some accounts," Ulric said, 
"and if the position was offered to me now for the first 
time, should hardly accept it. But, besides being a per- 
sonal friend of Hon. Mr. , the opportunity is really too 
fine to be thrown up without just cause. Since Lily is will- 
ing to go, and has a great desire to travel, I think I can 
make it very pleasant for her." 
" It will also be better for you to begin your life away 
from old associations," Richard replied ; and thus consent 
was given for a marriage at their eai'liest convenience. 
" Auchester is a fine fellow," he admitted to Daisy, after- 
wards. " I believe I never did him quite justice before." 
Mr. Auchester concluded to go to New York that evening 
with Richard. He explained to Lily that there must of neces- 
sity be a great deal to do. 
"And I'll write to Alice this very night, and hurry her 
home." 
" O, that would be too bad ! " exclaimed Lily. 
" She would rather come, I know. She would never for- 
give us if we went on by ourselves. Besides, she is a capi- 
tal judge of all feminine matters, and will know just where to 
begin, to make the affair come out straight. You are not 
strong yet, and I can't have you worried with the thousand 
and one things that belong to a wedding." 
" How wise you are ! " Lily rejoined, mischievously. 
" Yes ; or, at least, determined. So you have nothing to 
do but get well and rosy as fast as possible. I shall be up 
every day or evening until you are strong enough to go 
home." 
" I think I could do it now. Or shall I try to-morrow ? " 
" Not until Alice returns. Remember how tired you were 
this morning, and the headaches. I want to show Richard 
what excellent care I can take of you. And now be a good 
child, and obey every word of Daisy's. I appoint her my 
vicegerent." 
Lily said good by. Yet somehow it came very hard. 
" What if I should never see him again, Daisy ? " she said, 
solemnly, trying to keep back some foolish tears. " People 
die suddenly, you know " 
" Since you have both been so near the grave, and lived, 
I think you can trust God for the rest." 
"I will," she answered, rebuked for her momentary 
distrust. 
She went to bed quite early, and soon fell asleep. The 
excitement and exertion had not injured her any, they all 
perceived on the following morning. She tried to sew a 
little, and succeeded very well. 
" I will not be sick a day longer," she said, in a resolute 
tone. " It is clearly indulging in laziness/' 
 
CHAPTER XXXV. 
Mine to the core of the heart, my beauty ! 
Mine all mine, and for love, not duty ; 
Love given willingly, full, and free; 
Love for love's sake, as I love thee. 
Duty, a servant, keeps the key; 
Cut Love, the master, goes in and out 
Of his goodly chambers, with song and shout, 
Constant and happy, merry and free ! 
Miss MULOCK. 
As Mr. Auchester expected, his sister hastened home, 
leaving her tour unfinished. She could not wait a day, but 
went immediately to Kothelan to see Lily, and express her 
delight. Still she was greatly disappointed to think Ulric 
was again going abroad. She could not resist saying, 
" I did so hope he would settle down somewhere in quiet, 
and behave like a reasonable citizen of the United States." 
" I am afraid it is my fault," began Lily, penitently. 
"If I had not " 
" Well, we will forgive you, since you are to pay for the 
mistake by years of exile. I am more than glad to have it 
end even this way, since you have learned how necessary 
you are to each other's happiness. But Ulric wants to start 
just as early in December as he can. So you will have only 
about three weeks in which to prepare." 
" Three weeks ! " said Lily, in dismay. " Why, I believe 
Bel was a whole year making wedding clothes." 
" The sooner the better, my dear, for it will grow colder 
every day. It is a bad season for a sea voyage, too ; but 
since Ulric is so resolutely bent on going, the best thing 
seems to be to go as soon as possible. He quoted Mr. 
 
