should do without her.”

“O father!” said Helen.

“It is all true, my child. Even now, she has obtained an engagement to
sing at the theatre, chiefly, as I think, though she will not admit it,
because she thinks the money will be of use to me.”

“Indeed!” said the young artist. “I observed in this morning’s paper a
very flattering account of the début of a young singer bearing your
daughter’s name, but I had no idea it was she. Wait a moment, here it
is.”

The young man pointed out the paragraph to Mr. Ford, who read it with
proud gratification. It was pleasant to him to find that the daughter
who was so dear to him should be appreciated by the public.

“Helen, I shall become proud of you,” he said.

“And I shall return the compliment, papa,—you know when. Papa, I want to
whisper to you a moment.”

“Certainly, my dear; that is, if Mr. Coleman will excuse the
impoliteness.”

“Don’t mention it, sir. I hope you will consider me so far a friend, as
to treat me unceremoniously.”

“Mr. Coleman,” said Mr. Ford, after his whispered conference with Helen,
“my daughter desires me to invite you to dine with us. I trust you will
feel inclined to accept the invitation.”

“With the greatest pleasure,” said the young man, his face brightening
up.

“I need hardly tell you that we do not fare very sumptuously.”

The young man laughed. “And I need hardly assure you, sir, that I am
quite unused to sumptuous fare. Frankly, but for your invitation, my
dinner would have consisted of some dry bread and a couple of sausages.”

“You can reserve those till to-morrow, then. I really don’t know what
Helen will give us. She allows no dictation in the commissary
department.”

“Now, papa,” remonstrated Helen, “what will Mr. Coleman think of me? You
are making me out to be a dreadful tyrant.”

“I thought it best to put him on his guard. Since you are kind enough to
accept our invitation, Mr. Coleman, Helen will knock at your door when
dinner is ready. Good morning.”

“Good morning, sir. I shall be quite ready for the summons.”

The artist went back to his work, but the image of Helen’s childish
beauty occasionally rose up before him, and he could not help wishing
that Heaven had given him such a sister.




                              CHAPTER XVI.
                           THE MUFFLED FACE.


Apparently brighter days had dawned upon Helen and her father. With Mr.
Sharp’s loan and Helen’s weekly salary they were no longer obliged to
practice the pinching economy which, until now, had been a necessity.
Helen could now venture to add an occasional luxury to their daily fare
without being compelled to consider anxiously how many dollars yet
remained in the common purse. The landlady’s call for the rent was now
cheerfully received. Helen always had the amount carefully laid aside.
No one rejoiced more sincerely in their new prosperity than the worthy
landlady, who though forced to look after her own interests, had a large
heart, full of kindly sympathy for those who were doing their best in
the struggle of life.

“I only wish all my lodgers were equally prompt, my dear,” she said, one
day. “It’s really disagreeable to call on some of them; they look as if
you were the last person they wanted to see, and pay down their rent
just for all the world as if it was something you had no right to, but
were trying to exact from them. Now you always look cheerful, and pay me
as if it was a pleasure for you to do it.”

“And so it is,” said Helen, blithely. “But it wasn’t so always. I think,
Mother Morton, that the pleasure of paying away money depends upon
whether you are sure of any more after that is gone.”

“I don’t know but you are right,” said the landlady. “But I know it
isn’t so with some. There’s Mrs. Ferguson used to occupy my first floor
front, living on her income, of which she didn’t spend half. I suppose
she never had less than two or three hundred dollars on hand in her
trunk lying idle, but she’d put me off as long as she could about
paying, for no earthly reason except because she hated to part with her
money. I stood it as long as I could, till one day I told her plainly
that I knew she had the money, and she must pay it or go. She took a
miff and went off, and I didn’t mourn much for her. But, bless my soul!
here I am running on, when I ought to be down stairs giving orders about
the dinner.”

Mr. Ford invested a portion of his borrowed capital in a variety of
articles which he conceived would assist him in his invention. Although
to outward appearance success was quite as distant as ever, it was
perhaps a happy circumstance for Mr. Ford that he constantly believed
himself on the eve of attaining his purpose. Indeed, he labored so
enthusiastically that his health began to suffer. The watchful eyes of
Helen detected this, and she felt that it was essential that her father
should have a greater variety and amount of exercise. She determined,
therefore, to propose some pleasant excursion, which would have the
effect of diverting his thoughts for a time from the subject which so
completely engrossed them.

Accordingly, one Saturday morning, having no duties at the theatre
during the day, she said to her father, as he was about to settle
himself to his usual employment, “Papa, I have a favor to ask.”

“Well, my child?”

“I don’t want you to work to-day.”

