
"What?"

"What are you up there for?"

"Got up so's to keep awake. It's real fun."

"Why, how your teeth chatter. Isn't it cold up there?"

"Ra-ther. I don't know but I might as well come down."

"I wonder," muttered Gypsy, drowsily, just as Joy had begun in very
thrilling words to request Oliver Cromwell to have mercy on her, and was
about preparing to jump out of the cocoa-nut shell into Niagara Falls,
"I wonder what makes people think it's a joke to lie awake."

"I don't believe they do," said Joy, with a tinge in her voice of
something that, to say the least, was not hilarious.

"Yes they do," persisted Gypsy; "all the girls in novels lie awake all
night and cry when their lovers go to Europe, and they have a real nice
time. Only it's most always moonlight, and they talk out loud. I always
thought when I got large enough to have a lover, I'd try it."

Joy dropped into another dream, and, though not of interest to the
public, it was a very charming dream, and she felt decidedly cross,
when, at the end of another unknown period Gypsy woke her up with a
pinch.

"Merry Christmas! Merry Christmas!"

"What are you merry Christmassing for? That's no fair. It isn't morning
yet. Let me alone."

"Yes, it is morning too. I heard the clock strike six ever so long ago.
Get up and build the fire."

"I don't believe it's morning. You can build it yourself."

"No, it's your week. Besides, you made me do it twice for you your last
turn, and I shan't touch it. Besides, it is morning."

Joy rose with a groan, and began to fumble for the matches. All at once
Gypsy heard a very fervent exclamation.

"What's the matter?"

"The old thing's tipped over—every single, solitary match!"

Gypsy began to laugh.

"It's nothing to laugh at," chattered Joy; "I'm frozen almost to death,
and this horrid old fire won't do a thing but smoke."

Gypsy, curled up in the warm bed, smothered her laugh as best she could,
to see Joy crouched shivering before the stove-door, blowing away
frantically at the fire, her cheeks puffed out, her hands blue as
indigo.

"There!" said Joy, at last; "I shan't work any more over it. It may go
out if it wants to, and if it don't it needn't."

She came back to bed, and the fire muttered and sputtered a while, and
died out, and shot up again, and at last made up its mind to burn, and
burned like a small volcano.

"What a noise that fire makes! I hope it won't wake up mother. Joy,
don't it strike you as rather funny it doesn't grow light faster?"

"I don't know."

"Get up and look at the entry clock; you're on the front side."

Poor Joy jumped out shivering into the cold again, opened the door
softly, and ran out. She came back in somewhat of a hurry, and shut the
door with a bang.

"Gypsy Breynton!"

"What?"

"If I ever forgive you!"

"What is the matter?"

"It's just twenty-five minutes past eleven!"



Gypsy broke into a ringing laugh. Joy could never bear to be laughed at.

"I don't see anything so terrible funny, and I guess you wouldn't if
you'd made that old—"

"Fire; I know it. Just to think!—and you shivering and blowing away at
it. I never heard anything so funny!"

"I think it was real mean in you to wake me up, any way."

"Why, I thought I heard it strike six as much as could be. Oh, dear, oh,
dear!"

Joy couldn't see the joke. But the story of that memorable night was not
yet finished.

The faint, gray morning really came at last, and the girls awoke in good
earnest, ready and glad to get up.

"I feel as if I'd been pulled through a knothole," said Joy.

"I slept with one eye open all the time I did sleep," said Gypsy,
drearily. "I know one thing. I'll never try to lie awake as long as I
live."

"Not when you have a lover go to Europe?"

"Not if I have a dozen lovers go to Europe. How is that fire going to be
built, I'd like to know?—every stick of wood burned out last night."

There was no way but to go down into the wood-shed and get some. It was
