same yesterday, to-day, and for ever ! ' Was it unlike Him 
to stand beside the poor runaway slave in the wilderness, 
and hear her cry ? " 

"But,— He doesn't do so now," I said. 

" Yes, He does ; the only difference is, that we cannot see 
Him. He stands by His people when they are in trouble ; 
He brings them comfort, and gives them deliverance, and 
speaks to them in their hearts. It is the ' angel of His presence' that saves them now, and in all their auction He is 
afflicted. Nothing is true of Him then that is not true of 
Him now ; nor true of Him now that was not true of Him 
then." 

" Sir," said liph, " do you think Hagar was one of His 
people?" 

" She was the wife of Abraham, and she was to be the 
mother of his first child ; and God took care of everything 
that belonged to Abraham. But He passes by nothing ; He 
forgets nobody, and nobody's trouble ; He ied to put sin 
and sorrow away ; and men's perverseness is the only reason 
why it is not put away. The ' Messenger of the covenant,' 
He comes to every heart that will let Him in ; and the 
' Messenger of the covenant ' is the same angel who spoke to 
Moses in Mount Sinai, and the same angel who  found Hagar 
by a fountain of water in the wilderness.' " 

"  And he said, Hagar, Sarai's maid, whence comest thou ? 
and whither wilt thou go ? '" 

" That sounds like Jesus," I said. 

" She, weary and wondering, said, ' I flee from the face of 
my mistress SaraL' And then she was told to go back and 
be patient ; 'and the angel of the Lord said unto her, I will 



 

multiply thy seed exceedingly, that it shall not be nnmbered 
for multitude.' You see what voice speaks there." 

" But her children were not to be the Jews ? " said liph. 

"No. The people descended from Ishmael, her son, are 
the great Arabian nation, a people almost as wonderful as 
their cousins the Jews. Their character was foretold to 
Hagar. ' Thou shalt bear a son, and shalt call his name Ishmael ; because the Lord hath heard thy affliction. And he 
will be a wild man ; his hand will be against every man, and 
every man's hand against him ; and he shall dwell in the 
presence of all his brethren.' It is the character they have 
borne, without change, through all the generations of the 
three thousand seven hundred years since then. They are 
like no other nation in that. They are a great multitude 
of many various tribes spread over the country from Egypt 
and the Mediterranean coast to the river Tigris and beyond, 
and westward through Egypt to the northern regions of 
Africa. And everywhere they are wild men; their hand 
against every man, and every man's hand against them ; 
but no hand able to put them down or put them out of 
their possessions. Still they dwell in the presence of. all 
their brethren ; their language and manners and habits and 
abodes remaining the same as they were three thousand 
years ago, in all essentials." 

" Why is every man's hand against them, sir ? " 

"Well, their hand is against every man; that is one 
reason." 

"What is that for?" 

"It is their way of enriching themselves. They are not 
great agriculturists; they are not mercantile; although 
something of commerce is carried on by them in a scattering 
way, and some harvests are gathered. Trades, mechanical 
trades, they abhor. The Bedouins will not even permit any 
handicraftsmen to remain in their tribes ; they will not admit them to their society nor allow intermarriages with 
them. Craftsmen are well respected in other parts of the 
East— in Syria and in Egypt— but the Bedouin reckons himself too noble for such low occupatioas. Of course, as he is 




' When we came oat of oar tents one morning, we saw all over 
a wide plain the carling smoke of the Bedoain fires." 





fond of money, he must get it in some other way ; and his 
way ia to take it from foreigners and strangers passing 
through his country : unless, you must remember, they are 
strangers who throw themselves upon his protection or ask 
his hospitality ; in which case he will protect them from all 
harm at the risk of his life." 

" Then they are a curious sort of robbers," said Dan. 

Very curious." 

" Do they kill as well as rob ? " asked liph. 

" Not unless resistance is made and blood is drawn. Then 
comes in blood revenge. No; their robbery is quiet and 
systematic oftentimes ; a regular black maiL For instance
I remember once, crossing with a caravan from Orfa to the 
Tigris to reach Mosul, in the northern part of Mesopotamia, 
when we came out of our tents one morning we saw all over 
a wide plain the curling smoke of the Bedouin fires, scattered 
here and there, rising up into the still air. Of course, pretty 
as it was, we knew what would be the next thing ; and in an 
hour or two, a couple of horsemen were scouring over the 
plain to meet us. The caravan was halted and surveyed by 
them, and then we were all marched off to one of the stations 
and ordered to encamp. The leader came to our tents. He 
was received with the greatest possible respect and with rich 
