"It is of no consequence what I think, Shuffles, if you are conscious of
the wrong you have done," added the worthy chaplain. "You behaved
exceedingly well last year, and it almost broke my heart to see you
relapsing into your former evil habits."

"I am grateful to you for the interest you have taken in me, and I
assure you I have often been encouraged to do well by your kind words,"
continued the penitent, with due humility. "I have done wrong, and I
don't deserve to be forgiven."

"'He that humbleth himself shall be exalted,'" said Mr. Agneau,
gratified at the great change which had apparently been wrought in the
prisoner. "If you are really sorry for your offence, Mr. Lowington, I
doubt not, will pardon you, and restore you to favor again."

"I don't deserve it, sir. Since you left me, I have been thinking of my
past life. I dare not tell you how bad I have been."

"You need not tell me. It is not necessary that you should confess your
errors to me. There is One who knows them, and if you are sincerely
repentant He will pity and forgive you."

"I think I should feel better if I told some one of my misdeeds."

"Perhaps you would; that is for you to judge. I will speak to Mr.
Lowington about you to-night. What shall I say to him?"

"I hardly know. I deserve to be punished. I have done wrong, and am
willing to suffer for it."

The tender-hearted chaplain thought that Shuffles was in a beautiful
state of mind, and he desired to have him released at once, that he
might converse with him on great themes under more favorable
circumstances; but Shuffles still detained him.

"I'm afraid I have ruined myself on board this ship," continued
Shuffles, persisting in his self-humiliation.

"If you manfully acknowledge your fault, you will be freely and
generously forgiven."

"Mr. Lowington hates me now, after what I have done."

"O, far from it!" exclaimed the chaplain. "It will be a greater
satisfaction to him than to you to forgive you. You are no longer of the
opinion that you were unfairly used in the distribution of the offices,
I suppose."

"Mr. Agneau, I was beside myself when I resisted the principal. I should
not have done it if I had been in my right mind."

"You were very angry."

"I was--I was not myself."

"Anger often makes men crazy."

"You don't understand me, Mr. Agneau."

"Indeed, I do. You mean that you deluded yourself into the belief that
you had been wronged, and that you ought not to obey the orders of your
officers, and of the principal. The force that was used made you so
angry that you did not know what you were about," added the sympathizing
chaplain.

"In one word, Mr. Agneau, I had been drinking," said Shuffles, with
something like desperation in his manner, as he bent his head, and
covered his face with his hands.

"Drinking!" gasped the chaplain, filled with horror at the confession.

"I told you I was worse than you thought I was," moaned Shuffles.

"Is it possible!"

"It is true, sir; I say it with shame."

"Are you in the habit of taking intoxicating drinks?" asked the
chaplain, confounded beyond measure at this complication of the
difficulty.

"I am not in the habit of it, because I can't get liquor all the time.
My father has wine on his table, and I always was allowed to drink one
glass."

"Can it be!" ejaculated the chaplain. "A youth of seventeen----"

"I'm eighteen now, sir."

"A youth of eighteen in the habit of taking wine!" groaned Mr. Agneau.

"I drank a great deal more than my father knew of while I was at home."

"I am amazed!"

"I knew you would be, sir; but I have told you the truth now."

"But where did you get your liquor to-day?"

"It was wine, sir."

"Where did you get it?"

"I brought two bottles on board with me when I reported for duty
yesterday."

"This is terrible, Shuffles! Do you know what an awful habit you are
contracting, my dear young friend?"

"I never thought much about it till to-night. It has got me into such a
scrape this time, that I don't believe I shall ever drink any more."

"As you respect yourself, as you hope for peace in this world, and peace
in the next, never put the cup to your lips again. 'Wine is a mocker;
strong drink is raging; and whosoever is deceived thereby is not wise.'
Did you drink the two bottles?"

"No, sir; only part of one bottle," replied Shuffles, with commendable
promptness.

