


CHAPTER III. . 

SIX THOUSAND DOLLARS. 

Within half a mile of the ferryman's cottage, at 
Port Rock, was the summer residence of Mr. Sher- 
wood, who, two years before, had become the hus- 
band of Bertha Grant, of Woodville. The house had 
just been completed, and the young couple had taken 
possession of it on the first of July. The locality 
had always been a favorite resort of Mr. Sherwood. 
The scenery in the immediate vicinity was beautiful, 
and the windows of the new mansion commanded a 
splendid view of the Adirondack Mountains, and of 
the lake. 

Mr. Sherwood was an enthusiastic admirer of the 
scenery of Iake Champlain. His constant visits at 
"VVoodville had given him a taste for aquatic sports, 
in -which he was disposed to indulge on a larger 
scale than ever had been known at Woodville. He 




 



had been remarkably fortunate in his financial op- 
erations, and was already a wealthy man. Though 
he did not retire from active business, he had taken 
a partner, which enabled him to spend a part of his 
time during the summer at his country house on 
the lake. 

Mr. Grant had gone to Europe a second time, to 
be absent during the summer, and Miss Fanny and 
Fanny Jane had accepted Bertha's invitation to spend 
a few weeks at Port Rock. A splendid time had 
been promised them by Mrs. Sherwood, who had 
made extensive preparations for their visit. The 
arrangements included a novelty which offered a 
very brilliant prospect to the party, and excited the 
imagination even of the older ones to the highest 
pitch. 

This novelty was nothing less than a miniature 
steamboat, which had already been christened the 
" Woodville," in honor of the home of the owner's 
lady. She was a splendid little craft, and as per- 
fect in her machinery and appointments as any 
steamer that ever floated. She was a side-wheel 
boat, sixty feet in length, by twelve feet beam. 



 

Forward there were a regular wheel-house, a small 
kitchen, and other rooms usually found in a steamer. 
Abaft the wheels there were a saloon and two state- 
rooms. Of course all these apartments, as well as 
the cabin below, were very contracted in their di- 
mensions; but they were fitted up in the most ele- 
gant style. The family had seen her, in an unfinished 
state, in New York city, where she was built ; and 
even Mr. Sherwood and Bertha looked forward with 
childish anticipations to the time when they should 
glide with her over the bright waters of the beau- 
tiful lake. 

The Woodville had cost a great deal of money ; 
but her owner expected to realize a full return for 
it in the enjoyment she would afibrd him, his wife, 
and their friends. She had been sent up the Hud- 
son, and through the canal to Whitehall, and thence 
to Port Henry, where she had arrived on the day 
before Lawry Wilford's return to Port Rock. 

On board of the little steamer there is an old 
friend of our readers. He may be found in the 
engine-room ; and as lie rubs up the polished iron 
of the machinery, he is thinking of Fanny Jane 

 



Grant, with whom he escaped from the Indians in 
Minnesota, and whom he expects on board with Mr. 
Sherwood's party. The young man, now sixteen 
years of age, is the engineer of the Woodville. 
Though he has been but two years learning the 
trade of a machinist, he is as thoroughly acquainted 
with every part of a marine engine as though he 
had spent his lifetime in studying it. 

The engine of the Woodville was built at the 
works where Ethan French M'as learning his trade, 
and he had been employed in its construction. As 
he was a frequent visitor at Woodville, he had pe- 
titioned for the situation he now held. At first, 
Mr. Sherwood was not willing to trust him ; but 
Ethan's employers declared that he was a man in 
everything but years, and was fully competent to 
manage the engine, and even to build one after 
the designs were made. He had come up from 
New York in the steamer. He had seen Kr. Sher- 
wood at Port Henry, on his arrival, and had been 
ordered to have the boat in readiness to start on 
the following morning, when the family would be 
passengers. 



 
