following day he went on shore to spend a few hours before the supply
steamer sailed. On visiting the fortress, he received the astonishing
intelligence that Mr. Pillgrim had escaped from the officer having him
in charge, even before he had been placed in the casement appropriated
to his use. Somers had cautioned the lieutenant to whom he had delivered
him, of the danger of removing the irons, but his advice had not been
heeded. The careless officer was now under arrest for his neglect of
duty.

By none was this unfortunate event more deeply regretted than by him who
had been the means of foiling the schemes of the traitor and handing him
over to the custody of the government. Pillgrim had boasted that he
would soon be at liberty. He was certainly a talented and a daring
fellow; and to handle him safely, it was necessary to understand him
thoroughly. Somers had a suspicion that the officer from whom the
wretch escaped was bribed by his prisoner; but of course there could be
no evidence on this interesting point.

A careful search had been made by the garrison of the fort, but without
success. Pillgrim was dressed in the full uniform of a naval lieutenant,
and in this garb his ingenuity would enable him to pass the military
lines, if indeed he was not provided with the means of doing so by the
faithless officer in charge of him. The prisoner had escaped on the
preceding day, and there was now little hope of recapturing him; but
Somers gave such information as he possessed in regard to the fugitive.
Captain Walmsley had been less fortunate, and was still in durance.

The story of the traitor's escape was a very simple one. When the boat
which had conveyed the prisoners from the steamer to the shore reached
the pier, and they had landed, Walmsley began to protest against his
confinement, being a British subject. He insisted upon seeing the
commandant of the fortress; and while everybody was listening to this
debate, Pillgrim slipped into the crowd and disappeared, passing the
sentinels, who had no suspicion that he was a prisoner, without a
challenge. Immediate search was made for him; but he must have taken to
the water, since there was no other place of concealment which was not
examined. A calker's stage was moored to the shore near the pier, and
it was afterwards surmised that he had crawled under this, securing a
position so that his head was out of water, and remained there till
evening.

He was gone, and that was all it was necessary to know. The officer who
had permitted him to escape would be court-martialed and broken, and
that would be the end of it. At noon, as Somers was about to embark on
the supply steamer, a letter was handed to him, which had been brought
in by a contraband. The negro said it had been handed to him by "a
gemman wid de anchors on his shoulders," whom he had met on the road to
Williamsburg, nine miles from the fort.

The epistle was from Pillgrim, as Somers would have known from the
writing, without the contraband's description of the person who had
given it to him. He put it in his pocket, and did not open it till he
had taken possession of his state-room on board the steamer. He was
confident that it contained nothing but threats and abuse, and he felt
but little interest in its contents. The writer, chagrined at the
failure of his plot, was running over with evil thoughts and malicious
purposes. Somers opened the letter and read as follows:--

    OLD POINT COMFORT, July 14.

SOMERS: You have been promoted. You remind me of the fable. The goat
went down into the well. The fox sprang upon his horns and leaped out.
You are the fox; you jumped over my head; you went up; you are a master
now. I congratulate you. You are the only man in the world I hate.

The Tallahassee is doing a good business for the South. She has captured
fifty vessels. The Ben Nevis was her sister. You have her. There are
more of the same family. You believe I am used up. No. I write this
letter to inform you that I am not even singed yet, say nothing of being
burned out. I shall be afloat soon. The Ben Lomond, twin sister of the
Ben Nevis and the Tallahassee, will be at work in a fortnight. She will
then be called the Tallapoosa. Look out for her.

The Ben Nevis was captured; my agents bought her again. The Ben Lomond
is now at--you wish you knew where! I shall command her. I could not
resist the temptation to inform you of my plan. I know you will enjoy my
prospects!

You would like to make a little arrangement for the capture of the Ben
Lomond. I wish you might. You will hear of her on the broad ocean in a
few weeks,--capturing, burning, bonding Yankee ships. It will please you
to read the papers then! I shall strike for a California steamer. Her
treasure will make good my losses.

I am so anxious to meet you again that I am tempted to tell you where my
ship is. I would like to meet you on her quarter deck. You are a
remarkably enterprising fellow; perhaps we shall meet. If we do, I
should feel justified in hanging you at the yard-arm. You belong to the
South. You accepted a commission in her navy. You betrayed your trust. I
shall endeavor to see you again.

Give my regards to the officers of the Chatauqua. Inform them of my
present brilliant prospects. Remember me kindly to Kate Portington.
Possibly she may be a little chilly when you see her again.

If you capture the Ben Lomond, otherwise the Tallapoosa, it would make
you a lieutenant. Do it by all means.

    PILLGRIM.

Somers read this singular letter three times before he could form an
opinion whether or not its statements were mere idle boasts, and whether
or not they had a foundation of truth. Was there any such vessel in
existence as the Ben Lomond? This was the interesting and important
question to him. At this time the Tallahassee was making fearful ravages
among the shipping on the coast, and the success and impunity with which
she carried on her depredations offered plenty of encouragement for the
rebels to send forth similar vessels, if they could obtain them.

The Ben Nevis had been named after a mountain in Scotland; Ben Lomond
was the name of another. The former was a Clyde-built vessel, and it
would have been natural to give these twin names to twin steamers.
Pillgrim, in the character of "Coles," had given him a certain amount
of correct information in respect to the Ben Nevis, though he had
deceived him in regard to her destination. He had obtained this
knowledge by accident, and the Ben Nevis had been captured.

To Somers there appeared to be a strong probability that the statements
contained in the letter were wholly or partially true. There were only
two rebel ports into which it was possible for the Ben Lomond to have
