to the future comfort of the soldier's family. The doctor had done
everything that could be done for Mrs. Kent, and his family were so
deeply interested in the poor woman that she was not likely to suffer
in the future. Mr. Grant promised to see him again, and coöperate with
him in doing what might be needed for her comfort and happiness.

Mr. Grant and Fanny returned to Woodville by the noon train. The
penitent girl felt that she had been forgiven, and the kindness of her
friend made her all the more determined to be faithful to the
resolutions she had made. She had not hoped to escape the punishment
she merited, and had not been prepared for the tender words which had
been addressed to her when it was evident that her penitence was real.

"Fanny," said Mr. Grant, as they entered the library, on her return, "I
shall, as I said before, be obliged to send you to your uncle in
Minnesota."

"I am willing to go, sir," replied she, humbly.

"I understand you have frequently declared that you would not go."

"I have, but I am sorry I said anything of the kind."

"But I do not intend to send you there as a punishment for what you
have done. I freely forgive you."

"You are very kind to me, Mr. Grant, and I will do anything you wish
without complaining."

"I am glad to see so excellent a spirit in you, which makes me sorry to
send you away at this time. If your conduct had warranted it before, I
might have made different arrangements; but it is too late now. I have
written to your uncle, informing him that you would be with him next
week. I promised him and your aunt, when I brought you here, that you
should be returned to them in two years; and that time has now expired.
We shall be absent in Europe about six months; when we return, if your
uncle is willing, I should be very glad to have you come back to
Woodville. I hope you will like your aunt better than you used to like
her."

"I shall, sir."

Mr. Grant did not think it necessary to indulge in any long lectures.
He had forgiven Fanny, and he hoped her future conduct would justify
his clemency. Mrs. Green and the servants saw that she was a different
being. She was no longer rough, disobedient, and impertinent, for she
entered at once upon her effort to be kind and obliging to all in the
house. In the afternoon Mr. Grant went up to Hudson, where he had left
Bertha and Fanny. When he had gone, the reformed girl paid a visit to
Ben the boatman, still confined to his bed with the rheumatism. She
surprised him by offering to read to him from the Bible--an offer which
he gladly accepted.

The next day she went to school, carrying a note to the teacher, which
Mr. Grant had written for her. She expected to be reproached and
reproved here, but the teacher did not allude to her past conduct,
prompted in this course by the note; her companions were astonished and
awed by her quiet dignity, and even Kate Magner said less than might
have been expected. Fanny told her what had happened after the
separation at Pennville, and solemnly assured her that she intended
always to be a good girl in the future.

Fanny spent Saturday afternoon with Ben, seated by his bedside till
dark, reading and singing to him, giving him his medicine, and
supplying all his wants. She told him the story of her wanderings in
New York, of the death and the funeral of Jenny, all of which the
kindness and tenderness of Fanny to himself made real. He commended her
good resolutions, and hoped that, in her new home in the West, she
would be able to carry them out.

On Monday the family returned from Hudson, and Fanny repeated her story
to Bertha and her sister. They were moved to tears by her narrative. It
had seemed to them that nothing short of a miracle could reform the
wayward girl; but the miracle had been wrought, as was fully proved
during the remainder of Fanny's stay at Woodville. It did not seem
possible that the gentle and obliging girl, who was a blessing to all
in the house, had ever been the grief and the sorrow of her friends, a
thorn and a torment to all who came in contact with her.

When the time for Fanny to leave for Minnesota arrived, it was hard for
the family to part with her. Miss Fanny begged that the arrangements
might be altered; that she might be permitted to remain at Woodville,
or even to go to Europe with them; but her father thought it best that
the original plan should be carried out; he believed that it would be
better for Fanny herself. There were many tears shed when they parted.
Miss Fanny was sorry to lose her protégée just as her teachings,
quickened into life by her visit to the city, were beginning to bear
their fruits.

Mr. Grant had decided to attend the young traveller to her new home,
for he was unwilling to trust her to the care of any chance friend who
might undertake the charge of her, fearful lest the good impressions
which were beginning to take root in her soul might be weakened during
the long journey. They travelled leisurely, and at the end of a week
reached Mankato, at the great bend of the Minnesota River, in the
southern part of the state.

John Grant, Fanny's uncle, lived at a settlement near the southern line
of the state, about seventy miles from Mankato; and thither Mr. Grant
and Fanny proceeded in a wagon, hired for the purpose. They were warmly
welcomed by the settlers, who seldom saw any one from the busy walks of
civilization. Mr. Grant remained but one day, which he used mainly in
informing the future guardians of Fanny in regard to her moral, mental,
and spiritual needs. He told them of the change which had come over
her, and hoped they would do all they could to foster and encourage the
growth of her good principles. When he had faithfully discharged his
duty to his late charge, he took an affectionate leave of her, and
departed for his home, returning to Mankato in the wagon by which he
had come.

Fanny now entered upon her new life, and had an opportunity to take a
survey of her future home. The settlement consisted of about fifty
persons, most of whom had emigrated from states east of the
Mississippi. Among them were a few Germans, Swedes, and Norwegians. The
country was a perfect garden by nature, and the rich, deep soil
produced the most abundant crops. The settlement was located on one of
those beautiful lakes for which Minnesota is distinguished, whose
bright, clear waters abound in fish. The lake was eight miles in
length, with an average width of about three miles. From it flowed a
small stream, and after receiving other tributaries, discharged its
