politan November falling into them, or clouding their 
wheel-worn lava with the black, black shadows of the 
many-tinted walls ; the houses, and the gay columns 
of white, yellow, and red ; the delicate pavements of 
mosaic ; the skeletons of dusty cisterns and dead foun- 
tains ; inanimate garden spaces with pygmy statues 
suited to their littleness ; suites of fairy bed-cham- 
bers, painted with exquisite frescos ; dining - halls 
with joyous scenes of hunt and banquet on their 
walls ; the ruinous sites of temples ; the melancholy 
emptiness of booths and shops and jolly drinking- 



 

houses ; the lonesome tragic theatre, with a modern 
Pompeian drawing water from a well there ; the baths 
with their roofs perfect yet, and the stucco bass-reliefs 
all but unharmed ; around the whole, the city wall 
crowned with slender poplars ; outside the gates, the 
long avenue of tombs, and the Appian Way stretch- 
ing on to Stabias ; and, in the distance, Vesuvius, 
brown and bare, with his fiery breath scarce visible 
against the cloudless heaven ; these are the things 
that float before my fancy as I turn back to look at 
myself walking those enchanted streets, and to won- 
der if I could ever have been so blest. 

For there is nothing on the earth, or under it, like 
Pompeii. 

The amphitheatre, to which we came now, after 
our stroll across the cotton-fields, was small, like the 
vastest things in Pompeii, and had nothing of the 
stately magnificence of the Arena at Verona, nor 
any thing of the Roman Coliseum's melancholy and 
ruinous grandeur. But its littleness made it all the 
more comfortable and social, and, seated upon its 
benches under a cool awning, one could have almost 
chatted across the arena with one's friends ; could 
have witnessed the spectacle on the sands without 
losing a movement of the quick gladiators, or an 
agony of the victim given to the beasts which must 
have been very delightful to a Pompeian of compan- 
ionable habits and fine feelings. It is quite impossi- 
ble, however, that the bouts described by Bulwer as 
taking place all at the same time on the arena should 
really have done so : the combatants would have 



 

rolled and tumbled and trampled over each other an 
hundred times in the narrow space. 

Of all the voices with which it once rang the poor 
little amphitheatre has kept only an echo. But this 
echo is one of the most perfect ever heard : prompt, 
clear, startling, it blew back the light chaff we threw 
to it with amazing vehemence, and almost made us 
doubt if it were not a direct human utterance. Yet 
how was Ventisei to know our names ? And there 
was no one else to call them but ourselves. Our 
" dolce duca " gathered a nosegay from the crum- 
bling ledges, and sat down in the cool of the once- 
cruel cells beneath, and put it prettily together for 
the ladies. When we had wearied ourselves with 
the echo he arose and led us back into Pompeii. 



IV. 

THE plans of nearly all the houses in the city are 
alike : the entrance-room next the door ; the parlor 
or drawing-room next that ; then the impluviwm, or 
unroofed space in the middle of the house, where the 
rains were caught and drained into the cistern, and 
where the household used to come to wash itself, 
primitively, as at a pump ; the little garden, with its 
painted columns, behind the impluvium, and, at last, 
the dining-room. There are minute bed-chambers 
on either side, and, as I said, a shop at one side in 
front, for the sale of the master's grain, wine, and 
oil. The pavements of all the houses are of mosaic, 
which, in the better sort, is very delicate and beauti- 



 

ful, and is found sometimes perfectly uninjured. An 
exquisite pattern, often repeated, is a ground of tiny 
cubes of white marble with dots of black dropped reg- 
ularly into it. Of course there were many pictur- 
esque and fanciful designs, of which the best have 
been removed to the Museum in Naples ; but sev- 
eral good ones are still left, and (like that of the 
Wild Boar) give names to the houses in which 
they are found. 

But, after all, the great wonder, the glory, of these 
Pompeian houses is in their frescos. If I tried to 
give an idea of the luxury of color in Pompeii, the 
most gorgeous adjectives would be as poorly able to 
reproduce a vivid and glowing sense of those hues 
as the photography which now copies the drawing 
of the decorations ; so I do not try. 

I know it is a cheap and feeble thought, and yet, 
let the reader please to consider : A workman nearly 
two thousand years laying upon the walls those soft 
lines that went to make up fauns and satyrs, nymphs 
and naiads, heroes and gods and goddesses ; and get- 
ting weary and lying down to sleep, and dreaming 
of an eruption of the mountain ; of the city buried 
under a fiery hail, and slumbering in its bed of ashes 
seventeen centuries ; then of its being slowly ex- 
