
"Now get up, sir," said Tom to me, still retaining his hold upon my coat
collar.

He helped me to my feet. Being vanquished, I had nothing to say, and I
uttered no complaint. When I rose, he tied my hands behind me with his
handkerchief. I submitted because it would have been folly for me to
resist; but I intended to watch my opportunity, and submit no longer
than necessity compelled me to do so. My brutal conqueror took me by
the collar, led me into the hall, and thence into the cellar. In one
corner there was a kind of closet partitioned off with brick walls,
which had been built for a milk-room; but as my uncle kept but one cow,
it was seldom used. There was no window in it, and a more damp, dark,
and disagreeable dungeon it would be difficult for a boy of sixteen to
imagine. It had a heavy wooden door, and altogether the place looked as
hopeless as it was gloomy.

Tom led me up to the door and thrust me in, with my hands still tied
behind me. The only ray of hope I could obtain was derived from the fact
that there was no lock on the door.

"Now, Mr. Ernest Thornton, it is my turn," said Tom, as he partially
closed the door of my cell, and gazed in upon me. "You are a smart boy,
but you have rather overdone it this time. I told you in the beginning
that I was not to be trifled with. You begin to believe what I said by
this time. Have you anything to say before I close the door?"

"No," I replied.

"A couple of days in this place will bring you to your senses," added
Tom, malignantly.

I made no reply. I did not feel like talking. I was busy thinking how I
should recover the ground I had lost. I saw that the cellar wall was not
laid in mortar, except two or three feet at the top and above the
ground. I had already made up my mind that this wall would begin to come
down as soon as I was left alone.

While I was looking at the situation, old Betsey--whom I had never
suspected of having the least interest in me--tottered down the cellar
stairs, and protested that I should not be confined in such a place. Tom
told her it was her employer's orders, and drove her out of the cellar.
I was satisfied that the old housekeeper was not a party to the deceit
by which I had been lured into the trap. My uncle told her that he and
Tom were going to Parkville after the horse, as Betsey explained to me
afterwards, bidding her call me to breakfast, that I might not be late
to school. This was Tom's plan to insnare me, and during this time he
was in the cellar, preparing the dungeon for my reception. My uncle and
old Jerry had gone in the buggy after Tom's horse and chaise.

"Ernest, I am willing to make terms with you now," said Tom, after he
had got rid of Betsey. "I came over here after that girl. You say you
know where she is. If you will tell me where I can find her, I will not
shut you up. Will you do it?"

"No!" I answered, as decidedly as I could speak the word.

"Think well of it. If I can't find her with your help, I shall find her
without it."

"Perhaps you will."

"The Hale boy was with you. I shall have him arrested at once by the
sheriff."

"Bob Hale don't know where the girl is. If he did, he wouldn't tell.
When you arrest him, he can tell a good story about Mrs. Loraine's
motherly care of Kate."

Tom bit his lips; he had no more idea of arresting Bob than he had of
arresting me.

"Once more, before I shut you up, will you tell me where the girl is, or
not?"

"I will not! I will rot in this hole before I will tell a word about the
girl."

He slammed the door upon me, and I was in utter darkness. I heard him
putting props against the door, and pounding them down so as to make it
secure. Then all was still outside, and I concluded that he had gone up
stairs. I had a faint hope that old Betsey would come down and release
me; but I immediately went to work upon the handkerchief which confined
my hands.

My captor had crossed my wrists and tied them together in this position.
I twisted and wrenched till I stretched the linen of the handkerchief,
and strained the knot enough to permit me to pull my hands through my
bonds, and free them. The darkness was gloomy and oppressive, even after
I had been only half an hour in the dungeon. I felt that, for Kate's
sake, as well as my own, I must get out. For the present she was safe,
for Tom had destroyed the skiff, so that he could not go out to the
Splash; but the poor girl would suffer agonies of terror if I did not go
to her in the course of the day.

I was almost furious when I thought of my situation; of Kate in the
cuddy of the boat, and of the will and money in the closet. I was afraid
my uncle would discover his loss before I could escape. I could hardly
keep from weeping with vexation as I thought of my misfortune. But it
was not my style to groan long over my mishaps, when there was a chance,
however desperate, of retrieving them. I was determined either to break
my way out of my prison, or convince my jailer it was not strong enough
to hold me.

I felt of the stones that formed the wall, and pulled out as many of the
small ones as were loose enough to permit their removal. I then used my
strength on a dozen of the larger ones, till I found one which could be
taken out. How I wished then for an iron bar! With such an implement I
felt that I could soon let in the daylight. But I had no bar, and after
removing one stone about the size of my head, I was utterly unable to
start another around it.

I was perplexed. I felt in my pockets for something to help me. I don't
know but I had a faint hope of finding an iron bar; but certainly there
was none there, or anything else with which I could operate on the
obdurate stone wall. In my perplexity, I "fished my pockets" thoroughly.
In the usual assortment a boy carries with him, I had a quantity of
matches. I was not a smoker, but I always found it convenient to have a
match when I happened to be out after dark in the Splash, to light my
cabin lantern.
