encountered her friend of the coach. 

" Oh, is that you ? Good ! We 'll go in to 
gether," said the young lady, drawing Gypsy 's 
arm through hers. Gypsy was pleased. She 
had dreaded to walk the length of the long 
dining-hall alone, and she was glad to have 
somebody to speak to. She did not say so, but 
there was a little grateful snap to her eyes, 
which the young lady saw, and she slipped her 



arm about her waist, with a half-confidential, 
half-patronising air, laughing. 

" It is an undertaking to walk down a dining- 
hall, but we won't look green if we are new 
scholars, will we, Miss " 

" There isn't any Miss about it I 'm just 
Gypsy Breynton." 

" Gypsy Breynton ! Gypsy Breynton ! What 
an odd name ! Did your mother find it in a 
book? Well, I 'm Maude Clare." 

Gypsy thought that Maude Clare was a very 
pretty name, and said so ; which Maude Clare 
appeared to like. 

" I don't see what they call this the Golden 
Crescent for," said Gypsy, as they passed the 
length of the table, arm-in-arm, to the seats 
which Mrs. McMunn pointed out to them. 

" I believe there are some yellow maples or 
something on the hill behind the house," said 
Maude Clare; and then in a whisper as they 
sat down, "Plated forks ! did you ever?" 

" Never," said Gypsy, without a very deaf 
idea what she was talking about ; and the next




she knew, Mrs. McMunn was asking the 
blessing. 

The supper was good, but the table was long 
and somewhat dimly lighted, and the girls 
looked homesick and cold. Maude Clare 
talked a good deal. 

When Gypsy went up to her room after tea, 
she was surprised and disappointed to find a 
quiet, rather plain girl in black there, unpack 
ing a bag. She and Maude Clare had been 
hoping that they should room together* 

She walked over to the window, and stood 
looking out, with her forehead on the glass. 
It was raining still, and the wind was blowing 
bitterly. A little hill rolled up just behind the 
house from the garden ; on its top, through the 
darkness, she could faintly see the outline, high 
against the sky, of a curve of tossing trees. 

" I should like to know where the Golden 
comes in, anyway," she said drearily. 

" The old girls say it "s beautiful in the 
sun," said the quiet room-mate, creeping into 
bed. 




Gypsy pulled down the curtain, and began 
to undress with a jerk. 

Long after she was in bed, with her eyes 
shut, she seemed to see the black mantelpiece 
and the staring, pktureless walls, and the trees 



tossing out in the rain. Long after she was in 
bed, she saw the fire in the parlour grate at 
home, the little hair-cloth rocking-chair, and 
the empty cricket. The room-mate, who was 
not Maude Clare, was crying softly though 
that she did not knew on the pillow beside 
her. 

The -year at the Golden Crescent began to 
look very black. 



YOU BLESSED LITTLE 
MOTHER, You never 
did ! No, I know you 
never did, for all the 

people you went to boarding-school with wear 
little pugs to their hair behind, and have a 
baby with whooping-cough ; besides, there 
msn't any Maude Clare. 

I think it 's perfectly mag. at the Golden 
Crescent, and I 'll tell you why. It poured 
pitchforks all day Tuesday, that isn't why, 
but I 'm coming to it sometime, if I live long 
enough, and don't forget it, and you 'd better 
believe that I had on blue very delicate sky 



