A warmth and glow of fathership overspreading him, 
permeating every fibre of his body. He was at the 
very summit of happiness. It was wife, child, and all 
to him. 
Then the bells rang for six. A pleasant summer 
day it was. Stephen loitered about the shop. All 
day he had lived in a dream, hardly daring to think. 
By this time 
"Dane, old fellow! we're rich men, both of us;" 
and Adams's hand came down vigorously on the other's 
shoulder. " McKinstry and Disbrow want you, straight. 
Why, we've half revolutionized the world of steam. 
 
One more discovery and we shall go up to the top of 
the ladder. How grave you are ! Don't you believe 
it? Why, I threw up my old hat Silas Adams 
forty and odd years old ! " 
I think some tears came into Stephen Dane's deep 
and shady eyes. Three years ago he had been in 
Thomas Vennard's Foundery, studying on this question 
in his vague, ignorant way. Three years to-morrow 
since ah, no wonder he shivered I 
"Why, manfilive, what ails you?" 
Stephen roused himself. 
" Come, they're waiting." 
He glanced at his father. " I must take him home 
first." 
" Nonsense ! Bring him along. We'll find a quiet 
corner to put him " impatiently. 
" No ; let me take him home. I shall feel better." 
"But think, Dane ! It's late, and they're all waiting. 
I said I'd have you back in a twinkling. Come." 
He took the old man by the arm almost roughly. 
The frightened eyes turned imploringly to Stephen, 
who was locking the door. 
He soon released his father from the vehement grasp, 
and the three went on silently together. 
" One would think Dane had some terrible secret on 
his mind," mused Adams, a little crossly, to himself, 
never dreaming how near he came to the truth. 
But Stephen Dane brightened up amid the hearty 
 
congratulations of the group of which he had at once 
become the centre. For Adams had been generous. 
There was no meanness about the man. 
" We both worked on it, and did our best ; but I do 
believe the main idea that clinched the thing was 
Dane's. He's long-headed. The world will hear some- 
thing else of him if I'm not mistaken," Adams had said, 
warmly. 
It encouraged Stephen Dane to find himself so much 
at home with these educated men. By slow degrees 
he was coming up to his true place. A sort of informal 
talk this was ; but they all became better friends, and 
adjourned for business the next morning. It was really 
true. Fortune and fame were within his grasp. Why, 
three years ago he had thought himself the most misera- 
able and accursed man on God's earth ! 
"Take me home, Stephen," said a faltering, broken 
voice at his side ; and, turning, he beheld his father, the 
dull gray of his face deathly white, and his eyes fixed 
in a frightened stare. 
" I seen him, Stephen, a standin' over there. Don't 
let him take me ! Did he get up out o' the river ? " 
He put his strong arm around his father. He drew 
the shaking head down on his shoulder so that the un- 
thinking lips might be stopped. 
"Is he ill?" some one asked. 
"He is weak and wandering. I must take him 
home. I am the only child he ever had, and he 
 
clings to me. Poor father! I am here. Do not be 
afraid." 
Something in Stephen Dane's mien and tones filled 
them all with involuntary respect and admiration. 
McKinstry thought of his three sturdy boys growing 
up, and wondered if one of them would treat his white 
hairs with such filial tenderness. 
" Out o' the river, Stephen. All white, and dread- 
ful ! " 
Stephen Dane drew a long breath of dismay. 
Adams stood looking on. What if, at this height, he 
was to be hurled back into degradation ! He turned 
blindly. He lifted the trembling, cowering figure, 
shaking as if an ague fit had seized him. 
"My carriage is there in the yard," said Disbrow. 
" I insist upon your taking it, Dane. Here, let me 
call my man." 
Stephen carried him out, stopping the betraying 
mouth with kisses. He had never offered such a caress 
before, but he was in a great bound of agony now. 
The lips were soft as a child's, the breath no longer 
polluted with rum and tobacco. 
At last they were safe. The carriage door closed 
with a sharp click. The driver there on the front seat 
would never translate this pitiful moan 
" Out o' the river, Stephen ! " 
He carried his father through the room, and laid him 
on the bed, making a brief explanation to Joe. Then 
 
he administered a composing draught, and watched 
until drowsiness intervened. Archy Dane still twitched 
and quivered with some strong nervous shock. The 
eyes were but half closed, the white frightfully visible 
in contrast with his sunken, withered cheeks. 
"Is he going to be sick?" Joe asked, in a low tone, 
as Stephen sat down to the supper table. 
M I don't know. Something frightened him, I 
think." 
"He looks dreadfully as if he might die. I've' 
never seen anybody die, Stephen ; " and Joe shivered. 
" Don't think of it now." 
Stephen was glad that Joe slept up stairs. For all 
night his father gave fitful starts, and cried out with 
dim remembrances of the fatal deed that was bearing 
heavily upon him again. The son watched him, and 
thought, wildly and agonizingly enough at times. All 
day a sort of chill presentiment had hung over him. 
Perhaps because it was nearing this fatal season. 
He had hoped that memory would never return to his 
