minute!" exclaimed the bewildered girl, dancing about again, as this
new joy dawned upon her.

Levi informed the consul that one of the conspirators had been saved
from the wreck, and this gentleman promised to attend to the matter.
The life boat was lowered; and leaving his mate in charge of the
vessel, with strict injunctions not to let Mat Mogmore escape, Levi
went on shore with Bessie and her father.

"My mother in Australia!" exclaimed Bessie.

"And Mrs. McGilvery, too!" added Mr. Watson.

"Why, then the whole family are here! Only think of it! I didn't expect
to see you or mother for months yet."

"We could not do anything but come, for every hour seemed like an age
to us," replied Mr. Watson. "When I received Levi's letter, I saw that
nothing more could be done on our side of the world, and I decided to
follow you. Dock Vincent assured me I should never see my daughter
again; and I was satisfied by the confidence he exhibited, and the
persistency with which he urged me to pay his demand, that the Caribbee
had indeed sailed upon her long voyage. Levi's letter, written when he
had been three days at sea, with the Caribbee in sight, fully confirmed
my view. I was sorry Levi did not return to New York, instead of
following the vessel."

"Why so?" asked Levi, blushing under the implied censure.

"If I had known the result in season, I might have sent a steamer in
pursuit of the Caribbee. As it was, I did not get the letter till a
week after her departure."

"The chances of a steamer finding the Caribbee were not more than one
in fifty," replied Levi.

"I was sorry then, Levi; but I am not now. You have achieved almost a
miracle, and I am willing to believe now that your course was the best
and the safest. I decided at once to be in Melbourne when the Caribbee
arrived. I sailed for England in the steamer with your mother and your
aunt. We came from there by the way of Egypt, and landed here three
weeks ago. I have an agent in every principal port in Australia on the
lookout for the Caribbee. When any fore-and-aft vessel came into this
harbor I was informed of the fact, and you may judge my surprise when I
saw The Starry Flag. I will not tell you what I feared when I
recognized her, for all that passed away when I saw Bessie on the
deck;" and the devoted father clasped her in his arms again.

The party landed. In a few moments they reached the hotel, and Bessie
was folded in the embrace of her mother.




CHAPTER XXVI.

CONCLUSION.


Mrs. Watson wept tears of joy over her lost child, now restored to her.
Mrs. McGilvery declared that the pleasure of witnessing such a joyful
meeting was worth a voyage half round the world, or, indeed, all the
way round the world.

"Well, Levi, what shall we do next?" asked Mr. Watson, when the young
skipper had been thanked and extolled by the ladies till his cheeks
burned with blushes.

"Go home, I suppose, sir, unless the ladies desire to settle here,"
replied Levi.

"Doubtless we shall go home," added Mr. Watson; "but how shall we do
it? I think the ladies will not care to be kept on board of the yacht
for three months or more."

"I will do what I can to make them comfortable if they will return in
The Starry Flag; but that is saying only a little."

"You would arrive on the coast of the United States in the middle of
the winter, and you will see many heavy storms, and much bad weather,"
suggested Mr. Watson.

"Yes, sir; it was bad enough coming out here, especially after we left
the Cape of Good Hope; but it would be worse returning. I cannot
honestly advise them to go back in the yacht, glad as I should be of
their company;" and Levi glanced at Bessie. "I think they had better go
by the way you came."

"I am very clear of that," added Mr. Watson. "But, Levi, I can't bear
the idea of your knocking about for three or four months, perhaps six,
in such a small vessel."

"It won't hurt me any. I rather like it," laughed Levi. "I will have a
stove put up in the cabin for use when we get into the cold region, and
we shall be as comfortable as a bug in a rug."

"I'll tell you my plan, Levi. I can sell the yacht, and you can return
with us by steamer."

"Sell The Starry Flag!" exclaimed Levi. "I should as soon think of
selling my mother, if I had one. I love her, after the good service she
has done, and I don't think any builder could get up another as good as
she is. I know what she is now. She has weathered a hurricane, and
don't mind an ordinary gale any more than a summer zephyr. Besides, I
have a crew of six men, without the cook and steward. If you want to
sell her, I'll buy her."

"She is yours now, and you may do as you please with her."

"Then I shall certainly take her home. She needs some repairs, and then
she will be as good as new."

"If the ladies are willing, we will all go on board of her," said Mr.
Watson. "We must make some arrangements for Mrs. Vincent and her
children, and attend to Mat Mogmore's case."

The party went on board of the yacht. Mr. Watson summoned the crew, as
soon as they reached the deck, and gave each of them a check for a
thousand dollars. This little incident made the day a happy one to
them, as well as to the members of Mr. Watson's family. He then asked
