"I will find a messenger to carry your notes," said the friendly
officer.

"Thank you," said Dick. "I will take care that you are paid for your
trouble."

"I require no pay except what I have to pay the messenger."

Dick was escorted to a cell for safe-keeping. He quickly dashed off a
letter to Mr. Murdock, fearing that Mr. Rockwell might not be in the
store. It was as follows:--

     "MR. MURDOCK,--What will you think when I tell you that I
     have been unlucky enough to be arrested on suspicion of picking a
     man's pocket? The real thief slipped the wallet into my pocket as I
     was looking into a shop window, and it was found on me. I couldn't
     prove my innocence, so here I am at the station-house. They will
     think strange at the store because I am absent. Will you tell Mr.
     Rockwell privately what has detained me; but don't tell Mr.
     Gilbert. He don't like me any too well, and would believe me guilty
     at once, or pretend he did. I am sure you won't believe I would
     do such a thing, or Mr. Rockwell either. Will you come and see me
     to-night? I am to be tried to-morrow morning. I aint very proud of
     the hotel where I am stopping, but they didn't give me much choice
     in the matter.

     "RICHARD HUNTER."

     "Station-House, Franklin Street."

The other letter was to Fosdick; here it is:--

     "DEAR FOSDICK,--I didn't much think when I left you this
     morning that I should be writing to you from the station-house
     before night. I'll tell you how it happened." [Here follows a
     detailed account, which is omitted, as the reader is already
     acquainted with all the circumstances.] "Of course they will wonder
     at the boarding-house where I am. If Miss Peyton or Mr. Clifton
     inquires after me to-night, you can say that I am detained by
     business of importance. That's true enough. I wish it wasn't. As
     soon as dinner is over, I wish you'd come and see me. I don't know
     if you can, not being acquainted with the rules of this hotel. I
     shan't stop here again very soon, if I can help it. There's a woman
     in the next cell, who was arrested for fighting. She is swearing
     frightfully. It almost makes me sick to be in such a place. It's
     pretty hard to have this happen to me just when I was getting along
     so well. But I hope it'll all come out right. Your true friend,

     "DICK.

     "P.S.--I've given my watch and chain to the officer to keep for me.
     Gold watches aint fashionable here, and I didn't want them to think
     me putting on airs.

     "Station-House, Franklin Street."

After Dick had written these letters he was left to himself. His
reflections, as may readily be supposed, were not the most pleasant.
What would they think at the boarding-house, if they should find what
kind of business it was that had detained him! Even if he was acquitted,
some might suppose that he was really guilty. But there was a worse
contingency. He might be unable to prove his innocence, and might be
found guilty. In that case he would be sent to the Island. Dick
shuddered at the thought. Just when he began to feel himself
respectable, it was certainly bad to meet with such hard luck. What,
too, would Mr. Greyson and Ida think? He had been so constant at the
Sunday school that his absence would be sure to be noticed, and he knew
that his former mode of life would make his guilt more readily believed
in the present instance.

"If Ida should think me a pick-pocket!" thought poor Dick, and the
thought made him miserable enough. The fact was, that Ida, by her
vivacity and lively manners, and her evident partiality for his society,
had quite won upon Dick, who considered her by all odds the nicest girl
he had ever seen. I don't mean to say that Dick was in love,--at least
not yet. Both he and Ida were too young for that; but he was certainly
quite an admirer of the young lady. Again, if he were convicted, he
would have to give up the party to which he had been invited, and he
could never hope to get another invitation.

All these reflections helped to increase Dick's unhappiness. I doubt if
he had ever felt so unhappy in all his life. But it never once occurred
to him that his arrest was brought about by the machinations of his
enemies. He hadn't chanced to see Micky Maguire, and had no suspicion
that it was he who dropped the wallet into his pocket. Still less did he
suspect that Gilbert's hostility had led him so far as to conspire with
such a boy as Micky against him. It was lucky that he did not know this,
or he would have felt still more unhappy.

But it is now time to turn to Micky Maguire and Mr. Gilbert, whose joint
scheme had met with so much success.




CHAPTER XIV.

MICKY MAGUIRE'S DISAPPOINTMENT.


Micky Maguire waited until Dick was actually on the way to the
station-house, and then started for Pearl Street to acquaint Gilbert
with the success of his machinations. His breast swelled with triumph at
the advantage he had gained over his enemy.

"May be he'll keep his 'cheerin' reflections' to himself another time,"
thought Micky. "He won't have much to say about my going to the Island
when he's been there himself. They won't stand none of his airs there,
I'm thinkin'."

There was another pleasant aspect to the affair. Micky had not only
triumphed over his enemy, but he was going to be paid for it. This was
the stipulation between Gilbert and himself. The book-keeper had not
promised any definite sum, but Micky, in speculating upon the proper
compensation for his service, fixed upon five dollars as about what he
ought to receive. Like many others who count their chickens before they
are hatched, he had already begun to consider what he would buy with it
when he had got it.

Now, only the day previous, Micky had noticed hanging in a window in
