these languages, because father wants me to go to college.

"But you won't be interested in hearing about our studies. I will
tell you how we amuse ourselves. There are about fifty acres of land
belonging to Mr. Munroe; so that we have plenty of room for play.
About a quarter of a mile from the house there is a good-sized pond.
There is a large, round-bottomed boat, which is stout and strong.
Every Wednesday and Saturday afternoon, when the weather is good, we
go out rowing on the pond. Mr. Barton, the assistant teacher, goes
with us, to look after us. In the summer we are allowed to go in
bathing. In the winter there is splendid skating on the pond.

"Besides this, we play ball a good deal, and we have various other
plays. So we have a pretty good time, although we study pretty hard
too. I am getting on very well in my studies. Father has not decided
yet where he will send me to college.

"I wish you were here, Dick. I should enjoy your company, and
besides I should like to feel that you were getting an education. I
think you are naturally a pretty smart boy; but I suppose, as you
have to earn your own living, you don't get much chance to learn. I
only wish I had a few hundred dollars of my own. I would have you
come up here, and attend school with us. If I ever have a chance to
help you in any way, you may be sure that I will.

"I shall have to wind up my letter now, as I have to hand in a
composition to-morrow, on the life and character of Washington. I
might say that I have a friend who wears a coat that once belonged
to the general. But I suppose that coat must be worn out by this
time. I don't much like writing compositions. I would a good deal
rather write letters.

"I have written a longer letter than I meant to. I hope you will get
it, though I am afraid not. If you do, you must be sure to answer
it, as soon as possible. You needn't mind if your writing does look
like 'hens-tracks,' as you told me once.

"Good-by, Dick. You must always think of me, as your very true
friend,

"FRANK WHITNEY."


Dick read this letter with much satisfaction. It is always pleasant
to be remembered, and Dick had so few friends that it was more to
him than to boys who are better provided. Again, he felt a new sense
of importance in having a letter addressed to him. It was the first
letter he had ever received. If it had been sent to him a year
before, he would not have been able to read it. But now, thanks to
Fosdick's instructions, he could not only read writing, but he could
write a very good hand himself.

There was one passage in the letter which pleased Dick. It was where
Frank said that if he had the money he would pay for his education
himself.

"He's a tip-top feller," said Dick. "I wish I could see him ag'in."

There were two reasons why Dick would like to have seen Frank. One
was, the natural pleasure he would have in meeting a friend; but he
felt also that he would like to have Frank witness the improvement
he had made in his studies and mode of life.

"He'd find me a little more 'spectable than when he first saw me,"
thought Dick.

Dick had by this time got up to Printing House Square. Standing on
Spruce Street, near the "Tribune" office, was his old enemy, Micky
Maguire.

It has already been said that Micky felt a natural enmity towards
those in his own condition in life who wore better clothes than
himself. For the last nine months, Dick's neat appearance had
excited the ire of the young Philistine. To appear in neat attire
and with a clean face Micky felt was a piece of presumption, and an
assumption of superiority on the part of our hero, and he termed it
"tryin' to be a swell."

Now his astonished eyes rested on Dick in his ancient attire, which
was very similar to his own. It was a moment of triumph to him. He
felt that "pride had had a fall," and he could not forbear reminding
Dick of it.

"Them's nice clo'es you've got on," said he, sarcastically, as Dick
came up.

"Yes," said Dick, promptly. "I've been employin' your tailor. If my
face was only dirty we'd be taken for twin brothers."

"So you've give up tryin' to be a swell?"

"Only for this partic'lar occasion," said Dick. "I wanted to make a
fashionable call, so I put on my regimentals."

"I don't b'lieve you've got any better clo'es," said Micky.

"All right," said Dick, "I won't charge you nothin' for what you
believe."

Here a customer presented himself for Micky, and Dick went back to
his room to change his clothes, before resuming business.



CHAPTER XXV

DICK WRITES HIS FIRST LETTER


When Fosdick reached home in the evening, Dick displayed his letter
with some pride.

"It's a nice letter," said Fosdick, after reading it. "I should like
to know Frank."

"I'll bet you would," said Dick. "He's a trump."

"When are you going to answer it?"

"I don't know," said Dick, dubiously. "I never writ a letter."
