
"How high is it?" asked Paul, as he gazed up at the lofty spire.

"There you have me, Paul! I don't know. In Murray's Guide-Book it is
set down at four hundred and three feet. The man up in the tower there
says it is four hundred and sixty-six. Other authorities put it at less
than four hundred. My guide assured me it was one hundred and
forty-seven French metres in height; but this, reduced to English
measure, would give four hundred and eighty-three feet. My own idea is,
that Murray is right," replied Dr. Winstock, as they walked over to the
church.

"What's this?" asked Paul, pointing to a beautiful iron canopy in Gothic
style, near the foot of the church tower.

"That's a draw-well. It is the handiwork of Quentin Matsys."

"I don't know him."

"He was a blacksmith until he was twenty years old, when he fell in love
with the fair daughter of a painter. The story goes that the father
would not permit his daughter to marry any man that was not an artist,
and the blacksmith abandoned his anvil for the easel. He had a genius
for art, and soon painted better than his masters. He won his bride, and
achieved a great reputation in his new art. The picture of The Misers,
which you saw at Windsor Castle, was executed by him."

They bought a couple of tickets and were admitted to the church. The
interior was grand and imposing; but the chief attraction was the
pictures, which were now unveiled, and a small audience was present
examining them. Several artists were making copies of them. In the south
transept hangs Reubens's masterpiece, The Descent from the Cross.

Paul did not pretend to be a connoisseur in paintings, and could neither
understand nor appreciate the fine writing he read about them in books,
or the "hifalutin" which affected men bestowed upon them; but in the
presence of the grand old painting, he was awed and silenced. It
produced a deep impression upon his mind and heart, and for the first
time in his life he realized the sublime in art. The figure of The Dead
Christ seemed to be real, so painfully natural were the hanging head of
the Savior, and the relaxed muscles of the body. The young student gazed
long and earnestly at the picture, studying it as a whole and in detail.

It is said that Rubens paid this picture as the price of the land on
which he erected his house in Antwerp. In the north transept of the
Cathedral hangs its companion piece, The Elevation of the Cross; but its
reputation is far inferior to his masterpiece, grand as it is.

Paul walked about the church, and examined other pictures and works of
art; and then, after paying the keeper of the tower a franc, they
commenced the long ascent to the spire and chimes.

"These churches and these pictures are certainly very fine," said Paul,
as they stopped at a window to rest. "We don't have them in our country.
There isn't a church there that will compare with any of these
cathedrals, to say nothing of the celebrated pictures, such as we have
just seen."

"That's very true; and I am thankful that our people make a better use
of their money. Here in Belgium, as in most countries of Europe, poverty
is the curse of the people. They do not receive the reward of their
labor. The government and the church take the lion's share of their
earnings, and thus keep them down. This Cathedral was commenced in 1352,
and finished in 1411, though another spire was to have been built.
Nearly sixty years were employed in its erection, and probably it cost
millions of dollars. Of course the people had to pay for it. The greater
portion of the expense of it lies dormant here, it being merely an
ornamental structure. It gratifies people's tastes, it is true; but God
could be acceptably worshipped in a less costly edifice. If the capital
locked up in this church had been invested in schools, colleges, and
other educational institutions, it would be a blessing to the country.
What is paid in Europe to build these grand structures for worship, and
to support the trappings of royalty, is in our own country appropriated
to public schools; and the nation reaps the benefit of them every year
of its existence."

"That's so," replied Paul, emphatically; "and when any foreigner says
anything to me again about our want of costly cathedrals, I shall call
his attention to our schools."

"That's right; you are an American to the core," laughed the doctor.

"But I don't see any reason why we should not have as great painters in
the United States as in Europe," added Paul.

"I do see the reason. Probably we have just as much talent for art in
our nation, but the people find that it doesn't pay so well as
developing the resources of a new country. When it is possible in
America for a man to win the wealth and distinction which Rubens won,
we shall be as successful in art as Europe has been; for Washington
Allston, Benjamin West, and others have demonstrated the capacity of our
people in this direction. The encouragement which artists receive makes
the men. There are not many persons in our country who are willing to
pay ten, fifty, or a hundred thousand dollars for a picture. So much
money in a painting is dead capital among an energetic people who need
all they can get to carry on agricultural, commercial, and manufacturing
enterprises."

"Of course people will follow that calling which pays best, either in
money or in reputation."

"Certainly, and the number of Dutch and Flemish artists assures us that
painting has been a cherished art in the Low Countries. Vandyck was
another celebrated painter of this country. He was born in Antwerp, and
was a pupil of Rubens. There is a story that The Descent from the Cross
was thrown down by the carelessness of a student, and badly injured by
the fall. Vandyck, who was then a pupil of the great Flemish master,
undertook to repair the mischief with his brush, and did it so well that
Rubens declared the work was superior to his own. This story is current
in the guide-books, and in the mouths of the commissionaires, who
point out the places on the face of the Virgin and on the arm of one of
the Marys where the pupil touched it up. But there is no truth in it,
since the picture was hung up in the Cathedral before Vandyck entered
the studio of Rubens."

"I suppose these people like to tell good stories, whether true or not."

"Yes; and you will find a man up in this steeple who believes that his
spire is the tallest in the world," added Dr. Winstock.

