"I suppose you are, if you behave as well."

"Behave as well!" sneered the orator. "I behave well enough, and I'm
not going to be put down, nor beg my rights of Bob Shuffles. If I am
left on board, for one, when the fellows go down the Rhine, I intend to
break things."

"Don't break your own head."

"Let me alone for that. If our fellows have any spirit at all, they
will not be left behind. In the next drill, things will be mixed, and
no one can tell who makes the mischief. Our fellows are not the only
ones that don't like Shuffles, and you will find that about half the
crew will help snarl things up. Now, keep your weather eye open,
Sheffield. Take my advice, and don't whimper. Our fellows have a little
business in Paris and Switzerland, and we shall attend to it in a week
or two. There goes the pipe. Mind your eye, Sheffield."

The boatswain's call sounded through the ship, and officers and crew
hastened to their stations.




CHAPTER II.

CLOSE QUARTERS.


The malcontents in the ship were, apparently, the most zealous seamen
on board. Certainly no one would have suspected them of organizing any
mischief, they looked so innocent and so determined to do their duty
promptly. Howe, Wilton, Little, and others had done their work
thoroughly and secretly. They had arranged at least a dozen different
tricks for making confusion among the crew. To each one of the
discontented a part had been assigned, which he was to perform in such
a way as to conceal his own agency.

Captain Shuffles was planking the quarter-deck with the commodore.
Everybody could see that he was not entirely at his ease. His position
was a novel one to him, and he was oppressed by its responsibilities,
especially since the crew had behaved so badly at the first drill. He
could not help knowing that a portion of the crew were opposed to him,
and would do anything they could to annoy him. The situation was a
difficult one; for, at the commencement of his term of office, he did
not wish to have any of the seamen punished for neglect or
disobedience, even if he could discover the guilty ones.

Mr. Lowington was not on deck. He had purposely gone below, for he
wished the new captain to act on his own responsibility, and overcome
the difficulty alone. This was in accordance with his previous course,
when, even in a gale of wind, he permitted the young officers to handle
the ship without any dictation. Though the action adopted by the boys
was not always in accordance with his own judgment, he never interfered
unless an obvious and dangerous blunder was made. His policy had worked
well thus far, and he was disposed to continue it. In the present
instance, he was no better informed than the captain in regard to the
real cause of the difficulty. He believed it was merely the effect of a
fun-loving spirit on the part of the crew; a mere disposition to haze
the new officers a little, and perhaps prove what they were made of. He
hoped the new officers would satisfy them, and, if necessary, send a
dozen or twenty of the mischief-makers to the mainmast for punishment.

"All hands, up anchor, ahoy!" piped the boatswain, after he had
received the order from the captain, through the proper officers.

Those whose stations were at the cable and capstan sprang to their
places with unwonted alacrity.

"Bring to, forward!" added the first lieutenant, giving the order to
attach the messenger. "Ship and swifter the capstan bars!"

As it was not intended to get the ship actually under way, only a
portion of the work indicated by the orders was really executed. The
form of hooking on the messenger was gone through with, as also were
the various preparations for catting and fishing the anchor. The
capstan bars were inserted in the pigeon-holes.

"Heave round!" shouted the first lieutenant; and the order was repeated
by the second lieutenant, whose station is on the forecastle.

Everything appeared to be progressing with proper order and regularity,
and Captain Shuffles hoped the warning words of the principal had
produced an impression upon the minds of the mischief-makers. But
appearances are very deceptive. While the hands were walking around the
capstan, four of the bars suddenly came out of the pigeon-holes at the
same instant, and a dozen of the seamen were thrown, apparently with
great violence, upon the deck. The bars, confined at one end by the
swifter, swung round and cracked the shins of others, and a scene of
confusion ensued, which set at nought all ideas of discipline.

No one was badly hurt, but every one was excited. Those who were not
concerned in the plot caught the spirit of mischief from the others,
and, with but few exceptions, the crew joined in the sport. The seaman
who originated the trouble had simply neglected to insert the pins
which confine the capstan bars within the pigeon-holes, or had left the
bars with the heads against the pins. As nearly all joined in the
frolic, there were none to inform against others, and it was simply
impossible for Leavitt, the second lieutenant, or Ellis, the first
master,--under whose eye this breach of discipline had occurred,--to
determine who the ringleaders were.

Shuffles and the commodore were intensely annoyed at this scene, and
immediately went forward. By this time, those who had been thrown upon
the deck, which included nearly all at the capstan, had picked
themselves up. The Knights looked even more innocent than those whom
they had dragged into the scrape, and the high officers from the
quarter-deck were no wiser than the lieutenant and master. In the midst
of the confusion, Howe and Wilton had removed the pins from the bars,
which still remained in the drumhead of the capstan.

"Mr. Leavitt, how did this happen?" demanded Captain Shuffles.

"Half the bars dropped out of the capstan all at once, and the hands
were thrown down," replied the lieutenant, who was hardly less annoyed
than the captain.

"Were the bars pinned in?"

"I supposed they were, sir."
