But Mrs. Oakley did not care to have her brother understand her exact
position as regarded money matters. She saw clearly enough that he was
already speculating how to turn her prosperity to his own advantage,
and this she was determined he should not do. She would like to have
kept him at a distance, but she was already feeling one of the
inconveniences of wealth. There are some whose chief enjoyment of
wealth arises from the happiness which it enables them to impart to
others, and some, in Mrs. Oakley's position, would have been glad
to do something for such of their relatives as were in struggling
circumstances; but it was not so with her. She was of a stingy,
penurious disposition, and did not mean that her money should benefit
any one but Benjamin and herself, except the small sum which she felt
obliged to spend on John.

"No, I don't think I could form any estimate," she said. "Mr. Oakley
has recently died, you know."

"Has he left as much as fifty thousand?"

"Fifty thousand!" exclaimed Mrs. Oakley; "what are you thinking of?"

"It isn't much less, I am thinking. At any rate, you're a rich woman."

"I am comfortably provided for."

"I wish I was as comfortably provided for," said Mr. Huxter. "Seems
to me your ideas have risen some, Jane, since you used to live with
me, and bind shoes for a living. You and Ben wouldn't have been very
comfortable, I reckon, if I hadn't helped you once upon a time."

"As to that," said Mrs. Oakley, "I worked for my board. It was no great
favor on your part."

"At any rate, you thought yourself lucky to get a home. Now, things are
changed considerably. You are a rich woman, and--well, I'm hard up."

"You always were shiftless, Ephraim," said Mrs. Oakley, who saw what
her brother was coming to.

"Shiftless!" repeated Mr. Huxter, in an injured tone. "I don't know
what you call shiftless. I've been a hard-working man; but luck's never
been on my side."

Mr. Huxter's nose had a suspicious redness, which seemed to indicate
whiskey might have had something to do with his want of luck. This was
in fact the case. If he had never made much headway, it was partly, at
least, his own fault, as his sister knew well enough. But she knew also
that there was very little chance of his amending in that particular,
and though she gave him little encouragement by her manner, she felt
that she should have to help him at last.

"How are your family?" asked Mrs. Oakley.

"Oh, about as usual. Wife's always scoldin' and complainin', and the
children are fractious. I don't know what makes 'em behave so. My home
aint a very happy one, that's a fact."

Mrs. Oakley knew that very well. For more than two years, when left a
widow, with Ben on her hands, she had found a home in her brother's
family, which proved so far from agreeable, that she finally determined
to leave it, and do as well as she could for herself outside. She
had been lucky enough to obtain a situation in Mr. Oakley's family
as house-keeper, and this proved the starting-point of a new and
prosperous career. During Mr. Oakley's life, Mr. Huxter had never been
near her. This had been at Mrs. Oakley's special request. She felt that
her brother was not calculated to do her any particular credit, and
she had succeeded, though with some difficulty, in keeping him at a
distance. She had accomplished this by an occasional present, and the
distinct intimation that these would cease unless her brother should
respect her wishes. Now that she was a widow, he considered that the
prohibition was at an end, and had presented himself unexpectedly, and
was by no means welcome.

At this moment Ben, who wished to see his mother, and was not aware
of his uncle's arrival, entered the room, and, observing the shaggy
appearance of the visitor, whom apparently he did not recognize,
surveyed him with unconcealed contempt.




CHAPTER IX.

MORE ABOUT MR. HUXTER.


Mr. Ephraim Huxter, on perceiving Ben, wreathed his homely features
into what was intended for a gracious smile, and, rising, took his
nephew's rather unwilling hand.

"So this is Ben," he said. "Bless me, what a young gentleman he's
grown, to be sure! Don't you remember me, Ben?"

"No, I don't," said Ben, but not truly, for he had recognized his uncle
at first sight. Indeed, any one who had ever seen Mr. Huxter would be
likely to remember his harsh features and ungainly form.

"It is your Uncle Ephraim," said his mother.

"Humph!" said Ben, not feeling it necessary to express any pleasure.
With his improved fortunes, his pride had developed, and he had come to
look upon his mother's brother as a low person, who was immeasurably
his inferior.

"Yes, Ben has become quite a gentleman," said his uncle, surveying his
broadcloth suit, and gold watch-chain ostentatiously displayed over
his vest. "But I dare say he hasn't forgotten when he used to run round
in a shirt and overalls, and hoed potatoes at three cents an hour."

Ben did remember distinctly, and the recollection was far from
pleasing; so he thought it best to forget it.

"I don't remember anything of the kind," he said, rather roughly.

"I suppose you'd want to be paid better now, ha, ha!" said Mr. Huxter,
laughing as if he thought it a capital joke.

"I don't know anything about hoeing potatoes," said Ben, haughtily.
"I'm not a laborer."

