frowned slightly as a hint to Kathie. 
" It makes one think of the war," said Kathie, 
slowly, "and the brave men who march away joy- 
ously, for I suppose they cannot help it, the music is 
so inspiriting, but afterward - 
" They need it afterward sometimes," the General 
returned, thoughtfully. 
" I have seen one regiment go through Broadway," 
said Kathie. " They were playing ' Scots wha hae,' 
and it was beautiful but sad, I thought, though very 
courageous." 
" The old Scots were plucky people. A good cause 
nearly always makes good soldiers." 
" You have been in a battle ? " said Kathie, with a 
little awe in her voice. 
" Yes." He uttered the word gravely. 
" I wonder if men are not afraid ? " she asked, in a 
low tone. 
" My little girl, I suppose some are. But a good 
soldier, whose trust is stayed upon God, knows that, 
whether living or dying, it will all be right." 
" And you think of him ? " 
" I try." 
Kathie reached out her hand unconsciously. He 
took it in his and pressed it with fatherly tenderness, 
then bestowed upon her a look of tender appreciation. 
" The curtain is rising," he said, with a smile. 
So Kathie turned her attention once more to the 
stage, but her thoughts wandered to the brave men 
whose only operas were martial music, and the stage 
scenes battle array. 
There was a great applauding, and then everybody 
made a rush for the entrances. 
" Is your little friend staying with your brother ? ' 
asked the General. 
 
" No, at my uncle, Dr. Markham's." 
Kathie did not hear the rest, for as she turned to 
draw on her cloth gloves Ada said, " What a pity 
you did not wear kid ! No one thinks of going out in 
the evening without nice gloves." 
But Kathie was too happy to be wounded by the 
remark. 
 
CHAPTEE IX. 
A GOOD SOLDIER. 
AUNT EUTH was much entertained the next day, 
listening to a rehash of the opera and descriptions of 
General Mackenzie. Kathie was as happy as a bird, 
and wrote a long letter to mamma, declaring that she 
was not a bit homesick. But for all that it would be 
very delightful to come home, and Christmas was not 
quite three weeks distant. Then she wondered if 
Aunt Euth would be well enough to return to Cedar- 
wood by that time. She had begun to walk a little, 
to be sure, and yet it did not seem to Kathie that her 
improvement was very rapid. 
" Aunt Euth," she asked, presently, " do you think 
you shall be able to go home by Christmas ? ' 
" I hope so, my dear." 
That finished the letter joyfully. 
Two davs after she met Ada as she was returning 
from her music practice. 
" Oh," exclaimed Ada, with a great deal of impor- 
 
tance, " General Mackenzie was at our house yester- 
day. He is a very distinguished soldier." 
" I am sure he is good and brave," Kathie replied, 
warmly, not at all annoyed by either announcement. 
" Mamma desired me to play for him, and he 
complimented me quite highly." 
" That was nice," said Kathie ; " I should like to 
see him also." 
" He is going away in a few days. His regiment 
is at the West." 
Ada had felt quite neglected the evening at the 
opera, and absolutely envious that Kathie should 
have had all the attention ; so now she made the 
most of her triumph. Her mother was putting her 
foolishly forward, and she was fast losing the charm 
of childhood. 
" I don't suppose that you will see him," Ada went 
on. " He is an old friend of papa, and of course he 
came to our box to see Uncle Edward." 
Kathie had no desire to dispute this. Ada's rather 
ill-natured shaft fell harmless. 
But as Kathie was hurrying through the hall at 
home Mrs. Markham intercepted her. " There is a 
gentleman in the parlor waiting to see you," she 
announced, smilingly. 
"Mr. Meredith?" 
" No." 
" Oh, I know, - - Uncle Eobert ! ' : and she made a 
hasty plunge toward the door. 
" She is as pretty as a picture in anything/' 
thought Mrs. Markham, so she let her go. 
General Mackenzie thought her a very bright 
picture also. Her waterproof, with its scarlet 
hood, and a dainty black velvet cap with a tuft 
of scarlet feathers, framed her in charmingly ; but 
the soft eyes, full of surprise and pleasure, the sweet 
scarlet lips, and the whole face, so full of health and 
happiness, was a sight to do one good. 
" I could not go away without having another 
glimpse of you," he said, rising and taking her hand. 
" I tried to find my friend Meredith ; but as I could 
not I thought I would venture alone, and trust your 
generosity to excuse an old soldier." 
" I am very glad, I am sure," replied Kathie, and 
there was a ring of welcome in her voice ; " but I 
supposed that it was my Uncle Robert, so if you 
will please to excuse 'me I will go and take off my 
hat and cloak." 
She was so simply graceful, without any striving 
 
for effect, that General Mackenzie turned her round 
and looked her all over with a pleased and curious 
smile. 
" Have you any brothers or sisters ? " he asked. 
" Two brothers only." 
