"You shall learn presently,--that is, if my partner thinks we had better
engage you."

"Where is your place of business?"

"We will go there. Let us jump into this horse-car."

They had reached Eighth Avenue, and entered a car bound downwards. When
the conductor came along, Smith said, "I pay for two," indicating
Martin. This was fortunate; for Martin's purse was at a low ebb, his
entire stock of money being limited to fifty cents.

They rode some fifteen minutes, at the end of which Smith signalled to
the conductor to stop.

"We get out here," he said to Martin.

Martin jumped out after him, and they turned westward down one of the
streets leading to the North River.

"Is it much farther?" asked Martin.

"Not much."

"It's rather an out-of-the-way place for business, isn't it?" remarked
Martin, observing that the street was lined with dwelling-houses on
either side.

"For most kinds of business it is," said his new acquaintance; "but it
suits us. We like a quiet, out-of-the-way place."

"Are you in the wholesale business?" asked Martin, whose curiosity began
to be considerably excited.

"Something of that sort," answered the stranger. "Ah, here we are!"

The house before which he stopped was a brick dwelling-house, of three
stories. The blinds were closed, and it might have been readily supposed
that no one lived there. Certainly nothing could have looked less like a
place of business, so far as outward appearance went, and Martin, whose
perceptions were not very acute, saw this, and was puzzled. Still his
companion spoke so quietly and composedly, and seemed to understand
himself so well, that he did not make any remark.

Instead of pulling the bell, Mr. Smith drew a latch-key from his pocket,
and admitted himself.

"Come in, Mr. Martin," he said.

Martin stepped into the entry, and the door was closed.

Before him was a narrow staircase, with a faded stair-carpet upon it. A
door was partly open into a room on the right, but still there was
nothing visible that looked like business.

"Follow me," said Smith, leading the way up stairs.

Martin followed, his curiosity, if anything, greater than before.

They went into a front room on the second floor.

"Excuse me a moment," said Smith.

Martin was left alone, but in two minutes Smith returned with a tall,
powerful-looking man, whose height was such that he narrowly escaped
being a giant.

"Mr. Martin," said Smith, "this is my partner, Mr. Hayes."

"Proud to make your acquaintance, I am sure, Mr. Hayes," said Martin,
affably. "I met your partner this mornin' in an eatin'-house, and he
said you might have a job for me. My health aint very good, but I could
do light work well enough."

"Did you tell Mr. Martin," said the giant, in a hoarse voice that
sounded as if he had a cold of several years' standing, "that our
business is of a confidential nature?"

"Yes," said Martin, "I understand that. I can keep a secret."

"It is absolutely necessary that you should," said Hayes. "You say you
can, but how can I be sure of it?"

"I'll give you my word," said Martin.

The giant looked down upon Martin, and ejaculated, "Humph!" in a manner
which might be interpreted to convey some doubt as to the value of
Martin's word. However, even if Martin had been aware of this, he was
not sensitive, and would not have taken offence.

"Are you willing to take your oath that you will never reveal, under any
circumstances, anything connected with our business?"

"Yes," said Martin, eagerly, his curiosity being greater than ever.

There was a Bible on the table. Hayes cast his eyes in that direction,
but first said something in a low voice to Smith. The latter drew a
small brass key from his pocket, and opened a cupboard, or small closet
in the wall, from which, considerably to Martin's alarm, he drew out a
revolver and a knife. These he laid on the table beside the book.

"What's that for?" asked Martin, with an uneasy glance at the weapons.

"I'll tell you what it's for, my friend," said the giant. "It's to show
you what your fate will be if you ever reveal any of our secrets.
Perhaps you don't want to take the risk of knowing what they are. If you
don't, you can say so, and go."

But Martin did not want to go, and he did want to learn the secrets more
than ever.

"I'm ready," he said. "I'll take the oath."

"Very well, you understand now what it means. Put your hand on the book,
and repeat after me: 'I solemnly swear, on the penalty of death by
pistol or knife, never to reveal any secret I may have imparted to me in
this room.'"

Martin repeated this formula, not without a certain shrinking, not to
say creeping, of the flesh.
