She took the writing materials from the bureau, and my father, with
trembling hand, wrote his name upon the pledge.
"May God enable me to keep it!" said he, fervently, as he completed the
flourish beneath the signature.
"Amen!" ejaculated Mrs. Greenough. "May you be as faithful as he was
whose name is on the paper with you."
"Stimulated by his example, and by your kindness, I trust I shall be,"
said my father.
Mrs. Greenough then provided a light supper for him, of which he
partook, and very soon retired. I told my kind landlady that I had
recovered my money, and should now be able to pay my father's board for
a time. She had not thought of that matter, and would be glad to take
care of him for nothing if she could only save him. As I went to bed I
could not but congratulate myself upon finding such a kind and devoted
friend as she had proved to be.
  CHAPTER XVII.
  IN WHICH PHIL MEETS THE LAST OF THE ROCKWOODS.
The next day my father was quite sick; but Mrs. Greenough was an angel
at his bedside, and I went to my work as usual. I was filled with hope
that the wanderer might yet be reclaimed. Though I longed intensely
to see my mother, I think if I had known she was in the city I should
not have sought to find her, for I desired to carry to her the joyful
news of the salvation of my father. When I could say that he was no
longer a drunkard, I should be glad to meet her with this intelligence
upon my lips. But she was wandering in distant lands. Plenty and
luxury surrounded her, while I was struggling to earn my daily bread,
and to take care of my father. The fact that she was in affluence was
consoling to me, and I was the more willing to cling to my father in
his infirmities.
When I went to work that morning I was introduced to a plane and a
plank--to test my ability, I supposed, for the men had not yet finished
shingling the roof. A plank partition was to be put up in order to make
a counting-room in one corner of the storehouse. I had never in my life
seen a plane till I came to St. Louis; but I had carefully observed the
instrument and its uses. Conant told me how to handle it with ease and
effect, and instructed me in setting the iron, so as to make it cut
more or less deeply, according to the work to be done.
It was hard work, harder than boarding or shingling; but I made it
unnecessarily severe for the first hour, and though it was a cool day,
the sweat poured off me in big drops. I had not yet got the hang of the
thing; but when Conant came from the roof for a bundle of shingles,
he looked in to see how I succeeded. A little more instruction from
him put me on the right track, and I worked much easier; in a word,
I learned to use the plane. After removing the rough side from the
plank, it was a relief to handle the smoothing-plane, and I polished
off the wood to my own satisfaction and that of my employer.
In the afternoon I was sent upon the roof again to lay shingles, and
we finished that part of the job before night. At six o'clock all the
hands were paid off for their week's work. I felt considerable interest
in this performance. I had worked three days, and at the price agreed
upon I was entitled to a dollar and a half.
"I shall not want you any longer, Blair," said Mr. Clinch to the young
fellow of whom Conant had spoken so disparagingly to me. "I owe you six
dollars; here is the amount."
"You don't want me any longer?" replied Blair, as he took his wages.
"No."
"Why not?"
"You don't suit me. I can't afford to pay you six dollars a week for
what you do," answered the employer, bluntly. "You don't understand the
business, and you don't try to learn it. That boy there does twice as
much work in a day as you do."
I did not think it right to hear any more of this conversation, and
moved away. Though I was pleased with the compliment, I was sorry to
have it bestowed upon me at the expense or to the disparagement of
another. I walked around the building, but I was soon sent for to
receive my wages.
"Phil, you have done remarkably well," said Mr. Clinch; "and I want to
use you well. You handle a plane well for one who never saw one before,
and I think you were born to be a carpenter."
"Thank you, sir," I replied. "You give me all the credit I deserve."
"And I give you a dollar a day for your work, for you have done twice
as much as I expected of you," he added, handing me three dollars.
"I supposed you would be in the way at first, and I only took you to
oblige Captain Davis."
"I have done the best I knew how, and shall always do so; but I don't
ask any more than you agreed to give me. I am entitled to only half of
this."
"Yes, you are. I agreed to give you more if you were worth it. Conant
says you have done a man's work most of the time. Of course you can't
do that on the average. But you will be worth about a dollar a day to
me, now that I have discharged Morgan Blair."
"Thank you, sir; you are very kind."
"Kind! Nonsense! I am only doing the fair thing by you. When I think
you are worth more than a dollar a day, I shall give it to you. On the
other hand, I shall discharge you when I don't want you, or when you
are lazy or clumsy. I always speak my mind."
I saw that he did, to Blair as well as to me, and I was very thankful
for having obtained so good an employer. I was determined to merit his
good will by doing my duty faithfully to him.
I went home, and found my father more comfortable than in the morning;
but he was still very sick, and unable to leave his bed. In the evening
I went out to purchase a suit of clothes, which I so much needed. I
obtained a complete outfit, which would enable me to attend church the
next day, looking like other young men of my age, in the humbler walks
of life. Mrs. Greenough had been very particular in urging me to be
prepared for church and Sunday school, and had even offered to lend me
money to purchase the needed articles. I told her I had never been to
church in my life, and I was very glad of the opportunity.
When my bundle was ready I turned to leave the store. A young man,
whose form and dress looked familiar to me,--though I did not see his
face, for he was looking at the goods in a glass case,--followed me
into the street.
"Phil," said he; and I recognized the voice of Morgan Blair, the young
man who had been discharged that afternoon by Mr. Clinch.
I paused to see what he wanted, though I was not very anxious to make
his acquaintance after what I knew of him.
"What is it?" I asked.
"I want to see you about a matter that interests me," he added.
"What is that?"
"They say you came from way up the Missouri River. Is that so?"
"That's so."
"Conant said you did. I want to know something about the country up
there, and I suppose you can tell me."
"What do you want to know?"
"I have an uncle up there somewhere, and I want to find him if I can."
"Do you know in what region he is located?" I inquired.
"I do not; that is what I want to ascertain. Conant told me you came
from that country, and I meant to talk with you about it; but you put
my pipe out, and I was discharged to-day. I saw you go into that store,
and I thought I would wait for you."
