However, he was good-natured, and did not pretend to be a book-keeper;
so I was willing to forgive him.
"What time does Mr. Collingsby come to the counting-room?" I asked, as
he was looking over the bill.
"The young man comes about nine or ten; but he don't stay here much of
the time. Some days the old gentleman looks in about eleven, and some
days he don't," replied Land, as he left the office.
I was at the desk, and had made my first debit. The situation was
novel, but it was pleasing. It was DESK AND DEBIT, for which I had
been seeking for weeks.
The counting-room was divided into two apartments. In the first, which
occupied the front of the building, were the desk, the safe, the books,
and the papers. All the general business of the firm was transacted
here; and my position was behind the desk in this room. Separated from
it by a partition composed mostly of ground glass windows was the other
apartment, whose interior I had not yet seen. As Mr. Whippleton was the
bookkeeper, and had the general charge of the finances of the firm, I
concluded that the interior room was appropriated to the use of the
dignified senior partner and his father, the special partner, when the
latter chose to honor the establishment with his presence.
While I was taking a deliberate survey of the premises where I was to
pass at least several weeks, two salesmen, with their memoranda in
their hands, bustled into the counting-room, each attended by a
customer, to whom he had sold a bill of lumber. They had been informed
by Land of the debut of the new entry clerk, and they read off their
sales to me, which I entered upon the book, giving them bills for the
purchasers. One of them paid his bill, and I was looking for the cash
book when Mr. Whippleton made his appearance.
"So you are really at work, Philip," said he, as he glanced at the
sales book.
"Yes, sir; I have made a beginning. I was looking for the cash book,
sir."
"I keep the cash book myself," added he, in a manner which indicated
that I was not to meddle with it.
But I found enough to do in making bills and charges. It was early in
the spring, and there was a great deal of building in the city.
Business was very driving, and I had all I could do. It was the same
thing over and over again all day long; but I enjoyed my occupation in
spite of its monotony.
About nine o'clock Mr. Richard Collingsby entered the counting-room. He
passed my desk, glanced at me, and entered the sacred precincts of his
sanctorum. Mr. Whippleton immediately made him a visit, and doubtless
informed his senior that he had engaged an entry clerk. I did not see
the dignified partner again till he left the counting-room at two
o'clock. He did not even glance at me this time, and probably had no
suspicion that he had ever seen me before. I was too insignificant a
mortal to engage his attention even for a single instant. Yet he was my
own uncle, though I might be in the same office with him for years
without his knowing the fact.
At twelve o'clock I went to dinner. As I passed through the yard, I saw
lying on the bank of the river a beautiful sail-boat, which attracted
my attention. It was about thirty feet long, and had quite a large
cabin in the forward part. I had hardly ever seen a sail-boat, and I
was much interested in her.
"Whose is this?" I asked, as Land Limpedon joined me on his way to
dinner.
"Mr. Whippleton's; he's a regular water bird, and in the summer he
spends all his spare time in that boat."
"Does he sail on this river?" I asked, glancing at the muddy lagoon.
"No; he takes her out on the lake, and goes off for a fortnight in her,
when he can spare the time."
I had had some experience with boats on the upper Missouri, and had
some taste for them, though I had never even been in a sail-boat. I
hoped Mr. Whippleton would take it into his head to invite me some time
to sail with him. I went to dinner with the image of the boat's sharp
bow and graceful lines lingering in my mind. The beef was no tougher at
noon than it was in the morning, and I think Mrs. Whippleton was
convinced that I was not a profitable boarder at four dollars a week.
But I do not intend to weary my reader by giving the monotonous details
of my daily experience at the desk. I discharged my duties faithfully,
and to the entire satisfaction of Mr. Whippleton. On the second day, I
saw Mr. Collingsby, senior. Like his dignified son, he took no notice
of me. Possibly he asked my name in the private office; but I never
knew whether it gave them any uneasiness or not, though I am very
confident neither of them suspected that I was the son of Louise
Collingsby. The name was not so uncommon as to indicate that I belonged
to the hated Farringfords of St. Louis.
Whatever may have been said in the private office, nothing came to me
from either of the men in whom I was so deeply interested; and it often
occurred to me, as the weeks passed by, that I was doing nothing to
accomplish my great mission in Chicago. My father answered my letter,
and advised me, if I had a good place, to keep it. I wrote to him every
week, and received a letter from him as often.
The eight weeks for which I had been engaged passed off, and I hinted
to the junior partner that my time was out.
"Very well; you can go on just as you have," said he.
"I don't care about going on any farther at six dollars a week," I
replied.
"What do you want?"
"Eight, sir."
"I will speak to Mr. Collingsby."
He did speak to him, and my salary was advanced to eight dollars a week
for a year. I was satisfied I was earning that amount, and Mr.
Whippleton intimated that he should require me to do more of the
general book-keeping.
CHAPTER VIII.
IN WHICH PHIL TAKES A SAIL ON THE LAKE WITH MR. WHIPPLETON.
"Phil, do you know anything about a boat?" asked Mr. Whippleton, one
Saturday afternoon, at the close of the month of May.
I was standing on the bank of the river, looking at his boat, which had
been thoroughly repaired, painted, and rigged, and lay off the
lumber-yard. She was a beautiful craft, and after we had shut up the
counting-room, I paused to look at her.
"I don't know anything about a sail-boat," I replied; "but I used to
handle a row-boat on the upper Missouri."
"You are used to boats, then?"
"Yes, to row-boats."
"If you are not in a hurry, you may go down the river with me; and I
intend to take a little turn out in the lake," he continued, as he
hauled the sail-boat up to the shore.
"Thank you, sir; I should like to go very much," I replied.
The craft was called the Florina, though why she had what seemed to me
such an odd name, I did not know at that time. I afterwards ascertained
that he was engaged to a young lady who bore that interesting name,
though, for reasons which will appear in the sequel, he never married
her. I was delighted with the boat when I went on board of her, and
glanced into her comfortable cabin, which was furnished like a parlor.
He had evidently spent a good deal of money upon her, and I soon found
that Miss Florina was an occasional guest on board.
She was sloop-rigged, and carried a large jib and mainsail. Everything
