All the children laughed, for Sophie was always 
so good-natured and merry, and had such a round, 
smiling face. 


 


The play began. One after another the guests 
came to the frost-palace, bowing low to the king 
and queen, and then went over to the cradle of ever- 
greens where the Princess Golden was lying, and the 
little mischief of a Iiose had hard work to keep her 
face sober. They deposited their gifts at her feet, and 
wished her all manner of good fortune. Then came 
the fairy Pearl, who touched her with her wand and 
said that she would be the wisest, loveliest, and best 
princess that the world had ever known, but that 
she must never be left alone until she was seven 
years old, or some very great misfortune would hap- 
pen to her. Then she kissed the little one and they 
all went to the feast. 

The table looked very pretty indeed with its glit- 
tering ice, dark evergreens, and sparkling dishes of 
snow filled with cake. They had a gay time, you 
may be sure, and in the midst of the laughing and 
talking a dark figure crept in, as she couldn’t fly 
through the air like a veritable fairy. The children 
pretended not to see her, and the nurse whose business 
it was to watch the princess had fallen asleep. So, j ust 
as Prince Bertram was asking her hand in marriage, 
Malice lifted her out of the cradle and took her away. 


 


When the feast was through, Prince Bertram drew 
off a ring for the princess to wear when she was large 
enough. The king led the way to the princess’s 
cradle, and behold, it was empty ! The poor nurse 
had tumbled on the floor. They picked her up and 
shook her soundly, but she was so bewildered that 
she could tell them nothing. They marched her off 
to prison, and then they called upon Fairy Pearl to 
know where the princess was. 

She looked through a magic glass, waved her wand, 
which was a long icicle, three times over the cradle, 
but all in vain. 

“ The wicked fairy Malice has stolen her away,” 
she said, presently. “ With her arts she has doubt- 
less changed her into some other form. She must 
be searched for seven years, and when she is found I 
will restore her to her true shape.” 

With that Prince Bertram declared he would be 
one to go and look for her. He took his sword in 
his hand and marched out as brave as a real knight. 
The courtiers followed, bowing to the king and queen, 
who were very sorrowful indeed. Every year they 
were to come back and report progress. 

Their years were not very long, you may be sure. 


 


First, they searched the kingdom of Highwood, which 
was the great pile of w r ood for school use. The king 
of this domain came out to meet them very peace- 
ably, and offered them every courtesy, but no princess 
did they find. That took them a whole year, and 
then they returned to the king, who was very much 
disappointed. 

Next they searched the Lake kingdom, their large 
sliding-pond, around one side of which grew some 
clumps of alders and willows. The fairy knocked on 
the ice with her wand, but in vain. Not a sign of 
any princess did they see. Then they went to the 
Forest kingdom, which was supposed to be inhabited 
by malicious elves. Sure enough, just as they reached 
it a shower of balls greeted them. Prince Bertram, 
being very courageous, led his men to the fight, and 
they had a great time. Such whoops and shouts and 
yells as issued from the trees ! you would have 
thought it a pack of Indians instead of fairies or 
Christian people. In the midst of the melee they 
saw the fairy Malice flying with the Princess Golden, 
but she went so swiftly that they could not over- 
take her. But then they had some news for the poor 
king, and he concluded that he would join in the 
search, instead of staying at home. 


 


Well, they went everywhere, fought battles with 
elves and brownies and giants, and the seven years 
were almost ended. They were now in the kingdom 
of Snow, and this was where some of the boys had 
thrown a great heap against the fence as they were 
cleaning out the paths. Fairy Pearl tried some spells 
with her magic wand, and found that the Princess 
Golden was surely here. Just back of the fence 
stood the stump of a great sycamore, and the attend- 
ant of the fairy Malice had built her a little hut. 
Of course she pretended to think no one could ever 
find her here, but looking out one morning she saw 
that her place was besieged. So she called up her 
soldiers and bade them prepare for battle, while she 
shut the princess in the hollow tree so that she 
would soon become a part of it, and then she could 
never return to her father, since, if they did not find 
her iiL the seven years, all search would be vain. 
