here?" 
" Just what we are doing ; and it is some 
of the hardest work one can do." 
" Depends on who you expect, seems to me. 
And I guess 'tain't harder work than what 
I've been doing to-day. I've been makin' 
soap. Got it done, too. And 'tain't to do 
agin till this time next year comes round." 
" Can you make enough at once for the 
whole year ? I cannot." 
" 'Spects you use a passel, don't ye ? " 
" Of course in so large a family. But 
you're a great hand for soap, Miss Redwood, 
if folks say true." 
" Cellar ain't never out of it," said Miss 
Redwood shaking her head. " It's strong, 
mine is ; that's where it is. You see I've my 
own leach sot up, and there's lots o' ashes ; 
the minister, he likes to burn wood, and I 
 
like it, for it gives me my ley ; and I don't 
have no trouble with it ; the minister, he saws 
it and splits it and chops it, and then when all's 
done he brings it in, and he puts it on. All I 
have to do is to get my ashes. I did think, 
when I first come, and the minister he told 
me he calculated to burn wood in his room, I 
did think I should give up. ' Why sir,' says 
I, ' it'll take a load o' wood a day, to fill that 
ere chimney; and I hate to see a chimney 
standin' empty with two or three sticks a 
makin' believe have a fire in the bottom of it. 
Besides,' says I, ' stoves is a sight cleaner and 
nicer, Mr. Richmond, and they don't smoke 
nor nothin', and they're always ready.' ' I'll 
take care of the fire,' says he, ' if you'll take 
care of the ashes.' Well, it had to be ; but I 
declare I thought I should have enough to do 
to take care of the ashes ; a-flyin' over everything in the world as they would, and nobody 
but my two hands to dust with ; but I do believe the minister's wood burns quieter than 
other folks', and somehow it don't fly nor 
 smoke nor nothin', and the room keeps decent." 
" Your whole house is as neat as a pin. 
But you have no children there to put it out 
of order, Miss Redwood." 
" Guess we do," said the minister's house- 
keeper quietly ; " there ain't any sort o' thing 
in the village but the minister has it in there 
by turns. There ain't any sort o' shoes as 
walks, not to speak of boots, that don't go 
over my carpets and floors ; little and big, and 
brushed and unbrushed. I tell you, Mis' 
Englefield, they're goin' in between them two 
doors all the week long." 
" I don't know how you manage then, I'm 
sure." 
" Well I don't," said the housekeeper. The 
back is fitted to the burden, they say ; and I 
always did pray that if I had work to do, I 
might be able to do it; and I always was, 
somehow. And it's a first-rate place to go 
and warm your feet, when the minister is out," 
she added after a pause. 
 
< What ? " said Mrs. Englefield laughing. 
" The minister's fire, to be sure, that I was 
talkin' about. Of course, I have to go in to 
see it's safe, when he ain't there ; and sometimes I think it's cheaper to sit down and 
watch it than to be always runnin'." 
" Mr. Richmond was a lucky man when he 
got you for a housekeeper," said Mrs. Englefield. 
Well I don't know " said Miss Red- 
wood contemplatively, with rather a sweet 
look on her old face. " I 'spose I might as 
well say I was a lucky woman when I got his 
house to keep. It come all by chance, too, 
you may say " 
" Mamma, tea is ready," Maria here interrupted. 
" Miss Redwood, will you come down and 
have tea with us ? " 
" No ; but what I come to ask was some- 
thin' different. I was so taken up with my 
soap-kettle all day, I just forgot somethin' 
more important, and didn't make no new 
risin' ; and I hain't got none to-night for the 
minister's bread. I know you're one of the 
folks that likes sweet bread, Mis' Englefield, 
and has it ; and I've come to beg a cup of 
your risin'." 
One of the girls was sent for the article, and 
Mrs. Englefield went on. 
" The minister's an easy man to live with, 
I suppose ; isn't he ? " 
" What sort do you mean by that, Mrs. 
Englefield?" 
" Why ! I mean he is easily suited, and 
don't give more trouble than can be helped, 
and don't take it hard when things go wrong. 
"Things don't go wrong, fur's I know," 
said Miss Redwood. " Not with him, nor with 
me." 
"Easily pleased, isn't he?" 
" When folks do just what they'd ought to 
do, he is," said the housekeeper with some 
energy. " I have no sort of patience, for my 
part, with the folks that are pleased when 
they hadn't ought to be pleased." 
 
" But isn't that what Mr. Richmond preaches 
to us all the time ? that we ought to be pleased 
with everybody ? " 
" Why, no, mamma ! " said Matilda. 
I thought he did." 
" I take it t'other way," Miss Redwood observed. " It comes close, it does, some of the 
minister's talk ; but I always think, if I had a 
right to be better pleased with myself maybe 
other folks  onesidedness wouldn't worry me. 
I'll do as much for you, next time, Miss Letty," 
she said rising to take what that young lady 
had brought her. And therewith away she 
