it hit agin the wall and broke into a thousand bits, when out rolled
hundreds of gold pieces; great gold eagles and guineas flew round
the kitchen jest as thick as dandelions in a meadow. I tell you, she
scrabbled them up pretty quick, and we all helped her.

“Come to count ‘em over, Miry had the best fortin of the whole, as
‘twas right and proper she should. Miry she was a sensible gal, and
she invested her money well; and so, when Bill Elderkin got through his
law-studies, he found a wife that could make a nice beginnin’ with him.
And that’s the way, you see, they came to be doin’ as well as they be.

“So, boys, you jest mind and remember and allers see what there is in a
providence afore you quarrel with it, ‘cause there’s a good many things
in this world turns out like Mis’ Elderkin’s pitcher.”






THE GHOST IN THE CAP’N BROWNHOUSE.

“Now, Sam, tell us certain true, is there any such things as ghosts?”

“Be there ghosts?” said Sam, immediately translating into his vernacular
grammar: “wal, now, that are’s jest the question, ye see.” “Well,
grandma thinks there are, and Aunt Lois thinks it’s all nonsense. Why,
Aunt Lois don’t even believe the stories in Cotton Mather’s ‘Magnalia.’”

“Wanter know?” said Sam, with a tone of slow, languid meditation.

We were sitting on a bank of the Charles River, fishing. The soft
melancholy red of evening was fading off in streaks on the glassy water,
and the houses of Oldtown were beginning to loom through the gloom,
solemn and ghostly. There are times and tones and moods of nature that
make all the vulgar, daily real seem shadowy, vague, and supernatural,
as if the outlines of this hard material present were fading into the
invisible and unknown. So Oldtown, with its elm-trees, its great square
white houses, its meeting-house and tavern and blacksmith’s shop and
milly which at high noon seem as real and as commonplace as possible, at
this hour of the evening were dreamy and solemn. They rose up blurred,
indistinct, dark; here and there winking candles sent long lines of
light through the shadows, and little drops of unforeseen rain rippled
the sheeny darkness of the water.

“Wal, you see, boys, in them things it’s jest as well to mind your
granny. There’s a consid’able sight o’ gumption in grandmas. You look at
the folks that’s alius tellin’ you what they don’t believe,--they don’t
believe this, and they don’t believe that,--and what sort o’ folks is
they? Why, like yer Aunt Lois, sort o’ stringy and dry. There ain’t no
‘sorption got out o’ not believin’ nothin’.

“Lord a massy! we don’t know nothin’ ‘bout them things. We hain’t ben
there, and can’t say that there ain’t no ghosts and sich; can we, now?”

We agreed to that fact, and sat a little closer to Sam in the gathering
gloom.

“Tell us about the Cap’n Brown house, Sam.”

“Ye didn’t never go over the Cap’n Brown house?”

No, we had not that advantage.

“Wal, yer see, Cap’n Brown he made all his money to sea, in furrin
parts, and then come here to Oldtown to settle down.

“Now, there ain’t no knowin’ ‘bout these ‘ere old ship-masters, where
they’s ben, or what they’s ben a doin’, or how they got their money. Ask
me no questions, and I’ll tell ye no lies, is ‘bout the best philosophy
for them. Wal, it didn’t do no good to ask Cap’n Brown questions too
close, ‘cause you didn’t git no satisfaction. Nobody rightly knew ‘bout
who his folks was, or where they come from; and, ef a body asked him,
he used to say that the very fust he know’d ‘bout himself he was a young
man walkin’ the streets in London.

“But, yer see, boys, he hed money, and that is about all folks wanter
know when a man comes to settle down. And he bought that ‘are place, and
built that ‘are house. He built it all sea-cap’n fashion, so’s to feel
as much at home as he could. The parlor was like a ship’s cabin. The
table and chairs was fastened down to the floor, and the closets was
made with holes to set the casters and the decanters and bottles in,
jest’s they be at sea; and there was stanchions to hold on by; and they
say that blowy nights the cap’n used to fire up pretty well with his
grog, till he hed about all he could carry, and then he’d set and hold
on, and hear the wind blow, and kind o’ feel out to sea right there to
hum. There wasn’t no Mis’ Cap’n Brown, and there didn’t seem likely to
be none. And whether there ever hed been one, nobody know’d. He hed an
old black Guinea nigger-woman, named Quassia, that did his work. She was
shaped pretty much like one o’ these ‘ere great crookneck-squashes. She
wa’n’t no gret beauty, I can tell you; and she used to wear a gret red
turban and a yaller short gown and red petticoat, and a gret string o’
gold beads round her neck, and gret big gold hoops in her ears, made
right in the middle o’ Africa among the heathen there. For all she
was black, she thought a heap o’ herself, and was consid’able sort o’
predominative over the cap’n. Lordy massy! boys, it’s alius so. Get a
man and a woman together,--any sort o’ woman you’re a mind to, don’t
care who ‘tis,--and one way or another she gets the rule over him, and
he jest has to train to her fife. Some does it one way, and some does
it another; some does it by jawin’ and some does it by kissin’, and some
does it by faculty and contrivance; but one way or another they allers
does it. Old Cap’n Brown was a good stout, stocky kind o’ John Bull sort
o’ fellow, and a good judge o’ sperits, and allers kep’ the best in them
are cupboards o’ his’n; but, fust and last, things in his house went
pretty much as old Quassia said.

“Folks got to kind o’ respectin’ Quassia. She come to meetin’ Sunday
regular, and sot all fixed up in red and yaller and green, with glass
beads and what not, lookin’ for all the world like one o’ them ugly
Indian idols; but she was well-behaved as any Christian. She was a
master hand at cookin’. Her bread and biscuits couldn’t be beat, and
no couldn’t her pies, and there wa’n’t no such pound-cake as she made
nowhere. Wal, this ‘ere story I’m a goin’ to tell you was told me by
Cinthy Pendleton. There ain’t a more respectable gal, old or young, than
Cinthy nowheres. She lives over to Sherburne now, and I hear tell she’s
sot up a manty-makin’ business; but then she used to do tailorin’ in
Oldtown. She was a member o’ the church, and a good Christian as ever
was. Wal, ye see, Quassia she got Cinthy to come up and spend a week to
the Cap’n Brown house, a doin’ tailorin’ and a fixin’ over his close:
‘twas along toward the fust o’ March. Cinthy she sot by the fire in the
