winter hinted itself, and the painted leaves shuddered 
earthward in the grove across the way, — to enjoy a 
little climate before he died (j)ergoder unpo" di clima 
prima di morire). Our climate was the only thing 
he had against us ; in every other respect he was a 
New-Englander, even to the early stages of con- 
sumption. He told me the story of his whole life, 
and of how in his adventurous youth he had left 
Milan and sojourned some years in Naples, vainly 
seeking his fortune there. Afterwards he went to 
Greece, and set up his ancestral business of green- 
grocer in Athens, faring there no better, but rather 
worse than in Naples, because of the deeper wicked- 
ness of the Athenians, who cheated him right and 
left;, and whose viws gave him no redress. The 
Neapolitans were bad enough, he said, making a wry 
face, but the Greeks ! — and he spat the Greeks out 
on the grass. At last, after much misfortune in 
Europe, Jie bethought him of coming to America, 
and he had never regretted it, but for the climate. 
You spent a good deal here, — nearly all you earned, 
— but then a poor man was a man, and the people 
were honest. It was wonderful to him that they all 
knew how to read and write, and he viewed with 
inexpressible scorn those Irish who came to this 
country, and were so httle sensible of the benefits it 
conferred upon them. Boston he believed the best 
city in America, and " Tell me," said he, " is there 
such a thing anywhere else in the world as that 
Public Library ? " He, a poor man, and almost 
unknown, had taken books from it to his own room, 
and was master to do so whenever he liked. He 
had thus been enabled to read Botta's history of the 
United States, an enormous compliment both to the 
country and the work which I doubt ever to have 
been paid before ; and he knew more about Wash- 
ington than I did, and desired to know more than I 
could tell him of the financial question among us. 
So we came to national politics, and then to Euro- 
pean affairs. " It appears that Garibaldi will not go 
to Rome this year," remarks my scissors-grinder, 
who is very red in his sympathies. " The Emperor 
forbids ! Well, patience ! And that blessed Pope, 
what does he want, that Pope ? He will be king 
and priest both, he will wear two pairs of shoes at 
once ! " I must confess that no other of my door- 
step acquaintance had so clear an idea as this one of 
the difference between things here and at home. To 
the minds of most we seemed divided here as there 
 
into rich and poor, — aignori, peraone eivili, and 
povera gente, — and their thoughts about us did not 
go beyond a speculation as to our individual willing- 
ness or ability to pay for organ-grinding. But this 
Lombard was worthy of his adopted country, and I
forgive him the frank expression of a doubt that one 
day occurred to him, when offered a glass of Italian 
wine. He held it daintily between him and the sun 
for a smiling moment, and then said, as if our wine 
must needs be as ungenuine as our Italian, — was 
perhaps some expression from the surrounding cur- 
rant-bushes, harsh as that from the Northern tongues 
which could never give his language the true life 
and tonic charm, — " But I suppose this wine is not 
made of grapes, signor ? " Yet he was a very cour- 
teous old man, elaborate in greeting and leave-taking, 
and with a quicker sense than usual. It was ac- 
counted delicacy in him, that, when he had bidden 
us a final adieu, he should never come near us again, 
though the date of his departure was postponed some 
weeks, and we heard him tinkling down the street, 
and stopping at the neighbors' houses. He was a 
keen-faced, thoughtftil-looking man ; and he wore a 
blouse of blue cotton, from the pocket of which 
always dangled the leaves of some wild salad culled 
from our wasteful vacant lots or prodigal waysides. 
Altogether different in character was that Triest- 
jne, who came one evening to be helped home at the 
close of a very disastrous career in Mexico. He 
was a person of innumerable bows, and fluttered 
his bright-colored compliments about, till it appeared 
that never before had such amiable people been 
asked charity by such a worthy and generous suf- 
ferer. In Trieste he had been a journalist, and it 
was evident enough from his speech that he was of 
a good education. He was vain of his Italian accent, 
which was peculiarly good for his heterogeneously 
peopled native city ; and he made a show of that 
marvelous facility of the Tiiestines in languages, by 
taking me down French books, Spanish books, Ger- 
man books, and reading from them all with the prop- 
erest accent. Yet with this boyish pride and self- 
satisfaction there was mixed a tone of bitter and 
worldly cynicism, a belief in fortune as the sole 
providence. As nearly as I could make out, he 
was a Johnson man in American politics ; upon the 
Mexican question he was independent, disdaining 
French and Mexicans alike. He was with the for- 
mer from the first, and had continued in the service 
of Maximilian after their withdrawal, till the execu- 
tion of that prince made Mexico no place for adven- 
turous merit. He was now going back to his native 
country, an ungratefiil land enough, which had ill 
treated him long ago, but to which he nevertheless 
returned in a perfect gayety of temper. What a 
light-hearted rogue he was, — with such merry eyes, 
and such a pleasant smile shaping his neatly trimmed 
beard and mustache ! After he had supped, and he 
stood with us at the door taking leave, something 
happened to be said of Itahan songs, whereupon this 
bhthe exile, whom the compassion of strangers was 
enabling to go home after many years of unprofitable 
toil and danger to a country that had loved him not, 
fell to caroling a Venetian barcarole, and went 
sweetly away in its cadence. I bore Mm company 
as far as the gate of another Italian-speaking signor, 
and was there bidden adieu with great efiiision, so 
that I forgot till he had left me to charge him not to 
be in fear of the house-dog, which barked but did 
not bite. In calling this after him, I had the mis- 
