school-house door, I marched up to her with a stick and ordered her off,
with a manly stride and a determined voice, and chased her with the
utmost vigor quite out of sight. These proceedings seemed to inspire
Susie with a certain respect and confidence. I could read in "readings,"
jump off from high fences, and wasn't afraid of cows! These were manly
accomplishments!

The school-house was a long distance from my father's, and I used to
bring my dinner. Susie brought hers also, and many a delightful picnic
have we had together. We made ourselves a house under a great
button-ball tree, at whose foot the grass was short and green. Our house
was neither more nor less than a square, marked out on the green turf by
stones taken from the wall. I glorified myself in my own eyes and in
Susie's, by being able to lift stones twice as heavy as she could, and a
big flat one, which nearly broke my back, was deposited in the centre of
the square, as our table. We used a clean pocket-handkerchief for a
table-cloth; and Susie was wont to set out our meals with great order,
making plates and dishes out of the button-ball leaves. Under her
direction also, I fitted up our house with a pantry, and a small room
where we used to play wash dishes, and set away what was left of our
meals. The pantry was a stone cupboard, where we kept chestnuts and
apples, and what remained of our cookies and gingerbread. Susie was fond
of ornamentation, and stuck bouquets of golden rod and aster around in
our best room, and there we received company, and had select society
come to see us. Susie brought her doll to dwell in this establishment,
and I made her a bedroom and a little bed of milkweed-silk to lie on. We
put her to bed and tucked her up when we went into school--not without
apprehension that those savages, the big boys, might visit our Eden with
devastation. But the girls' recess came first, and we could venture to
leave her there taking a nap till our play-time came; and when the girls
went in Susie rolled her nursling in a napkin and took her safely into
school, and laid her away in a corner of her desk, while the dreadful
big boys were having their yelling war-whoop and carnival outside.

"How nice it is to have Harry gone all day to school," I heard one of my
sisters saying to the other. "He used to be so in the way, meddling and
getting into everything"--"And listening to everything one says," said
the other, "Children have such horridly quick ears. Harry always listens
to what we talk about."

"I think he is happier now, poor little fellow," said my mother. "He
has somebody now to play with." This was the truth of the matter.

On Saturday afternoons, I used to beg of my mother to let me go and see
Susie; and my sisters, nothing loth, used to brush my hair and put on me
a stiff, clean, checked apron, and send me trotting off, the happiest of
young lovers.

How bright and fair life seemed to me those Saturday afternoons, when
the sun, through the picket-fences, made golden-green lines on the
turf--and the trees waved and whispered, and I gathered handfuls of
golden-rod and asters to ornament our house, under the button-wood tree!

Then we used to play in the barn together. We hunted for hens' eggs, and
I dived under the barn to dark places where she dared not go; and
climbed up to high places over the hay-mow, where she trembled to behold
me--bringing stores of eggs, which she received in her clean white
apron.

This daintiness of outfit excited my constant admiration. I wore stiff,
heavy jackets and checked aprons, and was constantly, so my sisters
said, wearing holes through my knees and elbows for them to patch; but
little Susie always appeared to me fresh and fine and untumbled; she
never dirtied her hands or soiled her dress. Like a true little woman,
she seemed to have nerves through all her clothes that kept them in
order. This nicety of person inspired me with a secret, wondering
reverence. How could she always be so clean, so trim, and every way so
pretty, I wondered? Her golden curls always seemed fresh from the brush,
and even when she climbed and ran, and went with me into the barn-yard,
or through the swamp and into all sorts of compromising places, she
somehow picked her way out bright and unsoiled.

But though I admired her ceaselessly for this, she was no less in
admiration of my daring strength and prowess. I felt myself a perfect
Paladin in her defense. I remember that the chip-yard which we used to
cross, on our way to the barn, was tyrannized over by a most
loud-mouthed and arrogant old turkey-cock, that used to strut and swell
and gobble and chitter greatly to her terror. She told me of different
times when she had tried to cross the yard alone, how he had jumped upon
her and flapped his wings, and thrown her down, to her great distress
and horror. The first time he tried the game on me, I marched up to him,
and by a dexterous pass, seized his red neck in my hand, and confining
his wings down with my arm, walked him ingloriously out of the yard.

How triumphant Susie was, and how I swelled and exulted to her, telling
her what I would do to protect her under every supposable variety of
circumstances! Susie had confessed to me of being dreadfully afraid of
"bears," and I took this occasion to tell her what I would do if a bear
should actually attack her. I assured her that I would get father's gun
and shoot him without mercy--and she listened and believed. I also
dilated on what I would do if robbers should get into the house; I
would, I informed her, immediately get up and pour shovelfuls of hot
coal down their backs--and wouldn't they have to run? What comfort and
security this view of matters gave us both! What bears and robbers were,
we had no very precise idea, but it was a comfort to think how strong
and adequate to meet them in any event I was.

Sometimes, of a Saturday afternoon, Susie was permitted to come and play
with me. I always went after her, and solicited the favor humbly at the
hands of her mother, who, after many washings and dressings and cautions
as to her clothes, delivered her up to me, with the condition that she
was to start for home when the sun was half an hour high. Susie was very
conscientious in watching, but for my part I never agreed with her. I
was always sure that the sun was an hour high, when she set her little
face dutifully homeward. My sisters used to pet her greatly during these
visits. They delighted to twine her curls over their fingers, and try
the effects of different articles of costume on her fair complexion.
They would ask her, laughing, would she be my little wife, to which she
always answered with a grave affirmative.

[Illustration: MATRIMONIAL PROPOSITIONS.

"Early marriages?" said my mother, stopping her knitting looking at me,
while a smile flashed over her thin cheeks: "what's the child thinking
of?"]

Yes, she was to be my wife; it was all settled between us. But when? I
didn't see why we must wait till we grew up. She was lonesome when I was
gone, and I was lonesome when she was gone. Why not marry her now, and
take her home to live with me? I asked her and she said she was willing,
