for her, at all proper hours, with every pleasing and agreeable
variety; to which she should come as she would to the table of a
boarding-house, without troubling her head where any thing came from
or went to. Bridget, having been for some years under the training and
surveillance of Grace Seymour, was more than usually competent as cook
and provider; but Bridget had abundance of the Irish astuteness, which
led her to feel the genius of circumstances, and to shape her course
accordingly.

With Grace, she had been accurate, saving, and economical; for Miss
Grace was so. Bridget had felt, under her sway, the beauty of that
economy which saves because saving is in itself so fitting and so
respectable; and because, in this way, a power for a wise generosity
is accumulated. She was sympathetic with the ruling spirit of the
establishment.

But, under the new mistress, Bridget declined in virtue. The
announcement that the mistress of a family isn’t going to give herself
any trouble, nor bother her head with care about any thing, is one the
influence of which is felt downward in every department. Why should
Bridget give herself any trouble to save and economize for a mistress
who took none for herself? She had worked hard all her life, why not
take it easy? And it was so much easier to send daily a basket of cold
victuals to her cousin on Vine Street than to contrive ways of making
the most of things, that Bridget felt perfectly justified in doing it.
If, once in a while, a little tea and a paper of sugar found their way
into the same basket, who would ever miss it?

The seamstress was an elegant lady. She kept all Lillie’s dresses and
laces and wardrobe, and had something ready for her to put on when
she changed her toilet every day. If this very fine lady wore her
mistress’s skirts and sashes, and laces and jewelry, on the sly, to
evening parties among the upper servant circles of Springdale, who was
to know it? Mrs. John Seymour knew nothing about where her things were,
nor what was their condition, and never wanted to trouble herself to
inquire.

It may therefore be inferred that when John began to settle up
accounts, and look into financial matters, they seemed to him not to be
going exactly in the most promising way.

He thought he would give Lillie a little practical insight into his
business,—show her exactly what his income was, and make some estimates
of his expenses, just that she might have some little idea how things
were going.

So John, with great care, prepared a nice little account-book, prefaced
by a table of figures, showing the income of the Spindlewood property,
and the income of his law business, and his income from other sources.
Against this, he placed the necessary out-goes of his business, and
showed what balance might be left. Then he showed what had hitherto
been spent for various benevolent purposes connected with the schools
and his establishments at Spindlewood. He showed what had been the
bills for the refitting of the house, and what were now the running
current expenses of the family.

He hoped that he had made all these so plain and simple, that Lillie
might easily be made to understand them, and that thus some clear
financial boundaries might appear in her mind. Then he seized a
favorable hour, and produced his book.

“Lillie,” he said, “I want to make you understand a little about our
expenditures and income.”

“Oh, dreadful, John! don’t, pray! I never had any head for things of
that kind.”

“But, Lillie, please let me show you,” persisted John. “I’ve made it
just as simple as can be.”



“O John! now—I just—can’t—there now! Don’t bring that book now; it’ll
just make me low-spirited and cross. I never had the least head for
figures; mamma always said so; and if there is any thing that seems
to me perfectly dreadful, it is accounts. I don’t think it’s any of a
woman’s business—it’s all man’s work, and men have got to see to it.
Now, please don’t,” she added, coming to him coaxingly, and putting
her arm round his neck.

“But, you see, Lillie,” John persevered, in a pleading tone,—“you see,
all these alterations that have been made in the house have involved
very serious expenses; and then, too, we are living at a very different
rate of expense from what we ever lived before”—

“There it is, John! Now, you oughtn’t to reproach me with it; for you
know it was your own idea. I didn’t want the alterations made; but you
would insist on it. I didn’t think it was best; but you would have
them.”

“But, Lillie, it was all because you wanted them.”

“Well, I dare say; but I shouldn’t have wanted them if I thought it was
going to bring in all this bother and trouble, and make me have to look
over old accounts, and all such things. I’d rather never have had any
thing!” And here Lillie began to cry.

“Come, now, my darling, do be a sensible woman, and not act like a
baby.”

“There, John! it’s just as I knew it would be; I always said you wanted
a different sort of a woman for a wife. Now, you knew when you took me
that I wasn’t in the least strong-minded or sensible, but a poor little
helpless thing; and you are beginning to get tired of me already. You
wish you had married a woman like Grace, I know you do.”

“Lillie, how silly! Please do listen, now. You have no idea how simple
and easy what I want to explain to you is.”

“Well, John, I can’t to-night, anyhow, because I have a headache. Just
this talk has got my head to thumping so,—it’s really dreadful! and I’m
so low-spirited! I do wish you had a wife that would suit you better.”
And forthwith Mrs. Lillie dissolved in tears; and John stroked her
head, and petted her, and called her a nice little pussy, and begged
her pardon for being so rough with her, and, in short, acted like a
fool generally.

“If that woman was my wife now,” I fancy I hear some youth with a
promising moustache remark, “I’d make her behave!”

