going to borrow a tea-kettle." 
" You borrowed your tea-kettle ? " 
" Yes, sir. Mrs. Eldridge has none. She 
has almost nothing, and as she says, there is 
nobody that cares." 
" Well, that will not do," said the minister. 
" We must see about getting a kettle for 
her." 
" Then, Mr. Richmond, Mrs. Rogers is a 
third opportunity. She has been sick abed 
for five years, and there is not a Bible in the 
house." 
 
" There are opportunities starting up on 
every side, as soon as we are ready for 
them," said the minister. 
"But Mr. .Richmond I am afraid, I 
am not ready for them." 
" Why so, my dear child ? I thought you 
were." 
" I am afraid I was sorry when I found out 
about Mrs. Rogers." 
" Why were you sorry ? " 
" There seemed so much to do, Mr. Rich 
mond! so much disagreeable work. Why, 
it would take every bit of time I have got, 
and more, to attend to those two; every 
bit." 
There came a rush of something that for 
a moment dimmed Mr. Richmond's blue eyes ; 
and for a moment he was silent. And for 
that moment too the language of gold clouds 
and sky was a sharp answer the answer of 
Light, to the thoughts of earth. 
" It is very natural," Mr. Richmond said. 
" It is a natural feeling." 
 
" But it is not right, is it ? " said Matilda 
timidly. 
" Is it like Jesus ? " 
" No, sir." 
" Then it cannot be right. ' Who being in 
the form of God, thought it not robbery to 
be equal with God : but made himself of no 
reputation, and took upon himself the form 
of a servant, and was made in the likeness 
of men: and being found in fashion as a 
man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross.' 
" Who ' pleased not himself.' Who ' had 
not where to lay his head.! Who, 'though 
he was rich, yet for our sakes he became 
poor.' ' He laid down his life for us ; and 
we ought to lay our lives down for the 
brethren.' " 
Matilda listened, with a choking feeling 
coming in her throat. 
" But then, what can I do, Mr. Richmond ? 
how can I help feeling so ? " 
" There is only one way, dear Matilda," 
 
said her friend. " The way is, to love Jesus 
so much, that you like his will better than 
your own; so much, that you would rather 
please him than please yourself." 
" How can I get that, Mr. Richmond ? " 
" Where we get all other good things. 
Ask the Lord to reveal himself in your heart, 
so that the love of him may take full possession." 
The walk was silent for the greater part of 
the remaining way; silent and pleasant. The 
colours of sunset faded away, but a cool, fair, 
clear heaven carried on the beauty and the 
wordless speech of the earlier evening. At 
Matilda's gate Mr. Richmond stopped, and 
holding her hand still, spoke with a bright 
smile. 
" I will give you a text to think about and 
pray over, Matilda." 
" Yes, Mr. Richmond." 
" Keep it, and think of it, and pray about 
it, till you understand it, and love it." 
Yes, Mr. Richmond. I will." 
 
" The words are these. You will find 
them in the fourth chapter of the second 
epistle to the Corinthians." 
" In the fourth chapter of the second epistle 
to the Corinthians. Yes, sir." 
" These are the words. ' Always bearing 
about in the body the dying of the Lord 
Jesus, that the life also of Jesus might be 
made manifest in our body.' Good night." 
CHAPTER IV. 
MATATILDA thought so much over Lilac, 
lane and the words Mr. Richmond had 
given her, that Maria charged her with being 
unsociable. Much Matilda wished that she 
could have talked with her sister about those 
same words ; but Maria was in another line. 
" You are getting so wrapped up in your 
self," she said, "there is no comfort in you. 
I might as well have no sister. And I guess 
aunt Candy means I sha'n't. She gives you 
all the good times, up in her room, among 
the pretty things; I am only fit for washing 
dishes. Well, it's her opinion. It isn't 
mine." 
" I don't have a good time up there, Maria, 
indeed. I would a great deal rather be down 
here washing dishes, or doing any thing." 
" What do you go there for, then ? " 
" I have to go." 
" We didn't use to have to do anything, 
when mamma was living. I wouldn't do it 
if I were you, if I didn't like it." 
"I don't like it," said Matilda; "but I 
think I ought to do what aunt Candy wishes, 
as long as it is not something wrong." 
" She'll come to that," said Maria ; or it'll 
be something you will think wrong; and then 
