
"You mean up the Mediterranean."

"Yes; and if I were you, I would have a letter of credit sent to me at
Constantinople."

"Perhaps I will; but what's up, De Forrest?"

"Don't say a word now. All our chances for a soft thing are gone in
this ship, and if you want to enjoy yourself for the rest of the
season, keep your weather eye open, and follow my lead--that's all for
the present."

At ten o'clock in the forenoon, the first division of the tourists,
with the Volga party, embarked in the steamer for St. Petersburg. Each
of the students had his pea-jacket and small bag. Mr. Agneau, the
chaplain, was in charge of the division, and the surgeon, of the Volga
party. On their arrival they took omnibuses for the Moscow station.
Tickets for the party were procured, with places in the voiture au
lit, or sleeping car. The distance to Moscow is six hundred and four
versts, or four hundred miles. The fare is nineteen rubles, first
class, and thirteen rubles, second class. The time is twenty hours by
the express train, and four or five more by ordinary trains. Twenty
miles an hour is rather slow for a fast train, but it is about the
usual rate in Russia.

"That's it; this is a Yankee invention," said Scott, as Dr. Winstock
handed him his ticket, which was precisely like those of the patented
system used on most of the American railroads. "This looks like home.
It is stamped with the date, and I suppose they have the machine for
doing it. Here, doctor; the date is wrong."

"Wrong?" replied the surgeon, glancing at his ticket. "June 2; that's
right."

"To-day is the 14th, sir."

"The 2d in Russia, my boy," laughed the doctor, hastening away to
distribute his tickets.

"I suppose you know what Old Style means, Scott--don't you?" said
Lincoln.

"Well, I have heard of such a thing, but I didn't suppose any nation
was insane enough to use it."

"The Russians are, and consequently are just twelve days behind the
times."

"More than that."

"Pope Gregory reformed the calendar, and for this reason the Russians
will not adopt the Gregorian system, but use the Julian, or Greek
calendar."

"I say, commodore, don't your head ache?"

"No; why should it?"

"Because it is so full. I couldn't carry so much useful knowledge
around with me, unless I had a basket to tote it in."

"I have looked the matter up since I came here. Have you drawn any
money in St. Petersburg."

"Unfortunately, I have before me the melancholy duty of spending
nearly two hundred of these yellow paper rubles. Sad--isn't it?"

"Have you your bordereau?" asked the commodore.

"My what?"

"Your bordereau."

"No, no; I haven't that. I ate it instead of pickled onions for my
dinner yesterday," replied Scott, gravely.

"Indeed!"

"Yes; and if you have one you had better eat it, for they are first
rate."

"Here is mine," added Lincoln, taking from his pocket the memorandum,
which the banker had given him, of the rate of exchange and amount of
money paid him. "You see the date is back in May, for I drew on the
10th of June."

"Just so; and that is a bordereau--is it?"

"Yes."

"Well, it looks like one."

"Would you like to eat it instead of pickled onions?"

"No; instead of caviar. But suppose we look into the cars," added
Scott, as they passed into the room from which passengers step upon the
trains.

They entered the second-class sleeping-car. It was altogether a
different affair from that used in the United States; but only two
rubles extra are charged for this accommodation, though that is all it
is worth. It was a large, clumsily-built carriage, with a door in the
middle of each side, and one at each end opening upon a platform. On
the top was a second story, which, however, was only about half the
size of the lower part. The side doors open into an apartment in the
middle of the car, furnished with one large arm-chair in a corner,
and seats on the sides. From this room a flight of steps ascends
to the second-story apartment. From this central corridor two long
passage-ways, on opposite sides of the car, lead to the ends. From
each of these passage-ways three or four compartments are entered,
each with two seats facing each other. The passengers lie upon these
seats at night, being provided with a pillow, but with no covering of
any kind. Each compartment has one or two swinging shelves, or berths,
besides, which are placed above the windows. Of course only three or
four passengers can be accommodated in each compartment. There is no
ventilation except at the windows; and if a Russian cannot sleep, he
lights a paper cigar every half hour, while a dozen others may be
smoking in their seats. There are conveniences at each end of the car,
which are hardly to be found on the trains of any other country in
