definite answer was of the utmost importance to her, as if, indeed, she
longed for a fuller understanding of the subject.

"Yes," answered her mother, slowly. "All these things were given to us
to enjoy, to use, yet not abuse. But when we seek them selfishly, when
we think of nothing beyond our own personal needs, and of ministering to
our vanity and self-love, they do become a great snare and temptation."

"If one could tell just where the dividing line ought to be," Kathie
said, shyly.

"It is quite easily found if one searches in earnest: to think of others
rather than of one's self; to give as well as to receive, not merely
money or clothes, but sympathy, love, tender thoughts, little acts of
pleasure; to minister to the poor in spirit as well as the poor in
purse."

"And that brings me back to Sarah, mamma. Her father may be as rich
as--we are," rather hesitatingly. "At all events Mrs. Strong spent a
good deal at our table at the Fair, and never seemed to mind it a bit.
But their house has such a barren look. They have very few books or
pictures or pretty articles of any kind, yet I do believe Sarah would be
very fond of them. She has not been to school for nearly two years, so
she has had very little chance to improve. Her father is afraid that if
she should learn a great deal she will be ashamed of her home, and all
that. I do not see how she could like it very much, because there is so
little in it to please."

"Some old-fashioned people seem to be afraid of education, but I believe
it is from a lack of true appreciation of it. Whether rightly or not,
civilization has made our wants extend beyond the mere necessities of
life. We need some food for the soul as well as for the body."

"But if education should make Sarah discontented and unhappy?"

"We cannot always see what the result will be, but we are exhorted to
work, nevertheless."

"She asked me to write to her again, mamma. You do not think it will
be--" Kathie could hardly get hold of the right word to use.

"Injudicious, I suppose you mean? No, I do not. You may learn something
as well."

Kathie was glad that her mother looked upon it in that light, and yet
she smiled a little to herself, not exactly discerning her own lesson in
the matter.

"Our Saviour said, 'Freely ye have received, freely give'; and, my
little girl, it seems to me that we have received very generously. When
I was prosperous before, I am afraid that I did not think much of the
needs of those around me; but in my poverty I saw so often where a
little would have been of great assistance to me. I feel now as if God
had placed a great treasure in my hands to be accounted for to the
uttermost farthing at the last day. It will be good then to have other
lips speak for us."

Kathie understood. "Yes, it will, mamma." Then she lapsed into silence.
How all these things crowded upon one as the years went by! Fourteen
now; in three years she would be quite a young lady. Looking at it
caused her to shrink back to the cloisters of girlhood.

Afterward her heart wandered out with Uncle Robert on his lonesome
night-journey, and to the other face pictured still and white before
her. All she could do in this case was to pray.

They went to church on Sunday, and saw Miss Jessie, bright and smiling
as usual. Then she did not know! It actually startled Kathie a little.

"Where is your uncle?" Charlie asked, as they were standing together.

"He was called away upon some business," Mrs. Alston answered for
Kathie.

The telegram came on Monday. "Arrived safely," it said. "No change in
Mr. Meredith. Look for a letter to-morrow."

So they could still tell nothing about him. Kathie had grown so very
anxious that it appeared as if she could not wait. The day was a little
cloudy, and she made that an excuse for not driving out. Even her music
failed to interest. She just wanted to sit and wonder, never coming to
any definite conclusion.

The Tuesday letter was long, written at intervals, and contained the
whole story. Mr. Meredith was out with a scouting-party early in the
week before, when they were surprised by the enemy and made a desperate
resistance. But for his coolness and bravery none of them would have
escaped. Two or three were killed and several wounded,--he very
seriously indeed; and he had been sent immediately to Alexandria. The
journey had doubtless aggravated the injury. He was in a high fever
now; and though he had recognized Mr. Conover at first, he soon lapsed
into forgetfulness again. Mr. George Meredith had been on, and was
unable to remain; but Uncle Robert had decided that this was his post of
duty for the present. He had also written to Miss Jessie, he said.

"We must give him up willingly, therefore," Mrs. Alston remarked.

Yes; Kathie least of all felt inclined to grudge another the cheerful,
comforting presence.

"But it is terrible!" she said; "it did not seem to me as if Mr.
Meredith could die."

"He may not. If they can succeed in keeping the fever under control
there will be hope. The wound itself is quite manageable, Uncle Robert
believes."

But by the end of the week Miss Jessie and her father had been summoned.
There was very little if any hope.

One of Ada's occasional letters reached Kathie about this time. "Isn't
it dreadful?" she wrote. "Mamma says that she can hardly forgive Uncle
Edward for going in the first place, when there really was no need, and
he was crazy to enlist afterward; and it puts everything out so! I must
tell you that mamma intended to give a grand party. The cards had been
printed, and some of the arrangements made, but when papa came home he
would not hear a word about it. I have been out quite a good deal this
winter, and have several elegant party dresses. I was to have a
beautiful new pink silk for this, but mamma wouldn't buy it when she
heard the worst news. It's too bad; and if Uncle Edward should be lame
