Ah, there had a great deal gone out of his life ! 

The woman made her appearance in a day or two, 
a strong, good-hearted German, willing to under- 
take anything. So they went over to the deserted 



 

house, let in the sunshine, and set about making 
the rooms presentable. 

After her chamber had a thorough sweeping and 
airing, Ada determined to put it in order herself. 
There was a good deal of work in going over closets 
and drawers, and clearing out useless garments, faded 
finery, and half-worn shoes. How had so much rub- 
bish collected ? 

" I am sure I don't know what to do with it," she 
said, hopelessly. 

" Miss Meredith, if there is anything you don't 
want, give it to me ! My sister is a widow, and bar 
five children to clothe, so any trifle comes in good." 

Here was a deed of kindness right in the way. It 
did not seem as if those old, soiled, rumpled garments 
could be of any service, but the widow with five chil- 
dren must be much poorer than she. And somehow 
her heart warmed with the thought of benefiting the 
needy, a new feeling for her. 

The day was almost gone when she finished her 
room. It seemed a very little work to spend so much 
time over, yet she felt tired enough to stop. Chris- 
tine had gone through her father's room and the 
nursery, putting the latter in complete order. 



 

"You may as well take the broken toys, if you 
care for them,' she said, glancing at the miscellane- 
ous pile. 

" thank you, thank you ! ' 

" What a grateful creature ! " she thought. 

Christine found a large basket, and packed them 
in. She would take the key, as she meant to come 
bright and early the next morning. Ada had 
smoothed her hair and changed her dress, and now 
bade the woman good by with thoughtful courtesy. 

Jessie was becoming rather worried about her, and 
welcomed her with a cordial kiss, putting her in the 
great easy-chair, and not allowing her to stir until 
the gentlemen came home. 

" Be a little careful, and do not wear yourself out," 
was Jessie's sage advice the next morning. 

" O, I don't do any of the real hard work. Chris- 
tine is so willing and ready. If we could only get a 
servant like her ! " 

" I do believe a pleasant mistress usually makes 
cheerful servants. They are human beings like our- 
selves, and can feel hurt with sharp words or cross 
looks." 

Ada smiled a little. "I am afraid if Mary lul 




wasted all day arranging my room and closets I 
should have found fault. I know mamma would. 
And yet I worked faithfully myself." 

" I dare say. The trouble is, until we do some of 
these things for ourselves, we do not realize how 
much time they take. We may sometimes scold a 
servant when she has been very faithful, and perhaps 
her only way of retaliating is next time to be care- 
less. We all need more wisdom and patience to make 
the race of mistresses perfect," Jessie said, with her 
bright look. 

Ada went at her work with renewed energy. Her 
mother's belongings she did not touch, but her fa- 
ther's clothes were brushed and put in order, the soiled 
ones being laid aside for the wash. The sitting-room 
needed very little overlooking, so they came to the 
parlors. Christine swept first, and while she washed 
paint and windows, Ada dusted. If they could only 
get through with that before night ! 

" Here is a carriage at the door," exclaimed Chris- 
tine, " and an old gentleman." 

Ada's face was scarlet. She thought in a moment 
of her tumbled hair and her disordered dress. She 
had just taken the music out of the rack and scattered 



 

it over the floor, and hoped sincerely it was no one to 
see her. Then she caught the voice, Dr. Mark- 
ham's. 

" Hey ! hey ! " he exclaimed, marching in. " This 
is a good thing for weak eyes, - - such a sight ! Why, 
child, you are as rosy as a peony, and improved - 
