
"Just as if I were," said Matilda.

"And you can have everything you want?" asked Letitia; but not as if
she were glad of it.

"If Mrs. Laval knows it," said Matilda.

"You can let her know it, I suppose. It ain't fair!" cried Letitia; "it
ain't fair! Why should Matilda have all the good that comes to anybody?
Here this child can have everything she wants; and you and I, and
Maria, have to work and work and pinch and pinch, and can't get it
then."

"Is that your dress for every day?" said Anne, after she had lifted
Matilda's cloak to see what was underneath.

"I don't know, Anne."

"You don't know? Don't you know what you wear every day?"

"Yes, but I don't know what will be my every day frock. I do not wear
the same in the morning and in the afternoon."

"You don't!" said Anne. "How many dresses have you?"

"And what are they?" added Letitia.

Matilda was obliged to tell.

"Think of it!" said Letty. "This child! She has silks and cashmeres
and reps, more than she can use; and I, old as I am, haven't a dress to
go to church in, but one that I have worn a whole winter. I could get
one for twenty shillings, and I haven't money to spare for that!"

"Hush," said Anne; "we shall do better by and by, when we have gone
further into the business."

"We shall be delving in the business though, for it, all the while. And
Matilda is to do nothing and live grand. She'll be too grand to look at
us and Maria."

"Where do you live?" Anne asked.

"It's the corner of 40th street and Blessington Avenue."

Anne's face darkened.

"Where is Blessington Avenue?" asked Letitia.

"It's away over the other side of the city," Anne answered.

"Well, I suppose there is all New York between us," said Letitia.
"Don't you think this is a delightful part of the town, Matilda?"

"I should think you would go back to Shadywalk, Anne and Letty, when
you have learned what you want to learn; it would be pleasanter to make
dresses for the people there, wouldn't it, than for people here?"

"Speak for yourself," said Letty. "Do you think nobody wants to be in
New York but you?"

"I don't want to live where Mrs. Candy lives," said Anne. "That's
enough for me."

The conversation had got into a very disagreeable channel, where
Matilda could not deal with it. Perhaps that helped her to remember
that it was getting late and she must go.

"How did you get here?" asked Letitia. "You could not find your way
alone. I declare! you don't mean to say that carriage is for you?"

"I couldn't come any other way," said Ma-tilda, as meekly as if it had
been a sin to ride in a carriage.

"I declare!" said Letitia. "Look, Anne, what a carriage. It is a close
carriage, just as handsome as it can be."

"Was nobody with you?" said Anne.

"No, she has it all to herself," said Letitia. "Well, I hope she'll
enjoy it. And I would be glad of twenty shillings to get a dress to
walk to church in."

Matilda was glad to bid good bye and to find the carriage door shut
upon her. She was very glad to be alone again. Was it any wrong in her,
that she had so much more than her sisters? It was not her own doing;
she did not make Mrs. Laval's wealth, nor gain Mrs. Laval's affection,
by any intent of her own; and further, Matilda could not understand how
Anne and Letitia were any worse off for her better circumstances. If
she could have helped it, indeed, that would have been another affair;
and here one thorn pricked into Matilda's heart. She might not have
thought of it if the amount named had not been just what it was; but
twenty shillings?--that was exactly the two dollars and a half she had
paid to be in the fashion as to her toes. Now was it right, or not?
Ought she to have those two and a half dollars in hand to give to Letty
for her dress? The thorn pricked rather sharp.




CHAPTER VIII.


It was growing dusk when Matilda got home. She tapped at Mrs. Laval's
door before seeking her own.

Mrs. Laval was sitting on a low chair in front of the fire. She had bid
"come in," at the knock, and now received Matilda into her arms; and
making her sit down on her lap, began taking off her things between
kisses.

"You have got home safe and warm," she said, as she pulled off
Matilda's glove and felt of the little fingers.

"O yes! I had a beautiful ride," Matilda answered.

"And a pleasant visit?"

Now the answer to this was not so easy to give. Matilda struggled for
