"Then don't you think you had better give it up?"

"I tell you again, I didn't open the letter, and haven't seen the
money," protested Bobtail, violently.

"You had better think it over."

"I don't want to think it over."

"You will have to go to jail if you don't."

"I can go to jail, but I can't give up what I haven't got, nor own up to
what I didn't do."

"The letter which you brought to my office that morning contained five
hundred dollars in one bill. It was my advance fee for defending the
Buckingham Bank robbers. Their friends raised the money; but only a
rogue would have sent it in cash. The letter is gone. It was last in
your hands. Now you had better think it all over, and you may stay here
and do so, while I talk with the gentleman in the other room." And the
squire opened the door.

There was another person in the front room now, who had entered during
this interview. In spite of the suspicion of the attorney, this person
was Captain Chinks, who was promptly summoned to the private office, and
the conference renewed.

The ill-visaged person in the front room was probably a bank robber
himself, though he was not yet implicated in the Buckingham affair. He
was a friend of the robbers who had been arrested, and had employed
Squire Gilfilian--who was as eloquent in speech as he was skilful in the
intricacies of the law--to defend his unfortunate friends. The lawyer
would not do so without a fee in advance; and the five hundred dollars
had been sent in the letter which had so strangely disappeared. Either
the sender knew no better than to trust so large a sum in the mail, or
his criminal associations made him diffident about applying for a check
or draft.

Hearing nothing from the lawyer, he had written again, stating that he
had sent the money at the time agreed upon. The squire had expected the
letter, and intended immediately to start for the county town in the
jail of which the robbers were confined, in order to examine his case.
In reply to the second letter, he telegraphed to his correspondent in
Portland that he had not received the first; and then the robbers' agent
had come himself. There he was in the front room.




CHAPTER VI.

CAPTAIN CHINKS.


"I'm very glad to see you, Captain Chinks," said Squire Gilfilian, as he
conducted the gentleman of doubtful reputation into his private office.

"Is my case likely to come up soon?" asked the captain.

"No, I don't think it will ever come up," answered the lawyer.

"Well, you have changed your tune since I was here before," added
Captain Chinks, with a satisfied smile. "Then everything was going to be
proved against me; now, nothing."

"I have sifted down all the evidence the government has; and you needn't
trouble yourself any more about that matter."

"I suppose an innocent man never need fear," said the captain.

Squire Gilfilian looked at the gentleman of doubtful reputation, opened
his eyes with a jerk, and a faint smile played about the corners of his
mouth. But professionally he dealt with evidence and questions of law,
rather than with truth itself. He did not ask what was true, only what
could be proved.

Little Bobtail listened attentively to this conversation, though he had
very little interest in it. But he could not help indorsing, in his own
mind, the remark of Captain Chinks, that the innocent never need fear.
He was under suspicion himself; but he was not afraid.

"Ah, Bobtail! are you a witness for the prosecution?" said the captain,
appearing now to see the youth for the first time.

"No, sir. I'm the defendant myself," replied Bobtail, pleasantly; for
the arrival of the captain seemed to settle all his trouble. "I am in
stays just now, caught in going about, and there I hang. If you will
just give me a pull on the lee side, I shall go about handsomely."

"Certainly, my lad. If you miss stay in this law business, there's
always a lee shore to drift on to, and no room to wear round."

"Captain Chinks," interposed the lawyer, who did not so clearly
comprehend the nautical view of the case, "I lost a letter the day you
went away."

"And Bobtail found it," suggested the captain.

"Not exactly. I never received it."

"Then I don't see how you lost it."

"Little Bobtail and the post-master agree perfectly on one point--that
two letters were given him, one to carry to you and the other to me, on
the day you went away."

"And I perfectly agree with Little Bobtail and the post-master. He gave
me my letter in your front office, only two minutes after you told me
that I was certain to be arrested in less than twenty-four hours for
being concerned in that smuggling case, when it was as plain as the nose
on a man's face that I had nothing whatever to do with it. He gave me
that letter, and that letter called me on business down to Mount Desert.
You see, squire, when a man is innocent--"

"Exactly so," interposed Squire Gilfilian. "We will grant that you are
entirely innocent. But the smuggling case is not before the court just
now. We were speaking of the letters. We will grant that Bobtail
delivered your letter to you all right. Do you happen to know anything
about the other letter?"

