We were plucked like brands from fire ; 
Joy now dwells where once was sadness : 

We have conquered fierce desire. 

" It was years since I had been to church. How 
the singing, in a tune once familiar almost as my 
mother 's voice, took me away back ! How it melted 
me down ! How it overcame me ! Old tender, sa 
cred and religious impressions returned. I was 
strangely moved while the singing went on. At its 
close the chairman of the meeting, whom I have 
mentioned, said, to my surprise, Let us pray. I had 
not looked for that. Some stood up ; most of those 
present merely bowed their heads where they sat, 
but I got down upon my knees : I couldn 't help it ; 
and when the chairman prayed for a blessing on the 
assembly, and for especial help from God for any 
poor drunkard that might be there, I groaned in 
spirit, God help me ! Somehow, after that prayer, 
I felt as if I were going to be helped, as if God had 
led me there, and surely it was so ! 

"After the prayer was over the chairman said, 
Now we will have a temperance song from one of 
our little friends. At this one of the girls I have 
mentioned stood up and sang something that sounded 
very sweet. Her innocent face took my heart back 
to the children that once made music in my home. 
I felt strange and tender. 

Then the chairman talked for a while about the 



 

Blessing as the meeting held there every Tuesday 
evening was called, and told of many who had 
signed the pledge of the Blessing and were now 
sober and happy. He read the number of the last 
signature on the pledge-book : it was two thousand 
five hundred and twenty-seven ! I felt oppressed 
and in a maze, but there was just enough of excite 
ment in the scene to keep me up. He said that the 
pledge-book was now open, and would lie open all 
the evening, that if any wished to sign, to make in 
that hall where national independence was first de 
clared a declaration of personal independence, the 
opportunity was here given. Come now, or at any 
time during the evening," he urged. The moment 
you feel an impulse to do so, come forward. The 
sight will gladden our hearts. Come over on our 
side and help us, and we will help you."

" After this one of the girls recited in a clear, well- 
trained voice, and with admirable effect, a poem bear 
ing on temperance. At its close two or three men 
went forward and signed the pledge. I was strongly 
impelled to go, but did not rise from my seat. 
 What good would it do ? I said to myself. There 's 
no one to help me ; no one to take me by the hand ; 
no one to hold me up. I have no home ; where can 
I go ? What can I do ? A feeling of dumb despair 
came over me, and I felt helpless and hopeless. For 
some time after that I hardly heard what was going 
on. But after a while I saw that a man was on the 
floor speaking. I listened, and he told how he had 



 

once been away down almost as low as I was, how 
he had seen the Temperance Blessing sign one 
night, just as I had seen it, and how he had come in 
just as I had come, and how he had signed the 
pledge, and how brother Heritage, pointing to the 
chairman as he spoke, had taken him by the hand, 
and stood by him until he was able to stand alone. 
How eagerly I listened to every word ! 

" When he had done speaking, the chairman called 
one of the little girls by name, and said, Now give 
us that song you learned last week. 

" The child stood up. She was not over ten years 
of age. I felt my heart give a strong beat as I 
looked into her dear young face, she was so like one 
of my own children. I wiped my dim eyes and 
strained them toward her. Oh what a tide of old 
feelings came rushing back upon me ! But I knew 
it was not my Lucy. She had gone to a better 
world long ago. 

" Out on the hushed air of the room stole the 
sweet voice, tender, sad and pleading, in the words, 
Father, come home ! 

" It seemed like the voice of my own child calling 
to me. Home ! Come home ! God help me ! I 
had no home ! 

" The song went on, the singer pleading with the 
imaginary father to come home, and I sat listening 
as if to the voice of my own child. 

" If there is any poor wanderer here to-night, said 
the chairman as the song ceased, * let him come home 



 

now home to the Blessing. He will find it an 
ark of safety and a haven of rest. 

" I made an effort to rise, but something seemed 
to hold me down. Almost with a cry I started to 
my feet and moved blindly forward, saying in my 
