should like to know now what they mean."

"Grandmother," said David, "isn't it safe to conclude they mean just
what they say?"

"Then we should never ask anybody to dinner!" cried his mother.

"And we should never have a party again," said Judy.

"Society would be at an end," said Mrs. Laval.

"And we should fill our house with horrid wretches," cried Judy, "and
have to take up our carpets and clean house every time."

David was silent while these various charges were eagerly poured out.
Norton looked at him a little scornfully; Matilda anxiously; but he was
only sorrowfully quiet, till his grandmother turned to him with her
question.

"What would you do, Davy?"

"He'd do anything absurd and ridiculous," said Judy; "the more the
better. He is just fit for it. What's the use of asking him, grandma?"

"I would like to hear, my dear, if you will let him speak. I would like
to know what the words say to you, Davy."

"Grandmother," said David thoughtfully, "it seems to me the words
forbid that we should ask people just that they may ask us;--or do
anything of that sort."

"But society would fall to pieces," said Mrs. Bartholomew.

"I never heard of the strictest Christians refusing to do polite things
in that way, when they can," added Mrs. Laval.

"But what do the words say?" David answered. "And then, I think, the
Lord meant to forbid our making expensive entertainments for anybody,
except those who can't give us the same again."

"Then we may ask our friends," said Judy, "only we mustn't give them
anything to eat. And of course no wine to drink. I wonder if we might
light the gas? It is expensive, when you burn enough of it. Such
meanness!" exclaimed Judy with concentrated scorn.

"You would put an end to society," repeated Mrs. Laval.

"What would be the use of having a fine house and large rooms and
beautiful things," asked her sister, "if nobody was to see them?"

David cast his eyes round the room where they were, and smiled a little.

"What do you mean?" asked his mother sharply.

"I was thinking, mamma," said David; "I couldn't help thinking."

"Go on, David," Mrs. Lloyd said.

"Well, grandmamma, if one took the money to give poor people a good
time, it would not be necessary at all, as Judy supposed, to have them
brought into our dining room."

"But don't you think people are meant to be sociable, and see their
friends? We are not intended to live alone."

"Surely not," said Mrs. Laval.

"Grandmamma, and aunt Zara," said the boy, "I believe I would like to
look after Messiah's friends first; and then do what I pleased with my
own."

"Do you mean that all those low, miserable people are His friends?"
cried Mrs. Bartholomew.

"He is their friend, mamma; it comes to the same thing; and some of
them are his very own; and he has given us the charge to take care of
them. And his words seem to me very plain."

"He's a ruined boy, mamma!" said Judy.

"I hope he'll grow out of it," said his mother.

"May I read one place more, grandmamma?" Matilda asked.

"I hope it's the last," said Mrs. Bartholomew.

"I like to hear them," said Mrs. Lloyd.

"Read, Matilda."

Matilda read, her voice trembling a little.

"'Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed
of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation
of the world; for I was a hungered, and ye gave me meat; I was thirsty,
and ye gave me drink; I was a stranger, and ye took me in; naked, and
ye clothed me; I was sick, and ye visited me; I was in prison, and ye
came unto me. Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when
saw we thee a hungered, and fed thee? or thirsty, and gave thee drink?
When saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in? or naked, and clothed
thee? or when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee?

"'And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you,
Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren,
ye have done it unto me.'"

There was no remark made by anybody following upon this reading. The
circle broke up. With dissatisfied faces the ladies and Judy and Norton
withdrew their several ways. David presently went off too, but Matilda
had noticed that his face was as serene as summer moonlight. She was
gathering up her books to go too like all the rest, when to her great
surprise Mrs. Lloyd came beside her and drawing her into her arms
bestowed an earnest kiss upon her uplifted wondering face. Then they
both went silently upstairs.




CHAPTER XIV.

