
"But Captain Shivernock is a very strange man."

"None will dispute that," replied Captain Patterdale, with a smile and a
shrug of the shoulders. "That man throws away his property with utter
recklessness; and I should not be surprised if he ended his life in the
almshouse. I will not ask any explanation of the conduct of Captain
Shivernock. Laud Cavendish is not a man of means. Did he tell you,
Donald, where he got his money to buy a boat worth three hundred and
fifty dollars?"

"He did, sir, and explained the matter so that I was satisfied; for I
would not sell him the Juno till he convinced me that there was no hitch
about the money."

"Well, where did he get it?"

"I don't feel at liberty to tell, sir; for he told me it was a great
secret, which did not affect him, but another person. I inquired into
the matter myself, and was satisfied it was all right."

"I am afraid you have been deceived, Don John; but I am convinced you
have done no wrong yourself--at least, not intentionally. Secrets are
dangerous; and when people wish you to conceal anything, you may
generally be sure there is something wrong somewhere, though it may look
all right to you. I have no more questions to ask to-night, Don John;
but I may wish to see you again in regard to this subject. I must see
Mr. Laud Cavendish next."



Donald declared that he was ready to give all the information in his
power; and after a little chat with Nellie, he went home, with more on
his mind than had troubled him before, since he could remember.




CHAPTER XIII.

MOONLIGHT ON THE JUNO.


Donald felt that he was in hot water, in spite of the assurance of
Captain Patterdale that he believed him innocent of all wrong, and he
was sorry that he had made any bargains, conditional or otherwise, with
Captain Shivernock or Laud Cavendish. The nabob would not tell him what
was wrong, and he could not determine whether Laud or some other person
had stolen the money. He went into the house on his return from the
elegant mansion. His mother had gone to watch with a sick neighbor,
though his sister Barbara was sewing in the front room.

Donald was troubled, not by a guilty conscience, but by the fear that he
had innocently done wrong in concealing his relations with Captain
Shivernock and with Laud Cavendish. Somehow the case looked different
now from what it had before. Laud had told where he got his money, and
given a good reason, as it seemed to him at the time, for concealment;
but why the strange man desired secrecy he was utterly unable to
imagine. He almost wished he had told Captain Patterdale all about his
meeting with Captain Shivernock on Long Island, and asked his advice. It
was not too late to do so now. Donald was so uneasy that he could not
sit in the house, and went out doors. He walked about the beach for a
time, and then sat down in front of the shop to think the matter over
again.

Suddenly, while he was meditating in the darkness, he saw the trunk
lights of the Maud illuminated, as though there was a fire in her cabin.
He did not wait to study the cause, but jumping into his skiff, he
pushed off, and sculled with all his might towards the yacht. He was mad
and desperate, for the Maud was on fire! He leaped on board, with the
key of the brass padlock which secured the cabin door in his hand; but
he had scarcely reached the deck before he saw a man on the wharf
retreating from the vicinity of the yacht. Then he heard the flapping of
a sail on the other side of the pier; but he could not spend an instant
in ascertaining who the person was. He opened the cabin door, and
discovered on the floor a pile of shavings in flames. Fortunately there
was a bucket in the standing-room, with which he dashed a quantity of
water upon the fire, and quickly extinguished it. All was dark again;
but to make sure, Donald threw another pail of water on the cabin floor,
and then it was not possible for the fire to ignite again.

Although the deck had been swept clean before the launch, the side next
to the wharf was littered with shavings, and a basket stood there, in
which they had been brought on board, for it was still half full. Donald
found that one of the trunk lights had been left unfastened, in the
hurry and excitement of attending the festival at Mr. Rodman's house.
Through the aperture the incendiary had stuffed the shavings, and
dropped a card of lighted matches upon them, for he saw the remnants of
it when he threw on the first water. Who had done this outrageous deed?
Donald sprang upon the wharf as he recalled the shadowy form and the
flapping sail he had seen. Leaping upon the pier, he rushed over to the
other side, where he discovered a sail-boat slowly making her way, in
the gentle breeze, out of the dock.

Beyond a peradventure, the boat was the Juno. Her peculiar rig enabled
him readily to identify her. Was Laud Cavendish in her, and was he
wicked enough to commit such an act? Donald returned to the Maud to
assure himself that there was no more fire in her. He was satisfied that
the yacht was not injured, for he had extinguished the fire before the
shavings were well kindled. He fastened the trunk lights securely,
locked the cabin door, and taking possession of the basket, he embarked
in his skiff again. Sculling out beyond the wharf, he looked for the
Juno. The wind was so light she made but little headway, and was
standing off shore with the breeze nearly aft. It was Laud's boat, but
it might not be Laud in her. Why should the wretch attempt to burn the
Maud?

Then the scene in Mr. Rodman's garden, when Laud had been invited to
leave, came to his mind, and Donald began to understand the matter.
While he was thinking about it, the moon came out from behind a cloud
which had obscured it, and cast its soft light upon the quiet bay,
silvering the ripples on its waters with a flood of beauty.

Donald glanced at the basket in the skiff, still half filled with
shavings. It was Laud's basket, beyond a doubt, for he had often seen
it when the owner came down to the shore to embark in his boat. The
initials of his father's name, "J. C.," were daubed upon the outside of
it, for there is sometimes as much confusion in regard to the ownership
of baskets as of umbrellas. Donald was full of excitement, and full of
wrath; and as soon as he got the idea of the guilty party through his
