and walk all the way home than sit in this wagon 
a moment longer," she said, earnestly. 

" Take me with you, aunt," said Gem, who 
was crying aloud. 

" I will go, too," said Edith Chase, climbing 
down with alacrity ; " it cannot be very far, 
now." 

" We are still four miles from Westerton," 



 

said Hugh. " There is no clanger, Aunt Faith ; 
do get in again. The horses are only a little 
balky ; they will be quiet soon." 

" Do you call that quiet?" said Rose Saxon, 
as a flash of lightning revealed the plunging 
leaders with William Mount and Walter Hart 
at their heads. 

" By all means, -let us walk," said Graham 
Man, getting out quickly. 

" Of course if the ladies insist upon walking, 
it is oar duty to accompany them," said Gideon 
Fish, following his example. 

" Mrs. Sheldon," said Mr. Gay, " if you will 
walk, pray take my arm." 

" Miss Darrell, I shall be happy to help you 
down,'' said Gideon Fish. 

" Thank you, but I shall stay where I am; I 
am not at all afraid," replied Bessie. 

After a few moments, the horses started again ; 
and the walking party plodded along behind; 
Hugh drove very slowly so as to keep near them, 
and, in the darkness, Bessie climbed up on the 



 

driver's seat beside him. " Bravo, little woman ! 
I knew you would not be afraid," said Hugh. 

" Afraid, Hugh ! With you ! " exclaimed 
Bessie. 

At the other end of the wagon sat Sibyl and 
Mr. Leslie, who also preferred the wagon .to the 
road. The rain still fell, and the wind had grown 
cold, but although Sibyl still wore the coat, her 
companion did not seem to notice his uncovered 
shoulders. Tbey talked earnestly together in 
low tones all the way, and when at last the 
lights of Westerton appeared in the darkness 
ahead, and the pedestrians, emboldened by these 
signs of civilization, took their seats in the 
wagon again, Sibyl's face was so bright that 
Aunt Faith noticed it. " You do not look at all 
cold, my dear," she said, as the light from the 
first street lamps fell across the wagon, " and 
yet the air is very chilly." 

" I fear I shall have an attack of dumb-ague,' 
laid Graham Marr, shivering. 

Edith Chase sat on the edge of the seat, ready 



 

to spring, watching the leaders with intent gaze ; 
as they approached the old stone house she 
heaved a deep sigh of relief. " I am so glad it 
is over," she said, audibly. 

" I hope you will all come in and have a cup 
of hot coffee after the exposure," said Aunt 
Faith, as, one by one, the tired guests climbed 
down from the circus-wagon. 

" We are all so wet, I think we had better go 
directly home," said Lida Powers. 

" Thank you, Mrs. Sheldon," said Edith Chase, 
" but we really must go directly home ; come, 
Annie." 

"Excuse me, Mrs. Sheldon," said Mr. Gay, 
'* but my seventy years require hot flannels. 
Good-night." 

Mr. Leslie had accompanied Sibyl up the long 
walk to the piazza in order to take back his 
coat when she was under shelter. All the other 
guests made their excuses at the gate, all but 
Gideon Fish, and when Bessie saw him lingering, 
she pretended to be very obtuse. u Well, as 



 

you won't any of you come in, I will say « good- 
night ' to all of you," she said, closing the gate 
and turning away. "I couldn't help it, Aunt 
Faith," she whispered, as they went up the walk ; 
" Gideon wanted some of your coffee, but we 
have had enough of him for one day, I think." 
Mr. Leslie, however, put on his coat and took 
