placed in the temple over night, and lo! in the morning Joseph's rod
had burst forth in leaves and flowers. The painting by Raphael, in
the Brera at Milan, as fresh in color now as if but of yesterday,
gives the mediæval conception of that wedding.

Then come pictures of the wonderful Annunciation, thick as lilies
in a meadow. The angel rainbow-wings, bedropped with gold, drift
noiselessly like a cloud into the oratory where the holy virgin
is in prayer, and bring her the wonderful story. The visitation
to her cousin Elizabeth, the birth of the infant Jesus, the visit
of the shepherds, the adoration of the Magi, come to our minds
with a confused and dazzling memory of all that human art can do,
with splendor of colors and richness of fancy, to embellish the
theme. The presentation in the temple, the flight into Egypt, the
repose by the way, the home-life at Nazareth, each has its clusters
of mythical stories that must be understood to read aright the
paintings that tell them. We behold angels bending the branches of
the trees to give the sacred wanderers fruit,--angels everywhere
ministering about the simple offices of life, pouring water to wash
the infant, holding the napkin, playing around him. Then come the
darker scenes of the passion, the Via Dolorosa, the station by the
cross, the sepulchers, in which all of pathos that human art can
produce has been employed to celebrate the memory of that mother's
sorrows.

There is a very ancient tradition spoken of by St. Ambrose, in the
fourth century, as being then generally believed, that Christ, after
his resurrection, appeared first to his mother,--she, who had his
last cares for anything earthly, was first to welcome his victory
over death. The story as given by Mrs. Jameson, in her "Legends
of the Madonna," is, that Mary, when all was finished, retired to
her solitude to pray, and wait for the promised resurrection; and
while she prayed, with the open volume of the prophecies before her,
a company of angels entered, waving their palms and singing, and
then came Jesus, in white, having in his left hand the standard of
the cross as one just returned from Hades, victorious over sin and
death, and with him came patriarchs and prophets and holy saints
of old. But the mother was not comforted till she heard the voice
of her son. Then he raised his hand and blessed her, and said,
"I salute thee, O my mother," and she fell upon his neck weeping
tears of joy. Then he bade her be comforted, and weep no more, for
the pain of death had passed away, and the gates of hell had not
prevailed against him; and she thanked him, meekly, on her knees,
that he had been pleased to bring redemption to man and make her the
humble instrument of his mercy. This legend has something in it so
grateful to human sympathies, that the heart involuntarily believes
it. Though the sacred record is silent, we may believe that He, who
loved his own unto the end, did not forget his mother in her hour of
deepest anguish.

After the resurrection, the only mention made of Mary by the
Evangelists is an incidental one in the first part of Acts. She is
spoken of as remaining in prayer with the small band of Christian
disciples, waiting for the promised Spirit which descended upon
the day of Pentecost. After this she fades from our view entirely.
According to the mythical history, however, her career of wonder
and glory is only begun. Imagination blossoms and runs wild in a
tropical landscape of poetic glories.

Mary is now the mother of the Christian Church. Before departing on
their divine missions, the apostles come and solicit her blessing.
The apocryphal books detail, at length, the circumstances of her
death and burial, and the ascension of her glorified body to heaven,
commonly called the Assumption. We make a few extracts: "And on
a certain day the heart of Mary was filled with an inexpressible
longing to behold her divine son, and she wept abundantly; and, lo,
an angel appeared before her, clothed in light as in a garment, and
he saluted her, and said, Hail, O Mary! blessed be he that giveth
salvation to Israel! I bring thee here a palm branch, gathered in
Paradise; command that it be carried before thy bier on the day
of thy death, for in three days thy soul shall leave thy body and
thou shalt enter Paradise, where thy son awaits thy coming." Mary
requested, in reply, three things,--the name of the angel; that she
might once more see the apostles before her departure; and that on
leaving the body no evil spirit should have power to affright her
soul. The angel declared his name to be the Great and Wonderful,
promised the reunion of the apostles around her dying bed, and
assured her against the powers of darkness. "And having said these
words, the angel departed into heaven; and, lo, the palm branch
which he had left shed light in every leaf, and sparkled as the
stars of the morning. Then Mary lighted the lamps and prepared
her bed, and waited for the hour to come. And in the same instant
John, who was preaching in Ephesus, and Peter, who was preaching at
Antioch, and all the other apostles, who were dispersed in different
parts of the world, were suddenly caught up by a miraculous power,
and found themselves before the habitation of Mary. When Mary saw
them all around her, she blessed and thanked the Lord, and placed
in the hands of St. John the shining palm, and desired that he
should bear it at the time of her burial."

It is then recorded that at the third hour of the night there came
a sound as of a rushing mighty wind upon the house, and the chamber
was filled with a heavenly odor, and Jesus himself appeared with a
great train of patriarchs and prophets, who surrounded the dying
bed, singing hymns of joy; and Jesus said to his mother, "Arise,
my beloved, mine elect, come with me from Lebanon, mine espoused,
and receive the crown prepared for thee." And Mary answered, "My
heart is ready; in the book is it written of me, Lo, I come to do
thy will." Then amid songs of angels, the soul of Mary left her
body and passed to the arms of Jesus. A beautiful little picture
by Fra Angelico represents this scene. The soul of Mary is seen as
an infant in the arms of Jesus, who looks down on it with heavenly
tenderness. The lifeless form, as it lies surrounded by the weeping
apostles, has that sacred and touching beauty that so often seals
with the seal of Heaven the face of the dead. It is a picture
painted by the heart, and worthy to be remembered for a lifetime.

Then follows an account of the funeral, and where the body was laid;
but, like that of Jesus, it was not destined to see corruption,
and on the morning of the third day she rose in immortal youth
and beauty, and ascended to heaven amid troops of angels, blowing
their silver trumpets and singing as they rose, "Who is she that
riseth fair as the moon, clear as the sun, terrible as an army with
banners?" The legend goes on to say that Thomas was not present,
and that when he arrived he refused to believe in her resurrection,
and desired that her tomb should be opened; and when it was opened,
it was found full of lilies and roses. Then Thomas, looking up to
heaven, beheld her in glory, and she, for the assurance of his
faith, threw down to him her girdle.

