    the whole past of Quebec must be crying out to be put into historical
    romances!
    I wish you could see the houses, and how substantial they are. I
    can only think of Eriecreek as an assemblage of huts and bark-lodges
    in contrast. Our boarding-house is comparatively slight, and has
    stone walls only a foot and a half thick, but the average is two
    feet and two and a half; and the other day Dick went through the
    Laval University,--he goes everywhere and gets acquainted with
    everybody,--and saw the foundation walls of the first building, which
    have stood all the sieges and conflagrations since the seventeenth
    century; and no wonder, for they are six feet thick, and form a
    series of low-vaulted corridors, as heavy, he says, as the casemates
    of a fortress. There is a beautiful old carved staircase there, of
    the same date; and he liked the president, a priest, ever so much;
    and we like the looks of all the priests we see; they are so handsome
    and polite, and they all speak English, with some funny little
    defect. The other day, we asked such a nice young priest about the
    way to Hare Point, where it is said the Recollet friars had their
    first mission on the marshy meadows: he didn't know of this bit of
    history, and we showed him our book. "Ah! you see, the book say
    'pro-bab-ly the site.' If it had said certainly, I should have
    known. But pro-bab-ly, pro-bab-ly, you see!" However, he showed
    us the way, and down we went through the Lower Town, and out past the
    General Hospital to this Pointe aux Lièvres, which is famous also
    because somewhere near it, on the St. Charles, Jacques Cartier
    wintered in 1536, and kidnapped the Indian king Donnacona, whom he
    carried to France. And it was here Montcalm's forces tried to rally
    after their defeat by Wolfe. (Please read this several times to Uncle
    Jack, so that he can have it impressed upon him how faithful I am in
    my historical researches.)
    It makes me dreadfully angry and sad to think the French should have
    been robbed of Quebec, after what they did to build it. But it is
    still quite a French city in everything, even to sympathy with France
    in this Prussian war, which you would hardly think they would care
    about. Our landlady says the very boys in the street know about the
    battles, and explain, every time the French are beaten, how they were
    outnumbered and betrayed,--something the way we used to do in the
    first of our war.
    I suppose you will think I am crazy; but I do wish Uncle Jack would
    wind up his practice at Eriecreek, and sell the house, and come to
    live at Quebec. I have been asking prices of things, and I find that
    everything is very cheap, even according to the Eriecreek standard;
    we could get a beautiful house on the St. Louis Road for two hundred
    a year; beef is ten or twelve cents a pound, and everything else in
    proportion. Then besides that, the washing is sent out into the
    country to be done by the peasant-women, and there isn't a crumb of
    bread baked in the house, but it all comes from the bakers; and only
    think, girls, what a relief that would be! Do get Uncle Jack to
    consider it seriously.
    Since I began this letter the afternoon has worn away--the light from
    the sunset on the mountains would glorify our supper-table without
    extra charge, if we lived here--and the twilight has passed, and the
    moon has come up over the gables and dormer-windows of the convent,
    and looks into the garden so invitingly that I can't help joining
    her. So I will put my writing by till to-morrow. The going-to-bed
    bell has rung, and the red lights have vanished one by one from the
    windows, and the nuns are asleep, and another set of ghosts is
    playing in the garden with the copper-colored phantoms of the Indian
    children of long ago. What! not Madame de la Peltrie? Oh! how do they
    like those little fibs of yours up in heaven?
    Sunday afternoon.--As we were at the French cathedral last Sunday,
    we went to the English to-day; and I could easily have imagined
    myself in some church of Old England, hearing the royal family prayed
    for, and listening to the pretty poor sermon delivered with such an
    English brogue. The people, too, had such Englishy faces and such
    queer little eccentricities of dress; the young lady that sang
    contralto in the choir wore a scarf like a man's on her hat. The
    cathedral isn't much, architecturally, I suppose, but it affected me
    very solemnly, and I couldn't help feeling that it was as much a part
    of British power and grandeur as the citadel itself. Over the
    bishop's seat drooped the flag of a Crimean regiment, tattered by
    time and battles, which was hung up here with great ceremonies, in
    1860, when the Prince of Wales presented them with new colors; and up
    in the gallery was a kind of glorified pew for royal highnesses and
    governor-generals and so forth, to sit in when they are here. There
    are tablets and monumental busts about the walls; and one to the
    memory of the Duke of Lenox, the governor-general who died in the
    middle of the last century from the bite of a fox; which seemed an
    odd fate for a duke, and somehow made me very sorry for him.
    Fanny, of course, couldn't go to church with me, and Dick got out of
    it by lingering too late over the newspapers at the hotel, and so I
    trudged off with our Bostonian, who is still with us here. I didn't
    dwell much upon him in my last letter, and I don't believe now I can
    make him quite clear to you. He has been a good deal abroad, and he
    is Europeanized enough not to think much of America, though I can't
    find that he quite approves of Europe, and his experience seems not
    to have left him any particular country in either hemisphere.
    He isn't the Bostonian of Uncle Jack's imagination, and I suspect he
    wouldn't like to be. He is rather too young, still, to have much of
    an antislavery record, and even if he had lived soon enough, I think
    that he would not have been a John Brown man. I am afraid that he
    believes in "vulgar and meretricious distinctions" of all sorts, and
    that he hasn't an atom of "magnanimous democracy" in him. In fact, I
    find, to my great astonishment, that some ideas which I thought were
    held only in England, and which I had never seriously thought of,
    seem actually a part of Mr. Arbuton's nature or education. He talks
    about the lower classes, and tradesmen, and the best people, and good
    families, as I supposed nobody in this country ever did,--in
    earnest. To be sure, I have always been reading of characters who had
    such opinions, but I thought they were just put into novels to eke
    out somebody's unhappiness,--to keep the high-born daughter from
    marrying beneath her for love, and so on; or else to be made fun of
    in the person of some silly old woman or some odious snob; and I
    could hardly believe at first that our Bostonian was serious in
    talking in that way. Such things sound so differently in real life;
    and I laughed at them till I found that he didn't know what to make
    of my laughing, and then I took leave to differ with him in some of
    his notions; but he never disputes anything I say, and so makes it
    seem rude to differ with him. I always feel, though he begins it,
    as if I had thrust my opinions upon him. But in spite of his
    weaknesses and disagreeabilities, there is something really high
    about him; he is so scrupulously true, so exactly just, that Uncle
    Jack himself couldn't be more so; though you can see that he respects
    his virtues as the peculiar result of some extraordinary system. Here
    at Quebec, though he goes round patronizing the landscape and the
    antiquities, and coldly smiling at my little enthusiasms, there is
    really a great deal that ought to be at least improving in him. I get
    to paying him the same respect that he pays himself, and imbues his
    very clothes with, till everything he has on appears to look like him
    and respect itself accordingly. I have often wondered what his hat,
