
" Papa ! " 

" Madge, darling ! " 

It was the voice that he knew so well, for the eyes were 
still bandaged. 

But he paused in the hall when Philip had closed the 
door. Mr. Graham removed the band, and with a glad 
cry they were folded to his heart. To see them here again 
in this dear, familiar place I 

"O," he said, brokenly, "how can we thank God for hia 
mercies, which never fail ! " 

They led him to the room, no one making answer. 
Gratitude was too deep for any immediate demonstration 



 

and the sense of relief, after the long strain on hope, and 
faith, and patience, naturally rendered them silent. Step 
by step they could remember each incident of fresh pain 
as it had fallen upon them ; but the joy was like a glowing 
sunrise, sudden and overwhelming. 

There they were, and yet not quite the same household. 
Ward Graham in the place of Clement ; stately Eleanor, 
less proud and self-contained than in the days of yore ; 
sweet Jessie, whose face always suggested a shady lake iv 
summer ; and Madge, changed more than the others, the 
indescribable something lost out of the face of the child , 
little Greta climbing his knee with wondering eyes, a link 
of the past that still appeared strange to him. 

To this deep joy was shortly after added a letter from 
Clement, enclosing an order on a New York banker for 
the sum of ten thousand dollars towards the payment of 
Home Nook. The peculiar and unusual proposal of Miss 
Stanhope could not for a moment be entertained. What- 
ever wrong Mr. Stanhope had done them must be for- 
given, although it was noble in his child to offer atone- 
ment. But since they could never tell how much was 
theirs by right, they would take nothing, save their very 
own. He quite approved of placing the purchase-money 
in trust for Miss Stanhope, and on his return he expected 
to be able to liquidate the whole debt. He congratulated 
Jessie on her good fortune and happy bridal, and hoped to 
join their number while the household was yet unbroken. 
TTW years more of exile, for it had been that. 

"Among our many other mercies we must place Clem- 
ent's loyal and unselfish regard," said their mother. " All 
sons might not have proved so faithful through long 
absence." 

Philip had been advanced to a higher position, with a 
corresponding increase of salary. He had given excellent 
satisfaction, and entirely regained the elder Mr. Graham' 
regard. 





And now they settled themselves into a regular routine 
once more. Mrs. Ashburton, being relieved from the care 
and the nursing of the last few years, again took charge 
of the household. Mr. Ashburton felt at first that he 
could not accept the life of indolent dependence. 

But they all understood how much he had failed, not 
only in health, but in the readiness and strength of his facul- 
ties. The long illness had impaired memory and vigor, 
the weary months when he had been shut out of the busy 
world, and compelled to live in inner solitude of being, 
were not easily overcome at his time of life. It would be 
quite impossible to fill any of the higher positions, and 
those to which much manual labor was attached were still 
beyond his strength. 

"So you must be content," said Philip, in his hearty, 
generous voice. "I know that of old our brightest 
dreams used to cluster around the time when you should 
retire from business, and spend the days in calm content, 
happy to enjoy and study nature, with no perplexing cares 
to intervene." 

"But it was under different circumstances," he made 
answer, with a faint smile. "It is the parents who are 
commanded to lay up for the children." 

"God has seen fit to order it otherwise in this case. 
Dear father, can you not depend upon your children's 
tender love and devotion ? " 

Mr. Ashburton was moved to tears. 

" You have been most noble and unselfish, but I feel as 
if your young life and that of Clement should not be too 
heavily burdened." 

" We have youth, and health, and many years before us, 
in all probability." 

Ward Graham cast his influence on Philip's side. After 
all, when it came to the point, some one was needed to 
supervise a place like this. Mr. Graham had sent up hii 
horses, and would be domesticated with them until Clem 




cut's return, as he proposed to fill a son's place, not only 
in bond, but in reality. 

For between him and the family there had grown a near 
