ends of clothing ; in the nearest village I bought a pair 
of blue goggles. By and by, when the military camp 
broke up, and Company C was ordered a hundred 
miles north, to Napoleon, I secreted my small hoard 
of money in my belt and took my departure in the 
night. When Company C arrived in Napoleon I was 
already there. Yes, I was there, with a new trade — 
fortune-teller. Not to seem partial, I made friends 
and told fortunes among all the companies garrisoned 
there, but I gave Company C the great bulk of my 
attentions. I made myself limitlessly obliging to these 
particular men ; they could ask me no favor, put on 
me no risk which I would decline. I became the will- 
ing butt of their jokes; this perfected my popularity; 
I became a favorite. 

“I early found a private who lacked a thumb — 
what joy it was to me ! And when I found that he 
alone, of all the company, had lost a thumb, my last 
misgiving vanished; I was sure I was on the right 
track. This man’s name was Kruger, a German. 
There were nine Germans in the company. I watched 
to see who might be his intimates, but he seemed to 
have no especial intimates. But  was his intimate, 
and I took care to make the intimacy grow. Some- 
times I so hungered for my revenge that I could hardly 
restrain myself from going on my knees and begging 
him to point out the man who had murdered my wife 
and child, but I managed to bridle my tongue. I 
bided my time and went on telling fortunes, as oppor- 
tunity offered. 

“ My apparatus was simple: a little red paint and a 
bit of white paper. I painted the ball of the client’s 
thumb, took a print of it on the paper, studied it that 
night, and revealed his fortune to him next day. What 
was my idea in this nonsense? It was this: When I 
was a youth, I knew an old Frenchman who had been 
a prison-keeper for thirty years, and he told me that 
there was one thing about a person which never 
changed, from the cradle to the grave — the lines in 
the ball of the thumb; and he said that these lines 
were never exactly alike in the thumbs of any two 
human beings. In these days, we photograph the new 
criminal, and hang his picture in the Rogues’ Gallery 
for future reference; but that Frenchman, in his day, 
used to take a print of the ball of a new prisoner’s 
thumb and put that away for future reference. He 
always said that pictures were no good — future dis- 
guises could make them useless.  The thumb’s the 
only sure thing,’ said he; ‘you can’t disguise that 
And he used to prove his theory, too, on my friends 
and acquaintances; it always succeeded. 


"I went on telling fortunes. Every night I shut 
myself in, all alone, and studied the day’s thumb- 
prints with a magnifying-glass. Imagine the devouring 
eagerness with which I poured over those mazy red 
spirals, with that document by my side which bore the 
right-hand thumb and finger-marks of that unknown 
murderer, printed with the dearest blood — to me — 
that was ever shed on this earth! And many and 
many a time I had to repeat the same old disappointed 
remark, ‘ Will they never correspond !’ 

“ But my reward came at last. It was the print of 
the thumb of the forty-third man of Company C whom 
I had experimented on — Private Franz Adler. An 
hour before I did not know the murderer’s name, or 
voice, or figure, or face, or nationality; but now I 
knew all these things ! I believed I might feel sure ; 
the Frenchman’s repeated demonstrations being so 
good a warranty. Still, there was a way to make sure. 
I had an impression of Kruger’s left thumb. In the 
morning I took him aside when he was off duty ; and 
when we were out of sight and hearing of witnesses, I 
said impressively: 

" A part of your fortune is so grave that I thought 
it would be better for you if I did not tell it in public. 
You and another man, whose fortune I was studying 
last night — Private Adler — have been murdering a 
woman and a child ! You are being dogged. Within 
five days both of you will be assassinated.’ 

"He dropped on his knees, frightened out of his 
wits; and for five minutes he kept pouring out the 
same set of words, like a demented person, and in the 
same half-crying way which was one of my memories 
of that murderous night in my cabin : 

" I didn’t do it; upon my soul I didn’t do it; and 
I tried to keep him from doing it. I did, as God is 
my witness. He did it alone  

“ This was all I wanted. And I tried to get rid of 
the fool ; but no, he clung to me, imploring me to 
save him from the assassin. He said : 

“*I have money — ten thousand dollars — hid 
away, the fruit of loot and thievery; save me— -tell 
me what to do, and you shall have it, every penny. 
Two-thirds of it is my cousin Adler’s; but you can 
take it all. We hid it when we first came here. But 
I hid it in a new place yesterday, and have not told 
him — shall not tell him. I was going to desert, and 
get away with it all. It is gold, and too heavy to 
carry when one is running and dodging; but a woman 
who has been gone over the river two days to prepare 
my way for me is going to follow me with it; and if I 
got no chance to describe the hiding-place to her I was 
going to slip my silver watch into her hand, or send it 
to her, and she would understand. There’s a piece of 
paper in the back of the case which tells it all. Here, 
take the watch — tell me what to do !’ 

“ He was trying to press his watch upon me, and 
was exposing the paper and explaining it to me, when 
Adler appeared on the scene, about a dozen yards 
