disagreeably.

"I admire Franklin," he said, "but there isn't much danger of my
turning out a second edition of him."

"Professional already, I see, Walton," said the editor.

"When shall I go to work, Mr. Anderson?"

"Whenever you are ready."

"I am ready now."

"You are prompt."

"You won't be in such a hurry to go to work a week hence," said Clapp.

"I think I shall," said Harry.  "I am anxious to learn as fast as
possible."

"Oh, I forgot.  You want to become a second Franklin."

"I sha'n't like him," thought our hero.  "He seems to try to make
himself disagreeable."

"Mr. Ferguson will give you some instruction, and set you to work,"
said his employer.

Harry was glad that it was from the older journeyman that he was to
receive his first lesson, and not from the younger.




CHAPTER III.

HARRY STUMBLES UPON AN ACQUAINTANCE.

After supper Harry went round to the tavern to see about his trunk.
A group of young men were in the bar-room, some of whom looked up as
he entered.  Among these was Luke Harrison, who was surprised and by
no means pleased to see his creditor.  Harry recognized him at the
same instant, and said, "How are you, Luke?"

"Is that you, Walton?" said Luke.  "What brings you to Centreville?
Professor Henderson isn't here, is he?"

"No; I have left him."

"Oh, you're out of a job, are you?" asked Luke, in a tone of
satisfaction, for we are apt to dislike those whom we have injured,
and for this reason he felt by no means friendly.

"No, I'm not," said Harry, quietly.  "I've found work in Centreville."

"Gone back to pegging, have you?  Whose shop are you in?"

"I am in a different business."

"You don't say!  What is it?" asked Luke, with some curiosity.

"I'm in the office of the 'Centreville Gazette.'  I'm going to learn
the printing business."

"You are?  Why, I've got a friend in the office,--John Clapp.  He
never told me about your being there."

"He didn't know I was coming.  I only went to work this afternoon."

"So you are the printer's devil?" said Luke, with a slight sneer.

"I believe so," answered our hero, quietly.

"Do you get good pay?"

"Not much at first.  However, I can get along with what money I have,
and what is due me."

Luke Harrison understood the last allusion, and turned away abruptly.
He had no wish to pay up the money which he owed Harry, and for this
reason was sorry to see him in the village.  He feared, if the
conversation were continued, Harry would be asking for the money, and
this would be disagreeable.

At this moment John Clapp entered the bar-room.  He nodded slightly
to Harry, but walked up to Luke, and greeted him cordially.  There
were many points of resemblance between them, and this drew them into
habits of intimacy.

"Will you have something to drink, Harrison?" said Clapp.

"I don't mind if I do," answered Luke, with alacrity.

They walked up to the bar, and they were soon pledging each other in
a fiery fluid which was not very likely to benefit either of them.
Meanwhile Harry gave directions about his trunk, and left the room.

"So you've got a new 'devil' in your office," said Luke, after
draining his glass.

"Yes.  He came this afternoon.  How did you hear?"

"He told me."

"Do you know him?" asked Clapp, in some surprise.

"Yes.  I know him as well as I want to."

"What sort of a fellow is he?"

"Oh, he's a sneak--one of your pious chaps, that 'wants to be an
angel, and with the angels stand.'"

"Then he's made a mistake in turning 'devil,'" said Clapp.

"Good for you!" said Luke, laughing.  "You're unusually brilliant
to-night, Clapp."

"So he's a saint, is he?"

