comfort to Lucy, with her bright engaging ways. 
And I seem to be almost sharing your bliss of 
motherhood." 
Fan returned just then fairly bewitching in 
her new timidity. We kissed all round, and 
they drove away. I took up my sewing, but 
the house seemed strangely still. 
"Rose, dear," mamma began presently, "this 
will bring a sense of lonesomeness to you that 
may be depressing at first. I had hoped the 
circle would not be broken quite so soon. But 
you must be a brave little girl." 
" Oh," I replied, " I arn happy because she 
 
is. And then she will not leave us for ever so 
long. But she is so bright and pretty that some 
one would have fallen in love with her if it had 
not been Mr. Ogden. You will not be robbed 
of me so soon- -if that is any comfort. 
She smiled a little but did not answer. 
The affection and honoring seemed to render 
Fan more humble than before. She possessed 
a trulv rich and noble nature which would not 
be easily puffed up with pride. 
Mrs. Fairlie and Kate returned, and a few 
days afterward we heard that Mrs. Ogden was 
at her brother's. 
Kate came over to see us. She had changed 
indescribably. A languid society air enveloped 
her as a garment. She talked with a slight 
drawl, pronouncing her words in a very clear, 
delicate manner, as 'if she was afraid of hurting 
them, Nelly said. All except the r's, which she 
rather ignored. 
The months spent at the South had been just 
lovely. Such charming people, (" charming" 
she said,) so much cultivation, elegant, refined 
manners, and oh, such dressing ! How any one 
could exist in this dull little town she cb'd not 
see. And the stay in New York had been 
splendid ! They had become very intimate with 
Mrs. Ogden. we had seen Winthrop, of course. 
Didn't we think him a most entertaining young 
man ? She forgot though that we had Imt a 
very slight opportunity of judging. He had 
spent a number of evenings with her, and they 
had been out together. He was quite an eligible 
" parti," with a strong French accent. The 
whole Churchill estate would have to be divided 
between him and his sister presently, since there 
were only old maids and old bachelors in the 
family. But she should not make up her mind 
about marrying until after she had been abroad. 
American girls often married very handsomely in 
foreign countries. 
" French Counts for instance," said Fan. 
" O, but the real article was to be had. And 
American gentlemen traveled abroad now instead 
of going to native watering places. It was so 
much more stylish. If Dick only would go with 
them ! Mother had tried to persuade him to 
hire the farm out." 
" He must be very lonesome ; ' said mamma. 
" O, he is such an old hermit ! He doesn't 
care at all for society. Just give him a book, 
or a dog, or a lot of kittens and he is per- 
 
fectly happy. He will end by being a bachelor 
like Mr. Churchill, yet I don't know as that is 
altogether to be deplored. Since mamma has a 
life riirht there, it will be as well if there is no 
wife to interfere. ' 
She said this with the utmost complacency. I 
do not suppose she imagined that it had a sel- 
fish sound. 
Fan laughed a little afterward. "I shall tell 
"Winthrop that he had better wait. She might 
come home from Europe and marry him." 
"I do not believe they will like Jennie Ryder;' 
I -remarked. 
"Kate snubbed her long ago. But Dick and 
she will have a chance to get settled, I think, 
without any one's interference. It is really 
fortunate that they are going." 
We saw Mrs. Ogden twice during her stay. 
She was not as lovely as Miss Esther, being 
more worldly-minded, but she had the Churchill 
breeding and was a lady. 
There was one little feast that we kept by 
ourselves baby's birthday. She could walk 
and began to utter pretty words with one syl- 
lable left off, and was the quaintest, cunningest 
baby in the wide world as we knew very well, 
 
" What a short year ; ' said Fanny. " How 
many things have been crowded into it. ' 
"And we are glad to have you, dear little 
Dot, if there are seven of us, ' exclaimed Nelly, 
kissing her extravagantly. 
" But Mr. Duncan said he owned her and that 
he meant to take her away some day;" declared 
tiny Tim, who was fast outgrowing her pet 
name. It seemed to me that they were all a 
great deal taller than a year ago. 
"We won't let him have her just yet," an- 
swered papa. " Or perhaps some one might go 
in her place, 
The children glanced at each other in dismay ; 
and papa laughed heartily. 
The birds bewail to since and the trees were 
coming out asrain. We went to the Woods for 
wild flowers and had our house fragrant with 
them. But in the wake of spring came house- 
cleaning and gardening, and then all the sew- 
ing. 
"The same thing year after year;' I said to 
mamma. 
" And yet not quite the same either. There 
is a gradual outgrowing and ingrowing. There 
should be a corresponding strength and sweetness 
