together! Ah, how sweet it was! And the presents, and the old shoe
full!"

Granny's voice sunk to a tremble of delight.

"It was so happy, so merry! All of 'em laughing and talking, and their
bright pretty faces full of fun. But--maybe--I'll see 'em all in
heaven. Don't cry, Dot."

Hal drew her to his breast, and soothed her with tender kisses. Then he
sat down in the old rocker, and took her on his knee.

"There never was such a Christmas, never! I was so glad to have you
all, so proud of you! And I've done my best"--

"Yes, Granny, God, who watches over all things, will bear witness to
that. You were mother and father to us. And how you have toiled and
worried and made sacrifices, how you have loved us, will all be written
in the Great Book. I'm glad you are going to have a reward there."

"I shall see Joe."

Then she was quiet for a long while.

"I can't remember any thing about the Christmas," said Dot with much
perplexity.

"Tell her, Hal. I'll listen; and it will seem all fresh again," pleaded
Granny in a faint, far-off voice.

"You were such a weeny little thing, and couldn't talk plain; but then
you had always been sick."

"And cross," Kit says.

"You did use to cry--sometimes; and then at others you were like a
little lamb. All children cry occasionally."

Dot felt, somehow, as if she had not outgrown the trick yet; but the
tears fell close to Hal's heart.

"But about the Christmas?"

"Oh, yes!"

Then Hal began. The preparations beforehand, the secrecy and plotting,
the stockings stuffed to overflowing, and the wildest of merriment the
next morning. It appeared to Dot that she could see it like a picture.

"And O Hal, that we should be so lonely now! Hasn't God let us slip out
of his mind for a little while?"

"I think not, my darling."

"But how can you always believe? Why did God let Joe die, when we
wanted him so much; and Flossy go away? And all the other things,--the
sweet pretty flowers that were frozen?"

"My dear child, we cannot answer the questions. Trials always appear
very hard to those who have them to bear; but maybe God gives us one to
save us from some other that would be a great deal harder. And with it
there is grace to endure."

"As when you were hurt. I wonder that you could be so patient, Hal!"
and the little arms crept up around his neck.

"It was part my nature, you know. I used to be sorry at school, that I
wasn't like the other boys; for, somehow, I never was: but, when God
knew what I would have to bear, he made me patient, and almost girlish,
loving to stay in the house, and all that. If I'd been like Joe, I
should have fretted sorely when I found I should never be able to go to
sea. He was so full of life and energy, you know, so ambitious, that it
would almost have killed him. It was best to have it happen to me."

Dot sighed, her small brain being greatly puzzled.

"But I don't see why every one cannot be happy and prosperous. Isn't
there enough to go round to all?"

"God knows best. And, when it troubles me sorely, I think of the
little Christ-child, who was born eighteen hundred years ago, all
goodness and sweetness and meekness, and of the trials he had to bear
for our sakes. All the lowly life, the reviling, the unbelief, the
persecution, the being homeless, and sometimes almost friendless,
and at the last the shameful death. We shall never have all that, my
darling; and so we ought to bear our lesser sorrows patiently."

Dot made no answer.

"My darling," said Hal, glancing at the clock, "ought you not to go to
bed? It is almost midnight."

"And you?" reaching up to kiss the dear face.

"I am going to stay here by Granny."

Dot looked into his face with great awe.

"Hal, I've never seen any one die; but I want to stay too. There's only
just you and I; and she'll want us to kiss her for the last time, when
the angels come."

Hal pressed the little face in his trembling hands, but could not deny
the wistful eyes.

Then he rose, and looked at Granny. She had fallen into a peaceful
slumber. It did not seem as if she could die just then; and yet, at
this hour of rejoicing, some souls were slipping out of the world.

He came back to his seat, and to his little sister. Dot's head was
pillowed on his knee, and presently she began to drowse. Poor little
bairn!

So he kept his vigil by himself, thinking over the old days, when they
were all here. Oh, if Granny could have seen them once more! If the
brave and lovely men and women could come back to the old home-nest,
all outgrown,--and he smiled sadly to himself,--just to clasp each
other's hands, and glance into each other's eyes, to speak some word
of comfort and blessing, to smooth the path of the dear heart yonder,
who had given herself for them without stint or grudging, a holier
