and stopped at the landing of a narrow quay. The 
gondolier dismounted and rang at Don Ippolito's 
door. There was no response ; he rang again and 
again. At last from a window of the uppermost 
story the head of the priest himself peered out. 
The gondolier touched his hat and said, " It is the 
ladies who ask for you, Don Ippolito." 

It was a minute before the door opened, and the 
priest, bare-headed and blinking in the strong light, 
came with a stupefied air across the quay to the 
landing-steps. 

" Well, Don Ippolito ! " cried Mrs. Vervain, 
rising and giving him her hand, which she first 
waved at the trunks and bags piled up in the 
vacant space in the front of the boat, " what do you 
think of this ? We are really going, immediately ; 
we can change our minds too ; and I don 't think it 
would have been too much," she added with a 
friendly smile, " if we had gone without saying 
good-by to you. What in the world does it all 
mean, your giving up that grand project of yours so 
suddenly ? " 

She sat down again, that she might talk more at 
her ease, and seemed thoroughly happy to have 
Don Ippolito before her again. 

" It finally appeared best, madama," he said 
quietly, after a quick, keen glance at Florida, who 
did not lift her veil. 

" Well, perhaps you're partly right. But I 
can 't help thinking that you with your talent would 



 

have succeeded in America. Inventors do get you
there, in the most surprising way. There's the 
Screw Company of Providence. It's such a simple 
thing ; and now the shares are worth eight hun 
dred. Are you well to-day, Don Ippolito ? " 

" Quite well, madama." 

" I thought you looked rather pale. But I be 
lieve you're always a little pale. You must n t 
work too hard. We shall miss you a great deal, 
Don Ippolito." 

" Thanks, madama." 

"Yes, we shall be quite lost without you. And 
I wanted to say this to you, Don Ippolito, that if 
ever you change your mind again, and conclude to 
come to America, you must write to me, and let me 
help you just as I had intended to do." 

The priest shivered, as if cold, and gave another 
look at Florida's veiled face. 

" You are too good," he said. 

" Yes, I really think I am," replied Mrs. Ver 
vain, playfully. " Considering that you were going 
to let me leave Venice without even trying to say 
good-by to me, I think I'm very good indeed." 

Mrs. Vervain's mood became overcast, and her 
eyes filled with tears : " I hope you're sorry to 
have us going, Don Ippolito, for you know how 
very highly I prize your acquaintance. It was 
rather cruel of you, I think." 

She seemed not to remember that he could not 
have known of their change of plan. Don Ippolito 



 

looked imploringly into her face, and made a touch 
ing gesture of deprecation, but did not speak. 

" I'm really afraid you're not well, and I think 
it's too bad of us to be going," resumed Mrs. Ver 
vain ; " but it can 't be helped now : we are all 
packed, don 't you see. But I want to ask one 
favor of you, Don Ippolito ; and that is," said Mrs. 
Vervain, covertly taking a little rouleau from her 
pocket, " that you'll leave these inventions of yours 
for a while, and give yourself a vacation. You 
need rest of mind. Go into the country, some 
where, do. That's what's preying upon you. 
But we must really be off, now. Shake hands with 
Florida I'm going to be the last to part with 
you," she said, with a tearful smile. 

Don Ippolito and Florida extended their hands. 
Neither spoke, and as she sank back upon the seat 
from which she had half risen, she drew more 
closely the folds of the veil which she had not lifted 
from her face. 

Mrs. Vervain gave a little sob as Don Ippolito 
took her hand and kissed it ; and she had some 
difficulty in leaving with him the rouleau, which she 
tried artfully to press into his palm. " Good-by, 
good-by," she said, " don 't drop it," a;nd attempted 
to close his fingers over it. 

But he let it lie carelessly in his open hand, as 
the gondola moved off, and there it still lay as he 
stood watching the boat slip under a bridge at the 
next corner, and disappear. While he stood there 


