

The scene of the morning rushed over him with pecu- 
liar distinctness. She had refused to come down to the 
city on account of the dressmaker, who, it seems, she 
had not expected very strongly, or she would have left 
some message with Mrs. M^ybin. Then she had re- 
ceived a mysterious note, and obej T ed its summons, and 
was not home yet. 

He walked up and down uneasily, then a new thought 
occurred to him. He would go down to the station and 
watch for her. But he had the grace to say to Mrs. 
Maj'bin, "I am going to meet Mrs. Tremaine." 

One train came in shortly. He gave every body a 
sharp glance — familiar faces many of them were — but 
the one,he longed to see most of all, was not there. Then 
he wandered about impatiently, the longest half hour, it 
seemed to him, that he had ever known in his life. The 
shrill whistle was a welcome sound to him. 

Disappointed again. This time a chill foreboding 
struck hard against his heart. There was a momen- 
tary delay, and the conductor sprang down beside him 
and gave him a little nod as he said — "Tremaine," 
which was all the greeting he could bestow. 

Like a flash, Mr. Tremaine remembered that Barton 
was conductor on the down train at noon. He took a 
stride or two after him and.grasped his arm. ' 'Barton," 
he exclaimed in a rather husky tone. "Mrs. Tremaine 
went down at twelve, did you see her?" 



" Tes." She had purchased her ticket in the car, and 
that was fresh in Barton's mind. 

"There was not any accident ? We have missed each 
other, some way ;" and Tremaine gave a sickly smile, 
coming nearer to a falsehood, than was his usual custom. 

"No." And then Barton stopped suddenly. The 
strangest event flashed before his mind, just like a pict- 
ure. Probably he might never have thought of it again, 
but for this. As he was running off of the platform, in 
the city, he had passed a hack, and by it stood a dark, 
handsome fellow, with a kind of fierce, brigand look, 
and a slight woman. He could see her figure and her 
dress, so exactly, in his memory, that he knew it was 
Mrs. Tremaine, although her face was turned away at 
the time. 

It was but a moment, then the warning whistle 
sounded. "Tremaine," he said hurriedly, "if you do 
not hear any news, meet me here at ten — my train 
goes down then, you know." 

He was sorry the instant the words were uttered. 
Tremaine's face took on such a wan, frightened look, 
and his body swayed uncertainly, as if some one had 
struck him a blow. 

" Something is wrong ! " he said to himself, as he 
whizzed past. 

As for Ralph Tremaine ha was stunned. Barton's 
tone gave him a dim, agonizing assurance. No acci- 
dent, no cause for delay, and yet, here it was six o'clock. 



Should he go up to the house or down to the .city ? His 
usually clear head was in a whirl. Yet there might be 
a faint hope. He tramped up and down,in the summer 
twilight, actually unable to come to any decision. To 
rush to the city, and make inquiries at the depot, seemed 
absolutely coarse and indelicate. If she had gone away 
of her own accord, it was only meant for the briefest ^ 
temporary absence. Though he might have felt a little 
vexed, a while ago, he would.as soon cut off his right 
hand as suspect her of evil. And if there had been 
any force or fraud used — but that was folly I An orphan, 
without a relative in the world, standing in no o*£s 
way : no, that view of the case was utterly improbable. 
She might have gone somewhere and been detained, 
that appeared the most reasonable solution. 

The purple dusk was falling softly, as he returned up 
the avenue- Then he remembered Mrs. Maybin and 
the dinner. 

He almost expected Dora to rise out of some 
corner, with her gay, perplexing laugh. Instead, a 
solemn stillness, an awral something brooding every- 
where, hardly less terrible than death itself. 

"The dinner has been ready these two hours ! " an- 
nounced Mrs. Maybin, tartly. She looked sharply be- 
hind her master, as if there might be a form lingering 
in the darkness. c 'Mrs- Tremaine ? " 

Something has happened to her. We cannot tell 
until — to-morrow, perhaps." 



This explanation suggested itself the most naturally, 
and, as I said before, he was no man for mysteries. 

Mrs. Maybin looked astonished. She might have 
been roused out of her impassable groove, and asked a 
question or two, but that grave, stony face chilled her. 

"No matter about the dinner, I am going down to 
New York, at ten, and shall not be back — " 

Mr. Tremaine went up to his wife's room again, 
lighted a lamp, and took a thorough search for some 
