
"Quite pastoral and Arcadian," said Harry. "When we get it going it
will be the ideal of social life. No fuss, no noise; all the quiet
of home life with all the variety of company; people seeing each
other till they get really intimate and have a genuine interest in
meeting each other; not a mere outside, wild beast show, as it is when
people go to parties to gaze at other people and see how they look in
war-paint."

"I feel a little nervous at first," said Eva; "getting people together
that are so diametrically opposed to each other as Dr. Campbell and
Mr. St. John, for instance. I'm afraid Dr. Campbell will come out with
some of his terribly free speaking, and then Mr. St. John will be so
shocked and distressed."

"Then Mr. St. John must get over being shocked and distressed. Mr.
St. John needs Dr. Campbell," said Harry. "He is precisely the man he
ought to meet, and Dr. Campbell needs Mr. St. John. The two men are
intended to help each other: each has what the other wants, and they
ought to be intimate."

"But you see, Dr. Campbell is such a dreadful unbeliever!"

"In a certain way he is no more an unbeliever than Mr. St. John.
Dr. Campbell is utterly ignorant of the higher facts of moral
consciousness--of prayer and communion with God--and therefore he
doesn't believe in them. St. John is equally ignorant of some of the
most important facts of the body he inhabits. He does not believe in
them--ignores them."

"Oh, but now, Harry, I didn't think that of you--that you could put
the truths of the body on a level with the truths of the soul."

"Bless you, darling, since the Maker has been pleased to make the soul
so dependent on the body, how can I help it? Why, just see here; come
to this very problem of saving a soul, which is a minister's work. I
insist there are cases where Dr. Campbell can do more towards it than
Mr. St. John. He was quoting to me only yesterday a passage from Dr.
Wigan, where he says, 'I firmly believe I have more than once changed
the moral character of a boy by leeches applied to the inside of his
nose.'"

"Why, Harry, that sounds almost shocking."

"Yet it's a fact--a physiological fact--that some of the worst vices
come through a disordered body, and can be cured only by curing the
body. So long as we are in this mortal state, our souls have got to
be saved in our bodies and by the laws of our bodies; and a doctor
who understands them will do more than a minister who doesn't. Why,
just look at poor Bolton. The trouble that he dreads, the fear that
blasts his life, that makes him afraid to marry, is a disease of the
body. Fasting, prayer, sacraments, couldn't keep off an acute attack
of dipsomania; but a doctor might."

"Oh, Harry, do you think so? Well, I must say I do think Mr. St. John
is as ignorant as a child about such matters, if I may judge from the
way he goes on about his own health. He ignores his body entirely,
and seems determined to work as if he were a spirit and could live on
prayer and fasting."

"Which, as he isn't a spirit, won't do," said Harry. "It may end in
making a spirit of him before the time."

"But don't you think the disinterestedness he shows is perfectly
heroic?" said Eva.

"Oh, certainly!" said Harry. "The fact is, I should despair of St.
John if he hadn't set himself at mission work. He is naturally so
ideal, and so fastidious, and so fond of rules, and limits, and order,
that if he hadn't this practical common-sense problem of working among
the poor on his hands, I should think he wouldn't be good for much.
But drunken men and sorrowful wives, ragged children, sickness, pain,
poverty, teach a man the common-sense of religion faster than anything
else, and I can see St. John is learning sense for everybody but
himself. If he only don't run his own body down, he'll make something
yet."

"I think, Harry," said Eva, "he is a little doubtful of whether you
really go with him or not. I don't think he knows how much you like
him."

"Go with him! of course I do. I stand up for St. John and defend him.
So long as a man is giving his whole life to hard work among the poor
and neglected he may burn forty candles, if he wants to, for all I
care. He may turn to any point of the compass he likes, east, west,
north, or south, and wear all the colors of the rainbow if it suits
him, and I won't complain. In fact, I like processions, and chantings,
and ceremonies, if you don't get too many of them. I think, generally
speaking, there's too little of that sort of thing in our American
life. In the main, St. John preaches good sermons; that is, good,
manly, honest talks to people about what they need to know. But then
his mind is tending to a monomania of veneration. You see he has a
mystical, poetic element in it that may lead him back into the old
idolatries of past ages, and lead weak minds there after him; that's
why I want to get him acquainted with such fellows as Campbell. He
needs to learn the common sense of life. I think he is capable of it,
and one of the first things he has got to learn is not to be shocked
at hearing things said from other people's points of view. If these
two men could only like each other, so as to listen tolerantly and
dispassionately to what each has to say, they might be everything to
each other."

"Well, how to get a mordant to unite these two opposing colors," said
Eva.

"That's what you women are for--at least such women as you. It's your
mission to interpret differing natures--to bind, and blend, and unite."

"But how shall we get them to like each other?" said Eva. "Both are so
very intense and so opposite. I suppose Dr. Campbell would consider
most of Mr. St. John's ideas stuff and nonsense; and I know, as well
as I know anything, that if Mr. St. John should hear Dr. Campbell
talking as he talks to you, he would shut up like a flower--he would
retire into himself and not come here any more."

"Oh, Eva, that's making the man too ridiculous and unmanly. Good
gracious! Can't a man who thinks he has God's truth--and such
truth!--listen to opposing views without going into fits? It's like
a soldier who cannot face guns and wants to stay inside of a clean,
nice fort, making pretty stacks of bayonets and piling cannon balls in
