Gustav he not do so; he is free." 

" You mean that the baker has signed the articles, 
and is a member of the Community?" 

" Yes ; but the baker is old, very old ; thirty year ! 
Gustav not twenty and three yet ; he come home, then 
he sign." 

"And have you signed these articles, Wilhel- 
mina ? " 

"Yes; all the womens signs." 

" What does the paper say ? " 

"Da ich Unterzeichneter," began the girl. 

" I cannot understand that. Tell me in English." 

"Well; you wants to join the Zoar Community of 
Separatists ; you writes your name and says, ' Give me 
house, victual, and clothes for my work and I join ; 
and I never fernerer Forderung an besagte Gesellschaft 
machen kann, oder will.' " 

" Will never make further demand upon said soci- 
ety," I repeated, translating slowly. 

" Yes ; that is it." 

" But who takes charge of all the money ? " 

"The trustees." 

" Don't they give you any ? " 

"No; for what? It 's no good," answered Wil- 
helmina. 

I knew that all the necessaries of life were dealt 



 

out to the members of the Community according to 
their need, and, as they never went outside of their 
valley, they could scarcely have spent money even if 
they had possessed it. But, nevertheless, it was start- 
ling in this nineteenth century to come upon a sincere 
belief in the worthlessness of the green-tinted paper 
we cherish so fondly. " Gustav will have learned its 
value," I thought, as Mina, having finished the straw- 
berry-bed, started away towards the dairy to assist 
in the butter-making. 

I strolled on up the little hill, past the picturesque 
bakery, where through the open window I caught a 
glimpse of the " old, very old Jacob," a serious young 
man of thirty, drawing out his large loaves of bread 
from the brick oven with a long-handled rake. It was 
gingerbread-day also, and a spicy odor met me at the 
window ; so I put in my head and asked for a piece, 
receiving a card about a foot square, laid on fresh 
grape-leaves. 

" But I cannot eat all this," I said, breaking off a 
corner. 

"O, dat 's noding!" answered Jacob, beginning to 
knead fresh dough in a long white trough, the village 
supply for the next day. 

" I have been sitting with Wilhelmina," I remarked, 
as I leaned on the casement, impelled by a desire to 
see the effect of the name. 

" So ? " said Jacob, interrogatively. 



 

"Yes; she is a sweet girl." 

"So?" (doubtfully.) 

"Don't you think so, Jacob?" 

" Ye-es. So-so. A leetle black," answered this im- 
passive lover. 

" But you wish to marry her ? " 

"O, ye-es. She young and strong; her fader say 
she good to work. I have children five ; I must have 
some one in the house." 

" Jacob ! Is that the way to talk ? " I exclaimed. 

" Warum nicht ? " replied the baker, pausing in his 
kneading, and regarding me with wide-open, candid 
eyes. 

"Why not, indeed?" I thought, as I turned away 
from the window. " He is at least honest, and no 
doubt in his way he would be a kind husband to little 
Mina. But what a way!" 

I walked on up the street, passing the pleasant 
house where all the infirm old women of the Com- 
munity were lodged together, carefully tended by ap- 
pointed nurses. The aged sisters were out on the 
piazza sunning themselves, like so many old cats. 
They were bent with hard, out-door labor, for they 
belonged to the early days when the wild forest cov- 
ered the fields now so rich, and only a few log-cabins 
stood on the site of the tidy cottages and gardens of 
the present village. Some of them had taken the long 
