The winter that followed was a gay one, and many lag entertainments
were given. The Birtwells always had a party, and this party was
generally the event of the season, for Mr. Birtwell liked eclat
and would get it if possible. Time passed, and Mrs. Birtwell, who
had sent regrets to more than half the entertainments to which they
received invitations said nothing.

"When are we going to have our party?" asked Mr. Birtwell of his
wife as they sat alone one evening. He saw her countenance change.
After a few moments she replied in a low but very firm and decided
voice:

"Whenever we can have it without wine."

"Then we'll never have it," exclaimed Mr. Birtwell, in considerable
excitement.

"It will be better so," returned his wife, "than again to lay
stumbling-blocks at the feet of our neighbors."

There came a sad undertone in her voice that her husband did not
fail to perceive.

"We don't agree in this thing," said Mr. Birtwell, with some
irritation of manner.

"Then will it not be best to let the party go over until we can
agree? No harm can come of that, and harm might come, as it did last
year, from turning our house into a drinking-saloon."

The sting of these closing words was sharp. It was not the first
time Mr. Birtwell had heard his wife use them, and they never failed
to shock his fine sense of respectability.

"For Heaven's sake, Margaret," he broke out, in a passion he could
not control, "don't say that again! It's an outrage. You'll give
mortal offence if you use such language."

"It is best to call things by their right names," replied Mrs.
Birtwell, in no way disturbed by her husband's weak anger. "As names
signify qualities, we should be very careful how we deceive others
by the use of wrong ones. To call a lion a lamb might betray a blind
or careless person into the jaws of a ferocious monster, or to speak
of the fruit of the deadly nightshade as a cherry might deceive a
child into eating it."

"You are incorrigible," said Mr. Birtwell, his anger subsiding. It
never went very deep, for his nature was shallow.

"No, not incorrigible, but right," returned Mrs. Birtwell.

"Then we are not to have a party this winter?"

"I did not say so. On the contrary, I am ready to entertain our
friends, but the party I give must be one in which no wine or brandy
is served."

"Preposterous!" ejaculated Mr. Birtwell. "We'd make ourselves the
laughing-stock of the city."

"Perhaps not," returned his wife.

Mr. Birtwell shook his head and shut his mouth tightly:

"There's no use in talking about it if the thing can't be done
right, it can't be done at all."

"So say I. Still, I would do it right and show society a better way
if you were brave enough to stand by my side. But as you are not,
our party must go by default this winter."

Mrs. Birtwell smiled faintly to soften the rebuke of her words. They
had reached this point in their conversation when Mr. Elliott, their
clergyman, called. His interest in the Home for inebriates had
increased instead of abating, and he now held the place of an active
member in the board of directors. Mrs. Birtwell had, months before,
given in her adhesion to the cause of reform, and the board of lady
managers, who had a close supervision of the internal arrangements
of the Home, had few more efficient workers.

In the beginning Mr. Birtwell had "pooh-poohed" at his wife's
infatuation, as he called it, and prophesied an early collapse of
the whole affair. "The best thing to do with a drunkard," he would
say, with mocking levity, "is to let him die. The sooner he is out
of the way, the better for himself and society." But of late he had
given the matter a more respectful consideration. Still, he would
have his light word and pleasant banter both with his wife and Mr.
Elliott, who often dropped in to discuss with Mrs. Birtwell the
interests of the Home.

"Just in the nick of time," exclaimed Mr. Birtwell, smiling, as he
took the clergyman's hand.

"My wife and I have had a disagreement--we quarrel dreadfully, you
know--and you must decide between us."

"Indeed! What's the trouble now?" said Mr. Elliott, looking from one
to the other.

"Well, you see, we've been discussing the party question, and are at
daggers' points."

The light which had spread over Mr. Elliott's countenance faded off
quickly, and Mr. Birtwell saw it assume a very grave aspect. But he
kept on:

"You never heard anything so preposterous. Mrs. Birtwell actually
proposes that we give a coldwater-and-lemonade entertainment. Ha!
ha!"

The smile he had expected to provoke by this sally did not break
into the clergyman's face.

"But I say," Mr. Birtwell added, "do the thing right, or don't do it
all."

"What do you call right?" asked Mr. Elliott.

"The way it is done by other people--as we did it last year, for
instance."
