himself leaning to the impression that the thing might not have been a
dream, after all. This uncertainty must be swept away. He would snatch a
hurried breakfast and go and find Huck. Huck was sitting on the gunwale
of a flatboat, listlessly dangling his feet in the water and looking
very melancholy. Tom concluded to let Huck lead up to the subject. If
he did not do it, then the adventure would be proved to have been only a
dream.

“Hello, Huck!”

“Hello, yourself.”

Silence, for a minute.

“Tom, if we’d ‘a’ left the blame tools at the dead tree, we’d ‘a’ got
the money. Oh, ain’t it awful!”

“‘Tain’t a dream, then, ‘tain’t a dream! Somehow I most wish it was.
Dog’d if I don’t, Huck.”

“What ain’t a dream?”

“Oh, that thing yesterday. I been half thinking it was.”

“Dream! If them stairs hadn’t broke down you’d ‘a’ seen how much dream
it was! I’ve had dreams enough all night--with that patch-eyed Spanish
devil going for me all through ‘em--rot him!”

“No, not rot him.  Find  him! Track the money!”

“Tom, we’ll never find him. A feller don’t have only one chance for such
a pile--and that one’s lost. I’d feel mighty shaky if I was to see him,
anyway.”

“Well, so’d I; but I’d like to see him, anyway--and track him out--to his
Number Two.”

“Number Two--yes, that’s it. I been thinking ‘bout that. But I can’t make
nothing out of it. What do you reckon it is?”

“I dono. It’s too deep. Say, Huck--maybe it’s the number of a house!”

“Goody!... No, Tom, that ain’t it. If it is, it ain’t in this one-horse
town. They ain’t no numbers here.”

“Well, that’s so. Lemme think a minute. Here--it’s the number of a
room--in a tavern, you know!”

“Oh, that’s the trick! They ain’t only two taverns. We can find out
quick.”

“You stay here, Huck, till I come.”

Tom was off at once. He did not care to have Huck’s company in public
places. He was gone half an hour. He found that in the best tavern, No.
2 had long been occupied by a young lawyer, and was still so occupied.
In the less ostentatious house, No. 2 was a mystery. The tavern-keeper’s
young son said it was kept locked all the time, and he never saw anybody
go into it or come out of it except at night; he did not know any
particular reason for this state of things; had had some little
curiosity, but it was rather feeble; had made the most of the mystery
by entertaining himself with the idea that that room was “ha’nted”; had
noticed that there was a light in there the night before.

“That’s what I’ve found out, Huck. I reckon that’s the very No. 2 we’re
after.”

“I reckon it is, Tom. Now what you going to do?”

“Lemme think.”

Tom thought a long time. Then he said:

“I’ll tell you. The back door of that No. 2 is the door that comes out
into that little close alley between the tavern and the old rattle trap
of a brick store. Now you get hold of all the doorkeys you can find, and
I’ll nip all of auntie’s, and the first dark night we’ll go there and
try ‘em. And mind you, keep a lookout for Injun Joe, because he said he
was going to drop into town and spy around once more for a chance to get
his revenge. If you see him, you just follow him; and if he don’t go to
that No. 2, that ain’t the place.”

“Lordy, I don’t want to foller him by myself!”

“Why, it’ll be night, sure. He mightn’t ever see you--and if he did,
maybe he’d never think anything.”

“Well, if it’s pretty dark I reckon I’ll track him. I dono--I dono. I’ll
try.”

“You bet I’ll follow him, if it’s dark, Huck. Why, he might ‘a’ found
out he couldn’t get his revenge, and be going right after that money.”

“It’s so, Tom, it’s so. I’ll foller him; I will, by jingoes!”

“Now you’re  talking ! Don’t you ever weaken, Huck, and I won’t.”




CHAPTER XXVIII

THAT night Tom and Huck were ready for their adventure. They hung about
the neighborhood of the tavern until after nine, one watching the alley
at a distance and the other the tavern door. Nobody entered the alley or
left it; nobody resembling the Spaniard entered or left the tavern
door. The night promised to be a fair one; so Tom went home with the
understanding that if a considerable degree of darkness came on, Huck
was to come and “maow,” whereupon he would slip out and try the keys.
But the night remained clear, and Huck closed his watch and retired to
bed in an empty sugar hogshead about twelve.

Tuesday the boys had the same ill luck. Also Wednesday. But Thursday
night promised better. Tom slipped out in good season with his aunt’s
old tin lantern, and a large towel to blindfold it with. He hid the
lantern in Huck’s sugar hogshead and the watch began. An hour before
midnight the tavern closed up and its lights (the only ones thereabouts)
were put out. No Spaniard had been seen. Nobody had entered or left the
alley. Everything was auspicious. The blackness of darkness reigned,
the perfect stillness was interrupted only by occasional mutterings of
