I did use to enjo}" Fan when she came to shop. We used 
to talk about all Wachusett ; and now we took in Edgeiiy. 
Ah, how happy we all were ! Only now and then I used 
to say, ' Poor Nelly ! ' thinking of aunts and grand 
mothers, and stepchildren who almost broke their backs, 
and had to be nursed for months and months. No own 
mother could have been more devoted than Nelly was. 
Daisy used to tell over bits of her care and kindliness. 
' And it is odd,' she would sa}*, ' but I do believe Nelly 
is teaching Dr. Kinnard to love his own children.' 
" Fancy any one teaching Stephen to love our little 
boy ! But, then, he was so rarely beautiful and cunning ! 
" I like to linger over these days. It is a bit of fairy- 
lifc ; and jet there was not much real grandeur in it, 
a plain, three-story brick house, just around from a fash 
ionable avenue, pretty, but not extravagantly furnished. 
It seemed quite a palace to me when I was first married ; 
but Stephen had friends living in so much greater style, 
that I soon began to feel very modest. 
" I used to think, if we could only keep a horse and car 
riage, I would not ask to live any more elegantly, but for 
Stephen to have a little more leisure, and the carriage at 
our command. Not that I suffered much in this respect. 
Louis used to take baby and me out pleasant afternoons. 
The income of his part amply sufficed for a few indul 
gences of this kind ; and then he never cared to go alone. 
It was having a kind and tender brother to anticipate 
every want. 
" We did not see so much of Stuart. He was in a large 
mercantile house, and doing considerable travelling, as he 
expected, in a year or two more, to have a share in the 
business. He was considered very promising and bill- 
 
liant ; and young ladies were beginning to be fascinated 
with him. 
" Right in the midst of this came the blow and the 
sorrow. Last week, brightness and laughter ; tiny feet 
pattering up and down ; silvery tones floating through the 
atmosphere with such a glad, sunshiny, tremulous vibra 
tion ; tender kisses at morn ; a little praj-cr at night, a 
blessedness so perfect, that I used sometimes to ask why 
I was singled out for the exceeding great joy. 
" And then an awesome, fearful silence ; a little coffin ; 
flowers whose scent will be indissolubly connected with 
my first-born, if I should live centuries ; and then a 
darkened house ; a sorrow so wordless that I could cnly 
sit in its fearful grasp, holding close and fast to some 
thing, not God, not heaven where he had gone, not 
any comfort or consolation, but a strange phantom, a 
baby that was never out of my heart or arms, who lay 
there still and motionless, who could not answer my kisses 
or my passionate longings. 
" I was quiet a good deal, for Stephen's sake ; but, be 
sides, such an awful terror had fallen upon me, that I did 
not want to speak. Daisy came to stay with me. I was 
so glad for Stephen's sake ! She used to talk to him ; 
and she had such sweet, comforting ways ! I who had 
measured the ache and agony of his soul could not bear 
to touch upon it. 
" What daj's they were ! The common duties of life were 
gone through with. I did not neglect my house, nor my 
church, nor my poor neighbors, in whom I had taken an 
interest heretofore. I used to wish there were more for 
me to do, that every moment could be full, leaving no 
room for listless sorrow. I fancied I fought against it, in 
just enduring passively, in not rebelling. 
" The first thing that roused and interested me was 
Louis's coming ordination. I had meant, all along, to 
make a surplice for him, I was so fond of fine needle- 
 
work and embroidery. He drew patterns for the latter : 
he had such a genius for designs and emblems and win 
dows, and finding the hidden meanings, the types that 
were a soul-substance to our thoughts, that brought us 
somehow nearer to God, the fine-twined linen, the cun 
ning work, the beaten gold, the service for him. And so 
I took it in hand while he sat and talked of examinations, 
of hope, of a diviner life, all the poetry and ideality of his 
nature coming out. I used to wonder, sometimes, if this 
was really the Louis Duncan of years ago. But it was 
not, altogether. The love of God had constrained him to 
better thoughts and purposes. I used to feel now, that, if 
he were not to be a clergj'man, he would be an artist. 
" The time came ; and he took his solemn vows, was set 
apart to sacred uses. Papa and mamma were present ; 
and their cup of joy filled to the brim. " Son Louis," 
father said with tender solemnity ; and he seemed, some 
how, adopted into our family, made one of us. 
" It came to me then it was a foolish thought, I know ; 
but there was Daisy. If Louis could but like her ! She 
would make such a lovely clergyman's wife ! 
" Then Fan planned a grand summering at the White 
Mountains, not hotel life, with its set routine, but the 
grand freedom of house-keeping on a farm. Mr. Ogden 
knew of a house the}* could hire. The Kinnards were to 
join ; and if we would come ! 
" ' I wish you would, Rose ! ' said Stephen with much 
solicitude in his tones. ' You need a change. And I 
think I shall have to go to Chicago presently for two 
weeks or so. Louis might stay all the time.' 
' ' Louis looked at me questioningh r . 
" ' No,' I answered : ' I don't want to go. They will 
all be gay and happj', and I want quiet.' 
" That night he asked me if I would go to Europe. 
He might get off by August, he thought ; and we could 
have six months. 
" ' No,' I returned, not even tempted by that. Aftei*- 
ward I was so glad I had not caught at the relief. 
"There was another plan presently. Papa was going 
with the party. His parish would pay expenses, and find 
a substitute while he was gone. Would not Louis like 
to come, and Stephen and I? Daisy was to stay to keep 
house. 
" ' Oh, it would be delightful ! ' exclaimed Louis. ' A 
whole summer spent there ! Eose, we might live over 
what was good in the old times.' 
" Stephen studied me then with some anxiety. 
" ' Yes/ I returned: ' I do believe I would like that. 
Only, can you come, Stephen ? ' 
" ' I will try my best. Yes, I shall be there a good 
