he would build the most magnificent monastery in the
world in his honor. St. Lawrence was kind enough to
accommodate him with the victory; and this remarkable
pile of buildings was the result. Philip redeemed his
vow, and even did more than this; for, in recognition
of the fact that the saint was martyred on a gridiron,
he built this monastery in the form of that useful cooking
implement. As you see, the structure is in the
form of a square; and, within it, seventeen ranges of
buildings cross each other at right angles. The towers
at each corner are two hundred feet high; and the
grand dome in the centre is three hundred and twenty
feet high.

“The total length of the building is seven hundred
and forty feet, by five hundred and eighty feet wide.
It was begun in 1563, when Philip laid the corner–stone
with his own hands; and was completed twenty–one
years later. It cost, in money of our time, fifteen
millions of dollars. It has four thousand windows;
though you may see that most of them are rather small.
The church, which is properly the chapel of the monastery,
is three hundred and seventy–five feet long, and
contains forty chapels. The high altar is ninety feet
high, and fifty feet wide, and is composed of jasper.
Directly under it is the royal tomb, in which are laid
the remains of all the sovereigns of Spain from Charles
V. to the present time. The Spaniards regard the
Escurial as the eighth wonder of the world. It is
grand, solemn, and gloomy, like Philip who built it.
In the mountain, a mile and a half from the Escurial,
is a seat built of granite, which Philip used to occupy
while watching the progress of the work.”

The students separated, dividing into parties to suit
themselves. All the available guides were engaged for
them; and in a few minutes the interior of the church
presented a scene that would have astonished the
gloomy Philip if he could have stepped out of his shelf
below to look at it, for a hundred young Americans—from
the land that Columbus gave to Castile and Leon—was
an unusual sight within its cold and deserted
walls.

“I suppose you have read the lives of Charles V.
and Philip II.,” said Dr. Winstock, as he entered the
great building with his young friends.

Both of them had read Robertson and Prescott and
Irving; and it was because they were generally well
read up that the doctor liked to be with them.

“It isn’t of much use for any one who has not read
the life of Philip II. to come here: at least, he would
be in the dark all the time,” added the doctor.

“I have seen it stated that Charles V. and his
mother, Crazy Jane, both wanted a convent built which
should contain a burial–place for the royal family,” said
Sheridan.

“That is true. All of them were very pious, and
inclined to dwell in convents. Charles V. showed his
taste at his abdication by retiring to Yuste,” replied the
surgeon.

“The architecture of the building is very plain.”

“Yes,—simple, massive, and grand.”

“Like Philip, as Professor Mapps said.”

“It took him two years to find a suitable spot for the
building,” said the doctor.

“I don’t think he could have found a worse one,”
laughed Murray.

“But he found just the one he wanted; and he did
not select it to suit you and me. Look off at those
mountains on the north,—the Guadarramas. They
tower above Philip’s mausoleum, but they do not belittle
it. The region is rough but grand: it is desolate;
but that makes it more solemn and impressive. It is
a monastery and a tomb that he built, not a pleasure–house.”

“But he made a royal residence of it,” suggested
Murray.

“For the same reason that his father chose to end
his days in a monastery. Philip would be a wild
fanatic in our day; but he is to be judged by his own
time. He was really a king and a monk, as much one
as the other. When we go into the room where he
died, and where he spent the last days of his life, and
recall some of his history there, we shall understand
him better. I don’t admire his character, but I am disposed
to do justice to him.”

The party entered the church, called in Spanish
templo: it is three hundred and twenty feet long, and it
is the same to the top of the cupola.

“The interior is so well proportioned that you do not
get an adequate idea of the size of it,” said the doctor.
“Consider that you could put almost any church in our
own country into this one, and have plenty of room for
its spire under that dome. It is severely plain; but I
think it is grand and impressive. The high altar, which
I believe the professor did not make as large as it really
is, is very rich in marbles and precious stones, and cost
about two hundred thousand dollars.”

“That’s enough to build twenty comfortable country
churches at home,” added Murray. “And this whole
building cost money enough to build fifteen thousand
handsome churches in any country. Of course there
are plenty of beggars in Spain.”

“That is the republican view of the matter,” replied
