ye kindly tell me where I’d be finding the flannel place?” said a voice
behind her, and, glancing up, she saw a meek little Irishwoman looking
quite lost and out of place among the luxuries around her.

“Downstairs, turn to the left,” was the clerk’s hasty reply, with a
vague wave of the hand which left the inquirer more in the dark than
ever.

Rose saw the woman’s perplexity and said kindly, “I’ll show you this
way.”

“I’m ashamed to be throublin’ ye, miss, but it’s strange I am in it, and
wouldn’t be comin’ here at all, at all, barrin’ they tould me I’d get
the bit I’m wantin’ chaper in this big shop than the little ones more
becomin’ the like o’ me,” explained the little woman humbly.

Rose looked again as she led the way through a well-dressed crowd of
busy shoppers, and something in the anxious, tired face under the old
woolen hood the bare, purple hands holding fast a meager wallet and a
faded scrap of the dotted flannel little children’s frocks are so often
made of touched the generous heart that never could see want without
an impulse to relieve it. She had meant only to point the way, but,
following a new impulse, she went on, listening to the poor soul’s
motherly prattle about “me baby” and the “throuble” it was to “find
clothes for the growin’ childer when me man is out av work and the
bit and sup inconvaynient these hard times” as they descended to that
darksome lower world where necessities take refuge when luxuries crowd
them out from the gayer place above.

The presence of a lady made Mrs. Sullivan’s shopping very easy now, and
her one poor “bit” of flannel grew miraculously into yards of several
colors, since the shabby purse was no lighter when she went away, wiping
her eyes on the corner of a big, brown bundle. A very little thing, and
no one saw it but a wooden-faced clerk, who never told, yet it did Rose
good and sent her up into the light again with a sober face, thinking
self-reproachfully, “What right have I to more gay gowns when some poor
babies have none, or to spend time making myself fine while there is so
much bitter want in the world?”

Nevertheless the pretty things were just as tempting as ever, and she
yearned for the opal silk with a renewed yearning when she got back. It
is not certain that it would not have been bought in spite of her better
self if a good angel in the likeness of a stout lady with silvery curls
about the benevolent face, enshrined in a plain bonnet, had not accosted
her as she joined Kitty, still brooding over the wedding gowns.

“I waited a moment for you, my dear, because I’m in haste, and very glad
to save myself a journey or a note,” began the newcomer in a low tone as
Rose shook hands with the most affectionate respect. “You know the great
box factory was burned a day or two ago and over a hundred girls thrown
out of work. Some were hurt and are in the hospital, many have no homes
to go to, and nearly all need temporary help of some sort. We’ve had
so many calls this winter I hardly know which way to turn, for want is
pressing, and I’ve had my finger in so many purses I’m almost ashamed
to ask again. Any little contribution ah, thank you, I was sure you
wouldn’t fail me, my good child,” and Mrs. Gardener warmly pressed the
hand that went so quickly into the little porte-monnaie and came out so
generously filled.

“Let me know how else I can help, and thank you very much for allowing
me to have a share in your good works,” said Rose, forgetting all
about gay gowns as she watched the black bonnet go briskly away with an
approving smile on the fine old face inside it.

“You extravagant thing! How could you give so much?” whispered Kitty,
whose curious eye had seen three figures on the single bill which had so
rapidly changed hands.

“I believe if Mrs. Gardener asked me for my head I should give it to
her,” answered Rose lightly, then, turning to the silks, she asked,
“Which have you decided upon, the yellow white or the blue, the corded
or the striped?”

“I’ve decided nothing; except that you are to have the pink and wear it
at my ahem! ball,” said Kitty, who had made up her mind, but could not
give her orders till Mama had been consulted.

“No, I can’t afford it just yet. I never overstep my allowance, and I
shall have to if I get any more finery. Come, we ought not to waste time
here if you have all the patterns you want.” And Rose walked quickly
away, glad that it was out of her power to break through two resolutions
which hitherto had been faithfully kept one to dress simply for
example’s sake, the other not to be extravagant for charity’s sake.

As Rosamond had her day of misfortunes, so this seemed to be one of
small temptations to Rose. After she had set Kitty down at home and been
to see her new houses, she drove about doing various errands for the
aunts and, while waiting in the carriage for the execution of an order,
young Pemberton came by.

As Steve said, this gentleman had been “hard hit” and still hovered
mothlike about the forbidden light. Being the most eligible parti of the
season, his regard was considered a distinction to be proud of, and Rose
had been well scolded by Aunt Clara for refusing so honorable a mate.
The girl liked him, and he was the suitor of whom she had spoken so
respectfully to Dr. Alec because he had no need of the heiress and had
sincerely loved Rose. He had been away, and she hoped had gotten over
his disappointment as happily as the rest, but now when he saw her,
and came hurrying up so hungry for a word, she felt that he had not
forgotten and was too kind to chill him with the bow which plainly says
“Don’t stop.”

A personable youth was Pemberton, and had brought with him from the
wilds of Canada a sable-lined overcoat which was the envy of every
masculine and the admiration of every feminine friend he had, and as he
stood at her carriage window Rose knew that this luxurious garment
and its stalwart wearer were objects of interest to the passersby. It
chanced that the tide of shoppers flowed in that direction and, as she
chatted, familiar faces often passed with glances, smiles, and nods of
varying curiosity, significance, and wonder.

She could not help feeling a certain satisfaction in giving him a
moment’s pleasure, since she could do no more, but it was not that
amiable desire alone which made her ignore the neat white parcels which
the druggist’s boy deposited on the front seat and kept her lingering a
little longer to enjoy one of the small triumphs which girls often risk
more than a cold in the head to display. The sight of several snowflakes
on the broad shoulders which partially obstructed her view, as well as
the rapidly increasing animation of Pemberton’s chat, reminded her that
it was high time to go.
