from home.”

“We need not go far; indeed, not so far but that you can call upon her
every day. My conscience reproaches me when I think of the trouble we
are giving her.”

“She does not complain.”

“She will not complain, but at the same time it is not right for us to
remain here, under the circumstances, any longer than we are compelled
to do so. You know she said she should not think of taking any body
else to board; and after she has been so kind to us, we ought to be
considerate enough not to trespass upon her goodness.”

“I will speak to her about the matter; and if she really does not wish
to keep us, why, we’ll leave,” added Lilian.

“But, my dear, you must not forget that she is your mother, and that
she will make any sacrifice for your sake, even to her own great
injury. It is a matter of conscience with me; and I do not feel like
asking her to make this sacrifice of comfort any longer than necessary.
Our coming here was only a temporary arrangement, you know, and
whatever she may say, our being here will give her a great deal of
trouble and anxiety. Come, Lilian, dearest, put on your bonnet. It will
do no harm to look at the house. It is already rented to a young couple
who are just going to housekeeping,” I continued; but I did not think
it necessary to say who the young couple were, and she did not seem to
care enough about it to ask me.

“If the house is let, why do you wish me to see it?” she inquired.

“I want to get at your ideas in regard to a house,” I replied,
ingeniously.

She looked at me, and seemed to have some doubts, but she probably
reasoned that the house was already rented, and there could be no
treason against “dear ma” in merely looking at it. She put on her
bonnet and shawl. When my hand was on the door the ever watchful Mrs.
Oliphant appeared, and wished to know whether we should be back to tea.

We should; but this was not enough. Lilian was not very well, and she
must not walk too far. We were only going around to Needham street,
and should return in half an hour. If Lilian was going to call on the
Trescotts, why had she not told her mother, for both owed them a call?
We did not intend to call on the Trescotts; we were only going out
for a little walk. If we were going to walk, why were we particular
in saying that we were going through Needham street? There was some
treason in Needham street, and Lilian was forced to say that we desired
to see a house which was already leased to a young couple who were
going to housekeeping.

“Dear ma” looked uneasy, but she permitted us to depart. I was afraid
she would insist upon accompanying us, as I think she would, had she
not been satisfied by the assurance that the house was already leased.
We walked to Needham street. I was full of hope. Lilian would like
the English basement house—she could not help liking it, and what a
rapturous moment would it be when I told her that it was all her own!
Even the anticipated battle with “dear ma” seemed to be farther removed
and of much less consequence than before. We approached the house, and
my heart beat high with transports of delight. In a few days, perhaps
the very next day, I should see the idol of my soul enthroned within
its walls!

With Lilian leaning lovingly on my arm, I halted at No. 21. On the
door, to my intense confusion and disgust, glittered a new silver plate
whereon was inscribed the name,”P. GLASSWOOD,” not in Old English,
German text, or any other letter which he who runs may not often
read, but in plain script! I had told the maker not to put it on the
door for a week; but he had misunderstood me, or had taken it upon
himself to defeat my plan.

“P. GLASSWOOD!”—exclaimed dear Lilian, stunned and horrified, so that
the shock she had thrilled my whole frame.

“Certainly; P. Glasswood,” I interposed, promptly. “You know
Pierce—don’t you, Lilian? I think you saw him when we were at
Springhaven. He is only a second cousin of mine, but he is a good
fellow.”

“I didn’t know you had a cousin of that name,” she replied, much
comforted.

As I did not know it myself, I did not blame her for not being aware of
the circumstance. I opened the door, and we went in, for I had already
provided myself with a night key—that gross metallic sin against a
wife. Of course the house and furniture were at their best estate.
Every thing was new, nice and elegant. The hall gave the first cheerful
impression of the house, and Lilian was delighted with it. The little
sitting-room was so cosy and snug that my wife actually cried out with
pleasure.

The parlors and the chambers were equally satisfactory, and Lilian
thought my cousin would be very happy with his bride in this new
house. We proceeded to the kitchen, where the Biddy in charge smiled
benignantly upon her new “missus,” though, she did not betray the
secret she had been instructed to keep. My wife was not so much
interested in the kitchen as in the parlor and sitting-room, but she
was kind enough to say that every thing was neat and convenient, though
I am afraid she was hardly a judge on the latter point. We returned to
the sitting-room, and my wife seated herself in the low rocking-chair
which had been selected for her use.

“How do you like it on the whole, Lilian?” I asked, dropping into the
arm-chair, in which I intended to read the Transcript every evening.

“I think it is real nice,” she replied, with a degree of enthusiasm
which fully rewarded me for all the pains I had taken, and the anxiety
I had suffered.

“I’m glad you like it, Lilian. I like it exceedingly, and I am glad to
find our tastes are one and the same.”

“I don’t mean to say that, if I were going to housekeeping, I wouldn’t
have some things different,” she added.

“But you think you could contrive to exist in a house like this?”

“Why, yes; I like it very much indeed.”

“Then it is yours Lilian!” I added, rising from my arm-chair, as I
