pleasant to see it come. He would not hurry her; indeed, as he once 
had told her he never asked for what he could not have, so neither 
did he care for what was enforced in the giving. Better a free smile 
than a kiss bestowed to order. He saw now that she was hardly 
ready for many things he had it in his heart to say. He could wait. 
The readiness was there, only latent. He played with the hand and 
the ring while he was thinking these things.

But now all through the old house rang out the sweet bugle call; 
signal for luncheon. No bells, as has been remarked, were heard at 
Chickaree. Just a moment's hesitation came over the young 
mistress, with visions of Dingee and possibilities of Mr. Falkirk, 
and one glance at her ring. Then she turned to Mr. Rollo, giving 
her timid invitation as she rose up. 'You will come?' she said,
and flitted off quick to lead the way, having no sort of mind to go 
in state. Rollo followed more slowly, smiling to himself.

'Do you often have company from the cottage at this time?' he 
inquired when he had again caught up with Wych Hazel in the 
dining room.

'Sometimesbut I gave Mr. Falkirk such a talk at breakfast that I 
shall hardly see him again before dinner. Dingee, where is the 
coffee? You know Mr. Rollo never touches chocolate.'

'Know dat sartain,' said Dingee; 'but Mas' Rollo come in so'

'Go fetch the coffee,' said Hazel, cutting him short.

Rollo remarked as he seated himself at the table, that he 'didn't feel 
as if he could stand Mr. Falkirk to-day.'

'He is very much the same as on most days,' said Hazel. 'I thought 
you always rather enjoyed "standing" him, Mr. Rollo?'

'It is becoming necessary for me to make so many statements,' said 
Rollo, 'that I am getting puzzled. I am very sorry for Mr. Falkirk. 
What sort of a talk did you give him?'

'Mr. Falkirk was so uncommonly glad to see me, that I should have 
been all sugar and cream if he had not beset me with business. As 
it was, I am afraid Iwasn't.'

'Not my business?'

'Your business? The mills?'

'Our business, then.'

'Hush!No! I have not got any,' said Hazel, whose spirits and 
daring were beginning to stir just a little bit once more, though she 
felt a little frightened at herself when the words were out. 'Mr. 
Falkirk wanted to know my sovereign pleasure about retaking the 
house we had last winter.'

'I am very sorry for Mr. Falkirk!' Rollo repeated gravely. 'Do you 
thinkby and by, when we have been married a year or two, and 
he is accustomed to it,we could get him to come and make home 
with us!'

Hazel looked at him for a second, as if he took her breath away; 
but then she looked at nothing elseor did not see it, which came 
to the same thing,for some time. Dingee appeared with baskets 
and bouquets, after the old fashion, which had grown to be an 
established one at Chickaree; and his mistress looked at them and 
ordered them away, and read the cards, and did not know what 
names she read. But in all the assortment of beauties there was 
never a rose one bit sweeter or fresher than the face that bent down 
over them.


CHAPTER VIII.

ACORNS AND ACORN-CUPS.


One afternoon, a day or two later, Rollo had begged for a walk in 
the woods; proposing that they should 'begin to get acquainted 
with each other.' The trees were beginning to shew crimson and 
gold and brown and purple, and the October light wove all hues 
into one regal drapery of nature, not richer than it was harmonious. 
The warm air was spicy; pines and hemlocks gave out resinous 
sweetness, and ferns and lichens and mosses and other wild things 
lent their wild wood flavour. It was rare in the Chickaree woods 
that day. Fallen leaves rustled under foot, squirrels chattered in the 
branches, partridges whirred away. Down through the shadow and 
the light they went, those two, talking irregularly of all sorts of 
things. Rollo was skilled in all wild wood lore and very fond of it. 
He could talk deliciously on this theme, and he did; telling Wych 
Hazel about trees and woodwork and hunter's sports and 
experiences, and then of lichens and the rocks they grew on.

Into the depths of the ravine they plunged, and then over a ridge 
into another; away from paths and roads and the possibility of 
wheels and riders. Then Rollo found a mossy dry bank where 
Wych Hazel might sit down and rest, with her back against the 
stem of a red oak. He roved about gathering acorns under the wide 
spreading boughs of the tree, and finally came and threw himself 
down at her feet.

'This is pleasant,' he said, looking along the brown slope, brown 
with mosses and fallen leaves, on which the wonderful light came 
so richly and so tenderly. 'This is pleasant! Is the sense of 
possession a strong one with you?'

'I love my woodsdearly! I never had much elsethat was my 
ownto care about.'

'I believe it is strong in me. I can enjoy other people's thingsbut I 
think I like them better when they are my own. I fancy it is a man's 
weakness.'

'What did you mean by "beginning to get acquainted?" ' said 
Hazel, from under the protecting shadow of her broad hat, and 
with her mind so full of unanswered questions that it seemed as if 
some of them must come out, even if they did get her into 
difficulties. 'I thought you thought you knew me pretty 
thoroughly.'

He rolled himself over on the bank, so that he could look up at her 
