about the channel to any " outsider." By this 
time about half the boats had none but association 
pilots, and the other half had none but outsiders. 
At the first glance one wouLi suppose that when it 
came to forbidding information about the river 
these two parties could play equally at that game ; 
but this was not so. At every good-sized town 
from one end of the river to the other, there was a 
" wharf-boat " to land at, instead of a wharf or a 
pier. Freight was stored in it for transportation 
waiting passengers slept in its cabins. Upon each 
of these wharf-boats the association's oflScers placed 
a strong box, fastened with a peculiar lock which 
was used in no other service but one — the United 
States mail service. It was the letter-bag lock, a 
sacret governmental thing. By dint of much 
beseeching the government had been persuaded to 
allow the association to use this lock. Every 
association man carried a key which would open 
these boxes. That key, or rather a peculiar way 
of holding it in the hand when its owner was asked 
for river information by a stranger, — for the 
success of the St. Louis and New Orleans associa- 
tion had now bred tolerably thriving branches in a 
dozen neighboring steamboat trades, — was the 
association man's sign and diploma of membership ; 
and if the stranger did not respond by producing a 
similar key and holding it in a certain manner duly 
prescribed, his question was politely ignored. From 
the association's secretary each member received a 
package of more or less gorgeous blanks, printed 
like a bill-head, on handsome paper, properly ruled 
in columns; a bill-head worded something like 
this : 
These blanks were filled up, day by day, as the 
voyage progressed, and deposited in the several 
wharf-boat boxes. For instance, as soon as the 
first crossing, out from St. Louis, was completed, 
the item would be entered upon the blank, under 
the appropriate heading, thus : 
"St. Louia Nine and a half (feet). Stern on 
oourt-house, head on dead cottonwood above wood- 
yard, until you raise the firsi reef, then pull up 
square." Then under head of Remarks: ''Go 
just outside the wrecks; this is important. New 
snag just where you straighten down ; go above it.'* 
The pilot who deposited that blank in the Cairo 
box (after adding to it the details of every crossing 
all the way down from St. Louis) took out and read 
half a dozen fresh reports (from upward bound 
steamers) concerning the river between Cairo and 
Memphis, posted himself thoroughly, returned them 
to the box, and went back aboard his boat again so 
armed against accident that he could not possibly 
get his boat into trouble without bringing the most 
ingenious carelessness to hio aid. 
Imagine the benefits of so admirable a system in 
a piece of river twelve or thirteen hundred miles 
long, whose channel was shifting every day ! The 
pilot who had formerly been obliged to put up with 
seeing a shoal place once or possibly twice a month, 
had a hundred sharp eyes to watch it for him, now, 
and bushels of intelligent brains to tell him how to 
run it. His information about it was seldom 
twenty-four hours old. If the reports in the last 
box chanced to leave any misgivings on his mind 
concerning a treacherous crossing, he had his 
remedy ; he blew his steam-whistle in, a peculiar 
way aw soou au lio saw a boat approaching ; the 
si;ntil was uiiHwcrfd in a peculiar way if that boat's 
pilotb were asHociution men ; and then the two 
Hteamers ranged alongside and all uncertainties 
were swept away by fresh information furnished to 
the inquirer by word of mouth and in minute detail* 
The first thing a pilot did when he reached New 
Orleans or St. Louis was to take his final and 
elaborate report to the association parlors and hang 
it up there, — after which he was free to visit his 
family. In these parlors a crowd was always 
gathered together, discussing changes in the chan- 
nel, and the moment there was a fresh arrival, 
everj'body stopped talking till this witness had told 
the newest news and settled the latest uncertainty. 
Other craftsmen can " sink the shop," some- 
times, and interest themselves in other matters. 
Not so with a pilot ; he must devote himself wholly 
to his profession and talk of nothing else ; for it 
would be small gain to be perfect one day and im- 
perfect the next. He has no time or words to waste 
if he would keep ** posted." 
But the outsiders had a hard time of it. No 
pai'ticular place to meet and exchange information, 
no wharf-boat reports, none but chtnce and unsatis- 
factory ways of getting news. The consequence 
was that a man sometimes had to run five hun- 
dred miles of river on information that was a weak 
or ten days old. At a If air stage of the river that 
might have answered ; but when the dead low 
water came it was destructive. 
Now came another perfectly logical result. The 
outsiders began to ground steamboats, sink them, 
and get into all sorts of trouble, whereas accidents 
seemed to keep entirely away from the association 
men. Wherefore even the owners and captains of 
boats furnished exclusively with outsiders, and 
previously considered to be wholly independent oi 
the association and free to comfort themselves with 
brag and laughter, began to feel pretty uncomfort- 
able. Still, they made a show of keeping up the 
brag, until one black day when every captain of the 
lot was formally ordered immediately to discharge 
his outsiders and take association pilots in their 
stead. And who was it that had the gaudy pre- 
sumption to do that ? Alas, it came from a power 
behind the throne that was greater than the throne 
itself. It was the underwriters ! 
It was no time to "swap knives." Every out- 
sider had to take his trunk ashore at once. Of 
course, it was supposed that there was collusion 
between the association and the underwriters, but 
