Angle are all one. We here in Lüneburg belong to the Eastphalians. The
name is said to have come from the bright or pale yellow hair of our
forefathers. For clear yellow or pale yellow was called "fal." Our
ancestors wore this bright yellow hair long and hanging down, something
like a lion's mane; what so many young people nowadays would esteem a
splendid adornment. These forefathers of ours in the time of Charlemagne
were yet mere heathen and held to their heathen idol worship with
extraordinary tenacity and devotion. They were further a wild, bold,
stiffnecked people, with an unbending spirit, holding fast to everything
old, and with that, loving freedom above all else. They had no rulers,
properly speaking; each house-father was a despotic prince in his own
house, and lived alone upon his territory, just that he might be free
and rule his realm independently. Their common name, Saxon, came from a
peculiar weapon, the sachs; a stone war-mallet or battle-axe, which was
made fast to a longer or shorter wooden handle. In the strong hands of
the Saxons this was a fearful weapon, with which they rushed fearlessly
upon the foe, hastening to come to a hand-to-hand fight; for they liked
to be at close quarters with their enemies.
"'Wild and terrible as their other customs were, was also their idol
worship. Their principal deity was called Woden, in whose honour men
were slaughtered upon great blocks of stone; their throats being cut
with stone knives. Not far off, some two or three hours from
Hermannsburg, are still what are called the seven stone-houses; in
other words, blocks of granite set up in a square, upon which a great
granite block lies like a cover. The men to be sacrificed were slain
upon these blocks of granite. Quite near our village too, there stood
formerly some such sacrificial altars. How fearful and bloody these
sacrifices were, appears from what an old writer relates; that it was
the custom of the Saxons, when they returned home from their warlike
expeditions, to sacrifice to their idols every tenth man among the
captives; the rest they shared among themselves for slaves. And upon
special occasions, for instance, if they had suffered severe losses in
the war, the whole of the captives would be consecrated to Woden and
sacrificed. That's the Woden we call one day of the week after.'"
"We? One day of the week!" exclaimed Maggie; while Flora looked up and
said, "Oh yes! Wednesday."
"Wednesday?" repeated Maggie.
"Woden's-day," said Meredith.
"Is it Woden's-day? Wednesday? But how come we to call it so, Ditto?"
"Because our fathers did."
"But that is very strange. I don't think we ought to call it
Woden's-day."
"The Germans do not call it so, who live at this time round those old
stone altars; they say Mittwoche, or Mid-week. But the English Saxons
seem to have kept up the title."
"Are those stone altars standing now, Ditto?"
"Some of them, Pastor Harms says; and what is very odd, it seems they
call them stone houses; and don't you recollect Jacob called his stone
that he set up at Bethel, 'God's house'?"
"Well, Ditto, go on please," said Maggie.
"You don't care for archæology. Well--'The German emperor Charlemagne,
who reigned from 768 to 814, was a good Christian. He governed the
kingdom of the Franks; and that means the whole of central and southern
Germany, together with France and Italy; and all these, his subjects,
had been already Christian a long time. On the north his empire was
bordered by our heathen ancestors, the Saxons, and they were the sworn
foes of Christianity. Whenever they could, they made a rush upon
Charlemagne's dominions, plundered and killed, destroyed the churches
and put to death the Christian priests; and were never quiet. So
Charlemagne determined to make war upon the Saxons, partly to protect
his kingdom against their inroads, and partly with the intent to convert
them with a strong hand to the Christian religion. Then arose a fearful
war of thirty-three years' length, which by both sides was carried on
with great bitterness. The Saxons had, in especial, two valiant,
heroic-hearted leaders, called "dukes" because they led the armies. The
word "duke," therefore, means the same as army-leader. The one of them
in Westphalia was named Wittekind; the other in Eastphalia was named
Albion, also called Alboin. Charlemagne was in a difficult position. If
he beat the Saxons, and thought, now they would surely keep the peace,
and he went off then to some more distant part of his great empire,
immediately the Saxons broke loose again, and the war began anew.
Charlemagne was made so bitter by this, that once when he had beaten the
Saxons at Verden on the Aller, and surrounded their army, he ordered
4500 captive Saxons to be cut to pieces, hoping so to give a
disheartening example. But just the contrary befell. Wittekind and
Albion now gathered together an imposing army to avenge the cruel deed;
and fought two bloody battles, at Osnabrück and Detmold, with such
furious valour that they thrust Charlemagne back, and took 4000
prisoners; and these prisoners, as a Lüneburg chronicle says, they
slaughtered--part on the Blocksberg, part in the Osnabrück country, and
part on the "stone-houses;" where the same chronicle relates that
Wittekind, on his black war-horse, in furious joy, would have galloped
over the bleeding corpses which lay around the stone-houses: but his
horse shied from treading on the human bodies, and making a tremendous
leap, struck his hoof so violently against one of the stone-houses that
the mark of the hoof remained. Wittekind elsewhere in the chronicle is
described as a noble, magnanimous hero; and this madness of war in him
is explained on the ground of his hatred of Christians, and revenge for
the death of the Saxons at Verden.
"'At last, in the year 785, Wittekind and Albion were baptized, and
embraced the Christian religion. Thereupon came peace among that part of
the Saxons which held them in consideration, for the most distinguished
men by degrees followed their example; and it was only in the other
portions of the country that the war lasted until the year 805; when at
last the whole country of the Saxons submitted to Charlemagne, renounced
heathenism, and accepted Christianity. So hard did it go with our
forefathers before they could become Christians; but once Christians,
they became so zealous for the Christian faith that their land
afterwards was called "Good Saxony" as before it had been known as "Wild
Saxony." Charlemagne, however, was not merely at the pains to subdue the
Saxons, and to compel them into the Christian faith, but as a truly
pious emperor, he also took care that they should be instructed; and
wherever he could he established bishoprics and churches. For example,
the sees of Minden, Osnabrück, Verden, Bremen, Münster, Paderhorn,
Halberstadt, and Hildesheim, all situated in the Saxon country, owe
their origin to him. At all these places there were mission
establishments, from which preachers went out into the whole land, to
preach the Gospel to the heathen Saxons.
"'Among those Willehad and Liudgar were distinguished for their zeal.
With untiring faithfulness, with steadfast faith, and great
self-sacrifice, they laboured, and their works were greatly blessed of
the Lord. Willehad finally became bishop in Bremen and Liudgar bishop of
Münster. They may with justice be called the apostles of the Saxons. In
a remarkable manner the conversion of our own parts hereabouts proceeded
from the mission establishment in Minden. Liudgar had lived there a long
while, and his piety and his ardour had infected the young monks
assembled there with a live zeal for missions. One of these monks, who
the chronicle tells came from Eastphalia, and had been converted to
Christianity through Liudgar's means, was called Landolf. Now when
Wittekind and Albion had received holy baptism, and so a door was opened
