


                                   X.


Gladys stood silent for a moment, with her eyes fixed on the little
figures, longing for wisdom to convince this man, whom she regarded with
mingled pity, admiration and distrust, that he could not walk by his own
light alone. He guessed the impulse that kept her there, longed to have
her stay, and felt a sudden desire to reinstate himself in her good
opinion. That wish, or the hope to keep her by some new and still more
powerful allurement, seemed to actuate him as he hastily thrust the gods
and goddesses out of sight, and opened another drawer, with a quick
glance over his shoulder towards that inner room.

At that instant the clock struck, and Gladys started, saying, in a tone
of fond despair,—

“Where is Felix? Will he never come?”

“I heard him raging about some time ago, but perfect silence followed,
so I suspect he caught the tormenting word, idea, or fancy, and is busy
pinning it,” answered Helwyze, shutting the drawer as suddenly as he
opened it, with a frown which Gladys did not see; for she had turned
away, forgetting him and his salvation in the one absorbing interest of
her life.

“How long it takes to write a poem! Three whole months, for he began in
September; and it was not to be a long one, he said.”

“He means this to be a masterpiece, so labors like a galley-slave, and
can find no rest till it is done. Good practice, but to little purpose,
I am afraid. Poetry, even the best, is not profitable now-a-days, I am
told,” added Helwyze, speaking with a sort of satisfaction which he
could not conceal.

“Who cares for the profit? It is the fame Felix wants, and works for,”
answered Gladys, defending the absent with wifely warmth.

“True, but he would not reject the fortune if it came. He is not one of
the ethereal sort, who can live on glory and a crust; his gingerbread
must not only be gilded, but solid and well-spiced beside. You adore
your poet, respect also the worldly wisdom of your spouse, madame.”

When Helwyze sneered, Gladys was silent; so now she mused again, leaning
on the high back of the chair which she longed to see occupied. He mused
also, with his eyes upon the fire, fingers idly tapping, and a furtive
smile round his mouth, as if some purpose was taking shape in that busy
brain of his. Suddenly he spoke, in a tone of kindly interest, well
knowing where her thoughts were, and anxious to end her weary waiting.

“Perhaps the poor fellow has fallen asleep, tired out with striving
after immortality. Go and wake him, if you will, for it is time he
rested.”

“May I? He does not like to be disturbed; but I fear he is ill: he has
eaten scarcely any thing for days, and looks so pale it troubles me. I
will peep first; and if he is busy, creep away without a word.”

Stepping toward the one forbidden, yet most fascinating spot in all the
house, she softly opened the door and looked in. Canaris was there,
apparently asleep, as Helwyze thought; for his head lay on his folded
arms as if both were weary. Glancing over her shoulder with a nod and a
smile, Gladys went in, anxious to wake and comfort him; for the little
room looked solitary, dark, and cold, with dead ashes on the hearth, the
student lamp burning dimly, and the food she had brought him hours ago
still standing untasted, among the blotted sheets strewn all about. At
her first touch he looked up, and she was frightened by the expression
of his face, it was so desperately miserable.

“Dear, what is it?” she asked, quickly, with her arms about him, as if
defying the unknown trouble to reach him there.

“Disappointment,—nothing else;” and he leaned his head against her,
grateful for sympathy, since she could give no other help.

“You mean your book, which does not satisfy you even yet?” she said,
interpreting the significance of the weary, yet restless, look he wore.

“It never will! I have toiled and tried, with all my heart and soul and
mind, if ever a man did; but I cannot do it, Gladys. It torments me, and
I cannot escape from it; because, though it is all here in my brain, it
will not be expressed in words.”

“Do not try any more; rest now, and by and by, perhaps, it will be
easier. You have worked too hard, and are worn out; forget the book, and
come and let me take care of you. It breaks my heart to see you so.”

“I was doing it for your sake,—all for you; and I thought this time it
would be very good, since my purpose was a just and generous one. But it
is not, and I hate it!”

With a passionate gesture, Canaris hurled a pile of manuscript into the
further corner of the room, and pushed his wife from him, as if she too
were an affliction and a disappointment. It grieved her bitterly; but
she would not be repulsed; and, holding fast in both her own the hand
that was about to grasp another sheaf of papers, she cried, with a tone
of tender authority, which both controlled and touched him,—

“No, no, you shall not, Felix! Put me away, but do not spoil the book;
it has cost us both too much.”

“Not you; forgive me, it is myself with whom I am vexed;” and Canaris
penitently kissed the hands that held his, remembering that she could
not know the true cause of his effort and regret.

“I shall be jealous, if I find that I have given you up so long in
vain. I must have something to repay me for the loss of your society all
this weary time. I have worked to fill your place: give me my reward.”

“Have you missed me, then? I thought you happy enough with Helwyze and
the books.”

“Missed you! happy enough! O Felix! you do not know me, if you think I
can be happy without you. He is kind, but only a friend; and all the
books in the wide world are not as much to me as the one you treat so
cruelly.” She clasped tightly the hands she held, and looked into his
face with eyes full of unutterable love. Such tender flattery could not
but soothe, such tearful reproach fail to soften, a far prouder, harder
