
“It has been in great trouble, but now it is very clear,” said Madame
de Cintré. “I don’t give you up for any worldly advantage or for any
worldly happiness.”

“Oh, you don’t give me up for Lord Deepmere, I know,” said Newman. “I
won’t pretend, even to provoke you, that I think that. But that’s what
your mother and your brother wanted, and your mother, at that villainous
ball of hers--I liked it at the time, but the very thought of it now
makes me rabid--tried to push him on to make up to you.”

“Who told you this?” said Madame de Cintré softly.

“Not Valentin. I observed it. I guessed it. I didn’t know at the time
that I was observing it, but it stuck in my memory. And afterwards, you
recollect, I saw Lord Deepmere with you in the conservatory. You said
then that you would tell me at another time what he had said to you.”

“That was before--before this,” said Madame de Cintré.

“It doesn’t matter,” said Newman; “and, besides, I think I know. He’s an
honest little Englishman. He came and told you what your mother was up
to--that she wanted him to supplant me; not being a commercial person.
If he would make you an offer she would undertake to bring you over and
give me the slip. Lord Deepmere isn’t very intellectual, so she had to
spell it out to him. He said he admired you ‘no end,’ and that he wanted
you to know it; but he didn’t like being mixed up with that sort of
underhand work, and he came to you and told tales. That was about the
amount of it, wasn’t it? And then you said you were perfectly happy.”

“I don’t see why we should talk of Lord Deepmere,” said Madame de
Cintré. “It was not for that you came here. And about my mother, it
doesn’t matter what you suspect and what you know. When once my mind
has been made up, as it is now, I should not discuss these things.
Discussing anything, now, is very idle. We must try and live each as we
can. I believe you will be happy again; even, sometimes, when you think
of me. When you do so, think this--that it was not easy, and that I did
the best I could. I have things to reckon with that you don’t know. I
mean I have feelings. I must do as they force me--I must, I must. They
would haunt me otherwise,” she cried, with vehemence; “they would kill
me!”

“I know what your feelings are: they are superstitions! They are the
feeling that, after all, though I am a good fellow, I have been
in business; the feeling that your mother’s looks are law and your
brother’s words are gospel; that you all hang together, and that it’s
a part of the everlasting proprieties that they should have a hand
in everything you do. It makes my blood boil. That is cold; you are
right. And what I feel here,” and Newman struck his heart and became
more poetical than he knew, “is a glowing fire!”

A spectator less preoccupied than Madame de Cintré’s distracted wooer
would have felt sure from the first that her appealing calm of manner
was the result of violent effort, in spite of which the tide of
agitation was rapidly rising. On these last words of Newman’s it
overflowed, though at first she spoke low, for fear of her voice
betraying her. “No. I was not right--I am not cold! I believe that if I
am doing what seems so bad, it is not mere weakness and falseness. Mr.
Newman, it’s like a religion. I can’t tell you--I can’t! It’s cruel of
you to insist. I don’t see why I shouldn’t ask you to believe me--and
pity me. It’s like a religion. There’s a curse upon the house; I don’t
know what--I don’t know why--don’t ask me. We must all bear it. I have
been too selfish; I wanted to escape from it. You offered me a great
chance--besides my liking you. It seemed good to change completely, to
break, to go away. And then I admired you. But I can’t--it has overtaken
and come back to me.” Her self-control had now completely abandoned her,
and her words were broken with long sobs. “Why do such dreadful things
happen to us--why is my brother Valentin killed, like a beast in the
midst of his youth and his gaiety and his brightness and all that we
loved him for? Why are there things I can’t ask about--that I am afraid
to know? Why are there places I can’t look at, sounds I can’t hear?
Why is it given to me to choose, to decide, in a case so hard and so
terrible as this? I am not meant for that--I am not made for boldness
and defiance. I was made to be happy in a quiet, natural way.” At this
Newman gave a most expressive groan, but Madame de Cintré went on. “I
was made to do gladly and gratefully what is expected of me. My mother
has always been very good to me; that’s all I can say. I must not judge
her; I must not criticize her. If I did, it would come back to me. I
can’t change!”

“No,” said Newman, bitterly; “I must change--if I break in two in the
effort!”

“You are different. You are a man; you will get over it. You have all
kinds of consolation. You were born--you were trained, to changes.
Besides--besides, I shall always think of you.”

“I don’t care for that!” cried Newman. “You are cruel--you are terribly
cruel. God forgive you! You may have the best reasons and the finest
feelings in the world; that makes no difference. You are a mystery to
me; I don’t see how such hardness can go with such loveliness.”

Madame de Cintré fixed him a moment with her swimming eyes. “You believe
I am hard, then?”

Newman answered her look, and then broke out, “You are a perfect,
faultless creature! Stay by me!”

“Of course I am hard,” she went on. “Whenever we give pain we are hard.
And we must give pain; that’s the world,--the hateful, miserable
world! Ah!” and she gave a long, deep sigh, “I can’t even say I am glad
to have known you--though I am. That too is to wrong you. I can say
nothing that is not cruel. Therefore let us part, without more of this.
Good-bye!” And she put out her hand.

Newman stood and looked at it without taking it, and raised his eyes to
her face. He felt, himself, like shedding tears of rage. “What are you
going to do?” he asked. “Where are you going?”

“Where I shall give no more pain and suspect no more evil. I am going
out of the world.”

“Out of the world?”

“I am going into a convent.”

“Into a convent!” Newman repeated the words with the deepest dismay;
it was as if she had said she was going into an hospital. “Into a
convent--you!”

