twenty years before. 

Six months after the period of wreck, let us 
look in upon Mrs. Lea. The cup of misfortune 
has been, for all this time, at her lips ; let us see 
whether she has found any sweetness in the 
draught. The home in which we find her is 
very humble compared with the one out of which 
she passed, not long before, with hardly restrained 
tears. She is sitting with two children by her 
side, one a girl of seven years, and the other a 
boy of nine. The boy has his arm around her 
neck, and is looking upon a book that she is 
holding. The little girl stands in front, with her 
large eyes, full of light and happiness, fixed in 
tently on her mother 's face. Mrs. Lea is reading 
aloud. There is no sadness in her voice ; but, on 
the contrary, a firm cheerfulness. Every now 
and then she pauses, and talks to the children 
about what she is reading. They listen with the 
deepest interest. Now, in one of these pausas. 



 

and just as the mother raises the book to resume 
her reading, the boy says, 

" I like this home best, don 't you, Florence ?" 

"Yes, indeed I do;" the little girl answers, 
with a quiver of delight in her voice. 

" How comes that ? This home is not so large, 
nor so handsome, and we are poor." Mrs. Lea 
gazes curiously, and not without manifest surprise 
at her children. 

There is a deepening of color on the boy 's face, 
and a slight hesitation of manner. He looks up 
at his mother with eyes so full of love that it is 
brimming them with tears. 

" Why, my son ? Why do you like this home 
the best ?" 

"Because " The flush on his face is 

warmer. 

"Say it, dear." And Mrs. Lea draws the 
answer. 

" Because you are always with us now !" The 
tears will not hold back. There comes a half 




hindered sob, and the boy 's face goes down upon 
his mother 's breast. 

Was any joy in all that mother 's experience so 
deep and pure as the joy which now rewards her 
whole being, giving delight even to the very bo 
dily sensations ; and there is no power in misfor 
tune to cast a shadow over it. 

" You love to have mother with you ?" 

"Don 't we, Florence?" The boy lifts his 
head, not ashamed of the tears, that shine like 
dew-beads on his cheeks, and smiles upon his 
sister. 

" Indeed we do," answers bright eyes, with a 
fuller meaning in her tones than she can. express 
in words ; " and I hope we ll always be poor, and 
never have a nursery any more, to be shut up in, 
with cross, ugly nurses." 

A world of new thoughts come pressing in 
upon the mind of Mrs. Lea. Scales drop from 
her eyes. She sees how the true woman in her 
had been overlaid by fashionable observances. 
How the mere possession of wealth had deceived 



 

her into the false idea that a mother could trans 
fer to a hireling the most sacred of all duties. 

"Is the cup so very bitter?" Mrs. Lea is 
talking with herself, as she sits sewing upon a 
garment for one of her children. They have left 
her side, and are at play with themselves. " My 
friend was right; there is a sweet taste in the 
water it contains. The bitterness was in me." 

A few hours later, coming in from the small 
chamber, where she has, after hearing their prayers, 
given her children to the arms of sleep, Mrs. 
Lea stands by her husband, and lays her hand 
upon him. He looks up into her face. His own 
had worn a shadow when he came in, not long 
before ; but it is not shadowed now. 

" We have not lost all," he says. 

"JS"o, not all. Much is left much that is 
priceless in value." 

" Love is left and duty and God 's kingdom, 
into which we may enter by love and duty." 
The voice of Mr. Lea trembles a little with its 
burden of feeling, in this new utterance for him. 

