There was so much of earnestness in the expression of 
the last sentence, it was said with such a deferential contrition, if I may so speak, that Diana's thoughts experienced a diversion from the subject that had occasioned 
them. The contrition came more home than the fault. 
By common consent they went off to other matters of talk. 
Diana explained and commented on the history and features of Pleasant Valley, so far at least as her companion's 
questions called for such explanation, and that was a good 
deal. Mr. Knowlton gave her details of his own life and 
experience, which were much more interesting, she thought. 
The conversation ran freely ; and again and again eyes 
met eyes full in sympathy over some grave or laughing 
point of intelligence. 

And what is there in the meeting of eyes ? What if 
the one pair were sparkling and quick, and the brow o rer 



 

them bore the fair lines of command ? What though the 
other pair were deep and thoughtful and sweet, and the 
brow one that promised passion and power ? A thousand 
other eyes might have looked on either one of them, and 
forgotten ; these two looked and remembered. You cannot tell why ; it is the old story ; the hidden, unreadable 
affinity making itself known to its counterpart ; the sign 
and countersign of nature. But it was only nature that 
gave and took ; not Diana and Mr. Knowlton. 

Meanwhile Prince had an easy time ; and the little 
wagon went very gently over the smooth roads past one 
farm after another. 

' Prince can go faster than this,' Diana confided at last 
to her companion. 

' He doesn't want to, does he ? ' 

Diana laughed, and knew in her heart she was of 
Prince's mind. 

However, even five miles will come to an end in time 
if you keep going even slowly ; and in time the little brown 
house of Mrs. Bartlett appeared in the distance, and Prince 
drew the wagon up before the door. Diana alighted, and 
Mr. Knowlton drove on, promising to send the wagon 
back from Elmfield. 

It was coming down, in more ways than one, to get out 
of the wagon and go in to make her visit. Diana did not 
feel just ready for it. She loosened the strings of her hat, 
walked slowly up the path between the hollyhocks that led 
to the door, and there stopped and turned to take a last 
look at Mr. Knowlton in the distance. Such a ride as she 
had had ! Such an entertainment ! People in Pleasant 
Valley did not talk like that ; nor look like that. How 
much difference it makes, to have education and to see 
the world. And a military education especially, has a 



 

more liberalizing and adorning effect than the course of 
life in the colleges ; the manner of a soldier has in it a 
charm which is wanting in the manner of a minister. As 
for farmers, they have no manners at all. And the very 
faces, thought Diana. 

Well, she could not stand there on the door step. She 
must go in. She turned and lifted the latch of the door. 

The little room within was empty. It was a tiny 
house ; the ground floor boasted only two rooms, and each 
of those was small. The broad hearth of flagstones took 
up a third of the floor of this one. A fire burned in the 
chimney, though the day was so warm j and a straight 
backed arm chair, with a faded cushion in it, stood by the 
chimney corner with a bunch of knitting lying on the 
cushion. Diana tapped at an inner door at her right, and 
then getting no answer, went across the kitchen and opened 
another opposite the one that had admitted her. 



CHAPTER IV. 

MOTHER BARTLETT. 

THE little house, unpainted like many others, had no 
fenced enclosure on this side. A wide field stretched away 
from the back door, lying partly upon a hillside ; and 
several cattle were pasturing in it. Farm fields and meadows were all around except where this one hill rose up 
behind the house. It was wooded at the top ; below, the 
ranks of a cornfield sloped aspiringly up its base. A narrow 
footpath, which only the tread of feet kept free from weeds 
and grass, went off obliquely to a little enclosed garden, 
which lay beyond the corner of the house in some arbitrary 
and independent way, not adjoining it at all. It was a 
sweet bit of country, soft and mellow under the summer 
sun ; still as grasshoppers and the tinkle of a cowbell 
could make it ; and very far from most pf the improvements of the nineteenth century. But the smell of'the 
pasture and the fragrance that came from the fresh shades 
of the wood, and the freedom of the broad fields of pure 
ether, made it rich with some of nature's homely wealth ; 
which is not by any means the worst there is. Diana 
knew the place very well ; her eyes were looking now for 
the mistress of it. And not long. In the out-of-the-way 
lying garden she discerned her white cap ; and at the gate 
met her bringing a head of lettuce in her hands. 

' I knew you liked it, dear,' the said, ' and I had forgot 
all about it ; and then it flashed on me, and I thought, 
Diana will like to have it for her dinner ; and I guess it'll 



 

have time to cool. Just put it in a tin pail, dear, and hang 
it down in the well ; and it'll be fresh.' 
