going to do all the wood- work himself, as he has time. 
She’s set her heart on having a brown silk, and can’t 
afford two. Now, you could do something like that.” 

“ Oh ! I don’t know,” I said SI0WIy. The prospect 


 


of being bridesmaid was rather tempting, as perhaps it 
always is to eighteen. 

“ Let’s go and talli it over with your mother.” 

She did manage to interest mamma. 

“Aunt Hetty would feel dreadfully slighted if you 
refused,” said mother afterward; “ and the pretty sum- 
mer silk you were talking about will do, I think. I do 
not particularly admire James Miller ; but you will not be 
compelled to marry him,” and mother laughed. 

There was much going back and forth until the thing 
was settled. I bought my silk, and Martha insisted upon 
making it. It was very fine check, and had the appear- 
ance of a soft lavender gray. Then I had a straw hat to 
match, with a plume, and silli trimmings. Martha sent 
me gloves and flowers. James came for me in a carriage ; 
and somehow I had a queer, awkward feeling, just at the 
last moment. Aunt Hetty and uncle Frank were to ride 
in our carriage, and that would break up the tete-d-tete. 

“Oh, you look so lovely!” cried Theo, kissing me 
rapturously. “I hope you’ll be married some day, and 
let me be bridesmaid.” 

I must admit that the wedding was very nice. Martha 
was still plump, with a tendency to high color ; but the 
gray and white toned her down. Miss Amelia looked 
very well. The church was full ; for the Millers had hosts 
of friends and connections. There was no blunder or 
delay. Martha had thoughtfully ripped her glove-finger, 
and all parties displayed great presence of mind. 

Etiquette was not rigidly observed, for the Miller mere 
and pere kissed their new daughter, and the brothers and 
sisters followed suit. Then we marched out of church, 
were driven to the station, whirled to New York, and said 
good-by to them on the spacious North-river steamer. 
I did eny their going to Niagara. 

“We might as well finish out the spree,” said James 
gayly. “ To my mind, this has been a rather dry wed- 





ding : so I propose we go to a hotel, and have something 
nice. I’ll stand treat.” 

George and Amelia agreed. They talked very freely 
of what they meant to do when they were married. They 
would have a regular house-warming, with a supper and 
dancing, and a little wine to be jolly on. A man seldom 
was married but once in his Hfe ; and he, George, meant 
to have a good time. 

Oddly enough, Amelia seemed rather vexed, that Mat, 
being youngest, should have married first. 

“ Never you mind,” said George good - humoredly. 
“ You were engaged first, and you’ll have your house all 
ready to your hand, and that’s worth waiting for.” 

We were feasted, and drank to the health of the bride 
and groom In some weak, sweet native wine, finishing up 
with ice-cream. It was quite in the evening when we 
reached home. James responded to my rather languid in- 
vitation by coming in. I was very tired ; but Theo was 
there, bright and fresh ; and they talked the wedding over 
with much animation. 

“I thought your sister the very prettiest girl there. 
Miss Theo ; and something else came into my mind that 
moment,” Mr. Miller was sa}ing, when I sprang up with 
a crimson face, and muttered some excuse about a drink. 

I staid full fifteen minutes ; and, when I came back, he 
was going. 

“Let me see,” said he: “if you are not engaged, I 
think I’ll take a stroll up here on Sunday evening. You 
might like to go to church.” 

“Oh, do ! ” returned Theo, with an enchanting fittle 
laugh. 

“ Good-night, Miss Theo. I hope it will come your 
turn to be bridesmaid before long. It’s real jolly. — 
Good-night, my — Miss Chrissie. I hope you’ve had a 
pleasant time, and that a night’s rest will set you all 
straight.” 


 


Under cover of shaking hands, he pressed mine to his 
lips. He had kissed me once that day, and I had been 
compelled to let it go unnoticed. 

Theo and I went straight up stairs. It was so good to 
pull off all the finery, and put on a fresh sack while I 
brushed out my hair. 

“ So you did have a real nice time, after all?” half 
questioned Theo. 

