ones—of good gravy. Stir, beat, and toss, until nearly dry. Fill hot,
wet egg-cups with the mixture, and turn out upon a heated, flat dish.
Lay a slice of egg upon each.
RHUBARB (OR PIE-PLANT) SAUCE.
Skin, and cut up the stalks. Put into a saucepan, with just enough
water to keep them from burning, and stew slowly until soft. Sweeten
while hot, but not on the fire. Eat cold.
BROWNED POTATOES—MASHED.
Whip up boiled potatoes very light with a fork; beat in butter, milk,
and salt. Heat roughly upon a neat bake-dish (one with a silver stand
for the table, if you have it), and brown in a quick oven, glazing with
butter, when done.
BURNT CUSTARD.
  1 quart of milk.
  5 eggs.
  3 tablespoonfuls of sugar.
  Nutmeg and flavoring extract to taste.
Scald the milk, but not to boiling; beat eggs light with the sugar,
and pour upon them the hot milk. Mix well, and bake in a well-buttered
dish. Turn out when cold; strew very thickly with white sugar. Set the
plate containing the custard upon the upper grating of a hot oven. The
sugar will melt, and run in brown streams all over the moulded pudding.
Slip carefully to a dish, and eat cold.
  First Week.      Thursday.
  ——
  Italian Minestra Soup.
  Chicken Pudding.      Boiled Potatoes.
  Asparagus and Eggs.      Crab-apple Jelly.
  ——
  German Puffs.
  ——
ITALIAN MINESTRA SOUP.
Strain the stock reserved for to-day from the bones, after taking the
fat from the top. Never neglect this. Greasy soups are not good, and
plenty of dripping may be thus obtained for kitchen use. Heat the
soup, season to taste, and add a little more than half a cupful of
minestra, by some known as Italian Paste. It can be had at the best
grocers in various shapes—like wheat-grains, in small squares, or in
stars, circles, letters, etc. Simmer twenty minutes, and pour out. The
minestra should be tender, but not broken.
CHICKEN PUDDING.
Cut up a tender fowl into neat joints, and parboil, seasoning well,
ten minutes before you take it up, with pepper, salt, and a generous
spoonful of butter. It should cook slowly for half an hour. Take up and
cool, setting aside the liquor for your gravy.
BATTER FOR THE PUDDING.
  1 quart of milk.
  3 cups of prepared flour, not heaping.
  3 tablespoonfuls of melted butter.
  4 well-whipped eggs.
  A little salt.
Make a hole in the flour, when you have sifted the salt through it.
Mix eggs, milk, and butter together, and pour in by degrees, beating
all up hard at the last. Put a layer of chicken in the bottom of a
bake-dish; pour a cupful of batter upon it; then more chicken, and so
on, until the dish is full, with batter for the upper crust. It will
require about one hour to bake in a moderate oven. Skim the cooled
gravy, and boil down one-half. Then, stir in a tablespoonful of butter,
cut up in flour. Boil once, and pour over a beaten egg. Season with
chopped parsley; return to the fire; let it almost boil, and serve in a
sauce-boat. Pass with the pudding.
BOILED POTATOES.
Put on in cold water, and bring to a rapid boil. When nearly done, pour
off all but a cupful of water. Cover closely, return to the fire, and
steam until the skins crack, and the potatoes are soft. They will need
about half an hour’s boiling in all. Uncover, strew with salt, leave
for a few moments for the moisture to evaporate, and serve at once. Old
potatoes, treated thus, can be made mealy.
ASPARAGUS AND EGGS.
Cut about two dozen stalks of asparagus—leaving out the hard parts—into
inch lengths, and boil tender. Drain; pour upon them a cupful of drawn
butter; stir until hot, then turn into a bake-dish. Break six eggs
upon the top; put a bit of butter upon each; salt and pepper, and put
into a quick oven until the eggs are “set.”
GERMAN PUFFS.
  3 cups of prepared flour.
  3 cups of milk.
  3 eggs—whites and yolks whipped separately, and very light.
  3 teaspoonfuls of melted butter.
  1 saltspoonful of salt.
Make a batter as directed for your chicken pudding, beat up hard, and
bake in nine cups, such as you used for measuring, to a fine brown.
The oven should be a quick one, and the puffs be served immediately in
their cups.
  First Week.      Friday.
  ——
  Canned Corn Soup.
  Boiled Shad.      Scalloped Roes.
  Potato Snow.      Green Peas.
  Cress Salad.
  ——
  Lemon Trifle.
  Tea and Cake.
  ——
CANNED CORN SOUP.
  1 can of sweet corn.
  1 quart of boiling water.
  1 quart of milk.
  3 tablespoonfuls of butter rolled in one tablespoonful of flour.
  2 eggs.
  Pepper and salt.
  1 tablespoonful tomato catsup.
Drain the corn and chop it in a chopping-tray. Put on in the boiling
water and cook steadily one hour. Rub through a colander, leaving the
husks behind and return, with the water in which it has boiled, to the
fire. Season; boil gently three minutes and stir in the butter and
flour. Have ready the boiling milk, pour it upon the beaten eggs, and
these into the soup. Simmer one minute, stirring all the while; take
up, add the catsup and pour out.
BOILED SHAD.
Clean, wash and wipe a large roe shad. Set aside the roes for your
scallop. Sew up the fish in a thin cloth fitted to its shape; cover
well with boiling salted water, and cook from forty-five minutes to an
hour, according to its size. Unwrap and butter and pepper, after laying
it upon a hot dish. Pour over it a few spoonfuls of drawn butter in
which have been mixed the chopped yolks of two eggs, a little parsley,
and the juice of a lemon. Serve the same in a boat. Garnish the fish
with rings of the whites of the boiled eggs, with a sprig of parsley in
each.
SCALLOPED ROES.
