" In Sicily ? " Gertrude murmured. 

" It is true," said Felix Young, " that they had 
spent their lives in Europe. But they were very 
patriotic. And so are we." 

" And you are Sicilian," said Gertrude. 

" Sicilian, no ! Let 's see. I was born at a 
little place a dear little place in France. 
My sister was born at Vienna." 

" So you are French," said Gertrude. 

" Heaven forbid ! " cried the young man. Ger- 
trude's eyes were fixed upon him almost insist- 
ently. He began to laugh again. " I can easily 
be French, if that will please you." 

" You are a foreigner of some sort," said Ger- 
trude. 

" Of some sort yes ; I suppose so. But who 
can say of what sort? I don't think we have 
ever had occasion to settle the question. You 
know there are people like that. About their 
country, their religion, their profession, they can't 
tell." 

Gertrude stood there gazing ; she had not asked 
him to sit down. She had never heard of people 
like that ; she wanted to hear. " Where do you 
live?" she asked. 

" They can't tell that, either ! " said Felix. I 
am afraid you will think they are little better 
than vagabonds. I have lived anywhere every- 



 

where. I really think I have lived in every city 
in Europe." Gertrude gave a little long soft exhalation. It made the young man smile at her 
again ; and his smile made her blush a little. To 
take refuge from blushing she asked him if, after 
his long walk, he was not hungry or thirsty. Her 
hand was in her pocket ; she was fumbling with 
the little key that her sister had given her. " Ah, 
my dear young lady," he said, clasping his hands 
a little, " if you could give me, in charity, a glass 
of wine ! " 

Gertrude gave a smile and a little nod, and 
went quickly out of the room. Presently she 
came back with a very large decanter in one hand 
and a plate in the other, on which was placed a 
big, round cake with a frosted top. Gertrude, 
in taking the cake from the closet, had had a 
moment of acute consciousness that it composed 
the refection of which her sister had thought that 
Mr. Brand would like to partake. Her kinsman 
from across the seas was looking at the pale, high- 
hung engravings. When she came in he turned 
and smiled at her, as if they had been old friends 
meeting after a separation. "You wait upon me 
yourself ? " he asked. " I am served like the 
gods ! " She had waited upon a great many peo- 
ple, but none of them had ever told her that. The 
observation added a certain lightness to the step 



   

with which she went to a little table where there 
were some curious red glasses glasses covered 
with little gold sprigs, which Charlotte used to 
dust every morning with her own hands. Ger- 
trude thought the glasses very handsome, and it 
was a pleasure to her to know that the wine was 
good ; it was her father's famous madeira. Felix 
Young thought it excellent ; he wondered why 
he had been told that there was no wine in Amer- 
ica. She cut him an immense triangle out of the 
cake, and again she thought of Mr. Brand. Felix 
sat there, with his glass in one hand and his huge 
morsel of cake in the other eating, drinking, 
smiling, talking. " I am very hungry," he said. 
" I am not at all tired ; I am never tired. But I 
am very hungry." 

" You must stay to dinner," said Gertrude. 
" At two o'clock. They will all have come back 
from church ; you will see the others." 

" Who are the others ? " asked the young man. 
" Describe them all." 

" You will see for yourself. It is you that must 
tell me ; now, about your sister." 

" My sister is the Baroness Miinster," said 
Felix. 

On hearing that his sister was a Baroness, Ger- 
trude got up and walked about slowly, in front 
of him. She was silent a moment. She was think- 



 

ing of it. " Why did n't she come, too ? " she 
asked. 

" She did come ; slie is in Boston, at the hotel." 

" We will go and see her," said Gertrude, look- 
ing at him. 
