
of three miles a loud roar ahead warned us that we were 
approaching rapids, falls, and cascades. We paused. 
The danger was unknown. We had our choice of 
shouldering our loads and making a detour through 
the woods, or of '' shooting the rapids." Naturally we 
chose the more dangerous course. Shooting the rapids 
has often been described, and I will not repeat the 
description here. It is needless to say that I drove 
my frail bark through the boiling rapids, over the suc- 
cessive water-falls, amid rocks and vicious eddies, and 
landed half a mile below with whitened hair and a 
boat half full of water ; and that the guide was upset, 
and boat, contents, and man were strewn along the 
shore. 

After this common experience we went quickly on 
our journey, and, a couple of hours before sundown, 
reached the lake. If I live to my dying day, I never 
shall forget its appearance. The lake is almost an 
exact circle, about a quarter of a mile in diameter. 
The forest about it was untouched by axe, and unkilled 
by artificial flooding. The azure water had a perfect 
setting of evergreens, in which all the shades of the 
fir, the balsam, the pine, and the spruce, were perfectly 
blended ; and at intervals on the shore, in the emerald 
rim, blazed the ruby of the cardinal-flower. It was at 
once evident that the unruffled waters had never been 
vexed by the keel of a boat. But what chiefly attracted 
my attention, and amused me, was the boiling of the 
water, the bubbling and breaking, as if the lake were 
a vast kettle, with a fire underneath. A tyro would 
have been astonished at this common phenomenon ; 
but sportsmen will at once understand me when I say 
that the water boiled with the breaking trout. I studied 
the surface for some time to see upon what sort of 





flies they were feeding, in order to suit my cast to 
their appetites ; but they seemed to be at play rather 
than feeding, leaping high in the air in graceful curves, 
and tumbling about each other as we see them in the 
Adirondack pictures. 

It is well known that no person who regards his 
reputation will ever kill a trout with anything but a 
fly. It requires some training on the part of the trout 
to take to this method. The uncultivated, unsophisti- 
cated trout in unfrequented waters prefers the bait ; 
and the rural people, whose sole object in going a-fish- 
ing appears to be to catch fish, indulge them in their 
primitive taste for the worm. No sportsman, however, 
will use anything but a fly, except he happens to be 
alone. 

While Luke launched my boat, and arranged his 
seat in the stern, I prepared my rod and line. The 
rod is a bamboo, weighing seven ounces, which has to 
be spliced with a winding of silk thread every time it 
is used. This is a tedious process ; but, by fastening 
the joints in this way, a uniform spring is secured in 
the rod. No one devoted to high art would think of 
using a socket joint. My line was forty yards of un- 
twisted silk upon a multiplying reel. The " leader " — 
X am very particular about my leaders — had been made 
to order from a domestic animal with which I had been 
acquainted. The fisherman requires as good a catgut 
as the violinist. The interior of the house-cat, it is 
well known, is exceedingly sensitive ; but it may not be 
so well known that the reason why some cats leave the 
room in distress when a piano-forte is played is because 
the two instruments are not in the same key, and the 
vibrations of the chords of the one are in discord with 
the catgut of the other. On six feet of this superior 



A FIGHT WITH A TROUT 

article I fixed three artificial flies, — a simple brown 
hackle, a gray body with scarlet wings, and one of my 
own invention, which I thought would be new to the 
most experienced fly-catcher. The trout-fly does not 
resemble any known species of insect. It is a " conven- 
tionalized " creation, as we say of ornamentation. The 
theory is, that, fly-fishing being a high art, the fly must 
not be a tame imitation of nature, but an artistic sug- 
gestion of it. It requires an artist to construct one ; 
and not every bungler can take a bit of red flannel, a 
peacock's feather, a flash of tinsel thread, a cock's 
plume, a section of a hen's wing, and fabricate a tiny 
object that will not look like any fly, but still will sug- 
gest the universal conventional fly. 

I took my stand in the centre of the tipsy boat ; and 
Luke shoved off, and slowly paddled towards some 
lily-pads, while I began casting, unlimbering my tools, 
as it were. The fish had all disappeared. I got out, 
perhaps, fifty feet of line, with no response, and grad- 
ually increased it to one hundred. It is not difficult 
to learn to cast ; but it is difficult to learn not to snap 
off the flies at every throw. Of this, however, we will 
not speak. I continued casting for some moments, un- 
til I became satisfied that there had been a miscalcu- 
lation. Either the trout were too green to know what 
I was at, or they were dissatisfied with my offers. I 
reeled in, and changed the flies (that is, the fly that 
was not snapped off). After studying the color of the 
sky, of the water, and of the foliage, and the moderated 
light of the afternoon, I put on a series of beguilers, 
all of a subdued brilliancy, in harmony with the ap- 
proach of evening. At the second cast, which was a 
short one, I saw a splash where the leader fell, and 
gave an excited jerk. The next instant I perceived 



