"You're altogether too smart for a boy of your size," sneered the other.
"Take your friend away. We don't care to associate with a milksop, who
allows himself to be ordered around by women and children."

Fortunately Fred was too drowsy to pay heed to what was being said; in
fact he was very sleepy, and was anxious to go to bed. Frank got him
into a cab, and in twenty minutes they safely reached his mother's house
in Thirty-eighth street.

Mrs. Vivian was anxiously awaiting the return of the prodigal.

"O Fred," she said, "how could you stay away so, when you know how
worried I get? You have been drinking, too."

"This is my friend, Frank Kavanagh," hiccoughed Fred.

"Shall I go up and help put him to bed?" asked Frank.

"Does he require help?" asked Mrs. Vivian, sorrowfully.

"He has been drinking a good deal."

"Yes, you may go up. I will lead the way to his chamber. Afterwards I
want to speak to you."

"All right."

"Where did you find him?" asked Mrs. Vivian, when Frank with some
difficulty had prepared his charge for bed.

"In the billiard-saloon to which you directed me. He was upstairs
playing cards for money. They were cheating him in the most outrageous
manner."

"I suppose they got all his money."

"Not all; but they would soon have done so. Here is his pocket-book,
which I just took from his pocket."

"There are twenty dollars left," said 'Mrs. Vivian, after an
examination. "They must have secured the rest. O my poor boy! Would that
I could shield you from these dangerous companions!"

"I don't think they will trouble him again, Mrs. Vivian."

"Why not? You do not know them."

"I told them that, if they came near him, hereafter, you would have them
arrested for swindling your son out of money belonging to you."

"Will that have any effect upon them?"

"Yes, because they know that I am ready to appear as a witness against
them."

"Did Fred show any unwillingness to come with you?"

"No; I made him think I was an old acquaintance of his. Besides, he was
feeling sleepy."

"You have acted with great judgment for so young a lad," said Mrs.
Vivian. "I wish Fred had a companion like you to influence him for good.
Where do you live?"

"At the Newsboys Lodging-House. I cannot afford to hire a room."

Mrs. Vivian looked thoughtful.

"Give me your name and address," she said.

These she noted down.

"I won't keep you any longer to-night," she said, "for you must be
tired. You will hear from me again."

"Oh," said Frank, "I nearly forgot. Here is the balance of the money you
handed me for expenses."

"Keep it for yourself," said Mrs. Vivian, "and accept my thanks
besides."

Though Frank had paid for the cab, there was a balance of nearly two
dollars in his hands which he was very glad to keep.




CHAPTER XIV.

FRANK MAKES AN EVENING CALL.


The next day Frank chanced to meet Mrs. Vivian in the street. She
recognized him at once.

"I see you are kept busy," she said, pleasantly.

"Yes," answered Frank. "Our business is pretty good just now. How is
your son?"

"He slept well, and woke much refreshed this morning. He is a good boy
naturally, but unable to withstand temptation. I have decided to send
him to the country for a few weeks, to visit a cousin of about his own
age. There he will be secure from temptation, and will have a chance to
ride. I would have sent him away before, but that it would leave me
alone in the house. You told me last evening that you had no
boarding-place."

"My only home is at the lodging-house," said Frank.

"How would you like to occupy a room at my house while my son is away?"

"Very much," said Frank, promptly.

"I shall find it convenient to have you in the house, and shall feel
safer."

"I am afraid I shouldn't be a match for an able-bodied burglar," said
Frank, smiling.

