ent, apparently. What a strange man ! " 
" Does he say so ? " I asked eagerly. 
"Of course. Says, as he is taking me away from 
you, he wants to leave you something pleasant to 
look at instead. Open it, do ! here's a hammer." 
" Open yours first, Olive." 
She was too curious and impatient to wait. In 
her hands the hammer, skilfully wielded, soon 
brought up the thin cover of the packing case. 
Under it appeared a quantity of the material which 
dealers use to wrap up and encase fragile wares. 
Olive smothered a word of irritation and began to 
pull out this packing stuff. I seized the hammer 
now and applied myself to the other case, which I 
saw bore my name, large and full. My heart beat 
hard and my fingers trembled. The covers came 
up. I pulled away carefully and daintily the sawdust which was all that could be seen. By and by 
my fingers felt something else, something hard; I 
cleared away the packing now with double eager- 
 
ness and tenderness; at last could lay hold of the 
precious object lying within and lift it out. There it 
was on the floor before me, a little pure white mar 
ble figure, scarce a foot and a half in length. An 
involuntary exclamation of heart delight escaped 
me. 
" Oh ! " I cried," the St. Cecilia ! " 
"The what?" said Olive. Some great contrast 
between her tone and mine struck me, and I 
looked up, startled. For minutes I had forgotten 
her existence. She was sitting on the floor, as I 
was, a little way from me, looking not at her own 
marble, which she had likewise taken out and 
which stood before her, but over at me; and her 
face and her tone were those of an extremely dissatisfied person; dark and displeased and disap 
pointed. 
"What is yours?" I asked in confusion, too 
much delighted really to see or care, but feeling 
the need of saying something. 
" The what, did you say ? " she repeated. 
" Mine? 0, it's the St. Cecilia." 
" What St. Cecilia ? and how do you know ? " 
" I know the story. Don't you know the story ? 
St. Cecilia was one of the martyrs, and was buried 
in the catacombs. But at the end of the sixteenth 
cenftiry the sarcophagus in which she was buried 
was discovered and opened; and the saying is that 
the figure was found undecayed, lying just in the 
attitude in which she died. And then an artist, 
who .saw it, Stefan o Maderna, made a copy in marble. It is in the church of St. Cecilia at Rome. An 
inscription underneath says that he, Stefano Maderna, saw the saint's un corrupted body lying in 
her tomb, and that the marble image of her is in 
the very same attitude. And this is a copy." 
"What stuff!" said Olive. "You believe it, I 
suppose. How did she die ? " 
" She was to have been beheaded, but the lictoi 
could not do it. He struck three blows, and as it 
was against the law to strike again, left her lying 
in her blood, with the three gashes in her neck. 
She lived three days, and died in this position." 
I knew the story well enough, for Mr. Iredell 
himself had told it to me and described to me the 
statue, which he said was most beautiful. So 
when I saw it I knew it at once, and justified his 
words. Most beautiful it was! with the peacefulest, 
sweetest expression of willing departure, of child 
like abandonment to the will of God, that it is 
possible to imagine; easy and graceful, as such a 
spirit could not but be; quiet, and happy, and 
gone ! It went to my heart ; it found my inner 
most thoughts; it touched my most hidden pain. 
If I had been alone But Olive sat there opposite, 
watching me. 
" Where did you get all that ? " said she. 
"What is yours?" I asked hastily, not think- 
ing it best to answer this question. 
"Don't you see? if you know marbles so well 
This is Niobe." 
" Who was Niobe ? " said I. 
 
"An unlucky woman who had offended Apollo, 
I believe, or something like that; and in revenge 
he shot his arrows into all her children, one after 
the other. Here, yon see, Niobe is endeavouring 
to shield the last one." 
"0, I see. How beautiful !" 
" I should like to know what Mr. Iredell expects 
me to do with this." 
"Why, Olive ! Set it up and make constant en 
joyment of it." 
" And a lesson, I suppose. It is just like him." 
" A lesson of what ? " 
" Don't you see ? Protection-giving, and care-taking. I have no doubt he expects me to make 
this my model, and to be always sheltering some 
thing or other; folding in my kind arms some object, which however need not have any personal 
claim upon me. There the model fails. I find 
Niobe's action quite natural; but not my imitation 
of it." 
"What makes you think of such a thing?" said 
I, bewildered. 
" It is quite Mr. Iredell's way. He does nothing 
without a purpose, don't you know it?" 
"Well, that is right." 
"No, it isn t," said Olive. "People are meant to 
play in this world, as well as to work." 
"What do you suppose then he means me to 
learn from this St. Cecilia ? " 
" Martyrdom for ought I know," returned Olive. 
She was in such a mood that I was afraid to speak 
 
to her; and that last word of hers would have 
stopped me at any rate. She did not know how 
close it came; and Mr. Iredell certainly did not 
guess how very appropriate his meaning would 
have been if it had been that. I looked at the 
lovely little white figure lying before me, with its 
ineffable expression of contented acquiescence, even 
in the strokes of the axe and the death which had 
lingeringly followed them; and I saw my lesson, 
plain enough. I had much ado not to burst out 
