"It'll be all the boy can do to take care of himself out there," he
reflected, "let alone sending money home. He may send ten dollars or so
some time; but it's very doubtful, very doubtful!"

Squire Hudson turned to go back to the house when he saw the man of whom
he had been thinking coming up the road. He stopped short, thinking the
farmer might wish to speak to him.

"Good-morning, Mr. Nelson," he said, pleasantly, for he was in
good-humor.

"Good-morning, squire."

"Your Whiteface has got to feel quite at home in my barn-yard."

"She is a good cow, Squire Hudson."

"Yes, tolerable, tolerable."

"She is worth more than the thirty dollars for which you took her."

"Well, I don't know about that. Cows are pretty cheap nowadays."

"I see how it is," thought the squire. "Nelson wants me to allow him
more for the cow; but a bargain is a bargain, and I shan't do it."

"I always valued her at a considerably higher price."

"No doubt, no doubt. You raised her yourself, didn't you?"

"Yes."

"That makes a difference, of course. You attach a sentimental value to
her; but that doesn't affect her real value. I really can't allow you
any more for her."

"I don't want you to, Squire Hudson."

The squire looked astonished.

"What is the man driving at?" he thought.

"She may not be worth any more to you, and so you won't mind my taking
her back."

"Taking her back!" ejaculated the squire.

"Certainly; it was agreed that I could redeem her at any time, by paying
you the thirty dollars and interest."

"Not after two months," said the squire, hastily.

"It is not two months. It was only six weeks yesterday. The fact is,
squire, I've come for Whiteface, and I've got the money for you."

"Have you heard from Tom?" asked the squire, with a blank look of
disappointment.

"Yes; I heard from him yesterday."

"And he sent you some money?"

"Yes; he reports that he is doing well."

"Did he send you thirty dollars?"

"Rather more than that," said Mark Nelson, not caring to gratify the
curiosity of his creditor.

"I think you had better keep your money, and leave Whiteface with me,"
said Squire Hudson, after a pause.

"I would rather not, squire. The fact is, Whiteface is a sort of pet at
home, and we all want her back."

Squire Hudson was disconcerted. He had not expected that Mr. Nelson
would be able to redeem the cow, and he was reluctant to give her up.
But there was no excuse for retaining her. His agreement stood in the
way.

"Neighbor Nelson," he said, after a pause, "I don't mind giving you five
dollars over and above what you owe me for Whiteface. Come, that's a
good offer."

Mark Nelson shook his head.

"She's worth more than that," he said. "But that's neither here nor
there. I raised the animal, and it was sorely against my will that I
parted with her six weeks ago. Now that I have the money to pay you I
want her back."

"I think you are standing in your own light, Mr. Nelson," said the
squire. "I have taken a fancy to the cow, and am willing to pay more for
her than she is worth. I will say ten dollars."

Mark Nelson shook his head.

"I'd rather have Whiteface than the money," he said.

"If she comes into my possession again," said Squire Hudson, "I shall
not be willing to grant you the privilege of redeeming her. It won't be
many months before another payment becomes due."

"I hope to be ready to meet it, squire," said the farmer, not appearing
at all anxious.

"He seems very independent," thought the squire, watching, moodily, the
cow driven away by her former owner. "He may sing another tune on
interest day. I wonder how much the boy sent home."

Had he known that Mr. Nelson had in his pocket enough money to pay the
whole of the next accruing interest, he would have felt more doubtful
about recovering the cow which he now coveted more than ever.

"Well, Abner, I've lost her," said the squire, hurrying to his
assistant; "but she'll be back here some day, mark my words!"

"I thought you bought her, squire," said Abner, in surprise.

"Well, not exactly. I took her for a debt; but Nelson had the right of
