ears, and when she said, after looking at several showy beasts, "No,
they don't suit me. This one now has the right air; can I ride her?" my
heart danced within me and I looked round with a whinny of delight. She
understood my welcome, and came right up to me, patted me, peered into
my face, rubbed my nose, and looked at my feet with an air of interest
and sympathy, that made me feel as if I'd like to carry her round the
world.

"'Ah, what rides we had after that! What happy hours trotting gayly
through the green woods, galloping over the breezy hills, or pacing
slowly along quiet lanes, where I often lunched luxuriously on
clover-tops, while Miss Merry took a sketch of some picturesque bit with
me in the foreground.

"'I liked that, and we had long chats at such times, for she seemed to
understand me perfectly. She was never frightened when I danced for
pleasure on the soft turf, never chid me when I snatched a bite from the
young trees as we passed through sylvan ways, never thought it a trouble
to let me wet my tired feet in babbling brooks, or to dismount and take
out the stones that plagued me.

"'Then how well she rode! So firm yet light a seat, so steady a hand, so
agile a foot to spring on and off, and such infectious spirits, that no
matter how despondent or cross I might be, in five minutes I felt gay
and young again when dear Miss Merry was on my back.'

"Here Rosa gave a frisk that sent the straw flying, and made me shrink
into a corner, while she pranced about the box with a neigh which waked
the big brown colt next door, and set poor Buttercup to lowing for her
calf, the loss of which she had forgotten for a little while in sleep.

"'Ah, Miss Merry never ran away from me! She knew my heels were to be
trusted, and she let me caper as I would, glad to see me lively. Never
mind, Miss Belinda, come out and I'll be sober, as befits my years,'
laughed Rosa, composing herself, and adding, so like a woman that I
could not help smiling in the dark,--

"'When I say "years" I beg you to understand that I am not as old as
that base man declared, but just in the prime of life for a horse. Hard
usage has made me seem old before my time, and I am good for years of
service yet.'

"'Few people have been through as much as you have, Rosa, and you
certainly have earned the right to rest,' I said consolingly, for her
little whims and vanities amused me much.

"'You know what happened next,' she continued; 'but I must seize this
opportunity to express my thanks for all the kindness I've received
since Miss Merry bought me, in spite of the ridicule and dissuasion of
all her friends.

"'I know I didn't look like a good bargain, for I was very thin and
lame and shabby; but she saw and loved the willing spirit in me, pitied
my hard lot, and felt that it would be a good deed to buy me even if she
never got much work out of me.

"'I shall always remember that, and whatever happens to me hereafter, I
never shall be as proud again as I was the day she put my new saddle and
bridle on, and I was led out, sleek, plump, and handsome, with blue
rosettes at my ears, my tail cut in the English style, and on my back
Miss Merry in her London hat and habit, all ready to head a cavalcade of
eighteen horsemen and horsewomen. We were the most perfect pair of
all, and when the troop caracoled down the wide street six abreast, my
head was the highest, my rider the straightest, and our two hearts
the friendliest in all the goodly company.

"'Nor is it pride and love alone that binds me to her, it is gratitude
as well, for did not she often bathe my feet herself, rub me down, water
me, blanket me, and daily come to see me when I was here alone for weeks
in the winter time? Didn't she study horses' feet and shoes, that I
might be cured if possible? Didn't she write to the famous friend of my
race for advice, and drive me seven miles to get a good smith to shoe me
well? Have not my poor contracted feet grown much better, thanks to the
weeks of rest without shoes which she gave me? Am I not fat and
handsome, and, barring the stiff knees, a very presentable horse? If I
am, it is all owing to her; and for that reason I want to live and die
in her service.

"'She doesn't want to sell me, and only bade you do it because you
didn't want the care of me while she is gone. Dear Miss Belinda, please
keep me! I'll eat as little as I can. I won't ask for a new blanket,
though your old army one is very thin and shabby. I'll trot for you all
winter, and try not to show it if I am lame. I'll do anything a horse
can, no matter how humble, to earn my living, only don't, pray don't
send me away among strangers who have neither interest nor pity for me!'

"Rosa had spoken rapidly, feeling that her plea must be made now or
never, for before another Christmas she might be far away and speech of
no use to win her wish. I was much touched, though she was only a
horse; for she was looking earnestly at me as she spoke, and made the
last words very eloquent by preparing to bend her stiff knees and lie
down at my feet. I stopped her, and answered, with an arm about her neck
and her soft nose in my hand,--

"'You shall not be sold, Rosa! you shall go and board at Mr. Town's
great stable, where you will have pleasant society among the eighty
horses who usually pass the winter there. Your shoes shall be taken off,
and you shall rest till March at least. The best care will be taken of
you, dear, and I will come and see you; and in the spring you shall
return to us, even if Miss Merry is not here to welcome you.'

"'Thanks, many, many thanks! But I wish I could do something to earn my
board. I hate to be idle, though rest is delicious. Is there nothing I
can do to repay you, Miss Belinda? Please answer quickly, for I know the
hour is almost over,' cried Rosa, stamping with anxiety; for, like all
her sex, she wanted the last word.

"'Yes, you can,' I cried, as a sudden idea popped into my head. 'I'll
write down what you have told me, and send the little story to a certain
paper I know of, and the money I get for it will pay your board. So rest
in peace, my dear; you will have earned your living, and may feel that
your debt is paid.'

"Before she could reply the clock struck one, and a long sigh of
satisfaction was all the response in her power. But we understood each
other now, and, cutting a lock from her mane for Miss Merry, I gave Rosa
a farewell caress and went away, wondering if I had made it all up, or
if she had really broken a year's silence and freed her mind.

"However that may be, here is the tale, and the sequel to it is, that
