may be the object thus distinguished. Rely upon it, my dear lady, at
least one third of home-wrangles and social scandal arises from this
cause. Be assured, also, that if you do not perceive the impropriety of
lowering yourself to the level of your subordinates, they will, and
gauge their behaviour accordingly. The connection is an unnatural one,
and, like all others of the kind, must terminate disastrously in time.
Then the discarded favorite, aggrieved and exasperated, leaves your
house to tattle in the ears of some other indiscreet mistress, of your
sayings and doings. Show your servant that you respect yourself and
her too truly to forget what is due to both. Be kind, pleasant, always
reasonable and attentive to her needs, willing to hearken to and meet
any lawful request. Make her comfortable, and, so far as you can, happy.

Excuse one more quotation from Mrs. Sterling, whom, when I was much
younger than I am now, I consulted with regard to the just medium
between familiarity and austerity.

“Remember they are human beings, and treat them as such,” she said.
“Not that you are likely to reap a large reward in their gratitude,
but because it is right, and because you find no exceptions to the
practice of the Golden Rule laid down in the Bible. Be faithful in your
obedience to the law of kindness. With the return tide you have nothing
to do. This is a safe and straight path. I believe it to be also the
smoothest. You will be better and more cheerfully served than your
neighbor, who, recognizing in every hireling a natural enemy, is always
on the defensive.”

I have found the most serious obstacle to a comfortable pursuance of
her safe path, to lie in this same prejudice—rooted by centuries of
misunderstandings and caste-wars—the belief of necessary antagonism
between employers and employed. Mrs. Sterling’s Eliza only expressed
the prevailing sentiment of her class, when she ridiculed her mistress’
proposition that their interests ought to be identical. I have failed
so often and so signally in the endeavor to impress the merits of
this policy upon domestics, that I rarely attempt it now. There is
always a suspicion—more or less apparent—that you have a single eye
to self-interest in all your regulations and counsels. “What does she
hope to gain? What am I in danger of losing?” are the queries that
invariably present themselves to the subordinate’s mind. The arguments
by which your plans are supported are thrown away upon ignorant and
illogical listeners—your array of facts totally disbelieved. Your
auditor does not say this, but in divers and ingenious ways she
contrives to let you know that she is not so silly as to be imposed
upon by the specious array of evidence.

For how much of this are mistresses responsible? Has this creed of
distrust been learned by experience of injustice or exaction, or is
it one of the popular prejudices, which are harder to overthrow than
sound and well-established principle? Of one thing I am certain:
Mistresses and maids would more speedily come to a right understanding
of oneness of interest but for the influence exerted over the former
by Mrs. Jones, Mrs. Robinson, and Mrs. Brown, who don’t allow this,
and couldn’t think of that, and never heard of the other privilege or
immunity being granted to servants. Before they would yield such a
point, or submit to one syllable of dictation, they would do all their
own work, etc., etc. Poor Mrs. Pliable, listening dumbly and meekly,
goes home with a low-spirited sense of her own pusillanimity upon her,
and tries to assert her authority and redeem past faults by a sudden
tightening of the reins, that results in a runaway and general smash-up.

Cannot we remember—you and I, my dear reader—that we may sometimes be
as nearly right as those who talk more loudly and strongly than we upon
domestic economy, laying down rules we never thought of suggesting;
splitting into ninths a hair our short-sighted eyes cannot make out
when whole, and annihilating our timid objections with a lordly “I
always do so,” which is equal to a decree of infallibility? Cannot we
make up our minds, once and for all, to be a law unto ourselves in all
matters pertaining to our households? Mrs. Jones’ rule may be good for
her; Mrs. Robinson’s better than any other in her particular case, and
Mrs. Brown’s best of all for one in her peculiar circumstances; yet any
one or all of them be unsuitable for our use.

Avoid talking about your domestic affairs with people whose gossip on
these topics is incessant. You are angry when a whiff of some such
discussion as enlightened Mrs. Sterling, with regard to her mistake,
is wafted to you through the dumb-waiter or register, an accident that
will occur while the tones of the plaintiffs are loud and untrained by
education or policy. It is mean and unkind—traitorous, in fact, you
say, for them so to misrepresent and revile you—after all the kindness
you have showed to them, too! Bridget, Chloe, or Gretchen, passing the
parlor-door and catching the sound of her name as roughly handled,
may have her own sensations, and draw her own inferences—being human
like yourself. It is tiresome and vulgar, this everlasting exchange
of experiences about “my girl,” and “your girl,” and everybody else’s
“girl.” It is time sensible women ceased, in this respect, to imitate
the fashion of the class they censure, and put down the bootless
tattle with a strong will. Order your household, then, so far aright
as you can by the help of common sense and grace from on high, and let
Mesdames Jones, Robinson, and Brown look to the ways of their own, and
expend their surplus energies upon their neighbors’ concerns—counting
you out.

(I believe that is slang, but let it stand!)

These worthy and fussy housewives act upon the supposition that all
“girls” are cast in the same mould. Being human (do not let us forget
that!), the probability is, that there are varieties of the species.

But, if the mistresses are led by their associates, the “girl’s”
“acquaintances” sway her yet more powerfully. Every conscientious,
well-meaning housewife knows what a brake is this informal, but
terrible “Union” upon her endeavors to improve and really benefit those
under her direction. I have been amazed and disgusted at the tyranny
exercised by this irresponsible body over the best servants I have ever
seen.

“We would be hooted at, ma’am, if we didn’t give in to them,” said
one, when I represented how senseless and almost suicidal was the
course recommended by these evil advisers. “There’s not a girl in the
town would speak to us if we didn’t join in with the rest. It’s like a
strike, you see—awful upon them as holds back.”

Do not, then, my discouraged fellow-laborer, imagine that I am ignorant
of your trials, your doubts, your disheartening experiences. If I
disagree with Mrs. S-k-n-s-t-n and do not pronounce our servants to be
the greatest plague of life, inclining rather to the belief that—always
allowing for human nature and the drawbacks I have enumerated—good
mistresses are apt to make good servants, it is in consequence of
long and careful study and observation of the practical working of
Mrs. Sterling’s rule. Like begets like. Pleasant words are more likely
