but I feel like driving an awl through a board 
whenever I think of it." 
"I wouldn't do it, Rupert, if I could do something I was more fit for. People always do things 
best that they like to do. I think the choice of a 
business is your affair. Do what you can do best. 
But I'd make shoes rather than do nothing." 
" I don't know what I am fit for," said Rupert 
evidently relieved, "but yes, I would cobble 
shoes rather than do nothing. I don't want to eat 
idle bread. Then I'll go." 
" Your experience here, in London and on this 
journey, will not have been lost to you," Dolly 
observed. 
" It's been the best thing ever happened to me, 
this journey," said the young man. " And you've 
done me more good, Miss Dolly, than anybody in 
this world, if it ain't my mother." 
"I? I am very glad. I am sure you have done 
a great deal for me, Rupert." 
" You have put me upon thinking. And till a 
fellow begins to think, he ain't much more good 
than a cabbage." 
" When will you go, Rupert ? I wish we were 
going too ! " 
 
"Well, I guess my old mother has sat lookin' 
for me long enough. I guess I'll start pretty 
soon." 
"Will you!" said Dolly. "But not before we 
have made our visit to Mrs. Thayer's villa. We 
are going there next week." 
" I'll start then, I guess." 
" And not go with us to the Thayers'? " 
" I guess not." 
" Didn't they invite you ? " 
" Not a bit of it ! Took good care not, I should 
say." 
" How do you mean ? " 
"Well, Miss Dolly, Mrs. Thayer was standing 
two feet from me and asking Mr. St. Leger, and 
she didn't look my way till she had got through 
and was talking of something else; and then she 
looked as if I had been a pane of glass and she 
was seeing something on the other side as I suppose she was." 
Dolly was silent for a few minutes, and then she 
said, " How I shall miss you, Kupert ! " and tears 
were near, though she would not let them come. 
And Rupert made no answer at all, but rowed 
the boat in. 
Yes, Dolly knew she would miss him sadly. He 
had been her helper and standby and agent and 
escort and friend, in many a place now, and on 
many an occasion. He had done for her what 
there was no one else to do, ever since that first 
evening when he had made his appearance at 
 
Brierley and she had wished him away. So little 
do people recognize their blessings often at first 
sight. Now, Dolly pondered as she climbed the 
cliff, how would she get along without Kupert ? 
How long would her father even be content to 
abide with her mother and her in their quiet way 
of living ? she had seen symptoms of restlessness 
already. What should she do if he became impatient? if he left them to St. Leger's care and 
went back to London ? or if he carried them off 
with him perhaps ? To London again ! And then 
afresh came the former question, what was there 
in her power, that might draw her father to take 
deeper and truer views of life and duty than he 
was taking now? A question that greatly bothered Dolly; for there was dimly looming up in the 
distance an answer that she did not like. To attack her father in private on the subject of religion, 
was a step that Dolly thought very hopeless; he 
simply would not hear her. But there was another 
thing she could do could she do it? Persuade 
her father and mother to consent to have family 
prayer? Dolly's heart beat and her breath came 
quick as she passed through the little garden, sweet 
with roses and oleander and orange,blossoms. How 
sweet the flowers were ! how heavenly fair the sky 
over her head ! So it ought to be in people's hearts, 
thought Dolly; so in mine. And if it were, I 
should not be afraid of anything that was right 
to do. And this is right to do. 
Dolly avoided the saloon where the rest of the 
 
family were, and betook herself to her own room ; 
to consider and to pray over her difficulties, and 
also to get rid of a few tears and bring her face 
into its usual cheerful order. When at last she 
went down, she found her mother alone, but her 
father almost immediately joined them. The windows were open towards the sea, the warm delicious 
air stole in caressingly, the scent of roses and 
orange blossoms and carnations filled the house 
and seemed to fill the world; moonlight trembled 
on the leaves of the fig tree, and sent lines of silver 
light into the room. The lamp was lowered and 
Mrs. Copley sat doing nothing, in a position of satisfied enjoyment by the window. 
As Dolly came in by one door, Mr. Copley entered 
by another, and flung himself down on a chair ; his 
action speaking neither enjoyment nor satisfaction. 
" Well ! " said he. " How much longer do you 
think you can stand this sort of thing ? " 
" What sort of thing, father ? " 
" Do you sit in the dark usually ? " 
" Come here, father," said Dolly, " come to the 
window and see the moonshine on the sea. Do 
you call that dark ? " 
" Your father never cared for moonshine, Dolly," 
said Mrs. Copley. 
" No, that's true," said Mr. Copley with a short 
laugh. " Haven't you got almost enough of it ? " 
" Of moonshine, father ? " 
" Yes on the bay of Sorrento. It's a lazy 
place." 
 
" You have not been very lazy since you have 
been here," said his wife. 
" Well, I have seen all there is to be seen ; and 
now I am ready for something else. Aren't you ? " 
" But father," said Dolly, " I suppose, just because Sorrento is what you call a lazy place, it is 
