a small bunch of keys, and sat looking at them with an expression only
seen on his face when he looked up at the portrait of a dark-eyed woman
hanging in his room. He was a very busy man, but he had a tender place
in his heart for his children; and when a look, a few words, a moment’s
reflection, called his attention to the fact that his little girl was
growing up, he found both pride and pleasure in the thought that this
young daughter was trying to fill her mother’s place, and be a comfort
to him, if he would let her.
“Molly, my dear, here is something for you,” he said; and when she stood
beside him, added, as he put the keys into her hand, keeping both in his
own for a minute,--
“Those are the keys to your mother’s things. I always meant you to have
them, when you were old enough to use or care for them. I think you’ll
fancy this better than any other present, for you are a good child, and
very like her.”
Something seemed to get into his throat there, and Molly put her arm
round his neck, saying, with a little choke in her own voice, “Thank
you, father, I’d rather have this than anything else in the world, and
I’ll try to be more like her every day, for your sake.”
He kissed her, then said, as he began to stir his papers about, “I
must write some letters. Run off to bed, child. Good-night, my dear,
good-night.”
Seeing that he wanted to be alone, Molly slipped away, feeling that she
had received a very precious gift; for she remembered the dear, dead
mother, and had often longed to possess the relics laid away in the one
room where order reigned and Miss Bat had no power to meddle. As she
slowly undressed, she was not thinking of the pretty new gowns in which
she was to be “as gay as a butterfly,” but of the half-worn garments
waiting for her hands to unfold with a tender touch; and when she fell
asleep, with the keys under her pillow and her arms round Boo, a few
happy tears on her cheeks seemed to show that, in trying to do the duty
which lay nearest her, she had earned a very sweet reward.
So the little missionaries succeeded better in their second attempt than
in their first; for, though still very far from being perfect girls,
each was slowly learning, in her own way, one of the three lessons all
are the better for knowing--that cheerfulness can change misfortune into
love and friends; that in ordering one’s self aright one helps others to
do the same; and that the power of finding beauty in the humblest things
makes home happy and life lovely.
Chapter XVIII. May Baskets
Spring was late that year, but to Jill it seemed the loveliest she had
ever known, for hope was growing green and strong in her own little
heart, and all the world looked beautiful. With the help of the brace
she could sit up for a short time every day, and when the air was mild
enough she was warmly wrapped and allowed to look out at the open window
into the garden, where the gold and purple crocuses were coming bravely
up, and the snowdrops nodded their delicate heads as if calling to
her,--
“Good day, little sister, come out and play with us, for winter is over
and spring is here.”
“I wish I could!” thought Jill, as the soft wind kissed a tinge of color
into her pale cheeks. “Never mind, they have been shut up in a darker
place than I for months, and had no fun at all; I won’t fret, but think
about July and the seashore while I work.”
The job now in hand was May baskets, for it was the custom of the
children to hang them on the doors of their friends the night before
May-day; and the girls had agreed to supply baskets if the boys would
hunt for flowers, much the harder task of the two. Jill had more leisure
as well as taste and skill than the other girls, so she amused herself
with making a goodly store of pretty baskets of all shapes, sizes, and
colors, quite confident that they would be filled, though not a flower
had shown its head except a few hardy dandelions, and here and there a
small cluster of saxifrage.
The violets would not open their blue eyes till the sunshine was warmer,
the columbines refused to dance with the boisterous east wind, the ferns
kept themselves rolled up in their brown flannel jackets, and little
Hepatica, with many another spring beauty, hid away in the woods, afraid
to venture out, in spite of the eager welcome awaiting them. But the
birds had come, punctual as ever, and the bluejays were screaming in
the orchard, robins were perking up their heads and tails as they went
house-hunting, purple finches in their little red hoods were feasting
on the spruce buds, and the faithful chip birds chirped gayly on the
grapevine trellis where they had lived all winter, warming their little
gray breasts against the southern side of the house when the sun shone,
and hiding under the evergreen boughs when the snow fell.
“That tree is a sort of bird’s hotel,” said Jill, looking out at the
tall spruce before her window, every spray now tipped with a soft green.
“They all go there to sleep and eat, and it has room for every one. It
is green when other trees die, the wind can’t break it, and the snow
only makes it look prettier. It sings to me, and nods as if it knew I
loved it.”
“We might call it ‘The Holly Tree Inn,’ as some of the cheap
eating-houses for poor people are called in the city, as my holly bush
grows at its foot for a sign. You can be the landlady, and feed your
feathery customers every day, till the hard times are over,” said Mrs.
Minot, glad to see the child’s enjoyment of the outer world from which
she had been shut so long.
Jill liked the fancy, and gladly strewed crumbs on the window ledge
for the chippies, who came confidingly to eat almost from her hand.
She threw out grain for the handsome jays, the jaunty robins, and the
neighbors’ doves, who came with soft flight to trip about on their pink
feet, arching their shining necks as they cooed and pecked. Carrots
and cabbage-leaves also flew out of the window for the marauding gray
rabbit, last of all Jack’s half-dozen, who led him a weary life of it
because they would not stay in the Bunny-house, but undermined the
garden with their burrows, ate the neighbors’ plants, and refused to
be caught till all but one ran away, to Jack’s great relief. This old
fellow camped out for the winter, and seemed to get on very well among
the cats and the hens, who shared their stores with him, and he might
be seen at all hours of the day and night scampering about the place, or
kicking up his heels by moonlight, for he was a desperate poacher.
Jill took great delight in her pretty pensioners, who soon learned to
love “The Holly Tree Inn,” and to feel that the Bird Room held a caged
comrade; for, when it was too cold or wet to open the windows, the doves
came and tapped at the pane, the chippies sat on the ledge in plump
little bunches as if she were their sunshine, the jays called her in
their shrill voices to ring the dinner-bell, and the robins tilted on
the spruce boughs where lunch was always to be had.
The first of May came on Sunday, so all the celebrating must be done on
Saturday, which happily proved fair, though too chilly for muslin gowns,
paper garlands, and picnics on damp grass. Being a holiday, the boys
decided to devote the morning to ball and the afternoon to the flower
hunt, while the girls finished the baskets; and in the evening our
particular seven were to meet at the Minots to fill them, ready for the
closing frolic of hanging on door-handles, ringing bells, and running
away.
“Now I must do my Maying, for there will be no more sunshine, and I want
to pick my flowers before it is dark. Come, Mammy, you go too,” said
Jill, as the last sunbeams shone in at the western window where her
hyacinths stood that no fostering ray might be lost.
