morning after Bernard's arrival, and wandered far 
away, over hill and dale. The Baden forests are 
superb, and the composition of the landscape is most 
effective. There is always a bosky dell in the fore- 
ground, and a purple crag embellished with a ruined 
tower at a proper angle. A little timber-and-plaster 
village peeps out from a tangle of plum-trees, and a 
way-side tavern, in comfortable recurrence, solicits 
concessions to the national custom of frequent refresh- 
ment. Gordon Wright, who was a dogged pedestrian, 
always enjoyed doing his ten miles, and Longueville, 
who was an incorrigible stroller, felt a keen relish 
for the picturesqueness of the country. But it was 
not, on this occasion, of the charms of the landscape 





or the pleasures of locomotion that they chiefly dis- 
coursed. Their talk took a more closely personal 
turn. It was a year since they had met, and there 
were many questions to ask and answer, many arrears 
of g&ssip to make up. As they stretched themselves 
on the grass on a sun-warmed hill-side, beneath a 
great German oak whose arms were quiet in the blue 
summer air, there was a lively exchange of impres- 
sions, opinions, speculations, anecdotes,..* Gordon 
Wright was surely an excellent friend. He took an 
interest in you. He asked no idle questions and 
made no vague professions ; but he entered into your 
situation, he examined it in detail, and what he 
learned he never forgot. Months afterwards, he asked 
you about things which you yourself had forgotten 
He was not a man of whom it would be generally 
said that he had the gift of sympathy ; but he gave 
his attention to a friend's circumstances with a con- 
scientious fixedness which was at least very far 
removed from indifference. Bernard had the gift of 
sympathy — or at least he was supposed to have it ; 
but even he, familiar as he must therefore have been 
with the practice of this charming virtue, was at 
times so struck with his friend's fine faculty of tak- 
ing other people's affairs seriously that he constantly 
exclaimed to hinlself, "The excellent fellow — the 
admirable nature ! " 

Bernard had two or three questions to ask about 





the three persons who appeared to have formed for 
some time his companion's principal society, but he 
was indisposed to press them. He felt that he should 
see for himself, and at a prospect of entertainment 
of this kind, his fancy always kindled. Gordon was, 
moreover, at iirst rather shy of confidences, though 
after they had lain on the grass ten minutes there 
was a good deal said. 

" Now what do you think of her face ? " Gordon 
asked, after staring a while at the sky through the 
oak-boughs. 

" Of course, in future," said Longueville, " when- 
ever you make use of the personal pronoun feminine, 
I am to understand that Miss Vivian is indicated." 

"Her name i s Angela' said Gordon; "but of 
course I can scarcely call her that." 

" It 's a beautiful name," Longueville rejoined ; " but 
I may say, in answer to your question, that I am not 
struck with the fact that her face corresponds to it." 

" You don't think her face beautiful, then ? " 

" I don't think it angelic. But how can I tell ? I 
have only had a glimpse of her." 

" Wait till she looks at you and speaks — wait till 
she smiles," said Gordon. 

" I don't think T saw her smile — ; .t least, not at 
me, directly. I hope she will ! " Longueville went 
on. But who is she — this beautiful girl with the 
beautiful name ? " 





" She is her mother's daughter," said Gordon 
Wright. "I don't really know a great deal more 
about her than that." 

" And who is her mother ? " 

" A delightful little woman, devoted to Miss Vivian. 
She is a widow, and Angela is her only child. They 
have lived a great deal in Europe ; they have but a 
modest income. Over here, Mrs. Vivian says, they 
can get a lot of things for their money that they 
can't get at home. So they stay, you see. When 
they are at home they live in New York. They 
know some of my people there. When they are in 
Europe they live about in different places. They are 
fond of Italy. They are extremely nice ; it 's impos 
sible to be nicer. They are very fond of books, fond 
of music, and art, and all that. They always read in 
the morning. They only come out rather late in 
the day." 

"I see they are very superior people," said Ber- 
nard. "And little Miss Evers — what does she do 
in the morning? I know what she does in the 
evening ! " 

