to himself, " haven't I seen tumble-down old houses and bat 
tered human beings before this ? " 


At evening came a violent thunderstorm, and the splendor 
of the heavens was terrible. " We have chained you, 
mighty spirit," thought the keeper as he watched the light 
ning, " and some time we shall learn the laws of the winds 
and foretell the storms ; then, prayers will no more be offered 
in churches to alter the weather than they would be offered 
now to alter an eclipse. Yet back of the lightning and the 
wind lies the power of the great Creator, just the same." 

But still into his musings crept, with shadowy persistence, 
the white face on the rug. 

" Nonsense ! " he exclaimed ; " if white faces are going 
around as ghosts, how about the fourteen thousand white 
faces that went under the sod down yonder ? If they could 
arise and walk, the whole State would be filled and no more 
carpet-baggers needed." So, having balanced the one with 
the fourteen thousand, he went to bed. 

Daylight brought rain still, soft, gray rain; the next 
morning showed the same, and the third likewise, the nights 
keeping up their part with low-down clouds and steady pat 
tering on the roof. " If there was a river here, we should 
have a flood," thought the keeper, drumming idly on his win 
dow-pane. Memory brought back the steep New England 
hillsides shedding their rain into the brooks, which grew in a 
night to torrents and filled the rivers so that they overflowed 
their banks ; then, suddenly, an old house in a sunken corner 
of a waste rose before his eyes, and he seemed to see the rain 
dropping from a moldy ceiling on the straw where a white 
face lay. 

" Really, I have nothing else to do to-day, you know," he 
remarked in an apologetic way to himself, as he and his um 
brella went along the old road ; and he repeated the remark 
as he entered the room where the man lay, just as he had fan 
cied, on the damp straw. 

" The weather is unpleasant," said the man. " Pomp, 
bring a chair." 

Pomp brought one, the only one, and the visitor sat down. 
A fire smoldered on the hearth and puffed out acrid smoke 
now and then, as if the rain had clogged the soot in the long- 
neglected chimney ; from the streaked ceiling oozing drops 
fell with a dull splash into little pools on the decayed floor ; the 
door would not close ; the broken panes were stopped with 
rags, as if the old sen-ant had tried to keep out the damp ; in 
the ashes a corn-cake was baking. 

" I am afraid you have not been so well during these long 
rainy days," said the keeper, scanning the face on the straw. 

"My old enemy, rheumatism," answered the man; "the 
first sunshine will drive it away." 

They talked awhile, or rather the keeper talked, for the 
other seemed hardly able to speak, as the waves of pain 
swept over him ; then the visitor went outside and called 
Pomp out. "Is there any one to help him, or not?" he 
asked impatiently. 

" Fine fambly, befo de war," began Pomp. 

" Never mind all that ; is there any one to help him now 
yes or no ? " 

" No," said the old black with a burst of despairing truth 
fulness. " Miss Bettina, she's as poor as Mars Ward, an 
dere's no one else. He's had noth n but hard corn-cake for 
three days, an he can't swaller it no more." 

The next morning saw Ward De Rosset lying on the 
white pallet in the keeper's cottage, and old Pomp, marveling 
at the cleanliness all around him, installed as nurse. A strange 
asylum for a Confederate soldier, was it not ? But he knew 
nothing of the change, which he would have fought with his 
last breath if consciousness had remained ; returning fever, 
however, had absorbed his senses, and then it was that the 
keeper and the slave had borne him slowly across the waste, 
resting many times, but accomplishing the journey at last. 

That evening John Rodman, strolling to and fro in the 
dusky twilight, paused alongside of the other Rodman. " I 
do not want him here, and that is the plain truth," he said, 
pursuing the current of his thoughts. " He fills the house; 
 

he and Pomp together disturb all my ways. He'll be ready 
to fling a brick at me too, when his senses come back ; small 
thanks shall I have for lying on the floor, giving up all my 
comforts, and, what is more, riding over the spirit of the place 
with a vengeance ! " He threw himself down on the grass 
beside the mound and lay looking up toward the stars, which 
were coming out, one by one, in the deep blue of the South 
ern night. " With a vengeance, did I say ? That is it ex 
actly the vengeance of kindness. The poor fellow has suf 
fered horribly in body and in estate, and now ironical Fortune 
throws him in my way, as if saying, Let us see how far your 
selfishness will yield. This is not a question of magnanim 
ity ; there is no magnanimity about it, for the war is over, 
and you Northerners have gained every point for which you 
fought. This is merely a question between man and man ; 
it would be the same if the sufferer was a poor Federal, one 
of the carpet-baggers, whom you despise so, for instance, or 
a pagan Chinaman. And Fortune is right ; don't you think 
so, Blank Rodman ? I put it to you, now, to one who has 
suffered the extreme rigor of the other side those prison- 
pens yonder." 

Whereupon Blank Rodman answered that he had fought 
for a great cause, and that he knew it, although a plain man 
and not given to speech-making ; he was not one of those who 
had sat safely at home all through the war, and now belittled 
it and made light of its issues. (Here a murmur came up 
from the long line of the trenches, as though all the dead had 
