ness, and caprice that make coquetry in some women, 
and lurk a divine possibility in all, came out in her ; 
the sweetness, kept back by the whole strength of 
her pride, overflowed that broken barrier now, and 
she seemed to lavish this revelation of herself upon 
him with a sort of tender joy in his bewilderment. 
She was not hurt when he crudely expressed the elu 
sive sense which has been in other men 's minds at 
such times : they cannot believe that this fascination 
is inspired, and not practised. 

" Well," he said, " I 'm glad you told me that I was 
the first. I should have thought you d had a good 
deal of experience in flirtation." 

" You wouldn 't have thought so if you hadn 't 
been a great flirt yourself," she answered, auda 
ciously. "Perhaps I have been engaged before !" 

Their talk was for the most part frivolous, and their 
thoughts ephemeral ; but again they were, with her 



 

at least, suddenly and deeply serious. Till then all 
things seemed to have been held in arrest, and im 
pressions, ideas, feelings, fears, desires, released them 
selves simultaneously, and sought expression with a 
rush that defied coherence. " Oh, why do we try to 
talk?" she asked, at last. "The more we say the 
more we leave unsaid. Let us keep still awhile ! " 
But she could not. " Hartley ! When did you first 
think you cared about me ? " 

" I don 't know," said Bartley, " I guess it must have 
been the first time I saw you." 

" Yes, that is when I first knew that I cared for 
you. But it seems to me that I must have always 
cared for you, and that I only found it out when I saw 
you going by the house that day." She mused a little 
time before she asked again, " Bartley ! " 

Well ? " 

" Did you ever use to be afraid Or, no ! Wait ! 
I 'll  tell you first, and then I 'll  ask you. I 'm not 
ashamed of it now, though once I thought I couldn 't 
bear to have any one find it out. I used to be aw 
fully afraid you didn 't care for me ! I would try to 
make out, from things you did and said, whether you 
did or not; but I never could be certain. I believe I 
used to find the most comfort in discouraging myself. 
I used to say to myself, Why, of course he doesn 't ! 
How can he ? He 's been everywhere, and he 's seen 
so many girls. He corresponds with lots of them. 
Altogether likely he 's engaged to some of the young 
ladies he 's met in Boston ; and he just goes with me 
here for a blind. And then when you would praise 
me, sometimes, I would just say, Oh, he 's compli 
mented plenty of girls. I know he 's thinking this 
instant of the young lady he 's engaged to in Boston
And it would almost kill me ; and when you did 
some little thing to show that you liked me, I would 
think, He doesn 't like me ! He hates, he despises 



 

me. He does, he does, he does ! And I would go 
on that way, with my teeth shut, and my breath held, 
I don 't know Iww long." Bartley broke out into a 
broad laugh at this image of desperation, but she 
added, tenderly, " I hope I never made you suffer in 
that way ? " " 

" What way ? " he asked. 

"That 's what I wanted you to tell me. Did you 
ever did y OU US e to be afraid sometimes that I
that you did you put off telling me that you cared 
for me so long because you thought, you dreaded 
Oh, I don 't see what I can ever do to make it up to 
you if you did ! Were you afraid I didn 't care for 
you ? " 

" No ! " shouted Bartley. She had risen and stood 
before him in the fervor of her entreaty, and he seized 
her arms, pinioning them to her side, and holding her 
helpless, while he laughed, and laughed again. " I 
knew you were dead in love with me from the first 
moment." 

" Bartley ! Bartley Hubbard ! " she exclaimed ; 
" let me go, let me go, this instant ! I never heard 
of such a shameless thing ! " 

But she really made no effort to escape. 



 



V. 



THE house seemed too little for Marcia 's happiness, 
and after dinner she did not let Bartley forget his last 
night 's engagement. She sent him off to get his horse 
at the hotel, and ran up to her room to put on her 
wraps for the drive. Her mother cleared away the 
dinner things ; she pushed the table to the side of the 
room, and then sat down in her feather-cushioned 
chair and waited her husband 's pleasure to speak. 
