


288 THE PORTKAIT OF A LADY 

"On purpose to scold me ? " 

"I don't know.. She seemed to think she had not seen 
Europe thoroughly." 

" I am glad you tell me that," Isabel said. " I must prepare 
for her." 

Mr. Goodwood fixed his eyes for a moment on the floor ; then 
at last, raising them " Does she know Mr. Osmond   " he 
asked. 

" A little. And she doesn't like him. But of course I don't 
marry to please Henrietta," Isabel added. 

It would have been better for poor Caspar if she had tried 
a little more to gratify Miss Stackpole; but he did not say 
so ; he only asked, presently, when her marriage would take 
place. 

" I don't know yet. I can only say it will be soon. I have 
told no one but yourself and one other person an old friend 
of Mr. Osmond's." 

" Is it a marriage your friends won't like ?" Caspar Goodwood 
asked. 

" I really haven't an idea. As I say, I don't marry for my 
friends." 

He went on, making no exclamation, no comment, only asking 
questions. 

"What is Mr. Osmond?" 

" What is he? Nothing at all but a very good man. He is 
not in business," said Isabel. " He is not rich ; he is not known 
for anything in particular." 

She disliked Mr. Goodwood's questions, but she said to her- 
self that she owed it to him to satisfy him as far as possible. 

The satisfaction poor Caspar exhibited was certainly small; he 
sat very upright, gazing at her.- 

" Where does he come from V' he went on. 

" From nowhere. He has spent most of his life in Italy." 

" You said in your letter that he was an American. Hasn't 
he a native place? " 

"Yes, but he has forgotten it. He left it as a small boy." 

" Has he never gone back ? " 

" Why should he go back ? " Isabel asked, flushing a little, 
and defensively. " He has no profession." 

" He might have gone back for his pleasure. Doesn't he like 
the United States ? " 

" He doesn't know them. Then he is very simple he con- 
tents himself with Italy." 

" With Italy and with you," said Mr. Goodwood, with gloomy 




plainness, and no appearance of trying to make an epigram. 
"What has he ever done ?" he added, abruptly. 

" That I should marry him? Nothing at all," Isabel replied? 
with a smile that had gradually become a trifle defiant. " If he 
had done great things would you forgive me any better ? Give . 
me up, Mr. Goodwood ; I am marrying a nonentity. Don't try 
to take an interest in him ; you can't." 

" I can't appreciate him ; that's what you mean. And you 
don't mean in the least that he is a nonentity. You think he is' 
a great man, though no one else thinks so." 

Isabel's colour deepened ; she thought this very clever of her 
companion, and it was certainly a proof of the clairvoyance of 
such a feeling as his. 

" Why do you always come back to what others think? I 
can't discuss Mr. Osmond with you." 

" Of course not," said Caspar, reasonably. 

And he sat there with his air of stiff helplessness, as if not 
only this were true, but there were nothing else that they might 
discuss. 

" You see how little you gain,'k Isabel broke out " how little 
comfort or satisfaction I can give you." 

" I didn't expect you to give me much.' 

" I don't understand, then, why you came." 

" I came because I wanted to see you once more as you are." 

f ' I appreciate that ; but if you had waited a while, sooner or 
later we should have been sure to meet, and our meeting would 
have been pleasanter for each of us than this." 

" Waited till after you are married? That is just what I 
didn't want to do. You will be different then." 

" Not very. I shall still be a great friend of yours. You 
will see." 

