
“Yes; Mr. Libby telegraphed the evening we saw you.”

“That’s good,” said Dr. Mulbridge, with comfortable approval; and he
rose to go away.

Grace impulsively detained him. “I--won’t--ask you whether you consider
Mrs. Maynard’s case a serious one, if you object to my doing so.”

“I don’t know that I object,” he said slowly, with a teasing smile, such
as one might use with a persistent child whom one chose to baffle in
that way.

She disdained to avail herself of the implied permission. “What I
mean--what I wish to tell you is--that I feel myself responsible for her
sickness, and that if she dies, I shall be guilty of her death.”

“Ah?” said Dr. Mulbridge, with more interest, but the same smile. “What
do you mean?”

“She didn’t wish to go that day when she was caught in the storm. But I
insisted; I forced her to go.” She stood panting with the intensity of
the feeling which had impelled her utterance.

“What do you mean by forcing her to go?”

“I don’t know. I--I--persuaded her.”

Dr. Mulbridge smiled, as if he perceived her intention not to tell him
something she wished to tell him. He looked down into his hat, which he
carried in his hand.

“Did you believe the storm was coming?”

“No!”

“And you did n’t make it come?”

“Of course not!”

He looked at her and laughed.

“Oh, you don’t at all understand!” she cried.

“I’m not a doctor of divinity,” he said. “Good morning.”

“Wait, wait!” she implored, “I’m afraid--I don’t know--Perhaps my being
near her is injurious to her; perhaps I ought to let some one else nurse
her. I wished to ask you this”--She stopped breathlessly.

“I don’t think you have done her any harm as yet,” he answered lightly.

“However,” he said, after a moment’s consideration, “why don’t you take
a holiday? Some of the other ladies might look after her a while.”

“Do you really think,” she palpitated, “that I might? Do you think I
ought? I’m afraid I ought n’t”--

“Not if your devotion is hurtful to her?” he asked. “Send some one else
to her for a while. Any one can take care of her for a few hours.”

“I couldn’t leave her--feeling as I do about her.”

“I don’t know how you feel about her,” said Dr. Mulbridge. “But you
can’t go on at this rate. I shall want your help by and by, and Mrs.
Maynard doesn’t need you now. Don’t go back to her.”

“But if she should get worse while I am away”--

“You think your staying and feeling bad would make her better? Don’t
go back,” he repeated; and he went out to his ugly rawboned horse, and,
mounting his shabby wagon, rattled away. She lingered, indescribably
put to shame by the brutal common sense which she could not impeach, but
which she still felt was no measure of the case. It was true that she
had not told him everything, and she could not complain that he had
mocked her appeal for sympathy if she had trifled with him by a partial
confession. But she indignantly denied to herself that she had wished to
appeal to him for sympathy.

She wandered out on the piazza, which she found empty, and stood gazing
at the sea in a revery of passionate humiliation. She was in that mood,
familiar to us all, when we long to be consoled and even flattered for
having been silly. In a woman this mood is near to tears; at a touch of
kindness the tears come, and momentous questions are decided. What was
perhaps uppermost in the girl’s heart was a detestation of the man to
whom she had seemed a simpleton; her thoughts pursued him, and divined
the contempt with which he must be thinking of her and her pretensions.
She heard steps on the sand, and Libby came round the corner of the
house from the stable.




VII.

Libby’s friends had broken up their camp on the beach, and had gone to
a lake in the heart of the woods for the fishing. He had taken a room at
the Long Beach House, but he spent most of his time at Jocelyn’s, where
he kept his mare for use in going upon errands for Mrs. Maynard. Grace
saw him constantly, and he was always doing little things for her with
a divination of her unexpressed desires which women find too rarely in
men. He brought her flowers, which, after refusing them for Mrs. Maynard
the first time, she accepted for herself. He sometimes brought her
books, the light sort which form the sentimental currency of young
people, and she lent them round among the other ladies, who were
insatiable of them. She took a pleasure in these attentions, as if they
had been for some one else. In this alien sense she liked to be followed
up with a chair to the point where she wished to sit; to have her hat
fetched, or her shawl; to drop her work or her handkerchief, secure that
it would be picked up for her.

It all interested her, and it was a relief from the circumstances that
would have forbidden her to recognize it as gallantry, even if her own
mind had not been so far from all thought of that. His kindness followed
often upon some application of hers for his advice or help, for she had
fallen into the habit of going to him with difficulties. He had a prompt
common sense that made him very useful in emergencies, and a sympathy
or an insight that was quick in suggestions and expedients. Perhaps
she overrated other qualities of his in her admiration of the practical
readiness which kept his amiability from seeming weak. But the practical
