man of her choice, was dead ; but she possessed abundant 
means, and had a family of four children. Some motherly 
pity led her to offer her protection to the child if it should 
ever be needed ; but Mark Ormiston declined curtly. The 
old wound still rankled, and it seemed as if she had come 
merely to triumph over him. This, too, Christmas does not 
know. 

He made "Walter Treverton, conjointly with his old 
friend Archibald St. George, trustee and guardian. The 
business was to be held in trust for Christmas until she 
came of age. When she married, her husband was to 
take the name and carry on the business. Grandsons 
might rule, if sons had been denied him. For Glen 
Ormiston a separate deed of trust was made out. He 
had put his wife's fortune in the place, and it was to 
descend from her mother to her. He understood the 
value of good connections, though in his heart he scoffed 
at them. 

He closed his eyes at last, unwillingly, but bravely. 
The Trevertons came to Glen Ormiston to live. Mr. St. 
George saw that all matters were put in proper, lawful 
shape, and then went abroad for his health. Treverton 
was to send statements twice a year. 

And there now came the great change to Christmas. The 
rigid rule was lifted. She was a girl instead of an embryo 
business anomaly. There were music and French and 
drawing and pretty dressing, and for a while she revelled 



in it, and adored Mrs. Treverton. Her father's great 
mistake was in not really attaching the child to himself. 
He had been simply a master, not a father. 

The Trevertons grew gayer and gayer. Mark Ormis*> 
ton in all these years had never found "Walter Treverton 
derelict in the slightest degree. He would have gone on 
under a sharp-eyed master, but the temptation was too 
great for him. St. Greorge's health was failing, it was 
not deemed safe for him to return. There was no check, 
no watchful eye. Balls, dinners, private theatricals, 
wines and horses, guests without stint, weeks at stylish 
hotels, and both boys in college. Tired of Christmas, 
Mrs. Treverton packed her off to a second-rate boarding 
school. 

Mr. St. Greorge in his dying moments turned the trust 
over to his son with a misgiving that he had not looked as 
sharply after his ward's interests as he should have done, 
and implored Leighton to go to Camley as early as possi- 
ble. 

Leighton would not allow his father's last hours to be 
disturbed by any fears. The two had always been dearest 
friends, and more than that through this long illness. 
He brought the body home for interment, feeling that with 
it he was to lay away the richest enjoyment of his man- 
hood. The world looked blank and dreary. 

He advised Treverton of his father's wishes, and 
appointed a time for his coming. Before that day arrived 
the world was startled with the news that the Ormiston 
Mills were closed, notes protested to large amounts, and 
that the Trevertons had sailed for Europe. The crash 
must have come soon, but it had been accelerated by 
St. George's return. 

Matters were in the wildest confusion. Debts were 
piled up on every side. Everything that could be con- 
verted into money had disappeared. The case looked 
hopeless. But for his father's sake he must do his best. 



 

It was a qaestion of honor with hun, though the whols 
affair was most distasteful. That Mark Ormiston had 
trusted a yillain would not excuse remissness on his part. 

He might have thrown the tangled mass up in despair, 
but for meeting with a friend in whom his father had 
taken a warm interest, and who had been, to his early 
appreciation, &e pure and perfect knight. Philip Don- 
aldson had fallen on evil days. Financial storms had 
swept over him, drifting him to the farther shore, with a 
wife in delicate health, four small children, a widowed 
sister, and an aged mother. He was thankful for tem- 
porary employment until he saw his way clear to some- 
thing else. 

The two went at the discouraging task with very little 
hope. The last year Treverton had been reckless in the 
extreme. They unravelled a sickening amount of fraud 
and duplicity. Whether it was worth saving, Donaldson 
questioned. 

" Then I must make a new fortune for Miss Ormiston," 
was the steady answer. 

It had certidnly been a profitable business. Why might 
it not be built up again? 

" It would take a great deal of capital," said Donald- 
son. " And yet I do think we are once more on the eve of 
commercial prosperity. If I had money, I do believe I 
should risk it. Of course there is a large amount that 
must be a total loss ; but the business might be brought up 
to a handsome income again." 

" Then tmdertake it, my dear friend. I have thousands 
lying idle, and my conscience tells me that part of it is 
justly Miss Ormiston's I could not enjoy it, thinking 
that our neglect had brought her to poverty. And in my 
present state, I shall be glad to have an occupation. I do 
not desire to forget the happy past with my father ; still t 
must not brood over my loss. He would not wish me to. 
