her full mental activity. She had her dangerous 
and sacred feminine nerve under magnificent train 
ing. It was her servant, not her tyrant ; her 
wealth, not her poverty ; the source of her power, 
not the exponent of her weakness. She moved on 
her straight and narrow way between life and 
death, where one hysteric moment would be fatal, 
with a glorious poise. The young man acknowl 
edged from the bottom of his heart that she was a 
balanced and beautiful creature. He had read of 
such women. He had never seen one. 

It was not without a thrill of reverence, amount 
ing almost to awe, that he perceived, when he 
swung his fantastic little lantern full in her face, 
that she was undergoing some intense emotion, 
which, in almost any woman that he knew, would 
have weakened itself in vehement vocal expres 
sion. 

" I had a letter from my mother," he began, 
" and I thought it was about you I had told 
her at last and it was such a pleasant letter. 
I meant to read it to you. She sends a long 
message to you. I really am not such a brute as 
I seem. I thought perhaps it would amuse you. 
Doctor Zay, I had no more idea you were so over 
worked than I had that you were " He broke 
off. 



 

" I never saw you look so ! " he murmured, with 
rebellious, almost affectionate anxiety. " It 's not 
easy when you 've done so much for him, for a 
man to look on, like a woman, this way. Isn't  
there anything I can do? If you would stay a 
while, I could read to you. We will send for Mrs. 
Butterwell, if you would rather. I could do some 
thing, I know I could ! Just let me try." 

" You cannot help me," she said, gently enough. 
" Nobody can. I have lost a patient." 

Yorke was on the point of crying, "Is that 
all ? " but saved himself in time, and only said, 

" Who is it ? " 

" The little Bailey baby. It was doing so well, 
out of danger. The mother took it over to a 
neighbor 's. You cannot conceive the ignorance and 
recklessness that we have to manage. She took the 
child out, like an express bundle, rolled in her 
shawl. Coming home, it got wet in that shower. 
I had ceased to visit there every day ; they did 
not send at once, I suppose every doctor makes 
these excuses for himself ; what would become of 
us, if we couldn't  ? but when I got there, I 
could not do anything. The little thing died at 
half past seven." 

She sat looking straight before her at the 
Japanese lantern. Yorke felt that the personality of 



 

the red and purple paper men on it came as near 
her at that moment us his. He could not think 
of anything to say which would not present the 
edge of an intrusion upon an experience so far 
without the pale of his own. The young man 's 
imagination was well stocked with comfortable 
material for the lesser sympathies. If she had 
lost a steamer to Liverpool, or a ticket for a 
Christmas oratorio, or a picture bidden for in the 
last great art craze, he could have comforted her. 
She had lost only a miserable child out of a beg 
garly home. What could he say ? 

" I don't believe every baby in Sherman is 
worth your looking like that ! " he cried, with an 
impulse whose only virtue lay in its honesty. He 
really perceived that something more than scien 
tific pride was hurt in Doctor Zay. He felt, with 
a kind of senseless triumph, which he put aside to 
analyze by and by, that he had found the woman 
in the doctor. 

" It was a dear little thing," she said, softly, 
" and fond of me. I had always taken care of it, 
ever since it was born. It was just beginning to 
talk. It wasn't  a big, noisy baby, like the rest of 
the family. It is terrible that a child should die, 
terrible ! It ought never to happen. There is 
no excuse for it. I can never be reconciled to it! " 



 

She rose impetuously, and left him without an 
other word. The patient looked after her. She 
had forgotten him. He and the paper men regarded
each other. It was not for them to help 
her in her trouble. She went across the entry, 
and on into her own rooms, and he heard the door 
shut. Only one patient rang the office bell that 
night. He was glad she was left to herself. Mr. 
and Mrs. Butterwell came in. They too, were 
much moved by the doctor 's grief. They all sat 
together in the sick-room, and mourned about that 
baby as if it had been one of the family. 

" It 's always just so," said Mrs. Butterwell, 
wiping her eyes. " She hasn't  lost but two patients 
