
"None that will interfere with me. The people who live here are devoted
to my interests, as you will find. I don't wish to hurry you in your
decision, and will therefore leave you for the present. Your meals will
be sent you at regular times, and I will call again to-morrow."

He drew a key from his pocket, opened the door, and left the room,
locking the door behind him.

Florence sank into a chair, almost in despair.




CHAPTER XXVI.

A HARD-HEARTED JAILER.


Florence soon recovered a degree of self-possession, and began to
consider the situation. The room in which she so unexpectedly found
herself a prisoner was about fifteen feet square. There were two front
windows, from which she took a survey of the neighborhood, which she had
but slightly observed from the windows of the carriage. She could see no
other house, and naturally concluded that this had been selected on
account of its lonely location.

The distance from the window-sill to the ground was not over twelve
feet, and Florence began to consider whether she could not manage to
escape in this way.

She tried to open one of the windows, but could not stir it. Closer
examination showed her that it had been nailed down. She went to the
second window, and found that secured in a similar way.

"They evidently anticipated that I would try to escape," she thought to
herself.

Next her thoughts recurred to the woman who appeared to be the mistress
of the house. Not that she had any intention of appealing to her
kindness of heart, for the hard-featured Mrs. Bradshaw was not a woman
likely to be influenced by any such considerations. Florence had enjoyed
but a transient view of the lady's features, but she already had a
tolerably correct idea of her character.

"She is probably mercenary," thought Florence, "and is in Orton
Campbell's pay. I must outbid him."

This thought inspired hope, especially when from the window she saw her
persecutor ride away on horseback. This would gave her a fair field and
a chance to try the effect of money upon her jailer without risk of
interruption. She would have felt less sanguine of success if she had
heard the conversation which had just taken place between Mrs. Bradshaw
and her captor:

"Mind, Mrs. Bradshaw, you must not let the young lady leave her room on
any consideration."

"All right, sir."

"I take it for granted, Mrs. Bradshaw, you are not easily taken in?"

"I should say not, sir," said the woman, emphatically.

"The young lady will try to impose upon you while I am away."

"Then she'd better save her trouble," said Mrs. Bradshaw, tossing her
head.

"She's very artful," said Orton. "Most crazy people are."

"You don't mean to say she's crazy?" said Mrs. Bradshaw in surprise.
"She don't look like it."

"You are quite right. She doesn't look like it, but she wrong here,"
continued Campbell, tapping his forehead. "Why, she fancies herself
immensely rich, Mrs. Bradshaw, when, as a matter of fact, she's a
penniless cousin of mine, who would have gone to the poorhouse but for
my father's charity."

"You don't say so!" exclaimed Mrs. Bradshaw, interested.

"Sometimes she thinks she's worth millions of dollars. I wish she were,
for in that case my father would be relieved of the burden of supporting
her."

"To be sure, sir!"

"Some time since she managed to elude our vigilance and escaped from our
home in Albany. Knowing how feeble-minded she was, we felt very anxious
about her, but for some time were unable to get a trace of her. Finally,
we learned that she had been seen in California, and I came out at great
personal inconvenience to bring her back."

"Very kind of you, sir, I am sure: but how could she travel so far
without money?"

"That is easily explained. She opened my father's desk and took out some
hundreds of dollars," answered Orton Campbell, with unblushing
falsehood. "Of course, we don't consider her responsible, as she is of
unsound mind. Otherwise, we should look upon her as very ungrateful."

"She seems to be very good-looking," observed Mrs. Bradshaw.

"So she is, and if her mind were healthy I can imagine that she would be
admired. As it is, her beauty counts for nothing."

"To be sure!"

"I hope to calm her down, and induce her without a violent disturbance
to embark on the next steamer for New York with me. She won't listen to
me now, but I shall call to-morrow forenoon and see how she appears.
Meanwhile, she will probably try to bribe you to release her. She may
promise you thousands, perhaps millions, of dollars, for it's all the
same to her, poor thing! But of course you're too sensible a woman to be
taken in by the promises of a crazy girl?"

"I should say so!" returned Mrs. Bradshaw, who was thoroughly deceived
by the artful story of her employer, who, by the way, had promised her
one hundred dollars for her co-operation in his scheme.
