the bottom of all this."
"But--do you like Helen, grandaunt?"
"I am extremely fond of her," replied Miss Vanhorn, dryly. "Run and make
ready; and send the bodiced woman to me. I give you half an hour; no
longer."
Jeanne-Armande came in with her gliding step. In her youth a lady's
footfall was never heard. She wore long narrow cloth gaiters without
heels, met at the ankles by two modest ruffles, whose edges were visible
when the wind blew. The exposure of even a hair's-breadth rim of ankle
would have seemed to her an unpardonable impropriety. However, there was
no danger; the ruffles swept the ground.
The Frenchwoman was grieved to part with her pupil; she had conceived a
real affection for her in the busy spot which served her as a heart. She
said good-by in the privacy of the kitchen, that Miss Vanhorn might not
see the tears in her eyes; then she returned to the blue room and went
through a second farewell, with a dignity appropriate to the occasion.
"Good-by," said Anne, coming back from the doorway to kiss her thin
cheek a second time. Then she whispered: "I may return to you after all,
mademoiselle. Do not forget me."
"The dear child!" said Jeanne-Armande, waving her handkerchief as the
carriage drove away. And there was a lump in her yellow old throat which
did not disappear all day.
CHAPTER XI.
     "Those who honestly make their own way without the aid of fortunate
     circumstances and by the force of their own intelligence. This
     includes the great multitude of Americans."
     --GEORGE WILLIAM CURTIS.
     "He is a good fellow, spoiled. Whether he can be unspoiled, is
     doubtful. It might be accomplished by the Blessing we call Sorrow."
When the two travellers arrived at Caryl's, Helen was gone. Another
telegraphic dispatch had again summoned her to her frequently dying
grandfather.
"You are disappointed," said Miss Vanhorn.
"Yes, grandaunt."
"You will have all the more time to devote to me," said the old woman,
with her dry little laugh.
Caryl's was a summer resort of an especial kind. Persons who dislike
crowds, persons who seek novelty, and, above all, persons who spend
their lives in carefully avoiding every thing and place which can even
remotely be called popular, combine to make such nooks, and give them a
brief fame--a fame which by its very nature must die as suddenly as it
is born. Caryl's was originally a stage inn, or "tarvern," in the
dialect of the district. But the stage ran no longer, and as the railway
was several miles distant, the house had become as isolated as the old
road before its door, which went literally nowhere, the bridge which had
once spanned the river having fallen into ruin. Some young men belonging
to those New York families designated by Tante as "Neeker-bokers"
discovered Caryl's by chance, and established themselves there as a
place free from new people, with some shooting, and a few trout. The
next summer they brought their friends, and from this beginning had
swiftly grown the present state of things, namely, two hundred persons
occupying the old building and hastily erected cottages, in rooms which
their city servants would have refused with scorn.
The crowd of summer travellers could not find Caryl's; Caryl's was not
advertised. It was not on the road to anywhere. It was a mysterious
spot. The vogue of such places changes as fantastically as it is
created; the people who make it take flight suddenly, and never return.
If it exist at all, it falls into the hands of another class; and there
is a great deal of wondering (deservedly) over what was ever found
attractive in it. The nobler ocean beaches, grand mountains, and
bounteous springs will always be, must always be, popular; it is
Nature's ironical method, perhaps, of forcing the would-be exclusives to
content themselves with her second best, after all.
Caryl's, now at the height of its transient fame, was merely a quiet
nook in the green country, with no more attractions than a hundred
others; but the old piazza was paced by the little high-heeled shoes of
fashionable women, the uneven floors swept by their trailing skirts.
French maids and little bare-legged children sported in the
old-fashioned garden, and young men made up their shooting parties in
the bare office, and danced in the evening--yes, really danced, not
leaving it superciliously to the boys--in the rackety bowling-alley,
which, refloored, did duty as a ball-room. There was a certain woody,
uncloying flavor about Caryl's (so it was asserted), which could not
exist amid the gilding of Saratoga. All this Miss Vanhorn related to her
niece on the day of their arrival. "I do not expect you to understand
it," she said; "but pray make no comment; ask no question. Accept
everything, and then you will pass."
Aunt and niece had spent a few days in New York, en route. The old
lady was eccentric about her own attire; she knew that she could afford
to be eccentric. But for her niece she purchased a sufficient although
simple supply of summer costumes, so that the young girl made her
appearance among the others without attracting especial attention.
Helen was not there; no one identified Miss Douglas as the rara avis
of her fantastic narrations. And there was no surface sparkle about
Anne, none of the usual girlish wish to attract attention, which makes
the eyes brighten, the color rise, and the breath quicken when entering
a new circle.
That old woman of the world, Katharine Vanhorn, took no step to attract
notice to her niece. She knew that Anne's beauty was of the kind that
could afford to wait; people would discover it for themselves. Anne
remained, therefore, quietly by her side through several days, while
she, not unwilling at heart to have so fresh a listener, talked on and
instructed her. Miss Vanhorn was not naturally brilliant, but she was
one of those society women who, in the course of years of fashionable
life, have selected and retained for their own use excellent bits of
phrasing not original with themselves, idiomatic epithets, a way of
neatly describing a person in a word or two as though you had ticketed
him, until the listener really takes for brilliancy what is no more than
a thread-and-needle shop of other people's wares.
"Any man," she said, as they sat in the transformed bowling-alley--"any
man, no matter how insignificant and unattractive, can be made to
believe that any woman, no matter how beautiful or brilliant, is in love
with him, at the expense of two looks and one sigh."
"But who cares to make him believe?" said Anne, with the unaffected,
cheerful indifference which belonged to her, and which had already
quieted Miss Vanhorn's fears as to any awkward self-consciousness.
"Most women."
"Why?"
"To swell their trains," replied the old woman. "Isabel Varce, over
there in blue, and Rachel Bannert, the one in black, care for nothing
else."
"Mrs. Bannert is very ugly," said Anne, with the calm certainty of
girlhood.
"Oh, is she?" said Miss Vanhorn, laughing shortly. "You will change your
mind, my Phyllis; you will learn that a dark skin and half-open eyes are
superb."
"If Helen was here, people would see real beauty," answered Anne, with
some scorn.
"They are a contrast, I admit; opposite types. But we must not be
narrow, Phyllis; you will find that people continue to look at Mrs.
