and bathing their feet and their pendent tatters in the 
gray -green ripple ; past frescoed walls and crumbling 
campaniles and grassy village piazzas and the mouth of 
soft ravines that wound upward through belts of swinging vine and vaporous olive and splendid chestnut, to 
high ledges where white chapels gleamed amid the paler 
boskage, and bare cliff surfaces, with their blistered lips, 
drank in the liquid light. It all was consummately 
picturesque ; it was the Italy that we know from the 
steel engravings in old keepsakes and annuals, from 
the vignettes on music sheets and the drop-curtains at 
theatres ; an Italy that we can never confess ourselves 
in spite of our own changes and of Italy 's that we 
have ceased to believe. Rowland and Roderick turned 
aside from the little paved footway that clambered and 
dipped and wound and doubled beside the lake, and 
stretched themselves idly beneath a fig-tree on a grassy 
promontory. Rowland had never known anything so 
divinely soothing as the dreamy softness of that early 
autumn afternoon. The iridescent mountains shut him 
in ; the little waves beneath him fretted the white pebbles 



 

at the laziest intervals ; the festooned vines above him 
swayed just visibly in the all but motionless air. 

Roderick lay observing it all with his arms thrown 
back and his hands under his head. "This suits me," 
he said ; I could be happy here and forget everything. 
Why not stay here for ever?" He kept his position for 
a long time, and seemed lost in his thoughts. Rowland 
spoke to him, but he made vague answers ; at last he 
closed his eyes. It seemed to Rowland also a place to 
stay in for ever ; a place for perfect oblivion of the 
disagreeable. Suddenly Roderick turned over on his 
face and buried it in his arms. There had been some 
thing passionate in his movement ; but Rowland was 
nevertheless surprised when he at last jerked himself 
back into a sitting posture, to perceive the trace of tears 
in his eyes. Roderick turned to his friend, stretching 
his two hands out towards the lake and mountains, and 
shaking them with an eloquent gesture, as if his heart 
had been too full for utterance. 

" Pity me, my friend ; pity me !" he presently cried. 
Look at this lovely world, and think what it must be 
to be dead to it ! " 

"Dead?" said Rowland. 

" Dead, dead ; dead and buried ! Buried in an open 
grave, where you lie staring up at the sailing clouds, 
smelling the waving flowers, and hearing all nature live 
and grow above you ! That 's the way I feel ! " 

"I am glad to hear it," said Rowland. "Death of 
that sort is very near to resurrection." 

"It 's too horrible," Roderick went on; "it has all 
come over me here ! If I were not ashamed I could 
shed a bushel of tears. For one hour of what I have 
been I would give up anything I may be !" 

"Never mind what you have been; be something 
better ! " 

" I shall never be anything again ; it 's no use talking ! 
But I don 't know what secret spring has been touched 



since I have lain here. Something in my heart seems 
suddenly to open and let in a flood of beauty and desire. 
I know what I have lost, and I think it horrible ! Mind 
you, I know it, I feel it ! Remember that hereafter. 
Don 't say that he was stupefied and senseless ; that his 
perception was dulled, and his aspiration dead. Say that 
he trembled in every nerve with a sense of the beauty 
and sweetness of life ; that he rebelled, and protested, 
and struggled ; that he was buried alive, with his eyes 
open, and his heart beating to madness ; that he clung 
to every blade of grass and every wayside thorn as he 
passed ; that it was the most pitiful spectacle you ever 
beheld ; that it was a scandal, an outrage, a murder ! " 

"Good heavens, man, are you insane?" Rowland 
cried. 

" I have never been saner. I don 't want to be bad 
company, and in this beautiful spot, at this delightful 
hour, it seems an outrage to break the charm. But I 
am bidding farewell to Italy, to beauty, to honour, to 
life I I only want to assure you that I know what I 
lose. I know it in every pulse of my heart ! Here, 
where these things are all loveliest, I take leave of them. 
Good-bye, charming world ! " 

During their passage of the Saint Gothard Roderick 
absented himself much of the time from the carriage, and 
rambled far in advance, along the zigzags of the road. 
He displayed an extraordinary activity ; his light weight 
and slender figure made him an excellent pedestrian, and 
his friends frequently saw him skirting the edge of plunging chasms, loosening the stones on long steep slopes, or 
lifting himself against the sky from the top of rocky 
pinnacles. Mary Garland walked a great deal, but she 
remained near the carriage to be with Mrs. Hudson. 
Rowland remained near it to be with Mrs. Hudson 's 
companion. He trudged by her side up that magnificent 
ascent from Italy, and found himself regretting that the 
Alps were so low, and that their trudging was not to 



 

last a week. She was exhilarated; she liked to walk ; 
in the way of mountains, until within the last few weeks, 
she had seen nothing greater than Mount Holyoke, and 
