"Are you sorry it is over?" he asked--or the voice of the mighty deep
welling up with its burden of truth.

"Yes, I am very sorry," she answered, whether she would or no. The sun
sank down, and the magic after-glow shone in the opposite sky, tinging
ship and sails and waves.

"I am very sorry too," he said; and he sighed and looked astern
eastwards, and thought of the golden hours he had spent on that broad
track stretching away behind. Margaret leaned down, resting her chin on
her hands, and presently she unfolded them, and her fingers stole
upwards and covered her face, and she bent her head. There was a mighty
beating in Claudius's breast, and a thousand voices in the air cried to
him to speak and to say what was in his heart to say. But he would not,
for he had given the woman at his side the promise of his faith. At last
she looked up and turned toward him. They were alone on the deck in the
faintness of the gathering twilight.

"Claudius, you have kept your promise truly and well. Keep it--keep it
always." She held out her ungloved hand.

"Always, my queen and my lady," and he kissed the white fingers once.

"Hullo!" shouted the Duke, emerging from the cuddy. "Upon my word! Why,
it's dinner time."




CHAPTER X.


How they left the good yacht Streak, and how they bade a hearty
farewell to that old sea lion Captain Sturleson, and how they went
through the hundred and one formalities of the custom-house, and the
thousand and one informalities of its officials, are matters of interest
indeed, but not of history. There are moments in a man's existence when
the act of conveying half a dozen sovereigns to the pocket of that stern
monitor of good faith, the brass-buttoned custom-house officer with the
tender conscience, is of more importance to salvation than women's love
or the Thirty-nine Articles. All this they did. Nor were they spared by
the great tormentor of the West, who bristleth with the fretful quill,
whose ears surround us in the night-time, and whose voice is as the
voice of the charmer, the reporter of the just and the unjust, but
principally of the latter. And Mr. Barker made an appointment with the
Duke, and took a tender farewell of the three ladies, and promised to
call on Claudius in the afternoon, and departed. But the rest of the
party went to a famous old hotel much affected by Englishmen, and whose
chief recommendation in their eyes is that there is no elevator, so that
they can run upstairs and get out of breath, and fancy themselves at
home. Of course their apartments had been secured, and had been waiting
for them a week, and the Countess was glad to withdraw for the day into
the sunny suite over the corner that was hers. As for Miss Skeat, she
went to the window and stayed there, for America was quite different
from what she had fancied. Claudius descended to the lower regions, and
had his hair cut; and the cook and the bar-keeper and the head "boots,"
or porter, as he called himself, all came and looked in at the door of
the barber's shop, and stared at the huge Swede. And the barber walked
reverently round him with scissors and comb, and they all agreed that
Claudius must be Mr. Barnum's new attraction, except the head porter--no
relation of an English head porter--who thought it was "Fingal's babby,
or maybe the blessed Sint Pathrick himself." And the little boy who
brushed the frequenters of the barber's shop could not reach to
Claudius's coat collar, so that the barber had to set a chair for him,
and so he climbed up.

The Duke retired also to the depths of his apartments, and his servant
arrayed him in the purple and stove-pipe of the higher civilisation. And
before long each of the ladies received a large cardboard box full of
fresh-cut flowers, sent by Mr. Barker of course; and the Duke, hearing
of this from his man, sent "his compliments to Lady Victoria, and would
she send him a rose for his coat?" So the Duke sallied forth on foot,
and the little creases in his clothes showed that he had just arrived.
But he did not attract any attention, for the majority of the population
of New York have "just arrived." Besides, he had not far to go. He had a
friend in town who lived but a few steps from the hotel, and his first
move on arriving was generally to call there.

Claudius waited a short time to see whether Mr. Barker would come; but
as Claudius rarely waited for anybody, he soon grew impatient, and
squeezing himself into a cab, told the driver to take him to Messrs.
Screw and Scratch in Pine Street. He was received with deference, and
treated as his position demanded. Would he like to see Mr. Silas B.
Barker senior? Very natural that he should want to make the acquaintance
of his relative's old friend and partner. Mr. Screw was out, yes--but
Mr. Scratch would accompany him. No trouble at all. Better "go around
right off," as Mr. Barker would probably go to Newport by the boat that
evening. So they went "around right away," and indeed it was a circular
journey. Down one elevator, through a maze of corridors, round crowded
corners, through narrow streets, Claudius ploughing his way through
billows of curbstone brokers, sad and gay, messenger-boys, young clerks,
fruit vendors, disreputable-looking millionaires and gentlemanly-looking
scamps, newspaper-boys, drunken Irishmen, complacent holders of
preferred, and scatterbrained speculators in wild-cat, an atmosphere of
tobacco smoke, dust, melons, and unintelligible jargon--little Mr.
Scratch clinging to his client's side, nodding furiously at every other
face he saw, and occasionally shouting a word of outlandish etymology,
but of magic import. Claudius almost thought it would be civil to offer
to carry the little man, but when he saw how deftly Mr. Scratch got in a
foot here and an elbow there, and how he scampered over any little bit
of clear pavement, the Doctor concluded his new acquaintance was
probably used to it. More elevators, more passages, a glass door, still
bearing the names "Barker and Lindstrand," and they had reached their
destination.

The office was on the second floor, with large windows looking over the
street; there were several people in the room they first entered, and
the first person Claudius saw was Mr. Barker junior, his friend.

"Well," said Barker, "so you have found us out. That's right. I was
coming round to see you afterwards, for I did not suppose you would like
to face 'the street' alone. Father," he said, turning to a thickset man
with white hair and bushy eyebrows, "this is Dr. Claudius, Mr.
Lindstrand's nephew."

The old gentleman looked up keenly into Claudius's face, and smiled
pleasantly as he put out his hand. He said a few words of cordial
welcome, and seemed altogether a sturdy, hearty, hardworking man of
business--rather a contrast to his son. He hoped that Claudius would
come on to Newport with Silas, as he wanted to have a long talk with
