"Let us not waste time," he said severely, but 
not roughly. "I have come to you on business. 
My daughter has disappeared with your son, or 
whatever relation the Signor Giovanni Cardegna is 
to you." 

"He is no relation, Signor Conte. He was an 
orphan, and I " 

"It is the same," he interrupted. "You are re 
sponsible for his doings." 

I responsible ! Good heavens ! Had I not done 
all in my power to prevent the rashness of that 
hot-headed boy? 

" Will you not sit down, sir ? " I said, moving a 
chair for him. He took the seat rather reluctantly. 

" You do not seem much astonished at what I tell 
you," he remarked. " It is evident that you are in 
the plot." 

" Unless you inform me of what you know, Signor 
Conte," I replied with urbanity, " I cannot see how 
I can be of service to you." 

" On the contrary," said he, " I am tne person to 
ask questions. I wake up in the morning and find 
my daughter gone. I naturally inquire where she is." 

" Most naturally, as you say, sir. I should do the 



 

"And you, also very naturally, answer my questions," he continued severely. 

"In that case, sir," I replied, "I would call to 
your attention the fact that you have asked but one 
question, whether I were Signer Grandi. I an 
swered that in the affirmative." 

You see I was apprehensive of what he might do, 
and desired to gain time. But he began to lose his 
temper. 

" I have no patience with you Italians," he said 
gruffly ; " you bandy words and play with them as if 
you enjoyed it." 

Diavolo ! thought I ; he is angry at my silence. 
What will he be if I speak ? 

"What do you wish to know, Signor Conte?" I 
inquired in suave tones. 

" I wish to know where my daughter is. Where 
is she ? Do you understand ? I am asking a question now, and you cannot deny it." 

I was sitting in front of him, but I rose and pre 
tended to shut the door, thus putting the table and 
the end of the piano between us, before I answered. 

"She is in Rome, Signor Conte," I said. 

" With Cardegna ? " he asked, not betraying any 
emotion. 

"Yes." 

"Very well. I will have them arrested at once. 
That is all I wanted." He put his crutch stick to 
the floor as though about to rise. Seeing that his 
anger was not turned against me, I grew bold. 

" You had better not do that," I mildly observed, 
across the table. 



 

"And why not, sir?" he asked quickly, hesitat 
ing whether to get upon his feet or to remain seated. 

"Because they are married already," I answered, 
retreating toward the door. 

But there was no need for flight. lie sank back 
in the chair, and the stick fell from his hands upon 
the bricks with a loud rattle. Poor old man ! I 
thought he was quite overcome by the news I had 
communicated. He sat staring at the window, his 
hands lying idly on his knees. I moved to come 
toward him, but he raised one hand and began to 
twirl his great grey moustache fiercely; whereat I 
resumed my former position of safety. 

" How do you know this ? " he demanded on a 
sudden. 

"I was present at the civil marriage yesterday," I 
answered, feeling very much scared. He began to 
notice my manoauvre. 

" You need not be so frightened," he said coldly. 
"It would be of no use to kill any of you now, 
though I should like to." 

" I assure you that no one ever frightened me in 
my own house, sir," I answered. I think my voice 
must have sounded very bold, for he did not laugh at 
me. 

"I suppose it is irrevocable," he said, as if to 
himself. 

" Oh, yes, perfectly irrevocable," I answered 
