whatever. He never has," said good-natured little Miss Tappen, from her
piled chant-books. "And he weeds flower-beds so well!"

Here voices becoming audible outside, the ladies stopped; a moment later
the rector entered. His junior warden was not with him. Having
recollected suddenly the probable expression upon Miss Honoria's face at
this hour, the junior warden had said good-night, paced down the knoll
and up Edgerley Street with his usual careful little step until the safe
seclusion of Ashley Lane was reached, when, laying aside his dignity, he
took its even moonlit centre, and ran, or rather trotted, as fast as he
could up its winding ascent to his own barred front door, where Miss
Honoria let him in, candle in hand, and on her head the ominous cap
(frilled) which was with her the expression of the hour. For Miss
Honoria always arranged her hair for the night and put on this cap at
ten precisely; thus crowned, and wrapped in a singularly depressing gray
shawl, she was accustomed to wait for the gay junior warden, when (as
had at present happened) he had forgotten her wishes and the excellent
clock on her mantel that struck the hours. Meanwhile the rector was
speaking to his choir about the selections for Trinity Sunday. He
addressed Miss Corinna. At rehearsals he generally addressed Miss
Corinna. This was partly due to her martial aspect, which made her seem
the natural leader far more than Phipps or Kenneway, but principally
because, being well over fifty, she was no longer troubled by the
flutter of embarrassment with which the other ladies seemed to be
oppressed whenever he happened to speak to them--timid young things as
they were, all of them under thirty-five.

Miss Corinna responded firmly. The other ladies maintained a gently
listening silence. At length the rector, having finished all he had to
say, glanced at his watch. "Isn't it rather late?" he said.

And they were all surprised to find how late it was.

Like a covey of birds rising, they emerged from the pen made by the
music-stand and organ, and moved in a modest group towards the door. The
rector remained behind for a moment to speak to Bell-ringer Flower. When
he came out, they were still fluttering about the steps and down the
front path towards the gate. "I believe our roads are the same," he
said.

As indeed they were: there was but one road in Far Edgerley. This was
called Edgerley Street, and all the grassy lanes that led to people's
residences turned off from and came back to it, going nowhere else.
There were advantages in this. Some persons had lately felt that they
had not sufficiently appreciated this excellent plan for a town; for if
any friend should happen to be out, paying a visit or taking the air,
sooner or later, with a little patience, one could always meet her (or
him); she (or he), without deliberate climbing of fences, not being
able to escape.

The little company from the church now went down the church knoll
towards this useful street. Far Edgerley was all knolls, almost every
house having one of its own, and crowning it. The rector walked first,
with Miss Corinna; the other ladies followed in a cluster which was
graceful, but somewhat indefinite as to ranks, save where Mr. Phipps had
determinedly placed himself beside Miss Lucy Rendlesham, and thus made
one even rank of two. Ferdinand Kenneway walked by himself a little to
the right of the band; he walked not with any one in particular, but as
general escort for the whole. Ferdinand Kenneway often accompanied Far
Edgerley ladies homeward in this collective way. It was considered
especially safe.

Flower, the bell-ringer, left alone on the church steps, looked after
their departing figures in the moonlight. "A riddler it is," he said to
himself--"a riddler, and a myst'rous one, the way all womenkind feels
itself drawed to parsons. I suppose they jedge anything proper that's
clirrycal." He shook his head, locked the church door, and went across
to close the study.

Flower was a Chillawassee philosopher who had formerly carried the mail
on horseback over Lonely Mountain to Fox Gap. Age having dimmed
somewhat his youthful fires, lessening thereby his interest in natural
history, as exemplified by the bears, wolves, and catamounts that
diversified his route, he had resigned his position, judging it to be "a
little too woodsy," on the whole, for a man of his years. He then
accepted the office of bell-ringer of St. John's, a place which he had
been heard to say conferred a dignity second only to that of mails. He
was very particular about this dignity, and the title of it. "Item," he
said, "that I be not a sexton; for sexton be a slavish name for a
free-born mountaineer. Bell-ringer Flower I be, and Bell-ringer Flower
you may call me."

Now the bell of St. John's was but a small one, suspended rustically,
under a little roof of thatch, from the branch of an old elm near the
church door; to ring it, therefore, was but a slight task. But Flower
made it a weighty one by his attitude and manner as he stood on Sunday
mornings, rope in hand, hat off, and eyes devotionally closed, beside
his leafy belfry, bringing out with majestic pull the one little silver
note.

He now re-arranged the chairs in the study, and came upon a framed motto
surrounded by rosebuds in worsted-work, a fresh contribution to the
rector's walls from the second Miss Greer. "Talk about the mil'try--my!
they're nothing to 'em--nothing to these unmarried reverints!" he said
to himself, as he surveyed this new memento. He hung it on the wall,
where there was already quite a frieze of charming embroidery in the way
of texts and woollen flowers. "Item--however, very few of them is
unmarried. Undoubted they be drove to it early, in self-defence."




CHAPTER II.


"You are a little tired, Major?"

"Possibly. Somewhat. Sara has been reading aloud to me from the
Review. She read all the long articles."

"Ah--she does not know how that tires you. I must tell her. She does not
appreciate--she is still so young, you know--that with your extensive
reading, your knowledge of public affairs and the world at large, you
can generally anticipate, after the first few sentences, all that can be
said."

The Major did not deny this statement of his resources.

"I am going to the village for an hour or two," continued Madam Carroll;
"I shall take Sara with me." (Here the Major's face seemed to evince a
