ascent.

It was a very long night for Diana. In all her many journeys she had
never felt fatigue such as this. Marcantonio would sleep for an hour,
and then start up suddenly and begin to talk, sometimes asking questions
and sometimes volunteering remarks that showed how his mind was
wandering. Once or twice he showed signs of returning to the account of
his doings after Leonora had left him, but Diana was able to check him
in time, for he was growing tired and yielded more easily to her will
than in the daytime.

At last they were safe in the hotel, and Marcantonio was in his room,
intending to dress, he said, before going out. Diana was no sooner
assured that she was free from the responsibility of watching him for a
few minutes than she sent for the proprietor of the hotel, inquired for
the address of the best physician in Turin, and dispatched a messenger
with a very urgent request for his attendance.

The apartment she had taken with her brother consisted of a large
sitting-room, with a bedroom on each side of it. Marcantonio's room had
but that one door, which she could watch as she lay on the sofa,
awaiting the arrival of the doctor.

When he came at last, breathless in his haste to put himself at the
service of the great lady who sent for him, he talked very learnedly for
half an hour, after listening to all Diana told him with grave
attention. He could not see the patient of course, and the interview
took place in a small antechamber, from which he could escape if
Marcantonio were heard moving within. He was of opinion that it was not
a case of insanity, but of temporary derangement of the faculties from
the severe strain they had received. The sudden manifestations of
violence were natural enough to an Italian,--if it had been the case of
an Englishman, it would have been different, because, as the doctor
said, half in earnest and half in jest, Inglesi were generally mad to
begin with, and anything beyond that made them furious maniacs. He had a
man, he said, long accustomed to dealing with lunatics. He would send
him disguised as a servant, and he could be in constant attendance,
thus relieving Diana of the care of watching the marchese. He himself
would call every day and inquire, and would be ready at a moment's
notice to remove him to a place of safety. In his present state, he
said, to shut him up, and treat him as though he were insane, might very
likely make a permanent madman of him.

The doctor retired, leaving Diana somewhat reassured. All that he had
said seemed reasonable, and she would strictly follow his advice.
Meanwhile, she went to her own room, feeling sure that she could hear
Marcantonio's door open, if he finished dressing and came out. But
Marcantonio rang his bell at the end of an hour, and sent word to his
sister that he felt tired and had gone to bed, and would not rise till
midday.

Poor fellow--she was pleased at the intelligence, but the fact was that
his mind had strayed again; he had forgotten the object of his journey,
and being worn out had gone to bed like a tired child. The new place,
the strange room, and the necessity of unpacking his clothes himself had
confused him, and driven everything else out of his head.

Before he awoke, the confidential man had arrived, arrayed in the
ordinary dress of an hotel servant. He was a quiet individual, with
strong hands and iron-grey hair, neat in his appearance, and a little
hesitating in his speech; but his eyes were keen and searching, and he
moved quickly. Diana was pleased with him, and understood that the
doctor had given her good advice, and that Marcantonio would be safely
watched. The man said he would serve them in their own sitting-room, and
perform the offices of valet for Marcantonio, and be altogether in the
position of a private servant, which, however, was not his profession,
as he took care to add.

When at last Diana and Marcantonio met, each rested and refreshed, he
looked the less weary of the two. Diana had suffered too much to be
entirely herself, and for the first time in her life felt as though she
had taxed her strength too severely. Moreover, the strain was not
removed, but increased hourly. Her woman's instinct told her that, in
spite of the doctor's opinion, her brother was actually out of his mind,
perhaps past all recovery. His sudden cheerfulness was horrible to her,
and made her shudder when she thought of the magnitude of what he was
forgetting.

"Let us take a carriage and see Turin, Diana," he suggested gayly, as
they finished their lunch and he lit a cigarette. "I have never been in
Turin with you. There are some very pretty things to see."

"By all means," said she readily. "Let us go at once."

The confidential servant was dispatched for a carriage. The idea of
seeing sights with his sister pleased Marcantonio, and he never relapsed
into his sadder self during the afternoon. Diana did not know whether to
be glad or sorry; his forgetfulness was terrible, but his memory was
worse. She remembered the scene with the cross on the previous day, in
the railway-carriage, and she thought that if insanity brought peace it
was better to be insane.

They drove about and saw what was to be seen,--the great squares, the
memorial statues, the armory, where the mail-clad wooden knights sit
silently on their mail-clad wooden horses, and they drove out at last to
Moncalieri, in the cool of the evening. The confidential servant sat on
the box and directed the driver, pointing out to Diana and Marcantonio
the various objects of interest, so that Carantoni suspected nothing.
The man acted his part perfectly.

"How charming it is here!" exclaimed Marcantonio, admiring the trees,
and the life, and the gay colours at Moncalieri. "Why did we not think
of coming here before, my dear?" He spoke in French, which he rarely did
with his sister, though he had always done so with his wife. Diana
hardly noticed it at the moment,--she was obliged to answer something.

"It was hardly the right season for it before this, I suppose," said
she. "But now we can stay as long as we please."

"Oh yes," said he, in his old way, "if it is agreeable to you, I ask
nothing better. It is infinitely more pleasant than Sorrento. I never
liked Sorrento, I cannot tell why. It never wholly agreed with you, mon
ange--n'est-ce-pas?"

"I was always well there,--well enough, at least," answered Diana,
puzzled at this new phase of his humour.

"Ah no, you were never well after Diana left us. She is so good, she
makes every one well!" He spoke pleasantly and naturally.

