living, the companionship of broad and generous resolve, 
taking each day in a firm grasp and extracting whatever 
sweetness it held, with no fear that there would be a lack 
to-morrow. 

" How happy you are ! " Kathie exclaimed, impulsively. 

" Yes, I am," with a confident and grateful ring to her 
voice. u And yet," smilingly, "didn't I write you a lu- 
gubrious letter? I was afraid afterward that you might 
think me weak to cry out at the first thorn that pricked." 




"It is a pity, it is unjust, that there should be thorns 
of that kind," was the firm rejoinder. 

" Yet the thorns may be set as a sign to make one go 
more carefully. I used to think at first that his life and 
happiness," with a tender inflection in her tone, " were the 
great things I had to consider. You see it seemed wonder- 
ful that he should want me, that he thought me fit for the 
great highway where he was to walk. When you stand on 
the top of one peak and look over to the next, the glory 
touches you, kindles your love and fervor, and you realize 
that it is going down and coming up again ; and there are 
so many things to take hold of as you go, blossoms and 
leaves and gems, maybe, to gather up, and stumbles, and 
a little roughness, thorns perhaps, but all the time it is 
going on ; and you never do lose sight of the other great 
glory, towards which you are pressing. If there were no 
valleys, there would be no mountain-tops ; and could we 
always endure the level of the plain ? " 

"You are not afraid of the thorns now?" Kathie 
asked quickly. 

" I shall be careful of them, but I am trying not to be 
afraid, nor to run into them heedlessly. We all know Mr. 
Truesdell might have paid more deference to position. I 
was born here, and ran about an ignorant country girl ; but 
when one fits one's self for something better, and it comes, 
why should one refuse it? Why should others seek to 
thrust you out of what you have won ? " and her face 
flushed with emotion. " When he first asked me, I was 
surprised and overwhelmed with a strange humility ; and 
then I think some one might have pushed me aside for 
very fear. Then he showed me what I had to give, 
health, energy, and spirit, help everywhere, at home, with, 
the children, keeping a comfortable and restful place. 
That was partly your teaching. All the days will not be 
Sundays, even if we are doing God's work. He put the 
six days between, the six days of trying and the one of 
rest." 





''O Sarah, you have gone far beyond anything I ever 
taught you ! " cried Kathie in all humility. 

'' With two such teachers I ought to come to compre- 
hensive knowledge " ; and she smiled with rare sweetness. 
" At first I felt quite inclined to glorify my Mr. Truesdell. 
I had never counted on marriage, or speculated about love 
so it was very new and strange. It is odd to be asked to 
stop and rest when one has mapped out one's life as a con- 
tinual march ; not that we shall loiter very much," smil- 
ingly, " but we shall be among the wells of water and the 
trees of palm ; and we have come to this freedom between 
us, he is to tell me when I go wrong, when I do little 
things that might hurt or jar, and I am not to be troubled 
about what others say. I shall have his great love and the 
comfort he will take for my reward. I shall not go out 
to meet cares or phantoms, but stay in safe paths with 
him." 

That was the entire faith of love. How could one be 
sure of the safe paths ? 

There was a slight bend in the road, and they came out 
by the parsonage. The little girls were playing tea under 
a great rose-bush. 

" O Kathie," Sarah began, u I wonder if I shall always 
be just to the children and not try to crowd them out of 
their father's heart : they were there before I was." 

" But you do love children, and you have been with them 
all your life." 

" Yes, I could not teach if I did not love them, for chil- 
dren are often very trying ; and some really good women 
fail of being good step-mothers. I wonder why? If we 
take anything else on conditional terms we try to respect 
the terms. So you see there will be many things to study, 
and claims to balance within as well as without. They are 
shy little things, and have never been to school. Their 
mother was delicate and refined, and I fancy rather proud 
of position, and all that. It is a pretty old house, is it not? 





and yet it has always seemed a sad place to me, perhaps 
because I have always connected it with two motherless 
children. O Kathie, I wonder if I can win them to love 
me : step-mothers are always looked upon with disfavor ; 
and they are old enough to know." 

tk Love you? They could not help it," cried Kathie, 
eagerly ; and as she looked at the earnest, glowing face, 
she felt if she ever needed some one strong and comforting 
in any great perplexity Sarah would be that friend. 

" You are so generous: do you think me weak with 
the weakest? " and she gave a bright little laugh. kt I shall 
