his air of easy indifference. Certainly there must be something.
After a while the quiet oppresses him. He saunters around the room,
that wears the aspect of indolent ease rather than business. Then he
emerges into a wide hallway, and strolls over opposite. Here is a
well-packed storehouse, then a small place in semi-obscurity, into
which he peers wonderingly, when a figure rises that startles him out
of his self-possession for a moment.
A man whose age would be hard to tell, though his thick, short hair is
iron gray and his beard many shades whiter. Short of stature, with very
high shoulders, that suggest physical deformity, squarely built and
stout, a square, rugged face, with light, steely eyes and overhanging
brows. It is a repellent face and form, and Floyd Grandon says
slowly,--
"Pardon my intrusion. I--" rather embarrassed at the steady gaze--"I am
Mr. Floyd Grandon."
"Ah!" There is something akin to a sneer in the exclamation. "Doubtless
your brother has spoken of me,--Jasper Wilmarth."
This, then, is his father's partner. He is utterly amazed, bewildered.
"I heard of your return," he continues. There is something peculiar, as
if the man weighed every word. "We have been looking for you," rather
dryly.
"I hope my delay has not proved injurious to the business," says
Grandon, recovering his usual dignity. "I find that I am executor of
the estate with my mother, and I suppose some steps are necessary. I
shall qualify immediately. In what condition is the business?"
"Bad enough," is the reply. "Trade is dull, and I am sorry to say that
our new machinery, put in at a great expense, does not work
satisfactorily."
Floyd is startled at the frankness, as well as the admission.
"Where is the other partner, Mr. St. Vincent?"
"Out of town somewhere," indifferently.
"He holds the patent----"
"That we were wild enough to undertake; yes."
"My father seemed to have great hopes of it."
The high shoulders are shrugged higher. There is something bitter and
contemptuous in the man's face, a look that indicates fighting, though
what can there be to fight about?
The great bell rings out again. Nooning is over, and there are hurrying
steps up the wide alleyway.
"I wonder," Floyd begins, "if you know where my brother went. He said
something about Rockwood,--and was to be back shortly."
"If he has gone to Rockwood, I doubt if you see him before
mid-afternoon." The sneer is plainly evident here, and Grandon feels
some antagonistic blood rise.
"I suppose," he continues, in his usual courteous tone, "that it will
be best to have a business meeting as soon as possible. I will consult
Mr. Connery; an inventory was taken, I suppose."
"Yes. It is in his hands."
Wilmarth is certainly hard to get on with. To natural brusqueness is
added an evident disinclination to discuss the business. Floyd is much
too proud to seem curious, though here he has a right to know all, but
he feels that he will not be able to make much headway alone.
"I think I will return," he says. "If my brother comes in, tell him, if
you please, that I have gone home. We have not discussed any business
yet, but will begin to-morrow. Good day."
He goes back, folds up the papers, and places them carefully in his
breast-pocket, takes his hat and walks slowly out, wondering if his
father really trusted this man. He inspires Floyd with a deep,
inveterate dislike, a curious suspicion before he knows there is
anything to suspect. He wishes--ah, at that moment he feels inclined to
pay the legacies and his mother's pension, and wash his hands of the
other distasteful charge. Then some words of his father's come back:
"Remember that Eugene is young and thoughtless, and be patient."
It is very warm as he steps into the street, and he remembers a sort of
river road that used to be shady, where he has rambled many a time.
Everything is changed, the hills levelled, the valleys filled up, but
he presently finds a strip of woodland near the shore edge, and a path
much overgrown with blackberry-vines. He picks his way along, now and
then meeting with a remembered aspect, when he comes across a sort of
Swiss châlet on the sloping hillside. Two peaks of roof, odd, long,
narrow windows, with diamond-shape panes of glass, a vine-covered
porch, an old woman in black, with white kerchief and high-crowned cap
suggestive of Normandy; and through an open window a man sitting at a
table, with instruments or machinery before him, engrossed with some
experiments. A peculiar, delicate face, with a high, narrow forehead,
thin white hair worn rather long and now tumbled, a drooping nose, a
snowy white, pointed beard, and thin, long fingers, as colorless as
Gertrude's.
Somewhere he has seen a picture of an alchemist not unlike this. He can
even discern the intent eagerness of the face as the fingers delicately
manipulate something. So interested is he that he forgets his recent
perplexity, and, seating himself on a rocky ledge, watches. The air is
tensely clear, the river blue as the sky in the intervals of shade.
Here and there a dappled rift of cloud floating slowly, a picture of
virginal beauty, tinctured with the essence of a hundred summers. The
air is drowsily sweet, and he lapses into forgetfulness,--a traveller's
trick.
When he opens his eyes the student is still there; the old woman has
had her nap and is knitting. A large-eyed greyhound sits at her side.
Floyd has half a mind to break in upon the scholar's sanctity, but
remembering that he is now a part and parcel of civilization, refrains
and resumes his journey; and now it is of Cecil he thinks. The
perplexities of the morning have quite excluded baby naughtiness. Will
she be glad to see him,--first in her half-shy, wholly seductive
manner, then with her ardent, entire love? He is pleased to find her
not easily won from him.
The house is very quiet. Bruno, the great dog, comes forward and
studies him with sagacious, penetrating eyes. He pats him and says
kindly,--
"Your mother knew and loved me, good Bruno."
Gertrude is on the library sofa. "Oh," she cries with a start, "where
is Eugene?"
"I have not seen him since morning. Gertrude, is there anything special
at Rockwood?"
"Why no,--the Casino, and the track, you know. They speed horses, and
sometimes have races, I believe. Have you had lunch?"
"Just a biscuit and a glass of wine will do," he says. "Don't disturb
yourself. Where is Cecil?"
"Jane has had her all day. She wouldn't even be friendly with me.
Marcia and mother have gone out for calls, I believe."
Just as he enters the dining-room he turns his head. "Gertrude, do you
know an odd little cottage on the side of what used to be Savin Rock?"
"A sort of chapel-looking place, with pointed roof?"
"Yes. Who lives there?"
"Why, Mr. St. Vincent."
"The partner, do you mean?"
"Yes."
"Did you ever see him? What kind of looking person is he?"
"Yes. He was here several times. He had the patent, you know. O Floyd,
do you understand anything about the business? Papa thought he should
