bottom out of pride !" His reflective judgment of 
Roderick, as time went on, had indulged in a great 
many irrepressible vagaries ; but his affection, his sense 



 

of something in his companion 's whole personality that 
appealed to his tenderness and charmed his imagination, 
had never for an instant faltered. He listened to 
Roderick 's last words, and then he smiled as he rarely 
smiled with bitterness. 

" I don't at all like your telling me I am too zealous," 
he said. " If I had not been zealous I should never 
have cared a fig for you !" 

Roderick flushed deeply and thrust his modelling tool 
up to the handle into the clay. " Say it outright ! You 
have been a great fool to believe in me." 

"I don't desire to say it, and you don't honestly 
believe I do!" said Rowland. "It seems to me I 
am really very good-natured even to reply to such 
nonsense." 

Roderick sat down, crossed his arms, and fixed his 
eyes on the floor. Rowland looked at him for some 
moments ; it seemed to him that he had never so 
clearly perceived his strangely commingled character 
his strength and his weakness, his picturesque personal 
attractiveness and his urgent egotism, his exalted ardour 
and his puerile petulance. It would have made him 
almost sick, however, to think that, on the whole, Roderick 
was not a generous fellow, and he was so far from having 
ceased to believe in him that he felt just now more than 
ever that all this was but the painful complexity of 
genius. Rowland, who had not a grain of genius either 
to make one say he was an interested reasoner or to 
enable one to feel that he could afford a dangerous theory 
or two, adhered to his conviction of the essential salubrity 
of genius. Suddenly he felt an irresistible pity for his 
companion ; it seemed to him that his beautiful faculty 
of production was a double-edged instrument, susceptible 
of being dealt in back -handed blows at its possessor. 
Genius was priceless, inspired, divine ; but it was also 
at its hours capricious, sinister, cruel ; and men of genius 
accordingly were alternately very enviable and very help - 




less. It was not the first time he had had a sense of 
Roderick 's standing passive in the clutch of his tempera 
ment. It had shaken him as yet but with a half good- 
humoured wantonness ; but henceforth possibly it meant 
to handle him more roughly. These were not times, 
therefore, for a friend to have a short patience. 

"When you err you say the fault 's your own," he 
said at last. "It is because your faults are your own 
that I heed them." 

Rowland 's voice, when he spoke with feeling, had an 
extraordinary amenity. Roderick sat staring a moment 
longer at the floor, then he sprang up and laid his hand 
affectionately on his friend 's shoulder. "You are the 
best man in the world," he said, " and I am a vile brute. 
Only," he added, in a moment, "you don't understand 
me!" And he looked at him with eyes of such pure 
expressiveness that one might have said (and Rowland 
did almost say so himself) that it was the fault of one 's 
own grossness if one failed to read to the bottom of that 
beautiful soul. 

Rowland smiled sadly. "What is it now? Explain." 
"Oh, I can't explain!" cried Roderick, impatiently, 
returning to his work. " I have only one way of ex 
pressing my deepest feelings it 's this." And he swung 
his tool. He stood looking at the half-wrought clay for 
a moment, and then flung the instrument down. " And 
even this half the time plays me false !" 

Rowland felt that his irritation had not subsided, and 
he himself had no taste for saying disagreeable things. 
Nevertheless he saw no sufficient reason to forbear 
uttering the words he had had on his conscience from 
the beginning. "We must do what we can and be 
thankful," he said. "And let me assure you of this 
that it won't help you to become entangled with Miss 
Light." 

Roderick pressed his hand to his forehead with 
vehemence, and then shook it in the air despairingly ; a 


gesture that had become frequent with him since he came 
to Italy. "No, no, it 's no use; you don't understand 
me ! But I don't blame you. You can't !" 

"You think it will help you, then?" said Rowland, 
wondering. 

"I think that when you expect a man to produce 
beautiful and wonderful works of art you ought to allow 
him a certain freedom of action, you ought to give him 
a long rope, you ought to let him follow his fancy and 
look for his material wherever he thinks he may find it ! 
A mother can't nurse her child unless she follows a certain 
diet ; an artist can't bring his visions to maturity unless 
he has a certain experience. You demand of us to be 
imaginative, and you deny us the things that feed the 
imagination. In labour we must be as passionate as the 
inspired sibyl ; in life we must be mere machines. It 
won't do ! When you have got an artist to deal with, 
you must take him as he is, good and bad together. 
I don't say they are pleasant fellows to know, or easy 
fellows to live with ; I don't say they satisfy themselves 
any better than other people. I only say that if you 
