to be irritated by interruption, which seemed particu- 
larly ill-timed. Indeed, it probably seems so at any 
present moment when it occurs. 

' I don't believe the Lord would rather I should go 
to prayer meeting than get my lessons," he said, with 
his head so far over his lexicon that he was ignorant of 
the effect of his words. " If He doesn't want me to go 
right on doing what I ought to do, and not stop to hear 
somebody preach, I haven't " 

' Stop ! " rang through the kitchen. He looked up, 
startled, to see that the old lady had put down her 
work and was standing with her gingham apron 

grasped in one large hand, while the other rested 
heavily on the kitchen table. Her square, bony frame 
was trembling with indignation. 

" You shall never say another word like that, while 
you are in this house ! The next time I hear a 
blasphemy against the Lord, you go. My father would 
turn in his grave, if he knew any of his family could 
fall into such wickedness." 

The habit of obedience is strong, and though Philip 
had, more prominently than any other emotion at the 
moment, the sense that he was unjustly treated, he said 
nothing ; a glance at his mother, too, who was making 
biscuits at the table, her hands trembling too much to 
cut them, was -a powerful restraint. Grandmother 
walked into the sitting-room and did not come out 
until she was called to tea. There was silence through- 
out the meal, one of those silences which, in families, 
are so much harder to bear than storms of words. One 
coming in would have felt that the storm had been there. 
After tea, Mrs. Xye followed Philip into the shed, and 
said, in a trembling undertone, " You will go, Philip ? 
She'll be real put out if you don't." 

"I can't help it, mother; I must get my lessons. 
More depends on that than any body knows, any 
body except Mr. Kewe." 

" But I have to be here alone with her all day," 
said the mother, a tremulous note in her voice, the pre- 
cursor of tears. "You are at school, and Elizabeth, 
I do wish Elizabeth would come home ! ' 

The boy was touched, as much by the homesickness 
in his own heart for Elizabeth, as by hers. 

" Don't cry, mother. I'll go, yes, to a dozen 



 

prayer-meetings, and if Elder Jones isn't there, I'll go 
round and borrow his wig and preside." 

Mrs. Nye's coming tears resolved themselves into 
the accompaniment of a laugh. She was timidly con- 
servative in matters of religion, but she could not 
believe that the powers of heaven would militate 
against her boy's nonsense, much as they might 
concern themselves with other matters quite as 
trivial. 

' That's a good boy, and we'll go early so as to see 
our way." 

In consequence of their zeal they found themselves, 
half an hour afterwards, in the pew directly behind the 
one left vacant for those who would go forward for 
prayers. Every body came. Jim Bolton was there, 
with his wife and four of the six children, the two 
youngest having been left in charge of Granny Eld- 
ridge, who had asthma and dared not venture out. Si 
was there, looming up tall and broad-shouldered in the 
corner ; the Academy boys and girls were out in full 
force ; and it was evident, from the number of men 
rendered miserable by coat and neckerchief, that the 
Sea View sitting-room must have been left unadorned 
by a single lounger. 

There were three Evangelists, one thick-set and 
heavy, who sang hymns with a scowl ; one who wore 
spectacles, and acquired by means of them and the up- 
right fringe of yellow hair surmounting his forehead, 
a peculiarly owl-like expression ; and a wiry, nervous 
man, with a tongue moving so fast that it might rea- 
sonably be supposed to flicker. The meeting was 
like a thousand others held before and since, After 
the vigorous singing of a hymn, Christians were invited 
to rise. It seemed to Philip that the whole body 
of the church was coming to its feet. Being so near 
the front, he could not see that any one was seated 
except himself, and when his mother slowly rose also, 
his heart began to beat so that it sounded loudly in 
his ears. There was an unpleasant excitement in being 
the only sinner in a church full of Christians, the only 
one in danger among the saved. 

" Every one ! every one ! ' said the exhorter, in a 
monotonous chant, fixing his eyes on the boy, who was 
unfortunately in the range of the vacant pew ; the 
singer began sonorously. The time seemed hours be- 
fore the Christians were allowed to reseat themselves ; 
it was probably several seconds. Those who desired 
prayers were then asked to stand, and Philip continued 
sitting. One after another of the young people he knew 
passed, sobbing, into the anxious-seat, while his heart 
beat louder and louder, and his lips grew painfully dry 
and parched. In the eyes of the people his silence 
betokened hardness of heart. In reality, it resulted 
from pure nervousness and lack of any guiding impulse, 
except the one to sit still because that involved least 
trouble. 

