Garda, who, as usual, had her arm in Margaret's, leaned her head on
Margaret's shoulder and gave way to soft laughter.

Middleton Moore talked, enjoying his adventure greatly. But though he
talked, he did not question, he was too complete a southerner for that;
he leaned on his butterfly pole, and regarded Lucian with the utmost
friendliness, not thinking, apparently, of the fact that he had come
upon this interesting young relative quite by chance, and that this same
young relative must have passed through Gracias (if indeed he were not
staying there) without paying him a visit, though he knew that his
cousin was rector of St. Philip and St. James'; he had confessed as
much. Lucian, who had left his easel, now moved towards it again, and
stood scanning his work with the painter's suddenly absorbed gaze--as
though he had forgotten, for the moment, everything else in the world
but that; then he sat down, as if unable to resist it, and began to add
a touch or two, while (with his disengaged faculties) he was good enough
to give to his cousin, of his own accord, a brief account of himself in
the present, as well as the past. It seemed that he was by profession a
civil engineer (as he had already told Garda), and that the party of
which he was chief were engaged in surveying for a proposed railway,
which would reach Gracias-รก-Dios (he thought) in about seventy-five
years. However, that was nothing to him; there was undoubtedly a company
(they had got an English lord in it), and he, Lucian, was willing to
survey for them, if it amused them to have surveying done; that part of
the scheme, at least, was paid for. His party were now some distance
north of Gracias, they had reached one of the swamps; it had occurred to
him that it was a good time to take a day or two, and come down and see
the little old town on the coast; and as he was a dabbler in
water-colors, he had not been able to resist doing some of the little
"bits" he had found under his hand. "I was coming to see you, sir,
to-morrow," he concluded. "The truth is, I had only these rough clothes
with me; I have sent back for more."

"To the swamp?" said Garda.

"To the swamp--precisely; I keep them there very carefully in a dry
canoe."

"You must not only come and see us, Lucian, you must come and stay with
us," said the clergyman, cordially; "Penelope will hear of nothing
else," he added, bending in his near-sighted way to look at the picture,
and putting his nose close to Lucian's pinks and blues. "Isn't it
rather--rather bright?" he asked, blinking a little as he drew back. Mr.
Moore's idea of a picture was a landscape with a hill in the background,
a brook and willows in front, a church spire peeping out somewhere in
the middle distance, and a cow or two at the brook's edge, all painted
in a dark, melancholy--what he himself would have called a
chaste--green, even the cow partaking in some degree of that decorous
hue.

"It's not brighter than the reality, is it?" said Lucian.

"I--don't--know," answered Mr. Moore, straightening himself, and looking
about him as if to observe the reality, which he evidently was now
noting for the first time. "You have put in a butterfly," he added,
returning to his inspection; "that is--if it isn't a bird? There are no
butterflies here now; has there been one here?"

"There should have been; it's the very place for them," Lucian declared.

"I don't think, Lucian, that there's any certainty about that; I myself
have often searched for them in places where it seemed to me they
should be; they are never there."

Garda again gave way to merriment, hiding it and her face on Margaret's
shoulder.

"Hasn't your sky rather too vivid a blue, Lucian?" Mr. Moore went on,
his face again close to the picture.

"Well, sir, that's as we see it; I see that color in the sky, you
know."

"How can you see it if it is not there?" demanded his relative, with his
temperate dwelling upon his point. And he transferred his gaze from the
sketch to the young man.

"But it is there for me. It's the old question of the two kinds of
truth."

"There are not two kinds, I think, Lucian," responded the clergyman, and
this time he spoke with decision.

"There are two ways of seeing it, then. We state or believe a thing as
we see it, and we do not all see alike; you see the hues of a sunset in
one way, Turner saw them in another; he painted certain skies, and
people said there were no such skies; but Turner saw them."

"The fault was still there, Lucian; it was in his vision."

"Or take another instance," continued Spenser. "A man has a wife whom he
loves. She has grown old and faded, there is no trace of beauty left;
but he still sees her as she was; to him she does not merely seem
beautiful, she is beautiful."

The eyes of Garda and Margaret met, one of those rapid exchanges of a
mutual comprehension which are always passing between women unless they
happen to be open enemies; even then they are sometimes forced to
suspend hostilities long enough for one of these quick passwords of
intelligence;--men are so slow! The mutual thought of the two women now
was--Mrs. Penelope. Certainly she was old and faded, and very certainly
also her husband regarded her as much of a Venus as it was proper for a
clerical household to possess. Their entertainment continued as they saw
that the clergyman made no personal application of Spenser's comparison,
but merely considered the illustration rather an immoral one.

As if to change the subject, this good man now demanded, in his equable,
unresonant voice, "How do you return to Gracias, Lucian?"

"There's a contraband with a dug-out waiting for me over on the Espiritu
side," answered Spenser; "I walked across."

"Ah! we are sailing," remarked the clergyman, in a gently superior
tone; little as he himself enjoyed maritime excursions, he felt that
this was the proper tone to take in the presence of his host, the owner
of the Emperadora. "We shall reach home, probably, much earlier than
you will," he went on, looking off at the chaparral with an abstracted
air.

Winthrop, smiling at this innocent little manoeuvre, invited Spenser to
