the thickets and sprang on its prey like a small tiger.
"If I could only kill it alone, how proud Onawandah would be of me,"
thought Reuben, burning for the good opinion of his friend.
It would have been wiser to hurry on and give the beast no time to
spring; but the boy was over bold, and, fitting an arrow to the string,
aimed at the bright eye-ball and let fly. A sharp snarl showed that some
harm was done, and, rather daunted by the savage sound, Reuben raced
away, meaning to come back next day for the prize he hoped he had
secured.
But soon he heard the creature bounding after him, and he uttered one
ringing shout for help, feeling too late that he had been foolhardy.
Fortunately, he was nearer camp than he thought. Onawandah heard him,
and was there in time to receive the beast, as, mad with the pain of the
wound, it sprung at Reuben. There was no time for words, and the boy
could only watch in breathless interest and anxiety the fight which went
on between the brute and the Indian.
It was sharp but short; for Onawandah had his knife, and as soon as he
could get the snarling, struggling creature down, he killed it with a
skilful stroke. But not before it had torn and bitten him more
dangerously than he knew; for the dusk hid the wounds, and excitement
kept him from feeling them at first. Reuben thanked him heartily, and
accepted his few words of warning with grateful docility; then both
hurried back to Eunice, who till next day knew nothing of her brother's
danger.
Onawandah made light of his scratches, as he called them, got their
supper, and sent Reuben early to bed, for to-morrow they were to start
again.
Excited by his adventure, the boy slept lightly, and waking in the
night, saw by the flicker of the fire Onawandah binding up a deep wound
in his breast with wet moss and his own belt. A stifled groan betrayed
how much he suffered; but when Reuben went to him, he would accept no
help, said it was nothing, and sent him back to bed, preferring to
endure the pain in stern silence, with true Indian pride and courage.
Next morning, they set out and pushed on as fast as Eunice's strength
allowed. But it was evident that Onawandah suffered much, though he
would not rest, forbade the children to speak of his wounds, and pressed
on with feverish haste, as if he feared that his strength might not hold
out. Reuben watched him anxiously, for there was a look in his face that
troubled the boy and filled him with alarm, as well as with remorse and
love. Eunice would not let him carry her as before, but trudged bravely
behind him, though her feet ached and her breath often failed as she
tried to keep up; and both children did all they could to comfort and
sustain their friend, who seemed glad to give his life for them.
In three days they reached the river, and, as if Heaven helped them in
their greatest need, found a canoe, left by some hunter, near the shore.
In they sprang, and let the swift current bear them along, Eunice
kneeling in the bow like a little figure-head of Hope, Reuben steering
with his paddle, and Onawandah sitting with arms tightly folded over his
breast, as if to control the sharp anguish of the neglected wound. He
knew that it was past help now, and only cared to see the children safe;
then, worn out but happy, he was proud to die, having paid his debt to
the good parson, and proved that he was not a liar nor a traitor.
Hour after hour they floated down the great river, looking eagerly for
signs of home, and when at last they entered the familiar valley, while
the little girl cried for joy, and the boy paddled as he had never done
before, Onawandah sat erect, with his haggard eyes fixed on the dim
distance, and sang his death-song in a clear, strong voice,--though
every breath was pain,--bent on dying like a brave, without complaint or
fear.
At last they saw the smoke from the cabins on the hillside, and, hastily
mooring the canoe, all sprang out, eager to be at home after their long
and perilous wandering. But as his foot touched the land, Onawandah felt
that he could do no more, and stretching his arms toward the parsonage,
the windows of which glimmered as hospitably as they had done when he
first saw them, he said, with a pathetic sort of triumph in his broken
voice: "Go. I cannot. Tell the good father, Onawandah not lie, not
forget. He keep his promise."
Then he dropped upon the grass and lay as if dead, while Reuben, bidding
Eunice keep watch, ran as fast as his tired legs could carry him to tell
the tale and bring help.
The little girl did her part tenderly, carrying water in her hands to
wet the white lips, tearing up her ragged skirt to lay fresh bandages
on the wound that had been bleeding the brave boy's life away, and,
sitting by him, gathered his head into her arms, begging him to wait
till father came.
But poor Onawandah had waited too long; now he could only look up into
the dear, loving, little face bent over him, and whisper wistfully:
"Wild Rose will remember Onawandah?" as the light went out of his eyes,
and his last breath was a smile for her.
When the parson and his people came hurrying up full of wonder, joy, and
good-will, they found Eunice weeping bitterly, and the Indian boy lying
like a young warrior smiling at death.
"Ah, my neighbors, the savage has taught us a lesson we never can
forget. Let us imitate his virtues, and do honor to his memory," said
the pastor, as he held his little daughter close and looked down at the
pathetic figure at his feet, whose silence was more eloquent than any
words.
All felt it, and even old Becky had a remorseful sigh for the boy who
had kept his word so well and given back her darlings safe.
They buried him where he lay; and for years the lonely mound under the
great oak was kept green by loving hands. Wild roses bloomed there, and
the murmur of the Long River of Pines was a fit lullaby for faithful
Onawandah.
[Illustration]
Little Things
"That's the sort I like," said Geoff, as the story ended; "Onawandah was
a trump, and I'd give a good deal to know such a fellow, and go hunting
with him. Got any more like it, aunty?"
"Perhaps; but it is the girls' turn now, and here is a quiet little
story that teaches the same lesson in a different way. It contains a
hint which some of you would better take;" and Aunt Elinor glanced
around the circle with a smile that set her hearers on the alert to see
who was to be hit.
"Hope it isn't very moral," said Geoff, with a boyish dislike of being
preached at.
"It won't harm you to listen, and take the moral to heart, my lad. Wild
horses, gold mines, and sea scrapes, are not the only things worth
reading about. If you ever do half so much good in the world as the
people in this story did, I shall be proud of you," answered Aunt
Elinor, so soberly that Geoff folded his hands, and tried to look meekly
impressed.
"Is it true?" asked Min.
"Yes. I heard 'Abby' tell it herself, and saw the silk stocking, and the
scar."
"That sounds very interesting. I do like to hear about good clothes
and awful accidents," cried the girl, forgetting to spin, in her
eagerness to listen.
They all laughed at her odd mixture of tastes, and then heard the story
of
                           LITTLE THINGS.
