with her shortens my life by a year."

"She is an angel in her caprice," answered the Count with conviction.
"Indeed, much of her charm lies in her changing moods."

"If she is an angel, what am I?" asked the Marchesa. "Such a contrast!"

"She is the angel of motion--you are the angel of repose."

"You are delightful to-night."

While this conversation was taking place, Beatrice had wandered away
over the rocks alone, not heeding the unevenness of the stones and
taking little notice of the direction of her walk. She only knew that
she would not go back to the place where she had sat, not for all the
world. A change had taken place already and she was angry with herself
for what she had done in all sincerity.

She was hurt and her first illusion had suffered a grave shock almost at
the moment of its birth. She asked herself how it could be possible, if
San Miniato loved her as he had said he did, that he should not feel as
she felt and understand love as she did--as something secret and sacred,
to be kept from other eyes. Her instinct told her easily enough that San
Miniato was at that very moment telling her mother all that had taken
place, and she bitterly resented the thought. It would surely have been
enough, if he had waited until the following day and then formally asked
her hand of the Marchesa. It would have been better, more natural in
every way, just now when they had gone up to the table, if he had said
simply that they loved one another and had asked her mother's blessing.
Anything rather than to feel that he was coolly describing the details
of the first love scene in her life--the thousandth, perhaps, in his
own.

After all, did she love him? Did he really love her? His passionate
manner when he had seized her hand had moved her strangely, and she had
listened with a sort of girlish wonder to his declarations of devotion
afterwards. But now, in the, calm moonlight and quite alone, she could
hear Ruggiero's deep strong voice in her ears, and the few manly words
he had uttered. There was not much in them in the way of eloquence--a
sailor's picturesque phrase--she had heard something like it before. But
there had been strength, and the power to do, and the will to act in
every intonation of his speech. She remembered every word San Miniato
had spoken, far better than he would remember it himself in a day or
two, and she was ready to analyse and criticise now what had charmed and
pleased her a moment earlier. Why was he going over it all to her
mother, like a lesson learnt and repeated? She was so glad to be
alone--she would have been so glad to think alone of what she had taken
for the most delicious moment of her young life. If he were really in
earnest, he would feel as she did and would have said at once that it
was late and time to be going home--he would have invented any excuse to
escape the interview which her mother would try to force upon him. Could
it be love that he felt? And if not, as her heart told her it was not,
what was his object in playing such a comedy? She knew well enough, from
Teresina, that many a young Neapolitan nobleman would have given his
title for her fortune, but Teresina, perhaps for reasons of her own,
never dared to cast such an aspersion upon San Miniato, even in the
intimate conversation which sometimes takes place between an Italian
lady and her maid--and, indeed, if the truth be told, between maids and
their mistresses in most parts of the world.

But the doubt thrust itself forward now. Beatrice was quick to doubt at
all times. She was also capricious and changeable about matters which
did not affect her deeply, and those that did were few enough. It was
certainly possible that San Miniato, after all, only wanted her money
and that her mother was willing to give it in return for a great name
and a great position. She felt that if the case had been stated to her
from the first in its true light she might have accepted the situation
without illusion, but without disgust. Everybody, her mother said, was
married by arrangement, some for one advantage, some for the sake of
another. After all, San Miniato was better than most of the rest. There
was a certain superiority about him which she would like to see in her
husband, a certain simple elegance, a certain outward dignity, which
pleased her. But when her mother had spoken in her languid way of the
marriage, Beatrice had resented the denial of her free will, and had
answered that she would please herself or not marry at all. The
Marchesa, far too lacking in energy to sustain such a contest, had
contented herself with her favourite expression of horror at her
daughter's unfilial conduct. Now, however, Beatrice felt that if it had
all been arranged for her, she would have been satisfied, but that since
San Miniato had played something very like a comedy, she would refuse to
be duped by it. She was very bitter against him in the first revulsion
of feeling and treated him more hardly in her thoughts than he, perhaps,
deserved.

And there he was, up there by the table, telling her mother of his
success. Her blood rose in her cheeks at the thought and she stamped her
foot upon the rock out of sheer anger at herself, at him, at everything
and everybody. Then she moved on.

Ruggiero was standing at the edge of the water looking out to sea. The
moonlight silvered his white face and fair beard and accentuated the
sharp black line where his sailor's cap crossed his forehead. Wild and
angry emotions chased each other from his heart to his brain and back
again, firing his overwrought nerves and heated blood, as the flame runs
along a train of powder. He heard a light step behind him and turned
suddenly. Beatrice was close upon him.

"Is that you, Ruggiero," she asked, for she had seen him with his back
turned and had not recognised him at first.

"Yes, Excellency," he answered in a hoarse voice, touching his cap.

"What a beautiful night it is!" said the young girl. She often talked
with the men in the boat, and Ruggiero interested her especially at the
present moment.

"Yes, Excellency," he answered again.

"Is the weather to be fine, Ruggiero?"

"Yes, Excellency."

Ruggiero was apparently not in the conversational mood. He was probably
thinking of the girl he loved--in all likelihood of Teresina, as
Beatrice thought. She stood still a couple of paces from him and looked
at the sea. She felt a capricious desire to make the big sailor talk and
tell her something about himself. It would be sure to be interesting and
honest and strong, a contrast, as she fancied, to the things she had
just heard.

