story she has told him ! 

" She is very young, barely eighteen now, very friend- 
less, for her aunt and uncle are not of hpr kind. All this 
fuss they are trying to make comes through the Gilberts' 
jealousy. He is most anxious to be guardian, trustee, 
everything, and I can see she does not trust him at all. 
Basil, can you not be man enough to put aside this wounded 
pride — " 

'' It is not that," Basil interrupts, fiercely. " Think ! 
he had been married a month before he even deigned to 
inform us, and all through that time I had just three little 
notes from him. He knew he had done a discreditable 
thing. It is the lack of confidence, when we had been 
mo^e than brothers. I can't make it clear to you," and a 
strange gentleness quivers in his voice, " but he was more 
than a brother to me ; he had the sensitive, passionate, 
imaginative temperament of a woman. It is that betrayal, 
that loss — " 

" And do you not think he may have missed some cordiality
in you after he had confessed his marriage ? " 

The handsome face glooms over cold and haughty. 



 



 



 

" At least I was not the first in offence. Hearing what 
we did about them, we could not be expected to consider 
it was they who had done us the honor. My mother and 
I pitied him, and kept the story to ourselves,'' he replies, 
in a proud, justifying tone. 

"I can understand and am quite willing to admit that 
the Gilberts may be designing and thoroughly selfish peo- 
ple," Judge Minturn replies ; " but she is as innocent as 
a child. And she desires to be defended from them. She 
is not willing they shall have any control at the Elms. It 
will be very hard for her, unless some one comes to her 
assistance." 

How Judge Minturn can have been so deceived amazes 
Wentworth. How, when his mind has been firmly made 
up for the last six months, a woman's deceitful, pleading 
face can unmake it, is a mystery ; unless Mrs. Wentworth 
is one of the evil, intriguing sort, as he is quite confident 
she must be. ^ 

" I offer the will for probate to-morrow. There need 
be no hurry about anything. Your power of attorney, 
your trusteeship, shall remain the same as before. It is 
his wish. You might, at least, respect that. I ask, as a 
personal favor to me, that you will take no adverse step at 
present. As for the other matter, heaven only knows, 
Basil, how glad I am to make you so much better offer 
than I at first thought possible. I shall do my utmost to 
advance your interests in every direction. In a few days 
the firm will be remodelled." 

Basil Wentworth is not ungrateful. To become a part- 
ner in this splendid law firm is indeed a proud position 
for a man of eight-and-twenty, with so little experience. 

" Of course," the judge goes on, " there is no real 
necessity of your appearing to-morrow. " Matthewson 
has the case for the Gilberts, and he would fight with a 
straw to stand on, but he will not even have that." 

"I cannot thank you for your kindness," the young 


 

man begins, quite ignoring the Gilberts. '' I shall do my 
utmost to deserve your confidence, and I hope you will 
find me satisfactory on all other points. If I should dis- 
agree with this, and have some feelings that you cannot 
comprehend, you must pardon me." 

" I will wait," is the reply ; " and if I am patient with 
you," and the judge smiles in a fatherly manner, "you 
must be patient with me. When you have once seen Mrs. 
Wentworth, you will feel so differently." 

Wentworth controls the desire to sneer, — the wish to 
say that he will never, of his own accord, meet his 
cousin's widow. He feels that he might as well have 
remained at home ; but, at least, he has some good news 
to take to his mother. So he rises, and is now his grace- 
ful, gentlemanly self as they exchange good-nights. 

There is a feeling of elation, he confesses, in his secret 
heart. Instead of spending years working up to this 
position, he has reached it at a bound. It is also through 
a friend of Judge Minturn's that he has been able to 
place Graham advantageously. And as he walks slowly 
along, for he is really tired, he decides not to displease 
his friend by taking any overt step, simply to show in the 
end what an excellent foundation his prejudices, as the 
judge calls them, rest upon. 

He misses the delightful occupation that he has been 
so accustomed to. He is fond of early rising, and 
having slept in a most refreshing manner, is up betimes 
the next morning ; then he looks from his window and 
remembers. There is not much more than an acre of 
ground here at Larch Avenue, and it is in excellent order. 
The barn and stable seems like a play-house compared to 
that at the Elms. He takes down a law book, and reads 
