augmented by his desire for an excuse to take up again a 
line of behaviour which he had forsworn (small as had, as 
yet, been his opportunity to indulge in it), very much less than 
he supposed; still, it worked an appreciable revolution in 
his view of his case, and made him ask himself what 
amount of consideration he should (from the most refined 
Southern point of view), owe Miss Chancellor in the event 
of his deciding to go after Verena Tarrant in earnest. He 
was not slow to decide that he owed her none. Chivalry 
had to do with one's relations with people one hated, not 
with those one loved. He didn't hate poor Miss Olive, 
though she might make him yet ; and even if he did, any 
chivalry was all moonshine which should require him to 
give up the girl he adored in order that his third cousin 
should see he could be gallant. Chivalry was forbearance 
and generosity with regard to the weak; and there was 
nothing weak about Miss Olive, she was a fighting woman, 
and she would fight him to the death, giving him not an 
inch of odds. He felt that she was fighting there all day 



 

long, in her cottage-fortress ; her resistance was in the air 
he breathed, and Verena came out to him sometimes quite 
limp and pale from the tussle. 

It was in the same jocose spirit with which he regarded 
Olive's view of the sort of standard a Mississippian should 
live up to that he talked to Verena about the lecture she 
was preparing for her great exhibition at the Music Hall. 
He learned from her that she was to take the field in the 
manner of Mrs. Farrinder, for a winter campaign, carrying 
with her a tremendous big gun. Her engagements were all 
made, her route was marked out; she expected to repeat 
her lecture in about fifty different places. It was to be 
called <A Woman's Reason,' and both Olive and Miss 
Birdseye thought it, so far as they could tell in advance, 
her most promising effort. She wasn't going to trust to 
inspiration this time ; she didn't want to meet a big Boston 
audience without knowing where she was. Inspiration, 
moreover, seemed rather to have faded away; in conse- 
quence of Olive's influence she had read and studied so much 
that it seemed now as if everything must take form before- 
hand. Olive was a splendid critic, whether he liked her 
or not, and she had made her go over every word of her 
lecture twenty times. There wasn't an intonation she 
hadn't made her practise; it was very different from the 
old system, when her father had worked her up. If Basil 
considered women superficial, it was a pity he couldn't see 
what Olive's standard of preparation was, or be present 
at their rehearsals, in the evening, in their little parlour. 
Ransom's state of mind in regard to the affair at the 
Music Hall was simply this that he was determined to 
circumvent it if he could. He covered it with ridicule, 
in talking of it to Verena, and the shafts he levelled at it 
went so far that he could see she thought he exaggerated 
his dislike to it. In point of fact he could not have 
overstated that ; so odious did the idea seem to him that 
she was soon to be launched in a more infatuated career. 
He vowed to himself that she should never take that fresh 
start which would commit her irretrievably if she should 
succeed (and she would succeed he had not the slightest 
doubt of her power to produce a sensation in the Music 



 

Hall), to the acclamations of the newspapers. He didn't 
care for her engagements, her campaigns, or all the ex- 
pectancy of her friends ; to ' squelch ' all that, at a stroke, 
was the dearest wish of his heart. It would represent to 
him his own success, it would symbolise his victory. It 
became a fixed idea with him, and he warned her again 
and again. When she laughed and said she didn't see 
how he could stop her unless he kidnapped her, he really 
pitied her for not perceiving, beneath his ominous pleasant- 
ries, the firmness of his resolution. He felt almost capable 
of kidnapping her. It was palpably in the air that she 
would become 'widely popular,' and that idea simply 
sickened him. He felt as differently as possible about it 
from Mr. Matthias Pardon. 

One afternoon, as he returned with Verena from a 
walk which had been accomplished completely within the 
prescribed conditions, he saw, from a distance, Doctor 
Prance, who had emerged bareheaded from the cottage, 
and, shading her eyes from the red, declining sun, was 
looking up and down the road. It was part of the regula- 
tion that Ransom should separate from Verena before 
reaching the house, and they had just paused to exchange 
their last words (which every day promoted the situation 
more than any others), when Doctor Prance began to 
beckon to them with much animation. They hurried 
forward, Verena pressing her hand to her heart, for she 
had instantly guessed that something terrible had happened 
to Olive she had given out, fainted away, perhaps fallen 
dead, with the cruelty of the strain. Doctor Prance 
watched them come, with a curious look in her face ; it 
was not a smile, but a kind of exaggerated intimation that 
she noticed nothing. In an instant she had told them 
what was the matter. Miss Birdseye had had a sudden 
weakness ; she had remarked abruptly that she was dying, 
and her pulse, sure enough, had fallen to nothing. She 
was down on the piazza with Miss Chancellor and herself, 
and they had tried to get her up to bed. But she wouldn't 
let them move her ; she was passing away, and she wanted 
to pass away just there, in such a pleasant place, in her 
customary chair, looking at the sunset She asked for 



 

Miss Tarrant, and Miss Chancellor told her she was out 
walking with Mr. Ransom. Then she wanted to know if 
Mr. Ransom was still there she supposed he had gone. 
(Basil knew, by Verena, apart from this, that his name 
