
White and gold as the lips and heart of a. lily, the 
day blossomed at Fairharbor one June Sunday, when 
these things were as a tale that is told. It was a warm 
day, sweet and still. There was no wind, no fog. The 
harbor wore her innocent face. She has one ; who can 
help believing in it, to see it ? The waves stretched 
themselves upon the beach as if they had been hands 
laid out in benediction ; and the colors of the sky were 
like the expression of a strong and solemn countenance. 

So thought Mother Mary, standing by her husband's 
side that day, and looking off from the little creature in 
her arms to the faces of the fishermen gathered there 
about her for the service. It was an open-air service, held 
upon the beach, where the people she had served and 
loved could freely come to her — and would. They had 
sought the scene in large numbers. The summer peo- 
ple, too, strolled down, distant and different, and hung 
upon the edges of the group. They had a civil welcome, 
but no more. This was a fisherman's affair ; nobody 
needed them ; Mother Mary did not belong to them. 

" The meetin 's ours," said Rowe Salt. " It 's us she 's 
after. The boarders ain't of no account to her." 

His brother Jim was there with Rowe, and Jim's wife, 
and some of the respectable women neighbors. The 
skipper of the Daredevil was there, and so were many 




"But no one heard the other words, said BY Mother Mary." 

of Jack's old messmates. When it was understood that 
Mother Mary had adopted Jack's baby, the news had 
run like rising tide, from wharf to wharf, from deck to 
deck, — everybody knew it, by this time. Almost everybody 
was there, to see the baptism. The Fairharbor 
fishermen were alert to the honor of their guild. They 
turned out in force to explain matters, sensitive to show 
their best. They would have it understood that one 
may have one's faults, but one does not, therefore, 
murder one's wife. 

The scene in the annals and the legends of Fairharbor 
was memorable, and will be long. It was as strange to 
the seamen as a leaf thrown over from the pages of the 
Book of Life, inscribed in an unknown tongue of which 
they only knew that it was the tongue of love. Whether 
it spoke as of men or of angels, they would have been 
perplexed to say. 

Into her childless life, its poverty, its struggles, its 
sacrifices, and its blessed hope, Mother Mary's great 
heart took the baby as she took a man's own better nature 
for him ; that which lay so puny and so orphaned in 
those wild lives of theirs, an infant in her hands. 

Jack's baby, Jack's baby and Teen's, as if it had been 
anybody's else baby, was to be baptized "like folks." 
Jack's baby, poor little devil, was to have his chance. 

The men talked it over gravely ; it affected them with 
a respect one would not anticipate, who did not know 
them. They had their Sunday clothes on. They were 
all clean. They had a quiet look. One fellow who had 
taken a little too much ventured down upon the beach ; 
but he was hustled away from the christening, and 
clucked in the cove, and hung upon the rocks to dry. 
One must be sober who helped to baptize that baby. 


This was quite understood. 

They sang the hymn, Jack's hymn and Teen's : of 
course they sang the Rock of Ages ; and Mother Mary's 
husband read " the chapter " to them, as he was used, 
and spoke to them ; and it was so still among them 
thaf they could hear each wave of the placid sea beat 
evenly as if they listened to the beating of a near and 
mighty peaceful heart. Mother Mary spoke with them 
herself a little. She told them how she took the child, in 
despair of the past, in hope of the future ; in pain and in 
pity, and in love ; yearning over him, and his, and those 
who were of their inheritance, and fate, their chances, 
and their sorrows, and their sins. She told them of the 
child's pure heart within us all, which needs only to be 
mothered to be saved ; which needs only that we foster 
it, to form it ; which needs that we treat it as we do 
other weak and helpless things, whether in ourselves or 
in another. What was noble in them all, she said, was 
to them like this little thing, to her. It was a trust. 
She gave it to them, so she said, as she took the baby, 
here before their witnessing, to spare him from their 
miseries, if she might. 

They were touched by this, or they seemed to be ; 
for they listened from their souls. 

" We 'd oughter take off our hats," somebody whis- 
pered. So they stood uncovered before the minister, 
and Mother Mary, and Jack's poor baby. The sacred 
drops flashed in the white air. Dreamily the fishermen 
heard the sacred words : 

" In the name of the Father : And of the Son : And 
of the Holy Ghost. Amen." 

But no one heard the other words, said by Mother 
Mary close and low, when she received the child into 
her arms again, and bowed her face above it : — 




"My son, I take thee for the sake and for the love of 
thy father ; and of thy mother. Be tJwn their holy ghost." 

