conservatory, where she usually spent a part of the morning alone among
the flowers; sometimes making an elaborate inspection of the plants she
loved best, sometimes sitting for an hour or two with a book in some
remote corner, among the giant tropical leaves and the bright-colored
blossoms. She loved not only the flowers, but the warmth of the place,
in the bitter winter weather.

Cutter entered with a supremely unconscious air, as though he believed
there was no one in the conservatory. There was nothing professorial
about his appearance, except his great spectacles, through which he
gazed benignly at the luxuriant growth of plants, as he advanced, his
hands in the pockets of his plaid shooting-coat. He was dressed as any
other man might be in the country; he had selected an unostentatious
plaid for the material of his clothes, and he wore a colored tie, which
just showed beneath the wave of his thick beard. He trod slowly but
firmly, putting his feet down as though prepared to prove his right to
the ground he trod on.

"Oh! Are you here, Miss Carvel?" he exclaimed, as he caught sight of
Hermione installed in a cane chair behind some plants. She was not much
pleased at being disturbed, but she looked up with a slight smile,
willing to be civil.

"Since you ask me, I am," she replied.

"Whereas if I had not asked you, you would have affected not to be here,
you mean? How odd it is that just when one sees a person one should
always ask them if one sees them or not! In this case, I suppose the
pleasure of seeing you was so great that I doubted the evidence of my
senses. Is that the way to turn a speech?"

"It is a way of turning one, certainly," answered Hermione. "There may
be other ways. I have not much experience of people who turn speeches."

"I have had great experience of them," said the professor, "and I
confess to you that I consider the practice of turning everything into
compliment as a disagreeable and tiresome humbug."

"I was just thinking the same thing," said Hermione.

"Then we shall agree."

"Provided you practice what you preach, we shall."

"Did you ever know me to preach what I did not practice?" asked Cutter,
with a smile of honest amusement.

"I have not known much of you, either in preaching or in practicing, as
yet. We shall see."

"Shall I begin now?"

"If you like," answered the young girl.

"Which shall it be, preaching or practicing?"

"I should say that, as you have me entirely at your mercy, the
opportunity is favorable for preaching."

"I would not make such an unfair use of my advantage," said the
professor. "I detest preaching. In practice I never preach"----

"You are making too much conversation out of those two words,"
interrupted Hermione. "If I let you go on, you will be making puns upon
them."

"You do not like puns?"

"I think nothing is more contemptible."

"Merely because that way of being funny is grown old-fashioned," said
Cutter. "Fifty or sixty years ago, a hundred years ago, when a man
wanted to be very bitingly sarcastic, he would compose a criticism upon
his enemy which was only a long string of abominable puns; each pun was
printed in italics. That was thought to be very funny."

"You would not imitate that sort of fun, would you?" asked Hermione.

"No. You would think it no joke if I did," answered Cutter, gravely.

"I am not going to laugh," said Hermione. But she laughed, nevertheless.

"Pray do not laugh if you do not want to," said Cutter. "I am used to
being thought dull. Your gravity would not wound me though I were chief
clown to the whole universe, and yours were the only grave face in the
world. By the by, you are laughing, I see. I am much obliged for the
appreciation. Shall I go on being funny?"

"Not if you can help it," said Hermione.

"Do you insinuate that I am naturally an object for laughter?" asked
Cutter, smiling. "Do you mean that 'I am not only witty in myself, but
the cause that wit is in other men'? If so, I may yet make you spend a
pleasant hour in despite of yourself, without any great effort on my own
part. I will sit here, and you shall laugh at me. The morning will pass
very agreeably."

"I should think you might find something better to do," returned
Hermione. "But they say that small things amuse great minds."

"If I had a great mind, do you think I should look upon it as a small
thing to be laughed at by you, Miss Carvel?" inquired Cutter, quietly.

"You offer yourself so readily to be my laughing-stock that I am forced
to consider what you offer a small thing," returned his companion.

"You are exceedingly sarcastic. In that case, I have not a great mind,
as you supposed."

"You are fishing for a compliment, I presume."

"Perhaps. I wish you would pay me compliments--in earnest. I am vain. I
like to be appreciated. You do not like me,--I should like to be liked
by you."

"You are talking nonsense, Professor Cutter," said the young girl,
raising her eyebrows a little. "If I did not like you, it would be
uncivil of you to say you had found it out, unless I treated you
rudely."

