
“Well, I suppose it’s right, but I do perfectly hate to go poking
round among poor folks, smelling bad smells, seeing dreadful sights,
hearing woful tales, and running the risk of catching fever, and
diphtheria, and horrid things. I don’t pretend to like charity, but
say right out I’m a silly, selfish wretch, and want to enjoy every
minute, and not worry about other people. Isn’t it shameful?”

Maggie Bradford looked such a sweet little sinner as she boldly made
this sad confession, that no one could scold her, though Ida
Standish, her bosom friend, shook her head, and Anna said, with a
sigh: “I’m afraid we all feel very much as Maggie does, though we
don’t own it so honestly. Last spring, when I was ill and thought I
might die, I was so ashamed of my idle, frivolous winter, that I
felt as if I’d give all I had to be able to live it over and do
better. Much is not expected of a girl of eighteen, I know; but oh!
there were heaps of kind little things I MIGHT have done if I hadn’t
thought only of myself. I resolved if I lived I’d try at least to be
less selfish, and make some one happier for my being in the world. I
tell you, girls, it’s rather solemn when you lie expecting to die,
and your sins come up before you, even though they are very small
ones. I never shall forget it, and after my lovely summer I mean to
be a better girl, and lead a better life if I can.”

Anna was so much in earnest that her words, straight out of a very
innocent and contrite heart, touched her hearers deeply, and put
them into the right mood to embrace her proposition. No one spoke
for a moment, then Maggie said quietly,--

“I know what it is. I felt very much so when the horses ran away,
and for fifteen minutes I sat clinging to Mamma, expecting to be
killed. Every unkind, undutiful word I’d ever said to her came back
to me, and was worse to bear than the fear of sudden death. It
scared a great deal of naughtiness out of me, and dear Mamma and I
have been more to each other ever since.”

“Let us begin with ‘The Prisoners of Poverty,’ and perhaps it will
show us something to do,” said Lizzie. “But I must say I never felt
as if shop-girls needed much help; they generally seem so contented
with themselves, and so pert or patronizing to us, that I don’t pity
them a bit, though it must be a hard life.”

“I think we can’t do MUCH in that direction, except set an example
of good manners when we go shopping. I wanted to propose that we
each choose some small charity for this winter, and do it
faithfully. That will teach us how to do more by and by, and we can
help one another with our experiences, perhaps, or amuse with our
failures. What do you say?” asked Anna, surveying her five friends
with a persuasive smile.

“What COULD we do?”

“People will call us goody-goody.”

“I haven’t the least idea how to go to work.”

“Don’t believe Mamma will let me.”

“We’d better change our names from May Flowers to sisters of
charity, and wear meek black bonnets and flapping cloaks.”

Anna received these replies with great composure, and waited for the
meeting to come to order, well knowing that the girls would have
their fun and outcry first, and then set to work in good earnest.

“I think it’s a lovely idea, and I’ll carry out my plan. But I won’t
tell what it is yet; you’d all shout, and say I couldn’t do it, but
if you were trying also, that would keep me up to the mark,” said
Lizzie, with a decided snap of her scissors, as she trimmed the
edges of a plush case for her beloved music.

“Suppose we all keep our attempts secret, and not let our right hand
know what the left hand does? It’s such fun to mystify people, and
then no one can laugh at us. If we fail, we can say nothing; if we
succeed, we can tell of it and get our reward. I’d like that way,
and will look round at once for some especially horrid boot-black,
ungrateful old woman, or ugly child, and devote myself to him, her,
or it with the patience of a saint,” cried Maggie, caught by the
idea of doing good in secret and being found out by accident.

The other girls agreed, after some discussion, and then Anna took
the floor again.

“I propose that we each work in our own way till next May, then, at
our last meeting, report what we have done, truly and honestly, and
plan something better for next year. Is it a vote?”

It evidently was a unanimous vote, for five gold thimbles went up,
and five blooming faces smiled as the five girlish voices cried,
“Aye!”

“Very well, now let us decide what to read, and begin at once. I
think the ‘Prisoners’ a good book, and we shall doubtless get some
hints from it.”

So they began, and for an hour one pleasant voice after the other
read aloud those sad, true stories of workingwomen and their hard
lives, showing these gay young creatures what their pretty clothes
cost the real makers of them, and how much injustice, suffering, and
wasted strength went into them. It was very sober reading, but most
absorbing; for the crochet needles went slower and slower, the
lace-work lay idle, and a great tear shone like a drop of dew on the
apple blossoms as Ella listened to “Rose’s Story.” They skipped the
statistics, and dipped here and there as each took her turn; but
when the two hours were over, and it was time for the club to
adjourn, all the members were deeply interested in that pathetic
book, and more in earnest than before; for this glimpse into other
lives showed them how much help was needed, and made them anxious to
lend a hand.

“We can’t do much, being ‘only girls,’” said Anna; “but if each does
one small chore somewhere it will pave the way for better work; so
we will all try, at least, though it seems like so many ants trying
to move a mountain.”

“Well, ants build nests higher than a man’s head in Africa; you
remember the picture of them in our old geographies? And we can do
as much, I’m sure, if each tugs her pebble or straw faithfully. I
shall shoulder mine to-morrow if Mamma is willing,” answered Lizzie,
shutting up her work-bag as if she had her resolution inside and was
