watchman or police in places of this kind.  This, after some search, I
found in a corner, over the desk of Brake's assistant, and this I
touched.  My effort brought no reply.  I pressed the button again with
more force and more desperation; I might say, with more personality.

"Obey me!" I cried, setting my teeth, and addressing the electric
influence as a man addresses a menial.

Instantly a thrill passed from the wire to the hand.  A distant sound
jarred upon the air.  Steps shuffled somewhere beyond the massive
walls.  I even thought that I heard voices, as of the watchman and
others in possible consultation.  No one approached the broker's door.
I urged the signal again and again.  I became quite frantic, for I had
now begun to think with dismay of the effect of all this upon my wife.
I railed upon that signal like a delirious patient at the order of a
physician.  A commotion seemed to follow, in some distant part of the
building.  But no one came within hearing of my voice; the noise soon
ceased, and my efforts at freedom with it.

It having now become evident that I must spend the night where I was, I
proceeded to make the best of it; and a very bad best it was.  I was
exhausted, I was angry, and I was distressed.

The full force of the situation was beginning to fall upon me.  The
inspector had put a not unnatural interpretation upon my condition; he
thought so little of a gentleman who had dined too freely; it was a
perfectly normal incident in his experience.  He had mistaken the
character of the stupor caused by my accident, and left me in that
office for a drunken man.  The fact that he was not accustomed to view
me in such a light in itself probably explained the originality of his
method.  We were on pleasant terms.  Drayton was a good fellow.  Who
knew better than he what would be the professional significance of the
circumstance that Dr. Thorne was seen intoxicated down town at
midnight?  The city would ring with it in twelve hours, and it would
not be for me, though I had been the most popular doctor in town, to
undo the deed of that slander, if once it so much as lifted its
invisible hand against the proud and pure reputation in whose shelter I
lived and laboured, and had been suffered to become what we call
"eminent."  It was possible, too, that the inspector had some human
regard for my family in this matter, and reasoned that to spare them
the knowledge of my supposed disgrace was the truest kindness wherewith
it was in his power to serve me.  He meant to leave me where I was and
as I was to sleep it off till morning.  He would return in good season
and release me quietly, and nobody the wiser but the watchman; who
could be feed.  This was plainly the purpose and the programme.

But Helen--

I returned to the table near which I had been sitting, and took the
office chair again, and tried, like a reasonable creature, to calm
myself.

What would Helen think by this time?  I looked about the office
stupidly.  At first the dreary scene presented few details to me; but
after a time they took on the precision and permanence which trifles
acquire in emergencies.  The gas was not lighted, but I could see with
considerable ease, owing to the overwrought brain condition.  It
occurred to me that I saw like a cat or a medium; I noted this, as
indicative of a certain remedy; and then it further occurred to me that
I might as well doctor myself, having nothing better to do; and plainly
there was something wrong.  I therefore put my hand in my pocket for my
case.  It was gone.

Now, a physician of my sort is as ill at ease without his case as he
would be without his body; and this little circumstance added
disproportionately to my discomfort.  With some irritable exclamation
on my lips I leaned back in the chair, and once more regarded my
environment.  It was a rather large room, dim now, and as solitary as a
graveyard after twilight.  Before me stood the table, an oblong table
covered with brown felt.  A blue blotter, of huge dimensions, was
spread from end to end; it was a new blotter, not much blurred.
Inkstand, pens, paper-weight, calendar, and other trifles of a strictly
necessary nature stood upon the blotter.  Letters on file, and brokers'
memoranda neatly stabbed by the iron stiletto--I forget the name of the
thing--for that purpose made and provided, attracted my sick attention.
An advertisement from a Western mortgage firm had escaped the neat hand
of the clerk who put the office in order for the night, and fell
fluttering to my feet.  It would be impossible to say how important
this seemed to me.  I picked it up conscientiously and filed it, to the
best of my remembrance, with an invitation to the Merchant's Banquet,
and a subscription list in behalf of the blind man who sold
tissue-paper roses at the head of the street.

In one corner of the room, as I have said, was the clerk's desk; the
electric signal shone faintly above it; it had, to my eyes, a certain
phosphorescent appearance.  Opposite, the steam radiator stood like a
skeleton.  There was a grate in the room, with a Cumberland coal fire
laid.  On the wall hung a map of the State, and another setting forth
the proportions of a great Western railroad.  At the extreme end of the
room stood chairs and settees provided for auctions.  Between myself
and these, the high, guarded public desk of the broker rose like a
rampart.

In this sombre and severe place I now abandoned myself to my thoughts;
and these gave me no mercy.

My wife was a reasonable woman; but she was a loving and sensitive one.
I was accustomed to spare her all unnecessary uncertainty as to my
movements--being more careful in this respect, perhaps, than most
physicians would be; our profession covers a multitude of little
domestic sins.  I had not taken the ground that I was never to be
expected till I came.  A system of affectionate communication as to my
whereabouts existed between us; it was one of the pleasant customs of
our honeymoon which had lasted over.  The telegraph and the messenger
boy we had always with us; it was a little matter for a man to take the
trouble to tell his wife why and where he was kept away all night.  I
do not remember that I had ever failed to do so.  It was a bother
sometimes, I admit, but the pleasure it gave her usually repaid me;
such is the small, sweet coin of daily love.

As I sat there at the broker's desk, like a creature in a trap, all
that long and wretched night, the image of my wife seemed to devour my
brain and my reason.

The great clock on the neighbouring church struck one with a heavy and
a solemn intonation, of which I can only say that it was to me unlike
anything I had ever heard before.  It gave me a shudder to hear it, as
if I listened to some supernatural thing.  The first hour of the new
day rang like a long cry.  Some freak of association brought to my mind
that angel in the Apocalypse who proclaimed with a mighty voice that
