him to an understanding of the situation, as he realised that 
any one of those small missiles might have ended its song 
by coming into contact with his own body. The next time 
he heard the order to fire he aimed as well as he could, and 
pulled the trigger with the. best possible intention of killing 
an enemy. 



For the most part, the Garibaldians retired after each 
round, reappearing again to discharge their rifles from hehind 
the shelter of walls and trees, while the Zouaves slowly 
advanced along the road, and began to deploy to the right 
and left wherever the ground permitted such a movement. 
The firing continued uninterruptedly for nearly half an hour, 
but though the rifles of the papal troops did good execution 
upon the enemy, the bullets of the latter seldom produced 
any effect. 

Suddenly the order was given to fix bayonets, and im 
mediately afterwards came the command to charge. Gouache 
was all at once aware that he was rushing up hill at 
the top of his speed towards a small grove of trees that 
crowned the eminence. The bright red shirts of the enemy 
were visible before him amongst the dry underbrush, and 
before he knew what he was about he saw that he had run 
a Garibaldian through the calf of the leg. The man tumbled 
down, and Gouache stood over him, looking at him in some 
surprise. While he was staring at his fellow-foe the latter 
pulled out a pistol and fired at him, but the weapon only 
snapped harmlessly. 

' As the thing won't go off,' said the man coolly, ' perhaps you will be good enough to take your bayonet out of 
my leg.' 

He spoke in Italian, with a foreign accent, but in a tone 
of voice and with a manner which proclaimed him a gentleman. 
There was a look of half comic discomfiture in his face that 
amused Gouache, who carefully extracted the steel from the 
wound, and offered to help his prisoner to his feet. The 
latter, however, found it hard to stand. 

'Circumstances point to the sitting posture,' he said, 
sinking down again, 'I suppose I am your prisoner. If 
you have anything to do, pray do not let me detain you. I 
cannot get away and you will probably find me here when 
you come back to dinner. I will occupy myself in cursing 
you while you are gone.' 

' You are very kind,' said Gouache, with a laugh. ' May 
I offer you a cigarette and a little brandy ? ' 

The stranger looked up in some astonishment as he heard 



Gouache's voice, and took the proffered flask in silence, as 
well as a couple of cigarettes from the case. 

' Thank you,' he said after a pause. ' I will not curse 
you quite as heartily as I meant to do. You are very civil.' 

' Do not mention it,' replied Gouache. ' I wish you a 
very good-morning, and I hope to have the pleasure of your 
company at dinner to-night.' 

Thereupon the Zouave shouldered his rifle and trotted off 
down the hill. The whole incident had not occupied more 
than three minutes and his comrades were not far off, pur 
suing the Garibaldians in the direction of a large farmhouse, 
which afforded the prospect of shelter and the means of 
defence. Half a dozen killed and wounded remained upon 
the hill besides Gouache's prisoner. 

The Vigna di Santucci, as the farmhouse was called, was 
a strong building surrounded by walls and fences. A large 
number of the enemy had fallen back upon this point and 
it now became evident that they meant to make a determined 
resistance. As the Zouaves came up, led by Charette in 
person, the Reds opened a heavy fire upon their advancing 
ranks. The shots rattled from the walls and windows in 
rapid succession, and took deadly effect at the short range. 
The Zouaves blazed away in reply with their chassepots, but 
the deep embrasures and high parapets offered an excellent 
shelter for the riflemen, and it was no easy matter to find an 
aim. The colonel's magnificent figure and great fair beard 
were conspicuous as he moved about the ranks, encouraging 
the men and searching for some means of scaling the high 
walls. Though anxious for the safety of his troops, he 
seemed as much at home as though he were in a drawing- 
room, and paid no more attention to the whistling bullets 
than if they had been mere favours showered upon him in 
an afternoon's carnival. The firing grew hotter every moment 
and it was evident that unless the place could be carried by 
assault at once, the Zouaves must suffer terrible losses. The 
difficulty was to find a point where the attempt might be 
made with a good chance of success. 

' It seems to me,' said Gouache, to a big man who stood 
next to him, ' that if we were in Paris, and if that were a 





barricade instead of an Italian farmhouse, we should get 
over it.' 

' I think so, too,' replied his comrade, with a 
laugh. 

' Let us try,' suggested the artist quietly. l We may as 
well have made the attempt, instead of standing here to 
catch cold in this horrible mud. Come along,' he added 
quickly, ' or we shall be too late. The colonel is going to 
order the assault do you set ! ' 

It was true. A loud voice gave a word of command 
which was echoed and repeated by a number of officers. The 
men closed in and made a rush for the farmhouse, trying to 
