kind of delicacy." 

"Oh, a kind!" She smiled. 

He remained a little with his eyes on her face. 
" W T as it for me ? " 

" Of course it was for vou." 







" Ah, how strange you are ! " he exclaimed, 
tenderly. " Such contradictions on sy perd. I 
wish you would say that to them, that way. 
Everything would be right." 

" Never, never ! " said the girl. " I have wronged 
them, and nothing will ever be the same again. 
It was fatal. If I felt as they do I too would 
loathe the person who should have done such a 
thing. It doesn 't seem to me so bad the thing 
in the paper; but you know best. You must go 
back to them. You know best," she repeated. 

" They were the last, the last people in France, 
to do it to. The sense of excruciation of pollu 
tion," Gaston rejoined, making his reflections 
audibly. 

"Oh, you needn 't tell me I saw them all 
there!" Francie exclaimed. 

" It must have been a dreadful scene. But you 
didn 't brave them, did you ? " 

"Brave them what are you talking about? 
To you that idea is incredible ! " 

" No, it isn t," he said, gently. 

" Well, go back to them go back," she repeated. 
At this he half threw himself across the table, 
to seize her hands; but she drew away and, as 
he came nearer, pushed her chair back, springing 
up. "You know you didn 't come here to tell me 
you are ready to give them up." 

He rose to his feet, slowly. "To give them 
up ? I have been battling with them till I'm 





ready to drop. You don 't know how they feel 
how they must feel." 

"Oh yes, I do. All this has made me older, 
every hour." 

" It has made you more beautiful," said Gaston 
Probert. 

"I don 't care. Nothing will induce me to 
consent to any sacrifice." 

"Some sacrifice there must be. Give me time 
give me time, I 'll manage it. I only wish they 
hadn 't seen you there in the Bois." 

"In the Bois?" 

" That Marguerite hadn 't seen you with that 
blackguard. That s the image they can 't get over." 

"I see you can 't either, Gaston. Well, I was 
there and I was very happy. That s all I can say. 
You must take me as I am." 

" Don 't don 't ; you infuriate me ! " he pleaded, 
frowning. 

Francie had seemed to soften, but she was in 
a sudden flame again. "Of course I do, and I 
shall do it again. We are too different. Every 
thing makes you so. You can 't give them up 
ever, ever. Good-bye good-bye ! That s all 
I wanted to tell you." 

"I 'll go and throttle him!" Gaston said, 
lugubriously. 

" Very well, go ! Good-bye." She had stepped 
quickly to the door and had already opened it, 
vanishing as she had done the last time. 





" Francie, Francie ! " he exclaimed, following 
her into the passage. The door was not the one 
that led into the salon; it communicated with 
the other apartments. The girl had plunged 
into these he already heard her locking herself 
in. Presently he went away, without taking leave 
of Mr. Dosson and Delia. 

"Why, he acts just like Mr. Flack," said the 
old man, when they discovered that the interview 
in the dining-room had come to an end. 

The next day was a bad day for Charles 
Waterlow ; his work, in the Avenue de Yilliers, 
was terribly interrupted. Gaston Probert invited 
himself to breakfast with him at noon and remained till the time at which the artist usually 
