"Who would believe your unsupported assertion? sneered the agent."

"It is not unsupported. I brought with me Edward Jones, my faithful
assistant, who has seen your attempt to injure me."

At this, Edward, a stalwart young man of twenty-four, stepped into view.

"I saw it all," he said, briefly.

"You are ready to lie, and he to swear to it," said Wolverton, but his
voice was not firm, for he saw that the testimony against him was too
strong to be easily shaken.

"I don't wonder you deny it, Mr. Wolverton," said Bob.

"I won't remain here any longer to be insulted," said Wolverton, who
was anxious to get away, now that his plan had failed.

Bob did not reply, and the agent slunk away, feeling far from
comfortable.

"What cursed luck sent the boy to the creek to-night?" he said to
himself. "I was on the point of succeeding, and then I would have had
him in my power. Could he have heard anything?"

Wolverton decided, however, that this was not likely. He attributed
Bob's presence to chance, though his words seemed to indicate that he
suspected something. He was obliged to acknowledge his defeat. Yet it
would be possible for him to return in an hour or two, and carry out his
evil plan. But it would be too hazardous. The crime would inevitably be
traced to him, and he would be liable to arrest. No, hard though it was
to bring his mind to it, he must forego his scheme, and devise something
else.

When the agent had left the scene, Bob Burton said: "Edward, you may go
home. I mean to stay here on guard."

"But you will not be in condition to start to-morrow morning. You will
be tired out."

"I can't take any risks this last evening, Edward."

"Then let me take your place. I will stay here."

"But it will be hard on you."

"I will lie later to-morrow morning. You can relieve me, if you like, at
four o'clock."

"Let it be so, then! Too much is at stake for us to leave anything to
chance. I don't think, however, that Wolverton would dare to renew his
attempt."

Meanwhile Wolverton retraced his steps to his own house. There was one
lonely place on the way, but the agent was too much absorbed in his own
reflections to have room for fear. His occupation of mind was rudely
disturbed, when from a clump of bushes two men sprang out, and one,
seizing him by the shoulder, said, roughly: "Your money or your life!"

Wolverton was not a brave man, and it must be confessed that he was
startled by this sudden summons. But he wasn't in the habit of carrying
money with him in the evening, and an old silver watch, which would have
been dear at four dollars, was not an article whose loss would have
seriously disturbed him. So it was with a tolerable degree of composure
that he answered: "You have stopped the wrong man."

"We know who you are. You are Aaron Wolverton, and you are a rich man."

"That may and may not be, but I don't carry my money with me."

"Empty your pockets!"

Wolverton complied, but neither purse nor pocket book was forthcoming.

"Didn't I tell you so?" he said, shrugging his shoulders.

"We won't take your word for it."

The first highwayman plunged his hand into the agent's pockets, but his
search only corroborated Wolverton's statement.

"You, a rich man, go without money!" he exclaimed with rough contempt.

"Perhaps I might have expected such a meeting," Wolverton replied, with
cunning triumph.

"You must have a watch, at any rate!"

"I have one that I will sell you for four dollars."

As he spoke, he voluntarily produced the timeworn watch, which had
served him for twenty years.

The thieves uttered an exclamation of contempt. Their disappointment
made them angry. They hurriedly conferred as to the policy of keeping
Wolverton in their power till he should pay a heavy ransom, but there
were obvious difficulties in the way of carrying out this plan.

Aaron Wolverton listened quietly to the discussion which concerned him
so nearly. He smiled at times, and did not appear particularly alarmed
till one, more bloodthirsty than the other, suggested stringing him up
to the nearest tree.

"My friends," he said, for the first time betraying a slight
nervousness. "I can't see what advantage it would be for you to hang
me."

"You deserve it for fooling us!" replied the second highwayman, with an
oath.

"In what way?"

"By not carrying any money, or article of value."

"I grieve for your disappointment," said Wolverton, with much sympathy.

"If you mock us, you shall swing, any way."

"Don't mistake me! I have no doubt you are very worthy fellows, only a
little unfortunate. What sum would have paid you for your
