of art as had never been enjoyed by any in America 
before. "With the prosperity which he made attend 
his work he changed the character of the enterprise, 
and with Fulkerson's enthusiastic support he gave 
the public an art journal of as high grade as Les 
Letires ct les Arts, and very much that sort of thing. 
All this involved now the unavailing regret of Alma 
Leighton, and now his reconciliation with her : they 
were married in Grace Church, because Beaton had 
once seen a marriage there, and had intended to 
paint a picture of it some time. 
Nothing in these fervid fantasies prevented his 
responding with due dryness to Fulkerson's cheery 
" Hello, old man ! " when he found himself in the 
building fitted up for the Every other JFeek office. 
Fulkerson's room was back of the smaller one 
occupied by the book-keeper ; they had been respec- 
tively the reception-room and dining-room of the 
little place in its dwelling-house days, and they had 
been simply and tastefully treated in their trans- 
formation into business purposes. The narrow old 
trim of the doors and windows had been kept, and 
 
the quaintly ugly marble mantels. The architect 
had said, Better let them stay : they expressed 
epoch, if not character. 
" Well, have you come round to go to work ? Just 
hang up your coat on the floor anywhere," Fulkerson 
went on. 
" I've come to bring you that letter," said Beaton, 
all the more haughtily because he found that 
Fulkerson was not alone when he welcomed him in 
these free and easy terms. There was a quiet-look- 
ing man, rather stout, and a little above the middle 
height, with a full, close-croi)ped iron-grey beard, 
seated beyond the table where Fulkerson tilted him- 
self back, with his knees set against it ; and leaning 
against the mantel there was a young man with a 
singularly gentle face, in which the look of goodness 
qualified and transfigured a certain simplicity. His 
large blue eyes were somewhat prominent ; and his 
rather narrow face was drawn forward in a nose a 
little too long perhaps, if it had not been for the full 
chin deeply cut below the lip, and jutting firmly 
forward. 
"Introduce you to Mr. March, our editor, Mr. 
Beaton," Fulkerson said, rolling his head in the 
direction of the elder man ; and then nodding it 
toward the younger, he said, " Mr. Dryfoos, Mr. 
Beaton." Beaton shook hands with March, and 
then with Mr. Dryfoos, and Fulkerson went on 
gaily: "We were just talking of you, Beaton — 
well, you know the old saying. Mr. March, as I 
told you, is our editor, and Mr. Dryfoos has charge 
 
of the publishing department — he's the counting- 
room incarnate, the source of power, the fountain of 
corruption, the element that prevents journalism 
being the high and holy thing that it would be if 
there were no money in it." Mr. Dryfoos turned 
his large mild eyes upon Beaton, and laughed with 
the uneasy concession which people make to a 
character when they do not quite approve of the 
character's language. "What Mr. March and I are 
trying to do is to carry on this thing so that there 
loonH be any money in it — or very little ; and we 're 
planning to give the public a better article for the 
price than it 's ever had before. Now here 's a 
dummy we 've had made up for Every Other JFeel; 
and as we 've decided to adopt it, we would naturally 
like your opinion of it, so 's to know what opinion 
to have of you." He reached forward and pushed 
toward Beaton a volume a little above the size of the 
ordinary duodecimo book ; its ivory white pebbled 
paper cover was prettily illustrated with a water- 
coloured design irregularly washed over the greater 
part of its surface : quite across the page at top, and 
narrowing from right to left as it descended. In the 
triangular space left blank the title of the periodical 
and the publisher's intiprint were tastefully lettered 
so as to be partly covered by the background of 
colour. 
" It 's like some of those Tartarin books of Dau- 
det's," said Beaton, looking at it with more interest 
than he suffered to be seen. "But it's a book, not 
a magazine." He opened its pages of thick mellow 
 
white paper, with uncut leaves, the first few pages 
experimentally printed in the type intended to be 
used, and illustrated with some sketches drawn into 
and over the text, for the sake of the effect. 
'' A Daniel— a Daniel conio to judgment ! Sit 
down, Dan'el, and take it easy." Fulkerson pushed a 
chair toward Beaton, who dropped into it. " You 're 
right, Dan'el ; it 's a book, to all practical intents 
and purposes. And what we propose to do with the 
American public is to give it twenty-four books like 
this a year — a complete library — for the absurd sum 
of six dollars. We don't intend to sell 'em — it 's no 
name for the transaction — but to give 'em. And 
what we want to get out of you — beg, borrow, buy, 
or steal from you — is an opinion whether we shall 
make the American public this princely present in 
paper covers like this, or in some sort of flexible 
boards, so they can set them on the shelf and say no 
more about it. Now, Dan'el, come to judgment, as 
our respected friend Shylock remarked." 
Beaton had got done looking at the dummy, and 
he dropped it on the table before Fulkerson, who 
pushed it away, apparently to free himself from 
partiality. " I don't know any tiling about the 
business side, and I can't tell about the effect of 
cither style on the sales ; but you 'll spoil the whole 
character of the cover if you use anything thicker 
than that thickish paper." 
" All right ; very good ; first-rate. The ayes have 
it. Paper it is. I don't mind telling you that we 
had decided for that paper before you came in. Mr. 
 
March -wanted it, because he felt in his bones just 
