second court into the street. Our house was divided into two parts by
a lattice work which ran through it in the direction of the fence
separating the two court-yards, with one of which each division was
connected. In the first of these divisions were three chambers,
separated from each other by screens, which were appropriated to our
use, and in the second dwelt soldiers armed with guns, javelins,
swords, and daggers. In this way they could easily watch us, and their
commander generally sat by the lattice and looked into our rooms. A
gallery ran round our apartments, from which we could look out upon
the sea, and a shore which lay opposite.
Our present habitation was in reality far better than the former one,
for we could now at least enjoy the sight of the heavens, walk round
the court-yard undisturbed, and inhale the fresh air and cool breeze.
Our food, also, was much improved. Yet when we came to reflect on the
last words of the governor, we knew not whether to rejoice or be sad.
He had told us, in the plainest terms, to consider the Japanese as
brethren and countrymen, without striving to cheer us, as he was wont
to do, with the prospect of returning to our native land. What could
this mean, but that we were now domiciliated in Japan, and must in
future give up all thoughts of returning home? Yet we were now more
determined than ever, either to free ourselves by force, or escape on
some favorable opportunity offering. After mature deliberation, we
determined on attempting flight, hoping that ere our absence was
discovered we should have time to reach some mountains, in the north
of the island, where we could lie concealed until an opportunity
offered of seizing some kind of a vessel along the coast, in which we
could make a journey from island to island, and so reach the nearest
Russian port. Having thus made our plans, the first thing we
determined to do was to divert the attention of the Japanese from us,
by assuming a cheerful demeanor, and suffering no complaint to escape
us. To our great joy, we were successful. It is true that the
soldiers, who mounted guard, did not sleep at their posts during the
night, but they troubled themselves less about us than formerly, and
sat round the fire, smoking their pipes and playing at draughts. The
officer still went the rounds every half hour, with his men, but he
then sat down in a corner, and amused himself by reading. In the
meantime, we sought to provide ourselves with such things as were
indispensable to our flight. Every day we put aside some of the rice
broth, which continued to be our usual food, and having dried it
during the night, put it into bags, which we tied to our girdles, or
under our arms. One day, whilst we were walking outside of the town,
one of the sailors found a fire-steel. He immediately put his foot
upon it, and stooping down under pretence of pulling up his stocking,
slipped it into his pocket. We stole some flints from our attendants,
and made tinder by burning an old shirt. "Necessity is the mother of
invention," says an old proverb, which, in our case, spoke truly, for
by untiring perseverance we succeeded in constructing a compass,
which, though of course imperfect, answered every purpose. After many
entreaties, we procured from our attendants a couple of needles, under
pretence of mending our clothes. Pretending that we had lost them, we
devoted them to the manufacture of our compass. Through repeated
rubbings on a magnetic stone, which Chleb Nikow had found, and which
we kept carefully concealed in a corner of the yard, we succeeded in
rendering one of them magnetic, and then fastened it to a little sheet
of copper, which we loosened from the roof of our house. We undertook,
besides this, to manufacture some weapons for our defence, in case of
need, and in this attempt fortune again favored us. We found, among
the grass in the court-yard, a large and sharp chisel, which, most
probably, the carpenters had used in the construction of the house,
and forgotten. We put it carefully by, in order that we might fasten
it to a pole, and use it in the moment of our flight as a spear. We
found, also, a spade in the court, which we hid, that it too might
serve as a weapon. Besides this, the sailors, on the night when we
made the attempt, were to arm themselves with some long poles, which
had been used in drying our clothes.
After we had finished our preparations, we noted carefully, whenever
we took a walk, the road and footpath which led to the mountains. On
the twenty-third of April, having gone farther than usual, we induced
our attendants, under the plea of curiosity, to show us a temple,
which lay directly in the way we must take in our flight. Whilst we
were gathering, as usual, leeks and herbs for our own use, we observed
accurately the whole neighborhood, and then set out on our way home.
When we arrived there, we went to bed. A half an hour before midnight,
two of the sailors, who had taken a couple of knives from the kitchen,
which adjoined our rooms, slunk into the garden just after the guard
had made the twelfth round, and hiding themselves under the steps,
began digging a hole under the hedge, whilst we put a bundle of
clothes into each of their beds, that it might appear as if they were
still there.
After they had happily finished their task, without being discovered,
we all went out, and one after the other crept through the hole. When
it came to my turn, I stumbled, but got through, striking my knee,
however, as I did so, against a small post, which was nearly buried in
the ground. The blow was violent, but the pain soon disappeared. We
now found ourselves in a very narrow footpath, between the hedge and
the wall of the fort, which we followed, and after some trouble,
reached the principal street of the town. We hastened along, keeping
among the trees, and at the end of a half hour found ourselves at the
foot of a high mountain, which we were obliged to ascend.
VII.
We immediately began to climb up the hill, and endeavored, as far as
possible, by means of the stars, our only guides, to direct our course
due north. By the time we had reached the first eminence, I felt a
stinging pain in my knee, which suddenly swelled up so much, and put
me into such agony, that I could proceed only with the greatest
difficulty. My companions, therefore, to my great vexation and
concern, were obliged to halt every little while, that I might recover
myself, and ease my injured limb.
Our intention was to reach, before daybreak, that portion of the hill
which was covered with trees, in order to secure ourselves against the
first attempts which the Japanese, who we now considered as our mortal
enemies, might make to capture us. In our walks through the valleys
which surrounded the town, these woods had not appeared to us to be
very far off, but we saw now how much we had been deceived. One of the
footpaths which we had remarked during the day as leading directly to
them, we were unable to find in the thick darkness, which shrouded
from our view objects only a few paces distant.
The only resource left to us was to keep ascending, which the
unevenness of the soil, covered as it was with brushwood, rendered
tedious and difficult. After three painful hours passed in this way,
we came at last to the highest ridge of the mountain, and now imagined
that we could go forward on the high level ground, without any great
exertion. But fate had many obstacles and much trouble in store for
us, that we knew not of. We had now got to a part of the mountain
which in many places was covered with snow, and as we did not wish our
trail to be visible to the Japanese, we were obliged to go first to
the one side and then to the other, and often had to retrace our
steps. In this way we expended our strength, and made very little
progress. An hour before daybreak, we struck on a broad road, which
led towards the north, and which was firm and almost free from snow.
