attention, and compelling criticism to give way to genuine admiration.
There are other buildings, public and private, that indicate a city of
solid growth; and the activity of its strong Chamber of Commerce is a
guarantee that its growth will be maintained with the enterprise common
to American cities. The effort is to make manufacturing take the place
in certain lines of business that, as in the item of pork-packing, has
been diverted by various causes. Money and effort have been freely given
to regain the Southern trade interrupted by the war, and I am forced to
believe that the success in this respect would have been greater if some
of the city newspapers had not thought it all-important to manufacture
political capital by keeping alive old antagonisms and prejudices.
Whatever people may say, sentiment does play a considerable part in
business, and it is within the knowledge of the writer that prominent
merchants in at least one Southern city have refused trade contracts
that would have been advantageous to Cincinnati, on account of this
exhibition of partisan spirit, as if the war were not over. Nothing
would be more contemptible than to see a community selling its
principles for trade; but it is true that men will trade, other things
being equal, where they are met with friendly cordiality and toleration,
and where there is a spirit of helpfulness instead of suspicion.
Professional politicians, North and South, may be able to demonstrate to
their satisfaction that they should have a chance to make a living,
but they ask too much when this shall be at the expense of free-flowing
trade, which is in itself the best solvent of any remaining alienation,
and the surest disintegrator of the objectionable political solidity,
and to the hinderance of that entire social and business good feeling
which is of all things desirable and necessary in a restored and
compacted Union. And it is as bad political as it is bad economic
policy. As a matter of fact, the politicians of Kentucky are grateful to
one or two Republican journals for aid in keeping their State “solid.”
It is a pity that the situation has its serious as well as its
ridiculous aspect.

Cincinnati in many respects is more an Eastern than a Western town;
it is developing its own life, and so far as I could see, without much
infusion of young fortune-hunting blood from the East. It has attained
its population of about 275,000 by a slower growth than some other
Western cities, and I notice in its statistical reports a pause rather
than excitement since 1878-79-80. The valuation of real and personal
property has kept about the same for nearly ten years (1886, real estate
about $129,000,000, personal about $42,000,000), with a falling off in
the personalty, and a noticeable decrease in the revenue from taxation.
At the same time manufacturing has increased considerably. In 1880 there
was a capital of $60,623,350, employing 74,798 laborers, with a product
of $148,957,280. In 1886 the capital was $76,248,200, laborers 93,103,
product $190,722,153. The business at the Post-office was a little less
in 1886 than in 1883. In the seven years ending with 1886 there was
a considerable increase in banking capital, which reached in the city
proper over ten millions, and there was an increase in clearings from
1881 to 1886.

It would teach us nothing to follow in detail the fluctuations of the
various businesses in Cincinnati, either in appreciation or decline, but
it may be noted that it has more than held its own in one of the great
staples—leaf tobacco—and still maintains a leading position. Yet I must
refer to one of the industries for the sake of an important experiment
made in connection with it. This is the experiment of profit-sharing
at Ivorydale, the establishment of Messrs. Procter and Gamble, now,
I believe, the largest soap factory in the world. The soap and candle
industry has always been a large one in Cincinnati, and it has increased
about seventy-five per cent, within the past two years. The proprietors
at Ivorydale disclaim any intention of philanthropy in their new
scheme—that is, the philanthropy that means giving something for
nothing, as a charity: it is strictly a business operation. It is an
experiment that I need not say will be watched with a good deal of
interest as a means of lessening the friction between the interests of
capital and labor. The plan is this: Three trustees are named who are
to declare the net profits of the concern every six months; for this
purpose they are to have free access to the books and papers at all
times, and they are to permit the employes to designate a book-keeper
to make an examination for them also. In determining the net profits,
interest on all capital invested is calculated as an expense at the rate
of six per cent., and a reasonable salary is allowed to each member of
the firm who gives his entire time to the business. In order to share
in the profits, the employé must have been at work for three consecutive
months, and must be at work when the semi-annual account is made up.
All the men share whose wages have exceeded $5 a week, and all the women
whose wages have exceeded $4.25 a week. The proportion divided to
each employé is determined by the amount of wages earned; that is, the
employés shall share as between themselves in the profits exactly as
they have shared in the entire fund paid as wages to the whole body,
excluding the first three months’ wages. In order to determine the
profits for distribution, the total amount of wages paid to all employés
(except travelling salesmen, who do not share) is ascertained. The
amount of all expenses, Including interest and salaries, is ascertained,
and the total net profits shall be divided between the firm and the
employés sharing in the fund. The amount of the net profit to be
distributed will be that proportion of the whole net profit which will
correspond to the proportion of the wages paid as compared with
the entire cost of production and the expense of the business. To
illustrate: If the wages paid to all employés shall equal twenty per
cent, of the entire expenditure in the business, including interest and
salaries of members of the firm, then twenty per cent, of the net profit
will be distributed to employés.

It will be noted that this plan promotes steadiness in work, stimulates
to industry, and adds a most valuable element of hopefulness to labor.
As a business enterprise for the owners it is sound, for it makes
every workman an interested party in increasing the profits of the
firm—interested not only in production, but in the marketableness of the
thing produced. There have been two divisions under this plan. At the
declaration of the first the workmen had no confidence in it; many of
them would have sold their chances for a glass of beer. They expected
that “expenses” would make such a large figure that nothing would
be left to divide. When they received, as the good workmen did,
considerable sums of money, life took on another aspect to them, and
we may suppose that their confidence in fair dealing was raised. The
experiment of a year has been entirely satisfactory; it has not
only improved the class of employés, but has introduced into the
establishment a spirit of industrial cheerfulness. Of course it is still
an experiment. So long as business is good, all will go well; but
if there is a bad six months, and no profits, it is impossible that
suspicion should not arise. And there is another consideration: the
publishing to the world that the business of six months was without
profit might impair credit. But, on the other hand, this openness in
legitimate business may be contagious, and in the end promotive of a
wider and more stable business confidence. Ivorydale is one of the best
and most solidly built industrial establishments anywhere to be found,
and doubly interesting for the intelligent attempt to solve the most
difficult problem in modern society. The first semi-annual dividend
