replied Lonley. "I am Lieutenant Lonley, of the Teaser, and our men are
all ready to go on board."

"And Captain Folkner is all ready to have them go on board," returned
Christy, who had no doubt of the truth of what he said, though he
understood that he was telling a "story" all the same.

"I have no doubt he is. But I don't quite understand how you happen to
be on this side of the island, and so far to the westward at this time
in the morning. We expected to find the Teaser burrowing through the
sound, and we had about made up our minds to take possession of her and
run the blockade, as other Christians do. We did not believe she would
get through the sound in a week, if she ever did."

"I succeeded in persuading Captain Folkner that he had better come out
by the main channel; and that is the way we did come out, and that
explains how we happen to be here at this time in the morning," replied
Christy, very cheerfully.

"You must have very strong powers of persuasion, Captain Gilder," said
Lonley, laughing.

"I have in a case such as this was," added the lieutenant, with a
chuckle, as he thought of the particular kind of persuasion he had
used upon the captain of the privateer.

"I would give a good deal if I had just such powers, for they are
sometimes of very great service to an officer."

"You are quite right, Mr. Lonley. I suppose you are the first lieutenant
of the Teaser."

"No, I am not; kissing goes by favor, and the captain's brother is the
first; and he is no more fit for his position than the captain is for
his duty. I was in hope that the government would take possession of
the steamer, and send her to sea properly officered," added Lonley,
very good-naturedly.

"Good officers are quite necessary in the service," suggested Christy.
"I have no doubt you will fill the bill, and be all that could be
possibly desired."

"Thank you, Captain Gilder. Did you have any trouble in getting out of
the bay?"

"No, none at all. By the way, Mr. Lonley, we have been hearing firing at
the west end of the island to-night. Do you know what it means?"

"The first thing was to clean out that regiment of Zouaves; and I have
no doubt that has been done before now; and our boys may get a hack at
Pickens. A big force was landed in the fog, and the Yankees will not
stay on this island much longer," replied Lonley.

His information was entirely correct, though his prediction was not
equally reliable.

"I was sure there was fighting going on over there," added Christy.
"You seem to be all alone, Mr. Lonley. Where are all your men?"

"I told you before you came ashore that I had sent them all over to the
place where they had left their bags, about a mile to the eastward of
us. I suppose Captain Folkner has sent the boats over there for them
before this time?"

"He was inclined to run over in the steamer," added Christy.

"I hope he did not do that," said the privateersman, with a good deal
more energy than the other thought the occasion warranted. "I warned you
that there was a Yankee gunboat over that way."

"The Teaser has not gone over that way," replied Christy.

"If she has, she will be gobbled up by that gunboat, and all my men with
her."

"I persuaded Captain Folkner not to do it," added the Bellevite's
officer, very quietly.

"He ought to have done just what I asked him to do; and that was to send
his boats over to the place named for the men."

"And I persuaded him to do that also," continued Christy, as
unblushingly as though he had not been strictly in the habit of
telling the truth all his lifetime.

"Good for you, Captain Gilder!" exclaimed Lonley, grasping the hand of
his companion as though he had been his brother. "You beat all the men
I ever knew on power of persuasion; and when I get the command of the
Teaser, as I expect to have before this year ends, I shall want you to
serve as my first lieutenant."

"Thank you, Lieutenant Lonley; you are very kind; and if I ever go into
the privateering service, I shall certainly go in with you," replied
Christy.

"An officer with your power of persuasion will be invaluable to me,"
replied Lonley, still holding the hand of the other. "If I were gifted
in this respect as you are, Captain Gilder, do you know what I would
do?"

"I am sure I have not the least idea, unless it would be to persuade
Jeff Davis to send you a commission as a captain in the regular navy,"
said Christy, laughing at the idea.

"I am afraid I should have too little cheek to attempt to do that, for
the president is a rather obstinate man, and I fear he would not see the
point. Besides, I am a very modest man, though you may not have observed
this shining trait in my character. No; I am too diffident to ask for a
place I have not won by service."

"Then what would you do in the way of persuasion?" asked Christy, though
he wondered why he was prolonging the interview.

"I should use my powers of persuasion upon you, Captain Gilder, in the
first place."

"I don't think it would be of any use, for I am too well posted in that
way of doing it to be influenced," replied Christy, trying to withdraw
his hand from the grasp of the privateersman. "I must go on board of the
Teaser again when you have delivered your message to me, as that was
