expressed Frescobaldi's conception of a derrick, and 
a touch of nature had been added in the flame of 
brandy, wliich burned luridly up from a small pit in 
the centre of the base, and represented the gas in 
  
combustion as it issued from the ground. Fulkerson 
burst into a roar of laughter "with the words that 
recognised Frcscobaldi's personal tribute to Dryfoos. 
Everybody rose and peered over at the thing, while 
he explained the work of sinking a gas-well, as he 
had already explained it to Frescobaldi. In the 
midst of his lecture he caught sight of the caterer 
himself, where he stood in the pantry doorway, 
smiling with an artist's anxiety for the efTcct of his 
masterpiece. 
" Come in, come in, Frescobaldi ! We want to 
congratulate you," Fulkerson called to him. " Here, 
gentlemen ! Here 's Frcscobaldi's health." 
They all drank ; and Frescobaldi, smiling bril- 
liantly and rubbing his hands as he bowed right 
and left, permitted himself to say to Dryfoos, " You 
are please ; no ? You like ? " 
"First-rate, first-rate!" said the old man; but 
when the Italian had bowed himself out and his 
guests had sunk into their seats again, he said dryly 
to Fulkerson, " I reckon they didn't have to torpedo 
that well, or the derrick wouldn't look quite so nice 
and clean." 
" Yes," Fulkerson answered, " and that ain't quite 
the style — that little wiggly- waggly blue flame — 
that the gas acts when you touch off a good vein of 
it. This might do for weak-gas ; " and he went on 
to explain : " Thoy call it weak-gas when they tap 
it two or three hundred feet down ; and anybody 
can sink a well in his backyard and get enough gas 
to light and heat his house. I remember one fellow 
that had it blazing up from a pipe througli a flower- 
bed, just like a jet of water from a fountain. My, 
my, my ! You fel — you gentlemen — ought to go 
out and see that country, all of you. Wish we 
could torpedo this well, Mr. Dryfoos, and let 'em 
see how it works ! Mind that one you torpedoed 
for me ] You know, when they sink a well," he 
went on to the company, " they can't always most 
generally sometimes tell whether they 're goin' to 
get gas or oil or salt-water. Why, when they 
first began to bore for salt-water out on the 
Kanawha, back about the beginning of the century, 
they used to get gas now and then, and then they 
considered it a failure ; they called a gas-well a 
Mower, and give it up in disgust ; the time wasn't 
lipe for gas yet. Now they bore away sometimes 
till they get half-way to China, and don't seem to 
strike anything worth speaking of. Then they put 
a dynamite torpedo do\•n in the well and explode 
it. They have a little bar of iron that they call a 
Go-devil, and they just drop it down on the business 
end of the torpedo, and then stand from under, if 
you please ! You hear a noise, and in about half a 
minute you begin to see one, and it begins to rain oil 
and mud and salt-water and rocks and pitchforks 
and adoptive citizens ; and when it clears up the 
derrick 's painted — got a coat on that 'll wear in any 
climate. That 's what our honoured host meant. 
Generally get some visiting lad}", when there 's one 
round, to drop the Go-devil. Cut that day we had 
to put up with Conrad here. They offered to let 
]   
mc drop it, but I declined. I told 'cm I hadn't 
much practice Arith Go-devils in the news})apcr 
syndicate business, and I wasn't very  well myself, 
anyway. Astonishing," Fulkcrson continued, with 
the air of relieving his explanation by an anecdote, 
" how reckless they get using dynamite when 
they 're torpedoing wells. We stopped at one place 
where a fellow was handling the cartridges pretty 
freely, and Mr. Dryfoos happened to caution him a 
little, and that ass came up with one of 'cm in his 
hand, and began to pound it on the buggy-wheel to 
show us how safe it was. I turned green, I was so 
scared ; but Mr. Dryfoos kept his colour, and kind 
of coaxed the fellow till he cpiit. You could see he 
was the fool kind, that if you tried to stop him he 'd 
keep on hammering that cartridge, just to sIioav that 
it wouldn't explode, till he blew you into Kingdom 
Come. "When we got him to go away, Mr. Dryfoos 
drove up to liis foreman. ' Pay Shency off, and 
discharge him on the spot,' says he. ' He 's too safe 
a man to have round ; he knows too much about 
dynamite.' I never saw anybody so cool." 
Dryfoos modestly dropped his head under Fulker- 
son's flattery and, without lifting it, turned liis eyes 
toward Colonel "Woodburn, "I had all sorts of 
men to deal with in developing my property out 
there, but I had very little trouble with them, gene- 
rally speaking." 
" Ah, ah! you foundt the labouring-man reasonable 
— dractable — tocile ? " Lindau put in. 
" Yes, generally speaking," Dryfoos answered. 
  
" They mostly knew which side of their bread was 
buttered. I did have one little difficulty at one 
time. It hajpened to be when Mr. Fulkersou 
was out there. Some of the men tried to form a 
union " 
" No, no ! " cried Fulkerson. " Let tm tell that ! 
I know you wouldn't do yourself justice, Mr. Dry- 
foos, and I want 'em to know how a strike can be 
managed, if you take it in time. You see, some of 
those fellows got a notion that there ought to be a 
union among the working-men to keep up wages, and 
dictate to the employers, and Mr. Dryfoos's foreman 
was the ringleader in the business. They under- 
stood pretty well that as soon as he found it out 
that foreman would walk the plank, and so they 
watchcd out till they thought they had Mr. Dry- 
foos just where they wanted him — everything on 
the keen jump, and every man worth his weight 
in diamonds — and then they come to him, and 
told him to sign a promise to keep that foreman 
