father's house; he saw her ever, sweet by nature, tender-hearted,
striving at each misdeed of his to show him that in her arms there was
forgiveness still. And he recalled too the affronts he had put upon her,
the baseness of his calculations, the selfishness of his life; he saw
the misery he had inflicted, the affection he had beguiled, the hope he
had tricked, and for climax there was this supreme reproach, of which he
knew now no woman in all the world was less deserving than was she. And
still the tears unstanched and undetained passed down and seared her
cheeks; in the mortal wound he had aimed at her womanhood all else
seemingly was forgot. She did not even move, and lay, her child tight
clasped, the image of Maternity inhabited by Regret.

And such regret! Mistrial, unprompted, could divine it all. The regret
of love misplaced, of illusions spent, the regret of harboring a ruffian
and thinking him a knight. Yes, he could divine it all; and then, as
such things can be, he grieved a moment for himself.

But soon the present returned. Justine still was weeping; he no longer
saw her tears, he heard them. Surely she would forgive again. It could
not be that everything had gone for naught. He would speak to her, plead
if need were, and in the end she would yield. She must do that, he told
himself, and he groped after some falsity that should palliate the
offence. He would tell her that he had been drinking again; he would
deny his own words, or, if necessary, he would insist she had not heard
them aright. Indeed, there was nothing that might have weight with her
which he was not ready and anxious to affirm. If she would but begin, if
in some splendor of indignation such as he had beheld before she would
rise up and upbraid him, his task would be diminished by half. Anything,
indeed, would be better than this, and nothing could be worse; it was
not Justine alone that the tears were carrying from him, it was the
Dunellen millions as well. Oh, abysses of the human heart! As he
queried with himself, at the very moment he was experiencing his first
remorse, the old self returned, and it was less of the injury he had
inflicted that he thought than of the counter-effect that injury might
have on him. In the attempt to throttle the child he had been balked,
yet of that attempt he believed Justine to be suspicionless. Other
opportunities he would have in plenty; and even were it otherwise, the
child was weakly, and croup might do its work. With the future for which
he had striven, there, in the very palm of his hand, how was it possible
that he should have made this misstep? But he could retrieve it, he told
himself; he was a good actor, it was not too late. For a little while
yet he could still support the mask, and, recalling the sentimental
reveries of a moment before, the forerunner of a sneer came and loitered
beneath the fringes of his mustache.

"Justine!" He moved a step or two to where she lay. "Justine--"

His voice was very low and penitent, but at the sound of it she seemed
to shrink. "Could she know?" he wondered.

Then immediately, through the scantness of the apartment, he heard the
outer bell resound. Enervated as he was, the interruption affected him
like a barb. There was some one there whom he could vent his irritation
on. He hurried to the hall, but a servant had preceded him. The door was
open, and on the threshold Thorold stood.

Mistrial nodded--the nod of one who is about to throw his coat aside and
roll his shirt-sleeves up. "Is it for your bill you come?" he asked.

Thorold hesitated, and his face grew very black. He affected, however,
to ignore the taunt. He turned to the servant that still was waiting
there. "Is my cousin at home?" he asked.

"She is," Mistrial announced, "but not to you."

"In that case," Thorold answered, "I must speak to someone in her
stead."

Mistrial made a gesture, and the servant withdrew.

"I have to inform my cousin," Thorold continued, "that Mr. Metuchen came
to me this evening and said that when my uncle died he was in debt--"

"Stuff and nonsense!"

"He asked me to come and acquaint Justine with the facts. They are
here." With this Thorold produced a roll of papers. "Be good enough to
explain to her," he added, "that this is the inventory of the estate."
And, extending the documents to his host, he turned and disappeared.

In the cataleptic attitude of one standing to be photographed Mistrial
listened to the retreating steps; he heard Thorold descend the stairs,
cross the vestibule, and pass from the house. It seemed to him even that
he caught the sound of his footfall on the pavement without. But
presently that, too, had gone. He turned and looked down the hall.
Justine's door was closed. Then at once, without seeking a seat, he
fumbled through the papers that he held. The gas-jet above his head fell
on the rigid lines. In the absence of collusion--and from whence should
such a thing come?--in the absence of that, they were crystal in their
clarity.

There were the assets. Shares in mines that did not exist, bonds of
railways that were bankrupt, loans on Western swamps, the house on
Madison Avenue, mortgaged to its utmost value, property on the
Riverside, ditto. And so on and so forth till the eye wearied and the
heart sickened of the catalogue. Then came the debit account. Amounts
due to this estate, to that, and to the other, a list of items extending
down an entire page of foolscap and extending over onto the next. There
a balance had been struck. Instead of millions Honest Paul had left
dishonor. Swindled by the living, he had swindled the dead.

"So much for trusting a man that bawls Amen in church," mused Mistrial.

As yet the completeness and amplitude of the disaster had not reached
him. While he ran the papers over he feigned to himself that it was all
some trick of Thorold's, one that he would presently see through and
understand; and even as he grasped the fact that it was not a trick at
all, that it was truth duly signed and attested, even then the disaster
seemed remote, affecting him only after the manner of that wound which,
received in the heat of battle, is unnoticed by the victim until its
gravity makes him reel. Then at once in the distance the future on which
he had counted faded and grew blank. Where it had been brilliant it was
obscure, and that obscurity, increasing, walled back the horizon and
reached up and extended from earth to sky. The papers fell from his
nerveless hand, fright had visited him, and he wheeled like a rat
surprised. Surely, he reflected, if safety there were or could be, that
safety was with Justine.

In a moment he was at her door. He tried it. It was locked. He beat upon
it and called aloud, "Justine."
