"I think they are rusty."

They went through the ballroom, now looking very prosaic, flooded with
the light of the rising sun. "We're always tramping through this old
room," said Cicely.

When she reached the door of her own chamber, she abruptly drew Eve in.
"Well--are you going to leave me forever?"

"Not unless you send me away."

"Is it on baby's account that you stay?"

"Not more now than at any time."

"You don't mind what I did, then?"

"You didn't do anything."

"That's brave of you, Eve, when you hate lies so. You are trying to make
me believe that nothing happened out there in the road--that I was just
as usual. But I remember perfectly--I sprang at you; if I had been a
man--my hands stronger--you wouldn't be here now!"

"Fortunately you are not a man, nor anything like one," Eve answered, in
the tone of a person who makes a joke. She turned towards the door.

"Wait, I want to tell you," said Cicely, going after her, and turning
her round with her hands on her shoulders. "This is it, Eve; it comes
over me with a rush sometimes, when I look at you--that here you are
alive, and Ferdie dead! He was a great deal more splendid than you
are, he was so handsome and so young! And yet there he is, down in the
ground; and you walking about here! Nothing seems too bad for you
then; my feeling is, 'Let her die too! And see how she likes it.'"

"I should like it well enough, if somebody else did it," Eve answered.
"Death wouldn't be a punishment, Cicely; it would be a release."

Cicely's grasp relaxed. "Oh, very well. Then why haven't you tried it?"

"Because Paul Tennant is still in the world! I am pusillanimous enough
to wish to breathe the same air."

"You do love him!" said Cicely. She paused. "Perhaps--after a
little--"

"No, I have thought it all out; it can never be. If he should come to me
this moment, and tell me that he loved me in spite of everything, it
wouldn't help me; for I should know that it could not last; I should
know that, if I should marry him, sooner or later he would hate me; it
would be inevitable. Ferdie's face would come always between us."

"I hope it may," said Cicely, savagely. "Why do you keep on staying with
me? I don't wish you to stay. Not in the least."

"I thought that I could perhaps be of some use. You were so dear to my
brother--"

"Much you care for poor old Jack now! Even I care more."

"Yes, I have changed. But--Jack understands."

"A convenient belief!"

"And you have his child."

--"And I am Paul's sister!"

"Yes; I can sometimes hear of Paul through you."

Eve's voice, as she said this, was so patient that Cicely was softened.
She came to Eve and kissed her. "I am sorry for you, Eve."

"Will you promise me to go to bed?" Eve answered, resuming her usual
tone, as she turned towards the door. "I must go now, I am tired."

Cicely went with her. "I am never sure of myself, Eve," she said,
warningly; "I may say just the same things to you to-morrow,--remember
that."

Once in her own room, Eve did not follow the advice which she had given
to Cicely; finding that she could not sleep, she dressed herself afresh,
and sought the open air again. It was still early, no one was stirring
save the servants. Meeting Porley, she asked the girl to bring her some
tea and a piece of corn-bread; after this frugal breakfast, taken in the
shade of the great live-oaks, she wandered down one of the eastern
roads. Her bath had brought no color to her cheeks; her eyes had the
contracted look which comes after a night of wakefulness; though the
acute pain had ceased, her weary arms still hung lifelessly by her side,
her step was languid; only her golden hair looked bright and young as
the sun's rays shone across it.

She walked on at random; after a while, upon looking down one of the
tracks, bordered by the glittering green bushes, she recognized Miss
Sabrina's figure, and, turning, followed it.

Miss Sabrina had come out to pay an early visit to her temple of
memories. She heard Eve's step, and looked up. "Oh, is it you, my dear?
It's St. Michael and All-Angels; I have only brought a few flowers, I
hope you don't mind?" Her voice was apologetic.

"Do you mean for my brother? I wish you had brought more, then; I wish
you would always remember him," said Eve, going over and sitting down
beside the mound. "He has the worst time of any of us, after all!"

"Oh, my dear, how can we know?" murmured Miss Sabrina, shocked.

"I don't mean that he is in hell," said Eve.

Miss Sabrina had no idea what she meant; she returned to the subject of
her temple. "Cicely thinks I come here too often,--she spoke of
charnel-houses. Perhaps I do come often; but it has been a comfort to
me."

"Miss Sabrina, do you believe in another world?"

"My dear child, most certainly."

"And have we the same feelings, the same affections, there as here?"

