Presently she passed her arm through her daughter's and led her 
gently back towards the house. The latter made no resistance, 
but walked quietly beside her across the sunny court. When they 
reached the door of the hall Hilda turned and looked again towards 
the gate. 

' I wonder how it will be when he comes in by that way again ! ' 
she said. 

Then she went in with her mother and entered the sitting- 
room, and sat down in her old place, in the chair into which Greif 
had fallen. She was left alone for a few minutes, while Frau 
von Sigmundskron went to tell Berbel that Greif was gone after 
all, and that there was no need to upset all the household 
arrangements. 



 

The fire was still burning brightly, though one of the logs had 
fallen into two pieces, making a great cave of coals and flames in 
the midst. The slow sun had not crept as far as the next thread- 
bare seam upon the faded carpet. The room was the same as it 
had been a quarter of an hour earlier. Hilda thought of all that 
had happened while that log was being burned through, and while 
the bright sunlight had moved across that narrow space. She 
spread her white hands to the blaze, and looked at the red glare 
between her fingers. 

She was not altogether as calm as she looked, but she was 
certainly far less moved than might have been expected. There 
was a solidity about her nerves that would have driven to despair 
the morbid worshippers of the decadent school of romance, a 
natural force which made it very hard to understand her. 
Womanly she undoubtedly was, but of that type in woman which 
is rarely seen in cities and not often in the country. There is a 
hopefulness inherent in perfect physical organisations that have 
never been strained by unnatural means, which makes them seem 
hard and unfeeling to weaker natures. They have a way of sitting 
still without betraying their thoughts, when they are not called 
upon to act, which produces the impression that they feel nothing, 
and care for nothing but themselves. It is only in great moments 
that they are seen at their best, and that their overpowering 
strength in action excites wonder. They show none of those 
constant changes that belong to very nervous people, and make 
them interesting as studies of sensibility. Their faces do not 
reflect the light and shade of every passing circumstance, their 
voices are not full of quickly contrasted intonations which tell 
more than words themselves, they do not blush and turn pale at 
every suggestion of happiness or unhappiness to themselves, every- 
day speeches do not raise in their minds quick trains of association, 
linked and running on like an ascending scale in music, to culminate 
in a little moment of emotion, in a little flutter of the heart, half 
pleasant, half painful. Their strong pulses beat quietly, in an 
unvarying rhythm, the full and even flow of blood maintains a soft 
colour in their fresh faces ; when they are tired they sleep, when 
they are awake they are rarely tired ; what they could do yester- 
day, they can do as well to-day, and they feel that they will be 
able to do the same to-morrow. They never feel those sharp 
thrusts close to the heart that tell us how quickly one thrust a 
little sharper than the others would end all. They do not lie 
awake in the hours of the night counting the blows of the cruel 
little hammer that beats its prison to pieces at last and is broken 



 

in the ruin of the breast that confined it. And the world 
counts it all to them for dulness and lack of delicate feeling, 
with little discernment and less justice, until the day when 
it sees them roused by such passions as alone can rouse them, 
or suffering such deadly pain as only the strongest can live to 
suffer. 

The baroness came back in a few minutes and stood beside 
Hilda, laying her hand upon her daughter's forehead, and bending 
down. 

' What did he say to you, child ? ' she asked. 

' He said that he would not marry me because it would be a 
shame that I should be called Greifenstein after what has hap- 
pened.' 

' That was what he told me,' replied her mother, leaving her 
and taking up a piece of needlework that lay on the table. She 
could not be idle. 'That was what he told me,' she repeated 
thoughtfully. 'And I answered that he was mistaken.' 

' He said you had done your best to persuade him,' said Hilda, 
and then relapsed into silence. 

' Do you know what I did ? ' she asked presently. 

' I suppose you told him that you did not care for such things 
as names.' 

' Yes I said that. But I took his hands, and I told him that 
I would not let him go. I think I was very angry at something, 
but not at him.' 

Frau von Sigmundskron laid her work upon her knees and 
looked at the young girl attentively for some seconds. 

'Was I wrong?' Hilda asked, turning round as she felt her 
mother's gaze upon her. 

' No. I do not see that it was wrong, but I think I should 
have acted differently. I think I would have tried to make 
him see well, I never was like you.' 

'I am sorry I would do anything to be like you, mother 
dear.' 

' You need not be sorry, child. You are like some one I loved 
better than myself you remind me of your father. And what 
did Greifsay to thatr 

