and so backed out of the room, after bowing till he was dizzy, and
bumping against a marble table in a very painful manner.

"Well, how do you like the life I promised you?  Is it all I said?  Do
we begin to fill our pockets, and enjoy ourselves even sooner than I
expected?" asked Mario, with a good-natured slap of the shoulder, as
they reached his apartment again.

"It is splendid!  I like it much, very much! and I thank you with all my
heart," cried Tino, gratefully kissing the hand that could tweak
sharply, as well as caress when things suited its owner.

"You did well, even better than I hoped; but in some things we must
improve.  Those legs must be taught to keep still; and you must not
forget that you are a peasant when among your betters.  It passed very
well to-night with those little persons, but in some places it would
have put me in a fine scrape.  Capers! but I feared at one moment you
would have embraced the young contessa, when she danced with you."

Mario laughed as poor Tino blushed and stammered, "But, signor, she was
so little, only ten years old, and I thought no harm to hold her up on
that slippery floor.  See, she gave me all these, and bade me come
again.  I would gladly have kissed her, she was so like little Annina at
home."

"Well, well, no harm is done; but I see the pretty brown girls down
yonder have spoiled you, and I shall have to keep an eye on my gallant
young troubadour.  Now to bed, and don’t make yourself ill with all
those confections.  Felice notte, Don Giovanni!" and away went Mario to
lose at play every franc of the money the generous count had given him
"for the poor lad."

That was the beginning of a new and charming life for Tino, and for two
months he was a busy and a happy boy, with only a homesick fit now and
then when Mario was out of temper, or Luigi put more than his fair share
of work upon his shoulders.  The parlor concerts went well, and the
little nightingale was soon a favorite toy in many salons.  Night after
night Tino sang and played, was petted and praised, and then trotted
home to dream feverishly of new delights; for this exciting life was
fast spoiling the simple lad who used to be so merry and busy at
Valrose.  The more he had, the more he wanted, and soon grew
discontented, jealous, and peevish.  He had cause to complain of some
things; for none of the money earned ever came to him, and when he
plucked up courage to ask for his promised share, Mario told him he only
earned his food and clothes as yet.  Then Tino rebelled, and got a
beating, which made him outwardly as meek as a lamb, but inwardly a very
resentful, unhappy boy, and spoiled all his pleasure in music and
success.

He was neglected all day and left to do what he liked till needed at
night, so he amused himself by lounging about the hotel or wandering on
the beach to watch the fishermen cast their nets.  Lazy Luigi kept him
doing errands when he could; but for hours the boy saw neither master
nor man, and wondered where they were. At last he found out, and his
dream of fame and fortune ended in smoke.

Christmas week was a gay one for everybody, and Tino thought good times
had come again; for he sang at several childrens’ fêtes, received some
pretty gifts from the kind Alborghettis, and even Mario was amiable
enough to give him a golden napoleon after a run of good luck at the
cards.  Eager to show his people that he was getting on, Tino begged
Antoine, the friendly waiter who had already written one letter to
Stella for him, to write another, and send by a friend going that way a
little parcel containing the money for Mariuccia, a fine Roman sash for
Stella, and many affectionate messages to all his old friends.

It was well he had that little satisfaction, for it was his last chance
to send good news or exult over his grand success.  Troubles came with
the new year; and in one week our poor little jay found himself stripped
of all his borrowed plumes, and left a very forlorn bird indeed.

Trotting about late at night in silk stockings, and getting wet more
than once in the winter rains, gave Tino a bad cold.  No one cared for
it; and he was soon as hoarse as a crow.  His master forced him to sing
several times in spite of the pain he suffered, and when at the last
concert he broke down completely, Mario swore at him for "a useless
brat," and began to talk of going to Milan to find a new set of singers
and patrons.  Had Tino been older, he would have discovered some time
sooner that Signor Mario was losing favor in Nice, as he seldom paid a
bill, and led a very gay, extravagant life.  But, boylike, Tino saw only
his own small troubles, and suspected nothing when Luigi one day packed
up the velvet suit and took it away "to be repaired," he said.  It was
shabby, and Tino, lying on the sofa with a headache and sharp cough, was
glad no one ordered him to go with it, for the Tramontana was blowing,
and he longed for old Mariuccia’s herb tea and Stella’s cosseting, being
quite ill by this time.

That night as he lay awake in his closet coughing, feverish and
restless, he heard his master and Luigi moving about till very late,
evidently packing for Paris or Milan, and Tino wondered if he would like
either place better than Nice, and wished they were not so far from
Valrose.  In the midst of his meditations he fell asleep, and when he
woke, it was morning.  He hurried up and went out to see what the order
of the day was to be, rather pleased at the idea of travelling about the
world.

To his surprise no breakfast appeared; the room was in confusion, every
sign of Mario had vanished but empty bottles and a long hotel bill lying
unpaid upon the table.  Before Tino could collect his wits, Antoine came
flying in to say with wild gesticulations and much French wrath that
"the rascal Mario had gone in the night, leaving immense debts behind
him, and the landlord in an apoplexy of rage."

Poor Tino was so dismayed he could only sit and let the storm pelt about
his ears; for not only did the waiter appear, but the chambermaid, the
coachman, and at last the indignant host himself, all scolding at once
as they rummaged the rooms, questioned the bewildered boy, and wrung
their hands over the escape of these dishonest wretches.

"You also, little beast, have grown fat upon my good fare! and who is to
pay me for all you have eaten, not to mention the fine bed, the washing,
the candles, and the coaches you have had?  Ah, great heavens! what is
to become of us when such things occur?" and the poor landlord tore his
hair with one hand while he shook his other fist at Tino.

"Dear sir, take all I have; it is only an old guitar, and a few clothes.
Not a centime do I own; but I will work for you.  I can clean saucepans
and run errands.  Speak for me, Antoine; you are my only friend now."

The lad looked so honest and ill and pathetic, as he spoke with his poor
