"I am quite satisfied, sir, with the number, though ten more would be
acceptable," replied the commander of the Bronx.

The two officers were then dismissed and ordered on board of their ship.
A little later the draft of seamen was sent on board, and among them
Christy was not sorry to see Boxie, the old sheet-anchor man of the
Bellevite, who had made him a sort of pet, and had done a great deal to
instruct him in matters of seamanship, naval customs, and traditions not
found in any books.

The commander and the executive officer paid their final visit to the
Bellevite the next day, and the order was given to weigh anchor. When
all hands were called, Christy thought he had never seen a better set of
men except on board of the Bellevite, and the expedition, whatever it
was, commenced under the most favorable auspices.

The Bronx sailed in the middle of the forenoon, and the flag officer was
careful not to reveal the destination of the steamer to any one, for
with the aid of the telegraph, the object of the expedition might reach
the scene of operations in advance of the arrival of the force. At four
o'clock in the afternoon Captain Blowitt opened his envelope in presence
of the executive officer. He looked the paper through before he spoke,
and then handed it to Christy, who read it with quite as much interest
as the commander had.

"Cedar Keys," said the captain, glancing at his associate.

"That is not a long run from the station," added Christy. "We are very
likely to be there before to-morrow morning."

"It is about two hundred and eighty statute miles, I had occasion to
ascertain a week ago when something was said about Cedar Keys," replied
Captain Blowitt. "We have been making about fifteen knots, for the Bronx
is a flyer, and we ought to be near our destination at about midnight.
That would be an excellent time to arrive if we only had a pilot."

"Perhaps we have one," added Christy with a smile.

"Are you a pilot on this coast, Mr. Passford?" asked the commander,
mistaking the smile.

"No, sir, I am not; but I remember a conversation Mr. Flint and I had
with Mr. Amblen, who was engaged in some sort of a speculation in
Florida when the war came on. He was so provoked at the treatment he
received that he shipped in the navy at once. I only know that he had a
small steamer in these waters."

"Send for Mr. Amblen at once!" exclaimed the commander, who appeared to
have become suddenly excited. "There will be no moon to-night in these
parts, and we may be able to hurry this matter up if we have a competent
pilot."

Christy called Dave, and sent him for the acting third lieutenant, for
he knew that Mr. Flint had had the watch since four o'clock. Mr. Amblen
was sunning himself on the quarter deck, and he promptly obeyed the
summons.

"I am glad to see you, Mr. Amblen, and I hope you will prove to be as
useful a person as I have been led to believe you may be," said the
captain.

"I shall endeavor to do my duty, sir," replied the third lieutenant,
who was always very ambitious to earn the good opinion of his superiors.
"I mean to do the best I can to make myself useful, Captain Blowitt."

"I know that very well; but the question now is what you know rather
than what you can do as an officer. Mr. Passford informs me that you
were formerly engaged in some kind of a speculation on the west coast
of Florida."

"Hardly a speculation, sir, for I was engaged in the fish business,"
replied Mr. Amblen, laughing at the name which had been given to his
calling. "When I sold a small coaster that belonged to me, I got in
exchange a tug boat. I had been out of health a few years before; I
spent six months at Cedar Keys and Tampa, and got well. Fish were plenty
here, and of a kind that bring a good price farther north. I loaded my
tug with ice, and came down here in her. I did a first-rate business
buying from boats and in catching fish myself, and for a time I made
money, though ice was so dear that I had to sell in the South."

"Did you have a pilot on board of your tug?" asked the captain.

"No, sir; I was my own pilot. I had the charts, and I studied out the
bottom, so that I knew where I was in the darkest night."

"Then you are just the person we want if you are a pilot in these
waters."

"What waters, sir? We are now off Cape St. Blas and Apalachicola Bay.
I have been into the bay, but I am not a pilot in those waters, as you
suggest."

"I have just opened my orders, and I find we are ordered to Cedar Keys,"
interposed the commander.

"That is quite another thing, sir; and there isn't a foot of bottom
within five miles of the Keys to which I have not been personally
introduced. When I was down here for my health I was on the water more
than half of the time, and I learned all about the bay and coast; and I
have been up the Suwanee River, which flows into the Gulf eighteen miles
north of the Keys."

"I am exceedingly glad to find that we have such an excellent pilot on
board. I am informed in my orders that schooners load with cotton at
this place, and make an easy thing of getting to sea," added Captain
Blowitt.

"I should say that it was a capital port for the Confederates to use for
that sort of business. Small steamers can bring cotton down the Suwanee
River, the railroad from Fernandina terminates at the Key, and this road
connects with that to Jacksonville and the whole of western Florida as
far as Tallahassee."

"We may find a steamer or two there."

"You may, though not one any larger than the Bronx, for there is only
eleven feet of water on the bar. Probably no blockaders have yet been
stationed off the port, and it is a good place to run out cotton."

"I am much obliged to you, Mr. Amblen, for the information you have
