



attack us, our point was to scare them off; accordingly we 
provided ourselves with a hundred rockets, and a copper 
alarm kettle. To protect ourselves against the men, who 
are oftentimes no less dangerous than the wild heasts, I 
procured from the government a passport, in the native 
language, written on a pahn leaf, directing all whom it 
concerned to provide me Jacob Hafiier, Clerk of the Dutch 
East India Company, and my companions with all needed 
assistance. This kind of official protection is indispensably 
necessary in a country where the oppressed natives hate 
their oppressor, and where every European, who claims 
their hospitality, finds himself poorly off without such a 
pass. 

All our preparations finished, after a moderate mid-day 
meal, we took farewell of our wives not without tears. 
We men bore ourselves stoutly —  father Templyn scolded 
a little ; a sobbing good-bye sounded after us, and so we 
broke away with our company, sixteen in all. Almost the 
whole population of the place turned out to witness the 
commencement of such an unheard of enterprise. To 
speak the truth, we four Europeans looked very much like 
so many highway robbers starting upon an expedition for 
plunder. Three of us were armed with cutiasses, a brace 
of pistols in our belts, cartridge boxes, and rifles over our 
shoulders ; the deaf baker wore a huge sabre, which clat- 
tered behind him as he marched. 

II. 

In order to cut off a good piece of the way to the Dutch
brt, Panoryn, whence we were to start on foot, we crossed 



 

an arm of the sea ; the voyage was short, but not withoutv 
an adventure, for just as the baker was taking a drink of 
rum to our health and a good journey', a flying fish shot 
by so close to his nose that in pure fright he let the glass 
fall to the ground. And his fright was not without reason, 
for the creature, pursued by his enemies, darted out of the 
water as if he had been shot from a bow, and his pike- 
shaped mouth-piece, which was so hard and pointed, like 
the bill of a bird, that it entered an inch or two into the 
ship's flanks, was not a very pleasant thing to come in 
contact with. 

On the third day we reached the fort, and found a right 
hearty welcome from the commandant of the same ; but 
all his well meant efibrts to turn us from our purpose were 
fruitless. As, however, we were approaching the scene 
of danger, we lost no time in putting our arms in order. 
Immediately after dinner we shook hands with our friendly 
host, and turned towards the thick forest which lay spread 
out like a carpet within half a mile of us. A majestic, 
awe-inspiring sight ! especially as imagination suggested 
what a host of blood-thirsty, ravenous wild beasts, with 
strength far exceeding that of man, were hidden behind 
the curtain. 

A dim twilight received us as we entered the skirt of 
the wood between the huge trees, which wove over oui 
heads a dome of branches, variegated ' by flowers, and 
blossoms, and accessible to no ray of the sun. At every 
step, as we entered farther into the forest, the trees mse 
larger and closer, and were so thickly woven together with 
underwood and running vines, that sometimes we were 



unable to proceed a dozen steps without cutting our way, 
axe in hand. It grew every moment more diflBcult, and 
we were heartily glad when one of our attendants, an 
elephant-hunter, who acted as our guide, at last found a 
narrow foot pajih, which we instantly followed. 

I found myself by accident at the head of the march ; 
the Frenchman, with whom I had fallen ioto livelj- chat, 
trotted after me, when suddenly a monstrous bear shot out 
of a bush right before my feet, and stood apparently in 
doubt whether he should attack me or make off. For my 
part I did not see him until he was so near to me that T 
tumbled over his broad back, and we both rolled on the 
ground. The Frenchman was more fortunate, and had 
time to retreat a few steps. I instantly tried to rise, 
either to flee or to defend myself; but before I could get 
upon my feet the monster stood growling over ue, with 
open mouth and raised claws, prepared to at tuck me. 
The frightfid sight struck me motionless with fear, and I 
gave myself up for lost, for, at the slightest movement on 
my part, the outstretched claw would have descended on 
my head; I closed my eyes, and commended my' soul ta 
God. At this critical moment I heard something whizz 
over me, and at the same time a shot was heard, at which 
the startled animal left me, and with a horrible cry darted 
away through the opening whence he had made his appear- 
ance. Thus was I, contrary to all hope, rescued from 
death, and indeed in a double form, for I was not in more 
peril from the uplifted claw of the bear than from the 
pistol ball spnt by the trembling hand of the excited 
d'Allemand, and yet I owed it to this bad shot that I wa» 



 

not torn to piieces, before one of the company, who were 
some distance behind, could render me any help. 

While these, as much astonished as rejoiced, congratu- 
lated me upon having escaped the rough embrace of the 
ehaggy fellow, our baker was doing his, best, with his 
drawn sabre, to find the impudent beast that be believed 
to be still in the neighborhood; but not succeeding, on 
