Aunt Lois, so jealously did Rachel watch them. And though Primrose had
planned talks with Uncle James they invariably came to nought, for she
could never surprise him alone, and he was so hard of hearing she knew
there would be listeners.
Faith was upstairs spinning on the big wheel, and her window overlooked
the stretch of woods that shut out the road altogether. Aunt Lois sat
knitting, Rachel was making some stout homespun shirts for winter wear,
and Uncle James was lying on the bed asleep.
"Thou hast something else in thy face," began Aunt Lois presently, when
Primrose had recounted the misfortunes of the Randolphs and the shelter
that had opened before them. "Hast thou heard from----"
"I have seen him!" Primrose clasped both hands and the knitting fell to
the floor.
"Seen him! Oh, child! Hath he been here?"
Her voice quavered and her eyes filled with tears.
Rachel picked up the knitting with a frown. The needle had slipped out
half-way.
"Thou mightst have shown a little more care, Primrose," beginning to
pick up the stitches.
"Tell me, tell me! Is he here now?"
"He came with the French soldiers. Oh, how fine and gallant they were!
He could only stay one night, for the Commander had some special
business for him at the seat of war. All the troops are going on, and it
is hoped that, when the Continentals win, this will lead to peace."
"When they win," said Rachel with doubtful scorn. "It seems as if they
cared for nothing but going on and on like quarrelsome children, and no
good comes of it. No good can come of such an evil as war. And if you
sell anything, here is all this wretched, worthless money! I had rather
have good British gold."
"So Arnold thought." Primrose's mirth-loving eyes danced with a sense of
retaliation. "There has been some French gold quite as good, since it
has clothed our troops and given them many comforts. And, Aunt Lois, he
is well and splendid, the picture of my own father, Aunt Wetherill
thinks. He sent so much love, and if the war should end he will come
home for good. He is not fond of battle, but you may know how good a
soldier he has proved, since he has gone from private to major."
Aunt Lois looked up with tender, longing eyes. "Then I shall see him,"
she said. "He will not stay away?"
"Oh, surely, surely! If there had been time he would have come now. And
oh, Aunt Lois, up there on the Hudson we almost lost him. There was a
sudden surprise, and, but for young Allin Wharton, it might have gone
hard indeed with him."
She could not confess that it was a kindred hand raised against him,
though her quick flush betrayed some deep feeling.
"Heaven be thanked! And the young man?"
"He was wounded then and again later on, but has been brought home and
is mending. And surely God was watching over Andrew, for he had no hurt
whatever. And I feel sure now he will come back safe to us."
Rachel Morgan's face worked with some deep passion, and grew darker
under the sunburn. The young girl's delight angered her. Perhaps, too,
the beauty and grace, the cloth habit fitting her slim, elegant figure,
the beaver hat that looked so jaunty and had in it some long cock's
plumes, quite a new fashion. Then there was the trim foot with its fine
shoe and steel buckle, all gauds of worldliness to be sure, but they
would attract a man's eye.
Rachel had not been beautiful in her childhood, but the tender grace
that softens so many faces had not been allowed its perfect work on
hers. She looked older now than her years and there were hard lines that
some day would be avarice, uncharity, and other evil traits. Then this
girl was an idle butterfly, frisking from one folly to another in a
wicked and worldly fashion, even despising the plain faith her father
had intended she should follow.
"Oh," exclaimed Aunt Lois, after a blissful communing with her soul in
very thankfulness, "thou puttest new life into me. I can feel it run
through like the breeze in the grass. Sometimes I think with the wise
man that few and evil have been my days, and I would not have them
unduly prolonged, but to see my son again, my dear son!"
The smile was so sweet that Primrose, leaning over, kissed into it and
then both smiled again, while there were tender tears in the eyes of
both.
"And now I must go," Primrose said presently, "but I will try to come
sooner again. It is such fine weather that the orchards are full of
fruit and the wild grapes and the balsams fill the air with fragrance.
Oh, Aunt Lois, God must have made such a beautiful world for us to
enjoy. He cannot mean to have us frown on this, and wait until we get to
heaven, for then the smiles and joy will not come so readily."
"It is flippant for thee to talk of heaven this way. We do not go
dancing into it. We must fashion our lives on more godly things," said
Rachel rebukingly.
Primrose made no reply, but drew on her glove.
"Then I shall not see Faith," she said rather disappointedly as she
rose.
"Where is Faith?" Aunt Lois looked up.
"She idled so much yesterday that she did not finish her stent, and she
has a larger share this afternoon."
Rachel followed the girl out. The horses stood in the shade and Jerry
had been lounging on the grass, but he sprang up and doffed his hat to
his young mistress.
"I have something to say to thee." Rachel took her arm and turned her
away from the house and Jerry as well. "Dost thou truly think Andrew
will return?"
"He will return." There was an exultant ring of hope and youth in the
sweet voice that smote the listener.
"And then," very deliberately, as if her words meant to cut something,
they were so sharp and cold, "then you will marry him."
"Marry him? I?"
There was indignation in every line of the face and Rachel noted it with
secret joy, though her countenance remained unmoved.
"Yes," persistently. "Thou hast always been fondling about him and
kissing him, and such foolishness wins a man when plain common sense
gets flouted."
"I have never thought of such a thing," and her face was full of
surprise, though the lovely color kept coming and going, and her eyes
flashed a little. "I do not want any lovers, and as for husbands,
nothing would tempt me to change with Mistress Anabella. And there is
poor Betty Randolph, full of sorrow. No, I mean to be like Madam
Wetherill, who can always do as she pleases."
"Silly child! I should be sorry indeed for the man who took thee. But
Madam Wetherill was married once."
"And her husband died. No, I cannot bear death and sorrow," and she gave
a quick shiver.
"Thou hast made trouble enough for Andrew. First it was getting away and
mooning over books and strange things, instead of useful ones. Then it
was passing food and clothing out to Valley Forge, and running his neck
in a noose. Then it was going to war, for which his father disowned
him."
"Nay, not that altogether." She looked steadily at Rachel, whose eyes
fell a little.
"Yes, if he had not gone he would not have been disowned. It was through
thy preachment. Thou hast cost him trouble everywhere. And now, if he
