to himself.

"You have heard the decision I have just given, Mr. Passford, for I have
no doubt that is your real name," said the captain, when the cabin door
was closed.

"I have, captain," replied Christy, bowing respectfully.

"Have you anything to say in regard to it?"

"Nothing at all," replied Christy, bowing again, and bearing himself
with the dignity of a veteran officer; and in the matter of demeanor,
the Confederate Captain Carboneer had presented to him one of the best
models he had seen, both in action and as a prisoner.

"You do not wish to make any explanation of the remarkable situation in
which you find yourself placed at the present moment?"

"At present, I do not, captain."

"You certainly could not have been aware that your official envelope
contained only blank paper. I cannot believe that one more simple-minded
than I believe you to be would have had the effrontery to present such
matter as evidence that he was an officer of the United States Navy,"
continued Captain Battleton, with a look of greater severity than he had
before assumed, possibly because he realized that the real Lieutenant
Passford was higher in rank than he was himself.

"I supposed the official envelope contained my commission and orders."

"You believe that your papers were taken from you, and the blanks
substituted for them?"

"I cannot explain the matter at present, and you must excuse me from
offering merely vague suspicions and conjectures."

"Do you realize your present situation, Mr. Passford?" asked the
captain, apparently disappointed at the unwillingness of the young man
to attempt an explanation.

"I think I do, captain, and I submit to your authority as the commander
of the ship," answered Christy, with a dignified bow.

"As I said before, I have no doubt you are a Passford; and I have been
compelled to decide that you are not the son of Captain Horatio
Passford, the distinguished gentleman who has done so much for his
country in the present war."

"With the evidence before you, I do not see how you could have decided
otherwise."

"Whether the decision be just or not, I am obliged to regard you as son
of the Homer Passford who supports the government of the Confederacy.
You and the other Mr. Passford have recognized each other as cousins."

"We are cousins."

"Then it follows that one of the two must be a Confederate who is on
board of a United States ship for some purpose not yet explained, but
fairly supposed to be hostile."

"I admit the correctness of your conclusion."

"I have already recognized the Union officer, and therefore you must be
the Confederate."

"Without reflecting upon your decision, I must deny that I am a
Confederate, and proclaim that my motto is 'Stand by the Union!'"

"In spite of your denial and your motto, I shall have to regard you as
a prisoner of war, and treat you as such," said the captain, rising from
his chair, the others following his example.

"I submit to your authority, Captain Battleton," replied Christy, bowing
to the commander.

"But I do not wish to subject you to any unnecessary restraint, and I
shall be willing to accept your parole that you will engage in no
hostile movement on board of the Vernon," continued the captain, in
milder tones.

"I cannot accept a parole, captain, for that would be equivalent to an
admission that I am a Confederate; and I claim to be a loyal officer."

"If you are, I am sorry that you are unable to prove your claim. I have
only one officer on board as a passenger, for the reason that I had only
one spare stateroom. There is no place for you in the ward room, and it
does not appear that you are an officer."

"I shall find no fault with my accommodations, whatever they are,"
replied Christy.

"I must object to your wearing the shoulder straps of a lieutenant on
board of the Vernon," added Captain Battleton.

"I have a plain frock in my valise which I wore when the Teaser was
captured," added Christy with a smile. "I will remove my coat and wear
that."

"Now I will see where I can find a place for you to berth," said the
captain as he left the cabin.

"I am sorry you did not explain the blank paper in your envelope, Mr.
Passford," said the surgeon, as they were leaving the cabin.

"I cannot explain it--how can I?" replied Christy. "Whoever took out my
papers and put the blanks in their place, did not make me his confidant
in the operation."

"But can you not recall some event or circumstance which will throw some
light on the mystery?" persisted Dr. Connelly.

"I can; but I have not had time to consider any events or circumstances,
and it would not be treating Captain Battleton with proper respect to
submit a string of crude conjectures to him."

At this moment the captain appeared in the gangway, and interrupted the
conversation. He informed the prisoner of war, as he chose to regard
him, that he had directed the carpenter to put up a temporary berth for
him. Christy opened his valise, and took from it his frock, which he put
