have taken it and made an end of Zehowah for very anger that she would
not love him. Had he not gone out for her into the raging heat of
summer, and borne the burden of a great war, and destroyed a nation and
taken a city? Moreover, if neither words nor deeds could gain her love,
what means remained to him to try?

All through the night Khaled pondered, calling up all that he had seen
in the world in former times, until he fell asleep at last, wearied in
heart.

Very early in the morning one of Zehowah's women came and stood by his
bed and waked him. He could see that her face was pale in the dawn, her
limbs trembled and her voice was uncertain.

'Arise, my lord!' she said. 'A messenger has come from the army with
evil news, and stands waiting in the court.'

Khaled sprang up, and Zehowah awoke also.

'What is this message?' he asked hastily.

But the woman threw herself upon the floor and covered her face, as
though begging forgiveness because she brought evil tidings.

'Speak!' said Zehowah. 'What is it?'

'Our lord the Sultan is dead!' cried the woman, and she broke out into
weeping and crying and would say nothing more.

But when Zehowah heard that her father was dead, she sat down upon the
floor and beat her breast and tore her hair, and wailed and wept, while
all the women of the harem came and gathered round her and joined in her
mourning, so that the whole palace was filled with the noise of their
lamentations.

Khaled went out into the court and questioned the messenger, who told
him that the Sultan had held a great feast in the evening in the gardens
of Dereyiyah, having with him the woman Almasta and the other captive
women, and being served by black slaves. But, suddenly, in the night,
when most of the soldiers were already asleep, there had been a great
cry, and the slaves and women had come running from the tent, crying
that the Sultan was dead. This was true, and the Jewish physician who
had gone out with his master declared that he had died from an access of
humours to the head, brought on by a surfeit of sweetmeats, there being
at the time an evil conjunction of Zoharah and Al Marech in square
aspect to the moon and in the house of death.

Khaled therefore mounted his bay mare and rode quickly out to Dereyiyah,
where he found that the news was true, and the women were already
preparing the Sultan's body for burial. Having ordered the mourning, and
commanded the army to prepare for the return to the city, Khaled set out
with the funeral procession; and when he reached the walls of Riad he
turned to the left and passed round to the north-east side of the city
where the burial-ground is situated. Here he laid the body of his
father-in-law in the tomb which the latter had prepared for himself
during his lifetime, and afterwards, dismissing the mourners, he went
back into the city to the palace.

After the days of mourning were accomplished, the will of the Sultan was
made known, though indeed the people were well acquainted with it
already. By his will Khaled succeeded to the sovereignty of the kingdom
of Nejed and to all the riches and treasures which the Sultan had
accumulated during his lifetime. But the people received the
announcement with acclamations and much joy, followed by a great
feasting, for which innumerable camels were slain. Khaled also called
all the chief officers and courtiers to a banquet and addressed them in
a few words, according to his manner.

'Men of Nejed,' he said, 'it has pleased Allah to remove to the
companionship of the faithful our master the Sultan, my revered
father-in-law, upon whom be peace, and to set me up among you as King in
his stead, being the husband of his only daughter, which you all know.
As for the past, you know me; but if I have wronged any man let him
declare it and I will make reparation. And if not, let none complain
hereafter. But as for the future I will be a just ruler so long as I
live, and will lead the men of Nejed to war, when there is war, and will
divide the spoil fairly; and in peace I will not oppress the people with
taxes nor change the just and good laws of the kingdom. And now the
feast is prepared. Sit down cheerfully, and may Allah give us both the
appetite to enjoy and the strength to digest all the good things which
shall be set before us.'

But Khaled himself ate sparingly, for his heart was heavy, and when they
had feasted and drunk treng juice and heard music, he retired to the
harem, where he found Zehowah sitting with Almasta, the Georgian woman,
there being no other women present in the room. He was surprised when he
saw Almasta, though he knew that the captive women had been lodged in
the palace, the distribution of the spoil from the war having been put
off by the mourning for the Sultan.

When Almasta heard him enter, she looked up quickly and a bright colour
rose in her face, as when the juice of a pomegranate is poured into
milk, and disappeared again as the false dawn before morning, leaving no
trace. Khaled sat down.

'Is not this the woman of whom you spoke?' Zehowah asked. 'I knew her
from the rest by her red hair.'

'This is the woman. Your father would have taken her for his wife. But
Allah has disposed otherwise.'

'She is beautiful. She is worthy to be a king's wife,' said Zehowah.

'The Sultan?' asked Almasta, for she hardly understood. Her face turned
as white as bone bleached by the sun, and her fingers trembled, while
her eyes were cast down.

Zehowah looked at Khaled and laughed.

'See how she trembles and turns pale before you,' she said. 'And a
little while ago her face was red. You have found a torch wherewith to
kindle this lamp, and a breath that can extinguish it.'

'I do not know,' Khaled answered. But he looked attentively at Almasta
and remained silent for some time. 'It is now necessary to divide the
spoils of the war,' he said at last, 'and to bestow such of these women
as you do not wish to keep upon the most deserving of the officers.'

'My lord will surely take the fairest for himself, since she loves him,'
said Zehowah, again laughing, but somewhat bitterly.
