

work, commended and made one or two rather spirited sug- 
gestions, he kisses her and goes off to his room. Nothing 
is to be stopped because this woman has refused him the 
right to watch over and guard her. She can hardly get out 
of God's hands, he remembers. 

One thing comes back and humbles him. He has not 
exactly offered to throw away his life for this woman, but 
he has come quite near. It would have been a "divided 
duty." The passionate delight of a home, the ideal home 
of his dreams, with her, might have outweighed other 
claims, given them a sort of irksomeness rather than enjoy- 
ment. ' It is hard to take duty only, when duty and love 
might walk hand in hand. She is not ready for it. Let 
him gird himself up anew. There may be some other 
plane of life on which they can meet. His nature is too 
rich and self-sustaining to be utterly cast down. 

Cynthia Halford is so occupied with her own fervent 
desires, that when Winterburne and Eegina enter the cosey 
parlor in no undue agitation, not a suspicion of the true 
state of the case is aroused. He is too really bewildered 
in soul and brain to get outside of the level lines of con- 
ventionalism. It is like some safe fence that keeps one 
from straying. 

" So you found her ? " Cynthia says gayly. " Did you 
both weep over the ruins of your ancestors ? perhaps ances- 
tral pile would be more neat and effective." 

Winterburne nods, and goes over to Mrs. Halford and 
shakes hands cordially. 

" Shall I be forgiven for robbing you of Miss Cynthia ? " 
he asks, with a quaint tenderness. "We all want her so 
much. Alice is delighted. It's an odd sort of experi- 
ment." 

"And because I flash out of the regulation orbit and 
make circles for myself, I am the one to undertake an ex- 
periment. Hear that, mother dear. One's peculiarities may 
sometimes lead one to greatness," she says humorously. 

" You are very good in thus consenting to part with 
her," he replies still to Mrs. Halford. 



 

Eegina tingles with a quick, resentful flush. He would 
put it on the ground of a favor granted them. 

" One of us would need to earn some money," she says 
decisively. " We are no longer lilies of the field. And it 
is we who should be thankful for the good fortune coming 
to our very door. Most people in a stress of adiersity 
have to go out and seek it. We should be foolishly short- 
sighted not to accept it." 

" Kegina has a substratum of good common-sense," ob- 
serves Cynthia, rather elated with this way of placing the 
matter on its true standing. 

All the preliminaries being settled, Winterburne goes 
his way. Kegina interests herself unwontedly, and Cyn- 
thia is delighted. They can even plan what the money 
will be used for. Regina does not show the secret stabs in 
her face or voice. She, fragile and beautiful flower, must 
have some one to smooth the rough places for her delicate 
steps, i/e would have married her that she might come 
back to her serene existence. What a poor, weak thing 
she must appear to them all. The wonderful woman slie 
has been shaping and training, adding to, and loj)ping off, 
is utterly inadequate for the real work of life. She has 
lowered instead of raising herself. She is to sail on the 
smooth dead calms of commonplace, and look at the work- 
ers. Why, it seems to her that the young girl trudging 
back and forth to daily labor, distasteful, uuintellectual, 
was nobler. 

In that hour of discontent aud humiliation her head 
drops wearily on her slim, white hands, and some iDitter 
tears force their way through. A dim consciousness comes 
to her that she has never, even in that distant youth, — it 
looks so far back now, — entered into the true spirit of 
things. Always it has been the high places, the reaching 
up in her own strength, the pleasures and influences afar. 
She has disdained the small duties, the daily cares, with a 
sort of royal indifference, and she is left alone with them. 
Her place is here. Ko one says to her, Come up higher. 
Ah, one man would have taken her out of it, but it was 





only to give her wide and lovely spaces to walk in. Even 
he did not say, " Come over and help us in the work lor 
humanity." Cynthia is chosen for that. 

Something iioats through her soul like a faint chime — 
" The duty nearest." It is not any new truth. Are there 
any grand new truths ? Were they not all told more than 
eighteen hundred years ago ? yet the restless, unsatisfied 
souls have gone on seeking a better way, crying out, " Lo 
here, and lo there," with passionate striving to dress up 
the old ones with the great joy of a new discoverer." Has 
it brought peace ? Has she not mistaken all the unrest 
for intellectual activities, and prided herself upon the 
growth that would presently bloom into rare perfectness ? 
And there is no blossom. It is simply going on. That is 
all there is for her, let her face it. Cultivation cannot 
make a genius, and she has been secretly praying all these 
months for some inspiration that should set her up above 
ordinary souls. 

Very few come clean and dry out of the slough of 
