cried; and when he was left almost alone, the head-waiter came to him
and said, "Your train's just going, sir."

"Thank you," he answered, "I'm going out on the Quebec line." He wanted
to laugh, in thinking how he had baffled fate. Now, if any inquiry were
made for him it would be at the Montreal train before it started, or at
the next station, which was still within the American border, on that
line. But on the train for Quebec, which would reach Stanstead in half
an hour, he would be safe from conjecture, even, thanks to that dispatch
asking for a chair on the Montreal Pullman. The Quebec train was slow in
starting; but he did not care; he walked up and down the platform, and
waited patiently. He no longer thought with anxiety of the long
all-night ride before him. If he did not choose to keep straight on to
Quebec, he could stop at Lenoxville or Sherbrooke, and take up his
journey again the next day. At Stanstead he ceased altogether to deal
with the past in his thoughts. He was now safe from it beyond any
possible peradventure, and he began to plan for the future. He had
prepared himself for the all-night ride, if he should decide to take it,
with a cup of strong coffee at Wellwater, and he was alert in every
faculty. His mind worked nimbly and docilely now, with none of that
perversity which had troubled him during the day with the fear that he
was going wrong in it. His thought was clear and quick, and it obeyed
his will like a part of it; that sense of duality in himself no longer
agonized him. He took a calm and prudent survey of the work before him;
and he saw how essential it was that he should make no false step, but
should act at every moment with the sense that he was merely the agent
of others in the effort to retrieve his losses.




II.


At Stanstead a party of three gentlemen came into the car; and their
talk presently found its way through Northwick's revery, at first as an
interruption, an annoyance, and afterwards as a matter of intensifying
personal interest to him. They were in very good spirits, and they made
themselves at home in the car; there were only a few other passengers.
They were going to Montreal, as he easily gathered, and some friends
were to join them at the next junction, and go on with them. They talked
freely of an enterprise which they wished to promote in Montreal; and
they were very confident of it if they could get the capital. One of
them said, It was a thing that would have been done long ago, if the
Yankees had been in it. "Well, we may strike a rich defaulter, in
Montreal," another said, and they all laughed. Their laughter shocked
Northwick; it seemed immoral; he remembered that though he might seem a
defaulter, he was a man with a sacred trust, and a high purpose. But he
listened eagerly; if their enterprise were one that approved itself to
his judgment, the chance of their discussing it before him might be a
leading of Providence which he would be culpable to refuse. Providence
had answered his prayer in permitting him to pass the American frontier
safely, and Northwick must not be derelict in fulfilling his part of the
agreement. The Canadians borrowed the brakeman's lantern, and began to
study a map which they spread out on their knees. The one who seemed
first among them put his finger on a place in the map, and said that was
the spot. It was in the region just back of Chicoutimi. Gold had always
been found there, but not in paying quantity. It cost more to mine it
than it was worth; but with the application of his new process of
working up the tailings, there was no doubt of the result. It was simply
wealth beyond the dreams of avarice.

Northwick had heard that song before; and he fell back in his seat, with
a smile which was perhaps too cynical for a partner of Providence, but
which was natural in a man of his experience. He knew something about
processes to utilize the tailings of gold mines which would not
otherwise pay for working; he had paid enough for his knowledge: so much
that if he still had the purchase-money he need not be going into exile
now, and beginning life under a false name, in a strange land.

By and by he found himself listening again, and he heard the Canadian
saying, "And there's timber enough on the tract to pay twice over what
it will cost, even if the mine wasn't worth a penny."

"Well, we might go down and see the timber, any way," said one of the
party who had not yet spoken much. "And then we could take a look at
Markham's soap-mine, too. Unless," he added, "you had to tunnel under a
hundred feet of snow to get at it. A good deal like diggin' the north
pole up by the roots, wouldn't it be?"

"Oh, no! Oh, no!" said he who seemed to be Markham, with the optimism of
an enthusiast. "There's no trouble about it. We've got some shanties
that we put up about the mouth of the hole in the ground we made in the
autumn, and you can see the hole without digging at all. Or at least you
could in the early part of January, when I was down there."

"The hole hadn't run away?"

"No. It was just where we left it."

"Well, that's encouragin'. But I say, Markham, how do you get down there
in the winter?"

"Oh! very easily. Simplest thing in the world. Lots of fellows in the
lumber trade do it all winter long. Do it by sleigh from St. Anne's,
about twenty miles below Quebec--from Quebec you have your choice of
train or sleigh. But I prefer to make a clean thing of it, and do it all
by sleigh. I take it by easy stages, and so I take the long route: there
is a short cut, but the stops are far between. You make your twenty
miles to St. Anne from Quebec one day; eighteen to St. Joachim, the
next; thirty-nine to Baie St. Paul, the next; twenty to Malbaie, the
next; then forty to Tadoussac; then eighteen to Rivière Marguerite. You
can do something every day at that rate, even in the new snow; but on
the ice of the Saguenay, to Haha Bay, there's a pull of sixty miles;
you're at Chicoutimi, eleven miles farther, before you know it. Good
feed, and good beds, all along. You wrap up, and you don't mind. Of
course," Markham concluded, "it isn't the climate of Stanstead," as if
the climate of Stanstead were something like that of St. Augustine.

"Well, it sounds a mere bagatelle," said the more talkative of the other
two, "but it takes a week of steady travel."

"What is a week on the way to Golconda, if Golconda's yours when you get
there?" said Markham. "Why, Watkins, the young spruce and poplar alone
on that tract are worth twice the price I ask for the whole. A
pulp-mill, which you could knock together for a few shillings, on one of
those magnificent water-powers, would make you all millionnaires, in a
single summer."

"And what would it do in the winter when your magnificent water-power
