
"I beg pardon, signore," he began, standing still as he waited for
Ghisleri to turn and look at him.

"Do you need money?" asked the latter carelessly.

"No, signore. You have perhaps forgotten that you gave me money
yesterday. It is something which I have had upon my conscience a long
time, and now that you are falsely accused, signore, it is my duty to
speak, if you permit me."

"Tell me what it is." Ghisleri sat down at his writing-table, and lit a
cigarette.

"It is a very secret matter, signore. But if I keep it a secret any
longer, I shall be doing wrong, though I also did wrong in coming by the
information I have, though I did not know it. I have also been to a
lawyer who understands these matters, and takes an interest in the case,
and he has told me that unless some saint performs a miracle nothing can
save you at the trial. So that I must give my evidence. But if I do, the
Princess Adele will go to the galleys, and the house of Savelli will be
quite ruined. For the Princess murdered Lord Herbert Arden, and tried to
murder Donna Laura, as we call her. She invited them to dinner and gave
them napkins which she with her own hand had poisoned with infection of
the scarlet fever, her maid Lucia having had it at the time. And Lord
Herbert died within three days, but Donna Laura did not catch it. And I
have read how she did this, and many other wicked things, in a letter
written with her own hand. For it was I who found the confession they
speak of, when I went alone to look at the old prisons at Gerano, while
you and the signori were out driving. And now I do not know what to do,
but I had to speak in order to save you, and you must judge of the rest,
signore, and pardon me if I have done wrong."

Ghisleri knew the truth at last, and his lean, weather-beaten face
expressed well enough the thirst for vengeance that burned him. He
waited a few moments and then spoke calmly enough.

"Have you got the confession here?" he asked. "If it is found in my
house it will ruin me, though it may ruin Donna Adele too."

"I understand, signore. Have no fear. I read it through, because I found
it open and the leaves scattered as it must have fallen, though how it
fell there I do not know. But it is still at Gerano. If you will allow
me, I will explain what I did. When I had read it, I put it into my
pocket, saying to myself that it was a difficult case for the
conscience. And I thought about it for more than an hour while I walked
about the castle. Then I went and got an envelope and I put the leaves
into it thinking that perhaps it would be wrong to burn it. So I wrote
on the outside: 'This was found in the prison of the castle of Gerano by
Bonifazio di Rienzo,' and I also wrote the date in full. Then at the
tobacconist's shop in the village I bought some wax, and took a seal I
have, which is this one, signore. It has 'B.R.' on it. And I sealed the
letter with much wax, so that the tobacconist laughed at me. But I did
not let him see what was written on the envelope. Then I took it to the
parish priest whose name is Don Tebaldo, and who seemed to me to be a
very respectable and good man. I told him in confidence that I had found
something which it was not possible for me to give to the rightful
owner, but which I thought it would be wrong to destroy, because the
rightful owner might some day make inquiry for it and wish to have it.
He asked many questions, but I would not answer them all, and he did not
know what the letter was about nor that it was a confession. So I begged
him to put it into another envelope and to seal it again with his own
seal, and I gave him what was left of the wax I had bought. Then he did
as I asked him, and wrote on the back: 'This was brought to me to be
kept, by one Bonifazio di Rienzo, until the owner claims it. But it is
to be burned when I die.' And there it is to this day, for I have made
inquiries and Don Tebaldo is alive and well, and God bless him! So I
come to tell you all this, in order that you may act as you see fit,
signore. For Don Tebaldo can swear that I gave him the letter on the day
I found it and I can swear that you never knew anything of it."

Ghisleri looked at his faithful old servant, whose round brown eyes met
his so steadily and quietly.

"I can never thank you enough, my dear Bonifazio," he said. "You have
saved me. I will not forget it."

"As for that, signore, I will not accept any present, and I humbly beg
you not to offer me any, for it would be the price of blood, such as
Judas Iscariot received, seeing that the Princess Adele will go to the
galleys."

"You need not be afraid of that, Bonifazio," answered Ghisleri. "Casa
Savelli will easily prove that she was mad, as I believe she is, and she
will end her life in a lunatic asylum. But you must not bring either Don
Tebaldo or the letter here. Go at once to the Marchese di San Giacinto
and tell him exactly what you have told me, and that I sent you. He will
know what to do. Take money with you and execute his orders exactly
without returning here, no matter what they are. I can do without you
for a week if necessary, and I wish to know nothing of the matter until
it is over."

"Yes, signore," answered Bonifazio, and without more words he left the
room and went directly to San Giacinto's house.

The latter received him in his study, and listened to his story with
calm attention. Then, without making any remark, he smoked nearly half a
cigar, while Bonifazio stood motionless, respectfully watching him. Then
he rang the bell, and gave the man who answered it instructions to order
out a sort of mail-cart he used for driving himself, and the strongest
horses in the stable.

"You must come with me," he said to Bonifazio. "We can be back before
midnight." Then he began to write rapidly.

He wrote a note to his cousin, the Prince of Sant' Ilario, another to
Gianforte Campodonico, and then a rather longer one to Savelli. In the
last mentioned, he informed the Prince that he would appear on the
morrow, with Campodonico and Sant' Ilario, and that he desired to be
received by Savelli himself in the presence of Francesco and Adele, as
he had a communication of the highest importance to make. In his usual
hard way he managed to convey the impression that it would be decidedly
the worse for the whole house of Savelli and for Adele in particular if
his request were not complied with to the letter. By the time he had
finished a servant announced that the carriage was waiting. San Giacinto
thrust a handful of black cigars and a box of matches into his outer
pocket.

"Come," he said to Bonifazio, "I am ready. It is a long drive to
Gerano."
