trying to entangle them first and kill 
them later. Others, protected by 
oblong shields and armed with short, 
sharp swords, fought hand-to-hand. 
There were still others, mailed horse- 
 
men, who fought with the lance, 
and charioteers that dealt death from 
high Briton cars. 
As a spectacle it was unique; one 
that the Romans, or more exactly, 
their predecessors, the Etruscans, had 
devised to train their children for 
war and allay the fear of blood. It 
had been serviceable, indeed, and 
though the need of it had gone, still 
the institution endured, and in enduring constituted the chief delight of 
the vestals and of Rome. By means 
of it a bankrupt became consul and 
an emperor beloved. It had stayed 
revolutions, it was the tax of the proletariat on the rich. Silver and bread 
, were for the individual, but spectacles 
were for the crowd. 
During the pauses of the combats 
I the dead were removed by men 
BSnasked as Mercury, god of hell; red 
f irons, that others, masked as Charon, 
 
bore, being first applied as safeguard 
against swoon or fraud. And when, 
to the kisses of flutes, the last palm 
had been awarded, the last death 
acclaimed, a ballet was given; that of 
Paris and Venus, which Apuleius has 
described so well, and for afterpiece 
the romance of Pasiphx and the 
bull. Then, as night descended, so 
did torches, too; the arena was 
strewn with vermilion; tables were 
set, and to the incitement of crotals, 
Lydians danced before the multitude, 
toasting the last act of that wonderful 
day. 
It was with such -Tiagnificence that 
Nero showed the impresario's skill, 
the politician's adroitness. Where 
the artist, which he claimed to be, 
really appeared, was in the refurbishing of Rome. 
In spite of Augustus' boast, the ' 
city was not by any means of marble. 
 
It was filled with crooked little 
streets, with the atrocities of the 
Tarquins, with houses unsightly and 
perilous, with the moss and dust of 
ages; it compared with Alexandria 
as London compares with Paris; it 
had a splendor of its own, but a 
splendor that could be heightened. 
Whether the conflagration which 
occurred at that time was the result 
of accident or design is uncertain 
and in any event immaterial. 
Tacitus says that when it began Nero 
was at Antium, in which case he 
must have hastened to return, for ad- 
mitting that he did not originate the 
fire, it is a matter of agreement that 
he collaborated in it. In quarters 
where it showed symptoms of weakness it was by his orders coaxed to 
new strength; colossal stone buildings, on which it had little effect, 
were battered down with catapults. 
Fire is a perfect poet. No de- 
signer ever imagined the surprises it 
creates, and when, at the end of the 
week three-fourths of the city was in 
ruins, the beauty that reigned there 
must have been subhme. That it in- 
spired Nero is presumable. The 
palace on the Palatine, which 
Tiberius embellished and Caligula 
enlarged, had gone; in its place rose 
another, aflame with gold. Before it 
Neropolis extended, a city of triumphal arches, enchanted temples, 
royal dwellings, shimmering porticoes, glittering roofs, and wide, hos- 
pitable streets. It was fair to the 
eye, purely Greek; and on its heart, 
from the Circus Maximus to the 
Forum's edge, the new and gigantic 
palace shone. Before it was a lake, a 
part of which Vespasian drained and 
replaced with an amphitheatre that 
covered eight acres. About that 
 
lake were separate edifices that 
formed a city in themselves; between 
them and the palace, a statue of Nero 
in gold and silver mounted precipitately a hundred and twenty feet — a 
statue which it took twenty-four elephants to move. About it were 
green savannahs, forest reaches, the 
call of bird and deer, while in the distance, fronted by a stretch of columns 
a mile in length, the palace stood — a 
palace so ineffably charming that on 
the day of reckoning may it outbalance a few of his sins. Even the cellars were frescoed. The baths were 
quite comfortable; you had waters 
salt or sulphurous at will. The dining halls had ivory ceilings from 
which flowers fell, and wainscots that 
changed at each service. The walls 
were alive with the glisten of gems, 
with marbles rarer than jewels. In 
one hall was a dome of sapphire, a 
 
floor of malachite, crystal columns 
and red -gold walls. 
"At last," Nero murmured, "I am 
lodged like a man." 
No doubt. Yet in a mirror he 
would have seen a bloated beast in a 
flowered gown, the hair done up in a 
chignon, the skin covered with eruptions, the eyes circled and yellow; 
