
''Thou wouldst not exchange thy life for 
another ? Thou dost not wish to travel ? " 

"No, — sure." 

She wheeled suddenly and galloped over to 
her father and Alvarado, her caballeros staring 
helplessly after her. 

When we arrived at the rancho the bullocks 
were already swinging in the pits, the smell of 
roast meat was in the air. We dismounted, 
throwing our bridles to the vaqueros in waiting ; 
and while Indian servants spread the table, the 
girls joined hands and danced about the pit, 
throwing flowers upon the bullocks, singing and 
laughing. The men watched them, or amused 
themselves in various ways, — some with cock- 
fights and impromptu races ; others began at 
once to gamble on a large flat stone ; a group 
stood about a greased pole and jeered at two 
rival vaqueros endeavoring to mount it for the 



 



 





sake of the gold piece on the top. One buried 
a rooster in the ground, leaving its head alone 
exposed ; others, mounting their horses, dashed 
by at full speed, snatching at the head as they 
passed. Reinaldo distinguished himself by 
twisting it off with facile wrist while urging his 
horse to the swiftness of the east wind. 

" I am going to dare more than Californian 
has ever dared before, " said Estenega to me, 
as we gathered at length about the table-cloth. 
" I am going to get Dona Chonita off by her- 
self in that little cafton and have a talk with 
her. Now, do you stand guard. " 

" I shall not ! " I exclaimed. '* It is 
understood that when DonaTrinidad stays at home 
Chonita is in my charge. I will not permit 
such a thing." 

"Thou wilt, my Eustaquia. Dona Chonita 
is no pudding-brained girl. She needs no 
duena. " 

" I know that ; but it is not that I am 
thinking of. Suppose some one sees you ; thou 
knowest the inflexibility of our conventions." 

" You forget that we are comadre and 
compadre. Our privileges are many. " He abruptly 
dismissed the intimate "thou," with his usual 
American perversity. 

^' True ; I had forgotten. But whither is all 

this tending", Diego ? She neither will nor can 
marry you. " 

" She both can and will. Will you help me, 
or not ? Because if not I shall proceed without 
you. Only you can make it easier." 

I always gave way to him ; everybody did. 

He was as good as his word. How he man- 
aged, Chonita never knew, but not a half-hour 
after dinner she found herself alone in the canon 
with him, seated among the huge stones cata- 
clysms had hurled there. 

''Why have you brought me here?" she 
asked. 

"To talk with you." 

"But this would be severely censured. 

"Do you care? " 
"'No." 

She looked at him with a curious feeling she 
had had before ; there was something inside of 
his head that she wanted to get at, — something 
that baffled and teased and allured her. She 
wanted to understand him, and she was op- 
pressed by the weight of her ignorance ; she 
had no key to unlock a man like that. With 
one of her swift impulses she told him of what 
she was thinking. 

He smiled, his eyes lighting. " I am more 
than willing you should know all that you 

would be curious about," he said. ''Ask me 
a hundred questions ; I will answer them. " 

She meditated a moment. She never had 
taken sufficient interest in a man before to 
desire to fathom him, and the arts of the Califor- 
nian belle were not those of the tactfully and 
impartially interested woman of to-day. She 
did not know how to begin. 

'*What have you read ?" she asked, at 
