
At the Synthesis she was ashamed to let Charmian think that her absent
and tremulous mood had something to do with Ludlow; but she was so much
more ashamed of the shabby truth that she would have been willing to
accept the romance herself. This was very dishonest; it was very wicked
and foolish; Cornelia saw herself becoming a guilty accomplice in an
innocent illusion. She found strength to silence Charmian's surmise, if
not to undeceive her; she did her best; and as the days began to remove
her farther and farther from the moment of her actual encounter with
Dickerson, her reason came more and more into control of her
conscience. She tried not to be the fool of a useless remorse for
something she was at least not mainly to blame for. She had to make the
struggle alone; there was no one she could advise with; her heart shut
when she thought of telling any one her trouble; but in her perpetual
reveries she argued the case before Ludlow.

It seemed to her as if he had come to render her a final judgment when
his name was sent up to her room, that Saturday afternoon which ended
the longest week of her life. She went down, and found him alone in the
long parlor, and it was in keeping with her fantastic prepossession
that he should begin, "I wonder how I shall say what I've come for?" as
if he would fain have softened her sentence.

He kept her hand a moment longer than he need; but he was not one of
those disgusting people who hold your hand while they talk to you, and
whom Cornelia hated. She did not now resent it, though she was sensible
of having to take her hand from him.

"I don't know," she answered, with hysterical flippancy. "If I did I
would tell you."

He laughed, as if he liked her flippancy, and he said, "It's very
simple. In fact, that's what makes it so difficult."

"Then you might practice on something hard first," she suggested
wildly. "How would the weather do?"

"Yes, hasn't it been beautiful?" said Ludlow, with an involuntary lapse
into earnestness. "I was in the Park to-day for a little effect I
wanted to get, and it was heartbreaking to leave the woods. I was away
up in those forest depths that look wild in spite of the asphalt. If
you haven't been there, you must go some day while the autumn color
lasts. I saw a lot of your Synthesis ladies painting there. I didn't
know but I might see you."

This was all very matter of fact. Cornelia took herself in hand, and
shook herself out of her hallucination. "No, I don't suppose it would
be right for a person who was merely in the Preparatory to go sketching
in the Park. And Charmian and I were very good to-day, and kept working
away at our block hands as long as the light lasted."

"Ah, yes; Miss Maybough," said Ludlow; then he paused absently a
moment. "Do you think she is going to do much in art?"

"How should I know?" returned Cornelia. She thought it rather odd he
should recur to that after she had let him see she did not want to talk
about Charmian's art.

"Because you know that you can do something yourself," said Ludlow.
"That is the only kind of people who can really know. The other sort of
people can make clever guesses; they can't know."

"And you believe that I can do something?" asked Cornelia, and a sudden
revulsion of feeling sent the tears to her eyes. It was so sweet to be
praised, believed in, after what she had been through. "But you haven't
seen anything of mine except those things--in the Fair House."

"Oh, yes, I have. I've seen the drawings you submitted at the
Synthesis. I've just seen them. I may as well confess it: I asked to
see them."

"You did! And--and--well?" she fluttered back.

"It will take hard work."

"Oh, I know that!"

"And it will take time."

"Yes, that is the worst of it. I don't see how I can give the time."

"Why?" he asked.

"Oh, because--I can't very well be away from home." She colored as she
said this, for she could have been away from home well enough if she
had the money. "I thought I would come and try it for one winter."

He said lightly, "Perhaps you'll get so much interested that you'll
find you can take more time."

"I don't know," she answered.

"Well, then, you must get in all the work you can this winter. Block
hands are well enough, but they're not the whole of art nor the whole
preparation for it."

"Oh, I've joined the sketch class," she said.

"Yes, that's well enough, too," he assented. "But I want you to come
and paint with me," he suddenly added.

"You? Me?" she gasped.

"Yes," he returned. "I'll tell you what I mean. I've been asked to
paint a lady. She'll have to come to my place, and I want you to come
with her, and see what you can do, too. I hope it doesn't seem too
extraordinary?" he broke off, at sight of the color in her face.

"Oh, no," said Cornelia. She wondered what Charmian would say if she
knew this; she wondered what the Synthesis would say; the Synthesis
held Mr. Ludlow in only less honor than the regular Synthesis
instructors, and Mr. Ludlow had asked her to come and paint with him!
She took shelter in the belief that Mrs. Burton must have put him up to
it, somehow, but she ought to say something grateful, or at least
something. She found herself stupidly and aimlessly asking, "Is it Mrs.
Westley?" as if that had anything to do with the matter.

"No; I don't see why I didn't tell you at once," said Ludlow. "It's
your friend, Miss Maybough."

