




nobody would have thought of starting ; but 
they were " in for it." The captain, of course, 
was a swimmer, but they were a good quarter 
of a mile from shore. It was seen in a 
very few moments that Donald was chilled 
through, and that he kept himself upon the 
surface weakly. He made for the shore at 
first ; then seemed to waver, weaken, and 
turn. 

Often a tender accompanies the crews, 
rowed by a relief, in view of possible 
accident. But in this case none was on duty. 
The situation was really very serious for 
Don. He had begun to have blind and sober 
thoughts, of his father, of dying, of Fay ; 
a flash of many startling dreams and 
memories, and of strangling fear. Under these 
wilder visions ran a sense of mortification 
that the captain of the Junior crew should 
drown himself, and alongside of the whole 
medley one steady, matter-of-fact thought : 

" If the cramp takes me, I'm a goner." 

" Great God ! " cried Don suddenly, " I've 
given out. I'm too cold. I'm going down." 

The roar of the water in his ears took on 
a strange, sweet tone, like a girl singing, 
Sunday night, in a peaceful home. If ever 
the boy heard her in the world, he heard 



 

Fay at that moment. What was it ? Some 
thing about Jesus, the lover of her soul : 

"When the billows o er me roll.  

Then it was that he felt his arm seized by 
a mighty grasp. He knew that clutch. Who 
in all Harle could mistake it ? Nobody but 
Trouncey O Grian could grip a man like 
that. 

To say that the Junior crew were paralyzed 
when they saw Marcy disappear would 
be putting it mildly. Were it not for the 
superior weight and buoyancy of their craft 
and their presence of mind when the gust 
struck them abeam, they, too, would have 
gone under. A wild thought swept through 
Trouncey O Grian 's whirling brain. Don 
ald must be saved at any cost ; he would 
be the man to do it. The feat which he 
now performed is yet talked of in Harle 
College. 

" My God, boys ! " came from his sternly- 
set lips. His voice hissed like a musket-ball 
through the storm. "Rest on your oars. 
Balance for your lives ! Steady ! Don't 
mind the water, or you're goners. I've got 
to jump ! " 

He had let his oar drift aside. Dexter- 





ously he had slipped his feet from the straps, 
and without so much as letting a teaspoonful 
of water in the shell, already half-swamped, 
the trained athlete had jumped in the air, 
and landed in the water. 

" O Trouncey ! " gasped Don reproach 
fully. " God bless you ! " he spluttered 
tenderly. 

But Trouncey O Grian said nothing. 
Holding the exhausted boy with his tremen 
dous clasp, he set out mightily for shore. He 
wasted no breath in words. Donald felt that 
they were making headway, but that he 
was very cold ; the blackness settled in be 
tween them and the shore. 

" You can't do it, Trouncey,". he 
muttered ; and then the sky seemed to go out 
utterly, like a quenched lamp. At that 
moment another hand grasped his shoulder. 
The reinforcement of a fresh, unchilled man, 
unexhausted by the exercise of rowing, and 
the better able to bear the shock of the 
water, came bravely up to the relief of the 
two boys. 

It was Lee Calhoun. 

He had learned to swim in Charleston 
harbor, warmer waves than these ; but 
it seemed they trained no colder hearts. 



 

That night, when the captain sat in his 
room, a little pale, a little shivery, coddled 
by Jamie, with a soapstone hot enough to 
