
"What do you mean?" demanded Tom, haughtily.

"Just what I say. One good turn deserves another."

"Our positions are rather different, I think."

"How so? You are a guest of Miss Rogers, and so am I."

"You don't mean to say that you are going down into the parlor?"

"Why not?"

"A boy who sells papers in front of the Astor House is not a suitable
guest at a fashionable party."

"That is not your affair," said Dan, coldly. "But it is not true that I
sell papers anywhere."

"Oh, I forgot. You're a shop-boy now. You used to sell papers, though."

"And I will again, if necessary," answered Dan, as he took Tom's place
in front of the glass and began to arrange his toilet.

Then, for the first time, Tom took notice that Dan was dressed as well
as himself, in a style with which the most captious critic could not
find fault. Tom was both surprised and disappointed. He would have liked
to see Dan in awkward, ill-fitting, or shabby clothes. It seemed to him
that an ex-newsboy had no right to dress so well, and he was greatly
puzzled to understand how he could afford it.

"Where did you borrow those clothes?" he asked, impudently.

"Where did you borrow yours?" retorted Dan.

"Don't be saucy."

"You set me the example."

"It is not remarkable that I should be well dressed. I can afford it."

"So can I," answered Dan, laconically.

"Do you mean to say that you bought that suit and paid for it?"

"I do."

"It must have taken all your money."

"You are very kind to take so much interest in me. It may relieve your
mind to see this."

Dan took a roll of bills from his pocket, and displayed them to the
astonished Tom.

"I don't see where you got so much money," said Tom, mystified.

"I've got more in the bank," said Dan. "I mention it to you that you
needn't feel bad about my extravagance in buying a party suit."

"I wouldn't have come to this party if I had been you," said Tom,
changing his tone.

"Why not?"

"You'll be so awkward, you know. You don't know any one except Miss
Rogers, who, of course, invited you out of pity, not expecting you would
accept."

"Did she tell you so?" asked Dan, smiling.

"No, but it stands to reason."

"You forget I know you," said Dan, smiling again.

"I beg you won't presume upon our former slight acquaintance," said Tom,
hastily. "I shall be so busily occupied that I really can't give you any
attention."

"Then I must shift for myself, I suppose," said Dan, good-humoredly.
"Shall we go down?"

"Go first, if you like," said Tom, superciliously. "I will follow
directly."

"He doesn't want to go down with me," thought Dan. "Perhaps I shall
surprise him a little;" and he made his way down stairs.




CHAPTER XXVIII.

DAN AT THE PARTY.


As Dan entered the parlors he saw the young lady in whose honor the
party was given only a few feet distant.

He advanced with perfect ease, and paid his respects.

"I am very glad to see you here this evening, Mr. Mordaunt," said Julia,
cordially.

"What a handsome boy he is!" she thought. "I had no idea he would look
so well."

Mentally she pronounced him the handsomest young gentleman present.

"Take your partners for a quadrille, young gentlemen," announced the
master of ceremonies.

"Are you engaged, Miss Rogers?" asked Dan.

"Not as yet," answered the young lady, smiling.

"Then may I have the honor?"

"Certainly."

