what could be the use of that? 
They strolled on in silence, up the fragrant 
forest road. Great glittering dragon flies drifted 
along the river bank, or hung quivering above 
pools. Clouds of lazy sulphur butterflies 
swarmed and floated, eddying up from the road 
in front of them, and settling down again in 
their wake like golden dust. A fox stole across 
the path, but Gethryn did not see him. The 
mesh of his landing net was caught just then in 
a little gold clasp that he wore on his breast. 
"How quaint!" cried Ruth; "let me help you; 
there! One would think you were a French 
legitimist, with your fleur-de-lis." 
"Thank you" was all he answered, and 
turned away, as he felt the blood burn his 
face. But Ruth was walking lightly on and had 
not noticed. The fleur-de-lis, however, reminded her of something she had to say, and she be 
gan again, presently 
"You left Paris rather suddenly, did you not, 
Rex?" 
This time he colored furiously, and Ruth 
turning to him saw it. She flushed too, fearing 
to have made, she knew not what blunder, but 
she went on seriously, not pausing for his an 
swer: 
"The year before, that is three years ago now, 
we waited in Italy, as we had promised to do, 
for you to join us. But you never even wrote 
to say why you did not come. And you haven't 
explained it yet, Rex." 
Gethryn grew pale. This was what he had 
been expecting. He knew it would have to 
come; in fact he had wished for nothing more 
than an opportunity for making all the amends 
that were possible under the circumstances. 
But the possible amends were very, very inade 
quate at best, and now that the opportunity 
was here his courage failed, and he would have 
shirked it if he could. Besides, for the last five 
minutes, Ruth had been innocently stirring 
memories that made his heart beat heavily. 
And now she was waiting for her answer. 
He glanced at the clear profile, as she walked 
beside him. Her eyes were raised a little; they 
seemed to be idly following the windings of a 
 
path that went up the opposite mountain side; 
her lips rested one upon the other in quiet curves. 
He thought he had never seen such a pure, 
proud looking girl. All the chivalry of a gener 
ous and imaginative man brought him to her 
feet. 
"I cannot explain. But I ask your forgive 
ness. Will you grant it? I won't forgive my 
self!" 
She turned instantly and gave him her hand, 
not smiling, but her eyes were very gentle. 
They walked on a while in silence, then Rex 
said: 
"Ever since I came, I have been trying to 
find courage to ask pardon for that unpardon 
able conduct, but when I looked in your dear 
mother's face, I felt myself such a brute that I 
was only fit to hold my tongue. And I be 
lieved," he added after a pause, "that she would 
forgive me too. She was always better to me 
than I deserved." 
"Yes," said Ruth. 
"And you also are too good to me," he con 
tinued, "in giving me this chance to ask your 
pardon." His voice took on the old caressing 
tone in which he used to make peace after their 
boy and girl tiffs. "I knew very well that with 
you I should have a stricter account to settle 
than with your mother," he said, smiling. 
"Yes," said Ruth again. And then with a little 
effort and a slight flush she added: 
"I don't think it is good for men when too 
many excuses are made for them. Do you?" 
"No, I do not," answered Rex, and thought, 
if all women were like this one how much easier 
it would be for men to lead a good life! His 
heart stopped its heavy beating. The memories 
which he had been fighting for two years, faded 
away once more; his spirits rose, and he felt 
like a boy as he kept step with Ruth along the 
path, which had now turned and ran close be 
side the stream. 
"Now tell me something of your travels," 
said Ruth. "You have been in the East." 
"Yes, in Japan, But first I stopped awhile 
in India, with some British officers, nice fel 
lows. There was some pheasant shooting." 
"Pheasants! No tigers?" 
"One tiger." 
"You shot him! Oh! tell me about it!" 
 
"No, I only saw him." 
"Where?" 
"In a jungle." 
"Did you fire?" 
"No, for he was already dead, and the odor 
which pervaded his resting place made me hurry 
away as fast as if he had been alive." 
"You are a provoking boy!" 
Rex laughed. "I did shoot a cheetah in 
China." 
"A dead one?" 
"No, he was snarling over a dead buck." 
"Then you do deserve some respect." 
"If you like. But it was very easy. One 
bullet settled him. I was fined afterward." 
"Fined! for what?" 
"For shooting the Emperor's trained cheetah. 
After that I always looked to see if the game 
wore a silver collar before I fired." 
Ruth would not look as if she heard. 
Rex went on teasingly: "I assure you it was 
embarrassing when the pheasants were bursting 
