don't mind ; he'll go vid you, Hosvald ; 
he'll give you a lift, Hosvald ; he'll stand 
guard, Hosvald." 
And lowering his voice the Jew leaned 
across the table. 
"There haint no moon." 
Isaacstein dropped back in his seat, heavily, with the air of one who has had his say. 
But his eyes were on Quain, as were Quain's 
on him. And for awhile both sat, without 
a word, without a motion, staring at one 
another, until at last the Jew began to nod 
his head, as he had done on the wharf, then 
both stood up and passed into the night. 
CHAPTER IV 
THE HUSHING OF IT 
" THE requirements in Rhode Island are 
the same as in New York. Two witnesses 
are sufficient." And Bancroft handed to Mr. 
Attersol a will which he had just prepared. 
" It seems a pity," he added, in reference 
perhaps to the provisions of the instrument. 
But Mr. Attersol did not seem to hear. 
He held the paper to the light of a lamp, 
lost in its clauses. Bancroft went to the 
window. A gale was blowing, and the 
waters had recommenced their surge. 
" By the way, I omitted to tell you. 
When I left town this morning, Mr. Brisbane 
asked me to say that a cheque for seven 
thousand had come from Philadelphia. It 
had not your new mark on it, and he threw 
it out." 
" Ah ! It had been cashed, then ? " 
" By the Philadelphia Trust. They have 
taken it up, of course." 
Mr. Attersol raised his eyes. " Do you 
mean " 
"Yes, they turned it over to Byrnes." 
The document which Mr. Attersol held 
shook as though caught by the gale without. " Do they have they did Mr. Bris- 
bane seem to have any er any suspicions ? " 
" He said it was Quain," the lawyer 
answered shortly. 
The will fell from the old man's hand, and 
he stooped laboriously to recover it. But 
Bancroft crossed the room and picked it up 
before Mr. Attersol could reach it. 
"Thank you. I think" He turned, 
tottering a little, and seated himself. 
" What nonsense ! " he cried abruptly. 
" Brisbane is a fool. The cheque is right 
enough. I wish you would wire him to- 
night, Bancroft " 
" Certainly, sir, if you wish. But do you 
not think that such lenience, particularly as 
it seems to have happened before " 
" It won't happen again, I will see to 
that. In any event, Brisbane has no right 
to say it is Quain." 
"But it is Quain, sir." 
Mr. Attersol waved a hand impatiently. 
"Wire to Brisbane, and let the matter 
drop." 
" It shall be as you wish, sir, of course. 
But as he put my name on it too " 
" What ! " 
" The cheque was made payable to me ; 
the indorsement made it payable to bearer. 
It was because of that Brisbane spoke. Of 
course, the Trust people will want my testimony. As to the payee, there is not a 
doubt. The teller described him red hair, 
squat features, projecting teeth." 
"We must hush it up." 
The old man had turned ; he was livid, 
his head shaking with palsy. With one 
hand he grasped the arm of the chair, but 
the other was shaking, too. 
"Bancroft, we must hush it up." 
The lawyer raised his eyebrows. " It is 
compounding a felony, sir. But even 
otherwise, the law should take its course. 
The fellow is an unmitigated scoundrel. 
You put him from your office, from your 
house ; I need not remind you of the manner in which he conducted himself here this 
afternoon. His incarceration, it seems to 
me, is but a duty." 
Mr. Attersol looked down and away, hes- 
itant, perplexed. 
"You love her still, do you not?" he 
asked at last. 
" Myrrha ? Love her ? Why, Mr. Atter- 
sol, I would give my life for her." 
The old man nodded. " And I my two 
hands were she yours to-day." 
There had come a strange pathos to his 
voice, and to his great haggard eyes and 
tormented brows a look wistful in its melan- 
choly. 
" He is her brother ; we must hush it 
up" 
The words had struggled from beneath 
the breath, but in them was the crash of 
thunder. Bancroft started. The room 
seemed to be turning round. 
" I need not tell you of it all, nor would 
you care to know. We " and as the mono- 
syllable dropped from the old man, he made 
a gesture so significant in the remoteness 
which it evoked that it dispensed with 
explanations " we were to have been 
married, but at the time there were obstacles. It was at his birth she died. It 
was the sin of my life, and terrible has been 
the penalty. It is killing me, as long since 
it killed her." 
For a second he paused, a hand before 
his eyes ; but presently it fell again, and the 
confession continued. 
" Years after, when Myrrha was still a 
child, her mother learned the truth. It 
broke her heart. I think it killed her too ; 
