the peak and throat, and we had our hands full to get a couple of turns
round the wet sail. It's all child's play on a fore-and-after compared
with reefing topsails in anything like weather, but the gear of a
schooner sometimes does unhandy things that you don't expect, and those
everlasting long halliards get foul of everything if they get adrift. I
remember thinking how unhandy that particular job was. Somebody
unhooked the throat-halliard block, and thought he had hooked it into
the head-cringle of the trysail, and sang out to hoist away, but he had
missed it in the dark, and the heavy block went flying into the lee
rigging, and nearly killed him when it swung back with the weather roll.
Then the Old Man got her up in the wind until the jib was shaking like
thunder; then he held her off, and she went off as soon as the headsails
filled, and he couldn't get her back again without the spanker. Then the
Helen B. did her favourite trick, and before we had time to say much,
we had a sea over the quarter and were up to our waists, with the
parrels of the trysail only half becketed round the mast, and the deck
so full of gear that you couldn't put your foot on a plank, and the
spanker beginning to get adrift again, being badly stopped, and the
general confusion and hell's delight that you can only have on a
fore-and-after when there's nothing really serious the matter. Of
course, I don't mean to say that the Old Man couldn't have steered his
trick as well as you or I or any other seaman; but I don't believe he
had ever been on board the Helen B. before, or had his hand on her
wheel till then; and he didn't know her ways. I don't mean to say that
what happened was his fault. I don't know whose fault it was. Perhaps
nobody was to blame. But I knew something happened somewhere on board
when we shipped that sea, and you'll never get it out of my head. I
hadn't any spare time myself, for I was becketing the rest of the
trysail to the mast. We were on the starboard tack, and the
throat-halliard came down to port as usual, and I suppose there were at
least three men at it, hoisting away, while I was at the beckets.

Now I am going to tell you something. You have known me, man and boy,
several voyages; and you are older than I am; and you have always been a
good friend to me. Now, do you think I am the sort of man to think I
hear things where there isn't anything to hear, or to think I see things
when there is nothing to see? No, you don't. Thank you. Well now, I had
passed the last becket, and I sang out to the men to sway away, and I
was standing on the jaws of the spanker-gaff, with my left hand on the
bolt-rope of the trysail, so that I could feel when it was board-taut,
and I wasn't thinking of anything except being glad the job was over,
and that we were going to heave her to. It was as black as a
coal-pocket, except that you could see the streaks on the seas as they
went by, and abaft the deck-house I could see the ray of light from the
binnacle on the captain's yellow oilskin as he stood at the wheel--or,
rather, I might have seen it if I had looked round at that minute. But
I didn't look round. I heard a man whistling. It was "Nancy Lee," and I
could have sworn that the man was right over my head in the crosstrees.
Only somehow I knew very well that if anybody could have been up there,
and could have whistled a tune, there were no living ears sharp enough
to hear it on deck then. I heard it distinctly, and at the same time I
heard the real whistling of the wind in the weather rigging, sharp and
clear as the steam-whistle on a Dago's peanut-cart in New York. That was
all right, that was as it should be; but the other wasn't right; and I
felt queer and stiff, as if I couldn't move, and my hair was curling
against the flannel lining of my sou'wester, and I thought somebody had
dropped a lump of ice down my back.

I said that the noise of the wind in the rigging was real, as if the
other wasn't, for I felt that it wasn't, though I heard it. But it was,
all the same; for the captain heard it, too. When I came to relieve the
wheel, while the men were clearing up decks, he was swearing. He was a
quiet man, and I hadn't heard him swear before, and I don't think I did
again, though several queer things happened after that. Perhaps he said
all he had to say then; I don't see how he could have said anything
more. I used to think nobody could swear like a Dane, except a
Neapolitan or a South American; but when I had heard the Old Man, I
changed my mind. There's nothing afloat or ashore that can beat one of
your quiet American skippers, if he gets off on that tack. I didn't need
to ask him what was the matter, for I knew he had heard "Nancy Lee," as
I had, only it affected us differently.

He did not give me the wheel, but told me to go forward and get the
second bonnet off the staysail, so as to keep her up better. As we
tailed on to the sheet when it was done, the man next me knocked his
sou'wester off against my shoulder, and his face came so close to me
that I could see it in the dark. It must have been very white for me to
see it, but I only thought of that afterwards. I don't see how any light
could have fallen upon it, but I knew it was one of the Benton boys. I
don't know what made me speak to him. "Hullo, Jim! Is that you?" I
asked. I don't know why I said Jim, rather than Jack.

"I am Jack," he answered.

We made all fast, and things were much quieter. "The Old Man heard you
whistling 'Nancy Lee,' just now," I said, "and he didn't like it."

It was as if there were a white light inside his face, and it was
ghastly. I know his teeth chattered. But he didn't say anything, and the
next minute he was somewhere in the dark trying to find his sou'wester
at the foot of the mast.

When all was quiet, and she was hove to, coming to and falling off her
four points as regularly as a pendulum, and the helm lashed a little to
the lee, the Old Man turned in again, and I managed to light a pipe in
the lee of the deck-house, for there was nothing more to be done till
the gale chose to moderate, and the ship was as easy as a baby in its
cradle. Of course the cook had gone below, as he might have done an hour
earlier; so there were supposed to be four of us in the watch. There was
a man at the lookout, and there was a hand by the wheel, though there
was no steering to be done, and I was having my pipe in the lee of the
deck-house, and the fourth man was somewhere about decks, probably
having a smoke, too. I thought some skippers I had sailed with would
have called the watch aft, and given them a drink after that job, but it
wasn't cold, and I guessed that our Old Man wouldn't be particularly
generous in that way. My hands and feet were red-hot, and it would be
time enough to get into dry clothes when it was my watch below; so I
stayed where I was, and smoked. But by and by, things being so quiet, I
began to wonder why nobody moved on deck; just that sort of restless
wanting to know where every man is that one sometimes feels in a gale of
wind on a dark night. So when I had finished my pipe, I began to move
about. I went aft, and there was a man leaning over the wheel, with his
legs apart and both hands hanging down in the light from the binnacle,
and his sou'wester over his eyes. Then I went forward, and there was a
man at the lookout, with his back against the foremast, getting what
shelter he could from the staysail. I knew by his small height that he
was not one of the Benton boys. Then I went round by the weather side,
and poked about in the dark, for I began to wonder where the other man
was. But I couldn't find him, though I searched the decks until I got
right aft again. It was certainly one of the Benton boys that was
