whom he was indirectly dealing, and with whom 
he wished to evade explanations. He thoroughly 
understood the advantages of delay. He also un- 
derstood the value of the mystery that attends- 
inaccessibility. Even Mr. Havick himself was im- 
pressed by the show of ceremony, by the army of 
clerks, and by the signs of complete organization. 
He knew that the visitor was specially favored who 
penetrated these precincts so fa* as to get an inter- 
view, usually fruitless, with Henderson's confiden- 
tial man. This confidential man was a very' grave 
and confidence-begetting person, who dealt out du- 
bious hints and promises, and did not at all mind 
when Henderson found it necessary to repudiate 
as unauthorized anything that had been apparently 
said in his name. To be sure, this gave a general 
impression that Henderson was an inscrutable man 
to deal with, but at the same time it was confessed 
that his spoken word could be depended on. Any- 
thing written might, it is true, lead to litigation, 
and this gave rise to a saying in the Street that 
Henderson's word was better than his bond. 

Henderson was not a politician, but he was a 
friend of politicians. It was said that he contrib- 
uted about equally to both sides in a political cam- 



paign, and that this showed patriotism more than 
partisanship. It was for his interest to have friends 
on both sides in Congress, and friends in the Cabi- 
net, and it was even hinted that he was concerned 
to have men whose economic and financial theories 
accorded with his own on the Supreme Bench. He 
had unlimited confidence in the power of money. 
His visitor of the morning was not unlike him in 
many respects. He also was not a politician. He 
would have described himself as a governmental 
man, and had a theory of running the government 
with as little popular interference as possible. He 
regarded himself as belonging to the governing 
class. 

Between these two men, who each had his own 
interests in view, there was naturally an apparent 
putting aside of reserve. 

"I was very glad to make your acquaintance, 
Mr. Mavick," said Henderson, cordially. " I have 
known of you for a long time." 

" Yes ? I've been in the employ of the govern- 
ment for some time." 

" And I suppose it pays pretty well," said Hen- 
derson, smiling. 

"Oh, extravagantly," Mavick rejoined, in the 
same spirit. " You just about get your board and 
clothes out of government. Your washing is an- 
other thing. You are expected, you know, to have 
your washing done where you vote." 





Well, it's a sure thing." 

"Yes, till you are turned out. You know the 
theory at Washington is that virtue is its own re- 
ward. Tom Fakeltree says it's enough." 

" I wonder how he knows ?" 

" Observation, probably. Tom startled a dinner- 
table the other day with the remark that when a 
man once gives himself up to the full enjoyment of 
a virtuous life, it seems strange to him that more 
people do not follow his example." 

" The trouble with the virtue of Washington is 
that it always wants to interfere with other peo- 
ple's business. Fellows like Tom are always hunt- 
ing up mares' nests in order to be paid for breaking 
them up." 

" I can't say about Tom," rejoined Mavick. " I 
suppose it is necessary to live." 

" I suppose so. And that goes along with an- 
other proposition that the successful have no 
rights which the unsuccessful are bound to respect. 
As soon as a man gets ahead," Henderson contin- 
ued, with a tone of bitterness, " the whole pack are 
trying to pull him down. A capitalist is a public 
nemy. Why, look at that Hodge bill ! Strikes 
directly at the ability of the railways to develop 
the country. Have you seen it ?" 

" Yes," Mavick admitted ; " the drawer of it was 
good enough to consult me on its constitutionality. 
It's a mighty queer bill." 





" It can't get through the Senate," said Hender- 
son ; " but it's a bother. Such schemes are coming 
up all the time, and they unsettle business. These 
fellows need watching." 

" And managing," added Mavick. 

"Exactly. I can't be in Washington all the 
time. And I need to know what is going on every 
twenty-four hours from the inside. I can't rely on 
politicians or lobbyists." 
