
They trooped out of the train,—it seemed a week since they had started,
her brain was so full of beautiful impressions. A young lady had come
down to meet them, and walked with Miss Lawrence. The children were wild
with the newness of everything; some of them had not even seen the
nearest park before. They chased butterflies; they longed to chase the
birds; they ran and laughed, and presently came to a great white house
set in an old orchard.

“Children,” said Miss Lawrence, “here is your new home. You can run and
play to your heart’s content. In the woods yonder you can shout and be
as wild as you like. But you must come in first and take off your best
dresses. And now you must mind when you are spoken to, and not quarrel
with each other.”

They went through a wide hall and up an old-fashioned staircase. Three
large rooms were full of narrow white-draped cots. The girls who pushed
on ahead were given numbers to correspond. There were pegs for their
hats and garments, a shelf for their satchels and bundles. What a
whispering, chattering, and giggling! Here was a bath-room, and basins
for washing. And then the bell rang for dinner.

Oh, what a dinner it was to most of the newcomers! A great slice of
sweet boiled beef, vegetables, and bread in an unstinted fashion, and a
harvest apple for dessert. Dil was too full of rapture to eat, and she
let the next girl, whose capacity seemed unlimited, have most of her
dinner.

Afterward they went out to play. Hammocks and swings were everywhere.
They ran and shouted. They sat in the grass, and laughed with a sense of
improbable delight. No one to scold, no work to do, not to be beaten for
a whole long week! Oh, what joy it was to these little toilers in courts
and slums and foul tenement houses!

Dil sat on a seat built around a great tree, and watched them. She was
like one in a dream, quite apart from them. There is a delightful,
unquestioning freemasonry among children. The subtle sign is given in a
word or look or smile, and they are all kin. But it had been so long
since Dil was a child, that she had forgotten the language.

She was not unhappy nor solitary. She was simply beyond playing, far
from boisterous mirth. She had been doing a woman’s work so long, and
childhood for the poor is ever a brief season.

Two or three girls shyly asked her to play “tag.” She gently shook her
head. Then a long-ago sound caught her attention.

Two little girls were holding their clasped hands up as high as they
could stretch. A small procession passed, each girl holding to the skirt
of the other, and singing:—

    “Open the gates as high as the sky,
    And let King George and his men go by.

    Needle’s eye as I pass by,
    Awaiting to go through;
    Many a lass I have let pass,
    And now I have caught you.”

Down came the arms of the “gates” over the head of the girl just under
them. There was a shriek and a giggle. Then the one who was caught had
to be a “gate,” and so it went on.

Dil looked, fascinated with a kind of remembered terror. It seemed as if
she must have heard that in another world, it was so long, long ago.
Before Bess was “hurted,” when Dan was a chubby baby, she had them both
out, caring for them. At least, Dan was in the corner of the stoop, and
Bess was tossing a ball for his amusement. A group of girls were playing
this very game. The arms came down and took Dilsey Quinn prisoner, and
all laughed because she had been so quick to evade them.

Something else—her mother’s heavy hand that dragged Dil out of the ring.
The girls scattered, afraid of the tall, strong virago. Dil picked up
the baby and took Bess by the hand. They were not living in Barker’s
Court then. She shuddered, for she knew what awaited her. She should
have been in the house, getting supper, to be sure. She had not meant to
play so long, and even then she so seldom played.

Poor Dil! For a fortnight or so she carried the marks on her body.

“I’ll tache ye to be wastin’ of yer time foolin’ wid sich,” said her
mother.

Then Bess was “hurted,” and her mother ill in bed for weeks. They were
warned out of the house, and for some time it was hard lines for them
all. Dil never played any more. Childhood was at an end for her.

And when she heard the merry voices here, a cold, terrible shiver came
over her with the old memories. Was it softened by the thought that Bess
could run about then? But even little Bess had sometimes been cruelly
beaten. After that—was there a strange comfort that had never come
before, that Bess’s accident had saved her many an unreasonable
punishment? For Mrs. Quinn had let the poor little sufferer pretty much
alone. Dil had managed to stand between, and take the blows and ill
usage.

Does God note all the vicarious suffering in the world, and write it in
the book of remembrance?

Dil turned her head away. Another party were playing “Ring a round a
rosy.” And a group on the grass were being inducted into the mystery of
“Jacks.” She wondered a little where her mother was. She did not want to
see her, but she hoped matters were better with her. Surely she need not
work so hard. And oh, if she would not drink gin! But Dil had noted the
fact that most women did as they grew older.

Miss Lawrence came out presently with a bright cheery word for them all.

“You’re not playing,” she said to Dil. “You must run about and have some
fun, and get some color in your cheeks. And you must not sit and brood
over your hard life. That is all passed, and we hope the good Father has
something better in store. And you must be friendly with the others.”

“Yes’m,” answered Dil, with soft pathos. “Only I’d rather sit here an’
look on.”

“Don’t get homesick after your boys,” and the lady’s smile went to Dil’s
heart. “You’ll feel less strange to-morrow. I want this outing to be of
real benefit to you. I’m going down to the city now, and will see Mrs.
Wilson. When I come again I’ll bring you some word from the boys. I am
