hinted that his divinity was six years his senior. I should have been
surer than ever of receiving that card. Pity! pity! pity! That’s a
fault that won’t mend with time.”
Agnes knew better than he could have told her what risks the woman
takes who consents to marry her junior in years. Early in their
acquaintanceship she had contrived to apprise Barton of this disparity.
When he declared his love she set it boldly in the foreground of
hesitation and demur.
“When you are thirty-five, in man’s proudest prime and yet far from
the comb of the hill, I shall have begun to go down the other side,”
she urged. “You might be able to contemplate the contrast boldly, but
could I forgive myself? There may be a suspicion of poetry—pathetic
but real—in the idea of an old man’s darling, but an old woman’s
pet! that is a theme no painter or poet has dared to handle. The
suggestion of grotesqueness is inevitable. Both are to be pitied, but
I think the wife needs compassion even more than the man she has made
ridiculous.”
The rising young lawyer was a clever advocate, and he had never striven
longer and harder to win a cause. When his triumph was secured Agnes
could not quite dismiss the subject. It haunted her like a wan ghost,
with threatening beck and ominous eye. Once, but a month before their
wedding day, they were speaking of George Eliot’s singular marriage
with a man young enough to be her son, and an abrupt change fell upon
Agnes’ visage—a shade of painful doubt and misgiving.
“Dinah Maria Mulock, too!” she exclaimed. “And Mme. de Staël!
Elizabeth Browning’s husband was some months younger than she. Then,
there are Mrs. —— and Mrs. ——” naming two prominent living American
authors. “How very singular! There must be some occult reason for
what we cannot set down as coincidences. It looks like fatality—or”
hesitatingly—“infatuation.”
“Rather,” said Barton in gentle seriousness, for her perturbation was
too real for playful rallying—“attribute such cases to the truth of the
eternal youthfulness of genius. These men see in the faces and forms
of the women they woo, the beautiful minds that will never know age or
change. Time salutes, instead of challenging those high in favor with
the king.”
“Do you know,” Agnes said, her slim white hand threading the
brown curls of the head she thought more beautiful than that of
Antinous—“that you will never say a more graceful thing than that? You
are more truly a poet than I. Don’t disclaim, for I am not a bard at
all. When I drop into poetry à la Wegg, it is not ‘in the light of
a friend.’ When I am in the dark or at best in a half-light, sorry or
weary, or lonely of heart, my thoughts take rhythmic shape. They are
only homely little crickets, creeping out in the twilight to sing by
the fire that is beginning to gather ashes. I am a born story-teller,
but I deserve no credit for that. Something within me that is not
myself tells the stories so fast that I can hardly write them down
as they are made. I am no genius, dear. Don’t marry me with that
impression. I wish for your sake that I were. How gloriously proud you
would be of me!”
“I am ‘gloriously proud’ of you now!” He said it in fervent sincerity.
“If you have genius, don’t develop it. I can hardly keep you in sight
as it is.”
Dimly and queerly, the feeling that prompted the half-laughing protest
returned upon him to-night. The solemn radiance overflooding her
eyes and clearing into exalted beauty lineaments critics pronounced
irregular, positively awed him—an uncommon and not altogether agreeable
sensation for a bridegroom, especially one of his practical and
somewhat dogmatic cast of mind. Rebel though romantic lovers may at
what they consider derogatory to the constancy and depth of wedded
affection, it is not to be denied that the turn of the bridal pair from
the altar symbolizes a reversal in their mutual relation. The bonds
that have held the lover in vassalage—very sweet bondage, perhaps, but
still not liberty—are with the utterance of the nuptial benediction
transferred to the woman he holds by the hand. Barton Ashe was very
much in love, but he was a very man. His wife was now his property.
“I feel a wild desire to put my arms around you to keep your wings from
unfurling,” he found occasion to whisper presently. “I suppose these
people would think me insane if I were to yield to the impulse and tell
them why I did it.”
The luminous eyes laughed joyously into his. With all her intellect and
passionate depth of feeling, she had seasons of childlike glee that
became her rarely.
“As you would be. I was never farther from ‘wanting to be an angel’
than at this instant. The life that now is appears to me eminently
satisfactory.”
A fresh bevy of congratulatory guests interrupted the hasty “aside.”
“We find it hard to forgive you, Mr. Ashe,” twittered an overdressed,
overcolored, and overmannered spinster. “How can you reconcile it to
your conscience to change a broad, beneficent river into a canal to
serve your own particular mill? I shall not congratulate you upon a
private good which is a public disaster.”
“Many others are thinking the same thing, but they cannot express
it so beautifully,” said a plaintive matron, one of the many whose
perfunctory sighs at weddings are the reverse of complimentary to their
bonded partners. “But we must be thankful you have been spared so long
to make us happy and do so much good in the world.”
“I am puzzled,” Barton observed, looking from one to the other. “If I
were taking her out of town, to Coromandel, we will say, or even to New
Jersey, there might be occasion for outcry.”
“You are robbing us of the better part of this woman,” interrupted
the hortatory spinster in a dramatic contralto. “My protest is in the
name of those to whom she belonged by the right the benefited have to
the benefactor, before you crossed her path, in an evil hour for the
world. It passes my comprehension, and I know much of the arrogant
vanity of your sex, how any one man can hope to make up to his author
wife for the audience she resigns when she sits down to pour out his
coffee and darn his socks for the rest of her mortal existence. It is
breaking stones with a gold mallet to make a mere housekeeper out of
such material as this,” lightly touching the head crowned by the bridal
veil. “But my imagination is not of the masculine gender.”
“Don’t strain it needlessly,” smiled Agnes, before the attacked person
summoned wit for a retort. “Soup-making is a finer art than writing
essays, to my comprehension, yet I hope to learn it.”
The matron put in her sentence, sandwiched between sighs.
“You will find the two incompatible. Once married, a woman’s life is
merged in that of another. She has no volition, no thought, no name of
her own.”
“The married woman does not possess herself!” cried the spinster in
shrill volubility. “She effaces her individuality in uttering the
promise to ‘serve and obey’—vile words that belong rather to the harem
of the sixteenth century than to the home of the nineteenth. Somebody
else has reported me in yesterday’s World and Herald, so I may
as well tell you that I brought forward a motion in Sorosis last
Monday, that the club should wear crape upon the left arm for thirty
days, dating from this evening, in affectionate memory of one of our
youngest and most brilliant members. Talk of the self-immolation of the
Jesuit who changes the name his mother gave him and resigns the right
of private judgment and personal desire in joining the Order! He is
riotously free by comparison with the model wife. Her assumption of the
