"I shall do so as occasion may require. I am ready to hear any statement
you wish to make; but I have nothing to say at present."
"Between the noble and exalted gentleman in whose services I sail his
steam-yacht, and the commander of your larger steam-yacht, Captain
Ringgold, there is a difficulty of very great magnitude;" and Captain
Mazagan paused as if to note the effect of this announcement upon his
auditor.
"Proceed, sir," added Louis.
"Do you deny the truth of what I have stated?"
"By no means," said Louis with a polite bow and a wave of his right
hand.
"His Highness, the Pacha, was grossly and disgracefully insulted and
assaulted by Captain Ringgold, who has so far declined to make any
apology or reparation such as one gentleman has the right to require of
another. Can you deny this statement?"
"Proceed, Captain Mazagan; I have nothing to say," repeated Louis.
"You will not speak?"
"If you desire it, I will; but simply to suggest that you wait on
Captain Ringgold with your grievance."
"That he has tried to do, and called upon him in Constantinople for that
purpose; but Captain Ringgold is a coward, a poltroon! He keeps himself
shut up in his cabin, and refuses to give my noble master any
satisfaction."
It was with a struggle that Louis maintained his dignity and preserved
his silence.
"Finding all the avenues to any satisfaction closed against him, my
noble master, one of the most exalted dignitaries of the Empire to which
he is an honor, employed me to obtain the redress to which he is
honorably entitled. So far I have not been successful. My noble master
has been graciously pleased to modify the terms and conditions upon
which he will consent to discontinue his efforts to obtain adequate
satisfaction for the insults heaped upon him. He will accept the
atonement of two hundred thousand francs for the injury done him,
assured that this penalty would be the severest punishment that could be
inflicted upon a cowardly and penurious American like Captain Ringgold."
"Why don't you send in your bill to him for the boodle?" asked Louis,
who thought somebody must have written out the speech of Mazagan for
him.
"He would not notice the claim," replied the pirate.
"I don't think he would," said Louis, inclined to laugh.
"I intend to make the matter sure this time. If you will do me the favor
to come on board of the Fatimé, and remain with me in the cabin, which
is quite as luxurious as your own on board of your large steam-yacht,
until the money is paid, it will save all trouble and settle the matter
at once," continued the Pacha's representative with a suavity creditable
to his French education.
"If you please, Captain Mazagan, we will not settle it in just that way;
and without any disrespect to you personally, I object to taking up my
quarters in the cabin of the Fatimé," replied Louis blandly.
"Then I must take you by force!" exclaimed the pirate.
He gave the order for his men to pull. Captain Scott called out his
force.
CHAPTER X
"JUST BEFORE THE BATTLE, MOTHER"
Morris Woolridge did not make use of any military forms, for he did not
claim to understand them; but he simply came on the forecastle himself,
followed by the other four of his party; for Louis had joined it when
directed to do so by his superior. Captain Scott took the rifle he had
reserved for his own use from the pilot-house. Those who had been
waiting for the order had only to move a few feet, and not a second of
delay had been made.
A boat large enough to contain six men, as did the pirate's, does not
overcome its inertia and shoot ahead forty feet without any apparent
lapse of time, like a bullet shot from a rifle. Morris and his men were
in position before the boat had made ten feet.
Morris gave no orders according to the manual of the soldier, but he
ranged his command on the forecastle, close to the starboard rail. The
guns were all loaded, and every one of the party had had some experience
in the use of the weapon, so that none of them had to be taught how to
fire it.
"Aim at the boat," said the first officer in a quiet tone; and all the
rifles were directed to the enemy.
It was a fact which came out afterwards, that every one of them aimed
at Mazagan, not only because he was the most prominent mark as he stood
in the standing-room, but he was regarded as the biggest villain of the
assailants, and they could shoot him with less compunction than the
Moors in his train. He was the representative of the villain behind the
scenes, and all the mischief seemed to come out of him.
"Stop where you are, or I shall order my men to fire!" shouted Captain
Scott, as soon as the rifles were all aimed at the boat. "Say that in
Arabic to them, Don!"
The engineer translated the warning for the benefit of those who were
back to the Maud, and perhaps did not see the weapons that were pointed
at the boat. But Mazagan could see the six rifles, including the one in
the hands of the captain; and before Don could finish his Arabic
sentence, he had given the order to cease rowing. At least it was
supposed he had done so, for the Moors dropped their oars, some of them
into the water.
The boat's crew were in a panic without any doubt, and Captain Scott was
inclined to feel that "the coon had come down." Mazagan spoke to them in
a savage tone, as though he was reproving them for their cowardice; but
they plainly did not relish the idea of being shot down without being
able to make any resistance, for there was nothing that looked like a
musket to be seen in the boat.
[Illustration: "STOP WHERE YOU ARE OR I SHALL ORDER MY MEN TO FIRE!"
Page 92.]
After his recent experience in Cairo, probably Captain Mazagan was
provided with a revolver; but he did not exhibit it, and in the face of
half a dozen breech-loaders, capable of sending three dozen bullets into
the boat, it would be a piece of useless bravado. It could be seen on
the forecastle of the Maud that the pirate's crew were demoralized. The
Mohammedans are said to be fatalists; and in what they regard as a holy
cause they have no fear of death, for they believe it bears them
directly to paradise. But some of them must have had sense enough to
understand that they were engaged in piracy, and that their heaven did
not open wide its gates to those who fell in the commission of crime.
The boat lost its headway, and became motionless at a distance of twenty
feet from the Maud, with the rifles still pointed at its crew. If the
pirate chief had a revolver in his pocket, this was the time to use it;
but he did not even produce it. He could not help seeing that if he
fired a shot, it would immediately cause half a dozen bullets to be sent
into the boat; and he had good reason to believe that he would himself
be the first victim.
"What are you about?" he demanded in angry tones.
"About to fire if you come any nearer," replied Captain Scott.
"Can't you see that we are unarmed? Do you mean to shoot us down like
dogs?"
"That depends upon you, Captain Mazagan. But you are so very polite
while you act as a pirate, that I think it is proper for me to say,
with your permission, that my crew can fire thirty-six balls without
