ponies, Ruth took the small seat behind. "Just for a change," she
explained. Walter, therefore, in her vacant place, drove them back to
town. Having taken Mrs. Franklin home, he left Ruth at her own door. "As
I'm off early to-morrow morning, Mrs. Chase, I'll bid you good-by now,"
he said, as the waiting servant came forward to the ponies' heads. She
gave him her hand. He could not see her face distinctly through that
baffling gray veil.

That evening at eleven o'clock he passed the house again; he was taking
a farewell stroll on the sea-wall. As he went by, he saw that there was
a light in the drawing-room. "She has not gone to bed," he thought. He
jumped down from the wall, crossed the road, and, going up the steps,
put his hand on the bell-knob. But a sudden temptation took possession
of him, and, instead of ringing, he opened the door. "If her mother is
with her, I'll pretend that I found it ajar," he said to himself. But
there were no voices, all was still. His step had made no sound on the
thick rugs, and, advancing, he drew aside a curtain. On a couch in a
corner of the drawing-room was Ruth Chase, alone, her face hidden in her
hands.

She started to her feet as he came in. "After all, Mrs. Chase, I found
that I wanted more of a good-by--" he began. And then, a second time, in
her eyes he read the astonishing, bewildering story. "She is still
unconscious of what it is," he thought. "If I go away at once--at once
and forever--no harm is done. And that is what I shall do." This was his
intention, and he knew that he should follow it. The very certainty,
however, made him allow himself a moment or two of delay. For how
beautiful she was, and how deeply she loved him! He could not help
offering, as it were, a tribute to both; it seemed to him that he would
be a boor not to do so. And then, before he knew it, he had gone
further. "You see how it is with me," he began. "You see that I love
you; I myself did not know it until now." (What was this he was telling
her? And somehow, for the moment, it was true!) "Don't think that I do
not understand," he went on. "I understand all--all--" While he was
uttering these words he met her eyes again. And then he felt that he was
losing his head. "What am I doing? I'm not an abject fool!" he managed
to say to himself, mutely--mutely but violently. And he left the house.

It took all his strength to do it.




CHAPTER XIII


Horace Chase, meanwhile, had arrived at Palatka, and opened the
discussion with David Patterson which ended in the decision to despatch
young Willoughby to California without delay. Having sent these
instructions, he remained at Palatka two days longer, his intention
being to cross, on the third day, to St. Augustine, get his wife and go
back to New York, stopping on the way at Raleigh in order to see Jared.
Always prompt, as soon as the question of the representative in
California was settled, his thoughts had turned towards his
brother-in-law; the proper moment had now arrived for fulfilling his
promises concerning him. But in answer to this note to Ruth, mentioning
this plan, there had come a long epistle from Mrs. Franklin. Ruth, she
wrote, wanted to go north by sea; it was a sudden fancy that had come to
her. Her wish was to go by the Dictator to Charleston, and there
change for the larger steamer. "As Dolly and I intend to start towards
L'Hommedieu next week, Ruth's idea is that we could go together as far
as Charleston; for the rest of the way, Félicité could look after her.
You need not therefore take the trouble to come to St. Augustine at all,
she says; you can go directly from Palatka to Raleigh. All this sounds
a little self-willed. But, my dear Mr. Chase, if we spoiled her more or
less in the beginning, you must acknowledge that you have carried on
the process! In the eighteen months that have passed since your
marriage, have you ever refused compliance with even one of her whims? I
think not. On the contrary, I fear you encourage them; you always seem
to me to be waiting, with an inward laugh, to see what on earth she will
suggest next!" Thus wrote the mother in a joking strain. Then, turning
to the subject which was more important to her, she filled three sheets
with her joyful anticipations concerning her son. "Insist upon his
resigning his present place on the spot," she urged; "take no denial.
Make him go with you to New York. Then you will be sure of him."

"The old lady seems to think he will be a great acquisition," said Chase
to himself, humorously.

Her statement that he had, from the first, allowed his wife to follow
her fancies unchecked was a true one. It amused him to do this, amused
him to watch an idea dawn, and then, in a few minutes, take such entire
possession of her that it shook her hard--only to leave her and vanish
with equal suddenness. The element of the unexpected in her was a
constant entertainment to him. Her heedlessness, her feminine
indifference to logic, to the inevitable sequences of cause and
effect--this, too, had given him many a moment of mirth. If her face had
been less lovely, these characteristics would have worn, perhaps,
another aspect. But in that case Horace Chase would not have been their
judge; for it was this alluring beauty (unconsciously alluring) which
had attracted him, which had made him fall in love with her. He was a
man whose life, up to the time of his engagement to Ruth, had been
irregular. But, though irregular, it had not been uncontrolled; he had
always been able to say, "Thus far; no farther!" But though her beauty
had been the first lure, he was now profoundly attached to his wife; his
pride in her was profound, his greatest pleasure was to make her happy.

"By sea to New York, is it?" he said to himself, as his eyes hastily
glanced through the remainder of Mrs. Franklin's long letter (that is,
the three sheets about Jared). "Well, she is a capital sailor, that's
one comfort. Let's see; which of our steamers will she hit at
Charleston?"

He was not annoyed because Ruth had not written, herself; Ruth did not
like to write letters. But it was a surprise to him that she should, of
her own accord, relinquish an opportunity to see her brother. "I reckon
she is counting upon my taking him up to New York with me, so that
she'll see him on the dock waiting for her when her steamer comes in,"
he thought. "I guess she knows, too, that I'm likely to succeed better
with Jared when she's out of the business entirely. Franklin isn't
going to be boosted by his sister--that's been his fixed notion all
along. He doesn't suspect that his sister's nowhere in the matter
compared with his wife; his whole position of being independent of me,
and all that, has been so undermined and honeycombed by Gen, that, in
reality, his sticking it out there at Raleigh is a farce! But he doesn't
know it. It's lucky he don't!"

       

Ruth had her way, as usual. Chase went northward from Palatka to
