"I reckon there is, lots on't. If Thomas ain't already camped round
here somewhere, he ain't fur off. They say he's waiting for some
general's brigade to jine 'im afore he goes for Old Zolly's
entrenchments," replied the keeper, whose name was Butters, as the
sergeant learned from him later.

"I reckon our major will find out where he is," added Life.

"This town is about fifteen miles from Mill Springs; and I consayt that
there will be a bigger battle than we have had in these parts, or
anywhere in the State, before long. General Thomas is sent down here to
clean out Old Zolly, and I reckon he'll do it," replied Butters. "I
wish I could have a hand in it."

"So you kin if you are so minded. You don't seem to have nothin' to do
here now. Ever been in the mili'try?"

"No; but I kin shoot a rifle nigh on to as good as old Ripley over to
Millersville, and he can beat any other man at it in Kaintuck."

"Ripley is here with a party of his riflemen, and I cal'late he'll take
you into his company if you want to go."

"Where is he now? I'd like to see him, for I've often been over to his
place to shoot with him," said Butters.

"He bunks in the jail with some of his company."

"I know a dozen others here who are in the same boat with me; and two
more on us were hanged a month ago for shooting a Cornfed sergeant for
killing two good Union men."

"I'll find Ripley for you," said Life, as he left the room, intent upon
adding more men to the loyal army.

He went through the jail, calling the name of the lieutenant till he
found him, and then conducted him to the room of the keeper. Ripley
gave his hand to Butters, and was very glad to see him. The bed was
wide enough for two, and Life invited the lieutenant to sleep with him.

"No; I reckon I'll take Lieutenant Ripley up to my house, for he's an
old friend of mine," interposed Butters; "and he's the only man that
can ever beat me shootin' with a rifle. I'm ready to jine for this
campaign under him."

"I have thirty-six men now, serving for a short time till we get things
settled, and I should like enough to make up a hundred," replied
Ripley, as he left the prison with Butters.

He had not been gone ten minutes before Lieutenant Lyon came in. The
sentinel on duty showed him Life's room. The visitor was wet to his
bones, as the French say; for he had been looking up some Union men his
father wished to see, and he had brought them to the hotel where the
officers were quartered. One of them was a captain, and another was his
host in the town; and the major had been directed to report to the
former.

Deck had been sent out to find him; for it was reported that he was in
Jamestown, and not in Harrison, where he had expected to find him, but
had not. His room had been taken from him for this officer, as he was
the lowest in rank of any commissioned officer. His father had sent
him out with directions to take a couple of men from the quarters of
Lieutenant Belthorpe, who was the officer of the day, and find a room
where he could in the town. But he knew that Life Knox was in command
at the jail, and he preferred to go there.

"You are wet to the skin, Leftenant!" exclaimed the sergeant, as he
admitted him to the room.

"Not the first time I have been so since we left Riverlawn," replied
Deck. "You have got a good room here, Life."

"Good enough; but I cal'late to camp on the floor, and give this bed to
you, Leftenant."

"Not at all, Life; the bed is big enough for both of us. I am not
afraid to sleep with you, if you are not with me."

"'Tain't quite reg'lar; but it's just as you say, Leftenant."

There was a fireplace in the room, and a pile of wood in the corner;
and the sergeant went to work at once to build a fire to dry his
officer. There was plenty of light wood, full of pitch, in the pile;
and in a few minutes a roaring fire was blazing on the hearth. Without
asking any questions he proceeded to remove Deck's coat, and assisted
him to take off the rest of his clothes, which had not been done before
except when he took his baths in the streams.

"Now jump into bed, Leftenant; give me your shirt, and I will dry the
whole of your duds. The room is warm now."

Deck had been so chilled by the rain that he was glad to comply with
the sergeant's requests. Life placed the nether garments on the chair
before the fire, and then moved up a light table, stretching his sabre
from one to the other to form a clothes-horse. At midnight he waked his
officer to have him put on the dry shirt, for Deck in the bed had slept
like a tired boy. After a look through the corridors of the prison,
Life went to bed himself.




CHAPTER XIV

THE AIDE-DE-CAMP OF THE GENERAL


When Life Knox left his bed at an early hour on the morning of the
18th, Deck was still sleeping, for no bugle had sounded to wake him.
The rain was still pouring in torrents when the sergeant looked out of
the window; and it was not probable that any military movements would
be made that day. Breakfast was served as usual, the cooks having taken
possession of an old tobacco dry-house the night before.

About nine o'clock, after Deck had gone to the hotel where the officers
were quartered, Butters, Lieutenant Ripley, and about twenty more,
marched into the jail. The keeper had been riding nearly all night, and
had secured this number of riflemen, though he had been obliged to seek
them, in part, miles distant from the town. They came with rifles and
belts, with powder and ball in horns and pouches, as those from
