THE BOY 55 

His manner was as solemn, as mysterious, as his 
words. Mary and Joseph did not answer him. 
They did not know how. His look was high and 
unfamiliar. He glanced back at the rabbis, upward 
at the splendid background of the Temple, then 
downward on the tiles. Whatever his thoughts, he 
did not try to share them with any person. With 
the sigh of one awaking from a thrilling dream to 
a dull reality, he passed down the terraces and out 
from the Temple courts. His mother's hand held 
his anxiously. Ho suffered this, without childish 
fret or petulance. There seemed to be the decision 
of a man. in the heart of a boy. It was as if he 
said to himself : 

" I will trouble her no more. My time is not 
come. After all, I am but a lad ! I will defer to 
my parents and be subject to them." 

And tins without protest or rebellion he did and 
was. 

lie went back with them to Nazareth like any 
other child 5 and there, like auy other child, he 
lived and grow, and did the things that he was 
told, and talked no move with the rabbis, and was 
not restless or frotful to go back to Jerusalem and 
have an mttlienco in the Temple portico. 

"We have been told that he waxed strong in body 
and in spirit, and found favor with God and men. 
Beyond these quaint and beautiful words we know 
nothing iuovo about the young life of Jesua Christ, 
until lie WOR a man, and a man of thirty years. 

Yet thin period is, of all the unknown spaces on 
the map of lug life, the easiest for the loving im- 
agination to follow. 



56 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 

A boy who could deliberately abandon, after such 
a glimpse as he had received of it, the enticement 
of ecclesiastical eminence and active, public religious 
service, and take up again, unrebellious and uncom- 
plaining, the duties of childhood, was not, from any 
point of view, an ordinary youth. 

The little, exotic Christians of our own day, 
forced by steam-heated processes into the front of 
prayer-meetings and exhortations and conventions, 
woidd not have found the subjection and Hedusion 
of Nazareth welcome. We may doubt if the young 
Jesus liked it any better. But he began life in 
a rare way, by doing the unwelcome cordially. 
Think as we may about his resemblance to other 
children at this time, his lack of resemblance to 
them was early in evidence. A certain spiritual 
precocity showed itself beyond all question ; it had 
a finely dual nature. lie could do, but he could 
refrain; he could preach, but ho could practice. 
He could lead his elders, but he could obey thorn. 

The interest of centuries has centred around the 
Temple scene. But there wa more individuality, 
more poetry, more beauty, moro religion in liis 
journey home with Mary's now too anxioiiH hand on 
his, or her nervous fingers touching alwayH (it lii 
talith; in his patience with a mother 1 ** mournful* 
watchful eyes atoning for a temporary neglect by a 
permanent oversight ; in his deference to a faihor f 
orders, nevor before HO frequent or so minute ; hi 
his reserve when chattering neig'hborH pried him 
with questions about his truancy from the caravan 5 
in his silence at the Nazareth synagogue whore the 



THE BOY 57 

country rabbis droned. He listened meekly. He 
did not debate or defy or deny. A lad, he took his 
place among the lads, and awaited that majority of 
character which lagged so far behind the majority of 
law. How fair the vision of that one glowing hour 
in the Temple ! Memory ran a gentle license in it. 

Thrilling and mysterious experience ! What had 
he done ? What should he do ? Obey, renounce, 
retreat, observe, conform, delay, so far clearly. 
But what more ? What did it mean, that flash 
of power, that jet of light upon the mistiness of a 
young and growing soul? What should he think? 
How act ? How aspire, or how defer ? What was he ? 

A boy ; the son of Joseph and Mary ; a country 
lad, shut into a mountain village ; put to a trade ; 
about to become a carpenter. 

A groat writer has said that lie who has seen the 
suffering of men and of women has seen nothing ; 
he must see the suffering of children. It may be said 
that the nolitudo of men and women is society be- 
ttide the solitude of children, immature, unreason- 
ing, perplexed little beings, terrified at the opening 
mystery of life. The solitude of a child -genius 
Btands quite by itself, "a garden walled." Who, 
never having trodden its silent and desolate short 
pathway**, among its timid buds and premature 
thorns, can presume to comprehend that limited 
but passionate mental topography ? 

All children of genius suffer, and most of them 
acutely* The childhood of Christ was no exception 
to this law. The Hubjoctiou of crude power, scarcely 
conscious of its own existence, to inferior but mature 
