THE HAUNTED PALACE

The Gezireh road is to-day the favorite afternoon drive of the Cairenes.
It is a broad avenue, raised above the plain, and overarched by trees
throughout its course. At many points it commands an uninterrupted view
of the pyramids. Two miles from town the Gezireh Palace rises on the
right, surrounded by gardens, which, unlike those of Choubra, are
carefully tended. It was built by Ismail. Of all these Cairo palaces it
must be explained that they have none of the characteristics of castles
or strongholds; they are merely lightly built residences, designed for a
climate which has ten months of summer. The central hall and grand
staircase of Gezireh are superb; alabaster, onyx, and malachite adorn
like jewels the beautiful marbles, which came from Carrara. The
drawing-rooms and audience-chambers have a splendid spaciousness: the
state apartments of many a royal palace in Europe sink into
insignificance in this respect when compared with them. Much of the
furniture is rich, but again (as in the old house of the Sheykh es
Sadat) one finds it difficult to forgive the tawdry French carpets and
curtains, when the bazaars close at hand could have contributed fabrics
of so much greater beauty. But Ismail's taste was French--that is, the
lowest shade of French--as French is still the taste of modern Egypt
among the upper classes. It remains to be seen whether the English
occupation will change this. During the festivities at the time of the
opening of the canal, Ismail's royal guests were entertained at
Gezireh. On the upper floor are the rooms which were occupied by the
Empress Eugénie, the walls and ceilings covered with thick satin, tufted
like the back of an arm-chair, its tint the shade of blue which is most
becoming to a blond complexion--Ismail's compliment to his beautiful
guest. During these days there were state dinners and balls at Gezireh,
with banks of orchids, myriads of wax-lights, and orchestras playing
strains from La Belle Hélène and La Grande Duchesse. During one of
these balls the Emperor of Austria made a progress through the rooms
with Ismail, band after band taking up the Austrian national anthem as
the imperial guest entered. The vision of the stately, grave Franz Josef
advancing through these glittering halls by the side of the waddling
little hippopotamus of the Nile, to the martial notes of that fine hymn
(which we have appropriated for our churches under another name, and
without saying "By your leave"), is one of the sinister apparitions with
which this rococo palace, a palace half splendid, half shabby, is
haunted.

[Illustration: CHIEF WIFE OF EX-KHEDIVE ISMAIL, WITH HER PRIVATE BAND

From a photograph by Schoefft, Cairo]

In the garden there is a kiosk whose proportions charm the eye. The
guide-books inform us that this ornamentation is of cast-iron; that it
is an imitation of the Alhambra; that it is "considered the finest
modern Arabian building in the world"--all of which is against it.
Nevertheless, viewed from any point across the gardens, its outlines are
exquisite. Within there are more festal chambers, and a gilded
dining-room, which was the scene of the suppers (they were often orgies)
that were given by Ismail upon the occasion of his private masked balls.
At some distance from the palace, behind a screen of trees, are the
apartments reserved for the hareem. This smaller palace has no beauty,
unless one includes its enchanting little garden; such attraction as it
has comes from the light it sheds upon the daily life of Eastern
women. Occidental travellers are always curious about the hareem. The
word means simply the ladies, or women, of the family, and the term is
made to include also the rooms which they occupy, as our word "school"
might mean the building or the pupils within it. At Gezireh the hareem,
save that its appointments are more costly, is much like those
caravansaries which abound at our inland summer resorts. There are long
rows of small chambers opening from each side of narrow halls, with a
few sitting-rooms, which were held in common. The carpets, curtains, and
such articles of furniture as still remain are all flowery, glaring, and
in the worst possible modern taste, save that they do not exhibit those
horrible hues, surely the most hideous with which this world has been
cursed--the so-called solferinos and magentas. Besides their private
garden, the women and children of the hareem had for their entertainment
a small menagerie, an aviery, and a confectionery establishment, where
fresh bonbons were made for them every day, especially the sugared rose
leaves so dear to the Oriental heart. The chief of Ismail's four wives
had a passion for jewels. She possessed rubies and diamonds of unusual
size, and so many precious stones of all kinds that her satin dresses
were embroidered with them. She had her private band of female
musicians, who played for her, when she wished for music, upon the
violin, the flute, the zither, and the mandolin. The princesses of the
royal house, Ismail's wives and his sisters-in-law, could not bring
themselves to admire the Empress of the French. They were lost in wonder
over what they called her "pinched stiffness." It is true that the
uncorseted forms of Oriental beauties have nothing in common with the
rigid back and martial elbows of modern attire. Dimples, polished limbs,
dark, long-lashed eyes, and an indolent step are the ideals of the
hareem.

The legends of these jewelled sultanas, of the masked balls, of the long
train of royal visitors, of the orchids, the orchestras, and the
wax-lights, are followed at Gezireh by a tale of murder which is
singularly ghastly. Ismail's Minister of Finance was his foster-brother
Sadyk, with whom he had lived upon terms of closest intimacy all his
life. The two were often together; frequently they drove out to Gezireh
to spend the night. One afternoon in 1878 Ismail's carriage stopped at
the doorway of the palace in Cairo occupied by his minister. Sadyk came
out. "Get in," Ismail was heard to say. "We will go to Gezireh. There
are business matters about which I must talk with you." The two men went
away together. Sadyk never came back. When the carriage reached Gezireh,
Ismail gave orders that it should stop at the palace, instead of going
on to the kiosk, where they generally alighted. He himself led the way
within, crossing the reception-room to the small private salon which
overlooks the Nile. Here he seated himself upon a sofa, drawing up his
feet in the Oriental fashion, which was not his usual custom. Sadyk was
about to follow his example, when he found himself seized suddenly from
behind. The doors were now locked from the outside, leaving within only
the two foster-brothers and the man who had seized Sadyk. This was a
Nubian named Ishak, a creature celebrated for his strength. He now
proceeded to murder Sadyk after a fashion of his own country, a process
of breaking the bones of the chest and neck in a manner which leaves on
the skin no sign. Sadyk fought for his life; he dragged the Nubian over
the white velvet carpet, and finally bit off two of his fingers. But he
was not a young man, and in the end he was conquered. During this
struggle Ismail remained motionless on the sofa, with his feet drawn up
and his arms folded. A steamer lay at anchor outside, and during the
night Sadyk's body was placed on board; at dawn the boat started up the
river. At the same hour Ismail drove back to Cairo, where, in the course
of the morning, it was officially announced that the Minister of
Finance, having been detected in colossal peculations, had been banished
to the White Nile, and was already on his way thither. Sadyk's body
rests somewhere at the bottom of the river. But Ismail's little drama of
banishment and the steamer were set at naught when, after he had left
