best described by the following examples: "That excellent fellow,
Mackenzie! You can't think how I miss him!" "There is something so
tragic in such a death--a man who had everything to live for!" "How
could they go to Rome! That pernicious Roman fever is the curse of
Italy." "Those poor ladies! Directly I heard they had returned to
Belmonte, I went up at once to inquire and to leave cards; it is a
stricken house!" Having said everything that decorum required, he now
finally allowed himself to bring out the thought which was in reality
filling his mind: "What a career that little girl will have! Only
nineteen, and so very pretty, so charming. He has left her everything
without a condition (save in the event--most improbable at her age--of
her dying without children, in which case it goes back to his own
relatives), and I am told that he had nearly eight millions of dollars;
that is, one million six hundred thousand pounds! They are shrewd in
their American way--those ladies; Mrs. North is very shrewd. And mark my
words, madam, that little girl will make one of the great matches yet;
not pinchbeck; something really good!" (His "good" had a deeply solid
sound.)
This same afternoon the following words were exchanged in another
quarter of Florence:
"Rose, dear," said Miss Jane Wood, "you will go up again to-morrow,
won't you, to see poor Dorothy?"
"I have been twice--all that is necessary for appearances, Aunt Jane.
Why should I bother Dorothy now?"
"Sympathy--" began Miss Jane.
"Sympathy! She is in a position to extend it to me. I think she is the
very luckiest girl I have ever heard of in my life. All another girl can
do in the face of such luck as that is to keep away from it, and not
think about it--if she can."
Miss Jane Wood: "I am astonished!"
Miss Maria: "!!!!"
That evening, at Belmonte, Dorothy walked and walked about the
drawing-room; now she stopped at a table, took up something and put it
down again; now she moved a statuette to another position; now she gazed
at the etchings on the wall as though she had never seen them before;
now she added pine-cones to the already blazing fire, kneeling on the
rug with the hot flame scorching her face; finally she went to the
window, and, parting the curtains, stood looking out. It was a dark
night without stars; in addition to the freezing temperature, the wind
was fierce; it drove furiously against the windows of the villa, it came
round the corner of the tower with a shriek like that of a banshee.
"It's dreadfully cold," said the girl at last, as if speaking to
herself.
"Surely not here?" replied Mrs. Tracy. Dorothy came wandering back to
the fire, and then the aunt drew her down by her side. "Dear child,
don't keep thinking of Rome," she whispered. "He is not there; there is
nothing there but the lifeless clay." And she kissed her.
"Try not to be so restless, Dorothy," said Mrs. North, from her warm
corner. "You have walked about this room all day."
"It's because I'm so tired; I am so tired that I cannot keep still,"
Dorothy answered.
"I think a change would be a good thing for all of us," Mrs. North went
on. "We could go to Cannes for two months; we could be as quiet at
Cannes as here."
Dorothy looked at her with vague eyes, as if waiting to hear more.
"It is warmer there. And then there is the sea--to look at, you know,"
pursued Mrs. North, seeing that she was called upon to exhibit
attractions.
"Egypt would be my idea," said Mrs. Tracy. "A dahabeeyah on the Nile,
Dorothy. Camels; temples."
Dorothy listened, as if rather struck by this idea also.
"But Egypt would be a fearful trouble, Charlotte," objected Mrs. North.
"Who is going to get a good dahabeeyah for us at this time of year?"
"Don't spoil it. I'll get twenty," responded the other lady.
And then there was a silence.
"Well, Dorothy, are you going to leave it to us to decide?"
"Yes, mamma," Dorothy answered. Her eyes had grown dull again; she sat
listening to the wind as if she had forgotten what they were talking
about.
"It's decided, then. We will go to Cannes," remarked Mrs. North,
serenely.
Her Aunt Charlotte's discomfited face drew a sudden laugh from the
niece. And this laughter, once begun, did not cease; peal succeeded
peal, and Dorothy threw herself back on the cushions of the sofa,
overcome with merriment. Mrs. North glanced towards the doors to see if
they were well closed. But Charlotte Tracy was so glad to hear the sound
again that she did not care about comments from the servants; Dorothy's
face, dull and tired, above the dead black of the widow's attire, had
been like a nightmare to her.
They went to Cannes. And Mrs. North's suggested "two months" had now
lengthened, in her plans, to three. But before two weeks, had passed
they were again at Belmonte.
"Now that we have made one fiasco, Charlotte, and taken that horrible
journey, all tunnels, twice within twenty days, we must not make
another; we must decide to remain where we are for the present. If
Dorothy grows restless again, be firm. Be firm, as I shall be."
"Surely we ought to be indulgent to her now, Laura?"
"Not too much so. Otherwise we shall be laying up endless bother for
ourselves. For we have a year of hourly employment before us, day by
day. In the way of seeing to her, I mean."
"She will not make us the least trouble," said Mrs. Tracy, indignantly.
"I am not finding fault with her. But she cannot help her age, can she?
She is exceedingly young to be a widow, and she has a large fortune; but
for a year, at any rate, if I know myself, gossip shall not touch my
daughter."
"A year? I'll guarantee ten," said Mrs. Tracy, still indignant.
"I don't care about ten; three will do. Yes, I see you looking at me
with outraged eyes. But there's no need. I liked Alan as much as you
did; I appreciated every one of his good points. With all that, you
cannot pretend to say that you believe Dorothy really loved him. She was
too young to love anybody. The love was on his side, and you were as
much surprised as I was when she took a fancy to accept it."
Mrs. Tracy could not deny this. But she belonged to that large class of
women who, from benevolent motives, never acknowledge unwelcome facts.
"I think you are perfectly horrid!" she said.
Dorothy, back at Belmonte, was troublesome only in the sense of being
always in motion. Having exhausted the garden, she began to explore the
country. She went to Galileo's tower; to the lonely little church of
Santa Margherita; the valley of the Ema knew her slender black figure.
Once she crossed the Greve, and, following the old Etruscan road,
climbed to the top of the height beyond, where stands the long, blank
Shameless Villa outlined against the sky.
"Do you know, I am afraid I am lame," said Mrs. Tracy, the morning after
this long tramp to the Shameless.
"Well, why do you go? One of us is enough," answered Mrs. North.
To the walks Dorothy now added lessons in German and Italian. Mrs. North
drove down to Florence and engaged Fräulein Bernstein and Mademoiselle
Scarletti. Next, Dorothy said that she wished to take lessons in music.
"A good idea. You ought to play much better than you do," said her
mother.
