perhaps. In a lifetime no longer to be counted 
short, the vestryman had heard nothing that 
resembled it. 

" Thank God ! " he murmured. He put his hat 
before his face. He had not realized before what a 
strain he had endured. Cold drops stood upon his 
brow. He shook with relief. From that moment 
he felt no more concern about the service than if he 
had engaged one of the sons of God to " supply." 

" Are you faint ? " asked his wife in a tone of 
annoyance. She offered him her smelling-salts. 

Had there existed stenographic records of that 
sermon, this narrative, necessarily so defective, 
would have no occasion for its being. One of the 
most interesting things about the whole matter is 
that no such records can to-day be found. Report 
ers certainly were in the gallery. The journals had 
sent their picked men as usual, and no more. 
Where, then, were their columns of verbal record ? 
Why has so important a discourse gone afloat upon 
vague, conflicting rumor? No person knows; the 
reporters least of all. One, it is said, lost his 
position for the default of that report; others 




received the severest rebukes of their experience 
from their managing editors for the same cause. 
None had any satisfactory reason to give for his 
failure. 

" I forgot,' said he who lost his position for his 
boyish excuse. " All I can say, sir, is I forgot. 
The man swept me away. I forgot that such a 
paper as The Daily Gossip existed. Other matters,'
he added with expensive candor, "seemed 
more important at the time." 

"When the Son of Man cometh, shall he find 
faith on the earth ? " 

The stranger announced this not unusual text 
with the simple manner of a man who promised 
nothing eccentric in the sermon to come. Yet 
something in the familiar words arrested attention. 
The phrase, as it was spoken, seemed less a hackneyed
biblical quotation than a pointed personal 
question to which each heart in the audience-room 
was compelled to respond. 

The preacher began quietly. He reminded his 
hearers in a few words of the true nature of the 
Christian religion, whose interests he was there to 
represent. One felt that he spoke with tact, and 




with the kind of dignity belonging to the enthusiast 
of a great moral movement. It occurred to one, 
perhaps for the first time, that it was quite manly 
in a Christian preacher to plead his cause with as 
much ardor as the reformer, the philanthropist, the 
politician, or the devotee of a mystical and fashion 
able cult. One became really interested in the 
character and aims of the Christian faith ; it did 
not fall below the dignity of a Browning society, 
or a study in theosophy or hypnotism. The attention
of the audience from the start definitely 
respectful became reverent, and thus absorbed. 

It was not until he had his hearers thoroughly in 
his power that the preacher's manner underwent the 
remarkable change of which Saint Agatha's talks in 
whispers to this day. He spoke entirely without 
manuscript or note, and he had not left the lectern. 
Suddenly folding his hands upon the great Bible, 
he paused, and, as if the audience had been one 
man, he looked it in the eye. 

Then, like the voice of the living God, his words 
began to smite them. What was the chancel of 
Saint Agatha s? The great white throne? And 
who was he who dared to cry from it, like the 
command of the Eternal? Sin! Sinners! Shame! 




Guilt ! Disgrace ! Punishment ! What words were 
these for the delicate ears of Saint Agatha's? 
What had these silken ladies and gilded men to do 
with such ugly phrases? Smiles stiffened upon 
refined, protesting faces. The haughty under lip 
of the vestryman's wife, and a hundred others like 
it, dropped. A moral dismay seized the exclusive 
people whom the preacher called to account like 
any vulgar audience. But the shabby woman in 
the " poor " seats humbly wept, and the young 
reporter who lost his position cast his eyes upon the 
ground, for the tears that sprang to them. From 
the delicate fingers of the vestryman's wife the 
smelling-salts fell upon the cushioned seat ; she held 
her feathered fan against her face. Her husband 
did not even notice this. He sat with head bowed 
upon the rail before him, as a good man does when 
reconsecrating himself at the communion hour. 

The choir rustled uneasily in their seats. The 
soprano covered her eyes with her well-gloved hand, 
and thought of the follies and regrets (she called 
them by these names) that beset the musical 
temperament. But the tenor turned his face away, 
and thought about his wife. Down the avenue, in 
the room of the " shut-in " woman, where the tele- 

