and spent a pleasant evening in the hospitable mansion of Captain
Sedley.




CHAPTER XXI

THE CONCLUSION


The first two weeks of the organization of the boat club passed away,
and the members were assembled in Zephyr Hall to elect a coxswain.
According to the constitution, Frank's term of office had expired.

"Whom do you intend to vote for, Fred?" asked Charles Hardy, who
appeared to be very anxious about the election.

"I don't know; I haven't decided yet," replied Fred Harper. "You know
what Captain Sedley said the other day about it."

"Yes; but if I have got to vote, I want to get my mind made up. I don't
see what harm there can be in talking about it a little."

"He said he did not want any electioneering about the
officers--'log-rolling,' my father calls it."

"Of course not," replied Charles demurely.

"The best fellow ought to get the office," said Fred slyly.

"Of course, but who is the best fellow? That's the question. We ought
to talk it over among ourselves a little," added Charles.

"What good would that do?"

"Each fellow would know whom the others were going to vote for."

"That would not help him to ascertain who would make the best
coxswain," Fred insisted.

"But it would help towards making a choice."

"There will be a choice fast enough."

"I don't believe it. If there is no nomination, and no understanding
about the matter beforehand, every fellow will vote for a different
person. You see if there are not a dozen different ones voted for,"
protested Charles.

"We can try it over again, then," said Fred.

"I shall vote for you, and perhaps you will vote for me."

"Perhaps I shall."

"And that is the way it will be all through the club."

"Charley, what do you say to giving Frank a re-election?" said Fred,
with sudden energy, while the mischief seemed to beam from his eyes.

"Well, I don't know," replied Charles, looking intently at the floor.

"Frank has made a good coxswain; there is no rubbing that out."

"Very good," said Charles feebly.

"If it hadn't been for him, Tim Bunker would have been drowned that
time."

"Couldn't another fellow have done the same that he did?"

"Yes, if he had had the presence of mind and the energy of character
which Frank has."

"You could have done it, Fred," said Charles.

"I don't know about that," replied Fred modestly.

"You hauled him in with the boat-hook."

"Yes, but I only did what Frank told me to do. Look at the Bunkers;
they didn't even reach the spot till we had got him on board the
Zephyr."

"I should not have been afraid but that I could have managed the boat
as well as Frank did," replied Charles, more boldly.

"I don't know but you could, Charley," answered Fred; "but I doubt it."

"I am pretty sure I could."

"Perhaps you will be elected the next coxswain, Charley," continued
Fred; and there was a slight twinkle in his mischievous eye.

"No! Oh, no! I'm sure I don't want to be coxswain."

"You don't!"

"No; I never thought of such a thing."

"Didn't?"

"I'm sure I never did."

"Then I will tell the fellows, so that they needn't throw their votes
away upon you," said Fred roguishly.

"Well, as to that, of course I should serve if chosen. I want to do
just what the fellows want to have me do."

"They don't want you to be coxswain if you don't wish to be, because
there are enough of them who do desire the office."

"Well, I don't exactly want it, but----"

Charles suddenly paused.

"But what, Charley?"

