
He would have said 'woodcock' in the same tone, being a plain man and
not given to dramatic emphasis. Orsino laughed a little incredulously,
but said nothing as he sat waiting for his kinsman to finish his letter.
His eyes wandered about the room, and presently they fell on a stout
sole-leather bag which stood by a chair near the window. On the chair
itself lay two leathern gun-cases obviously containing modern rifles, as
their shape and size showed. With a man's natural instinct for arms,
Orsino rose and took one of the weapons out of its case, and examined
it.

'Winchesters,' said San Giacinto, still driving his pen.

'I see,' answered Orsino, feeling the weight, and raising the rifle to
his shoulder as though to try the length of the stock.

'Most people prefer them in Sicily,' observed San Giacinto, who had
signed his name and was folding his note carefully.

'What do you want them for?' asked the younger man, still incredulous.

'It is the custom of the country to carry them down there,' said the
other. 'Besides, there are brigands about. I told you so just now.'

San Giacinto did not like to repeat explanations.

'I thought you were joking,' remarked Orsino.

'I never did that. I suppose we shall not have the luck to fall in with
any of those fellows, but there has been a good deal of trouble lately,
and we shall not be particularly popular as Romans going to take
possession of Sicilian lands. We should be worth a ransom too, and by
this time the whole country knows that we are coming.'

'Then we may really have some excitement,' said Orsino, more surprised
than he would show at his cousin's confirmation of much that Vittoria
had said. 'How about the mafia?' he asked by way of leading San Giacinto
into conversation. 'How will it look at us?'

'The mafia is not a man,' answered San Giacinto, bluntly. 'The mafia is
the Sicilian character--Sicilian honour, Sicilian principles. It is an
idea, not an institution. It is what makes it impossible to govern
Sicily.'

'Or to live there,' suggested Orsino.

'Except with considerable tact. You will find out something about it
very soon, if you try to manage that place. But if you are nervous you
had better not try.'

'I am not nervous, I believe.'

'No, it is of no use to be. It is better to be a fatalist. Fatalism
gives you your own soul, and leaves your body to the chemistry of the
universe, where it belongs. If your body comes into contact with
something that does not agree with it, you die. That is all.'

There was an admirable directness in San Giacinto's philosophy, as
Orsino knew. They made a final agreement about meeting at the station on
the following morning, and Orsino went home a good deal less inclined to
treat Vittoria's presentiments lightly. It had been characteristic of
San Giacinto that he had hitherto simply forgotten to mention that there
might be real danger in the expedition to Camaldoli, and it was equally
in accordance with Orsino's character to take the prospect of it simply
and gravely. There was a strong resemblance between the two kinsmen, and
Orsino understood his cousin better than his father or any of his
brothers.

He had already explained to his mother what he was going to do, and she
had been glad to learn that he had found something to interest him. Both
Corona and Sant' Ilario had the prevailing impression that the Sicilian
difficulties were more or less imaginary. That is what most Romans
think, and the conviction is general in the north of Italy. As Orsino
said nothing about his conversation with San Giacinto on that last
evening, his father and mother had not the slightest idea that there was
danger before him, and as they had both noticed his liking for Vittoria,
they were very glad that he should go away just then, and forget her.

The old Prince bade him goodbye that night.

'Whatever you do, my boy,' he said, shaking his snowy old head
energetically, 'do not marry a Sicilian girl.'

The piece of advice was so unexpected that Orsino started slightly, and
then laughed, as he took his grandfather's hand. It was oddly smooth, as
the hands of very old men are, but it was warm still, and not so feeble
as might have been expected.

'And if you should get into trouble down there,' said the head of the
house, who had known Sicily seventy years earlier, 'shoot first. Never
wait to be shot at.'

'It is not likely that there will be much shooting nowadays,' laughed
Sant' Ilario.

'That does not make my advice bad, does it?' asked old Saracinesca,
turning upon his son, for the least approach to contradiction still
roused his anger instantly.

'Oh no!' answered Giovanni. 'It is very good advice.'

'Of course it is,' growled the old gentleman, discontentedly. 'I never
gave anyone bad advice in my life. But you boys are always contradicting
me.'

Giovanni smiled rather sadly. It was not in the nature of things that
men over ninety years old should live much longer, but he felt what a
break in the household's life the old man's death must one day make,
when the vast vitality should be at last worn out.




CHAPTER IX


Orsino travelled down to Naples with San Giacinto in that peculiar state
of mind in which an unsentimental but passionate man finds himself when
he is leaving the woman he loves in order to go and do something which
he knows must be done, which he wishes to do, and which involves danger
