Zummerzett thou shalt be.'') And be- 
fore reaching the goal of his desire, it 
shall befall the traveler to seek out Oare 
church, a tiny building with nave and 
chancel all complete, like a temple of 
Lilliput Land ; and there I wish him 
not too exhaustive a knowledge of what 
he is to find. For I, in entering, expected 
merely to drink from the cup of sweet 
memories, reflecting, " Here stood John 
with his Loma when Carver's shot came 
crashing in, charged with death to one 
and madness for her lover ; " but pure 
surprise chased such sentimental mus- 
ing from the field. Stepping within 
the nave, the previously uninstructed is 
amazed at certain tablets on the north 
 

wall ; for these perpetuate the memory 
of the Snowe family, to which Black- 
more has vouchsafed a long-lasting ten- 
ure of life, and one of them is even 
adorned by the name of Farmer Nicholas 
himself, though of another generation 
than John's old neighbor. The Snowes, 
so saith the chronicler, are worthy yeo- 
men who have held land in this region 
since the days of Alfred ; and this en- 
during brass doth so plainly resurrect 
them before the eye that one is tempted 
to subscribe then and there to a sober 
belief in all Blackmore's broidery of fact, 
asserting, " The bricks are alive at this 
day to testify it." 

Beyond Oare, the road is less diver- 
sified ; and at Malmsmead, a collection 
of two or three houses devoted, as by 
an irrevocable vow, to the upholding of 
Doone legends, you may take an Exmoor 
pony and ride along a sweetly sylvan 
path into the true valley. And here, at 
whatever season you go, so that green 
boughs be welcoming, it shall seem " the 
boyhood of the year ;'' for everywhere is 
budding or expanded growth, under dap- 
pling of shadow and flickering of light. 
After Blackmore's paean, all that one can 
 

say of the Doone Valley rings of bathos, 
the more lukewarm in proportion to its 
truth. For here, indeed, is the water- 
slide, a rocky incline covered by a thin 
streamlet, amicably flowing to meet the 
Bagworthy Water ; but it is by no means 
a way perilous, and its ascent need not 
have tired little John's stout muscles 
so sorely. The valley itself, broken by 
the desolate foundations of a few tiny 
huts, is hemmed in by moorland hills ; 
but, compared with a score of Exmoor's 
chasms and retreats, it is as Leah to 
Rachel. We are in the home of the 
Doones ; and very fair it is, with the 
summer sky above us and the whispering 
leaves at hand. But the magic picture 
of our search we shall by no means find, 
save between the covers of Blackmore's 
book wonderful. Learn, however, the 
sequel : forget not the epilogue ! For, 
when one has turned his back on this 
disappointing spot and taken his home- 
ward road, he cannot forbear exclama- 
tion, at more points than one, over the 
actual valley of his dreams. For the 
reality of that word-picture exists, though 
not where tradition has placed it. Here 
are steep inclines, hundreds of feet high, 
 

down which even the anguished red deer 
dare not hurl himself in his extremity 
of flight. Here are inaccessible gullies, 
foaming water, and fern -clad hollow. 
And thus it is that he who truly seeks 
will find, even though the prize be long 
deferred. 

There are few places in whose records 
I take more delight than in those of 
Tiverton and her Blundell School. Who 
that has the heart of youth does not re- 
call, with a responsive thrill, John Ridd's 
tale of the Blundell boys' heaven-sent 
holiday ? For " in the very front of the 
gate, just without the archway, where the 
ground is paved most handsomely, you 
may see in copy-letters done a great 
P. B. of white pebbles. Now it is the 
custom and the law that, when the in- 
vading waters, either fluxing along the 
wall from below the road-bridge or pour- 
ing sharply across the meadows from 
a cut called ' Owen's ditch,' — and I 
myself have seen it come both ways, — 
upon the very instant when the waxing 
element lips though it be but a single 
pebble of the founder's letters, it is in 
the license of any boy, so ever small and 
undoctrined, to rush into the great 
 

school-rooms, where a score of masters 
sit heavily, and scream at the top of his 
voice, ' P. B. ! ' 

" Then, with a yell, the boys leap up or 
break away from their standing. They 
