down my father's Bible, with those words. 

Life has given and withheld much from me 
that has been or has seemed to be rich and 
valuable. It has never given me another hour 
when I felt that I had found the chief privilege 
of existence, as I felt when I forgot myself and 
pleaded with Heaven for those miserable men ; 
nor has it withheld much that I should have 
treasured more than the power to continue my 
happy work among them. 

It lasted for but three years. Though it 
began, it did not seem to begin with the 

 

murder ; for, after a few Sundays our services 
in the saloon came to an end. The bartender's 
religious character was not prominently developed,
and his hospitality cooled as the 
excitement waned. Not wishing to intrude upon it, 
for, after all, the rum was his, and the legal 
right to sell it, we devoted ourselves for a 
little to the concerns of the fatherless family, 
and returned to the normal course of summer 
existence. Without were drunkards and murderers,
and we thought of them no more. 

I thought of them no more, at least not 
then. But God's lessons are not lost so easily 
as that. The next year, when the Old Maids 
Paradise was opened for the season, a person 
indistinctly known to our domestic world as 
" the vegetable man " one day quietly made 
his way from the back door to the front, and 
boldly demanded that I should visit the 
Reform Club and give a Temperance lecture. If 
he had asked me to discover the North Pole 
in a Gloucester dory, I should have been less 
astounded ; perhaps less shocked. In vain did 
I reason that I did not know what a Reform 
Club was ; that I was not, and never might, 
could, would, or should be a lecturer, and that 
a Temperance lecturer was a being so apart 
from my nature and qualifications that I was 
better fitted to salt fish upon the wharves than 

 

to assume the position which I was desired 
to fill. The petitioner was dogged, obstinate, 
ingenious, and respectful. It seemed the or 
ganization which he represented, having heard 
of the rum-shop services, had appointed a
committee to request my presence in the appalling 
capacity specified, and no for an answer these 
enthusiasts declined to take. 

"I do not lecture," I persisted, "but I will 
come up to your club-room and help you some 
how." 

Thus compromising with my fate, I rode up 
in the vegetable man's carryall to the club- 
room, and I left it that first evening the firm 
friend of those struggling men and women, 
and of all like them, in hard positions and in 
service like theirs forever. 

The little local organization with which I 
was concerned had, in some respects, an 
exceptional history, but it belonged to a great 
class of its kind at that time popular with the 
mass of our people, and unquestionably use 
ful in stimulating a taste for decent ways of 
living among that proportion of our fellow- 
citizens whom the liquor traffic disgraces and 
ruins. Having become once convinced that 
the method however foreign to my taste and 
to my training was sound and sensible ; was, 
in fact, so much wiser and greater than my 

 

ignorance or timidity, that it commanded my 
respect as well as my conscience, of course 
I had no choice but to give myself to the 
principle, and try to improve its practice, if I 
might. As our Methodist friends would say, 
I " followed the leading," and I never
regretted it. 

For three years I had the great happiness 
of serving the people who had needed and 
selected me. There and then, if ever, I be 
came acquainted with life. I learned more 
from my Gloucester people than I ever taught 
them, and I shall hold them gratefully and 
lovingly in my heart as long as I live. 

The pathetic battle of those tempted men 
with themselves ; the hardships of the fisher 
men, shipped for midwinter voyages ; rum 
on the wharves and rum on the vessel, mocking 
the vow of the newly-sobered man ; the distrusts 
and jealousies and obstacles flung in the way 
of " reformed men " by their own mates, or by 
respectable citizens who ought to have sunk 
to their knees with shame for deeds that I 
have known to be done ; and the persistent 
unpopularity of our efforts, an unpopularity 
that is known to all movements everywhere 
in the pursuance of what is called the 
temperance work, such things one remembers 
when the easy side of existence is forgotten. 
 

In the ultimate valuation of life, when soul and 
body are " put to the question," one may no 
