dainty dishes will fall to her share. Norah may sweep the parlor, wipe
up the hall floor, or wash the windows while her mistress is attending
to cooking too delicate for the domestic's fingers. The servant may do
what I call the heavy kitchen-work, such as preparing vegetables for
cooking, chopping meat, peeling potatoes, etc., and she should always
be allowed to wash pots, pans and kettles, after the cooking is done.
But if the mistress will spend half an hour in the kitchen before each
meal, John will soon discover that his food has a delicacy of flavor
and is served with a daintiness imparted only by a professional French
cook,--or a lady.
Another of the petty economies which is not belittling is the washing
of one's own dining-room dishes. The money saved by this process is
easily understood by the housewife whose cut-glass and egg-shell china
are continually smashed to fragments by the hirelings whose own the
fragiles are not. The china bill for one year of the woman with many
servants assumes proportions so huge that she is actually afraid to
let herself consider its enormity. And there are still more things
broken of which she is never told until the day comes when this or
that article is needed, and the answer to inquiry is:
"An' sure ma'am, such a thing aint niver been in this house sence iver
I come into it."
And as there is no way of proving the falsity of this statement, one
must submit.
As I have said before, dish-washing, as done by a lady, takes little
time and labor, and may be a pleasant occupation. The laborer, not the
labor, makes a thing common or refined. With an abundance of scalding
hot water, a soap-shaker, mop, gloves with the tips cut off, clean and
soft dish-towels, and delicate glass and china, dish-washing is in
every sense of the word a lady's work. The mistress will do it in
one-third of the time, with five times the thoroughness, and one-tenth
as many breakages as will the average servant. And when the dishes are
washed and the table is spread for the next meal with pure linen,
glistening glass and shining silver--who dares say that the glow of
housewifely pride and satisfaction does not more than compensate for
the little time and trouble expended to produce the agreeable result?
I have said that every additional mouth counts in the sum of family
expenses, and for this reason many housekeepers of moderate means
neglect the duty of hospitality. Pardon me if I say that I think this
is one of the economies which, if carried too far, is more honored in
the breach than in the observance. I do not advocate, indeed I
reprehend, pretentious entertaining, such as dances, parties, etc. But
it impresses me that it is, to a certain extent, a mean spirit that
counts the cost in asking a friend to stay to a repast, to spend a
night or a week. It is your duty to have things so nice every day, and
always, that you cannot be too much "put out" by an occasional guest.
When you invite your friend to make you a visit, explain that you live
quietly, and that he will find a warm welcome. Then give him just what
you give John, and make no apologies. Above all, do not let him feel
that any additional labor caused by his presence throws the whole
course of the household machinery out of gear. Do not invite to your
home those for whom you have to make so great a change in your daily
life. If you keep house as a lady should, you need not fear to
entertain anyone who is worthy to be your friend. It is no disgrace if
your circumstances are such that you cannot afford to keep a staff of
servants at your beck and call.
These suggestions are but hints as to daily management. First and
foremost, Mary must learn to systematize her work. Method and
management do wonders toward saving time and money. Some housewives
are always in a hurry and their work is never done, while others with
twice as much to do never seem flurried, and have time for writing,
sewing and reading. The secret of the success of the latter class lies
in that one golden word--METHOD.
I hope the young housekeepers to whom this talk is addressed will not
consider such trifles as I have mentioned, degrading. It is the work
laid before them and consequently cannot be mean. Such labor, when
sweetened by the thought of what it all means, is ennobling. I know
that Keats tells us that:
"Love in a hut with water and a crust,
Is--Love forgive us!--cinders, ashes, dust!"
If Love were really there, "cinders, ashes, dust" could not be, and the
water and crust may, by our Mary's skillful treatment, be transformed
into a refreshing beverage and an appetizing entrée. My faith in the
powers of John's wife is great, and if John be satisfied, and tells her
that he has the best little love-mate and housekeeper in the world, can
she complain?
CHAPTER V.
A MISTAKE ON JOHN'S PART.
It is not discreditable to the sex to assert that a man is first
attracted marriage-ward by the desire of the eye. He falls in love, as a
rule, because she who presently becomes the only woman in the universe
to him is goodly to view, if not actually beautiful. Goodliness being
largely contingent upon apparel, it follows that Mary dresses for
John--up to the marriage-day. He who descries signs of slatternliness in
his beloved prior to that date, may well be shocked to disillusionment.
As a girl in a home where the mother takes upon herself the heaviest
work, and spares her pretty daughter's hands and clothes all the soil
and wear she can avert, Mary must be indolent or phenomenally
indifferent to what occupies so much of other women's thoughts, if she
do not always appear in her lover's presence neatly and--to the best of
her ability--becomingly attired. She quickly acquaints herself with his
taste in the matter of women's costumes, and adapts hers to it, wearing
his favorite colors, giving preference to the gowns he has praised, and
arranging her hair in the fashion he has chanced to admire in her
hearing.
In the work-a-day world of matrimonial life, much of all this
undergoes a change. Washington Irving lived and died a fastidious,
unpractical bachelor, or he might have modified the sketch of "The
Wife," the Mary who, after unpacking trunks, washing china, pots and
kettles, putting closets to rights, laying carpets, hanging pictures,
clearing away straw, sawdust, and what in that day corresponded with
jute--dusting and shelving books--and performing the hundred other
duties contingent upon sitting down in the modest cottage hired by her
bankrupt husband,--got tea ready (presumably preparing potatoes for
the same) picked a big mess of strawberries from a bed opportunely
discovered in the garden, donned a white muslin robe and sat down to
the piano to while away a lagging hour while awaiting her Leslie's
return.
The John of our common-sensible age knows in his sober mind that his
bride, in the effort to accomplish one-fourth as much, would equip
herself in a brown gingham, tie a big apron before her, draw a pair of
his discarded gloves with truncated fingers upon her hands, and be too
tired at night to do more than boil the kettle for the cup of tea which
he is more than likely to drink at the kitchen table, spread with a
newspaper--the linen not having been yet dug out of the case in which
"mother and the girls" packed it.
As the months wear on, Mary learns, if her spouse does not, that white
muslin comes to grief so speedily in the course of even light
housework, as to swell the laundry bills inordinately. The embroidered
tea-gowns in which she used to array herself upon the rare occasions
of her betrothed's morning calls, gather dust streaks upon skirts and
