
" Why, for the lifetime of your daughter." 
As he appeared still not fully to apprehend, she 
risked: "If you should lose Effie the reason 
would fail." 

Tony, at this, jerked back his head with a flush. 
" My dear Rose, you don't imagine that it's as a 
needed vow " 

" That you would give it?" she broke in. "Cer 
tainly I don't, any more than I suppose the de 
gree of your fidelity to be the ground on which 
we're talking. But the thing is to convince Julia, 
and I said that only because she'll be more con 
vinced if you strike her as really looking at what 
you subscribe to." 

Tony gave his nervous laugh. " Don't you 
know I always ' put down my name ' - especially 
to ' appeals ' in the most reckless way ? " Then 
abruptly, in a different tone, as if with a passion 
ate need to make it plain, " I shall never, never, 
never," he protested, "so much as look at another 
woman ! " 

The girl approved with an eager gesture. 
"You've got it, my dear Tony. Say it to her 
that way ! " But he had already gone, and, turn 
ing, she found herself face to face with her lover, 
who had come back as she spoke. 



VIII 

WITH his letter in his hand Dennis Vidal stood 
and smiled at her. "What in the world has 
your dear Tony ' got,' and what is he to say ? " 

" To say ? Something to his wife, who appears 
to have fallen into an extraordinary state." 

The young man's face fell. " What sort of a 
state?" 

" A strange discouragement about herself. 
She's morbid and frightened she thinks she's 
sinking." 

Dennis looked grave. "Poor little lady 
what a bore for us ! I remember her per 
fectly." 

" She of course remembers you," Rose said. 
" She takes the friendliest interest in your being 
here." 

"That's most kind of her in her condition." 

" Oh, her condition," Rose returned, " isn't 
quite so bad as she thinks ! " 





 

"I see." Dennis hesitated. "And that's 
what Mr. Bream's to tell her." 

"That's a part of it." Rose glanced at the 
document he had brought to her ; it was in its 
envelope, and he tapped it a little impatiently 
on his left finger-tips. What she said, however, 
had no reference to it. " She's haunted with a 
nervous alarm on the subject, of all things, 
of his marrying again." 

" If she should die ? She wants him not to ? " 
Dennis asked. 

"She wants him not to." Rose paused a 
moment. " She wants to have been the only one." 

He reflected, slightly embarrassed with this 
peep into a situation that but remotely concerned 
him. " Well, I suppose that's the way women 
often feel." 

"I daresay it is." The girl's gravity gave the 
gleam of a smile. " I daresay it's the way I 
should." 

Dennis Vidal, at this, simply seized her and 
kissed her. "You needn't be afraid you'll be 
the only one ! " 

His embrace had been the work of a few sec 
onds, and she had made no movement to escape 
from it ; but she looked at him as if to convey 





that the extreme high spirits it betrayed were 
perhaps just a trifle mistimed. " That's what I 
recommended him," she dropped, "to say to 
Julia." 

"Why, I should hope so ! " Presently, as if a 
little struck, Dennis continued : "Doesn't he want 
to?" 

"Absolutely. They're all in all to each other. 
But he's naturally much upset and bewildered." 

" And he came to you for advice ? " 
