mother says it isn't so." But somehow they did not seem to fortify
themselves much with these protestations.

Some of the elder cousins had come to visit and take tea. People went
visiting by three in the afternoon and carried their work along. There
was an atmosphere of relationship and real living that gave a certain
satisfaction. You enjoyed it. It was not paying a social debt
reluctantly, relieved to have it over, but a solid, substantial
pleasure.

Martha took the little girl up-stairs and put on a blue delaine frock and
white apron, and polished her "buskins," as the low shoes were called.
Then she went into the parlor and spoke to all the ladies. She had her
lace in a little bag, and presently she sat down on an ottoman and took
out her work.

"You don't mean to say that child can knit lace? And oak-leaf, too, I do
declare! What a smart little girl!"

"Oh, she embroiders quite nicely, also. Hannah Ann, get your apron and
show Cousin Dorcas."

The apron was praised and the handkerchiefs she had marked for her
father were brought out. Then she was asked what she was studying at
school.

Cousin Dorcas was knitting "shells" for a counterpane. There was one of
white and one of red, and they were put together in a rather long
diamond shape with a row of openwork between every block. It was for her
daughter, who was going to be married in the spring, and it interested
the little girl wonderfully.

Then they talked about Steve and Dolly Beekman. While the girls were at
White Plains, Steve had coaxed his father and mother up to the
Beekmans', and the engagement had been settled with all due formality.
Dolly and her mother had been down and taken tea. And now Steve went up
every Sunday afternoon and stayed to supper, and once or twice through
the week, and took Dolly out driving and escorted her to parties.

The Beekmans were good, solid people, and Peggy ought to be satisfied
that Stephen had chosen so wisely. "Was it true that Steve had been
buying some land way out of town? Did he mean to build there?"

"Oh, dear, no!" answered his mother. "It was a crazy thing, but John had
really persuaded him, and John was too young to have any judgment. But
he said the Astors were buying up there, and land was almost given
away."

"I don't know what it's good for," declared Aunt Frasie. "Why it'll be
forty years before the city'll go out there. Well, it may be good for
his grandchildren."

They all gave a little laugh.

Presently another of the cousins sat down at the piano and played the
"Battle of Prague."

Then Aunt Frasie said, "Do sing something. It doesn't seem half like
music without the singing."

Maria Jane ran her fingers over the keys, and began a plaintive air very
much in vogue:

    "Shed not a tear o'er your friend's early bier,
      When I am gone, I am gone."

Aunt Frasie heard her through the first verse, and then said
impatiently:

"You've sung that at so many funerals, Maria Jane, that it makes me feel
creepy. You used to sing 'Banks and Braes.' Do try that."

It had been said of Maria Jane in her earlier years that she had sung
"Bonnie Doon" so pathetically she had moved the roomful to tears. Her
voice was rather thin now, with a touch of shrillness on the high notes,
but the little girl listened entranced. Then she sang "Scots wha' hae"
and "Roy's wife of Aldivaloch." Margaret had come home, the
supper-table was spread, the men came in, and they sat down to the
feast. They teased Steve a little, and bade John beware, and were so
merry all the evening that when it came her bedtime the little girl had
forgotten all about the world coming to an end.

The girls discussed it the next day. Most of their mothers and fathers
had scouted the idea. Josie Dean was very positive it couldn't be--her
father had been going over the Bible and the Millerites had made a big
mistake.

"And girls," said Josie earnestly, "St. John, one of the disciples of
our Saviour, lived to be a hundred years old. Some people taught that
the world would come to an end before he died. And now it's 1843, and
it's stood all this while, though every now and then there's been an
excitement about it. And I ain't going to be afraid at all, there now!"

The little girl wondered whether she would be afraid. But Friday evening
the boys were full of it, and Steve said it was nonsense. She crept up
into her father's lap and asked him in a tremulous whisper if he was
afraid.

"No, dear," he answered, pressing her to his heart.

"But if it should come."

"Well--I'd take my little girl and mother and Margaret----"

"And what would you do?" as he made a long pause.

"I'd beg to be taken into heaven. And we would all be together. I think
God would be good to us."

"And the boys."

"Yes, the boys." He wondered within himself if they were all fit for
heaven. But he was quite sure the little girl was.

There was a very great excitement. For months there had been meetings of
exhortation and prophesying, and appeals to conscience, to terror, to
the desire of being saved from impending destruction. Last winter there
had been revivals everywhere, yet during the summer thoughtful people
had questioned whether the moral tone of the community had been any
higher. There were heroic souls, that always rise to the surface in
