promised to return no more to the dress of a man.' 

Then Joan held out her fettered hands sorrowfully 
toward these unfeeling men and said — 

' I would rather die than continue so. But if they may 
be taken off, and if I may hear mass, and be removed to a 
penitential prison, and have a woman about me, I will be 
good, and will do what shall seem good to you that I do.' 

Cauchon sniffed scoffingly at that. Honour the compact 
which he and his had made with her ? Fulfil its conditions ? 
What need of that ? Conditions had been a good thing to 
concede, temporarily, and for advantage ; but they had 
served their turn — let something of a fresher sort and of 
more consequence be considered. The resumption of the 
male dress was sufficient for all practical purposes, but 
perhaps Joan could be led to add something to that fatal 
crime. So Cauchon asked her if her Voices had spoken to 
her since Thursday — and he reminded her of her abjuration. 

' Yes,' she answered ; and then it came out that the 
Voices had talked with her about the abjuration — told 
her about it, I suppose. She guilelessly reasserted the 
heavenly origin of her mission, and did it with the un- 
troubled mien of one who was not conscious that she had 
ever knowingly repudiated it. So I was convinced once 
more that she had had no notion of what she was doing 
that Thursday morning on the platform. Finally she said, 
' My Voices told me I did very wrong to confess that what I 
had done was not well.' Then she sighed, and said with sim- 
plicity, ' But it was the fear of the fire that made me do so.' 

That is, fear of the fire had made her sign a paper 
whose contents she had not understood then, but under- 
stood now by revelation of her Voices and by testimony 
of her persecutors. 

She was sane now, and not exhausted ; her courage had 
come back, and with it her inborn loyalty to the truth. 

She was bravely and serenely speaking it again, knowing 
that it would deliver her body up to that very fire which 
had such terrors for her. 

That answer of hers was quite long, quite frank, 
wholly free from concealments or palliations. It made 
me shudder ; I knew she was pronouncing sentence of death 
upon herself. So did poor Manchon. And he wrote in 
the margin abreast of it — 

Responsio mortifera. 

Fatal answer. Yes, all present knew that it was indeed 
a fatal answer. Then there fell a silence such as falls in a 
sickroom when the watchers by the dying draw a deep 
breath and say softly one to another, ' All is over.' 

Here, likewise, all was over ; but after some moments 
Cauchon, wishing to clinch this matter and make it final, 
put this question — 

' Do you still believe that your Voices are St. Mar- 
guerite and St. Catherine ? ' 

' Yes — and that they come from God.' 

' Yet you denied them on the scaffold ? ' 

Then she made direct and clear affirmation that she had 
never had any intention to deny them ; and that if — I 
noted the if— if she had made some retractions and revo- 
cations on the scaffold it was from fear of the fire, and was 
a violation of the truth.' 

There it is again, you see. She certainly never knew 
what it was she had done on the scaffold until she was told 
of it afterwards by. these people and by her Voices. 

And now she closed this most painful scene with these 
words ; and there was a weary note in them that was 
pathetic — 

' I would rather do my penance all at once ; let me die. 
I cannot endure captivity any longer.' 

The spirit born for sunshine and liberty so longed for 
release that it would take it in any form, even that. 

Several among the company of judges went from the 
place troubled and sorrowful, the others in another mood. 

In the court of the castle we found the Earl of Warwick 
and fifty English waiting, impatient for news. As soon as 
Cauchon saw them he shouted — laughing— think of a man 
destroying a friendless poor girl and then having the heart 
to laugh at it : 

' Make yourselves comfortable— it's all over with her ! ' 



CHAPTER XXIII 

The young can sink into abysses of despondency, and it 
was so with Noel and me, now ; but the hopes of the young 
are quick to rise again, and it was so with ours. We 
called back that vague promise of the Voices, and said the 
one to the other that the glorious release was to happen at 
' the last moment ' — ' that other time was not the last 
moment, but this is ; it will happen now ; the King will 
come, La Hire will come, and with them our veterans, and 
behind them all France ! ' And so we were full of heart 
again, and could already hear, in fancy, that stirring music 
the clash of steel and the war-cries and the uproar of the 
onset, and in fancy see our prisoner free, her chains gone, 
her sword in her fcnd. 

But this dream was to pass also, and come to nothing. 
Late at night, when Manchon came in, he said — 
