" No—" 
" I'm not. My aunt is just what I've said." 
" You haven't said what she was. Is she here ? " 
" No ; that's the worst of it. If she were, I should 
introduce you, just to see if you'd dare. Well, some 
other time I will." 
"You think there'll be some other time?" Jefi 
asked. 
" I don't know. There are all kinds of times. By- 
the-way, what time is it ? " 
Jeff looked at his watch. " Quarter after six." 
" Then I must go." She jumped to her feet, and 
faced about for a glimpse of herself in the little glass 
on the mantel, and put her hand on the large pink 
roses massed at her waist. One heavy bud dropped 
from its stem to the floor, where, while she stood, the 
edge of her skirt pulled and pushed it. She moved a 
little aside, to peer over at a photograph. Jeff stooped 
and picked up the flower, which he offered her. 
" You dropped it," he said, bowing over it. 
" Did I ? " She looked at it with an effect of sur- 
prise and doubt. 
" I thought so, but if you don't, I shall keep it." 
The girl removed her careless eyes from it. " When 
they break off so short, they won't go back." 
" If I were a rose, I should want to go back," said 
Jeff. 
She stopped in one of her many aversions and rever- 
sions, and looked at him steadily across her shoulder. 
"You won't have to keep a poet, Mr. Durgin." 
" Thank you. I always expected to write the cir- 
culars myself. I'll send you one." 
"Do." 
" With this rose pressed between the leaves, so 
you'll know." 
" That would be very pretty. But you must take 
me to Mrs. Bevidge, now, if you can." 
" I guess I can," said Jeff ; and in a minute or two 
they stood before the matronizing hostess, after a 
passage through the babbling and laughing groups 
that looked as impossible after they had made it as it 
looked before. 
Mrs. Bevidge gave the girl's hand a pressure dis- 
tinct from the oflacial touch of parting, and contrived 
to say, for her hearing alone : " Thank you so much, 
Bessie. You've done missionary work." 
" I shouldn't call it that." 
" It will do for you to say so ! He wasn't really so 
bad, then ? Thank you again, dear ! " 
Jeff had waited his turn. But now, after the girl 
 
had turned away, as if she had forgotten him, his eyes 
followed her, and he did not know that Mrs. Bevidge 
was speaking to him. Miss Lynde had slimly lost 
herself in the mass, till she was only a graceful tilt of 
hat, before she turned with a distraught air. When 
her eyes met Jeff's they lighted up with a look that 
comes into the face when one remembers what one has 
been trying to think of. She gave him a brilliant 
smile that seemed to illumine him from head to foot, 
and before it was quenched he felt as if she had kissed 
her hand to him from her rich mouth. 
Then he heard Mrs. Bevidge asking something about 
a hall, and he was aware of her bending upon him a 
look of the daring humanity that had carried her tri- 
umphantly through her good works at the North End. 
" Oh, I'm not in the Yard," said Jeff, with belated 
intelligence. 
" Then will just Cambridge reach you ? " 
He gave his number and street, and she thanked 
him with the benevolence that availed so much with 
the lower classes. He went away thrilling and tin- 
gling, with that girl's tones in his ear, her motions in 
his nerves, and the colors of her face filling his sight, 
which he printed on the air whenever he turned, as 
one does with a vivid light after looking at it. 
XXIX. 
When Jefi reached his room lie felt the need of 
writing to Cynthia, with whatever obscure intention of 
atonement. He told her of the college tea he had 
just come from, and made fun of it, and the kind of 
people he had met, especially the affected girl who had 
tried to rattle him ; he said he guessed she did not 
think she had rattled him a great deal. 
While he wrote he kept thinking how this Miss 
Lynde was nearer his early ideal of fashion, of high 
life, which Westover had pretty well snubbed out of 
him, than any woman he had seen yet ; she seemed a 
girl who would do what she pleased, and would not be 
afraid if it did not please other people. He liked her 
having tried to rattle him, and he smiled to himself in 
recalling her failure. It was as if she had laid hold 
of him with her little hands to shake him, and had 
shaken herself. He laughed out in the dark when 
this image came into his mind ; its intimacy flattered 
him ; and he believed that it was upon some hint from 
her that Mrs. Bevidge had asked his address. She 
must be going to ask him to her house, and very soon, 
for it was part of Jeff's meagre social experience that 
 
this was the way swells did ; they might never ask you 
twice, but they would ask you promptly. 
The thing that Mrs. Bevidge asked Jefi to, when 
her note reached him the second day after the tea, was 
a meeting to interest young people in the work at the 
North Elnd, and Jeff swore under his breath at the 
disappointment and indignity put upon him. He had 
reckoned upon an afternoon tea, at least, or even, in 
the flights of fancy which he now disowned to himself, 
a dance after the Mid- Years, or possibly an earlier re- 
ception of some sort. He burned with shame to think 
of a theatre party, which he had fondly specialized, 
with a seat next Miss Lynde. 
He tore Mrs. Bevidge's note to pieces, and decided 
not to answer it at all, as the best way of showing how 
he had taken her invitation. But Mrs. Bevidge's be- 
nevolence was not wanting in courage ; she believed 
that JefE should pay his footing in society, such as it 
was, and should allow himself to be made use of, the 
first thing; when she had no reply from him, she 
