CHAPTER III.

JASPER RECOGNIZES THE VISITOR.


"Will the old man do anything for me after he marries you, mother?"
asked Nicholas, who never failed to look out for his own interests.

"He doesn't know you are in existence, Nicholas."

"Did you never speak to him of me?"

"No; I didn't dare to tell him."

"Why not?"

"It might prevent his marrying me."

"It seems to me," grumbled Nicholas, "you only thought of yourself. You
didn't care what became of me."

"That is unjust, Nicholas. You must see that it is. Once we are married
I shall have more control of money, and if Mr. Kent dies I shall be
entitled to a third of his property."

"I wish he'd leave you the whole, and cut off that upstart Jasper," said
Nicholas, frowning.

"There is not much chance of that. He thinks everything of Jasper.
However, I don't think he'll live long, and I shall induce him, if
possible, to name me as Jasper's guardian."

"That would be a good job for you, mother--not so good for Jasper, I'm
thinking."

"You are right, Nicholas. Did you say you disliked him?"

"Yes, I hate him."

"So do I," said his mother in a low tone, but one of intense energy.

"Why?" asked Thorne, in some curiosity.

"I'll tell you. From my entrance into his father's family he has never
treated me with any cordiality. Evidently he didn't like me. I think,
indeed, he mistrusted me, though I never gave occasion for any
suspicions. If he should learn now that I am to marry his father, he
would move heaven and earth to prevent the marriage."

"Has he been home much since you were in the house?"

"No; he was at school elsewhere, and was only at home during his
vacations."

"How did he come to be sent here to this school? Did you advise it?"

"No; I was opposed to it, but Mr. Kent was recommended by a friend to
send his son here. I did not venture to say much, lest I should be asked
how I came to know anything of the school. I was afraid you and he would
meet, and he would learn the connections between us."

"I suppose you'll own up after the wedding, won't you?"

"I think not at once, Nicholas."

"Why not?"

"Remember what I told you, that Mr. Kent is in poor health. He may not
live six months. We can keep the matter secret for that time, can't we,
Nicholas?"

"If you were only sure he would die in that time."

"He has heart disease, and is liable to die at any time."

"You want him to make his will first, and leave you guardian?"

"Of course."

"After that you wouldn't mourn very much for his loss?"

"No; I don't pretend to care for him."

"He thinks you do, eh, mother?"

"Of course."

"Oh, you're a deep one, you are," said Nicholas, winking in a way to
indicate his shrewd insight into his mother's motives.

"I have to be, Nicholas. There's no getting on in this world without it.
But I think I shall have to leave you now."

"Then you don't mean to invite me to the wedding, mother?"

"It will be a private ceremony."

"Will Jasper be invited?"

"His father was anxious to have him at home. Indeed, I have had a great
deal of trouble to prevent his sending for him, but at length I have
succeeded. I know too well the danger. The boy has a great influence
over his father, whose mind is weakened with his body, and I should be
afraid that the match would be broken off even at the last moment if the
boy got wind of our plan."

"How mad Jasper will be when he hears of it!" said Thorne, laughing with
malicious enjoyment. "I wish I could tell him."

"Don't breathe a word of it, Nicholas," said his mother, in evident
alarm.

"Oh, I'll keep the secret. But it won't do any harm when it's all over,
will it?"

"Say nothing till I authorize it."

"Well, I won't, then, if I can help it. But I say, mother, the old
gentleman will come down handsomely when you're married. You ought to
raise my allowance to two dollars a week."
