which a man or woman suffers, the question at once rises to our lips,
’Why does he not divorce his wife?’ or ’Why does she not divorce her
husband?’  We have grown used to the idea, and, if it does not please
us, it certainly does not shock us.  It shocked our fathers, but we are
perfectly indifferent.

Of course there are many, perhaps a majority, who, though not Roman
Catholics, would in their own lives put up with almost anything rather
than go to the divorce court for peace.  Some actually suffer much and
ask for no redress. But there are very many who have not suffered
anything at all, excepting the favourite ’incompatibility of temper,’
and who have taken advantage of the loose laws in certain states to try
a second matrimonial experiment.  In what calls itself society, there
seems still to be a prejudice against a third marriage for divorced
persons, but at the present rate of so-called progress this cannot last
long, and the old significance of the word marriage will be quite lost
before our great grandchildren are dead; in other words, by the end of
the next century, at the furthest.

There are various forms of honourable political dreaming and of
dishonourable political mischief-making nowadays, which we are
accustomed to call collectively ’socialism.’  Most of these rely for
their hope of popular success upon their avowed intention of dividing
property and preventing its subsequent accumulation.  Marriage is an
incentive of such accumulation, because it perpetuates families and
therefore keeps property together by inheritance.  Therefore most forms
of socialism are at present in favour of divorce, as a means of
ultimately destroying marriage altogether.  A proverb says that
whosoever desires the end, desires also the means.  There is more truth
in the saying than morality in the point of view it expresses.  But
there are those who desire neither the means nor the end to which they
lead, and a struggle is coming, the like of which has not been seen
since the beginning of the world, and of which we who are now alive
shall not see the termination.

The Civil War in the United States turned upon slavery incidentally, not
vitally.  The cause of that great fight lay much deeper.  In the same
way the Social War, which is coming, will turn incidentally upon
religion, and be perhaps called a religious war hereafter, but it will
not be declared for the sake of faith against unbelief, nor be fought at
first by any church, or alliance of churches, against atheism.  It will
simply turn out that the men who fight on the one side will have either
the convictions or the prejudices of Christianity, or both, and that
their adversaries will have neither.  But the struggle will be at its
height when the original steady current of facts which led to inevitable
strife has sunk into apparent insignificance under the raging storm of
conflicting belief and unbelief.  The disadvantage of the unbelievers
will lie in the fact that belief is positive and assertive, whereas
unbelief is negative and argumentative.  It is indeed easier to deny
than to prove almost anything.  But that is not the question.  In life
and war it is generally easier to keep than to take, and besides, those
who believe ’care,’ as we say, whereas those who deny generally ’care’
very little.  It is probable, to say the least of it, that so long as
the socialists of the near future believe assertively that they have
discovered the means of saving humanity from misery and poverty, and
fight for a pure conviction, they will have the better of it, but that
when they find themselves in the position of attacking half of mankind’s
religious faith, having no idea, but only a proposition, to offer in its
place, they will be beaten.

That seems far from the question of divorce, but it is not.  Before the
battle, the opposing forces are encamped and intrenched at a little
distance from each other, and each tries to undermine the other’s
outworks.  Socialism, collectively, has dug a mine under Social Order’s
strongest tower, which is called marriage, and the edifice is beginning
to shake from its foundations, even before the slow-match is lighted.

To one who has known the world well for a quarter of a century, it seems
as though the would-be destroyers of the existing order had forgotten,
among several other things, the existence of woman, remembering only
that of the female.  They practically propose to take away woman’s
privileges in exchange for certain more or less imaginary ’rights.’
There is an apparent justice in the ’conversion,’ as it would be called
in business.  If woman is to have all the rights of man, which, indeed,
seem reducible to a political vote now and then, why should she keep all
the privileges which man is not allowed?  But tell her that when she is
allowed to vote for the president of the United States once in four
years, no man shall be expected to stand up in a public conveyance to
give her a seat, nor to fetch and carry for her, nor to support her
instead of being supported by her, nor to keep her for his wife any
longer than he chooses, and the ’conversion’ looks less attractive.

The reason why woman has privileges instead of rights is that all men
tacitly acknowledge the future of humanity to be dependent on her from
generation to generation.  Man works or fights, and takes his rights in
payment therefor, as well as for a means of working and fighting to
greater advantage.  And while he is fighting or working, his wife takes
care of his children almost entirely.  There is not one household in a
hundred thousand, rich or poor, where there is really any question about
that.  It sounds insignificant, perhaps, and it looks as though anybody
could take care of two or three small children.  Those who have tried it
know better, and they are women.  Now and then rich mothers are too lazy
to look after their children themselves.  To do them such justice as one
may, they are willing to spend any amount of money in order to get it
well done for them, but the result is not encouraging to those who would
have all children brought up ’by the state.’  Even if it were so, who
would bring them up? Women, of course.  Then why not their own mothers?
Because mothers sometimes--or often, for the sake of argument--do not
exactly know how.  Then educate the mothers, give them chances of
knowing how, let them learn, if you know any better than they, which is
doubtful, to say the least of it.

Moreover, does any man in his senses really believe that mothers, as a
whole, would submit and let their children be taken from them to a state
rearing-house, to be brought up under a number on a ticket by
professional baby-farmers, in exchange for the ’right’ to vote at a
presidential election, and the ’right’ to put away their husbands and
take others as often as they please, and the ’right’ to run for
Congress?  Yet the plan has been proposed gravely.

There seems to be a good deal to be said in favour of the existing state
of things, after all, and particularly in favour of marriage, and
therefore against divorce; and it is not surprising that woman, whose
life is in reality far more deeply affected by both questions than man’s
life is, should have also the more profound convictions about them.

Woman brings us into the world, woman is our first teacher, woman makes
the world what it is, from century to century.  We can no more escape
from woman, and yet continue to live our lives as they should be lived,
than we can hide ourselves from nature.  We are in her care or in her
