music and banners. She took them out 
with her, promptly, to walk and to drive, 
and even, towards night, sketched a plan for 
carrying them to the Etablissement, where, 
for only a franc apiece, they would listen 
to a concert of celebrities. It reminded 
Maisie, the plan, of the side-shows at Earl's 
Court, and the franc sounded brighter than 
the shillings which had at that time failed ; 
yet this too, like the other, was a frustrated 
hope: the francs failed like the shillings 
and the side-shows had set an example to the 
concert. The fitablissement, in short, 
melted away, and it was little wonder that 
a lady who from the moment of her arrival 
had been so gallantly in the breach should 





confess herself at last done up. Maisie 
could appreciate her fatigue; the day had 
not passed without such an observer's dis- 
covering that she was excited and even men- 
tally comparing her state to that of the 
breakers after a gale. It had blown hard in 
London, and she would take time to sub- 
side. It was of the condition known to the 
child by report as that of talking against 
time that her decision, her spirit, her humor, 
which had never dropped, now gave the 
impression. 

She too was delighted with foreign man- 
ners; but her daughter's opportunities of 
explaining them to her were unexpectedly 
forestalled by her tone of large acquaintance 
with them. One of the things that nipped 
in the bud all response to her volubility was 
Maisie's surprised retreat before the fact that 
Continental life was what she had been al- 
most brought up on. It was Mrs. Beale, dis- 
concertingly, who began to explain it to her 
friends; it was she who, wherever they 
turned, was the interpreter, the historian and 
the guide. She was full of reference to her 
early travels at the age of eighteen : she 
had at that period made, with a distin- 
guished Dutch family, a stay on the Lake of 





Geneva. Maisie, in the old days, had been 
regaled with anecdotes of these adventures, 
but they had become phantasmal, and the 
heroine's quite showy exemption from be- 
wilderment at Boulogne, her acuteness on 
some of the very subjects on which Maisie 
had been acute to Mrs. Wix, were a high 
note of the mastery, of the advantage with 
which she had arrived. It was all a part of 
the wind in her sails and of the weight with 
which her daughter was now to feel her 
hand. The effect of it on Maisie was to add 
already the burden of time to her separation 
from Sir Claude. It might have lasted for 
days ; it was as if, with their main agitation 
transferred thus to France and with neither 
mamma, now, nor Mrs. Beale, nor Mrs. Wix, 
nor herself at his side, he must be fearfully 
alone in England. Hour after hour she felt 
as if she were waiting; yet she could n't have 
said exactly for what. There were moments 
when Mrs. Beale' s flow of talk might have 
bubbled on the very edge of it; at others 
this talk was a mere rattle to smother a 
knock. At no part of the crisis had the 
rattle so public a purpose as when, instead 
of letting Maisie go with Mrs. Wix to pre- 
pare for dinner, she pushed her with a 





push at last incontestably maternal straight 
into the room inherited from Sir Claude. 
She titivated her little charge with her own 
brisk hands; then she brought out: "I'm 
going to divorce your father." 

This was so different from anything Maisie 
had expected that it took some time to reach 
her mind. She was aware meanwhile that 
she must look rather wan. "To marry Sir 
Claude ? " 

Mrs. Beale rewarded her with a kiss. 
" It 's sweet to hear you put it so." 

This was a tribute, but it left Maisie bal- 
ancing for an objection. " How can you 
when he's married?" 

"He isn't practically. He's free." 

" Free to marry ? " 

"Free, first, to divorce his own fiend." 

The benefit that these last days she had 
felt she owed a certain person left Maisie 
for the moment so ill-prepared for recogniz- 
ing this label that she hesitated long enough 
to risk : " Mamma ? " 

" She is n't your mamma any longer," Mrs. 
