Four wives are an 
ample support for a 
native. with four 
wives he is wholly 
independent, and 
need never do a 
stroke of work again. 
That great dia- 
mond weighs 971 
carats. Some say it 
is as big as a piece of 
alum, others say it 
is as large as a bite 
of rock candy, but 
the best authorities 
agree that it is almost 
exactly the size of a chunk of ice. But those details are not 
important ; and in my opinion not trustworthy. It has a flaw 
in it, otherwise it would be of incredible value. As it is, it is 
held to be worth $2,000,000. After cutting it ought to be 
worth from |5,000,000 to $8,000,000, therefore persons desiring 
to save money should buy it now. It is owned by a syndicate, 
and apparently there is no satisfactory market for it. It is 
earning nothing ; it is eating its head off. Up to this time it 
has made nobody rich but the native who found it. 

He found it in a mine which was being worked by contract. 
That is to say, a company had bought the privilege of taking 
from the mine 5,000,000 carloads of blue-rock, for a sum down 
and a royalty. Their speculation had not paid ; but on the 
very day that their privilege ran out that native found the 
$2,000,000-diamond and handed it over to them. Even the 
diamond culture is not without its romantic episodes. 

The Koh-i-Noor is a large diamond, and valuable; but it 
cannot compete in these matters with three which — according 
to legend — are among the crown trinkets of Portugal and 
Russia. One of these is held to be worth $20,000,000 ; another, 
$25,000,000, and the third something over $28,000,000. 

Those are truly wonderful diamonds, whether they exist or 
not ; and yet they are of but little importance by comparison 
with the one wherewith the Boer wagoner chocked his wheel 
on that steep grade as heretofore referred to. In Kimberley I 
had somi conversation with the man who saw the Boer do 
that — an incident which had occurred twenty-seven or twenty- 
eight years before I had my talk with him. He assured me 
that that diamond's value could have been over a billion 
dollars, but not under it. I believed him, because he had de- 
voted twenty-seven years to hunting for it, and was in a 
position to know. 

A fitting and interesting finish to an examination of the 
tedious and laborious and costly processes whereby the diamonds 
are gotten out of the deeps of the earth and freed from the 
base stuffs which imprison them is the visit to the De Beers 
oflBces in the town of Kimberley, where the result of each 
day's mining is brought every day, and weighed, assorted, 
valued, and deposited in safes against shipping-day. An un- 
known and unaccredited person cannot get into that place ; 
and it seemed apparent from the generous supply of warning 
and protective and prohibitory signs that were posted all about 
that not even the known and 
accredited can steal diamonds 
there without inconvenience. 

We saw the day's output 
— shining little nests of dia- 
monds, distributed a foot 
apart, along a counter, each 
nest reposing upon a sheet of 
white paper. That day's 
catch was about $70,000 
worth. In the course of a 
year half a ton of diamonds 
pass under the scales there 
and sleep on that counter; 
the resulting money is $18,- 
000,000 or $20,000,000. Profit, about $12,000,000. 

Young girls were doing the sorting — a nice, clean, dainty, 
and probably distressing employment. Every day ducal in- 
comes sift and sparkle through the fingers of those young 
girls ; yet they go to bed at night as poor as they were when 
they got up in the morning. The same thing next day, and all 
the days. 

They are beautiful things, those diamonds, in their native 
state. They are of various shapes ; they have flat surfaces, 
rounded borders, and never a sharp edge. They are of all 
colors and shades of color, from dewdrop white to actual black ; 
and their smooth and rounded surfaces and contours, variety 
of color, and transparent limpidity make them look like piles 
of assorted candies. A very light straw color is their com- 
monest tint. It seemed to me that these uncut gems must be 
more beautiful than any cut ones could be ; but when a collec- 
tion of cut ones was brought out, I saw ray mistake. ]Js"othing 
is so beautiful as a rose diamond with the light playing 
through it, except that uncostly thing which is just like it — 
wavy sea- water with the sunlight playing through it and strik- 
ing a white-sand' bottom. 

Before the middle of July we reached Cape Town, and the 
end of our African journeyings. And well satisfied ; for, tow- 
ering above us was Table Mountain — a reminder that we had 
now seen each and all of the great features of South Africa 
except Mr. Cecil Rhodes. I realize that that is a large excep- 
tion. I know quite well that whether Mr. Rhodes is the lofty 
and worshipful patriot and statesman that multitudes believe 
him to be, or Satan come again, as the rest of the world account 
him, he is still the most imposing figure in the British empire 
outside of England. When he stands on the Ca])e of Good 
Hope, his shadow falls to the Zambesi. He is the only colonial 
in the British dominions whose goings and comings are chron- 
icled and discussed under all the globe's meridians, and whose 
speeches, undipped, are cabled from the ends of the earth; 
and he is the only unroyal outsider whose arrival in London 
can compete for attention with an eclipse. 

That he is an extraordinary man, and not an accident of 
