a clear stream of water that presently found its 
way out to the Passaic. Willows bent over it, 
elms and maples stood, tall and handsome, like 

guardian sentinels. 



A little old woman sat sewing by the window. 

"We haven't time to stop," said Mr. Whitney. 
"Hanny, that lady is your hero's grandmother, 
and the mother of General Watts Kearny. He 
not only distinguished himself in the Mexican 
War, but also in the \Var of 1812. Then he was 
Governor of Vera Cruz and the City of Mexico." 

"And the hero of no end of stories," added 
Ben. " Jim and I were wild over them a few years 
ago. Why do people keep saying we have no 
romance in our own country, because we have no 
ruined old castles? Why, Mexico itself is a land 
of historical romance ! ' 

" What a lovely cool dell ! ' exclaimed Dele. 
"Just the place to take your book on a hot 
summer day." 

" I believe your young hero Philip was born in 
New York. But this is the old home, one of the 
landmarks." 

Opposite was a rather pretty place, - a ram- 
bling brick house with sharp, pointed roofs, and 
a long stretch of evergreens. It was beautiful in 
this soft atmosphere. The birds made a swift 
dazzle now and then, and filled the air with melody. 

" Up here is a hedge of hawthorn that was 
brought over from England by a Yorkshireman 
living up above. It is out of bloom now; but 
another year you can come over early in May and 
see the ' hawthorn blossoms white ' that poets 
never tire of praising.' 

Dele broke off a sprig for herself, and one for 
Hanny. The spaces were larger, the houses 



' 

farther apart. On the west side was a tree -nursery 
and garden, and two quaint old frame-houses that 
hardly looked large enough for any one to live in ; 
but there were children playing about ; and on the 
other side a cemetery. All this tract was known 
as Mount Pleasant. 

At the north of the cemetery, they plunged 
down a stony way called a road, mostly by courtesy, 
though it was the only way of getting up from 
the river. Great trees overhung it on one side, 
and gave it a weird, darkened aspect. 

" It might be a ghost-walk, at night," exclaimed 
Delia. " Edgar A. Poe could have put a story here. 
I like the tragic; but I 'm not so fond of the 
horrible." 

Another turn showed them the river and the 
opposite shore crowned with green glittering in 
the afternoon sunshine. They all paused, it was 
such a wonderful outlook. 

And when they reached it, and glanced up and 
down, it was a picture indeed. The river made 
little bends, and wound around tiny points, edged 
with the greenest of sedge grass in some places, 
then grey stones with mossy sea-growth, or wil- 
lows dipping their branches in the lightly ruffled 
water. Not a soul to be seen anywhere, not a 
sound save the voices of birds ; but while they 
looked, a flock of geese came floating grandly down. 

" On thy fair bosom, silver lake, 
The white swan spreads her snowy sail," 

quoted Delia. 



"It is not the first time swans have proved 
geese," said Mr. Theodore, with a smile. "But 
for the sake of the picturesque we will let it pass. 

" I wonder if the Wye or the Severn would 
be so enchanting to us if poets had not lived there 
and immortalised them ? ' 

" When we are an old country, we will, no doubt, 
sigh for relics. In 1666, this was called ' Neworke 
or Pesayak towne; ' and a little more than a hun- 
dred years ago this Gully was made the dividing 
line between the towns. There are many historic 
spots in Belleville, and an old copper mine that 
once made a great addition to her prosperity. 
But my quest ends here. I don't know as I have 
a hero exactly, Miss Hanny, yet my friend, Frank 
Forrester, has had a varied and eventful life. 
This way.' 

Mr. Whitney led them up a path mostly over- 
grown with pale, spindling grass that had no 
chance for sunshine, so close and tall were the 
trees. It was undeniably gloomy, hidden away 
here. A little old brown, weather-beaten house 
hung with vines, that even stretched up into the 
trees; small, narrow windows, with diamond- 
shaped panes that could not let in much light, 
