
So he dismissed the past, and recalled the work he had set for
himself.  Everything was still. In the mining village probably there
was not a person awake. It was like a dead town. Everything seemed
favorable to his designs.

There was the store. He could see it already. And now there was
nothing to do but to get in and take the money, which he had no doubt
was waiting ready to his hand.

Perhaps he might be fortunate enough to secure it without waking the
boy. He hoped so, at any rate, for he was not a desperate or cruel
man. He did not wish to injure Ernest unless it should be absolutely
necessary. If he could get along without it, so much the better.

Arriving at his destination, he paused to reconsider.

He did not expect to enter by the front door. He did not as yet know
whether there was any other. But at any rate there must be a window
somewhere, and he preferred to get in that way.

He walked around to the rear of the store, and there he discovered the
window. He had been afraid it might be blockaded with shelves, which
would make entrance difficult, but fortunately this did not appear to
be the case. He stood at the window and looked in.



The faint moonlight did not enable him to penetrate the interior very
far, but he could make out something. There were goods of various
kinds scattered about, and he could just see a recumbent figure on a
bed near the counter.

"That's the boy," he said to himself. "I wonder if he is asleep."

There did not seem to be any doubt on this point.

But for the indistinct light, Tom Burns might have thought the
outstretched figure rather large for a boy. But he only glanced at it
furtively.

The next thing to consider was whether the window was fastened. In
that case he would have some difficulty, though for this he was
prepared, having an instrument with which he could cut a pane of
glass, and, thrusting in his hand, unfasten the catch.

But through some strange inadvertence, apparently, the window was not
locked, and much to his relief he had no difficulty in lifting it. In
this way he made his entrance into the store.

He was as careful as possible, fearing lest he might stumble over some
article, and by the noise betray his presence.

What if there was a dog inside? This thought brought alarm to the
burglar. In that case his visit would probably be a failure. He
remembered, however, with a feeling of relief, that he had seen no dog
about during his visit to the store.

Now that he had passed through the window, and was fairly in the
store, he looked round for the money-drawer. He had not seen the safe,
or probably he might not have entered the store at all, for he was not
expert in breaking open safes, and at any rate it would be a matter of
time and difficulty. So he was looking about, when, as he passed by
the bed, he felt himself seized by the leg. Evidently the sleeper had
awakened and discovered his presence.

Burns got down on his knees and grasped the recumbent by the throat.

"Lie still, or I'll choke you!" he said, fiercely.

But as he spoke he felt the rough beard of a man, and with dismay he
realized that he had tackled a more formidable foe than the boy for
whom he was prepared.

He then felt himself seized with an iron grasp.



"I've got you, you rascally burglar!" were the words he heard, and gave
himself up for lost.

"Who are you?" he asked faintly.

"I am Luke Robbins, and I know you of old. You are Tom Burns!"




CHAPTER XXXI.

THE ADVERTISEMENT.

If there was any one of whom Tom Burns stood in fear it was Luke
Robbins. When he found himself in the grasp of his dreaded enemy he
grew weak with terror.

It was no longer a question of successful robbery. It was a matter of
personal safety.

"Well, what have you to say for yourself?" demanded Luke, tightening
his grasp.

"Have mercy on me, Mr. Robbins! Don't kill me!" ejaculated Burns, half
choked.

"What did you come here for?"

"I--I had no money, and--"

"You thought you could get some here. That is the explanation."

"Ye-es," faltered Burns.

"You thought you would be more than a match for the boy. Well, you
have no boy to deal with."

"I know that very well," confessed Burns.

"How long have you been in Oreville?"

