crossed three nights before. They gave 
each other a feeble simultaneous slap on 
the back, gathered their energies, ran 
down the bank, and took a long draught 
of the running water. 
" I feel better," said Roldan, finally, " but 
hungrier than ever. There are quail in 
that chaparral over there. I'll go after 
them, and do you hunt for flint and build 
a fire." 
He crossed the creek and entered the 
brush beyond. Almost simultaneously 
there was a loud whirr of wings, and a 
large flock of quail rose from the chaparral 
a few feet ahead of him. He had only his 
pistols, but he was a good shot, and he de 
capitated two of the birds in rapid succession. Then he reloaded and killed a 
squirrel. When he returned, Adan was 
on his knees, with his large cheeks distended, coaxing a handful of dried leaves 
 
and twigs into flame. It was a half hour 
before the pyre was large enough for 
the sacrifice, but after that the birds and 
squirrel, which meanwhile had been 
skinned and washed in the creek, were 
but a short time singeing. It was an ill- 
cooked meal, but when it was over Roldan 
said solemnly, 
" I have eaten of all the delicious dishes 
of the Californias, including many dulces, 
but nothing ever tasted as good as this ; 
no, not even the first breakfast at Casa 
Encarnacion." 
" Nor to me," said Adan, emphatically, 
and he crossed himself. 
XXIII 
"HALLO!" shouted a peremptory 
O voice. "Hallo! Hallo!" 
" It's the Senor Jim," gasped Adan. 
Roldan sprang to his feet. " Hallo ! " 
he cried. 
There was a heavy trampling in the 
chaparral, and a moment later Hill rode 
into ; view. He took off his sombrero and 
waved it at the boys, but did not speak 
until he had crossed the creek and dismounted. Then he turned and regarded 
them with his keen hard eyes. 
"Well!" he exclaimed, "I never calculated to see you alive agin, and that's a 
fact. Hed some more adventures, I pre 
sume. Look as if ye'd hed more adventures than grub." 
"Indeed we have, Don Jim," said Roldan, solemnly. " Should you like to hear 
them ? " 
 
. "Should I? Well, I guess. You and 
your adventures have kinder made me feel 
young once more." 
Roldan told the painful story. ; . 
" Holy smoke ! " exclaimed Hill, in con 
clusion, "you are tough! And two mirages in the bargain. I was lost on Mojave 
once, and to my mind the mirages was the 
wust part of the hull game." 
" What do you mean ? " asked Roldan. 
" What are mirages ? " 
"Mirages, Roily, are what ought to be 
and: ain't, what you want and can't git, 
and they bear a hell-fired resemblance ta 
life. I see you don't quite understand. 
Well, that there beautiful city and that 
there beautiful lake was what we call mirage for want of better name ! " And he 
explained to .them the meaning of the phenomenon, as far as he understood it. : 
" We have certainly learned a good deal 
since we left home," said Roldan, thought 
fully. 
" There's room for more. There's room 
for more. Now, I suppose you'd like to 
know how I come here. Wall, I've got 
a confession to make fust, and seein as 
you've been so nigh to death in the last 
few days, p r aps you'll furgive me. The 
day after you left I went down to see the 
priest, as agreed. I found him well, I 
don't know as I'll tell everything, not 
even to excuse myself. It's enough to 
say that he was half luny between fear and 
remorse. He told me I suppose he'd 
got to that state where he had to tell 
somebody or bust about leavin you in 
the tunnel to die, and bein willin after to 
kill you with his own hands he was that 
mad. But he felt terrible sorry, and said 
that if you told on him it would serve him 
right ; only that would mean ruin ruin 
ruin a terrible word, young man. 
And he's not a day over forty and calculates to git out of Californy with that there 
gold and be a big-bug in his native land. 
I hesitated some time, fur I ain't no slouch 
at keepin a promise ; but in the end I had 
to tell him. Why, a man ?'s a criminal if 
he don't put another man out of misery 
when he kin " 
" You did quite right," interrupted 
 
Roldan. " I am glad that he was punished, but I would not have any one pun 
ished for ever."
" Well, I'm glad you feel that way. He 
felt good, I kin tell you that. He looked 
ten years younger in five minutes, for he 
said as how he knew you'd keep your 
word. I went straight off and managed 
to have a word with young Carrillo. It 
warnt no trouble to make him promise to 
keep his mouth shet; he's more afraid of 
the priest than he is of his father's green- 
hide lariat, and that's sayin a heap. 
When I went back to the Mission I told 
the priest that I thought as how I'd go 
on to Ortega's, and see if you got there all 
right. When I got there and heard as 
how you hed crossed the mountains in a 
terrible storm I just hed to go on. I made 
