
The men cautiously plied the oars and were soon steering softly toward
their appointed place of landing. But quietly as they moved, the sound
was borne ashore and they had not proceeded many boat lengths before
another shot echoed across the water.

"To thunder with the Spaniard," exclaimed Clif, out of patience with the
fresh outbreak. "He's firing at random. Go ahead. We'll meet them
further down the shore if they're not satisfied."

This sentiment met the approval of the men, and they bent to the oars
with vigor and spirit.

They were gliding swiftly across the water, and had nearly reached their
landing place, when Clif heard a noise that put him on the alert.

"Do you hear that?" he exclaimed, after hastily stopping the rowers.

The men rested on their oars and listened.

"Sounds like the throbbing of an engine, sir," at last said one of the
men. "It's a boat, sure."

"Yes, but friend or foe?" exclaimed Clif. "It's not the New York. She
went in the other direction, and I don't know of any more of our boats
in this place."

"Perhaps the New York is coming back," ventured one of the men.

"No," replied Clif. "She's not been here for at least three hours. By
that time we will be ready to return to her."

"It must be a blockade runner," suggested one of the men.

"Well, I don't see as it makes any difference," said Clif, finally. "If
it is, we can't stop her. She can't be after us, for I am sure no one of
the enemy knows our mission. There is our landing place. We must hurry
or we will be late."

With this he turned the prow of the boat toward shore, and gave orders
to proceed. A few minutes later the boat grated upon the beach and the
sailors sprang ashore.

There was no one to dispute their landing. The coast at this point was
wild and uninhabited, and but a short distance inland was the spot
appointed for the meeting with the insurgent courier.

Clif hid the boat among some bushes and quickly led the men up the steep
bank toward a clump of trees.

"This is the spot," he exclaimed as they reached it, "and we are
evidently ahead of time."

No one was in sight, as far as the eye could penetrate the darkness.
There was barely enough light from the moon just emerging from behind a
cloud to enable the sailors to take some notice of the surroundings.
Where they stood, near the sparse clump of trees, it was smooth and
level, but close to one side of them rose a ridge of ground forming a
natural rampart. It almost seemed as though Spanish forms might at any
instant appear upon it behind threatening guns.

Seaward the view was unobstructed, and as Clif turned his gaze in that
direction, he could see the moonbeams reflected on the heaving bosom of
the waters. He saw another sight an instant after that caused him to
utter an exclamation of surprise.

Far out to seaward the beam of a searchlight suddenly shot across the
water. It swept from side to side in a gradually widening radius, until
after a few moments its glare fell upon a steamer whose hulk rose up
between it and the shore.

"It is one of our ships chasing a blockade runner," cried Clif. "She was
trying to sneak out, but is caught in the act."

The little party on shore watched with eager eyes the chase as shown by
the bright beam from the warship's searchlight. In the excitement of the
novel sight that was afforded them they for the moment forgot why they
were there.

Then a strange and mysterious thing happened. As they watched the
pursued vessel they suddenly saw a flash from a gun on the side facing
the land.

"What fools!" cried Clif. "Firing toward the land instead of at our
ship. The fool Spaniards must be rattled worse than usual. That
beats----"

He did not finish the sentence. As he spoke the shell fired from the
ship crashed through the trees and landed almost at his feet. The fuse
was burning and spluttering, and it seemed ready to explode on the
instant, carrying death and destruction to the little party.

It was a perilous moment. Several of the men instinctively dodged and
seemed on the point of running away.

Clif saw his peril in an instant and the only hope of averting it.
Without a moment's hesitation he sprang forward and picked up the shell
as it seemed about to burst. With a mighty effort he hurled the
spluttering missile over the ridge of earth that he had noticed to one
side, and then, with an involuntary sigh of relief, he instinctively
huddled with the balance of the party in an expectant attitude, waiting
for the explosion on the other side of the rampart.




CHAPTER XXIV.

THE CUBAN COURIER.


But the explosion never came.

The party waited breathlessly, expecting to hear a deafening sound from
the shell, and to see the earth thrown up in showers about them. From a
safe place of vantage they felt it was a sight worth seeing and felt
personally aggrieved when, after waiting an unconscionable time, all was
quiet on the other side of the natural rampart of earth.

Clif had been surprised and puzzled in the first place to see the ship
