consent. Magdaléna paused at a bend of the stair and tried to conjure up
a brilliant throng in the dark hall below, the great doors of the
parlours rolled back, the rooms flooded with the soft light of many
candles; her aunt, long, willowy, of matchless grace, her marvellous
eyes shooting scorn at the Americans crowding about her, standing
against the gold-coloured walls in the blood-red satin she had shown
once to her small admirers. But the vision would not rise. There was
only a black well below, a rat crunching above.

She reached the door of her aunt's private apartments on the second
floor and entered. She stepped back amazed. There was no dust here, no
musty air, no dimness of window. A fire burned on the hearth. The gas
was lit and softly shaded. The vases on the mantel were full of flowers.
On one table was a basket of fruit; on another were the illustrated
periodicals.

"Mrs. Polk is here?" she said to Ah Sin.

"No, missee."

"She is expected, then? How odd--"

"Donno, missee. Evey day, plenty days, one, two, thlee weeks, me fixee
rooms all same this."

"But why?"

"Kin sabbee, missee. Mr. Polk tellee me, and me do allee same whattee he
say."

Magdaléna's lips parted, and her breath came short.

She gave the necessary instructions about the picture. The Chinaman
followed her down the stairs and opened the door. As she was passing
out, she turned suddenly and said to him,--

"It is not necessary to tell Mr. Polk about this, nor that I have been
here. He does not like to be bothered about little things."

"Allight, missee."




III


The night of Mrs. Yorba's long-heralded ball had arrived at last. For
weeks Society had been keenly expectant, for its greatest heiress and
its three most beautiful girls were to come forth from the seclusion in
which they were supposed to have been cultivating their minds, into the
great world of balls, musicales, and teas, where their success would be
in inverse ratio to their erudition.

Rose and Caro had arrived the winter before, and were no longer "buds;"
but Magdaléna, Helena, Tiny, and Ila were hardly known by sight outside
the Menlo Park set. Magdaléna had never hung over the banisters at her
mother's parties. The others had been abroad so long that the most
exaggerated stories of their charms prevailed.

The old beaux knotted their white ties with trembling fingers and
thought of the city's wild young days when Nina Randolph, Guadalupe
Hathaway, Mrs. Hunt Maclean, two of the "Three Macs," and the sinuous
wife of Don Pedro Earle had set their pulses humming. They were lonely
old bachelors, many of them, living at the Union or the Pacific Club,
and they sighed as the memories rose. That was a day when every other
woman in society was a great beauty, and as full of fascination as a fig
of seeds. To-day beautiful women in San Francisco's aristocracy were
rare. In Kearney Street, on a Saturday afternoon, one could hardly walk
for the pretty painted shop-girls; and in that second stratum which was
led by the wife of a Bonanza king who had been pronounced quite
impossible by Mrs. Yorba and other dames of the ancient aristocracy,
there were many stunningly handsome girls. They could be met at the
fashionable summer resorts; they were effulgent on first nights; they
were familiar in Kearney Street on other afternoons than Saturday, and
their little world was gay in its way; but Society, that exclusive body
which owned its inchoation and later its vitality and coherence to that
brilliant and elegant little band of women who came, capable and
experienced, to the fevered ragged city of the early Fifties, still
struggled in the Eighties to preserve its traditions, and did not admit
the existence of these people; feminine curiosity was not even roused to
the point of discussion. One day Mrs. Washington met one of the old
beaux, Ben Sansome by name, on the summit of California Street hill,
which commands one of the finest views of a city swarming over an
hundred hills.

Mrs. Washington waved her hand at the large region known as South San
Francisco.

"I suppose," she said thoughtfully, "that there are a lot of people in
San Francisco whose names we have never heard."

"I suppose so!" he exclaimed.

"I wonder what they are like? How many people are there in San
Francisco, anyhow?"

"About three hundred thousand."

"Really? really?" and Mrs. Washington shrugged her pretty shoulders and
dismissed the subject from her mind.

Would these new beauties compare with that galaxy of long ago? was the
thought that danced between Ben Sansome's faded eyes and his mirror.
Three to burst forth in a night! That was unwonted measure. Of late
years one in three seasons had inspired fervent gratitude. Nelly
Washington had been unchallenged for ten years; Caro Folsom was
second-rate beside her; and Rose Geary, the favourite of last winter,
although piquant and pretty, had not a pretension to beauty. Like the
other old beaux, he went only to the balls and dinners of the
old-timers, never to the dances and musicales of the youngsters, but he
kept a sharp look-out, nevertheless. To-night assumed the proportions of
an event in his life.

Several of the young men had met two of these beauties during the
summer, but Helena was still to be experienced. The young hands did not
tremble, but their eyes were very bright as they wondered if they were
"in for it," if they would "get it in the neck," if she were really "a
little tin goddess on wheels." Even Rollins, who was madly enamoured of
Tiny, and Fort, who had carefully calculated his chances with Rose, were
