when I told her that this particular day perhaps wouldn’t, she said
it would just have to.”

“Have to do?” Mr. Prodmore showed again, through a chink, his
speculative eye. “For what, then, with such grand airs?”

“Why, I suppose, for what Americans want.”

He measured the quantity. “They want everything.”

“Then I wonder,” said Cora, “that she hasn’t arrived.”

“When she does arrive,” he answered, “I’ll tackle her; and I
shall thank you, in future, not to take up, in trains, with indelicate
women of whom you know nothing.”

“Oh, I did know something,” his daughter pleaded; “for I saw her
yesterday at Bellborough.”

Mr. Prodmore contested even this freedom. “And what was she doing at
Bellborough?”

“Staying at the Blue Dragon, to see the old abbey. She says she just
loves old abbeys. It seems to be the same feeling,” the girl went on,
“that brought her over, today, to see this old house.”

“She ‘just loves’ old houses? Then why the deuce didn’t she
accompany you properly, since she is so pushing, to the door?”

“Because she went off in a fly,” Cora explained, “to see, first,
the old hospital. She just loves old hospitals. She asked me if this
isn’t a show-house. I told her”--the girl was anxious to disclaim
responsibility--“that I hadn’t the least idea.”

“It is!” Mr. Prodmore cried almost with ferocity. “I wonder,
on such a speech, what she thought of you!”

Miss Prodmore meditated with distinct humbleness. “I know. She told
me.”

He had looked her up and down. “That you’re really a hopeless
frump?”

Cora, oddly enough, seemed almost to court this description. “That
I’m not, as she rather funnily called it, a show-girl.”

“Think of your having to be reminded--by the very strangers you
pick up,” Mr. Prodmore groaned, “of what my daughter should
pre-eminently be! Your friend, all the same,” he bethought himself,
“is evidently loud.”

“Well, when she comes,” the girl again so far agreed as to reply,
“you’ll certainly hear her. But don’t judge her, papa, till you
do. She’s tremendously clever,” she risked--“there seems to be
nothing she doesn’t know.”

“And there seems to be nothing you do! You’re not tremendously
clever,” Mr. Prodmore pursued; “so you’ll permit me to demand of
you a slight effort of intelligence.” Then, as for the benefit of the
listening walls themselves, he struck the high note. “I’m expecting
Captain Yule.”

Cora’s consciousness blinked. “The owner of this property?”

Her father’s tone showed his reserves. “That’s what it depends on
you to make him!”

“On me?” the girl gasped.

“He came into it three months ago by the death of his great-uncle,
who had lived to ninety-three, but who, having quarrelled mortally with
his father, had always refused to receive either sire or son.”

Our young lady bent her eyes on this page of family history, then
raised them but dimly lighted. “But now, at least, doesn’t he live
here?”

“So little,” her companion replied, “that he comes here today
for the very first time. I’ve some business to discuss with him that
can best be discussed on this spot; and it’s a vital part of that
business that you too should take pains to make him welcome.”

Miss Prodmore failed to ignite. “In his own house?”

“That it’s not his own house is just the point I seek to
make! The way I look at it is that it’s my house! The way I look
at it even, my dear”--in his demonstration of his ways of looking
Mr. Prodmore literally expanded--“is that it’s our house. The
whole thing is mortgaged, as it stands, for every penny of its value;
and I’m in the pleasant position--do you follow me?” he trumpeted.

Cora jumped. “Of holding the mortgages?”

He caught her with a smile of approval and indeed of surprise. “You
keep up with me better than I hoped. I hold every scrap of paper, and
it’s a precious collection.”

She smothered, perceptibly, a vague female sigh, glancing over the
place more attentively than she had yet done. “Do you mean that you
can come down on him?”

“I don’t need to ‘come,’ my dear--I am ‘down.’ This
is down!”--and the iron point of Mr. Prodmore’s stick fairly
struck, as he rapped it, a spark from the cold pavement. “I came many
weeks ago--commercially speaking--and haven’t since budged from the
place.”

The girl moved a little about the hall, then turned with a spasm of
courage. “Are you going to be very hard?”

If she read the eyes with which he met her she found in them, in spite
of a certain accompanying show of pleasantry, her answer. “Hard with
you?”

“No--that doesn’t matter. Hard with the Captain.”

Mr. Prodmore thought an instant. “‘Hard’ is a stupid, shuffling
term. What do you mean by it?”

“Well, I don’t understand business,” Cora said; “but I think I
