
This pleased Gilbert even less than what she 
had said before, for he was still young enough 
to wish himself older. He therefore answered her 
laughter with a look of grave contempt. She was 
woman enough to see that the time had come to 
take him by surprise, with a view of ascertaining 
the truth. 

" How long has the Queen loved you ? " she asked 
suddenly; and while she seemed not to be looking at 
him, she was watching every line in his face, and 
would have noticed the movement of an eyelash if 
there had been nothing else to note. But Gilbert 
was really surprised. 

" The Queen ! The Queen love me ! Are you 
beside yourself ? " 

" Not at all," answered the young girl, quietly ; 
" it is the talk of the court. They say that the King 
is jealous of you." 

She laughed — gayly, this time, for she saw that 
he really had had no idea of the truth. Then she 
grew grave all at once, for it occurred to her that she 
had perhaps made a mistake in putting the idea 
into his head. 

"At least," she said, as if correcting herself, 
"that is what they used to say last year." 

"You are quite mad," he said, without a smile. 
" I cannot imagine how such an absurd idea could 
have suggested itself to you. In the first place, the 
Queen would never look at a poor Englishman like 
me — " 

" I defy any woman not to look at you," said 
Beatrix. 





" Why ? " he asked, with curiosity. 

" Is this more simplicity, or is it more dulness ? " 

" Both, I suppose," answered Gilbert, in a hurt 
tone. " You are very witty." 

" Oh, no ! " she exclaimed. " Wit is quite another 
thing." 

Then her tone changed and her face softened 
wonderfully as she tooJi his hand. 

" I am glad that you do not believe it," she said; 
" and I am glad that you do not care to be thought 
handsome. But I think it is true that the Queen 
loves you, and if she sent to England for me, that 
was merely in order to bring you back to France. 
Of course she could not know — " 

She checked herself, and he, of course, asked what 
she had meant to say, and insisted upon knowing. 

" The Queen could not know," she said at last, 
" that we should seem so strange to each other when 
we met." 

" Do I seem so strange to you ? " he asked, in a 
sorrowful tone. 

" No," she answered, " it is the other way. I can 
see that you expected me to be very different." 

" Indeed, I did not," answered Gilbert, with some 
indignation. " At least," he added hastily, " if I 
thought anything about it, I did not expect that 
you would be half so pretty, or half — " 

" If you thought anything about it," laughed 
Beatrix, interrupting him. 

" You know what I mean," he said, justly annoyed 
by his own lack of tact. 

" Oh, yes ; of course I do — that is the trouble." 



 

" If we are going to do nothing but quarrel," he 
said, "I am almost sorry that I came here." 

Again her tone changed, but this time she did not 
touch his hand. Hearing her voice, he expected 
that she would, and he was oddly disappointed that 
she did not. 

"Nothing could make me sorry that you found 
me," she answered. " You do not know how hard 
I have tried to see you all through this last year ! " 

Her tone was tender and earnest, and though they 
had been long parted, she was nearer to him than 
he knew. His hand closed upon hers, and in the 
little thrill that he felt he forgot his disappointment. 

" Could you not send me any word ? " he asked. 

" I am a prisoner," she answered, more than half 
in earnest. " It would be ill for you if the Queen 
found you here ; but there is no danger, for they are 
all gone to the high mass in the cathedral." 

"And why are you left behind? " he asked. 
