from her father—But the first thing when I woke this morning, I saw that
I must tell Mrs. March and you.  And you—you must forgive us—or me,
rather; for it was my fault—for not telling you last night—at once—oh,
thank you! thank you!”

I had seized his hand, and was wringing it vehemently in expression of my
pleasure in what he had told me.  In that first moment I felt nothing but
pure joy and an immeasurable relief.  I drew my breath, a very deep and
full one, in a sudden, absolute freedom from anxieties which had been
none the less real and constant because so often burlesqued.  Afterward
considerations presented themselves to alloy my rapture, but for that
moment, as I say, it was nothing but rapture.  There was no question in
it of the lovers’ fitness for each other, of their acceptability to their
respective families, of their general conduct, or of their especial
behaviour toward us.  All that I could realise was that it was a great
escape for both of us, and a great triumph for me.  I had been afraid
that I should not have the courage to speak to Kendricks of the matter at
all, much less ask him to go away; and here I had actually spoken to him,
with the splendid result that I need only congratulate him on his
engagement to the lady whose unrequited affections I had been wishing him
to spare.  I don’t remember just the terms I used in doing this, but they
seemed satisfactory to Kendricks; probably a repetition of the letters of
the alphabet would have been equally acceptable.  At last I said, “Well,
now I must go and tell the great news to Mrs. March,” and I shook hands
with him again; we had been shaking hands at half-minutely intervals ever
since the first time.




XVIII


I SAW Mrs. March waiting for me on the hotel verandah.  She wore her
bonnet, and she warned me not to approach, and then ran down to meet me.

“Well, my dear,” she said, as she pushed her hand through my arm and
began to propel me away from the sight and hearing of people on the
piazza, “I hope you didn’t make a fool of yourself with Kendricks.
They’re engaged!”

She apparently expected me to be prostrated by this stroke.  “Yes,” I
said very coolly; “I was just coming to tell you.”

“How did you know it?  Who told you?  Did Kendricks?  I don’t believe
it!” she cried in an excitement not unmixed with resentment.

“No one told me,” I said.  “I simply divined it.”

She didn’t mind that for a moment.  “Well, I’m glad he had the grace to
do so, and I hope he did it before you asked him any leading questions.”
Without waiting to hear whether this was so or not, she went on, with an
emphasis on the next word that almost blotted it out of the language,
“She came back to me almost the instant you were gone, and told me
everything.  She said she wanted to tell me last night, but she hadn’t
the courage, and this morning, when she saw that I was beginning to hint
up to Mr. Kendricks a little, she hadn’t the courage at all.  I sent her
straight off to telegraph for her father.  She is behaving splendidly.
And now, what are we going to do?”

“What the rest of the world is—nothing.  It seems to me that we are out
of the story, my dear.  At any rate, I shan’t attempt to compete with
Miss Gage in splendid behaviour, and I hope you won’t.  It would be so
easy for us.  I wonder what Papa Gage is going to be like.”

I felt my thrill of apprehension impart itself to her.  “Yes!” she
gasped; “what if he shouldn’t like it?”

“Well, then, that’s his affair.”  But I did not feel so lightly about it
as I spoke, and from time to time during the day I was overtaken with a
cold dismay at the thought of the unknown quantity in the problem.

When we returned to the hotel after a tour of the block, we saw Kendricks
in our corner of the verandah with Miss Gage.  They were both laughing
convulsively, and they ran down to meet us in yet wilder throes of
merriment.

“We’ve just been comparing notes,” he said, “and at the very moment when
I was telling you, Mr. March, Julia was telling Mrs. March.”

“Wonderful case of telepathy,” I mocked.

“Give it to the Psychical Research.”

They both seemed a little daunted, and Miss Gage said, “I know Mr. March
doesn’t like the way we’ve done.”

“Like it!” cried Mrs. March, contriving to shake me a little with the
hand she still had in my arm.  “Of course he likes it.  He was just
saying you had behaved splendidly.  He said he wouldn’t attempt to
compete with you.  But you mustn’t regard him in the least.”

I admired the skill with which Isabel saved her conscience in this
statement too much to dispute it; and I suppose that whatever she had
said, Miss Gage would have been reassured.  I cannot particularly praise
the wisdom of her behaviour during that day, or, for the matter of that,
the behaviour of Kendricks either.  The ideal thing would have been for
him to keep away now till her father came, but it seemed to me that he
was about under our feet all the while, and that she, so far from making
him remain at his own hotel, encouraged him to pass the time at ours.
Without consulting me, Mrs. March asked him to stay to dinner after he
had stayed all the forenoon, and he made this a pretext for spending the
afternoon in our corner of the verandah.  She made me give it up to him
and Miss Gage, so that they could be alone together, though I must say
they did not seem to mind us a great deal when we were present; he was
always leaning on the back of her chair, or sitting next her with his
hand dangling over it in a manner that made me sick.  I wondered if I was
ever such an ass as that, and I quite lost the respect for Kendricks’s
good sense and good taste which had been the ground of my liking for him.

I felt myself withdrawn from the affair farther and farther in sympathy,
since it had now passed beyond my control; and I resented the strain of
the responsibility which I had thrown off, I found, only for a moment,
and must continue to suffer until the girl’s father appeared and finally
relieved me.  The worst was that I had to bear it alone.  It was
impossible to detach Mrs. March’s interest from Miss Gage, as a girl who
had been made love to, long enough to enable her to realise her as a
daughter with filial ties and duties.  She did try in a perfunctory way
to do it, but I could see that she never gave her mind to it.  I could
not even make her share my sense of my own culpability, a thing she was
