"Well, one thing is, he talks straight. He doesn't talk 'round about,
and sideways, and crossways, to children. Nor make fun of my questions.
He just answers right along and plain."

"I don't think I quite know what you mean, Namesake."

"Why, you see it's this way,--the other day I asked him if he didn't
think you were a heap prettier than any other lady he ever saw, and he
never so much as cracked a smile. He just put his arm 'round me--he
never did that but twice before--and he said up-and-down, as serious as
anything--'Yes, I do, Molly!' And he does make the beautifullest
chinquapin whistles! They go on whistling after they are dry. You see,
the trouble with the whistles other people make for me, is that they
shrivel all up by next day, and there isn't a bit of whistle left in
them."

"That's the way with most of my whistles, too, Namesake. And then I
throw them away and want new ones. Heigh-ho! What's the use of a whistle
when all the whistle has gone out of it? I must ask Mr. Frank Morton how
he makes his."

I gave a jump and a little squeak.

"Oh, Cousin Molly Belle! there's a great, big race-horse on you!"

He had tumbled out of the apple boughs upon the folds of her skirt and
before I could capture him, a second fell after him. I was upon my feet
in a twinkling, seized first one, then the other, by their attenuated
middles, and held them up, all kicking and sprawling, between a thumb
and finger of each hand. I knew the tricks and the manners of what I
learned, many years later, that naturalists describe as the mantis
religiosa, or praying-mantis, because in off-hours,--i.e. when they
are not foraging or fighting--they will sit upon their hind quarters and
"fold the stout anterior legs in a manner suggesting hands folded in
prayer."

I had caught dozens of them and fed them for days in a box with coarse
lace tied over the top to prevent escape, and studied their habits, and
humored their propensities by putting several together in the prison
that forthwith became an arena, in which duello and general scrimmage
relieved one another in enchanting succession.

I explained now, to my diverted companion, that I held them by their
backs so that they could not bite me, and pointed out the wicked heads
turning almost quite around in their savage efforts to avenge their
capture. I was sure, I said excitedly, that these two were fighting up
in the tree, and that was the way they happened to drop so close
together. Had she never seen devil's race-horses fight? Mother didn't
like that name for them, so I 'most always said just "race-horses"
plain, so. Only, when they were very cross, the other word would slip
out.

"If I were to let them go this minute, they'd begin to fight, 'stead of
running away," I concluded. "S'pose we try them."

Entering into my humor, she improvised a cockpit by spreading her
pocket-handkerchief upon the ground, and I liberated the gladiators.

They more than justified my account of their ferocity by grappling on
the instant, each rising to his full height and hurling himself at his
opponent's throat.

"You see they are acquainted with one another," I commented, as umpire
and manager. "They just begin where they left off up in the tree."

It was an exciting display. Cousin Molly Belle raised herself upon her
elbow; I doubled tightly under me what I now let myself think of as my
legs, and spread both hands flat on the grass, to lean over the arena.
In the hush that followed the onslaught the babbling song Bud crooned
to himself as he crawled over the sun-and-shade dappled turf harmonized
with the sleepy shaking of the leaves about us. Such another
happy-hearted baby was never seen. And so wise, as I have said, for a
yearling! never getting into mischief, and afraid of nothing.

I peeped through a kinetoscope last winter at a prize fight. I have
never beheld anything that so closely and humiliatingly resembled the
battle on the cambric square under the big sweeting. The wary advance
after the recoil from the first encounter; the circling about at close
quarters, each watching for his antagonist's weak point, the sudden
clutch, embrace, and wrestle, which I, with umpiric instinct,
interrupted, once and again, to prolong the combat,--none of these were
wanting from either exhibition.

At length, I left the combatants to follow the bent of native savagery,
and then came such warm and inartistic work as patrons of the human ring
would decry as barbarous and out-of-date. They bit venomously, below
the belt, they grabbed at and hung on to any part of the body that came
handy; they rolled over and over, intertwined so closely as to appear
like one convulsed, centipedal monster. Finally, one half of the
creature gave a violent kick and was still. As the victor shook himself
free of the carcass we saw the head he had bitten from the other's neck
roll from under the survivor. Withdrawing an inch or two from the
remains, he sat up on his hind quarters, and "folded his stout anterior
legs" sanctimoniously in a battle-prayer. His devotions ended, he
proceeded to lick his wound and readjust himself generally.

"I'm sorry I didn't separate them," said Cousin Molly Belle, shaking her
handkerchief with coy finger-tips. "I don't think I care to see such
another fight. It gives me the creeps."

"I think it is very interesting," replied I. "'Tisn't as if they had
souls, you see. They just die and don't go anywhere."

A disagreeable noise joined Bud's cooing and babbling, and made us turn
quickly. Right before us, and within six feet of the helpless baby, who
had sat up to regard the phenomenon with innocent wonder, was an
enormous sow with a brood of hungry young ones at her heels. Her vicious
grunt, her gloating eyes, her dripping jaws, and projecting tusks,
bespoke her dangerous. Only yesterday I had seen her, prowling in the
barn-yard, seize and devour, one after another, three downy ducklings
before the stable-boys could beat her off. In the terror of this moment,
the scene flashed back to me, and I seemed to hear again the crunching
of those slavering jaws.

Cousin Molly Belle swooped down upon Bud, and had him upon her shoulder
before I could join my piping cry to her shout that rang out like a
silver trumpet. The huge beast halted, made as though she would turn,
then gave an angry, squealing grunt, and lunged toward us. Not a loose
stick or stone was within reach. If there had been, there was not time
to pick it up.
