
"Try what?"

"Jumpin'."

"Oh, quit yer foolin'. A nice sight I'd be, jumpin'. Your dad will jump
with you."

"Yes," said John, smiling gravely.

"Oh, he can beat me, of course."

"Won't you jump, John?" asked Rupert, thinking the Indian looked
desirous of a trial.

"Yes," answered John.

Like most of his race, he was supple and well trained in all athletic
exercises. He jumped three feet farther than Rupert, though the white
boy plumed himself on his agility.

Later Rupert and Sal took a trip down the river on the raft. Sal desired
to do the paddling, and Rupert was obliged to confess that she
understood the art of paddling a raft better than he.

"You gave it to me, didn't you?" she said.

"Yes, Sal, it is yours."

The girl looked pleased.

"I will go out on it a good deal," she said. "Dad doesn't like me to use
his canoe."

"Where does he keep his canoe?"

"Up the river a way. Shall I show you?"

"Yes, if you will."

She kept on paddling till they reached a secluded part of the stream,
where there was a circular indentation in the bank. Here was the
Indian's canoe. It was higher than the skiff in which Rupert had
traveled with Ben Boone, and though as long, was narrower.

"It is a beautiful canoe!" said Rupert, admiringly.

"Isn't it? Dad's proud of it."

"How long has he been married to your mother?"

"'Bout three years."

"You don't mind having an Indian for a father?" asked Rupert, feeling
that he might be on delicate ground.

"No, John's a good man. He never drinks, as my own father did. He's good
to mam. Then he is a good hunter, and brings us plenty of bear's meat."

"Would you be willing to marry an Indian yourself?"

"No, I'd rather marry you," was Sal's disconcerting reply.

"I am not old enough to be married," said Rupert, blushing.

"You will be some day."

"Yes. I shall be some day--if I live."

"Then will you come and marry me?"

This was a leap year proposal with a vengeance. Rupert was hardly
prepared with an answer. He replied diplomatically, "I can't tell yet. I
must ask my mother."

"Mam would be willing I should marry you," said Sal. "Where does your
mother live?"

"Near New York."

"Won't you ask her?"

"Yes," answered Rupert; "but perhaps you will see some one else you will
like better."

"No, I shan't," said Sal, positively. "You are awful handsome."

"Am I?" said Rupert, in rather an embarrassed tone.

"Yes, you've got such nice red cheeks."

Rupert scanned her critically, but he was unable to return the
compliment. Her face was thin and sallow, and the only feature that was
passable was her bright black eyes.

The next morning, when Rupert was ready to start, Sal showed an
inclination to kiss him again, but he hurried off with the Indian, and
escaped this affectionate demonstration.

"You'll come back some time?" said Sal, anxiously, as she looked after
him.

"Yes, some day."

Rupert hoped that before he saw Sal again she would have secured a
husband in her own station in life.

Rupert found the Indian a very satisfactory companion. Compared to Ben
he was silent and reserved, but he was willing to answer questions, and
the young traveler managed to extract considerable information from him.

There was no unnecessary delay. Rupert had no desire to remain longer in
the wilderness. So on the evening of the third day he reached Red Gulch
and sought out his friend Giles Packard.

The cattleman eyed his companion with surprise.

"Where have you left Ben?" he said.

"He left me," answered Rupert, and he told the story of Ben Boone's
