gentleman ascended the steps — he had seen them a time 
or two, and they all went in together. 
There were several other guests in the parlor. He sat 
down in a small reception-room and awaited Miss Mau- 
rice. It was some time before she came ; she had occu- 
pied the moments in working herself up to a desperate 
mood. 
He bowed with a cold politeness. It was extremely 
awkward, and somehow she had no heart for platitudes. 
" I am glad you have happened in," she began, with 
evident embarrassment. " There was something I wanted 
you to know." 
" Then I have been fortunate. I was not sure I would 
be welcome." 
• The voice had a touch of irony in it, and his demeanor 
was extremely lofty. It suddenly roused her sense of 
fun, and she wanted to laugh. That might have demol- 
ished the tragic aspect. 
"I want to tell you that — " she colored vividly in the 
pause, " that I am engaged. It is best that you should 
know it at once, as it will not be a long engagement." 
"You are very honorable." 
"You said that — while I was free — you should keep 
hoping." What made him take it so calmly, unless he 
had already been informed ? 
There was another long, awkward silence. She was 
really vexed with him. 
" I gave up my hope an hour or more ago," he said, 
at length, in a cold tone. He meant to be as impressive 
as possible. " I was taking supper with my uncle. It 
shocked and surprised me. I had not supposed you 
could be tempted with the goods of this world, merely." 
"I was not tempted by anything," she returned, with 
some spirit. " I will say now that I have long admired 
your uncle. Once I might have answered a suggestion 
in a manner to make it a proposal, and that was in our 
first acquaintance, and a time when temptation to such a 
step would have been doubly strong, as I was looking for 
a standing place in the world's great army and nothing 
seemed to promise a foothold. If I was not tempted 
then I am not likely to be tempted now when I have a 
secure position." 
" You mean me to infer that you love him," Sherburne 
commented, with the scornful incredulity of youth. 
" I love him," Gertrude Maurice said, simply. " For 
a year and more I have been comparing him with other 
men I have seen. It was a vague ideal in my mind, and 
I gave it no personality until we returned to the city. 
But when I met him again I knew what influence had 
shaped my ideal." 
" Well, you have idealized him to the most extravagant 
end. Let me tell you that you will be bitterly disap- 
pointed. I can see how a girl might marry a man double 
her age, but that she should set him above everything, 
when there are so many splendid men in the world ! " 
"I do not set him above every person. I admit 
frankly that there are nobler, better, wiser, grander men 
in the world. But he suits me. I am not a romantic 
girl. I should have to admire and esteem the man I 
love." 
"I don't see what you find in him to admire," he 
flung out, angrily. "He is generous and jolly and " — 
yes, he would say it — "commonplace." 
" And I am commonplace. I think you do not find a 
great many people in the world like Mrs. Drayton, even 
among geniuses," and she smiled. "And Mrs. Carew 
has such a fine, broad standard, and is so interested in 
the regeneration of mankind, indeed all the greater ques- 
tions of life. I am rather frivolous and I do like my own 
gratification in the things that please me. I suppose I 
am selfish. Mr. Murray has a good deal of penetration 
and understands human nature. I am quite sure he does 
not idealize me at all, and I shall not have to live up to 
a standard that requires thought and care every moment 
of one's life. It would wear me out." 
Her tone was a trifle impatient. 
And this was the girl he had thought would be his in- 
spiration ; who would watch every effort, who would not 
only encourage him to achieve his best, but would bring 
her own best, and so transfuse it into his life that it 
should bear fruit about which there should be no ques- 
tion, no claim. Perhaps Milton embodied the dream of 
illimitable youth in his often quoted line : 
" He for God only, she for God in him." 
" O if you are going to reduce marriage to this com- 
monplace level — " he paused and looked her over with 
his superior air — "well, then I shall be sorry for Uncle 
Con. He is worthy of something better." 
" I think we get from each other those qualities and 
affections that we are capable of inspiring, or drawing 
out. If deep answers unto deep, how much more shall 
soul answer to soul. But the cmestion or the desire must 
not be something of which the other soul is ignorant." 
He was too angry for any deep reasoning. He wanted 
to hurt her, to sting her in some way, and no shaft was 
sharp enough. He wanted to show her that he despised 
her, yet down in his heart he. felt that even now he would 
take her if he could. He would really triumph in her 
throwing over Uncle Con for himself. He was incensed 
that it was so. 
She rose with a certain dignity. 
"We shall not agree upon any point," she began, in a 
well-bred, unemotional tone. "Only you will remember 
that in our first talk in the park that evening I was frank 
and honest with you. I said then I did not love you. To 
make any marriage I hold that both parties should love." 
" And you said you had no lover." 
"I had none then," she answered, proudly. 
"But you were in love without knowing that it would 
be returned ! " he exclaimed, with an accent of triumph. 
She colored warmly. " I do not think one can justly 
call it love. One does not feel the heat of the blaze 
when the wood is simply laid. We pass by more than 
one ' might have been,' and recognize later in life that 
they were among the things that never really were. I 
had no thought when I answered you that Mr. Murray 
would choose me from a world of charming women. And 
I am glad he has. That is the measure of my love for 
him. And now let me bid you good-night." 
Her retreating gesture was unmistakable. He bowed 
