any of us can do is to prepare some one else for 
doing something well. 
Miss McDonald had a pretty comprehensive 
knowledge of English literature and history, and, 
better perhaps than mere knowledge, a discrim- 
inating and cultivated taste. If her rehgious 
education had twisted her view of the fine arts, 
she had nevertheless a natural sympathy for 
the beautiful, and she would not have been a 
Scotchwoman if she had not had a love for the 
romances of her native land and at heart a " bal- 
lad " sentiment for the cavaliers. If Evelyn had 
been educated by her in Edinbui'gh, she might 
have been in sentiment a young Jacobite. She 
had through translations a sufficient knowledge 
of the classics to give her the necessary literary 
background, and her study of Latin had led her 
into the more useful acquisition of French. If 
she had been free to indulge her own taste, she 
would have gone far in natural history, as was 
evident from her rnastery of botany and her 
interest in birds. 
 
She inspired so much confidence by her good 
sense, clear-headedness, and discretion, that al- 
most from the first Evelyn was confided to her 
sole care, with only the direction that the baby 
was never for an instant, night or day, to be 
left out of the sight of a trusty attendant. The 
nurse was absolutely under her orders, she se- 
lected the two maids, and no person except the 
parents and the governess could admit visitors 
to the nursery. This perfect organization was 
maintained for many years, and though it came 
to be relaxed in details, it was literally true that 
the heiress was never alone, and never out of the 
sight of some trusted person responsible for her 
safety. But whatever the changes or relaxation, 
in holidays, amusements, travel, or education, the 
person who formed her mind was the one who 
had taught her to obey, to put words together 
into language, and to speak the truth, from in- 
fancy. 
It is not necessary to consider Ann McDon- 
ald as a paragon. She was simply an intelli- 
gent, disciplined woman, with a strong sense of 
duty. If she had married and gone about the 
ordinary duties of life at the age of twenty-four, 
she would probably have been in no marked way 
distinguished among women. Her own develop- 
ment was largely due to the responsibility that 
was put upon her in the training of another 
 
person. In this sense it was true that she had 
learned as much as she had imparted. And 
in nothing was this more evident than in the 
range of her literary taste and judgment. "What- 
ever risks, whatever latitude she might have been 
disposed to take with regard to her own mind, 
she would not take as to the mind of another, 
and as a consequence her own standards rose to 
meet the situation. That is to say, in a consci- 
entious selection of only the best for Evelyn, 
she became more fastidious as to the food for 
her own mind. Or, to put it in still another 
way, in regard to character and culture gener- 
ally, the growth of Miss McDonald could be 
measured by that of Evelyn. 
When, from the time Evelyn was seven years 
old, it became necessary in her education to call 
in special tutors in the languages and in mathe- 
matics, and in certain arts that are generally 
called accomplishments, Miss McDonald was al- 
ways present when the lessons were given, so 
that she maintained her ascendency and her in- 
fluence in the girl's mind. It was this insepa- 
rable companionship, at least in all affairs of the 
mind, that gave to this educational experiment 
an exceptional interest to students of psychology. 
Nothing could be more interesting than to 
come into contact Avith a mind that from in- 
fancy onward had dwelt only upon what is 
 
noblest in literature, and from which had been 
excluded all that is enervating and degrading. 
A remarkable illustration of this is the familiar 
case of Helen Keller, whose acquisitions, by rea- 
son of her blindness and deafness, were limited 
to what was selected for her, and that mainly by 
one person, and she was therefore for a long time 
shielded from a knowledge of the evil side of 
life. Yet all vital literature is so close to life, 
and so full of its passion and peril, that it sup- 
plies all the necessary aliment for the growth of 
a sound, discriminating mind ; and that knowledge 
of the world, as knowledge of evil is euphuisti- 
cally called, can be safely left out of a good edu- 
cation. This may be admitted without going 
into the discussion whether good principles and 
standards in literature and morals are a sufficient 
equipment for the perils of life. 
This experiment, of course, was limited in Eve- 
lyn's case. She came in contact with a great 
deal of life. Her little world was fairly repre- 
sentative, for it contained her father, her mother, 
her governess, the maids and the servants, and 
occasional visitors, whom she saw freely as she 
grew older. The interesting fact was that she 
was obliged to judge this world according to the 
standards of literature, morals, and manners that 
had been implanted in her mainly by the influence 
of one person. 
 
The important part of this experiment of par- 
tial exclusion, in which she was never alone — an 
experiment undertaken solely for her safety and 
not for her training — was seen in her when she 
became conscious of its abnormal character, and 
perceived that she was always under surveillance. 
It might have made her exceedingly morbid, 
