the cows. I made a real good bargain. Come, Rosie."

Amelia could not answer. It seemed to her as if love had dealt with her
as she had not deserved; and she went on, exalted, afraid of breaking
the moment, and knowing only that he was hers again. But just before
they left the shadow of the woods, he stopped, holding her still, and
their hearts beat together.

"'Melia," said he brokenly, "I guess I never told you in so many words,
but it's the truth: if God Almighty was to make me a woman, I'd have her
you, not a hair altered. I never cared a straw for any other. I know
that now. You're all there is in the world."

When they walked up over the brown field, the sun lay very warmly there
with a promise of spring fulfilled. The wind had miraculously died, and
soft clouds ran over the sky in flocks. Rosie danced on ahead, singing
her queer little song, and Enoch struggled with himself to speak the
word his wife might wish.

"'Melia," said he at last, "there ain't anything in my life I couldn't
tell you. I jest ain't dwelt on it, that's all. If you want to have me
go over it--"

"I don't want anything," said Amelia firmly. Her eyes were suffused, and
yet lambent. The light in them seemed to be drinking up their tears. Her
steps, she knew, were set within a shining way. At the door only she
paused and fixed him with a glance. "Enoch," said she threateningly,
"whose cows were them you sold to-day?"

He opened his lips, but she looked him down. One word he rejected, and
then another. His cheeks wrinkled up into obstinate smiling, and he made
the grimace of a child over its bitter draught.

"'Melia, it ain't fair," he complained. "No, it ain't. I'll take one of
'em, if you say so, or I'll own it don't make a mite o' difference whose
they be. But as to lyin'--"

"Say it!" commanded Amelia. "Whose were they?"

"Mine!" said Enoch. They broke into laughter, like children, and held
each other's hands.

"I ain't had a mite o' dinner," said Amelia happily, as they stepped
together into the kitchen. "Nor you! An' Rosie didn't eat her pie. You
blaze up the fire, an' I'll fry some eggs."




THE MORTUARY CHEST


"Now we've got red o' the men-folks," said Mrs. Robbins, "le's se' down
an' talk it over." The last man of all the crowd accustomed to seek the
country store at noontime was closing the church door behind him as she
spoke. "Here, Ezry," she called after him, "you hurry up, or you won't
git there afore cockcrow to-morrer, an' I wouldn't have that letter miss
for a good deal."

Mrs. Robbins was slight, and hung on wires,--so said her neighbors. They
also remarked that her nose was as picked as a pin, and that anybody
with them freckles and that red hair was sure to be smart. You could
always tell. Mrs. Robbins knew her reputation for extreme acuteness, and
tried to live up to it.

"Law! don't you go to stirrin' on him up," said Mrs. Solomon Page
comfortably, putting on the cover of her butter-box, which had contained
the family lunch. "If the store's closed, he can slip the letter into
the box, an' three cents with it, an' they'll put a stamp on in the
mornin'."

By this time, there was a general dusting of crumbs from Sunday gowns, a
settling of boxes and baskets, and the feminine portion of the East
Tiverton congregation, according to ancient custom, passed into the pews
nearest the stove, and arranged itself more compactly for the midday
gossip. This was a pleasant interlude in the religious decorum of the
day; no Sunday came when the men did not trail off to the store for
their special council, and the women, with a restful sense of sympathy
alloyed by no disturbing element, settled down for an exclusively
feminine view of the universe. Mrs. Page took the head of the pew, and
disposed her portly frame so as to survey the scene with ease. She was a
large woman, with red cheeks and black, shining hair. One powerful arm
lay along the back of the pew, and, as she talked, she meditatively beat
the rail in time. Her sister, Mrs. Ellison, according to an intermittent
custom, had come over from Saltash to attend church, and incidentally to
indulge in a family chat. It was said that Tilly rode over about jes' so
often to get the Tiverton news for her son Leonard, who furnished local
items to the Sudleigh "Star;" and, indeed, she made no secret of sitting
down in social conclave with a bit of paper and a worn pencil in hand,
to jog her memory. She, too, had smooth black hair, but her dark eyes
were illumined by no steadfast glow; they snapped and shone with alert
intelligence, and her great forehead dominated the rest of her face,
scarred with a thousand wrinkles by intensity of nature rather than by
time. A pleasant warmth had diffused itself over the room, so cold
during the morning service that foot-stoves had been in requisition.
Bonnet strings were thrown back and shawls unpinned. The little world
relaxed and lay at ease.

"What's the news over your way, sister?" asked Mrs. Ellison, as an
informal preliminary.

"Tilly don't want to give; she'd ruther take," said Mrs. Baxter, before
the other could answer. "She's like old Mis' Pepper. Seliny Hazlitt went
over there, when she was fust married an' come to the neighborhood, an'
asked her if she'd got a sieve to put squash through. Poor Seliny! she
didn't know a sieve from a colander, in them days."

"I guess she found out soon enough," volunteered Mrs. Page. "He was
one o' them kind o' men that can keep house as well as a woman. I'd
ruther live with a born fool."

"Well, old Mis' Pepper she ris up an' smoothed down her apron (recollect
them little dots she used to wear?--made her look as broad as a barn
door!), an' she says, 'Yes, we've got a sieve for flour, an' a sieve for
meal, an' a sieve for rye, an' a sieve for blue-monge, an' we could have
a sieve for squash if we was a mind to, but I don't wish to lend.'
That's the way with Tilly. She's terrible cropein' about news, but she
won't lend."

"How's your cistern?" asked Mrs. John Cole, who, with an exclusively
