ented, and is going to be a minister. It 's a pity he 's 
so devoted to his crazy missionary scheme. Some 
one ought to get hold of him, and point him in the 
direction of a rich New York congregation. He'd 
find heathen enough among them, and he could do the 
greatest amount of good with their money; I tried to 
talk it into him. I suppose you saw him in Florence, 
this spring ? " she suddenly asked. 
" Yes," Clementina answered briefly. 
" And you didn 't make it up together. I got that 
much out of Miss Milray. Well, if he were here, I 
should find out ivhy. But I don 't suppose you would" 
tell me." She waited a moment to see if Clementina 
would, and then she said, "It 's a pity, for I 've  a 
notion I could help you, and I think I owe you a 
good turn, for the way I behaved about your dance. 
But if you don 't want my help, you don t." 
" I would say so if I did, Mrs. Milray," said Clem 
entina. " I was hu t, at the time ; but I don 't care 
anything for it, now. I hope you won 't think about 
it any more." 
"Thank you," said Mrs. Milray, "I 'll try not to," 
 
and she laughed. " But I should like to do some 
thing to prove my repentance." 
Clementina perceived that for some reason she 
would rather have more than less cause for regret 
and that she was mocking her; but she was without 
the wish or the power to retaliate, and she did not 
try to fathom Mrs. Milray 's motives. Most motives 
in life, even bad motives, lie nearer the surface than 
most people commonly pretend, and she might not 
have had to dig deeper into Mrs. Milray 's nature for 
hers than that layer of her consciousness where she 
was aware that Clementina was a pet of her sister-in- 
law. For no better reason she herself made a pet of 
Mrs. Lander, whose dislike of Miss Milray was not 
hard to divine, and whose willingness to punish her 
through Clementina was akin to her own. The sick 
woman was easily flattered back into her first belief 
in Mrs. Milray and accepted her large civilities and 
small services as proof of her virtues. She began to 
talk them into Clementina, and to contrast them with 
the wicked principles and actions of Miss Milray. 
The girl had forgiven Mrs. Milray, but she could 
not go back to any trust in her ; and she could only 
passively assent to her praise. When Mrs. Lander 
pressed her for anything more explicit she said what 
she thought, and then Mrs. Lander accused her of 
hating Mrs. Milray, who was more her friend than 
some that flattered her up for everything, and tried to 
make a fool of her. 
" I undastand now," she said one day, " what that 
recta meant by wantin me to make life ha'd for you ; 
 
he saw how easy you was to spoil. Miss Milray is 
one to praise you to your face, and disgrace you be 
hind your back, and so I tell you. When Mrs. Milray 
thought you done wrong she come and said so ; and 
you can 't forgive her.  
Clementina did not answer. She had mastered the 
art of reticence in her relations with Mrs. Lander, and 
even when Miss Milray tempted her one day to give 
way, she still had strength to resist. But she could 
not deny that Mrs. Lander did things at times to 
worry her, though she ended compassionately with 
the reflection : " She 's sick." 
" I don 't think she 's very sick, now," retorted her 
friend. 
" No ; that 's the reason she 's so worrying. When 
she 's really sick, she 's betta." 
" Because she 's frightened, I suppose. And how 
long do you propose to stand it ? " 
" I don 't know," Clementina listlessly answered. 
" She couldn 't get along without me. I guess I can 
stand it till we go home ; she says she is going home 
in the fall." 
Miss Milray sat looking at the girl a moment. 
" Shall you be glad to go home ? " 
" Oh yes, indeed ! " 
" To that place in the woods ? " 
" Why, yes ! What makes you ask ? " 
" Nothing. But Clementina, sometimes I think 
you don 't quite understand yourself. Don 't you know 
that you are very pretty and very charming? I 've  
told you that often enough ! But shouldn 't you like 
 
to be a great success in the world ? Haven 't you ever 
thought of that ? Don 't you care for society ? " 
The girl sighed. " Yes, I think that 's all very nice 
I did ca e, one while, there in Florence, last winter ! " 
" My dear, you don 't know how much you were 
admired. I used to tell you, because I saw there was 
no spoiling you ; but I never told you half. If you 
had only had the time for it you could have been the 
greatest sort of success ; you were formed for it. It 
wasn 't your beauty alone ; lots of pretty girls don 't 
make anything of their beauty ; it was your tempera 
ment. You took things easily and naturally, and 
that 's what the world likes. It doesn 't like your be 
ing afraid of it, and you were not afraid, and you 
were not bold ; you were just right." Miss Milray 
grew more and more exhaustive in her analysis, and 
enjoyed refining upon it. " All that you needed was 
a little hard-heartedness, and that would have come 
in time ; you would have learned how to hold your 
own, but the chance was snatched from you by that 
old cat ! I could weep over you when I think how 
you have been wasted on her, and now you 're actually 
willing to go back and lose yourself in the woods ! " 
" I shouldn 't call it being lost, Miss Milray." 
" I don 't mean that, and you must excuse me, my 
dear. But surely your people your father and 
mother would want to have you get on in the world 
to make a brilliant match "- 
Clementina smiled to think how far such a thing 
was from their imaginations. " I don 't believe they 
would ca e. You don 't undastand about them, and I 
 
couldn 't make you. Fatha neva liked the notion of 
