
"WHAT!" exclaimed Fogson. "Do you mean to say you've spent it already?
If you have----"

"No, I haven't spent it, but I have given it to Dr. Redmond to keep for
me."

Fogson showed in his face his intense disappointment. He expected to get
the money without fail, and lo! the victory was snatched from him.

He glared at Jed, and seemed about to pounce upon him, but he thought
better of it.

"You'll go and get the money in the morning," he said. "You and Dr.
Redmond are engaged in a conspiracy against the town and the laws, and I
am not sure but I could have you both arrested. Mind, if that money is
not handed to me to-morrow you will get a thrashing. Now go to bed!"

Jed was not sorry to avail himself of this permission. He had not
enjoyed the interview with Mr. Fogson, and he felt tired and in need of
rest. Accordingly he went up stairs to the attic, where there was a cot
bed under the bare rafters, which he usually occupied. There had been
another boy, three months before, who had shared the desolate room with
him, but he had been bound out to a farmer, and now Jed was the sole
occupant.

Tired as he was, he did not go to sleep immediately. He undressed
himself slowly in the obscurity, for he was not allowed a lamp, and made
a movement to get into bed.

But a surprise awaited him. His extended hand came in contact with a
human face, and one on which there was a mustache. Somebody was in his
bed!

Naturally, Jed was startled.

"Who are you?" he inquired.

"Who'm I? I'm a gentleman," was the drowsy reply.

"You're in my bed," said Jed, annoyed as well as surprised.

"Where is my bed?" hiccoughed the other.

"I don't know. How did you get in here?"

"I came in when no one was lookin'," answered the intruder. "Zis a
hotel?"

"No; it's the Scranton poorhouse."

"You don't say? Dad always told me I'd end up in the poorhouse, but I
didn't expect to get there so quick."

"You'd better get up and go down stairs. Fogson wouldn't like to have
you stay here all night."

"Who's Fogson?"

"He is the manager of the poorhouse."

"Who cares for Fogson? I don't b'lieve Fogson is a gen'leman."

"Nor I," inwardly assented Jed.

This was the last word that he could get from the intruder, who coolly
turned over and began to snore.

Fortunately for Jed, there was another cot bed--the one formerly
occupied by the other boy--and he got into it.

Fatigued by the events of the day, Jed soon slept a sound and refreshing
sleep. In fact his sleep was so sound that it is doubtful whether a
thunderstorm would have awakened him.

Towards morning the occupant of the other bed turned in such a way as to
lie on his back. This position, as my readers are probably aware, is
conducive to heavy snoring, and the intruder availed himself of this to
the utmost.

Mr. and Mrs. Fogson slept directly underneath, and after awhile, the
door leading to the attic being open, the sound of the snoring attracted
the attention of Mrs. Fogson.

"Simeon!" she said, shaking her recumbent husband.

"What is it, Mrs. F.?" inquired her lord and master drowsily.

"Did you hear that?"

"Did I hear what?"

"That terrific snoring. It is loud enough to wake the dead."

By this time Fogson was fairly awake.

"So it is," he assented. "Who is it?"

"Jed, of course. What possesses the boy to snore so?"

"Can't say, I'm sure. I never heard a boy of his age make such a noise."

"It must be stopped, Simeon. It can't be more than three o'clock, and
if it continues I shan't sleep another wink."

"Well, go up and stop it."

"It is more suitable for you to go, Mr. Fogson. I do believe the boy is
snoring out of spite."

Even Fogson laughed at this idea.

"He couldn't do that unless he snored when he was awake," he replied.
"It isn't easy to snore when you are not asleep. If you don't believe
it, try it."

"I am ashamed of you, Simeon. Do you think I would demean myself by any
such low action? If that snoring isn't stopped right off I shall go into
a fit."

