"You really, all of you," the Duchess replied with ex- 
cellent coolness, "choose extraordinary conditions for 
the discussion of delicate matters. There are decidedly 
too many things on which we don't feel alike. You're 
all inconceivable just now. Je ne peux pourtant pas la 
mettre d la porte, cette cherie " — whom she covered again 
with the gay solicitude that seemed to have in it a vibra- 
tion of private entreaty : " Don't understand, my own 
darling — don't understand !" 

Little Aggie looked around with an impartial polite- 
ness that, as an expression of the general blind sense of 
her being, in every particular, in hands at full liberty 
either to spot or to spare her, was touching enough to 
bring tears to all eyes. It perhaps had to do with the 
sudden emotion with which — using now quite a different 
manner — Mrs. Brookenham again embraced her, and 
even with this lady's equally abrupt and altogether won- 
derful address to her : " Between you and me straight, 
my dear, and as from friend to friend, I know that you'll 



   

never doubt that everything must be all right ! — AVhat I 
spoke of to poor Mitchy," she went on to the Duchess, 
''is the drdadful view you take of my letting Nanda go 
to Tishy — and indeed of the general question of any ac- 
quaintance between young unmarried and young married 
females. Mr. Mitchett is sufficiently interested in us, 
Jane, to make it natural of me to take him into our confi- 
dence in one of our difficulties. On the other hand we 
feel your solicitude, and I needn t tell you, at this time 
of day, what weight, in every respect, we attach to your 
judgment. Therefore it ivill be a difficulty for us, carania, don't you see ? if we decide suddenly, under the 
spell of your influence, that our daughter must break off 
a friendship — it tuill be a difficulty for us to put the thing 
to Nanda herself in such a way as that she shall have 
some sort of notion of what suddenly possesses us. 
Then there'll be the much stiffer job of putting it to 
poor Tishy. Yet if her house is an impossible place, 
what else is one to do ? Carrie Donner's to be there, 
and Carrie Donner's a nature apart ; but how can we ask 
even a little lamb like Tishy to give up her own sister ?'' 
The question had been launched with an argumenta- 
tive sharpness that made it for a moment keep possession 
of the air, and during this moment, before a single mem- 
ber of the circle could rally, Mrs. Brookenham's effect 
was superseded by that of the reappearance of the butler. 
'' I say, my dear, don't shriek !" — Edward Brookenham 
had only time to sound this warning before a lady, pre- 
senting herself in the open doorway, followed close on 
the announcement of her name. ''Mrs. Beach Donner !" 
— the impression was naturally marked. Every one be- 
trayed it a little but Mrs. Brookenham, who, more than 
the others, appeared to have the help of seeing that, by 
a merciful stroke, her visitor has just failed to hear. 
This visitor, a young woman of striking, of startling ap- 
pearance, who, in the manner of certain shiny house 



  

doors and railings, instantly created a presumption of 
the lurking label  '' Fresh paint' found herself, with an 
embarrassment oddly opposed to the positive pitch of her 
complexion, in the presence of a group in which it was 
yet immediately evident that every one was a friend. 
Every one, to show no one had been caught, said some- 
thing extremely easy; so that it was after a moment 
only poor Mrs. Donner who, seated close to her hostess, 
seemed to be in any degree in the wrong. This, more- 
over, was essentially her fault, so extreme was the anom- 
aly of her having, without the means to back it up, 
committed herself to a " scheme of color " that was prac- 
tically an advertisement of courage. Irregularly pretty 
and painfully shy, she was retouched, from brow to chin, 
like a suburban photograph — the moral of which was 
simply that she should either have left more to nature or 
taken more from art. The Duchess had quickly reached 
her kinsman with a smothered hiss, an '' Edward dear, 
for God's sake take Aggie !" and at the end of a few min- 
utes had formed for herself in one of Mrs. Brookenham's 
admirable '  corners " a society consisting of Lord Peth- 
erton and Mr. Mitchett, the latter of whom regarded 
Mrs. Donner, across the room, with articulate wonder 
and compassion. 

" It's all right, it's all right — she's frightened only at 
herself !" 

The Duchess watched her as from a box at the play, 
comfortably shut in, as in the old operatic days at Na- 
ples, with a pair of entertainers. '  You're the most inter- 
esting nation in the world. One never gets to the end 
of your hatred of the mcance. The sense of the suitable, 
the harmony of parts — what on earth were you doomed 
to do that, to be punished sufficiently in advance, you 
had to be deprived of it in your very cradles ? Look at 
her little black dress — rather good, but not so good as it 
ought to be, and, mixed up with all the rest, see her type, 





 

her beauty, her timidity, her wickedness, her notoriety 
and her impudeur. It's only in this country that a 
woman is both so shocking and so shaky.'' The Duch- 
ess's displeasure overflowed. " If she doesn't know how 
to be good — " 

" Let her at least know how to be bad ? Ah," Mitchy 
replied, " your irritation testifies more than anything else 
could do to our peculiar genius, or our peculiar want of 
it. Our vice is intolerably clumsy — if it can possibly be 
