he won't be likely to forget."

"Then I'm glad I'm not the boy you mean. Good day!"

"Good day. Hurry back as fast as you can."

When Mark re-entered the jewelry store Mr. Swan advanced to meet him.

"Well," he said, "how did you make out?"

"I've got the rings with me."

"Did you see Mrs. Montgomery?"

"No, but I saw a young man who claimed to be her nephew."

"What did he say about the rings?"

"He left me alone in a back room on the second floor. When I went to the
door I found that it was locked. But I didn't trouble myself. I
concluded that he had gone out to pawn or sell the rings. He returned in
half an hour quite angry, and told me he had ascertained that the
diamonds were not genuine."

"Why did you think he went out to pawn or sell them?"

"Because I recognized him."

"You recognized him?"

"Yes, as the young man in the Fifth Avenue stage who robbed an old lady
of her wallet."

"The day that we first met?"

"Yes, sir."

The jeweler looked surprised.

"Didn't he recognize you?"

"He asked if we hadn't met before. He said there was something familiar
in my face. Finally, he said I reminded him of an impudent telegraph boy
he had fallen in with. He wants to meet that telegraph boy alone," added
Mark with a smile.

"He has had his wish."

"Yes, but luckily for me he didn't recognize me."

"How did you explain about the rings being false?"

"I said you had probably made a mistake."

"I see you are quick-witted. Well, was that satisfactory?"

"He expects me to bring back the genuine rings this afternoon, as his
aunt wants to leave the city this evening."

"I think he will have to wait. Perhaps it may be as well to notify him
that she needn't put off her journey on that account. I don't want to
spare you to go there again, however."

"There's a boy I know out on the street," suggested Mark. "He would be
glad to go."

"Who is it?"

"Tom Trotter, a friend of mine. He's a good boy, though he's only a
bootblack."

"Is he reliable?"

"Yes, sir; I will answer for him."

"Very well. Call him in."

Mark went to the door and called "Tom! Tom Trotter!"

Tom looked around and recognized Mark.

"You ain't left de telegraph, have you, Mark?" he said.

"No, but I'm working here for a day or two. Would you like to go up town
on an errand?"

"Yes," answered Tom with alacrity. "Will I be paid?"

"Of course. Can't you leave your blacking box somewhere and get your
face and hands washed?"

"Yes, Mark; there's a small s'loon near by, where I hang out sometimes.
Just wait for me and I'll be back in a jiffy."

Tom reappeared in a very short time with his appearance greatly improved
by the application of cold water and soap.

"Mr. Swan," said Mark, smiling, "this is Mr. Thomas Trotter, the young
gentleman I spoke to you about."

"Oh, stow that, Mark!" expostulated Tom; "I ain't Mr. Trotter. I'm Tom."

"Mr. Trotter," said the jeweler, smiling, for he had a sense of humor,
"I have a letter here which I wish you to take to the address named."

"And to walk, sir."

"No; I will give you ten cents for car fare, and when you return and
make your report you shall be paid for doing the errand."

"All right, governor."

Tom started up town, and in due time reached the house on Forty-Seventh
Street.

He rang the bell, and the door was opened by the hall boy already
referred to.

"Is Mr. Schuyler at home?" asked Tom. "I've got a letter for him."

