
"Are your friends hospitably inclined to the shipwrecked? I'm about
ready to be killed with hospitality," observed Selden, shouldering gun
and sack and slopping along in his wet boots.

They entered a thicket of sweet-bay and palmetto, breast-high, and
forced a path through toward a bit of vivid green lawn, which gave
underfoot like velvet.

"There's a patient now--in his toga," said Selden, in a low voice.
"Better hit him with a piteous tale of shipwreck, hadn't we?"

The patient was seated on a carved bench of marble under the shade of a
live oak. His attitude suggested ennui; he yawned at intervals; at
intervals he dug in the turf with idle bare toes.

"The back of that gentleman's head," said Harroll, "resembles the back
of a head I know."

"Oh! One of those friends you mentioned?"

"Well--I never saw him in toga and sandals, wearing a wreath of flowers
on his head. Let's take a front view."

The squeaky, sloppy sound of Selden's hip boots aroused the gentleman in
the toga from his attitude of bored meditation.

"How do you do, sir?" said Harroll, blandly, "I thought I'd come to
Avalon."

The old gentleman fumbled in his toga, found a monocle, screwed it
firmly into his eye, and inspected Harroll from head to heel.

"You're rather wet, Jim," he said, steadying his voice.

Harroll admitted it. "This is my old friend, Jack Selden--the Lenox
Seldens, you know, sir." And, to Selden, he reverently named Mr.
Delancy.

"How do?" said Mr. Delancy. "You're wet, too."

There was a silence. Mr. Delancy executed a facial contortion which
released the monocle. Then he touched his faded eyes with the hem of his
handkerchief. The lashes and furrowed cheeks were moist.

"You're so devilish abrupt, Jim," he said. "Did you get any telegrams
from us?"

"Telegrams? No, sir. When?"

"No matter," said Mr. Delancy.

Another silence, and Harroll said: "Fact is, sir, we were blown out to
sea, and that's how we came here. I fancy Selden wouldn't mind an
invitation to dinner and a chance to dry his clothes."

Selden smiled hopefully and modestly as Mr. Delancy surveyed him.

"Pray accept my hospitality, gentlemen," said Mr. Delancy, with a grim
smile. "I've been ass enough to take a villa in this forsaken place. The
food I have to offer you might be relished by squirrels, perhaps; the
clothing resembles my own, and can be furnished you by the simple
process of removing the sheets from your beds."

He rose, flung the flap of his toga over one shoulder, and passed his
arm through Harroll's.

"Don't you like it here?" asked Harroll.

"Like it!" repeated Mr. Delancy.

"But--why did you come?"

"I came," said Mr. Delancy slowly, "because I desired to be rid of you."

Selden instinctively fell back out of earshot. Harroll reddened.

"I thought your theory was----"

"You smashed that theory--now you've shattered this--you and Catharine
between you."

Harroll looked thoughtfully at Selden, who stood watching two pretty
girls playing handball on the green.

"Young man," said Mr. Delancy, "do you realize what I've been through in
one week? I have been obliged to wear this unspeakable garment, I've
been obliged to endure every species of tomfoolery, I've been fed on
bird seed, deprived of cigars, and sent to bed at half past nine. And
I'm as sound in limb and body as you are. And all because I desired to
be rid of you. I had two theories! both are smashed. I refuse to
entertain any more theories concerning anything!"

Harroll laughed; then his attention became concentrated on the exquisite
landscape, where amid green foliage white villas of Georgia marble
glimmered, buried in blossoming thickets of oleander, wistaria, and
Cherokee roses--where through the trees a placid lake lay reflecting the
violet sky--where fallow-deer wandered, lipping young maple buds--where
beneath a pergola heavily draped with golden jasmine a white-robed
figure moved in the shade--a still, sunny world of green and gold and
violet exhaling incense under a cloudless sky.

"I would like to see Catharine," he said, slowly, "with your
permission--and in view of the fate of the theories."

"Jim," said Mr. Delancy, "you are doubtless unconscious of the trouble
you have created in my family."

"Trouble, sir?" repeated the young man, flushing up.

"Trouble for two. My daughter and I believed you drowned."

Harroll stood perfectly still. Mr. Delancy took a step or two forward,
turned, and came back across the lawn. "She is sitting under that
pergola yonder, looking out to sea, and I'm afraid she's crying her eyes
out for something she wants. It's probably not good for her, either.
But--such as it is--she may have it."

The two men looked at one another steadily.

