her to him to-night, independently of her will ; which 
had slept, worn out, like other faculties, by a day of 
hunger, excitement, fatigue, and physical pain? The 
impulse had risen unhindered and uncriticised from 
her heart, and if it had risen once it could rise again. 
The days to come would be full of excitement. She 
fancied that she already heard the roar of cannon, the 
beating of drums, the sobs of women. And below the 
racket and its sad accompaniment was always the low 
indignant mutter of a triumphant people at those who 
had dared to set themselves above the popular clamor 
and ask for sanity. The intolerable longing that had 
become her constant companion would be fed by every 
device of unpropitious Circumstance. Again and again 
she would experience this impulse to go to him, and 
some night the blood would not recede from her brain 
in time. 
She groped her way out of the dark parlor and 
down the hall, grateful for an excuse to walk slowly. 
Her boudoir was brilliant, and the struggle of the 
last few moments seemed the more terrible and significant by contrast with the dainty luxurious room. 
 
She wondered if she ever should dare to enter the parlor 
again, and if it always would not look dark to her. 
She sat down at her desk and wrote a letter. It 
ran : 
DEAR MR. BURLEIGH, I will marry you if you still 
wish it. Will you dine with us to-night ? 
BETTY MADISON. 
She was too tired for emotion, but she knew what 
would come later. Nevertheless, she went to the front 
door and asked the watchman to post the letter. Thep 
she went to bed. 
XV 
THE Senate adjourned a few moments after Betty left 
the gallery. There was little conversation in the cloakroom. The Senators were very tired, and it surely was 
a brain of bubbles that could indulge in comment upon 
the climax of the great finished chapter of the old 
Republic. 
North put on his hat and overcoat at once and left 
the Capitol. After the close confinement in heated 
and vitiated air for sixteen hours, the thought of a cab 
was intolerable : he shook his head at the old darky 
who owned him and whom he never had been able to 
dodge during his twenty years' service in Washington, 
plunged his hands into his overcoat pockets, and strode 
off with an air of aggressive determination which amused 
him as a fitting anti-climax. The darky grinned and 
drove home without looking for another fare. His 
Senator not only had paid him by the month for 
 
several years, but had supported his family for the last 
ten. 
North inhaled the pure cool air, the delicious perfume of violet and magnolia, as Betty had done. 
Once he paused and looked up at the wooded heights 
surrounding the city, then down at the Potomac and 
the great expanse of roofs and leaves. The Washington 
Monument, the purest, coldest, most impersonal monument on earth, looked as gray as the sky, but its outlines were as sharp as at noonday. North often 
watched it from the window of his Committee Room ; 
he had seen it rosy with the mists of sunset, as dark 
as granite under stormy skies, as waxen as death. 
Normally, it was white and pure and inspiring, never 
companionable, but helpful in its cold and lofty beauty. 
"It is a monument," he thought, to-night, "and 
to more than Washington." 
He turned into Massachusetts Avenue and strolled 
along, in no hurry to find himself between walls again. 
He was not conscious of physical fatigue, and experienced no longing for bed, but his brain was tired 
and he enjoyed the absence of enforced companionship and continued alertness, the cool air, the quiet 
morning in her last sleep. 
Betty, like all brilliant women who love passionately, 
had over-imagined, in her solitude and excitement. 
It is true that North had felt the bitterness of defeat, 
that his mind had dwelt upon the miserable and blasting 
thought that after years of unquestioned statesmanship 
and leadership, of hard work and unremitting devotion, 
his will had had no weight against hysteria and delirium. 
But both bitterness and the sense of failure had been 
dismissed in the moment when he had, once for all, 
 
accepted the situation ; and that had been several days 
before. Since then, he had shoved aside the past, and 
had given his undivided thought to the present and 
the future. He had uttered his " aye " almost indifferently ; it had been given to the President days since. 
Nevertheless, his brain, tired as it was, did not 
wander from the great climax in his country's history. 
To that country at large this climax meant simply a 
brief and arrogant chastisement of a cruel little nation; 
the generals would have been quite justified in sending 
their dress clothes and golf sticks on to Havana ; but 
North knew that this officious " police duty" was the 
noisy prologue to a new United States, possibly to the 
birth of a new Constitution. 
"Is this the grand finale of the people's rule? " he 
thought. " They have screamed for the moon as they 
never screamed before, and this time they have got it 
fairly between their teeth. Well, it is a dead old 
planet; will its decay vitiate their own blood and 
leave them the half-willing prey of a Circumstance 
they do not dream of now? Dewey will take the 
Philippines, of course. He would be an inefficient 
fool if he did not, and he is- the reverse. The Spanish 
in Cuba will crumble almost before the world realizes 
that the war has begun. The United States will find 
itself sitting open-mouthed with two huge prizes in its 
lap. It may, in a fit of virtue which would convulse 
history, give them back, present them, with much 
good advice and more rhetoric, to their rightful 
owners. And it may not. These prizes are crusted 
with gold ; and the stars and stripes will look so well 
in the breeze above that the pride of patriotism may 
decide they must remain there. And if it does if it 
 
does . . . The extremists in the Senate will grow 
twenty years in one. . . . With the bit between their 
teeth and the arrogance of triumph in their blood " 
He found himself in front of his own house. He 
turned slowly and looked intently for a moment toward 
I Street. His face softened, then he jerked out his 
latchkey, let himself in and went directly to the 
