"You would not have been here, then," triumphantly.
"No. But we should have left the settlement and come to Baltimore. I
liked it there. And there was a kindly old lady who begged mother to
leave me with her, but your father said 'Nay' quite sharply. And at
first she would not consent to the marriage."
There had been some jesting discussion at the Carringtons'. Annis had
not clearly understood it.
"But she would have had to. Father makes people do his way. He is the
master of everything."
Annis was silent. She did not yet clearly understand the mystery, but
she sometimes thought she would be glad to go back to the settlement
and have her mother all to herself. Something seemed to come between
continually. There were numerous cares for the housewife on so large a
plantation, with children and servants, visitors and a rather exigent
husband.
There were many beautiful articles and curiosities in the great drawing
room. But Annis liked Charles better as a guide. They never jarred
upon each other, and he had no jealousy. Then, he really liked his new
mother.
Varina cared little for books. Besides the worn Froissart there was a
copy of Captain John Smith's adventures, which were wonderful to both
children, and here Annis could supply many queries about the Indians,
who were rapidly disappearing from this vicinity. Gentle and quiet as
Charles was, he had a great desire for adventure, and a soldier's life
appeared very heroic to him. But the War of the Revolution seemed ages
ago to the younger people, though the slaves often gathered about the
brushwood fires and related stirring scenes almost as if they had been
eyewitnesses.
Christmas was a great festival. At nearly every plantation there was
a gathering of neighbors and friends, and in some houses visits of
days, when extra guests were invited to dinner and a dance given for
the young people. And though the exchange of gifts had none of the
costly features of the present day, there was much real affection
and generosity. Annis thought it delightful. There was an influx of
cousins, with some little girls who were very merry and who found Annis
quite charming.
It had been planned for Jaqueline to return, but no reliable
acquaintance seemed ready to undertake the journey. Truth to tell,
Jaqueline was tasting the sweets of incipient bellehood, and was
quite a prize to the young collegians. His parish duties not being
very onerous, the Reverend Conway added to them a professorship in
the college, and the rectory was quite a center of society. What with
frequent guests and the care of two small girls, Mrs. Conway found
her hands quite full, and unable to restrict her nieces' pleasures to
her own ideas of what was advisable. Then, she was glad to have the
gay, lively girl, who was ready to sing at anyone's bidding, and had a
gracious way with the elders as well as the young. She had often longed
for the children of this first motherhood, though she accepted her new
duties in a satisfactory manner.
CHAPTER IV.
A NEW PRESIDENT.
The inaugurations at New York and Philadelphia had been marked with
a certain degree of pomp and stateliness. The first one in Washington
had been simple almost to indifference. There had preceded it a bitter
campaign, and the Federalists kept the peace with a silent dignity that
was chilling in the extreme. Mr. Adams left Washington at once. And the
city then was in a dismal stage, with few improvements perfected. There
was really no accommodation for visitors, and many still believed the
Capital would be removed. They delighted to call it "The Wilderness
City," "Capital of Miserable Huts," and "A mudhole almost equal to
the great Serbonian bog." Mrs. Abigail Adams had not been charmed
with the White House nor the city. The great marsh stretched out in a
most forbidding and discouraging manner. Piles of rubbish and heaps
of stone, with unsightly masses of timber, gave the place anything
but a homelike aspect. There was no accommodation for the wives of
congressmen if they had chosen to come. Gay New York and charming
Philadelphia disdained Washington.
Eight years had changed much of this. True, Georgetown was more
attractive and growing faster, but streets were beginning to be cleared
up, mudholes filled in, walks laid, and handsome houses erected. The
wife of the secretary of state, charming Dolly Madison, had healed many
differences, and Mrs. Madison's drawing room was a favorite resort for
senators, ministers, and diplomats. She was often asked to preside at
the White House. Mrs. Randolph, the President's daughter, on her very
first visit had been delighted with her, and the two became lifelong
friends.
Her bright and vivacious sister, Anna Payne, had added no little zest
to social life, and her marriage had been quite an event in the slowly
growing city. The Van Ness mansion was also the scene of much gayety.
Old Virginia belles came up for a few weeks, and there were balls and
parties at Georgetown, and no end of tea drinkings. The young women
found plenty of cavaliers, and when riding was possible gay parties
sallied out, stopping at some country inn for midday refreshments.
And though there were many grave questions pending, this promised to be
a day of unwonted satisfaction. For the first time great preparations
were made. Washington and Georgetown people invited friends, as in
those days people were given to hospitality.
Mrs. Jettson had kept her sister Marian a large part of the winter,
much to Dolly's discomfiture, but Mr. Floyd had sent for Marian and
refused them both the anticipated pleasure of the inauguration.
Jaqueline had come home an undeniable young lady, with her hair done
high on her head and sundry touches in her attire that made her very
attractive and coquettish. There was great rejoicing, from least to
greatest, much envying on Patricia's part, much delight on Varina's and
Charles', and a pretty, shy, winsome admiration from Annis.
There was of course the duty visit to the Pineries. Then Jaqueline came
down to her Aunt Jane's.
"I'd planned such a delightful time!" declared Mrs. Jettson, between
satisfaction and vexation. "There is to be a gay season, with balls and
parties and dinners. And, really, the young men are getting to be quite
factors in society. I wanted both the girls and you; and, Jaqueline,
you've grown monstrously pretty, and your manners have improved so
much that you might be fresh from London or Paris. There have been
so many fine people here the last two or three years, and building is
going on at a rapid rate. Philadelphia and New York will not be able to
look down on us much longer. I meant to give you young people a dance
and supper, and father won't let the girls come. Marian was mad as a
hornet, and poor Dolly stamped around. Father grows queerer about them.
But I wanted the company as well. I'm not an old woman, if I have two
babies. And I'm quite sure it will be a success if you will come."
"Of course I shall be delighted. Why, it's just charming!" and the
pretty face was alight with smiles.
"I shall ask all the folks up for the grand event. You see, brother
Randolph is a true Madison man. And, do you know, I like your new
mother wonderfully. She is quite like an elder sister, and you'll
have a fine time. You'll be just spoiled," laughingly. "But you're
not to call me Aunt Jane any more. I won't have it from a tall girl
like you, who will no doubt be married herself next winter. How many
disconsolates did you leave at Williamsburg?"
"None, I think, so deeply smitten but that a course of Greek and Latin
