
And in the meantime, Helen’s music was surging on, building itself
up into a great climax that swelled and soared and burst in a
deafening thunder crash; and while the air was still throbbing and
echoing with it, the girl joined to it her deep voice, grown
suddenly conscious of new power:

  “See, he stamps upon the mountains,
    And he leaps the valleys high!
  Now he smites his forest harp-strings,
    And he sounds his thunder cry!”

And as the cry came the girl laughed aloud, like a very Valkyrie
indeed, her laugh part of the music, and carried on by it; and then
gradually as the tempest swept on, the rolling thunder was lost in a
march that was the very tread of the Storm-King. And the march
broadened, and the thunder died out of it slowly, and all the wild
confusion, and then it rose, glorious and triumphant, and turned to
a mighty pean, a mightier one than ever Helen could have made. The
thought of it had come to her as an inspiration, and as a refuge,
that the glory of her passion might not be lost. The march had led
her to it, and now it had taken her in its arms and swept her away,
as it had swept millions by its majesty. It was the great Ninth
Symphony Hymn:

  “Hail thee, Joy! From Heaven descending,
    Daughter from Elysium!
  Ecstasy our hearts inflaming,
    To thy sacred shrine we come.
  Thine enchantments bind together
    Those whom custom’s law divides;
  All are brothers, all united,
    Where thy gentle wing abides.”

And Helen sang it as one possessed by it, as one made drunk with its
glory--as the very Goddess of Joy that she was. For the Storm-King
and his legions had fled, and another vision had come into her
heart, a vision that every one ought to carry with him when the
great symphony is to be heard. He should see the hall in Vienna
where it was given for the last time in the great master’s life, and
see the great master himself, the bowed and broken figure that all
musicians worship, standing up to conduct it; and see him leading it
through all its wild surging passion, almost too frantic to be
endured; and then, when the last towering climax has passed and the
music has ceased and the multitude at his back has burst forth into
its thundering shout, see the one pathetic figure standing there
aloft before all eyes and still blindly beating the time. There must
have been tears in the eyes of every man in that place to know the
reason for it,--that he from whose heart all their joy had come, he
who was lord and master of it, had never heard in his life and could
never hope to hear one sound of that music he had written, but must
dwell a prisoner in darkness and solitude forever.

That was the picture before Helen’s eyes; she did not think of the
fearful tragedy of it--she had no feeling for tragedy, she knew no
more about suffering than a child just born. But joy she knew, and
joy she was; she was the multitude lifted up in its ecstasy,
throbbing, burning and triumphant, and she sang the great choruses,
one after another, and the piano beneath her fingers thundered and
rang with the instrumental part. Surely in all music there is no
utterance of joy so sustained and so overwhelming in its intensity
as this; it is a frenzy almost more than man can stand; it is joy
more than human--the joy of existence:--

  “Pleasure every creature living
    From kind Nature’s breast receives;
  Good and evil, all are seeking
    For the rosy path she leaves.”

And so the torrent of passionate exultation swept Helen onward with
it until the very end, the last frantic prestissimo chorus, and then
she sprang to her feet and flung up her hands with a cry. She stood
thus for a moment, glowing with exultation, and then she sank down
again and sat staring before her, the music still echoing through
every fiber of her soul, and the shouting multitude still surging
before her.

For just how long that lasted, she knew not, but only that her wild
mood was gradually subsiding, and that she felt herself sinking
back, as a bird sinks after its flight; then suddenly she turned.
Arthur was at her side, and she gave a cry, for he had seized her
hand in his, and was covering it with burning kisses.

“Arthur! Arthur!” she gasped.

The young man gazed up at her, and Helen remembered the scene in the
forest, and realized what she had done. She had shaken him to the
very depths of his being by the emotion which she had flung loose
before him, and he seemed beside himself at that moment, his hair
disordered and his forehead hot and flushed. He made a move as if to
clasp the girl in his arms, and Helen tore her hand loose by main
force and sprang back to the doorway.

“Arthur!” she cried. “What do you mean?”

He clutched at a chair for support, and stood staring at her. For
fully a minute they remained thus, Helen trembling with alarm; then
his head sank, and he flung himself down upon the sofa, where he lay
sobbing passionately. Helen remained gazing at him with wide open
and astonished eyes.

“Arthur!” she exclaimed again.

But he did not hear her, for the cruel sobbing that shook his frame.
Helen, as soon as her first alarm had passed, came softly nearer,
till she stood by the sofa; but still he did not heed her, and she
did not dare even to put her hand upon his shoulder. She was afraid
of him, her dearest friend, and she knew not what to make of him.

“Arthur,” she whispered again, when he was silent for a moment.
“Please speak to me, Arthur.”

The other gazed up at her with a look of such helpless despair and
longing upon his face that Helen was frightened still more. He had
been sobbing as if his heart would break, but his eyes were dry.

“What is the matter?” she cried.

The young man answered her hoarsely: “Can you not see what is the
matter, Helen? I love you! And you drive me mad!”
