I had been reared among those whose friends and guests often went to
bed too drunk to snuff their candles; cards and dice and high play
were nothing strange to me, and, perhaps from their sheer familiarity,
left me indifferent and without desire.
A titled drab I had never seen; the gentlemen whom I knew discussed
their mistresses over nuts and wine, seeming to think no shame of one
another for the foolishness they called their "fortune." Had it not
been for Sir William's and Aunt Molly's teachings, I might have grown
up to think that wives were wedded chiefly to oblige a friend. But Sir
William and Aunt Molly taught me to abhor that universal vice long
before I could comprehend it. I did not clearly comprehend it yet; but
the thought of it was stale ashes in my mouth, so unattractive had I
pictured what I needs must shun one day.
Riding there through the fine rain which I could scarcely feel on my
skin, so delicate were the tiny specks of moisture, I thought much on
the smallness of this our world, where a single hour on an unknown
road had given me two companions whom I knew.
God grant the end of my journey would give me her for whose dear sake
the journey had been made!
Thinking such thoughts, lost in a lover's reverie, I rode on, blind to
all save the sweet ghosts I conjured in my brooding, and presently was
roused to find the chaise turning into a tavern-yard, where all was
black save for a lanthorn moving through the darkness.
Mount called; a yawning ostler came with a light, and at the same
instant our host in shirt and apron toddled out to bid us welcome, a
little, fat, toothless, chattering body, whose bald head soon was
powdered with tiny, shining rain-drops.
Mrs. Hamilton gave me her hand to descend; she was as fresh and
fragrant as a violet, and jumped to the ground on tiptoe with a quick
flirt of her petticoat like the twitch of a robin his tail-feathers.
"Mad doings on the road, sir!" said our host, rubbing his little, fat
hands. "Chaise and four stopped by the penny-stile two hours since,
sir. Ay, you may smile, my lady, but the post-boys fought a dreadful
battle with the highwaymen swarming in on every side. You laugh, sir?
But I have these same post-boys here, and the footman, too, to prove
it!"
"But, pray, where is the lady and her maid and the chaise and four?"
asked Mrs. Hamilton, demurely.
"God knows," said the innkeeper, rolling his eyes. "The villains
carried it off with the poor lady inside. Mad work, my lady! Mad
work!"
"Maddening work," said I, wrathfully. "Jack, borrow a post-whip and
warm the breeks of those same post-boys, will you? Lay it on thick,
Jack; I'll take my turn in the morning!"
Mount went away towards the stable, and I quieted the astonished
landlord and sent him to prepare supper, while a servant lighted Mrs.
Hamilton to her chamber. Then I went out to see that Warlock was well
fed and bedded fresh; and I did hear sundry howls from the villain
post-boys in their quarters overhead, where Mount was nothing sparing
of the leather.
Presently he came down the ladder, and laughed sheepishly when he saw
me.
"They're well birched," he said. "It's God's mercy if they sit their
saddles in the morning." Then he took my hands and held them so hard
that I winced.
"Gad, I'm that content to see you, lad!" he repeated again and again.
"And I you, Jack," I said. "It is time, too, else you'd be in some
worse mischief than this night's folly. But I'll take care of you
now," I added, laughing. "Faith, it's turn and turn about, you know.
Come to supper."
"I--I hate to face that lady," he muttered. "No, lad, I'll sup with my
own marrow-bones for company."
"Nonsense!" I insisted, but could not budge him, and soon saw I had my
labour for my pains.
"A mule for obstinacy--a very mule," I muttered.
"I own it; I'm an ass. But this ass knows enough to go to his proper
stall," he said, with a miserable laugh that touched me.
"Have it as you wish, Jack," I said, gently; "but come into my chamber
when you've supped. I'll be there. Lord, what millions of questions I
have to ask!"
"To be sure, to be sure," he murmured, then walked away towards the
kitchen, while I returned to the inn and cleansed me of the stains of
travel.
We supped together, Mrs. Hamilton and I, and found the cheer most
comforting, though there was no wine for her and she sipped, with me,
the new brew of dark October ale.
A barley soup we had, then winter squash and a roast wild duck, with
little quails all 'round, and a dish of pepper-cresses. Lord, how I
did eat, being still gaunt from my long sickness! But she kept pace
with me; a wholesome lass was she, and no frail beauty fed on
syllabubs and suckets. Flesh and blood were her charms, a delicate
ripeness, sweet as the cresses she crunched between her sparkling
teeth. And ever I heard her little feet go tap, tap, tap, under the
lamplit table.
I spoke respectfully of her losses; she dropped her eyes, accepting
the condolence, pinching a cress to shreds the while.
She of course knew nothing of my journey to Pittsburg, nor of any
events there which might have occurred after she had left, when her
husband fell with many another stout frontiersman under Boone and
Harrod.
I told her nothing, save that Felicity was in Boston and that I was
journeying thither to see her.
"Is she not to wed the Earl of Dunmore?" asked Mrs. Hamilton.
"No," said I, quietly.
"La, the capricious beauty!" she murmured. "Sure, she has not thrown
over Dunmore for that foolish dragoon, Kent Bevan?"
"I hope not," said I, maliciously.
"Who knows," she mused; "Mr. Bevan is to serve on Gage's staff this
fall. It looks like a match to me."
"Is Mr. Bevan going to Boston?" I inquired.
"Yes. Are you jealous?" she replied, saucily.
I smiled and shook my head.
"But you once were in love with your cousin," she persisted. "On aime
sans raison, et sans raison l'on hait! Regardez-moi, monsieur."
"Your convent breeding in Saint-Sacrement lends to your tongue a
liberty that English schools withhold," I said, reddening.
"Nay, now," she laughed, "do you remember how you played with me at
that state dinner held in Johnson Hall? You rode me down rough-shod,
Michael, and used me shamefully there, under the stairs."
"I'll do the like again if you provoke me," I said, but had not meant
to say it either, being troubled by her eyes.
"The--the like--again? And what was that, pray?"
"You know," I said, sulkily.
"I think you--kissed me--"
"I think I did," said I; "and left you all in tears."
It was brutal, but I meant to make an end.
"Did you believe that those were real tears?" she asked, innocently.
"By Heaven, I know they were," said I, with satisfaction, "and small
vengeance to repay the ill you did me, too."
"What ill?" she asked, opening her eyes in real surprise.
