with tante Barbe.” 

“Oh, but you could all come. There are many visitors. 





Except — the young man/’ laughing with peculiar soft- 
ness. 

Sylvie took his hand. She was quite sure and safe in 
the protection of one who could not be allowed within. 

“Madame will excuse us now/’ returned Barbe, in her 
quiet manner. “And accept our thanks. It has been a 
delightful excursion. We shall be most glad to renew it 
at some other opportunity.” 

Zenobie was doing very well, and would be confirmed 
next week. After her first communion she would come 
home as usual. There was a talk about the dress and 
veil, and then Zenobie was allowed a little walk in the 
garden with ma mere. The child was eager to hear about 
these new people who had stayed at Madame Milhet’s. 
For Laure had played off the beauty and sweetness of 
Angelique and Sylvie, and the charming young man. 

“Claire may like the young lady, Angelique,” she said 
to Laure afterward, “but I am just going to hate that 
little upstart, Sylvie! Nurse said she was cross to 
Felice, and she is a Huguenot — a bad, wicked girl, and I 
shall have nothing to do with her. You may like her as 
much as you please, Laure !” 


CHAPTER VIII. 

A YOUNG man walked up the path — a good-looking, 
jaunty fellow of eighteen or so, quite mature, as Southern- 
ers are wont to be — and yet with all the charm of youth- 
fulness, a happy smiling face, curling black hair, and 



dusky black eyes, with a soft shading on his short upper 
lip. He had a slender bamboo cane in his hand with 
which he switched the heads of some tall grasses. A 
mocking-bird in the hedge began a roulade, and he 
whistled an accompaniment. 

“Mo’sieu Aubreton — is he at home?” 

The voice was soft and rich. Jaques looked up from 
the young trees he was pruning and met the smile. Then 
he glanced up to the balcony. 

“Mam’selle Angelique, is Gervaise up there?” 

“No,” answered the clear girl’s voice. “He and Sylvie 
went for a walk.” 

“Will you be seated, M’sieu? I think he will be back 
presently.” 

“Which way did they go ?” 

“Down toward the creek I believe.” 

“I will saunter on. I may meet him.” 

There was a path through the wilderness that some day 
might be made wide enough for a road. All manner of 
things were in a riotous tangle ; there were many such 
places about. Sometimes the friendly Indians made a 
clearing and erected a wigwam, and all around the trees 
would be charred. Willowbrakes and reedy ponds, 
wild ducks, herons, and birds of almost every description 
settled themselves as soon as their natural enemies re- 
moved. Stray bands of Chickasaws, friendly enough if 
one did not trust them too far, or they were not incited 
by the English to venture upon depredations. Over 
westward, large plantations ; up above, settlements of 
Canadian French, or friendly English, who no longer felt 
bound to their own government — they had been neglected 
by it until their friendship was bought by the mighty 
hand of trade. 

Gervaise was very fond of rambling about. The great 





river on one side, the mighty lake on the other; the 
bustling activity, the busy crowds, were only a stone’s- 
throw, it seemed, from the quiet of this wilderness. 

Sylvie started up hosts of birds from the marshy wilds 
by throwing a stone or stick, and laughed to hear the 
screams and calls. 

“They are scolding back,” she cried, gleefully. “Oh, 
Gervaise, look at the beautiful white ones, with their long 
necks. And oh, the babies !” 

The two swans, with their progeny, were floating 
majestically on a space that widened out to a miniature 
lake. Great lilies were abloom at its edges — white, 
yellow, and a pinkish tint. They both stood silent. 

A curious, low, flute-like whistle startled Gervaise. 
He had already heard so many weird and horrible stories 
of runaway slaves, and treacherous Indians hiding in the 
morasses. But no — it might be some strange bird. 

“Is it some one calling to the swans?” inquired the 
child. For the head of the flock suddenly wheeled about, 
stretched out his long neck, and emitted a peculiar hissing 
sound through his pink bill. 
