beautiful horse he has!"
"That is the governor, Major General St. Clair."
"And General Wayne, is he an American?"
The man gave an encouraging smile to the child's eager inquiry.
"An American? yes. But look you, child. The only proper Americans would
be the Indians."
She frowned and looked puzzled.
"A little way back we came from England and France and Holland and Spain
and Italy. We are so diverse that it is a wonder we can be harmonized.
Only there seems something in this grand air, these mighty forests,
these immense lakes and rivers, that nurtures liberty and independence
and breadth of thought and action. Who would have dreamed that clashing
interests could have been united in that one aim, liberty, and that it
could spread itself from the little nucleus, north, south, east, and
west! The young generation will see a great country. And I suppose we
will always be Americans."
He turned to the young man beside him, who seemed amused at the
enthusiasm that rang in his voice and shone in his eyes of light, clear
blue as he had smiled down on the child who scarcely understood, but
took in the general trend and was moved by the warmth and glow.
"Monsieur, there are many countries beside England and France," she said
thoughtfully.
"O yes, a world full of them. Countries on the other side of the globe
of which we know very little."
"The other side?" Her eyes opened wide in surprise, and a little crease
deepened in the sunny brow as she flung the curls aside. She wore no hat
of any kind in summer.
"Yes, it is a round world with seas and oceans and land on both sides.
And it keeps going round."
"But, Monsieur," as he made a motion with his hand to describe it, "why
does not the water spill out and the ground slide off? What makes
it--oh, how can it stick?" with a laugh of incredulity.
"Because a wisdom greater than all of earth rules it. Are there no
schools in Detroit?"
"The English have some and there is the Recollet house and the sisters.
But they make you sit still, and presently you go to Montreal or Quebec
and are a nun, and wear a long, black gown, and have your head tied up.
Why, I should smother and I could not hear! That is so you cannot hear
wicked talk and the drunken songs, but I love the birds and the wind
blowing and the trees rustling and the river rushing and beating up in a
foam. And I am not afraid of the Indians nor the shil loups," but she
lowered her tone a trifle.
"Do not put too much trust in the Indians, Mam'selle. And there is the
loup garou--"
"But I have seen real wolves, Monsieur, and when they bring in the furs
there are so many beautiful ones. Madame De Ber says there is no such
thing as a loup garou, that a person cannot be a man and a wolf at the
same time. When the wolves and the panthers and the bears howl at night
one's blood runs chilly. But we are safe in the stockade."
"There is much for thee to learn, little one," he said, after a pause.
"There must be schools in the new country so that all shall not grow up
in ignorance. Where is thy father?"
Jeanne Angelot stared straight before her seeing nothing. Her father?
The De Bers had a father, many children had, she remembered. And her
mother was dead.
The address ended and there was a thundering roll of drums, while
cheers went up here and there. Cautious French habitans and traders
thought it wiser to wait and see how long this standard of stripes and
stars would wave over them. They were used to battles and conquering and
defeated armies, and this peace they could hardly understand. The
English were rather sullen over it. Was this stripling of newfound
liberty to possess the very earth?
The crowd surged about. Pani caught the arm of her young charge and drew
her aside. She was alarmed at the steady scrutiny the young man had
given her, though it was chiefly as to some strange specimen.
"Thou art overbold, Jeanne, smiling up in a young man's face and
puckering thy brows like some maid coquetting for a lover."
"A young man!" Jeanne laughed heartily. "Why he had a snowy beard like a
white bear in winter. Where were your eyes, Pani? And he told me such
curious things. Is the world round, Pani? And there are lands and lands
and strange people--"
"It is a brave show," exclaimed Louis Marsac joining them. "I wonder how
long it will last. There are to be some new treaties I hear about the
fur trade. That man from the town called New York, a German or some such
thing, gets more power every month. A messenger came this morning and I
am to return to my father at once. Jeanne, I wish thou and Pani wert
going to the upper lakes with me. If thou wert older--"
She turned away suddenly. Marie De Ber had a group of older girls about
her and she plunged into them, as if she might be spirited away.
Monsieur St. Armand had looked after his little friend but missed her in
the crowd, and a shade of disappointment deepened his blue eyes.
"Mon père," began the young man beside him, "evidently thou wert born
for a missionary to the young. I dare say you discovered untold
possibilities in that saucy child who knows well how to flirt her curls
and arch her eyebrows. She amused me. Was that half-breed her brother, I
wonder!"
"She was not a half-breed, Laurent. There are curious things in this
world, and something about her suggested--or puzzled. She has no Indian
eyes, but the rarest dark blue I ever saw. And did Indian blood ever
break out in curly hair?"
"I only noticed her swarthy skin. And there is such a mixed-up crew in
this town! Come, the grand show is about over and now we are all reborn
Americans up to the shores of Lake Superior. But we will presently be
due at the Montdesert House. Are we to have no more titles and French
nobility be on a level with the plainest, just Sieur and Madame?" with a
little curl of the lips. The elder smiled good naturedly, nay, even
indulgently.
"The demoiselles are more to thee than that splendid flag waving over a
free country. Thou canst return--"
"But the dinner?"
"Ah, yes, then we will go together," he assented.
"If we can pick our way through this crowd. What beggarly narrow
streets. Faugh! One can hardly get his breath. Our wilds are to be
preferred."
By much turning in and out they reached the upper end of St. Louis
street, which at that period was quite an elevation and overlooked the
river.
CHAPTER III.
ON THE RIVER.
The remainder of the day was devoted to gayety, and with the male
population carousing in too many instances, though there were
restrictions against selling intoxicants to the Indians inside the
stockade. The Frenchman drank a little and slowly, and was merry and
vivacious. Groups up on the Parade were dancing to the inspiriting
music, or in another corner two or three fiddles played the merriest of
tunes.
Outside, and the larger part of the town was outside now, the farms
stretched back with rude little houses not much more than cabins. There
was not much call for solidity when a marauding band of Indians might
put a torch to your house and lay it in ashes. But with the new peace
