turned his military education to account in the 
service of a German princess. Her Highness 's do 
minions were not in any map of Europe, and per 
haps it was her condition of political incognito 
that rendered her the more fittingly the prey of a 
passion for the American head of her armies. 
Boyne 's belief was that this character veiled a real 
identity, and he wished to submit to Miss Kasmith 
the question whether in the exclusive circles of New 
York society any young millionaire was known 
to have taken service abroad after leaving West 
Point. He put it in the form of a scoffing in 
credulity which it was a comfort to have her take 
as if almost hurt by his doubt. She said that such 
a thing might very well be, and with rich American 
girls marrying all sorts of titles abroad, it was 
not impossible for some brilliant young fellow to 
make his way to the steps of a throne. Boyne de 
clared that she was laughing at him, and she pro 
tested that it was the last thing she should think 
of doing ; she was too much afraid of him. Then he 
began to argue against the case supposed in the 
romance; he proved from the book itself that the 
thing could not happen; such a princess would not 
be allowed to marry the American, no matter how 
rich he was. She owned that she had not heard of 



 

just such an instance, and he might think her very 
romantic; and perhaps she was; but if the princess 
was an absolute princess, such as she was shown 
in that story, she held that no power on earth could 
keep her from marrying the young American. For 
herself she did not see, though, how the princess 
could be in love with that type of American. If 
she had been in the princess 's place she should have 
fancied something quite different. She made Boyne 
agree with her that Eastern Americans were all, 
more or less, Europeanized, and it stood to reason, 
she held, that a European princess would want some 
thing as un-European as possible if she was falling 
in love to please herself. They had some contention 
upon the point that the princess would want a 
Western American; and then Miss Easmith, with a 
delicate audacity, painted an heroic portrait of 
Boyne himself which he could not recognize openly 
enough to disown; but he perceived resemblances 
in it which went to his head when she demurely 
rose, with a soft " Good-night, Mr. Kenton. I sup 
pose I mustn 't call you Boyne ?" 

" Oh yes, do !" he entreated. " I 'm I 'm not grown 
up yet, you know." 

"Then it will be safe," she sighed. "But I 
should never have thought of that. I had got so 
absorbed in our argument. You are so logical, Mr. 
Kenton Boyne, I mean thank you. You must 
get it from your father. How lovely your sister 
is!" 

"Ellen?" 



 

" Well, no. I meant the other one. But Miss 
Kenton is beautiful, too. You must be so happy 
together, all of you." She added, with a rueful 
smile, " There 's only one of me ! Good-night." 

Boyne did not know whether he ought not in 
humanity, if not gallantry, to say he would be a 
brother to her, but while he stood considering, she 
put out a hand to him so covered with rings that 
he was afraid she had hurt herself in pressing his 
so hard, and had left him before he could decide. 

Lottie, walking the deck, had not thought of bid 
ding Mr. Pogis good-night. She had asked him half 
a dozen times how late it was, and when he answer 
ed, had said as often that she knew better, and 
she was going below in another minute. But she 
stayed, and the flow of her conversation supplied 
him with occasion for the remarks of which he 
seldom varied the formula. When she said some 
thing too audacious for silent emotion, he called 
out, " Oh, I say!" If she advanced an opinion too 
obviously acceptable, or asked a question upon some 
point where it seemed to him there could not be 
two minds, he was ready with the ironical note, 
" Well, rather !" At times she pressed her studies 
of his character and her observations on his man 
ner and appearance so far that he was forced 
to protest, "You are so personal!" But these mo 
ments were rare ; for the most part, " Oh, I say !" 
and "Well, rather!" perfectly covered the ground. 
He did not generally mind her parody of his poverty 
of phrase, but once, after she had repeated " Well, 



 

rather !" and " Oh, I say !" steadily at everything he 
said for the whole round of the promenade they 
were making, he intimated that there were occasions 
when, in his belief, a woman 's abuse of the freedom 
generously allowed her sex passed the point of 
words. 

"And when it passes the point of words," she 
taunted him, " what do you do ?" 

"You will see," he said, "if it ever does," and 
Lottie felt justified by her inference that he was 
