"Ready!" said Jacqueline, calmly.

"Go!"



Like a meteor the child flashed across the space between the two
trapezes; Miss Crystal caught her by her ankles.

"Ready?" called Speed, from the ground below. He had turned quite
pale. I saw Jacqueline, hanging head down, smile at him from her dizzy
height.

"Ready," she said, calmly.

"Go!"

Down, down, like a falling star, flashed Jacqueline into the shallow
pool, then shot to the surface, shimmering like a leaping mullet,
where she played and dived and darted, while the people screamed
themselves hoarse, and Speed came out, ghastly and trembling,
colliding with me like a blind man.

"I wish I had never let her do it; I wish I had never brought her
here--never seen her," he stammered. "She'll miss it some day--like
Miss Claridge--and it will be murder--and I'll have done it! Anybody
but that child, Scarlett, anybody else--but I can't bear to have her
die that way--the pretty little thing!"

He let go of my arm and stood back as my lion-cages came rolling out,
drawn by four horses.

"It's your turn," he said, in a dazed way. "Look out for that
lioness."

As I walked out into the arena I saw only one face. She tried to
smile, and so did I; but a terrible, helpless sensation was already
creeping over me--the knowledge that I was causing her distress--the
knowledge that I was no longer sure of myself--that, with my love for
her, my authority over these caged things had gone, never to return. I
knew it, I recognized it, and admitted it now. Speed's words rang
true--horribly true.

I entered the cage, afraid.

Almost instantly I was the centre of a snarling mass of lions; I saw
nothing; my whip rose and fell mechanically. I stood like one
stunned, while the tawny forms leaped right and left.

Suddenly I heard a keeper say, "Look out for Empress Khatoun, sir!"
And a moment later a cry, "Look out, sir!"

Something went wrong with another lion, too, for the people were
standing up and shouting, and the sleeve of my coat hung from the
elbow, showing my bare shoulder. I staggered up against the bars of
the sliding door as a lioness struck me heavily and I returned the
blow. I remember saying, aloud: "I must keep my feet; I must not
fall!" Then daylight grew red, and I was on my knees, with the foul
breath of a lion in my face. A hot iron bar shot across the cage. The
roaring of beasts and people died out in my ears; then, with a shock,
my soul seemed to be dashed out of me into a terrific darkness.




PART THIRD




XVIII

A GUEST-CHAMBER


A light was shining in my eyes and I was talking excitedly; that and
the odor of brandy I remember--and something else, a steady roaring in
my ears; then darkness, out of which came a voice, empty, meaningless,
finally soundless.

After a while I realized that I was in pain; that, at intervals,
somebody forced morsels of ice between my lips; that the darkness
around me had turned grayer.

Time played tricks on me; centuries passed steadily, year following
year--long years they were, too, with endless spring-tides, summers,
autumns, winters, each with full complement of months, and every month
crowded with days. Space, illimitable space, surrounded me--skyless,
starless space. And through its terrific silence I heard a clock
ticking seconds of time.

Years and years later a yellow star rose and stood still before my
open eyes; and after a long while I saw it was the flame of a candle:
and somebody spoke my name.

"I know you, Speed," I said, drowsily.

"You are all right, Scarlett?"

"Yes,... all right."

"Does the candle-light pain you?"

"No;... do they contract?"

"A little.... Yes, I am sure the pupils of your eyes are contracting.
Don't talk."

"No;... then it was concussion of the brain?"

"Yes;... the shock is passing.... Don't talk."

Time moved on again; space slowly contracted into a symmetrical shape,
set with little points of light; sleep and fatigue alternated with
glimmers of reason, which finally grew into a faint but steady
intelligence. And, very delicately, memory stirred in a slumbering
brain.

Reason and memory were mine again, frail toys for a stricken man, so
frail I dared not, for a time, use them for my amusement--and one of
