between her and himself he had been strong enough not to be jealous of
him; but he was under no obligation to that other man, and now he wished
that he had him in his hands. Moreover, his anger was against the girl,
too.

"It is outrageous," he said, at last, with a conviction that comforted
Guido a little. "It is perfectly abominable! What shall you do?"

"I can do nothing, of course."

Guido tossed on his pillows, turned his head, and stared at Lamberti,
hoping to be contradicted.

"It is of no use to go to bed because a woman is faithless," answered
Lamberti rather savagely. Guido almost laughed.

"I am ill," he said. "I can hardly stand. She telephoned to me to go and
see her, but I could not, and so she wrote what she had to say. It is
just as well. I am glad she cannot see me just now."

"I wish she could," answered Lamberti, closing his teeth on the words
sharply. "But you will see her, will you not?" he asked, after a pause.
"You will not accept such a dismissal without telling her what you think
of her?"

"Why should I tell her anything? If I have not succeeded in making her
love me yet, I shall never succeed at all! It is better to bear it as if
I had never expected anything else."

"Is there any reason why a woman should be allowed to do with impunity
what one man would shoot another for doing?" asked Lamberti, roughly.
"She has changed her mind once, she can be made to change it again."

The more he thought of what had happened the angrier he grew, and his
jealousy against the unknown man who had caused the trouble was boiling
up.

Guido caught at the straw like a drowning man, and raised himself on his
elbow.

"Do you really think that she may change her mind? That this is only a
caprice?"

"I should not wonder. All women have caprices now and then. It is a fit
of conscience. She is not quite sure that she likes you enough to marry
you, and you have said something that jarred on her, perhaps. If you had
been able to go and see her this morning, she would have begun by being
very brave, but in five minutes she would have been as ready to marry
you as ever. I will wager anything that when she had written that letter
she sent it off as soon as possible for fear that she should not send it
at all!"

"What do you advise me to do?" asked Guido, his hopes rising. "I believe
you understand women better than I do, after all!"

"They are only human animals, like ourselves," Lamberti answered
carelessly. "The chief difference is that they do all the things that we
are sometimes inclined to do, but should be ashamed of doing."

"I daresay. But I want your advice."

"Go and tell her that she has made a mistake, that she cannot possibly
be in earnest, but that if she does not feel that she can marry you in a
fortnight, she can put off the wedding till the autumn. It is quite
simple. It has all been rather sudden, from the first, and it is much
better that the engagement should go on a little longer."

"That is reasonable," Guido answered, growing calmer every moment. "I
wish I could go to her at once."

"I suppose you cannot," said Lamberti, looking at him rather curiously.

He remembered that he had once dragged himself five miles with a bad
spear-wound in his leg, to take news to a handful of men in danger, but
he supposed that Guido was differently organised. He did not like him
the less.

"No!" Guido answered. "The fever makes me so giddy that I can hardly
stand."

He put out his hand for the tumbler on the table, but it was empty.

"Lamberti!" he said.

"Yes, I will get you some water at once," the other answered, rising to
his feet.

"No," Guido said. "Never mind that, I will ring presently. Will you do
something for me?"

"Of course."

"Will you speak to her for me?"

Lamberti was standing by the bedside, and he saw the serious and almost
timid look in his friend's eyes. But he had not expected the request,
and he hesitated a moment.

"You would rather not," said Guido, disappointed. "I suppose I must wait
till I am well. Only it may be too late then. She will tell every one
that she has broken off the engagement."

"You misunderstood me," Lamberti said calmly, for he had found time to
think while Guido was speaking. "I will see her at once."

It had not been easy to say, for he knew what it meant.

"Thank you," Guido murmured. "Thank you, thank you!" he repeated with a
profound sense of relief, as his head sank back on the pillow.

"Will it do you any harm if I smoke?" asked Lamberti, looking at a cigar
he had taken from his pocket.

"No. I wish you would. I cannot even smoke a cigarette to-day. It tastes
like bad hay."

There is a hideous triviality about the things people say at important
moments in their lives. But Lamberti was not listening, and he lit his
cigar thoughtfully, without answering. Then he went to the window and
looked down through the blinds in silence, pondering on what was before
