without allusion to it. The handsome girl was thus literally in control
of the scene by the time Merton Densher was ready to exclaim with a
high flush, or a vivid blush--one didn't distinguish the embarrassment
from the joy--"Why, Miss Theale: fancy!" and "Why, Miss Theale: what
luck!"

Miss Theale had meanwhile the sense that for him too, on Kate's part,
something wonderful and unspoken was determinant; and this although,
distinctly, his companion had no more looked at him with a hint than he
had looked at her with a question. He had looked and he was looking
only at Milly herself, ever so pleasantly and considerately--she scarce
knew what to call it; but without prejudice to her consciousness, all
the same, that women got out of predicaments better than men. The
predicament of course wasn't definite or phraseable--and the way they
let all phrasing pass was presently to recur to our young woman as a
characteristic triumph of the civilised state; but she took it for
granted, insistently, with a small private flare of passion, because
the one thing she could think of to do for him was to show him how she
eased him off. She would really, tired and nervous, have been much
disconcerted, were it not that the opportunity in question had saved
her. It was what had saved her most, what had made her, after the first
few seconds, almost as brave for Kate as Kate was for her, had made her
only ask herself what their friend would like of her. That he was at
the end of three minutes, without the least complicated reference, so
smoothly "their" friend was just the effect of their all being
sublimely civilised. The flash in which he saw this was, for Milly,
fairly inspiring--to that degree in fact that she was even now, on such
a plane, yearning to be supreme. It took, no doubt, a big dose of
inspiration to treat as not funny--or at least as not unpleasant--the
anomaly, for Kate, that she knew their gentleman, and for herself,
that Kate was spending the morning with him; but everything continued
to make for this after Milly had tasted of her draught. She was to
wonder in subsequent reflection what in the world they had actually
said, since they had made such a success of what they didn't say; the
sweetness of the draught for the time, at any rate, was to feel success
assured. What depended on this for Mr. Densher was all obscurity to
her, and she perhaps but invented the image of his need as a short cut
to service. Whatever were the facts, their perfect manners, all round,
saw them through. The finest part of Milly's own inspiration, it may
further be mentioned, was the quick perception that what would be of
most service was, so to speak, her own native wood-note. She had long
been conscious with shame for her thin blood, or at least for her poor
economy, of her unused margin as an American girl--closely indeed as,
in English air, the text might appear to cover the page. She still had
reserves of spontaneity, if not of comicality; so that all this cash in
hand could now find employment. She became as spontaneous as possible
and as American as it might conveniently appeal to Mr. Densher, after
his travels, to find her. She said things in the air, and yet flattered
herself that she struck him as saying them not in the tone of agitation
but in the tone of New York. In the tone of New York agitation was
beautifully discounted, and she had now a sufficient view of how much
it might accordingly help her.

The help was fairly rendered before they left the place; when her
friends presently accepted her invitation to adjourn with her to
luncheon at her hotel, it was in the Fifth Avenue that the meal might
have waited. Kate had never been there so straight, but Milly was at
present taking her; and if Mr. Densher had been he had at least never
had to come so fast. She proposed it as the natural thing--proposed it
as the American girl; and she saw herself quickly justified by the pace
at which she was followed. The beauty of the case was that to do it all
she had only to appear to take Kate's hint. This had said, in its fine
first smile, "Oh yes, our look is queer--but give me time;" and the
American girl could give time as nobody else could. What Milly thus
gave she therefore made them take--even if, as they might surmise, it
was rather more than they wanted. In the porch of the museum she
expressed her preference for a four-wheeler; they would take their
course in that guise precisely to multiply the minutes. She was more
than ever justified by the positive charm that her spirit imparted even
to their use of this conveyance; and she touched her highest
point--that is, certainly, for herself--as she ushered her companions
into the presence of Susie. Susie was there with luncheon, with her
return, in prospect; and nothing could now have filled her own
consciousness more to the brim than to see this good friend take in how
little she was abjectly anxious. The cup itself actually offered to
this good friend might in truth well be startling, for it was composed
beyond question of ingredients oddly mixed. She caught Susie fairly
looking at her as if to know whether she had brought in guests to hear
Sir Luke Strett's report. Well, it was better her companion should have
too much than too little to wonder about; she had come out "anyway," as
they said at home, for the interest of the thing; and interest truly
sat in her eyes. Milly was none the less, at the sharpest crisis, a
little sorry for her; she could of necessity extract from the odd scene
so comparatively little of a soothing secret. She saw Mr. Densher
suddenly popping up, but she saw nothing else that had happened. She
saw in the same way her young friend indifferent to her young friend's
doom, and she lacked what would explain it. The only thing to keep her
in patience was the way, after luncheon, Kate almost, as might be said,
made up to her. This was actually perhaps as well what most kept Milly
herself in patience. It had in fact for our young woman a positive
beauty--was so marked as a deviation from the handsome girl's previous
courses. Susie had been a bore to the handsome girl, and the change was
now suggestive. The two sat together, after they had risen from table,
in the apartment in which they had lunched, making it thus easy for the
other guest and his entertainer to sit in the room adjacent. This, for
the latter personage, was the beauty; it was almost, on Kate's part,
like a prayer to be relieved. If she honestly liked better to be
"thrown with" Susan Shepherd than with their other friend, why that
said practically everything. It didn't perhaps altogether say why she
had gone out with him for the morning, but it said, as one thought,
about as much as she could say to his face.

Little by little indeed, under the vividness of Kate's behaviour, the
probabilities fell back into their order. Merton Densher was in love,
and Kate couldn't help it--could only be sorry and kind: wouldn't that,
without wild flurries, cover everything? Milly at all events tried it
as a cover, tried it hard, for the time; pulled it over her, in the
front, the larger room, drew it up to her chin with energy. If it
didn't, so treated, do everything for her, it did so much that she
could herself supply the rest. She made that up by the interest of her
great question, the question of whether, seeing him once more, with all
that, as she called it to herself, had come and gone, her impression of
him would be different from the impression received in New York. That
had held her from the moment of their leaving the museum; it kept her
company through their drive and during luncheon; and now that she was a
quarter of an hour alone with him it became acute. She was to feel at
this crisis that no clear, no common answer, no direct satisfaction on
this point, was to reach her; she was to see her question itself simply
go to pieces. She couldn't tell if he were different or not, and she
didn't know nor care if she were: these things had ceased to matter
