Pony said no, and then she said, "I almost wish you had, then. I don't
think he's a bad boy, but he's a crazy fool, and I wish you wouldn't go
with him so much. I don't like him."

All of a sudden Pony felt that he did not like Jim Leonard very much
himself. It seemed to him that Jim Leonard had not used him very well, but
he could not have told how.

After supper the great thing was how to get out to the barn without any
one's noticing. Pony went to the woodshed door two or three times to look
out. There were plenty of stars in the sky, but it seemed very dark, and
he knew that it would be as black as pitch in the barn, and he did not see
how he could ever dare to go out to it, much less into it. Every time he
came back from looking he brought an armload of wood into the kitchen so
that his mother would not notice.

The last time she said, "Why, you dear, good boy, what a lot of wood
you're bringing for your mother," for usually Pony had to be told two or
three times before he would get a single armload of wood.

When his mother praised him he was ashamed to look at her, and so he
looked round, and he saw the lantern hanging by the mantel-piece. When he
saw that lantern he almost wished that he had not seen it, for now he knew
that his last excuse was gone, and he would really have to run off. If it
had not been for the lantern he could have told Jim Leonard that he was
afraid to go out to the barn on account of ghosts, for anybody would be
afraid of ghosts; Jim Leonard said he was afraid of them himself. But now
Pony could easily get the lantern and take it out to the barn with him,
and if it was not dark the ghosts would not dare to touch you.

He tried to think back to the beginning of the time when he first intended
to run off, and find out if there was not some way of not doing it; but he
could not, and if Jim Leonard was to come to the barn the next morning to
help him start, and should not find him there, Pony did not know what he
would do. Jim Leonard would tell all the fellows, and Pony would never
hear the last of it. That was the way it seemed to him, but his mind felt
all fuzzy, and he could not think very clearly about it.

When his mother finished up her work in the kitchen he took the lantern
from the nail and slipped up the back stairs to his little room, and then,
after he heard his sisters going to bed and his father and mother talking
together quietly, he lit the lantern and stole out to the barn with it.
Nobody noticed him, and he got safely inside the barn. He used to like to
carry the lantern very much, because it made the shadows of his legs, when
he walked, go like scissors-blades, and that was fun; but that night it
did not cheer him up, and it seemed as if nothing could cheer him up
again. When Trip first saw him come out into the woodshed with the lantern
he jumped up and pawed Pony and licked the lantern, he was so glad, but
when Pony went towards the barn Trip stopped following him and went back
into the wood-house very sadly. Pony would have given almost anything to
have Trip come with him, only, as Jim Leonard said, Trip would whine or
bark, or something, and then Pony would be found out and kept from running
off.

The more he wanted to be kept from running off the more he knew he must
not try to be, and he let Trip go back when he would have so gladly helped
him up into the hay-loft and slept with him there. He would not have been
afraid with Trip, and now he found that he was dreadfully afraid. The
lantern-light was a charm against ghosts, but not against rats, and the
first thing Pony knew when he got into the barn a rat ran across his foot.
Trip would have kept the rats off. They seemed to just swarm in the loft
when Pony got up there, and after he hung the lantern on a nail and lay
down in the hay they did not mind him at all. They played all around, and
two of them got up on their hind legs once and fought, or else danced,
Pony could not tell which. He could not sleep, and after a while he felt
the tears coming and he began to cry, and he kept sobbing, and could not
stop himself.

When Pony's mother was ready to go to bed she said to Pony's father: "Did
Pony say good-night to you?" and when he said no, she said, "But he must
have gone to bed," and she ran up the stairs to see. She came down again
in about half a second and she said, "He doesn't seem to be there," and
she raced all through the house hunting for him. In the kitchen she saw
that the lantern was gone and then she said: "I might have known he was up
to some mischief, he was so quiet. This is some more of Jim Leonard's
work. Henry, I want you to go right out and look for Pony. It's half-past
nine."

Then Pony's father knew that it would be no use to talk and he started
out. But the whole street was quiet, and all the houses were dark as if
the people had gone to bed. He went up town and to all the places where
the big boys were apt to play at night, and he found Hen Billard and Archy
Hawkins, but neither of them had seen Pony since school. They were both
sitting on Hen Billard's front steps, because Archy Hawkins was going to
stay all night with him, and they were telling stories. When Pony's father
asked about Pony and seemed anxious they tried to comfort him, but they
could not think where Pony could be. They said perhaps Jim Leonard would
know.

Then Pony's father went home, and the minute he opened the front door
Pony's mother called out: "Have you found him?"

His father said: "No. Hasn't he come in yet?" and he told her how he had
been looking everywhere, and she burst out crying.

"I know he's fallen into the canal and got drowned, or something," and she
wrung her hands together; and then he said that Hen Billard and Archy
Hawkins thought Jim Leonard would know, and he had only stopped to see
whether Pony had happened to come in, and he was going straight to Jim
Leonard's mother's house; and Pony's mother said: "Oh, go, go, go!" and
fairly pushed him out of the house.

By this time it was ten o'clock and going on eleven, and all the town was
as still as death, except the dogs. Pony's father kept on until he got
down to the river-bank, where Jim Leonard's mother lived, and he had to
knock and knock before he could make anybody hear. At last Jim Leonard's
mother poked her head out of the window and asked who was there, and
Pony's father told her.

He said: "Is Jim at home, Mrs. Leonard?" and she said:

"Yes, and fast asleep three hours ago. What makes you ask?"

Then he had to tell her. "We can't find Pony, and some of the boys thought
Jim might know where he is. I'm sorry to disturb you, Mrs. Leonard.
Good-night," and he went back home.

When he got there he found Pony's mother about crazy. He said now they
must search the house thoroughly; and they went down into the cellar
first, because she said she knew Pony had fallen down the stairs and
