"FIRST NIGHT."


Dress parade leaves but a few moments for supper, with no chance for
"deviling." But when the battalion marched back from that meal and broke
ranks, when the dusk of evening was coming on to make an effective
screen, then was the time, thought the cadets. And so thought the
plebes, too, as they came up the road a few minutes later, trembling
with anticipation, most of them, and looking very solemn and somber in
their dusky fatigue uniforms.

"First night of plebe camp," says a well-known military writer, "is a
thing not soon to be forgotten, even in these days when pitchy darkness
no longer surrounds the pranks of the yearlings, and when official
vigilance and protection have replaced what seemed to be tacit
encouragement and consent.

"Then--some years ago--it was no uncommon thing for a new cadet to be
dragged out--'yanked'--and slid around camp on his dust-covered blanket
twenty times a night, dumped into Fort Clinton ditch, tossed in a tent
fly, half smothered in the folds of his canvas home, ridden on a tent
pole or in a rickety wheelbarrow, smoked out by some vile, slow-burning
pyrotechnic compound, robbed of rest and sleep at the very least after
he had been alternately drilled and worked all the livelong day."

In Mark's time the effort to put a stop to the abuses mentioned had just
been begun. Army officers had been put on duty at night; gas lamps had
been placed along the sentry posts--precautions which are doubled
nowadays, and with the risk of expulsion added besides. They have done
away with the worst forms of hazing if not with the spirit.

The yearlings "had it in" for our four friends of company A that
evening. In fact, scarcely had the plebes scattered to their tents when
that particular plebe hotel was surrounded. The cadets had it all
arranged beforehand, just what was to happen, and they expected to have
no end of fun about it.

"Parson Stanard" was to be serenaded first; the crowd meant to surround
him and "invite" him to read some learned extracts from his beloved
"Dana." The Parson was to recount some of the nobler deeds of Boston's
heroes, including himself; he was to display his learning by answering
questions on every conceivable subject; he was to define and spell a
list of the most outlandish words in every language known to the angels.

Texas was to show his skill and technique in hurling an imaginary lasso
and firing an imaginary revolver from an imaginary galloping horse. He
was to tell of the geography, topography, climate and resources of the
Lone Star State; he was to recount the exploits of his "dad," "the Hon.
Scrap Powers, sah, o' Hurricane Co.," and his uncle, the new
Senator-elect. Mark was to give rules for rescuing damsels, saving
expresses and ferryboats, etc. And Mr. Methusalem Zebediah Chilvers of
Kansas was to state his favorite method of raising three-legged chickens
and three-foot whiskers.

That was the delicious programme as finally agreed upon by the
yearlings. And there was only one drawback met in the execution of it.
The four plebes could not be found!

They weren't in their tent; they weren't in camp! Preposterous! The
yearlings hunted, scarcely able to believe their eyes. The plebes, of
course, had a perfect right to take a walk after supper if they chose.
But the very idea of daring to do it on the first night in camp, when
they knew that the yearlings would visit them and expect to be
entertained! It was an unheard-of thing to do; but it was just what one
would have expected of those B. J. beasts, so the yearlings grumbled, as
they went off to other tents to engage other plebes in conversation and
controversy.

But where were the four? No place in particular. They had simply joined
the other three and had the impudence to disappear in the woods for a
stroll until tattoo. They had come to the conclusion that it was better
to do that than to stay and be "guyed," as they most certainly would be
if they refused their tormentors' requests. And Mark had overruled
Texas' vehement offer to stay and "do up the hull crowd," deciding that
the cover of the night would be favorable to the sevens' hazing, and
that until then they should make themselves scarce.

In the meantime there was high old sport in Camp McPherson. In response
to the requests of the merry yearlings, some plebes were sitting out on
the company streets and rowing desperate races at a 34-to-the-minute
stroke with brooms for oars and air for water; some were playing
imaginary hand-organs, while others sang songs to the tunes; some
"beasts" were imitating every imaginable animal in a real "menagerie,"
and some were relating their personal history while trying to stand on
their heads.

All this kind of hazing is good-natured and hurts no one physically,
however much the loss of dignity may torment some sensitive souls. It is
the only kind of hazing that remains to any great extent nowadays.

In the midst of such hilarity time passes very rapidly--to the
yearlings, anyway. In almost no time tattoo had sounded; and then the
companies lined up for the evening roll call, the seven dropping into
line as silently as they had stolen off, deigning a word to no one in
explanation of their strange conduct.

"That's what I call a pretty B. J. trick!" growled Cadet Harris. Bull
had been looking forward with great glee to that evening's chance to
ridicule Mark, with all his classmates to back him; it was a lost chance
now, and Bull was angry in consequence.

Bull's cronies agreed with him as to the "B. J.-ness" of that trick. And
they, along with a good many others, too, agreed that the trick ought
not be allowed to succeed.

"We ought to haze him ten times as hard to-night to make up for it!" was
the verdict.

And so it happened that the seven, by their action, brought down upon
their heads all the hazing that was done after taps. This hazing, too,
was by far the least pleasant, for it was attended to only by the more
reckless members of the class, members who could not satisfy their taste
for torture by making a helpless plebe sing songs, but must needs tumble
him out of bed and ride him on a rail at midnight besides.

The fact, however, that all such members of the yearling class had
decided to concentrate their torments upon him did not worry Mark in the
least. In fact, that was just what Mark had expected and prepared for.

And so there was destined to be fun that night.
