


window was ; she opened it in an instant, and looked 
round. 

Sabina was sitting up in bed, staring at her with a 
dazed expression, her hair in wild confusion round 
her pale face and falling over her bare neck. Her 
clothes lay in a heap on the floor, beside the bed. 
Never was any woman more fairly caught in a situa- 
tion impossible to explain. Even in that first moment, 
she felt it, when she looked at the Baroness's face. 

The latter did not speak, for she was utterly inca- 
pable of finding words. The sound of a scuffle could 
be heard from the study in the distance ; she quietly 
shut the door and turned the key. Then she came and 
stood by the bed, facing the window. Sabina had sunk 
back upon the pillows, but her eyes looked up bravely 
and steadily. Of the two she was certainly the one 
less disturbed, even then, for she remembered that 
Malipieri had meant to go and tell the Baroness the 
whole truth, early in the morning. He had done so, 
of course, and the Baroness had come to take her back, 
very angry of course, but that was all. This was what 
Sabina told herself, but she guessed that matters would 
turn out much worse. 

" Did he tell you how it happened that I could not 
get home ? " she asked, almost calmly. 

"No one has told me anything. Your mother 
arrived in Rome last night. She is at the Russian 
Embassy and wishes to see you at eleven o'clock." 

" My mother ? " Sabina raised herself on one hand 
in surprise. 



 

" Yes. And I find you liere." 

The Baroness folded her arms like a man, her brows 
contracted, and her face was almost livid. 

" Have you the face to meet your mother, after 
this ? " she asked sternly. 

"Yes — of course," answered Sabina. "But I must 
go home and dress. My frock is ruined." 

"You are a brazen creature," said the Baroness in 
disgust and anger. " You do not seem to know what 
shame means." 

Sabina's deep young eyes flashed ; it was not safe 
to say such things to her. 

"I have done nothing to be ashamed of," she an- 
swered proudly, " and you shall not speak to me like 
that. Do you understand?" 

" Nothing to be ashamed of ! " The Baroness stared 
at her in genuine amazement. " Nothing to be ashamed 
of ! " she repeated, and her voice shook with emotion. 
"You leave my house by stealth, you let no one 
know where you are going, and the next morning I- 
find you here, in your lover's house, in your lover's 
room, the door not even locked, your head upon your 
lover's pillow ! Nothing to be ashamed of ! Merciful 
heavens ! And you have not only ruined yourself, but 
you have done an irreparable injury to honest people 
who took you in when you were starving ! '.' 

The poof woman paused for breath, and in her 
horror, she hid her face in her hands. She had her 
faults, no doubt, and she knew that the world was 
bad, but she had never dreamt of such barefaced and 





utterly monstrous cynicism as Sabina's. If tlie girl 
had been overcome with shame and repentance, and 
had broken down entirely, imploring help and for- 
giveness, as would have seemed natural, the Baroness, 
for her own social sake, might have been at last 
moved to help her out of her trouble. Instead, being 
a person of rigid virtue and judging the situation in 
the only way really possible for her to see it, she 
was both disgusted and horrified. It was no wonder. 
But she was not prepared for Sabina's answer. 

" If I were strong enough, I would kill you," said 
the young girl, quietly laying her head on the pillow 
again. 

The Baroness laughed hysterically. She felt as 
if she were in the presence of the devil himself. 
She was not at all a hysterical woman nor often 
given to dramatic exhibitions of feeling, but she 
had never dreamt that a human being could behave 
with such horribly brazen shamelessness. 

For some moments there was silence. Then Sabina 
spoke, in a quietly scornful tone, while the Baroness 
turned her back on her and stood quite still, looking 
out of the window. 

"I suppose you have a right to be surprised," 
Sabina said, " but you have no right to insult me 
and say thvQgs that are not true. Perhaps Signor 
Malipieri likes me very much. I do not know. He 
has never told me he loved me." 

The Baroness's large figure shook with fury, but 
