
I made an athlete of myself pacing up and 
down with The Captive! I honestly think I 
walked ten or twelve hours some days. I have 
walked all day to-day, but I do not feel tired. 
I answered advertisements in the papers. 

— Why are men impolite? I do not believe I 
could ever learn to speak rudely. 

July 23d. 

The impossible occupations that I have 
thought of, in trying to solve my problem! To- 
day I saw myself a lighthouse-keeper! What 
does a lighthouse-keeper do, anyway? And 
could I manage to get such a place where I 
could be alone by myself? 

— But no, some one would have to attend to 
the light!— 

I thought of being a hall-boy. But you are 
not paid very much. — I said, however, that I 
would at least get some sort of a place up-town. 
I could not stand it down in the " business " 
world. 

God, how horrible it is! All that seething 
efifort — and for what? All this " business " — is 



it really necessary to the developing of the souls 
of men? Does each man in that rushing mob 
need more money yet, to begin developing his 
soul? 

— Another occupation! I saw myself a 
lonely hunter, living by a mountain lake, and 
shooting game for a living! I wonder if that 
wouldn't be possible. I never shot any game, 
but I could learn. 

It would suit me perfectly to sit by a moun- 
tain lake and read Greek and watch for ducks. 

July 27th. 
I was getting down pretty close to the limit 
again, but I got something to do to-day. I had 
to take what I could find; it is what would be 
called a good position, I suppose; I am in a 
wholesale-paper store. I get twelve dollars, and 
that is quite something. 

The business of the will is to face the things 
that come — not any other things. Now I have to 
drill and discipline myself anew, to learn to save 
my soul alive in a wholesale-paper store ! 

It is a great, dingy place, full of chaffering, 
hungry-looking men. They are all desperately 




 



serious; it is a great "business house," I be- 
lieve ; the very atmosphere of it is deadly poison. 

— Oh bald-headed, grim-visaged senior-part- 
ner, that didst gaze at me over black-rimmed 
spectacles — so I have " an opportunity to rise," 
have I ? 

Yes, — I shall rise upon wings of a sapphire 
sheen, and toss myself up in the wind and shake 
down showers of golden light into thy wonder- 
ing eyes, oh bald-headed, grim-visaged senior- 
partner! 

— It is my business to show samples of paper. 
I shall learn all about them in a few days, and 
then I shall go at the Greek. 

July 28th. 

Whenever I feel weary I run ofif into a corner 
and whisper into my ear, " It is done! Be not 
afraid!" Instantly my heart goes up like swift 
music. 

July 31st. 

Twelve days since I left The Captive; they 
said it would take three weeks. 

Something strange flashed over me to-day, 
something that sent a shudder through me; I 






have done a strange thing to myself this summer, 
not in metaphor, but in fact. I have seen a ghost; 
I have drunk a potion; I have gazed upon a 
nymph; I have made myself mad! 

I am no longer a man among men — I am 
" the reed that grows never more again " ! 

— I try to lose myself in a book, but the book 
does not hold me. Nothing satisfies me as it 
used to, — I am restless, hungry, ill at ease. Why 
should I read this man's weak efiforts — what 
