feature of his caller.

"Monsieur Breton?" the strange lackey inquired,

"Are you seeking me?" Breton asked diplomatically.

"I was directed to deliver this to you.  It is for your master," and
the stranger placed a bundle in Breton's hands.  Immediately he turned
and disappeared down the stairs.  Evidently he desired not to be
questioned.

Breton surveyed the bundle doubtfully, turned it this way and that.  On
opening it he was greatly surprised to find his master's celebrated
grey cloak.  He examined it.  It was soiled and rent in several places.
Breton hung it up in the closet, shaking his head.

"This is very irregular," he muttered.  "Monsieur de Saumaise would
never have returned it in this condition; besides, Hector would have
been the messenger.  What will Monsieur Paul say when he sees it?"

And, knowing that he had no cause to worry, and having not the
slightest warning that his master's liberty was in danger, Breton
reseated himself by the candles and continued his indulgence in stolen
sweets; that is to say, he renewed the adventures of that remarkable
offspring of Gargantua.




CHAPTER IV

AN AENEAS FOR AN ACHATES

In the grand gallery of the Palais Royal stood a mahogany table, the
bellying legs of which, decorated with Venetian-wrought gold, sparkled
and glittered in the light of the flames that rose and fell in the
gaping chimney-place.  Around this table were seated four persons of
note: the aging Maréchal de Villeroi, Madame de Motteville of
imperishable memoirs, Anne of Austria, and Cardinal Mazarin.  The
Italian, having won a pile of golden louis from the soldier, was
smiling amiably and building yellow pyramids, forgetful for the time
being of his gouty foot which dozed on a cushion under the table.  This
astute politician was still a handsome man, but the Fronde and the
turbulent nobility had left their imprint.  There were many lines
wrinkling the circle of his eyes, and the brilliant color on his cheeks
was the effect of rouge and fever.

The queen gazed covetously at Mazarin's winnings.  She was growing fat,
and the three long curls on each side of her face in no wise diminished
its width; but her throat was still firm and white, and her hands,
saving their plumpness, were yet the envy of many a beautiful woman.
Anne of Austria was now devoted to three things; her prayers, her
hands, and her plays.

As for the other two, Madame de Motteville looked hungry and politely
bored, while the old maréchal scowled at his cards.

Near-by, on a pile of cushions, sat Philippe d'Orléans, the king's
brother.  He was cutting horses from three-colored prints and was
sailing them up the chimney.  At the left of the fireplace, the dark
locks of the girl mingling with the golden curls of the boy, both
poring over a hook filled with war-like pictures, the one interested by
the martial spirit native to his blood, the other by the desire to
please, sat the boy Louis and Mademoiselle de Mancini, Mazarin's niece.
From time to time the cardinal permitted his gaze to wander in their
direction, and there was fatherly affection in his smile.  Mazarin
liked to call these gatherings "family parties."

The center of the gallery presented an animated scene.  The beautiful
Madame de Turenne, whose husband was the maréchal-general of the armies
of France, then engaged in war against Spain, under whose banners the
great Condé was meeting with a long series of defeats, the Comtesse de
Soissons, the Abbé de la Rivre, Madame de Brigy, the Duc and Duchesse
de Montausier,--all were laughing and exchanging badinage with the Duc
de Gramont, who was playing execrably on Mademoiselle de Longueville's
guitar.  Surrounding were the younger courtiers and ladies, who also
were enjoying the affair.  There are few things which amuse young
people as much as the sight of an elderly, dignified man making a clown
of himself.

"Oh, Monsieur le Duc," cried Mademoiselle de Longueville, springing
from the window-seat from which position she had been staring at the
flambeaux below, "if you fought as badly as you play, you would never
have gained the baton."

"Mademoiselle, each has its time and place, the battle and the
madrigal, Homer and Voiture, and besides, I never play when I fight;"
and De Gramont continued his thrumming.

Just outside the pale of this merry circle the Duc de Beaufort leaned
over the chair of Madame de Montbazon, and carried on a conversation in
low tones.  The duchess exhibited at intervals a fine set of teeth.  In
the old days when the literary salons of the Hôtel de Rambouillet were
at zenith, the Duchesse de Montbazon was known to be at once the
handsomest and most ignorant woman in France.  But none denied that she
possessed a natural wit or the ability successfully to intrigue; and
many were the grand sieurs who had knelt at her feet.  But now, like
Anne of Austria, she was devoting her time to prayers and to the
preservation of what beauty remained.

"So De Brissac is dead?" said Beaufort seriously.  "Ah well, we all
must die.  I hope he has straightened up his affairs and that his
papers fall into worthy hands."  The prince glanced covertly toward
Mazarin.  "But it was all his own fault.  The idea of a man of sixty
marrying a girl of seventeen, fresh from convent, and a beauty, too,
they say.  He deserved it."

"Beaufort, few persons deserve violent deaths," replied the duchess;
and with a perceptible frown she added: "And are you aware that Madame
de Brissac, of whom you speak so lightly, is my own daughter?"

Beaufort started back from the chair.  "Word of honor, I had forgotten!
But it was so long ago, and no one seems to have heard of her.  Your
daughter!  Why was she never presented at court?"

"She was presented three years ago, informally.  I wished it so.
Monsieur, we women love to hold a surprise in reserve.  When we are no
longer attractive, a daughter more or less does not matter."

"Truly I had forgotten.  Eh well, we can not remember everything,
