On it came, nearer, with a thundering boom that now could not be
mistaken. Men rushed to the levee to be sure that the boats were made
safe. They looked up the river, standing on the high ground. What was
this terror marching toward them? A seething, foaming flood with great,
dark waves tossing up a yellow-black spray, sweeping all before it.
“The river! The river is rising!” was shouted by terrified voices, and
men looked at each other in fear. They had never seen anything like it.
There had been freshets that had done considerable damage, torn out
banks and sent down great drifts of broken and uprooted trees. There had
been ice gorges, when the cakes of ice would pile up like Arctic mounds,
crashing, thundering, and suddenly give way, dazzling in the sunshine
like a fleet of boats and, sweeping down the river, crush whatever was
in its way.
But this was a great wall, starting up no one knew where, swelled by the
streams, expanded by the Missouri, sweeping all before it, submerging
Gaboret Island, gathering momentum every moment, swirling at every point
and curve, as if longing to beat them out of existence, and with an
accumulation of uprooted trees so jammed together that many of them
stood upright, a great army of devastation.
The current was very swift in any freshet. Although it was called the
great river, that applied more to its length, for here it was not much
over two thousand feet wide. But it was deep, with a dangerous power
when it rose in its might, and fed by so many streams and tributaries
that the débris was constantly washing down to the gulf at its
numerous mouths.
They gazed in speechless terror at first, as if they would be helpless
in the grasp of such a giant, and the roar was appalling. The spray
seemed dashed up in the very face of heaven; the rending, tearing and
crushing was terrific. The very trees shrieked as they were torn from
their foundation. On it rushed, a great, dark, fierce wall, sweeping
everything in its way, tearing out banks, booming like the roar of
artillery, shrieking with madness, as if hundreds of people were crying
out for help and safety. The crowd looked at each other in dismay. Some
fled to the next higher range, many sank helplessly to the ground,
others were on their knees praying. And when it struck the little town
it seemed like a mighty earthquake, and the ground fairly shuddered as
it rushed by furiously.
The boats that had been drawn up to a safe line, as was thought, were
swept off to join the mad, careering mass and add to the rending,
deafening sound. And when the first accumulation had swept by and was
whirling around the bend of the river another and still another
followed. Was the whole north going to be precipitated upon them?
The curve in the river did the town this much good: it swept the fierce
current to the eastern side, tore out, submerged, and by the time it
turned it was below the town. They were not to be swept quite away, and
some of the braver ones began to take courage and ventured to look at
the levee below. That was gone, of course.
It was a day and a night of terror. The flood had submerged a part of
the Rue Royale and some of the residents had moved their belongings to
higher ground. Trading houses had been emptied of their goods. Gaspard
Denys shrugged his shoulders with intense satisfaction. Up here past the
Rue de l’Eglise all was safe and dry.
For days there seemed a spell upon the people. They could do little
besides watch the receding river and view the wreckage it had left in
its wake. Great caves and indentations on the opposite shore, bare
spaces where trees had waved their long green arms joyously in the
sunshine a few days ago. Yet they found they had not fared so badly.
Everybody turned out to help repair damages.
What of the fleet of boats coming up the river? What of the towns below?
“And my poor Barbe!” cried Madame Renaud. “Why, they would be almost
home, unless the boats were swept to destruction. Only a miracle could
have saved them. And oh, then, where are they?”
True. The waters had subsided so much it would be safe to go in search
of them. There were several coves less infested now with pirates than
formerly, where boats sometimes put in to avoid the storms. Colonel
Chouteau at once had two boats made ready and stored with provisions, in
case of a rescue of any voyagers.
Then some trading fleets ventured from St. Charles. All along the shores
on both sides were marks of devastation. Great chasms had been created
here, and there mounds of broken trees and tons of river mud deposited
over them. Gaboret Island began to show its head, but it had been swept
clean.
The farther down the river went, the more appalling had been the
destruction. The fate of the towns below they could only guess at, but
the news came presently. Cahokia had been nearly swept out of existence.
Part of Kaskaskia, the oldest part built on the river bluff, had been
torn away by the resistless force. People were flying hither and
thither, having lost their all.
André Valbonais had headed the rescuing party—if, indeed, there was
anything to rescue. The mighty river had gone back to its normal state;
the banks, encrusted with yellow mud, were drying in the sun. They found
curious changes. Two of the little coves were filled with débris and
gave no indication of sheltering any travellers.
They passed the Miramec River with no sign. That, too, had all its banks
submerged, and the tough grasses and reeds were just rearing their
heads. On again, here was quite a bluff. Just around the turn had been a
noted pirate resort, broken up two or three times; at the last time with
the cost of a number of lives.
“Do you suppose it will be safe?” queried the captain. “There may be
Indians in hiding.”
Valbonais reconnoitred awhile. “Up above there is the smoke of a fire,”
he said. “And I think I see a boat just beyond the turn. Get your arms,
men, and be ready to back out if we are in danger.”
They crept on cautiously. Now they could see two boats drawn up on a
ledge. Farther up there was a cluster of men.
“They are not pirates, surely. They would have some scouts stationed if
they were.”
“They are making signs. Oh, no, they are neither Indians nor pirates,”
and the captain dug the pole in the soft bank, impelling the boat up a
yard or two. And then he heard a joyful cry, which he answered by an
encouraging greeting through the horn he carried.
It was, indeed, the stranded voyagers. The captain of the fleet came
running down the winding path. He was a Spaniard, quite well known in
St. Louis, Dessous by name.
As to his story, all had been fair sailing, with mostly fine weather
until they had reached this point. At the first sight they feared a
hurricane was upon them. The river began to seethe and swell, and the
noise of its rush sounded the awful warning in their ears. The boats had
been cordelled, and now the order was given to run them in the cove. Two
had reached a point of safety when the sweeping torrent invaded this
shelter and took with it the rest of the line to join the raging flood.
The few passengers were in the first boat, and were soon put ashore and
bidden to run upon the high ground. Then an effort was made to save the
two remaining boats. Now and then a swirl nearly submerged them, but a
mass of tree trunks and branches caught on some projection at the mouth
of the cove, which turned the current and gave them a promise of safety.
There was a cave, partly natural, and rendered more secure by the gang
of pirates who had once made it their camping ground. But now it began
to fill with water. So they carried some of their stores and blankets to
a sheltered place up above to await the result. Even here they could
