
And I was barely medium. 

I did my best to have a pretty tea table. Dan said 
not to ask any one else. We had made some vines 
grow over our porch, and I had a row of flowers on 
each side of the walk, like my mother's dooryard. 
Polly admired it cordially and told us of the southern 
flowers and vines that grew so riotously in their sweet 
ness and bloom. She sat and talked to father until 
they were summoned to tea, and we had a rather merry 
meal. She thought our prospect so fine, the great 
sweep of prairie on one side, the lake on the other. 
They laughed about old Chicago, though Polly 
said it had not made rapid strides only in a business 
way. 

Her eyes gave one the queerest feeling, as if they 
really absorbed you, drained you of some power, and 
yet you were lured to meet them again and again. 

Dan proposed to take her home in the buggy. 

"Oh, no, let us walk," she returned. "I am afraid of 
these uneven narrow lanes at night, when you can't see 
the pitfalls." 

So they went off together, she with a lace scarf over 
her shining, rippling hair, southern fashion. 

"What do you think of her, father?" I asked, as we 
settled ourselves on the porch. 


"She is out of the ordinary, a woman to take a man 
straight to the devil if she so elected. I don't wonder 
her husband keeps a good watch over her, but she 
seems to accept it gayly. I do not believe she has any 
heart." 

Dan did not return until midnight. At first when he 
was out late I used to keep awake until I found it 
annoyed him. Now I went to sleep if I could, or pre 
tended. 

Two or three days after that Polly returned home. 

John trudged over when he had been at his boarding 
place three days. It was as nice as it could be, but 
wasn't like this, and the street was wretched down that 
end. Yes, the meals were very good, and the office 
work was easy enough. Mr. Bayne had asked him 
to come in some evening, he had quite a library. 
He had written everything to his mother, a long, 
long letter, and she would be so amazed, so de 
lighted. 

"I wish I might call you Uncle John," he said in his 
frank, free way. "It seems to bring you into the 
proper relation there's so much difference between 
us in years. Oh, at the office they think you know such 
a lot !" 

"I've had a chance to learn a good deal in the years 
I've lived. Any one can who keeps his eyes open and 
adds two and five together." 

"But why two and five?" 

"Because it takes you farther along than two and 
two. Sometimes when you go out of bounds you 
strike a new knowledge." 





Sunday morning Dan went off with one of the 
packers to look at a drove of cattle, and we had a de 
lightful time with John all day. He told us about his 
sisters and their families. One of the husbands taught 
school in the winter. His own brother seemed a 
rather close-fisted sort of person, and his mother now 
and then went out nursing. But there was no chance 
for a young fellow in the town unless he had a farm 
to start with. 

Dan seemed to settle into a sort of tolerant mood 
toward young John, but though I tried my best I 
often found him sharp and captious. Then he would 
have a spell of being tigerishly fond of me. I cannot 
use any other adjective, and it filled me with terror, 
as it had times before, as if he sought to impress upon 
me that I was his alone. 

Then we heard that Mr. Pierre Maseurier had been 
thrown from his horse and picked up with a broken 
neck. 

Everybody wondered what Polly would do. Her 
mother went to her. 

So the winter came on again. Half a century had 
passed. It was 1850. How queer it seemed, as if we 
had written 1840 all our lives. And I was twenty 
years old. 

Ben was in Harvard. Mr. Wight planned for 
Chris to study Latin and Greek, and go to a prepara 
tory school another year. 

Mrs. Morrison and Polly came home. It seems that 
Mr. Maseurier had made no will, and the sons claimed 
everything. Wives were not well provided for at that 



 

period. Still, the sons gave her a small portion of 
