awaiting their noiseless arrival in retreats to which the clue had not
otherwise been given away. The vision dallied with during the duskier
days in Eaton Square had stretched to the span of three or four weeks
of springtime for the total adventure, three or four weeks in the very
spirit, after all, of their regular life, as their regular life had
been persisting; full of shared mornings, afternoons, evenings, walks,
drives, “looks-in,” at old places, on vague chances; full also, in
especial, of that purchased social ease, the sense of the comfort and
credit of their house, which had essentially the perfection of something
paid for, but which “came,” on the whole, so cheap that it might have
been felt as costing--as costing the parent and child--nothing. It was
for Maggie to wonder, at present, if she had been sincere about their
going, to ask herself whether she would have stuck to their plan even if
nothing had happened.

Her view of the impossibility of sticking to it now may give us the
measure of her sense that everything had happened. A difference had been
made in her relation to each of her companions, and what it compelled
her to say to herself was that to behave as she might have behaved
before would be to act, for Amerigo and Charlotte, with the highest
hypocrisy. She saw in these days that a journey abroad with her father
would, more than anything else, have amounted, on his part and her own,
to a last expression of an ecstasy of confidence, and that the charm of
the idea, in fact, had been in some such sublimity. Day after day
she put off the moment of “speaking,” as she inwardly and very
comprehensively, called it--speaking, that is, to her father; and all
the more that she was ridden by a strange suspense as to his himself
breaking silence. She gave him time, gave him, during several days, that
morning, that noon, that night, and the next and the next and the next;
even made up her mind that if he stood off longer it would be proof
conclusive that he too wasn’t at peace. They would then have been, all
successfully, throwing dust in each other’s eyes; and it would be at
last as if they must turn away their faces, since the silver mist that
protected them had begun to grow sensibly thin. Finally, at the end of
April, she decided that if he should say nothing for another period of
twenty-four hours she must take it as showing that they were, in her
private phraseology, lost; so little possible sincerity could there be
in pretending to care for a journey to Spain at the approach of a summer
that already promised to be hot. Such a proposal, on his lips, such an
extravagance of optimism, would be HIS way of being consistent--for that
he didn’t really want to move, or to move further, at the worst, than
back to Fawns again, could only signify that he wasn’t, at heart,
contented. What he wanted, at any rate, and what he didn’t want were, in
the event, put to the proof for Maggie just in time to give her a fresh
wind. She had been dining, with her husband, in Eaton Square, on the
occasion of hospitality offered by Mr. and Mrs. Verver to Lord and Lady
Castledean. The propriety of some demonstration of this sort had been
for many days before our group, the question reduced to the mere issue
of which of the two houses should first take the field. The issue had
been easily settled--in the manner of every issue referred in any degree
to Amerigo and Charlotte: the initiative obviously belonged to Mrs.
Verver, who had gone to Matcham while Maggie had stayed away, and the
evening in Eaton Square might have passed for a demonstration all the
more personal that the dinner had been planned on “intimate” lines. Six
other guests only, in addition to the host and the hostess of Matcham,
made up the company, and each of these persons had for Maggie the
interest of an attested connection with the Easter revels at that
visionary house. Their common memory of an occasion that had clearly
left behind it an ineffaceable charm--this air of beatific reference,
less subdued in the others than in Amerigo and Charlotte, lent them,
together, an inscrutable comradeship against which the young woman’s
imagination broke in a small vain wave.

It wasn’t that she wished she had been of the remembered party and
possessed herself of its secrets; for she didn’t care about its
secrets--she could concern herself at present, absolutely, with no
secret but her own. What occurred was simply that she became aware, at a
stroke, of the quantity of further nourishment required by her own, and
of the amount of it she might somehow extract from these people; whereby
she rose, of a sudden, to the desire to possess and use them, even to
the extent of braving, of fairly defying, of directly exploiting, of
possibly quite enjoying, under cover of an evil duplicity, the felt
element of curiosity with which they regarded her. Once she was
conscious of the flitting wing of this last impression--the perception,
irresistible, that she was something for their queer experience, just as
they were something for hers--there was no limit to her conceived design
of not letting them escape. She went and went, again, to-night, after
her start was taken; went, positively, as she had felt herself going,
three weeks before, on the morning when the vision of her father and
his wife awaiting her together in the breakfast-room had been so
determinant. In this other scene it was Lady Castledean who was
determinant, who kindled the light, or at all events the heat, and who
acted on the nerves; Lady Castledean whom she knew she, so oddly, didn’t
like, in spite of reasons upon reasons, the biggest diamonds on the
yellowest hair, the longest lashes on the prettiest, falsest eyes,
the oldest lace on the most violet velvet, the rightest manner on the
wrongest assumption. Her ladyship’s assumption was that she kept, at
every moment of her life, every advantage--it made her beautifully soft,
very nearly generous; so she didn’t distinguish the little protuberant
eyes of smaller social insects, often endowed with such a range, from
the other decorative spots on their bodies and wings. Maggie had liked,
in London, and in the world at large, so many more people than she
had thought it right to fear, right even to so much as judge, that it
positively quickened her fever to have to recognise, in this case, such
a lapse of all the sequences. It was only that a charming clever woman
wondered about her--that is wondered about her as Amerigo’s wife, and
wondered, moreover, with the intention of kindness and the spontaneity,
almost, of surprise.

The point of view--that one--was what she read in their free
contemplation, in that of the whole eight; there was something in
Amerigo to be explained, and she was passed about, all tenderly
and expertly, like a dressed doll held, in the right manner, by its
firmly-stuffed middle, for the account she could give. She might have
been made to give it by pressure of her stomach; she might have been
expected to articulate, with a rare imitation of nature, “Oh yes, I’m
HERE all the while; I’m also in my way a solid little fact and I cost
originally a great deal of money: cost, that is, my father, for
my outfit, and let in my husband for an amount of pains--toward my
training--that money would scarce represent.” Well, she WOULD meet them
in some such way, and she translated her idea into action, after dinner,
before they dispersed, by engaging them all, unconventionally, almost
violently, to dine with her in Portland Place, just as they were, if
they didn’t mind the same party, which was the party she wanted. Oh she
was going, she was going--she could feel it afresh; it was a good deal
as if she had sneezed ten times or had suddenly burst into a comic song.
There were breaks in the connection, as there would be hitches in the
process; she didn’t wholly see, yet, what they would do for her, nor
quite how, herself, she should handle them; but she was dancing up and
down, beneath her propriety, with the thought that she had at least
