
"It is well.  Let us proceed at once to conclude the matter in hand,"
she said.

"Wholly at your service!"

(Hang the fellow's impudence!  How dared he use that jovial tone?)

I heard the crackle of parchment.  The certificate was being unfolded.
(It occurred to me that while she was about it the princess might just
as well have forged the rascal's name and wholly dispensed with his
services.  The whole affair struck me as being ineffective; nothing
would come of it.  If she tried to make the duke believe that she had
married Steinbock, her uncle would probe the matter to the bottom, and
in the end cover her with ridicule.  But you can not tell a young woman
anything, when she is a princess and in the habit of having her own
way.  It is remarkable how stupid clever women can be at times.  The
Honorable Betty understood, but her Highness would not be convinced.
Thus she suffered this needless affront.  Pardon this parenthesis, but
when one talks from behind a curtain the parenthesis is the only
available thing.)  There was silence.  I saw Steinbock poise the pen,
then scribble on the parchment.  It was done.  I stirred restlessly.

"There!" cried Steinbock.  His voice did not lack a certain triumph.
"And now for the duplicate!"

Her Highness stuffed the document into the bosom of her dress.  "There
will be no duplicate."  The frigidity of her tones would have congealed
the blood of an ordinary rascal.  But Steinbock was not ordinary.

"But suppose the duke comes to me for verification?" he reasoned.

"You will be on the other side of the frontier.  Here are your thousand
crowns."

The barb of her contempt penetrated even his thick epidermis.  His
smile hardened.

"I was once a gentleman; I did not always accept money for aiding in
shady transactions."

"Neither your sentiments nor your opinions are required.  Now, observe
me carefully," continued her Highness.  "I shall give you twenty-four
hours to cross the frontier in any direction you choose.  If after that
time you are found in Barscheit, I promise to hand you over to the
police."

"It has been a great day," said the rascal, with a laugh.  "A thousand
crowns!"

I separated the portières an inch.  He stood at the side of the piano,
upon which he leaned an elbow.  He was certainly handsome, much sought
after by women of a low class.  The princess stood at Steinbock's left
and the Honorable Betty at his right, erect, their faces expressing
nothing, so forced was the repose.

"I never expected so great an honor.  To wed a princess, when that
princess is your Highness!  Faith, it is fine!"

"You may go at once," interrupted her Highness, her voice rising a key.
"Remember, you have only twenty-four hours between you and prison.  You
waste valuable time."

"What! you wish to be rid of me so soon?  Why, this is the bridal
night.  One does not part with one's wife at this rate."

Leopold, the caretaker, made a warning gesture.

"Come, Leopold, I must have my jest," laughed Steinbock.

"Within certain bounds," returned the old man phlegmatically.  "It is
high time you were off.  You are foolhardy to match your chances with
justice.  Prison stares you in the face."

"Bah!  Do you believe it?"

"It is a positive fact," added the princess.

"But to leave like this has the pang of death!" Steinbock remonstrated,
"What! shall I be off without having even kissed the bride?"

"The bargain is concluded on all sides; you have your thousand crowns."

"But not love's tribute.  I must have that.  It is worth a thousand
crowns.  Besides," with a perceptible change in his manner, "shall I
forget the contempt with which you have always looked upon me, even in
the old days that were fair and prosperous?  Scarcely!  Opportunity is
a thing that can not be permitted to pass thus lightly."  Then I
observed his nose wrinkle; he was sniffing.  "Tobacco!  I did not know
that you smoked, Leopold."

"Begone!" cried the old fellow, his hands opening and shutting.

"Presently!"  With a laugh he sprang toward her Highness, but Leopold
was too quick for him.

There was a short struggle, and I saw the valiant old man reel, fall
and strike his head on the stone of the hearth.  He lay perfectly
motionless.  So unexpected was this scene to my eyes that for a time I
was without any particular sense of movement.  I stood like stone.
With an evil laugh Steinbock sprang toward her Highness again.  Quick
as light she snatched up my crop, which lay on the table, and struck
the rascal full across the eyes, again and again and again, following
him as he stepped backward.  Her defense was magnificent.  But, as fate
determined to have it, Steinbock finally succeeded in wresting the
stick from her grasp.  He was wild with pain and chagrin.  It was then
I awoke to the fact that I was needed.

I rushed out, hot with anger.  I caught Steinbock by the collar just in
time to prevent his lips from touching her cheek.  I flung him to the
floor, and knelt upon his chest.  I am ashamed to confess it, but I
recollect slapping the fellow's face as he struggled under me.

"You scoundrel!" I cried, breathing hard.

"Kill him!" whispered her Highness.  She was furious; the blood of her
marauding ancestors swept over her cheeks, and if ever I saw murder in
a woman's eyes it was at that moment.

"Hush, Hildegarde, hush!"  The English girl caught the princess in her
