
"Well, I'll think it over."

"Eh? I thought you wanted to accept on the spot?" demanded the swindler.

"No, sir," answered the young man. He intended to make some inquiries
into Hamilton Dart's financial standing before investing his cash. "I'll
come around again to-morrow morning."

"I shall give the place to somebody else before that time," was the cold
response.

"If you do, I'll be out of it," was the equally cold answer of the
young Jerseyman, and he walked out of the office.

"One fish I didn't land," muttered Hamilton Dart to himself. "Better
luck next time."

Hardly had the young man left than a sickly-looking middle-aged man
appeared. He had been in the hospital for two months, and out of work
for twice that length of time.

"You advertised for a clerk," he said, sitting down on a chair.

"Yes."

"I am a bookkeeper, and an all-round office man," added the sick man. "I
am willing to work hard for low wages."

"I am always willing to pay good wages to the right man," answered
Hamilton Dart, smoothly.

At this the face of the sick man brightened.

"I have been sick," he went on, apologetically. "But I am getting
stronger every day."

"Well, the work here is not very hard."

"What could you pay me?"

"Twelve dollars per week."

"That would suit me nicely."

"Then you can come to work to-morrow. But you will have to put up one
hundred dollars as security. On that I will allow you six per cent.
interest."

At this announcement the face of the sick man fell.

"I am very sorry, sir, but I haven't the money. My sickness has reduced
me almost to my last dollar."

"Then I can't hire you," said Hamilton Dart, harshly.

"I can give you some excellent references, sir."

"No, I don't care for references. My clerks have to furnish cash
security. I employ no others. You had better see if you can't raise the
money."

"I don't know how I can do it."

"Haven't you any friends or relatives?"

"I have a sister in Brooklyn. She might possibly loan the amount."

"Then you had better see her. I will keep the place open for you for a
couple of days."

The sick man pleaded to be taken on, but Hamilton Dart was obdurate, and
at last the visitor left the office.

"Hang the luck; he must take me for a charity association," muttered the
swindler. "Two lost! This business isn't paying as well as I hoped it
would."

When Nat came back he was somewhat tired from his long tramp. He asked
his employer what he should do next.

"Go and get your lunch, and be back in an hour," was the answer.

Hardly had Nat left the office than a young fellow named Harry Bray
appeared. He had been in to see Hamilton Dart before and carried a
hundred dollars in his vest pocket.

"I will take the position," he said, and handed over his money, which
the swindler pocketed with alacrity.

"When shall I go to work?" asked Harry Bray.

"After lunch. You will have another new clerk to help you, a fellow
named Nat Nason," answered Hamilton Dart.




CHAPTER XIII

A SWINDLE EXPOSED


When Nat came back from lunch he was introduced to Harry Bray, and
Hamilton Dart brought forth several packages of old bills and letters
and also a couple of cheap blank books.

"I want these things sorted out," said he. "Enter all names in the
books, and file them away according to date."

This seemed easy work, and both of the young clerks said they understood
what was wanted. Then Hamilton Dart put on his hat and left the office.

"I won't be back this afternoon," he said. "Lock up at five o'clock, and
you, Bray, can take the key."

"Yes, sir," answered Harry Bray.

"This isn't very hard," was Nat's comment, when he was left alone with
his fellow clerk.
