and have not succeeded in waking them by any known means."

"I suppose it congests the brain, like opium," observed Corbario,
quietly.

"Not at all, not at all!" answered Kalmon, looking benevolently at the
little tube which contained his discovery. "I tell you it leaves no
trace whatever, not even as much as is left by death from an electric
current. And it has no taste, no smell,--it seems the most innocent
stuff in the world."

Corbario's hand again lay on the table and he was gazing out into the
night, as if he were curious about the weather. The moon was just
rising, being past the full.

"Is that all you have of the poison?" he asked in an idle tone.

"Oh, no! This is only a small supply which I carry with me for
experiments. I have made enough to send all our thirty-three millions of
Italians to sleep for ever!"

Kalmon laughed pleasantly.

"If this could be properly used, civilisation would make a gigantic
stride," he added. "In war, for instance, how infinitely pleasanter and
more æsthetic it would be to send the enemy to sleep, with the most
delightful dreams, never to wake again, than to tear people to pieces
with artillery and rifle bullets, and to blow up ships with hundreds of
poor devils on board, who are torn limb from limb by the explosion."

"The difficulty," observed the Contessa, "would be to induce the enemy
to take your poison quietly. What if the enemy objected?"

"I should put it into their water supply," said Kalmon.

"Poison the water!" cried the Signora Corbario. "How barbarous!"

"Much less barbarous than shedding oceans of blood. Only think--they
would all go to sleep. That would be all."



"I thought," said Corbario, almost carelessly, "that there was no longer
any such thing as a poison that left no traces or signs. Can you not
generally detect vegetable poisons by the mode of death?"

"Yes," answered the Professor, returning the glass tube to its case and
the latter to his pocket. "But please to remember that although we can
prove to our own satisfaction that some things really exist, we cannot
prove that any imaginable thing outside our experience cannot possibly
exist. Imagine the wildest impossibility you can think of; you will not
induce a modern man of science to admit the impossibility of it as
absolute. Impossibility is now a merely relative term, my dear Corbario,
and only means great improbability. Now, to illustrate what I mean, it
is altogether improbable that a devil with horns and hoofs and a fiery
tail should suddenly appear, pick me up out of this delightful circle,
and fly away with me. But you cannot induce me to deny the possibility
of such a thing."

"I am so glad to hear you say that," said the Signora, who was a
religious woman.

Kalmon looked at her a moment and then broke into a peal of laughter
that was taken up by the rest, and in which the good lady joined.

"You brought it on yourself," she said at last.

"Yes," Kalmon answered. "I did. From your point of view it is better to
admit the possibility of a mediæval devil with horns than to have no
religion at all. Half a loaf is better than no bread."

"Is that stuff of yours animal, vegetable, or mineral?" asked Corbario
as the laughter subsided.

"I don't know," replied the Professor. "Animal, vegetable, mineral?
Those are antiquated distinctions, like the four elements of the
alchemists."

"Well--but what is the thing, then?" asked Corbario, almost impatiently.
"What should you call it in scientific language?"

Kalmon closed his eyes for a moment, as if to collect his thoughts.

"In scientific language," he began, "it is probably H three C seven,
parenthesis, H two C plus C four O five, close parenthesis, HC three O."

Corbario laughed carelessly.

"I am no wiser than before," he said.

"Nor I," answered the Professor. "Not a bit."

"It is much simpler to call it 'the sleeping death,' is it not?"
suggested the Contessa.

"Much simpler, for that is precisely what it is."

It was growing late, according to country ideas, and the party rose from
the table and began to move about a little before going to bed. The moon
had risen high by this time.

Marcello and Aurora, unheeded by the rest, went round the verandah to
the other side of the house and stood still a moment, looking out at the
trees and listening to the sounds of the night. Down by the pool a frog
croaked now and then; from a distance came the plaintive, often
repeated cry of a solitary owlet; the night breeze sighed through the
long grass and the low shrubbery.

The boy and girl turned to each other, put out their hands and then
their arms, and clasped each other silently, and kissed. Then they
walked demurely back to their elders, without exchanging a word.

"We have had to give you the little room at the end of the cottage,"
Corbario was saying to Kalmon. "It is the only one left while the
Contessa is here."

"I should sleep soundly on bare boards to-night," Kalmon answered. "I
have been walking all day."

Corbario went with him, carrying a candle, and shielding the flame from
