you would not come at all. There is to be an old- 
fashioned house party ; Daisy is one of the brides- 
maids and Willard is to be an usher. The mar- 
riage is in church immediately after the service; 
there is to be a grand Christmas dinner, and a 
dance in the evening. The bridegroom and his 
party went up this afternoon, but Daisy on last 
Saturday. We wanted to see you so very much," 
and the motherly face beamed with tenderness 
that touched Helen deeply. 
"I am glad to come to you," the girl returned 
with a fervor that could not be mistaken. 
"Did you think me dull when you were asking 
about Daisy on the journey?" and there was an 
amusing twinkle in Mr. Bell's eyes. "I was afraid 
I would blunder and let it all out. Even Mar- 
jorie is at her sister's, where they have a young 
daughter. We feel quite like old people with the 
birdlings flying out of the nest so often." 
There was a touch of regret in the tone that ap- 
pealed to Helen and she answered with a smile 
of exquisite appreciation. 
"And you are. back in your old home at Aldred 
House." 
"A very real home it is, too ; the best I have 
known/' the young girl replied with deep feeling. 
"It is one of the best schools in the country ; not 
too large for home charms, and Mrs. Aldred is 
one of the finest women I have ever met. I did 
so regret that she should be away that last year 
of Daisy's." 
"We all like Miss Wiley very much." 
"And her mother may be excellent also. She 
has been about a great deal and is considered a 
fine chaperon for young ladies. Only I scarcely 
knew her and I have a trick of clinging to old 
friends. But the dinner is waiting and you must 
be half-starved." 
"Oh, no," laughingly replied Helen. 
"I suppose the laugh is generally the test of 
one's voice," exclaimed Mr. Bell, "that is so far 
as the heartiness and truth goes. Some laughs 
are so frank and cheerful, you feel to trust them 
at once. Some have a slightly forced sound. 
 
many are careless with no meaning at all, and we 
find some ringing false — " 
"Meanwhile the banquet waits/' said Mrs. Bell 
mirthfully. 
Mr. Bell took Helen's arm, and seated her. 
"To take up a diflferent subject, I wish there 
could be a certain number of years set apart for 
real girlhood, when they were not expected to be 
young ladies. We push the children along, then 
the girls, and before they have a taste of real 
womanhood they have lovers and marry. We 
rush into everything nowadays. But you haven't 
changed very much. And though you will have 
to be satisfied with two elderly people for a few 
days, I want to ask you to be a real girl and en- 
thuse over poetry, and insist on all manner of 
young beliefs, and consider life truly worth liv- 
ing for all the pleasures it will bring. 
"It brings a good many, and some of the per- 
plexities turn into them if you give them time." 
"There is philosophy in that, too," and he 
smiled. "You have had some of them. And they 
brightened as they took their flight. I think 
troubles ought to do this as well as blessings." 
"I'll try to remember that." 
Yes, her voice had the old girlish ring. 
"And what were you doing all summer?" he 
asked, studying her attentively. 
"We — myself and my chum, I suppose girls as 
well as boys can have chums — went to the seaside 
with an invalid friend. The sea was glorious, 
the little village, old and queer, with bits of new- 
ness set here and there on the outskirts. One bit 
of the newness was a charming New York family 
with seven children in all stages, the eldest girl en- 
gaged. They made me think of an English novel. 
And we had a play for a charity, and musicale 
for a little chapel. The sails were splendid, the 
walks were — well queer, among the remnants of 
pine barrens and stretches of sand. But it had 
picturesque aspects, and now I know what the 
ocean is like." 
"We tried it up to Nova Scotia, and that was 
picturesque." 
"And you had all the romantic St. Lawrence 
and the historic cities and places." 
Her eyes were alight with interest; in their 
alertness they questioned him and Mr. Bell was 
delighted to talk to so attentive a listener. And 
she knew almost as much about each place as if 
she had been there, and they branched off into the 
great struggle between the French and English 
and the heroes of that period. It pleased him 
 
very much that she should seem as happy with 
them as if the younger people were about. For 
he had been having a little experience during the 
summer of being pushed aside. 
They sat around the fire afterward, it seemed 
so cosy to watch the flames playing hide and 
seek as if they had some mysterious life. 
"I wonder if you are as fond of verses as you 
used to be? Our modern writers have been 
criticised so much for lack of true poetic strength 
that I have compromised and simply call them 
verses now-a-days. I have some new volumes. 
I like the sweet tender touches in their simplicity, 
and I want to hear you read some of them." 
"Oh, with pleasure. I think I know your little 
gift-book all by heart," and she raised apprecia- 
tive eyes. She never knew how near she had 
come to losing it. 
CHAPTER XI 
A GIRL IN LOVE 
She found in the guest chamber a box of 
