coffee on the gasolene-burner, and there's manny a vintage in the
cillars."
"That will be plenty!"--joyfully, helping Miss Hawthorne to alight.
"Sure, and ye are from the Hunt Club!"--noting our costumes.  "Well,
well!  They niver have anny too much grub.  Now, I'll putt ye in a
little room all be yersilves, with a windy and a log-fire; cozy as ye
plaze.  Ye'll have nearly two hours to wait for the car-r from the
village."
We entered the general assembly-room.  It was roomy and quaint, and
somewhere above us was the inevitable room in which George Washington
had slept.  The great hooded fireplace was merry with crackling logs.
Casually I observed that we were not alone.  Over yonder, in a shadowed
corner, sat two men, very well bundled up, and, to all appearances,
fast asleep.  Moriarty lighted a four-branched candelabrum and showed
us the way to the little private dining-room, took our orders, and left
us.
"This is romance," said I.  "They used to do these things hundreds of
years ago, and everybody had a good time."
"It is now all very wicked and improper," murmured the girl, laying
aside her domino for the first time; "but delightful!  I now find I
haven't the least bit of remorse for what I have done."
In that dark evening gown she was very beautiful.  Her arms and
shoulders were tinted like Carrara marble; and I knew instantly that I
was never going to recover.  I drew two chairs close to the grate.  I
sat down in one and she in the other.  With a contented sigh she rested
her blue-slippered feet on the brass fender.
[Illustration: With a contented sigh she rested her blue-slippered feet
on the brass fender.]
"My one regret is that I haven't any shoes.  What an adventure!"
"It's fine!"  Two hours in the society of this enchanting creature!  It
was almost too good to be true.  Ah, if it might always be like
this--to return home from the day's work, to be greeted warmly by a
woman as beautiful as this one!  I sighed loudly.
Moriarty came with the chicken and ham and coffee.
"If ye would like, it won't be a bit of trouble to show ye George
Washington's room; or"--with inimitable Irish drollery--"I can tell ye
that he dined in this very room."
"That will serve," smiled the girl; and Moriarty bowed himself out.
His departure was followed by the clatter of silver upon porcelain.  Of
a truth, both of us were hungry.
"I was simply ravenous," the girl confessed.
"And as for me, I never dreamt I could be so unromantic.  Now," said I,
pushing aside my plate, and dropping sugar into my coffee, and vainly
hunting in my pockets for a cigar, "there remains only one mystery to
be cleared up."
"And what might this mystery be?" she asked.  "The whereabouts of the
bogus Haggerty?"
"The bogus Haggerty will never cross our paths again.  He has skipped
by the light of the moon.  No, that's not the mystery.  Why did you
tell me you were an impostor; why did you go to the cellars with me,
when all the while you were at the ball on Mrs. Hyphen-Bonds'
invitation?"
She leaned on her elbows and smiled at me humorously.
"Would you really like to know, Signor?  Well, I was an impostor."  She
sat with her back to the fire, and a weird halo of light seemed to
surround her and frame her.  "Mrs. Hyphen-Bonds accidentally dropped
that invitation in my studio, a few days before she sailed for Europe.
I simply could not resist the temptation.  That is all the mystery
there is."
"And they still think you were there rightfully!"
"You are no longer mystified?"
"Yes; there is yet another mystery to solve: myself."  I knew it.
Without rhyme or reason, I was in love; and without rhyme or reason, I
was glad of it.
"Shall you ever be able to solve such a mystery?"--quizzically.
"It all depends upon you."
"Mr. Comstalk, you will not mar the exquisite humor of our adventure by
causing me any annoyance.  I am sure that some day we shall be very
good friends.  But one does not talk of love on eight hours'
acquaintance.  Besides, you would be taking advantage of my
helplessness; for I really depend upon you to see me safe back to New
York.  It is only the romance, the adventure; and such moonlight nights
often superinduce sentimentality.  What do you know of me?  Nothing.
What do I know of you?  Nothing, save that there is a kindred spirit
which is always likely to lead us into trouble.  Down in your heart you
know you are only temporarily affected by moonshine.  Come, make me a
toast!"--lifting her cup.
"You are right," said I.  "I am a gentleman.  But it was only
consistent that, having been the fool, I should now play the ass.
Here's!"--and I held up my cup.
But neither of us drank; there wasn't time.
For the door opened quietly, and in walked the two men we had seen upon
entering the Inn.  One of them gently closed the door and locked it.
One was in soiled every-day clothes, the other in immaculate evening
dress.  The latter doffed his opera hat with the most engaging smile
imaginable.  The girl and I looked up at him in blank bewilderment, and
set our cups down so mechanically that the warm amber liquid spattered
on the table-cloth.
Galloping Dick and the affable inspector of the cellars stood before us!
VIII
"The unexpected always happens," began the pseudo-detective, closing
his hat, drawing off his gloves and stuffing them into a pocket.  "As a
friend of mine used to say, it is the unexpected that always surprises
us.  We never expected to see these charming masqueraders again, did
we, William?"
"No, sir," said William, grinning affably, "we didn't.  The gentleman
was very nice and obliging to me, sir, when I was in the cellars."
"So I understand.  Now," continued the late Mr. Haggerty, with the
deadly affability of a Macaire, "I beg of you, Mr. Comstalk, I beg of
you not to move or to become unduly excited.  Physicians tell us that
excitement wastes the red corpuscles, that is to say, the life of the
blood."
"Your blood, sir, must be very thin," I returned coolly.  But I cursed
him soundly in my mind.  William's bulging side-pocket convinced me
that any undue excitement on my part would be exceedingly dangerous.
"William, you can always tell a gentleman," said the chief rogue
admiringly.  "A gentleman always recognizes his opportunities, and
never loses his sense of the balance of things."
"And he is usually witty, too, sir," William assented.
The girl sat pale and rigid in her chair.
"What do you want?" I demanded savagely.
"For one thing, I should like to question the propriety of a
gentleman's sitting down to dine with a lady without having washed his
face.  The coal-dust does not add to your manly beauty.  You haven't a
cake of soap about you, William, have you?"
"No, sir."  William's face expressed indescribable enjoyment of the
scene.
The girl's mouth stiffened.  She was struggling to repress the almost
irresistible smile that tickled her lips.
"In times like these," said I, determined not to be outdone, "we are
