
This time Schmidt stood still at a short distance, as if he wished
to say something, and when Maria stopped, he inquired if he could
be of service to her in any way. She was a little surprised at the
question.

He meant to ask, he said, whether she had any wishes with regard
to the grounds or the garden. The Count, he explained, took no
interest in those matters, but would be much pleased if her
Excellency would give them some attention. He, Schmidt, had done
his best to keep up the place since he had been in charge of it,
but he was only too conscious that he knew nothing of landscape
gardening and very little about flowers. Maria said quietly that
she understood neither, though she knew what she liked.

Thereupon Schmidt observed that a quantity of handsome stone-work
of the fifteenth century was lying piled up in the kitchen court,
and he thought it must have been put there about a hundred and
twenty or thirty years ago, when a Countess of Montalto had thought
it would be an improvement to destroy the beautiful mediæval
close garden in the course of constructing a miniature Versailles
which had never been finished. He, Schmidt, would take pleasure
in showing the stone-work to her Excellency if she would take
the trouble to look at it. He had also found an old plan of the
former garden amongst the papers of his own great-grandfather, who
had been steward of Montalto from 1760 to 1800. At a small cost
the really beautiful mediæval well and cloistered walk could be
reconstructed, and he ventured to suggest that they would be more
in keeping with the whole place than a wretched little imitation of
Lenôtre’s vast work.

Maria thought so, too, and after saying that she would ask her
husband about it, she nodded kindly to the thoughtful young man and
continued her walk.

In the evening, when Montalto had told her the political news he
had read before dinner, and had opened a third Havana cigarette to
roll it over again in French paper, Maria told him what Schmidt had
said. Montalto was naturally as punctual in all his little ways as
his wife was rapidly becoming by acquired habit. The post came late
in the afternoon, and he always spent half an hour in reading the
newspapers before he dressed for dinner. Just as invariably, too,
he told his wife what he had read, and he almost always reached
the end of his budget of intelligence just as he began to make his
third cigarette. Maria did not always listen to what he was telling
her, but the third cigarette was a landmark in the long dull
evening, and when it was reached she knew that Montalto expected
her to make a little conversation in return for his carefully
repeated news. On this particular occasion she was glad to have
something to say, and at once asked him about the old garden.

To her surprise Montalto did not give her any answer at once, and
she waited for his reply, watching the motion of his well-made
fingers, of which the first two were stained a deep yellowish brown
from smoking cigarettes. They rolled the cigarette slowly, but very
neatly.

‘Yes,’ Montalto said after a long time, when he had got a light and
was leaning back in his chair. ‘Yes,’ he repeated, in a tone of
profound meditation. ‘Yes, by all means, if it amuses you, my dear.’

‘Then you think Schmidt is right about the old things?’ said Maria
with a renewed interrogation in her tone.

Another pause, and several small puffs of smoke.

‘Maria,’ Montalto began, as if he had reached a conclusion, ‘you
are not what people call a highly accomplished woman, but you have
a great deal of sense.’

The Countess wondered what was coming, and answered by a
preliminary and deprecating smile. Montalto often told her that in
his opinion she was the most beautiful creature in the world; after
such nonsense it was a relief to be called a sensible woman. She
might not be even that, but at all events the statement was not
likely to lead to one of those outbreaks of his passion for her
which she dreaded.

‘Maria,’ he said, as if he were beginning over again, ‘I have
great confidence in your judgment.’

‘But I know nothing about gardening or mediæval wells,’ she
protested.

‘Possibly not, though you know vastly more about both than I do.
I was brought up under the influence of the Spanish taste of the
eighteenth century, and I like it. Ippolito Saracinesca says it is
atrocious, and of course he knows. But I like it, nevertheless.’

‘At least, you have the courage of your opinion,’ said Maria, still
completely in the dark, but feeling that she must say something.

‘That does not matter, for it is not the question,’ returned her
husband. ‘We neither of us know anything about architecture, I am
sure. But I shall be glad if you will go into this question with
Schmidt, and then give me an opinion.’

‘It will be worthless.’

‘Not your opinion of the garden, my dear, but your opinion of
Schmidt.’

‘Oh!’ Maria was very much surprised. ‘But why? I told you in Rome
that I thought him an excellent person and very intelligent!’

‘Did it ever occur to you that he might be too intelligent?’

‘No. But perhaps I don’t understand just what you mean. Do you
think he is educated above his station? Too good for his place?’

‘Not at all. But sometimes, in money dealings and positions of
trust, a man may be too clever. That is what I mean.’

‘You mean that you don’t quite trust him,’ said Maria, ‘and you
wish me to form a judgment of him.’

‘I want your opinion,’ answered Montalto, who was at odds with his
over-sensitive conscience. ‘I should be very unjust to Schmidt if I
were to say that he may not be quite honest. It would be very wrong
to assume such a thing of any one, would it not?’
