bit of dry toast, then motioned the maid to take the 
tray and her departure, leaving her the cup. 

A few minutes later Mortimer came in, stood a mo- 
ment blinking around the room, then dropped into a 
seat, sullen, inert, the folds of his chin crowded out on 
his collar, his heavy abdomen cradled on his short, thick 
legs. He had been freshly shaved; linen and clothing 
were spotless, yet the man looked unclean. 

Save for the network of purple veins in his face, 
there was no colour there, none in his lips; even his 
flabby hands were the hue of clay. 

'' Are you ill .'' " asked his wife coolly. 

" No, not very. I've got the jumps. What's that? 
Tea.? Ugh! it's chocolate. Push it out of sight, will 
yoxi? I can smell it." 

Leila set the delicate cup on a table behind her. 

" What time did you return this morning.'' " she 
asked, stifling a yawn. 

" I don't know ; about five or six. How the devil 
should I know what time I came in ? " 

Sitting there before the mirror of her dresser she 
stole a second glance at his marred features in the glass. 
The loose mouth, the smeared eyes, the palsy-like trem- 
ors that twitched the hands where they tightened on 
the arms of his chair, became repulsive to the verge of 
fascination. She tried to look away, but could not. 

" You had better see Dr. Grisby," she managed to 
say. 





 

" I'd better see you; that's what I'd better do," he 
retorted thickly. " You'll do all the doctoring I want. 
And I want it, all right." 

"Very well. What is it.? " 

He passed his swollen hand across his forehead. 

"What is it.?" he repeated. "It's the limit, this 
time, if you want to know. I'm all in." 

" Roulette.? " raising her eyebrows without interest. 

" Yes, roulette, too. Everything ! They got me up- 
stairs at Burbank's. The game's crooked ! Every box, 
every case, every wheel, every pack is crooked ! crooked ! 
crooked, by God ! " he burst out in a fever, struggling 
to sit upright, his hands alwaj's tightening on the arms 
of the chair. "It's nothing but a creeping joint,. run 
by a bunch of hand-shakers ! I — I'll " 

Stuttering, choking, stammering imprecations, his 
hoarse clamour died away after a while. She sat there, 
head bent, silent, impassive, acquiescent under the physi- 
cal and mental strain to which she had never become 
thoroughly hardened. How many such scenes had she 
witnessed! She could not count them. They differed 
very little in detail, and not at all in their ultimate 
object, which was to get what money she had. This 
was his method of reimbursing himself for his losses. 

He made an end to his outburst after a while. Only 
his dreadful fat breathing now filled the silence ; and 
supposing he had finished, she found her voice with an 
effort: 

" I am sorry. It comes at a bad time, as you 
know " 

" A bad time ! " he broke out violently. " How can 
it come at any other sort of time.? With us, all times 
are bad. If this is worse than the average it can't be 
helped. We are in it for keeps this time ! " 









" We ? " 

" Yes, we! " he repeated ; but his face had grown 
ghastly, and his uncertain eyes were fastened on her's 
in the mirror. 

" What do you mean — exactly ? " she asked, turning 
from the dresser to confront him. 

He made no effort to answer ; an expression of dull 
fright was growing on his visage, as though for the 
first time he had begun to realise what had happened. 

She saw it, and her heart quickened, but she spoke 
disdainfully : " Well, I am ready to listen — as usual. 
How much do you want.' " 

He made no sign ; his lower lip hung loose ; his eyes 
blinked at her. 

" What is it.'' " she repeated. " What have you been 
doing? How much have you lost? You can't have lost 
very much ; we hadn't much to lose. If you have given 
your note to any of those gamblers, it is a shame — a 
