emy, they ’re better than any one else.” 
“Do they?” 
“Why, they won’t speak to anybody. And 
that Arthur ’s a regular Miss Nancy. He 
always does look so fine.” 
“I wonder if they think themselves above 
me?” ruminated Frank. 
At school such snobbishness would soon 
have been taken out of a boy. 
“I wish you ’d gone down-town with us. 
I made thirty-four cents, and had some oysters 
and some root-beer. I say, won’t you go to- 
morrow?” 
“I don’t know” — rather hesitatingly. 
‘‘Won’t your aunt let you?” 
“Oh! I do not ask her,” returned Frank, 
with an assumption of mannishness. 
Dan went on describing the fun they had. 
There were such crowds of boys down-town, 
a jolly set, always ready for a lark. It did 
look rather tempting to Frank, and he partly 
promised. 
Aunt Sarah wanted him to take a walk in the 
woods with her, though she was going princi- 
pally for his pleasure. But then some ladies 
came in to call. 
So Frank rambled off, found Dan and 
Johnny, who had pretty good luck selling out 
their papers. Then, as it was a warm day, they 
had a glass of cream-soda, with wine instead of 
syrup. A lady stood at the opposite counter 
buying several articles, but Frank did not
notice her. 
 
It was Mrs. Crosby. That evening at the 
table she said : “Boys, I very much prefer that 
you should not make any intimacy with that 
Frank Murray. I saw him in a drug-store 
with those Price children, taking sherry in his 
soda; and the Prices are low and ill-bred. I 
do not wish you to have any such associates.” 
“I wish those boys were not in the neigh- 
borhood,” rejoined Mr. Crosby. 
“We can avoid them, at all events. The 
boys have enough acquaintances who are 
worthy, so it is not worth while to run any risk 
with those who are not. I own that I am 
afraid of evil associates.” 
Mr. Crosby sighed. He was superintendent 
of a mission Sunday-school, and he thought of 
the many boys that were led astray by wicked 
companions. But he did not think that here 
was a chance to save one right by his door. 
Frank merely said he had been down-town, 
in answer to Aunt Sarah. He had been trying 
to smoke a cigar, and so could not eat any 
supper, but went to bed early. 
He waited a week for the Crosby boys to 
call upon him, and at last ventured himself. 
He found them very polite, but he missed the 
hearty boyish friendliness to which he had 
been accustomed. He played a game of cro- 
quet, and then a cousin called to see Arthur. 
Randolph was rather too old for Frank, but 
he fancied that he should like Walter very 
much. When he went away the child asked 
him to come again. 
“I could n’t help it, mother,” he said. ‘‘He 
has such sad, longing eyes.” 
“But I do not wish you to go there.” 
Miss Wing made another effort. She men- 
tioned Frank to the superintendent of the Sun- 
day-school, and he sent one of the teachers to 
call, but the gentleman came one evening after 
the boy was in bed. By dint of much persua- 
sion, she induced Frank to go the next Sunday ; 
but he was placed in a class with Arthur 
Crosby, and he concluded then that Arthur 
was proud and “stuck up,” as Dan had said. 
Then Dan coaxed him to go to the chapel 
with him, which was quite a walk down in the 
city. After a Sunday or two, they spent all 
the time in walking, though he did not tell 
Aunt Sarah this, nor of many other things that 
he well knew she would disapprove. 
If there had only been some one to save 
him! If this happy mother could only have 
opened her heart a little, and taken in the 
motherless child! If these bright young boys 
with all their advantages could have sympa- 
thized with his loneliness, and given him what 
he most needed — pure and good companion- 
ship — it would have made so much difference 
with him ! 
For he was worth saving. When he first 
came to his kind aunt, who would have done 
anything for him, he had no bad habits. But 
it is so easy to fall into them. First, Frank 
began to deceive Aunt Sarah; then he con- 
tracted a taste for liquor, and learned to 
smoke; he fell in with some of Dan’s associates, 
used every art in his power to get money 
from his aunt, and at last did not hesitate long 
at crime. 
The three boys found a pocketbook one day, 
containing nearly fifty dollars. Dan was for 
dividing it, but at first Frank said it ought to be 
taken to the police-station. At last he was 
overruled, for they all wanted money. So 
they bought cream and soda and candies, hired 
a boat, and went up the river and took dinner 
at a hotel. Two other boys were invited, and 
they finished in the evening by going to the 
theatre. 
Aunt Sarah was dreadfully troubled. She 
conjured up many terrible things, and was so 
thankful at last to see him return in safety. 
But poor Frank was very sick that night and 
the next day. Aunt Sarah shed many bitter 
tears over him. Had she not tried to her ut- 
