If they requested him, as a point of honor, to refrain from examining the battery of Yerba Buena 
with his glass, their consciences would be as light 
as their hearts. 

As Eezanov stood alone with Concha in the 
prow of the ship and alternately cast softened 
eyes on her intense rapt face, and shrewd glances 
on the ramifications of the bay, he congratulated 




himself upon liis precipitate action and the collusion of nature. They were sailing east and would 
turn to the north in a moment. The mountain 
range bent abruptly at the entrance to the bay, 
encircling the immense sheet of water in a chain 
of every altitude and form: a long hard undulating line against the bright blue sky; smooth and 
dimpled slopes, as round as cones, bare but; for the 
green of their grasses; lofty ridges tapering to 
hills in the curve at the north but with blue peaks 
multiplying beyond. There were dense forests in 
deep canons on the mountain side, bare and 
jagged heights, the graceful sweep of valleys, 
promontories leaping out from the mainland like 
mammoth crocodiles guarding the bay. The 
view of the main waters was broken by the 
largest of the islands, but far away were the 
hills of the east and the soft blue peaks 
behind. And over all, hill and valley and 
canon and mountain, was a bright opalescent mist. 
Green, pink, and other pale colors gleamed as behind a thin layer of crystal. Where the sun shone 
through a low white cloud upon a distant slope 
there might have been a great globe of iridescent 
glass illuminated within. The water was a light 
soft filmy yet translucent blue. Concha gazed 
with parted lips. 



 

" I never knew before liow wonderful it was," 
slie murmured. '' I have been tauglit to believe 
that only the south is beautiful, and when we 
had to come here again from Santa Barbara it 
was exile. But now I am glad I was bom in the 
north. " 

" I have watched the lights on these hills and 
islands, and what I could see of the fine lines of 
the mountains, ever since I came; and were there 
but villas and castles, these waters would be far 
more beautiful than the Lake of Como or the Bay 
of Naples. But I am glad to see trees again. 
From our anchorage I had but a bare glimpse of 
two or three. They seem to hide from the western 
winds. Are they so strong then! " 

" We have terrible winds, sehor. I do not 
wonder the trees crouch to the east. But I must 
tell you our names." She pointed to the largest 
of the islands, a great bare mass that looked as 
had it been, when viscid, flung out in long folds 
from a central peak, concaving here and there 
with its own weight. Its southern point was on 
a line with a point of mainland far to the west, 
and its northern, from their vantage looking to be 
but a continuation of the curve of the mainland, 
finished an arc of almost perfect proportions, 




whose deep curve was a tumbled mass of hills and 
one great mountain. ' ' That is Nuestra Senora de 
los Angeles, and it opens a triple jaw, Luis has 
told me, at Point Tiburon — you will soon see the 
straits between. The big rock behind us is Alcatraz, and farther away still is Yerba Buena — 
that looks like a camel on its knees. ' ' 

But Eezanov was examining the scene before 
hihi. The lines of this bay within a bay were 
superb, and in its wide embrace, slanting from 
Point Tiburon toward an inner point two miles opposite was another island, as steep as Alcatraz, 
but long and waving of outline, with a glimpse of 
trees on its crest. Eezanov, while he lost nothing 
of the picturesque beauty surrounding him, was 
more deeply interested in noting the many foundations, sheltered and solid, for fortifications that 
would hold these rich lands against the fleets of 
the world. Never had he seen so many strategic 
advantages on one sheet of water. The islands 
farther south he had examined through his glass 
from the deck of the Juno until he knew every 
convolution they turned to the west. 

Concha was directing his attention to the tremendous angular peak rising above the tumbled 
hills. '' That is Mount Tamalpais— the mountain 




of peace. It was named by the Indians, not by 
us. Sometimes it is like a great purple shadow, 
and at others the clouds fight about it like the 
ghosts of big sea-gulls." They were sailing past 
the rounded end of the western inner point of the 
little bay. It was almost detached from the bare 
ridge behind and half covered with oaks and willow trees. " That is Point Sausalito. I have 
often looked at it through the glass and longed 
for a merienda in the deep shade.'' She turned 
to Rezanov with lips apart. " Could we not
ch, senor!— have our dinner on shore! " 

" It is only for you to select the spot. We can 
sail many miles before it is time for dinner, and 
you may find a place even more to your liking. I 
fancy we cannot go far here. It looks swampy 
and shallow. Nothing could be less romantic than 
to stick in the mud. ' ' 

