Grant. I wish after the holidays you would 
join our musical circle. We have some fine 
voices, and about Easter mean to give a sort 
of classic concert. I can’t endure those trivial 
foolish things; even our college songs might 



be of a little higher degree, don’t you think 
so?” 

“ I have not much spare time and belong 
to one club already. There seem so many 
things — ” 

“ You must throw over the non-essentials. 
I mean to propose you, anyhow. We are go- 
ing to take up Handel for our next study.” 

The crush of girls intervened; it was com- 
plimentary, and Miss Evarts was in training 
for a musical professor and had published 
some fine songs of the higher order. 

“Come in and have some tea with us!” 
cried the head of another group. “ We want 
you in our society; we're going to study up 
the political condition of the country, and 
what difference, if any, woman’s suffrage will 
make. It’s not late — ” 

“ But I have lessons and lessons,” and 
Helen almost pulled herself away by force. 

“ I told you how it would be,” and Lorraine 
gave a faint sort of smile that evinced lack of 
strength rather than disapproval. 

Helen gave a bright laugh, as they both 
went to Lorraine’s room. 


 

“ Now I shall make some tea.” 

“ You will do nothing of the kind,” said 
Helen. “ Professor Blake doesn’t approve of 
such dissipation. You are to sit here pillowed 
in the steamer-chair, and I am going to read 
about the wanderings and servitude of the old 
Hebrews. You will not go to sleep, but pay 
good attention, and I shall question you occa- 
sionally.” 

“How good you are;” and Lorraine did 
as she was bidden. 

Helen read slowly to familiarize the matter 
in her own mind. Her voice was very pleas- 
ant in its strength and emphasis. 

“ You would make a splendid lecturer,” 
Lorraine said. “ You impress your facts upon 
your hearers.” 

But presently, her eyes began to droop. She 
might as well sleep, Helen thought, and went 
on for her own information. When she 
paused at the end of the task, Lorraine roused 
suddenly. 

“ Ungrateful girl that I am, I did go to 
sleep! But some of it is floating through my 
mind.” 


“ It will help you in the morning. And 
now, good night,” she said, slipping away. 

At this time there were many inattentive 
girls who tried the patience of teachers. Most 
of them were discounting home pleasures. 

Helen had expected to go to her friend, 
but to her surprise she found herself largely 
in arrears. It was not that she had missed 
so much, but that many things were only half- 
learned, and did not seem to be stored in her 
memory with the certainty to which she was 
accustomed. She was really surprised at her- 
self; she had no grand secret of serving two 
masters. 

So she decided to remain at college and go 
over the studies of the past month. It cer- 
tainly would not do to fail in entering the 
seniors ; she must live up to her reputation, 
and she smiled at herself, thinking that a repu- 
tation was rather costly. 

“ I wish I were going to take you home 
with me,” Lorraine said, longingly. “ Mother 
would like you so, and father would praise 
your good common sense. He is strong on 
that.” 


 

“ Thank you for the really delightful wish. 
Come back well and eager for the fray, and 
we will turn our backs on the demands of 
society.” 

“ And you must go in my room at least 
once a day. Let it be just at twilight. I’ll 
send a thought to you. And it will only be 
a little while — ten days. Yet it seems as if 
I were going away for ever so long.” 
