
" But Clyde will be drowned ! " she protested, 
sobbing. 

" I will find the dog. Go back ! " 

" And there is a man down there. The man is 
drowned! " 

The very old fisherman had come to the edge 
of the cliff, and was looking over. The preacher 

 

curved a trumpet of his hands and made out to 
be heard through the thunder. 

" John Tobey, come down ! Get some boys and 
come ! There is trouble here." 

With the shouts of the sea loving and the sea 
daring, the fishermen scrambled after the preacher. 
Carolyn, from above, could track them by the 
swinging of their lanterns. Halfway down the cliff 
the lanterns paused. The surf, leaping fifty feet, 
extinguished one. The noise of the breakers was 
as frightful as it was deafening, but cleaving it 
sharply, she heard, or thought she heard, the bark 
of her own dog. 

" I vum," said old John Tobey. " There he is ! 
The critter's there! What's he got in tow?" 

Drenched by spray, and slipping as he strug- 
gled, teeth set in an arm, in a shoulder, in a hip, 
anyhow, anywhere he could, the collie was trying 
to dra£ a human figure out of the reach of the 
surf. This was dashing already dangerously near 
the man, and the dog himself was hard put to it 
to keep his footing. When the fishermen came 
down Clyde growled. He suspiciously scanned 
the preacher in his oilskins, and reluctantly yielded 
to him the broken and unconscious man. 

Clyde stood before his mistress, panting and 
drenched, pleasantly wagging his tail. The dog 

 

seemed to smile. Carolyn laid her wet cheek on 
his wet head and kissed him girlishly. When 
she lifted her face, the preacher and the fisher- 
men were passing by her. They did not speak to 
her. 

There was a little pile of dead, wet leaves blown 
against the piazza, and on this the rescuers silently 
laid their burden down. Carolyn saw that they 
carried an elderly man; his short, drenched hair 
was quite white, and his face was averted. One 
limp arm lay out on the grass. His clothes were 
badly torn from him, and he was so mangled that 
she turned her eyes away and shuddered. 

Her natural self-possession had now come back 
to her, and with it her natural sympathy. 
" Is he dead ? " she asked quietly. 
" He's battered to jelly," said old John Tobey, 
" but he 's a livin' man." 

"Who is going to take care of him?" urged 
Carolyn, anxiously lifting her tender face to her 
cousin. "Somebody must. My house is nearest. 
Bring him there. I will do the best I can." 

" Not on any account," replied the preacher, 
decidedly. "My house is nearest. We will take 
him there. This is a case for surgeons and a hos- 
pital, whichever way you look at it — but he can't 
go now. Boys! This way. Some of you fresh 
hands that aren't tired out ! Bring this poor
fellow with me. We will give him all the chance he 
has." 

The tragedy of that October gale, like the short 
story demanded by the modern reader, had its 
happy ending. The remainder of the wrecked 
crew walked ashore on the bowsprit, as the old 
fisherman had foretold, and " every mother's son " 
was saved. The fate of the stranger whom the sea 
cast upon the Sterling cliff was not so promptly 
decided. He lingered for some weeks in the Bal- 
sam hospital with a broken leg and mangled head 
and face ; and went upon the dangerous list, but 
yielded to treatment, and was discharged — to what 
fate nobody knew. When the preacher, who had 
conscientiously followed the case, came out from 
the city to call at the hospital one dark December 
day, he found the patient gone. He did not return 
to Balsam Groves, but sunk out of sight as he had 
sunk from the schooner into the breakers of such 
life as the friendless and the crippled know. 

To Carolyn the whole episode was as poignant 
as it was painful. Its impressions lasted a long 
while. The storm, the wreck, the surf, the cast- 
away crawling like a broken lizard upon the rocks, 
dragging his shattered limb to save his — who 
knew how worthless, how hopeless? — life; the 
dog, daring destruction to rescue this unknown 

 

specimen of the master, man ; the unconscious 
body as it lay upon the wet, dead leaves against 
the piazza of her old home — these flashlights 
faded but slowly from her brain and heart. The 
individual perished, but the type grew more and 
more to her aroused and uneasy interrogation. 
The cruelty of the sea seemed to her scarcely 
