enable us to follow Jesus’ example. Long prayers, ecclesiasticism, and
creeds, have clipped the divine pinions of Love, and clad religion in
human robes. They materialize worship, hinder the Spirit, and keep man
from demonstrating his power over error.

Sorrow for wrong-doing is but one step towards reform, and the very
easiest step. The next and great step required by Wisdom is the test of
our sincerity--namely, reformation. To this end we are placed under the
stress of circumstances. Temptation bids us repeat the offence, and woe
comes in return for what is done. So it will ever be, till we learn that
there is no discount in the law of justice, and that we must pay “the
uttermost farthing.” The measure ye mete “shall be measured to you
again,” and it will be full “and running over.”

Saints and sinners get their full award, but not always in this world.
The followers of Christ drank His cup. Ingratitude and persecution
filled it to the brim; but God pours the riches of His love into the
understanding and affections, giving us strength according to our day.
Sinners flourish “like a green bay-tree”; but, looking farther, the
Psalmist could see their end--namely, the destruction of sin through
suffering.

Prayer is sometimes used, as a confessional to cancel sin. This error
impedes true religion. Sin is forgiven, only as it is destroyed by
Christ-Truth and Life. If prayer nourishes the belief that sin is
cancelled, and that man is made better by merely praying, it is an evil.
He grows worse who continues in sin because he thinks himself forgiven.

An apostle says that the Son of God (Christ) came to “destroy the
works of the devil.” We should follow our divine Exemplar, and seek the
destruction of all evil works, error and disease included. We cannot
escape the penalty due for sin. The Scriptures say, that if we deny
Christ, “He also will deny us.”

The divine Love corrects and governs man. Men may pardon, but this
divine Principle alone reforms the sinner. God is not separate from the
wisdom He bestows. The talents He gives we must improve. Calling on
Him to forgive our work, badly done or left undone, implies the vain
supposition that we have nothing to do but to ask pardon, and that
afterwards we shall be free to repeat the offence.

To cause suffering, as the result of sin, is the means of destroying
sin. Every supposed pleasure in sin will furnish more than its
equivalent of pain, until belief in material life and sin is destroyed.
To reach heaven, the harmony of Being, we must understand the divine
Principle of Being.

“God is Love.” More than this we cannot ask; higher we cannot look;
farther we cannot go. To suppose that God forgives or punishes sin,
according as His mercy is sought or unsought, is to misunderstand Love
and make prayer the safety-valve for wrong-doing.

Jesus uncovered and rebuked sin before He cast it out. Of a sick woman
He said that Satan had bound her; and to Peter He said, “Thou art an
offense unto me.” He came teaching and showing men how to destroy sin,
sickness, and death. He said of the fruitless tree, “It is hewn down.”

It is believed by many that a certain magistrate, who lived in the time
of Jesus, left this record: “His rebuke is fearful.” The strong language
of our Master confirms this description.

The only civil sentence which He had for error was, “Get thee behind
Me, Satan.” Still stronger evidence that Jesus’ reproof was pointed and
pungent is in His own words--showing the necessity for such forcible
utterance, when He cast out devils and healed the sick and sinful. The
relinquishment of error deprives material sense of its false claims.

Audible prayer is impressive; it gives momentary solemnity and elevation
to thought; but does it produce any lasting benefit? Looking deeply into
these things, we find that “a zeal... not according to knowledge,” gives
occasion for reaction unfavorable to spiritual growth, sober resolve,
and wholesome perception of God’s requirements. The motives for verbal
prayer may embrace too much love of applause to induce or encourage
Christian sentiment.

Physical sensation, not Soul, produces material ecstasy, and emotions.
If spiritual sense always guided men at such times, there would grow out
of those ecstatic moments a higher experience and a better life, with
more devout self-abnegation, and purity. A self-satisfied ventilation
of fervent sentiments never makes a Christian. God is not influenced by
man. The “divine ear” is not an auditorial nerve. It is the all-hearing
and all-knowing Mind, to whom each want of man is always known, and by
whom it will be supplied.

The danger from audible prayer is, that it may lead us into temptation.
By it we may become involuntary hypocrites, uttering desires which
are not real, and consoling ourselves in the midst of sin, with the
recollection that we have prayed over it--or mean to ask forgiveness at
some later day. Hypocrisy is fatal to religion.

A wordy prayer may afford a quiet sense of self-justification, though it
makes the sinner a hypocrite. We never need despair of an honest heart,
but there is little hope for those who only come spasmodically face to
face with their wickedness, and then seek to hide it. Their prayers are
indexes which do not correspond with their character. They hold secret
fellowship with sin; and such externals are spoken of by Jesus as “like
unto whited sepulchres... full of all uncleanness.”

If a man, though apparently fervent and prayerful, is impure, and
therefore insincere, what must be the comment upon him? If he had
reached the loftiness of his prayer, there would be no occasion for such
comment. If we feel the aspiration, humility, gratitude, and love
which our words express--this God accepts; and it is wise not to try to
deceive ourselves or others, for “there is nothing covered that shall
not be revealed.” Professions and audible prayers are like charity in
one respect--they “cover a multitude of sins.” Praying for humility,
with whatever fervency of expression, does not always mean a desire
for it. If we turn away from the poor, we are not ready to receive the
reward of Him who blesses the poor. We confess to having a very wicked
heart, and ask that it may be laid bare before us; but do we not already
know more of this heart than we are willing to have our neighbor see?

We ought to examine ourselves, and learn what is the affection and
purpose of the heart; for this alone can show us what we honestly are.
If a friend informs us of a fault, do we listen to the rebuke patiently,
and credit what is said? Do we not rather give thanks that we are “not
as other men?” During many years the author has been most grateful for
merited rebuke. The sting lies in unmerited censure--in the falsehood
which does no one any good.

