you hopeless. How did I get the impression that you had formally
expatriated yourself? From Isabel, who, no doubt, woman-like, jumped at
the conclusion--having known you when you were more British still. And
you never brought up the subject--"
"Don't regard me as wholly an idiot. I read the Constitution of the
United States half a dozen times while making up my mind to come here,
and it is not likely that Article XIV.--'All persons born in the United
States, etc., are citizens of the United States, etc.'--escaped me. I
consulted my solicitor, and he read me from some chapter on
Expatriation, as plainly as may be, that the forfeiture of native
citizenship was accomplished not only by a formal act of renunciation,
but followed a long severance with the relations of the government under
which the person was born, or--acceptance of service under a foreign
government. Considering that I had left the United States when I was
five weeks old, and had fought and bled for Great Britain, besides
serving in her Parliament--where, of course I took my oath of
allegiance--and that I had been an Englishman to every possible intent
and purpose, even wearing my titles for some weeks, it seemed to me--and
to my solicitor--that I would have rather a hard time obtaining an
American passport."
The judge nodded. "Quite right. All the same, I can't understand why
your father did not bring the question up when you attained your
majority, or why you, an ardent Britisher, did not think of it
yourself."
"You would understand if you lived among us for a few years. In the
first place my being born in the United States was such a mere incident
that it was rarely mentioned, and then in the most casual manner. I
don't suppose my mother ever volunteered a piece of information in her
life, and my father rarely gave a thought to any matter but sport. My
grandfather probably disliked the idea--he detested America--at all
events he never alluded to the subject, and was far too British to dream
that the child of British parents could be other than British were he
born in heaven itself. I don't think the matter had entered my mind for
ten years, when the subject came up the first night of Isabel's visit to
Capheaton--and I stupefied every one by announcing that I had been born
in America; but otherwise it made no impression upon them. It is quite
possible that had there been any prospect of my becoming the heir, when
I reached my majority, some member of the family would have recalled the
fact of my birthplace; but Zeal was well then, his wife was bearing
children rapidly, there was every reason to suppose she would have half
a dozen boys. Do you mean to say that I have never been an Englishman?"
"Oh, you are all right as far as the British law goes. And you were a
good and bona fide British subject for thirty years. Don't feel any
discouragement on that score."
"Then am I an American citizen? Is there to be no long period of waiting
and of comparative inaction?"
"I am not so sure. There is no provision of the Constitution so open to
various construction. And none has been so variously construed. I could
cite a hundred instances--that is, I could read them to you to-morrow.
But I recall two, and they are fair samples. One child, born in the
United States, of French parents, returned to France, and after serving
his term in the French army wished to become an American citizen, and
obtained his passport without difficulty. A full-grown American citizen
went to Mexico and fought for Maximilian, and lost not only his own
citizenship, but that of his children, who had been born in the United
States. There you are, and there you are again, as dear old Dickens
would say. But I must think a minute." He transferred his gaze to the
coals, and was silent for a few moments.
"There is a pretty strong case on both sides," he resumed, in a musing
tone. "You left this country when an infant, you practically forgot it,
you entered the service of Great Britain heart and soul, and achieved
high distinction. You inherited a title and wore it as a matter of
course. For thirty years you never set foot on American soil, nor at any
time demanded the protection of the United States, as you might easily
have done in your foreign wanderings. There is hardly a doubt that if
England had gone to war with us at any time during the last ten years
and needed your services you would have given them. However, that
contingency did not arise, so let it pass. But with an unsympathetic
State Department and an active enemy or two, all the other points cited
would make up as clear a case of voluntary expatriation as any on
record. But there is a pretty good balance on the other side. You were
born in the United States, you did not renounce at any time your
allegiance, you have the blood of two Presidents in your veins,
and--here is the important point: you have been one of the heaviest
tax-payers in California for thirty-two years. Now, as I have intimated,
these expatriation cases have all been decided on their individual
merits. I should advise you to go at once to Washington, and enlist the
influence of the British Ambassador to get you personal and private
interviews with the powers that be. Then plead your own case. One of two
things will happen. Either there will be much hemming and hawing, and
much virtuous and judicial weighing of your peculiar case, article by
article, or the President himself will decide one way or another
off-hand--he being what he is. For that reason I think it would be well
to approach him by degrees, let him digest it a bit. He may be delighted
that you have thrown over your titles and your brilliant and promising
career to become an American citizen, invite you to take the oath of
allegiance forthwith, and order the State Department to issue a
passport. On the other hand he may fly off at a tangent and be
righteously indignant that a man with the blood of the Otises and
Adamses in him, who had the good-fortune to be born on American soil,
hesitated a moment after reaching man's estate--more particularly that
he never gave the matter a thought. Nothing could be more problematical.
I wouldn't bet a twenty-dollar gold piece either way. But, I repeat, you
must go yourself. Otherwise the affair would hang on interminably.
Moreover, you must tell no one the object of your journey. Tom Colton
would pull every wire within his reach, and he is no mean rival, to
postpone your admission to citizenship, and so, I fancy, would others."
He shot a keen glance at Gwynne. "I think I know who your visitor was,
to-day, and what he came to Rosewater for. That speech of yours, and its
effect on the crowd, never escaped the attention of the party bosses,
and of course you are a marked man in this small community--to say
nothing of your intimacy with the reform set in town. The judge, who
started somewhere in this neighborhood as a poor boy, rose from various
minor situations to be the secretary of Colton's bank, saved his dimes
and studied law. So far so good; the average self-made American. The law
leads a good many of us into politics and it wasn't long leading him. He
was an invaluable party man, with that bluff honest exterior, that
superabundant magnetism, and that twinkling eye. The world always
associates a fine upright nature with a twinkling eye. I have one myself
and I believe that is the main reason why I have always been afraid to
do wrong. Well, our friend got the bench when he wanted it, and he has
been a mighty good friend to the corporation that put him there. And it
has done well by him. He owns a fine house in San Francisco, entertains,
goes into the best society, has visited Europe several times, and,
although he is now rising sixty, continues to fool all but a few. He
might climb higher and become a United States Senator, but the
corporation finds him too useful here. He rather resents that, but they
make the sacrifice worth his while. I can well conceive they have
spotted you, and you may be sure there is little about you they don't
know. Of course they have made up their minds you are erratic, and have
