
       

On her way home Alixe smilingly reviewed the episode until doubt of
Selwyn's approval crept in again; and her amused smile had faded when
she reached her home.

The house of Ruthven was a small but ultra-modern limestone affair,
between Madison and Fifth; a pocket-edition of the larger mansions of
their friends, but with less excuse for the overelaboration since the
dimensions were only twenty by a hundred. As a matter of fact its narrow
ornate facade presented not a single quiet space the eyes might rest on
after a tiring attempt to follow and codify the arabesques, foliations,
and intricate vermiculations of what some disrespectfully dubbed as
"near-aissance."

However, into this limestone bonbon-box tripped Mrs. Ruthven, mounted
the miniature stairs with a whirl of her scented skirts, peeped into the
drawing-room, but continued mounting until she whipped into her own
apartments, separated from those of her lord and master by a locked
door.

That is, the door had been locked for a long, long time; but presently,
to her intense surprise and annoyance, it slowly opened, and a little
man appeared in slippered feet.

He was a little man, and plump, and at first glance his face appeared
boyish and round and quite guiltless of hair or of any hope of it.

But, as he came into the electric light, the hardness of his features
was apparent; he was no boy; a strange idea that he had never been
assailed some people. His face was puffy and pallid and faint blue
shadows hinted of closest shaving; and the line from the wing of the
nostrils to the nerveless corners of his thin, hard mouth had been
deeply bitten by the acid of unrest.

For the remainder he wore pale-rose pajamas under a silk-and-silver
kimona, an obi pierced with a jewelled scarf-pin; and he was smoking a
cigarette as thin as a straw.

"Well!" said his young wife in astonished displeasure, instinctively
tucking her feet--from which her maid had just removed the shoes--under
her own chamber-robe.

"Send her out a moment," he said, with a nod of his head toward the
maid. His voice was agreeable and full--a trifle precise and
overcultivated, perhaps.

When the maid retired, Alixe sat up on the lounge, drawing her skirts
down over her small stockinged feet.

"What on earth is the matter?" she demanded.

"The matter is," he said, "that Gerald has just telephoned me from the
Stuyvesant that he isn't coming."

"Well?"

"No, it isn't well. This is some of your meddling."

"What if it is?" she retorted; but her breath was coming quicker.

"I'll tell you; you can get up and ring him up and tell him you expect
him to-night."

She shook her head, eyeing him all the while.

"I won't do it, Jack. What do you want him for? He can't play with the
people who play here; he doesn't know the rudiments of play. He's only a
boy; his money is so tied up that he has to borrow if he loses very
much. There's no sport in playing with a boy like that--"

"So you've said before, I believe, but I'm better qualified to judge
than you are. Are you going to call him up?"

"No, I am not."

He turned paler. "Get up and go to that telephone!"

"You little whippet," she said slowly, "I was once a soldier's wife--the
only decent thing I ever have been. This bullying ends now--here, at
this instant! If you've any dirty work to do, do it yourself. I've done
my share and I've finished."

He was astonished; that was plain enough. But it was the sudden
overwhelming access of fury that weakened him and made him turn, hand
outstretched, blindly seeking for a chair. Rage, even real anger, were
emotions he seldom had to reckon with, for he was a very tired and bored
and burned-out gentleman, and vivid emotion was not good for his
arteries, the doctors told him.

He found his chair, stood a moment with his back toward his wife, then
very slowly let himself down into the chair and sat facing her. There
was moisture on his soft, pallid skin, a nervous twitching of the under
lip; he passed one heavily ringed hand across his closely shaven jaw,
still staring at her.

"I want to tell you something," he said. "You've got to stop your
interference with my affairs, and stop it now."

"I am not interested in your affairs," she said unsteadily, still shaken
by her own revolt, still under the shock of her own arousing to a
resistance that had been long, long overdue. "If you mean," she went on,
"that the ruin of this boy is your affair, then I'll make it mine from
this moment. I've told you that he shall not play; and he shall not. And
while I'm about it I'll admit what you are preparing to accuse me of; I
did make Sandon Craig promise to keep away; I did try to make that
little fool Scott Innis promise, too; and when he wouldn't I informed
his father. . . . And every time you try your dirty bucket-shop methods
on boys like that, I'll do the same."

He swore at her quite calmly; she smiled, shrugged, and, imprisoning her
knees in her clasped hands, leaned back and looked at him.

"What a ninny I have been," she said, "to be afraid of you so long!"

A gleam crossed his faded eyes, but he let her remark pass for the
moment. Then, when he was quite sure that violent emotion had been
exhausted within him:

