to the ropes and held up his hand. Silence suddenly fell upon two
thousand men.
"Th' preliminary is off; th' 'Kid' refuses to go on because th' 'Dago'
didn't weigh in as agreed. Th' main bout will now take place. Mr.
Sullivan t' th' right, an' Mr. McManus t' th' left." The pompous man
took out a greasy telegram from his pocket, and said: "Lanky Williams
challenges th' winner fer a purse an' a side bet of fi' thousan'."
He was cheered heartily. Nobody cared about the preliminary "go"; it was
Sullivan and McManus the spectators had paid their money to see.
The rector recalled the scenes in Quo Vadis, and shrugged his
shoulders. Human nature never changes; only politics and fashions. He
himself was vaguely conscious of a guilty thrill as he saw the two men
step from their corners and shake hands.
As this is a story not of how Mr. "Shifty" Sullivan won his battle from
Mr. McManus, but of how the rector of St. Paul's nearly lost his, I
shall not dwell upon the battle as it was fought by rounds. Let it
suffice that the crisis came during the twelfth round. Sullivan was
having the best of this round, though in the four previous he had been
worsted. The men came together suddenly, and there was some rough
in-fighting. The pompous man, who was the referee, was kept on the jump.
One could hear the pad-pad of blows and the scrape-scrape of shoes on
the resined mat, so breathless were the spectators. The boxers became
tangled.
"Foul, foul!"
The voice rang out strong and distinct. It was not the referee's voice,
for the referee himself looked angrily down whence the voice came.
Sullivan, his face writhed in agony, was clinging desperately to his
opponent.
"A foul blow!"
Pandemonium. Everybody was yelling, half not knowing why.
The seconds and trainers were clambering into the ring. The referee
separated the boxers. They rushed at each other furiously. The seconds
stepped in between. A general mix-up followed, during which the pompous
man lost his silk hat.
The reporter for the Post pulled the rector's coat tails, and the
rector sank into his chair, pale and terrified. He had forgotten!
Carried away by his old love of clean fighting, by his love of physical
contests, he had forgotten, forgotten!
"Foul! It was a foul!"
"Ye-a! Ye-a! Foul blow!"
"Bully fer th' parson!"
"Sullivan, Sullivan!"
"McManus!"
"Foul, foul! T'row out th' referee!"
"Give th' deacon a show fer his money!"
These and a thousand other cries rose in the vicinity of the rector.
Those reporters whose city editors had not thought of the stroke of
sending a minister of the gospel to report the fight were delighted.
Here was a story worth forty fights, a story to delight thousands and
thousands who looked upon St. Paul's as a place where only the rich
might worship.
"I declare the fight a draw, an' all bets off!" howled the referee,
wiping the dust from his damaged hat, which he had at length recovered.
The rector rose to move down the aisle to the entrance. He felt morally
and physically crushed. All this would be in the newspapers the next
morning. He was disgraced; for everybody would ask, "How should he know
what a foul blow was?" It was terribly bitter, after having struggled so
long. Presently he became aware that men, reeking with cigar smoke and
liquors, were talking loudly to him, even cursing him. He caught some
words about "makin' us lose our bets, when we come all th' way from
N'York."
A hand came into contact with his cheek, and the sting of it ran like
fire through his veins. The wrath at his moral defeat broke down the
dikes of his self-control; the fury which is always quickly provoked by
physical pain in the animality of man, swept aside his prudence. The man
who struck him was seen to rise bodily and fall crumpled among the
seats. The man's friends--there were four in number--recovering from
their momentary surprise, attacked the rector swiftly, and not without a
certain conformity.
What followed has become history. Even Sullivan and his opponent forgot
their animosity for the time being, and leaned eagerly over the ropes.
Far back in the surging crowd several police helmets could be discerned,
but they made little progress. The rector in his tightly fitting frock
was at a disadvantage, but his wonderful vigor and activity stood him in
good stead. Quick as a cat he leaped from this side to that, dealing his
blows with the rapidity of a piston-rod and almost as terrible in
effect. Once he went down; but, like Antæus, the touch of earth revived
him and doubled his strength.
Men, in the mad effort to witness this battle, trod on one another's
toes, hats were crushed, coats were torn, even blows were struck. They
stood on chairs, on tables, yelling and cheering. This was a fight that
was a fight. Faking had no part in it; there was no partiality of
referees. When the police finally arrived it was all over. The rector
was brushing his hat, while Cathewe, who had dashed down-stairs at the
first sound of the rector's voice, was busy with the rector's coat.
"Want t' appear against 'em?" asked one of the officers.
"No, no! Let them go," cried the rector. "Cathewe, take me out, please;
take me home." His hands shook as he put on his hat. He was very white.
The knuckles of his left hand were raw and bleeding.
The police finally opened a pathway in the cheering crowd, and through
this Cathewe and the rector disappeared. Outside, Cathewe hailed a
carriage.
"Cathewe, I have absolutely and positively ruined my career."
The rector sank back among the cushions, overwhelmed. His voice was
uneven and choked.
"Nonsense!" cried Cathewe. "What else could you do?"
"I could have passed by the man who struck me."
"Oh, pshaw! A man can not help being human simply because he wears the
cloth. It was the bulliest fight I ever saw. It was magnificent! They
weren't in it at any time. And you walloped four of 'em, and one was an
ex-pugilist. It was great."
"Don't!"
"They'll call you the fighting parson."
"I shall resign to-morrow. I must begin life all over again. It will be
very hard."
"Resign nothing! By the way, I saw General Boderick in the crowd."
"Boderick? Oh, I must hurry. He must have my resignation before he has a
chance to demand it."
"Don't you worry about him. I saw him waving his cane like mad when you
got up from the floor and smashed that second-ward ruffian. He won't
dare to say anything. His daughter thinks that he went up to the club."
"I shall resign. I am determined upon that."
"We'll all have something to say regarding that."
"But the newspapers to-morrow! It will be frightful."
"My dear fellow, I am about to visit each in turn, and you can remain in
the carriage. I'll take upon myself to fix it up so that it will receive
scarcely any mention at all."
"My eternal gratitude is yours if you can accomplish that." There was a
note of hope in the rector's voice.
It was after eleven o'clock when Cathewe deposited the rector before the
