softened and blended by age lay on the floor, and the curtains of the
doors were of rich old Genoa velvet, with palm leaves woven in gold
thread on a faded claret ground.

The time lacked about an hour of noon, and in the deep stillness the
trickling of the tiny fountain came up distinctly from the garden.

Something had just happened which Ortensia did not understand, and she
had let her lute sink in her lap, to lean back and think, and wonder,
watching the familiar outline of the dark cypress against the open sky.

She had been learning a song by a new composer, of whom she had never
heard till now, and the manuscript lay open on a cushioned stool beside
her. For a time she had followed the notes and words carefully with her
voice, picking out the accompaniment on her lute from the figured bass,
as musicians did in those days. At first it had not meant much to her;
it was difficult, the intervals were unexpected and strange, she could
not find the right chords, the words would not quite make sense, and
some of them were unfamiliar to her.

But she was patient, and she had talent, and she had tried again and
again, very soft and low, so that the woman in grey had nearly fallen
asleep over her lace, nodding visibly and recovering herself each time
with a little grunt.

Then, all at once, the breath of spring came in, like the breath of
life, with the warm scent of the garden below, and the sunlight had
stolen across the Persian carpet to her feet. She turned from the
manuscript she had been studying, and without it her fingers suddenly
found the chords, and her lips the words, and the melody floated out
with them into the stillness, low, trembling, and passionate as the
burden of a love-dream, a wonder to hear.

But she scarcely heard it herself, for it came unconsciously. The
meaning had dawned upon her unawares, and she understood without ears,
as if the music were all in her heart, and much nearer to her life than
it could come by hearing alone.

It stirred delicious depths within her; the spring and the sun and the
melody waked that in her which had slept the long sleep of childhood,
while her beautiful outward self was maturing to the blossom.

She understood, and yet she did not; it was a bewildering joy, but it
was a longing; it was an exquisite satisfaction, yet it was also a
secret, unspeakable wish; it was the first thrill of a feeling too
exquisite for words to describe, but with it there came a mysterious
forelightening of something unknown that troubled her maiden peace.

Her lips quivered, her voice died away to a whisper, while her body
vibrated still, like the last string she touched on the lute; a sudden
warmth came to her face then, and sank suddenly away, and all at once it
was all past, and she was gazing at the dark top of the cypress, and a
strange, listless, half-sweet loneliness had come upon her, wherein
nothing mattered any more, nor could anything ever matter again.

That was what had just happened. But the woman in grey had not noticed
it, though she was wide awake now and busily plying her bobbins.

Then the heavy velvet curtain before the door was lifted, and a man's
footstep was heard on the marble floor, and there was another step after
it. Ortensia turned her head carelessly against the back of the chair to
see who was coming, and then rose quickly to her feet.

The Senator had entered and was ushering in a man she had never seen, a
handsome young man of five-and-twenty or so, with a thoughtful face and
deep-set eyes, of a rather dark complexion, as if he came from the
south; his manner was grave, and he was soberly dressed in a black
velvet coat with purple silk facings, and wore a plain broad collar of
linen instead of the fashionable lace; he was a man of middle height and
well made, and he moved easily. In his left hand he carried a musical
instrument in a purple bag.

[Illustration: '"This is the celebrated Maestro Alessandro Stradella of
Naples"']

He bowed very low as soon as the Senator stood still before Ortensia.

'This,' said the master of the house, 'is the celebrated Maestro
Alessandro Stradella of Naples, by far the greatest musician and
composer in Italy, who has very kindly consented to hear you sing, and
to give you a few lessons if he finds you sufficiently advanced.'

Ortensia was surprised, and anything but displeased, but she showed no
emotion. The young man before her was the composer of the song she had
been studying, the very one that had so strongly disturbed her a few
minutes ago; this of itself would have been interesting, even if he had
not been such a singularly handsome young man.

The woman in grey, who was her nurse, had risen too, and was looking at
the musician with more curiosity than might have been expected in a
sober person of her years.

Ortensia bent her head a little, in acknowledgment of the introduction,
but said nothing. She saw, however, that Stradella had already noticed
the manuscript of his own music on the stool beside her.

'You may sing "Amor mi dice" to the Maestro,' said the Senator, taking a
seat. 'A little composition of my own,' he added, with a self-satisfied
smile, for the musician's information. 'I have taught it to my niece
myself.'

For one instant Stradella's eyes met the young girl's and she returned
their glance. It was enough; they already understood each other.
Doubtless the composer had met his patron more than once and knew his
weakness and what to expect now. Ortensia resumed her seat, and drew her
full skirt into folds on her knee, for her lute to rest on. Stradella
sat down at a little distance and looked at the Persian carpet, and she
could not help seeing that he had remarkably well-turned legs and
ankles, and wore very well-made shoes of soft purple leather with
handsome chiselled silver buckles. She felt inclined to raise her eyes
to his face again, but resisted the temptation, and turned resolutely
towards her uncle as she struck the opening chords of the accompaniment.

The musician now looked up and watched her. At first he put on the
amiable smile which professionals keep especially for amateurs, and as a
matter of politeness he listened attentively, till he had convinced
himself that the song, as he had expected, belonged to that large class
of which the chief characteristic is a general resemblance to everything
of the kind that was ever written before, and will ever be written
hereafter. This being settled after hearing a few bars, Stradella
