and seized his place. 

" How did you get here ?" she asked, rather shame- 
lessly, since she had kept him from coming in the vic- 
toria, but amusingly, since she seemed to see it as a 
joke, if she saw it at all. 

" I walked," he answered. 

"Truly?" 

" No, not truly." 

" But, truly, how did you ? Because I sent the car- 
riage back for you." 

" That was very thoughtful of you. But I found a 
delightful public vehicle behind the station, and I 
came in that. I'm so glad to know that it wasn't Mrs. 
Westangle who had the trouble of sending the carriage 
back for me." 

Miss Macroyd laughed and laughed at his resent- 
ment. " But surely you met it on the way ? I gave 
the man a description of you. Didn't he stop for 
you?" 

" Oh yes, but I was too proud to change by that time. 
Or perhaps I hated the trouble." 

Miss Macroyd laughed the more; then she purpose- 
ly darkened her countenance so as to suit it to her 
lugubrious whisper, " How did she get here ?" 

"What she?" 

" The mysterious fugitive. Wasn't she coming here, 
after all?" 

" After all your trouble in supposing so ?" Verrian 

 

reflected a moment, and then he said, deliberately, " I 
don't know." 

Miss Macroyd was not going to let him off like that. 
" You don't know how she came, or you don't know 
whether she was coming ?" 

" I didn't say." 

Her laugh resounded again. " Now you are trying 
to be wicked, and that is very wrong for a novelist." 

" But what object could I have in concealing the fact 
from you, Miss Macroyd?" he entreated, with mock 
earnestness. 

" That is what I want to find out." 

" What are you two laughing so about ?" the voice 
of Mrs. Westangle twittered at Verrian's elbow, and, 
looking down, he found her almost touching it. She 
had a very long, narrow neck, and, since it was long and 
narrow, she had the good sense not to palliate the fact 
or try to dress the effect of it out of sight. She took 
her neck in both hands, as it were, and put it more on 
show, so that you had really to like it. Now it lifted 
her face, though she was not a tall person, well towards 
the level of his ; to be sure, he was himself only of the 
middle height of men, though an aquiline profile helped 
him up. 

He stirred the tea which he had ceased to drink, and 
said, " I wasn't ' laughing so about,' Mrs. Westangle. 
It was Miss Macroyd." 

" And I was laughing so about a mysterious stranger 
that came up on the train with us and got out at your 
station." 

" And I was trying to make out what was so funny 
in a mysterious stranger, or even in her getting out at 
your station." 

Mrs. Westangle was not interested in the case, or 
else she failed to seize the joke. At any rate, she turned 

 

from them without further question and went away to 
another part of the room, where she semi-attached her- 
self in like manner to another couple, and again left it 
for still another. This was possibly her idea of look- 
ing after her guests; but when she had looked after 
them a little longer in that way she left the room and 
let them look after themselves till dinner. 

" Come, Mr. Verrian," Miss Macroyd resumed, 
" what is the secret ? I'll never tell if you tell me." 

" You won't if I don't." 

" Now you are becoming merely trivial. You are 
ceasing even to be provoking." Miss Macroyd, in token 
of her displeasure, laughed no longer. 

" Am I ?" he qiiestioned, thoughtfully. " Well, then, 
I am tempted to act upon impulse." 

" Oh, do act upon impulse for once," she urged. I'm 
sure you'll enjoy it." 

" Do you mean that I'm never impulsive ?" 

" I don't think you look it." 

" If you had seen me an hour ago you would have 
said I was very impulsive. I think I may have ex- 
