"Eternal youth and love?" He bent over the table, moving his hand to
cover hers where it rested in the lamplight. "You have given me eternity
in love already," he said.

"Have I?" But she would not lift her eyes.... "Then why make love to me
if you have it ready-made for you?"

"Will you come?"

And she, quoting the Odyssey again:

    "Swear, then, thou mean'st not what my soul forebodes;
    Swear by the solemn oath that binds the gods!"

And in turn he quoted:

    "Loved and adored, O goddess as thou art,
    Forgive the weakness of a human heart."

But she said with gay audacity, "I have nothing to forgive you--yet."

"Are you challenging me? Because I am likely to take you into my arms at
any moment if you are."

"Not here--Garry!"--looking up in quick concern, for his recklessness
at times dismayed her. Considering him doubtfully she made up her mind
that she was safe, and her little chin went up in defiance.

"The hammock's in the patio," he said.

"There's moonlight there, too. No, thank you--with Cissy wakeful and
her windows commanding every nook!... Besides--as I told you, I've been
thinking."

"And what have you concluded?"

Delicate straight nose in the air, eyebrows arched in airy disdain, she
stood preoccupied with some little inward train of thought that
alternately made grave and gay the upcurled corners of her lips.

"About this question of--ah--love-making--" dropping her eyes in
pretence of humility.

"It is no longer a question, you know."

She would not look up; her lashes seemed to rest on the bloom of the
rounded cheek as though the lids were shut, but there came from the
shadows between the lids a faint glimmer; and he thought of that first
day when from her lifted gaze a thousand gay little demons seemed to
laugh at him.

"I've been thinking," she remarked, "that this question of making love
to me should be seriously discussed."

"That's what I've been asking you to do in the patio--"

"I've been thinking, with deep but rather tardy concern, that it is not
the best policy for me to be--courted--any more."

She glanced up; her entire expression had suddenly altered to a gravity
unmistakable.

"What has happened?" he asked.

"Can you tell me? I ask you, Garry, what has happened?"

"I don't understand--"

"Nor I.... Because that little fool you kissed--so many, many centuries
ago--is not this disillusioned woman who is standing here!... May I be a
little bit serious with you?"

"Of course," he said, amused; "come out on the east balcony and tell me
what troubles you."

She considered him, smilingly suspicious of his alacrity.

"I don't think we had better go to the balcony." "Shiela, can't you ever
get over being ashamed when I make love to you?"

"I don't want to get over it, Garry."

"Are you still afraid to let me love you?"

Her mouth curved gravely as a perplexed child's; she looked down at the
table where his sun-burnt hand now lay lightly across hers.

"I wished to speak to you about myself--if, somehow you could help me to
say what--what is very difficult for a girl to say to a man--even when
she loves him.... I don't think I can say it, but I'll try."

"Then if you'll come to the balcony--"

"No, I can't trust you--or myself--unless we promise each other."

"Have I got to do that again?"

"Yes, if I am to go with you. I promise! Do you?"

"If I must," he said with very bad grace--so ungraciously in fact that
as they passed from the eastern corridor on to the Spanish balcony she
forgot her own promise and slipped her hand into his in half-humourous,
half-tender propitiation.

"Are you going to be disagreeable to me, Garry?"

"You darling!" he said; and, laughing, yet secretly dismayed at her own
perversion, she hurriedly untwisted her fingers from his and made a new
and fervid promise to replace the one just broken.

The moonlight was magnificent, silvering forest, dune, and chaparral.
Far to the east a thin straight gleam revealed the sea.

She seated herself under the wall, lying back against it; he lay
extended on the marble shelf beside her, studying the moonlight on her
face.

"What was it you had to tell me, Shiela? Remember I am going in the
morning."

