for their pleasure. It was right to have them, they were to be the
future men and women, workers, legislators, and homemakers. They didn't
always have easy times, nor their own way, and they were not thought to
be wiser than their parents, even in the choice of professions for life.
But there were many fine brave fellows among the boys, and the girls
went on, making pretty good wives and mothers. If life did not bring
them just what they wished, they accepted it and did the best they
could.
Anthony Drayton came to make Cousin Chilian a visit and pass an
examination for Harvard. With a little help he had worked his way
through the academy. He was one of the brave, resolute boys, and, though
it grieved him to go against his father's wishes, he had decided for
himself.
"I really could not bury myself on a farm," he confessed. "I want a
wider life, I want to mix with men and take an interest in the country.
Not that I despise farming, and if one could branch out and do many new
things, but to keep on year after year in the old rut, corn and
potatoes, wheat and rye--just as grandfather did. What is the use of a
man living if he can't strike out some new ways? Maybe I'd been willing
to go to the new countries, but father was just as opposed to that."
He was a fresh, fair lad, with eyes of the Leverett blue, a strong, fine
face, not delicate as Cousin Chilian's. His hair was not very dark, but
his brows well defined, and with the eyelashes much darker than the
hair. His voice had such a cheerful uplift.
"You have quite decided then?" Chilian wondered if he could ever have
gone against his father's wishes, but in that case father and son had
similar tastes.
"Oh, yes; I've nothing farther to look for, and I'm willing to leave my
share to the other children. I know I can make my way, and I'm ready to
work and wait."
His voice had such a nice wholesome ring that it inspired you with faith
in him.
Cousin Eunice took a great fancy to him. They talked over the visit of
years ago. It seemed to her as if it had just been the beginning of
things.
One sister was grown up and "keeping company," the other a nice handy
girl. The next brother would be a great help--he cared nothing for
books. Both of the Brent cousins were married, one living on the farm
with his mother, the other having struck out for himself. And Miss Eliza
Leverett was weakly. Like many women of that period, when all hope of
marrying and having a home of her own was past, she sank down into a
gentle nonentity and dreamed of Cousin Chilian. Not that she had
expected to captivate him, but life with some one like that would set
one on the highest pinnacle.
He thought Cousin Cynthia--they were always cousins, to the fourth
generation--was the sweetest, daintiest, and most winsome thing he had
ever seen--and so she was, for his acquaintance with girls had been
limited. They looked over the old treasures in the house and thought it
wonderful any one should ever go to India and return without being
wrecked. They walked about the lovely garden, and he was amazed at her
familiarity with flowers and plants he had never seen.
Then she took him over to the Uphams, for an old friend came in to play
checkers with Cousin Chilian. Polly was bright and merry, but somehow
Ben seemed rather captious. Anthony listened with surprise at the bright
sayings they flung at one another.
The next day he and Cousin Chilian went over topics for examination. His
reading had not been extensive but thorough. In mathematics he was
excellent. But he found some time to chat with Cynthia, and they both
walked down to the warehouse with Cousin Chilian.
What a sight it was! He had read of such things, but to see the hundreds
of busy men, the great fleet of vessels, the docks piled with all kinds
of wares, the boxes and bales lying round in endless confusion. And the
great ocean, lost over beyond in the far-off sky.
When the two had gone up to Boston, Cynthia felt very lonely. She had
been sipping the sweets of unspoken admiration. She saw it in the eyes,
in the deference, as if he was almost afraid of her, in the sudden flush
when she turned her eyes to him. It was a new kind of worship.
She went over to the Uphams. Polly had been having her sampler framed.
The acorn border was very pretty in its greens and browns. Then a stiff
little tree grew up both sides, about like those that came in the Noah's
Ark later on. And between these two trees was worked in cross-stitch:
          "Mary Upham is my name,
              America is my nation;
           Salem is my dwelling place,
              And Christ is my salvation."
"Isn't the frame nice?" she asked. "I made father two shirts and he gave
me the frame and the glass. Peter Daly made it. And the frame is oiled
and polished until the grain shows--well, almost like watered silk.
Gitty Sprague has a beautiful pelisse of gray watered silk. And now I
have one thing for my house. I'm beginning to lay by."
"Your house!" Cynthia ejaculated in surprise.
"Why, yes--when I'm married. You have such lots of things, you'll never
have to save up."
Cynthia was wondering what she could give away. Not anything that was
her father's or her mother's.
"I'll paint you a picture. You do so much better needlework than I that
I should be ashamed to offer you any."
"And the girls will give me some, I know. I'd fifty times rather have
the picture. What a nice young fellow that cousin is! I'm glad his name
isn't Leverett. There's such a host of them. But I don't like Anthony so
well."
"That was father's name. It's quite a family name. It always sounds good
to me."
"And is he going to Harvard?"
"Yes; even if he can't get in right away."
"That's nice, too. It's quite the style for young men to go to college.
Some of them put on a sight of airs, though. He doesn't look like that
kind."
"He isn't," she returned warmly. "He is going to work his way through."
"Oh! Hasn't he any father?"
"Yes; but his father will not do anything for him. I think it is real
grand of him."
Polly nodded, but she lost interest in the young man.
Bentley walked home with Cynthia. It was afternoon, so he did not really
need to.
"I suppose that cousin isn't going to live with you?" he asked
presently.
"Oh, no; he will have to live in Boston."
"And come up here for Sundays?"
"Why, I don't know. That would be nice. I think I am growing fond of
company."
"Well, I can come over;" half jocosely.
"Oh, I meant other people;" innocently.
"Then you don't care for my coming?"
"Yes, I do. Oh, do you remember that winter I was half sick and how you
used to come over and read Latin? And I used to say it to myself after
you."
That delighted him. He didn't feel so cross about the young fellow, but
he half hoped he wouldn't pass, and have to go back to New Hampshire for
another year.
