These words were not worth the breath it took to say them; but Montague
was not aware of this, and felt a painful start within. But he
answered, carelessly, that one must take his chance, and sat down in
one of the customer's chairs. Hammond and Streeter's was like a little
lecture-hall, with rows of seats and a big blackboard in front, with
the initials of the most important stocks in columns, and yesterday's
closing prices above, on little green cards. At one side was a ticker,
with two attendants awaiting the opening click.

In the seats were twenty or thirty men, old and young; most of them
regular habitues, victims of the fever of the Street. Montague watched
them, catching snatches of their whispered conversation, with its
intricate and disagreeable slang. He felt intensely humiliated and
uncomfortable--for he had got the fever of the Street into his own
veins, and he could not conquer it. There were nasty shivers running up
and down his spine, and his hands were cold.

He stared at the little figures, fascinated; they stood for some vast
and tremendous force outside, which could not be controlled or even
comprehended,--some merciless, annihilating force, like the lightning
or the tornado. And he had put himself at the mercy of it; it might do
its will with him! "Tr. C. 59 5/8" read the little pasteboard; and he
had only six points of safety. If at any time in the day that figure
should be changed to read "53 5/8"--then every dollar of Montague's
sixty thousand would be gone for ever! The great fee that he had worked
so hard for and rejoiced so greatly over--that would be all gone, and a
slice out of his inheritance besides!

A boy put into his hand a little four-page paper--one of the countless
news-sheets which different houses and interests distributed free for
advertising or other purposes; and a heading "Transcontinental" caught
his eye, among the paragraphs in the Day's Events. He read: "The
directors' meeting of the Transcontinental R.R. will be held at noon.
It is confidently predicted that the quarterly dividend will be passed,
as it has been for the last three quarters. There is great
dissatisfaction among the stock-holders. The stock has been decidedly
weak, with no apparent inside support; it fell off three points just
before closing yesterday, upon the news of further proceedings by
Western state officials, and widely credited rumours of dissensions
among the directors, with renewed opposition to the control of the
Hopkins interests."

Ten o'clock came and went, and the ticker began its long journey. There
was intense activity in Transcontinental, many thousands of shares
changing hands, and the price swaying back and forth. When Oliver came
in, in half an hour, it stood at 59 3/8.

"That's all right," said he. "Our time will not come till afternoon."

"But suppose we are wiped out before afternoon?" said the other.

"That is impossible," answered Oliver. "There will be big buying all
the morning."

They sat for a while, nervous and restless. Then, by way of breaking
the monotony, Oliver suggested that his brother might like to see the
"Street." They went around the corner to Broad Street. Here at the head
stood the Sub-treasury building, with all the gold of the government
inside, and a Gatling gun in the tower. The public did not know it was
there, but the financial men knew it, and it seemed as if they had
huddled all their offices and banks and safe-deposit vaults under its
shelter. Here, far underground, were hidden the two hundred millions of
securities of the Oil Trust--in a huge six-hundred-ton steel vault,
with a door so delicately poised that a finger could swing it on its
hinges. And opposite to this was the white Grecian building of the
Stock Exchange. Down the street were throngs of men within a roped
arena, pushing, shouting, jostling; this was "the curb," where one
could buy or sell small blocks of stock, and all the wild-cat mining
and oil stocks which were not listed by the Exchange. Rain or shine,
these men were always here; and in the windows of the neighbouring
buildings stood others shouting quotations to them through megaphones,
or signalling in deaf and dumb language. Some of these brokers wore
coloured hats, so that they could be distinguished; some had offices
far off, where men sat all day with strong glasses trained upon them.
Everywhere was the atmosphere of speculation--the restless, feverish
eyes; the quick, nervous gestures; the haggard, care-worn faces. For in
this game every man was pitted against every other man; and the dice
were loaded so that nine out of every ten were doomed in advance to
ruin and defeat. They procured passes to the visitors' gallery of the
Exchange. From here one looked down into a room one or two hundred feet
square, its floor covered with a snowstorm of torn pieces of paper, and
its air a babel of shouts and cries. Here were gathered perhaps two
thousand men and boys; some were lounging and talking, but most were
crowded about the various trading-posts, pushing, climbing over each
other, leaping up, waving their hands and calling aloud. A "seat" in
this exchange was worth about ninety-five thousand dollars, and so no
one of these men was poor; but yet they came, day after day, to play
their parts in this sordid arena, "seeking in sorrow for each other's
joy": inventing a thousand petty tricks to outwit and deceive each
other; rejoicing in a thousand petty triumphs; and spending their
lives, like the waves upon the shore, a very symbol of human futility.
Now and then a sudden impulse would seize them, and they would become
like howling demons, surging about one spot, shrieking, gasping,
clawing each other's clothing to pieces; and the spectator shuddered,
seeing them as the victims of some strange and dreadful enchantment,
which bound them to struggle and torment each other until they were
worn out and grey.

But one felt these things only dimly, when he had put all his fortune
into Transcontinental Common. For then he had sold his own soul to the
enchanter, and the spell was upon him, and he hoped and feared and
agonized with the struggling throng. Montague had no need to ask which
was his "post"; for a mob of a hundred men were packed about it, with
little whirls and eddies here and there on the outside. "Something
doing to-day all right," said a man in his ear.

It was interesting to watch; but there was one difficulty--there were
no quotations provided for the spectators. So the sight of this
activity merely set them on edge with anxiety--something must be
happening to their stock! Even Oliver was visibly nervous--after all,
in the surest cases, the game was a dangerous one; there might be a big
failure, or an assassination, or an earthquake! They rushed out and
made for the nearest broker's office, where a glance at the board
showed them Transcontinental at 60. They drew a long breath, and sat
down again to wait.

That was about half-past eleven. At a quarter to twelve the stock went
up an eighth, and then a quarter, and then another eighth. The two
gripped their hands in excitement. Had the time come?

