

IV 

We despatched our visit so promptly that we got 
back to our boat-woman's cottage a full hour before 
our steamer was to call for us. She had an afternoon 
fire kindled in her bright range, from the oven of which 
came already the odor of agreeable baking. Upon this 
hint we acted, and asked if tea were possible. It was, 
and jam sandwiches as well, or if we preferred but- 
tered tea-cake, with or without currants, to jam sand- 
wiches, there would be that presently. We preferred 
both, and we sat down in that pleasant parlor-kitchen, 
and listened, till the tea-cake came out of the oven and 
was split open and buttered smoking hot, to a flow of 
delightful and instructive talk. For our refection we 
paid sixpence each, but for our edification we are still, 
and hope ever to be, in debt. Our hostess was of a 
most cheerful philosophy, such as could not be bought 
of most modern philosophers for money. The flour for 
our tea-cakes, she said, was a shilling fivepence a stone, 
" And not too much for growing and grinding it, and 
all." Every week-day morning she rose at half -past 

 

four, and got breakfast for her boys, who then rode 
their bicycles, or, in the snow, walked, all the miles of 
our voyage into York, where they worked in the rail- 
way shops. ISTo, they did not belong to any union ; the 
railway men did not seem to care for it ; only a " bene- 
fit union." 

She kept the house for her family, and herself 
ready to answer every hail from the steamer ; but in 
her mellow English content, which was not stupid 
or sodden, but clever and wise, it was as if it were 
she, rather than the archbishop, whose nature ex- 
pressed itself in a motto on one of the palace walls, 
" Blessed be the Lord who loadeth us with blessings 
every day!' 

When the range, warming to its work, had made 
her kitchen - parlor a little too hot to hold us, she 
hospitably suggested the river shore as cooler, where 
she knew a comfortable log we could sit on. 
Thither she presently followed when the steam- 
er's whistle sounded, and held her boat for us to 
get safely in. The most nervous of our party of- 
fered the reflection, as she sculled us out into the 
stream to overhaul the pausing st-eamer, that she must 
find the ferry business very shattering to the nerves, 
and she said, 

" Yes, but it's nothing to a murder case I was on, 
once." 

" Oh, what murder, what murder ?" we palpitated 
back; and both of us forgot the steamer, so that it 
almost ran us down, while our ferrywoman began 
again : 

" A man shot a nurse There ! Throw that line, 
will you ?" 

But he, who ought to have thrown the line for her, in 
his distraction let her drop her oar and throw the line 

 

herself, and then we scrambled aboard without hearing 
any more of the murder. 

This is the climax I have been working up to, and 
I call it a fine one ; as good as a story to be continued 
ever ended an instalment with. 




THE Doncaster Races lured us from our hotel at 
York, on the first day, as I had dimly foreboded they 
would. In fact, if there had been no lure, I might 
have gone in search of temptation, for in a world where 
sins are apt to be ugly, a horse-race is so beautiful that 
if one loves beauty he can practise an aesthetic virtue 
by sinning in that sort. So I made myself a pretence 
of profit as well as pleasure, and in going to Doncaster 
I feigned the wish chiefly to compare its high event 
with that of Saratoga. I had no association with the 
place save horse-racing, and having missed Ascot and 
Derby Day, I took my final chance in pursuit of knowl- 
edge I said to myself, " Not mere amusement " and 
set out for Doncaster unburdened by the lightest fact 
concerning the place. 



I learned nothing of it when there, but I have since 
learned, from divers trustworthy sources, that Don- 
caster is the Danum of Antoninus and the Dona 
Ceaster of the Saxons, and that it is not only on the 
line of the Northeastern Eailway, but also on that 
famous Watling Street which from the earliest Saxon 
time has crossed the British continent from sea to sea, 
and seems to impress most of the cities north and south 

 

into a conformity with its line, like a map of the 
straightest American railway routes. 

Unless my ignorance has been abused, nothing re- 
markable has happened at Doncaster in two thousand 
years, but this is itself a distinction in that eventful 
England where so many things have happened else- 
where. It is the market town of a rich farming re- 
gion, and has notable manufactures of iron and brass, 
of sacking and linen, of spun flax and of agricultural 
