them, is softly filtered and diffused; it rests mildly upon the
old marbles--chiefly antique Roman busts--which stand in the narrow
intervals of the casements. It is projected upon the numerous pictures
that cover the opposite wall and that are not by any means, as a general
thing, the gems of the great collection; it imparts a faded brightness
to the old ornamental arabesques upon the painted wooden ceiling, and it
makes a great soft shining upon the marble floor, in which, as you look
up and down, you see the strolling tourists and the motionless copyists
almost reflected. I don’t know why I should find all this very pleasant,
but in fact, I have seldom gone into the Uffizi without walking the
length of this third-story cloister, between the (for the most part)
third-rate canvases and panels and the faded cotton curtains. Why is
it that in Italy we see a charm in things in regard to which in other
countries we always take vulgarity for granted? If in the city of
New York a great museum of the arts were to be provided, by way of
decoration, with a species of verandah enclosed on one side by a series
of small-paned windows draped in dirty linen, and furnished on the other
with an array of pictorial feebleness, the place being surmounted by
a thinly-painted wooden roof, strongly suggestive of summer heat,
of winter cold, of frequent leakage, those amateurs who had had the
advantage of foreign travel would be at small pains to conceal their
contempt. Contemptible or respectable, to the judicial mind, this quaint
old loggia of the Uffizi admitted me into twenty chambers where I found
as great a number of ancient favourites. I don’t know that I had a
warmer greeting for any old friend than for Andrea del Sarto, that most
touching of painters who is not one of the first. But it was on the
other side of the Arno that I found him in force, in those dusky
drawing-rooms of the Pitti Palace to which you take your way along
the tortuous tunnel that wanders through the houses of Florence and is
supported by the little goldsmiths’ booths on the Ponte Vecchio. In the
rich insufficient light of these beautiful rooms, where, to look at the
pictures, you sit in damask chairs and rest your elbows on tables of
malachite, the elegant Andrea becomes deeply effective. Before long he
has drawn you close. But the great pleasure, after all, was to revisit
the earlier masters, in those specimens of them chiefly that bloom
so unfadingly on the big plain walls of the Academy. Fra Angelico and
Filippo Lippi, Botticelli and Lorenzo di Credi are the clearest,
the sweetest and best of all painters; as I sat for an hour in
their company, in the cold great hall of the institution I have
mentioned--there are shabby rafters above and an immense expanse of
brick tiles below, and many bad pictures as well as good--it seemed
to me more than ever that if one really had to choose one couldn’t do
better than choose here. You may rest at your ease at the Academy, in
this big first room--at the upper end especially, on the left--because
more than many other places it savours of old Florence. More for
instance, in reality, than the Bargello, though the Bargello makes great
pretensions. Beautiful and masterful though the Bargello is, it smells
too strongly of restoration, and, much of old Italy as still lurks in
its furbished and renovated chambers, it speaks even more distinctly
of the ill-mannered young kingdom that has--as “unavoidably” as you
please--lifted down a hundred delicate works of sculpture from the
convent-walls where their pious authors placed them. If the early Tuscan
painters are exquisite I can think of no praise pure enough for the
sculptors of the same period, Donatello and Luca della Robbia, Matteo
Civitale and Mina da Fiesole, who, as I refreshed my memory of them,
seemed to me to leave absolutely nothing to be desired in the way of
straightness of inspiration and grace of invention. The Bargello is full
of early Tuscan sculpture, most of the pieces of which have come from
suppressed religious houses; and even if the visitor be an ardent
liberal he is uncomfortably conscious of the rather brutal process by
which it has been collected. One can hardly envy young Italy the number
of odious things she has had to do.

The railway journey from Florence to Rome has been altered both for the
better and for the worse; for the better in that it has been shortened
by a couple of hours; for the worse inasmuch as when about half the
distance has been traversed the train deflects to the west and leaves
the beautiful old cities of Assisi, Perugia, Terni, Narni, unvisited.
Of old it was possible to call at these places, in a manner, from the
window of the train; even if you didn’t stop, as you probably couldn’t,
every time you passed, the immensely interesting way in which, like a
loosened belt on an aged and shrunken person, their ample walls held
them easily together was something well worth noting. Now, however,
for compensation, the express train to Rome stops at Orvieto, and in
consequence... In consequence what? What is the result of the stop of
an express train at Orvieto? As I glibly wrote that sentence I suddenly
paused, aware of the queer stuff I was uttering. That an express train
would graze the base of the horrid purple mountain from the apex of
which this dark old Catholic city uplifts the glittering front of
its cathedral--that might have been foretold by a keen observer of
contemporary manners. But that it would really have the grossness to
hang about is a fact over which, as he records it, an inveterate, a
perverse cherisher of the sense of the past order, the order still
largely prevailing at the time of his first visit to Italy, may well
make what is vulgarly called an ado. The train does stop at Orvieto,
not very long, it is true, but long enough to let you out. The same
phenomenon takes place on the following day, when, having visited the
city, you get in again. I availed myself without scruple of both of
these occasions, having formerly neglected to drive to the place in a
post-chaise. But frankly, the railway-station being in the plain and the
town on the summit of an extraordinary hill, you have time to forget
the puffing indiscretion while you wind upwards to the city-gate. The
position of Orvieto is superb--worthy of the “middle distance” of an
eighteenth-century landscape. But, as every one knows, the splendid
Cathedral is the proper attraction of the spot, which, indeed, save
for this fine monument and for its craggy and crumbling ramparts, is a
meanly arranged and, as Italian cities go, not particularly impressive
little town. I spent a beautiful Sunday there and took in the charming
church. I gave it my best attention, though on the whole I fear I found
it inferior to its fame. A high concert of colour, however, is the
densely carved front, richly covered with radiant mosaics. The old white
marble of the sculptured portions is as softly yellow as ancient ivory;
the large exceedingly bright pictures above them flashed and twinkled
in the glorious weather. Very striking and interesting the theological
frescoes of Luca Signorelli, though I have seen compositions of this
general order that appealed to me more. Characteristically fresh,
finally, the clear-faced saints and seraphs, in robes of pink and azure,
whom Fra Angelico has painted upon the ceiling of the great chapel,
along with a noble sitting figure--more expressive of movement than most
of the creations of this pictorial peace-maker--of Christ in judgment.
Yet the interest of the cathedral of Orvieto is mainly not the visible
result, but the historical process that lies behind it; those three
hundred years of the applied devotion of a people of which an American
scholar has written an admirable account.{1}

1877.

{1} Charles Eliot Norton, Notes of Travel and Study in Italy.


