trousers of the men who bestrode them, that a second look was needed
to determine where the rider ended and the steed began. We noted, with
disdainful glee, that the Yellow Jacket folk turned the corner of the
crossway flanking our garden, and so around the back of the public
square enclosing Court House, clerk’s office, and jail. There they
tethered the sorry beasts to the fence, shook down a peck or so of oats
from bags they had fastened behind their saddles, and shambled into the
square to be lost in the gathering crowd.
As they rode through the village, ill-mannered boys chanted:
    “Democrats—
     They eat rats!
     But Whigs
     Eat pigs!”
Bacon being a product for which the state was famed, the distinction
was invidious to the last degree. My mother never let us take up the
scandalous doggerel. She said it was vulgar, untrue, and unkind. It was
not her fault that each of us had the private belief that there was a
spice of truth in it.
When we saw a smart tilbury, drawn by a pair of glossy horses, stop
before the “Bell Tavern” opposite our house, the occupants spring to
the ground and leave the equipage to the hostlers—who rushed from the
stables at sound of the clanging bell pulled by the landlord as soon as
he caught sight of the carriage—we said in unison:
“They are Whigs!”
We were as positive as to the politics of the men who rode blooded
hunters and wore broadcloth and tall, shining hats. The Yellow Jacket
head-gear was drab in color, uncertain in shape.
It seemed monstrous to our intolerant youth that “poor white folksy”
men should have an equal right with gentlemen, born and bred, in
deciding who should represent the county in the Legislature and the
district in Congress.
The crowning excitement of the occasion was reserved for the afternoon.
As early as three o’clock I was used to see my father come out of the
door of his counting-room over the way, watch in hand, and look down
the Richmond road. Presently he would be joined there by one, two, or
three others, and they compared timepieces, looking up at the westering
sun, their faces graver and gestures more energetic as the minutes sped
by. The junta of women sympathizers behind the vine-curtains began to
speculate as to the possibility of accident to man, beast, or carriage,
and we children inquired, anxiously, “What would happen if the Richmond
voters did not come, after all?”
“No fear of that!” we were assured, our mother adding, with modest
pride, “Your father has attended to the matter.”
They always came. Generally the cloud of distant dust, looming
high and fast upon the wooded horizon, was the first signal of the
reinforcements for the Whig party. Through this we soon made out a
train of ten or twelve carriages, and perhaps as many horsemen—a
triumphal cortége that rolled and caracoled up the street amid the
cheers of expectant fellow-voters and of impartial urchins, glad of any
chance to hurrah for anybody. The most important figure to me in the
scene was my father, as with feigned composure he walked slowly to the
head of the front steps, and lifted his hat in courteous acknowledgment
of the hands and hats waved to him from carriage and saddle-bow. If I
thought of Alexander, Napoleon, and Washington, I am not ashamed to
recollect it now.
That child has been defrauded who has not had a hero in his own home.
I was at no loss to know who mine was, on this bland spring morning, as
my father and I leaned on a fence on the hither side of the creek and
watched the proceedings of the cooks and managers about the al fresco
kitchen.
“Too many cooks spoil the dinner!” quoth I, as negroes bustled from
fire to fire, and white men yelled their orders and counter-orders.
“Not that it matters much what kind of victuals are served at a
Democratic barbecue, so long as there is plenty to drink.”
“Easy, easy, daughter!” smiled my auditor. “There are good men and true
in the other party. We are in danger of forgetting that.”
“None as good and great as Mr. Clay, father?”
He raised his hat slightly and involuntarily. “I do not think he has
his equal as man and pure patriot in this, or any other country. God
defend the right!”
“You are not afraid lest Polk”—drawling the monosyllable in
derision—“will beat him, father?”
The smile was a laugh—happily confident.
“Hardly! I have more faith in human nature and in the common-sense of
the American people than to think that they will pass over glorious
Harry of the West, and forget his distinguished services to the nation,
to set in the presidential chair an obscure demagogue who has done
nothing. Wouldn’t you like to go down there and see half an ox roasted,
and a whole sheep?”
We crossed the stream upon a shaking plank laid from bank to bank, and
strolled down the slope to the scene of operations. An immense kettle
was swung over a fire of logs that were so many living coals. The smell
of Brunswick stew had been wafted to us while we leaned on the fence. A
young man, who had the reputation of being an epicure, to the best of
his knowledge and ability, superintended the manufacture of the famous
delicacy.
“Two dozen chickens went into it!” he assured us. “They wanted to make
me think it couldn’t be made without green corn and fresh tomatoes.
I knew a trick worth two of that. I have worked it before with dried
tomatoes and dried sweet corn soaked overnight.”
He smacked his lips and winked fatuously.
“I’ve great confidence in your culinary skill,” was the good-natured
rejoinder.
I recollected that I had heard my father say of this very youth:
“I am never hard upon a fellow who is a fool because he can’t help it!”
But I wondered at his gentleness when the epicure prattled on:
“Yes, sir! a stew like this is fit for Democrats to eat. I wouldn’t
give a Whig so much as a smell of the pot!”
“You ought to have a tighter lid, then,” with the same good-humored
intonation, and we passed on to see the roasts. Shallow pits, six
or seven feet long and four feet wide, were half filled with clear
coals of hard hickory billets. Iron bars were laid across these,
gridiron-like, and half-bullocks and whole sheep were cooking over the
scarlet embers. There were six pits, each with its roast. The spot for
the speakers’ rostrum and the seats of the audience was well-selected.
A deep spring welled up in a grove of maples. The fallen red blossoms
carpeted the ground, and the young leaves supplied grateful shade.
The meadows sloped gradually toward the spring; rude benches of what
we called “puncheon logs”—that is, the trunks of trees hewed in half,
and the flat sides laid uppermost—were ranged in the form of an
amphitheatre.
“You have a fine day for the meeting,” observed my father to the master
of ceremonies, a planter from the Genito neighborhood, who greeted the
visitors cordially.
“Yes, sir! The Lord is on our side, and no mistake!” returned the
other, emphatically. “Don’t you see that yourself, Mr. Hawes!”
“I should not venture to base my faith upon the weather,” his eyes
twinkling while he affected gravity, “for we read that He sends His
rain and sunshine upon the evil and the good. Good-morning! I hope the
affair will be as pleasant as the day.”
