million billion tons of brimstone!”

“Ay-ay, sir!”

“Pipe the stabboard watch!  All hands on deck!”

“Ay-ay, sir!”

“Send two hundred thousand million men aloft to shake out royals and
sky-scrapers!”

“Ay-ay, sir!”

“Hand the stuns’ls!  Hang out every rag you’ve got!  Clothe her from stem
to rudder-post!”

“Ay-ay, sir!”

In about a second I begun to see I’d woke up a pretty ugly customer,
Peters.  In less than ten seconds that comet was just a blazing cloud of
red-hot canvas.  It was piled up into the heavens clean out of sight—the
old thing seemed to swell out and occupy all space; the sulphur smoke
from the furnaces—oh, well, nobody can describe the way it rolled and
tumbled up into the skies, and nobody can half describe the way it smelt.
Neither can anybody begin to describe the way that monstrous craft begun
to crash along.  And such another powwow—thousands of bo’s’n’s whistles
screaming at once, and a crew like the populations of a hundred thousand
worlds like ours all swearing at once.  Well, I never heard the like of
it before.

We roared and thundered along side by side, both doing our level best,
because I’d never struck a comet before that could lay over me, and so I
was bound to beat this one or break something.  I judged I had some
reputation in space, and I calculated to keep it.  I noticed I wasn’t
gaining as fast, now, as I was before, but still I was gaining.  There
was a power of excitement on board the comet.  Upwards of a hundred
billion passengers swarmed up from below and rushed to the side and begun
to bet on the race.  Of course this careened her and damaged her speed.
My, but wasn’t the mate mad!  He jumped at that crowd, with his trumpet
in his hand, and sung out—

“Amidships! amidships, you—! {9} or I’ll brain the last idiot of you!”

Well, sir, I gained and gained, little by little, till at last I went
skimming sweetly by the magnificent old conflagration’s nose.  By this
time the captain of the comet had been rousted out, and he stood there in
the red glare for’ard, by the mate, in his shirt-sleeves and slippers,
his hair all rats’ nests and one suspender hanging, and how sick those
two men did look!  I just simply couldn’t help putting my thumb to my
nose as I glided away and singing out:

“Ta-ta! ta-ta!  Any word to send to your family?”

Peters, it was a mistake.  Yes, sir, I’ve often regretted that—it was a
mistake.  You see, the captain had given up the race, but that remark was
too tedious for him—he couldn’t stand it.  He turned to the mate, and
says he—

“Have we got brimstone enough of our own to make the trip?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Sure?”

“Yes, sir—more than enough.”

“How much have we got in cargo for Satan?”

“Eighteen hundred thousand billion quintillions of kazarks.”

“Very well, then, let his boarders freeze till the next comet comes.
Lighten ship!  Lively, now, lively, men!  Heave the whole cargo
overboard!”

Peters, look me in the eye, and be calm.  I found out, over there, that a
kazark is exactly the bulk of a  hundred and sixty-nine worlds like
ours !  They hove all that load overboard.  When it fell it wiped out a
considerable raft of stars just as clean as if they’d been candles and
somebody blowed them out.  As for the race, that was at an end.  The
minute she was lightened the comet swung along by me the same as if I was
anchored.  The captain stood on the stern, by the after-davits, and put
his thumb to his nose and sung out—

“Ta-ta! ta-ta!  Maybe  you’ve  got some message to send your friends in
the Everlasting Tropics!”

Then he hove up his other suspender and started for’ard, and inside of
three-quarters of an hour his craft was only a pale torch again in the
distance.  Yes, it was a mistake, Peters—that remark of mine.  I don’t
reckon I’ll ever get over being sorry about it.  I’d ’a’ beat the bully
of the firmament if I’d kept my mouth shut.

                                * * * * *

But I’ve wandered a little off the track of my tale; I’ll get back on my
course again.  Now you see what kind of speed I was making.  So, as I
said, when I had been tearing along this way about thirty years I begun
to get uneasy.  Oh, it was pleasant enough, with a good deal to find out,
but then it was kind of lonesome, you know.  Besides, I wanted to get
somewhere.  I hadn’t shipped with the idea of cruising forever.  First
off, I liked the delay, because I judged I was going to fetch up in
pretty warm quarters when I got through; but towards the last I begun to
feel that I’d rather go to—well, most any place, so as to finish up the
uncertainty.

Well, one night—it was always night, except when I was rushing by some
star that was occupying the whole universe with its fire and its
glare—light enough then, of course, but I necessarily left it behind in a
minute or two and plunged into a solid week of darkness again.  The stars
ain’t so close together as they look to be.  Where was I?  Oh yes; one
night I was sailing along, when I discovered a tremendous long row of
blinking lights away on the horizon ahead.  As I approached, they begun
to tower and swell and look like mighty furnaces.  Says I to myself—

“By George, I’ve arrived at last—and at the wrong place, just as I
expected!”

Then I fainted.  I don’t know how long I was insensible, but it must have
been a good while, for, when I came to, the darkness was all gone and
there was the loveliest sunshine and the balmiest, fragrantest air in its
