her. She saw it. But she did not flinch. 
Though naturally agitated, she did not seem 
frightened, surprised merely and also un 
certain. 
Welden raised his hand with a movement 
 
that threatened her, threatened the occupants of that room, menaced the house, 
Deauville itself, a gesture wide, insane, elemental and human. 
"Don't," she repeated. 
In the constant reiteration of that one 
word there must have been something of the 
effect of a spray. The irritability of the 
one active cell subsided, that of other cells 
was aroused. 
Welden's arm fell at his side. He stared 
at Sally. Then, for the first time, one of his 
two selves recognised her. 
Sally, discovering not that, but the al 
tered attitude, faced him. 
"He would not be there unless she 
wished." 
The words fell over him plentifully like 
water thrown from a bucket. In the full 
douche and splatter of them, their meaning 
insinuated itself into the arteries of thought. 
The man's two selves, the objective and the 
subconscious, rejoined each other; mania 
subsided, somnambulism ceased. Abruptly 
his entire brain awoke. The potential troglodyte that was in him, as potentially he is 
in us all, dematerialised. At once a man of 
the world in flannels and a straw hat found 
himself in the presence of a lady. That hat 
he removed. 
In the eyes and about the mouth of the 
lady was an expression which some ladies 
have when they are occupied less with what 
they say than with other things which they 
do not propose to mention. 
It was quite the same to Welden. That 
which occupied him was the ineluctable truth 
of her statement. Malakoff would not be 
there if Maud had not consented. 
It was in a shrill whisper that Sally had 
produced it. Now, in the same tone, looking him still in the face, she said: 
"Come below with me." 
As she spoke she stooped, gathered the 
 
train of her dress and together they descended the stair. 
In the hall a footman stood. Sally left 
Welden and went to the table. Above it in 
a rack was a letter which she avidly took 
and put in her corsage. Then, turning, she 
spoke to the servant. 
Welden, meanwhile, was still absorbed by 
her statement. But happiness was yet so 
recent that the ineluctable truth had not fully permeated all the cerebral convolu 
tions, and the fact that it had not, manifested 
itself in the melodramatic phrase which all 
have uttered, all at least whom the unfore 
seen has felled. 
"It is impossible; I am dreaming!" 
At that, instantly, there surged before 
him the vision of the pillowed head, but now, 
through some miracle of hell, he could see 
the body, the fair ivory of it blotched with 
postules. 
Again hgematomania would have claimed 
him. For a moment it was not only the vision that he saw but zigzags of black and 
scarlet. Determinedly he reacted. Almost 
immediately the natural poise of the man returned, with it as quickly came the realisa 
tion that since already he had done nothing, 
there was nothing that he or any other civilised being could do, except indeed to leave 
the house. 
At the sure cognition of that he looked 
about for Sally. She was speaking to a 
maid. 
"I am going," he told her. 
Sally, from over her shoulder, nodded at 
him. 
"So am I," she answered and went on with 
her orders. 
"Perkins," she was saying, "M. de Malakoff is in number ten. Tell Harris to have 
two of the men remain near by until they 
see him leave it." 
Welden wondered absently at her reply. 
 
It was odd, he thought, that she also should 
be going. Then, as absently, he remembered 
that she was Malakoff's wife and he contemplated the fact gravely, without pity, It 
seemed to him just that besides himself some 
one else should suffer. 
"And Perkins," Sally called at the now 
retreating woman. "Bring my jewel case 
and some things, enough for to-night." 
"Come," she added to Welden, moving 
as she spoke to the door. "I am going to 
Mrs. Cawtree's. You had better go to the 
hotel, to the Roches Crises." 
The weather, like themselves, had become 
dramatic. The high wind that swept the 
frivolity of the land, came from the sea, perhaps from the Pole. It was strong and rude 
and, as they issued from the house, it 
pounced on them, howling and gay as a pack 
of foxhounds. 
Sally's clothes were lifted and tossed, the 
fichu was nearly torn from her head. She 
dominated her dress however, maintained 
the bit of lace, and, as they went down the 
path, she called at Welden: "What shall 
you do to-morrow?" 
The "to-morrow" was all he caught. The 
rest of the question the gale scattered before 
it reached him. But it was enough. It 
prompted. As yet he had not thought. 
Then at once he knew, and he determined to 
wire to Le Hillel and dispatch him, with 
some local acquaintance, to Malakoff. 
Sally, fancying that he had not heard at 
all, cried at him again, repeating the question. 
Welden, holding his hat on with one hand 
