Howland thinks poor Winterman must have been tremendously struck by
Pellerin’s writings, and have lived too much out of the world to know
that they’ve become the text-books of modern thought. Otherwise, of
course, he’d have taken more trouble to disguise his plagiarisms.”

“I see,” Bernald mused. “Yet you say there is an original element?”

“Yes; but unluckily it’s no good.”

“It’s not--conceivably--in any sense a development of Pellerin’s idea: a
logical step farther?”

“Logical? Howland says it’s twaddle at white heat.”

Bernald sat silent, divided between the fierce satisfaction of seeing
the Interpreter rush upon his fate, and the despair of knowing that the
state of mind he represented was indestructible. Then both emotions were
swept away on a wave of pure joy, as he reflected that now, at last,
Howland Wade had given him back John Pellerin.

The possession was one he did not mean to part with lightly; and the
dread of its being torn from him constrained him to extraordinary
precautions.

“You’ve told Winterman, I suppose? How did he take it?”

“Why, unexpectedly, as he does most things. You can never tell which way
he’ll jump. I thought he’d take a high tone, or else laugh it off; but
he did neither. He seemed awfully cast down. I wished myself well out
of the job when I saw how cut up he was.” Bernald thrilled at the words.
Pellerin had shared his pang, then--the “old woe of the world” at the
perpetuity of human dulness!

“But what did he say to the charge of plagiarism--if you made it?”

“Oh, I told him straight out what Howland said. I thought it fairer. And
his answer to that was the rummest part of all.”

“What was it?” Bernald questioned, with a tremor.

“He said: ‘That’s queer, for I’ve never read Pellerin.’”

Bernald drew a deep breath of ecstasy. “Well--and I suppose you believed
him?”

“I believed him, because I know him. But the public won’t--the critics
won’t. And if it’s a pure coincidence it’s just as bad for him as if it
were a straight steal--isn’t it?”

Bernald sighed his acquiescence.

“It bothers me awfully,” Wade continued, knitting his kindly brows,
“because I could see what a blow it was to him. He’s got to earn his
living, and I don’t suppose he knows how to do anything else. At his
age it’s hard to start fresh. I put that to Howland--asked him if
there wasn’t a chance he might do better if he only had a little
encouragement. I can’t help feeling he’s got the essential thing in him.
But of course I’m no judge when it comes to books. And Howland says it
would be cruel to give him any hope.” Wade paused, turned his wineglass
about under a meditative stare, and then leaned across the table toward
Bernald. “Look here--do you know what I’ve proposed to Winterman? That
he should come to town with me to-morrow and go in the evening to hear
Howland lecture to the Uplift Club. They’re to meet at Mrs. Beecher
Bain’s, and Howland is to repeat the lecture that he gave the other day
before the Pellerin Society at Kenosha. It will give Winterman a chance
to get some notion of what Pellerin was: he’ll get it much straighter
from Howland than if he tried to plough through Pellerin’s books. And
then afterward--as if accidentally--I thought I might bring him and
Howland together. If Howland could only see him and hear him talk,
there’s no knowing what might come of it. He couldn’t help feeling the
man’s force, as we do; and he might give him a pointer--tell him what
line to take. Anyhow, it would please Winterman, and take the edge off
his disappointment. I saw that as soon as I proposed it.”

“Some one who’s never heard of Pellerin?”

Mrs. Beecher Bain, large, smiling, diffuse, reached out parenthetically
from the incoming throng on her threshold to waylay Bernald with the
question as he was about to move past her in the wake of his companion.

“Oh, keep straight on, Mr. Winterman!” she interrupted herself to call
after the latter. “Into the back drawing-room, please! And remember,
you’re to sit next to me--in the corner on the left, close under the
platform.”

She renewed her interrogative clutch on Bernald’s sleeve. “Most curious!
Doctor Wade has been telling me all about him--how remarkable you all
think him. And it’s actually true that he’s never heard of Pellerin?
Of course as soon as Doctor Wade told me that, I said ‘Bring him!’
It will be so extraordinarily interesting to watch the first
impression.--Yes, do follow him, dear Mr. Bernald, and be sure that you
and he secure the seats next to me. Of course Alice Fosdick insists on
being with us. She was wild with excitement when I told her she was to
meet some one who’d never heard of Pellerin!”

On the indulgent lips of Mrs. Beecher Bain conjecture speedily passed
into affirmation; and as Bernald’s companion, broad and shaggy in his
visibly new evening clothes, moved down the length of the crowded rooms,
he was already, to the ladies drawing aside their skirts to let him
pass, the interesting Huron of the fable.

How far he was aware of the character ascribed to him it was impossible
for Bernald to discover. He was as unconscious as a tree or a cloud, and
his observer had never known any one so alive to human contacts and yet
so secure from them. But the scene was playing such a lively tune on
Bernald’s own sensibilities that for the moment he could not adjust
himself to the probable effect it produced on his companion. The young
man, of late, had made but rare appearances in the group of which Mrs.
Beecher Bain was one of the most indefatigable hostesses, and the Uplift
Club the chief medium of expression. To a critic, obliged by his trade
to cultivate convictions, it was the essence of luxury to leave them at
home in his hours of ease; and Bernald gave his preference to circles in
which less finality of judgment prevailed, and it was consequently less
embarrassing to be caught without an opinion.

But in his fresher days he had known the spell of the Uplift Club and
the thrill of moving among the Emancipated; and he felt an odd sense
of rejuvenation as he looked at the rows of faces packed about the
embowered platform from which Howland Wade was presently to hand down
the eternal verities. Many of these countenances belonged to the
