not like you--"

"They're more human. Is that it, Valerie?"

"No, I don't mean that!"

"Yes, you do. You mean that the others take life in a perfectly human
manner--find enjoyment, amusement in each other, in a hundred things
outside of their work. They act like men and women, not like a painting
machine; if they experience impulses and emotions they don't entirely
stifle 'em. They have time and leisure to foregather, laugh, be silly,
discuss, banter, flirt, make love, and cut up all the various harmless
capers that humanity is heir to. That's what you mean, but you don't
realise it. And you think, and they think, that my solemn and owlish
self-suppression is drying me up, squeezing out of me the essence of
that warm, lovable humanity in which, they say, my work is deficient.
They say, too, that my inspiration is lacking in that it is not founded
on personal experience; that I have never known any deep emotion, any
suffering, any of the sterner, darker regrets--anything of that passion
which I sometimes depict. They say that the personal and convincing
element is totally absent because I have not lived"--he laughed--"and
loved; that my work lacks the one thing which only the self-knowledge of
great happiness and great pain can lend to it.... And--I think they are
right, Valerie. What do you think?"

The girl stood silent, with lowered eyes, reflecting for a moment. Then
she looked up curiously.

"Have you never been very unhappy?"

"I had a toothache once."

She said, unsmiling: "Haven't you ever suffered mentally?"

"No--not seriously. Oh, I've regretted little secret meannesses--bad
temper, jealousy--"

"Nothing else? Have you never experienced deep unhappiness--through
death, for example?"

"No, thank God. My father and mother and sister are living.... It is
rather strange," he added, partly to himself, "that the usual troubles
and sorrows have so far passed me by. I am twenty-seven; there has never
been a death in my family, or among my intimate friends."

"Have you any intimate friends?"

"Well--perhaps not--in the strict sense. I don't confide."

"Have you never cared, very much, for anybody--any woman?"

"Not sentimentally," he returned, laughing. "Do you think that a good
course of modern flirtation--a thorough schooling in the old-fashioned
misfortunes of true love would inject into my canvases that elusively
occult quality they're all howling for?"

She remained smilingly silent.

"Perhaps something less strenuous would do," he said, mischievously--"a
pretty amourette?--just one of those gay, frivolous, Louis XV affairs
with some daintily receptive girl, not really improper, but only ultra
fashionable. Do you think that would help some, Valerie?"

She raised her eyes, still smiling, a little incredulous, very slightly
embarrassed:

"I don't think your painting requires any such sacrifices of you, Mr.
Neville.... Are you going to take me somewhere to dinner? I'm dreadfully
hungry."

"You poor little girl, of course I am. Besides, you must be suffering
under the terrible suppression of that 'thorough talk' which you--"

"It doesn't really require a thorough talk," she said; "I'll tell you
now what I had to say. No, don't interrupt, please! I want to--please
let me--so that nothing will mar our enjoyment of each other and of the
gay world around us when we are dining.... It is this: Sometimes--once
in a while--I become absurdly lonely, which makes me a fool,
temporarily. And--will you let me telephone you at such times?--just to
talk to you--perhaps see you for a minute?"

"Of course. You know my telephone number. Call me up whenever you like."

"Could I see you at such moments? I--there's a--some--a kind of
sentiment about me--when I'm very lonely; and I've been foolish enough
to let one or two men see it--in fact I've been rather
indiscreet--silly--with a man--several men--now and then. A lonely girl
is easily sympathised with--and rather likes it; and is inclined to let
herself go a little.... I don't want to.... And at times I've done
it.... Sam Ogilvy nearly kissed me, which really doesn't count--does it?
But I let Harry Annan do it, once.... If I'm weak enough to drift into
such silliness I'd better find a safeguard. I've been
thinking--thinking--that it really does originate in a sort of foolish
loneliness ...not in anything worse. So I thought I'd have a thorough
talk with you about it. I'm twenty-one--with all my experience of life
and of men crowded into a single winter and spring. I have as friends
only the few people I have met through you. I have nobody to see unless
I see them--nowhere to go unless I go where they ask me.... So I thought
I'd ask you to let me depend a little on you, sometimes--as a refuge
from isolation and morbid thinking now and then. And from other
mischief--for which I apparently have a capacity--to judge by what I've
done--and what I've let men do already."

She laid her hand lightly on his arm in sudden and impulsive confidence:

"That's my 'thorough talk.' I haven't any one else to tell it to. And
I've told you the worst." She smiled at him adorably: "And now I am
ready to go out with you," she said,--"go anywhere in the world with
you, Kelly. And I am going to be perfectly happy--if you are."




CHAPTER III


One day toward the middle of June Valerie did not arrive on time at the
studio. She had never before been late.

About two o'clock Sam Ogilvy sauntered in, a skull pipe in his mouth,
