a plum and an eye for an eye--since the picture itself, with this huge
ventilation, is now quite a different affair?”

“How the deuce a different affair when just what the man himself
confesses is that, in spite of all the chatter of the prigs and pedants,
there’s no really established ground for treating it as anything but
the same?” On which, as having so unanswerably spoken, Lord Theign shook
himself free again, in his high petulance, and moved restlessly to where
the passage to the other room appeared to offer his nerves an issue; all
moreover to the effect of suggesting to us that something still other
than what he had said might meanwhile work in him behind and beneath
that quantity. The spectators of his trouble watched him, for the time,
in uncertainty and with a mute but associated comment on the perversity
and oddity he had so suddenly developed; Lord John giving a shrug of
almost bored despair and Lady Sandgate signalling caution and tact for
their action by a finger flourished to her lips, and in fact at once
proceeding to apply these arts. The subject of her attention had still
remained as in worried thought; he had even mechanically taken up a book
from a table--which he then, after an absent glance at it, tossed down.

“You’re so detached from reality, you adorable dreamer,” she began--“and
unless you stick to that you might as well have done nothing. What
you call the pedantry and priggishness and all the rest of it is exactly
what poor Breckenridge asked almost on his knees, wonderful man, to
be allowed to pay you for; since even if the meddlers and chatterers
haven’t settled anything for those who know--though which of the elect
themselves after all does seem to know?--it’s a great service rendered
him to have started such a hare to run!”

Lord John took freedom to throw off very much the same idea. “Certainly
his connection with the whole question and agitation makes no end for
his glory.”

It didn’t, that remark, bring their friend back to him, but it at least
made his indifference flash with derision. “His ‘glory’--Mr. Bender’s
glory? Why, they quite universally loathe him--judging by the stuff they
print!”

“Oh, here--as a corrupter of our morals and a promoter of our decay,
even though so many are flat on their faces to him--yes! But it’s
another affair over there where the eagle screams like a thousand
steam-whistles and the newspapers flap like the leaves of the forest:
there he’ll be, if you’ll only let him, the biggest thing going; since
sound, in that air, seems to mean size, and size to be all that counts.
If he said of the thing, as you recognise,” Lord John went on, “‘It’s
going to be a Mantovano,’ why you can bet your life that it is--that
it has got to be some kind of a one.”

His fellow-guest, at this, drew nearer again, irritated, you would
have been sure, by the unconscious infelicity of the pair--worked up
to something quite openly wilful and passionate. “No kind of a furious
flaunting one, under my patronage, that I can prevent, my boy! The
Dedborough picture in the market--owing to horrid little circumstances
that regard myself alone--is the Dedborough picture at a decent,
sufficient, civilised Dedborough price, and nothing else whatever; which
I beg you will take as my last word on the subject.”

Lord John, trying whether he could take it, momentarily mingled his
hushed state with that of their hostess, to whom he addressed a helpless
look; after which, however, he appeared to find that he could only
reassert himself. “May I nevertheless reply that I think you’ll not be
able to prevent anything?--since the discussed object will completely
escape your control in New York!”

“And almost any discussed object”--Lady Sand-gate rose to the occasion
also--“is in New York, by what one hears, easily worth a Hundred
Thousand!”

Lord Theign looked from one of them to the other. “I sell the man a
Hundred Thousand worth of swagger and advertisement; and of fraudulent
swagger and objectionable advertisement at that?”

“Well”--Lord John was but briefly baffled--“when the picture’s his you
can’t help its doing what it can and what it will for him anywhere!”

“Then it isn’t his yet,” the elder man retorted--“and I promise you
never will be if he has sent you to me with his big drum!”

Lady Sandgate turned sadly on this to her associate in patience, as
if the case were now really beyond them. “Yes, how indeed can it ever
become his if Theign simply won’t let him pay for it?”

Her question was unanswerable. “It’s the first time in all my life I’ve
known a man feel insulted, in such a piece of business, by happening
not to be, in the usual way, more or less swindled!”

“Theign is unable to take it in,” her ladyship explained, “that--as I’ve
heard it said of all these money-monsters of the new type--Bender simply
can’t afford not to be cited and celebrated as the biggest buyer who
ever lived.”

“Ah, cited and celebrated at my expense--say it at once and have it
over, that I may enjoy what you all want to do to me!”

“The dear man’s inimitable--at his ‘expense’!” It was more than Lord
John could bear as he fairly flung himself off in his derisive impotence
and addressed his wail to Lady Sandgate.

“Yes, at my expense is exactly what I mean,” Lord Theign
asseverated--“at the expense of my modest claim to regulate my behaviour
by my own standards. There you perfectly are about the man, and it’s
precisely what I say--that he’s to hustle and harry me because he’s a
money-monster: which I never for a moment dreamed of, please understand,
when I let you, John, thrust him at me as a pecuniary resource at
Dedborough. I didn’t put my property on view that he might blow about
it------!”

“No, if you like it,” Lady Sandgate returned; “but you certainly didn’t
so arrange”--she seemed to think her point somehow would help--“that
you might blow about it yourself!”

“Nobody wants to ‘blow,’” Lord John more stoutly interposed, “either hot
or cold, I take it; but I really don’t see the harm of Bender’s liking
to be known for the scale of his transactions--actual or merely imputed
even, if you will; since that scale is really so magnificent.”

Lady Sandgate half accepted, half qualified this plea. “The only
question perhaps is why he doesn’t try for some precious work that
somebody--less delicious than dear Theign--can be persuaded on bended
knees to accept a hundred thousand for.”
