Diana’s neck.
"Do you still care for him very much?" she asked sorrowfully.
"Very much."
"Do you think it will last?"
"Yes."
"What are you going to do?"
"Nothing."
"Isn’t there something to do?"
"Nothing."
"Perhaps, all this time he really cares for you."
"There is not the slightest possibility.  I had my chance; he cared for
me—at that moment—when he told me so....  Those men out there"—she made
a vague gesture toward the unseen hills—"are no more deadly cool when
they shoot than was I when I deliberately killed in him whatever love he
may have had for me....  I slew it, I tell you.  There is no
resurrection for dead things."
Silvette sighed heavily, and laid her smooth cheek against her sister’s
hair.
"Still," she murmured half to herself, "there are miracles."
"There were."
"There may be others yet."
"No; I wounded his pride."
"You aroused it."
"By wounding it, and at the expense of what fell dead beside it.  Love
died that day, little sister, and for that death there is no
reincarnation."
Again the feverish desire for escape came over her, seeming to burn
through every vein, and she sprang to her feet and rang for the maid.
"I’m likely to do almost anything to-night," she said.  "Shall I make it
a double event when you’re ready?"
"A double—what?"
"Double event—double wedding?  I can easily do so.  Is it a good way to
drown your griefs, Silvie?  Because the prospect of being alone after
you and Jack marry actually terrifies me."
"You little goose, you’ll live with us!"
"I see myself doing it!—the superfluous spinster to be reckoned with,
counted in at dinners, mollified by kindness, secretly feared for her
acidulated tongue, to be employed later in either bribing or
disciplining the children."
"Di!"
"What?"
"If—in the—the——"
"Course of human events——"
"Jack and I have children," continued Silvette, flushing, "we’ll also
have nurses to look out for the grubby little things."
"Grubby!  You don’t know what you’re saying.  You’ll be the most
adoring—and adorable mother——"
"Well, please don’t talk about it....  I don’t care for children now....
I don’t know how I’ll feel later."
Diana stood in the middle of the room—the smile fading from her face,
her small hands clenching.
"I’ve learned to like children," she said. "I’ve learned to love them,
somehow—even babies....  I want one of my own," she added fiercely.  "I
wish for one very much; and if I can’t have one—and it’s impossible, of
course—I—I’ll marry some man and have one!"
"Good heavens!" exclaimed Silvette, horrified, "what are you talking
about?  I’ll let you have one of mine!"
"I don’t want yours!  How do you know you’ll have any?  How do you know
you’ll have more than one?"
Her eyebrows were bent inward, her lips compressed; she turned her head
and stared out at the stars—from where, they say, all babies come, and
where they all return at last.
"You know," she said calmly, "that I wouldn’t really do such a
thing—even to have what I care for so much....  And yet—if a woman is
tired, hopeless, alone, isn’t marrying some man a help to her?  Can’t
she stand the passing years better?  Doesn’t it give her some respite
from the eternal pain—here"—she laid a slim hand on her breast—"doesn’t
it give her something to live for, especially if children should come?
I don’t know, Silvie; I ask you because I’m tired and confused with the
pain of it."
"My darling!"
She dropped her head on Silvette’s shoulder for a moment; then, as the
maid knocked, lifted it calmly and bade her come in.
That night at dinner she was very gay—a charming, sparkling, bewildering
creature. Through and through Colonel Curmew shot intermittent pangs of
jealousy and doubt, mercifully assuaged by hope; through and through
Scott Wallace her blue eyes seemed to penetrate, exposing to her
laughing gaze his youthful and very susceptible heart.
[Illustration: "That night at dinner she was very gay—a charming,
sparkling, bewildering creature."]
"Certainly I’m bowled over," he admitted cheerfully to himself.  "She is
the cunnin’est thing that ever missed a pheasant; but she’s found me,
all right, with both barrels, and the sky’s full of feathers, and I’m on
the sod, kickin’."
Me managed to tell her so that evening, in language sportsmanlike and
picturesque, before they cut for partners at auction.  She was standing
on the stairs, two steps up; he below her, with his handsome face
lifted.
"All you’ve got to do is to send your dogs forward, and retrieve me,
Diana.  I’m grassed in the open in plain sight."
"Suppose I should take you up, Scott?"
"Is it a go?"
She smiled down at him.
"Take care, young man.  I’m approaching spinsterhood at a terrifying
speed.  How do you know that I may not clutch wildly at you?"
"For Heaven’s sake, clutch!" he urged her.
"How?  Shall I roll up my eyes and whisper, ’Oh, Scott!’—or shall I take
a flying leap at you from here, and rope you before you can get away?
Instruct me, please, because I really don’t know as much about such
customs as perhaps you think I do."
"Take the flyer, Diana; I’ll catch you.  Are you ready?  Come on; be a
sport!"
"I can’t be a sport, Scott.  I try; I make a brave effort to be
cigaretteful and naughty, but—I’m ashamed to say it isn’t in me.  Now
you’ll run, I suppose."
"After you—yes....  Diana, I do love you.  I haven’t said it right,
that’s all.  Will you marry me and make somethin’ out of me besides a
loafin’ lout in puttees?"
"Oh, Scott, you’re so beautiful in puttees! I wouldn’t make anything
else out of you if I could; you must be perfectly gorgeous in pink."
"Come down to the next hunt ball and see. They’re a fine bunch at
Meadowbrook.  You’ll like ’em; maybe you’ll learn to like me."
"I do now, you scatter-brain!  I adore you, Scott; but, you know, love
is a different game."
"That’ll come all right," he protested. "When you’re the missus, and you
see me come a cropper over five bars, you’ll suddenly wake up to find
you love hubby.  And I won’t be hurt, but you’ll think I am, and you’ll
pull up and scramble down and look me over, and cover my pale and
beautiful face with kisses and—I’ll play foxy and let you," he ended
with pleased satisfaction.
