had been lying, and began to undress.
       *       *       *       *       *
As for Desboro, he had gone straight to his rooms very much excited and
unbalanced by the emotions of the moment.
He was a man not easily moved to genuine expression. Having acquired
certain sorts of worldly wisdom in a career more or less erratic,
experience had left him unconvinced and even cynical--or he thought it
had.
But now, for the moment, all that lay latent in him of that impetuous
and heedless vigour which may become strength, if properly directed, was
awakening. Every recurring memory of her had already begun to tamper
with his self-control; for the emotions of the moments just ended had
been confusingly real; and, whatever they were arousing in him, now
clamoured for some sort of expression.
The very thought of her, now, began to act on him like some freshening
perfume alternately stimulating and enervating. He made the effort again
and again, and could not put her from his mind, could not forget the
lowered head and the slender, yielding grace of her, and her fragrance,
and her silence.
Dressing in his rooms, growing more restless every moment, he began to
walk the floor like some tormented thing that seeks alleviation in
purposeless activity.
He said, half aloud, to himself:
"I can't go on this way. This is damn foolish! I've got to find out
where it's landing me. It will land her, too--somewhere. I'd better keep
away from her, go off somewhere, get out, stop seeing her, stop
remembering her!--if she's what I think she is."
Scowling, he went to the window and jerked aside the curtain. Across the
street, the Olympian Club sparkled with electricity.
"Good Lord!" he muttered. "What a tempest in a teapot! What the devil's
the matter with me? Can't I kiss a girl now and then and keep my
senses?"
It seemed that he couldn't, in the present instance, for after he had
bitten the amber stem of his pipe clean through, he threw the bowl into
the fireplace. It had taken him two years to colour it.
"Idiot!" he said aloud. "What are you sorry about? You know damn well
there are only two kinds of women, and it's up to them what sort they
are--not up to any man who ever lived! What are you sorry for? For her?"
He stared across the street at the Olympian Club. He was expected there.
"If she only wasn't so--so expressionless and--silent about it. It's
like killing something that lets you do it. That's a crazy thing to
think of!"
Suddenly he found he had a fight on his hands. He had never had one like
it; didn't know exactly what to do, except to repeat over and over:
"It isn't square--it isn't square. She knows it, too. She's frightened.
She knows it isn't square. There's nothing ahead but hell to pay! She
knows it. And she doesn't defend herself. There are only two kinds of
women. It is up to them, too. But it's like killing something that
lets you kill it. Good God! What a damn fool I am!"
Later he repeated it. Later still he found himself leaning over his
desk, groping blindly about for a pen, and cursing breathlessly as
though he had not a moment to lose.
He wrote:
     "DEAR LITTLE JACQUELINE: I'm not going to see you again. Where the
     fool courage to write this comes from I don't know. But you will
     now learn that there is nothing to me after all--not even enough of
     positive and negative to make me worth forgiveness. And so I let it
     go at that. Good-bye.
  "DESBORO."
In the same half blind, half dazed way, cursing something all the while,
he managed to seal, stamp, and direct the letter, and get himself out of
the house with it.
A club servant at the Olympian mailed it; he continued on his way to the
dining room, and stumbled into a chair between Cairns and Reggie
Ledyard, who were feasting noisily and unwisely with Stuyvesant Van
Alstyne; and the racket and confusion seemed to help him. He was
conscious of laughing and talking and drinking a great deal--conscious,
too, of the annoyance of other men at other tables. Finally, one of the
governors came over and very pleasantly told him to shut up or go
elsewhere.
They all went, with cheerfulness unimpaired by gubernatorial
admonition. There was a large dinner dance for debutantes at the
Barkley's. This function they deigned to decorate with their presence
for a while, Cairns and Van Alstyne behaving well enough, considering
the manners of the times; Desboro, a dull fire smouldering in his veins,
wandered about, haunted by a ghost whose soft breath touched his cheek.
His manners were good when he chose; they were always faultless when he
was drunk. Perfectly steady on his legs, very pale, and a trifle over
polite, the drunker he was the more courtly he invariably became,
measuredly graceful, in speech reticent. Only his pallor and the lines
about his mouth betrayed the tension.
Later, one or two men familiar with the house strolled into the distant
billiard room and discovered him standing there looking blankly into
space.
Ledyard, bad tempered when he had dined too well, announced that he had
had enough of that debutante party:
"Look at 'em," he said to Desboro. "Horrible little fluffs just out of
the incubator--with their silly brains and rotten manners, and their
'Bunny Hugs' and 'Turkey Trots' and 'Dying Chickens,' and the champagne
flaming in their baby cheeks! Why, their mothers are letting 'em dance
like filles de Brasserie! Men used to know where to go for that sort
of thing----"
Cairns, balancing gravely on heels and toes, waved one hand
comprehensively.
"Problem was," he said, "how to keep the young at home. Bunny Hug solves
it. See? All the comforts of the Tenderloin at home. Tha's
'splaination."
"Come on to supper," said Ledyard. "Your Blue Girl will be there, Jim."
"By all means," said Desboro courteously. "My car is entirely at your
disposal." But he made no movement.
"Come to supper," insisted Ledyard.
"Commer supper," echoed Cairns gravely. "Whazzer mazzer? Commer supper!"
"Nothing," said Desboro, "could give me greater pleasure." He rose,
bowed courteously to Ledyard, included Cairns in a graceful salute, and
reseated himself.
Ledyard lost his temper and began to shout at him.
"I beg your pardon for my inexcusable absent-mindedness," said Desboro,
getting slowly onto his feet once more. With graceful precision, he made
his way to his hostess and took faultless leave of her, Cairns and
Ledyard attempting vainly to imitate his poise, urbanity and
self-possession.
The icy air of the street did Cairns good and aided Ledyard. So they got
themselves out across the sidewalk and ultimately into Desboro's town
car, which was waiting, as usual.
"Little bunny-hugging, bread-and-butter beasts," muttered Ledyard to
himself. "Lord! Don't they want us to draw the line between them and the
sort we're to meet at supper?"
"They're jus' fools," said Cairns. "No harm in 'em! And I'm not going to
supper. I'll take you there an' go'me!"
"What's the matter with you?" demanded Ledyard.
