over on Sunday. What a splendid present! Oh, 
Chan, I’m so glad it wasn’t you that died. I want 
us all to grow up to be men and women, and we 
won’t stay in this old two-cent town, but go some- 
where where we can have just royal times, and 
mother shall not work as she does now.” And 
then they hugged each other. 


CHAPTER XV 


MR. MANN’s thanksgiving PARTY 

Mr. Mann had been extremely busy and some- 
how curiously happy. The snow in the city had 
only amounted to slush. He had gone to see about 
his new purchase and decided Lady Betty was a 
bargain, so had concluded it and ordered her sent 
at once. Business had been very good during the 
fall, plenty of orders, willing workmen, prompt 
payment of bills. Last year he had given a turkey 
all round for the first time in his business career. 
He must not fail now when everything had pros- 
pered with him. There was this to look after, 
there were stores to send out home, there were 
dinners for several poor organizations to help out. 
The Rosses were to go to a country wedding of 
some relative, so even if he had counted on them 
they would have failed him. 

Oh, how beautiful the world about Grafton 
looked when he stepped out of the station! The 
far reaches of snowy loveliness with the back- 
ground of forest, many of the trees evergreens; 
the houses with their hooded peaks, the long level 




 

of yellow light, the aspect of softness, silence, 
cleanliness, touched him like going into a new 
world, throbbed in every pulse with a joy he was 
content to feel but could not translate. 

“ Did she come, Dan? ” 

‘‘ About an hour ago,” touching his hat. She’s 
a beauty, sir. I don’t know but she’ll outshine 
Bonnie when she’s had as good care. She isn’t 
quite up to the mark.” 

“ She’s broken to the saddle. I think I will 
ride when pleasant weather comes if I am not too 
old and awkward. When I was a boy I rode bare- 
back; my only experience,” and he laughed. 

Was that little boy really himself? Was the 
other one bumming around, going hungry and 
sleeping anywhere, the present Adonijah Mann? 
Ah, he did owe a good deal to his kind when he 
had been so prospered. But country life was better 
for children. 

And the warm, cheerful home, how enjoyable 
it was! And when it came to have the little lad 
who would run to welcome him, the shining eyes 
with their gladness, the small hands slipped in his 
— the boy growing taller, wiser, and sweeter every 
year, almost like one of his own blood! He read 
his paper perfunctorily, so engrossed was he with 
his dream. 


 

Fd like to go on Wednesday noon,” said Mr. 
Ross. “ With children one doesn’t enjoy being 
late, and I suppose every train will be crowded.” 

Very well. Fll see to the last things and take 
the gratitude,” he laughed, though he almost de- 
sired to be at home Wednesday. 

When that woman comes you must make her 
earn her salt,” and there was a twinkle in Mr. 
Mann’s eye. “ Have two of the turkeys cooked so 
you can just heat them over. I don’t want you 
to be in the kitchen all the time on Thursday.” 

“ I do believe you could cook a turkey and get 
a dinner yourself,” said Mrs. Alden. 

“ I cooked the last one we had,” he returned, a 
little gravely. “ Last Thanksgiving I had neither 
home nor wife.” 

He recalled her words: “If you want a grand 
turkey dinner you’ll have to cook it yourself. I’m 
too busy to bother with it.” 

Oh, if she had only taken a little of the sweet- 
ness of life as she had gone along! His heart 
ached for her even in the grave. 

The woman had come, a tall, strong, rather 
gaunt person answering to the name of Lide. She 
was a good worker, took hold in real earnest and 
did not waste her time talking. ; ' 

As for him, he dealt out gifts and good wishes. 





He was pervaded by a holiday spirit. All the time 
he was learning of the delight a man could do and 
