his hands for less than a third of what he paid Sprowl for it; and as
Quarren's adjoining options were rapidly expiring he was forced to
accept. Which put the boy almost entirely out of business; so he closed
his handsome office downtown and opened another in the front parlour of
an old and rather dingy brown-stone house on the east side of Lexington
Avenue near Fiftieth Street and hung out his sign once more over the
busy streets of Ascalon.

                   RICHARD STANLEY QUARREN
                         Real Estate

Also he gave up his quarters at the Irish Legation to the unfeigned
grief of the diplomats domiciled there, and established himself in the
back parlour and extension of the Lexington Avenue house, ready at all
moments now for business or for sleep. Neither bothered him excessively.

He wrote no more notes to Strelsa Leeds--that is, he posted no more,
however many he may have composed. Rumours from the inner temple
concerning her and Langly Sprowl and Sir Charles Mallison drifted out
into the real world every day or so. But he never went back to the
temple to verify them. That life was ended for him. Sometimes, sitting
alone at his desk, he fancied that he could almost hear the far laughter
of the temple revels, and the humming of the drones. But the roar of the
street-car, rushing, grinding through the steel-ribbed streets of
Ascalon always drowned it, and its far seen phantom glitter became a
burning reality where the mid-day sun struck the office sign outside his
open window.

Fate, the ugly jade, was making faces at him, all kinds of faces. Just
now she wore the gaunt mask of poverty, but Quarren continued to ignore
her, because to him, there was no real menace in her skinny grin, no
real tragedy in what she threatened.

Real tragedy lay in something very different--perhaps in manhood awaking
from ignoble lethargy to learn its own degeneracy in a young girl's
scornful eyes.

All day long he sat in his office attending to the trivial business that
came into it--not enough so far to give him a living.

In the still spring evenings he retired to his quarters in the back
parlour, bathed, dressed, looking out at the cats on the back fences.
Then he went forth to dine either at the Legation or with some one of
the few friends he had cared to retain in that magic-lantern world which
he at last had found uninhabitable--a world in which few virile men
remain very long--fewer and fewer as the years pass on. For the gilding
on the temple dome is peeling off; and the laughter is dying out, and
the hum of the drones sounds drowsy like unreal voices heard in summer
dreams.

"It is the passing of an imbecile society," declaimed Westguard--"the
dying sounds of its meaningless noise--the first omens of a silence
which foretells annihilation. Out of chaos will gradually emerge the
elements of a real society--the splendid social and intellectual
brotherhood of the future----"

"See my forthcoming novel," added Lacy, "$1.35 net, for sale at all
booksellers or sent post-paid on receipt of----"

"You little fashionable fop!" growled Westguard--"there's a winter
coming for all butterflies!"

"I've seen 'em dancing over the snow on a mild and sunny day," retorted
Lacy. "Karl, my son, the nobly despairing writer with a grouch never yet
convinced anybody."

"I don't despair," retorted Westguard. "This country is getting what it
wants and what it deserves, ladled out to it in unappetising gobs. Year
after year great incoming waves of ignorance sweep us from ocean to
ocean; but I don't forget that those very waves also carry a constantly
growing and enlightened class higher and higher toward permanent
solidity.

"Every annual wave pushes the flotsam of the year before toward the
solid land. The acquaintance with sordid things is the first real
impulse toward education. Some day there will be no squalor in the
land--neither the physical conditions in our slums nor the arid
intellectual deserts within the social frontiers."

"But the waves will accomplish that--not your very worthy novels," said
Lacy, impudently.

"If you call me 'worthy' I'll bat you on the head," roared Westguard,
sitting up on the sofa where he had been sprawling; and laughter, loud
and long, rattled the windows in the Irish Legation.

The May night was hot; a sickly breeze stirred the curtains at the open
windows of Westguard's living room where the Legation was entertaining
informally.

Quarren, Lacy, O'Hara, and Sir Charles Mallison sat by the window
playing poker; the Earl of Dankmere, perched on the piano-stool, was
mournfully rattling off a string of melodies acquired along Broadway;
Westguard himself, flat on his back, occupied a leather lounge and
dispensed philosophy when permitted.

"You know," said Lacy, dealing rapidly, "you're only a tin-horn
philosopher, Karl, but you really could write a good story if you tried.
Get your people into action. That's the game."

O'Hara nodded. "Interestin' people, in books and outside, are always
doin' things, not talkin'," he said--"like Sir Charles quietly drawin'
four cards to a kicker and sayin' nothin'."

"--Like old Dankmere, yonder, playing 'Madame Sherry' and not trying to
tell us why human beings enjoy certain sounds known as harmonies, but
just keeping busy beating the box----"

"--Like a pretty woman who is contented to be as attractive and cunnin'
as she can be, and not stoppin' to explain the anatomy of romantic love
and personal beauty," added O'Hara.

"--Like----"

"For Heaven's sake give me a stack of chips and shut up!" shouted
Westguard, jumping to his feet and striding to the table. "Everybody on
earth is competent to write a book except an author, but I defy anybody
to play my poker hands for me! Come on, Dankmere! Let's clean out this
complacent crowd!"

