"I know, poor boy, but you seem to have survived."

"When I do not see you every day I am most miserable."

"So am I--but I am reasonable, too. I say to myself, if I don't see
Euan today I will nevertheless see him to-morrow, or the day after, or
the next, God willing----"

"Lois!"

"What?"

"How can you reason so coldly?"

"I--reason coldly? There is nothing cold in me where you are concerned.
But I have to console myself for not seeing you----"

"I am inconsolable," said I fervently.

"No more than am I," she retorted hotly, as though jealous that I
should arrogate to myself a warmer feeling concerning her than she
entertained for me.

"I care so much for you, Lois," said I.

"And I for you."

"Not as I care for you."

"Exactly as you care for me. Do you think me insensible to gratitude
and affection?"

"I do not desire your gratitude for a few articles----"

"It isn't for them--though I'm grateful for those things too! It's
gratitude to God for giving me you, Euan Loskiel! And you ought to take
shame to yourself for doubting it!"

I said nothing, being unable to see her in the darkness, much less
perceive what expression she wore for her rebuke to me. Then as I stood
silent, I felt her little hands groping on my arm; and my own closed on
them and I laid my lips to them.

"Ai-me!" she said softly. "Why do we fight and fret each other? Why do
I, who adore you so, let you vex me and stir me to say what I do not
mean at all. Always remember, Euan--always, always--that whatever I am
unkind enough to say or do to vex you, in my secret mind I know that no
other man on earth is comparable to you--and that you reign first in my
heart--first, and all by yourself, alone."

"And will you try to love me some day, Lois?"

"I do."

"I mean----"

"Oh, Euan, I do--I do! Only--you know--not in the manner you once spoke
of----"

"But I love you in that manner."

"No, you do not! If you did, doubtless I would respond; no doubt at all
that I also would confess such sentiments in your regard. But it isn't
true for either of us. You're a man. All men are prone to harp on those
strings.... But--there is no harmony in them to me.... I know my own
mind, although you say I don't--and--I do know yours, too. And if a day
ever comes that neither you nor I are longer able to think clearly and
calmly with our minds, but begin to reason with our emotions, then I
shall consider that we are really entering into a state of love--such
as you sometimes have mentioned to me--and will honestly admit as much
to you.... And if you then desire to wed me, no doubt that I shall
desire it, too. And I promise in that event to love you--oh, to death,
Euan!" she said, pressing my hands convulsively. "If ever I love--that
way--it truly will be love! Are you content with what I say?"

"I must be."

"What an ungracious answer! I could beat you soundly for it! Euan, you
sometimes vex me so that I could presently push you into that pool....
I do not mean it, dearest lad. You know you already have my
heart--perhaps only a child's heart yet, though I have seen ages pass
away.... And my eyes have known tears.... Perhaps for that reason I am
come out into this new sunshine which you have made for me, to play as
children play--having never done so in my youth. Bear with me, Euan.
You would not want me if there were nothing in me to respond to you. If
there ever is, it will not remain silent. But first I want my play-day
in the sunshine you have promised me--the sunlight of a comrade's
kindness. Be not too blunt with me. You have my heart, I tell you. Let
it lie quiet and safe in your keeping, like some strange, frail
chrysalis. I myself know there is a miracle within it; but what that
miracle may be, I may not guess till it reveals itself."

"I am a fool," I said. "God never before sent any man such a comrade as
He has sent in you to me."

"That was said sweetly and loyally. Thank you. If hearts are to be
awakened and won, I think it might be done that way--with such pleasant
phrases--given always time."

Presently she withdrew her hands and slipped away from me in the dark.

"Be careful," said I, "or you will slip overboard."

"I mean to presently."

"Then--must I go so soon?"

She did not answer. Once I thought I heard her moving softly, but the
sound came from the wrong direction.

"Lois!"

No reply.

"Lois!" I repeated uneasily.

There was a ripple in the pool, silence, then somewhere in the darkness
a faint splash.

"Good Lord!" said I. "Have you fallen in?"
