little legs around the stout body, a trick of baby- 
hood with his own father. What a friend they 
would all have, and the tears of gratitude shone 
in her eyes. 
CHAPTER XIX 
A SUMMER BLOSSOMING 
Tip was not much the worse for his scrimmage, 
except being somewhat bruised under the eye. 
Miss Raynor’s note had expressed sincerest re- 
grets, and exonerated Tip, for she felt he had not 
really been to blame, although she disapproved 
strongly of boys fighting. Davie did not come to 
school, and Tip was quite a hero in the eyes of the 
little girls. Miss Raynor read them a lecture on 
being kind to each other, and not indulging in rude 
or tormenting actions. 
After school was over, Mrs. Mears made her 
appearance, really armed for a fray. Davie had 
been hurt, and had not left his bed all day. She 
had heard those Firth children were of that low 
Denby class, and if Miss Raynor wished to keep 
up the reputation of her school, she would advise 
her to send them packing, as she would lose some 
of her best scholars. They certainly should not 
send Davie next year. 
Miss Raynor’s explanation was quite different 
from what the boy had carried home, but the irate 
mother would not believe her child at fault. 
The Firth children are well-trained- and very 
intelligent. My sister teaches two of them, and 
one is the boy with the beautiful voice who sang 
the Easter anthem. Children will have trivial dis- 
putes at times.” 
But if he had broken Davie’s back when he 
threw him down 
“ He was trying to throw down the Firth boy, 
who is much smaller ; but nothing serious has hap- 
pened. They went down on the soft grass.” 
Well — we shall not send Davie next year,” 
with a toss of the head. 
“ He is rather large for my school,” said Miss 
Raynor, in her quiet, ladylike manner. “ And I 
much prefer girls.” 
Miss Raynor repeated the interview to her 
sister. 
As if we would give up four pupils for her 
one. I do not consider Davie Mears an attractive 
child. He has some sly ways that I despise, and 
he is not truthful. He loves to tease the other 
children.” 
After a week, Davie begged to go back to school. 
It wasn’t any fun to stay at home alone and have 
his mother saying, “ Don’t do that, Davie ; don’t 
get so many books around; don’t pull Jack’s ears; 
oh, can’t you be a little quieter? ” 
Miss Raynor was really proud of Rhoda’s ad- 
vancement, and though Tip had queer streaks, he 
was very smart in some things, and he could draw 
wonderfully. 
Only a week to vacation,” said Prim, swinging 
her hat as she came up the walk. “And, Mother, 
don’t you think Goldie and I might have a little 
tea party? There are so many nice girls in our 
class. And Miss Morrow is going to take us out 
in the woods for a picnic, and there’s the Sunday- 
school, and the Read girls are going to Ocean 
Grove for a week. There are such lots of things. 
Vacation is just splendid! ” 
“ You had a vacation last summer.” 
“ But we had to work, and there were no girls 
to have fun with, only when Mr. Mann came to 
hand,” laughing gayly. “ There he comes now,” 
and Prim flew to meet him. 
They talked school matters. Prim and Goldie 
would not be promoted; they had only been three 
months in the class, and were not far enough ad- 
vanced, Linn was sure. But I’ve studied like a 
trooper.” 
And how does a trooper study? ” asked Goldie;, 
her eyes alight with fun. 
Why, with all his might,” returned Linn. 
Mrs. Mann thought her husband looked tired 
or worried, and when Mrs. Alden had taken the 
children down the street for a walk, she said softly. 
What is it, dear?” 
Oh, have I given it away ? ” laughing in a 
rather forced manner. ‘‘ Well — I had a caller to- 
day, Mr. Howard Gwynne.” 
“ Oh! He wants — does he want Chan? ” 
My dear, there is a good deal to think about.” 
He slipped his arm around his wife and drew her 
nearer. I hoped he had seen some new boys with 
voices — he has one in training — but he wanted to 
know everything about Chan, and I told him I had 
married the mother, the ‘ beauti fullest mother,’ Tip 
once said, and that there were eight children, and 
a girl who might sing equal to Chan, and that I 
should care for them and educate them, and try to 
make fine men and women of them. I ought not to 
have told him about the Easter anthem, but I did, 
I was so proud of it. He is mightily interested, 
and wants to see them all. So I asked him up on 
Saturday.” 
Well ? ” was all she said. 
'' Whether we would have any right to mar a 
splendid future for the lad? He would like to 
take him and do the very best for him. He is 
well known both here and abroad. It is a chance 
out of a thousand. But I love the child — how 
could I part with him ! ” 
Oh, husband, he would not go. Tempting as 
your offer was, he wanted to stay in the little old 
house with us all, and he was full of the sweetest 
gratitude to you. And all the delightful things 
you could give him! Oh, no, he would not go 
away from us. He loved me so well that I think 
he was glad Linn was to go into the store so he 
would have to stay at home a while longer. And 
now I think he doesn’t understand fame well 
enough to give up all our love for it.” 
