you love, the chance of a disease which 
you cannot even endure to hear described. 



 

Now, from whom did that woman get 
syphilis? It is not I who am speaking, it 
is the book. 'From a miserable scoundrel 
who was not afraid to enter into matrimony 
when he had a secondary eruption. All 
that was established later on — 'and who, 
moreover, had thought it best not to let his 
wife be treated for fear of awakening her 
suspicions!' '' 

The doctor closed the book with a bang. 
"What that man has done, sir, is what you 
want to do.'' 

George was edging toward the door; he 
could no longer look the doctor in the eye. 
"I should deserve all those epithets and 
still more brutal ones if I should marry, 
knowing that my marriage would cause 
such horrors. But that I do not believe. 
You and your teachers — you are specialists, 
and consequently you are driven to at- 
tribute everything to the disease you make 
the subject of your studies. A tragic case, 
an exceptional case, holds a kind of fascina- 
tion for you; you think it can never be 
talked about enough." 

''I have heard that argument before," 
said the doctor, with an effort at patience. 



 

"Let me go on, I beg you," pleaded 
George. "You have told me that out of 
every seven men there is one syphilitic. 
You have told me that there are one hun- 
dred thousand in Paris, coming and going, 
alert, and apparently well.'' 

"It is true," said the doctor, "that there 
are one hundred thousand who are actually 
at this moment not visibly xmder the 
influence of the disease. But many thou- 
sands have passed into our hospitals, vic- 
tims of the most frightful ravages that our 
poor bodies can support. These — 'you do 
not see them, and they do not count for 
you. But again, if it concerned no one but 
yourself, you might be able to argue thus. 
What I declare to you, what I affirm with 
all the violence of my conviction, is that 
you have not the right to expose a human 
creature to such chances — rare, as I know, 
but terrible, as I know still better. 
What have you to answer to that?" 

"Nothing," stammered George, brought 
to his knees at last. "You are right about 
that. I don't know what to think." 

"And in forbidding you marriage," con- 



 

tinued the doctor, ''is it the same as if I 
forbade it forever? Is it the same as if I 
told you that you could never be cured? 
On the contrary, I hold out to you every 
hope; but I demand of you a delay of 
three or four years, because it will take me 
that time to find out if you are among the 
number of those unfortunate ones whom I 
pity with all my heart, for whom the 
disease is without mercy; because during 
that time you will be dangerous to your 
wife and to your children. The children 
I have not yet mentioned to you.' 

Here the doctor's voice trembled slightly. 
He spoke with moving eloquence. ''Come, 
sir, you are an honest man; you are too 
young for such things not to move you; 
you are not insensible to duty. It is 
impossible that I shan't be able to find a 
way to your heart, that I shan't be able to 
make you obey me. My emotion in speak- 
ing to you proves that I appreciate your 
suffering, that I suffer with you. It is in 
the name of my sincerity that I implore 
you. You have admitted it — that you 
have not the right to expose your wife to 



 

such miseries. But it is not only your wife 
that you strike; you may attack in her 
your own children. I exclude you for a 
moment from my thought — you and her. 
It is in the name of these innocents that I 
implore you; it is the future, it is the race 
that I defend. Listen to me, listen to me! 
Out of the twenty households of which I 
spoke, only fifteen had children; these 
fifteen had twenty-eight. Do you know 
how many out of these twenty-eight sur- 
vived? Three, sir! Three out of twenty- 
