such a presiding — shall I call her the goddess 
of the hearth? That room is a perfect gem, 
and you three people are to the manner born.'' 
'Not so fast if you please. It is outside of 
my daily life, a place of rest and refreshing 
where a pilgrim may pause now and then.'’ 
"You two people are in love.'' 
am, I admit.’’ 
'Then you are a dolt if you don’t go in and 
win. 
asked her more than a year ago. She 
gave me friendship. We are simply good 
comrades in our work for the world.” 
"She doesn’t look like a woman whose heart 
is buried in some one’s grave.” 
"She has a foolish, insurmountable reason. 
I am a few years her junior,” he said in a half 
satiric tone. "And I have a reason that es- 
caped me then. She is rich and I am com- 
paratively poor.” 
"Nonsense! There should never be any- 
thing but pure love between the man and the 
woman who are the complement of each other. 
What a fascinating picture you three made! 
And you both love the child. I’m glad she 
is going to have a chance with education. 
With those eyes she ought to be beyond the 
ordinary.” 
'Then she will be in good hands.” 
' AI — 'you are an idiot. Some day you will 
rue this shilly-shallying.” 
Dr. Richards’ reply was an unmirthful 
laugh, as if he was not rueing the mischance 
all the time. But he was proud and would 
not go back of his word. 
CHAPTER XIII 
A NEW ATMOSPHERE 
They came back to the sleepy grate fire. 
Miss Armitage said — "You must go to bed 
for you will have to be up early in the morn- 
mg.' 
shall only stay a little while,' as if she 
had been musing over her journey. 'Tairy 
godmother why don't you come, too?" 
' Well, you see I was not asked, I am outside 
of all this business." 
The voice was on the verge of a touch of 
bitterness, though nature and endeavor had 
made it sweet. 
' Why, that's funny. They did not know 
how much I should want you. I'll ask the 
doctor in the morning. Oh, I wonder if I 
shall like those little cousins?" 
"No, dear, you must not speak of it. There 
is nothing for me to do. Sometime we will 
go to the city together and have a nice out- 
mg." 
"Are you glad the doctor is going to be my 
guardian, and — about the fortune?'’ 
"You couldn't have a better one.’ 
"Can’t women be guardians? But I’d 
rather have you for a fairy godmother. No 
one else in the whole wide world could be that; 
you know. For the one in the dream wasn’t 
truly alive. I don’t believe she could have 
taken care of a sick body. Oh you are so 
sweet! I love you! love you!” 
Would the child always love her? She was 
coming to the crucial years. She was very 
fond and sincere now, but she had cause to be 
grateful. She knew so little of the world, she 
had a winsome charm that was unfolding every 
day, she would be attractive to others. Jane 
was her fervent admirer, Bridget adored her, 
the babies capered around when they saw her 
in a species of Indian dance. 
Yes, she would win love, she would not be 
dependent on her alone. Would there come 
a time when she would flit from the wing of 
fairy godmother and find her only an ordi- 
nary friend? 
There seemed a sudden dreariness in the 
world like a bright day clouding over. It 
ought not look so to a woman of five and' 
thirty with health and prosperity and plenty 
of work that did interest her. Other orphan 
girls might appeal to her to make their lonely 
lives blossom with hope and happiness. 
"Yes, she must let her go with earnest 
wishes for her future. She would rejoice in 
whatever came to her and not ask all the 
fragrance of the sweet young soul. So she 
kissed Marilla a tender good-night. 
There were tears in the child's eyes when she 
started on her journey. Mr. Lorimer met 
them at the station with a beautiful box of 
chocolates, and there was a pile of illustrated 
papers. She had so little idea of money that 
even now it was not to be weighed in the bal- 
ance with fairy godmother. 
They passed through pretty towns but 
autumn had stripped the gardens of their 
beauty. Even the clumps of evergreens on 
the lawns looked lonesome. She had never 
gone through a gloomy tunnel before and was 
a little frightened. Emerging from it the 
great city filled her with wonder. 
Then they took a hack. Oh, how full of 
everything the streets were, pedestrians dodging
this way and that, vehicles in a snarl and 
trolleys whizzing by. It was a miracle people 
did not get run over. 
They reached their destination and Lorimer 
ushered them in a sort of ante room, taking 
her to a lady who rose to greet them. 
"And so this is cousin Marion's little girl 
who has been motherless for years! We heard 
you were dead. If I had known you were 
living I should have come for you. We were 
very dear to each other but on her marriage 
