the ticket agent, coolly enough.
"One. Do you wish it?"
"Yes."
The ticket agent made out the coupons and shoved the loose change under
the grille, saying:
"Better hurry, sir. You've less than a minute."
He ran for his train and managed to swing aboard just as the coloured
porters were closing the vestibules and the train was in motion.
A trifle bewildered at what he had done, and by the rapidity with which
he had done it, he sank down in the vacant observation car to collect
his thoughts.
He was on board the Verbena Special--the southern train-de-luxe--bound
for Jacksonville, St. Augustine, Palm Beach, Verbena Inlet, or Miami--or
for Nassau, Cuba, and the remainder of the West Indies--just as he
chose.
He had no other luggage than a walking-stick. Even his overcoat was in
possession of somebody else. That was the situation that now faced
George Z. Green.
But as the train emerged from the river tube, and he realised all this,
he grew calmer; and the calmer he grew the happier he grew.
He was no longer on the threshold of Romance; he had crossed it, and
already he was being whirled away blindly into the Unusual and the
Unknown!
Exultingly he gazed out of the windows upon the uninspiring scenery of
New Jersey. A wonderful sense of physical lightness and mental freedom
took delightful possession of him. Opportunity had not beckoned him in
vain. Chance had glanced sideways at him, and he had recognised the
pretty flirt. His was certainly some brain!
And now, still clinging to the skirts of Chance, he was being whisked
away, pell mell, headlong toward Destiny, in the trail of a slender,
strange young girl who had swiped his overcoat and who seemed
continually inclined to tears.
The incident of the overcoat no longer troubled him. That garment of his
was not unlike the rough travelling coat she herself wore. And it might
have been natural to her, in her distress of mind and very evident
emotion, to have seized it by mistake and made off with it, forgetting
that she still wore her own.
Of course it was a mistake pure and simple. He had only to look at the
girl and understand that. One glance at her sweet, highbred features was
sufficient to exonerate her as a purloiner of gentlemen's garments.
Green crossed his legs, folded his arms, and reflected. The overcoat was
another and most important element in this nascent Romance.
The difficulty lay in knowing how to use the overcoat to advantage in
furthering and further complicating a situation already delightful.
Of course he could do the obvious: he could approach her and take off
his hat and do the well-bred and civil and explain to her the mistake.
But suppose she merely said: "I'm sorry," handed over his coat, and
continued to read her magazine. That would end it. And it mustn't end
until he found out why she had emerged with tears in her beautiful eyes
from the abode of the Princess Zimbamzim.
Besides, he was sure of getting his coat, his wallet, and its contents.
His name and address were in the wallet; also both were sewed inside the
inner pocket of the overcoat.
What would ultimately happen would be this: sooner or later she'd come
to, wake up, dry her pretty eyes, look about, and find that she had
two overcoats in her possession.
It would probably distress her dreadfully, particularly when she
discovered the wallet and the money. But, wherever she was going, as
soon as she reached there she'd send overcoat and money back to his
address--doubtless with a pretty and contrite note of regret.
Yes, but that wouldn't do! What good would the overcoat and the money be
to him, if he were South and she shipped them North? And yet he was
afraid to risk an abrupt ending to his Romance by explaining to her the
mistake.
No; he'd merely follow her for the present. He couldn't help it very
well, being aboard the same train. So it would not be difficult to keep
his eye on her as well as his overcoat, and think out at his leisure how
best to tend, guard, cherish, and nourish the delicate and unopened bud
of Romance.
Meanwhile, there were other matters he must consider; so he wrote out a
telegram to Washington ordering certain necessary articles to be brought
aboard the Verbena Special on its arrival there. The porter took charge
of it.
That night at dinner he looked for the girl in vain. She did not enter
the dining-car while he was there. Haunting the corridors afterward he
saw no sign of her anywhere until, having received his necessaries in a
brand new travelling satchel, and on his way to his stateroom, he caught
a glimpse of her, pale and agitated, in conversation with the porter at
her partly opened door.
She did not even glance at him as he entered his stateroom, but he could
not avoid hearing what she was saying because her enunciation was so
exquisitely distinct.
"Porter," she said in her low, sweet voice, "I have, somehow, made a
very dreadful mistake somewhere. I have a man's overcoat here which does
not belong to me. The cloth is exactly like the cloth of my own
travelling ulster, and I must have forgotten that I had mine on when I
took this."
"Ain't de gemman abohd de Speshul, Miss?" inquired the porter.
"I'm afraid not. I'm certain that I must have taken it in the station
restaurant and brought it aboard the train."
"Ain't nuff'n in de pockets, is dey?" asked the porter.
"Yes; there's a wallet strapped with a rubber band. I didn't feel at
liberty to open it. But I suppose I ought to in order to find out the
owner's name if possible."
"De gemman's name ain't sewed inside de pocket, is it, Miss?"
"I didn't look," she said.
So the porter took the coat, turned it inside out, explored the inside
pocket, found the label, and read:
     "Snipps Brothers: December, 1913. George Z. Green."
A stifled exclamation from the girl checked him. Green also protruded
his head cautiously from his own doorway.
The girl, standing partly in the aisle, was now leaning limply against
the door-sill, her hand pressed convulsively to her breast, her face
white and frightened.
"Is you ill, Miss?" asked the porter anxiously.
"I--no. Z--what name was that you read?"
"George Z. Green, Miss----"
"It--it can't be! Look again! It can't be!"
Her face was ashen to the lips; she closed her eyes for a second,
swayed; then her hand clutched the door-sill; she straightened up with
an effort and opened her eyes, which now seemed dilated by some powerful
emotion.
"Let me see that name!" she said, controlling her voice with an obvious
effort.
The porter turned the pocket inside out for her inspection. There it
was:
     "George Z. Green: 1008-1/2 Fifth Avenue, New York."
"If you knows de gemman, Miss," suggested the porter, "you all kin take
dishere garmint back yo'se'f when you comes No'th."
"Thank you.... Then--I won't trouble you.... I'll--I'll ta-t-take it
