"Would you care to kiss me?" she asked with a faint smile. And turned
her face.

Chaste, cool and fresh as a flower her young mouth met his, lingered;
then, still smiling, and a trifle flushed and shy, she laid her cheek
against his shoulder, and her hands in his, calm in her security.

"You see," she said, "you need not worry over me. I am glad you are in
love with me."




CHAPTER XXI


It was in the days when nothing physical tainted her passionate
attachment to Clive. When she was with him she enjoyed the moment with
all her heart and soul--gave to it and to him everything that was best
in her--all the richness of her mental and bodily vigour, all the
unspoiled enthusiasm of her years, all the sturdy freshness of youth,
eager, receptive, credulous, unsatiated.

With them, once more, the old happy companionship began; the Café
Arabesque, the Regina, the theatres, the suburban restaurants knew
them again. Familiar faces among the waiters welcomed them to the same
tables; the same ushers guided them through familiar aisles; the same
taxi drivers touched their caps with the same alacrity; the same
porters bestirred themselves for tips.

Sometimes when they were not alone, they and their friends danced late
at Castle House or the Sans-Souci, or the Humming-Bird, or some such
resort, at that time in vogue.

Sometimes on Saturday afternoons or on Sundays and holidays they spent
hours in the museums and libraries--not that Clive had either
inherited or been educated to any truer appreciation of things worth
while than the average New York man--but like the majority he admitted
the solemnity and fearsomeness of art and letters, and his attitude
toward them was as carefully respectful as it was in church.

Which first perplexed and then amused Athalie who, with no
opportunities, had been born with a wholesome passion for all things
beautiful of the mind.

The little she knew she had learned from books or from her
companionship with Captain Dane that first summer after Clive had gone
abroad. And there was nothing orthodox, nothing pedantic, nothing
simulated or artificial in her likes or dislikes, her preferences or
her indifference.

Yet, somehow, even without knowing, the girl instinctively gravitated
toward all things good.

In modern art--with the exception of a few painters--she found little
to attract her; but the magnificence of the great Venetians, the
sombre splendour of the great Spaniards, the nobility of the great
English and Dutch masters held her with a spell forever new. And, as
for the exquisite, naïvely self-conscious works of Greuze, Lancret,
Fragonard, Boucher, Watteau, and Nattier, she adored them with all the
fresh and natural appetite of a capacity for visual pleasure unjaded.

He recognised Raphael with respect and pleasure when authority
reassured him it was Raphael. Also he probably knew more about the
history of art than did she. Otherwise it was Athalie who led,
instinctively, toward what gallery and library held as their best.

Her favourite lingering places were amid the immortal Chinese
porcelains and the masterpieces of the Renaissance. And thither she
frequently beguiled Clive,--not that he required any persuading to
follow this young and lovely creature who ranged the full boundaries
of her environment, living to the full life as it had been allotted
her.

Wholesome with that charming and rounded slenderness of perfect health
there yet seemed no limit to her capacity for the enjoyment of all
things for which an appetite exists--pleasures, mental or physical--it
did not seem to matter.

She adored walking; to exercise her body delighted her. Always she ate
and drank with a relish that fascinated; she was mad about the theatre
and about music:--and whatever she chanced to be doing she did with
all the vigour, intelligence, and pleasure of which she was capable,
throwing into it her entire heart and soul.

It led to temporary misunderstandings--particularly with the men she
met--even in the small circle of friends whom she received and with
whom she went about. Arthur Ensart entirely mistook her until fiercely
set right one evening when alone with him; James Allys also listened
to a curt but righteously impassioned discourse which he never forgot.
Hargrave's gentlemanly and suavely villainous intentions, when finally
comprehended, became radically modified under her coolly scornful
rebuke. Welter, fat and sentimental, never was more than tiresomely
saccharine; Ferris and Lyndhurst betrayed symptoms of being
misunderstood, but it was a toss-up as to the degree of seriousness in
their intentions.



The intentions of men are seldom more serious than they have to be.
But they all were helplessly, hopelessly caught in the magic, gossamer
web of Athalie's beauty and personal charm; and some merely kicked and
buzzed and some tried to rend the frail rainbow fabric, and some
struggled silently against they knew not what--themselves probably.
And some, like Dane, hung motionless, enmeshed, knowing that to
struggle was futile. And some, like Clive, were still lying under her
jewelled feet in the very centre of the sorcery, so far silent and
unstirring, awaiting to see whether the grace of God would fall upon
them or the coup-de-grâce that ended all. Eventually, however, like
all other men, Clive gave signs of life and impatience.

"Can't you love me, Athalie?" he said abruptly one night, when they
had returned from the theatre and he had already taken his leave--and
had come back from the door to take it again more tenderly. The girl
let him kiss her.

She, in her clinging, sparkling evening gown was standing by her
crystal, the fingers of one hand lightly poised upon it, looking down
at it.

