And this laughter rang in the colonel's ears long after the door had
closed.  What new deviltry had he in mind?

The next morning Kathlyn came into the living-room dressed, for the
first time in weeks.  She felt strangely uncomfortable.  For so long a
time her body had been free that the old familiar garments of
civilization (are they civilized?) almost suffocated her.

"You are not afraid, Pundita?"

"No, Mem-sahib.  Ahmed will have me carried to within a few yards of
the gate, and after that it will be easy to find Durga Ram.  Ah,
Mem-sahib, if you but knew how I hate him!"

After Pundita had departed Ahmed brought in the leopard.  Kathlyn
petted it and crooned, and the magic timbre of her tones won over the
spotted cat.  He purred.

And now they must wait.  An hour flew past.  Kathlyn showed signs of
restlessness, and this restlessness conveyed itself to the leopard, who
began to switch his tail about.

"Mem-sahib, you are losing your influence over the cat," warned Ahmed.
"Go walk; go talk elephant; and you, Bruce Sahib, go with her.  I'll
take care of the cat."

So Bruce and Kathlyn went the rounds of the cages.  She was a veritable
enigma to Bruce.  Tigers lost their tenseness and looked straight into
her eyes.  A cheetah with cubs permitted her to touch the wabbly
infants, whereas the keeper of this cage dared not go within a foot of
it.  By the time she reached the elephants a dozen keepers were
following her, their eyes wide with awe.  They had heard often of the
Mem-sahib who calmed the wild ones, but they had not believed.  With
the elephants she did about as she pleased.

"Miss Kathlyn, I am growing a bit afraid of you," said Bruce.

"And why?"

"I've never seen animals act like that before.  What is it you do to
them?"

"Let them know that I am not afraid of them and that I am fond of them."

"I am not afraid of them and am also fond of them.  Yet they spit at me
whenever I approach."

"Perhaps it is black art."  The shadow of a smile crossed her lips.
Then the smile stiffened and she breathed deeply.  For the moment she
had forgot her father, who stood chained to a pillar in a vile cell.
She put her hand over her eyes and swayed.

"What is it?" he cried in alarm.

"Nothing.  I had almost forgot where I am."

"I, too.  I am beginning to let Ahmed think for me.  Let us get back to
the bungalow."

He loved her.  And he feared her, too.  She was so unlike any young
woman he had ever met that she confused his established ideas of the
sex.  The cool blood of her disturbed him as much as anything.  Not a
sign of that natural hysteria of woman, though she had been through
enough to drive insane a dozen ordinary women.  He loved the fearless
eye of her, the flat back, the deep chest, the spring with which she
measured her strides.  Here at last was the true normal woman.  She was
of the breed which produced heroes.

He loved her, and yet was afraid of her.  A wall seemed to surround
her, and nowhere could he discover any breach.  Vaguely he wondered how
the Viking made love to the Viking's daughter.  By storm, or by guile?
Yes, he was afraid of her; afraid of her because she could walk alone.
He locked up his thoughts in his heart; for instinct advised him to say
nothing now; this was no time for the declaration of love.

"It is best," said Ahmed, "that we all remain inside the bungalow.
Ramabai, have you any plan in case Pundita does not return?"

Ramabai's breast swelled.  "Yes, Ahmed.  I have a thousand friends in
yonder city, ready at my call.  Only, this is not the time.  Still, I
can call to them, and by to-morrow there will not be a stone of the
palace upon another.  Be not alarmed.  Pundita will return, but mayhap
alone."

So they waited.

Now, Pundita, being a woman, was wise in the matter of lure.  She
entered the city unquestioned.  She came to the palace steps just as
Umballa was issuing forth.  She shivered a little--she could not help
it; the man looked so gloomy and foreboding.  The scowl warned her to
walk with extreme care.

He stopped when he saw her and was surprised into according her the
salute one gave to a woman of quality.

"Ah!"

"Durga Ram," she began, "I am seeking you."  Her voice trembled ever so
little.

"Indeed!  And why do you seek me, who am your enemy, and who always
will be?"

"A woman loves where she must, not where she wills."

Umballa seemed to ponder over this truth.

"And why have you sought me?"

"A woman's reasons.  My husband and the Mem-sahib----"

"You know, then, where she is?" quickly.

"Aye, Durga Ram; I alone know where she is hiding."

He sent a shrewd glance into her eyes.  Had she wavered, ill would have
befallen her.

"Tell me."

