
So there we were, at a deadlock. There was 
silence for a space. 

"Would you mind sending for the drug?" I 
asked, at last. 

"I presume," he said, with hamteur, "it will do 
no harm to have it on hand." 

I was aware of an elderly lady watching us, 
with consternation written upon every senti- 
mental feature. "Dr. Perrin," I said, "if Mrs. 
Tuis will pardon me, I think I ought to speak 
with you alone." The nurse hastily withdrew; 



 

and I saw the elderly lady draw herself up with 
terrible dignity — and then suddenly quail, and 
turn and follow the nurse. 

I told the little man what I knew. After he 
had had time to get over his consternation, he 
said that fortimately there did not seem to be 
any sign of trouble. 

"There does seem so to me," I rephed. "It 
may be only my imagination, but I think the 
eyehds are inflamed." 

I held the baby for him, while he made an 
examination. He admitted that there seemed to 
be ground for imeasiness. His professional dig- 
nity was now gone, and he was only too glad to 
be human. 

"Dr. Perrin," I said, "there is only one thing 
we can do — to get some nitrate of silver at the 
earliest possible moment. Fortimately the laimch 
is here." 

"I will have it start at once," he said. "It 
will have to go to Key West." 

"And how long will that take?" 

"It depends upon the sea. In good weather 
it takes us eight hours to go and return." I 
could not repress a shudder. The child might 
be blind in eight hours! 

But there was no time to be wasted in fore- 
boding. "About Dr. Overton," I said. "Don't 
you think he had better come?" I ventured to 
add the hint that Mr. van Tuiver would hardly 
wish expense to be considered in such an emer- 
gency; and in the end, I persuaded the doctor 



 

not merely to telegraph for the great surgeon, 
but to ask a hospital in Atlanta to send the near- 
est eye-specialist by the first train. 

We called back Mrs. Tuis, and I apologized 
abjectly for my presumption, and Dr. Perrin 
announced that he thought he ought to see Dr. 
Overton, and another doctor as well. I saw 
fear leap into Aunt Varina's eyes. "Oh, what is 
it?" she cried. "What is the matter with oiu- 
babe?" 

I heli)ed the doctor to answer poUte nothings 
to all her questions. Oh, the poor, dear lady! 
I thought to myself. The poor, dear lady! 
What a tearing away of veils and sentimental 
bandages was written in her book of fate for 
that night! 



 



 

I FIND myself lingering over these prelimi- 
naries, dreading the plunge into the rest of my 
story. We spent our time hovering over the 
child's crib; and in two or three hours the little 
eyeUds had become so inflamed that there could 
no longer be any doubt what was happening. 
We apphed alternate hot and cold cloths, we 
washed the eyes in a solution of boric acid, and 
later, in our desperation, with bluestone. But 
we were dealing with the virulent gonococcus, and 
we neither expected nor obtained much result 
from these measures. In a couple of hours more 
the eyes were beginning to exude pus, and the 
poor infant was wailing in torment. 

"Oh, what can it be? Tell me what is the 
matter?" cried Mrs. Tuis. She sought to catch 
the child in her arms, and when I quickly pre- 
vented her, she turned upon me in anger. "What 
do you mean?" 

"The child must be quiet," I said. 

"But I wish to comfort it!" And when I 
.still insisted, she burst out, wildly, "What right 
have you?" 

"Mrs. Tuis," I said, gently, "it is possible the 
