she halted.

"Oh, Lilian--don't go. You can't see Claire--"

"Is she ill?" in affright.

"No, no, only--come with me to the druggist; I can't tell you just
now--oh, I'll write you a note. You cannot go there this week. Mother
has a friend staying with her and I have gone to Mrs. Lane's to board
for a week, there is so much school work just now."

"How very mysterious you are," studying her while she colored under the
scrutiny.

"Well, it threatens snow and it would be easier for me there. Don't
worry about us--I'll write this evening and tell you the 'whys;' and now
dear, don't feel vexed if I leave you. I have a number of errands to do,
and I'll surely see you on Sunday."

She had taken a few steps, then she turned and said: "Lilian, do not
mention meeting me today; I ask it as a favor. I will explain it all to
you. Trust me."

What did it mean? Was Claire ill? She had never seen Miss Trenham so
confused. Evidently she could not have her come to the house. Lilian
felt curiously dismal. There were the shops in holiday attire, but she
said she did not feel joyous, Christmasy. She rambled about a little.
There was the Clairvoyant's sign. Could any one tell about the future,
even another's health? For, somehow it seemed as if her mother had been
curiously distraught of late. If she could know about the future! Oh,
her mother must live the year out, and she was learning a great many
things. She would do for an under teacher then, and by the time she was
twenty--

It was cloudy and raw and she hurried up a little. A merry group of
girls passed her laughing and chatting. Why, she had never felt so
alone, not even back in Laconia. Last Christmas had been gay and
pleasant with girls in Sunday and everyday school.

She went in at the side entrance. She could have taken the other but
this was nearer. She had the right to a good many privileges that under
some circumstances she would have claimed, but the supercillious nod or
the lifting of the brows cut like a knife. Her place was on her
mother's side.

Mrs. Dane opened her door on the landing and crossed the hall.

"Oh, you have returned. Did you see your friend, Miss Trenham?" There
was something curious in the tone.

"I did not go to the house." Yet she colored as if it was a
prevarication.

"No?" was all the comment in the same tone.

But her mother was not so easily put off.

"Did you see your pretty invalid friend and her Christmas work?"

"No, I did not go in."

"That's queer. I thought you were going there. Where, then, did you go?"

"Oh, I only walked around and said over French verbs. It's grown very
chilly."

"Yes. Miss Arran came in and opened a window. I felt so cold--I wish
people would let you have your room as you want it. They can swing
their's wide open if they want to."

She was lying on the bed. She looked old and gray and wrinkled.

"Do you feel poorly, mother?"

"No, not when I am good and warm."

"Shall we have tea together here?"

"I don't want any, I'm very comfortable now. You go and get yours."

But Lilian sent for it, yet she could not persuade her mother to taste
the toast or the bit of broiled steak. She was hungry.

Afterward she took up her book to study as she was not due down stairs.
Then there was a tap at the door.

"Mrs. Barrington would like to see you in her room," was the message.

She walked thither. Mrs. Dane sat there in her austerest fashion.

"Miss Boyd," she said, "were you at your friend's, Mrs. Trenham's, this
afternoon?"

Lilian flushed at the repeated question.

"I was not," she said rather hesitatingly. "I meant to go, but"--then
she paused. She must not say she met Edith.

Mrs. Barrington's penetrating eyes were fixed on her face and brought a
vivid color to it.

"Were you at any other person's house?"

"No, I was not," she answered quietly. Oh, what does it all mean?

"Do you mean to deny that you were at the Clairvoyant's from half past
four to about five?" Mrs. Dane said in her most judicial manner.

Lilian flushed indignantly but her voice was unsteady as she said--"I
was not there, if you"--then she paused.

"Think again. I saw you walking about nearly at the corner. I went to
make a call on a friend who is ill. When I came out I walked a few
doors, when I saw the Clairvoyant's door open and a girl stepped out on
the stoop. I think there was some one behind her. She saw me and bolted
back in the hall. There are just two girls in the school who have light
blue Tams. Miss Arnold went to a musicale and found hers lying on the
bed just where she left it. I watched, but you did not come out again.
Then I walked around to the rear but saw no one. I had a fair glance at
your face, I think I cannot be mistaken."
