
Again came an unconfirmed report that a 
shepherd lad while alternately playing on his 
Biniou and fishing for eels at the confluence 
of the Elle and Isole, had seen a werewolf 
in Lai's Woods. The Loup Garou walked on 
two legs and had assumed the shape of a 
man with no features except two enormous 
eyes. 

The following week a coast guard near 
Flouranges telephoned to the Aulnes Light- 









house; the keeper of the light telephoned to 
Lorient the story of Wayland, and was in 
structed to extinguish the great flash again 
and to keep watch from the lantern until an 
investigation could be made. 

That an enemy airman had done murder 
in Finistere was now certain; but that a 
Boche submarine had come into the Bay of 
Biscay seemed very improbable, considering 
the measures which had been taken in the 
Channel, at Trieste, and at Gibraltar. 

That a fleet of many sea-planes was soaring somewhere between the Isle des Chou- 
ettes and Finistere, and landing men, seemed 
to be practically an impossibility. Yet, there 
were the rumours. And murder had been 
done. 

But an enemy undersea boat required a 
base. Had such a base been established 
somewhere along those lonely and desolate 
wastes of bog and rock and moor and gorse- 
set cliff haunted only by curlew and wild 
duck, and bounded inland by a silent barrier 
of forest through which the wild boar roamed 
and rooted unmolested? 









And where in Finistere was an enemy sea 
plane to come from, when, save for the few 
remaining submarines still skulking near 
British waters, the enemy's flag had vanished 
from the seas? 

Nevertheless the coast lights at Aulnes and 
on the Isle des Chouettes went out; the Commandant at Lorient and the General in command of the British expeditionary troops in 
the harbour consulted; and the fleet of troop- 
laden transports did not sail as scheduled, 
but a swarm of French and British cruisers, 
trawlers, mine-sweepers, destroyers, and sub 
marines put out from the great warport to 
comb the boisterous seas of Biscay for any 
possible aerial or amphibious Hun who might 
venture to haunt the coasts. 

Inland, too, officers were sent hither and 
thither to investigate various rumours and 
doubtful reports at their several sources. 

And it happened in that way that Captain 
Neeland of the 6th Battalion, Athabasca 
Regiment, Canadian Overseas Contingent, 
found himself in the Forest of Aulnes, with 
instructions to stay there long enough to 







verify or discredit a disturbing report which, 
had just arrived by mail. 

The report was so strange and the investigation required so much secrecy and caution 
that Captain Neeland changed his uniform 
for knickerbockers and shooting coat, borrowed a fowling piece and a sack of cart 
ridges loaded with No. 4 shot, tucked his gun 
under his arm, and sauntered out of Lorient 
town before dawn, like any other duck-hunting enthusiast. 

Several reasons influenced his superiors in 
sending Neeland to investigate this latest and 
oddest report: for one thing, although he had 
become temporarily a Canadian for military 
purposes only, in reality he was an American 
artist who, like scores and scores of his 
artistic fellow Yankees, had spent many 
years industriously painting those sentimental 
Breton scenes which obsess our painters, if 
not their critics. He was a very bad painter, 
but he did not know it; he had already be 
come a promising soldier, but he did not 
realize that either. As a sportsman, however, 
Neeland was rather pleased with himself. 






