When the chauffeur peremptorily deposited Susan on the lonely country
road, several miles from home, she ran hot-foot to the nearest
telephone and sent a very concise message home.  Susan was becoming
acclimated to this strange, exciting existence.
Norton arrived in due time, and he and Jones were mapping out a plan
when Susan's message came.
"Good girl!" said Jones.  "She's learning.  Can you handle this alone,
Norton?  They want me out of the house again, for I believe they were
after me as well as Florence.  Half an hour gone!"
"Trust me!" cried Norton.
And he ran out to his auto.  It was a wild ride.  Several policemen
shouted after him, but he went on unmindful.  They could take his
license number a hundred times for all he cared.  So they had got her?
They could wait till their enemy's vigilance slacked and then would
strike?  But Susan!  The next time he saw Susan he was going to take
her in his arms and kiss her.  It might be a new sensation to kiss
Susan, always so prim and offish.  Corey Street--that had been her
direction.  They had put Florence in a motor boat at the foot of Corey
Street.  He was perhaps half an hour behind.
Florence never opened her lips.  She stared ahead proudly.  She would
show these scoundrels that she was her father's daughter.  They plied
her with questions, but she pretended not to hear.
"Well, pretty bird, we'll make you speak when the time comes.  We've
got you this trip where we want you.  There won't be any jumping
overboard this session, believe me.  We've wasted enough time.  We've
got you and we're going to keep you."
"Let her be," said Vroon morosely.  "We'll put all the questions we
wish when we're at our destination."  And he nodded significantly
toward the ships riding at anchor.
Florence felt her heart sink in spite of her abundant courage.  Were
they going to take her to sea again?  She had acquired a horror of the
sea, so big, so terrible, so strong.  She had had an experience with
its sullen power.  They had gone about four miles down when she looked
back longingly toward shore.  Something white seemed to be spinning
over the water far behind.  At first she could not discern what it was.
As she watched it it grew and grew.  It finally emerged from the
illusion of a gigantic bird into the actuality of an every-day
hydroplane.  Her heart gave a great bound.  This flying machine was
coming directly toward the launch; it did not deviate a hair's breadth
from the line.  Fortunately the men were looking toward the huge
freighter a quarter of a mile farther on, and from their talk it was
evident that the freighter was to be her prison--bound for where?
Nearer and nearer came the hydroplane.  Was it for her?
It was impossible for the men not to take notice of the barking of the
engines at last.
"The thing's headed for us!"
Vroon stared under his palm.  It was not credible that pursuit had
taken place so quickly.  To test yonder man-bird he abruptly changed
the course of the launch.  The hydroplane veered its course to suit.
Florence heard her name called faintly.  One of the men drew his
revolver, but Vroon knocked it out of his hand.
"There's the police boat, you fool!"
"Jump!" a voice called to Florence.
She flung herself into the water without the slightest hesitation.
All this came about something after this fashion.  When Norton arrived
at the foot of Corey Street a boatman informed him that a young woman
of his description had got into a fast motor boat and had gone down the
river.
"Was there any struggle?"
"Struggle?  None that I could see.  She didn't make no fuss about
going."
"Have you a launch?"
"Yes, but the other boat has half an hour's start, and I'd never catch
her in a thousand years.  But there's a hydroplane a little above here.
You might interest the feller that runs it."
"Thanks!"
But the aviator would not listen.
"A life may hang in the balance, man!" expostulated Norton, longing to
pommel the stubborn man.
"What proof have I of that?"
Norton showed his card and badge.
"Oh, I see!" jeered the aviator.  "A little newspaper stunt in which I
am to be the goat.  It can't be done, Mr. Norton; it can't be done."
"A hundred dollars!"
"Not for five hundred," and the aviator callously turned away toward
the young woman with whom he had been conversing prior to Norton's
approach.  The two walked a dozen yards away.
Norton had not served twelve years as a metropolitan newspaper man for
nothing.  He approached the mechanics who were puttering about the
machine.
"How about twenty apiece?" he began.
"For what?" the men asked.
"For sending that paddle around a few times."
"Get into that seat, but don't touch any of those levers," one of them
warned.  "Twenty is twenty, Jack, and the boss is a sorehead to-day
anyhow.  Give her a shove for the fun of it."
It was a dumfounded aviator who saw his hydroplane skim the water and a
moment later sail into the air.  These swift moving days a reporter of
the first caliber is supposed to be able to run railroad engines,
submarines, flying machines, conduct a war, able to shoot, walk, run,
swim, fight, think, go without food like a python, and live without
water like a camel.  Norton had flown many times in the last four
years.  At the moment he called out to Florence to jump he dropped to
the water with all the skill of an old-timer and took her aboard.  And
he could not use a line of this exploit for his paper!
Jones heard the bell.  It was the agent from the Black Hundred.  He
smiled jauntily.
"Well, old fox, we've cornered you at last, haven't we?  I want that
money, or Hargreave's daughter takes another sea voyage, and this time
she will not jump overboard.  A million; and no more nonsense."
"Give me fifteen minutes to decide," begged Jones, hoping against hope.
"Fifteen seconds!"
"Then we can't do business.  What!  Give you a million, knowing you all
to be a pack of liars?  Bring Miss Florence back and the money is
yours.  We are tired of fighting."  As indeed Jones really was.  The
strain had been terrific for weeks.
"The money first.  We don't lie any better than you do.  Fork over.
You'll have to trust us.  We have no use for the girl once we get the
cash."
"And you'll never touch a penny of it, you blackguard!" cried Norton
from the doorway.
The agent turned to behold the reporter and the girl.  He did not stop
to ask questions, but bolted.  He never got beyond the door, however.
"Always the small fry," sighed Jones.  "And if I could have put my
hands on the money I'd have given it to him!  Ah, girl, it doesn't do
any good to talk to you, does it?"
"But they told me he was dying!"
Jones shrugged.
CHAPTER XVI
The maid stole into the house, wondering if she had been seen.  She
