to it."

He did not know what to say, for the grey eyes were stirring him very
deeply, and her attitude and their new relationship touched him and
confused him, too.

The responsibility which he had assumed so impulsively, so lightly yet
warmly, began to wear a more serious aspect to him.

Every few moments some new vein of purest metal was unconsciously
revealed in her by her own transparent honesty.  He began to understand
that she had not only right instincts, but that her mind was right, in
spite of what she had been since released from school—that her
intelligence was of a healthy order, that she thought right, and that,
untaught or taught otherwise, her conclusions were as direct and sane as
a child’s.

"I think, Philippa, we ought to have a business talk this morning," he
said pleasantly.

"To discuss our affairs," she nodded contentedly.  "I have my little
account book in my trunk.  Shall I get it for you?"

He smiled:

"I didn’t intend to examine your financial situation——"

"Oh, but we had better be very clear about it!  You see, I have just
so much saved—I shall show you exactly!—and then we can compute
exactly what economies it will be necessary for me to make in order to
maintain myself until we can find employment for me——"

"But, Philippa—" he tried to maintain his gravity—"you need not have any
concern in that regard. First of all, you are on a salary as my model——"

"Please!  I did not wish to be paid for aiding you——"

"But it is a matter of business!"

"I thought—I am happy in being permitted to return a little of your
kindness to me—I do not want anything from you——"

"Kindness!"

"You have let me find a refuge with you——"

"Dear child, I offer you employment until something more suitable
offers.  Didn’t you understand?"

"Yes, but I did not expect or wish you to pay me—except with friendship.
It is different between us and others, is it not?—I mean you are my
friend.... I could not take money from you....  Let it be only
friendship between us.  Will you?  I have enough to last until I can
find employment.  Only let me be with you.  That is quite enough for me,
Warner."

Halkett, who had been gazing fixedly through his glasses, remarked that
the column across the river had now passed.

It was true; the wall of dust still obscured the blue foothills of the
Vosges, but the last fantassin had trotted beyond their view and the
last military wagon had rolled out of sight.

Halkett descended from the ladder and went through the house and down
the road in the direction of the schoolhouse, a smart, well-groomed,
well-set-up figure in his light-colored service uniform and cap.

Philippa gathered her knitting into one hand, placed the other in
Warner’s, and descended the ladder face foremost, with the lithe,
sure-footed grace of Ariadne, who had preceded them.

"Come to my room," she said, confidently taking possession of Warner’s
arm; "I want to show you my account book."

Madame Arlon, who was coming through the hallway, overheard her, gazed
at her unsmilingly, glanced at Warner, whose arm the girl still
retained.

Philippa looked up frankly, bidding the stout, florid landlady a smiling
good morning, and Madame Arlon took the girl’s hands rather firmly into
her own, considered her, looked up at Warner in silence.

Perhaps she arrived at some silent and sudden conclusion concerning them
both, for her tightened lips relaxed and she smiled at them and patted
Philippa’s hands and went about her affairs, still evidently amused over
something or other.  She remarked to Magda in the kitchen that all
Americans were mad but harmless; which distinguished them from
Europeans, who were merely mad.

Upstairs in her bedroom, Philippa was down on her knees rummaging in her
little trunk and chattering away as gay as a linnet to Warner, who stood
beside her looking on.

And at first the pathos of the affair did not strike him.  The girl’s
happy torrent of loquacity, almost childish in its eagerness and
inconsequential repetition of details concerning the little souvenirs
which she held up for his inspection, amused him, and he felt that she
was very, very young.

All the flimsy odds and ends which girlhood cherishes—things utterly
valueless except for the memories evoked by disinterring and handling
them, these Philippa resurrected from the confused heap of clothing in
her trunk—here a thin gold circlet set with a tiny, tarnished turquoise,
pledge of some schoolmate’s deathless adoration—there an inky and
battered schoolbook with girls’ names written inside in the immature
chirography of extreme youth and sentiment.  And there were bits of
inexpensive lace and faded ribbons, and a blotting pad full of frail and
faded flower-ghosts, and home-made sachets from which hue and odor had
long since exhaled, and links from a silver chain and a few bright locks
of hair in envelopes.

And every separate one of these Philippa, on her knees, held up for
Warner to admire while she sketched for him the most minute details of
the circumstances connected.

Never doubting his interest and sympathy, she freed her long-caged heart
with all the involuntary ecstasy of an escaped bird pouring out to the
clouds the suppressed confidences of many years.

Names, incidents, circumstances almost forgotten even in her brief
