
"Perhaps. But if she saw her chance, I'm thinking she wouldn't have
hesitated a minute to put a bullet in Balfame. People don't turn as sick
at the mere thought of committing murder, when there's a good chance of
putting it over, as you may imagine. Most of us experience the impulse
some time or other. Cowardice or circumstances safeguard us. She did it,
take my word for it. She deliberately poisoned a glass of lemonade
first, for Balfame to drink when he came home on his way to take the
train for Albany. Then, something or other interfering--what, I can only
guess at as yet--she found her chance to shoot, and shot."

"Why, if all that were true, she would be a fiend."

"Not necessarily. Merely a highly exasperated woman. One, moreover, who
had locked herself up too long. Marital squabbles are safety valves, and
I understand she let him do the rowing. But I don't care about her
impulses. The act is enough for me. Psychology later, when I write a
page of Sunday stuff. But you can see for yourself that if she isn't
indicted, and pretty quick, Dwight Rush will be?"

"But no one else suspects him."

"Not yet. But the whole town thinks of nothing else. And as they've
about given up all hope of the political crowd, as well as gunmen and
tango girls, they'll veer presently toward the truth. But before they
settle down on their idol's lofty head, they'll root about for some man
who might easily be in love with her--although hopelessly, as a matter
of course. Then they'll recall a thousand trifles that no doubt you too
recall without effort."

"It's true she turned to him out there, ignoring men she had known for
years--she saw him at the house that night, if only for a few
moments--Oh, it's too horrible! Mrs. Balfame. An Elsinore lady! And she
has been so good to us all these hard years, helped us over and over
again. Oh, I don't mind telling you, Jim, that I was a little bit
jealous of her--I rather liked Rush--he was interesting and a nice male
creature, and I was so lonely--and he stopped coming so suddenly--and
then seeing him so delighted to meet her that night--and both of them
dragging up the avenue as if each moment were a jewel--I've always
thought it hateful for married women to try to cut girls out--it's so
unnatural--but I can't hear her accused of murder--to go--Oh, it's too
awful to talk about!"

"She'd get off. Don't let that worry you. Innocent or guilty. There's no
other way of saving Rush. Be more jealous, if that will help matters.
He'll marry her the moment he decently can."

"I don't believe he cares a bit for her. And I don't believe she will
marry him or any one."

"Oh, yes, she will. He's the sort to get what he wants--and, take it
from me, he is mad about her. And she's at the age to be carried off her
feet by an ardent determined lover. Make no mistake about that. Besides,
her's is a name that she'll want to drop as soon as possible."

"Jim Broderick, you know that you are deliberately playing on my female
nature, on all the baseness you feel sure is in it. I'd always thought
you rather subtle, diplomatic. I don't thank you for the compliment of
frankness."

"My dear girl, it is a compliment--my utter lack of diplomacy with you.
I want to pull this big thing off for my paper, for your paper. And I
want to save the friend of both of us. I have merely tried to prove to
you that Mrs. Balfame is a mere human being, not a goddess, and deserves
to pay some of the penalty of her crime, at least. Certainly, she isn't
worth the sacrifice of Dwight Rush--"

"But if he can prove his alibi--"

"Suppose he couldn't. It was Saturday night. What more likely than that
he failed to find the man he wanted? I have a dark suspicion that he
never went near Brooklyn that night, was in no mood to think of
business; although I don't for a moment believe he was near the Balfame
place, or knows who did it--unless Mrs. Balfame has confessed to him.
She is a very clever woman, not likely to linger on smugly in any fool's
paradise. She must know that suspicion will work round to her, and
knowing his infatuation, no doubt has consulted him."

Broderick really thought nothing of the sort, but calculated his words;
and they produced their effect. The blood rose to the girl's hair, then
ebbed, leaving her ghastly. "He would hate her then," she whispered.

"Not Rush. Another man, perhaps; but not only do things go too deep with
a man like that for anything but time to cure, but he's chock full of
romantic chivalry. And he's madly in love, remember; by that I mean in
the first flush. He'd look upon her as a martyr, and immediately set to
work to ward suspicion from her; if an alibi could not be proved for him
he'd take the crime on his own shoulders, if the worst came to worst."

"Oh! Are men really so Quixotic in these days?"

"Haven't changed fundamentally since they evolved from protoplasm."

"But why should all that chivalry--that magnificent passion--the first
love of a man like that--be called out by a woman of Mrs. Balfame's age?
Why, it's some girl's right! I don't say mine. Don't think I'm a dog in
the manger. I'm trying not to be. But the world is full of girls--not
foolish young things only good enough for boys, but girls in their
twenties, bright, companionable, helpful, real mates for men--Why, it is
unnatural, damnable!"

"Yes, it is," said Broderick sympathetically. "But if human nature
weren't a tangled wire fence electrified full of contradictions, life
wouldn't be interesting at all. Perhaps it's a mere case of affinity,
destiny--don't ever betray me. But there it is. As well try to explain
the abrupt taking off of useful men in their prime, of lovely children,
of needed mothers, of aged women who have lived exemplary lives, mainly
for others, spending their last years with the horrors of cancer. Don't
try to explain human passion. And she is beautiful, and fresher to
look at than girls of eighteen that tango day and night. But he must be
saved from her as well as from arrest. Will you help me?"

"What do you want me to do?"

"Get further evidence about Mrs. Balfame."

"I cannot, and would not if I could. Do you think I would be the means
of fastening the crime of murder on any woman?"

"You would if you were a hardened--and good--newspaper woman."
