"There's a German place, now!" exclaimed Sengoun, delighted.

And Neeland, turning to look, perceived the illuminated sign of the
Café des Bulgars.

German champagne had now become Sengoun's fixed idea; nothing could
dissuade him from it, nothing persuade him into a homeward bound taxi.
So Neeland, with a rather hazy idea that he ought not to do it,
entered the café with Senguon; and they seated themselves on a leather
wall-lounge before one of the numerous marble-topped tables.

"Listen," he said in a low voice to his companion, "this is a German
café, and we must be careful what we say. I'm not any too prudent and
I may forget this; but don't you!"

"Quite right, old fellow!" replied Sengoun, giving him an owlish look.
"I must never forget I'm a diplomat among these sales Boches----"

"Be careful, Sengoun! That expression is not diplomatic."

"Careful is the word, mon vieux," returned the other loudly and
cheerfully. "I'll bet you a dollar, three kopeks, and two sous that I
go over there and kiss the cashier----"

"No! Be a real diplomat, Sengoun!"

"I'm sorry you feel that way, Neeland, because she's unusually pretty.
And we might establish a triple entente until you find some Argive
Helen to quadruple it. Aha! Here is our German champagne! Positively
the only thing German a Russian can----"

"Listen! This won't do. People are looking at us----"

"Right, old fellow--always right! You know, Neeland, this friendship
of ours is the most precious, most delightful, and most inspiring
experience of my life. Here's a full goblet to our friendship! Hurrah!
As for Enver Pasha, may Erlik seize him!"

After they had honoured the toast, Sengoun looked about him
pleasantly, receptive, ready for any eventuality. And observing no
symptoms of any eventuality whatever, he suggested creating one.

"Dear comrade," he said, "I think I shall arise and make an incendiary
address----"

"No!"

"Very well, if you feel that way about it. But there is another way to
render the evening agreeable. You see that sideboard?" he continued,
pointing to a huge carved buffet piled to the ceiling with porcelain
and crystal. "What will you wager that I can not push it over with one
hand?"

But Neeland declined the wager with an impatient gesture, and kept his
eyes riveted on a man who had just entered the café. He could see only
the stranger's well-groomed back, but when, a moment later, the man
turned to seat himself, Neeland was not surprised to find himself
looking at Doc Curfoot.

"Sengoun," he said under his breath, "that type who just came in is
an American gambler named Doc Curfoot; and he is here with other
gamblers for the purpose of obtaining political information for some
government other than my own."

Sengoun regarded the new arrival with amiable curiosity:

"That worm? Oh, well, every city in Europe swarms with such maggots,
you know. It would be quite funny if he tries any blandishments on us,
wouldn't it?"

"He may. He's a capper. He's looking at us now. I believe he remembers
having seen me in the train."

"As for an hour or two at chemin-de-fer, baccarat, or roulette,"
remarked Sengoun, "I am not averse to a----"

"Watch him! The waiter who is taking his order may know who you
are--may be telling that gambler.... I believe he did! Now, let us
see what happens...."

Sengoun, delighted at the prospect of an eventuality, blandly emptied
his goblet and smiled generally upon everybody.

"I hope he will make our acquaintance and ask us to play," he said.
"I'm very lucky at chemin-de-fer. And if I lose I shall conclude that
there is trickery. Which would make it very lively for everybody," he
added with a boyish smile. But his dark eyes began to glitter and he
showed his beautiful, even teeth when he laughed.

"Ha!" he said. "A little what you call a mix-up might not come amiss!
That gives one an appetite; that permits one to perspire; that does
good to everybody and makes one sleep soundly! Shall we, as you say in
America, start something?"

Neeland, thinking of Ali-Baba and Golden Beard and of their undoubted
instigation by telegraph of the morning's robbery, wondered whether
the rendezvous of the robbers might not possibly be here in the Café
des Bulgars.

The gang of Americans in the train had named Kestner, Breslau, and
Weishelm--the one man of the gang whom he had never seen--as
prospective partners in this enterprise.

Here, somewhere in this building, were their gambling headquarters.
Was there any possible chance that the stolen box and its contents
might have been brought here for temporary safety?

Might it not now be hidden somewhere in this very building by men too
cunning to risk leaving the city when every train and every road would
be watched within an hour of the time that the robbery was
committed?

Leaning back carelessly on the lounge and keeping his eyes on the
people in the café, Neeland imparted these ideas to Sengoun in a low
voice--told him everything he knew in regard to the affair, and asked
his opinion.

"My opinion," said Sengoun, who was enchanted at any prospect of
trouble, "is that this house is 'suspect' and is worth searching. Of
course the Prefect could be notified, arrangements made, and a search
