tures knew of them, Hal reflected upon this, and sub- 
dued his Anglo-Saxon pride, finding forgiveness for what 
was repulsive in these people — their barbarous, jabbering 
speech, their vermin-ridden homes, their bare-bottomed 
babies. 



 It chanced before many days that Hal got a holi- 
day, relieving the monotony of his labours as stableman : 
an accidental holiday, not provided for in his bargain 
with the pit-boss. Something went wrong with the ven- 
tilating-course in Number Two, and he began to notice a 
headache, and heard the men grumbling that their lamps 
were burning low. Then, as matters began to get serious, 
orders came to get the mules to the surface. 

Which meant an amusing adventure. The delight of 
Hal's pets at seeing the sunlight was irresistibly comic. 
They could not be kept from lying down and rolling on 
their backs in the cinder-strewn street; and when they 
were corralled in a distant part of the camp where actual 
grass grew, they abandoned themselves to rapture like a 
horde of school children at a picnic. 

So Hal had a few free hours ; and being still young and 
not cured of idle curiosities, he climbed the canyon wall to 
see the mountains. As he was sliding down again, toward 
evening, a vivid spot of colour was painted into his picture 
of mine-life ; he found himself in somebody's back yard, 
and being observed by somebody's daughter, who was tak- 
ing in the family wash. It was a splendid figure of a lass,. 
tall and vigorous, with the sort of hair that in polite 



 

circles is called auburn, and that flaming colour in the 
cheeks which is Nature's recompense to people who live 
where it rains all the time. She was the first beautiful 
sight Hal had seen since he had come up the canyon, and 
it was only natural that he should be interested. It seemed 
to him that, so long as the girl stared, he had a right to 
stare back. It did not occur to him that he too was a 
pleasing sight — that the mountain air had given colour 
to his cheeks and a shine to his gay brown eyes, while 
the mountain winds had blown his wavy brown hair. 

"Hello," said she, at last, in a warm voice, unmis- 
takably Irish. 

"Hello yourself," said Hal, in the accepted dialect; 
then he added, with more elegance, " Pardon me for tres- 
passing on your wash." 

Her grey eyes opened wider. " Go on ! " she said. 

"I'd rather stay," said Hal. "It's a beautiful sun- 
set." 

" I'll move, so ye can see it better." She carried her 
armful of clothes over and dropped them into the basket. 

" No," said Hal, " it's not so fine now. The colours 
have faded." 

She turned and gazed at him again. "Go on wid 
ye ! I been teased about my hair since Jbef ore I could 
talk." 

" 'Tis envy," said Hal, dropping into her way of speech ; 
and he came a few steps nearer, so that he could inspect 
the hair more closely. It lay above her brow in undula- 
tions which were agreeable to the decorative instinct, and 
a tight heavy braid of it fell over her shoulders and swung 
to her waist-line. He observed the shoulders, which were 
sturdy, obviously accustomed to hard labour ; not conform- 
ing to accepted romantic standards of femininity, yet 
having an athletic grace of their own. They were cov- 
ered with a faded blue calico dress, unfortunately not 
entirely clean; also, the young man noticed, there was 



 

a rent in one shoulder through which a patch of skin was 
visible. The girl's eyes, which had been following his, 
became defiant; she tossed a piece of her washing over 
the shoulder, where it stayed through the balance of the 
interview. 

" Who are ye ? " she demanded, suddenly. 

" My name's Joe Smith. I'm a stableman in Number 
Two." 

" And what were ye doin' up there, if a body might 
ask?" She lifted her grey eyes to the bare mountain- 
side, down which he had come sliding in a shower of loose 
stones and dirt. . 

" Fve been surveying my empire," said he. 

" Your what ? " 

"My empire. The land belongs to the company, but 
the landscape belongs to him who cares for it." 

She tossed her head a little. " Where did ye learn to 
talk like ye do?" 

" In another life," said he — " before I became a stable- 
man. Not in entire forgetfulness, but trailing clouds of 
glory did I come." 

For a moment she wrestled with this. Then a smile 
broke upon her face. " Sure, 'tis like a poetry-book ! 
Say some more ! " 
