sit with him." 

This appeared to strike Davey in a splendid 




 

number of lights — which, however, though col- 
lectively dazzling, allowed discriminations. "It 
perhaps bears a little on the point that she has 
herself just sustained a grave bereavement — with 
her offices to her own dead to think of first. That 
was present to me in your talk a moment since 
of Haughty's finding her." 

"Very true" — it was Cissy's practice, once 
struck, ever amusedly to play with the missile: 
"it is of course extraordinary that those bloated 
old richards, at one time so associated, should 
have flickered out almost at the same hour. 
What it comes to then," she went on, "is that 
Mr. Gray might be, or perhaps even ought to 
be, condoling over at the other house with her. 
However, it's their own business, and all I really 
care for is that he should be so keen as you say 
about seeing Haughty. I just delight," she said, 
"in his being keen about Haughty." 

"I'm glad it satisfies you then," Davey re- 
turned — "for I was on the point of suggesting 
that with the sense of his desolation you just 
expressed you might judge your own place to 
be at once at his side." 

"That would have been helpful of you — -but 
I'm content, dear Davey," she smiled. "We're 
all devoted to Haughty — but," she added after 
an instant, "there's just this. Did Mr. Graham 
while you were there say by chance a word about 
the likes ofmeV 





 

"Well, really, no — our short talk didn't take 
your direction. That would have been for me, I 
confess," Davey frankly made bold to add, "a 
trifle unexpected." 

"I see" — Cissy did him the justice. "But 
that's a little, I think, because you don't know 

!" It was more, however, than with her 

sigh she could tell him. 

"Don't know by this time, my dear, and after 
all I've been through," he nevertheless supplied, 
"what the American girl always so sublimely 
takes for granted ? " 

She looked at him on this with intensity — but 
that of compassion rather than of the conscious 
wound. "Dear old Davey, il n'y a que vous for 
not knowing, by this time, as you say, that I've 
notoriously nothing in common with the creature 
you mention. I loathe," she said with her purest 
gentleness, "the American girl." 

He faced her an instant more as for a view of 
the whole incongruity; then he fetched, on his 
side, a sigh which might have signified, at her- 
choice, either that he was wrong or that he was 
finally bored. "Well, you do of course brilliantly 
misrepresent her. But we're all" — he hastened 
to patch it up — "unspeakably corrupt." 

"That would be a fine lookout for Mr. Fielder 
if it were true," she judiciously threw off. 

"But as you're a judge you know it isn't?" 
'It's not as a judge I know it, but as a vic- 



«i 



 

tim. I don't say we don't do our best," she add- 
ed; "but we're still of an innocence, an inno- 
cence !" 

"Then perhaps," Davey offered, "Mr. Fielder 
will help us; unless he proves, by your measure, 
worse than ourselves ! " 

"The worse he may be the better; for it's not 
possible, as I see him," she said, "that he doesn't 
know." 

"Know, you mean," Davey blandly wondered, 
"how wrong we are — to be so right ?" 

"Know more on every subject than all of us 
put together!" she called back at him as she 
now hurried off to dress. 






