


  

the scene, somehow designated or arranged for 
in advance as to one or other of the sisters (I 
leave it rough and a little in the air, so to speak, 
for the moment. The just how and just why I 
can dispose of in a page when in closer quarters). 
"he point is that the wrong sister, abetted by 
the mother, pounces on him, as it were it's the 
elder one I see doing this; and it so befalls that 
he is booked, as we say, to marry her, before, 
with all the precautions he has to keep, he can, 
as we also say, turn round. So it is that after 
a little, after the flush of the amusement of his 
extraordinary consciousness having begun a bit 
to abate in the light of the brutalities etc., what 
I call to myself most conveniently his dawning 
anguish glimmers and glimmers; what it means 
to see himself married to the elder sister and locked 
up with her there in that form of the Past. He 
conceals, he successfully does so, his growing 
malaise, all the effort and unrest of which, by the 
by, makes him, he sees, appear to them "clever" 
beyond anything they have ever dreamed of 
(they, also, by the way, must pass for clever, as 
1820 understood it;) and I catch also, parenthet 
ically, at my need for their not being, with all 
their pride of gentility, at all as conveniently 
well-off as they would like, or must require, this 
fact helping greatly the importance for them that 
he is possessed of means that seem to them quite 
blessedly large. The note of their thrift, a cer- 





  

tain hardness of meanness, the nature of their 
economies, the brutality (I keep coming back to 
that) of their various expedients this and that 
and the other Ralph has to take in. Meanwhile 
he is committed to the elder sister and we have 
the effect on her of his importance, his means, 
his cleverness, mixed up with that in him which 
is mystifying to all of them, but which the elder 
sister at first at least sets down to the action and 
the play of a cleverness, a strange cleverness 
from over the sea, such as she has never before 
conceived. She holds on and on to him even 
after the malaise, and his sense of it in them, 
with his still greater sense of it in himself, has 
quite begun, as it were, to rage; with which: oh 
I see somehow such beautiful things that I can 
hardly keep step with myself to expatiate and 
adumbrate coherently enough. Let me just 
nail 2 or 3 things, by 2 or 3 of the roughest sim 
plest strokes, in order to catch and hold them 
fast before I go on. All the while, all the while, 
the younger sister, who is ever so touching, 
charming, really appealing for him all the while, 
all the while. I know what I mean by this suf 
ficiently just to see and note here that the elder 
does after a while break off under the action of 
the malaise, which Ralph is in the extraordinary 
position of having in a way to work against and 
being also, as a means of release to him, grateful 
to. I can't take time to catch at this moment, 





  

but keep it till the next chance, my notation of 
how and where the younger sister, the one who 
really would have been meant for him, the one 
for the sake of whom he would almost really 
swing off backward my notation, I say (after 
a break of dictation) of the origin and growth of 
the special relation between Ralph and herself; 
she being of course the nearest approach and 
in fact it's very much of an approach that I 
have in the whole thing to a Heroine. I seem to 
myself now to have intended somehow, in my 
original view, an accident, a complication, a 
catastrophic perversity or fatality, as it were, 
through which Ralph has addressed himself from 
the first to the elder, the wrong, sister instead 
of the younger, the right and when I try to 
recover what I so long ago had in my head about 
this there glimmers out, there floats shyly back 
to me from afar, the sense of something like this, 
a bit difficult to put, though entirely expressible 
with patience, and that as I catch hold of the 
tip of the tail of it yet again strikes me as adding 
to my action but another admirable twist. Of 
course I am afraid of twists, I mean of their multi 
plying on my hands to the effect of too much 
lengthening and enlarging and sprawling; but 
the bit that I speak of now is surely of the very 
essence of the situation. It connects itself with 
something so interesting and effective, so strong 
and fine, to express from the moment one suc- 





  

cessfully tackles it. "This" then, what I men 
tioned above, is that Ralph has "taken over'   
from the other party to his extraordinary ar 
rangement certain indications that have been 
