and sat in a peculiarly constructed wheeled chair, moving himself about
by pushing the rubber-tired wheels with both hands and steering with his
remaining foot.

He had married a woman rather older than himself, named Jessie Grismer,
a school teacher living in Herkimer.

To Utica drifted young Quest, equipped only with the remains of one
lung, and out of a job as usual.  At the local rink he picked up Laura
Conway, after a mindless flirtation, and ultimately went to board with
her family over the stationery shop.

So the affair in question was a case of propinquity as much as anything,
and was consummated with all the detached irresponsibility of two
sparrows.

However, Quest, willing now to be supported, married the girl without
protest.  She continued to tint photographs and skate as long as she was
able to be about; he loafed in front of theatres and hotels, with a
quarter in change in his pockets, but always came back to meals.  On
sunny afternoons, when he felt well, he strolled about the residence
section or reposed in his room waiting, probably, for Opportunity to
knock and enter.

But nothing came except the baby.

About that time, too, both lungs being in bad condition, young Quest
began those various and exhaustive experiments in narcotics, which
sooner or later interest such men.  And he finally discovered heroin.
Finding it an agreeable road to hell, the symptomatic characteristics of
an addict presently began to develop in him, and he induced his young
wife to share the pleasures of his pharmaceutical discovery.

They and their baby continued to encumber the apartment for a year or
two before the old people died—of weariness perhaps, perhaps of old
age—or grief—or some similar disease so fatal to the aged.

Anyway, they died, and there remained nothing in the estate not subject
to creditors.  And, as tinted photographs had gone out of fashion even
in Utica, and as the advent of moving pictures was beginning to kill
vaudeville everywhere except in New York, the ever-provincial, thither
the Quest family drifted.  And there, through the next few years, they
sifted downward through stratum after stratum of the metropolitan
purlieus, always toward some darker substratum—always a little lower.

The childishly attractive mother, in blue velvet and white cat’s fur,
still did fancy skating at rink and Hippodrome.  The father sometimes
sat dazed and coughing in the chilly waiting rooms of theatrical
agencies.  Fortified by drugs and by a shabby fur overcoat, he sometimes
managed to make the rounds in pleasant weather; and continued to die
rather slowly, considering his physical condition.

But his father, who had so long ago disowned him—the Reverend Anthony
Quest—being in perfect moral condition, caught a slight cold in his
large, warm library, and died of pneumonia in forty-eight hours—a
frightful example of earthly injustice, doubtless made all right in
Heaven.

Young Quest, forbidden the presence for years, came skulking around
after a while with a Jew lawyer, only to find that his one living
relative, a predatory aunt, had assimilated everything and was perfectly
qualified to keep it under the terms of his father’s will.

Her attorneys made short work of the shyster.  She herself, many times a
victim to her nephew’s deceit in former years, and once having stood
between him and prison concerning the matter of a signature for
thousands of dollars—the said signature not being hers but by her
recognised for the miserable young man’s sake—this formidable and
acidulous old lady wrote to her nephew in reply to a letter of his:


You always were a liar.  I do not believe you are married. I do not
believe you have a baby.  I send you—not a cheque, because you’d
probably raise it—but enough money to start you properly.

Keep away from me.  You are what you are partly through your father’s
failure to do his duty by you.  An optimist taken at birth and patiently
trained can be saved. Nobody saved you; you were merely punished.  And
you, naturally, became a swindler.

But I can’t help that now.  It’s too late.  I can only send you money.
And if it’s true you have a child, for God’s sake take her in time or
she’ll turn into what you are.

And that is why I send you any money at all—on the remote chance that
you are not lying.  Keep away from me, Harry.

ROSALINDA QUEST.


So he did not trouble her, he knew her of old; and besides he was too
ill, too dazed with drugs to bother with such things.

He lost every penny of the money in Quint’s gambling house within a
month.


So the Quest family, father, mother and little daughter sifted through
the wide, coarse meshes of the very last social stratum that same
winter, and landed on the ultimate mundane dump heap.

Quest now lay all day across a broken iron bed, sometimes stupefied,
sometimes violent; his wife, dismissed from the Hippodrome for flagrant
cause, now picked up an intermittent living and other things in an
east-side rink.  The child still remained about, somewhere, anywhere—a
dirty, ragged, bruised, furtive little thing, long accustomed to
extremes of maudlin demonstration and drug-crazed cruelty, frightened
witness of dreadful altercations and of more dreadful reconciliations,
yet still more stunned than awakened, more undeveloped than precocious,
as though the steady accumulation of domestic horrors had checked mental
growth rather than sharpened her wits with cynicism and undesirable
knowledge.

Not yet had her environment distorted and tainted her speech, for her
father had been an educated man, and what was left of him still employed
grammatical English, often correcting the nasal, up-state vocabulary of
the mother—the beginning of many a terrible quarrel.

So the child skulked about, alternately ignored or whined over, cursed
or caressed, petted or beaten, sometimes into insensibility.
