and run away — or anything? Where are you going? " 

" Truly," said she, " I don't know." 

" Not with Hugh — if he begs you." 

" Why, no," said she, with a surprised little air that he 
could ask it. "I can't, can I? Think of the promises 
I made to Ben. I'm going to break most of them, not 
all. I sha'n't forget I made them. And about Hugh — 
well, it's no matter." 

"What's no matter?" asked Larry. 

" It's no matter whether we're together as — we'd like 
to be. There's forever, Larry. 


 

He thought Hugh could convince her there was no lure 
in a barren forever when you want love by your side. 
She had not, in this misty dawning, met the hardest tests. 

" Besides," said Ellen, " I wouldn't have Hugh marry 
me and settle down here if he could — not for a long, long 
time. I want him to be free, and go back and fight and 
see things and lick the Boches. That's what he said, lick 
the Boches." 

Larry remembered the nights when David Brock had 
sat with him in this room and they had smoked slow pipes 
and broken much silent communion by the talk of other 
lands and other worlds. David Brock hadn't been con- 
tent to be a citizen of this earth only. He had seen 
the stars with eyes other than the gaze that tells 
the weather by them. The lure of adventure had been 
on him. It was on Ellen now. It had been on Larry 
ever since the first guns sounded at the Mame. He had 
seen like a sign in the heavens one thing: that adventure 
is always at your call. Open your door and you find a 
path that leads straight into it: the adventure that lies 
in calling on the gods and commanding them to tell you 
what they want. For you can command the gods. They 
know it, and only when you cease to batter at their 
thrones do they sink back on rose-leaves and idly pass 
the cup. And ever while they pass it they wonder among 
themselves: why do the earth-bom strip their rose- 
leaves for us and brew the liquor of forgetfulness? We 
don't need their worship. We need them to be whanging 
their swords against the gates of our omnipotence, and 
waking up the old dreams we laid aside for a century or 
two because we thought there were no men brave enough 
to make them true. Even the gods can't give you what 
you do not ask: for the gods are not gods if there are 
no men. Even you, so small as you are, can bring drow- 



 

siness upon their eyes by going a long way off from 
them and ceasing to clamor at their gates. The gods, 
Larry concluded, were now. awake. And when you have 
roused them and puffed the wind through their rose- 
leaves and knocked the jorum out of their hands, they are 
very much awake indeed, and they are as likely to hear 
little voices, the faint footsteps of Ellen and Larry ap- 
proaching the gates of being, as they are the thunder of 
a million wars. Indeed, they do hear everything. He 
knew that. But man must speak in a fashion that shows 
he means business. Ellen got up suddenly and her eyes 
filled with tears. The picture of her then was a rich 
treasure she was unconsciously giving him. 

" Larry," said she, " I do love you. Remember." 
Then, at the same instant, it came to them that Hugh 
had sent her a prayer in that word and how deaf 
she had been to it. Larry's face was, in spite of him, 
miserable with pain. Yet she did love him, and he 
would remember. There was his path to adventure. 
But Ellen had a thousand thoughts that come in the 
spring of life when all is new. She saw herself bound to 
Hugh by an ecstasy of ordained delight. At this mo- 
ment of her love she hardly needed to see him because the 
sense of him was so bewilderingly with her. And Larry 
was dear to her in a way as real. It was all enchanting, 
rich, new, like the singing brooks and birds of spring. 
She got up to go, and he told her he would walk with her 
through the woods. 

" No,'' said she, " truly — no. Not this time." 
His mind leaped with hers, and he knew why. She 
was going to the violet bank. He stood at his gate and 
watched her away, and she turned, just before she van- 
ished in the woods, and waved to him. Smilie, who, ac- 
cording to custom, had gone part way with her, came 



 

loping back, much as if she had heard Larry's inward 
hurry call. He didn't want to watch Ellen out of sight. 
He wanted to get into the house with Smilie before that 
last vanishing. 

" Come on, old girl," said he. " Don't look. This is 
the last we shall see of her." 

He meant it was the last they would ever see of the 
Ellen of that day and mood, who was still partly theirs 
and not veiled by another glamour, as she inevitably 
would be when Hugh and the earth got hold of her. 

Ellen did turn aside at the curve in the path and went 
as fast now as she could cross the wandering roots, to 
the violet bank, and there she fell on her knees and put 
her face to the ground and, in the simplest unconscious- 
ness, loved it and felt herself obedient to all the earth 
