course, especially the girls; but the shop-keepers were frugal, 
and you had better count your change, and bite the coins they 
offered you. As for their language holy smoke! Why did a 
civilised people want to talk a lingo that made you grunt like 
a pig or like a penf ul of pigs of all sizes ? Across the way sat 
a Chicago street-car conductor with a little lesson-book, and now 
and then he would read something out loud. An, in, on, un, 
that many different sizes of pigs ! When you wanted bread, you 
asked for a pain, and when you wanted a dish of eggs, you asked 
for a cat-roof omelette. How was this for a tongue-twister 
Bay five hundred and fifty-five francs in French ! 

Fortunately, you didn't have to say that many not on the 
pay of a dough-boy, put in a plumber from up-state in New 
York. For his part, he did not bother to grunt he would make 
drinking motions or eating motions, and they would bring him 
things till they found what he wanted. One time he had met a 
girl that he thought was all right, and he wanted to blow her to 
a feed, so he drew a picture of a chicken, thinking he would 
get it roasted. She had chattered away to the waiter, and he 
had come back with two soft-boiled eggs. That was the French 
notion of taking a girl out to dinner ! 

IV 

They loaded Jimmie into a motor-lorry and whirled him 
away. You knew you were going to war then, by heck; there 
were two almost solid processions of wagons and trucks, loaded 
with French soldiers and materials going, and damaged French 





soldiers returning. It was like Broadway at the most crowded 
hour ; only here everything went by in a whirl of dust you got 
quick glimpses of drivers with tense faces and blood-shot eyes. 
Now and then there would be a blockade, and men would swear 
and fume in mixed languages ; staff-cars in an extra hurry would 
go off the road and bump along across country, while gangs of 
negro labourers, French colonials, seized the opportunity to fill 
up the ruts worn in the highway. 

They put Jimmie off at a village where his motor-unit was 
located, in a long shed made of corrugated iron, the sort of shed 
which the army threw up over night. Here were a score of 
men working at repairs, and Jimmie stopped for no formalities, 
but took off his coat and pitched in. There was plenty of 
work, he could see; the machines came, sometimes whole truck- 
loads of them, damaged in every way he had ever seen before, 
and in new ways not dreamed of in Kumme's bicycle-shop tires 
torn to shreds by fragments of shrapnel, frames twisted out of 
shape by explosions, and nasty splotches of blood completing the 
story. 

It was one of the many places where American units had 
been taken to plug the damaged French lines. There was a 
reserve battalion nearby, and outside this village a group of men 
at work, putting up tents for a hospital. Some thirty miles 
ahead was the front, and you heard the guns off and on, a low 
sullen roar, punctuated with hammer-strokes of big fellows. 
Millions of dollars every hour were being blown to nothingness 
in that fearful inferno; a gigantic meat-mill that was grinding 
up the bodies of men, and had never ceased day or night for 
nearly four years. You could be a violent pacifist in sound of 
those guns, or you could be a violent militarist, but you could not 
be indifferent to the war, you could not be of two minds about it. 

And yet Jimmie Higgins was of two minds! He wanted 
to beat back the Huns, who had made all this fearful mess ; but 
also he wanted to beat the profiteers who were making messes 
at home. It happened that Jimmie had reached the army at a 
trying moment, when there were no American big guns, and 
when promises of machine-guns and aeroplanes had failed. 
There was wild excitement in the home papers, and not a little 
grumbling in the army. It was graft and politics, men said; 
and Jimmie caught eagerly at this idea. He pointed out how 
the profiteers at home were intrenching themselves, making 



 

ready to exploit the soldiers returning without jobs. That was 
a line of talk the men were ready for, and the little machinist 
rejoiced to see the grim look that come upon their faces. They 
would attend to it, never fear; and Jimmie would go on to tell 
them exactly how to attend to it ! 



But that was only now and then, when the wind was the 
other way, and you did not hear the guns. For the most part 
Jimmie's thoughts were drawn irresistibly to the front; about 
him were thousands of other men, all their thoughts at the 
front, their hands clenched, their teeth set, their beings centred 
upon the job of holding the Beast at bay. Jimmie saw the grey 
ambulances come in, and the wounded lifted out on stretchers, 
their heads bandaged, their bodies covered with sheets, their 
faces a ghastly waxen colour. He saw the poilus, fresh from the 
trenches, after God alone knew what siege of terror. They came 
staggering, bent double under a burden of equipment. The first 
time Jimmie saw them was a day of ceaseless rain, when the dust 
ground up by the big lorries was turned into ankle-deep mud; 
the Frenchmen were plastered with it from head to foot ; you saw 
under their steel helmets only a mud-spattered beard, and the 
end of a nose, and a pair of deep-sunken eyes. They stopped to 
rest not far from the place where Jimmie worked; they sank 
down in the wet, they fell asleep in pools of water, where not 
even beasts could have slept. You did not have to know any 
French to understand what these men had been through. Good 
God ! Was that what was going on up there ? 

Jimmie thanked his stars he was no nearer. But that 
coward's comfort did not last him long, for Jimmie was not a 
coward, he was not used to letting other men struggle and 
suffer for him. His conscience began to gnaw at him. If that 
was what it cost to beat down the Beast, to make the world safe 
for democracy, why should he be escaping? Why should he be 
warm and dry and well fed, while workingmen of France lay out 
