



XXVI


When Cassy had gone, Jones went back to his rooms. He went absently, his
mind not on her story, which was old as the Palisades, but on a
situation, entirely new, which it had suggested.

"Nice girl," he remarked as he re-entered the workshop. "Suppose we go
and have dinner."

Sombrely Lennox looked up. At the table where he sat, he had been
fingering some papers. He threw them down.

"I am going to have a word with Paliser."

Jones cocked an eye at him. "See here, you are not a knight-errant. The
age of chivalry is over." The novelist paused and exclaimed: "What am I
saying! The age of chivalry is not over. It can't be. Last night,
Verelst dined with a monster!"

Lennox pushed at the papers. "If I were alone concerned, I would thank
Paliser. He has done me a good turn. He has set me straight."

Then, to the listening novelist, who later found the story very useful,
Lennox repeated Cassy's version of the rhyme and reason of the broken
engagement.

The tale of it concluded, Lennox flicked at a speck. "I am grateful to
Paliser for that, but for the manner in which he treated her, I shall
have a word with him. Just one."

Jones sat down. "A word, eh? Well, why not? Flipping a man in the face
with a glove was fashionable in the days of Charles II. Tweaking the
nose was Georgian. The horsewhip went out with Victoria. Posting your
man was always rather coffee-house and a rough-and-tumble very hooligan.
If I were you, which I am not, but if I were, I would adopt
contemporaneous methods. To-day we just sit about and backbite. That is
progress. Let me commend it to you."

With a wide movement, Lennox swept the papers, shoved them into a pocket
and stood up.

Jones also stood up. "Got an appetite? Well, dining has the great
disadvantage of taking it away. Come along."

Lennox put on his hat. "I am going first to Park Avenue."

No you're not, thought Jones, who, with an agility which for him was
phenomenal, hurried to the door and backed against it.

Lennox motioned him aside.

Jones, without budging, lied. "They're out of town." It was very
imbecile. He knew it was, knew, too, that Lennox knew it, and, for the
imbecile lie, he substituted another. "I mean they are dining out."

"What the devil are you driving at?" Lennox asked, and not very civilly
either.

"A windmill, I suppose. You look like one. I----"

Jones broke off. The expression on Lennox' face arrested him. The
attempt at interference, the stupid evasions, the conviction which these
things produced, that there was something behind them, something
secreted, something about Margaret that Jones knew and which he was
concealing, made him livid.

"Out with it."

Jones looked at him, looked away, adjusted his neckcloth, vacated the
door, crossed the room and sat down. He did not know to what saint to
vow himself. But realising that it was all very useless, that everything
is, except such solicitude as one pilgrim may show to another, and that,
anyway, Lennox would soon hear it, he gave it to him.

"She is engaged to Paliser."

Lennox, who was approaching, stopped short. "Miss Austen is?"

Jones nodded.

"To Paliser?"

But it seemed too rough and, to take the edge off, Jones added. "It may
not be true."

"How did you hear?"

"Verelst told me. He dined there last night."

Lennox turned on his heel. Futilely in that hell to which one may look
back and see that it was not hell but purgatory prior to paradise,
futilely there he had sought the reason of his damnation. A few minutes
before he had thought that Cassy's story revealed it. In the light of it
he had seen himself condemned, as many another has been, for crimes
which he had not committed. But he had seen, too, the order of release.
He had only a word to say. He was going to Park Avenue to say it.

When Jones was below with Cassy so he had thought and not without
gratitude to Paliser either. If the cad had held his tongue,
enlightenment might have been withheld until to his spirit, freed
perhaps in Flanders, had come the revelation. Personally he was
therefore grateful to Paliser. But vicariously he was bitter. For his
treatment of that girl, punishment should follow.

That girl! Obscurely, in the laboratory of the senses where, without our
knowledge, often against our will, our impulses are dictated, a process,
intricate and interesting, which Stendhal called crystallisation, was at
work.

Unaware of that, conscious only of the moment, to his face had come the
look and menace of the wolf.

Now----!

"There is a book over there," Jones, who was watching him, cut in. "It
