the Japanese escorted you out of China.

"From the day you landed, and all across the Continent to New York, you
have been kept in view by agents of this government.

"Here, in New York, my men have kept in touch with you. And now,
to-night, the moment has come for a personal understanding between you
and me."

The girl's pale lips moved--became stiffly articulate: "I--I wish to
live," she stammered, "I fear death."

"I know it. I know what I ask when I ask your help."

She said in the ghost of a voice: "If I turn against them--they will
kill me."

"They'll try," he said quietly.

"They will not fail, Mr. Cleves."

"That is in God's hands."

She became deathly white at that.

"No," she burst out in an agonised voice, "it is not in God's hands! If
it were, I should not be afraid! It is in the hands of those who stole
my soul!"

She covered her face with both arms, fairly writhing on her chair.

"If the Yezidees have actually made you believe any such nonsense"--he
began; but she dropped her arms and stared at him out of terrible blue
eyes:

"I don't want to die, I tell you! I am afraid!--afraid! If I reveal to
you what I know they'll kill me. If I turn against them and aid you,
they'll slay my body, and send it after my soul!"

She was trembling so violently that he sprang up and went to her. After
a moment he passed one arm around her shoulders and held her firmly,
close to him.

"Come," he said, "do your duty. Those who enlist under the banner of
Christ have nothing to dread in this world or the next."

"If--if I could believe I were safe there."

"I tell you that you are. So is every human soul! What mad nonsense have
the Yezidees made you believe? Is there any surer salvation for the soul
than to die in Christ's service?"

He slipped his arm from her quivering shoulders and grasped both her
hands, crushing them as though to steady every fibre in her tortured
body.

"I want you to live. I want to live, too. But I tell you it's in God's
hands, and we soldiers of civilisation have nothing to fear except
failure to do our duty. Now, then, are we comrades under the United
States Government?"

"O God--I--dare not!"

"Are we?"

Perhaps she felt the physical pain of his crushing grip for she turned
and looked him in the eyes.

"I don't want to die," she whispered. "Don't make me!"

"Will you help your country?"

The terrible directness of her child's gaze became almost unendurable to
him.

"Will you offer your country your soul and body?" he insisted in a low,
tense voice.

Her stiff lips formed a word.

"Yes!" he exclaimed.

"Yes."

For a moment she rested against his shoulder, deathly white, then in a
flash she had straightened, was on her feet in one bound and so swiftly
that he scarcely followed her movement--was unaware that she had risen
until he saw her standing there with a pistol glittering in her hand,
her eyes fixed on the portières that hung across the corridor leading to
his bedroom.

"What on earth," he began, but she interrupted him, keeping her gaze
focused on the curtains, and the pistol resting level on her hip.

"I'll answer you if I die for it!" she cried. "I'll tell you everything
I know! You wish to learn what is this monstrous evil that threatens the
world with destruction--what you call anarchy and Bolshevism? It is an
Evil that was born before Christ came! It is an Evil which not only
destroys cities and empires and men but which is more terrible still for
it obtains control of the human mind, and uses it at will; and it
obtains sovereignty over the soul, and makes it prisoner. Its aim is to
dominate first, then to destroy. It was conceived in the beginning by
Erlik and by Sorcerers and devils.... Always, from the first, there have
been sorcerers and living devils.

"And when human history began to be remembered and chronicled, devils
were living who worshiped Erlik and practised sorcery.

"They have been called by many names. A thousand years before Christ
Hassan Sabbah founded his sect called Hassanis or Assassins. The
Yezidees are of them. Their Chief is still called Sabbah; their creed is
the annihilation of civilisation!"

Cleves had risen. The girl spoke in a clear, accentless monotone, not
looking at him, her eyes and pistol centred on the motionless curtains.

"Look out!" she cried sharply.

"What is the matter?" he demanded. "Do you suppose anybody is hidden
behind that curtain in the passageway?"
