to his seat on the bench.
Sondheim stood up:
"Comrade Bromberg!" he shouted.
A small, shabby man arose from a bench and shambled forward. His hair
grew so low that it left him practically no forehead. Whiskers blotted
out the remainder of his features except two small and very bright
eyes that snapped and sparkled, imbedded in the hairy ensemble.
"Comrades," he growled, "it has come to a moment when the only law
worth obeying is the law of force!----"
"You bet!" remarked the police captain, genially, and, turning his
back, he walked away up the aisle toward the rear of the hall, while
all around him from the audience came a savage muttering.
Bromberg's growling voice grew harsher and deeper as he resumed: "I
tell you that there is only one law left for proletariat and tyrant
alike! It is the law of force!"
As the audience applauded fiercely, a man near them stood up and
shouted for a hearing.
"Comrade Bromberg is right!" he cried, waving his arms excitedly.
"There is only one real law in the world! The fit survive! The unfit
die! The strong take what they desire! The weak perish. That is the
law of life! That is the----"
An amazing interruption checked him--a clear, crystalline peal of
laughter; and the astounded audience saw a tall, fresh, yellow-haired
girl standing up midway down the hall. It was Ilse Westgard, unable to
endure such nonsense, and quite regardless of Brisson's detaining hand
and Shotwell's startled remonstrance.
"What that man says is absurd!" she cried, her fresh young voice still
gay with laughter. "He looks like a Prussian, and if he is he ought to
know where the law of force has landed his nation."
In the ominous silence around her, Ilse turned and gaily surveyed the
audience.
"The law of force is the law of robbers," she said. "That is why this
war has been fought--to educate robbers. And if there remain any
robbers they'll have to be educated. Don't let anybody tell you that
the law of force is the law of life!----"
"Who are you?" interrupted Bromberg hoarsely.
"An ex-soldier of the Death Battalion, comrade," said Ilse cheerfully.
"I used a rifle in behalf of the law of education. Sometimes bayonets
educate, sometimes machine guns. But the sensible way is to have a
meeting, and everybody drink tea and smoke cigarettes and discuss
their troubles without reserve, and then take a vote as to what is
best for everybody concerned."
And she seated herself with a smile just as the inevitable uproar
began.
All around her now men and women were shouting at her; inflamed faces
ringed her; gesticulating fists waved in the air.
"What are you--a spy for Kerensky?" yelled a man in Russian.
"The bourgeoisie has its agents here!" bawled a red-haired Jew. "I
offer a solemn protest----"
"Agent provocateur!" cried many voices. "Pay no attention to her! Go
on with the debate!"
An I. W. W.--a thin, mean-faced American--half arose and pointed an
unwashed finger at Ilse.
"A Government spy," he said distinctly. "Keep your eye on her,
comrades. There seems to be a bunch of them there----"
"Sit down and shut up!" said Shotwell, sharply. "Do you want to start
a riot?"
"You bet I'll start something!" retorted the man, showing his teeth
like a rat. "What the hell did you come here for----"
"Silence!" bawled Bromberg, hoarsely, from the platform. "That woman
is recognised and known. Pay no attention to her, but listen to me. I
tell you that your law is the law of hatred!----"
Palla attempted to rise. Jim tried to restrain her: she pushed his arm
aside, but he managed to retain his grasp on her arm.
"Are you crazy?" he whispered.
"That man lies!" she said excitedly. "Don't you hear him preaching
hatred?"
"Well, it's not your business----"
"It is! That man is lying to these ignorant people! He's telling
them a vile untruth! Let me go, Jim----"
"Better keep cool," whispered Brisson, leaning over. "We're all in
dutch already."
Palla said to him excitedly: "I'm afraid to stand up and speak, but
I'm going to! I'd be a coward to sit here and let that man deceive
these poor people----"
"Listen to Bromberg!" motioned Ilse, her blue eyes frosty and her
cheeks deeply flushed.
The orator had come down into the aisle. Every venomous word he was
uttering now he directed straight at the quartette.
"Russia is showing us the way," he said in his growling voice. "Russia
makes no distinctions but takes them all by the throat and wrings
their necks--aristocrats, bourgeoisie, cadets, officers, land owners,
intellectuals--all the vermin, all the parasites! And that is the law,
I tell you! The unfit perish! The strong inherit the earth!----"
Palla sprang to her feet: "Liar!" she said hotly. "Did not Christ
Himself tell us that the meek shall inherit the earth!"
"Christ?" thundered Bromberg. "Have you come here to insult us with
legends and fairy-tales about a god?"
"Who mentioned God?" retorted Palla in a clear voice. "Unless we
ourselves are gods there is none! But Christ did live! And He was as
much a god as we are. And no more. But He was wiser! And what He told
us is the truth! And I shall not sit silent while any man or woman
teaches robbery and murder. That's what you mean when you say that the
law of the stronger is the only law! If it is, then the poor and
ignorant are where they belong----"
"They won't be when they learn the law of life!" roared Bromberg.
"There is only one law of life!" cried Palla, turning to look around
her at the agitated audience. "The only law in the world worth
obedience is the Law of Love and of Service! No other laws amount to
anything. Under that law every problem you agitate here is already
solved. There is no injustice that cannot be righted under it! There
is no aspiration that cannot be realised!"
She turned on Bromberg, her hazel eyes very bright, her face surging
with colour.
"You came here to pervert the exhortation of Karl Marx, and unite
under the banner of envy and greed every unhappy heart!
"Very well. Others also can unite to combat you. A league of evil is
not the only league that can be formed under this roof. Nor are the
soldiers and police the only or the better weapons to use against you.
What you agitators and mischief makers are really afraid of is that
somebody may really educate your audiences. And that's exactly what
such people as I intend to do!"
A score or more of people had crowded around her while she was
speaking. Shotwell and Brisson, too, had risen and stepped to her
side. And the entire audience was on its feet, craning hundreds of
necks and striving to hear and see.
Somewhere in the crowd a shrill American voice cried: "Throw them guys
out! They got Wall Street cash in their pockets!"
Sondheim levelled a finger at Brisson:
"Look out for that man!" he said. "He published those lies about
