a crew who talked more or less grammatically, who were clean bodily, who
weren't boozers?"

Cleigh, fully alive now, coldly ran his inspecting glance over the men. He
had never before given their faces any particular attention. Besides, this
was the first time he had seen so many of them at once. During boat drill
they had been divided into four squads. Young faces, lean and hard some of
them, but reckless rather than bad. All of them at this moment appeared to
be enjoying some huge joke.

"I can only repeat," said Cleigh, "that you are all playing with
dynamite."

"Perhaps. Most of these boys fought in the war; they played the game; but
when they returned nobody had any use for them. I caught them on the
rebound, when they were a bit desperate. We formed a company--but of that
more anon. Will you be my guest, or will you be my prisoner?"

The velvet fell away from Cunningham's voice.

"Have I any choice? I'll accept the condition because I must. But I've
warned you. I suppose I'd better ask at once what the ransom is."

"Ransom? Not a copper cent! You can make Singapore in two days from the
Catwick."

"And for helping me into Singapore I'm to agree not to hand such men as
you leave me over to the British authorities?"

"All wrong! The men who will help you into Singapore or take you to Manila
will be as innocent as newborn babes. Wouldn't believe it, would you, but
I'm one of those efficiency sharks. Nothing left to chance; all cut and
dried; pluperfect. Cleigh, I never break my word. I honestly intended
turning over those beads to you, but Morrissy muddled the play."

"Next door to murder."

"Near enough, but he'll pull out."

"Are you going to take Miss Norman along?"

"What, set her ashore to sic the British Navy on us? I'm sorry. I don't
want her on board; but that was your play, not mine. You tried to
double-cross me. But you need have no alarm. I will kill the man who
touches her. You understand that, boys?"

The crew signified that the order was understood, though one of them--the
returned Flint--smiled cynically. If Cunningham noted the smile he made no
verbal comment upon it.

"Weigh anchor, then! Look alive! The sooner we nose down to the delta the
sooner we'll have the proper sea room."

The crew scurried off, and almost at once came familiar sounds--the rattle
of the anchor chain on the windlass, the creaking of pulley blocks as the
launch came aboard, the thud of feet hither and yon as portables were
stowed or lashed to the deck-house rail. For several minutes Cleigh and
Cunningham remained speechless and motionless.

"You get all the angles?" asked Cunningham, finally.

"Some of them," admitted Cleigh.

"At any rate, enough to make you accept a bad situation with good grace?"

"You're a foolhardy man, Cunningham. Do you expect me to lie down when
this play is over? I solemnly swear to you that I'll spend the rest of my
days hunting you down."

"And I solemnly swear that you shan't catch me. I'm through with the old
game of playing the genie in the bottle for predatory millionaires.
Henceforth I'm on my own. I'm romantic--yes, sir--I'm romantic from heel
to cowlick; and now I'm going to give rein to this stifled longing."

"You will come to a halter round your neck. I have always paid your price
on the nail, Cunningham."

"You had to. Hang it, passions are the very devil, aren't they? Sooner or
later one jumps upon your back and rides you like the Old Man of the
Sea."

Cleigh heard the rumble of steam.

"Objects of art!" went on Cunningham. "It eats into your vitals to hear
that some rival has picked up a Correggio or an ancient Kirman or a bit of
Persian plaque. You talk of halters. Lord lumme, how obliquely you look at
facts! Take that royal Persian there--the second-best animal rug on
earth--is there no murder behind the woof and warp of it? What? Talk
sense, Cleigh, talk sense! You cable me: Get such and such. I get it. What
the devil do you care how it was got, so long as it eventually becomes
yours? It's a case of the devil biting his own tail--pot calling kettle
black."

"How much do you want?"

"No, Cleigh, it's the romantic idea."

"I will give you fifty thousand for the rug."

"I'm sorry. No use now of telling you the plot; you wouldn't believe me,
as the song goes. Dinner at seven. Will you dine in the salon with me, or
will you dine in the solemn grandeur of your own cabin, in company with Da
Vinci, Teniers, and that Carlo Dolci the Italian Government has been
hunting high and low for?"

"I will risk the salon."

"To keep an eye on me as long as possible. That's fair enough. You heard
what I said to those boys. Well, every mother's son of 'em will toe the
mark. There will be no change at all in the routine. Simply we lay a new
course that will carry us outside and round Formosa, down to the South Sea
and across to the Catwick. I'll give you one clear idea. A million and
immunity would not stir me, Cleigh."

"What's the game--if it's beyond ransom?"

Cunningham laughed boyishly.

"It's big, and you'll laugh, too, when I tell you."

