Our flankers, who, keeping stations, had waited, now started on again,
the Water-snake running swiftly to his post on the extreme right flank.

After ten minutes' silent and swift advance, Thiohero came lightly to my
side on the trail.

"Brother," she whispered, "was it well considered to let loose that
Tree-eating rover in our rear?"

"Would the Oneida take such a wretched trophy as that poor hunter's
tangled scalp?"

"Neah. Yet, I ask again, was it wisdom to let him loose, who, for a
mouthful of parched corn, might betray us to the Mengwe?"

"Poor devil, he means no harm to anybody."

"Then why does he skulk after us?"

Startled, I turned and caught a glimpse of something slinking on the
ridge between our flankers; but was instantly reassured because no
living thing could dog us without discovery from the rear. And presently
I did see the Screech-owl run forward and hurl a clod of moss into the
thicket; and the Saguenay broke cover like a scared dog, running perdue
so that he came close to Hanatoh, who flung a stick at him.

That was too much for me; and, as the Tree-eater bolted past me, I
seized him.

"Come," said I, dragging him along, "what the devil do you want of us?
Did I not bid you go in peace?"

Thiohero caught him by the other arm, and he panted some jargon at her.

"Koué!" she exclaimed, and her long, sweet whistle of the Canada sparrow
instantly halted us in our tracks, flankers, rearguard, and all.

Thiohero, still holding the Saguenay by his lean, muscular arm, spoke
sharply to him in his jargon; then, at his reply, looked up at me with
the flaming eyes of a lynx.

"Brother," said she, "this Montagnais hunter has given an account that
the Maquas have prepared an ambuscade, knowing we are on the Great
Trail."

I said, coolly: "What reason does the Saguenay give for returning to us
with such a tale?"

"He says," she replied, "that we only, of all Iroquois or white men he
has ever encountered, have treated him like a man and not as an unclean
beast.

"He says that my white brother has told him he is a man, and that if
this is true he will act as real men act.

"He says he desires to be painted upon the breast with a little red
foot, and wishes to go into battle with us. And," she added naïvely, "to
an Oneida this seems very strange that a Saguenay can be a real man!"

"Paint him," said I, smiling at the Saguenay.

But no Oneida would touch him. So, while he stripped to the clout and
began to oil himself from the flask of gun-oil I offered, I got from
him, through Thiohero, all he had noticed of the ambuscade prepared for
us, and into which he himself had run headlong in his flight from the
stones and insults of the Mohawks at the Big Eddy.

While he was thus oiling himself, Luysnes shaved his head with his
hunting blade, leaving a lock to be braided. Then, very quickly, I took
blue paint from Thiohero and made on the fellow's chest a hawk. And,
with red paint, under this I made a little red foot, then painted his
fierce, thin features as the girl directed, moving a dainty finger
hither and thither but never touching the Saguenay.

To me she said disdainfully, in English: "My brother John, this is a
wild wolf you take hunting with you, and not a hound. The Saguenays are
real wolves and not to be tamed by white men or Iroquois. And like a
lone wolf he will run away in battle. You shall see, brother John."

"I hope not, little sister."

"You shall see," she repeated, her pretty lip curling as Luysnes began
to braid the man's scalp-lock. "You think him a warrior, now, because he
is oiled and wears war paint and lock. But I tell you he is only a wild
Montagnais hunter. Warriors are not made with a word."

"Sometimes men are," said I pleasantly.

The girl came closer to me, looked up into my face with unfeigned
curiosity.

"What manner of white man are you, John?" she asked. "For you speak like
a preacher, yet you wear no skirt and cross, as do the priests of the
Praying Indians."

"Little sister," said I, taking both her hands, "I am only a young man
going into battle for the first time; and I have yet to fire my first
shot in anger. If my white and red brothers--and if you, little
sister--do full duty this day, then we shall be happy, living or dead.
For only those who do their best can look the Holder of Heaven in the
face."

She gave me a strange glance; our hands parted. I gave the
Canada-sparrow call in the minor key--as often the bird whistles--and,
at the signal, all my scouts came creeping in.

"We cross West River here," said I, "and go by the left bank in the same
order of march, crossing the shoulder of the mountain by the Big Eddy,
then fording the river once more, so as to take their ambuscade from the
north and in the rear."

They seemed to understand. The Montagnais, in his new paint, came around
behind me like some savage dog that trusts only his owner. And I saw my
Oneidas eyeing him as though of two minds whether to ignore him or sink
a hatchet into his narrow skull.

"Who first sights a Mohawk," said I, "shall not fire or try to take a
scalp to satisfy his own vanity and his desire for glory. No. He shall
return to me and report what he sees. For it is my business to order the
conduct of this battle.... March!"
