democracy of childhood, have admitted her to intimacy 
by degrees, particularly if she had proved to be socially 
malleable. 

But for some obscure reason it made Gora happier to 
hate them all, and when she had passed her examina- 
tions victoriously, and taken every prize, except for tidiness and deportment, she said good-by with some regret 
to the teachers, who had admired and encouraged her 
but did not pretend to love her, and announced as soon 
as she arrived at home that she should enter the High 
School at the beginning of the following term. 



IV 

Her parents were secretly relieved. Even Mrs. 
Dwight's vision of future prosperity had faded. She 
had been justified in believing that her sister Eliza would 
make a will in favor of her family, but unfortunately 
Mrs. Goring had amused herself with speculation in her 
old age, and had left barely enough to pay her funeral 
expenses. 

Mrs. D wight broached the subject of their immediate 
future to her husband that evening. She had some time 
since made up her mind, in case the school experiment 
was not a success, to furnish a larger house with what 
remained of the legacy, and take boarders. 

"I wouldn't do it if Gora had made the friends I 
hoped for her, ' ' she said, turning the heel of the first of 
her son's winter socks, "and there's no such thing as a 
social come-down for us; for that matter, there is more 
than one lady, once wealthy, who is keeping a boarding- 
house in this town. Gora will have to work anyhow, and 
as for Mortimer — -" she glanced fondly at her manly 
young son, who was amiably playing checkers in the 
parlor with his sister, "he is sure to make his fortune." 



 

"I don't know," said Mr. D wight heavily. "I don't 
know. ' ' 

"Why, what do you mean?" asked his wife sharply. 

Mrs. Dwight belonged to that type of American women 
whose passions in youth are weak and ansemie, not to 
say exceedingly shame-faced, but which in mature years 
become strong ajid selfish ajid jealous, either for a lover 
or a son. Mrs. Dwight, being a perfectly respectable 
woman, had centered all the accumulated forces of her 
being on the son whom she idealized after the fashion 
of her type ; and as she had corrected his obvious faults 
when he was a boy, it was quite true that he was kind, 
amiable, honest, honorable, patriotic, industrious, clean, 
polite, and moral; if hardly as handsome as Apollo or 
as brilliant and gifted as she permitted herself to believe. 

"What do you mean?" she repeated, although she 
lowered her voice. It was rarely that it assumed an 
edge when addressing her husband. She had never reproached him for being a failure, for she had recognized his limitations early and accepted her lot. But 
something in his tone shook her maternal complacence 
and roused her to instant defense. 

Mr. Dwight took his pipe from his mouth and also 
cast a glance toward the parlor, but the absorbed players 
were beyond the range of his rather weak voice. 

"I mean this," he said with nothing of his usual 
vale hesitancy of speech. "I'm not so sure that Morty 
is beyond clerk size. ' ' 

"You — you — John Dwight — your son " The 

thin layer of pale flesh on Mrs. Dwight 's face seemed to 
collapse upon its harsh framework with the terrified 
wrath that shook her. Her mouth fell apart, and hot 
smarting tears welled slowly to her eyes, faded with long 
years of stitching; not only for her own family but for 
many others when money had been more than commonly 
scarce. "Mortimer can do anything. Anything." 

' ' Can he ? Why doesn't he show it then ? He went to 
work at sixteen and is now twenty-two. He is drawing 
just fifty dollars a month. He's well liked in the firm, 
too." 

"Why don't they raise his salary?" 



 

"Because that's all he's worth to them. He's a good 
steady honest clerk, nothing more." 

" He 's very young ' ' 

" If a man has inithative, ability, any sort of constructive power in his breiin he shows it by the time he is 
twenty-two — if he has been in that forcing house for 
four or five years. That is the whole history of this 
country. And employers are always on the look-out for 
those qualities and only too anxious to find them and 
push a young man on and up. Many a president of a 
great business started life as a clerk, or even office 
boy " 

' ' That is what I have always known would happen to 
Morty. I am sure, sure, that you are doing him a cruel 
injustice. ' ' 

"I hope I am. But I am a failure myself and I know 
what a man needs in the way of natural equipment to 
make a success of his life." 

' ' But he is so energetic and industrious and honorable 
