not tell whether he was asleep or awake. Never 
again to be alone! To fit herself into this man's 
life as a hand into a glove; to use all her skill to force 
him into the position of depending upon her utterly; 
to be the spark to the divine fire! He should have 
his book, even if it had to be written with her heart's 
blood. 





What she did not know, and what she was never 
to know, was that the divine fire was hers. 

"Ruth?" he called. 

She entered and approached the bunk.  'I 
thought you were asleep. Is there anything you 
want?" She laid her hand on his forehead, and 
found it without fever. She had worried in fear that 
the excitement would be too much for him. 

" Call me Hoddy   That is what my mother used 
to call me." 

"Hoddy," she repeated. "I shall like to call 
you that. But now you must be quiet; there's 
been too much excitement. Knock on the partition 
if you want anything during the might. I awaken 
easily. Good night!" She pressed his hand and 
went out. 

For a long time he stared at the empty doorway. 
He heard the panting of the donkey-engine, then 
the slithering of the anchor chains. Presently he 
felt motion. He chuckled. The vast ironic humour 
of it: he was starting on his honeymoon! 



  



CHAPTER XIX 

MEANWHILE the doctor, upon returning 
to his office, found Ah Cum in the waiting 
room. "Why, hello, Ah Cum! What's 
the trouble?" 

Ah Cum took his hands from his sleeves. "I 
should like to know where Mr. Spurlock has gone." 

"Did he owe you money?" 

"Oh, no!" 

"Then why do you wish to know?" 

Ah Cum pondered. "I have a client who is 
very much interested in Mr. Spurlock. He was 
here shortly after the yoimg man was taken ill." 

"Ah. What was this man?" 

"A detective from the States." 

"Why didn't he arrest Mr. Spurlock then?" 

"I imagine that Mr. O'Higgins is rather a kindly 
man. He couldn't have taken Mr. Spurlock back to 
Hong-Kong with him, so he considered it would be 
needless to give an additional shock. He asked me 
to watch Mr. Spurlock's movements and report 
progress. He admitted that it would bore him to 
dally here in Canton, with the pleasures of Hong- 
Kong so close." 

The doctor caught the irony, and he warmed a 

 





little.  'rm afraid I must decline to tell yotu 
Do you know what Spurlock has done?'' 

''Mr. O'Higgins did not confide in me. But he 
told me this much, that no matter how far Mr. 
Spurlock went, it would not be far enough ' 

A detective. The doctor paced the room half 
a dozen times. How easily an evil thought could 
penetrateanormally decent mind! All he had to do | 
was to disclose Spurlock's destination, and in a few 
months Ruth would be free. For it was but logical 
that she would seek a divorce on the ground that 
she had unknowingly married a fugitive from 
justice. McClintock would be on hand to tell her 
how and where to obtain this freedom . He stopped 
abruptly before the apparently inciuious China' 



man. 



Your detective has been remiss in his duty; let 
him suffer for it." 

"Personally, I am neutral," said Ah Cum. ''I 
wish merely to come out of this bargain honourably. 
It would make the yoimg wife unhappy." 

"Very." 
