But just how many of these night hells have 
you been to?" 

" I can't tell. I've been to far worse dives 
than that. Pve even been in saloons over on 
Barbary Coast. But although Pve been hurt 
accidentally several times in scuffles, and a bullet 
nearly hit me once, I seem to bear a charmed 
life. I suppose those do that want to die. And 
although they treat me with no respect they 
seem to regard me as a harmless lunatic, and — 
and — I take very little when I am out. I have 
just enough pride left not to care to be taken 
to the calaboose by a policeman." 

" Good God! How can you even talk of 
such things? Some day you will regret all this 
horribly." 

" I'll never regret anything except that I was 
born." 

" Well, here we are. I'll not take you up to 
your rooms. Don't give them a chance at that 
sort of scandal whatever you do. It's lucky for 
you that idcohol doesn't send you along a still 
livelier road to perdition. It does most women." 

" I see him every moment. Even if I did 




not, I do not think — well, of course if things 
were difFerent I should not be an outcast of any 
sort. And don't imagine that my refinement 
suffers in these new contacts. The underworld 
interests me; I had never even tried to imagine 
it before. I am permitted to remain aloof and 
a spectator. At times it is all as unreal as I seem 
to myself, sitting there. But I never feel so 
close to vice as to complete honesty. I have 
often had glimpses of blacker sins in Sodety." 
" Well, I'm glad it's no worse. To tell you 
the truth, I've avoided looking you up, for I 
didn't know — well, I didn't want to see you 
again if you were too different. Good-night. 
I'll meet you at this door tonight at twelve 
sharp." 





THERE were dcx:tors' offices on the first 
floor and Madeleine climbed wearily the 
two flights to her room. Her muscles felt as 
tired as her spirit, but she had an odd fancy 
that her skeleton was of fine flexible steel and 
not only indestructible but tenacious and domi- 
nant. It defied the worst she could do to organs 
and soul. 

She unlocked her door and lit the gas jet. 
It was a decent room, large, with the bed in an 
alcove, and little uglier than those grim double 
parlors of her past that she had graced so often. 
But her own rooms at the hotel had been beauti- 
ful and luxurious. They had sheltered and 
pampered her body for five years, and her 
father's house was a stately mansion, refurnished, with the exception of old colonial pieces, 
after the grand tour in Europe. This room, 
although clean and sufficiently equipped, was 
sordid and commonplace, and the bed was as 
hard as the horsehair furniture. Her body as 

  

well as her aesthetic sense had rebelled more 
than once. 

But she would never return j although she 
guessed that the complete dissociation from her 
old life and its tragic reminders had more than 
a little to do with the loathing for drink that 
had gradually possessed hen She had not 
admitted it to Holt, but it required a supreme 
effort of will to take a glass of hot whiskey and 
water at night, the taste disguised as much as 
possible by lime juice, and another in the day- 
time. She had no desire to reform! And she 
longed passionately to drown not only her heart 
but her pride. Now that her system was refusing its demoralizing drug she felt that horror 
of her descent only possible to a woman who 
has inherited and practised all the refinements 
of dvilization. She longed to return to those 
first months of degraded oblivion, and could 
not! 

The champagne or brandy she was forced to 
order in the dives she haunted, in order to secure 
a table> merely gave her tone for the moment. 

Her nerves were less affected than her spirits. 
She had hours of such black depression that only 
the faint glimmering star of religion kept her 



 

from suicide. She had longer seasons for 
thought on Masters and his ruin — and of the 
hours they had spent together. One night she 
went out to Dolores and sat in the dark little 
church until dawn. She had nothing of the 
saint in her and felt no impulse to emulate 
Concha Arguello, who had become the first nun 
in California J moreover, Razanov had died an 
honorable death through no fault of his or his 
