of repulsion and incurable ennui . . . the dark residuum of immedicable
disillusion . . . that what she had really wanted was love with its
final expression eliminated.
But she realized it only as a fact, . . . a psychological study of
another . . . buried down there in an artificial civilization she had
forgotten . . . in that past that belonged to Marie Zattiany . . . with
which Mary Ogden had nothing to do . . . her mind at last was as young
as her body, and this man had accomplished the miracle.  The present
and the future were his.
She looked up into his eyes, anxious but imperious, and answered
softly:  "Why not?"
"Exactly.  I've no desire to take that long journey with you, but I'm
not going to take any chances, either. . . .  Ah!  Here's an idea that
beats the other hollow.  When the party breaks up we'll go down to
Huntersville with them, marry there, and return to the camp.  I don't
see how your Dolomites could beat this for a honeymoon.  Why in thunder
should we trail all the way over to Europe to find seclusion when we
must return in two or three months, anyhow?  It's a scandalous waste.
We can go to the Dolomites for our second honeymoon--we'll have one
every year.  And this is much more in the picture if you want to be
Mary Ogden again.  She never would have proposed anything so elaborate
and unnecessary.  Say yes, and don't be more than a minute about it."
Mary drew in her breath sharply.  The plan made a violent and
irresistible appeal.  There would be no long interval for possible
reversal, for contacts in which it might be difficult to hold fast to
her new faith.  But what excuse could she make to leave him
later? . . .  Later?  Did Austria really exist?  Did she care?  Let the
future take care of itself.  Her horizon, a luminous band, encircled
these mountains. . . .  She smiled into his ardent eyes.  "Very well.
I'll write to Hortense today and tell her to send me up a trousseau of
sorts.  And now--you are to understand that you have not dared to
propose to me yet and are suffering all the qualms of uncertainty, for
I am a desperate flirt, and took a long walk in the woods this morning
with Mr. Scores."
"Very well, Miss Ogden, I will now do my best to make a fool of myself,
and as soon as we return to camp will telegraph to New York for a
five-pound box of chocolates."
"Hark!  Hark!  The Lark!" shouted Todd as he rowed past with Babette
Gold.  "Only there isn't a lark or any other bird in these woods that
I've been able to discover."
"Birds sing one at a time," shouted back Clavering.  "Choir of jealous
soloists."
He rowed into a little cove and they gazed into the dim green woods,
but the maple leaves grew almost to the ground, and it was like peering
through the tiny changing spaces of a moving curtain through which one
glimpsed green columns flecked with gold.
He beached the boat, and they walked, single file, up a narrow run-way
made by the deer.  Everywhere was that leafy whispering curtain.
Between the rigid spruce and soft maples were fragrant balsams, and
ferns, and an occasional pine with its pale green spikes.  They passed
enormous boulders detached from the glaciers that had ground mountains
in their embrace, but today things of mere beauty in their coats of
pink and green and golden moss.
Their footsteps made no sound on the mossy path, and they came suddenly
upon a deer and his doe drinking at a pool.  But the antlered head was
flung back instantly, the magnificent buck wheeled on his hind legs,
gave a leap and went crashing through the forest snorting his
protesting fury.  The doe scampered after, her white-lined tail
standing up perfectly straight.
They sat down on a log, dried and warmed by the sun in this open space,
and talked for two hours.  There was no need for careful avoidance of
dangerous subjects.  Clavering had come to these woods nearly every
year since he had made the north his home, and she had forgotten
nothing of her woodland lore.  When one is "in the woods," as the great
Adirondacks are familiarly called, one rarely talks of anything but
their manifold offerings.  It is easy enough to forget the world.  They
both had had their long tramps, their rough campings-out, more or less
exciting adventures.  When a loud bell, hung in a frame outside the
camp, summoned them to dinner, they walked out briskly.  Once, as the
trail widened, he touched her fingers tentatively.  She let her own
curl for a moment, then gave him a provocative glance over her shoulder
and hurried on.
XLVIII
Clavering, when making up his list with Mr. Dinwiddie (by courtesy),
had, with the exception of Todd, who was always the life of any party,
Gora, whom he always liked to have at hand, and Eva Darling, who was a
favorite of "The Ambassador to the Court of the Sophisticates," as Todd
had long since dubbed him, chosen his guests at random, taking whom he
could get, careful merely to ask those who, so far as he knew, were on
speaking terms.
But he hardly could have gathered together a more congenial and lively
party, nor one more delighted to leave New York for the woods.  Henry
Minor, editor of one of the intellectual and faintly radical magazines,
whose style was so involved in his efforts to be both "different" and
achieve an unremitting glitter, that he had recently received a
petition to issue a glossary, was as amiable as a puppy in the society
of his friends and when in the woods talked in words of one syllable
and discovered a mighty appetite.  His wife, who had demonstrated her
originality by calling herself Mrs. Minor, was what is known as a
spiffing cook and a top-notch dresser.  She had, in fact, the most
charming assortment of sports clothes in the camp.  Eva Darling, who
danced for pastime and illustrated for what little bread she was
permitted to eat at home, was as lively as a grasshopper and scarcely
less devastating.  Babette Gold wore her black hair in smooth bands on
either side of the perfect oval of her face, and had the sad and
yearning gaze of the unforgiven Magdalen, and she had written two
novels dealing with the domesticities of the lower middle class,
treating with a clinical wealth of detail the irritable monotonies of
the nuptial couch and the artless intimacies of the nursery.  She
smoked incessantly, could walk ten miles at a stretch, and was as
passionless as a clam.  Gerald Scores, who wore a short pointed beard
and looked the complete artist, was one of the chief hopes of the
intellectual drama cunningly commercialized; and as capable as
Clavering of shutting up his genius in a water-tight compartment, and
enjoying himself in the woods.  He was mildly flirtatious, but looked
upon emotional intensity in the personal life of the artist as a
criminal waste of force.  Halifax Bolton, who claimed to be the
discoverer of the Younger Generation (in fiction) and was just
twenty-eight himself, was a critic of formidable severity and the
author of at least five claques.  The intense concentration of writing
routed his sense of humor, but he had as many droll stories in his
repertoire as Todd.  His wife, the famous "Alberta Jones," fierce Lucy
Stoner, was the editor, at a phenomenal salary, of one of the "Woman's
Magazines," and wrote short stories of impeccable style and indifferent
content for the Century and the Dial.
They were all intimate friends and argued incessantly and amiably.  And
they were all devoted to Mr. Dinwiddie, whom they addressed as
Excellence, without accent.
[Illustration: At Dinwiddie's mountain lodge Clavering (Conway Tearle)
pleaded with Madame Zattiany (Corrine Griffith) to marry him.  (Screen
