left them; and the poor child was quite helpless, for she could not
manage the sail, and even the parasol, with which she might have paddled
a little, had gone down with all sail set. For a minute, Jill was so
frightened that she could only look about her with a scared face, and
wonder if drowning was a very disagreeable thing. Then the sight of the
bicycle boy struggling with Jack, who seemed inclined to swim after her,
and Frank shouting wildly, “Hold on! Come back!” made her laugh in spite
of her fear, it was so comical, and their distress so much greater than
hers, since it was their own carelessness which caused the trouble.
“I can’t come back! There’s nothing to hold on to! You didn’t fasten
me, and now I don’t know where I’m going!” cried Jill, looking from the
shore to the treacherous sea that was gently carrying her away.
“Keep cool! We’ll get a boat and come after you,” roared Frank, before
he followed Jack, who had collected his wits and was tearing up the
rocks like a chamois hunter.
The bicycle boy calmly sat down to keep his eye on the runaway,
calling out from time to time such cheering remarks as “All aboard for
Liverpool! Give my love to Victoria! Luff and bear away when you come
to Halifax! If you are hard up for provisions, you’ll find an apple and
some bait in my coat-pocket,” and other directions for a comfortable
voyage, till his voice was lost in the distance as a stronger current
bore her swiftly away and the big waves began to tumble and splash.
At first Jill had laughed at his efforts to keep up her spirits, but
when the boat floated round a point of rock that shut in the cove, she
felt all alone, and sat quite still, wondering what would become of her.
She turned her back to the sea and looked at the dear, safe land, which
never had seemed so green and beautiful before. Up on the hill rustled
the wood through which the happy party were wandering to the Chasm.
On the rocks she still saw the crowd all busy with their own affairs,
unconscious of her danger. Here and there artists were sketching
in picturesque spots, and in one place an old gentleman sat fishing
peacefully. Jill called and waved her handkerchief, but he never looked
up, and an ugly little dog barked at her in what seemed to her a most
cruel way.
“Nobody sees or hears or cares, and those horrid boys will never catch
up!” she cried in despair, as the boat began to rock more and more, and
the loud swash of water dashing in and out of the Chasm drew nearer and
nearer. Holding on now with both hands she turned and looked straight
before her, pale and shivering, while her eyes tried to see some sign of
hope among the steep cliffs that rose up on the left. No one was there,
though usually at this hour they were full of visitors, and it was time
for the walkers to have arrived.
“I wonder if Gerty and Mamie will be sorry if I’m drowned,” thought
Jill, remembering the poor girl who had been lost in the Chasm not long
ago. Her lively fancy pictured the grief of her friends at her loss; but
that did not help or comfort her now, and as her anxious gaze wandered
along the shore, she said aloud, in a pensive tone,--
“Perhaps I shall be wrecked on Norman’s Woe, and somebody will make
poetry about me. It would be pretty to read, but I don’t want to die
that way. Oh, why did I come! Why didn’t I stay safe and comfortable in
my own boat?”
At the thought a sob rose, and poor Jill laid her head down on her lap
to cry with all her heart, feeling very helpless, small, and forsaken
alone there on the great sea. In the midst of her tears came the
thought, “When people are in danger, they ask God to save them;” and,
slipping down upon her knees, she said her prayer as she had never said
it before, for when human help seems gone we turn to Him as naturally as
lost children cry to their father, and feel sure that he will hear and
answer them.
After that she felt better, and wiped away the drops that blinded her,
to look out again like a shipwrecked mariner watching for a sail. And
there it was! Close by, coming swiftly on with a man behind it, a sturdy
brown fisher, busy with his lobster-pots, and quite unconscious how like
an angel he looked to the helpless little girl in the rudderless boat.
“Hi! hi! Oh, please do stop and get me! I’m lost, no oars, nobody to
fix the sail! Oh, oh! please come!” screamed Jill, waving her hat
frantically as the other boat skimmed by and the man stared at her as if
she really was a mermaid with a fishy tail.
“Keep still! I’ll come about and fetch you!” he called out; and Jill
obeyed, sitting like a little image of faith, till with a good deal of
shifting and flapping of the sail, the other boat came alongside and
took her in tow.
A few words told the story, and in five minutes she was sitting snugly
tucked up watching an unpleasant mass of lobsters flap about dangerously
near her toes, while the boat bounded over the waves with a delightful
motion, and every instant brought her nearer home. She did not say much,
but felt a good deal; and when they met two boats coming to meet her,
manned by very anxious crews of men and boys, she was so pale and quiet
that Jack was quite bowed down with remorse, and Frank nearly pitched
the bicycle boy overboard because he gayly asked Jill how she left her
friends in England. There was great rejoicing over her, for the people
on the rocks had heard of her loss, and ran about like ants when their
hill is disturbed. Of course half a dozen amiable souls posted off to
the Willows to tell the family that the little girl was drowned, so that
when the rescuers appeared quite a crowd was assembled on the beach
to welcome her. But Jill felt so used up with her own share of the
excitement that she was glad to be carried to the house by Frank and
Jack, and laid upon her bed, where Mrs. Hammond soon restored her with
sugar-coated pills, and words even sweeter and more soothing.
Other people, busied with their own pleasures, forgot all about it by
the next day; but Jill remembered that hour long afterward, both awake
and asleep, for her dreams were troubled, and she often started up
imploring someone to save her. Then she would recall the moment when,
feeling most helpless, she had asked for help, and it had come as
quickly as if that tearful little cry had been heard and answered,
though her voice had been drowned by the dash of the waves that seemed
ready to devour her. This made a deep impression on her, and a sense of
childlike faith in the Father of all began to grow up within her; for
in that lonely voyage, short as it was, she had found a very precious
treasure to keep for ever, to lean on, and to love during the longer
