of being silent herself. 
" Well how do you like your brother in the pulpit?" she 
began. 
I like him anywhere, ma'am," said Ellen, smiling a very 
unequivocal smile. 
" I thought he would have come here with you last night ; 
— it is very mean of him ! He never comes near us ; he 
always goes to some wretched little lodging or place in the 
town there ; — always ; never so much as looks at Ventnor, 
unless sometimes he may stop for a minute at the door." 
" He said he would come here to-night," said Ellen. 
" Amazing condescending of him ! However, he isn't like 
anybody else ; I suppose we must not judge him by common 
rules. How is Mr. Humphreys, Ellen ?" ^ 
" I don't know, ma'am," said Ellen, — " it is hard to tell ; 
he doesn't say much. I think he is rather more cheerful 
— if anything — than I expected he would be." 
" And how do you get along there, poor child ! with only 
two such grave people about you?" 
I get along very well, ma'am," said Ellen, with what 
Miss Sophia thought a somewhat curious smile. 
" I believe you will grow to be as sober as the rest of 
them," said she. " How does Mr. John behave ?" 
Ellen turned so indubitably curious a look upon her at this 
that Miss Sophia half laughed and went on, 
Mr. Humphreys was not always as silent and reserved as 
he is now ; I remember him when he was different ; — though 
I don't think he ever was much like his son. Did you ever 
hear about it ?" 
" About what, ma'am ?" 
" all about his commg to this country, and what brought 
him to Carra-carra?" 
No ma'am." 
My father, you see, had come out long before, but the 
two families had been always very intimate in England, and 
it was kept up after he came away. He was a particular 
friend of an elder brother of Mr, Humphreys ; his estate 
and my grandfather's lay very near each other ; and besides, 
there were other things that drew them to each other ; — 
he married my aunt, for one. My father made several 
journeys back and forth in the course of years, and so 
kept up his attachment to the whole family, you know ; 
and he became very desirous to get Mr, Humphreys over 
here, — this Mr, Humphreys, you know. He was the younger 
brother — younger brothers in England generally have little 
or nothing ; but you don't know anything about that, Ellen, 
He hadn't anything then but his living, and that was a small 
one ; he had some property left him though, just before he 
came to America." 
" But Miss Sophia" — Ellen hesitated, — " Are you sure 
they would like I should hear all this ?" 
"Why yes, child! — of course they would; everybody 
knows it. Some things made Mr. Humphreys as willing to 
leave England about that time as my father was to have him. 
An excellent situation was offered him in one of the best 
institutions here, and he came out. That's abcut — let me 
see — I was just twelve years old and Alice was one year 
younger. She and I were just like sisters always from that 
time. We lived near togethei', and saw each other every 
day, and our two families were just like one. But they were 
liked by everybody. Mrs. Humphreys was a very fine person, — very ; oh very ! I never saw any w oman I admired 
more. Her death almost killed her husband ; and I think 
Alice — I don't know ! — there isn't the least sign of dehcate 
health about Mr. Humphreys nor Mr. John, — not the slightest, — nor about Mrs. Humphreys either. She was a very 
fine woman !" 
" How long ago did she die ?" said Ellen. 
" Five, — six, seven, — seven years ago. Mr. John had been 
left in England till a little before. Mr. Humphreys was never 
the same after that. He wouldn't hold his professorship any 
longer ; he couldn't bear society ; he just went and buried 
himself at Carra-carra. That was a little after we came 
here." 
How much all this interested Ellen ! She was glad however when Miss Sophia seemed to have talked herself out, for 
she wanted very much to think over John's sermon. And as 
Miss Sophia happily fell into a doze soon after, she had a 
long quiet time for it, till it grew dark, and Ellen Chauncey 
whose impatience could hold no longer came to seek her. 
John came in the evening. Ellen's patience and pohteness 
were severely tried in the course of it ; for while she longed 
exceedingly to hear what her brother and the older members 
of the family were talking about, — animated delightful conversation she was sure, — Ellen Chauncey detained her in 
another part of the room ; and for a good pai-t of the evening 
she had to bridle her impatience, and attend to what she did 
not care about. She did it, and Ellen Chauncey did not 
suspect it ; and at last she found means to draw both her and 
herself near the larger group. But they seemed to have got 
through what they were talking about ; there was a lull. 
Ellen waited ; and hoped they would begin again. 
" You had a full church this afternoon, Mr. John," said 
Miss Sophia. 
He bowed gravely. 
" Did you know whom you had among your auditors ? the 
and were there ;" naming some distinguished 
stranorers in the neio-hborhood. 
" I think I saw them." 
" You * think ' you did ! Is that an excess of pride or an 
excess of modesty ? Now do be a reasonable creature, and 
confess that you are not insensible to the pleasure and honor 
of addressing- such an audience !" 
Ellen saw something like a flash of contempt, for an instant 
in his face, instantly succeeded by a smile. 
" Honestly, Miss Sophia, I was much more interested in an
old woman that sat at the foot of the pulpit stairs." 
That old thing !" said Miss Sophia. 
" I saw her," said Mrs. Chauncey ; — " poor old creature ! 
she seemed most deeply attentive when I looked at her." 
" I saw her !" cried Ellen Chauncey, — " and the tears 
were running down her cheeks several times." 
" I didn't see her," said Ellen Montgomery, as John's eye 
met hers. He smiled. 
But do you mean to say," continued Miss Sophia, " that 
you are absolutely careless as to who hears you ?" 
" I have always one hearer, Miss Sophia, of so much dignity, that it sinks the rest into great insignificance." 
" That is a rebuke," said Miss Sophia ; — " but nevertheless 
I shall tell you that I liked you very much this afternoon." 
He was silent. 
" I suppose you will tell me next," said the young lady 
laughing, " that you are sorry to hear me say so." 
" I am," said he gravely. 
" Why ?— may I ask?" 
" You show me that I have quite failed in my aim, so far 
at least as one of my hearers was concerned." 
How do you know that ?" 
" Do you remember what Louis the Fourteenth said to 
Massillon ? — Mon pere, j'ai entendu plusieurs grands orateurs 
dans ma chapelle ; j'en ai etc fort content : pour vous, toutes 
les fois que je vous ai entendu, j'ai ete tres mecontent de 
;noi-meme !" 
Ellen smiled. Miss Sophia was silent for an instant. 
" Then you really mean to be understood, that provided 
you fail of your aim, as you say, you do not care a straw 
what people think of you?" 
" As I would take a bankrupt's promissory note in lieu of 
told gold. It gives me small gratification Miss Sophia, — 
very small indeed, — to see the bowing heads of the grain that 
yet my sickle cannot reach." 
" I agree with you most heartily," said Mr. George Marsh- 
man. The conversation dropped ; and the two gentlemen 
began another in an under tone, pacing up and down the 
floor together. 
The next morning, not sorrowfully, Ellen entered the sleigh 
again and they set oft' homewards. 
" What a sober little piece that is," said Mr. Howard. 
" ! — sober !" cried Ellen Chauncey ; — " that is because 
you don't know her, uncle Howard. She is the cheerfullest, 
happiest girl that I ever saw, — always." 
" Except Ellen Chauncey, — always," said her uncle. 
" She is a singular child," said Mrs. Gillepsie. She is 
grave certainly, but she don't look moped at all, and I 
should think she would be, to death." 
" There's not a bit of moping about her," said Miss So- 
phia. " She can laugh and smile as well as anybody ; though 
she has sometimes that pecuhar grave look of the eyes that 
would make a stranger doubt it. I think John Humphreys 
has infected her ; he has something of the same look himself." 
" I am not sure whether it is the eyes or the mouth Sophia," said Mr. Howard. 
" It is both !" said Miss Sophia. " Did you ever see the 
eyes look one way, and the mouth another ?" 
" And besides," said Ellen Chauncey, " she has reason 
to look sober, I am sure." 
" She is a fascinating child," said Mrs. Gillepsie. " I cannot comprehend where she gets the manner she has. I 
never saw a more perfectly polite child ; and there she has 
been for months with nobody to speak to but two gentlemen 
and the servants. It is natural to her, I suppose ; she can 
have nobody to teach her." 
" I am not so sure as to that," said Miss Sophia ; but I 
have noticed the same thing often. Did you observe her 
last night, Matilda, when John Humphreys came in ? you were 
talking to her at the moment ; — I saw her, before the door was 
opened, — I saw the color come and her eye sparkle, but she 
 
did not look towards him for an instant, till you had finished 
what you were saying to her and she had given, as she al- 
ways does, her modest quiet answer ; and then her eye 
went straight as an arrow to where he was standing." 
" And yet," said Mrs. Chauncey, " she never moved 
towards him when you did, but stayed quietly on that side of 
the room with the young ones till he came round to them> 
and it was some time too." 
"She is an odd child," said Miss Sophia, laughing, — 
"what do you think she said to me yesterday? I was talk- 
ing to her and getting rather communicative on the subject 
of my neighbors' affairs ; and she asked me gravely, — the little 
monkey ! — if I was sure they would like her to hear it ? I 
felt quite rebuked ; though I didn't choose to let her know 
as much." 
" I wish Mr. John would bring her every week," said Ellen 
Chauncey sighing ; "it would be too pleasant to have 
her." 
Towards the end of the winter Mr. Humphreys began to 
propose that his son should visit England and Scotland during the following summer. He wished him to see his family 
and to know his native country, as well as some of the most distinguished men and institutions in both kingdoms. Mr. 
George Marshman also urged upon him some business in 
which he thought he could be eminently useful. But Mr. 
John declined both propositions, still thinking he had more 
important duties at home. This only cloud that rose above 
Ellen's horizon, scattered away. 
One evening, it was a Monday, in the twilight, John was 
as usual pacing up and down the floor. Ellen was reading 
in the window. 
" Too late for you, Ellie." 
" Yes," said Ellen, — " I know — I will stop in two 
minutes" — 
But in a quarter of that time she had lost every thought 
of stopping, and knew no longer that it was growing dusk. 
Somebody else, however, had not forgotten it. The two 
minutes were not ended, when a hasid came between her and 
the page and quietly drew the book away. 
"I beg your pardon!" cried Ellen starting up. "I 
entirely forgot all about it !" 
He did not look displeased ; he was smiling. He drew 
her arm within his. 
"Come and walk with me. Have you had any exercise 
to-day ?" 
" No." 
"Why not?" 
" I had a good deal to do, and I had fixed myself so nicely 
on the sofa with my books ; and it looked cold and disagreeable out of doors." 
" Since when have you ceased to be a fixture ?" 
"What! — Oh," said Ellen laughing, — "how shall I ever 
get rid of that troublesome word ? What shall I say ? — I 
had arranged myself, established myself, so nicely on the 
sofa." 
" And did you think that a sufficient reason for not going 
out?" 
" No," said Ellen, " I did not ; and I did not decide that I 
would not go ; and yet I let it keep me at home after all ; — 
just as I did about reading a few minutes ago. I meant to 
stop, but I forgot it, and I should have gone on I don't know 
how long if you had not stopped me. I Very often do so." 
He paused a minute, and then said, 
" You must not do so any more, Ellie. 
The tone, in which there was a great deal both of love and 
decision, wound round Ellen's heart, and constrained her to 
answer immediately, 
" I will not— I will not." 
" Never parley with conscience ; — it is a dangerous habit." 
"But then — it was only — " 
" About trifles ; I grant you ; but the habit is no trifle. 
There will not be a just firmness of mind and steadfastness 
of action, where tampering with duty is permitted even in 
little things." 
" I will try not to do it," Ellen repeated. 
" No," said he smiling, — " let it stand as at first.  I will 
not,' means something ; ' I will try,' is very apt to come to 
nothing.  I will keep thy precepts with my whole heart !' — 
not  I will try' Your reliance is precisely the same in either 
case." 
" I will not, John," said Ellen smiling. 
" What were you poring over so intently a while ago ?" 
" It was an old magazine — Blackwood's Magazine, I be- 
lieve, is the name of it — I found two great piles of them in a 
closet up stairs the other day ; and I brought this one down." 
" This is the first that you have read?" 
" Yes — I got very much interested in a curious story there ; 
—why ?" 
What will you say, Ellie, if I ask you to leave the rest of 
the two piles unopened ?" 
" Why, I will say that I will do it, of course," said Ellen, 
with a little smothered sigh of regret however ; — " if you 
wish it." 
" I do wish it, Ellie." 
"Very well — I'll let them alon-e then. I have enough other 
reading ; I don't know how I happened to take that one up ; 
because I saw it there, I suppose." 
" Have you finished Nelson yet ?" 
" yes ! — I finished it Saturday night. O I like it very 
much ! I am going all over it again though. I like Nelson 
very much ; don't you?" 
" Yes — as well as I can like a man of very fine quahties 
without principle." 
" Was he that ?" said Ellen. 
" Yes ; did you not find it out ? I am afraid your eyes were 
blinded by admiration." 
" Were they !" said Ellen. " I thought he was so very fine, 
in everything ; and I should be sorry to think he was not." 
" Look over the book again by all means, with a more critical eye ; and when you have done so you shall give me your 
cool estimate of his character." 
" me !" said Ellen. " Well, — but I don't know whether 
I can give you a cool estimate of him ; — however I'll try. I 
cannot think coolly of him now, just after Trafalgar. I think 
it was a shame that Collingwood did not anchor as Nelson 
told him to ; don't you ? I think he might have been obeyed 
while he was living, at least." 
" It is difficult," said John smiling, " to judge correctly of 
many actions without having been on the spot and in the circumstances of the actors. I believe you and I must leave the 
question of Trafalgar to more nautical heads." 
" How pleasant this moonlight is !" said Ellen. 
" What makes it pleasant ?" 
What maJces it pleasant ! — I don't know ; I never thought 
of such a thing. It is made to be pleasant, — I can't tell 
why; can anybody ?" 
" The eye loves light for many reasons, but all kinds of 
light are not equally agreeable. What makes the peculiar 
charm of these long streams of pale light across the floor ? 
and the shadowy brightness without?" 
You must tell," said Ellen ; " I cannot." 
" You know we enjoy anything much more by contrast ; I 
think that is one reason. Night is the reign of darkness, 
which we do not love ; and here is light strugghng with the 
darkness, not enough to overcome it entirely, but yet banishing it to nooks and cornei-s and distant parts, by the side of 
which it shows itself in contrasted beauty. Our eyes bless the 
unwonted victory." 
" Yes," said Ellen, — " we only have moonlight nights once 
in a while." 
" But that is only one reason out of many, and not the 
greatest. It is a very refined pleasure, and to resolve it into 
its elements is something like trying to divide one of these 
same white rays of light into the many various colored ones 
that go to form it ; — and not by any means so easy a task." 
" Then it was no wonder I couldn't answer," said Ellen. 
" No — you are hardly a full-grown philosopher yet, Ellie." 
" The moonlight is so calm and quiet," Ellen observed admiringly. 
" And why is it calm and quiet ? — I must have an answer 
to that." 
" Because we are generally calm and quiet at such times ?" 
Ellen ventured after a little thought. 
" Precisely ! — we and the world. And association has 
given the moon herself the same character. Besides that her 
mild sober light is not fitted for the purposes of active employment, and therefore the more graciously invites us to the 
pleasures of thought and fancy." 
" I am loving it more and more, the more you talk about 
it," said Ellen laughing. 
" And theie you have touched another reason, Ellie, for 
the pleasure we have, not only in moonlight, but in most other 
things. When two things have been in the mind together, 
and made any impression, the mind associates them ; and you 
cannot see or think of the one without bringing back the remembrance or the feehng of the other. If we have enjoyed 
the moonhght in pleasant scenes, in happy hours, with friends 
that we loved, — though the sight of it may not always make 
us directly remember them, it yet brings with it a waft from 
the feeling of the old times, — sweet as long as life lasts !" 
" And sorrowful things may be associated too ?" said Ellen. 
" Yes, and sorrowful things. — But this power of association is the cause of half the pleasure we enjoy. There is a 
tune my mother used to sing — I cannot hear it now without 
being carried swiftly back to my boyish days, — to the very 
spirit of the time ; I feel myself spring over the greensward as 
I did then." 
" Oh I know that is true," said Ellen. " The camellia, the 
white camellia you know, — I like it so much ever since what 
you said about it one day. I never see it without thinking of 
it ; and it would not seem half so beautiful but for that." 
What did I say about it?" 
" Don't you remember ? you said it was like what you 
ought to be, and what you should be if you ever reached 
heaven ; and you repeated that verse in the Revelation about 
* those that have not defiled their garments.' I always think 
of it. It seems to give me a lesson." 
" How eloquent of beautiful lessons all nature would be to 
us," said John musingly, if we had but the eye and the 
ear to take them in." 
" And in that way you would heap associations upon asso- 
ciations ?" 
" Yes ; till our storehouse of pleasure was very full." 
You do that now," -said Ellen. I wish you would teach 
me." 
" I have read precious things sometimes in the bunches of 
flowers you are so fond of, EUie. Cannot you ?" 
" I don't know — I only think of themselves ; except — 
sometimes, they make me think of Alice." 
" You know from any works we may form some judgment 
of the mind and character of their author ?" 
" From their writings, I know you can," said Ellen ! — 
from what other works ?" 
" From any which are not mechanical ; from any in which 
the mind, not the hand, has been the creating power. I saw 
you very much interested the other day in the Eddystone 
lighthouse ; did it help you to form no opinion of Mr, Smeaton?" 
" Why yes, certainly," said Ellen, — " I admired him exceedingly for his cleverness and perseverance ; but what other 
works ? — I can't think of any." 
" There is the lighthouse, — that is one thing. What do 
you think of the ocean waves that now and then overwhelm it ?" 
Ellen half shuddered. " I shouldn't like to go to sea, John! 
But you were speaking of men's works and women's works ?" 
" Well, women's works, — I cannot help forming some notion of a lady's mind and character from the way she dresses 
herself." 
" Can you ! do you !" 
" I cannot help doing it. Many things appear in the style 
of a lady's dress that she never dreams of ; — the style of her 
thoughts among others." 
It is a pity ladies didn't know that," said Ellen laughing ; 
— they would be very careful," 
" It wouldn't mend the matter, Ellie. That is one of the 
things in which people are obliged to speak truth. As the 
mind is, so it will show itself." 
But we have got a great way from the flowers," said 
Ellen. 
" You shall bring me some to-morrow, Ellie, and we will 
read them together." 
" There are plenty over there now," said Ellen, looking 
towards the little flower-stand, which was as full and as 
flourishing as ever, — but we couldn't see them well by this 
hght." 
" A bunch of flowers seems to bring me very near the 
hand that made them. They are the work of his fingers ; and 
I cannot consider them without being joyfully assured of the 
glory and loveliness of their Creator. It is written as plainly 
to me in their delicate painting and sweet breath and curious 
structure, as in the very pages of the Bible ; though no doubt 
without the Bible I could not read the flowers." 
I never thought much of that," said Ellen. And then 
you find particular lessons in particular flowers ?" 
"Sometimes." 
" come here !" said Ellen, pulling him towards the flower- 
stand, — "and tell me what this daphne is like — you need not 
see that, only smell it, that's enough ; — do John, and tell me 
what it is like !" 
He smiled as he complied with her request, and walked 
away again. 
" Well, what is it ?" said Ellen ; " I know you have 
thought of something." 
" it is like the fragrance that Christian society sometimes 
leaves upon the spirit ; when it is just what it ought to be." 
My Mr. Marshman !" exclaimed Ellen. 
John smiled again. " I thought of him, Elhe. And I 
thought also of Cowper's lines : — 
" ' When one who holds communion with the skies, 
Has filled his urn where those pure waters rise. 
Descends and dwells among us meaner things, — 
It is as if an angel shook his wings !' " 
Ellen was silent a minute from pleasure. 
" Well, I have got an association now with the daphne !" 
she said joyously ; and presently added sighing, — " How 
much you see in everything, that I do not see at all." 
" Time, Ellie, " said John ; — " there must be time for that. 
It will come. Time is cried out upon as a great thief ; it is 
people's own fault. Use him but well ; and you will get from 
his liaud more than he will ever take from you." 
Ellen's thoughts traveled on a little way from this speech, 
— and then came a sigh, of some burden, as it seemed ; and 
her face was softly laid against the arm she held. 
" Let us leave all that to God," said John gently. 
Ellen started. How did you know — how could you know 
what I was thinking of ?" 
'Perhaps my thoughts took the same road," said he 
smiling. " But Ellie, dear, let us look to that one source of 
happiness that can never be dried up ; it is not safe to count 
upon anythmg else." 
" It is not wonderful," said Ellen in a tremulous voice, — 
"if"— 
It is not wonderful, Ellie, nor wrong. But we, who look 
up to God as our Father, — who rejoice in Christ our Saviour, 
— we are happy, whatever beside we may gain or lose. Let 
us trust him, and never doubt that, Ellie." 
" But still"— said Ellen. 
" But still, we will hope and pray alike in that matter. 
And while we do, and may, with our whole hearts, let us leave ourselves in our Father's hand. The joy of the knowledge of Christ ! the joy the world cannot intermeddle with, 
the peace it cannot take away ! — Let us make that our own, 
Ellie ; and for the rest, put away all anxious care about what 
we cannot control." 
Ellen's hand however did not just then lie quite so lightly 
on his arm as it did a few minutes ago ; he could feel that ; 
and could see the glitter of one or two tears in the moonlight 
as they fell. The hand was fondly taken in his ; and as they 
slowly paced up and down, he went on in low tones of kind- 
ness and cheerfulness with his pleasant talk, till she was too 
happy in the present to be anxious about the future ; looked 
up again brightly into his face, and questions and answers came 
as gayly as ever. 
CHAPTER XLVI. 
The rest of the winter, or rather the early part of the 
spring, passed happily away. March, at Thirlwall, seemed 
more to belong to the former than the latter. Then spring 
came in good earnest ; April and May brought warm days 
and wild flowers. Ellen refreshed herself and adorned the 
room with quantities of them ; and as soon as might be she 
set about restoring the winter-ruined garden. Mr. John was 
not fond of gardening ; he provided her with all manner of 
tools, ordered whatever work she wanted to be done for her, 
supplied her with new plants, and seeds, and roots, and was 
always ready to give her his help in any operations or press 
of business that called for it. But for the most part Ellen 
hoed, and raked, and transplanted, and sowed seeds, while 
he walked or read ; often giving his counsel indeed, asked 
and unasked, and always coming in between her and any 
difficult or hefivy job. The hours thus spent were to Ellen 
hours of unmixed delight. When he did not choose to go 
himself he sent Thomas with her, as the garden was some 
little distance down the mountain, away from the house and 
from everybody ; he never allowed her to go there alone. 
As if to verify Mr. Van Brunt's remark, that " something 
is always happening most years," about the middle of May 
there came letters that after all determined John's going 
abroad. The sudden death of two relatives, one after the 
other, had left the family estate to Mr. Humphreys ; it required the personal attendance either of himself or his son ; 
he could not, therefore his son must, go. Once on the other 
side of the Atlantic, Mr. John thought it best his going should 
fulfill all the ends for which both Mr. Humphreys and Mr. 
Marshman had desired it ; this would occasion his stay to be 
prolonged to at least a year, probably more. And he must 
set off without delay. 
In the midst, not of his hurry, for Mr. John seldom was or 
seemed to be in a hurry about anything ; but in the midst of 
his business, he took special care of everything that concerned 
or could possibly concern Ellen. He arranged what books 
she should read, what studies she should carry on ; and 
directed that about these matters as well as about all others 
she should keep up a constant communication with him by 
letter. He requested Mrs. Chauncey to see that she wanted 
nothing, and to act as her general guardian in all minor 
