found on her bed — her letter ! And with tears Ellen kneeled 
down and gave earnest thanks for this blessing, and that she 
had been able to gain Nancy's good-will. 



CHAPTER XXVI. 


 

It was Tuesday the 22nd of December, and late in the day. 
Not a pleasant afternoon. The gray snow-clouds hung low ; 
the air was keen and raw. It was already growing dark, 
and Alice was sitting alone in the firelight, when two little 
feet came running round the corner of the house ; the glass 
door opened and Ellen rushed in. 

"I have come ! I have come!" she exclaimed. " dear 
Alice! I'm so glad!" 

So was Alice if her kiss meant anything. 

" But how late, my child ! how late you are." 

"I thought I never was going to get done," said Ellen, 
pulling off her things in a great hurry and throwing them on 
the sofa, — " but I am here at last. I'm so glad !" 

" Why what has been the matter ?" said Alice, folding up 
what Ellen laid down. 

"Oa great deal of matter — I couldn't think what Nancy 
meant last night — I know very well now. I sha'n't want 
to see any more apples all winter. What do you think I 
have been about all to-day, dear Miss Alice. ?" 

" Nothing that has done you much harm," said Alice smiling, — " if I am to guess from your looks. You are as rosy 
as a good Spitzenberg yourself." 

" That's very funny," said Ellen laughing, " for aunt 
Fortune said awhile ago that my cheeks were just the color 
of two mealy potatoes." 

" But about the apples ?" said Alice. 

" Why this morning I was thinking I would come here 
so early, when the first thing I knew aunt Fortune brought 
out all those heaps and heaps of apples into the kitchen, and 
made me sit down or the floor, and then she gave me a great 


big needle and set me to stringing them all together, and as fast 
as I strung them she hung them up all round the ceiling. I 
tried very hard to get through before, but I could not, and I 
am so tired ! I thought I never should get to the bottom of 
that big basket." 

** Never mind love — come to the fire — we'll try and forget 
all disagreeable things while we are together." 

" I have forgotten it almost already," said Ellen, as she 
sat down in Alice's lap and laid her face against hers ; — " I 
don't care for it at all now." 

But her cheeks were fast fading into the uncomfortable 
color Miss Fortune had spoken of; and weariness and weakness kept her for a while quiet in Alice's arms, overcoming 
even the pleasure of talking. They sat so till the clock 
struck half-past five ; then Alice proposed they should go 
into the kitchen and see Margery, and order the tea made, 
which she had no doubt Ellen wanted. Margery welcomed 
her with great cordiality. She liked anybody that Alice 
liked, but she had besides declared to her husband that Ellen 
was " an uncommon, well-behaved child." She said she 
would put the tea to draw, and they should have it in a very 
few minutes. 

" But Miss Alice, there's an Irish body out by, waiting to 
speak to you. I was just coming in to tell you ; will you 
please to see her now ?" 

" Certainly — let her come in. Is she in the cold Margery ?" 

" No Miss Alice — there's a fire there this evening. I'll 
call her." 

The woman came up from the lower kitchen at the sum- 
mons. She was young, rather pretty, and with a pleasant 
countenance, but unwashed, uncombed, untidy, — no wonder 
Margery's nicety had shrunk from introducing her into her 
spotless upper kitchen. The unfailing Irish cloak was drawn 
about her, the hood brought over her head, and on the head 
and shoulders the snow lay white, not yet melted away. 

"Did you wish to speak to me, my friend?" said Alice 
pleasantly. 

" If ye plase, ma'am, it's the master I'm wanting," said 
the woman, dropping a curtsey. 

" My father ? Margery, will you tell him." 
Margery departed. 







" Come nearer the fire," said Alice, — " and sit down ; my 
father will be here presently. It is snowing again, is it not ?" 
" It is ma'am ; — a bitter storm." 
" Have you come far ?" 

" It's a good bit my lady — it's more nor a mile beyant 
Carra — just right forgin the ould big hill they call the Catchback ; — in Jemmy Morrison's woods — where Pat M'Farren's 
clearing is — it's there I live, my lady." 

"That is a long distance indeed for a walk in the snow," 
said Alice kindly ; " sit down, and come nearer the fire. 
Margery will give you something to refresh you." 

"I thank ye, my lady, but I want nothing man can give me 
the night ; and when one's on an arrant of life and death, it's 
little the cold or the storm can do to put out the heart's fire." 

" Life and death ? who is sick ?" said Alice. 

" It's my own child, ma'am, — my own boy — all the child 
I have — and I'll have none by the morning light." 

" Is he so ill ?" said Alice ; " what is the matter with 
hirn ?" 

" Myself doesn't know." 

The voice was fainter ; the brown cloak was drawn over 
her face ; and Alice and Ellen saw her shoulders heaving 
with the grief she kept from bursting out. They exchanged 
glance. 

" Sit down," said Alice again presently, laying her hand 
upon the wet shoulder ; — " sit down and rest ; my father will 
be here directly. Margery — oh that's right, — a cup of tea 
will do her good. What do you want of my father ?" 

" The Lord bless ye ! — I'll tell you my lady." 

She drank off the tea, but refused something more substantial that Margery offered her. 

" The Lord bless ye ! I couldn't. My lady, there wasn't 
a stronger, nor a prettier, nor a swater child, nor couldn't 
be, nor he was when we left it — it'll be three years come the 
fifteenth of April next; but I'm thinking the bitter winters o' 
this cowld country has chilled the life out o' him, — and troubles 
cowlder than all," she added in a lower tone. " I seed him 
grow waker an' waker an' his daar face grow thinner an' 
thinner, and the red all left it, only two burning spots was 
on it some days ; an' I worried the life out o' me for him, an' 
all I could do I couldn't do nothing at all to help him, but he 







just growed waker an' waker. I axed the father wouldn't he 
see the doctor about him, but he's an 'asy kind o' man, ray 
lady, an' he said he would, an' he never did to this day ; an' 
John he always said it was no use sinding for the doctor, an' 
looked so swate at me, an' said for me not to fret, for sure 
he'd be better soon, or he'd go to a better place. An' I 
thought he was like a heavenly angel itself already, an' always 
was, but then more nor ever. Och ! it's soon that he'll be 
one entirely ! — let Father Shannon say what he will." 

She sobbed for a minute, while Alice and Ellen looked on, 
silent and pitying. 

" An' to-night, my lady, he's very bad," she went on, 
wiping away the tears that came quickly again, — " an' I seed 
he was going fast from me, an' I was breaking my heart wid 
the loss of him, whin I heard one of the men that was in it 
say, ' What's this he's saying ?' says he. ' An' what is it 
thin ?' says I. ' About the jantleman that praa'ches at 
Carra,' says he, — ' he's a calling for him,' says he. I 
knowed there wasn't a praast at all at Carra, an' I thought he 
was draaming, or out o' his head, or crazy wid his sickness, 
like ; an' I went up close to him, an' says I, ' John,' says I, 
' what is it you want,' says I, — ' an' sure if it's anything in 
heaven above or in earth beneath that yer own mother can get 
for ye,' says I, — ' ye shall have it,' says I. An' he put up 
his two arms to my neck an' pulled my face down to his lips, 
that was hot wid the faver, an' kissed me — he did — ' an', says 
he, ' Mother daar,' says he, — ' if ye love me,' says he, ' fetch 
me the good jantleman that praaches at Carra till I spake to 
him.' ' Is it the praast you want, John my boy ?' says I, — 
' sure he's in it,' says I ; — for Michael had been for Father 
Shannon, an' he had come home wid him half an hour before. 
* no mother,' says he, 'it's not him at all that I maan — 
it's the jantleman that spakes in the little white church at 
Carra, — he's not a praast at all,' says he. An' who is he 
thin ?' says I, getting up from the bed, ' or where will I 
find him, or how will I get to him ?' ' Ye'll not stir a fut for 
him thin the night Kitty Dolan,' says my husband, — ' are ye 
mad,' says he ; * sure it's not his own head the child has at 
all at all, or it's a little hiritic he is,' says he; 'an' ye won't 
show the disrespect to the praast in yer own house.' ' I'm 
maaning none,' says I, — * nor more he isn't a hiritic, but if he 







was, he's a born angel to you Michael Dolan anyhow,' says 
I ; ' an' wid the kiss of his lips on my face wouldn't I do the 
arrant of my own boy, an' he a dying ? by the blessing, and
I will, if twenty men stud between me an' it. So tell me 
where I'll find him, this praast, if there's the love o' mercy 
in any sowl o' ye,' says I. But they wouldn't spake a word 
for me, not one of them ; so I axed an' axed at one place an' 
other, till here I am. An' now, my lady, will the master go 
for me to my poor boy ? — for he'd maybe be dead while I 
stand here." 

" Surely I will," said Mr. Humphreys, who had come in 
while she was speaking. " Wait but one moment." 

In a moment he came back ready, and he and the woman 
set forth to their walk. Alice looked out anxiously after them. 

" It storms very hard," she said, — " and he has not had 
his tea ! But he couldn't wait. Come, Ellen love, we'll 
have ours. How will he ever get back again ! it will be so 
deep by that time." 

There was a cloud on her fair brow for a few minutes, but 
it passed away, and quiet and calm as ever she sat down at 
the little tea-table with Ellen. From her face all shadows 
seemed to have flown for ever. Hungry and happy, she 
enjoyed Margery's good bread and butter, and the nice 
honey, and from time to time cast very bright looks at the 
dear face on the other side of the table, which could not help 
looking bright in reply. Ellen was well pleased for her part 
that the third seat was empty. But Alice looked thoughtful 
sometimes as a gust of wind swept by, and once or twice 
went to the window. 

After tea Alice took out her work, and Ellen put herself 
contentedly down on the rug, and sat leaning back against her. 
Silent for very contentment for a while, she sat looking 
gravely into the fire ; while Alice's fingers drove a little steel 
hook through and through some purse silk in a mysterious 
fashion that no eye could be quick enough to follow, and 
with such skill and steadiness that the work grew fast under 
her hand. 

" I had such a funny dream last night," said Ellen. 
" Did you ? what about ?" 

" It was pleasant too," said Ellen, twisting herself round to 
talk, — "but very queer. I dreamed about that gentleman 







that was so kind to me on board the boat — you know ? — I 
told you about him?" 
" Yes, I remember." 

" Well, I dreamed of seeing him somewhere, I don't know 
where, — and he didn't look a bit like himself, only I knew 
who it was ; and I thought I didn't like to speak to him for 
fear he wouldn't know me, but then I thought he did, and 
came up and took my hand and seemed so glad to see me ; 
and he asked me if I had been pious since he saw me." 

Ellen stopped to laugh. 

" And wlat did you tell him ?" 

" I told him yes. And then I thought he seemed so very 

pleased." 

* Dreamers do not always keep close to the truth, it seems." 

" I didn't," said Ellen. " But then I thought I had, in 
my dream." 

" Had what ? kept close to the truth ?" 

" No, no ; — been what he said." 

" Dreams are queer things," said Alice. 

" I have been far enough from being good to-day," said 
Ellen thoughtfully. 

" How so, my dear ?" 

" I don't know, Miss Alice — because I never aw. good, I 
suppose.'' 

" But what has been the matter to-day ?" 

" Why, those apples ! I thought I would come here so 
early, and then when I found I must do all those baskets of 
apples first I was very ill-humored ; and aunt Fortune saw I 
was and said something that made me worse. And I tried as 
hard as I could to get through before dinner, and when I 
found I couldn't I said I wouldn't come to dinner, but she 
made me, and that vexed me more, and I wouldn't eat 
scarcely anything, and then when I got back to the apples 
again I sewed so hard that I ran the needle into my finger 
ever so far, — see there ? what a mark it left ? — and aunt 
Fortune said it served me right and she was glad of it, and 
that made me angry  I knew I was wrong  , afterwards, and 
I was very sorry. Isn't it strange, dear Alice, I should do 
so when I have resolved so hard I wouldn't ?" 

" Not very, my darling, as long as we have such evil hearts 
as ours are — it is strange they should be so evil." 







" I told aunt Fortune afterwards I was sorry, but she said 
'actions speak louder than words, and words are cheap.' If 
she only wouldn't say that just as she does ! it does worry 
me so." 

" Patience !" said Alice, passing her hand over Ellen's hair 
as she sat looking sorrowfully up at her ; — " you must try not 
togive her occasion. Never mind what she says, and over- 
come evil with good.' 

"That is just what mamma said !" exclaimed Ellen, rising 
to throw her arms round Alice's neck, and kissing her with 
all the energy of love, gratitude, repentance, and sorrowful 
recollection. 

" what do you think !" she said suddenly, her face chang- 
ing acrain, — ** I got my letter last night I" 
" Your letter !" 

" Yes, the letter the old man brought — don't you know ? 
and it was written on the ship, and there was only a little bit 
from mamma, and a little bit from papa, but so good ! papa 
says she is a great deal better, and he has no doubt he will 
bring her back in the spring or summer quite well again. 
Isn't that good ?" 

" Very good, dear Ellen. I am very glad for you." 

" It was on my bed last night. I can't think how it 
got there, — and I don't care either, so long as I have got it. 
What are you making ?" 

" A purse," said Alice, laying it on the table for her 
inspection. 

" It will be very pretty. Is the other end to be like this ?" 

" Yes, and these tassels to finish them off." 

" O that's beautiful," said Ellen, laying them down to try 
the effect ; — " and these rings to fasten it with. Is it black ?"

" No, dark green. I am making it for my brother John." 

" A Christmas present !" exclaimed Ellen. 

" I am afraid not ; he will hardly be here by that time. It 
may do for New Year." 

" How pleasant it must be to make Christmas and New 
Year presents !" said Ellen, after she had watched Alice's 
busy fingers for a few minutes. " I wish I could make some- 
thing for somebody. I wonder if I couldn't make some- 
thing for Mr. Van Brunt ! O I should like to very much." 

Alice smiled at Ellen's very wide-open eyes. 







" What could you make for him ?" 

" I don't know — that's the thing. He keeps his money in 
his pocket, — and besides, I don't know how to make purses." 

" There are other things besides purses. How would a 
watch-guard do ? Does he wear a watch ?" 

" I don't know whether he does or not ; he doesn't every 
day I am sure, but I don't know about Sundays." 

" Then we won't venture upon that. You might knit him 
a nightcap." 

" A nightcap ! — You're joking, Alice, aren't you ? I don't 
think a nightcap would be pretty for a Christmas present, do 
you ?" 

" Well, what shall we do, Ellen ?" said Alice laughing. " I 
made a pocket-pincushion for papa once when I was a little 
girl, but I fancy Mr. Van Brunt would not know exactly what 
use to make of such a convenience. I don't think you could 
fail to please him though, with anything you should hit upon." 

" I have got a dollar," said Ellen, " to buy stuff with ; it 
came in my letter last night. If I only knew what !" 

Down she went on the rug again, and Alice worked in 
silence, while Ellen's thoughts ran over every possible and impossible article of Mr. Van Brunt's dress. 

" I have some nice pieces of fine linen," said Alice ; " suppose I cut out a collar for him, and you can make it and 
stitch it, and then Margery will starch and iron it for you, all 
ready to give to him. How will that do ? Can you stitch 
well enough ?" 

" yes, I guess I can," said Ellen. " thank you, dear 
Alice ! you are the best help that ever was. Will he like 
that, do you think ?" 

"I am sure he will — very much." 

"Then that will do nicely," said Ellen, much relieved. 
" And now what do you think about Nancy's Bible?" 

" Nothing could be better, only that I am afraid Nancy 
would either sell it for something else, or let it go to destruction very quickly. I never heard of her spending five minutes 
over a book, and the Bible, I am afraid, last of all." 

" But I think," said Ellen slowly, " I think she would not 
spoil it or sell it either, if I gave it to her." 

And she told Alice about Nancy's asking for the kiss last 
night. 



" That's the most hopeful thing I have heard about Nancy 
for a long- time," said Alice. " We will get her the Bible by- 
all means, my dear, — a nice one, — and I hope you will be 
able to persuade her to read it." 

She rose as she spoke, and went to the glass door. Ellen 
followed her, and they looked out into the night. It was 
very dark. She opened the door a moment, but the wind 
drove the snow into their faces, and they were glad to shut 
it again. 

"It's almost as bad as the night we were out, isn't it ?" 
said Ellen. 

" Not such a heavy fall of snow I think, but it is very 
windy and cold. Papa will be late getting home." 

"I am sorry you are worried, dear Alice." 

" I am not much worried, love. I have often known papa 
out late before, but this is rather a hard night for a long 
walk. Come, we'll try to make a good use of the time while 
we are waiting. Suppose you read to me while I work." 

She took down a volume of Cowper and found his account 
of the three pet hares. Ellen read it, and then several of his 
smaller pieces of poetry. Then followed a long talk about 
hares and other animals ; about Cowper and his friends and 
his way of life. Time passed swiftly away ; it was getting late. 

" How weary papa will be," said Alice ; " he has had 
nothing to eat since dinner. I'll tell you what we'll do, 
Ellen," she exclaimed as she threw her work down, " we'll 
make some chocolate for him — that'll be the very thing. 
Ellen, dear, run into the kitchen and ask Margery to bring 
me the little chocolate pot and a pitcher of night's milk." 

Margery brought them. The pot was set on the coals, and 
Alice had cut up the chocolate that it might melt the quicker. 
Ellen watched it with great interest, till it was melted, and 
the boiling water stirred in, and the whole was simmering 
quietly on the coals. 

" Is it done now ?" 

