treated with the utmost delicacy and consideration. But all the widow's
means were now exhausted in the payment of the second quarter's rent,
and she found her weekly income reduced to thirty-five dollars,
scarcely sufficient to meet the weekly expense for supplying the table,
paying the servants, etc., leaving nothing for future rent bills, the
cost of clothing, and education for the younger children. With all
this, Mrs. Darlington's duties had been growing daily more and more
severe. Nothing could be trusted to servants that was not, in some way,
defectively done, causing repeated complaints from the boarders. What
proved most annoying was the bad cooking, to remedy which Mrs.
Darlington strove in vain. One day the coffee was not fit to drink, and
on the next day the steak would be burnt or broiled as dry as a chip,
or the sirloin roasted until every particle of juice had evaporated. If
hot cakes were ordered for breakfast, ten chances to one that they were
not sour; or, if rolls were baked, they would, most likely, be as heavy
as lead.
Such mishaps were so frequent, that the guests of Mrs. Darlington
became impatient, and Mr. Scragg, in particular, never let an occasion
for grumbling or insolence pass without fully improving it.
"Is your coal out?" said he, one morning, about this time, as he sat at
the breakfast table.
Mrs. Darlington understood, by the man's tone and manner, that he meant
to be rude, though she did not comprehend the meaning of the question.
"No, sir," she replied, with some dignity of manner. "Why do you ask?"
"It struck me," he answered, "that such might be the case. But,
perhaps, cook is too lazy to bring it out of the cellar. If she'll send
for me to-morrow morning, I'll bring her up an extra scuttleful, as I
particularly like a good cup of hot coffee."
His meaning was now plain. Quick as thought, the blood rushed to the
face of Mrs. Darlington.
She had borne so much from this man, and felt towards him such utter
disgust, that she could forbear no longer.
"Mr. Scragg," said she, with marked indignation, "when a gentleman has
any complaint to make, he does it as a gentleman."
"Madam!" exclaimed Scragg, with a threat in his voice, while his coarse
face became red with anger.
"When a gentleman has any complaint to make, he does it as a
gentleman," repeated Mrs. Darlington, with a more particular emphasis
than at first.
"I'd thank you to explain yourself," said Scragg, dropping his hands
from the table, and elevating his person.
"My words convey my meaning plainly enough. But, if you cannot
understand, I will try to make them clearer. Your conduct is not that
of a gentleman."
Of course, Mr. Scragg asked for no further explanation. Starting from
the table, he said, looking at Mrs. Scragg--
"Come!"
And Mrs. Scragg arose and followed her indignant spouse.
"Served him right," remarked Burton, in a low voice, bending a little
towards Miriam, who sat near him. "I hope we shall now be rid of the
low-bred fellow."
Miriam was too much disturbed to make a reply. All at the table felt
more or less uncomfortable, and soon retired. Ere dinner time, Mr. and
Mrs. Scragg, with their whole brood, had left the house, thus reducing
the income of Mrs. Darlington from thirty-five to twenty-three dollars
a week.
At dinner time, Mrs. Darlington was in bed. The reaction which followed
the excitement of the morning, accompanied as it was with the
conviction that, in parting with the Scraggs, insufferable as they
were, she had parted with the very means of sustaining herself,
completely prostrated her. During the afternoon, she was better, and
was able to confer with Edith on the desperate nature of their affairs.
"What are we to do?" said she to her daughter, breaking thus abruptly a
silence which had continued for many minutes. "We have an income of
only twenty-three dollars a week, and that will scarcely supply the
table."
Edith sighed, but did not answer.
"Twenty-three dollars a week," repeated Mrs. Darlington. "What are we
to do?"
"Our rooms will not remain vacant long, I hope," said Edith.
"There is little prospect of filling them that I can see," murmured
Mrs. Darlington. "If all our rooms were taken, we might get along."
"I don't know," returned Edith to this, speaking thoughtfully. "I
sometimes think that our expenses are too great for us to make any
thing, even if our rooms were filled. Six hundred dollars is a large
rent for us to pay."
"We've sunk three hundred dollars in six months. That is certain," said
Mrs. Darlington.
"And our furniture has suffered to an extent almost equivalent," added
her daughter.
"Oh, do not speak of that! The thought makes me sick. Our handsome
French china dinner set, which cost us a hundred and fifty dollars, is
completely ruined. Half of the plates are broken, and there is scarcely
a piece of it not injured or defaced. My heart aches to see the
destruction going on around us."
"I was in Mr. Scragg's room to-day," said Edith.
"Well, what of it?" asked her mother.
"It would make you sick in earnest to look in there. You know the
beautiful bowl and pitcher that were in her chamber?"
"Yes."
"Both handle and spout are off of the pitcher."
"Edith!"
"And the bowl is cracked from the rim to the centre. Then the elegant
rosewood washstand is completely ruined. Two knobs are off of the
dressing-bureau, the veneering stripped from the edge of one of the
drawers, and the whole surface marked over in a thousand lines. It
looks as if the children had amused themselves by the hour in
scratching it with pins. Three chairs are broken. And the new carpet we
put on the floor looks as if it had been used for ten years. Moreover,
every thing is in a most filthy condition. It is shocking."
Mrs. Darlington fairly groaned at this intelligence.
"But where is it all to lead, Edith?" she asked, arousing herself from
a kind of stupor into which her mind had fallen. "We cannot go on as we
are now going."
"We must reduce our expenses, if possible."
"But how are we to reduce them? We cannot send away the cook."
"No. Of course not."
"Nor our chambermaid."
"No. But cannot we dispense with the waiter?"
"Who will attend the table, go to market, and do the dozen other things
now required of him?"
"We can get our marketing sent home."
"But the waiting oh the table. Who will do that?"
"Half a dollar a week extra to the chambermaid will secure that service
from her."
"But she has enough to do besides waiting on the table," objected Mrs.
Darlington.
"Miriam and I will help more through the house than we have yet done.
Three dollars a week and the waiter's board will be saving a good deal."
Mrs. Darlington sighed heavily, and then said--
"To think what I have borne from that Scragg and his family, ignorant,
low-bred, vulgar people, with whom we have no social affinity whatever,
who occupy a level far below us, and who yet put on airs and treat us
as if we were only their servants! I could bear his insolence no
longer. Ah, to what mortifications are we not subjected in our present
position! How little dreamed I of all this, when I decided to open a
boarding-house! But, Edith, to come back to what we were conversing
about, it would be something to save the expense of our waiter; but
what are three or four dollars a week, when we are going behind hand at
the rate of twenty?"
"If Mrs. Marion"--
Edith checked herself, and did not say what was in her mind. Mrs.
Darlington was silent, sighed again heavily, and then said--
"Yes; if it wasn't for the expense of keeping Mrs. Marion. And she has
no claim upon us."
"None but the claim of humanity," said Edith.
"If we were able to pay that claim," remarked Mrs. Darlington.
"True."
"But we are not. Such being the case, are we justified in any longer
offering her a home?"
"Where will she go? What will she do?" said Edith.
"Where will we go? What will we do, unless there is a change in our
favour?" asked Mrs. Darlington.
"Alas, I cannot tell! When we are weak, small things are felt as a
burden. The expense of keeping Mrs. Marion and her two children is not
very great. Still, it is an expense that we are unable to meet. But how
can we tell her to go?"
"I cannot take my children's bread and distribute it to others,"
replied Mrs. Darlington, with much feeling. "My first duty is to them."
"Poor woman! My heart aches for her," said Edith. "She looks so pale
and heart-broken, feels so keenly her state of dependence, and tries so
in every possible way to make the pressure of her presence in our
family as light as possible, that the very thought of turning her from
our door seems to involve cruelty."
"All that, Edith, I feel most sensibly. Ah me! into what a strait are
we driven!"
"How many times have I wished that we had never commenced this
business!" said Edith. "It has brought us nothing but trouble from the
beginning; and, unless my fears are idle, some worse troubles are yet
before us."
"Of what kind?"
"Henry did not come home until after two o'clock this morning."
"What!" exclaimed the mother in painful surprise.
"I sat up for him. Knowing that he had gone out with Mr. Barling, and,
finding that he had not returned by eleven o'clock, I could not go to
bed. I said nothing to Miriam, but sat up alone. It was nearly half
past two when he came home in company with Barling. Both, I am sorry to
say, were so much intoxicated, that they could scarcely make their way
up stairs."
"Oh, Edith!" exclaimed the stricken mother, hiding her face in her
hands, and weeping aloud.
Miriam entered the room at this moment, and, seeing her mother in
tears, and Edith looking the very image of distress, begged to know the
cause of their trouble. Little was said to her then; but Edith, when
she was alone with her soon after, fully explained the desperate
condition of their affairs. Hitherto they had, out of regard for
Miriam, concealed from her the nature of the difficulties that were
closing around them.
"I dreamed not of this," said Miriam, in a voice of anguish. "My poor
mother! What pain she must suffer! No wonder that her countenance is so
often sad. But, Edith, cannot we do something?"
Ever thus, to the mind of the sweet girl, when the troubles of others
were mentioned to her, came, first, the desire to afford relief.
"We can do nothing," replied Edith, "at present, unless it be to assist
through the house, so that the chambermaid can attend the door, wait on
the table, and do other things now required of the waiter."
"And let him go?"
"Yes."
"I am willing to do all in my power, Edith," said Miriam. "But, if
mother has lost so much already, will she not lose still more if she
continue to go on as she is now going?"
"She hopes to fill all her rooms; then she thinks that she will be able
to make something."
"This has been her hope from the first," replied Miriam.
"Yes; and thus far it has been a vain hope."
"Three hundred dollars lost already," sighed Miriam, "our beautiful
furniture ruined, and all domestic happiness destroyed! Ah me! Where is
all going to end? Uncle Hiram was right when he objected to mother's
taking boarders, and said that it was the worst thing she could attempt
to do. I wish we had taken his advice. Willingly would I give music
lessons or work with my hands for an income, to save mother from the
suffering and labour she has now to bear."
"The worst is," said Edith, following out her own thoughts rather than
replying to her sister, "now that all our money is gone, debt will
follow. How is the next quarter's rent to be paid?"
"A hundred aid fifty dollars?"
"Yes. How can we pay that?"
"Oh dear!" sighed Miriam. "What are we to do? How dark all looks!"
"If there is not some change," said Edith, "by the close of another six
months, every thing we have will be sold for debt."
"Dreadful!" ejaculated Miriam, "dreadful!"
For a long time the sisters conferred together, but no gleam of light
arose in their minds. All the future remained shrouded in darkness.
CHAPTER VII.
THE man named Burton, to whom reference has been made as being
particularly attentive to Miriam, was really charmed with the beautiful
young girl. But the affection of a man such as he was comes to its
object as a blight instead of a blessing. Miriam, while she did not
repel his attentions, for his manner towards her was ever polite and
respectful, felt, nevertheless, an instinctive repugnance towards him,
and when she could keep out of his way without seeming to avoid him,
she generally did so.
A few evenings after the conversation held with Edith, as given in the
last chapter, Burton, in passing from the dining room, said to Miriam,--
"Come. I want you to play for me some of those beautiful airs in Don
Giovanni."
"Indeed you must excuse me Mr. Burton," replied Miriam. "I don't feel
like playing to-night."
"Can't excuse you, indeed," said Burton, smiling pleasantly, and, at
the same time, taking Miriam's hand, which she quickly withdrew from
his touch. The contact sent an unpleasant thrill along her nerves. "So
come. I must have some music to-night."
Miriam yielded to the request, although she felt in no mood for
touching the piano. After playing several pieces, she lifted her hands
from the instrument, and, turning away from it, said,--
"There, Mr. Burton, you must really excuse me. I cannot play to-night."
"Excuse you! Certainly. And for the pleasure you have given me, accept
my thanks," replied Mr. Burton. There was a change in his tone of voice
which Miriam did not comprehend. "And now," he added, in a low voice,
bending to her ear, "come and sit down with me on the sofa. I have
something particular that I wish to say."
Miriam did as she was desired, not dreaming of what was in the mind of
Burton.
"Miriam," said he, after a pause, "do not be startled nor surprised at
what I am going to say."
But his words and manner both startled her, and she was about rising,
when he took her hand and gently detained her.
"Nay, Miriam," said he, "you must hear what I wish to speak. From the
day I entered this house, you have interested me deeply. Admiration was
followed quickly by profound respect; and to this succeeded a warmer
sentiment."
A deep crimson instantly mantled the face of Miriam, and her eye fell
to the floor.
"Can you, my dear young lady," continued Mr. Burton, "reciprocate the
feeling I have expressed?"
"Oh, sir! Excuse me!" said Miriam, so soon as she could recover her
disordered thoughts. And she made another effort to rise, but was still
detained by Burton.
"Stay! stay!" said he. "Hear all that I wish to utter. I am rich"--
But, ere he could speak another word, Miriam sprang from the sofa, and,
bounding from the room, flew rather than walked up the stairs. The
instant she entered her own room she closed and locked the door, and
then, falling upon the bed, gave vent to a flood of tears. A long time
passed before her spirit regained its former composure; and then, when
her thought turned towards Mr. Burton, she experienced an inward
shudder.
Of what had occurred, she breathed not a syllable to Edith when she
joined her in the chamber to retire for the night.
"How my heart aches for mother!" sighed Edith, as she came in. "I have
been trying to encourage her; but words are of no avail. 'Where is all
to end?' she asks; and I cannot answer the question. Oh dear! What is
to become of us? At the rate we are going on now, every thing must soon
be lost. To think of what we have sacrificed and are still sacrificing,
yet all to no purpose. Every comfort is gone. Strangers, who have no
sympathy with us, have come into our house; and mother is compelled to
bear all manner of indignities from people who are in every way her
inferiors. Yet, for all, we are losing instead of gaining. Ah me! No
wonder she is heart-sick and utterly discouraged. How could it be
otherwise?"
Miriam heard and felt every word; but she made no answer. Thought,
however, was busy, and remained busy long after sleep had brought back
to the troubled heart of Edith its even pulsations.
"I am rich." These words of Mr. Burton were constantly recurring to her
mind. It was in vain that she turned from the idea presented with them:
it grew more and more distinct each moment. Yes, there was a way of
relief opened for her mother, of safety for the family, and Miriam saw
it plainly, yet shuddered as she looked, and closed her eyes, like one
about to leap from a fearful height.
Hour after hour Miriam lay awake, pondering the new aspect which things
had assumed, and gazing down the fearful abyss into which, in a spirit
of self-devotion, she was seeking to find the courage to leap.
"I am rich." Ever and anon these words sounded in her ears. As the wife
of Burton, she could at once lift her mother out of her present unhappy
situation. Thus, before the hour of midnight came and went, she
thought. He had offered her his hand. She might accept the offer, on
condition of his settling an income upon her mother.
This the tempter whispered in her ears, and she hearkened, in exquisite
pain, to the suggestion.
When Edith awoke on the next morning, Miriam slept soundly by her side;
but Edith, observed that her face was pale and troubled, and that tears
were on her cheeks. At breakfast time, she did not appear at the table;
and when her mother sent to her room she returned for answer that she
was not very well. The whole of the day she spent in her chamber, and,
during all the time, was struggling against the instinctive repulsion
felt towards the man who had made her an offer of marriage.
At supper time, she reappeared at the table with a calm, yet sad face.
As she was passing from the dining room after tea, Burton came to her
side and whispered--
"Can I have a word with you in the parlour, Miriam?"
The young girl neither looked up nor spoke, but moved along by his
side, and descended with him to the parlour, where they were alone.
"Miriam," said Burton, as he placed himself by her side on the sofa,
"have you thought seriously of what I said last evening? Can you
reciprocate the ardent sentiments I expressed?"
"Oh, sir!" returned Miriam, looking up artlessly in his face, "I am too
young to listen to words like these."
"You are a woman, Miriam," replied Burton, earnestly--"a lovely woman,
with a heart overflowing with pure affections. Deeply have you
interested my feelings from the first; and now I ask you to be mine. As
I was going to say last evening, I am rich, and will surround you with
every comfort and elegance that money can obtain. Dearest Miriam, say
that you will accept the hand I now offer you."
"My mother will never consent," said the trembling girl, after a long
pause.
"Your mother is in trouble. I have long seen that," remarked Mr.
Burton, "and have long wanted to advise and befriend her. Put it in my
power to do so, and then ask for her what you will."
This was touching the right key, and Burton saw it in a moment.
"Yes, you have said truly," replied Miriam; "my mother is in great
trouble. Ah! what would I not do for her relief?"
"Ask for your mother what you will, Miriam," said Burton.
The maiden's eyes were upon the floor, and the rapid heaving of her
bosom showed that her thoughts were busy in earnest debate. At length,
looking up, she said--
"Will you lift her out of her present embarrassed position, and settle
upon her an income sufficient for herself and family?"
"I will," was the prompt answer. "And now, my dear Miriam, name the sum
you wish her to receive."
Another long silence followed.
"Ah, sir!" at length said the maiden, "in what a strange, humiliating
position am I placed!"
"Do not speak thus, Miriam. I understand all better than words can
utter it. Will an income of two thousand dollars a year suffice?"
"It is more than I could ask."
"Enough. The moment you are mine, that sum will be settled on your
mother."
Miriam arose up quickly, as Burton said this, murmuring--
"Let me have a few days for reflection," and, ere he could prevent her,
glided from the room.
CHAPTER VIII.
Two weeks more went by, and the pressure upon Mrs. Darlington was
heavier and heavier. Her income was below her table expenses and
servant-hire, and all her reserve fund being exhausted, she felt the
extremity of her circumstances more than at any time before. To bear
longer the extra weight of poor, deserted Mrs. Marion and her two
children was felt to be impossible. With painful reluctance did Mrs.
Darlington slowly make up her mind to say to Mrs. Marion that she must
seek another home; and for this purpose she one day waited upon her in
her room. As tenderly and as delicately as possible did she approach
the subject. A word or two only had she said, when Mrs. Marion, with
tears upon her face, replied,--
"Pardon me that I have so long remained a burden upon you. Had I known
where to go, or what to do, I would not have added my weight to the
heavy ones you have had to bear. Daily have I lived in hope that my
husband would return. But my heart is sick with hope deferred. It is
time now that I began the work of self-dependence."
"Where can you go?" asked Mrs. Darlington.
"I know not," sadly returned Mrs. Marion. "My only relative is a poor
aunt, with scarcely the ability to support herself. But I will see her
to-day. Perhaps she can advise me what to do."
When Mrs. Marion returned from this visit to her aunt, she looked very
sad. Mrs. Darlington was in the passage as she came in; but she passed
her without speaking, and hurried up to her chamber. Neither at tea
time on that evening nor at breakfast time on the next morning did she
appear, though food for herself and children was sent to her room.
Deeply did Mrs. Darlington and her daughters suffer on account of the
step they were compelled to take, but stern necessity left them no
alternative. During the day, Mrs. Marion went out again for an hour or
two, and when she came back she announced that she would leave on the
next day. She looked even sadder than before. Some inquiries as to
where she was going were made, but she evaded them. On the day
following, a carriage came for her, and she parted with her kind
friends, uttering the warmest expressions of gratitude.
"I have turned her from the house!" said Mrs. Darlington, in a tone of
deep regret, as she closed the door upon the poor creature. "How would
I like my own child treated thus?"
For the rest of the day she was so unhappy, owing to this circumstance,
that she could scarcely attend to any thing.
"Do you know where Mrs. Marion went when she left our house?" said
Edith to her mother, about two weeks afterwards. There was a troubled
look in Edith's face as she asked this question.
"No. Where is she?"
"At Blockley."
"What!"
"In the Alms-house!"
"Edith!"
"It is too true. I have just learned that when she left here, it was to
take up her abode among paupers. She had no other home."
Mrs. Darlington clasped her hands together, and was about giving
expression to her feelings, when a domestic came in and said that Mr.
Ellis was in the parlour, and wished to see her immediately.
"Where is Miriam?" asked the brother, in a quick voice, the moment Mrs.
Darlington entered the parlour, where he awaited her.
"She's in her room, I believe. Why do you ask?"
"Are you certain? Go up, Edith, quickly, and see."
The manner of Mr. Ellis was so excited that Edith did not pause to hear
more, but flew up stairs. In a few moments she returned, saying that
her sister was not there, and that, moreover, on looking into her
drawers, she found them nearly empty.
"Then it was her!" exclaimed Mr. Ellis.
"Where is she? Where did you see her?" eagerly asked both mother and
sister, their faces becoming as pale as ashes.
"I saw her in a carriage with a notorious gambler and scoundrel named
Burton. There was a trunk on behind, and they were driving towards the
wharf. It is ten minutes before the boat starts for New York, and I may
save her yet!"
And, with these words, Mr. Ellis turned abruptly away, and hurried from
the house. So paralyzed were both Mrs. Darlington and Edith by this
dreadful announcement, that neither of them had for a time the power of
utterance. Then both, as by a common impulse, arose and went up to the
chamber where Miriam slept. Almost the first thing that met the eyes of
Mrs. Darlington was a letter, partly concealed by a book on the
mantel-piece. It was addressed to her. On breaking the seal, she read--
"MY DEAR, DEAR MOTHER: I shall be away from you only a little while;
and, when I return, I will come with relief for all your present
troubles. Do not blame me, dear mother! What I have done is for your
sake. It almost broke my heart to see you so pressed down and
miserable. And, then, there was no light ahead. Mr. Burton, who has
great wealth, offered me his hand. Only on condition of a handsome
settlement upon you would I accept of it. Forgive me that I have acted
without consultation. I deemed it best. In a little while, I will be
back to throw myself into your arms, and then to lift you out of your
many troubles. How purely and tenderly I love you, mother, dear mother!
I need not say. It is from this love that I am now acting. Take
courage, mother. Be comforted. We shall yet be happy. Farewell, for a
little while. In a few days I will be with you again.
"MIRIAM."
As Mrs. Darlington read the last sentence of this letter, Henry, her
son, who had not been home since he went out at breakfast-time, came
hurriedly into the room, and, in an excited manner, said--
"Mother, I want ten dollars!"
The face of the young man was flushed, and his eyes unsteady. It was
plain, at a glance, that he had been drinking.
Mrs. Darlington looked at him for a moment, and then, before Edith had
seen the contents of Miriam's letter, placed it in his hands.
"What does this mean?" he exclaimed, after running his eyes over it
hurriedly. "Miriam gone off with that Burton!"
The letter dropped upon the floor, and Henry clasped his hands together
with a gesture of pain.
"Who is Mr. Burton? What do you know of him?" asked Edith.
"I know him to be a man of the vilest character, and a gambler into the
bargain! Rich! Gracious heaven!"
And the young man struck his hands against his forehead, and glanced
wildly from his pale-faced mother to his paler sister.
"And you knew the character of this man, Henry!" said Mrs. Darlington.
There was a smiting rebuke in her tone. "You knew him, and did not make
the first effort to protect your young, confiding, devoted sister!
Henry Darlington, the blood of her murdered happiness will never be
washed from the skirts of your garments!"
"Mother! mother!" exclaimed the young man, putting up his hands to
enforce the deprecation in his voice, "do not speak so, or I will go
beside myself! But where is she? When did she go? I will fly in
pursuit. It may not yet be too late."
"Your Uncle Hiram saw her in a carriage with Mr. Burton, on their way,
as he supposed, to the steamboat landing. He has gone to intercept
them, if possible."
Henry drew his watch from his pocket, and, as he glanced at the time,
sank into a chair, murmuring, in a low voice of anguish--
"It is too late!"
CHAPTER IX.
WHEN Mr. Ellis left the house of his sister, he called a carriage that
happened to be going by, and reached the wharf at Walnut street in time
to spring on board of the steamboat just as the plank was drawn in at
the gangway. He then passed along the boat until he came to the ladies'
cabin, which he entered. Almost the first persons he saw were Burton
and his niece. The eyes of Miriam rested upon him at the same moment,
and she drew her veil quickly, hoping that she was not recognised.
Hiram Ellis did not hesitate a moment, but, walking up to where Miriam
sat, stooped to her ear, and said, in a low, anxious voice--
"Miriam, are you married yet?"
Miriam did not reply.
"Speak, child. Are you married?"
"No," came in a half audible murmur.
"Thank God! thank God!" fell in low accents from the lips of Mr. Ellis.
"Who are you, sir?" now spoke up Burton, whom surprise had till now
kept silent. There was a fiery gleam in his eyes.
"The uncle of this dear girl, and one who knows you well," was
answered, in a stern voice. "Knows you to be unworthy to touch even the
hem of her garment."
A dark scowl lowered upon the face of Burton. But Mr. Ellis returned
his looks of anger glance for glance. Miriam was in terror at this
unexpected scene, and trembled like an aspen. Instinctively she shrank
towards her uncle.
Two or three persons, who sat near, were attracted by the excitement
visible in the manner of all three, although they heard nothing that
was said. Burton saw that they were observed, and, bending towards Mr.
Ellis, said--
"This, sir, is no place for a scene. A hundred eyes will soon be upon
us."
"More than one pair of which," replied Mr. Ellis, promptly, "will
