"To my husband and children."
"Gracious heaven! what do you mean? Who are you?"
"One who loved you before she ever saw you. One who loves you now."
"Speak, child! oh, speak!" exclaimed Mrs. Linden, turning suddenly
pale, and grasping hold of Ellen with both her hands. "Who are you?
What interest have you in me? Speak!"
"Do you love me?" asked Ellen, in a husky whisper.
"Love you! You have forced me to love you; but speak out. Who are you?"
"Your daughter," was faintly replied.
"Who?"
"The wife of one who has never ceased to love you; the wife of Charles
Linden."
Mrs. Linden seemed paralyzed for some moments at this declaration. Her
face became pale--her eye fell to the floor--she sat like one in a
dream.
"Dear mother!" plead the anxious wife, sinking on her knees, "will you
not forgive your son? Will you not forgive me that I loved him so well?
If you knew how much we love you--how anxious we are to make you happy,
you would instantly relent."
"My child! Oh, can it be true?" This was said in a choking voice by
Mrs. Linden, as she threw her arms around Ellen and held her to her
bosom. In a few moments she withdrew herself, and fixed her eyes long
and earnestly upon Ellen's face.
"Ah! what a loving heart have I wronged!" she murmured, putting her
hand upon the brow of her new-found child, tenderly. Then she drew her
again almost convulsively to her bosom.
All that was passing within was heard without, for Charles and his
sister were at the door: they entered at this moment.
"My mother!" exclaimed Charles, springing towards her.
"My son--my dear son! God bless you, and this dear child, who has
watched for days and nights like an angel about my pillow."
The mother and son were in each other's arms in a moment. All was
forgiven.
From that hour, the proud woman of the world saw with a purified
vision. From that hour, she knew the worth of a pure heart.
SMITH AND JONES; OR, THE TOWN LOT.
ONCE upon a time, it happened that the men who governed in the
municipal affairs of a certain growing town in the West, resolved, in
grave deliberation assembled, to purchase a five-acre lot at the north
end of the city--recently incorporated--and have it improved for a park
or public square. Now, it also happened, that all the saleable ground
lying north of the city was owned by a man named Smith--a shrewd,
wide-awake individual, whose motto was,
"Every man for himself," with an occasional addition about a certain
gentleman in black taking "the hindmost."
Smith, it may be mentioned, was secretly at the bottom of this scheme
for a public square, and had himself suggested the matter to an
influential member of the council; not that he was moved by what is
denominated public spirit--no; the spring of action in the case was
merely "private spirit," or a regard for his own good. If the council
decided upon a public square, he was the man from whom the ground would
have to be bought; and he was the man who could get his own price
therefor.
As we have said, the park was decided upon, and a committee of two
appointed, whose business it was to see Smith and arrange with him for
the purchase of a suitable lot of ground. In due form the committee
called upon the landholder, who was fully prepared for the interview.
"You are the owner of those lots at the north end?" said the spokesman
of the committee.
"I am," replied Smith, with becoming gravity.
"Will you sell a portion of ground, say five acres, to the city?"
"For what purpose?" Smith knew very well for what purpose the land was
wanted.
"We have decided to set apart about five acres of ground, and improve
it as a kind of park, or public promenade."
"Have you, indeed? Well, I like that," said Smith, with animation. "It
shows the right kind of public spirit."
"We have, moreover, decided that the best location will be at the north
end of the town."
"Decidedly my own opinion," returned Smith.
"Will you sell us the required acres?" asked one of the councilmen.
"That will depend somewhat upon where you wish to locate the park."
The particular location was named.
"The very spot," replied Smith, promptly, "upon which I have decided to
erect four rows of dwellings."
"But it is too far out for that," was naturally objected.
"Oh, no. Not a rod. The city is rapidly growing in that direction. I
have only to put up the dwellings referred to, and dozens will be
anxious to purchase lots, and build all around them. Won't the ground
to the left of that you speak of answer as well?"
But the committee replied in the negative. The lot they had mentioned
was the one decided upon as most suited for the purpose, and they were
not prepared to think of any other location.
All this Smith understood very well. He was not only willing, but
anxious for the city to purchase the lot they were negotiating for. All
he wanted was to get a good round price for the same--say four or five
times the real value. So he feigned indifference, and threw
difficulties in the way.
A few years previous to this time, Smith had purchased a considerable
tract of land at the north of the then flourishing village, at fifty
dollars an acre. Its present value was about three hundred dollars an
acre.
After a good deal of talk on both sides, Smith finally agreed to sell
the particular lot pitched upon. The next thing was to arrange as to
price.
"At what do you hold this ground per acre?"
It was some time before Smith answered this question. His eyes were
cast upon the floor, and earnestly did he enter into debate with
himself as to the value he should place upon the lot. At first, he
thought of five hundred dollars per acre. But his cupidity soon tempted
him to advance on that sum, although, a month before, he would have
caught at such an offer. Then he advanced to six, to seven, and to
eight hundred. And still he felt undecided.
"I can get my own price," said he to himself. "The city has to pay, and
I might just as well get a large sum as a small one."
"For what price will you sell?" The question was repeated.
"I must have a good price."
"We are willing to pay what is fair and right."
"Of course. No doubt you have fixed a limit to which you will go."
"Not exactly that," said one of the gentlemen.
"Are you prepared to make an offer?"
"We are prepared to hear your price, and to make a report thereon," was
replied.
"That's a very valuable lot of ground," said Smith.
"Name your price," returned one of the committee men, a little
impatiently.
Thus brought up to the point, Smith, after thinking hurriedly for a few
moments, said--
"One thousand dollars an acre."
Both the men shook their heads in a very positive way. Smith said that
it was the lowest he would take; and so the conference ended.
At the next meeting of the city councils, a report on the town lot was
made, and the extraordinary demand of Smith canvassed. It was
unanimously decided not to make the proposed purchase.
When this decision reached the landholder, he was considerably
disappointed. He wanted money badly, and would have "jumped at" two
thousand dollars for the five-acre lot, if satisfied that it would
bring no more. But, when the city came forward as a purchaser, his
cupidity was subjected to a very strong temptation. He believed that he
could get five thousand dollars as easily as two; and quieted his
conscience by the salvo--"An article is always worth what it will
bring."
A week or two went by, and Smith was about calling upon one of the
members of the council, to say that, if the city really wanted the lot,
he would sell at their price, leaving it with the council to act justly
and generously, when a friend said to him--
"I hear that the council had the subject of a public square under
consideration again this morning."
"Indeed!" Smith was visibly excited, though he tried to appear calm.
"Yes; and I also hear that they have decided to pay the extravagant
price you asked for a lot of ground at the north end of the city."
"A thousand dollars an acre?"
"Yes."
"Its real value, and not a cent more," said Smith.
"People differ about that. However, you are lucky," the friend replied.
"The city is able to pay."
"So I think. And I mean they shall pay."
Before the committee to whom the matter was given in charge had time to
call upon Smith and close with him for the lot, that gentleman had
concluded in his own mind that it would be just as easy to get twelve
hundred dollars an acre as a thousand. It was plain that the council
were bent upon having the ground, and would pay a round sum for it. It
was just the spot for a public square; and the city must become the
owner. So, when he was called upon by the gentlemen, and they said to
him--
"We are authorized to pay you your price," he promptly answered--
"The offer is no longer open. You declined it when it was made. My
price for that property is now twelve hundred dollars an acre."
The men offered remonstrance; but it was of no avail. Smith believed
that he could get six thousand dollars for the ground as easily as five
thousand. The city must have the lot, and would pay almost any price.
"I hardly think it right, Mr. Smith," said one of his visitors, "for
you to take such an advantage. This square is for the public good."
"Let the public pay, then," was the unhesitating answer. "The public is
able enough."
"The location of this park at the north end of the city will greatly
improve the value of your other property."
This Smith understood very well. But he replied--
"I'm not so sure of that. I have some very strong doubts on the
subject. It's my opinion that the buildings I contemplated erecting
will be far more to my advantage. Be that as it may, however, I am
decided in selling for nothing less than six thousand dollars."
"We are only authorized to pay five thousand," replied the committee.
"If you agree to take that sum, we will close the bargain on the spot."
Five thousand dollars was a large sum of money, and Smith felt strongly
tempted to close in with the liberal offer. But six thousand loomed up
before his imagination still more temptingly.
"I can get it," said he to himself; "and the property is worth what it
will bring."
So he positively refused to sell it at a thousand dollars per acre.
"At twelve hundred, you will sell?" remarked one of the committee, as
they were about retiring.
"Yes. I will take twelve hundred the acre. That is the lowest rate; and
I am not anxious, even at that price. I can do quite as well by keeping
it in my own possession. But, as you seem so bent on having it, I will
not stand in your way. When will the council meet again?"
"Not until next week."
"Very well. If they then accept my offer, all will be right. But,
understand me; if they do not accept, the offer no longer remains open.
It is a matter of no moment to me which way the thing goes."
It was a matter of moment to Smith, for all this assertion--a matter of
very great moment. He had several thousand dollars to pay in the course
of the next few months on land purchases, and no way to meet the
payments, except by mortgages or sales of property; and it may
naturally be concluded that he suffered considerable uneasiness during
the time which passed until the next meeting of the council.
Of course, the grasping disposition shown by Smith became the town
talk; and people said a good many hard things of him. Little, however,
did he care, so that he secured six thousand dollars for a lot not
worth more than two thousand.
Among other residents and property-holders in the town, was a
simple-minded, true-hearted, honest man, named Jones. His father had
left him a large farm, a goodly portion of which, in process of time,
came to be included in the limits of the new city; and he found a much
more profitable employment in selling building lots than in tilling the
soil. The property of Mr. Jones lay at the west side of the town.
Now, when Mr. Jones heard of the exorbitant demand made by Smith for a
five-acre lot, his honest heart throbbed with a feeling of indignation.
"I couldn't have believed it of him," said he. "Six thousand dollars!
Preposterous! Why, I would give the city a lot of twice the size, and
do it with pleasure."
"You would?" said a member of the council, who happened to hear this
remark.
"Certainly, I would."
"You are really in earnest?"
"Undoubtedly. Go and select a public square from any of my
unappropriated land on the west side of the city, and I will pass you
the title, as a free gift, to-morrow, and feel pleasure in doing so."
"That is public spirit," said the councilman.
"Call it what you will. I am pleased in making the offer."
Now, let it not be supposed that Mr. Jones was shrewdly calculating the
advantage which would result to him from having a park at the west side
of the city. No such thought had yet entered his mind. He spoke from
the impulse of a generous feeling.
Time passed on, and the session-day of the council came round--a day to
which Smith had looked forward with no ordinary feelings of interest,
that were touched, at times, by the coldness of doubt and the agitation
of uncertainty. Several times he had more than half repented of his
refusal to accept the liberal offer of five thousand dollars, and of
having fixed so positively upon six thousand as the "lowest figure."
The morning of the day passed, and Smith began to grow uneasy. He did
not venture to seek for information as to the doings of the council,
for that would be to expose the anxiety he felt in the result of their
deliberations. Slowly the afternoon wore away, and it so happened that
Smith did not meet any one of the councilmen; nor did he even know
whether the council was still in session or not. As to making allusion
to the subject of his anxious interest to any one, that was carefully
avoided; for he knew that his exorbitant demand was the town talk--and
he wished to affect the most perfect indifference on the subject.
The day closed, and not a whisper about the town-lot had come to the
ears of Mr. Smith. What could it mean? Had his offer to sell at six
thousand been rejected? The very thought caused his heart to grow heavy
in his bosom. Six, seven, eight o'clock came, and still it was all dark
with Mr. Smith. He could bear the suspense no longer, and so determined
to call upon his neighbour Wilson, who was a member of the council, and
learn from him what had been done.
So he called on Mr. Wilson.
"Ah, friend Smith," said the latter, "how are you, this evening?"
"Well, I thank you," returned Smith, feeling a certain oppression of
the chest. "How are you?"
"Oh, very well."
Here, then, was a pause. After which, Smith said--
"About that ground of mine? What did you do?"
"Nothing," replied Wilson, coldly.
"Nothing, did you say?" Smith's voice was a little husky.
"No. You declined our offer;--or, rather, the high price fixed by
yourself upon the land."
"You refused to buy it at five thousand when it was offered," said
Smith.
"I know we did, because your demand was exorbitant."
"Oh, no, not at all," returned Smith, quickly.
"In that we only differ," said Wilson. "However, the council has
decided not to pay you the price you ask."
"Unanimously?"
"There was not a dissenting voice."
Smith began to feel more and more uncomfortable.
"I might take something less," he ventured to say, in a low, hesitating
voice.
"It is too late now," was Mr. Wilson's prompt reply.
"Too late! How so?"
"We have procured a lot."
"Mr. Wilson!" Poor Smith started to his feet in chagrin and
astonishment.
"Yes; we have taken one of Jones's lots, on the west side of the city.
A beautiful ten-acre lot."
"You have!" Smith was actually pale.
"We have; and the title-deeds are now being made out."
It was some time before Smith had sufficiently recovered from the
stunning effect of this unlooked-for intelligence, to make the inquiry--
"And pray how much did Jones ask for his ten-acre lot?"
"He presented it to the city as a gift," replied the councilman.
"A gift! What folly!"
"No, not folly--but true worldly wisdom; though I believe Jones did not
think of advantage to himself when he generously made the offer. He is
worth twenty thousand dollars more to-day than he was yesterday, in the
simple advanced value of his land for building-lots. And I know of no
man in this town whose good fortune affects me with more pleasure."
Smith stole back to his home with a mountain of disappointment on his
heart. In his cupidity, he had entirely overreached himself, and he saw
that the consequences were to react upon all his future prosperity. The
public square at the west end of the town would draw improvements in
that direction all the while increasing the wealth of Mr. Jones, while
lots in the north end would remain at present prices, or, it might be,
take a downward range.
And so it proved. In ten years, Jones was the richest man in the town,
while half of Smith's property had been sold for taxes. The five-acre
lot passed from his hands, under the hammer, in the foreclosure of a
mortgage, for one thousand dollars!
Thus it is that inordinate selfishness and cupidity overreach
themselves; while the liberal man deviseth liberal things, and is
sustained thereby.
HE MUST HAVE MEANT ME.
"HOW do you like our new preacher?" was asked by one member of another,
as they walked home from church.
"Only so so," was replied.
"He cuts close," remarked the first speaker.
"Yes, a little too close."
"I don't know about that. I like to see the truth brought home to the
heart and conscience."
"So do I. But I object to personality."
"Personality!"
"Yes; I object to personality."
So does every one. Was Mr. C-- personal?"
"I think so."
"That's hardly possible. He only arrived last week, and has not yet had
time to become familiar with facts in the life of any one here.
Moreover, a personal allusion in a first sermon, by a stranger, is
something so out of place and indelicate, that I cannot for a moment
believe that your inference is correct."
"While I have the best of reasons for believing that I complain of him
justly. He's been long enough here to visit a certain family, fond of
tittle-tattle, that I could name."
"The Harrisons?"
"Yes."
"I hope you are mistaken."
"No; I am not mistaken. C-- was personal, and distinctly so. And the
Harrisons are at the bottom of the matter. To say the least, he has
acted in very bad taste. Charity should have prompted him to wait until
he could have heard both sides of the story."
"I agree with you, fully, if your allegation be correct. But I must
hope that you are in error."
"No. I have the best of reasons for what I allege."
"To whom did the personality apply?"
"To myself, if the truth must be spoken."
"Is it possible?"
"Yes--to myself."
"That places the matter in rather a serious light, Mr. Grant."
"It does. And I think I have reason to complain."
"You ought to be certain about this matter."
"I'm certain enough. When a man treads on your toe, you are likely to
know it."
"It is barely possible that Mr. C-- did not intend to designate you, or
any one, in what he said."
"He must have meant me," replied Mr. Grant, with emphasis. "He
couldn't have said what he did, unless he had been informed of certain
things that have happened in this town. Had he not visited the
Harrisons, I might have doubted. But that fact places the thing beyond
a question."
"In what did the personality consist?"
"Did you not observe it?"
"No."
"Indeed!"
"I perceived no allusion to any one."
"There are plenty of others, no doubt, who did. I don't care to speak
of it just now. But you'll hear about it. I noticed three or four turn
and look at me while he was speaking. It will be a pleasant piece of
gossip; but if Mr. C-- doesn't take care, I'll make this place too hot
to hold him. I'm not the one to be set up as a target for any
whipper-snapper to fire at."
"Don't get excited, friend Grant. Wait awhile. I still think there is
some mistake."
"I beg your pardon; there is no mistake about it. He meant me. Don't I
know? Can't I tell when a man points his finger at me in a public
assembly?"
In his opinion, Mr. Grant was still further confirmed, ere he reached
his home, by the peculiar way in which sundry members of the
congregation looked at him. Of course, he was considerably disturbed on
the subject; and felt a reasonable share of indignation. In the
evening, he declined attending worship as an indication of his feelings
on the subject; and he doubted not that the new preacher would note his
absence and understand the cause.
About a year prior to this time, Mr. Grant, who was a manufacturing
jeweller, was called upon by a gentleman, who desired him to make a
solid gold wedding-ring. It was to be of the finest quality that could
be worked, and to be unusually heavy. When the price was mentioned, the
gentleman objected to it as high.
"Your neighbour, over the way," said the gentleman, "will make it for a
dollar less than you ask."
"Not of solid gold," replied Mr. Grant.
"Oh, yes. I would have no other."
Mr. Grant knew that the ring could not be made of fine, solid gold, for
the price his neighbour had agreed to take. And he knew, also, that in
manufacturing it, his neighbour, if he took the order, would fill up
the centre of the ring with solder--a common practice. On the spur of
the moment, he determined to do the same thing, and therefore replied--
"Well, I suppose I must work as low as he does."
"The ring must be of solid gold, remember. I will have no other."
"That's understood, of course," replied the jeweller; adding to
himself, "as solid as any one makes them."
The ring was manufactured at a reasonable profit, and the man got the
full worth of his money; but not of solid gold. Silver solder composed
the centre. But as the baser metal could not be detected by simple
inspection or weighing, Mr. Grant felt secure in the cheat he had
practised; and, quieted his conscience by assuming that he had given a
full equivalent for the money received.
"He's just as well off as he would have been if he had gone to my
neighbour over the way, as he called him," said he to himself, in the
effort to quiet certain unpleasant sensations. "To suppose that he was
going to get a solid ring at such a price! Does he think we jewellers
steal our gold? Men will be humbugged, and there is no help for it."
Yet, for all this, Mr. Grant could not cast out the unpleasant feeling.
He had done a thing so clearly wrong, that no attempt at
self-justification gave his mind its former calmness.
"The ring is solid gold?" said the man, when he came for it.
"That was the contract," replied Mr. Grant, with a half-offended air,
at the intimation conveyed in the tone of voice, that all might not be
as agreed upon.
"Excuse me," remarked the man, apologetically; "but I am very
particular about this matter, and would throw the ring into the street
rather than use it, if not of solid gold."
"Gold rings are not given away," muttered Grant to himself, as the man
left the shop.
Some days after this transaction, a man named Harrison, who belonged to
the church of which Grant was a member, met him, when this little
conversation took place.
"I sent you a customer last week," said Mr. Harrison.
"Ah! I'm very much obliged to you."
"A gentleman who wanted a gold ring. He asked me to give him the name
of a jeweller upon whom he could depend. The ring, he said, must be
solid, for a particular reason; and, as he was a stranger, he did not
know who was to be trusted. I told him I would guaranty you for an
honest man. That if you undertook to manufacture any article for him,
he might rely upon its being done according to agreement."
While Harrison was uttering this undeserved compliment, it was with the
utmost difficulty that Mr. Grant could keep the tell-tale blood from
rushing to his face.
"He showed me the ring," continued Mr. Harrison. "It is a very handsome
one."
"Was he satisfied with it?" asked Mr. Grant.
"Not fully."
"Why so?"
"He was afraid it might not be solid. In fact, so anxious was he on
this point, that he took the ring to your neighbour, over the way, to
get his opinion about it."
As Mr. Harrison said this, Grant was conscious that a betrayal of the
truth was on his countenance.
"And, of course, Martin said the ring was not solid."
"No, he did not exactly say that. I went with the gentleman, at his
request. Martin weighed the ring, and, after doing so, simply stated
that gold of the quality of which the ring was made was worth a certain
price per pennyweight. By multiplying the number of pennyweights
contained in the ring with the price mentioned, he showed that you
either lost one dollar on the ring, or filled the centre with some
baser metal."
"Well?" The blood had, by this time, risen to the very brow of the
jeweller.
"'Cut the ring,' said my friend. It was done, and, to my mortification
and astonishment, it proved to be even as he had said. The ring was not
solid!"
For some moments, Mr. Grant hung his head in painful confusion. Then,
looking up, he said--
"It was his own fault."
"How so?" was inquired.
"He would not pay the price for a solid ring, and I could not give him
my work for nothing."
"Did you ask him a fair price?"
"Yes; and he answered, that my neighbour over the way had offered to
make him a solid ring, for just one dollar less. I knew exactly what
kind of a ring Martin could and would furnish for that money, and made
him one just like it. I gave him his money's worth, and a little over.
He was not cheated."
"But he was deceived. How you could have done such a thing, brother
Grant, is more than I can understand."
"I had to do it in self-defence; and this very Martin, who has been so
ready to expose the little deception, made the act necessary."
"I'm sorry you should have done so. It was wrong," said Mr. Harrison.
"I'm ready to acknowledge that. But it's too late, now, to repair the
error. I wish I'd had nothing to do with the matter."
"So do I," remarked Harrison.
This fretted the mind of Grant, and he replied, rather impatiently--
"Hereafter, I hope you'll send all customers of this kind to Martin.
Dear knows, I don't want them!"
"I shall certainly be careful in this matter," coldly replied Harrison,
and bowing formally, as he spoke, turned away, and left Grant in no
very pleasant frame of mind. From that time there was a coldness
between the two church members.
When Grant went to church on the next Sabbath, he noticed, as he
approached the meeting-house door, Harrison standing in close
conversation with one or two prominent members. As he approached, they
looked toward him in a certain way that he did not like, and then,
separating, entered the house before he came up. It was too evident
that Harrison had been communicating the incident of the ring. But
Grant was not surprised; he had expected nothing less. Still, he felt
that his brother member had not done towards him in the matter as he
would have liked himself done by. On entering the church, half a dozen
persons turned and looked at him earnestly; while two or three
whispered together, glancing towards him every now and then, and thus
showing that he was the subject of conversation. As to the theme of
discourse between them, his mind was in no doubt. The gold ring! Yes,
that was it.
But little edified by the sermon was Mr. Grant on that morning; and,
when the services were ended, he went quickly from the church, and took
his way homeward without stopping, as on former occasions, to shake
hands and pass a few words with friends and brethren.
It had been the custom of several leading members of the church to drop
in occasionally, during the week, and chat with Grant for ten minutes
or half an hour. But the time from Sunday to Sunday was passed without
a single call from any one of them. The reason for this was no mystery
to the jeweller's mind.
"I don't see that I've been guilty of such a terrible crime," said he
