that this way is a very bad one, a great many people think 
so ; I do myself. I heartily wish that there were not a 
slave in the land, but then I don't know what is to be done 
about it." 

" Papa, you are such a good man, and so noble, and kind, 
and you always have a way of saying things that is so 
pleasant ; couldn't you go all round and try to persuade 
people to do right ab6ut this ? When I am dead, papa, 
then you will think of me, and do it for my sake. I would 
do it if I could." 

" When you are dead, Eva ! " said St. Clare, passionately. 
" Oh, child, don't talk to me so ! You are all I have on 
earth." 

" Poor old Prue's child was all that she had ; and yet she 
had to hear it crying, and she couldn't help it ! Papa, these 
poor creatures love their children as much as you do me. 
Oh, do something for them ! There's poor Mammy loves her 
children ; I've seen her crying when she talked about them. 
And Tom loves his children ; and it's dreadful, papa, that 
such things are happening all the time ! " 

" There, there, darling," said St. Clare, soothingly ; " only 
don't distress yourself, and don't talk of dying, and I will do 
anything you wish." 

" And promise me, dear father, that Tom shall have his 
freedom as soon as " She stopped, and said in a hesi- 
tating tone " I am gone ! " 

" Yes, dear, I will do anything in the world anything 
you could ask me to." 

" Dear papa," said the child, laying her burning cheek 
against his, " how I wish we could go together." 

" Where, dearest ? " said St. Clare. 

" To our Saviour's home ; it's so sweet and peaceful there 
it is all so loving there ! " The child spoke unconsciously, 
as of a place where she had often been. " Don't you want 
to go, papa ? " she said. 

St. Clare drew her closer to him, but was silent. 

" You will come to me," said the child, speaking in a 
voice of calm certainty, which she often used unconsciously. 

" I shall come after you. I shall not forget you." 

The shadows of the solemn evening closed round them 
deeper and deeper, as St. Clare sat silently holding tue Irttle 





frail form to his bosom. He saw no more the deep eyes, but 
the voice came over him as a spirit voice ; and, as in a sort of 
judgment vision, his whole past life rose in a moment before 
his eyes his mother's prayers and hymns his own early 
yearnings and aspirings for good ; and, between them and 
this hour, years of worldliness and scepticism, and what man 
calls respectable living. We can think much, very much, in 
a moment. St. Clare saw and felt many things, but spoke 
nothing ; and, as it grew darker, he took his child to her 
bed-room, and when she was prepared for rest he sent away 
the attendants, and rocked her in his arms, and sung to her 
till she was asleep. 



CHAPTER XXV. 

THE LITTLE EVANGELIST. 

IT was Sunday afternoon. St. Clare was stretched on a 
bamboo lounge in the verandah, solacing himself with a cigar. 
Marie lay reclined on a sofa, opposite the window opening on 
the verandah, closely secluded, under an awning of transpa- 
rent gauze, from the outrages of the mosquitos, and languidly 
holding in her hand an elegantly bound prayer-book. She 
was holding it because it was Sunday, and she imagined she 
had been reading it though, in fact, she had been only 
taking a succession of short naps, with it open in her hands. 

Miss Ophelia, who, after some rummaging, had hunted up 
a small Methodist meeting within riding distance, had gone 
out, with Tom as driver, to attend it, and Eva had accompanied them. 

" I say, Augustine," said Marie, after dozing a while, 
" I must send to the city after my old Doctor Posey ; I'm 
sure I've got the complaint of the heart." 

" "Well ; why need you send for him ? This doctor that 
attends Eva seems skilful." 

" I would not trust him in a critical case," said Marie, 
" and I think I may say mine is becoming so ! I've been 
thinking of it these two or three nights past ; I have such 
distressing pains, and such strange feelings." 





" Marie, you are blue ; I don't believe it's heart-complaint." 

" I dare say you don't," said Marie ; " I was prepared to 
expect that. You can be alarmed enough if Eva coughs or 
has the least thing the matter with her, but you never think 
of me." 

" If it's particularly agreeable to you to have heart- 
disease, why, I'll try and maintain you have it," said 
St. Clare ; " I didn't know it was." 

" Well, I only hope you won't be sorry for this when it's 
too late ! " said Marie ; " but, believe it or not, my distress 
about Eva, and the exertions I have made with that dear 
child, have developed what I have long suspected." 

What the exertions were which Marie referred to it would 
have been difficult to state. St. Clare quietly made this 
commentary to himself, and went on smoking, like a hard- 
hearted wretch of a man as he was, till a carriage drove up 
before the verandah, and Eva and Miss Ophelia alighted. 

Miss Ophelia marched straight to her own chamber, to 
put away her bonnet and shawl, as was always her manner, 
before she spoke a word on any subject ; while Eva came at 
St. Clare's call, and was sitting on his knee, giving him an 
account of the services they had heard. 

They soon heard loud exclamations from Miss Ophelia's 
room (which, like the one in which they were sitting, 
opened on to the verandah), and violent reproof addressed to 
somebody. 

" What new witchcraft has Tops been brewing ? " asked 
St. Clare. " That commotion is of her raising, I'll be bound ! " 

And, in a moment after, Miss Ophelia, in high indigna- 
tion, came dragging the culprit along. 

" Come out here, now!" she said. " I will tell your 
master." 

" What's the case now? " asked Augustine. 

" The case is, that I cannot be plagued with this child 
any longer ! It's past all bearing ; flesh and blood cannot 
endure it ! Here. I locked her up, and gave her a hymn to 
study ; and what does she do, but spy out where I put my 
key, and has gone to my bureau, and got a bonnet-trimming, 
and cut it all to pieces to make dolls' jackets ! I never saw 
anything like it in my life.' 





" I told you, cousin," said Marie, " that you'd find out 
that these creatures can't be brought up without severity. 
If I had my way, now," she said, looking reproachfully 
at St. Clare, " I'd send that child out, and have her 
thoroughly whipped ; I'd have her whipped till she couldn't 
stand ! " 

" I don't doubt it," said St. Clare. " Tell me of the lovely 
rule of woman ! I never saw above a dozen women that 
wouldn't half kill a horse, or a servant, either, if they had 
their own way with them, let alone a man." 

" There is no use in this shilly-shally way of yours, St. 
Clare ! " said Marie. " Cousin is a woman of sense, and she 
sees it now as plain as I do." 

Miss Ophelia had just the capability of indignation that 
belongs to the thorough-paced housekeeper, and this had been 
pretty actively roused by the artifice and wastefulness of the 
child ; in fact, many of my lady readers must own that they 
should have felt just so in her circumstances ; but Marie's 
words went beyond her, and she felt less heat. 

" I wouldn't have the child treated so for the world," she 
said ; " but I am sure, Augustine, I don't know what to do. 
I've taught and taught, I've talked till I'm tired, I've whipped 
her, I've punished her in every way I can think of; and still 
she's just what she was at first." 

" Come here, Tops, you monkey!" said St. Clare, calling 
the child up to him. 

Topsy came up; her round, hard eyes glittering and 
blinking with a mixture of apprehensiveness and their usual 
odd drollery. 

" What makes you behave so ? " said St. Clare, who could 
not help being amused with the child's expression. 

" 'Spects it's my wicked heart," said Topsy, demurely ; 
" Miss Feely says so." 

" Don't you see how much Miss Ophelia has done for you ? 
She says she has done everything she can think of." 

" Lor, yes, mas'r ! old missus used to say so, too. She 
whipped me a heap harder, and used to pull my har, and knock 
my head agin the door ; but it didn't do me no good ! I 
'spects, if they's to pull every spear o' har out o' my head, it 
wouldn't do no good neither I's so wicked ! Laws ! I's 
nothin' but a nigger, no ways ! " 





" Well, I shall have to give her up," said Miss Ophelia ; 
" I can't have that trouble any longer." 

" Well, I'd just like to ask one question," said St. Clare. 

" What is it ? " 

" Why, if your Gospel is not strong enough to save one 
heathen child, that you can have at home here, all to your- 
self, what's the use of sending one or two poor missionaries 
off with it among thousands of just such ? I suppose this 
child is about a fair sample of what thousands of your 
heathen are." 

Miss Ophelia did not make an immediate answer ; and 
Eva, who had stood a silent spectator of the scene thus far, 
made a silent sign to Topsy to follow her. There was a little 
glass-room at the corner of the verandah, which St. Clare used 
as a sort of reading-room ; and Eva and Topsy disappeared 
into this place. 

" What's Eva going about now ? " said St. Clare ; " I mean 
to see.'* 

And, advancing on tiptoe, he lifted up a curtain that 
covered the glass-door, and looked in. In a moment, laying 
his finger on his lips, he made a silent gesture to Miss 
Ophelia to come and look. There sat the two children on 
the floor, with their side faces towards them Topsy with her 
usual air of careless drollery and unconcern ; but, opposite to 
her, Eva, her whole face fervent with feeling, and tears in 
her large eyes. 

" What does make you so bad, Topsy ? Why won't you 
try and be good ? Don't you love anybody, Topsy ? " 

" Dunno nothing 'bout love ; I loves candy and sich, that's 
all," said Topsy. 

" But you love your father and mother ? " 

" Never had none, ye know. I telled ye that, Miss Eva." 

" Oh, I know," said Eva sadly; "but hadn't you any 
brother or sister, or aunt, or" 

" No, none on 'em never had nothing nor nobody." 

" But, Topsy, if you'd only try to be good, you might " 

" Couldn't never be nothin' but a nigger, if I was ever so 
good," said Topsy. " If I could be skinned, and come white, 
I'd try then." 

" But people can love you, if you are black, Topsy. 
Ophelia would love you if you were good." 





Topsy gave the short, blunt laugh, that was her common 
mode of expressing incredulity. 

" Don't you think so ? " said Eva. 

" No ; she can't bar me, 'cause I'm a nigger ! she'd's 
soon have a toad touch her. There can't nobody love niggers, 
and niggers can't do nothin'. I don't care," said Topsy, 
beginning to whistle. 

" O Topsy, poor child, I love you !" said Eva, with a sudden 
burst of feeling, and laying her little, thin, white hand on 
Topsy's shoulder ; " I love you, because you haven't had any 
father, or mother, or friends because you've been a poor, 
abused child ! I love you, and I want you to be good. I am 
very unwell, Topsy, and I think I shan't live a great while, 
and it really grieves me to have you be so naughty. I wish 
you would try to be good, for my sake ; it's only a little while 
I shall be with you." 

The round, keen eyes of the black child were overcast with 
tears ; large, bright drops rolled heavily down, one by one, 
and fell on the little white hand. Yes, in that moment a ray 
of real belief, a ray of heavenly love, had penetrated the 
darkness of her heathen soul ! She laid her head down 
between her knees, and wept and sobbed ; while the beautiful 
child, bending over her, looked like the picture of some 
bright angel stooping to reclaim a sinner. 

" Poor Topsy ! " said Eva, " don't you know that Jesus 
loves all alike ? He is just as willing to love you as me. He 
loves you just as I do, only more, because he is better. He 
will help you to be good, and you can go to heaven at last, 
and be an angel for ever, just as much as if you were white. 
Only think of it, Topsy, you can be one of those spirits bright 
Uncle Tom sings about." 

" dear Miss Eva ! dear Miss Eva ! " said the child, " I will 
try ! I will try ! I never did care nothin' about it before." 

St. Clare at this instant dropped the curtain. " It puts 
me in mind of mother," he said to Miss Ophelia. " It is true 
what she told me : if we want to give sight to the blind, we 
must be willing to do as Christ did call them to us, and 
put our hands on them" 

" I've always had a prejudice against negroes," said Miss 
Ophelia ; " and it's a fact, I never could bear to have that 
child touch me ; but I didn't think she knew it." 





"Trust any child to find that out," said St. Clare; 
" there's no keeping it from them. But I believe that all the 
trying in the world to benefit a child, and all the substantial 
favours you can do them, will never excite one emotion of 
gratitude while that feeling of repugnance remains in the 
heart ; it's a queer kind of fact, but so it is." 

" I don't know how I can help it," said Miss Ophelia ; 
" they are disagreeable to me this child in particular. How 
can I help feeling so." 

" Eva does, it seems." 

" Well, she's so loving ! After all, though, she's no more 
than Christ-like," said Miss Ophelia ; " I wish I were like 
her. She might teach me a lesson." 

" It wouldn't be the first time a little child had been used 
[ to instruct an old disciple, if it were so," said St. Clare. 


CHAPTEE XXVI. 

DEATH. 

" Weep not for those whom the veil of the tomb, 
In life's early morning, hath hid from our eyes." 

EYA'S bedroom was a spacious apartment, which, like all 
the other rooms in the house, opened on to the broad 
verandah. The room communicated, on one side, with her 
father and mother's apartment; on the other, with that 
appropriated to Miss Ophelia. St. Clare had gratified his 
own eye and taste, in furnishing this room in a style that 
had a peculiar keeping with the character of her for whom 
it was intended. The windows were hung with curtains of 
rose-coloured and white muslin ; the floor was spread with 
a matting which had been ordered in Paris, to a pattern of 
his own device, having round it a border of rose-buds and 
leaves, and a centre-piece with full-blown roses. The bed- 
stead, chairs, and lounges were of bamboo, wrought in 
peculiarly graceful and fanciful patterns. Over the head of 
the bed was an alabaster bracket, on which a beautiful 





sculptured angel stood, with drooping wings, holding out a 
crown of myrtle-leaves. Prom this depended, over the bed, 
light curtains of rose-coloured gauze, striped with silver, 
supplying that protection from mosquitos which is an 
indispensable addition to all sleeping accommodation in 
that climate. The graceful bamboo lounges were amply 
supplied with cushions of rose-coloured damask, while over 
them, depending from the hands of sculptured figures, were 
gauze curtains similar to those of the bed. A light, fanciful 
bamboo table stood in the middle of the room, where a 
Parian vase, wrought in the shape of a white lily, with its 
buds, stood, ever filled with flowers. On this table lay 
Eva's books and little trinkets, with an elegantly-wrought 
alabaster writing-stand, which her father had supplied to 
her when he saw her trying to improve herself in writing. 
There was a fireplace in the room, and on the marble mantel 
above stood a beautifully-wrought statuette of Jesus 
receiving little children, and on either side marble vases, for 
which it was Tom's pride and delight to offer bouquets every 
morning. Two or three exquisite paintings of children, in 
various attitudes, embellished the wall. In short, the eye 
could turn nowhere without meeting images of childhood, 
of beauty, and of peace. Those little eyes never opened, in 
the morning light, without falling on something which 
suggested to the heart soothing and beautiful thoughts. 

The deceitful strength which had buoyed Eva up for a 
little while was fast passing away ; seldom and more seldom 
her light footstep was heard in the verandah, and oftener 
and oftener she was found reclined on a little lounge by the 
open window, her large, deep eyes fixed on the rising and 
falling waters of the lake. 

It was towards the middle of the afternoon, as she was 
so reclining her Bible half-open, her little transparent 
fingers lying listlessly between the leaves suddenly she 
heard her mother's voice, in sharp tones, in the verandah. 

" What now, you baggage ? what new piece of mischief? 
You've been picking the flowers, eh ? " and Eva heard the 
sound of a smart slap. 

" Law, missis ! they's for Miss Eva," she heard a voice 
say, which she knew belonged to Topsy. 

" Miss Eva ! A pretty excuse ! you suppose she wants 





your flowers, you good-for-nothing nigger ! Get along off 
with you ! " 

In a moment, Eva was off from her lounge, and in the 
verandah. 

" Oh, don't, mother ! I should like the flowers ; do give 
them to me ; I want them ! " 

" Why, Eva, your room is full now." 

" I can't have too many," said Eva. " Topsy, do bring 
them here." 

Topsy, who had stood sullenly, holding down her head, 
now came up and offered her flowers. She did it with a 
look of hesitation and bashfulness, quite unlike the eldritch 
boldness and brightness which was usual with her. 

" It's a beautiful bouquet ! " said Eva, looking at it. 

It was rather a singular one a brilliant scarlet geranium, 
and one single white japonica, with its glossy leaves. It 
was tied up with an evident eye to the contrast of colour, 
and the arrangement of every leaf had carefully been 
studied. 

Topsy looked pleased, as Eva said, " Topsy, you arrange 
flowers very prettily. Here," she said, "is this vase, I 
haven't any flowers for. I wish you'd arrange something 
every day for it." 

" Well, that's odd ! " said Marie. " What in the world 
do you want that for ? " 

" Never mind, mamma ; you'd as lief as not Topsy should 
do it had you not ? " 

" Of course, anything you please, dear ! Topsy, you 
hear your young mistress ; see that you mind." 

Topsy made a short curtsey, and looked down ; and, as 
she turned away, Eva saw a tear roll down her dark cheek. 

"You see, mamma, I knew poor Topsy wanted to do 
something for me," said Eva to her mother. 

" Oh, nonsense ! it's only because she likes to do mischief. 
She knows she mustn't pick flowers so she does it ; that's 
all there is to it. But, if you fancy to have her pluck them, 
so be it." 

" Mamma, I think Topsy is different from what she used 
to be ; she's trying to be a good girl." 

" She'll have to try a good while before she gets to be 
good," said Marie, with a careless laugh. 







" Well, you know, mamma, poor Topsy ! everything has 
always been against her." 
