the day after to-morrow?"
"No, dear Fleda," said he, still stroking her head kindly, "I
will bring you back, but you must go with me now. Your aunt
wishes it, and we all think it is best. I will bring you
back."
She sobbed bitterly for a few minutes. Then she begged, in
smothered words, that he would leave her alone a little while.
He went immediately.
She checked her sobs when she heard the door close upon him,
or as soon as she could, and rising went and knelt down by the
side of the bed. It was not to cry, though what she did could
not be done without many tears,  it was to repeat with equal
earnestness and solemnity her mother's prayer, that she might
be kept pure from the world's contact. There, beside the
remains of her last dear earthly friend, as it were before
going out of his sight for ever, little Fleda knelt down to
set the seal of faith and hope to his wishes, and to lay the
constraining hand of Memory upon her conscience. It was soon
done; and then there was but one thing more to do. But, oh,
the tears that fell as she stood there! before she could go
on; how the little hands were pressed to the bowed face, as if
they would have borne up the load they could not reach; the
convulsive struggle, before the last look could be taken, the
last good-by said! But the sobs were forced back, the hands
wiped off the tears, the quivering features were bidden into
some degree of calmness; and she leaned forward, over the
loved face that in death had kept all its wonted look of
mildness and placid dignity. It was in vain to try to look
through Fleda's blinded eyes; the hot tears dropped fast,
while her trembling lips kissed, and kissed, those cold and
silent that could make no return; and then feeling that it was
the last, that the parting was over, she stood again by the
side of the bed as she had done a few minutes before, in a
convulsion of grief, her face bowed down and her little frame
racked with feeling too strong for it; shaken visibly, as if
too frail to bear the trial to which it was put.
Mr. Carleton had waited and waited, as he thought, long
enough, and now at last came in again, guessing how it was
with her. He put his arm round the child and gently drew her
away, and sitting down took her on his knee; and endeavoured
rather with actions than with words to soothe and comfort her;
for he did not know what to say. But his gentle delicate way,
the soft touch with which he again stroked back her hair or
took her hand, speaking kindness and sympathy, the loving
pressure of his lips once or twice to her brow, the low tones
in which he told her that she was making herself sick; that
she must not do so; that she must let him take care of her;
were powerful to soothe or quiet a sensitive mind, and Fleda
felt them. It was a very difficult task, and if undertaken by
any one else, would have been more likely to disgust and
distress her. But his spirit had taken the measure of hers,
and he knew precisely how to temper every word and tone so as
just to meet the nice sensibilities of her nature. He had said
hardly any thing, but she had understood all he meant to say,
and when he told her at last, softly, that it was getting
late, and she must let him take her away, she made no more
difficulty, rose up, and let him lead her out of the room
without once turning her head to look back.
Mrs. Carleton looked relieved that there was a prospect of
getting away, and rose up with a happy adjusting of her shawl
round her shoulders. Aunt Miriam came forward to say good-by,
but it was very quietly said. Fleda clasped her round the neck
convulsively for an instant, kissed her as if a kiss could
speak a whole heartful, and then turned submissively to Mr.
Carleton, and let him lead her to the carriage.
There was no fault to be found with Mrs. Carleton's kindness
when they were on the way. She held the forlorn little child
tenderly in her arm, and told her how glad she was to have her
with them, how glad she should be if she were going to keep
her always; but her saying so only made Fleda cry, and she
soon thought it best to say nothing. All the rest of the way
Fleda was a picture of resignation; transparently pale, meek
and pure, and fragile seemingly as the delicatest wood-flower
that grows. Mr. Carleton looked grieved, and leaning forward
he took one of her hands in his own and held it
affectionately, till they got to the end of their journey. It
marked Fleda's feeling towards him that she let it lie there
without making a motion to draw it away. She was so still for
the last few miles, that her friends thought she had fallen
asleep; but when the carriage stopped and the light of the
lantern was flung inside, they saw the grave hazel eyes broad
open and gazing intently out of the window.
"You will order tea for us in your dressing-room, mother?"
said Mr. Carleton.
"Us  who is us?"
"Fleda and me, unless you will please to make one of the
party."
"Certainly I will, but perhaps Fleda might like it better down
stairs. Wouldn't you, dear?"
"If you please, Ma'am," said Fleda. "Wherever you please."
"But which would you rather, Fleda?" said Mr. Carleton.
"I would rather have it up-stairs," said Fleda, gently, "but
it's no matter."
"We will have it up-stairs," said Mrs. Carleton. "We will be a
nice little party up there by ourselves. You shall not come
down till you like."
"You are hardly able to walk up," said Mr. Carleton, tenderly.
"Shall I carry you?"
The tears rushed to Fleda's eyes, but she said no, and managed
to mount the stairs, though it was evidently an exertion. Mrs.
Carleton's dressing-room, as her son had called it, looked
very pleasant when they got there. It was well lighted and
warmed, and something answering to curtains had been summoned
from its obscurity in storeroom or garret and hung up at the
windows,  "them air fussy English folks had made such a pint
of it," the landlord said. Truth was, that Mr. Carleton as
well as his mother wanted this room as a retreat for the quiet
and privacy which travelling in company as they did they could
have nowhere else. Everything the hotel could furnish in the
shape of comfort had been drawn together to give this room as
little the look of a public-house as possible. Easy chairs, as
Mrs. Carleton remarked with a disgusted face, one could not
expect to find in a country inn; there were instead as many as
half-a-dozen of "those miserable substitutes", as she called
rocking-chairs, and sundry fashions of couches and sofas, in
various degrees of elegance and convenience. The best of
these, a great chintz-covered thing, full of pillows, stood
invitingly near the bright fire. There Mr. Carleton placed
little Fleda, took off her bonnet and things, and piled the
cushions about her just in the way that would make her most
easy and comfortable. He said little, and she nothing, but her
eyes watered again at the kind tenderness of his manner. And
then he left her in peace till the tea came.
The tea was made in that room for those three alone. Fleda
knew that Mr. and Mrs. Carleton stayed up there only for her
sake, and it troubled her, but she could not help it. Neither
could she be very sorry so far as one of them was concerned.
Mr. Carleton was too good to be wished away. All that evening
his care of her never ceased. At tea, which the poor child
would hardly have shared but for him  and after tea, when in
the absence of bustle she had leisure to feel more fully her
strange circumstances and position, he hardly permitted her to
feel either, doing everything for her ease and pleasure, and
quietly managing at the same time to keep back his mother's
more forward and less happily adapted tokens of kind feeling.
Though she knew he was constantly occupied with her, Fleda
could not feel oppressed; his kindness was as pervading and as
unobtrusive as the summer air itself; she felt as if she was
in somebody's hands that knew her wants before she did, and
quietly supplied or prevented them, in a way she could not
tell how. It was very rarely that she even got a chance to
utter the quiet and touching "thank you," which invariably
answered every token of kindness or thoughtfulness that
permitted an answer. How greatly that harsh and sad day was
softened to little Fleda's heart by the good feeling and fine
breeding of one person. She thought when she went to bed that
night, thought seriously and gratefully, that since she must
go over the ocean and take that long journey to her aunt, how
glad she was, how thankful she ought to be, that she had so
very kind and pleasant people to go with. Kind and pleasant
she counted them both; but what more she thought of a Mr.
Carleton it would be hard to say. Her admiration of him was
very high, appreciating as she did to the full all that charm
of manner which she could neither analyze nor describe.
Her last words to him that night, spoken with a most wistful
anxious glance into his face, were,
"You will take me back again, Mr. Carleton?"
He knew what she meant.
"Certainly I will. I promised you, Fleda."
"Whatever Guy promises you may be very sure he will do," said
his mother, with a smile.
Fleda believed it. But the next morning it was very plain that
this promise he would not be called upon to perform; Fleda
would not be well enough to go to the funeral. She was able
indeed to get up, but she lay all day upon the sofa in the
dressing-room. Mr. Carleton had bargained for no company last
night; to-day female curiosity could stand it no longer, and
Mrs. Thorn and Mrs. Evelyn came up to look and gossip openly,
and to admire and comment privately, when they had a chance.
Fleda lay perfectly quiet and still, seeming not much to
notice or care for their presence; they thought she was
tolerably easy in body and mind, perhaps tired and sleepy, and
like to do well enough after a few days. How little they knew!
How little they could imagine the assembly of Thought which
was holding in that child's mind; how little they deemed of
the deep, sad, serious look into life which that little spirit
was taking. How far they were from fancying while they were
discussing all manner of trifles before her, sometimes when
they thought her sleeping, that in the intervals between
sadder and weightier things her nice instincts were taking the
gauge of all their characters  unconsciously, but surely; how
they might have been ashamed if they had known that while they
were busy with all affairs in the universe but those which
most nearly concerned them, the little child at their side,
whom they had almost forgotten, was secretly looking up to her
Father in heaven, and asking to be kept pure from the world!
"Not unto the wise and prudent;"  how strange it may seem in
one view of the subject,  in another, how natural, how
beautiful, how reasonable.
Fleda did not ask again to be taken to Queechy. But as the
afternoon drew on she turned her face away from the company
and shielded it from view among the cushions, and lay in that
utterly motionless state of body which betrays a concentrated
movement of the spirits in some hidden direction. To her
companions it betrayed nothing. They only lowered their tones
a little lest they should disturb her.
It had grown dark, and she was sitting up again, leaning
against the pillows, and in her usual quietude, when Mr.
Carleton came in. They had not seen him since before dinner.
He came to her side, and taking her hand made some gentle
inquiry how she was.
"She has had a fine rest," said Mrs. Evelyn.
"She has been sleeping all the afternoon," said Mrs. Carleton,
 "she lay as quiet as a mouse, without stirring;  you were
sleeping, weren't you, dear?"
Fleda's lips hardly formed the word "no," and her features
were quivering sadly. Mr. Carleton's were impenetrable.
"Dear Fleda," said he, stooping down and speaking with equal
gravity and kindliness of manner,  "you were not able to go."
Fleda's shake of the head gave a meek acquiescence. But her
face was covered, and the gay talkers around her were silenced
and sobered by the heaving of her little frame with sobs that
she could not keep back. Mr. Carleton secured the permanence
of their silence for that evening. He dismissed them the room
again, and would have nobody there but himself and his mother.
Instead of being better the next day Fleda was not able to get
up; she was somewhat feverish and exceedingly weak. She lay
like a baby, Mrs. Carleton said, and gave as little trouble.
Gentle and patient always, she made no complaint, and even
uttered no wish, and whatever they did made no objection.
Though many a tear that day and the following paid its
faithful tribute to the memory of what she had lost, no one
knew it; she was never seen to weep; and the very grave
composure of her face, and her passive unconcern as to what
was done or doing around her, alone gave her friends reason to
suspect that the mind was not as quiet as the body. Mr.
Carleton was the only one who saw deeper; the only one that
guessed why the little hand often covered the eyes so
carefully, and read the very, very grave lines of the mouth
that it could not hide.
As soon as she could bear it he had her brought out to the
dressing-room again, and laid on the sofa; and it was several
days before she could be got any further. But there he could
be more with her, and devote himself more to her pleasure; and
it was not long before he had made himself necessary to the
poor child's comfort in a way beyond what he was aware of.
He was not the only one who showed her kindness. Unwearied
care and most affectionate attention were lavished upon her by
his mother and both her friends; they all thought they could
not do enough to mark their feeling and regard for her. Mrs.
Carleton and Mrs. Evelyn nursed her by night and by day. Mrs.
Evelyn read to her. Mrs. Thorn would come often to look and
smile at her and say a few words of heartfelt pity and
sympathy. Yet Fleda could not feel quite at home with any one
of them. They did not see it. Her manner was affectionate and
grateful, to the utmost of their wish; her simple natural
politeness, her nice sense of propriety, were at every call;
she seemed after a few days to be as cheerful and to enter as
much into what was going on about her as they had any reason
to expect she could; and they were satisfied. But while moving
thus smoothly among her new companions, in secret her spirit
stood aloof; there was not one of them that could touch her,
that could understand her, that could meet the want of her
nature. Mrs. Carleton was incapacitated for it by education;
Mrs. Evelyn by character; Mrs. Thorn by natural constitution.
Of them all, though by far the least winning and agreeable in
personal qualifications, Fleda would soonest have relied on
Mrs. Thorn, could soonest have loved her. Her homely sympathy
and kindness made their way to the child's heart; Fleda felt
them and trusted them. But there were too few points of
contact. Fleda thanked her, and did not wish to see her again.
With Mrs. Carleton Fleda had almost nothing at all in common.
And that notwithstanding all this lady's politeness,
intelligence, cultivation, and real kindness towards herself.
Fleda would readily have given her credit for them all; and
yet, the nautilus may as soon compare notes with the
navigator, the canary might as well study Mälzel's metronome,
as a child of nature and a woman of the world comprehend and
suit each other. The nature of the one must change or the two
must remain the world wide apart. Fleda felt it, she did not
know why. Mrs. Carleton was very kind, and perfectly polite;
but Fleda had no pleasure in her kindness, no trust in her
politeness; or if that be saying too much, at least she felt
that for some inexplicable reason both were unsatisfactory.
Even the tact which each possessed in an exquisite degree was
not the same in each; in one it was the self-graduating power
of a clever machine,  in the other, the delicateness of the
sensitive-plant. Mrs. Carleton herself was not without some
sense of this distinction; she confessed, secretly, that there
was something in Fleda out of the reach of her discernment,
and consequently beyond the walk of her skill; and felt,
rather uneasily, that more delicate hands were needed to guide
so delicate a nature. Mrs. Evelyn came nearer the point. She
was very pleasant, and she knew how to do things in a charming
way; and there were times, frequently, when Fleda thought she
was everything lovely. But yet, now and then a mere word, or
look, would contradict this fair promise, a something of
hardness which Fleda could not reconcile with the soft
gentleness of other times; and on the whole Mrs. Evelyn was
unsure ground to her; she could not adventure her confidence
there.
With Mr. Carleton alone Fleda felt at home. He only, she knew,
completely understood and appreciated her. Yet she saw also
that with others he was not the same as with her. Whether
grave or gay there was about him an air of cool indifference,
very often reserved, and not seldom haughty; and the eye which
could melt and glow when turned upon her, was sometimes as
bright and cold as a winter sky. Fleda felt sure, however,
that she might trust him entirely, so far as she herself was
concerned; of the rest she stood in doubt. She was quite right
in both cases. Whatever else there might be in that blue eye,
there was truth in it when it met hers; she gave that truth
her full confidence and was willing to honour every draught
made upon her charity for the other parts of his character.
He never seemed to lose sight of her. He was always doing
something for which Fleda loved him; but so quietly and
happily that she could neither help his taking the trouble,
nor thank him for it. It might have been matter of surprise
that a gay young man of fashion should concern himself like a
brother about the wants of a little child; the young gentlemen
down stairs who were not of the society in the dressing-room,
did make themselves very merry upon the subject, and rallied
Mr. Carleton with the common amount of wit and wisdom about
his little sweetheart; a raillery which met the most flinty
indifference. But none of those who saw Fleda ever thought
strange of anything that was done for her; and Mrs. Carleton
was rejoiced to have her son take up the task she was fain to
lay down. So he really, more than any one else, had the
management of her; and Fleda invariably greeted his entrance
into the room with a faint smile, which even the ladies who
saw agreed was well worth working for.
CHAPTER IX.
"If large possessions, pompous titles, honourable charges, and
profitable commissions, could have made this proud man happy,
there would have been nothing wanting."
L'ESTRANGE.
Several days had passed. Fleda's cheeks had gained no colour,
but she had grown a little stronger, and it was thought the
party might proceed on their way without any more tarrying;
trusting that change and the motion of travelling would do
better things for Fleda than could be hoped from any further
stay at Montepoole. The matter was talked over in an evening
consultation in the dressing-room, and it was decided that
they would set off on the second day thereafter.
Fleda was lying quietly on her sofa, with her eyes closed,
having had nothing to say during the discussion. They thought
she had perhaps not heard it. Mr. Carleton's sharper eyes,
however, saw that one or two tears were glimmering just under
the eyelash. He bent down over her and whispered, 
"I know what you are thinking of Fleda, do I not?"
"I was thinking of aunt Miriam," Fleda said in an answering
whisper, without opening her eyes.
"I will take care of that."
Fleda looked up and smiled most expressively her thanks, and
in five minutes was asleep. Mr. Carleton stood watching her,
querying how long those clear eyes would have nothing to hide,
 how long that bright purity could resist the corrosion of
the world's breath; and half thinking that it would be better
for the spirit to pass away, with its lustre upon it, than
stay till self-interest should sharpen the eye, and the lines
of diplomacy write themselves on that fair brow. "Better so, 
better so."
"What are you thinking of so gloomily, Guy?" said his mother.
"That is a tender little creature to struggle with a rough
world."
"She wont have to struggle with it," said Mrs. Carleton.
"She will do very well," said Mrs. Evelyn.
"I don't think she'd find it a rough world, where you were,
Mr. Carleton," said Mrs. Thorn.
"Thank you, Ma'am," he said, smiling. "But unhappily, my power
reaches very little way."
"Perhaps," said Mrs. Evelyn, with a sly smile, "that might be
arranged differently; Mrs. Rossitur, I have no doubt, would
desire nothing better than a smooth world for her little
niece, and Mr. Carleton's power might be unlimited in its
extent."
There was no answer, and the absolute repose of all the lines
of the young gentleman's face bordered too nearly on contempt
to encourage the lady to pursue her jest any further.
The next day Fleda was well enough to bear moving. Mr.
Carleton had her carefully bundled up, and then carried her
down stairs and placed her in the little light wagon which had
once before brought her to the Pool. Luckily it was a mild
day, for no close carriage was to be had for love or money.
The stage-coach in which Fleda had been fetched from her
grandfather's was in use, away somewhere. Mr. Carleton drove
her down to aunt Miriam's, and leaving her there he went off
again; and whatever he did with himself it was a good two
hours before he came back. All too little yet they were for
the tears and the sympathy which went to so many things both
in the past and in the future. Aunt Miriam had not said half
she wished to say, when the wagon was at the gate again, and
Mr. Carleton came to take his little charge away.
He found her sitting happily in aunt Miriam's lap. Fleda was
very grateful to him for leaving her such a nice long time,
and welcomed him with even a brighter smile than usual. But
her head rested wistfully on her aunt's bosom after that; and
when he asked her if she was almost ready to go, she hid her
face there and put her arms about her neck. The old lady held
her close for a few minutes, in silence.
"Elfleda," said aunt Miriam gravely, and tenderly,  "do you
know what was your mother's prayer for you?"
"Yes,"  she whispered.
"What was it?"
"That I  might be kept "
"Unspotted from the world!" repeated aunt Miriam, in a tone of
tender and deep feeling. "My sweet blossom!  how wilt thou
keep so? Will you remember always your mother's prayer?"
"I will try."
"How will you try, Fleda?"
"I will pray."
Aunt Miriam kissed her again and again, fondly repeating, "The
Lord hear thee!  the Lord bless thee!  the Lord keep thee! 
as a lily among thorns, my precious little babe;  though in
the world, not of it."
"Do you think that is possible?" said Mr. Carleton,
significantly when a few moments after they had risen and were
about to separate. Aunt Miriam looked at him in surprise, and
asked, 
"What, Sir? "
"To live in the world and not be like the world?"
She cast her eyes upon Fleda, fondly smoothing down her soft
hair with both hands for a minute or two before she answered,
"By the help of one thing, Sir, yes!"
"And what is that?" said he, quickly.
"The blessing of God, with whom all things are possible."
His eyes fell, and there was a kind of incredulous sadness in
his half smile which aunt Miriam understood better than he
did. She sighed as she folded Fleda again to her breast, and
whisperingly bade her "Remember!" But Fleda knew nothing of
it; and when she had finally parted from aunt Miriam, and was
seated in the little wagon on her way home, to her fancy the
best friend she had in the world was sitting beside her.
Neither was her judgment wrong, so far as it went. She saw
true where she saw at all. But there was a great deal she
could not see.
Mr. Carleton was an unbeliever. Not maliciously,  not
wilfully,  not stupidly;  rather the fool of circumstance.
His scepticism might be traced to the joint workings of a very
fine nature and a very bad education  that is, education in
the broad sense of the term; of course none of the means and
appliances of mental culture had been wanting to him.
He was an uncommonly fine example of what nature alone can do
for a man. A character of nature's building is at best a very
ragged affair, without religion's finishing hand; at the
utmost a fine ruin  no more. And if that be the utmost of
nature's handiwork, what is at the other end of the scale? 
alas! the rubble stones of the ruin; what of good and fair
nature had reared there was not strong enough to stand alone.
But religion cannot work alike on every foundation; and the
varieties are as many as the individuals. Sometimes she must
build the whole, from the very ground; and there are cases
where nature's work stands so strong and fair that religion's
strength may be expended in perfecting and enriching and
carrying it to an uncommon height of grace and beauty, and
dedicating the fair temple to a new use.
Of religion, Mr. Carleton had nothing at all; and a true
Christian character had never crossed his path near enough for
him to become acquainted with it. His mother was a woman of
the world; his father had been a man of the world; and what is
more, so deepdyed a politician, that to all intents and
purposes, except as to bare natural affection, he was nothing
to his son, and his son was nothing to him. Both mother and
father thought the son a piece of perfection, and mothers and
fathers have very often indeed thought so on less grounds. Mr.
Carleton saw, whenever he took time to look at him, that Guy
had no lack either of quick wit or manly bearing; that he had
pride enough to keep him from low company and make him abhor
low pursuits; if anything more than pride and better than
pride mingled with it, the father's discernment could not
reach so far. He had a love for knowledge too, that from a
child made him eager in seeking it, in ways both regular and
desultory; and tastes which his mother laughingly said would
give him all the elegance of a woman, joined to the strong
manly character which no one ever doubted he possessed. She
looked mostly at the outside, willing, if that pleased her, to
take everything else upon trust; and the grace of manner which
a warm heart and fine sensibilities, and a mind entirely frank
and above-board, had given him, from his earliest years, had
more than met all her wishes. No one suspected the
stubbornness and energy of will which was in fact the back-
bone of his character. Nothing tried it. His father's death
early left little Guy to his mother's guardianship.
Contradicting him was the last thing she thought of, and of
course it was attempted by no one else.
If she would ever have allowed that he had a fault, which she
never would, it was one that grew out of his greatest virtue,
an unmanageable truth of character; and if she ever
unwillingly recognised its companion virtue, firmness of will,
it was when she endeavoured to combat certain troublesome
demonstrations of the other. In spite of all the grace and
charm of manner in which he was allowed to be a model, and
which was as natural to him as it was universal, if ever the
interests of truth came in conflict with the dictates of
society, he flung minor considerations behind his back, and
came out with some startling piece of bluntness at which his
mother was utterly confounded. These occasions were very rare;
he never sought them. Always where it was possible he chose
either to speak or be silent in an unexceptionable manner. But
sometimes the barrier of conventionalities, or his mother's
unwise policy, pressed too hard upon his integrity or his
indignation; and he would then free the barrier and present
the shut-out truth in its full size and proportions before his
mother's shocked eyes. It was in vain to try to coax or blind
him; a marble statue is not more unruffled by the soft airs of
summer; and Mrs. Carleton was fain to console herself with the
reflection that Guy's very next act after one of these breaks
would be one of such happy fascination that the former would
be forgotten; and that in this world of discordances it was
impossible, on the whole, for any one to come nearer
