influences will deny. That there may be very sincere Christians under
this system of religion, with all its false principles and all its
disadvantageous influences, liberality must concede. The Church of Rome
has had its Fenelon, its Thomas â Kempis; and the Southern Church, which
has adopted these principles, has had men who have risen above the level
of their system. At the time of the Reformation, and now, the Church of
Rome had in its bosom thousands of praying, devoted, humble Christians,
which, like flowers in the clefts of rocks, could be counted by no eye,
save God’s alone. And so, amid the rifts and glaciers of this horrible
spiritual and temporal despotism, we hope are blooming flowers of
Paradise, patient, prayerful, and self-denying Christians; and it is the
deepest grief, in attacking the dreadful system under which they have
been born and brought up, that violence must be done to their cherished
feelings and associations. In another and better world, perhaps, they
may appreciate the motives of those who do this.

But now another consideration comes to the mind. These Southern
Christians have been united in ecclesiastical relations with Christians
of the northern and free states, meeting with them, by their
representatives, yearly, in their various ecclesiastical assemblies. One
might hope, in case of such a union, that those debasing views of
Christianity, and that deadness of public sentiment, which were the
inevitable result of an education under the slave system, might have
been qualified by intercourse with Christians in free states, who,
having grown up under free institutions, would naturally be supposed to
feel the utmost abhorrence of such sentiments. One would have supposed
that the church and clergy of the free states would naturally have used
the most strenuous endeavors, by all the means in their power, to
convince their brethren of errors so dishonorable to Christianity, and
tending to such dreadful practical results. One would have supposed
also, that, failing to convince their brethren, they would have felt it
due to Christianity to clear themselves from all complicity with these
sentiments, by the most solemn, earnest and reiterated protests.

Let us now inquire what has, in fact, been the course of the Northern
church on this subject.

Previous to making this inquiry, let us review the declarations that
have been made in the Southern church, and see what principles have been
established by them.

1. That slavery is an innocent and lawful relation, as much as that of
parent and child, husband and wife, or any other lawful relation of
society. (Harmony Pres., S. C.)

2. That it is consistent with the most fraternal regard for the good of
the slave. (Charleston Union Pres., S. C.)

3. That masters ought not to be disciplined for selling slaves without
their consent. (New-school Pres. Church, Petersburg, Va.)

4. That the right to buy, sell, and hold men for purposes of gain, was
given by express permission of God. (James Smylie and his Presbyteries.)

5. That the laws which forbid the education of the slave are right, and
meet the approbation of the reflecting part of the Christian community.
(Ibid.)

6. That the fact of slavery is not a question of morals at all, but is
purely one of political economy. (Charleston Baptist Association.)

7. The right of masters to dispose of the time of their slaves has been
distinctly recognized by the Creator of all things. (Ibid.)

8. That slavery, as it exists in these United States, is not a moral
evil. (Georgia Conference, Methodist.)

9. That, without a new revelation from heaven, no man is entitled to
pronounce slavery wrong.

10. That the separation of slaves by sale should be regarded as
separation by death, and the parties allowed to marry again. (Shiloh
Baptist Ass., and Savannah River Ass.)

11. That the testimony of colored members of the churches shall not be
taken against a white person. (Methodist Church.)

In addition, it has been plainly avowed, by the expressed principles and
practice of Christians of various denominations, that they regard it
right and proper to put down all inquiry upon this subject by Lynch law.

One would have imagined that these principles were sufficiently
extraordinary, as coming from the professors of the religion of Christ,
to have excited a good deal of attention in their Northern brethren. It
also must be seen that, as principles, they are principles of very
extensive application, underlying the whole foundations of religion and
morality. If not true, they were certainly heresies of no ordinary
magnitude, involving no ordinary results. Let us now return to our
inquiry as to the course of the Northern church in relation to them.

-----

Footnote 24:

  Birney’s pamphlet




                              CHAPTER II.


In the first place, have any of these opinions ever been treated in the
church as heresies, and the teachers of them been subjected to the
censures with which it is thought proper to visit heresy?

After a somewhat extended examination upon the subject, the writer has
been able to discover but one instance of this sort. It may be possible
that such cases have existed in other denominations, which have escaped
inquiry.

A clergyman in the Cincinnati N. S. Presbytery maintained the doctrine
that slaveholding was justified by the Bible, and for persistence in
teaching this sentiment was suspended by that presbytery. He appealed to
Synod, and the decision was confirmed by the Cincinnati Synod. The New
School General Assembly, however, reversed this decision of the
presbytery, and restored the standing of the clergyman. The presbytery,
on its part, refused to receive him back, and he was received into the
Old School Church.

The Presbyterian Church has probably exceeded all other churches of the
United States in its zeal for doctrinal opinions. This church has been
shaken and agitated to its very foundation with questions of heresy;
but, except in this individual case, it is not known that any of these
principles which have been asserted by Southern Presbyterian bodies and
individuals have ever been discussed in its General Assembly as matters
of heresy.

About the time that Smylie’s pamphlet came out, the Presbyterian Church
was convulsed with the trial of the Rev. Albert Barnes for certain
alleged heresies. These heresies related to the federal headship of
Adam, the propriety of imputing his sin to all his posterity, and the
question whether men have any ability of any kind to obey the
commandments of God.

For advancing certain sentiments on these topics, Mr. Barnes was
silenced by the vote of the synod to which he belonged, and his trial in
the General Assembly on these points was the all-engrossing topic in the
Presbyterian Church for some time. The Rev. Dr. L. Beecher went through
a trial with reference to similar opinions. During all this time, no
notice was taken of the heresy, if such it be, that the right to buy,
sell, and hold men for purposes of gain, was expressly given by God;
although that heresy was publicly promulgated in the same Presbyterian
Church, by Mr. Smylie, and the presbyteries with which he was connected.

If it be accounted for by saying that the question of slavery is a
question of practical morals, and not of dogmatic theology, we are
then reminded that questions of morals of far less magnitude have been
discussed with absorbing interest.

The Old School Presbyterian Church, in whose communion the greater part
of the slave-holding Presbyterians of the South are found, has never
felt called upon to discipline its members for upholding a system which
denies legal marriage to all slaves. Yet this church was agitated to its
very foundation by the discussion of a question of morals which an
impartial observer would probably consider of far less magnitude,
namely, whether a man might lawfully marry his deceased wife’s sister.
For the time, all the strength and attention of the church seemed
concentrated upon this important subject. The trial went from Presbytery
to Synod, and from Synod to General Assembly; and ended with deposing a
very respectable minister for this crime.

Rev. Robert P. Breckenridge, D.D., a member of the Old School Assembly,
has thus described the state of the slave population as to their
marriage relations: “The system of slavery denies to a whole class of
human beings the sacredness of marriage and of home, compelling them to
live in a state of concubinage; for in the eye of the law no colored
slave-man is the husband of any wife in particular, nor any slave-woman
the wife of any husband in particular; no slave-man is the father of any
children in particular, and no slave-child is the child of any parent in
particular.”

Now, had this church considered the fact that three million men and
women were, by the laws of the land, obliged to live in this manner, as
of equally serious consequence, it is evident, from the ingenuity,
argument, vehemence, Biblical research, and untiring zeal, which they
bestowed on Mr. McQueen’s trial, that they could have made a very strong
case with regard to this also.

The history of the united action of denominations which included
churches both in the slave and free states is a melancholy
exemplification, to a reflecting mind, of that gradual deterioration of
the moral sense which results from admitting any compromise, however
slight, with an acknowledged sin. The best minds in the world cannot
bear such a familiarity without injury to the moral sense. The facts of
the slave system and of the slave laws, when presented to disinterested
judges in Europe, have excited a universal outburst of horror; yet, in
assemblies composed of the wisest and best clergymen of America, these
things have been discussed from year to year, and yet brought no results
that have, in the slightest degree, lessened the evil. The reason is
this. A portion of the members of these bodies had pledged themselves to
sustain the system, and peremptorily to refuse and put down all
discussion of it; and the other part of the body did not consider this
stand so taken as being of sufficiently vital consequence to authorize
separation.

Nobody will doubt that, had the Southern members taken such a stand
against the divinity of our Lord, the division would have been immediate
and unanimous; but yet the Southern members do maintain the right to buy
and sell, lease, hire and mortgage, multitudes of men and women, whom,
with the same breath, they declared to be members of their churches and
true Christians. The Bible declares of all such that they are temples of
the Holy Ghost; that they are members of Christ’s body, of his flesh and
bones. Is not the doctrine that men may lawfully sell the members of
Christ, his body, his flesh and bones, for purposes of gain, as really a
heresy as the denial of the divinity of Christ; and is it not a dishonor
to Him who is over all, God blessed forever, to tolerate this dreadful
opinion, with its more dreadful consequences, while the smallest
heresies concerning the imputation of Adam’s sin are pursued with eager
vehemence? If the history of the action of all the bodies thus united
can be traced downwards, we shall find that, by reason of this tolerance
of an admitted sin, the anti-slavery testimony has every year grown
weaker and weaker. If we look over the history of all denominations, we
shall see that at first they used very stringent language with relation
to slavery. This is particularly the case with the Methodist and
Presbyterian bodies, and for that reason we select these two as
examples. The Methodist Society especially, as organized by John Wesley,
was an anti-slavery society, and the Book of Discipline contained the
most positive statutes against slave-holding. The history of the
successive resolutions of the conference of this church is very
striking. In 1780, before the church was regularly organized in the
United States, they resolved as follows:

  The conference acknowledges that slavery is contrary to the laws of
  God, man and nature, and hurtful to society; contrary to the
  dictates of conscience and true religion; and doing what we would
  not others should do unto us.

In 1784, when the church was fully organized, rules were adopted
prescribing the times at which members who were already slave-holders
should emancipate their slaves. These rules were succeeded by the
following:

  Every person concerned, who will not comply with these rules, shall
  have liberty quietly to withdraw from our society within the twelve
  months following the notice being given him, as aforesaid; otherwise
  the assistants shall exclude him from the society.

  No person holding slaves shall in future be admitted into society,
  or to the Lord’s Supper, till he previously comply with these rules
  concerning slavery.

  Those who buy, sell, or give [slaves] away, unless on purpose to
  free them, shall be expelled immediately.

In 1801:

  We declare that we are more than ever convinced of the great evil of
  African slavery, which still exists in these United States.

  Every member of the society who sells a slave shall, immediately
  after full proof, be excluded from the society, &c.

  The Annual Conferences are directed to draw up addresses, for the
  gradual emancipation of the slaves, to the legislature. Proper
  committees shall be appointed by the Annual Conferences, out of the
  most respectable of our friends, for the conducting of the business;
  and the presiding elders, deacons, and travelling preachers, shall
  procure as many proper signatures as possible to the addresses; and
  give all the assistance in their power, in every respect, to aid the
  committees, and to further the blessed undertaking. Let this be
  continued from year to year, till the desired end be accomplished.

In 1836 let us notice the change. The General Conference held its annual
session in Cincinnati, and resolved as follows:

  Resolved, By the delegates of the Annual Conferences in General
  Conference assembled, That they are decidedly opposed to modern
  abolitionism, and wholly disclaim any right, wish, or intention,
  to interfere in the civil and political relation between master and
  slave, as it exists in the slave-holding states of this Union.

These resolutions were passed by a very large majority. An address was
received from the Wesleyan Methodist Conference in England,
affectionately remonstrating on the subject of slavery. The Conference
refused to publish it. In the pastoral address to the churches are these
passages:

  It cannot be unknown to you that the question of slavery in the
  United States, by the constitutional compact which binds us together
  as a nation, is left to be regulated by the several state
  legislatures themselves; and thereby is put beyond the control of
  the general government, as well as that of all ecclesiastical
  bodies; it being manifest that in the slave-holding states
  themselves the entire responsibility of its existence, or
  non-existence, rests with those state legislatures. * * * * These
  facts, which are only mentioned here as a reason for the friendly
  admonition which we wish to give you, constrain us, as your pastors,
  who are called to watch over your souls as they must give account,
  to exhort you to abstain from all abolition movements and
  associations, and to refrain from patronizing any of their
  publications, &c. * *

The subordinate conferences showed the same spirit.

In 1836 the New York Annual Conference resolved that no one should be
elected a deacon or elder in the church, unless he would give a pledge
to the church that he would refrain from discussing this subject.[25]

In 1838 the conference resolved:

  As the sense of this conference, that any of its members, or
  probationers, who shall patronize Zion’s Watchman, either by
  writing in commendation of its character, by circulating it,
  recommending it to our people, or procuring subscribers, or by
  collecting or remitting moneys, shall be deemed guilty of
  indiscretion, and dealt with accordingly.

It will be recollected that Zion’s Watchman was edited by Le Roy
Sunderland, for whose abduction the State of Alabama had offered fifty
thousand dollars.

In 1840, the General Conference at Baltimore passed the resolution that
we have already quoted, forbidding preachers to allow colored persons to
give testimony in their churches. It has been computed that about eighty
thousand people were deprived of the right of testimony by this act.
This Methodist Church subsequently broke into a Northern and Southern
Conference. The Southern Conference is avowedly all pro-slavery, and the
Northern Conference has still in its communion slave-holding conferences
and members.

Of the Northern conferences, one of the largest, the Baltimore, passed
the following:

  Resolved, That this conference disclaims having any fellowship
  with abolitionism. On the contrary, while it is determined to
  maintain its well-known and long-established position, by keeping
  the travelling preachers composing its own body free from slavery,
  it is also determined not to hold connection with any ecclesiastical
  body that shall make non-slaveholding a condition of membership in
  the church; but to stand by and maintain the discipline as it is.

The following extract is made from an address of the Philadelphia Annual
Conference to the societies under its care, dated Wilmington Del., April
7, 1847:

  If the plan of separation gives us the pastoral care of you, it
  remains to inquire whether we have done anything, as a conference,
  or as men, to forfeit your confidence and affection. We are not
  advised that even in the great excitement which has distressed you
  for some months past, any one has impeached our moral conduct, or
  charged us with unsoundness in doctrine, or corruption or tyranny in
  the administration of discipline. But we learn that the simple cause
  of the unhappy excitement among you is, that some suspect us, or
  affect to suspect us, of being abolitionists. Yet no particular act
  of the conference, or any particular member thereof, is adduced, as
  the ground of the erroneous and injurious suspicion. We would ask
  you, brethren, whether the conduct of our ministry among you for
  sixty years past ought not to be sufficient to protect us from this
  charge. Whether the question we have been accustomed, for a few
  years past, to put to candidates for admission among us, namely,
  Are you an abolitionist? and, without each one answered in the
  negative, he was not received, ought not to protect us from the
  charge. Whether the action of the last conference on this particular
  matter ought not to satisfy any fair and candid mind that we are
  not, and do not desire to be, abolitionists. * * * We cannot see how
  we can be regarded as abolitionists, without the ministers of the
  Methodist Episcopal Church South being considered in the same light.

                  *       *       *       *       *

  Wishing you all heavenly benedictions, we are, dear brethren, yours,
  in Christ Jesus,

                        J. P. DURBIN,    }
                        J. KENNADAY,     }
                     IGNATIUS T. COOPER, } Comm.
                     WILLIAM H. GILDER,  }
                       JOSEPH CASTLE,    }

These facts sufficiently define the position of the Methodist Church.
The history is melancholy, but instructive. The history of the
Presbyterian Church is also of interest.

In 1793, the following note to the eighth commandment was inserted in
the Book of Discipline, as expressing the doctrine of the church upon
slave-holding:

  1 Tim. 1:10. The law is made for MAN-STEALERS. This crime among the
  Jews exposed the perpetrators of it to capital punishment, Exodus
  21:15; and the apostle here classes them with sinners of the first
  rank. The word he uses, in its original import, comprehends all who
  are concerned in bringing any of the human race into slavery, or in
  retaining them in it. Hominum fures, qui servos vel liberos
  abducunt, retinent, vendunt, vel emunt. Stealers of men are all
  those who bring off slaves or freemen, and KEEP, SELL, or BUY THEM.
  To steal a free man, says Grotius, is the highest kind of theft. In
  other instances, we only steal human property; but when we steal or
  retain men in slavery, we seize those who, in common with ourselves,
  are constituted by the original grant lords of the earth.

No rules of church discipline were enforced, and members whom this
passage declared guilty of this crime remained undisturbed in its
communion, as ministers and elders. This inconsistency was obviated in
1816 by expunging the passage from the Book of Discipline. In 1818 it
adopted an expression of its views on slavery. This document is a long
one, conceived and written in a very Christian spirit. The Assembly’s
Digest says, p. 341, that it was unanimously adopted. The following is
its testimony as to the nature of slavery:

  We consider the voluntary enslaving of one part of the human race by
  another as a gross violation of the most precious and sacred rights
  of human nature: as utterly inconsistent with the law of God, which
  requires us to love our neighbor as ourselves; and as totally
  irreconcilable with the spirit and principles of the gospel of
  Christ, which enjoin that “all things whatsoever ye would that men
  should do to you, do ye even so to them.” Slavery creates a paradox
  in the moral system—it exhibits rational, accountable, and immortal
  beings in such circumstances as scarcely to leave them the power of
  moral action. It exhibits them as dependent on the will of others,
  whether they shall receive religious instruction; whether they shall
  know and worship the true God; whether they shall enjoy the
  ordinances of the gospel; whether they shall perform the duties and
  cherish the endearments of husbands and wives, parents and children,
  neighbors and friends; whether they shall preserve their chastity
  and purity, or regard the dictates of justice and humanity. Such are
  some of the consequences of slavery,—consequences not imaginary, but
  which connect themselves with its very existence. The evils to which
  the slave is always exposed often take place in fact, and in their
  very worst degree and form: and where all of them do not take
  place,—as we rejoice to say that in many instances, through the
  influence of the principles of humanity and religion on the minds of
  masters, they do not,—still the slave is deprived of his natural
  right, degraded as a human being, and exposed to the danger of
  passing into the hands of a master who may inflict upon him all the
  hardships and injuries which inhumanity and avarice may suggest.

This language was surely decided, and it was unanimously adopted by
slave-holders and non-slaveholders. Certainly one might think the time
of redemption was drawing nigh. The declaration goes on to say:

  It is manifestly the duty of all Christians who enjoy the light of
  the present day, when the inconsistency of slavery both with the
  dictates of humanity and religion has been demonstrated and is
  generally seen and acknowledged, to use honest, earnest, unwearied
  endeavors to correct the errors of former times, and as speedily as
  possible to efface this blot on our holy religion, and to OBTAIN THE
  COMPLETE ABOLITION of slavery throughout Christendom and throughout
  the world.

Here we have the Presbyterian Church, slave-holding and
non-slaveholding, virtually formed into one great abolition society,
as we have seen the Methodist was.

The assembly then goes on to state that the slaves are not at present
prepared to be free,—that they tenderly sympathize with the portion of
the church and country that has had this evil entailed upon them, where
as they say “a great and the most virtuous part of the community ABHOR
SLAVERY and wish ITS EXTERMINATION.” But they exhort them to commence
immediately the work of instructing slaves, with a view to preparing
them for freedom; and to let no greater delay take place than “a regard
to public welfare indispensably demands.” “To be governed by no other
considerations than an honest and impartial regard to the happiness of
the injured party, uninfluenced by the expense and inconvenience which
such regard may involve.” It warns against “unduly extending this plea
of necessity,” against making it a cover for the love and practice of
slavery. It ends by recommending that any one who shall sell a
fellow-Christian without his consent be immediately disciplined and
suspended.

If we consider that this was unanimously adopted by slave-holders and
all, and grant, as we certainly do, that it was adopted in all honesty
and good faith, we shall surely expect something from it. We should
expect forthwith the organizing of a set of common schools for the
slave-children; for an efficient religious ministration; for an entire
discontinuance of trading in Christian slaves; for laws which make the
family relations sacred. Was any such thing done or attempted? Alas! Two
years after this came the ADMISSION OF MISSOURI, and the increase of
demand in the southern slave-market and the internal slave-trade.
Instead of schoolteachers, they had slave-traders; instead of gathering
schools, they gathered slave-coffles; instead of building
school-houses, they built slave-pens and slave-prisons, jails,
barracoons, factories, or whatever the trade pleases to term them; and
so went the plan of gradual emancipation.

In 1834, sixteen years after, a committee of the Synod of Kentucky, in
which state slavery is generally said to exist in its mildest form,
appointed to make a report on the condition of the slaves, gave the
following picture of their condition. First, as to their spiritual
condition, they say:

  After making all reasonable allowances, our colored population can
  be considered, at the most, but semi-heathen. As to their temporal
  estate—Brutal stripes, and all the various kinds of personal
  indignities, are not the only species of cruelty which slavery
  licenses. The law does not recognize the family relations of the
  slave, and extends to him no protection in the enjoyment of domestic
  endearments. The members of a slave-family may be forcibly
  separated, so that they shall never more meet until the final
  judgment. And cupidity often induces the masters to practise what
  the law allows. Brothers and sisters, parents and children, husbands
  and wives, are torn asunder, and permitted to see each other no
  more. These acts are daily occurring in the midst of us. The
  shrieks and the agony often witnessed on such occasions proclaim
  with a trumpet-tongue the iniquity and cruelty of our system. The
  cries of these sufferers go up to the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth.
  There is not a neighborhood where these heart-rending scenes are
  not displayed. There is not a village or road that does not behold
  the sad procession of manacled outcasts, whose chains and mournful
  countenances tell that they are exiled by force from all that their
