guide told this story ! 

Near by are the relics of the cell of a companion of Bonnevard, who made an ineffectual attempt to liberate him. On 
the wall are still seen sketches of saints and inscriptions by 
his hand. This man one day overcame his jailer, locked him 
in his cell, ran into the hall above, and threw himself from a 
window into the lake, struck a rock, and was killed instantly. 
One of the pillars in this vault is covered with names. I think 
it is Bonnevard's pillar. There are the names of Byron, 
Hunt, Schiller, and many other celebrities. 

After we left the dungeons we went up into the judgment 
hall, where prisoners were tried, and then into the torture 
chamber. Here are the pulleys by which limbs were broken ; 
the beam, all scorched with the irons by which feet were 
burned ; the oven where the irons were heated ; and there 
was the stone where they were sometimes laid to be strangled, 
after the torture. On that stone, our guide told us, two thou- 







Band Jews, men, women, and children, had been pulled to death.
There was also, high up, a strong beam across, where crim- 
inals were hung ; and a door, now walled up, by which they 
we,re thrown into the lake. I shivered. K 'Twas cruel," she 
said ; M 'twas almost as cruel as your slavery in America." 

Then she took us into a tower where was the oubliette. 
Here the unfortunate prisoner was made to kneel before an 
image of the Virgin, while the treacherous floor, tailing beneath 
him, precipitated him into a well forty feet deep, where he 
waa left to (lie of broken limbs and starvation. Below this 
Well was still another pi;, filled with knives, into which, when 

they were disposed to a merciful hastening of the torture, they 

let him fill. The woman has been herself to the bottom of 
the first dungeon, and found there bones of victims. The 
second pit is now walled op* 

"All this," she said, u was done for the glory of God in the 
good old times." 

The glory of God ! What has not been done in that name! 
Yet he keeps silence ; patient he watches ; the age-long fever 
of this world, the delirious night, shall have a morning. Ah, 
there is an unsounded depth in that word which says, " He 
is long-sutferiug." This it must be at which angels veil their 
faces. 

On leaving the castle we offered the woman the customary 
gratuity. * No ; " she would "have the pleasure of showing 
it to me as a friend." And she ran into a charming little 
garden, full of tlowors, and brought me a bouquet of lilies 
and roses, which I have had in my room all day. 

To-night, after sunset, we rowed to Byron's "little isle," 
the only one in the lake. O, the unutterable beauty of 
these mountains — great, purple waves, as if they had been 





dashed up bj a mighty tempest^ crested with snow-like foam! 
this purple sky, and crescent moon, and tin: lake gleaming 
and shimmering, and twinkling Btars, while .fur oil' up the sides 
of a BnOW-topped mountain u light shines like a star — BOme 
mountaineer's candle, I suppose. 

In the dark stillness we rowed again over to Chillon, and 
paused under its walls. The frogs were croaking in the moat, 
and we lay rocking on the wave, and watching the dusky out- 
lines of the towers and turrets. Then the spirit of the scene 
seemed to wrap me round like a cloak. 

Back to Geneva again. This lovely place will ever leave 
its image on my heart. Mountains embrace it. Strength and 
beauty are its habitation. The Salcve is a peculiar looking 

mountain, striped with different strata of rock, which have a 
singular effect in the hazy distance ; so is the Mole, with its 
dark marked outline, looking blacker in clear weather, from 
being set against the snow mountains beyond. 

There is one peculiarity about the outline of Mont Blanc, 
as seen from Geneva, which is quite striking. There is in 
certain positions the prolile of a gigantic head visible, lying 
with face upturned to the sky. Mrs. F. was the first to point 
it out to me, calling it a bead of Napoleon. like many of 
these fanciful profiles, I was some time in learning to see it ; 
and after thai, it became to me so plain that I wondered I had 
not seen it before. I called it not Napoleon, however, but as 
it gained on my imagination, lying there so motionless, cold, 
and still, I thought of Prometheus on Mount Caucasus ; it 
seemed as if, his sorrows ended, he had sunk at last to a 
dreamless sleep on that snowy summit. This sketch may, 
perhaps, give you some faint idea of how such an outline 
might be formed in one's imagination. 




We walked out the other evening, with M. Fazy, to a beautiful place, where Servetus was burned. Soft, new-mown 
meadow grass carpets it, and a solemn amphitheatre of mountains, glowing in the evening sky, looked down — Mont Blanc, 
the blue-black Mole, the Saleve ! Never was deed done in a 
more august presence chamber ! Ere this these two may have 
conferred together of the tragedy, with far other thoughts 
than then. 

The world is always unjust to its progressive men. If one 
fragment of past absurdity cleaves to them, they celebrate the 
absurdity as a personal peculiarity. Hence we hear so much 
of Luther's controversial harshness, of Calvin's burning Ser- 
vetus, and of the witch persecutions of New England. 

Luther was the poet of the reformation, and Calvin its 
philosopher. Luther fused the mass, Calvin crystallized. He 







who fuses makes the most sensation in his day ; he who crys- 
tallizes has a longer and wider power. Calvinism, in its 
essential features, never will cease from the earth, because the 
great fundamental facts of nature are Calvinistic, and men 
with strong minds and wills always discover it. The predestination of a sovereign will is written over all things. The 
old Greek tragedians - read it, and expressed it. So did 
Mahomet, Napoleon, Cromwell. -"VMiy ? They found it so 
by their own experience ; they tried the forces of nature 
enough to find their strength. The strong swimmer who 
breasts the Rhone is certain of its current. But Ranke well 
said, that in those days when the whole earth was in arms 
against these reformers, they had no refuge except in exalting 
God's sovereignty above all other causes. To him who strives 
in vain with the giant forces of evil, what calm in the thought 
of an overpowering will, so that will be crowned by goodness ! 
However grim, to the distrusting, looks this fortress of sov- 
ereignty in times of flowery ease, yet in times when "the 
waters roar and are troubled, and the mountains shake with 
the swelling thereof," it has been always the refuge of God's 
people. All this I say, while I fully sympathize with the 
causes which incline many fine and beautiful minds against 
the system. 

The wife of De "Wette has twice called upon me — a good, 
plain, motherly, pious old lady as any in Andover. She 
wanted me to visit her daughter, who, being recently deprived 
of her only little girl, has since been wholly lost to life. The 
only thing in which she expressed any interest was Uncle 
Tom's Cabin, and she was earnestly desiring to see me. So I 
went. I found Mrs. De Wette in a charming saloon, looking 
out upon the botanic gardens. A very beautiful picture of a 
 



 

young lady hung on the wall. " That was my poor Clara," 
said Mrs. De "Wette, " but she is so altered now ! " 

After a while Clara came in, and I was charmed at a glance 
— a most lovely creature, in deep mourning, with beautiful 
manners ; so much interested for the poor slaves ! so full of 
feeling, inquiring so anxiously what she could do for them ! 

" Do ministers ever hold slaves ? " she said. 

" O, yes ; many." 

" O ! But how can they be Christians ? " 

" They reason in this way," said I ; " they say, ' These peo- 
ple are not fit to take care of themselves ; therefore we must 
hold them, and educate them, till they are fit to be free.' " 

" I wish," said she, looking very pretty and fierce, " that 
they might all be sold themselves, and see how they would 
like it." 

Her husband, who speaks only French, now asked what we 
were talking about, and she repeated the conversation. 

" I would shoot every one of them," said he, with a signifi- 
cant movement. 

" Now, see," said Mrs. De "Wette, " Clara would sell them, 
and her husband would shoot them ; for my part, I would 
rather convert them." We all laughed at this sally. 

" Ah," said Clara, " the last thing my little darling looked 
at was the pictures in Uncle Tom ; when she came to the 
death of Eva, she said, ' Now I am weary, I will go to 
sleep ; ' and so closed her eyes, and never opened them 
more." 

Clara said she had met the Key in Turin and Milan. The 
Cabin is made a school reading book in Sardinia, for those 
who wish to learn English, witli explanatory notes in Italian. 
The feeling here on the continent for the slave is no less 




earnest than in England and Scotland. I have received most 
beautiful and feeling letters from many Christians of Switzer- 
land, which I will show you. 

I am grieved to say, that there are American propagandists 
of slavery here, who seem to feel it incumbent on them to 
recognize this hideous excrescence as a national peculiarity, 
and to consider any reflection upon it, on the part of the liberty-loving Swiss, as an insult to the American nation. The 
sophisms by which slaveholding has been justified from the 
Bible have left their slimy track even here. Alas ! is it 
thus America fulfils her high destiny ? Must she send missionaries abroad to preach despotism ? 

"Walking the other evening with M. Fazy, who is, of course, 
French in education, we talked of our English literature. He 
had Hamlet in French — just think of it. One never feels 
the national difference so much as in thinking of Shakspeare 
in French ! Madame de Stael says of translation, that music 
written for one instrument cannot be played upon another. I 
asked if he had read Milton. 

"Yes." 

" And how did you like him ? " 

" O," with a kind of shiver, " he is so cold ! " 

Now, I felt that the delicate probe of the French mind had 
dissected out a shade of feeling of which I had often been 
conscious. There is a coldness about all the luscious exuberance of Milton, like the wind that blows from the glaciers 
across these flowery valleys. How serene his angels in their 
adamantine virtue ! yet what sinning, suffering soul could find 
sympathy in them ? The utter want of sympathy for the 
fallen angels, in the whole celestial circle, is shocking. Satan 
is the only one who weeps 



 

" For millions of spirits for his fault amerced, 
And from eternal splendors flung." 

God does not care, nor his angels. Ah, quite otherwise is 
God revealed in Him who wept over Jerusalem, and is touched 
with the feeling of our infirmities. 

I went with Mrs. Fazy the other night to call on Mrs. Cs 
friend, Pastor C. They were so affectionate, so full of beautiful kindness ! The French language sounds sweetly as a 
language of affection and sympathy : With all its tart vivacity, 
it has a richness in the gentler world of feeling. Then, in the 
evening, I was with a little circle of friends at the house of the 
sister of Merle d'Aubigne, and they prayed and sang together. 
It was beautiful. The hymn was one on the following of 
Jesus, similar to that German one of old Godfrey Arnold, 
which is your favorite. These Christians speak with deep 
sorrow of our slavery ; it grieves, it distresses them, for the 
American church has been to them a beloved object. They 
have leaned towards it as a vine inclines towards a vigorous 
elm. To them it looks incomprehensible that such a thing 
could gain strength in a free Christian republic. 

I feel really sorry that I have had to withdraw so much 
from proffered kindness here, and to seem unwilling to meet 
feeling ; but so it has been. Yet, to me, apparently so cold, 
many of these kind Genevese have shown most considerate 
attention. Fruit and flowers have been sent in anonymously; 
and one gentleman offered to place his garden at my disposal 
lor walks, adding that, if I wished to be entirely private, neither lie nor his family would walk there. This, I thought, 
was too much kindness. 

One social custom here, is new to me. The husband, by 
marriage, takes the wife's name. Thus M. Fazy, our host, 







is known as M. Fazy Meyer — Meyer being his wife's name 
— a thing which at first perplexed me. I was often much 
puzzled about names, owing to this circumstance. 

From the conversation I hear I should think that democracy was not entirely absolute in Switzerland. I hear much 
about patrician families, particularly at Berne, and these are 
said to be quite exclusive; yet that the old Swiss fire still 
burns in Switzerland, I see many indications. 

The other day I visited Beautte's celebrated watch and 
jewelry store, and saw all the process of making watches, 
from the time the case is cut from a sheet of gold, on through 
the enamelling, engraving, and linishing. Enamel is metal- 
lic paint, burned on in a furnace. Many women are em- 
ployed in painting the designs. The workmen looked in- 
telligent and thoughtful, like men who can both think and do. 
Some glimpses showed their sympathy with republicanism — 
as one should see fire through a closed door. 

I have had full reason io observe that difference between 
Protestant and Catholic cantons on which Horace Greeley 
commented while here. They are as different as our slave 
and free states, and in the same ways. Geneva seems like 
Kew England — the country around is well cultivated, and 
speaks of thrift. But, still, I find no land, however beautiful, 
that can compare with home — Andover Hill, with its arched 
elms, its blue distance pointing with spires, its Merrimac 
crowned with labor palaces, and, above all, an old stone 
house, brown and queer, &c. Good by. 


Thursday, July 14. Spent a social evening at Mrs. La 
V.'s, on the lake shore. Mont Blanc invisible. We met M. 
Merle d'Aubigne, brother of our hostess, and a few other 
friends. Returned home, and listened to a serenade to H. 
from a glee club of fifty performers, of the working men of 
Geneva. The songs were mostly in French, and the burden 
of one of them seemed to be in words like these : — 

" Travaillons, travaillez, 
Pour la liber to ! " 

Friday, July 15. Mrs. C. and her two daughters are here 
from Paris. They intend to come to Madame Fazy till we 
leave. 

Saturday, July 16. Our whole company resorted to the 
lake, and spent the forenoon on its tranquil waters. If this 
life seem idle, we remember that there must be valleys be- 
tween mountains ; and as, in those vales, tired mountaineers 
love to rest, so we, by the silver shore of summer Leman, 
while away the quiet hours, in this interval, between great 
mountain epochs Chamouni and Oberland. 

Monday, July 18. Weather suspicious. Stowed ourselves 
and our baggage into our voiture, and bade adieu to our 
friends and to Geneva. Ah, how regretfully! From the 
market-place we carried away a basket of cherries and fruit, 
as a consolation. Dined at Lausanne, and visited the cathedral and picture gallery, where was an exquisite Eva. Slept 
at Mcudon. 

Tuesday, July 19. Rode through Payerne to Freyburg. 
Stopped at the Zahringer Hof — most romantic of inns. Our 
gentlemanly host ushered us forth upon a'terrace overhanging 
the deep gorge of the Saarine, spanned, to the right and left 
of us, by two immense suspension bridges, one of which 
seemed to spring from the hotel itself. Ruins of ancient 
walls and watch towers lined the precipice. 

After dinner we visited the cathedral to hear the celebrated organ. The organist performed a piece descriptive 
of a storm. We resigned ourselves to the illusion. Low, 
mysterious wailings, swelling, dying away in the distance, 
seeming* at first exceedingly remote, drew gradually near. 
Fitful sighings and sobbings rose, as of gusts of wind ; then 
low, smothered roarings. Anon came flashes of lightning, 
rattling hail, and driving rain, succeeded by bursts of storm, 
and howlings of a hurricane — fierce, furious, frightful. I 
felt myself lost in a snow storm in winter, on the pass of 
Great St. Bernard. 

One note there was of strange, terrible clangor — bleak, 
dark, yet of a lurid fire — that seemed to prolong itself through 
all the uproar, like a note of doom, cutting its way to the 
heart as the call of the last archangel. Yes, I felt myself 
alone, lost in a boundless desert, beyond the abodes of man ; 
and this was a call of terror — stern, savage, gloomy — the 
call as of fixed fate and absolute despair. 

Then the storm died away, in faint and far-off murmurs ; 
and we broke, as it were, from the trance, to find ourselves, 
not lost, but here among the living. We then drove quietly 
to Berne. 







Wednesday, July 20. Examined, not the lions, but the 
bears of Berne. It is indeed a city of bears, as its name 
imports. There are bears on its gates, bears on its fountains, bears in its parks and gardens, bears every where. 
But, though Berne rejoices in a fountain adorned with an 
image of Saturn eating children, nevertheless, the old city 
— quaint, quiet, and queer — looks as if, bear-like, it had 
been hybernating good-naturedly for a century, and were just 
about to wake up. 

Engaged a voiture, and drove to Thun. Dined, and drove 
by the shore of the lake to Interlachen, arriving just after a 
brilliant sunset. 

Thursday, July 21. S. and G. remained at the Belvedere. 
W., H., and I took a guide and voiture for Lauterbrunn. 
Here we visited Byron's apocalyptic horse-tail waterfall, the 
Staubbach. This waterfall is very sublime, all except the 
water and the fall. Whoever has been " under the sheet " at 
Niagara will not be particularly impressed here. This pic- 
ture is sufficiently accurate, with the exception of the cottage. 
People here do not build cottages under waterfalls. 

Here we crossed the Wengern Alps to Grindelwald. The 
Jungfrau is right over against us — her glaciers purer, ten- 
derer, more dazzlingly beautiful, if possible, than those of 
Mont Blanc. Slept at Grindelwald. 






LETTER XXXVIII. 

Dear Children : — 

To-day we have been in the 
Wengern Alps — the scenes 
described in Manfred. Imagine us mounting, about ten 
o'clock, from the valley of 
Lauterbrunn, on horseback 
— our party of three — with 
two guides. We had first 
been to sec the famous Staub- 
bach, a beautiful, though not 
sublime, object. Up we began to go among those green 
undulations which form the 
lower part of the mountain. 




 

It is haying time; a bright day; all is cheerful; the birds 
sing ; men, women, and children are busy in the field. Up 
we go, zigzag ; it grows steeper and steeper. Now right below me is a field, where men are literally working almost on a 
perpendicular wall, cutting hay ; now we are so high that the 
houses in the valley look like chips. Here we stand in a 
place two thousand feet above the valley. There is no shield 
or screen. The horse stands on the very edge ; the guide 
stops, lets go his bridle, and composedly commences an oration on the scene below. " O, for mercy's sake, why do you 
stop here ? " I say. " Pray go on." He looks in my face, 
with innocent wonder, takes the bridle on his arm, and 
goes on. 

Now we have come to the little village of Wengern, 
whence the Wengern Alps take their name. How beautiful ! 
how like fairyland ! Up here, midway in air, is a green nook, 
with undulating dells, and shadowy, breezy nests, where are 
the cottages of the haymakers. The Delectable Mountains 
had no scene more lovely. . Each house has its roof heavily 
loaded with stones. "What is that for?" I ask. "The 
whirlwinds," says my guide, with a significant turn of his 
hands. " This is the school house," he adds, as we pass a 
building larger than the rest. 

Now the path turns and slopes down a steep bank, covered 
with haycocks, to a little nook below, likewise covered with 
new hay. If my horse is going to throw me any where, I 
wish it may be here : it is not so bad a thing to roll down into 
that hay. But now we mount higher ; the breezy dells, en- 
amelled with flowers and grass, become fewer ; the great black 
pines take their place. Right before us, in the purest white, 
as a bride adorned for her husband, rises the beautiful Jung- 



 

frau, wearing on her forehead the Silver Horn, and the Snow 
Horn. The Silver Horn is a peak, dazzlingly bright, of snow ; 
and its crest is now seen in relief against a sky of the deepest 
blue. See, also, how those dark pines of the foreground contrast with it, like the stern, mournful realities of life seen 
against the dazzling hopes of heaven. 

There is something celestial in these mountains. You 
might think such a vision as that to be a bright footstool 
of Heaven, from which the next step would be into an unknown world. The pines here begin to show that long 
white beard of moss which I admire so much in Maine. 
Now, we go right up over their heads. There, the tall 
pines are under our feet. A little more — and now above us 
rise the stern, naked rocks, where only the chamois and the 
wild goat live. But still, fair as the moon, clear as the sun, 
looks forth the Jungfrau. 

We turn to look down. That Staubbach, which in the 
valley seemed to fall from an immense precipice, "higher 
than we could gaze, is now a silver thread, far below our 
feet ; and the valley of Lauterbrunn seems as nothing. Only 
