"Strawb'rees! Strawb'rees!"

An hour afterward, a friend called upon Mrs. Mier, the lady who had
bought the strawberries. After talking about various matters and
things interesting to lady housekeepers, Mrs. Mier said:

"How much did you pay for strawberries this morning?"

"Ten cents."

"You paid too much. I bought them for eight."

"For eight! Were they good ones?"

"Step into the dining-room, and I will show them to you."

The ladies stepped into the dining-room, when Mrs. Mier displayed
her large, red berries, which were really much finer than she had at
first supposed them to be.

"You didn't get them for eight cents," remarked the visitor,
incredulously.

"Yes I did. I paid forty cents for five boxes."

"While I paid fifty for some not near so good."

"I suppose you paid just what you were asked?"

"Yes, I always do that. I buy from one woman during the season, who
agrees to furnish me at the regular market price."

"Which you will always find to be two or three cents above what you
can get them for in the market."

"You always buy in market."

"I bought these from a woman at the door."

"Did she only ask eight cents for them?"

"Oh, no! She asked ten cents, and pretended that she got twelve and
a half for the same quality of berries yesterday. But I never give
these people what they ask."

"While I never can find it in my heart to ask a poor, tired-looking
woman at my door, to take a cent less for her fruit than she asks
me. A cent or two, while it is of little account to me, must be of
great importance to her."

"You are a very poor economist, I see," said Mrs. Mier. "If that is
the way you deal with every one, your husband no doubt finds his
expense account a very serious item."

"I don't know about that. He never complains. He allows me a certain
sum every week to keep the house, and find my own and the children's
clothes; and so far from ever calling on him for more, I always have
fifty or a hundred dollars lying by me."

"You must have a precious large allowance, then, considering your
want of economy in paying everybody just what they ask for their
things."

"Oh, no! I don't do that, exactly, Mrs. Mier. If I consider the
price of a thing too high, I don't buy it."

"You paid too high for your strawberries today."

"Perhaps I did; although I am by no means certain."

"You can judge for yourself. Mine cost but eight cents, and you own
that they are superior to yours at ten cents."

"Still, yours may have been too cheap, instead of mine too dear."

"Too cheap! That is funny! I never saw any thing too cheap in my
life. The great trouble is, that every thing is too dear. What do
you mean by too cheap?"

"The person who sold them to you may not have made profit enough
upon them to pay for her time and labor. If this were the case, she
sold them to you too cheap."

"Suppose she paid too high for them? Is the purchaser to pay for her
error?"

"Whether she did so, it would be hard to tell; and even if she had
made such a mistake, I think it would be more just and humane to pay
her a price that would give her a fair profit, instead of taking
from her the means of buying bread for her children. At least, this
is my way of reasoning."

"And a precious lot of money it must take to support such a system
of reasoning. But how much, pray, do you have a week to keep the
family? I am curious to know."

"Thirty-five dollars."

"Thirty-five dollars! You are jesting."

"Oh, no! That is exactly what I receive, and as I have said, I find
the sum ample."

"While I receive fifty dollars a week," said Mrs. Mier, "and am
forever calling on my husband to settle some bill or other for me.
And yet I never pay the exorbitant prices asked by everybody for
every thing. I am strictly economical in my family. While other
people pay their domestics a dollar and a half and two dollars a
week, I give but a dollar and a quarter each to my cook and
chambermaid, and require the chamber maid to help the washer-woman
on Mondays. Nothing is wasted in my kitchen, for I take care in
marketing, not to allow room for waste. I don't know how it is that
you save money on thirty-five dollars with your system, while I find
fifty dollars inadequate with my system."

The exact difference in the two systems will be clearly understood
by the reader, when he is informed that although Mrs. Mier never
paid any body as much as was at first asked for an article, and was
always talking about economy, and trying to practice it, by
withholding from others what was justly their due, as in the case of
the strawberry-woman, yet she was a very extravagant person, and
spared no money in gratifying her own pride. Mrs. Gilman, her
visitor, was, on the contrary, really economical, because she was
moderate in all her desires, and was usually as well satisfied with
an article of dress or furniture that cost ten or twenty dollars, as
Mrs. Mier was with one that cost forty or fifty dollars. In little
things, the former was not so particular as to infringe the rights
of others, while in larger matters, she was careful not to run into
extravagance in order to gratify her own or children's pride and
vanity, while the latter pursued a course directly opposite.

Mrs. Gilman was not as much dissatisfied, on reflection, about the
price she had paid for her strawberries, as she had felt at first.

"I would rather pay these poor creatures two cents a box too much
than too little," she said to herself--"dear knows, they earn their
money hard enough, and get but a scanty portion after all."

Although the tray of the poor strawberry-woman, when she passed from
the presence of Mrs. Mier, was lighter by five boxes, her heart was
heavier, and that made her steps more weary than before. The next
place at which she stopped, she found the same disposition to beat
her down in her price.

"I'll give you nine cents, and take four boxes," said the lady.

"Indeed, madam, that is too little," replied the woman; "ten cents
is the lowest at which I can sell them and make even a reasonable
profit."

"Well, say thirty-seven and a half for four boxes, and I will take
them. It is only two cents and a half less than you ask for them."

"Give me a fip, ma!--there comes the candy-man!" exclaimed a little
fellow, pressing up to the side of the lady. "Quick, ma! Here,
candy-man!" calling after an old man with a tin cylinder under his
arm, that looked something like an ice cream freezer. The lady drew
out her purse, and searched among its contents for the small coin
her child wanted.

"I havn't any thing less than a levy," she at length said.

"Oh, well, he can change it. Candy-man, you can change a levy?"

By this time the "candy-man" stood smiling beside the
strawberry-woman. As he was counting out the fip's worth of candy,
the child spoke up in an earnest voice, and said:

"Get a levy's worth, mother, do, wont you? Cousin Lu's coming to see
us to-morrow."

"Let him have a levy's worth, candy-man. He's such a rogue I can't
resist him," responded the mother. The candy was counted out, and
the levy paid, when the man retired in his usual good humor.

"Shall I take these strawberries for thirty-seven and a half cents?"
said the lady, the smile fading from her face. "It is all I am
willing to give."

"If you wont pay any more, I musn't stand for two cents and a half,"
replied the woman, "although they would nearly buy a loaf of bread
for the children," she mentally added.

The four boxes were sold for the sum offered, and the woman lifted
the tray upon her head, and moved on again. The sun shone out still
hotter and hotter as the day advanced. Large beads of perspiration
rolled from the throbbing temples of the strawberry-woman, as she
passed wearily up one street and down another, crying her fruit at
the top of her voice. At length all were sold but five boxes, and
now it was past one o'clock. Long before this she ought to have been
at home. Faint from over-exertion, she lifted her tray from her
head, and placing it upon a door-step, sat down to rest. As she sat
thus, a lady came up, and paused at the door of the house, as if
about to enter.

"You look tired, my good woman," she said kindly. "This is a very
hot day for such hard work as yours. How do you sell your
strawberries?"

"I ought to have ten cents for them, but nobody seems willing to
give ten cents to-day, although they are very fine, and cost me as
much as some I have got twelve and a half for."

"How many boxes have you?"

"Five, ma'am."

"They are very fine, sure enough," said the lady, stooping down and
examining them; "and well worth ten cents. I'll take them."

"Thanky, ma'am. I was afraid I should have to take them home," said
the woman, her heart bounding up lightly.

The lady rung the bell, for it was at her door that the tired
strawberry-woman had stopped to rest herself. While she was waiting
for the door to be opened, the lady took from her purse the money
for the strawberries, and handing it to the woman, said:

"Here is your money. Shall I tell the servant to bring you out a
glass of cool water? You are hot and tired."

"If you please, ma'am," said the woman, with a grateful look.

The water was sent out by the servant who was to receive the
strawberries, and the tired woman drank it eagerly. Its refreshing
coolness flowed through every vein, and when she took up her tray to
return home, both heart and step were lighter.

The lady whose benevolent feelings had prompted her to the
performance of this little act of kindness, could not help
remembering the woman's grateful look. She had not done much--not
more than it was every one's duty to do; but the recollection of
even that was pleasant, far more pleasant than could possibly have
been Mrs. Mier's self-gratulations at having saved ten cents on her
purchase of five boxes of strawberries, notwithstanding the
assurance of the poor woman who vended them, that, at the reduced
rate, her profit on the whole would only be two cents and a half.

After dinner Mrs. Mier went out and spent thirty dollars in
purchasing jewelry for her eldest daughter, a young lady not yet
eighteen years of age. That evening, at the tea-table, the
strawberries were highly commended as being the largest and most
delicious in flavor of any they had yet had; in reply to which, Mrs.
Mier stated, with an air of peculiar satisfaction, that she had got
them for eight cents a box, when they were worth at least ten cents.

"The woman asked me ten cents," she said, "but I offered her eight,
and she took them."

While the family of Mrs. Mier were enjoying their pleasant repast,
the strawberry-woman sat at a small table, around which were
gathered three young children, the oldest but six years of age. She
had started out in the morning with thirty boxes of strawberries,
for which she was to pay seven and a half cents a box. If all had
brought the ten cents a box, she would have made seventy-five cents;
but such was not the case. Rich ladies had beaten her down in her
price--had chaffered with her for the few pennies of profits to
which her hard labor entitled her--and actually robbed her of the
meager pittance she strove to earn for her children. Instead of
realizing the small sum of seventy-five cents, she had cleared only
forty-five cents. With this she bought a little Indian meal and
molasses for her own and her children's supper and breakfast.

As she sat with her children, eating the only food she was able to
provide for them, and thought of what had occurred during the day, a
feeling of bitterness toward her kind came over her; but the
remembrance of the kind words, and the glass of cool water, so
timely and thoughtfully tendered to her, was like leaves in the
waters of Marah. Her heart softened, and with the tears stealing to
her eyes, she glanced upward, and asked a blessing on her who had
remembered that, though poor, she was still human.

Economy is a good thing, and should be practiced by all, but it
should show itself in denying ourselves, not in oppressing others.
We see persons spending dollar after dollar foolishly one hour, and
in the next trying to save a five penny piece off of a wood-sawyer,
coal-heaver, or market-woman. Such things are disgraceful, if not
dishonest.




CHAPTER XIX.

LOTS OF THINGS.


"O DEAR!" said I to Mr. Smith one morning, as we arose from the
breakfast-table, at which we had been partaking of rather a
badly-cooked meal,--"more trouble in prospect."

"What's the matter now?" asked Mr. Smith, with a certain emphasis on
the word "now" that didn't sound just agreeable to my ears.

"Oh, nothing! nothing!" I answered, with as much indifference of
manner as I could assume.

"You spoke of trouble," said he, kindly, "and trouble, in my
experience, is rather more tangible than 'nothing.'"

"I've another raw Irish girl in the kitchen, who, according to her
own confession, hasn't been above ten days in the country. Isn't
that enough?"

"I should think so. But, why, in the name of goodness did you take
another of these green islanders into your house?"

"It's easy enough to ask questions, Mr. Smith," said I, a little
fretfully; "but--" I checked myself. We looked at each other,
smiled, and--said no more on the subject.

"Your name is Anna, I believe?" said I, as I stepped to the
kitchen-door, a couple of hours afterwards.

"Thot's me name," replied the new domestic.

"I will send home a loin of veal and some green peas," said I. "They
are for dinner, which must be ready at two o'clock. You know how to
roast a piece of veal, I presume?"

"Lave me for thot same, honey!"

"And the green peas?"

"All right, mum. I've lived in quality houses since I was so high. I
can cook ony thing."

"Very well, Anna. We will see. I have to go out this morning; and
you must do the best you can. Don't fail to have dinner ready by two
o'clock. Mr. Smith is a punctual man."

Anna was profuse in her promises.

"If," said I, recollecting myself, as I was about opening the street
door, and returning along the passage,--"If any thing is sent home
for me, be sure to take it up stairs and lay it carefully on my
bed."

"Yes, mum."

"Now don't forget this, Anna."

"Och! niver fear a hate, mum," was the girl's answer. "I'll not
forget a word iv y'r insthructions."

I turned away and left the house. My principal errand was a visit to
the milliner's, where I wished to see a bonnet I had ordered, before
it was sent home. It was this bonnet I referred to when I desired
Anna to place carefully on the bed in my chamber, any thing that
might come home.

On my way to the milliner's, I stopped at the grocer's where we were
in the habit of dealing, and made selections of various things that
were needed.

The bonnet proved just to my taste. It was a delicate white spring
bonnet, with a neat trimming, and pleased my fancy wonderfully.

"The very thing," said I, the moment my eyes rested upon it.

"Do you want a box?" asked the milliner, after I had decided to take
the bonnet.

"I have one," was my answer.

"O, very well. I will send the bonnet home in a box, and you can
take it out."

"That will do."

"Shall I send it home this morning?"

"If you please."

"Very well. I'll see that it is done."

After this I made a number of calls, which occupied me until after
one o'clock, when I turned my face homeward. On arriving, I was
admitted by my new girl, and, as the thought of my beautiful bonnet
now returned to my mind, my first words were:

"Has any thing been sent home for me, Anna?"

"Och! yis indade, mum," was her answer,--"lots o' things."

"Lots of things!" said I, with manifest surprise; for I only
remembered at the moment my direction to the milliner to send home
my bonnet.

"Yis, indade!" responded the girl. "Lots. And the mon brought 'em on
the funniest whale barry ye iver seed."

"On a wheel barrow!"

"Yis. And such a whale barry! It had a whale on each side, as I'm a
livin' sinner, mum and a cunnin' little whale in front, cocked 'way
up intil the air, thot didn't touch nothin' at all--at all! There's
no sich whale barrys as thot same in Ireland, me leddy!"

"And what did you do with the lots of things brought on this wheel
barrow?" said I, now beginning to comprehend the girl.

"Put them on y'r bed, sure."

"On my bed!" I exclaimed, in consternation.

"Sure, and didn't I remember the last words ye spake till me?
'Anna,' says ye,--'Anna, if ony thing is sent home for me, be sure
till take it carefully up stairs and lay it on me bed.' And I did
thot same. Sure, I couldn't have found a nicer place, if I gone the
house over."

Turning from the girl, I hurried up stairs.

It was as I had too good reason to fear. Such a sight as met my
eyes! In the centre of my bed, with its snowy-white Marseilles
covering, were piled "lots of things," and no mistake. Sugar, tea,
cheese, coffee, soap, and various other articles, not excepting a
bottle of olive oil, from the started cork of which was gently
oozing a slender stream, lay in a jumbled heap; while, on a satin
damask-covered chair, reposed a greasy ham. For a moment I stood
confounded. Then, giving the bell a violent jerk, I awaited, in
angry impatience, the appearance of Anna, who, in due time, after
going to the street door, found her way to my chamber.

"Anna!" I exclaimed, "what, in the name of goodness, possessed you
to do this?"

And I pointed to the bed.

"Sure, and ye towld me till put them on ye's bed."

"I told you no such thing, you stupid creature! I said if a bonnet
came, to put it on the bed."

"Och! sorry a word did ye iver say about a bonnet, mum. It's the
first time I iver heard ony thing about a bonnet from yer blessed
lips. And thot's thrue."

"Where is my bonnet, then? Did one come home?"

"Plase, mum, and there did. And a purty one it is, too, as iver my
two eyes looked upon."

"What did you do with it?" I enquired, with a good deal of concern.

"It's safe in thot great mahogany closet, mum," she replied,
pointing to my wardrobe.

I stepped quickly to the "mahogany closet," and threw open the door.
Alas! for my poor bonnet! It was crushed in between two of Mr.
Smith's coats, and tied to a peg, by the strings, which were, of
course, crumpled to a degree that made them useless.

"Too bad! Too bad!" I murmured, as I disengaged the bonnet from its
unhappy companionship with broadcloth. As it came to the light, my
eyes fell upon two dark spots on the front, the unmistakable prints
of Anna's greasy fingers. This was too much! I tossed it, in a
moment of passion, upon the bed, where, in contact with the "lots of
things," it received its final touch of ruin from a portion of the
oozing contents of the sweet oil bottle.

Of the scene that followed, and of the late, badly-cooked dinner to
which my husband was introduced an hour afterwards, I will not trust
myself to write. I was not, of course, in a very agreeable humor;
and the record of what I said and did, and of how I looked, would be
in no way flattering to my own good opinion of myself, nor prove
particularly edifying to the reader.

I shall never forget Anna's new variety of "whale-barry," nor the
"lots o' things" she deposited on my bed. She lived with me just
seven days, and then made way for another a little more tolerable
than herself.




CHAPTER XX.

A CURE FOR LOW SPIRITS.


FROM some cause, real or imaginary, I felt low spirited. There was a
cloud upon my feelings, and I could not smile as usual, nor speak in
a tone of cheerfulness. As a natural result, the light of my
countenance being gone, all things around me were in a shadow. My
husband was sober, and had but little to say; the children would
look strangely at me when I answered their questions or spoke to
them for any purpose, and the domestics moved about in a quiet
manner, and when they addressed me, did so in a tone more subdued
than usual.

This reaction upon my state, only made darker the clouds that veiled
my spirits. I was conscious of this, and was conscious that the
original cause of depression was entirely inadequate, in itself, to
produce the result which had followed. Under this feeling, I made an
effort to rally myself, but in vain--and sank lower from the
struggle to rise above the gloom that overshadowed me.

When my husband came home at dinner time, I tried to meet him with a
