the mountains myself, and then I shall take charge of you, Miss Pet."
"I should like that," said Pet.
"I see, my dear Mrs. Linden," said Mr. Olyphant, smiling at her, "I see
you follow one of the old Jewish laws."
"What is that, sir?"--"You know it was required of the Jews that they
should bear the words of the law 'as frontlets between the eyes'.
Now--if you will forgive me for saying so--in your eyes is written one
of the proverbs."
"Look up, Mignonette, and let me see," said Mr. Linden. But oddly,
Faith looked down first; then the eyes were lifted.
"Is truth a proverb?" said Pet laughing.--"O you see too many things
there!" said Mr. Olyphant,--"this is what I see, Endecott--'The heart
of her husband doth safely trust in her.'"
A little veil of shyness and modesty suddenly fell around Faith. Even
her head drooped. But Mr. Linden's lips touched the fair brow between
those very fair eyes.
"I cannot praise your discernment, sir," he said. "It is not more true
than evident."
"I cannot half congratulate either of you," said Mr. Olyphant, smiling,
"so I'll go. Good-bye, Miss Pet--remember next winter. Mrs. Linden, we
shall expect to see you long before that time. Let me have a word with
you, Endecott." And Faith was again left alone, entirely this time, for
Miss Linden went up stairs to attend Mrs. Iredell.
As they turned to go out, Faith turned the other way, and sat down,
feeling overwhelmed. Everything was very still. Pet's light steps
passed off in the distance; through the open windows came the song of
kildeers and robins, the breath of roses, the muslin-veiled sunshine.
Then she heard Mr. Olyphant's carriage drive off, and Mr. Linden came
back. Faith started up, and very lovely she looked, with the timid
grace of those still dyed cheeks and vailed brow.
"My poor little tired Mignonette!" he said as he came up to her. Then
lifted her face, and looking at it a moment with a half smile, pressed
his lips again where they had been so lately. But this time that did
not satisfy him.
"Endy," she said presently, "please don't praise me before other
people!"
"What dreadful thing did I say?" inquired Mr. Linden, laughing. "Do you
know I have hardly seen my wife yet?"--To judge by Faith's face,
neither had she.
"If I speak of her at all I must speak the truth. But Mr. Olyphant
knows me of old; he will not take my words for more than they are
worth."
A slight commentary of a smile passed, but Faith did not adventure any
repartee.
"Are you very tired?"--"Oh no!"
"Little bird!" said Mr. Linden, holding her close. "What sort of a
sweet spirit was it that said those words at my side this morning?"
There was no answer at first; and then, very quaint and soft the
words--"Only Faith Derrick."
"'Only.'--Faith, did you hear my parting direction to Miss
Essie?"--"Yes."
"Do you agree to it, Mrs. Linden?"
He had spoken that name a good many times that day, and to be sure her
cheeks had more or less acknowledged it; but this time it brought such
a rush of colour that she stooped her face to be out of sight.
"Do you want Miss Reason to answer that question, sir?"--"No, nor Miss
anybody."
"Prudence would say, there are shortcakes," said Faith.
"Where?"--"In--hypothesis."
"If your shortcakes outweigh my study, Faith, they will be heavier than
I ever saw them!"
"You wouldn't take Reason's answer," said Faith.
"What would it have been?"
She looked up, a swift little laughing glance into his face.
"Parlez, Madame, s'il vous plaît."
Her look changed. "You know, Endy, I would rather be there than
anywhere else in the world."
It moved him. The happiness to which his look bore witness was of a
kind too deep for words.
"Do you know, love, if we had been going at once to our work in the
mountains, I should have asked a great many people to come here to-day."
"Would you? why, Endy?"--"To let them see my wife. Now, I mean to take
her to see them."
Faith was willing he should take her where he pleased, though she made
no remark. Her timidity moved in a small circle, and touched
principally him. Mingling with this, and in all she did, ever since
half past one o'clock to-day, there had been a sort of dignity of grave
happiness; very rare, very beautiful.
"I wonder if you know half how lovely and dear you are?" said Mr.
Linden, studying the fair outlines of character, as well as of feature.
But Faith's eye went all down the pattern of embroidery on her white
robe, and never dared meet his. "Have you any idea, little Mignonette
of sweetness, after what fashion that proverb is true?"
She looked up, uncertain what proverb he meant; but then immediately
certain, bent her head again. Faith never thought of herself as Mr.
Linden thought of her. Movings of humility and determination were in
her heart now, but she knew he would not bear to hear her speak them,
and her own voice was not just ready. So she was only silent still.
"What will make you speak?" said Mr. Linden, smiling. "I am like Ali
Baba before the storehouse of hid treasure. Is this the 'Sesame' you
are waiting for?" he added, raising her face and trying two or three
persuasive kisses.
"There was nothing in the storehouse," said Faith laughingly. "No words
I mean."--"I am willing to take thoughts."
"How?"--"Which way you like!"
"Then you will have to wait for them, Endy."
"Mignonette, I am of an impatient disposition."
"Yes I know it."
"Is it to be your first wifely undertaking to cure me?" he said,
laughing.--"It takes time to put thoughts into action," said Faith,
blushing.--"Not all thoughts, Mignonette."
She coloured beautifully; but anything more pure and sweet than those
first wifely kisses of Faith could not be told. Did he know, had he
felt, all the love and allegiance they had so silently and timidly
spoken? She had reason to think so.
CHAPTER XLIV.
In a low whitewashed room, very clean though little and plain, where
the breeze blew in fresh from the sea, Faith found herself established
Friday afternoon. Mr. Linden had promised to show her the surf, and so
had brought her down to a little village, long ago known to him, on the
New England shore; where the people lived by farming and fishing, and
no hotel attracted or held an influx of city life. It was rather late
in the day, for the journey had been in part off the usual route of
railway and steam, and therefore had been longer if not wearier. But
when Faith had got rid of the dust, Mr. Linden came to her door to say
that it would be half an hour to supper, and ask if she was too tired
to walk down to the beach.
The shore was but a few hundred yards from the little farmhouse; green
grass, with interrupting rocks, extending all the way. Faith hardly
knew what she was corning to till she reached the brink. There the
precipitous rocks rose sheer a hundred feet from the bottom, and at the
bottom, down below her, a narrow strip of beach was bordered with the
billowy crest and foam of the sea. Nothing but the dark ocean and the
illimitable ocean line beyond; there was not even a sail in sight this
evening; in full uninterrupted power and course, from the broad east,
the swells of the sea rolled in and broke--broke, with their graceful,
grand monotony.
The beach was narrow at height of tide; now the tide was out.
Fishermen's boats were drawn up near to the rocks, and steep narrow
pathways along and down the face of them allowed the fishermen to go
from the top to the bottom.
"Can't we get down there?" said Faith, when she had stood a minute
looking silently. Her face showed an eager readiness for action.
"Can you fly, little bird?"--"Yes--as well as the fishermen can!"
"If you cannot I can carry you," said Mr. Linden.--And doubtless he
would have found some way to make his words good had there been need;
as it was, he only guarded her down the steep rocky way, going before
her and holding her hand in a grasp she would have been puzzled to get
away from. But Faith was light and free of foot, and gave him no
trouble. Once at the bottom, she went straight towards those in-coming
big waves, and in front of them stood still. The sea-breeze blew in her
face; the roar of the breakers made music in her ears. Faith folded one
hand upon the other, and stood motionless. Now and then the wind caught
the spray from some beaten rock and flung it in her face, and wave
after wave rose up and donned its white crest; the upstanding green
water touched with sunlight and shadow, and changing tints of amber and
olive, down which the white foam came curling and rushing--sweeping in
knots of seaweed, and leaving all the pebbles with wet faces. Mr.
Linden let her look without the interruption of a word; but he
presently put his arm round her, and drew her a little into shelter
from the strong breeze. It was a while before she moved from her steady
gaze at the water; then she looked up, the joy of her face breaking
into a smile.
"Endecott, will you show me anything more grand than this?"
"You shall tell me when you have seen the uprising mists of Niagara,"
he answered, smiling, "or the ravines between snowcaps 'five thousand
summers old.'"
Her eye went back to the sea. "It brings before me, somehow," she said
slowly, "all time, and all eternity! I have been thinking here of
myself as I was a little child, and as I shall be, and as I am," she
added, with her inveterate exactness, and blushing. "I seem to see only
the great scale of everything."
"Tell me a little more clearly what you see," said Mr. Linden.
"It isn't worth telling. I see everything here as belonging to God. The
world seems his great work-place, and life his time for doing the work,
and I--and you," she said, with a flash of light coming across her
face, "his work-people. And those great breaking waves, somehow, seem
to me like the resistless, sure, beautiful, doings of his providence."
She spoke very quietly, because she was bidden, evidently.
"Do you know how many other things they are like?--or rather how many
are likened to them in the Bible?"--"No! I don't know the Bible as you
do."
"They seem to be a never-failing image--an illustration suiting very
different things. 'The wicked are like the troubled sea, when it cannot
rest,' and then, 'O that thou hadst hearkened to me I then had thy
peace been as a river, and thy righteousness as the waves of the sea.'"
"There is the endless struggle of human will and purpose against the
divine--'The floods have lifted up, O Lord, the floods have lifted up
their voice; the floods lift up their waves. The Lord on high is
mightier than the noise of many waters, yea, than the mighty waves of
the sea.' 'Fear ye not me? saith the Lord: will ye not tremble at my
presence, which have placed the sand for the bound of the sea by a
perpetual decree, that it cannot pass it: and though the waves thereof
toss themselves, yet can they not prevail: though they roar, yet can
they not pass over it?' And so in another place the image is reversed,
and God says, 'Behold I am against thee, O Tyrus, and will cause many
nations to come up against thee, as the sea causeth his waves to come
up.' Could anything be more forcible?"
A look was Faith's answer; it spoke the kindled thoughts at work.
"Then you know," Mr. Linden went on, "how often the troubles of God's
children are compared to the ocean; as David says, 'All thy waves are
gone over me.' But then the Lord answers to that, 'When thou passest
through the waters I will be with thee, and through the floods, they
shall not overwhelm thee;' and David himself in another place declares
it to be true--'O Lord God of hosts, who is a strong Lord like unto
thee? or to thy faithfulness round about thee? Thou rulest the raging
of the sea: when the waves thereof arise, thou stillest them.'--I
suppose," he added, thoughtfully, taking both her hands in his, "this
is one sense in which by-and-by 'there shall be no more sea'--except
that 'sea of glass, upon which they stand who have gotten the victory!'"
Another look, a grave, full look, came to him from Faith; and grave and
soft her eye went back to the sea. The sunbeams were all off it; it was
dark and foamy. Speaking rather low, half to her half to himself, Mr.
Linden went on,--"'And they overcame by the blood of the Lamb, and by
the word of their testimony: and they loved not their lives unto the
death.'"
Her look did not move. Mr. Linden's went with it for a minute or two,
but then it came back to her differently.
"My darling, I am afraid to have you stay here any longer."
"We can come again!" said Faith gleefully, as she turned away. "I want
to look at them a great deal."
"We will come again and try how far a 'ladder' can reach from this low
sand."
She looked back for another glance as she began to mount the rocky way.
The mounting was an easy matter, for Mr. Linden came close and took
hold of her in such fashion that she was more than half carried up.
"Do you feel as if you had wings now?" he asked her, after a somewhat
quick "flight" up half the way.
"Folded ones," said Faith, laughing and breathless. "I don't know what
sort yours can be! I can go up by myself, Endecott."
"With folded wings, as you remark, Mrs. Linden. Do you remember that
infallible way of recognizing 'earth's angels,' when they are not
pluming themselves?"--"They never do plume themselves," said Faith,
stopping to look at him.
"Not when they are carried!"
Faith's laugh rolled down the rocks; and then as they reached the top
she grew timid and quiet, a mood which came over her whenever she
remembered her new position and name in the world.
There is no room to tell all the seaside doings of those days; the surf
bathing, and fishing beyond the surf. A week passed there, or rather
more; then, Mr. Linden having business in New York, the "wooden horse"
went that way. We cannot follow all its travels. But we must stay with
it a day in the city.
CHAPTER XLV.
Everybody who has travelled on the great route from Pattaquasset to New
York, knows that the scenery is not striking. Pleasant it is, and
fresh, in fresh seasons of the year; cornfields and hayfields and
sparkling little rivers always make up a fair prospect: but, until the
towers of Quilipeak rise upon the sight, with their leafy setting of
green, there is nothing to draw much notice. And less, afterwards. The
train flies on, past numberless stopping-posts, over bridges, through
towns; regaling its passengers with hay, salt water, bony fish, and (in
the season) dust; until the matchless flats, marshes, pools, sights,
and smells crowd thick about Haarlem river, and lure the traveller on
through the sweet suburbs of New York. Hither, business demanded that
the "wooden horse" should come for a day or two; here they were to be
received by one of the many old friends who were claiming, all over the
country, a visit from Mr. Linden and his bride. Through the dark tunnel
the train puffed on, the passengers winking and breathing beneath the
air-holes, dark and smothered where air-holes were not; then the cars
ran out into the sunlight, and, in a minute more, two of the passengers
were transferred to the easy rolling coach which was in waiting for
them, and drove away. Past warm brick fronts and pavements; past radish
boys and raspberry girls; past oranges, pineapples, vegetables, in
every degree of freshness except fresh. Of all which, even the
vegetables, Faith's eyes took most curious and intent notice--for one
minute; then the Avenue and fruit stalls were left behind; the carriage
had turned a corner, and, in another minute or two, drew up before an
imposing front in Madison Square. And there, at the very steps, was a
little raspberry girl. How Faith looked at her!
"Raspberries to-day, ma'am?" said the child, encouraged by the look, or
the sweet face.--"No, dear, I don't want any."
Faith went gravely up the steps. It was her first introduction to New
York. But Mr. Linden's face wore a smile. There was no time to remark
on it, for the door opened and a second introduction awaited her. An
introduction to another part of the world. A magnificent house, every
square yard of which, perhaps, taken with its furniture and adornments,
had cost as much as the whole of Faith's old home. A palace of luxury,
where no want of any kind, material, could be known or fancied. In this
house they were welcomed with a great welcome by a stately lady, Mr.
Linden's old friend and his mother's; and by her family of sons and
daughters, who were in another style, and whose vivacious kindness
seemed disposed to take up Faith bodily and carry her off. It was a
novel scene for Faith, and she was amused. Amused too with the
overpowering curiosity which took the guise, or the veil, of so much
kindness, and beset her, because--Mr. Linden had married her. Yet Faith
did not see the hundredth part of their curiosity. Mr. Linden, whose
eyes were more open, was proportionably amused, both with that and with
Faith's simplicity, which half gratified and at least half baffled it.
The young ladies at last took Faith up to her room; and, after
lavishing all sorts of attentions upon her, and making various vain
efforts to understand her, gave her the information that a good deal of
company was expected to dinner, and left her, baffled and attracted
almost in an equal degree.
They did not seem to have as puzzling an effect on Faith; for when Mr.
Linden came out of his own dressing-room, he found her ready, and
looking as fresh and cool as if she had just come up from the sands at
Bankhead. She was dressed in a light muslin, but no more elaborately
than she used to be at Pattaquasset; only that this time her ruffles
were laces. She was a little more dainty for the dinner-party. Mr.
Linden came with a knot of glowing geraniums--"Jewess," and
"Perfection," and "Queen of the Fairies;" which, bound together as they
were with white ribband, he first laid against her dress to try the
effect (well deserving his smile of comment) then put in her hand to
make fast. They set off all the quiet elegance of her figure after
their own style, which was not quiet.
"Now, Mignonette," he said, "I suppose you know that I am to have the
pleasure of introducing my wife to sundry people?"--"I heard they were
coming," said Faith.
"If you will only stand by and look on, it will amuse you very much."
"It will amuse me anyway," said Faith, "if,"--and what a rose colour
came up into her face--"if, Endy, you are satisfied."
Mr. Linden folded his arms and looked at her. "If you say anything
against my wife, Mrs. Linden, her husband will not like it--neither
will yours."
"That is all I care about, not pleasing those two gentlemen," said
Faith, laughing.
"Is that all? I shall report your mind at rest. Come, it is time this
little exotic should appear." Faith thought as she went with him, that
she was anything but an exotic; she did not speak her thoughts.
There was a large dinner company gathered and gathering; and the
"pleasure" Mr. Linden had spoken of--introducing his wife--was one
enjoyed, by him or somebody, a great many times in the course of the
evening. This was something very unlike Pattaquasset or anything to be
found there; only in Judge Harrison's house little glimpses of this
sort of society might be had; and these people seemed to Faith rather
in the sphere of Dr. Harrison than of his father and sister. People who
had rubbed off every particle of native simplicity that ever belonged
to them, and who, if they were simple at all--as some of them were--had
a different kind of simplicity, made after a most exquisite and refined
worldly fashion. How it was made or worn, Faith could not tell; she had
an instinctive feeling of the difference. If she had set on foot a
comparison, she would soon have come to the conclusion that "Mr.
Linden's wife" was of another pattern altogether. But Faith never
thought of doing that. Her words were so true that she had spoken, she
cared so singly to satisfy one person there, and had such an humble
confidence of doing it, that other people gave her little concern. She
had little need, for no word or glance fell upon Faith that did not
show the eye or the speaker won or attracted. The words and glances
were very many, but Faith never found out or suspected that it was to
see her all this party of grand people had been gathered together.
She thought they were curious about "Mr. Linden's wife;" and though
their curiosity made her shy, and her sense of responsibility gave an
exquisite tenderness to her manner, both effects only set a grace upon
her usual free simplicity. That was not disturbed, though a good deal
of the time Faith was far from Mr. Linden's kelp or protection. A
stranger took her in to dinner, and among strangers she made her way
most of the evening. But though she was shy, Faith was afraid never but
of one person, nor much of him.
For him--among old acquaintances, beset with all manner of inquiries
and congratulations--he yet heard her voice whenever it was possible,
and knew by sight as well as hearing all the admiration she called
forth. He might have said as at Kildeer river, that he found "a great
deal of Mignonette." What he did tell her, when the evening was over,
was that people were at a loss how to name the new exotic.
"How to name me, Endecott?"--"As an exotic."
"I don't wonder!" said Faith with her merry little laugh. "Don't
philosophers sometimes get puzzled in that way, Endecott?"--"Scientific
philosophers content themselves with the hardest names they can find,
but in this case such will not suit. Though Dr. Campan may write you in
his books as 'Lindenethia Pattaquassetensis--exotic, very rare. The
flower is a double star--colour wonderful.'"
Faith stopped to laugh.
"What a blunder he will make if he does!" she said. "It will show, as
Mr. Simlins says--that he don't understand common vegetables."
"Well translated, Mignonette. How will it show that, if you
please?"--"He has mistaken one for a trumpet creeper."
"A scarlet runner, I suppose."
"Was I?" said Faith seriously.
"According to you. I am in Dr. Campan's predicament."
"I should think you needn't be," said Faith, simply. "Because you
know, Endy I never knew even how to climb till you showed me."
Mr. Linden faced round upon her, the quick flashing eyes answering even
more than his. "Faith! what do you mean?" But his lips played then in a
rare little smile, as he said, very quietly, in his former position,
"Imagine Mignonette, with its full sweetness--and more than its full
colour--suddenly transplanted to the region where Monkeys and Geraniums
grow--I like to think of the effect."
"I can't think of any effect at all," said Faith. "I should look at
the Monkeys and Geraniums!"
"Of course--being Mignonette. And clearly that you are; but then how
can Mignonette so twine itself round things?"
Faith thought it did not, and also thought of Pet's charge about
"charming;" but she left both points.
"Most climbers," said Mr. Linden, with a glance at her, "have but one
way of laying hold; but this exotic has all. There are the tendrils
when it wants support, and the close twining that makes of two lives
one, and the clasp of a hundred little stems that give a leaf or a
flower wherever they touch."
"Endecott!" said Faith, with a look of astonished remonstrance and
amusement in one.--"What?"
But the smile and blush with which Faith turned away bespoke her not
very much displeased; and she knew better by experience than to do
battle with Mr. Linden's words. She let him have it his own way.
The next day business claimed him. Faith was given up to the kindness
and curiosity of her new friends. They made good use of their
opportunity, and their opportunity was a good one; for it was not till
late in the day, a little while before the late dinner hour, that Mr.
Linden came home. He found Faith in her room; a superbly appointed
chamber, as large as any three of those she had been accustomed to. She
was standing at the window, thoughtfully looking out; but turned
joyfully to meet Mr. Linden. Apparently he was glad too.
"My dear little Mignonette! I feel as if I had not seen you for a week."
"It has been a long day," said Faith; who looked rather, it may be
remarked, as if the day had freshly begun.
"Mignonette, you are perfectly lovely! Do you think you will condescend
to wear these flowers?" said Mr. Linden, drawing her to a seat by the
table, and with one arm still round her beginning to arrange the
flowers he had thrown down there as he came in.
Faith watched him, and then looked up.
"Endecott you shouldn't talk to me so. You wouldn't like me to believe
you."
Mr. Linden finished setting two or three ruby carnations in the green
and purple of heliotrope and sweet-scented verbena; then laid the bunch
lightly upon her lips and gravely inquired if they were sweet.
"Yes," Faith said, laughing behind them. "You are not hungry?"
"Why? and what of it?"--"You don't seem to remember it is near
dinner-time."
"Dinner time is a myth. My dear, I am sorry I give you so much
uneasiness. I wish you could feel as composed about me as I do about
you. What have I done with that white ribband!--don't stir--it is in
some pocket or other." And the right one being found, Mr. Linden
unwrapped the piece of ribband and cut off what he wanted, remarking
that he could not get used to giving her anything but blue.
"Well, why do you then?" said Faith.--"I feel in a subdued state of
mind, owing to reproofs," said Mr. Linden, with the white satin curling
round his fingers. "I may not tell anybody what I think of my wife!"
Faith looked amused, and yet a soft glance left the charge and the
"reproof" standing.
"I feel so composed about you," Mr. Linden went on, drawing his white
bows--Faith did think the eyes flashed under the shading lashes--"so
sure that you will never over-estimate me, much less speak of it. But
then you know, Mignonette, I never did profess to follow Reason."
He was amused to see the little stir his words called up in Faith. He
could see it in the changing colour and rest less eye, and in one look
of great beauty which Faith favoured him with. Apparently the shy
principle prevailed, or Faith's wit got the better of her simplicity;
for she rose up gravely and laying her hand on the bunch of flowers
asked if she should put them on.
"Unless you prefer my services."
She sat down again immediately, with a face that very plainly preferred
them. Half smiling, with fingers that were in no haste about their
work, Mr. Linden adjusted the carnations; glancing from them to her,
trying them in different positions, playing over his dainty task as if
he liked it. The flowers in place, his full smiling look met hers, and
she was carried off to the glass "to see his wife." Hardly seen, after
all, but by himself.
"She looks ready for dinner," said Faith.
"Your eyes are only to look at," said Mr. Linden with a laughing
endorsement of his thoughts, and putting her back in the dormeuse.
"Suppose you sit there, and tell me what efforts they have made in the
way of seeing, to-day."
"Efforts to see all before them, which was more than they could," said
Faith.
"What did they see? not me, nor I them, that I know."
"That was another sort of effort they made," said Faith
smiling--"efforts to see what was not before them. I watched,
whenever I thought there was a chance, but I couldn't see anything that
looked like you. We must have gone half over the city, Endecott; Mrs.
Pulteney took me all the morning, and her daughters and Mr. Pulteney
all the afternoon."
"Know, O little Mignonette," said Mr. Linden, "that in New York it is
'morning' till those people who dine at six have had their dinner.
   "Like the swell of some sweet tune
   Morning rises into noon,--
was written of country hours."
"I guess that is true of most of the other good things that ever were
written," said Faith.
Mr. Linden looked amused. "What do you think of this?--
   And when the hours of rest
   Come, like a calm upon the mid-sea brine,
   Hushing its billowy breast--
   The quiet of that moment too is thine;
   It breathes of Him who keeps
   The vast and helpless city while it sleeps."
"I never saw the city when it was asleep," said Faith, smiling. "It
didn't look to-day as if it could sleep. But, Endecott, I am sure all
the pretty part of those words comes from where we have been."
"The images, yes. But connect any spot of earth with heaven, by any
tie, and it must have a certain sort of grandeur. You have been working
in brick and mortar to-day, Mignonette, to-morrow I must give you a
bird's-eye view."
Faith was silent a minute; and then said, "It don't look a happy place
to me, Endecott."
"No, it is too human. You want an elm tree or a patch of dandelions
between every two houses."
"That wouldn't do," said Faith, "unless the people could be less
ragged, and dirty, and uneasy; and their houses too. There's nothing
like it in Pattaquasset."
"I have great confidence in the comforting and civilizing power of elm
trees and green grass," said Mr. Linden. "But Carlyle says 'Man is not
what you can call a happy animal, his appetite for sweet victual is so
enormous;' and perhaps New York suffers as much from the fact that
everybody wants more, as that some have too little and others too
much."
"Do these people want more?" said Faith softly.
"Without doubt! So does everybody in New York but me."
"But why must people do that in New York, when they don't do it in
Pattaquasset?" said Faith, who was very like mignonette at the moment.
"The appetite grows with indulgence, or the possibility of it. Besides,
little bird, in Pattaquasset you take all this breeze of humanity
winnowed through elm branches. There, you know, 'My soul into the
boughs does glide.'"
"No," said Faith; "it is not that. When my soul glides nowhere, and
there are no branches, either; in the Roscoms' house, Endecott--and
poor Mrs. Dow's, and Sally Lowndes',--people don't look as they look
here. I don't mean here, in Madison Square--though yes I do, too;
there was that raspberry girl; and others, worse, I have seen even
here. But I have been in other places--Mr. Pulteney and his sisters
took me all the way to the great stone church, Endecott."
