talk to me abouit my mother," replied Thomas, 
contemptuously. " I'm not a baby." 

" Just as you please ; but I think it blows too 
hard to go out." 

" Let me have your boat, and I'll go alone then, 
if you are afraid to go." 

" I'm not afraid," answered Paul, stung by these 
repeated implications upon his courage. " Jump 
in, and I'll give you enough of it before you get 
half way to the Point." 

Thomas got into the boat, which was any thing 
but a beauty in her shape and appointments. 
Paul pushed her off the beach upon which she had 
grounded, and as she receded from the shore, 
leaped on board of her. Placing an oar at the 
stern, he sculled her out a short distance from the' 
land, and then shook out the sail. The first 
flaw of wind that struck it heeled the boat over 
so far that Thomas leaped with desperate haste 
up to the windward side. 

" Don't be afraid, Tom," said Paul, with a 
smile. " She has got the wind now." 

" Who's afraid ? " demanded Thomas. 

" I thought you were by the way you jumped." 

"Well, the gunnel of your old craft went un- 
der." 

"Not quite." 

" I say it did ; and you don't suppose I was 


going to sit there and be spilled into the drink — 
do you ? " continued Thomas, sharply. 

" I won't dispute with you ; she heeled over, 
as a boat always will when she first gets the wind." 

" You think you are an old salt, Paul, but you 
don't know enough to navigate a herring' pond." 

" Just as you like," replied Paul, whose good 
nature was proof against the assaults of his companion. " I don't pretend to know much ; but I 
think I understand this old boat pretty well." 

" Paul ! Paul ! " cried a voice from the shore. 

"That's my mother," said the young boatmanwhat 
as he discovered a woman on the beach. " What 
do you want, mother?" 

" Come ashore," replied Mrs. Duncan, whose 
voice was almost drowned by the noise of the 
waves as they beat against the boat. 

Paul's mother seemed to think she had said 
enough, for her son was generally a very obedient 
boy, and she turned to walk up the bluff towards 
the house. But she knew enough about the man- 
agement of a boat to perceive that, in this instance, 
her order Was not obeyed. 



 

'' Come asliore right off, Paul," she repeated 
with an emphasis that was calculated to make an 
impression upon the rebellious party. 

"Do you want me, mother?" asked Paul, as 
he put the boat about, and brought her upon the 
home tack. 

"No, I don't want you; but it blows too hard 
for you to be out there. You'll capsize, as true as 
you're alive," replied Mrs. Duncan ; and seeing the 
boat headed towards the shore, she hastened home. 

" Are you going to back out, Paul ? " demanded 
Thomas, as the boat came about. 

" My mother won't let me go," replied Paul, 
rather sheepishly, for he was not proof against 
the derision of his companion. 

" Won't let you go ! " sneered Thomas. 

" You heard what she said." 

" I did ; my mother would no mori dare to say 
as much as that to me than she would dare to cut 
my head off. She knows her place better." 

Paul was not a little shocked by this unfeeling 
speech, and could not help seeing that Thomas 



 

had not enough regard for his mother. For his 
own part, he loved his mother very much, though 
he was not exactly willing to confess the fact to 
a boy who entertained such opinions as those of 
Thomas Nettle. He had been accustomed to obey 
his mother for the respect and love he bore her, 
and it had never before occurred to him that she 
overstepped the bounds of reason and propriety 
in presuming to command him. Paul had the 
reputation of being a good boy, both at home and 
among the neighbors ; but it must not be inferred 
that he was perfect, that he never disobeyed his 
father and mother, — though the instances were very 
rare, — or that he never did what he knew to be 
wrong. He had his faults and his weaknesses ; 
but for the present I shall let my young reader 
discover them from what he says and what he does. 
He was disturbed by the derision of his friend, no 
less than by his impudent self-possession. He 
even asked himself why he should be tied to his 
mother's apron string, as Thomas expressed the 
subjection of the child to the parent. He was only 




a year younger than his companion, and he began 
to question whether it was not about time for him 
to assert his own independence, and cut the apron 
string when it pulled too hard upon his inclina- 
tion. 

Paul was the oldest of a family of six children, 
and was now in his fourteenth year. His father 
was a journeyman ship carpenter — an honest, tem- 
perate,, hard-working man, who was obliged to 
struggle with the realities of life in order to win a 
comfortable subsistence for his large family. In 
the inoffensive sense of the term, he was a poor 
man ; that is, he lived from hand to mouth, and 
had not saved a single dollar with which to meet 
the misfortunes of life. But he had brought up 
his family as well as he could, and given the old- 
est the - best education his limited means would 
afford. 

Thomas Nettle's father was a wealthy merchant, 

Ydio had retired from active business, and lived 

upon his beautiful estate in Bayville, in which 

transpired the events of my story. Major Nettle, 


as his townsmen called him, — for he had attained 
to the rank indicated by his military title in the 
militia, — was an easy, careless man,- and had but a 
very low appreciation of the moral and religious duties and responsibilities of a parent. It was a favor- 
ite theory with him that a boy would do well enough 
if only let alone. It was of no use to cram his 
head or his heart with notions, as he called them, 
about morality and religion; the boy would find 
them out himself when he wanted them. In support of his doctrine, he used to point to the minister's son who was in the state prison, and the 
deacon's son who had run away to sea to avoid 
the house of correction. Of course, then. Master 
Thomas Nettle's parental training was never very 
severe, for he had no one to dispute his inde- 
pendence when he chose to assert it. 

Paul had seen enough of the world to find out 
that wealth commands a certain respect, and he 
could not always keep down a sense of deference 
with which his rich companions inspired him ; and 
when they admitted him to their friendship, he 



could not help being greatly influenced by their 
words and their actions. Thomas was always 
dressed well, and always had money in his pocket ; 
and these things made Paul realize the difference 
in their social positions. It is true, he tried to 
make himself believe that he was as good as any 
one else, and would not bend his neck or his 
knee to the smartest boy in Bayville ; yet he could 
not but feel the disparity between himself and the 
sons of his rich neighbors. He would not go out 
of his way to court their favor, though it flattered 
his vanity to be their chosen companion. 

" Steady ! why don't you luff" her up, when the 
puff's come," said Thomas, as a flaw of wind struck 
the sail, and careened her so far that she took in 
a little water over the side. 

" O, I' don't mind a little dash of water over 
the side," replied Paul, with a smile ; for it must 
be owned that he was disposed to punish his com- 
panion for the imputations he had cast upon his 
seamanship and his courage. 

" Well, are you going ashore ? " continued 



 

Thomas. " Are j'ou going to let your mother 
domineer over you ? If you do, I hope she will 
put you in the cradle and rock you to sleep when 
you get ashore." 

" We must get some ballast," answered Paul, 
who had not yet got far enough to declare his inde- 
pendence of maternal authority. 

"You are afraid to go ! " 

" I think I can stand it as long as you can." 

"Then what are you going ashore for?" 

" After more ballast," replied Paul, who, though 
deeply stung by the sneers of Thomas, had not 
yet decided to disobey his mother. 

" Will you take me down to the Point when 
you get the ballast ? " 

" I don't know ; I'll see." 

The old boat dashed on, and in a moment or 
two grounded upon the beach. There was a great 
struggle in the soul of Paul. He did not like to 
go contrary to the express command of his mother 
on the one hand, and he did not like to incur the 
derision of Thomas on the other, for he would tell 




it to all the boys, who would call him " chickenish." 

" There are two rocks that will just answer 
your purpose," said Thomas, as they leaped out 
of the boat. " You take one and I will take the 
other. Come, bear a hand, or I shall not get to 
the picnic till the fun is all over." 

The two large stones were placed in the boat, 
and still Paul was undecided. He had not the 
courage to face the ridicule of his independent 
friend, nor the heart to disobey the mother whom 
he loved and respected. 

" I guess I won't go, Tom," said he, as a mo- 
mentary resolution supported the better impulse 
of his nature. 

" Chicken-hearted ! Are you afraid of your moth- 
er or of the wind and waves ? " sneered Thomas, 
and his features curled up into an expression of 
contempt which moved the hesitating boy quite as 
much as his words. 

" Of neither. If you think I'm afraid to go 
any where that you dare go, you are very much 



 

mistaken. It's a very easy thing for you to stand 
there and talk, but when the boat takes in a pint 
of water over the side, you jump as though an 
earthquake had taken you all aback," said Paul, 
smartly. 

" Humph ! Get into the boat, and we'll soon 
see who's afraid ; though perhaps you had better 
go and get your mother to go with you." 

" I have proved you to be a coward, and I don't 
think there is any use of going now. I don't like 
to be in a boat with a fellow who is skittish when 
the wind blows," continued Paul, who was deter- 
mined to, make the most of their previous experi- 
ence. " It isn't safe to have a fellow jumping about 
in the boat when there's a heavy sea on. You 
might upset her, cantering about over the thwarts 
like a frightened colt." 

" You are smart, Paul ; but your big talk sounds 
silly while I stand here and stump you to carry 
me down to the Point. You are afraid of the sea, 
and afraid of your mother. You dare not go ! " 

" Jump in I " cried Paul, desperatelv. as his failing resolution fled before these taunts. " Jump in, 
Tom." 

" Now don't back out if you happen to see one 
of your mother's aprons on the clothes-line." 

"Never fear 'me; and if you don't wish yourself 
ashore before you get half way to Tenean Point, I 
lose my guess ; that's all," answered Paul, as he 
pushed the boat off into deep water. " The wind 
is dead ahead, and we must beat all the way 
down." 

'' Put her through, Paul." 

" Ay, ay, my hearty, I'll put her through, and 
you too," replied the young boatman, as he shook 
out the sail, and hauled the sheet home. 

As she felt the strong blast, the old boat lay 
down before it, and a large wave broke over her 
gunnel ; but Paul luffed her up, so that she did 
not fill. Whatever Thomas thought of this stir- 
ring experience, he kept his seat upon the weather 
side, and appeared to be perfectly unconcerned. 
As they came out from under the bluff, where 
the windows of the house above commanded a 




view of their position, they were discovered by- 
Mrs. Duncan, who again hastened to the beach to 
repeat her command more imperatively than be- 
fore. Paul had steeled his heart to do wrong in 
this instance, and he pretended nbt to see or 
hear her ; and the boat dashed on her course. 



 



CHAPTER II. 

PAUL IS COOL AND SELF-POSSESSED. 

Bayville is situated about seven or eight 
miles from Boston, on the line of on& of the 
principal railroads. A large portion of the in- 
habftants, even at the time of which I write, were 
gentlemen doing business in the city, though the 
place had a ship-yard and several wharves from 
which the surrounding country was supplied with 
wood, coal, and lumber. The town is located on 
both sides of Tenean River, the estuary of which 
forms a very good harbor, though the place has 
not yet attained to any considerable commercial 
importance. 

The ship-yard and the wharves were on the 
north side of the river, which was known as 
Mercantile Point. On the south side a penin- 
sula extended about half a mile out into the sea, 

at tKe extremity of which was the little cottage 
of Mr. Duncan, the ship carpenter. It was built 
upon the high bluff, and below it was the beach 
which had been formed by the continued caving 
of the earth from the high bank. The cottage 
was over a mile from the ship-yard, by the road, 
and not more than half the distance in a straight 
line acrSss the water. As an easy and pleasant 
way to get to his work, Mr. Duncan had pur- 
chased the old boat, in which Paul had just em- 
barked, for a few dollars, and in good weather 
generally went over to the ship-yard by water. 
He was a skilful boatman, and under his tuition 
his son had learned all the mysteries of sailing 
a boat. Like most boys, he was disposed to be 
more daring than was necessary, and it was often 
that his father and mother found occasion to 
check him in the pursuit of bold enterprises. 
Paul was passionately fond of the water, and was 
proud of his nautical skill and knowledge. 

Aquatic sports were all the rage at Bayville, 
and there were very few gentlemen who had the 




means that did not own boats of some kind. In 
the summer season, the harbor always presented 
a brilliant display of yachts, sail boats, and wherries. The largest of these was the Flyaway, a 
splendid yacht of fifty- two tons, which was jointly 
owned by Major Nettle and Captain Littleton. 
Even the boys of the High School had a club 
boat, which, in the warm season, not only afford- 
ed them fine sport, but plenty of healthy exercise 
for the proper development of their physical or- 
ganization. 

On the first day "of May, when our story opens, 
the scholars of the High School had a picnic 
at Tenean Point, and the boat club had gone 
down to participate in the festivities of the occasion. Thomas Nettle had been to the city in 
the morning, and had not returned in season 
to go down with the club, of which he was a 
member. It was four miles to the Point by 
the road, and only half that distance by water, 
when the wind permitted the passage in a straight 
line. He did not like the idea of walking so far, 



 

choosing rather to incur the danger of being 
drowned by the upsetting of Paul's old boat. 

In spite of the strong wind and the heavy 
sea, Paul kept the boat on her course, though, 
as the tide was against her, she did not make 
much headway. 

'' Can you weather South Point, Paul ? " asked 
Thomas, who had been silent for some time. 

"I'm afraid I can't; this old boat makes about 
as much leeway as headway." 

"It is pretty rough out here — isn't it?" 

" Rather," replied Paul, indifferently. 

" She takes in a good deal of water." 

" Mostly spray ; you can bale her out, if you 
have a mind to do so." 

Thomas was glad to have something in the 
shape of occupation, for it required all his power 
to conceal a certain nervousness, which he would 
not have had Paul see for all the world. He took 
the tin kettle, and worked as though the safety 
of the craft depended entirely upon his efforts. 

The wind seemed to increase rather than diminish 



in force, and the sail was becoming more exciting 
every moment ; but Paul maintained his self-pos- 
session, and though he had some doubts about his 
ability to keep the old craft right side up, he 
did not permit his companion to know that he 
had a single misgiving. 

"We can't fetch by the Point," said he, when 
Thomas had done baling. 

" Better come about then ; we may get ashore 
on the rocks." 

" Good ! " exclaimed Paul, with a hearty laugh. 

" What is the matter now ? " demanded Thomas. 

" The idea of striking a rock on the weather 
side ! " laughed Paul. 

'' You are right ; I didn't think." 

The boat now came into comparatively still 
water, under the lee of Long Island, as the outer- 
most of three small islets, extending out in a 
line from the mouth of the river, was called. 
The island was a mass of rocks, rising from ten 
to twenty feet above high water mark, and as 
they got behind it, they were sheltered from the 

force of the wind. In tliis situation, Paul at- 
tempted to tack ; but the old boat would not 
come round in stays, for she had partially lost 
"her headway, and the tide was against her. 

"That's bad," said Thomas; "we shall lose 
all we have gained by this." 

" Take an oar and heave her head round, 
then," replied Paul. 
