“Oh, only when the feet that are in 
them walk,” said her mother. 

“Oh, yes, to be sure,” said Debby. 
“Well, bow do feet walk well?” 

“Why, when they are in a good path 
and going at a good rate,” said her mother. 

“Well, what is a good path?” said 
Debby. 


“It is a path which leads to good 


things.” 

-“What path are my shoes in now?” 
said Debby, looking at them affectionately. 

“ In a path that leads to vanity, I should 
think,” said her mother, “and going at a 
very good rate, too.” Debby drew her 
feet in under her frock in quick time. 

“Mother,” she said, “you’re so funny !” 

“Am I?” said her mother, smiling. 
“But isn’t it true?” 

“Well,” said Debby, “I suppose, perhaps, it is !” 

“It is what lies at the end of a path 
that makes it really had or good,” said her 

mother. “A path may be very smooth 
and flowery, and yet lead to a precipice ; 
or it may be very rough, and lead to a 
good happy home. So the people that 
choose a path or a way of life merely because they like the looks of it, may sometimes make a great mistake.” 

“But how can they choose, then?” said 
Debby. “For I am sure they cannot see 
away, away to the end.” 

“Not always,” said her mother. “But 
they can always ask God to lead them, for 
he sees the end from the beginning, and if 
they want very much to go only towards 
heaven, they will soon learn the way. If 
you were far, far away from home, Debby, 
and longing to get there, you would be 
very careful not to take a single little step 
that even seemed like going astray.” 
“Yes, indeed, I should,” said Debby. 
“And if I said to you, 'Debby, every 



step on the dry ground will bring you towards home, and every step on the wet 
ground will take you farther off,' — how 
would you walk?” 

“Why, I’d go on the dry ground, to be 
sure, and never go near the wet.” 

“Then suppose the dry ground was 
rough and steep, while down in the wet 
there were beautiful-looking flowers, — red 
and yellow and blue : then may-be you 
would think, ‘I dare say there’s some 
dry ground down there, — enough to walk 
upon if I’m careful to pick my way.’ And 
then you would try, and go stepping along ; 
and first your shoes would be a little damp, 
and then down would go one foot in the 
mud ! ’ ’ 

“I know how it would be,” said Debby; 
“because I did just that way coming home 
one night. But I had old shoes on.” 
“Ah! there is one use of new shoes,’ 
said her mother, smiling : “ they are apt to 
make people careful. But if we are travelling home with eager hearts, whether 
with shoes or no shoes, with red slippers 
or only clean little feet, we shall not want 
to get in the mud and so he belated and 
weary and ashamed. 

“ ‘Who are they whose little feet, 

Pacing life’s dark journey through, 

Now have reach’d that heavenly seat 
They had ever kept in view ? 

Each the welcome “ Come !” awaits, 
Conquerors over death and sin: 

Lift your heads, ye golden gates ! 

Let the little travellers in !’ 

“That is the sort of little feet I love, 
Debby, — the only ones that are really 
beautiful; and whether they wear red 
shoes or no shoes, does not make much 
difference. You may learn the whole 




hymn, if you like.” So Debby sat down 
to learn. 

“ CHILDREN AT THE GATE OF HEAVEN.” 

“Little travellers Zionward, 

Each one entering into rest, 

In the kingdom of your Lord, 

In the mansions of the blest; 

There, to welcome, Jesus waits, 

Gives the crowns his followers win : 

Lift your heads, ye golden gates ! 

Let the little travellers in ! 

“ Who are they whose little feet, 

Pacing life’s dark journey through, 

Now have reach’d that heavenly seat 
They had ever kept in view ? 

‘ I from Greenland’s frozen land;’ 

‘ I from India’s sultry plain;’ 

‘ I from Afric’s barren sand ;’ 

‘ I from islands of the main!’ 

“All our earthly journey past, 

Every tear and pain gone by, 

Here together met at last, 

At the portal of the sky, 

Each the welcome ‘ Come !’ awaits, 
Conquerors over death and sin : 

Lift your heads, ye golden gates ! 

Let the little travellers in !” 



CHAPTER II. 

“Mother,” said Debby, “what does 
Zionward mean ?” 

“Sometimes,” said her mother, “Zion 
is one of the names of Jerusalem, in the 
Bible ; and sometimes it is used as a name 
for all of God’s own people: as when the 
Psalmist says, ‘The Lord shall reign forever ; even thy God, O Zion, unto all generations!’ But here in the hymn, Debby, 
and in many places in the Bible, Zion is 
but another word for the heavenly Jerusalem. ‘The redeemed of the Lord shall 
return and come to Zion, with songs and 
everlasting joy upon their heads.’ ” 

“And Zionward means towards Zion,” 
said Debby. “I know that.” 



“Yes,” said her mother: “these little 
travellers have heard that the Lord hath 
founded Zion, and so they have chosen 
it for their home. Every day they are 
travelling on towards it, and there Jesus has 
a crown for each one of them.” 

“I guess they walk well, then,” said 
Debby, “since they’re going to such a 
good place.” 

“One who is really travelling towards 
Zion, with his face thitherwards, Debby,” 
said her mother, “walks as no one else 
can ! In the first place, he walks in safety ; 
for ‘ the Lord keepeth the feet of his 
saints.’ If they trust in him, ‘their feet 
shall not slip.’ Sin shall neither conquer 
nor mislead them.” 

“Don’t they ever want to do wrong?” 
said Debby. 

“Sin may tempt them sometimes,” said 
her mother; “but if they pray, — ‘Teach


 


me thy way, O Lord; lead me in a plain 
path, because of mine enemies — then the 
Lord will answer them, ‘ This is the way : 
walk ye in it.’ None of the attacks 
of sin shall hurt them; for the Lord 
is a buckler to them that walk uprightly.” 

“And what then ?” said Debby. 

“Why, then/’ said her mother, “they 
walk in the way of peace and in the light 
of God’s countenance.” 

“And that makes them shine,” said 
Debby. “I remember all about my little 
stone.” 

“Yes, that makes them shine,” said her 
mother. “And so, with this glory about 
them and in their hearts, they walk in the 
fear of the Lord, and in love towards them 
that are without, redeeming the time. 
For any one who is travelling towards 
Zion ‘with a perfect heart’ wants to do 

every bit of work the Lord has given him 
to do, on the way.” 

“Then they always mind, I guess,” said 
Debby. 

“Ah, Debby,” said her mother, “they 
do a great deal more than that ! — they are 
eager to mind. ‘I made haste, and delayed not, to keep thy commandments,' 
said King David. Now, you know all 
minding is not like that.” 

“No, indeed,” said Debby, thinking how 
slowly she had gone up-stairs that very 
morning on some errand for her mother. 

“No, indeed,” her mother repeated. 
“Now the Bible says that the feet of the 
wicked run to evil ; but the righteous ‘ run 
the way of God’s commandments.’ Walk- 
ing is not enough for them : they must 
run. When there is any work to be 
done for the Lord, they say, ‘Here am I: 
send me.’ ” 


“I guess they feel good always, then,” 
said Debby. 

“They feel happy, — if that is what you 
mean,” said her mother. “No matter 
what troubles or difficulties they have to 
go through, ‘the word of the Lord is a 
lamp unto their feet and a light unto their 
path.’ Men may ill-treat them and throw 
them into prison; yet shall they ‘walk 
at liberty, for they seek his precepts.’ 

‘ Though I walk through the valley of the 
shadow of death, I will fear no evil; for 
thou art with me.’ Walking with God, 
none need be afraid.” 

“What more do they do?” said Debby. 

“They always walk in truth, for one 
thing,” said her mother. “And then, 
Debby, they try to do good to other people, and to bring them out of the ways of 
darkness. Oh, what walking that is ! 
‘ How beautiful upon the mountains are 




the feet of him that bringeth good tidings, 
that publisheth peace ; that bringeth good 
tidings of good, that publisheth salvation !’ ” 

“The good tidings,” said Debby : “ that’s 
the news that Jesus came to save people. 
Because when he was born the angels 
called it good tidings of great joy.” 

“Yes: you remember very well,” said 
her mother. “Now, the Bible says that 
every one that abide th in Jesus ought himself also so to walk even as he walked. 
How was that ?” 

“He went about doing good,” said 
Debby. “I learned that.” 

“Yes; and it was his meat and drink 
to do the will of God. And when we 
walk like him, Debby, then are our ‘feet 
shod with the preparation of the gospel of 
peace and there is no shoe like that for 
going over all rough places.” 


 


“And do all the little travellers Zion- 
ward walk so?” said Debby. 

“Ah,” said her mother, “they are all 
trying to walk so; for every one who follows Jesus will try to walk worthy of the 
Lord, unto all well-pleasing.’ When you 
tried to cross the brook once on a log, 
Debby, how did you contrive to do it?” 
“Why, you told me not to look about, 
mother,” said Debby; “and so I just 
looked at you and walked straight across. 
And I held out my hand, you know, and 
you took hold of it.” 

“Well,” said her mother, “in walking 
through this world, Debby, unless you 
want to make crooked paths for your feet, 
you must not look hither and thither to 
see how other people do, or to show what 
a steady head you have. Look only to 
Jesus; hold out your hand to him: then 
you will be a traveller Zionward.” 



“And they go to the kingdom of the Lord, 
and the mansions of the blest,” said Debby. 

“Yes/’ said her mother. “And where 
are those mansions?” 

“Oh, I know,” said Debby: “it’s in 
that chapter where I learned my verses 
last Sunday, where the Lord Jesus says, 
‘In my Father’s house are many mansions ; 
I go to prepare a place for you. ” 

“Now listen,” said her mother, “and I 
will read you a little hit about that, Debby. 
It tells of Zion, the heavenly Jerusalem: — 
“ ‘And the city had no need of the sun, 
neither of the moon to shine in it ; for the 
glory of God did lighten it, and the Lamb 
is the light thereof. And the nations of 
them which are saved shall walk in the 
light of it.’ 

“First they walk with God on earth, 
and then in the full light of his countenance in heaven.” 




CHAPTER III. 

The Sunday-school children at the village were going to have a strawberry feast 
over on Church Hill: there was nice 

green grass there, and great trees to give 
shade. And the children were to meet 
just where the brook runs out of the Hollow, and then walk together to the Hill. 
So, when it drew near four o’clock, Debby 
set out to walk to the place of meeting, 
red shoes and all. I really think that 
black ones would have looked better, for 
such a walk ; but Debby wished very 
much to wear the red; and her mother 
consented. They made quite a show in 
the green grass as she went along, Debby 
thought; and she was so busy watching 




for them, as one after the other stepped 
forward, that she actually forgot all about 
the strawberry feast till she came in sight 
of the rest of the children. There was 
Sarah Dasher, and the Singletons, and Tom 
Lane, and many others, — some of the poor 
village children, too, and all the teachers. 

When all had arrived, the teachers began to arrange them two-and-two, that 
they might walk in nice order. First 
went Ellen Singleton and Sarah Dasher, 
and then the two next oldest ; and so on. 
Now, Debby hoped very much that she 
might have one of her particular friends 
to walk with; but, instead of that, Mrs. 
Singleton brought up one of the village 
children for her companion. 

“This is Jane King, Debby,” she said. 
“I want you to walk. with her.” 

So Debby and Jane King walked off 
after the other children, and Debby held 



her head down and peeped at Jane round 
the* edge of her sunbonnet. She wife a 
nice-looking child, with good, plump 
cheeks and brown hair, and quiet, pleasant 
little face. But she was a poor child : that 
was plain. Her dress was clean, but very 
old and faded and patched up, and she had 
no shoes at all ! To be sure, her bare feet 
were as clean as if they had just come out 
of the brook. Debby looked at them. 
They went sturdily plodding on through 
the grass, with Debby’ s red shoes twinkling about alongside of them. 

“How queer it is!” thought Debby. 
“What could make her come to a festival 
with no shoes?” Then, as they walked 
on, suddenly Debby began to think of 
something else: — 

“Who are they whose little feet, 

Pacing life’s dark journey through, 

Now have reach’d that heavenly seat 
They had ever kept in view ?” 




“ Red shoes or no shoes, it doesn’t make 
much difference,” Debby repeated to herself, thinking of her mother’s words. And 
yet it seemed to make a good deal, too. 

“ I wonder which way she’s walking?” 
thought Debby again. “I guess I’ll ask 
her. Jane, do you know how to walk 
well?” 

“I don’t know — I think I don’t know — 
what you mean,” Jane answered, colouring. 
For she had been watching Debby ’s red 
shoes, too, and thought that may -be Debby 
was laughing at her bare feet. 

“Well, which way are you going, then?” 
said Debby. 

“I’m going up to the festival,” said 
Jane, quietly. “ Mrs. Singleton told me to 
come.” 

“Is that all?” said Debby. 

“ Yes,” said Jane, “that’s all. I knew 
I might come if she told me to. I guess 




they've all got shoes but me ; — but I 
couldn’t help that. We’re too poor to wear 
shoes in summer.” 

“Oh, but, ’ ’ said Debby, ‘ ‘ my mother says 
it don’t make much difference.” 

“I think it does make some,” said Jane, 
looking down again at the little red shoes. 
“I think it makes a good deal.” 

“No, it don’t,” said Debby, “if you 
only walk well.” 

Jane looked at her own bare feet this 
time, plodding on as before, and wondered 
what in the world Debby meant. 

