"What is he going to do?"

"He will inform you himself," replied Mr. Presby, as he withdrew from
the room.

Richard was alone with his own thoughts and fears. He felt as though
his career had reached its close, though he could not imagine what
terrible thing his father intended to do. He was really sorry for what
he had done, whether his sorrow was caused by a genuine feeling that he
had done wrong, or by the fear of punishment.

His mind was in a confused state; the past with its sorrows, and the
future with its terrors, whirled through his brain. He wanted time for
reflection, and leaving the house, he walked down to the pier to
deliberate upon the situation.

Ben was there, and Richard began to question him, for Mr. Presby had
intimated that the boatman was with him the night before. From him he
learned all the facts in regard to their movements. It appeared that
the old gentleman had heard Richard when he opened the window, and had
watched him closely, fully satisfied, however, that he was asleep.

When Mr. Presby, from the roof of the conservatory, had noted the
direction he took, he had closed the window, and called the boatman to
assist him. They had followed him in the large sail boat, and landed
near the point where Sandy was taken on board the Greyhound. By this
time, Ben's original idea that Richard was wide awake was adopted by
Mr. Presby. By the exercise of great skill and caution, they had kept
near the boys, and had put out the fire almost as soon as it was
kindled.

While they were still on the ground, Mr. Batterman, who had been
awakened by the bright light of the burning hay, made his appearance.
He found the two old men in the very act of putting out the fire. Mr.
Presby smothered the flames by throwing his great-coat upon it.

"Now, Mr. Richard," continued the boatman, "Mr. Presby saved you. He
was acquainted with Batterman, and has a mortgage on his farm. The
farmer suspected who had attempted to burn his building; he laid it to
you at once, and told us all about the scrape when you stole the
melons. You don't know how mad he was, Mr. Richard. But Mr. Presby made
it all right with him, and he promised not to prosecute. Mr. Richard,
you had better not walk in your sleep any more."

Richard did not like this last remark, and he walked down the pier. The
state prison was only a bugbear then; but his father meant to do
something. He was about to get into his skiff to visit the Greyhound
when Ben hailed him.

"My orders are, not to let you have any of the boats," said he.

The new order of things had begun, and he returned to the house. His
father was in the sitting room when he entered.

"Richard," said Mr. Grant, "to-morrow you will leave home for some
months. I have decided to place you in a boarding school, where you
will be under the eye of one who is competent to manage you."

This was the great matter which a little fire had kindled.




CHAPTER IX.

RICHARD GOES TO THE TUNBROOK MILITARY INSTITUTE.


Richard had several times before been threatened with a residence at a
boarding school. Most of his education had been obtained at home, under
the superintendence of tutors, and special teachers in various
branches. He had been under little or no restraint; and the consequence
was, that his mental discipline had been very imperfect, and his stock
of knowledge was small, considering the opportunities he had enjoyed.

His father had long been conscious of his deficiencies, and proposed to
send him to a boarding school, for the benefit of its discipline; but
Richard was so averse to the idea, that his father had from time to
time postponed his departure. When Mr. Grant saw his son associating
with bad boys he again proposed to send him, and had actually sought
out a suitable place for him; but his own financial trials and troubles
had prevented him from executing his purpose.

If Richard's education had failed to develop his intellect in an
adequate degree, it had built up a sound and vigorous constitution.
Riding on horseback, sailing and rowing, had been pastimes for which he
had sacrificed intellectual culture. But there was still time to remedy
this deficiency, for the youth was hardly sixteen.

The establishment which Mr. Grant had selected for the future residence
of his son was the Tunbrook Military Institute, under the
superintendence of Colonel Brockridge. This place had been chosen, not
because it was a military institution, but because its principal was a
thorough disciplinarian. He had the reputation of being a just and fair
man, and was very popular with boys of strong constitution and decisive
temperaments. No "milk-and-water" boys were ever sent to him; or, if
they were, they soon left the Institute, or became vigorous and decided
in their habits.

Colonel Brockridge had been in the army, though his title was won in
the militia. He was a thorough teacher, and was conscientious and
faithful in the discharge of his duties to those who were intrusted to
his care. He was a "positive man," and no fear of what the father or
mother would say or do ever induced him to alter his plans, or change
his purposes.

Though the Institute was conducted on military principles, it was not
peculiarly the school of the soldier. The principal believed in
discipline; this was his hobby; and he believed that he could best
secure system and order by adopting military routine. His success
justified his theory. He had more applicants than he had places.

Richard knew all about the Tunbrook Military Institute. He had
carefully read its circular, and its rules and regulations. They did
not suit him. He was not a devotee of discipline, in its application to
himself. He was very impatient of restraint, as the reader has already
seen, and he did not like the idea of being sent to this Institute.

When his father had given him his final sentence, he retired to his
chamber. The shame which attended the discovery of his guilt still
rested heavily upon him, and he was in a more humble and tractable mood
than usual. Under ordinary circumstances he would have rebelled against
the decision of his father. He would have frightened his sister by
threatening to run away to sea. It is true, this thought occurred to
him on the present occasion; but Ben had told him enough about the life
of a sailor to convince him that he should not improve his condition by
such a course.

There seemed to be no alternative but passive obedience. He did not
want to go, but he felt that his father must certainly conquer if he
attempted to resist. He had always had his own way to a very great
extent. He had always been a conqueror himself--at least he felt so,
and he could not endure the thought of being compelled to yield
implicit obedience to any person.

At this time Richard's thoughts took a peculiar turn. The shame he
endured, the reproaches that had been heaped upon him, caused him to
feel that there was something wanting in his character. The path in
which he had been travelling, for the first time in his life seemed to
lead to destruction. When he considered that he had been detected in
the act of stealing, and of setting fire to a barn, and in practising a
gross and wicked deception, he felt that his road was down hill; that
he should become a dissolute and worthless man.

He was sitting on the stool of repentance. From a prudential penitence
he had arrived at a genuine one. Something must be done. There was
something to be conquered. There was a harder battle before him than
any he had yet fought. He was master of the boats, of the horses, of
the servants, and even of his companions at Whitestone; but there was
one whom he had never conquered--one that held him in leading-strings,
and was pulling him down to ruin and destruction.

He must conquer himself.

Richard had had such thoughts as these before, but they had never
seemed so substantial as now. He felt the necessity of reforming his
life and character--of conquering himself, his greatest enemy. As he
looked upon his dissolute course, upon the events of the preceding
night, and its fellow a week before, he was disgusted with himself, and
wondered how he could so easily embrace his besetting sin.

While he was engaged in these reflections, his sister Bertha entered
his chamber. She had heard of the sentence, and she had come to comfort
him. Her eyes were still red with weeping, for she had almost lost hope
of the reform of her brother.

"I have been trying to see you for the last two hours," said she, as
she sat down by his side.

"Don't cry any more, Berty," said he, with unwonted tenderness.

"I will try not to do so, Richard. Father says you are going away
to-morrow."

"Yes, Berty, I suppose I am," replied he, with an appearance of
resignation.

"I shall miss you very much."

"It will be a good miss--won't it?"

"Why, Richard! You don't think so--do you?"

"Well, I have been a kind of nuisance to you."

"No, Richard; don't say that."

"I have been in all sorts of scrapes."

"I would a great deal rather have you stay at home, and--and----"

"And be a good boy," added Richard.

"That's what I mean, Richard."

"Berty, I think I have sowed all my wild oats now."

"I hope so."

"I suppose I have been a very bad boy," said he, with a kind of
deprecating smile, as though he did not believe more than one half he
said.

"It was all those bad boys you went with; if it hadn't been for them,
you would have done very well. That Sandy Brimblecom hasn't done you
any good."

"I hope I haven't done him any hurt, Berty. I won't be mean, when I get
into trouble. I don't think Sandy is any worse than I am. I don't know
but that he is a little better. I suppose he and I must part company
now."

"It will be all for the best."

"Berty, I am off to-morrow. I have given you a great deal of trouble. I
mean to do better. I am going to turn over a new leaf."

"O, I hope so, Richard!"

"I mean so, this time."

"I am so glad!"

"Don't you think father will let me stay at home, if I do well?"

"Perhaps he will."

"I don't like the idea of being put into a strait jacket, and tied to a
bell rope."

"It would be hard for you."

"I can't stand it, any how. I have made up my mind to be a saint. I
intend to keep out of all scrapes, and behave with perfect propriety
all the time, night and day."

"I hope you are not jesting, Richard," said Bertha, who did not like
the facetious language with which he clothed his resolutions.

"I'm in earnest. I mean every word I say. I solemnly promise you that I
will be a pattern of propriety; but I don't like the Tunbrook Military
Institute. I don't like the idea of being tied down to Colonel
Brockridge's little finger; of being drummed and fifed here and there;
and of reciting a Latin lesson at six o'clock in the morning, after an
hour's drill on the parade ground. Berty, to tell you the truth, I
don't believe I shall be able to keep my good resolutions, if I am to
be tied to a bell rope, or have to move by the tap of a drum."

"I hope you will."

"If I could stay at home, and have my pony and my boat, I should do
first rate."

Whatever the experienced reader may think of Richard's sincerity, he
was uttering an honest opinion. He sincerely feared that his courage
would not be equal to the work of submitting to the discipline of
Tunbrook, and conquering himself, at one and the same time. Tunbrook
and Colonel Brockridge seemed to be formidable obstacles in the path of
reform.

"You would soon get used to the discipline of the Institute," suggested
Bertha.

"I might get used to it as the old man's horse got used to living upon
shavings--when he died. If I go, I shall try to submit; but I don't
want to go."

"I don't see how it can be avoided. Father is determined that you shall
go."

"You can save me from this strait jacket, if you will, Berty."

"What can I do, Richard?"

"Mr. Presby will do any thing you ask him to do. You can tell him that
you think it would injure me to be sent to Tunbrook. Then he can talk
with father about it; and father will do any thing that Mr. Presby
wishes."

Bertha promised to speak to Mr. Presby about the matter, and she did so
at once; but instead of Bertha convincing him that it would injure
Richard to be sent to the Military School, he convinced her that it
would be the best thing in the world for him.

"I am afraid I spoiled my own children by over indulgence, and I cannot
counsel your father to do the same thing," said the old gentleman, with
deep feeling.

Bertha returned to her brother with his answer. Richard was not angry,
as she feared he would be, and this was a very hopeful sign. But he
went over his argument against strait jackets, bell ropes, and drums
and fifes, once more, and then proposed that he should be put on
probation for one or two months; and if he did any thing wrong, he
would submit without a murmur.

Bertha went to Mr. Presby again, and was so far successful that the old
gentleman agreed to speak with Mr. Grant in the evening. He kept his
promise, but the father carried a stronger argument than the friend of
the family. Richard was doomed to go to the Military Institute, and the
fact was patent to him before he retired. He felt as though he wanted
to submit, but the unconquered enemy that had so often led him astray
was rebellious.

He did not sleep well that night. He was excited by the prospect before
him. His good resolutions seemed to be very shaky, and he found himself
running away from them. When he heard the clock strike twelve, he
actually jumped out of bed, under a sudden impulse, fully resolved to
run away and go to sea. He thought he would take the Greyhound, and
make his way down to the city and ship the next day. He put on a
portion of his clothes, under the influence of this impulse.

"This would be becoming a saint with a vengeance!" said he to himself,
as he threw off his clothes, and got into bed again. "I told Bertha I
would try to submit, and I will."

This was the first decided advantage which Richard had gained over his
great enemy; but the battle was a mere skirmish with the outposts of
the potent foe. It was a victory, however, and it strengthened him. It
improved the morale of his fighting element.

He had resisted temptation, and angels ministered unto him. While they
ministered, peace came, and he fell asleep.

At an early hour in the morning he was called by his father. With the
assistance of Bertha he packed his trunk and prepared himself for the
journey. He was sad, but submissive. At nine o'clock, having bid adieu
to all his friends, and taken a sorrowful survey of Woodville, he and
his father were driven down to the railroad station.

Before night they reached Tunbrook, and Richard was introduced to the
terrible Colonel Brockridge. He was a little man of fifty, with great
bushy red whiskers, whose whole face seemed to be eclipsed by the
wonderful sharpness of his eyes. He shook hands with Richard, spoke to
him very kindly, and hoped they should be good friends. The new recruit
was shown to his quarters, as his room was called, and Mr. Grant took
his leave.

Richard felt that he was alone with the future.




CHAPTER X.

RICHARD LEARNS THE MEANING OF RIGHT ABOUT FACE.


The apartment to which Richard was shown was called "Barrack B." There
were ten rooms of this kind, known by the first ten letters of the
alphabet, omitting J. Each barrack contained twenty narrow iron
bedsteads, and no two boys were allowed to occupy the same bed. At the
head of each barrack, there was an alcove large enough to contain the
bed of the assistant teacher, who had charge of the pupils in the room.
This apartment of the instructor was screened from the view of the boys
by a curtain, so that he could see without being seen, when he desired
to do so.

There was a small closet in the wall between every two beds, for the
use of the boys, and Richard was directed to transfer the contents of
his trunk to this receptacle, by Mr. Gault, the assistant teacher in
charge of Barrack B. Richard opened the trunk, and then sat down upon
the bed to wait until the instructor should retire, for he did not care
to exhibit his wardrobe to a stranger.

"Proceed, if you please," said Mr. Gault.

"I think I will do this business by myself," replied Richard.

"According to a rule of the Institute, the wardrobe of each pupil must
be inspected," said the teacher.

"Inspected?" asked the recruit. "What for?"

"To see that no improper articles are brought in."

"I would rather not," added Richard.

"The rule is imperative," said Mr. Gault, decidedly.

The strait jacket had already begun to oppress the male heir of
Woodville, and he was disposed to resent the indignity, as he deemed
it; but almost the last words of Bertha had been an injunction to
observe the rules of the school, however distasteful they might be.
Reluctantly, and with the feeling that he was sacrificing his
independence, Richard transferred his clothing to the closet assigned
to him. Mr. Gault carefully watched the proceeding, and confiscated
several articles which were declared to be contraband, among which were
some cakes and other sweetmeats, prepared by Bertha, and several
yellow-covered novels he had purchased in Whitestone.

"Can't I have those things?" asked Richard.

"No, sir; no boy belonging to the Institute is allowed to eat cake on
the premises."

"Why not?"

"We do not explain to boys the reason for every thing we do," replied
Mr. Gault, rather curtly.

"I don't think you have any right to take my property away from me."

"I don't ask your opinion, and it is of no value whatever."

"You needn't be so crusty about it," said Richard, who was wholly
unused to this style of remark.

"We tolerate no impudence here. If you use an expression of that kind
again, you will be put under arrest, and spend the night in the guard
house."

Richard's blood was beginning to boil, and he was tempted to pitch into
the insolent instructor who dared to use language of that kind to the
only son of the proprietor of Woodville. But he did not want to get
into trouble the first day; besides, the words "arrest" and "guard
house" had a very ominous sound to him.

"Can't I have my books? They are not cake," asked Richard.

"No, sir; you cannot. Such trash as that is not fit for boys to read.
Your property will be kept safely for you, and when you leave the
school, you can have it again."

"The cake will not be very good then."

"You can do any thing you please with it, except eat it. You can sell
it, or give it away."

"You can do what you like with it."

"Very well. Have you any money about you?"

"I have."

"You will hand it to me, and a receipt for the amount will be forwarded
to your father."

"Do you mean to rob me?" demanded Richard, his face flushing at this
new indignity.

"I refer you to the regulations of the Institute. We provide every
thing the boys require, and they have no more use for money than they
have for wings."

"I won't give up my money."

"Very well, sir. I will refer the matter to Colonel Brockridge, and you
may settle it with him. Follow me, if you please," said Mr. Gault,
after Richard had locked the trunk containing the contraband articles.

The new scholar followed the teacher to the office of the principal on
the first floor. He was very uneasy and nervous, and almost wished he
had given up his money. But he felt that the tutor was carrying things
altogether too far. It was subjecting him to a needless indignity.

"This young man refuses to give up his money," said Mr. Gault to the
colonel, who was writing at his desk.

Without waiting to ascertain the result of the interview, the assistant
departed, leaving the obdurate youth alone with the owner of those
terribly sharp eyes.

"Have you read our regulations, Grant?" said Colonel Brockridge,
turning round and looking the recruit full in the face.

But there was a pleasant smile upon his face, and his words were
gentle, and even respectful.

"Yes, sir," replied Richard.

"Then you are aware that pupils are not allowed to have money--are you
not?"

"Yes, sir."

"Boys are tempted to purchase various articles which injure them, such
as cakes and candy, and improper books. Therefore we think it is better
that they should not be provided with money. Is this a satisfactory
explanation?"

"I don't know but it is, sir," replied Richard, doubtfully.

"It satisfies me, at any rate. How much money have you?"

"About five dollars."

"Now, Grant, if you will hand it to me, I will give you a receipt for
it, or send it to your father. I will keep it, subject to your order,
if you desire it."

"I don't like the rule, sir."

"I think it is an excellent rule. But you waste my time. Your decision,
Grant."

"I should like to think of the matter, sir."

"Your decision at once," said the colonel; and Richard saw the sharp
eyes grow a shade sharper, and heard the deep voice grow a shade
sterner.
