cheaper, and very often bile tender." 

"Thank you," was the amused rejoinder. "The dif 
ference in the price is no consideration where the safety of 
our teeth is concerned." 

Mrs. Hunt suffered not these scruples to hinder her 
negotiations with knowing poultry merchants. A cent less 
per pound would be three cents saved upon the chicken, 



 

and three cents would buy enough turnips for dinner. It 
is an ignorant housekeeper who needs to be informed that 
stewed chicken "goes further" than the same fowl made 
into any other savory combination. Mrs. Hunt's stews were 
concocted after a receipt of her own invention. Imprimis, 
one chicken, weight varying from two and a half to three 
pounds ; salt pork, a quarter of a pound ; gravy abundant ; 
dumplings innumerable. It was all " stew ;" and if Jean- 
nie's share was but a bare drumstick, swimming in gravy 
and buried in boiled dough, there was the chicken flavor 
through the portion, 

For classic antecedent the reader is referred to the fable 
of the rose-scented clay. 

To leave the principal dish, which justice to Mrs. Hunt's 
genius would not permit me to pass with briefer mention, 
there were, besides, potatoes, served whole (mashed ones 
required butter and cream), turnips, and bread, and Mrs. 
Hunt presided over a shallow platter of pork and beans. 
What was left of that dish would be warmed over to piece 
out breakfast next morning. The children behaved well, 
and the most minute by-law of table etiquette was observed 
with a strictness that imparted an air of ceremonious restraint to the meal. If Mrs. Hunt's young people were not 
in time finished ladies and gentlemen, it was not her fault, 
nor was it for the lack of drilling. 

" Do as J tell you, not as I do," were her orders in these 
matters. Since Lucy had completed her education, the 
mother added : " Look at your sister ; she is never 
awkward !" This was true : Lucy was born the fine lady. 
Refinement of manner and grace of movement, an instinc 
tive avoidance of whatever looked common or underbred 
were a part of her nature. Only the usage of years had 
accustomed her to her mother's somewhat "fussy" ways. 

Had she met her in company as Mrs. Anybody else, she 


would have yielded her the right of way with a feeling of 
amazement and amiable pity that one who meant so well 
should so often overdo the thing she aimed to accomplish 
easily and gracefully. Following out her excellent system 
of training, the worthy dame demanded as diligent and 
alert waiting from her buther as if she were having a dinner 
party. The eggless rice pudding was brought on with a 
state that was absolutely ludicrous ; but the family were 
used to the unsubstantial show, and took it as a matter of 
course. 

After the meal was over Mrs. Hunt withdrew to the 
kitchen for a short conference with the cook and a sharp 
glance through the closets. It was impossible that the 
abstraction of six slices of bread from the baking of the 
preceding day, three thick pieces of cheese, and more than 
half of the cold meat she had decided would, in the form of 
hash, supply the other piece of the breakfast at which the 
beans were to assist, should escape her notice. 

Mr. Hunt was reading the evening paper by the drop- 
light in the sitting room, Lucy was busy with her shawl, 
and Sarah told a simple tale in a low voice to Jeannie, as 
she leaned upon her lap, when the wife and mother entered, 
with something like a bluster. All present looked up, and 
each one remarked the cloud upon her brow. 

" What is the matter, mother ?" said Mr. Hunt, in a tone 
not free from alarm. 

" I am worried ! That's the whole of it ! I am down 
right vexed with you, Sarah, and surprised, too! What 
upon earth possessed you, child, to take that beggar into my 
kitchen to-day ? After all I have told you and tried to 
learn you about these shameful impostors ! I declare I was 
beat out when I heard it. And to throw away provisions 
and clothes upon such a brat !" 

Lucy opened her great eyes at her sister, and Mr. Hunt 



 

looked perplexedly towards Ms favorite, for at heart he was 
partial to his second child. 

" I took the poor creature to the fire, mother, because she 
was wet and cold ; I fed her because she was hungry ; I 
gave her some old, warm clothes of mine because hers were 
thin and soaked with rain." 

" Poor little girl !" murmured Jeannie, compassionately. 

Sarah's hand closed instantly over the little fingers. The 
simple-hearted babe understood and sympathized with her 
motive and act better than did her wiser elders. 

" Oh, I have no doubt she told a pitiful story, and shed 
enough tears to wet her through, if the rain had not done 
it already. If you listen to what these wretches say, and 
undertake to relieve their wants, you will soon have not a 
dress to your back nor a house over your head. Why 
didn't you send her to some society for the relief of the 
poor ?" 

" I did not know where to find one, ma 'am." 

This plain truth, respectfully uttered, confounded Mrs. 
Hunt for a second. 

" Mrs. James is one of the managers in a Benevolent As 
sociation," she said, recovering herself. " You had ought 
to have given your beggar her address." 

" Even if I had known that fact, mother, the girl would 
have been v obliged to walk half a mile hi the storm to find 
this one manager. What do you suppose Mrs. James would 
have done for her that was not in my power to perform ?" 

" She would have asked the child whereabouts she lived, 
and to-morrow she would have gone to hunt her up. If 
she found all as she had been told, which is not likely these 
creatures don't give a right direction once in ten times why, 
she would have brought the case before the board at their 
next meeting, and they would help them, if neither of her 
parents was a drinking character." 



 

" God help the poor !" ejiaculated Sarah, energetically. 
" God help the poor, if this is man's style of relieving his 
starving brother ! Mother, do you think that hunger 
pinches any the less when the famished being is told that 
next week or next month may bring him one good meal ? 
Will the promise of a bushel of coal or a blanket, to be 
given ten days hence, warm the limbs that are freezing to 
night ? Is present help for present need, then, always un 
safe, imprudent, insane ?" 

" That all sounds very fine, my dear." Mrs. Hunt grew 
cool as her daughter waxed warm. " But when you have 
seen as much of the world as I have, you will understand 
how necessary it is to be careful about believing all that we 
hear. Another thing you must not forget, and that is that 
we are not able to give freely, no matter how much disposed 
we may be to do so. Its pretty hard for a generous person 
to say No, but it can't be helped. People in our circumstances must learn this lesson." Mrs. Hunt sighed at 
thought of the curb put upon her benevolent desires by 
bitter necessity. " And after all, very few you've no idea 
how few of these pretended sufferers are really in want." 

This preluded a recital of sundry barefaced impositions 
and successful swindles practised upon herself and acquaintances, to which Mr. Hunt subjoined certain of his personal 
experiences, all tending to establish the principle that in a 
vast majority of cases of seeming destitution the supplicant 
was an accomplished rogue, and the giver of alms the victim 
of his own soft heart and a villain's wiles. Jeannie drank 
in every syllable, until her ideal beggar quite equalled the 
ogre who would have made a light supper off of Hop-o -my- 
Thumb and brothers. 

" You gave this match-girl no money, I hope ?" said Mrs. 
Hunt, at length. 

" I did not, madam. I had none to give her." Impelled 



 

by her straightforward sense of honesty that would not 
allow her to receive commendation for prudence she had 
not shown, she said, bravely : " but I lent her my umbrella 
upon her promise to return it to-morrow." 

" WELL !" 

Mrs. Hunt dropped her hands in her lap, and stared in 
speechless dismay at her daughter. Even her husband felt 
it his duty to express his disapprobation. 

" That was very unwise, my daughter. You will never 
see it again." 

"I think differently, father." 

" You are too easily imposed upon, Sarah. There is not 
the least probability that your property will be returned. 
Was it a good umbrella ?" 

" It was the one I always use." 

" Black silk, the best make, with a carved ivory handle 
cost six dollars a month ago !" gasped Mrs. Hunt. " I 
never heard of such a piece of shameful imprudence in all 
my born days ! and I shouldn't wonder if you never once 
thought to ask her where she lived, that you might send a 
police officer after it, if the little thief didn't bring it back 
to you?" 

" I did think of it." Sarah paused, then forced out the 
confession she foresaw would subject her to the charge of 
yet more ridiculous folly. " I did think of it, but con 
cluded to throw the girl upon her honor, not to suggest the 
theft to her by insinuating a doubt of her integrity." 

Mr. Hunt was annoyed with and sorry for the culprit, yet 
he could not help smiling at this high-flown generosity of 
confidence. " You are certainly the most unsophisticated 
girl of your age I ever met with, my daughter. I shall not 
mind the loss of the umbrella if it prove to be the means 
of giving you a lesson in human nature. In this world, 
dear, it will not do to wear your heart upon your sleeve. 



 

Never believe a pretty story until you have had the oppor 
tunity to ascertain for yourself whether it is true or false." 
And with these titbits of worldly wisdom, the cashier 
picked up his paper. 

" Six dollars ! I declare I don't know what to say to you, 
Sarah !" persisted the ruffled mother. " You cannot expect 
me to buy you another umbrella this season. You must 
give up your walks in damp weather after this. I can't say 
that I'm very sorry for that, though. I never did fancy 
your traipsing off two or three miles, rain or shine, like a 
sewing girl." 

" Very well, madam !" 

But, steadied by pride as was her voice, her heart sank at 
the possibility of resigning the exercise upon which she 
deemed that so much of her health, physical and mental, 
depended. These long, solitary walks were one of the un- 
American habits that earned for Sarah Hunt the reputation 
of eccentricity. They were usually taken immediately after 
breakfast, and few in the neighborhood who were abroad or 
happened to look out at that hour, were not familiar with 
the straight, proud figure, habited in its walking dress of 
gray and black, stout boots, and gray hat with black plume. 
It was a uniform selected by herself, and which her mother 
permitted her to assume, because it " looked genteel," and 
became the wearer. Especially did she enjoy these tramps 
when the threatening storm, in its early stages, kept others 
of her class and sex. at home. The untamed spirit found a 
fierce pleasure in wrestling with the wind; the hail that 
ushered in the snow-storm, as it beat in her face, called up 
lustre to the eye and warm color to the cheek. To a soul 
sickening of the glare and perfume of the artificial life to 
which she was confined, the roughest and wildest aspects of 
nature were a welcome change. 

I remember laughing heartily, as I doubt not you did 



 

also, dear reader, if you saw it, at a cut which appeared 
several years ago in the Punch department of Harper's 
Magazine. A " wee toddler," perhaps four years old, with 
a most lack-a-daisical expression upon her chubby visage, 
accosts her grandmother after this fashion : " I am tired of 
life, grandmamma ! The world is hollow, and my doll is 
stuffed with sawdust, and, if you please, ma 'am, I should 
like to go to a nunnery !" 

Yet, that there are natures upon which the feeling of emptiness and longing herein burlesqued seizes in mere babyhood 
is sadly true. And what wonder? From their cradles, 
hundreds of children, in our so-called better classes, are fed 
upon husks. A superficial education, in which all that is 
not showy accomplishment is so dry and uninviting that the 
student has little disposition to seek further for the rich 
kernel, the strong meat of knowledge, is the preparatory 
course to a premature introduction into the world, to many 
the only phase of life they are permitted to see, a scene 
where all is flash and froth, empty bubbles of prizes, chased 
by men and women with empty heads, and oh, how often 
empty, aching hearts ! Outside principles, outside affections, outside smiles, and most pitable of all, outside piety ! 
Penury of heart and stomach at home ; abroad a parade 
of reckless extravagance and ostentatious profession of fine 
feeling and liberal sentiments ! 

" Woe," cried the Preacher, " to them that make haste 
to be rich !" If he had lived in our day, in what biting 
terms of reprobation and contempt would he have declaimed against the insane ambition of those who forego 
the solid comforts of judicious expenditure of a moderate 
income would afford; spurn the holy quiet of domestic 
joys neglect soul with heart culture in their haste to seem 
rich, when Providence has seen that wealth is not to be 
desired for them ! Out upon the disgusting, indecent race 



 

and scramble! The worship of the golden calf is bad 
enough, but when this bestial idolatry rises to such a pitch 
of fanaticism, that in thousands of households, copies in 
pinchbeck and plated-ware are set up and served, the spectacle is too monstrous in its abomination ! This it is, that 
crowds our counting-rooms with bankrupts and our stateprisons with defaulters ; that is fast turning our ball-rooms 
and other places of fashionable rendezvous, into vile carica 
tures of foreign courts, foreign manners, and foreign vices ; 
while the people we ape our chosen models and exem 
plars hold their sides in inextinguishable laughter at the 
grave absurdity of our laborious imitation. It is no cause 
for marvel, that, in just retribution, there should be sent a 
panic-earthquake, every three years, to shake men to their 
senses. 

Such was the atmosphere in which Sarah Hunt had 
always lived. In the code subscribed to by her mother, 
and the many who lived and felt and panted and pushed as 
she did for social distinction, nothing was of real, absolute 
value except the hard cash. Gold and silver were facts. 
All things else were comparative in use and worth. The 
garment which, last winter, no lady felt dressed without, was 
an obsolete horror this season. The pattern of curtains and 
furniture that nearly drove the fortunate purchaser wild with 
delight, three years back, was now only fit for the auction 
room. In vain might the poor depleted husband plead for 
and extol their beauties. The fiat of fashion had gone forth, 
and his better half seasoned his food with lamentations, and 
moistened her pillow with tears until she carried her point. 
We have intimated that Sarah was a peculiar girl. Whence 
she derived her vigorous intellect ; her strong, original turn 
of thought ; her deep heart, was a puzzle to those who 
knew her parents. The mother was energetic, the father 
sensible, but both were commonplace, and followed, like 



 

industrious puppets, in the wake of others. They were 
pleased that Sarah brought home all the prizes offered at 
school, and both considered that she gained a right, by 
these victories, to pursue her studies at home, provided she 
did not obtrude her singular views and tastes upon other 
people. Mrs. Hunt sighed, frequently and loudly, in her 
presence, that her genius had not been for shell, or bead, or 
worsted work, instead of for reading volumes, that did not 
even decorate the show book-case in the library. 

" If you must have so many books, why don't you pick 
out them with the tasty bindings ?" she had asked her 
daughter more than once. " And I wish you would paint 
some bright, lively pictures, that would look handsome on 
the walls, instead of those queer men and women and 
cloudy things you have got up-stairs. I'd have em framed 
right away, and be real proud to tell who done them.

Sarah remained proof against such hints and temptations, 
and, shrinking more and more from the uncongenial whirl 
around her, she turned her eager, restless spirit into her 
secret, inner life, where, at times, it was flattered into content by the idealities upon which it was fed ; at others, 
ramped and raved, like any other chained wild thing. The 
sweetest drop of pleasure she had tasted for many a day 
was the thrill she experienced when the forlorn object she 
had rescued from the power of the storm stood before her, 
decently and comfortably clad. The rash confidence she 
had reposed in so suspicious a stranger was the outgoing 
of a heart too noble and true in every impulse to pause, for 
a moment, to speculate upon the chances of another's good 
or bad faith. The great world of the confessedly poor was 
an unknown field to her one she longed to explore. Her 
footsteps loitered more often near the entrance of some 
narrow, reeking street or alley, down which she had prom 
ised her mother not to go, than on the spacious pave, where 




over-dressed women and foppish men halted at, and hung 
around bewitching shop-windows. She wondered how such 
throngs of breathing beings contrived to exist in those 
fetid, cramped quarters ; how they lived, spoke, acted, felt. 
The great the of human brotherhood became daily more 
tense, as she pondered these things in her heart. 

On this particular day, as she sat, silent and thoughtful, 
at her needle, the chit-chat of her companions less heeded 
than the continual dropping of the rain without, the wail 
of the shivering wanderer caused a painful vibration 
through every nerve. The deed was done ! the experiment 
was tried. She was ashamed that an event so trivial held 
her eyes waking, far into the night. At least, she said to 
herself, she would not be without a lesson of some kind ; 
would learn whether deceit and falsehood prevailed in the 
lowest, as well as the higher ranks of society. If, as she 
still strove to believe would be the case, the child returned 
the borrowed property, she would make use of her, as the 
means of entering upon a new sphere of research and action. After so complete a refutation of her theories respecting the utter corruption of all people, who had not 
enough to eat and to wear, her mother could not withhold 
her consent to her petition that she might become a lay- 
missionary a present relief committee to a small portion 
of the suffering, toiling, ill-paid masses. She would then 
have a work to do something to call out energy and engage feeling in healthy exercise and soothed by the 
romantic vision, she fell asleep with a smile upon her lips. 

The morning dawned between breaking clouds, that soon 
left the sky clear and bright. All through the day Sarah 
watched for her visitor of the preceding day watched with 
nervousness she could not wholly conceal, from morn to 
night, for two, three days for a week. Then she looked 
no longer while at home; her question, at entering the 



 

house, after a drive or walk, ceased to be, " Has any thing 
been left for me?" So palpable was her disappointment 
that her father forbore to make any allusion to her loss, and 
Lucy, albeit she was somewhat obtuse to the finer points of 
her sister's character, good-naturedly interposed to change 
the subject, when her mother sought to improve the inci 
dent to her daughter's edification and future profit. Mr. 
Hunt was right in supposing that the " unsophisticated 
girl" had learned something. Whether she were happier or 
better for the lesson thus acquired was another thing. 

Once again Sarah had an opportunity for speech with her 
delinquent protege. Two months later she was passing 
through a by-street in a mean neighborhood, very far up 
town, in her morning ramble, when her progress was ar 
rested, for an instant, by two boys, who ran out of an alley 
across the walk. One overtook the other just in front of 
the lady, and catching him by his ragged collar, threw him 
down. 

" That's right ! beat him well ! I'll help !" screeched a . 
girl, rushing out of the court whence they had come. 

Grinning with delight, she flung herself upon the pros 
trate form and commenced a vigorous assault, accompanied 
by language alike foul and profane. 

Sarah recognized her instantly, and while she paused in 
mingled amazement and anger, the child looked up and saw 
her. In a twinkling she relinquished her grip of the boy's 
hair jumped up and sped back into the dirty alley, with 
the blind haste of guilty fear. 

Yes ! Mr. Hunt was a wise man, who knew the world, 
and trebly sage in her generation, was his spouse. If their 
daughter had never acknowledged this before, she did now, 
in her disgust and dismay at this utter overthrow of her 
dreams of the virtuous simplicity to be found in lowly 
homes, where riches and fashions were things unknown. 



 



CHAPTER III. 

SUMMER had come to the country with its bloom and its 
beauty, its harvests and its holidays. In town, its fever 
heat drew noisome smells from overcharged sewers, and 
the black, oily paste to which the shower that should have 
been refreshing had changed the dust of crowded thorough 
fares. Cleaner pavements, in the higher portions of the city, 
burned through shoe-soles ; glass radiated heat to polished 
stone, and stone radiated, in its turn, to brick, that waited 
until the evening to throw off its surplus caloric in hot, suffocating waves that made yet more oppressive the close 
nights. The gay procession of fashionable humming-birds 
had commenced their migrations, steamboats and excursion- 
craft multiplied at the wharves, and the iron steed put forth 
all his tremendous might to bear onward the long train of 
self-exiled travellers. 

The Hunts, too, must leave town ; Lucy must, at all 
events, have a full season, and a brilliant one, if possible, 
for it was her second summer, and much might depend 
upon it. Her mother would accompany her, of course ; and 
equally of course her father could not ; that is, he must return after escorting them to Saratoga, and spend the're 
mainder of the warm months at home. His business would 
not allow him to take an extended vacation. The boys were 
