ground to meet her. Perhaps he had as great an objection to eyes as she
had; for his removal of his cap in greeting was as cool as if she had
been a stranger; and so were his words.

"I have brought Black Maggie for you--will you do me the honour to try
her?"

Eleanor did not say she would not, and did not say anything. Hesitation
and embarrassment were the two pleasant feelings which possessed her
and forbade her to speak. She stood before the superb animal, which
shewed blood in every line of its head and beautiful frame; and looked
at it, and looked at the ground. Mr. Carlisle gently removed the
carnations from her hand, taking them into his own, then gave her the
reins of Black Maggie and put her into the saddle. In another minute
they were off, and out of the reach of observation. But Eleanor had
felt again, even in that instant or giving into her fingers the reins
which he had taken from the groom, the same thing that she had felt
last night--the expression of something new between them. She was in a
very divided state of mind. She had not told him he might take that
tone with her.

"There are two ways to the head of the valley," said the subject of her
thoughts. "Shall we take the circuit by the old priory, or go by the
moor?"

"By the moor," said Eleanor.

There, for miles, was a level plain road; they could ride any pace, and
she could stave off talking. Accordingly, as soon as they got quit of
human habitations, Eleanor gave Black Maggie secretly to understand
that she might go as fast as she liked. Black Maggie apparently
relished the intimation, for she sprang forward at a rate Eleanor by
experience knew nothing of. She had never been quite so well mounted
before. As swiftly and as easily as if Black Maggie's feet had been
wings, they flew over the common. The air was fresh, the motion was
quite sufficient to make it breezy; Eleanor felt exhilarated. All the
more because she felt rebellious, and the stopping Mr. Carlisle's mouth
was at least a gratification, though she could not leave him behind. He
had not mounted her better than himself. Fly as Black Maggie would, her
brown companion was precisely at her side. Eleanor had a constant sense
of that; but however, the ride was so capital, the moor so wild, the
summer air so delicious, that by degrees she began to grow soothed and
come down from rebellion to good humour. By and by, Black Maggie got
excited. It was with nothing but her own spirits and motion; quite
enough though to make hoofs still more emulous of wings. Now she flew
indeed. Eleanor's bridle rein was not sufficient to hold her in, or
make any impression. She could hardly see how they went.

"Is not this too much for you?" the voice of Mr. Carlisle said quietly.

"Rather--but I can't check her," said Eleanor; vexed to make the
admission, and vexed again when a word or two from the rider at her
side, who at the same moment leaned forward and touched Maggie's
bridle, brought the wild creature instantly not only from her mad
gallop but back to a very demure and easy trot. So demure, that there
was no longer any bar to conversation; but then Eleanor reflected she
could not gallop always, and they were almost off the plain road of the
moor. How beautiful the moor had been to her that morning! Now Eleanor
looked at Black Maggie's ears.

"How do you like her?" said Mr. Carlisle.

"Charming! She is perfection. She is delightful."

"She must learn to know her mistress," he rejoined, leaning forward
again and drawing Maggie's reins through his fingers. "Take her up a
little shorter--and speak to her the next time she does not obey you."

The flush rose to Eleanor's cheeks, and over her brow, and reddened her
very temples. She made no sort of answer, yet she knew silence was
answer, and that her blood was speaking for her. It was pretty
speaking, but extremely inconvenient. And what business had Mr.
Carlisle to take things for granted in that way? Eleanor began to feel
rebellious again.

"Do you always ride with so loose a rein?" began Mr. Carlisle again.

"I don't know--I never think about it. My pony is perfectly safe."

"So is Maggie--as to her feet; but in general, it is well to let
everything under you feel your hand."

"That is what you do, I have no doubt," thought Eleanor, and bit her
lip. She would have started into another gallop; but they were entering
upon a narrow and rough way where gallopping was inadmissible. It
descended gradually and winding among rocks and broken ground, to a
lower level, the upper part of the valley of the Ryth; a beautiful
clear little stream flowing brightly in a rich meadow ground, with
gently shelving, softly broken sides; the initiation of the wilder
scenery further down the valley. Here were the cottages Mr. Carlisle
had spoken of. They looked very picturesque and very inviting too;
standing on either side the stream, across which a rude rustic bridge
was thrown. Each cottage had its paling enclosure, and built of grey
rough stone, with deep sloping roofs and bright little casements, they
looked the very ideal of humble homes. No smoke rose from the chimneys,
and nobody was visible without or within.

"I want some help of you here," said Mr. Carlisle. "Do you like the
situation?"

"Most beautiful!" said Eleanor heartily. "And the houses are just the
thing."

"Will you dismount and look a little closer? We will cross the bridge
first."

They drew bridle before one of the cottages. Eleanor had all the mind
in the world to have thrown herself from Black Maggie's back, as she
was accustomed to do from her own pony; but she did not dare. Yesterday
she would have dared; to-day there was a slight indefinable change in
the manner of Mr. Carlisle towards herself, which cast a spell over
her. He stood beside Black Maggie, the carnations making a rosy spot in
the buttonhole of his white jacket, while he gave some order to the
groom--Eleanor did not hear what, for her mind was on something else;
then turned to her and took her down, that same indescribable quality
of manner and handling saying to all her senses that he regarded the
horse and the lady with the same ownership. Eleanor felt proud, and
vexed, and ashamed, and pleased; her mind divided between different
feelings; but Mr. Carlisle directed her attention now to the cottages.

It was impossible not to admire and be pleased with them. The exterior
was exceedingly homelike and pretty; within, there was yet more to
excite admiration. Nicely arranged, neatly and thoroughly furnished,
even to little details, they looked most desirable homes for any
persons of humble means, even though the tastes had not been equally
humble. From one to another Mr. Carlisle took Eleanor; displaying his
arrangements to a very silent observer; for though she thought all this
admiration, she hardly said anything. Between irritation, and pleasure,
and a pretty well-grown shyness, she felt very tongue-tied. At last,
after shewing her the view from the lattice of a nice little cottage
kitchen, Mr. Carlisle asked for her judgment upon what had been done.

"It is thoroughly excellent," said Eleanor. "They leave nothing to
wish. I have never seen such nice cottages. There is nobody in them
yet?"

"Is there any improvement to be made?"

"None to be desired, I think," said Eleanor. "They are just perfect
little homes. They only want the people now."

"And that is where I want your help. Do you think of any good families,
or poor people you approve of, that you would like to put in some of
these?"

Eleanor's thought flew instantly to two or three such families among
her poor friends; for she was a good deal of a Lady Bountiful, as far
as moderate means and large sympathy could go; and knew many of the
lower classes in her neighbourhood; but again she struggled with two
feelings, for the question had been put not in tone of compliment but
with a manner of simple consultation. She flushed and hesitated, until
it was put again.

"I know several, I think, that you would not dislike to have here, and
that would be very glad to come, Mr. Carlisle."

"Who are they?"

"One is Mrs. Benson, who lives on nothing with her family of eight
children, and brings them up well."

Mr. Carlisle took out his note-book.

"Another is Joe Shepherd and his wife; but they are an old couple;
perhaps you do not want old people here?"

He looked up from his note-book with a little smile, which brought the
blood tingling to Eleanor's brow again, and effectually drove away all
her ideas. She was very vexed with herself; she was never used to be so
troubled with blushing. She turned away.


"Suppose you sit down," said he, taking her hands and placing her in a
chair by the window. "You must have some refreshment, I think, before
we go any further." He left the cottage, and Eleanor looked out of the
open casement, biting her lips. The air came in with such a sweet
breath from the heathery moor, it seemed to blow vexation away. Yet
Eleanor was vexed. Here she was making admissions with every breath,
when she would fain have not made any. She wanted her old liberty, and
to dispose of it at her leisure if at all; and at least not to have it
taken from her. But here was Mr. Carlisle at her elbow again, and one
of his servants bringing dishes and glasses. The meats were spread on
the little table before which Eleanor sat, and Mr. Carlisle took
another chair.

"We will honour the house for once," he said smiling; "the future shall
be as the occupants deserve. Is this one to belong to some of your
protégés?"

"I have not the gift of foresight," said Eleanor.

"You have another sort of gift which will do quite as well. If you have
any choice, choose the houses in which Joe Shepherd, and Mrs. Benson,
and anybody else, shall thank you--and I will order the doors marked.
Which do you prefer?"

Eleanor was forced to speak. "I think this is one of the pleasantest
situations," she said flushing deeply again; "but the house highest up
the valley--"

"What of it?" said Mr. Carlisle, smiling at her.

"That would be best for Joe Shepherd, because of his business. It is
nearer the common."

"Joe Shepherd shall have it. Now will you do me the favour to eat
that," said he putting a piece of cold game on her plate. "Do not look
at it, but eat it. Your day's labour is by no means over."

It was easier to eat than to do nothing; and easier to look at her
plate than where her carnations gleamed on that white breast-ground. So
Eleanor eat obediently.

"The day is so uncommonly fine, how would you like to walk down the
valley as far as the old priory, and let the horses meet us there?"

"I am willing"--said Eleanor. Which she was, only because she was
ashamed or afraid to say that she wanted to gallop back by the moor,
the same way she had come. A long walk down the valley would give fine
opportunity for all that she dreaded in the way of conversation.
However, the order was given about the horses, and the walk began.

The way was at first a continuation of the valley in which the cottages
were situated; uncultivated, sweet, and wild. They were a good distance
beyond Barton's tower. The stream of the Ryth, not so large as it
became further down, sparkled along in a narrow meadow, beset with
flowers. Here and there a rude bridge crossed it; and the walkers
passed as they listed from side to side, wandering down the valley at
great leisure, remarking upon all sorts of things except what Eleanor
was dreading. The walk and talk went on without anything formidable.
Mr. Carlisle seemed to have nothing on his mind; and Eleanor, full of
what was on hers, only felt through his quiet demeanour that he was
taking things for granted in a very cool way. She was vexed and
irritated, and at the same time subdued. And then an opposite feeling
would stir, of pleasure and pride, at the place she was taking and the
relations she was assuming to the beautiful domain through which they
wandered. As they went down the valley it grew more and more lovely.
Luxuriant growths of ash and oak mingled with larches, crowned the
rising borders of the valley and crept down their sides, hanging a most
exquisite clothing of vegetation over the banks which had hitherto been
mostly bare. As they went, from point to point and in one after another
region of beauty, her companion's talk, quietly flowing on, called her
attention to one and another observation suggested by what they were
looking at; not as if it were a foreign matter, but with a tacit
intimation that it concerned her or had a right to her interest. It was
a long walk. They were some time before reaching the old tower; then a
long stretch of beautiful scenes lay between them and the old priory
ruins. This part of the valley was in the highest degree picturesque.
The sides drew together, close and rocky and overshadowed with a
thicket of trees. The path of the river became steep and encumbered;
the way along its banks grew comparatively rough and difficult. The day
was delicious, without even a threatening of rain; yet the sun in some
places was completely shut out from the water by the overgrown,
overhanging sides of rock and wood which shut in the dell. Conversation
was broken here, by the pleasant difficulty of pursuing the way. Here
too flowers were sweet and the birds busy. The way was enough to
delight any lover of nature; and it was impossible not to be delighted.
Nevertheless Eleanor hailed for a sake not its own, every bit of broken
ground and rough walking that made connected conversation impossible;
and then was glad to see the grey walls of the priory, where the horses
were to meet them. Once in the saddle again--she would be glad to be
there!

The horses were not in sight yet; they strolled into the ruin. It was
lovely to-day; the sunlight adding its brightening touch to all that
moss and ivy and lichen and fern had done. They sauntered up what had
been an aisle of the church; carpeted now with soft shaven turf, close
and smooth.

"The priory was founded a great while ago," said Mr. Carlisle, "by one
of the first Lords of Rythdale, on account of the fact that he had
slain his own brother in mortal combat. It troubled his mind, I
suppose, even in those rough times."

"And he built the church to soothe it."

"Built the church and founded the establishment; gave it all the lands
we have passed through to-day, and much more; and great rights on hill
and dale and moor. We have them nearly all back again--by one happy
chance and another."

"What was this?" said Eleanor, seating herself on a great block of
stone, the surface of which was rough with decay.

"This was a tombstone--tradition says, of that same slain Lord of
Rythdale--but I think it very hypothetical. However, your fancy can
conjure back his image, if you like, lying where you sit; covered with
the armour he lived his life in, and probably with hands joined to make
the prayers his life had rendered desirable."

"He had not the helmet--" thought Eleanor. She got up to look at the
stone; but it was worn away; no trace of the knight in armour who had
lain there was any longer to be seen. What long ago times those were!

"And then the old monks did nothing else but pray," she remarked.

"A few other things," said her companion; "if report is true. But they
said a great many prayers, it is certain. It was what they were
specially put here for--to do masses for that old stone figure that
used to lie there. They were paid well for doing it. I hope they did
it."

The wind stirred gently through the ruin, bringing a sweet scent of
herbs and flowers, and a fern or an ivy leaf here and there just moved
lightly on its stalk.

"They must have lived a pleasant sort of life," said Eleanor
musingly,--"in this beautiful place!"

"Are you thinking of entering a monastery?" said her companion smiling.
It brought back Eleanor's consciousness, which had been for a moment
forgotten, and the deep colour flashed to her face. She stood confused.
Mr. Carlisle did not let her go this time; he took both her hands.

"Do you think I am going to be satisfied with only negative answers
from you?" said he changing his tone. "What have you got to say to me?"

Eleanor struggled with herself. "Nothing, Mr. Carlisle."

"Your mother has conveyed to you my wishes?"

"Yes," said Eleanor softly.

"What are yours?"

She hesitated, held at bay, but he waited; and at last with a little of
her frank daring breaking out, she said, still in her former soft
voice, "I would let things alone."

"Suppose that could not be,--would you send me away, or let me come
near to you?"

Eleanor could not send him away; but he would not come near. He stood
keeping her hands in a light firm grasp; she felt that he knew his hold
of her; her head bowed in confusion.

"Speak, darling," he said. "Are you mine?"

Eleanor shrank lower and lower from his observation; but she answered
in a whisper,--"I suppose so."

Her hands were released then, only to have herself taken into more
secure possession. She had given herself up; and Mr. Carlisle's manner
said that to touch her cheek was his right as well as his pleasure.
Eleanor could not dispute it; she knew that Mr. Carlisle loved her, but
the certainly thought the sense of power had great charms for him: so,
she presently thought, had the exercise of it.

"You are mine now," he said,--"you are mine. You are Eleanor Carlisle.
But you have not said a word to me. What is my name?"

"Your name!" stammered Eleanor,--"Carlisle."

"Yes, but the rest?"

"I know it," said Eleanor.

"Speak it, darling?"

Now Eleanor had no mind to speak that or anything else upon compulsion;
it should be a grace from her lips, not the compliance with a
requisition; her spirit of resistance sprung up. A frank refusal was on
her tongue, and her head, which had been drooping, was thrown back with
an infinitely pretty air of defiance, to give it. Thus she met Mr.
Carlisle's look; met the bright hazel eyes that were bent upon her,
full of affection and smiling, but with something else in them as well;
there was a calm power of exaction. Eleanor read it, even in the
half-glance which took in incongruously the graceful figure and easy
attitude; she did not feel ready for contention with Mr. Carlisle; the
man's nature was dominant over the woman's. Eleanor's head stooped
again; she spoke obediently the required words.

"Robert Macintosh."

The kisses which met her lips before the words were well out, seemed to
seal the whole transaction. Perhaps it was Eleanor's fancy, but to her
they spoke unqualified content both with her opposition and her
yielding. She was chafed with the consciousness that she had been
obliged to yield; vexed to feel that she was not her own mistress; even
while the kisses that stopped her lips told her how much love mingled
with her captor's power. There was no questioning that fact; it only
half soothed Eleanor.

Mr. Carlisle bade her sit down and rest, while he went to see if the
horses were there. Eleanor sat down dreamily on the old tombstone, and
in the space of three minutes went over whole fields of thought. Her
mind was in a perverse state. Before her the old tower of the ruined
priory rose in its time-worn beauty, with the young honours of the ivy
clinging all about it; on either side of her stretched the grey, ivied
and mossy, crumbling walls. It was a magnificent place; if not her own
mistress, it was a pleasant thing to be mistress of such as that; and a
vision of gay grandeur floated over her mind. Still, in contrast with
that vision, the quiet, ruined priory tower spoke of a different
life--brought up a separate vision; of unworldly possessions, aims,
hopes, and occupations; it was not familiar to Eleanor's mind, yet now
somehow it rose upon her, with the feeling of that once-wanted, still
desired,--only she had forgotten it--armour of security. Why did she
think of it now? was it because Eleanor's mind was in that disordered
state which lets everything come to the surface by turns; or because
she was still suffering, from vexation, and her spirit chose contraries
with a natural readiness and relish? It was not more than three
minutes, but Eleanor travelled far in dream-land; so far that the
sudden feeling of two hands upon her shoulders, brought her back with
even a visible start. She was rallied and laughed at; then her hand was
put upon Mr. Carlisle's arm and so Eleanor was walked out to where
Black Maggie stood waiting for her. Of course she felt that her
engagement was to be made known to all the world immediately. Mr.
Carlisle's servant must know it now. It seemed to Eleanor that fine
bands of cobwebs had been cast round her, binding her hands and feet,
which loved their liberty. The feeling made one little imprudent burst.
As Mr. Carlisle put Maggie's reins into her hand, he repeated what he
had before said, that Eleanor should use her voice if the bridle failed
to win obedience.

"She is not of a rebellious disposition," he added.

"Do you read dispositions?" said Eleanor, gathering up the reins. He
stood at her saddle-bow.

"Sometimes."

"Do you know mine?"

"Partially."

"It is what you say Black Maggie's is not."

"Is it? Take the reins a little shorter, Eleanor."

It is difficult to say how much there may be in two short words; but as
Mr. Carlisle went round to the other side and mounted, he left his
little lady in a state of fume. Those two words said so plainly to
Eleanor's ear, that her announcement was neither denied nor disliked.
Nay, they expressed pleasure; the sort of pleasure that a man has in a
spirited horse of which he is master. It threw Eleanor's mind into a
tumult, so great that for a minute or two she hardly knew what she was
about. But for the sound, sweet good temper, which in spite of
Eleanor's self-characterising was part of her nature, she would have
been in a rage. As it was, she only handled Black Maggie in a more
stately style than she had cared about at the beginning of the ride;
putting her upon her paces; and so rode through all the village, in a
way that certainly pleased Mr. Carlisle, though he said nothing about
it. He contrived however to aid in the soothing work done by Black
Maggie's steps, so that long before Ivy Lodge was reached Eleanor's
smile came free and sweet again, and her lip lost its ominous curve.

"You are a darling!" Mr. Carlisle whispered as he took her down from
her horse.

Eleanor went on into the drawing-room. He followed her. Nobody was
there.

"What have you to say to me, Eleanor?" he said as he held her hand
before parting.

"Nothing whatever, Mr. Carlisle." Eleanor's frank brilliant smile
gleamed mischievously upon him.

"Will you not give me a word of kindness before I go?"

"No! Mr. Carlisle, if I had my own way," said Eleanor switching her
riding-whip nervously about her habit,--"I would be my own mistress for
a good while longer."

"Shall I give you back your liberty?" said he, drawing her into his
arms. Eleanor was silent. Their touch manifested no such intention. He
bent his head lower and said softly, "Kiss me, Eleanor."

There was, as before, just that mingling of affection and exaction
which conquered her. She knew all she was giving, but she half dared
not and half cared not to refuse.

"You little witch--" said he as he took possession of the just
permitted lips,--"I will punish you for your naughtiness, by taking you
home very soon--into my own management."

Mrs. Powle was in Eleanor's room when she entered; waiting there for
her.

"Well Eleanor," she began,--"is it settled? Are you to be Lady
Rythdale?"

"If Mr. Carlisle has his will, ma'am."

"And what is your will?"

"I have none any longer. But if you and he try to hurry on the day,
mamma, it shall never come,--never!"

Mrs. Powle thought she would leave that matter in more skilful hands;
and went away well satisfied.




CHAPTER V.

AT THE COTTAGE.


