was very limited.
"You know the shape of the letter A?"
"I do."
"Well, that boat has been running up one leg of the A, and I have been
running up the other; so, you see, we must be coming nearer together. I
had to run this way in order to use the wind to the best advantage."
"But you will come together in this way in a few moments."
"No; we are as near now as we can be, unless that boat sails faster than
we do. I shall continue to sail in a straight line, but I shall get
ahead of the other if she does not change her course. She cannot cut me
out now, at any rate."
Probably Lily was willing to talk of this subject to banish more painful
thoughts from her mind, though it is not likely that she clearly
comprehended the tactics of the skipper of the Isabel.
"Don't you think I had better call Cyd and Quin?" asked she, after she
had again glanced at the position of the pursuing boat.
"No, let them sleep. We will not call them till it is necessary to do
so," replied Dan.
"Do you think we can escape them?" asked she, anxiously.
"I cannot tell, Lily. I hope so. It depends entirely upon the wind. If
the breeze should die out, of course we could make no progress at all."
"Do you think the wind will die out?" said she, nervously.
"I can't tell, Lily. I hope not, I pray not."
"Suppose it should die out, Dan?" added she, moving up nearer to the
skipper.
"If we lose the wind there is nothing to prevent the boat from
overtaking us at once."
"O, dear!" shuddered Lily, moving up still nearer to him who was her
only earthly protector.
"Why do you tremble so, Lily?" asked Dan, as he took her hand and
pressed it in his own, perhaps thinking that he might thus impart to her
some of his own steadiness.
"Because I am so terribly frightened," replied she, with quivering lips.
"I would rather die than be taken; and I have been thinking that I would
throw myself into the lake if the boat catches us."
"You shall not be taken, Lily," said Dan, his lips compressed, and his
teeth tightly closed, evincing the determination with which he had
resolved to meet the slave-hunters, if they attempted to lay their
polluting hands upon the gentle girl by his side.
"What can you do against such men as those?"
"I can fight, Lily; I would do so to save myself, but more to save you."
"O Heaven! If I should be taken! What would become of me?"
"No, no, Lily: don't take on so," said Dan, as he passed his arm around
her waist--a familiarity in which he had never before indulged, but
which was done only as a father clasps his child--to inspire her with
more confidence, to assure her that she was in the care of one who was
able and willing to save her from the dreadful fate that impended.
"I wish I could be brave as you are, Dan," said she, confidingly; for
the expedient of her devoted friend seemed not to be without some
effect. "You don't appear to be at all alarmed."
"Because I have firmly resolved not to be taken myself, and not to let
you be taken."
"I suppose they only want Quin."
"They cannot have him. He is a fugitive, like ourselves, and I don't
believe God would permit us to escape if we should wickedly abandon
him."
"Nor I; we won't do that. We will all be taken together," said Lily,
whose sympathy for the hunted runaway seemed, for the moment, to give
her new courage.
"Do you suppose they know any thing about us?" asked she.
"Perhaps they do. I suppose Colonel Raybone has sent hunters in every
direction for us, and has probably offered a reward."
"Then we shall certainly be taken," answered Lily, with a shudder.
"We will not be taken, Lily, whoever pursues us."
"Hallo! In the boat there!" shouted a man of the pursuing party.
The slave-hunters were now within less than a quarter of a mile of the
Isabel, for they had been gaining upon her by a vigorous use of their
oars. The boat which contained them was now exactly astern of the
schooner.
"Hallo!" replied Dan, who, knowing that the men could not talk and row
to the best advantage, was quite willing to converse with them.
"What boat's that?" shouted the spokesman of the slave-hunters.
"Captain Barrett's," replied Dan, whose virtue was not sufficiently
developed to induce him to tell the truth in his present perilous
situation.
"Where from?"
"Down below Brashear," answered Dan, who had previously made up his
mind what to say if any conversation with the pursuers should become
necessary.
"What ye doin up here?"
"Came up with a party."
"Seen ary runaway nigger in the water?"
"No," shouted Dan, promptly.
The question filled him with hope, for it assured him the slave-hunters
had not been near enough even to hear the report of the fowling-pieces
when he fired them; or, at least, not near enough to discover who had
fired them.
"Didn't ye see him?" asked the pursuers again.
"No."
"Gossifus! Wha--wha--wha--what's de matter?" demanded Cyd, rushing up
from the cabin with Quin, both of them having been awakened from their
slumbers by the voice of the skipper.
"Silence, Cyd!" said Dan, in a low, decided tone.
"Hush, Cyd!" added Lily, in a whisper. "Don't speak a word."
"Wha--wha--wha----"
"Hush, Cyd!" repeated Lily, who seemed, in the moment of danger, to be
endowed with a self-possession at variance with her former timidity.
"Where you bound now?" called the slave-hunter.
"Home," replied Dan.
They asked no further questions for a time, and Dan saw, with a thrill
of satisfaction, that they were lying upon their oars. He hoped that his
answers had convinced them the runaway was not on board; but in this he
was disappointed. He heard the men in the boat talking together, though
he could not make out what they said. When the conference was ended,
they renewed their efforts to overtake the Isabel.
"Hallo, the schooner!" shouted the spokesman again.
"Hallo, the boat," replied Dan.
"Heave to, and let us see you a minute."
"What for?"
"Want to talk with you."
"Can't stop."
"Guess ye kin. Heven't ye seen nary nigger?"
"No."
"Well, stop--won't ye?"
"Can't stop; must get home by sunrise."
"Well, ye must stop!" yelled the speaker, angrily, and with an oath.
"Hossifus!" groaned Cyd, in mortal terror.
"Shut up, Cyd," added Dan, sternly. "If you can't hold your tongue, I'll
throw you overboard!"
"Possifus! Ugh! Wha--wha--wha----"
"Come, Cyd," interposed Quin, in a low tone, "don't make a noise. If you
do, we shall all be lost."
"Dis chile's awful skeered. I done wish I hadn't come," replied Cyd, in
a gentler tone; but the words trembled on his lips.
"Quin," said Dan.
"Sar," replied the fugitive, with a self-possession which thoroughly
shamed the quaking Cyd.
"Take hold of the painter of the bateau, and haul it alongside."
"Yes, sar."
"Cyd, take hold and help him. Haul it up to the foremast, and take it on
deck."
The order was obeyed, though Cyd, in his terror, was not able to render
much assistance. The bateau was taken on deck to assist the sailing of
the Isabel, and also to prevent the pursuers from seizing it, if they
should unfortunately come near enough to do so.
"Stop your boat, I say," yelled the slave-hunter, after they had pulled
for a few moments with the most determined zeal.
"Can't stop!" replied Dan.
"Stop her, or I'll fire into you!"
"Gossifus!" exclaimed Cyd, whose teeth were still chattering with fear.
Dan made no reply, and concluded not to answer any more questions.
"Are ye go'n to stop her?" demanded the pursuer. "I b'lieve you've got
that nigger on board; and if ye don't heave to, I'll fotch ye up with a
bullet."
"Bring up the guns, Cyd," said Dan, with forced coolness.
"Wha--wha--wha----"
"The guns!" said Dan, fiercely, as he stamped his foot upon the flooring
to emphasize his meaning.
"Gossifus! I done think--" But Cyd disappeared in the cabin without
giving those on deck the benefit of his thoughts.
"Now, Lily, you must go into your cabin. Lie down in your berth, for
they may fire upon us," said Dan. "Don't be alarmed; there are only
three men in that boat, and we can certainly beat them off."
"I will not leave you, Dan. I am not afraid of the bullets. I only
fear----"
At that moment the report of a gun startled them, and the ball whistled
close by Dan's head.
CHAPTER XIV.
THE BATTLE FOR FREEDOM.
"Take the helm, Cyd, and mind how you steer!" said Dan, with
earnestness, as he rose from his seat, and seized one of the guns.
"Hossifus!" exclaimed Cyd, aghast at the thought. "Wha--wha--wha----"
"Take the helm!" repeated the resolute skipper, with a decision which
left no alternative for the boy.
"Possifus! Dis chile don't want to set dar, and be shooted."
"There is no more danger there than there is any where else. Take your
place, and don't be a coward. If you want to be free, you must fight for
it now."
"Golly! Dis nigger ain't afeered, but Cyd don't want to be shooted, kase
you can't do widout Cyd."
But the trembling foremast hand took his place at the tiller. He
continued to mutter to himself, as though he was repelling the charge of
cowardice which had been fastened upon him.
"Come, Lily, you must go into your cabin now," added Dan, tenderly, as
he turned to Lily. "This is no place for you."
"O, I'm not afraid of the guns, Dan; only of the slave-hunters, and I
cannot hide myself from them."
"You may escape if you stay in the cabin, and you can do no good here. I
shall feel better to know that you are in a place of safety."
"I'm not afraid, Dan; really, I am not," replied she, earnestly.
"But you are in our way here, Lily. Do go into your cabin, and lie down
in your berth."
"I will if I am in the way."
"If we have to fight, it will be right here, and I am determined to
resist to the last."
"I will go;" and Dan led her to the door of her cabin.
She entered, and threw herself upon the cushions of the berth, and Dan,
satisfied that she was in a place of comparative safety, turned his
attention to the defence of his party.
"Can you handle a gun?" said he, turning to Quin, who appeared to be as
cool and resolute as the skipper.
"Well, I done shoot some," replied Quin.
"Take a gun, then."
"Wha--wha--wha----" gasped Cyd.
"Silence, Cyd! Keep both eyes on the sails, or I'll put a bullet through
your head. I didn't expect you would be a coward at such a time as
this."
"Dis chile ain't a coward," answered Cyd, rising from his seat.
"Sit down, and mind your helm then!"
"Give me de gun, and I'll show you Cyd ain't no coward, no how."
"You never fired a gun in your life. You would be more likely to shoot
yourself than any body else. Mind your helm; that's all we want of you."
"Possifus! Dis chile ain't no coward, no how," growled Cyd, as he cast
his eyes at the sails. "Fire away dar, and show dese folks Cyd's no
coward!"
"Gwine to fire into dem folks in de boat?" asked Quin.
"I am, if occasion requires," replied Dan, as he discharged the gun he
held in his hand in the direction of the pursuers. "But I want to let
them know that we are armed, and able to give as good as they send. I
don't want to kill any of them if I can help it."
"I don't mind killin ob 'em; dat's what dey done do to me if dey gits a
chance."
"Stop your boat!" shouted one of the men again; and it was evident, from
the tones of the speaker, that the report of the gun from the Isabel was
not altogether favorable to the views of the pursuers.
Dan made no reply, but loaded up his gun for further use.
"Stop your boat, or we'll fire into you again," shouted the speaker.
"If you do you will get as good as you send," answered Dan, as he put
the cap upon his piece.
The reply was followed by another shot from the slave-hunters; but the
ball whistled far above the heads of the fugitives. Dan took deliberate
aim at the boat, and fired, ordering Quin to do the same. So far as
they could discover, neither of the shots took effect. From this time
both parties kept up an occasional firing; but as the night was so dark,
and the motion of the boats not favorable to a steady aim, no one in the
Isabel was hit, and Dan and his companion were not aware of any
different result to the other boat.
Cyd maintained his position at the helm with the steadiness of an old
salt who had stood at the wheel in a hundred battles; and Dan,
witnessing his improved demeanor, began to think his singular conduct
had been the result of excitement rather than of timidity.
But one thing was painfully evident to all on board of the
schooner--that the boat was gaining upon her, and that the wind was
gradually dying out. There was no hope for them except in their own
right arms. They must fight for liberty, fight for the rights which they
had boldly reässumed. Dan and Quin were fully determined upon this
course, and if they could bring Cyd up to a sense of duty on this trying
emergency, there would be some chance of success.
As it was, the odds were against them. The pursuers were probably men
accustomed to the use of arms, while all in the Isabel were, to say the
least, very indifferent marksmen. Hitherto, they had fired at a dark
mass on the water, for they could not distinguish the enemy in the gloom
of the night, and the pursuers had been subject to the same
disadvantage. A nearer approach to each other of the contending parties,
would enable both to obtain a more accurate aim, and the work of death
could not be much longer postponed.
"De wind's clean gone," said Cyd, as the heavy sails of the Isabel began
to flap idly in the brails.
"Cyd, you must fight!" added Dan, earnestly.
"Possifus!" exclaimed Cyd, rising and seizing a boat-hook that lay on
the quarter. "Dis chile will fight, for sartin."
"Good, Cyd! You are a brave fellow! You deserve to be free, and you
shall be."
"Hossifus! Don't tell Cyd he's a coward, kase he ain't no such ting, no
how."
"I didn't mean that, Cyd; and I take it all back," added Dan. "The boat
has lost her headway now. They will be upon us in a moment or two.
Stand firm, Cyd, and break the head of any man that attempts to get into
the boat."
"Yes, sar! Dat's jus what I'se gwine to do. I'll broke de head ob any
nigger-hunter dat's gwine to come in dis boat, for sartin."
"Now, stoop down both of you, and let them fire over our heads as they
come up."
Dan crouched down in the bottom of the Isabel, with the gun ready for
use when the decisive moment should arrive; Quin and Cyd did the same,
and the intrepid skipper proceeded to give them such instructions for
repelling the assault as the occasion required. All of them were to keep
their places till the pursuers were close alongside, when the four guns,
which were ready for use, were to be discharged. They hoped this would
be sufficient to drive them off. If it should not, a fifty-six pound
weight, taken from the ballast in the run, was to be pitched into the
boat, as she came alongside, which would break out a hole in its bottom,
and sink it before the enemy could get on board; Cyd was then to do duty
with his boat-hook, and the others with similar weapons.
The slave-hunters showed some hesitation in boarding the schooner. The
guns which had been fired from her had undoubtedly inspired them with a
proper respect for those on board of her. The Isabel lay with her sails
hanging loosely from the gaffs for half an hour, and still the enemy did
not come up to her.
"We's gwine to hab a shower," said Quin.
"And a squall too, I'm afraid," added Dan, as he cast his eyes anxiously
over the rail, to observe a pile of dense black clouds, which had
suddenly rolled up the midnight sky.
"Whar's de boat?" asked Cyd.
"She lies off here only a little way from us. If she will only keep
still till we can get a breeze, we shall be all right."
"Let 'em come on; dis chile's all ready for 'em," replied Cyd.
"Have you got over being scared?"
"Never was skeered."
"You said you were."
"Cyd's only jokin den. I done feel so kinder stirred up. I done want to
holler--make de nigger feel good."
"Hush! They are coming!" exclaimed Dan, whose quick eye detected a
stealthy movement on the part of the boat.
"Hallo! In the boat, thar," shouted the slave-hunter.
"Well. What do you want?"
"We're go'n to come on board of yer."
"No, you are not. You are all dead men if you attempt it."
"What do you want to shoot us fur? We ain't a go'n to hurt yer."
"You fired first, you infernal chicken thieves! We know what you are,"
replied Dan, who thought it best to class them with these
depredators--men who frequent the western and southern rivers,
plundering boats or houses, as opportunity presents.
"We ain't no chicken thieves."
"Keep off. We know you," repeated Dan.
This conversation was followed by another pause, during which the
careful skipper had another opportunity to examine the weather
indications. They were decidedly unfavorable. It was probable that a
squall, if not a tornado, would soon burst upon them, and he deemed it
prudent, even at the risk of being shot, to haul down the jib-topsail,
the staysail, and the gaff-topsails. This he succeeded in doing; but he
had scarcely finished the job, without giving himself time to stow the
extra sails, before he saw the boat of the pursuers dashing rapidly
towards the Isabel. The slave-hunters had at last made up their minds
what to do. They meant to risk the encounter.
Just then a sharp flash of lightning illumined the lake, followed by the
muttering thunder. A few fitful flashes of lightning had before glared
on the gloomy scene; but now it gleamed fiercely from the sombre clouds,
and the heavy thunder rolled an almost incessant peal.
"Ready! Ready, now!" said Dan, earnestly, as he sighted his gun at the
trio in the boat, which the lightning plainly revealed to him.
"All ready," replied Quin.
"Now give it to them," said Dan, as he discharged his gun, and grasped
another.
Quin did the same. The pursuers' boat was not more than ten rods from
them, but, from the want of skill in the marksmen, the discharge proved
harmless.
"Put in! Put in!" yelled one of the slave-hunters. "Never mind their
firing. They can't hit nothing."
Dan and Quin fired again.
"I'm hit!" roared one of the enemy, with a horrible oath. "Don't go no
furder."
"Keep her a goin!" replied another. "We'll fix 'em in a minute now."
The boat dashed up towards the Isabel; but Dan, as soon as he had fired,
leaped from his place, and seizing the fifty-six pound weight, plumped
it full into the bottom of the boat. The fugitives heard the pine boards
crash, as the weight broke its way through, and went to the bottom of
the lake.
"Stand by, now!" shouted Dan, as he seized his club, and dealt a heavy
blow upon the head of the slave-hunter who was in the act of leaping on
board the schooner.
"We're sinkin!" cried another of them; and the gunwale of the bateau in
which they sailed was nearly submerged.
They had no time to act upon the aggressive; it was all they could do to
secure their own safety. Just then, the expected squall struck the
Isabel, and though Dan had before cast off all the sheets, she careened
over till the water flowed into the standing room. Her watchful skipper
sprung to the helm, and in an instant she righted partially, and darted
forward like a steed pricked with the spur.
"We are safe!" exclaimed Dan, as Lily rushed from her cabin, startled by
the exciting events which had just transpired.
CHAPTER XV.
THE FATE OF THE SLAVE-HUNTERS.
"Haul down the foresail, Cyd!" shouted Dan, as the Isabel gathered way,
and forged ahead. "Be quick, but be careful of yourself."
With the assistance of Quin, Cyd got the foresail in, though it was not
without a deal of hard tugging, for the wind now blew a fierce gale. As
soon as sail was thus reduced, the sheets of the jib and mainsail were
secured, and the schooner lay down to her work, dashing through the
water at a furious rate.
"We are all right now, Lily," said Dan. "Go into your cabin again, or
you will be blown away."
"Were any of you hurt in the fight?" asked she, as loud as she could
scream, for the wind howled fearfully through the rigging of the
schooner.
"No, we are all well and hearty. Go to the cabin, Lily."
She returned to her place of security, and seemed to be satisfied that
the hour of peril had passed, for the thunder and the lightning, the
dashing waves and the roaring wind, had no terrors compared with those
produced by the presence of the slave-hunters.
The Isabel labored fearfully in the heavy squall, and it was only by the
exercise of all his skill that Dan could keep her right side up. He was
obliged, as the gusts of wind struck her, to ease off the sheets, and to
luff her up. By the glare of the blinding lightning he obtained the
position of the boat in the lake, or he might have run her on shore,
and, with the beautiful craft, wrecked all the hopes of his party.
"Here, Cyd and Quin, stand by to reef this mainsail! We can't stand this
long," said Dan, as he threw the Isabel up into the wind.
"Possifus!" yelled Cyd, above the howling of the tempest. "We all go to
de bottom, for sartin."
"No, we won't; stand by, and work lively. Let go the peak halyards,"
replied he, as he cast off the throat halyards, on the other side. "Haul
down the sail as fast as you can, Quin."
With the jib still drawing full, the Isabel continued steadily on her
course, while Dan and Cyd put a double reef in the mainsail, Quin
standing at the helm in the mean time, and acting under the direction of
the skipper.
"Now, up with it," added Dan, when the reef-points were all taken up.
The mainsail was hoisted, and again the Isabel dashed madly on her
course, for she had now all the sail she could carry in that fierce
blow. Dan stood at the helm, with his eyes measuring the distances, as
the vivid lightning revealed the bearings of the shores. Cyd was ordered
to the forecastle to keep a sharp lookout ahead, while Quin was directed
to bale out the boat, for at least a hogshead of water had poured in
over the side when the flaw struck her.
The wind came in heavy gusts, each one of which threatened to "knock
down" the Isabel; and if her skipper had not been a thorough boatman,
such must have been her fate. By skilfully meeting the flaws as they
struck her, he prevented her from capsizing. Under ordinary
circumstances he would have deemed it highly imprudent to carry any
sail, and would have anchored the boat with a long cable; but this was
the battle of Freedom, and success was worth any risk and any peril
which it might require.
The tempest, however, was of short duration. When the rain began to pour
in torrents, the gale subsided. The reefs were shaken out, and, finally,
the foresail was set again. The wind continued to blow pretty fresh, but
all danger was at an end.
"What you 'pose come ob dem men?" asked Quin, as he finished his task of
baling out the boat.
"I don't know; but I feel confident that not all of them are able to
tell what has happened to them."
"One of them was hit wid de shot," added Quin.
"And I struck one over the head with a fender."
"Dem two mus be gone killed dead for sure," said Quin, with solemn
earnestness.
"Of course it was not possible for them to get ashore, for their boat
was stove all to pieces. Do you know them, Quin?"
"Yes, sar; dey's all nigger-hunters."
"Could they swim?"
"I dunno; but I s'peck dey could."
"It would not make much difference whether they could or not. The wind
blew a hurricane for a few moments."
"Quin tinks dey must be all dead," replied the man, shaking his head.
"I'm afraid they are; but it was not our fault. If I thought they were,
I would not go down the lake any farther," added Dan, musing.
"I feels almost sartin dey's gone to dar reward--'may de good Lo'd hab
mercy on dar sinful souls.'"
Dan considered the question for a time in silence, and finally
determined to put the boat about, and head her for his destination at
the north-westerly corner of the lake. The rain still came down in
torrents; but as all on deck were provided with rubber coats, belonging
to the boat, which had been provided for the use of the planter and his
guests on board, they did not suffer, and were not even very
uncomfortable. But if they had been, it would not have been regarded as
a serious matter, amid the fierce excitements of that eventful night.
The storm was nothing more than one of those sudden showers which come
up so unexpectedly at the south. We once passed through a tornado in
Louisiana, which came in a shower that gathered upon a blue sky in less
than half an hour. It tore up tall trees as though they had been
cornstalks, and rolled up the Mississippi so that it looked like a
boiling caldron. In half an hour more the sun was shining gayly on the
scene of devastation, as though Nature had no terrors in her laboratory
of forces.
In an hour after the exciting scene on the lake, the Isabel had a gentle
breeze and fair weather. Cyd still maintained his position on the
forecastle, and Lily once more ventured into the standing room. Dan gave
her a minute account of the affray with the slave-hunters, and concluded
by stating his belief that all three of them had been drowned in the
lake.
Lily shuddered at the thought; for the taking of a human life, even in
defence of the freedom which she valued more highly than life itself,
seemed a terrible thing to her gentle heart.
"Perhaps they are not dead," said she.
"Perhaps not; but it is hardly possible that they could have swum
ashore. We were at least three miles from the land, and their boat was
all stove to pieces."
"Dey might hab hold on to de boat," suggested Quin.
"But there was an awful sea for a few moments. Why, the water dashed
clean over our decks," added Dan. "One of them may have saved himself,
but I am confident the other two must have been lost."
"Hi, Dan!" shouted Cyd, from his position at the heel of the bowsprit.
"What is it, Cyd?"
"Dar's someting ober dar," added Cyd, pointing over to leeward, as he
walked aft.
"What is it?"
"Cyd tinks it's de boat ob de slabe-hunters."
"Perhaps it is," said Dan, musing. "And our wounded or dying enemies may
be clinging to it. Shall we save them?"
"Hossifus! Dey kill us ef we does," exclaimed Cyd.
"'Lub your enemies,'" said Quin, piously. "Let us sabe dem if we can. We
kin tie dar hands and fotch 'em ober dar."
"I don't think they are there."
"We must save their lives," added the gentle Lily.
"And perhaps lose our own; but I will overhaul the boat, to satisfy
myself whether the men were lost or not," said Dan, as he let out the
main sheet, and put up the helm. "Stand by with the boat-hook, Cyd."
In a few moments the Isabel had run up to the wreck of the boat, and Cyd
grappled it with the boat-hook. There were no men clinging to it, but in
the bottom of the boat, covered over with water, lay the body of one of
the slave-hunters. It was probably the one who had been shot. He had not
been killed at once, for he had spoken after he was hit; it looked as
though he had been drowned in the bottom of the boat where he lay.
The fugitives were filled with horror at this discovery. Poor Lily had
nearly fainted, and if Cyd had been shot himself, he could hardly have
made a stronger demonstration. Quin uttered many pious ejaculations,
showing that he had, from his heart, forgiven this man, who, an hour
before, had thirsted for his blood. Dan, though not less impressed than
his companions, was calm and resolute.
"This body may betray us," said he. "We must sink it in the lake."
"Ugh!" exclaimed Cyd, with a thrill of horror.
"We have no time to spare," added Dan, briskly. "Bring up another
fifty-six, Quin."
The weight was brought up and tied to the corpse of the slave-hunter, as
it lay in the boat. Dan then ordered his companions to tip the boat
over; but Quin, asking for a moment's delay, threw himself upon his
knees, and commenced an earnest prayer in behalf of the deceased,
supplicating forgiveness for his bloodthirsty enemy. Dan listened
reverently to the prayer, while Lily sobbed as though the departed
slave-hunter had been her dearest friend, instead of the bitter foe of
her race.
