concluded by saying he wanted to get to Boston, where he could find
something to do.

"O, you want sunthin to do--do ye?" replied the drover. "Well, I'll give
you your victuals, and what clothes you want, to help me drive."

This was not exactly Noddy's idea of "work and win," and he told the
drover he wanted to go to sea.

"I'll tell you what I'll do. You may go down to Brighton, and help take
keer of the cattle in the keers, and I'll take keer of you on the way."

Noddy was more than satisfied with all these "keers," and he promptly
accepted the offer. In half an hour the train started, and he was on the
way to Brighton, which is only a few miles from Boston.




CHAPTER X.

POOR MOLLIE.


Noddy's duty on the journey to Brighton was to assist in keeping the
cattle on their feet. When the poor animals become weary, they are
disposed to lie down; but they are so closely packed that this is not
possible for more than one or two in a car; and if one lies down he is
liable to be trampled to death by the others. The persons in charge of
the cattle, therefore, are obliged to watch them, and keep them on their
feet.

The train occasionally stopped during the night, and was several times
delayed, so that it did not reach its destination till the middle of the
following forenoon. The drover provided him a hearty breakfast in the
morning, and Noddy was in no haste. The future was still nothing but a
blank to him, and he was in no hurry to commence the battle of life.

When he arrived at Brighton he assisted in driving the cattle to the
pens; and then, with half a dollar, which the drover gave him for his
extra services, he started for Boston, whose spires he could even then
see in the distance. He reached the city, and from the Mill Dam--the
long bridge he had just crossed--he walked to the Common. Being quite
worn out by two nights of hard work, and the long walk he had just
taken, he seated himself on one of the stone benches near the Frog Pond.
It was a warm and pleasant day, and he watched the sports of the happy
children who were at play, until his eyelids grew heavy, and he hardly
knew the State House from the Big Tree.

For a boy of his age he had undergone a severe experience. The exciting
circumstances which surrounded him had kept him wide awake until his
physical nature could endure no more. Leaving the seat he had occupied,
he sought out the quietest place he could find, and stretching himself
on the grass, went to sleep.

It was nearly sunset when he awoke; but he felt like a new being, ready
now to work and win at any business which might offer. He wandered about
the streets of the city for two hours, and then ate a hearty supper at a
restaurant. It was too late to do anything that night, and he asked a
policeman to tell him where he could sleep. The officer, finding he was
a friendless stranger, gave him a bed at the station-house.

In the morning he made his way to the wharves, and during the long day
he went from vessel to vessel in search of a berth as cabin-boy. He
asked for this situation, because he had frequently heard the term; but
he was willing to accept any position he could obtain. No one wanted a
cabin-boy, or so small a sailor as he was. Night came on again, with a
hopeless prospect for the future; and poor Noddy began to question the
wisdom of the course he had taken. A tinker's shop, with plenty to eat,
and a place to sleep, was certainly much better than wandering about the
streets.

He could not help thinking of Woodville, and the pleasant room he had
occupied in the servants' quarters; of the bountiful table at which he
had sat; and, above all, of the kindness and care which Miss Bertha had
always bestowed upon him. With all his heart he wished he was there; but
when he thought of the court-house and the prison, he was more
reconciled to his fate, and was determined to persevere in his efforts
to obtain work.

It was the close of a long summer day. He had been wandering about the
wharves at the north part of the city; and as the darkness came on, he
walked up Hanover Street in search of a policeman, who would give him
permission to sleep another night in the station-house. As he did not
readily find one, he turned into another street. It made but little
difference to him where he went, for he had no destination, and he was
as likely to find a policeman in one place as another.

He had gone but a short distance before he saw a crowd of ragged boys
pursuing and hooting at a drunken man who was leading a little girl ten
or eleven years of age,--or rather, she was trying to lead him. Under
ordinary circumstances, we are afraid that Noddy would have joined the
ragamuffins and enjoyed the senseless sport as well as any of them; but
his own sorrows raised him above this meanness in the present instance,
and he passed the boys without a particle of interest in the fun.

He was going by the drunken man and the little girl, when one of the
boldest of the pursuers rushed up and gave the man a push, which caused
him to fall on the pavement. The young vagabonds raised a chorus of
laughter, and shouted with all their might. The little girl, who was
evidently the drunkard's daughter, did not desert him. She bent over
him, and used all her feeble powers to assist him to his feet again.

"My poor father!" sobbed she; and her heart seemed to be broken by the
grief and peril which surrounded her.

The tones with which these words were spoken touched the heart of Noddy;
and without stopping to consider any troublesome questions, he sprang to
the assistance of the girl. The man was not utterly helpless; and with
the aid of Noddy and his daughter he got upon his feet again. At that
moment another of the unruly boys, emboldened by the feat of the first,
rushed up and grasped the arm of the little girl, as if to pull her away
from her father's support.

"Don't touch me! Don't touch me!" pleaded the grief-stricken girl, in
tones so full of sorrow that our wanderer could not resist them, if her
vagabond persecutor could.

He sprang to her assistance, and with one vigorous and well-directed
blow, he knocked the rude assailant halfway across the street, and left
him sprawling on the pavement. Noddy did not wait to see what the boy
would do next, but turned his attention to the poor girl, whose
situation, rather than that of her father, had awakened his sympathy.

"What is your father's name?" asked Noddy, who proceeded as though he
had a sovereign remedy for the miseries of the situation.

"Captain McClintock," sobbed the little girl, still clinging to her
father, with no sting of reproach in her words or her manner.

"Don't cry, little girl; I will do what I can for you," said Noddy,
warmly. "I can lick those boys, if I can't do anything more."

"Thank you!" replied the afflicted daughter. "If I can only get him down
to the vessel, I shall be so glad!"

"Want to fight?" shouted the young ruffian, whom Noddy had upset, coming
as near the party as he dared.

"I'll give you fight, if you come near me again," replied the champion
of the poor girl.

"Come on, if you want to fight," cried the little bully, who had not the
pluck to approach within twenty feet of his late assailant.

The crowd of boys still shouted, and some of them carried their
hostility so far as to throw sticks and stones at the little party; but
as long as they kept at a respectful distance, Noddy did not deem it
wise to meddle with them, though he kept one eye on them, and stood
ready to punish those who ventured too near.

"Come, Captain McClintock," said he, as he attempted to lead the drunken
father, "let's go on board."

"Heave ahead, my hearty!" replied the captain, as he pressed forward,
though his steps were so uncertain that his two feeble supporters could
hardly keep him on his feet.

The remarkable trio passed down Fleet Street, and, after many
difficulties and much "rough weather," reached the head of the wharf,
where the little girl said her father's vessel lay. They were still
closely followed by the merciless ragamuffins, who had pelted them with
stones and sticks, until the patience of Noddy was severely tried.

"Come, my boy, now we'll--hic--now we'll go and--hic--go and take
something 'fore we go on board," said the drunken captain, suddenly
coming to a dead halt in the middle of the street.

"O, no, father!" cried the daughter; "let us go on board."

"Something to take, Mollie, and you shall--hic--you shall have
some--hic--some soda water."

"I don't want any, father. Do come on board."

"You are a good girl, Mollie, and you shall--hic--you shall have some
cake."

"Not to-night, father. We will get it in the morning," pleaded poor
Mollie, trembling with apprehension for the consequences which must
follow another glass of liquor.

"Come, Captain McClintock, let's go on board," said Noddy.

"Who are you?" demanded the inebriated man.

"I'm the best fellow out; and I want to see your vessel."

"You shall see her, my boy. If you are--hic--the best fellow out, come
and take something with me," stammered the captain.

"Let's see the vessel first," replied Noddy, tugging away at the arm of
the drunken man.

"She's a very fine--hic--fine vessel."

"Let me see her, then."

"Heave ahead, my jolly roebuck. I've got some of the best--hic--on board
zever you tasted. Come along."

Noddy and Mollie kept him going till they reached the part of the wharf
where the captain's vessel was moored; and the end of their troubles
seemed to be at hand, when the boys, aware that their sport was nearly
over, became very bold and daring. They pressed forward, and began to
push the drunken man, until they roused his anger to such a degree that
he positively refused to go on board till he chastised them as they
deserved. He had broken away from his feeble protectors, and in
attempting to pursue them, had fallen flat upon the planks which covered
the wharf.

Mollie ran to his assistance; and as she did so, one of the boys pushed
her over upon him. Noddy's blood was up in earnest, for the little
girl's suffering made her sacred in his eyes. He leaped upon the rude
boy, bore him down, and pounded him till he yelled in mortal terror.
Some of the boldest of the ragamuffins came to his relief when they
realized how hard it was going with him, and that he was in the hands of
only one small boy.

Noddy was as quick as a flash in his movements, and he turned upon the
crowd, reckless of consequences. One or two of the boys showed fight;
but the young lion tipped them over before they could make up their
minds how to attack him. The rest ran away. Noddy gave chase, and in
his furious wrath felt able to whip the whole of them. He pursued them
only a short distance; his sympathy for poor Mollie got the better even
of his anger, and he hastened back to her side. As he turned, the
cowardly boys turned also, and a storm of such missiles as the wharf
afforded was hurled after him.

By this time two men from the vessel had come to the assistance of the
captain, and raised him to his feet. He was still full of vengeance, and
wanted to chastise the boys. The young ruffians followed Noddy down the
wharf, and he was compelled, in self-defence, to turn upon them again,
and in presence of the drunken man he punished a couple of them pretty
severely. One of the sailors came to his aid, and the foe was again
vanquished. The appearance of a policeman at the head of the wharf now
paralyzed their efforts, and they disbanded and scattered.

"You are a good fellow!" exclaimed Captain McClintock, extending his
hand to Noddy as he returned to the spot.

"The best fellow out," replied the little hero, facetiously, as he took
the offered hand.

"So you be! Now come on board, and--hic--and take something."

"Thank you, captain. I should like to go on board of your vessel."

"Come along, then, my jolly fellow," added the captain, as he reeled
towards the vessel. "You are a smart little--hic--you are a smart little
fellow. If you hadn't--hic--licked them boys, I should--hic."

Noddy thought he did "hic;" but with the assistance of the sailors, the
captain got on board, and went down into his cabin. His first movement
was to bring out a bottle of gin and a couple of glasses, into which he
poured a quantity of the fiery liquor. He insisted that Noddy should
drink; but the boy had never tasted anything of the kind in his life;
and from the lessons of Bertha and Ben he had acquired a certain horror
of the cup, which had not been diminished by the incidents of the
evening. He could not drink, and he could not refuse without making
trouble with his intoxicated host.

But Mollie saw his difficulty, and slyly substituted a glass of water
for the gin, which he drank. Captain McClintock was satisfied, and
overcome by his last potion, he soon sank back on the locker, and
dropped asleep. With the assistance of the mate he was put into the
berth in his state-room, to sleep off the effects of his debauch.

"I'm so grateful to you!" exclaimed Mollie, when all her trials seemed
to have ended.

"O, never mind me."

"Where do you live?"

"Nowhere."

"Have you no home?"

"No."

"Where do you stay?"

"Anywhere."

"Where were you going to sleep to-night?"

"Anywhere I could."

"Then you can sleep here."

Noddy was entirely willing, and one of the eight berths in the cabin was
appropriated by the mate to his use.




CHAPTER XI.

THE SCHOONER ROEBUCK.


"What is your name?" asked Mollie, when the arrangements for the night
were completed.

"Noddy Newman."

"Noddy? What a queer name! That isn't your real name--is it?"

"Yes, I never knew any other."

Mollie was certainly a very pleasing young lady, and Noddy had become
quite interested in her, as we always are in those to whom we are so
fortunate as to render needed assistance. She had a pretty face, and her
curly hair might have challenged the envy of many a fair damsel who was
wicked enough to cherish such a feeling. There was nothing rough or
coarse about her, and one would hardly have expected to find so
lady-like a person in such a situation in life.

We make this statement in apology for the interest which Noddy took in
the little maiden. The service he had rendered her was quite sufficient
to create a kindly feeling towards her; and then she was so pretty, so
modest, and so gentle, that his sympathy grew into admiration before she
went to her little state-room. Mollie asked him a great many questions
about his past life, and Noddy told her all he knew about himself--about
Bertha, Fanny, and others at Woodville. He did not tell her about the
affair of the boat-house, though he determined to do so at some future
time, if he had the opportunity.

In return for all this information, Mollie told him that the schooner in
which they then were was called the Roebuck; that she belonged to her
father, and that they were bound to the Sandwich Islands, where the
vessel was to run as a packet between certain islands, whose names she
had forgotten. Captain McClintock belonged in the State of Maine, where
Mollie's mother had died two years before. Her father had some property,
and learning that there was a good chance to improve his fortunes at the
Sandwich Islands, he had built the Roebuck for this purpose.

As these distant islands were to be his future home, he was to take his
only child with him, and he had fitted up a state-room in the cabin,
next to his own for her special use. Mollie told Noddy how much pleased
she was with all the arrangements, and how happy she had been on the
passage to Boston, where the Roebuck was to pick up an assorted cargo
for the port of her destination. Then she wept when she thought of the
terrible scenes through which she had just passed in the streets. She
said her father did not often drink too much; that he was the very best
father in the whole world; and she hoped he never would get intoxicated
again as long as he lived.

Noddy hoped so too; and when the little maiden had finished her story,
he thought she was almost equal to Miss Bertha; and he could not think
of such a thing as parting with her in the morning, again to buffet the
waves of disappointment on shore.

"Does your father want a boy on board of the vessel?" asked he.

"I don't know. Do you want to go with us?" said Mollie, with a smile
which spoke the pleasure the thought afforded her.

"I should like to go with you first-rate," replied Noddy. "I want to do
something, and earn some money for myself. I want to work."

"Then you shall go with us!" exclaimed Mollie. "Out where we are going
is a nice place to get rich. My father is going to get rich out there,
and then we are coming home again."

Poor child! She knew not what the future had in store for them.

The bells of the city rang for nine o'clock, and Mollie said she went to
bed at this time.

"Can you read, Noddy?" asked she.

"Yes, some."

"I always read my Testament before I go to bed; I promised my mother,
years ago, that I would; and I like to do it, too. I suppose you read
your Testament every night--don't you?"

"Sometimes; that is, I did once," replied Noddy, in some confusion, for
he could not help recalling the teachings of Bertha on this subject.

"Well, we will read it together. You would like to--wouldn't you?"

"Yes; I don't care if I do."

There was a want of enthusiasm on his part which was rather painful to
the little maiden; but she got the Testament, and when she had read a
few verses aloud, she passed the book to Noddy, who stumbled through his
portion, and she then finished the chapter. She bade him good night, and
retired to her state-room, leaving her new-made friend to meditate upon
the singular events of the evening.

He did not meditate a great while--he never did. His thoughts were
disposed to stray from one subject to another; and from the little
maiden, he found himself wondering whether Mr. Grant had finished
searching for him in Albany, and whether Miss Fanny had "let the cat out
of the bag" yet. Noddy was too tired and sleepy to think a great while
about anything; and he turned into his berth, and went to sleep.

Early in the morning Noddy was on his feet. He went on deck, and found
that the Roebuck was a beautiful vessel, almost handsome enough to be a
gentleman's yacht. He went upon the wharf, where he could obtain a fair
view of her bow, and he was sure she would make good time with a fair
breeze. When he had satisfied himself with the examination, he was more
than ever inclined to go out in her.

When he went down into the cabin again, Mollie was there, setting the
table for breakfast. She looked as fair and as fresh as a country
maiden. She gave him a very friendly greeting.

"Do you do these things, Mollie?" asked he.

"O, yes; I always work, and do what I can. I like to do something."

"How old are you, Mollie?"

"Eleven last May."

"But you can't do this work when you are out at sea."

"O, yes, I can."

"You will be seasick."

"I never was sick, and I have been to sea a great deal with my father."

"How is the captain this morning?"

"I don't know; I haven't seen him yet," replied she, looking very sad,
as she thought of her kind father's infirmity.

Captain McClintock soon came out of his state-room. He looked pale and
haggard, and seemed to be thoroughly ashamed of himself for what he had
done the evening before, as he ought to have been. Mollie sprang to him,
as he stepped out of his room, and kissed him as lovingly as though he
had never done a wrong thing in his life. He glanced at Noddy, as he
entered the main cabin, and with a look of astonishment, as though his
connection with the events of the previous evening were a blank to him.

The captain did not say a word to Noddy, which made the boy feel as
though he was an intruder in the cabin; and when he had the opportunity,
he went on deck, leaving Mollie to say whatever the circumstances
required in explanation of his presence.

"I will never do it again, Mollie," said the fond father, as he kissed
his daughter. "I am very sorry, and you must forgive me, my child."

He was a penitent man, and felt how great was the wrong he had done the
poor child. He had taken her out to walk, and to see the sights of the
city, and had become intoxicated. He remembered the whole scene, when
the boys had chased him; and to Mollie, whom he loved with all his
heart, he was willing to own his fault, and to make her happy by
promising never to do the wrong again.

Mollie then told him about her conversation with Noddy, and of the boy's
desire to go to sea with them. Captain McClintock remembered in part
what the boy had done for them; and Mollie supplied what he had not
seen, or had forgotten.

"Why, yes; we want a cabin-boy. I should have shipped one at home, if I
could have found the right one," replied the captain. "You say he is a
good boy?"

"I know he is. He wants to work."

"Does he know anything about a vessel? I want one who can go aloft, and
shake out the top-gallant sail."

"He is used to boats and the water."

"Well, we will see what he is good for, after breakfast."

"I hope you will take him, for we have become fast friends."

"If he is good for anything, I will, Mollie. Call him down. Here comes
the doctor with the grub."

The "doctor" was the black cook of the Roebuck, who was now descending
the companion-way with the morning meal. Noddy was called, and Captain
McClintock spoke very kindly to him. He inquired particularly into his
knowledge of vessels, and wanted to know whether he would be afraid to
go aloft. Noddy smiled, and thought he should not be afraid. He ate his
breakfast with a boy's appetite, and then the captain took him on deck.

"Do you see that fore-top-gallant yard?" asked the captain.

"Yes, sir, I see it," replied Noddy, who had been thoroughly instructed
in these matters by the old man-of-war's-man of Woodville, though he had
no practical experience in seamanship, even on as large a scale as a
topsail schooner, which was the rig of the Roebuck.

"Well, my boy, that's a pretty high place. Should you dare to go up
there?"

"I think I should," answered Noddy.

"Let me see you do it."

"Now?"
