situation." 

" I'll tell you : I was thinking about issuing a divi- 
sion general order on the subject of temperance. What 
do you. think of it?" 

" It would be an excellent idea," replied Somers. 

" Young man ! ' : 

"Sir." 

" I believe you said hie " 

Somers did not say any thing of the sort ; but he 
waited patiently for the rebel general to recover the 
idea which he appeared to have lost. 

" I believe you said you never drank any whiskey V 

" I never did, sir." 

" Then you never was drunk." 

" Never, sir." 

" Yoimrr man ! " 



o 

" Sir." 



" Are you a hie " 

Somers was not a "hie;" but he was an impatient 



 

young man, and very anxious to be instructed in regard 
to his difficult and dangerous mission. 

"Are you a minister of the gospel?" demanded the 
general, after a mighty effort. 

" No, sir : I am not." 

"I'm sorry for hie for that; for I wanted to 
appoint you a division chaplain, to preach against 
whiskey to the general officers. Some of them are 
hie drunken fellows, and no more fit for a command 
than the old topers in the streets of Richmond." 

" I am sorry I am not competent to fill the office ; but 
I think, if you should lecture them yourself, it would 
have a better effect." 

" My words are hie powerless. They laugh when 
I talk to them about the error of their ways," added he 
with a string of oaths, which seemed to exhibit a further 
necessity for a chaplain on the division staff. 

' I beg your pardon, sir ; but I am afraid your interest 
in the moral welfare of your officers " 

" That is it, young man ! " interrupted the drunken 
general, catching at his idea with remarkable prompt- 
ness. " My interest in the moral welfare of my hie 
of my officers ! You are a trump, young man (big oath). 
VTou are a major now?" 

" No, sir." 

" Only a captain? " 

" No, sir : nothing but a private." 



 

" Then you shall be a captain. I haven't heard any 
such hie sentiments as you expressed used in this 
division before. You ought to be a hie a brigadier- 
general." 

" Thank you, sir. You are very kind. I came to 
you for instructions in regard to my mission over to the 
enemy." 

" Bless me ! yes : so you did. Well, I have not 
written them yet." 

" I only want a pass from you, general, with such 
verbal instructions as you may please to give me." 

te So you do : the fact of it is, my interest in the moral 
welfare of my men had driven the matter out of my 
mind." 

The general called an orderly ; and Somers was sent 
off to the adjutant for the pass, which was given to him 
under the name he had assumed. When he returned, the 
general was sound asleep on his camp-stool, rolling about 
like a ship in a gale, with a prospect of soon landing at 
full length on terra firma. Somers would gladly have 
received some military information from the general, 
who was in a condition to tell all he knew ; which, 
however, could not have been much, under the circum- 
stances. He concluded that it would be best for him. 
not to awaken the tipsy moralist ; and, after waiting a 
short time on the spot to avoid suspicion, he joined 
Major Plainer, who was smoking his cigar under a tree 
near the headquarters. 



 

" Well, young man, did you obtain your instruc- 
tions?" 

" Yes, all I require." 

" Perhaps we ought to have seen the general before 
dinner," added the major, using the remark as a "feeler" 
to induce his companion to inform him what had trans- 
pired daring the interview. 

" Perhaps it would have been more agreeable to the 
general. However, he seemed to be in a very talkative 
mood." 

" He commonly is after dinner." 

" He is a very jovial, good fellow." 

" Very." 

" But he appears to feel a deep interest in the moi-al 
welfare of those under his command. He expressed 
himself as very averse to habits of intemperance." 

" Humph ! " coughed the major. 

" He said that whiskey was the great enemy the army 
has to contend against, and intends to issue a general 
order directed at the vice of intemperance." 

"Did he?" 

"He did : but I ought to add, that he took me to be a 
major in the service ; a mistake which was very natural, 
since I wore no coat." 

" Very natural, after dinner," replied Major Platner 
suggestively. 

" I told him I never drank any strong drink ; and lie 
kindly advised me never to do so." 




" The general is a brave man, and I hope he will be 
able to overcome all his enemies'." 

The major permitted the conversation to go by default, 
and Somers respectfully dropped a pace or two behind 
him. They reached the brigade headquarters, and then 
repaired to the guard tent, from which the scout took his 
departure upon his arduous and difficult mission, with 
the best wishes of the rebel officers. 

With his pass he had no difficulty in going through 
any line, and made his way down to the woods on the 
left of the open fields. He began to feel easier when he 
had passed the field-works, and experienced a sensation of 
exultation as he thought of the reception which awaited 
him at headquarters as well as in the regiment. 



 




CHAPTER XV. 

THE SHARPSHOOTER IX THE WOODS. 

OMERS found the picket guard nearer the rebel 
line than he had anticipated ; but the exhibi- 
tion of his pass, which had been prepared with 
special reference to this purpose, prevented any 
detention, though a sergeant had to be called who 
was scholar enough to read the mysterious document. 

" I reckon you haven't got the best place to go 
through," said the sergeant, after he had examined the 
pass, and satisfied himself of its correctness. 
"Why not?" 

" There's a whole squad of Yankees a good piece in 
there," he replied, pointing in the direction of the 
Federal lines. " They've been there all day watching 
for something." 

"What do they want?" 

"There was a man run through the line this fore- 
noon from their side, and I reckon they are trying to 
Hud him." 

" Was he a Y'ank?" asked Somers, desirous of obtain- 
ing their idea of the fugitive. 



 



" Dunno what he was" We didn't see him till he got 

v 

a good piece behind us. We were chasing the Yanks 
which run away when they saw us." 

This was satisfactory to our scout ; for the sergeant 
appeared to have no knowledge that would be dangerous 
to him, and none of the graybacks recognized the pants 
he wore. He advanced cautiously, as though he was 
afraid of stumbling upon the squad of Yankees de- 
scribed by the sergeant, till he could no longer be seen 
by the pickets. The last obstacle seemed to be over- 
come ; and he hastened to the place where he had con- 
cealed his uniform, which he wished to put on before he 
approached the pickets on the other side. It was now 
nearly dark, and he had no time to spare ; for, if he 
approached his own men in the darkness, he would be 
in danger of being shot before they discovered who he 
was, though he had full confidence in the discretion of 
Hapgood. 

"Without difficulty, he found the place where he had 
concealed his clothes ; and, after assuring himself that 
lone of the rebel pickets were in sight, he hastily put 
them on. To prevent any unpleasant suspicions, he took 
the precaution to hide the gray pants he had worn, in 
the long grass of the swamp, so that they need not 
attract the attention of any stroller who might pass in 
that direction. Though we have frequently held our 
hero up as a model of modesty, we are compelled to 




acknowledge that he felt exceeclinirlv -well satisfied with 



himself on the present occasion. He felt that he had 
done what, in the homely vocabulary of the boys of 
Pinchbrook might well be called a big thing." 

He had fully and successfully accomplished the ardu- 
ous purposes of his mission. He had examined the 
positions, and counted the forces of the rebels. He had 
received very valuable information from Mr. Raynes, 
and from others whom he had encountered in his walk 
through the enemy's lines. He was satisfied that he 
should receive a warm welcome from those who had 
sent him upon the perilous tour. He had earned the 
first bar to his shoulder-straps, and was proud of his 
achievement. 

The work had been done, and he was within a short 
distance of the Union lines, within a short distance of 
the devoted Hapgood. who was patiently but anxiously 
waiting to give him a soldier's reception. Above all, 
he was safe : and he trembled when he thought of the 



perils through which he had passed, of the consequences 
which must have followed the discovery of his real char- 
acter. As he had thanked God for the boon of life after 
the battle was over, so now he thanked him for the 
signal success which had crowned his labors in the eood 



cause. The last article of his raiment was put on and 
adjusted : he rose from the ground to walk towards the 
Union lines. 



" I say, Yank, you look better'n you did 'fore yer 
changed your clothes," said a voice, which struck his 
ear with startling distinctness. 

Soraers looked in the direction from which the voice 
came, and discovered a villanous-looking countenance, 
that had just risen from the tall swamp-grass, within a 
couple of rods of the spot where he stood. The man 
was unmistakably a rebel, one of the most savage and 
implacable of rebels at that ; such a character as we 
read of in connection with slave-hunts in Mississippi, or 
" free fights " in Arkansas. He wore a long, tangled 
beard ; and his hair had probably never known the use 
of a comb. The grayback looked as cool and impudent 
as though he was perfectly assured of. his prey, and 
intended to torture this victim with his tongue, as he 
would with his knife or his rifle if occasion required. 

" I say, Yank, you look better'n yer did 'fore yer 
changed your colors," repeated the rebel, as he received 
no reply to his first salutation. 

Somers looked at him again : indeed, he had hardly 
taken his eyes off the savage-looking fellow, who woidd 
have made a very good representative of Orson in the 
fairy story. He held a rifle in his hand, the muzzle of 
which could easily be brought to bear upon his victim. 
Our lieutenant at once understood the humor of the 
fellow ; and, having recovered his self-possession in the 
momentary pause, he determined not to be behind him 
foe either in word or in deed. 




"I say, reb, when did you shave last?" demanded 
Somers, with something as near akin to a laugh as he 
could manufacture for the occasion. 

" 'Fore you was born, I reckon, Yank," replied the 
rebel ; " and I sha'n't shave agin till after you're dead. 
But I reckon I sha'n't hev ter wait long nuther." 

" I suppose you don't know what a comb is for, do 
you?" continued Somers, who was, however, thinking 
of some method by which he might get out of this 
scrape. 

" I reckon I've heerd about such things ; but Joe Bag- 
bone ain't a woman, and don't waste his time no such 
way. I say, stranger, you've got about three minutes 
more to live." 

"How long?" 

" Three minutes, stranger. I've sat here by them 
clothes, like a dog at a 'possum's nest, all the arter- 
noon. Now I've treed the critter, and I'm gwine to 
shoot him." 

"Is that so?" 

"That's so, stranger." 

" Do you usually shoot any man you happen to meet 
iu the woods?" 

" Well, I don't reckon we do, every man ; but some 
on 'em we does. I calkilate you got on Tom Myers's 
clothes now, and yer shot the man 'fore you took the 



rags." 




" I didn't shoot him." 

" No matter for that, stranger : he was shot by a 
Yank, and you've got to settle the account." 

Somers began to be of the same opinion himself. The 
grayback had evidently found the clothes, and suspected 
the purpose for which they were concealed. It was pos- 
sible he had even more definite information than this ; for 
he seemed to be prepared for precisely what had taken 
place. 

My friend " 

I'm not your friend, stranger. You kin say any 
thing you like, if yer don't insult me : Joe Bagbone 
don't take an insult from any live man." 

" Well, Joe Bagbone," continued Somers, who was 
disposed to parley with the fellow to gain time, if 
nothing else, " if you shoot me, you will make the 
worst mistake you ever made in your life ; and I can 
prove it to you in less than five minutes." 

" No, yer can't, stranger. Don't waste yer time no 
such way. If yer want ter say yer prayers, blaze away 
lively, 'cause three minutes aren't long for a man to repent 
of all his sins." 

" I have a pass from General M , which permits 

me to go in safety through these lines," persisted Somers. 
" The sergeant above just examined it, and passed me 
through." 

" Don't keer nothing about yer pass. I respects Jeff 



 

Davis just as much as the best man in Mississip. If yer 
had a pass from him, you mought as well not have it as 
have it. Tom Myers was killed, and somebody's gwine 
up for him." 

" But I have important business on the other side." 
" I knows that, stranger," replied the imperturbable 
Joe Bagbone. " It don't make no difference." 



" I am sent over by General M . I belong to the 

Fourth Alabama." 

" Shet up ! Don't tell no lies, 'cause yer hain't got no 
time ter repent on 'em." 

"Then, if I understand it, you mean to murder one of 
your own men in cold blood." 

"Nothin' of the sort : only gwine to shoot a Yank." 

Somers looked into that hard, relentless eye ; but there 
was not the slightest indication of any change of purpose. 
He felt that he stood in the presence of his executioner. 
All the errors of his past life crowded upon him, and the 
grave seemed to yawn before him. 

" Call the sergeant above, and he will satisfy you that 
I am all right," said he, making one more effort to move 
the villain from his wicked purpose. 

" Don't w r ant the sergeant. Yer time's out, stranger.''' 

" Let me call him then." 

" If yer do, I'll fire. Say yer prayers now, if yer 
mean ter ; but I reckon the prayers of a Yank ain't of 
much account," replied Joe with a sneer. 



THE ADVENTURES OF AN ARMY OFFICER. Ill 

Somers stood within a few feet of a large tree. Joe 
had several times raised his rifle to his shoulder : but, 
when he magnanimously offered his victim the last 
moment of grace, he dropped it again ; and our lieu- 
tenant, taking advantage of this interval, darted behind 
the tree. Joe raised his piece quicker than a flash ; but 
he did not fire, for the reason that he could not secure a 
perfect aim, and because he was sure of a better oppor- 
tunity. Our lieutenant, who had carefully preserved his 
revolver during the various changes he had made in his 

dress, now took it from his pocket, and prepared to 
contest the field like a man. 

The grayback, chagrined at this movement on the part 
of his victim, whom he had evidently intended to intimi- 
date by'his coolness and his ferocious words, rose from 
his seat in the long grass, and moved towards the tree 
behind which Somers had taken refuge. Probably he 
was not aware that the Yankee was armed ; for he 
adopted none of the precautions which such a knowl- 
edge would have imposed upon any reasonable man. 

" Come out from that tree, stranger, or you shall die 
like a hog, with a knife ; not like a man, with a rifle- 
ball." 

" I intend to die by neither," said Somers resolutely, 

as he discharged his pistol in the direction from which 
