the last two weeks, all the symptoms in your honored 
husband's case have assumed more discouraging features. 
Mr. Larobe has visited him at my desire ; and we agree, 
in the conclusion, that his safety will require a still 
greater restriction of liberty. The few gleams of in 
telligence which, lighting up now and then, gave us so 



 

much hope, seem to have died away forever, and left 
his mind in total darkness. It is exceedingly painful, 
my dear madam, to write in so disheartening a way of 
your excellent husband ; but my duty is to state the 
case exactly. Have no fear that any harsh means will 
be adopted. These are not in my system. He shall be 
tenderly cared for, and permitted all the freedom con 
sistent with safety. Very truly, 

ALEXIS Du PONTZ, M. D." 

" You saw him ? " There was a look of inexpress- 
able anxiety on the countenance of Mrs. Guy. 

" Yes." 

" He knew you ? " 

" Of course." 

" What did he say ? " 

" He was violent demanded a release and threat 
ened all manner of consequences." 

Mrs. Guy's face grew pale. 

" What did you say ? " 

" Nothing. It is not my custom to waste words on 
an insane man." 

Larobe continued cool and self-possessed, but Mrs. Guy 
was nervous, and vaguely alarmed. 

" Is there no danger of his escape ? " she asked. 

" He made several attempts recently," replied Larobe, 
" but the Doctor has now put him in such close confine 
ment, that no apprehension need' be entertained." 

" I tremble at the bare imagination of such a thing," 
said Mrs. Guy, the paleness of her face remaining. 

" You may fully depend on Doctor Du Pontz," were 



 

Larobe's assuring words. " I have studied the man, 
and know him. Mr. Guy is safe." 

" Adam will be of age in a few weeks." Mrs. Guy- 
still spoke with manifest concern. 

" Trust him with me, my dear madam. I understand 
his relation to the estate, and will take care that no dis 
turbance of our plans originate with him." Thus the 
lawyer spoke in reassuring words. 

" He will visit his father," said Mrs. Guy. 

Larobe merely shrugged his shoulders. 


" And see him " 

" No ; that does not follow," 

" Doctor Du Pont will hardly deny the son an inter 
view. Were he to do so, suspicion would be aroused, 
and legal steps follow." 

The lawyer bent close to the ear of Mrs. Guy, and 
whispered a brief sentence. 

" Ah ! I never thought of that ! " she answered, 
light breaking into her face. 

" Leave all with the Doctor," said Larobe. u He 
understands the case just as well as you' or I, and will 
see that all things work to the good result we have in 
view." 

Thus assured, the heart of Mrs. Guy took courage 
again. 

Sooner than expected by Mrs. Guy, Adam's resolu 
tion to visit his father assumed the form of a present 
purpose. He called on Mr. Larobe within a few days 
after his separation from his step-mother, and asked for 
such information in regard to the Woodville Asylum as 
would enable him to find his way there by the directest 


course. Mr. Larobe treated him politely even kind 
ly and not only gave him the information he sought, 
but also an open letter to Dr. Du Pontz, introducing 
him as the son of Mr. Guy, who wished to visit his 
father. 

Adam left immediately for New York, and in an hour 
after his arrival was on his way to Staten" Island. On 
reaching the landing, he hired a conveyance, according 
to the direction received from Mr. Larobe, and started 
for the Woodville Asylum, which was yet ten or twelve 
miles distant. A ride of two hours brought him in view 
of Doctor Du Pontz's establishment. Instead of a 
large and imposing modern edifice, as Adam had pictur 
ed it to himself, he found the Woodville Asylum to con 
sist of an old-fashioned, two storied brick house, with 
high pitched roof and dormer windows, built, evidently, 
in the first years of the century by a well-conditioned 
farmer, or gentleman of wealth having rural tastes. 
The space covered by the main building and attach 
ments was large; and the ground covered with fine old 
trees. 

A chill crept along Adam's nerves as he passed from 
the avenue leading up to the house, and entered the 
grounds more immediately surrounding it. The old 
gate awry on the decaying posts, from which the paint 
had disappeared years before. The heavy box borders 
were ragged, broken, and untrimed ; and the shrubbery, 
of which there was considerable, showed only partial and 
unskilled care. But, the walks were in good condition, 
and clean. A dead silence dwelt in the air so dead, 
that to every footfall of the young man, an echo was 
stirred, and came distinctly to his sense of hearing. 



 

As Adam ascended the steps leading to the door, he 
was met by a short, stout man, over fifty years of age, 
with a heavy black and grey beard, and a sallow coun 
tenance. 

" Can I see Doctor Du Pontz ? " he asked. 

" That is my name," replied the short, stout man, with 
a slight French accent ; bowing and smiling. " Walk 
in." And he moved back, giving way for Adam to 
enter. 

The hall was spacious, having a broad stairway in the 
center. Doors opened into rooms on either side. From 
the hall Doctor Du Pontz conducted his visitor to a 
small apartment, evidently used as his private office, as 
it contained books, papers, medicine cases, and profes 
sional apparatus. On entering, Adam gave the Doctor 
his letter of introduction. 

" Oh ; Mr. Guy," said the Doctor, cordially, yet in 
a tone of sympathy, extending his hand and grasping 
that of Adam. " I'm gratified to receive a visit from 
you ; though pained, of course, in view of the occasion." 

" How is my father ? " asked Adam, passing at once 
to the subject that was first in his thoughts. 

The Doctor's face became serious. 

" The case, I regret to say, is not as hopeful as could 
be desired." 

"Can I see him ?" 

" O, yes." There was not a sign of hesitation. 
" But you must prepare yourself for a great change in 
his appearance. When mind gives way at the fearful 
rate witnessed in your father's case, bodily changes 
equally important, almost always attend the disaster. 
You will look upon a sadly altered man." 



 

There was a tone of pity and sympathy in the Doc 
tor's voice, that won a little on the confidence of Adam, 
and softened the unfavorable impression at first made. 

" Do you think my father's case hopeless ? " Adam's 
voice was husky and choked. 

The Doctor gave a shrug, and arched his heavy eye 
brows. Then, as his countenance fell back to its grave 
seriousness, he answered, 

" Hopeless, I fear." 

Adam caught his breath. The Doctor showed con- 



siderable feeling, and spoke kindly and sympathizingly. 
" Wait here for a little while," he said, after convers 
ing a short time with the young man ; and Adam was 
left alone. In the ten minutes that passed before the 
Doctor's return, he did not observe with much care 
what was around him, for his mind was absorbed in the 
coming; interview. 



" Come," said Doctor Du Pontz, appearing at the 
door. 

Adam arose and followed. So suddenly did the blood 
now flow back upon his heart, that it labored, half 
suffused, and felt like one on the eve of suffocation. 
All his soul shrunk from the meeting with his father 
about to occur. But it was too late to recede. 

" Will he know me? " the young man found voice to 
inquire, in a suppressed whisper, as they paused before 
entering a room on the second floor of one of the addi 
tions which had been made to the main building an 
addition not seen in approaching the house. 

" I cannot say," replied the Doctor. "He is not 
much inclined to notice any one. But, he may remem 
ber you." 




And the Doctor turned the key, that was in the lock 
on the outside of the door, and pushing it gently open, 
passed in, followed by Adam. 

Sitting near the window was a man, to all appearance, 
sixty years of age, his face covered with a short, grizzly 
beard. He did not stir, nor seem in any way surprised 
or disconcerted by the intrusion ; but fixed his wild 
looking eyes intently on Adam, who, recognizing scarce 
ly a feature, advanced quickly, and holding out his hand, 
pronounced the word " Father ! " in an eager tone. 

The man started, and bending towards Adam, who 
had already grasped his hand, looked at him curiously, 
yet with evident doubt. 

" I am Adam, father ; your son Adam," said the 
young man, with much tenderness and feeling. 

" Adam ? Adam ? My son Adam ? I thought he 
died a long while ago." The man looked doubtfully at 
Adam, and then in a mute questioning way from him to 
the Doctor. 

" O, no," said Doctor Du Pontz, falling in with his 
humor, " that was a mistake. He didn't die. He was 
dangerously sick for a long time, and word came that 
his illness had terminated fatally. But, you'll remem 
ber I told you last week, that this was true, and that he 
would be here in a few days." 

" He looks like my boy." And a light shone in the 
vacant face, as this was said. 

" I am your boy, your own boy, father ! " Adam's 
voice shook, and his eyes were blinded with tears. 

" Are you indeed ? Well, I couldn't have believed 
it. They say the dead come to life again, sometimes." 



 

And the poor old man smoothed, with both of his hands, 
the temples and face of Adam, along whose nerves the 
cold, unearthly touches sent a shudder. 

" Can't I go home with you, my son ? " he asked, in 
a plaintive, pleading voice. " I don't like to stay here. 
I want to go home." 

" Why don't you like to stay here ? " asked Adam. 

Instead of answering, the old man threw a half fear 
ful look at Doctor Du Pontz. Adam turned quickly, 
and saw an intimidating glance in the Doctor's eyes. 

" Why don't you like to stay ? " Doctor Du Pontz re 
peated Adam's question, and in a tone that, to all ap 
pearance, invited confidence. 

But, no answer was returned. That one glance from 
the Doctor seemed to have touched him like a spell. 
His face lost all signs of intelligence or feeling. He re 
ceded from an awakened state of dim, hopeful conscious 
ness, to the gloomy caverns where his soul had been 
dwelling. Fruitless were Adam's efforts to call him 
back again. Voice and words failed to penetrate the re 
gion of conscious life. He sat, still as a statue, with an 
unchanging countenance, and eyes that never, for an in 
stant, lifted themselves from the floor. 

"I am going, father," said Adam, after exhausting 
all the means of gaining attention that were suggested 
to his mind. 

No response was made. Adam partly turned, and 
moved a step or two in the direction of the door ; then 
stopped and waited ; but there was no recognition of the 
movement. 

" Good-by, father ! " Adam's voice trembled. He 



 

came back a few paces, and held out his hand. " Good- 
by, father," he repeated. But, the form before him re 
mained immovable. He stooped, and lifting one of 
the impassive hands, said 

" I'm going now father." 

The touch aroused the old man. Springing to his 
feet, he caught the shoulder of Adam with a strong grip, 
and holding him off at arm's length, glared wildly into 
his face. Instantly Doctor Du Pontz was between them, 
and, by the exertion of great strength, broke away the 
hold on Adam, and pressing back the now foaming and 
raving maniac, called, in a quick, warning voice for the 
young man to leave the room instantly, an injunction 
which he did not fail to obey. On the outside of the 
door Adam stood, all in a tremor, listening to the strug 
gle that still went on, and which continued for nearly a 
minute. Then the clanking of a chain chilled his blood, 
and with a sickening heart he made his way to the of 
fice in which he had been at first received, there to 
await the Doctor's return. 

Soon Doctor Du Pontz joined him, his dress in con 
siderable disorder, and his sallow face flushed. 

" Poor man ! You see how sad the case is. Mind 
nearly gone." The Doctor spoke in a tone of pity. 

"Are such dreadful paroxysms frequent?" asked 
Adam. 

" No. If all causes of excitement are avoided, he re 
mains calm and indifferent," replied the Doctor. 

" He knew me," said Adam. 

" There was, certainly, a partial recognition, and the 
disturbance which followed was a consequence. We 



 

are obliged to keep all exciting influences as far away as 
possible." 

" Do you see any improvement, taking his condition 
now, and comparing it with his condition one, two or 
three months back? " inquired Adam. 

The Doctor shook his head. 

" Is there any change ? " 

" I think so." 

" Unfavorable ? " 

Yes." 

Adam sighed heavily, and remained silent. 

" It pains me," said Doctor Du Pontz, " to be obliged 
to speak with so little encouragement ; but truth com 
pels me to affirm, that I see little in your father's case 
to inspire hope. But, of one thing you may be assured, 
while in this establishment, he will receive the kindest 
care, and the best moral discipline his case demands. 
Time, and a wise patience, may bring salutary results. 
As in diseases of the body, so we say in diseases of the 
mind, while there is life there is hope." 

Adam went back from Woodville, sadder than when 
he came, and with a darker cloud resting on all his fu 
ture. He felt a sense of weakness creeping into his soul, 
as if forces, impossible to be conquered, were arraying 
themselves against him. Between his step-mother and 
Mr. Larobe, evidently existed a league ; and there was 
little doubt in Adam's mind as to the object. But, 
what could he do to thwart the evil purpose they had, 
as he believed, in view ? Nothing, certainly, until he 
attained his majority. 

" A few weeks more, and then ! " So Adam said to 



 



himself, many times, as he journeyed back. " A few 
weeks, and then this guardianship, so far as I am con 
cerned, must cease." 

But what then ? The answers were far from clear. 
He would take counsel, and demand a legal adjustment 
of his relation to his father's estate. The law would 
put him right ! But Adam did not know the law. 




CHAPTER XXXV. 



few weeks and they had nearly ex 
pired. In ten days, Adam Guy would 
ke twenty-one. He had already taken 


legal achnce, and was preparing to put 
his step-mother and Mr. Larobe on 
the defensive in regard to his father's 
estate. On the very day of reaching 
his majority, a note from his counsel 
was to signify his will in the case. All 
the assurances he received were of the most emphatic 
character. He was told that the Orphan's Court would 
order a division to him of so much of his father's prop 
erty as, in heirship, he was entitled to receive. Beyond 
that, he had no concern. If his brother's and sister's 
portions were alienated or squandered, under the guar 
dianship, it was of little concern to Adam. He was 
for himself, and for no one else. Already he stood sep 
arated from them ; and after getting his share of his 
father's property, he meant that the alienation should 
be complete. They must not become clogs or hindran 
ces to him on his way upward ! 

Such were Adam's thoughts and conclusions as he 
sat alone in his room just ten days before the limitations 
of miuorship were to be removed. There was a knock 
at his door. 



 

" Come in." 

A servant entered and handed the young man a card. 
It bore the name of JUSTIN LAROBE. 

" Show him up," said Adam. 

A few minutes were passed in wondering suspense, 
not untouched by anxiety. 

" What does he want ? " more than once found an 
almost audible utterance. 

Hastening feet were soon heard, and then as the door 
swung open again, Adam arose quickly, with a half utter 
ed exclamation on his lips, and a look of alarm on his face. 
Larobe confronted him with a pale, agitated counten 
ance. 

" Oh, Adam ! " exclaimed the lawyer, speaking in a 
tone of anguish. " Such a dreadful thing has happen 
ed ! " 

" What ? " asked the young man, with a look of ter 
ror. 

" Your father." 

" What of him, Mr. Larote ? " 

