Like moonlight on a falling shower? 
Who lent you, love, your mortal dower ? 
TENNYSON. 
THE sun was going westward as Dr. Bertrand rode 
through the main street of the pretty town of Orange, 
turned to the right, and passed Llewellyn Park, whose 
short, crisp grass and groups of beautiful trees were tinted 
with the tawny hues of an autumn sunset. The bright yel- 
lows and flaming reds of the ripening leaves gave a warm 
coloring to the lovely landscape. He only glanced at it ; in 
his heart rang an echo of cool, sweet tones, more musical 
than this plashing wayside brook ; and the vision of a sad, 
tender face came between him and this dreamy beauty. 
He turned down a by-road, and soon paused before a lit- 
tle tasteful cottage, almost hidden by two giant sycamores, 
through which you caught glimpses of a pointed roof and a 
vine-covered porch. There was a small front yard, gay 
with late flowers of brilliant beauty ; and a wide piazza at 
the side, with two entrances one nearly in the centre, the 
other at the farther end. 
He fastened his horse, and walked up the path, bordered 
with scarlet geraniums. Old Mr. Wilcox sat in the hall, 
his withered hands clasped over the head of his cane. His 
face was placid, and his kind blue eyes still shone with 
human interest, though the silver of nearly fourscore years 
rested on his straggling locks. 
" Good evening, Dr. Bertram!. I'm glad to see you 
 
once again ; " and he shook hands, warmly, calling, a mo- 
ment after, " Mary ! " 
Mrs. Wilcox answered the summons. Fair, rosy, and 
well kept, with a genial face and hearty, pleasing voice. 
" Why, Dr. Bertrand, what a surprise ! You are a great 
stranger ; " and she placed a chair for him. 
There was some general conversation, which happened to 
turn at length on the fine season it had been for fruit ; and 
Mr. Wilcox proposed Mary should take the doctor through 
the garden, and see if she could not find a peach or a pear 
for him. He rose with alacrity. 
" Father is childish about the garden," she exclaimed, 
with a smile. " But we have done remarkably well with it 
this summer." 
" I am obliged to him for sending us out," Richard re- 
turned. " I wanted to see you particularly, and ask a great 
favor." 
" A favor ? " she repeated, in surprise. 
" Yes ; are your boarders gone ? " 
" They leave next week. Old Mrs. McLean is very fee- 
ble. I doubt if she ever comes again." 
" Would you object to having any one through the winter ?" 
" dear, no. Winter is a lonely time with me. I can't 
leave father, except to run into the nearest neighbor's, and 
sometimes I feel quite lost. My old life used to be so 
busy ! " 
" I must tell my story first, and then trust your kindness. 
There is scarcely any one else I could apply to, except a 
perfect stranger." Then, after a long pause, he simply 
said, " Robert was privately married last February," and 
gave the main incidents of neglect and desertion. He spoke 
touchingly of Margaret her youth, her friendlessness, 
her unfavorable surroundings, ^and the urgent necessity of 
her being in good hands ; ending with, " It would be utterly 
impossible for me to take her home at this juncture, even if 
I wanted to." 
"Even if he wanted to ! " That, to Mrs. Wilcox, impli'ed 
his unwillingness. She fancied she understood Dr. Ber- 
trand's feelings. Robert's wife was not just the woman he 
cared to have on an equality with his sisters, but his gener- 
ous disposition would not allow him to act in the heartless 
manner Robert had. Her pity was deeply stirred, and after 
a few perplexing revolutions of her mind, she said, 
" Yes ; I think I could take her." 
The expression of relief in Richard's face repaid her. 
" Thank you a thousand times ! " he exclaimed, warmly. 
" I wish you could see her first ; but, believe me, it will be 
quite impossible not to take her to your heart at once." 
" Your recommendation is amply sufficient. I only hope 
she will be satisfied." 
" I can answer for her. When may she come ? " 
" The 1st of October, if she pleases. And your frequent 
visits will be a decided comfort. Indeed," she continued, 
wanning with her subject, since she had resolved upon it, 
" you may set your heart entirely at rest about the secret. 
Her coming from New York will cover all questions ; and I 
have no very curious acquaintances here." 
" You have done me an invaluable kindness," Richard 
said, in a heartfelt tone. " You are sharing a great bur- 
den with me." 
So the next morning he went to New York with a lighter 
heart. His impatience to see Margaret was so great that 
he could hardly endure settling the preliminaries with Mrs. 
Davis, though she readily relinquished Margaret to his care. 
He hurried up stairs to the child's room. How neat and 
faultless its appointments were ! The daintily flowered car- 
pet, the light, graceful chairs, a red and white willow work- 
stand, books and pictures ; nothing very costly, but all things 
evincing true and elegant taste. And there was Margaret, 
robed in a French print, with pale tinted ground and minut- 
est flowers in lovely coloring. At the throat and wrists it 
was relieved with soft ruffles, and instead of a brooch, she 
 
wofe a deep, velvety rose and bud. Her hair was smooth 
and glossy ; her feet, in tiny resetted slippers, seemed the 
extreme of neatness. There was such a regard for finish in 
detail about her, that Richard wondered how she had man- 
aged to retain her love of order and beauty in this place. 
She was shy and distant this morning. Indeed, she could 
not divest herself of a feeling that Dr. Bertrand was dis- 
pleased, and justly so, at her imprudent marriage with his 
brother. Mrs. Davis's present haste to consign her to other 
hands wounded her deeply. From the grave face before 
her she judged every duty would be steadfastly performed, 
and having brought this sorrow and care upon him, all she 
could do was to acquiesce in his arrangements. She listened 
with quiet deference, and passively assented, without imagin- 
ing regard as well as duty actuated him. It was not pos- 
sible, she thought, for him to do more than forgive her ; so, 
wrapping herself in the garment of humiliation, she took up 
her cross in silence, the pathetic wail of another burdened 
soul floating through hers with the pitiful cry, 
" O, do whate'er thou wilt ! I will be silent." 
Dr. Bertrand misunderstood her resignation, and felt a 
little disappointed. She, too, failed to read in his grave 
face the almost boundless kindness of his heart. So the 
interview was not as pleasant as the former one. But he 
was more than ever anxious to have her under Mrs. Wil- 
cox's care. 
The brief interval before her departure always seemed 
like a dream to Margaret. She scarcely crossed the thresh- 
old 'of the room where she had learned those strange, 
terrible lessons love, trust betrayed, hopes blighted and 
broken ; the solitary anguish of the soul that cries through 
black, bitter midnight, receiving no response ; the cruel, 
lingering death of the heart's first sweet bliss. For she felt 
love was indeed dead. Stranger hands would take him out 
to his burial when she left this room ; yet, until then, she 
could cast regretful glances in the narrow coffin. She 
neither longed for, nor expected, Robert's return. As she 
took down the pictures, she remembered the white, firm 
hands that had hung them, soft fingers that had threaded 
her hair, or held captive her little face until she kissed her 
way out to freedom. And here he had written in her books, 
" Margaret," " Maggie," " Madge." How beautifully clear 
and bold the letters were ! It was like looking over relics 
of the dead ; and when they were all packed, she experi- 
enced the desolate sensation of one after a funeral. 
Mrs. Davis was to accompany them to Orange. Much as 
Dr. Bertrand disliked it, he considered it a duty, and re- 
solved to perform his part pleasantly. But his brow con- 
tracted when she attired herself in a light gay-colored shawl, 
whose glaring flowers startled him. 
As if Margaret read the thought, she remarked, quietly, 
" I think I would wear the brown one, mother"; it is a 
chilly day, and that will not be warm enough." 
" La, child, how you do like that dull old thing ! This 
is a sight han'somer ; " but nevertheless she made the ex- 
change. 
Margaret was unexceptionable. Her paleness showed 
through her veil, and her voice sounded unnatural ; but her 
step did not waver. Mrs. Davis was chief conversationalist, 
and Richard felt thankful the journey was not long, and that 
he met no acquaintances. 
Mrs. Wilcox's flower-garden was still in bloom, but the 
path rustled with fallen leaves. Some tempting purple 
clusters remained on the grape-vine, and a hardy scarlet- 
runner clung to the porch in all its glory of bright berries. 
The mistress met them on the piazza, and was too well-bred 
to make any distinction in her greeting. She had Marga- 
ret's trunks sent immediately to her room, and ushering the 
others into the parlor, said, in a low tone, to her, " Would 
you like to take a glimpse of your new abode while you are 
laying off your bonnet and cloak ? " 
Margaret followed her guide. The room was large, with 
two windows fronting the street, and two overlooking the 
porch, and from thence the garden below. The walls were 
covered with tasteful paper, the snowy curtains drawn back 
by crimson cords : a pretty lounge in daniask, a low rocking 
chair, and the French bedstead, with its pure white belong- 
ings, first attracted her glance. The door of the little stove 
was partially open, and the ruddy glow of coals shone out 
warmly, giving a sense of home-like comfort. 
" Let me assist you," Mrs. Wilcox exclaimed, anxious for 
a nearer view of the face hidden behind the veil. " I hope 
you will like your new home. I shall do everything in my 
power to make it happy for you." 
" Thank you. You are very kind," Margaret managed 
to say, as she raised her pleading, timid eyes, swimming in 
tears, in spite of her efforts at self-control. 
" My poor child ! " Mrs. Wilcox's sympathy rushed out 
with the fond, motherly clasp, that pillowed Margaret's 
throbbing temples on her bosom. "You are tired and 
frightened. Presently we'll have a cup of tea, and a nice, 
cheerful talk. Then, if you like, I'll help you unpack. I 
want to be your friend as much for your own sake as for 
Dr. Bertrand's, though I have known him many a long 
year." 
Margaret pressed a yearning, convulsive kiss on the hands 
that enfolded her. Mrs. Wilcox substituted her warm face 
instead, and returned the caress fondly. 
" Now, I will show you about a little," she said, cheerily, 
as she remarked the almost hysteric sob that half strangled 
Margaret. "-Here is your wardrobe ; and here," opening 
the door to another closet, "you will find all washing con- 
veniences. I suppose we may as well leave everything until 
your friends are gone, however." 
Dr. Bertrand would have been surprised had he seen 
the effort .of Margaret's mental nature to rule the physical. 
A stratum of subtle strength ran through this fine soul, like 
 
flame coior in an opal, visible only in certain lights. It 
was susceptibility, and not weakness, that made her choose 
silence ; a knowledge that the external breakdown would be 
more painful to her tense nerves, than this inward anguish 
that was torturing her soul with inquisitorial pangs. Her 
deepest feelings shrank from witnesses. 
" Will you please send Mrs. Davis up," she asked, when 
she could steady her voice. " I think it would gratify her 
to see my room ; and they have only a few moments, as they 
wish to catch the return train." 
Mrs. Wilcox obeyed her behest immediately. 
" Well, I declare ! " and the voice sounded coarser than 
ever, amid these quiet surroundings, as Mrs. Davis took a 
survey ; " you've got everything nice and slick hain't you ? 
and your landlady seems a proper clever creetur. It's 
enough sight nicer than the shop ; that never did seem the 
place for you ! I hope you'll be contented. But, Marg'ret, 
if things don't go straight, or Dr. Bertrand gets offish, 
you can come back any time ; it's your home when you want 
it. I've tried to be a mother to you, but we wasn't made 
alike." 
" You have been very kind, I am sure." 
" If your father 'd lived, 'twould all 'a been different. I 
shouldn't worked so hard, and might 'a had time to smart 
up, and be a lady. But land ! it's all spilt milk. And here's 
suthin' for you the money Dr. Bertrand give me. You 
hold on to it, child ; it's two thousand dollars and over." 
Margaret drew back, and said, with loftiness, " Give it 
back to him,' 
" He hain't no business whatever with it. It's best to 
keep a close watch over your own. Nobody knows jest 
what's before 'em ; " and she crowded the money into Mar- 
garet's hand. 
" I s'pose it's about time for us to start. Now, keep chip- 
per, and don't get humsick ; and if you want anything o' me, 
jest write a line." 
 
" Thank you. And you must come to see me." 
" It's kinder hard for me to get away, you know; but I'll 
come in a minute if you send for me." 
They went down stairs together. Richard looked quite 
cheerful. Mrs. Wilcox's account had been better than he 
hoped for, and very satisfactory. The farewells were neces- 
sarily brief. 
As they were riding back to the depot, Mrs. Davis re- 
lieved her mind of its last charges. Glad as she was to shift 
her burden into other hands, her conscience demanded full- 
est satisfaction from Margaret's new protector, and it was 
cheerfully given. 
Margaret lingered at the window long after the sound of 
wheels had died away. Her pale face drooped and grew 
inexpressibly mournful, as the new sense of desolation stole 
over her. Every tie of past life had been rudely broken. 
She was among strangers, and the existence lying before 
her must of necessity be different from anything her narrow 
experience had yet met with. She appeared floating out on 
a dim, uncertain sea, with no guide. 
Mrs. Wilcox came in with some fragrant tea. It was her 
great panacea. Then she proposed they should go at the 
unpacking, and bustled about with good-natured solicitude, 
just sufficient to keep Margaret from relapsing into entire 
silence. The trunks were emptied and consigned to a closet, 
the dresses hung up, the bureau filled, the books and pic- 
tures laid on the lounge. Then she went for a pretty set of 
swinging shelves, which she hung up in a recess. 
" How nice ! " Margaret exclaimed ; and an air of interest 
began to blossom faintly in her face, as she arranged her 
books. Then she placed her cologne bottles of Bohemian 
glass on the bureau, and stood her bouquet-holders on the 
mantel-piece. Already the room began to wear a familiar 
look. These inanimate friends had no tendrils to be severed 
by removal ; they smiled as familiarly here as in the place 
 
where they had been added one by one to form a group of 
household treasures. 
" Now I must go down and prepare supper," Mrs. Wilcox 
said, cheerfully, " and afterwards we will attend to the pic- 
tures. When the bell rings, you will know I am ready for 
you ; " and, as she passed out, she dropped a tender kiss on 
Margaret's forehead. 
The child sat down before the stove, and mused in the 
falling twilight. Yet it was not so much thought, as that 
quiet abstraction from all thought a contented idleness. 
The tinkle of the bell -gave her a sudden pang, as if it had 
come too soon. 
She found Mrs. Wilcox in the hall, and was ushered into 
a pleasant apartment, glowing with lamp-light. The table 
was neatly arranged, and Mr. Wilcox already seated in his 
arm-chair. He bowed his white head, and held out his fee- 
ble hand to the new comer, with a gracious welcome. 
Margaret was too tired to eat, but she thawed out of her 
shyness a little at the sound of the motherly voice, so solicit- 
ous for her comfort. She remained down stairs until the tea 
things were put away. Then Mr. Wilcox read in a trembling 
voice the evening psalms, and offered a brief prayer. It 
was at once new and soothing to Margaret, and seemed to 
relieve the weary, desolate oppression. After bestowing 
him safely in bed, Mrs. Wilcox fastened doors and windows, 
and they went up stairs again. 
" I'm going to show you the place," Mrs. Wilcox said, as 
she went on, lamp in hand, opening the door into a wide 
passage, at one end of which stood a bedstead and a few 
chairs, and at the other a door. " This is our back stair- 
way, and leads down to the kitchen ; and here's my room. 
You see we can leave the doors open between, if you like," 
and then I can hear you if you speak. There's only one 
sleeping-room down stairs, and it is more convenient for 
father. I had this hole cut in the floor, so that I could listen 
 
whenever I woke, to see if he was safe. He always keeps 
a little bell on his table, in case he wants anything during 
the night. You see I can keep good watch over you both ; 
and, my dear, I hope you'll soon feel at home ; I want you 
to go around wherever you like. You'll never disturb me 
by coming down, when I'm busy in the kitchen. Indeed, 
you seem so like a child, I can hardly realize that you are 
married." 
After that tour of inspection, the pictures were hung, and 
they sat down to a chatty conversation, which, being about 
Dr. Bertrand's family, was deeply interesting to Margaret. 
Mrs. Wilcox had known them a long while, but never 
very intimately. The circumstances attending the death of 
the father, and the noble conduct of the son, were eloquent 
themes to her. Richard would have been amused if he had 
heard himself described as such a hero. 
" The old doctor was not so rich as people supposed," 
Mrs. Wilcox went on. " Richard decided to assist in taking 
care of the children ; and the lady he was engaged to marry 
an heiress, by the by -was so offended, that she broke 
with him, and married a richer person. I don't know what 
kind of" a heart she could have had. I would have waited 
years for any one so noble and generous. Indeed, if she 
had loved him truly, it would have been quite impossible for 
her ever to love another." 
Margaret was glad to hear these details. She understood 
now why his face was grave, his voice unconsciously sad. 
He knew the bitter pain of desertion, renunciation. His 
heart had been wounded by neglect and coldness. She felt 
herself irresistibly drawn towards him, more deeply than if 
he had been perfectly happy ; and she almost envied his 
sisters the blessed privilege of comforting him. 
Afterwards, when she was nestled among the snowy pil- 
lows, watching the moon as it stole slantwise through the 
low windows, she thought of his kindness to her, and how, 
unwittingly, she had helped to increase his burdens. She 
tried to believe the stormy scene described by Mrs. Davis 
much exaggerated. She could fancy him grieved, sorrowful, 
almost heart-broken, but not angry. O, would she ever be 
able to express the gratitude welling up in her heart like 
a royal flood, drowning out distrust, coldness, and want 
of faith ? And then she thought, with Mrs. Wilcox, that 
the woman who once truly loved him could never love 
another. 
And what were Richard's reveries ? Now that the excite- 
ment was in some degree over, and he began to feel satisfied 
with Margaret's surroundings, he looked the future straight 
in the face, and asked himself, for the first time, if he had done 
wisely. A curious sort of fate had urged him on ; indeed, 
the merely common impulses of a humanity generous as his 
could not but have given rise to the tenderest pity for one 
situated as Margaret was. With him all nobler feelings lived 
a full, active life. He could never pass by on the other side, 
whether the case were trivial, or of urgent need ; and now he 
had committed himself irrevocably to a labyrinthine path, 
where circumstances only could be his guide. He pondered 
the subject earnestly. There was one more step he really 
owed Margaret for his hasty verdict against her. Opening 
his desk, he drew forth some paper, and began a letter to 
Robert a strong, earnest plea in behalf of the wronged girl. 
After detailing the steps he had taken, and expressing his 
deepest regret that in a hasty moment he had been per- 
suaded to espouse so flagrant a wrong, he implored Robert 
to hasten home, and offer the only reparation in his power. 
It was eloquent with truest, tenderest pleading. As he 
wrote, desire became faith with him; he must have it so. 
Living, burning words thronged to his pen, such as one uses 
only in the great exigencies of life. 
Weeks must elapse before it could be sent ; yet it was a 
relief to have it done. Then he could resign himself to 
dreams of the sweet face 
 
" like twilight fair, 
Like twilight too her dusky hair." 
Nothing that bewildered with Murillo coloring, or stood 
out with the force of 'carven stone. It was a face one 
longed to see at a pleasant fireside, smiling with rare, quiet 
happiness. It seemed the more lovely because memory 
was unable to portray it with salient points, and shrouded it 
in shadowy indistinctness. 
 
CHAPTER XVIII. 
Blest softness ! little hand and little cheek ! 
This is a touch so sweet, a blessed touch ; 
There is love in it love that will not change 
JOANNA I 
O, let my weakness have an end ; 
Give unto me, made lowly wise, 
The spirit of self-sacrifice. 
WORDSWORTH. 
IT was a bleak, dreary afternoon in early December. 
Little, hard pellets of snow drove in fitful gusts through a 
biting air, that did not in the least encourage their descent. 
The fierce wind rattled the leafless branches together, or 
whirled the dry leaves in little eddies before scattering them, 
and the rocky ground gave back the clatter of wagon wheels. 
Margaret's room was warm and cheerful, even in its solemn 
stillness. Most of the shutters were closed, and the fire 
gleam made a grateful, rosy twilight. The air had an 
aromatic smell, as of powerful restoratives, and on the 
pillow lay a thin, white face, framed in with clustering 
brown hair. The blue-veined lids were closed, and the 
golden-fringed lashes rayed orer cheeks of marble. The 
small, stirless mouth had lost its ripe hue. The repose 
looked painfully like death. 
Dr. Bertrand bent over her noiselessly ; but by an acute 
intuition her languid eyes unclosed. 
" I must leave you now," he said, in a voice sorrowfully 
sweet. " You must be very good and quiet, and not worry 
about anything. I shall be up again on Thursday." 
He passed his cool hand over her forehead, and then took 
her passive fingers in a clasp gentle, but tenderly strong. 
^He had been fighting with death for her, and she knew what 
that clasp expressed. A peaceful light stole over her face, 
a trust that told each had fathomed the depths of the other's 
heart. 
He went out quietly. She listened to the last footfall, 
then weakly and weariedly turned a little. She could not 
see the soft, pinky flesh her hand lingered over with a thrill 
of deliciousness ; she only knew it was hers a part of her 
own life. She cried gently, in a transport of love, pity, and 
grief. 
" baby," she said, in murmurous, broken tones, " how 
kind, how good he is ! And yet, I almost wish we had died. 
We should have had each other in heaven, and God would 
have loved us, poor and weak as we are. For, my darling, 
papa, with his handsome face and bright eyes, will never 
come back to us. He has ceased to care for us ; and it's so 
dreary, dreary ! But I am crying, when I promised to be 
good and quiet ! baby, you can never know how Dr. 
Bertrand has comforted me ; if papa had only been like 
him ! " 
She found the baby's hand, and was holding it with cling- 
ing tenderness, when Mrs. Wilcox came up. The kind- 
hearted woman did not question the traces of tears she 
found on her patient's face, but bathed them away with 
fragrant water, and took her place as nurse and watcher. 
Dr. Bertrand pursued his homeward way through the 
chilly gray air, musing on the new link that should have 
bound his brother to Margaret. They had heard once from 
the wanderer a gay, chatty epistle, describing his voyage, 
the new home, and his situation, which was quite to his 
liking. Not a word that could be construed into regret for 
the past. "Don't distress yourself for me, dear Dick, best 
brother in the world," were its concluding words. 
Richard had despatched his letter immediately, leaving 
the children to write at their leisure ; and now he was 
anxiously awaiting a reply. 
More than anxiously. A sick, impatient feverishness waa 
stealing through his veins. If he had desired a reconcilia- 
tion at first, how much more now, when he had fathomed 
the depth of Margaret's nature, its exceeding purity, its 
affluent tenderness ! He wanted the tie between them rightly 
established, in order that he might bring the fond sisters to 
her side, and give her a place in the household. 
And then he wondered if Margaret loved his brother. 
Since the day on which she had so simply and truthfully con- 
fided to him the story of her brief, bright dream, no moan 
of desolation, no imploring prayer, had reached him. Indeed, 
she rarely spoke of Robert. In her first moment of moth- 
erly pride and love, she had said, tremulously, " You will 
write to him for baby's sake ; " but she had no prayer for 
herself. A subtle pride, like minute steely points, kept 
guard around her heart, and forbade her to kneel where she 
had once been spurned. 
The lights were burning brightly in his own happy home. 
Mabel met him with an eager caress. She did not know why 
he held her so tightly in his arms, kissing her again and 
again, and never releasing her until he stood in the library, 
contemplating his dressing-gown and slippers. 
" I was so afraid you wouldn't come ! Are you very 
tired ? Shall I bring your dinner and a cup of fresh tea in 
here ? " 
" If you please." He glanced at her with a restless long- 
ing. O, what a comfort it would be to share his secret with 
her ! 
The children came in, uttering pathetic complaints of how 
much they had missed him. When the dishes were sent 
away, Tessy slipped into her old place on his knee, and 
leaned her soft, peachy cheek against his. 
" It begins to snow terrifically ! " exclaimed Archie ; 
" and, Dick, for a wonder, there's but two calls on the ofiice 
