Bert went through a variety of motions in counting 
her fingers, and finally announced as the result of her 
computation, that four times four made twenty-nine 

" That is hardly right." 

" Fm awfbl ignorant, ain't I?" asked Bert. 

" Considerably so, I confess. But we shall be able to 
remedy that." 

" You won't make me study my eyes out? ''  

" That would be a pity. You see mine are not yet 
gone, and I don't mean to ask you to study any harder 
than I did." 

Bert looked at the eyes of her teacher which were 
quite as bright as her own, and lost her apprehensions 
on that score. 


''ril tell you why I asked," said she, after a pause. 
'' There's a girl that goes to school — she's only twelve 
years old — and she has to wear spectacles, and I heard 
somebody say it was because she studied so hard. I 
shouldn't want to be obliged to wear spectacles." 

Mrs. Codman could not forbear laughing at the idea 
of her frolicsome little scholar, with a pair of glasses 
perched upon her nose, and promised her that if she 
found there was any prospect of her being obliged to 
wear them, she would advise her at once giving up 
study. 

''Then I hope," thought Bert, "I shall heed them 
soon." 

" Now," proceeded Mrs. Codman, " I am going to 
give you short and easy lessons in reading, spelling, 
snd arithmetic. It won't take you long to get them, if 
you only try. When you have recited them, we are to 
go out and ride in the carriage." 

" O, that will be nice," exclaimed the child. " Tell 
me what the lesson is, quick." 

The lessons were got and said sooner than could have 
been expected, and so Bert had taken the first step in 
ascending the hill of learning. 



 



Bebt had plenty of capacity. She could get her lea- 
sons in an incredibly short time when there was any 
inducement. At other times she would sit for two, or 
three hours with the book 43efore her, but with her atten- 
tion straying to other things, and, as a natural conse- 
quence, would know njo more at the end of that time 
than at the beginning. Fortunately Mrs. Codman had 
the gift of patience, and though she was gentle, was, at 
the same time, firm. 

Of one thing Bert became convinced, — that study 
was not so terrible as she had imagined. At the end of 
three months she had made so great an improvement, 
that her father was equally surprised arid delighted, and 
was disposed to do full justice to Mrs. Codman's merits 
as a governess. "Who knows but you will become 
quite a learned lady in time, Bert? " he said, playfjiUy. 

" No doubt of it, papa," replied Bert. " By the time 
I am eighteen, I expect to wear green glasses and write 
books." 

" That will, indeed, be a miraculous transformation' 
And what is to become of Topsy, then? " 

" Oh, she'll be an old cat then, and won't feel any 



more like racing round than I do. She'll jast carl up in 
a chair beside me, and I will use her fur to wipe my 
pens on. She is just the right color for that, you know." 

   Quite a sensible plan, I confess. Indeed, it will be 
well for you to have something of that kind to be em- 
ployed about, as you will probably have no beaux." 

"No beaux, papa? And why am I to have no beaux» 
' I should like to know ? " 

" Because it takes two to make a bargain." 

'' Well, perhaps I sha'n't," replied Bert, tossing her 
head. " Perhaps you don't know that I have picked out 
my future husband." 

"Wliewl That is getting along faster than I had 
anticipated. May I be permitted to know who is to be 
my son-in-law ? I think I can guess, however." 

"Who?" 

" Mr. Bradley." 

Mr. Bradley was. an old bachelor, of about fifty, par- 
tially bald and more than partially homely, who had 
now and then dined with Mr. Bowman, and had taken 
more notice of the young lady than she at all desired. 

" Mr. Bradley ! " repeated Bert, in a contemptuous 
manner. " I'd a gCNQid deal rather marry Topsy." 

" Perhaps," suggested her father, "the superior length 
of the kitten's whiskers causes you to give her the pref- 
erence. Am I to understand that she is your choice ? " 

" No ; it is a very handsome boy, and his name is 
Charlie Codman." 

A look of regret stole over Mrs. Codman's face, — the 
expression of a sorrow caused by her uncertainty with 
rard to Charlie's fete. 



 



 

" A son of yours? " asked Mr. Bowman, in some sur- 
prise. 

Mrs. Codman replied in the affirmative. 

"You ought to see his miniature, papa. He is very 
handsome." 

" And you have lost your heart to him. Perhaps he 
may not return the compliment." 

" I hope he will," said the young lady. 

" Perhaps Mrs. Codman will allow me to look at the 
miniature of my future son-in-law," said Mr. Bowi m, 
not guessing the mother's sorrow and its cause. 

While Mrs. Codman was absent from the room, Bert 
gave her father a brief account of Charlie's disappear-ance. 

" You must pardon mCj Mrs. Codman," said Mr, Bow- 
man, in a tone of feeling, when she had returned, "for 
speaking in the lively tone I did. I little guessed the 
anxiety you must feel about your son. Is tiiis the miniature ? " 

" A very attractive face ! " he said. " I don't wonder 
at Bert's taking a fancy to it." 

. " I cannot wonder at your sorrow in losing, even for 
a time, such a boy as this face seems to indicate,'' he 
added. 

" You think there is a chance of his coming back to 
me?" asked Mrs. Codman, anxiously. 

" I am hardly prepared to express an opinion on the 
scanty information which Bert has been able to give me. 
If you are willing to tell me the story in detail, I will 
tell you what I think of the chances." 

Mrs. Codman told the story, mentioning, also, the 



 



 

name of Peter Manson, and the language T hich he had 
used. 

" I sometimes see this Manson," said the merchant, 
" and know him by reputation. He is a miser," 

" lie pretends to be very poor." 

" All pretence. I do not see what object he could 
have had in spiriting your son away." 

Further conversation followed, but, as might be ex- 
pected, no satisfactory result was reached. Mrs. Cod- 
man, however, felt relieved and more hopeful in the 
knowledge that her employer knew of her loss, and 
would do what he could to discover Charlie. 

It was only a week later that he came into the school- 
room with a smile upon his face. 

"Father, you bring good news; isn't it so?" said 
Bert. -  «' m. 

" I hope so." . 

Mrs. Codman looked up with a glance of eager inquiry. 

"As I took up the morning paper," said the merchant, t' my eyes, by chance, ran down the list of adver- 
tised letters. Recognizing the name of Mrs. Codman 
among them, I took the liberty of sending to the. office 
for it. It is post-marked at Rio Janeiro." 

" Oh, give it to me quick ! " exclaimed Mrs, Codman, 
in agitation. 

" Is it from Charlie ? " asked Bert. 

'' It is, it is !" exclaimed the happy mother  as she 
recognized the familiar handwriting; and too impatient 
to unseal the letter, she tore it open and devoured the 
contents. 



 





It Tvas the letter which Charlie had commenced oa 
shipboard. We will give the greater part of it. 

'' Dearest Mother, — . 

" I hope this letter will reach you in safety, and 
will relieve you of some of the anxiety you must have 
felt about your wandering boy. You will start with 
surpiise when you see where this is dated. I am three 
thousand miles from you, dear mother, but not by my 
own act. But I must tell you how I came to leave you. 
(This portion of the letter is omitted.) You mustn't 
think I have suffered all the time on board the ship, 
though it is hard work, and, for some reason, the captain 
and mate have both been my enemies. I have had one 
faithful friend, to whom I am very much indebted. He 
is a rough sailor, and neither educated nor refined, but 
he has a warm heart, and has been very kind to your 
boy. Indeed, mother, I don't know how much trouble 
I should have had, if it hadn't been for honest Bill 
Sturdy. Some time I hope you will have the pleasure of 
taking him by the hand, and" thanking him for alljie has 
done for me. The greatest act of "frfendship for which I 
have to thank him I will not write here, but I will tell 
you some time. 

"As we were neither of us treated as well as we 
ought to be, we have deserted the vessel, and trans- 
ferred ourselves to a ship bound to Liverpool, and 
thence to New York ; so that it may be some months 
from now before I see you again. 

" I am so afraid you have suffered since I left you, 
not only from solitude and anxiety about me, but have 
becfti compelled to labor beyond your strength. You 



were so poorly paid for that horrid sewing, and had to 
work so hard at it. But when I come back we will live 
together, as we once did ; and though it will not be a 
luxurious home, it shall be a happy one. As you may 
have moved elsewhere, you must leave word with those 
who occupy our old room where you live, so that when I 
come back, which will be just as soon as I can, I may 
come at once to you, and tell you how much I have 
missed you. 

" From your affectionate 

« Chablie.'' 

Knowing that Mr. Bowman felt a friendly interest in 
Charlie's welfare, Mrs. Codman, her eyes dim with happy 
tears, handed him the letter which he read attentively. 

" A very good letter," he said, " and very creditaMe 
to the writer. When he returns, if you and he are both 
willing, my counting- 
room. His letter is sufficient recommendation.". 

How differently the world looks according to the mood 
in which we view it. No one could have convinced Mrs. 
Codman, after the reception of this letter, that it was 
not a perfect paradise. The patient sorrow which her 
face had worn the day before, gave place to a sweet and 
happy expression, which made her look quite charming. 

" Mrs. Codman is really a beautiful woman," thought 
Mr. Bowman, as, unobserved, he watched her laughing 
with Bert, glancing over the newspaper which he was sup- 
posed to be reading. 




It was a fine morning when the Bouncing Betsy, alter 
a quick and prosperous voyage from Valparaiso, entered 
Boston harbor. There had been few or no changes on 
board since the ship left Bio Janeiro on the passage 
out. Captain Brace is still in command, and unfortunately has not at all mended his ways, but has richly 
merited, as he has obtained, the general dislike of the 
crew, not one of whom will sail with him again unless 
forced by dire necessity. Second in odium as he is 
in command, comes Randall, the mate. He cares little 
how he is regarded by the men under him. To him the 
voyage has proved in some respects a disappointment. 
Ho has not recovered from the vexation occasioned by 
the escape of Bill Sturdy and Charlie. lie has antici- 
pated with eagerness the return to Boston, where he hopes 
fij st to meet with the deserters, and secondly intends 
to wrest a farther sum from the fears of Peter Manson. 

Before visiting the miser, however, it is his intpntion 
to find out what he can about Mrs. Codman, and how she 
has fared. He hopes in his vindictiveness she has been 
reduced to the deepest distress, and the hardest shifts to 
procure a livelihoode 



 



 

He made his way to the tenement-house where Mrs. 
Codman formerly lodged. He went up to the door of 
her former room and Imocked, but it was opened by a 
stranger, who could give him no information about the 
person for whom he inquired. . 

Perplexed and quite at a loss how to obtain a clew to 
the knowledge he desired, he went back to Wash- 
ington' Street, and mingled in the busy throng that 
crowded the sidewalks. He walked leisurely along, 
gazing listlessly into the shop windows, but intent 
upon his own thoughts. 

Chancing to let his eyes rest upon a passing carriage, 
he was startled by the glimpse of a face which he was 
sure he knew. It was an elegant carriage, drawn by two 
spirited horses, and evidently the equipage of a person 
of wealth. A negro coachman in livery sat upon the 
box, and wielded the reins with a dexterous hand. There 
were two persons inside — one was a child of ten, a 
lively young girl, across whose face a hundred change- 
fhl expressions flit. She was talking in an animated 
strain to a lady with a beautiful arid expressive face, 
who sat beside her. 

These two persons were Ida and her governess. 
The latter was looking better than when she was intro- 
duced to the reader. SuiTOunded by comforts and 
luxuries, and above all relieved from her most pressing 
anxiety by the letter which she had received from- 
Charlie, her cheeks had recovered their wonted fullness 
and bloom, and the rare beauty for which she had been 
distinguished in her youth. 

Randall could scarcely believe his eyes. This was 
the woman whom he had pictured to himself as slang- 




gling amid the deepest poverty to obtain a scanty sub- 
sistence, worn out by harrowing anxiety for the loss of 
her only son. What a contrast to his anticipations was 
the reality! He saw her tastefully dressed — the pic- 
ture of health and happiness — with the same beauty 
that had dazzled him in times past, surrounded by evi- 
dences of prosperity and luxury. 

"What can it mean?" he thought in bewilderment. 
"Is it possible that my eyes are deceived by an acci- 
dental resemblance ? " 

The carriage had already passed 'him,  but as it was 
obliged to proceed slowly on account of a press of car- 
riages, he had- no difficulty, by quickening his pace a 
little, in- overtaking it, and again scanning the face 
whose presence there had filled him with so much sur- 
prise. 

The first explanation which suggested itself to him as 
possible was, that Mrs. Codman had attracted the 
attention of some wealthy gentleman, who forgetting 
the distance which circumstances had established be- 
tween them, had laid himself and his fortune at 
her feet. But even then how could she appear so 
light-hearted and happy unless Charlie had returned? 
There was another supposition that old Peter Hanson 
had died, and on his death-bed, repenting his past 
wickedness and injustice, had repaired tlie wrong of 
which he had been guilty, as far as he could, by leaving 
all his possessions to Mrs. Codman. This was to Ran- 
dall the most disagreeable supposition of the two, for 
it would efiectually stand in the way of the designs 
which he cherished against the same property. 

Determined not to lose sight of Mrs. Codman, he 

 



 

with considerable difficulty kept pace with the carriage' 
It chanced that Bert and her governess were just return- 
ing from a drive, otherwise they might have led Randall 
a long chase. At present they were not very far from 
home. 

From the opposite side of the street Randall watched 
them descend the steps of the caiTiage, and outer the 
house. He paused long enough afterwards to cross the 
street, note down the name of Bowman together with 
the number, that he might be able to identify it here- 
after. He then examined the house itself with some 
curiosity. The appearance of the house indicated 
clearly enough the wealth of the owner. 

" I wish I knew,'' muttered the mate, " on what foot- 
ing Mrs. Codman resides here. She must cither be the 
wife of the proprietor or his house-keeper, one or the 
other. 

At this moment an infirm old woman limped out of 
the side-gate, with a basket slung on her arm. 

Pressing forward, he accosted her. 

" You seem heavily laden, my good woman." 

" Yes," said she, " thanks to the good lady who lives 
in the house." 

" What is her name? " 

" It's Mrs. Codman. Do you know her, sir? " 

'' I am not sure. I once knew some one of ihe name. 
But there is a different name on the door — Bowman.'' 

" Yes, he is the gentleman of the house." 

"And Mrs. Codman?" 

'' She is the young lady's governess." 

" How long has she been there? " 

"I don't know, sir." 



 



 

" Never mind. It doesn't matter much." 

'' I wish I could tell you, sir." 

' It's of no consequence at all, and you needn't men- 
tion that any questions have been asked you. But I am 
afraid I have been detaining you. Here is something 
to pay you for your trouble." 

So saying he slipped half a dollar into her hand and, 
avoiding her profuse thanks, walked hastily away. 

'  Now, for a visit to the miser,'' he said to himself. 




