
" And then He gave them everything on the earth. He 
gave them the animals, the beasts and the fowls and the 
fishes of the sea ; all living things, to govern and use at 
their pleasure and as they needed. That is why no wild 
animal is a match for man. God has given him the mastery. 

"Then there came two commands. One was that they 
should not eat the blood of animals. The life of the creature 
is in the blood ; and these lives were given in sacrifice as a 
sign of Christ's life ; therefore they must be sacred. Man 
might not eat the blood. And next God declared that the 
life of man is a precious thing. God will not have us despise 
the souls that Christ died for. Every one, rich or poor, 
black or white, it makes no difference ; if any one dares to 
shed his blood, his own must pay the forfeit So God 
ordained that a murderer should not live." 

" Might any one kill him ? " inquired Liph. 

" There was in early times no regular government, except 
such government as the head of a family might exercise ; 
like Noah, for instance. Every man did pretty much what 
was right in his own eyes. There was no other law about 
the matter than this one. And to this day, among some of 
the people that live in those regions — and in divers regions — 
there is no other. Men take the law into their own hands. 




" I don't see how Noah could "wish it, and say such words," 
said Prisdlla. 

''As to Noah, he spoke what the Lord gave him to speak 
in that matter. Noah could not know what the fate of his 
descendants would be, except as the Lord made him know ; 
indeed, I do not suppose he did know very well the meaning 
of the sentence he spoka It was God's judgment — not 
man's.  Honour thy father and thy mother, that thy days 
may be long in the land which the Lord thy God giveth 
thee.'" 

"What did the sentence mean, uncle Sam ?" I said. 

" That in time to come, the children of Canaan should be 
overcome and broken down under the children of Japheth 
and Shem ; unable to hold their own, and obliged themselves 
to do the bidding of their masters." 

"I should think the punishment would have come on 
Ham," said Daniel, " and not on his son." 

"It came on Ham through his son. A man feels more 
what comes on his children than what comes on him- 
self." 

" But I don't see how that is right," said Eliphalet. 

" Take care, Liph. ' God is in heaven, and thou on earth ; 
therefore let thy words be few.' Remember, all those nations 
that were the descendants of Canaan were wicked nations ; 
they got no more than they deserved, every one of them, for 
their own sins. This whole saying of Noah is a wonderful 
prophecy ; and perhaps Ham's punishment was just this — 
that he was told how the truth would be. But at any rate 
we know how the Lord looks on such a sin as he had been 
guilty of. 'Thou shalt rise up before the hoary head, and 
honour the face of the old man, and fear thy God : I am the 
Lord.' And in after-times, when the Lord's will concerning 
them was once spoken in the hearing of the whole people of 
the Jews, these words were repeated — ' Cursed be he that 
setteth light by his father or his mother.' And all the people 
said. Amen." 

" Uncle Sam," said Dan, " I wish you would tell us how 
the prophecy was fulfilled." 




" The prophecy was about all the sons of Noah. Suppose 
-we look at it Who will go into the house and fetch me an 
atksl" 

The boys both started, at full gallop ; and were back again 
in a very few minutes. 

" I ought to have remembered it when we came out," said 
my uncle, " for I might have known we should want it. 
Now what are the first words of the prophecy ? —  Cursed be 
Canaan ; a servant of servants shall he be unto his brethren
The children of Canaan were settled here — at the eastern 
end of the Great Sea— in all the country west of the Jordan. 
The curse was fulfilled on them when the Israelites came 
into the land. Then the children of Shem broke them to 
pieces, destroyed them, and made them hewers of wood and 
drawers of water in the country which they had possessed. 
Sidon, up here on the coast, the Israelites did not touch. 
Here, in a little strip of ground the ' great plain of Zidon,' 
as it was called, lived the greatest trading people of old time. 
Tyre and Sidon, its two principal cities, were the merchant 
cities of the world ; and that agrees with their name, for 
Canaan means a 'merchant.' But tbeir time came. The 
Persians, who were children of Japheth, conquered Sidon 
with a horrible conquest ; and a while later, other children 
of Japheth under Alexander the Great ruined Tyre for ever. 
That was not all There was here, on the African shore, a 
colony from Tyre which became very great ; you know, boys, 
what that was; Rome's great rival." 

" I know, too, uncle Sam," said Priscilla ; " Carthage." 

" Carthage was also a commercial city, and rich and strong ; 
but the children of Japheth were to put down the children 
of Canaan, and they did. You know, boys, how the Romans 
did that work for Carthage V 

"I never knew the Carthaginians were Canaanites, though," 
said Daniel. 

"It has been more or less the same thing with all the 
children of Ham. They founded great and strong nations 
they grew powerful and magnificent : but always, sooner or 
later, the children of Japheth or the children of Shem took 



 

possession of their lands and their wealth and put them 
under." 

"What does Ham mean ?" Priscilla inquired. 

" It means 'hot.' The Egyptian name for Egypt,  Kem 
which is supposed to be the same thing as ' Ham means 
black. Noah's whole family seem to have had prophetical 
names; so I suppose Ham signifies 'swarthy;' warm and 
dark too. Egypt, you know, was the land of Ham." 

" And what is Shem ? " I asked. 

" Shem meskus 'name,' or ' renown.' He was the greatly 
honoured one of the three brothers. For in his line came 
the people of the Jews ; and when the Word was made flesh, 
it was the name and blood of a Jew that He took upon Him- 
sell So Noah, seeing that glory down the dark line of ages, 
could say nothing but, ' Blessed be the Lord God of Shem ? '" 

" Do you think Noah saw it, uncle Sam ? " Daniel said. 

" Abraham did, we know ; why not Noah ? I do not 
mean, my boy, that he had a full knowledge of what we 
know; but that a dim, glorious persuasion of the promised 
deliverance possessed him, there can be no doubt. He was 
one of those who 'saw the promises afar off;' And he knew — 
nobody better — whether the world needed a deliverer. One 
destruction had just washed away one race of men; but it 
had not washed out sin; and of that he had proof enough 
in his own family." 

" Where did Shem go, uncle Sam ? He had other children 
besides the Jews, hadn't he ? " 

" Certainly. Shem occupied most of the western part of 
Asia. It almost seems as if both meanings of his name were 
prophetical The second meaning is ' to be put, or placed ;' 
and Shem's descendants had nothing of a roving or changeable spirit. They never spread themselves abroad like the 
sons of Japheth, and they were, and are, exactly what some 
country people call 'very set in their ways.' What they did 
two thousand, three thousand, ay, almost four thousand 
years ago, that they do still, even in very little matters. I 
shall tell you more of this by and by, as we go on. It is 
wonderful'' 




''To one of Japheth's children," said my grandmother, 
smiling. " Japheth was the Yankee of the family." 

"Surely he was," said uncle Sam. 

" Why, sir ? Now let us have Japhetk" 

"Japheth means 'extension;' and never was a truer 
prophecy than this name for him. He went to what the Bible 
calls ' the isles of the sea ; ' that is, the coast of the Mediterranean in Asia Minor and in Europe ; ' the isles of the Gentiles ' they are also called. From those, Japheth's descendants spread eastward into Asia, and northward into Europe, and 
lastly poured a flood of emigration westward into America. 
Do you see how the prophecy is fulfilled — ' God shall enlarge 
Japheth?'" 

"Why, yes, to be sure," said Dan. "I never understood 
that so well before. To be sure he was enlarged. Then, 
nnde Sam, that is not all How was he to 'dwell in the 
tents of Shemr" 

" What would you understand by dwelling in somebody's 
tent?" 

" Why, I should understand that I might share it, and 
have all the comfort and privileges of ?"

" Or you might understand," said liph, " driving the old 
owner out and taking possession for yourself." 

" It might be taken either way," said my uncle ; " and 
either way I think it is true. In Dan's sense, certainly. 
The Jews, that is, the children of Shem, had the revelation 
of the knowledge of God ; they had the covenants and the 
promises ; they alone, of all the peoples in the earth. Then 
Christ came, and they rejected Him; and then the despised Gtentiles, the children of Japheth, came into the blessing their brethren had thrown away. Japheth dwells in the 
tents of Shem ; he shares the shelter and comfort and privileges of them, as you said, Dan." 

"And how about my meaning?" said liph. 

" Why, Japheth seems to be taking possession literally in 
almost every part of the world. However, I am not sure 
but Shem will stay where he was 'placed.' We shall see 
more of that as we come to study the nations in detail 

 

Biun's children go down everywhere before the children of 
Japheth and Shem ; and always did.'' 

"I imagine Ham," said my grandmother, "to have been a 
selfish man ; sensuous, and loving his own ease and pleasure ; 
with a nature more acute for that than for more generous 
perceptions." 

" His descendants had plenty of ability," said uncle Sam ; 
"plenty of administrative power. They made great and 
magnificent nations." 

"I imagine he was just that," said my grandmother. 
" Superb and luxurious in his tastes, mental and bodily too ; 
loving the warm climes to which he went ; with abundance 
of natural gifts and love of power, but lacking the determined spirit and fire of Shem and Japheth to make good 
his gains." 

" Shem must have been a grand man ! " said my uncle. 
" I suppose he was a very perfect specimen. His descendants, some of them, are said to have the most perfect physical organisation of any people on the face of the earth. 
Shem, I should think, was a prouder man than either of the 
other two, in a personal way. Full of imagination and mental power, but full, too, of reverence for old things, and tenacious; holding to his opinions and purposes and habits. 
There was no rage after novelty in him. For taste, and 
keen perceptions, and quick intellects, I presume he was 
superior to both the others ; but he had that indomitable 
' stand-still ' quality, which kept him steady." 

" But we are the children of Japheth," said Priscilla. 

" Japheth was the Yankee of the family. He had not the 
strong power of association which characterised Shem, nor 
his reverence for old things. Japheth's propensity was to 
go forward and push discoveries and acquisitions in every 
line. He conquered territories and invented steam-engines 
and built ships and made railwa3rs ; while to this day the 
children of Shem are content with things as they are ; and 
too proud to make improvements." 

" It is very curious," said Prisdlla. 




" Do not the children of Shem find out any inventions, or 
do any great things ? " Liph asked. 

"None, in modem times — that I remember. They built 
great cities in the olden time ; and arts and learning to a 
great degree did flourish among them ; but very little of it 
did the rest of the world any good." 

" And what are the children of Ham doing ?" I asked. 

" Nothing, that I know of ; nothing better than smoking. 
Their day of magnificence has long passed away. They are 
a fallen race. Egypt is no better than the ' basest of kingdoms ' and all Africa seems waiting for her good time to 
come. But we shall know more about it, children, when we 
come to look into these matters more particularly." 



 



Sept. 10.— THE TOWER 

" Uncle Sam has got his pocket atlas along," whispered 
liph to me as we went to the woods on Monday. 

I was glad of it. But that was not the first business to be 
attended to. We were always a set of hungry people in the 
woods, 

" What do we talk about to-day, uncle Sam ? " I asked. 

" I know," said Liph. " The settling of the nations. That 
comes next." 

" Nations are not bom in a day," said uncle Sam. " We 
have got to follow the fortunes of the sons of Noah." 

" What do we know about their fortunes, sir ?— after they 
came out of the ark ? " 

" Well, a good deal," said my uncle. "In the first place, 
in due course of time, they came down from the high lands 
of Armenia, and settled in the warmer plains below. Perhaps Noah planted his vineyard at Nak-schivan, as the tradition goes, and lived there the rest of his long life. He 
lived after the flood three hundred and fifty years ; till he 
was nine hundred and fifty years old. By that time, and 
before, the families of his sons had multiplied into a good 
many people. But they did not at first separate from each 
other, any more than was needful or useful for the con- 
venience of pasturing their flocks and herds, and raising the 
necessary harvests of grain and fruit. The whole earth was 
of one language and one speech. They were all one great 
family, and naturally kept together; only growing and 
spreading along over the face of the country, as they multiplied from a few into a great many. We can tell pretty 
nearly, I think, what course some of them took. Let us look 
at the map. Up here, you see, is the valley of the Arazes 



and Nak-scMvan. It is written, ' they journeyed from 
the east, they found a plain in the land of Shinar.' Now, if 
they had come down from Armenia over these southern hills, 
they would have found a plain a great deal sooner — up here 
in the northern parts of Mesopotamia. But if they came 
from the valley of the Araxes, they would travel down along 
the eastern side of this range of Koordish mountains, with- 
out finding a good place to cross them, till they came almost 
as low down as Babylon. That is the course the caravans 
from Tebreez take at this day. If they crossed the mountains higher up, they would have a very difficult road to 
travel; but they follow down along the level ground on 
the east side until they come to Kermanshah — then they 
turn short about, and pass through the mountains to go to 
Bagdad." 

" But, uncle Sam," said Eliphalet, " how do you know — 
how can you be sure, I mean — where the land of Shinar 
was." 

"Just by consulting the records," said uncle Sam. " It is 
written in the tenth chapter of Genesis — open your Bibles 
and see — that the beginning of Nimrod's kingdom was 
'Babel, and Erech, and Accad, and Calneh, in the land of 
Shinar.' Now the site of Babel has never been questioned ; 
and ' Erech,' I suppose, is the same with the modern name 
Wxrka, or Iraky lower down on the river. Yes, this is 
Shinar, — the land where, so far as we know, the first effort 
was made to build up a nation proud and great without the 
greatness that God gives. Between those two rivers the 
experiment was tried afterwards over and over again ; and 
the Lord has every time crushed the effort to dust. No 
greatness can stand that tries to be independent of Him." 

" Uncle Sam, where does it tell about that ?" 

" See, Tiny, here. ' They said. Go to, let us build us a 
city and a tower, whose top may reach unto heaven ; and let 
us make us a name, lest we be scattered abroad upon the 
face of the whole earth.' Nimrod was a powerful, ambitious 
man ; he knew that to make a great kingdom he must have 
something to bind the people together ; they must have 



 

common centre; some grand rallying-point of strength, 
security, and splendour. And that land had no natural fortresses or barriers to shut the people in. He must make 
what he wanted," 

" And was the Tower of Babel what he wanted ? " 

"It would have been." 

"Uncle Sam, is anything of the Tower of Babel there 
yetr 

"Hardly, Dan. The foundation may be there, covered 
up under some of Nebuchadnezzar's building ; but no more. 
There are remains, though, of towers or temples nearly as 
old— at Warka, or Irak, and at Mugheir ; temples or towers 
built for the worship of the god Bel ; and built almost as 
far back as the time of Nimrod's great tower." 

" Oh, uncle Sam, have you seen them yourself ?"

" And the plain of Shinar ? " added Priscilla. 

" I couldn't very well get to them without going over the 
plain," said uncle Sam. " Come, let us begin regularly, and 
look at my map, and see where we are. Here, you see, is the 
great river, the river Euphrates — and here, a little east of it
is the Tigris. The lower part of this country, between and 
around these rivers, at least to the west of the Tigris, is the 
old land of Shinar. Here is a perfectly flat plain, four hundred miles long, from the Persian Gulf up somewhere to a 
line drawn from Hit on the Euphrates to Tekrit on the 
other river, and about one hundred miles broad. It 
stretches somewhat west of the Euphrates, thirty miles on 
an average. All this plain is naturally as rich as it can be; 
it was the very garden of Asia. It is said to be the only 
place in the world where wheat grows wild ; and in the old 
times, it used to give a yield of two hundredfold, and some- 
times three hundredfold." 

" Three hundred ! " said Liph. " Why, how much do we 
get here, unde Sam ? not more than thirty, do we ? " 

" Something more, on good land." 

" Don't it give as much now-a-days ? " I asked ; " the plain 
of Shinar, I mean." 

" The plain of Shinar has lost its glory, Tiny. It would be 





as rich as ever, if it were cultivated ; but it is in a state of 
utter neglect. Once it was made fruitful by being watered 
all over ; the people dug canals from the Euphrates to the 
Tigris, and from these other little branch canals, till the 
whole country was covered with them, and every part watered 
abundantly. Then it was all one garden of cultivation; 
full of people, and full of great cities ; rich in grains and 
fruits, and everywhere grown with palm-trees, which are 
more to the people of the East than any tree in the world is 
to us. Now it is all a desert." 

"What is the reason, sir ? Aren't there people there ? " 

" Yes, but they are not protected. The country belongs 
to the Turkish empire ; and under the Turkish governors all 
is going to ruin. People will not take their goods to market 
along a very unsafe road : and the ways are full of Bedouin 
robbers. The governors are in league with them, and will 
not put them down. So the caravan that might go from 
Mosul to Bagdad in six days, is obliged to make a long 
journey round under the Koordistan hills to escape these 
robbers, and be six weeks about it. Then, too, the governors 
tax everjrthing and monopolise everything, till the poor 
people of the country have no heart to make improvements, 
or to cultivate the ground. More than half the plain of 
Shinar is a dry desert All over it you can see the remains 
of old canab and watercourses that once made it fruitful ; 
the lines of embankment sometimes look like ranges of low 
hills, they are so great ; but all now dry, and getting choked 
up with sand. Where it is not a sandy desert the country 
is in great part a reedy marsh, where the rivers have broken 
from their natural beds, and overflowed great tracts of land. 
What was once a garden of fruits and a land of palm-trees, 
is ' a possession for the bittern, and pools of water.' And 
all this is just growing worse and worse from year to year. 
The marshes are almost up to the walls of Bagdad. To get 
into the highway to Hillah I was forced to go miles round — 
through ditches and over streams." 

"Where is Hillah?" 

"Here, Prissy— a little farther south, on the Euphrates. 



 

This is the place where the great Babylon was. A little 
Arab town stands there, holding about eight or nine thousand inhabitants." 

"And was the tower of Babel there ? " 

" Not a doubt of it, and there never has been a doubt of 
it. There it was that they said, ' God to, let us build us a 
city and a tower, whose top may reach unto heaven;
and there it was that the Lord confounded their language. 
The Babylonians themselves kept a tradition of the confu- 
sion of tongues ; and there is an old mound of ruins there 
now that bears the name of Babil, So the Arabs call it" 

"Then, perhaps, that is the ruins of the tower, uncle 
Sam.'' 

"No it is not. Prissy. People have thought so ; and other 
people have tried to make out that the distinction belongs 
to another pile of ruins on the other side of the river, where 
the old town of Borsippa used to be j but it won't da Nebu' 
chadnezzar rebuilt them both ; they are his work. The original tower, you know, was never finished. The Jews had a 
tradition that fire fell from heaven and split it down to the 
ground. Othet story-tellers said that it was blown down by 
high winds. But we know that the people ' left offf to build 
the city' when their speech was comounded ; and there, no 
doubt, for many a day the ruin stood with its terrible lesson ; 
perhaps till Nebuchadnezzar pulled it down to build it up 
again. We know that he built the temple tower at Borsippa
