deserted; for all who had not been killed or captured by the Indians
must have fled to the woods and the prairies for safety.
The feeling of loneliness in Fanny gave to her song a touching pathos,
which, with the sad sweetness of the melody itself, made the great
tears roll down the bronzed checks of Ethan, and touched the heart of
even the young savage. Wahena looked long and earnestly at Fanny, when
he had finished his breakfast. The music pleased him, and its charms
literally soothed his savage breast. She sang other songs, and he began
to make friendly demonstrations towards her, which ended in the offer
of his hand. She accepted the proffered token of friendship.
Wahena spoke to her, but of course she could not understand a word of
his language. He made signs, using the earnest gestures peculiar to the
Indians. He shook his head, pointed to her, and then to the shore of
the lake in the direction of the settlement. She thought he meant to
say that he would not permit his father to injure her; but she was not
very sure. The young savage was certainly disposed to be her friend,
and manifested his interest in her by all the means within his power.
"Well, Fanny, it's about time for me to go to work," said Ethan, after
he had observed the demonstrations between her and Wahena for a time.
"What are you going to do, Ethan? I thought you had no work."
"Plenty of it, I reckon. 'Tain't no use to groan over what can't be
helped. We may as well make the best on't."
"Of course we will not complain of what we cannot help. Ethan, do you
know what my motto is?"
"Your what?" asked Ethan, with a vacant stare.
"My motto."
"That's sunthin' in Latin, or some outlandish lingo--ain't it?"
"Mine is in plain English."
"I've hearn tell of some Latin stuff they called a motto out in
Illinois; I forgit what it was now."
"'Hope and have,' is my motto."
"What does that mean? 'Tain't Latin, but it might as well be."
"It means hope for the best, and then you will work the harder to have
it."
"Thet jest fits my case."
"The motto was given me by a very good girl in New York, who was dying
of consumption. They were the last words she spoke, and they were
engraved on her tombstone. I will tell you the whole story about her
some time."
"I should like to hear it, fust rate; but I reckon we've got sunthin'
else to do jest now. I hope we shall hev sunthin' like a house for you
to sleep in to-night."
"Hoping alone will not build the house, Ethan; besides, we don't hope
much for that which we are not willing to work for."
"I know thet; and I'm go'n to work on the house right away now,"
replied Ethan, as he rose from the ground, and took his shovel.
"I will help you, for I hope we shall have a house to keep us out of
the wet if it should happen to rain."
"You are nothin' but a gal," said Ethan, rather contemptuously.
"But I can help you. How shall you build a house?"
"Well, I don't quite know."
"I can help you think, if nothing more, Ethan."
"So you kin, Fanny. You are right down smart. I don't know as we should
ever hev got over to this island ef't hadn't been for you."
"Do you think we could get the boat out of the water, Ethan?"
"I reckon we could," replied Ethan, rubbing his head to stimulate his
ideas. "I kin cut some rollers, and kinder pry it along."
Fanny minutely detailed her plan for a house, which, after much
explanation, was adopted. As soon as Ethan comprehended her idea, he
became very enthusiastic for its execution.
"I reckon we must tie up the young Injin afore we go to work," said he,
taking the cord, and moving towards Wahena.
The little savage looked appealingly at Fanny, placed his hand upon his
breast, shook his head violently, and frequently pointed to the shore
of the lake. She interpreted his signs to mean that he would not
attempt to escape, and she so informed Ethan.
"I dassent trust him," said he.
"He can't get away if he tries," replied Fanny.
"But he may take one of the guns and kill one on us."
"Put all the weapons out of the way, then, and I will keep watch of
him," added Fanny, who wished to conciliate Wahena.
Ethan consented, and climbing the tree with his axe, he commenced
cutting off the large branches which were to be used in the
construction of the house.
The plan which Fanny had devised was a very simple one. The slope of
the land on the island was about four feet to a rod. The bateau was to
be rolled up the acclivity about thirty feet, and turned bottom upward.
The lower end was then to be gradually pried up until it was level with
the upper end, leaving a space of four feet under the higher part.
Stakes were to be set in the ground under the gunwale to support the
boat, and form the sides of the house. The smaller branches of the tree
were to be interlaced in the stakes, beginning at the bottom, and the
sods and the dirt thrown from the inside against this network, leaving
the ground level under the roof.
The bateau was sixteen feet long and five feet wide, and the most
difficult part of the work was getting it out of the water, and moving
it up the hill. Ethan and Fanny worked as hard as they could till
sundown with rollers and levers, when they had the boat in position,
and the end elevated to the required level. Wahena showed his gratitude
for the freedom granted to him by assisting in the labor, and made
himself very useful.
After the party had taken their suppers, Ethan made a bed of the
blankets and quilts for Fanny, under the boat, covering the open sides
with the sail and a coverlet.
"Where are you going to sleep, Ethan?" she asked.
"I ain't go'n to sleep nowhar," replied he.
"You are not going to stay up all night."
"That's jest what I'm go'n to do."
"What for?"
"S'pose'n them Injins should kim over in the night."
"I thought you said they could not get over here."
"I reckon they can't, ef I keep my eyes open."
"But you must sleep."
"Ef I do, I must do my sleepin' in the daytime. Ef we should all go to
sleep hyer, we might wake up in the mornin', and find our throats cut.
'Tain't safe, nohow."
"You have worked hard to-day, Ethan, and you must be very tired."
"I am kinder tired."
"We will take turns keeping watch, as they do on board a ship."
"I don't know nothin' about a ship."
"I will keep watch the first half of the night, and you may the other
half."
"S'pose'n the Injins should kim; what would you do then?"
"I can call you."
"Well, Fanny, ef you ain't very tired, I agree to it, for I feel jest
as ef I should go to sleep now."
"I am not so tired as I have been, and not so tired as you are. I will
take the first watch. But do you really think the Indians will come to
the island?"
"I hope not, but they might."
"How do you expect them to come?"
"I dunno; but I shouldn't wonder ef Lean Bear sent some of his redskins
over arter that boy."
Fanny did not see how the savages could reach them at this distance
from the main land, but she agreed with Ethan that it would be better
to keep watch, and be on the safe side. Wahena's hands were tied
together, and he was bound to one of the posts under the boat, in such
a manner that he could lie down and sleep comfortably. Ethan stretched
himself on the bed he had prepared for his companion, and was soon
asleep.
Fanny seated herself under the tree at the top of the hill. It was not
yet dark, and she had a full view of the water on every side. Until a
later hour there was no possibility of a hostile approach by the
Indians, and she gave herself up to the melancholy reflections excited
by the tragic events of the day. Though a great many thoughts passed
through her mind, there was only one which it is important to record
here; and that was, the feeling that she was better prepared for the
bitter experience upon which she had now entered than she would have
been a few months before. If her friends knew that she was a changed
being, the fact was still more evident to her own consciousness.
A religious faith and hope had sustained her in those terrible hours,
when the shrieks of the mangled and the cries of the dying had pierced
her heart, and when torture and death stared her full in the face.
Ethan, in his own quaint terms, had confessed that her prayers and her
unwavering trust in God had awed him and solemnized his mind, thus
raising him to a level with the momentous issues he was to meet. She
felt that her prayers for herself and the brave prairie boy had been
answered, not only in their effect upon themselves, but more directly
in the turning aside of the knife which had been pointed at their
hearts. Renewedly she thanked God for his goodness; and renewedly, as
she thought of the dying Jenny, she felt that to hope was to have.
Thus thinking of the past, thus hoping and praying for the future, the
darkness gathered upon her, and with her mind thus illuminated by
divine wisdom, the words of the Psalmist seemed to be literally
verified, and even the darkness became light about her. As the shades
of evening deepened over her, cutting off her view of the distant
shores of the lake, she felt the necessity of a more vigilant
watchfulness.
Hour after hour wore heavily away, and still Ethan slept. Fanny had no
idea of the time of night, and could not tell whether or not it was
time to call her companion. She knew how hard he had worked during the
day, and she resolved not to call him as long as she could keep awake
herself. Her position was by the tree; but in order to rouse her torpid
faculties, she took a walk around the island. When she reached the side
of their narrow domain where they had landed in the morning, she was
startled by what she thought was a slight splashing in the water, at a
considerable distance from her. After the manner of the Indians, she
lay down upon the ground, and placed her ear near the surface of the
lake, listening with trembling interest for any sounds which might be
borne over the still waters.
This expedient satisfied her that she had not been mistaken in the
sound. She distinctly heard the light dip of a paddle in the water,
worked with the utmost caution. She was almost paralyzed with terror at
the thought of a night visit from the savages, and dreaded the sharp
crack of the rifle and the flashing of the knife. She strained her eyes
to discover any object on the water, but she could see nothing. She
hastened to the house, and roused Ethan.
"I'm comin'," said he, only half awake, and turned over to finish his
nap.
"Ethan, Ethan!" gasped Fanny, shaking him with all her might, "the
Indians are almost upon us."
If she had said Indians before, it would have awakened him in a moment.
He sprang to his feet, and rushed out of the house.
"What's the matter?" he demanded.
"The Indians are coming--at least some one is coming, for I heard a
paddle on the lake."
"The pesky sarpints! I was afeerd they'd kim. Whar be they?"
"They are coming from the settlement."
"Consarn 'em!" added Ethan, as he grasped his two guns, and ran down to
the shore.
He listened, and soon satisfied himself that Fanny's fears were not
groundless. He sent his companion for the revolver, and proceeded with
great coolness and self-possession to make his preparations for
repelling the assault, for he had no doubt that one was intended. It
was a full hour--an hour of the most intense anxiety and suspense to
the young exiles--before they discovered the wily foe stealthily
approaching their retreat.
A little later they could see enough to determine that the assailants
consisted of four Indians, on a raft. Two of them, on their knees, were
paddling the unwieldy craft, and the others appeared to be gazing at
the island.
Ethan had made a rest for the rifle of a crotched stick, for the piece
was too heavy for him to hold up to his shoulder. He took careful aim
at the group of dark forms on the raft, and fired.
CHAPTER XVIII.
THE VISITOR AT THE ISLAND.
"Ho, wo, wo!" yelled the savages on the raft; and their tones sounded
much like the barking of a large mastiff.
Ethan saw one of their number fall, and the commotion in the group
indicated that the savages had been thrown into confusion by Ethan's
well-directed shot. They ceased paddling, and appeared to be consulting
in regard to their next movement.
"Lay right down flat on the ground, so thet they can't see you, Fanny,"
said Ethan, as he hastily loaded the rifle, on which he principally
depended.
"Won't they go away now you have found out they are coming?" asked she,
as she obeyed the requirement.
"I dunno; we shall see. I don't keer much whether they go or kim. Keep
still, and don't move. I reckon they can't see us, and don't know jest
whar to fire."
"They can see you, Ethan."
"No, they can't," replied the resolute boy, as he took careful aim a
second time with the rifle.
He fired, but apparently without any result, except another yell from
the savages. Three of them could still be seen standing and kneeling on
the raft. As soon as the second shot had been fired, they reached their
conclusion, and commenced paddling with all their might towards the
island. Ethan now took the fowling-piece, which he had charged with
duck-shot, and fired again. The Indians yelled as before, and one of
them seemed to be wounded, for he ceased to paddle, and the third man
immediately took his place.
Both of Ethan's guns were now empty; but he had the revolver, which was
good for six shots, though the fire could hardly be effective at the
present distance of the raft from the island. Keeping this weapon in
reserve, he loaded the two guns again. It was very strange that the
Indians did not fire at him, and he could not tell whether it was
because they had no guns, or because they were afraid of killing
Wahena. The party had probably been sent by Lean Bear to recover his
son, and the success of the expedition was to depend upon finding the
exiles asleep. The good judgment of Ethan had therefore saved them from
the calamity of a surprise.
When Ethan had completed the loading of the guns, the raft was within
four or five rods of the shore of the island, and the Indians were
paddling vigorously, though the unwieldy craft they navigated moved
very slowly through the water.
"Don't you stop here no longer, Fanny; 'taint no place for you, nohow.
Jest crawl up to the tree, and keep behind it. Keep both eyes wide open
tight, but don't let the redskins see you."
"But what will become of you?" asked Fanny, unwilling to leave her bold
defender even for a moment.
"Never you mind me; go right off quick. Crawl up to the tree, and I'll
soon fix 'em."
"Ho, wo, wo!" yelled the Indians, apparently satisfied that their work
was accomplished, for the raft was within two rods of the shore.
Then one of them dropped his paddle, and, with an unearthly scream,
leaped into the water, which was now so shallow that he could wade
ashore. Ethan took good aim at this one, and fired. Though not killed,
the sharp cry the savage uttered convinced Ethan that he was wounded.
Without waiting to learn the effect of his shot on the rest of the
party, he fired again at the same man, who was only partially disabled.
The savage in the water, who had been the most dangerous assailant,
uttered another yell of pain, and his companions seemed to be paralyzed
by the continuation of the fire upon them. Probably they supposed the
boy had but one gun, and, when he fired it, that he would not have time
to load again before they could reach him. Ethan then discharged one
ball from the revolver, which added still more to their confusion, for
they were jabbering like wild turkeys.
"Go 'way!" shouted Ethan. "Go 'way, or I'll kill Wahena."
"No kill," replied one of the Indians, whose voice sounded like that of
the messenger Ethan had met in the morning.
"Go 'way then!"
"Me go."
"Go then--consarn ye!" muttered Ethan, as, taking advantage of the
confusion in the ranks of the enemy, he loaded the two guns again.
The two Indians on the raft helped the wounded one in the water to
mount the platform again. Two of the three were evidently wounded, and
it was not an easy thing for them to paddle the clumsy craft away from
the island. One of the savages worked at the paddle for a while; but it
was not till the more able of the other two assisted him that any
sensible progress was made.
"Creation hokee!" exclaimed Ethan, when he was fully conscious that he
had won the victory. "I've done 'em, Fanny!"
"Have they gone?" she asked, when she had joined him.
"They are go'n as fast as they kin; but I reckon they won't git back to
the settlement till some time into mornin'. We're all right now, Fanny,
and you kin go to sleep as soon as you've a mind to."
She was too excited to think of sleeping, and she sat with Ethan on the
shore for an hour, talking about their deliverance from the peril that
had menaced them. Fanny was devoutly grateful to God, who had again
preserved them; and when she had uttered the prayer her heart would not
permit her to keep back, she felt more composed, and retired to the
cabin, where she soon dropped asleep from sheer exhaustion.
This was the only attempt made by the savages to capture the exiles on
the island. The next day, they continued to work upon the house,
interrupted only by a heavy shower in the forenoon; but the boat roof
afforded them a perfect shelter from the pouring rain. It was three
days before the house was finished; but when it was completed, the
wanderers were as proud of it as though it had been a Fifth Avenue
mansion. At night they took turns in keeping the watch; and when the
house was done, both of the exiles were nearly worn out by the hard
work they had done, and the loss of sleep to which they had been
subjected. They decided that it would be best to rest a few days before
they commenced upon certain additions which they contemplated.
The stock of provisions was already much reduced, and the question of
supplies for the future demanded attention. There were plenty of fish
in the lake, but none could be caught in the shallow water which
bordered the island. It was necessary to go out a short distance, and
Ethan found a couple of logs among some drift wood, gathered on the
beach, with which he constructed a raft, just large enough to
accommodate himself.
To prevent accidents, he tied together all the lines which had been
used about the sail, and pushed off the length of his rope. There were
fish-lines in the boat, and bait was obtained on the island. In an hour
Ethan returned to the shore with a large muskellunge and half a dozen
large lake trout. The problem of supplies, therefore, seemed to be
solved, especially as there were abundant opportunities to shoot the
wild duck, plover, and grouse, that visited the little domain of the
exiles.
However pleasant it would be to follow out in detail the daily life of
the residents of the isle, our space prevents us from doing so. A
fortnight of severe labor and constant watchfulness was passed by the
exiles, when a great event occurred to them. Ethan had one day moored
out his raft the length of the line from the shore, on the side of the
island where they had first disembarked, when his attention was
attracted by an object on the water, in the direction of the
settlement. He watched it with interest and anxiety, and soon
ascertained that it was a raft, on which stood a single person, who was
paddling towards the island.
Ethan immediately pulled in his raft, and went for his fire-arms, which
he carefully loaded, in readiness for a hostile visit from a foe. The
stranger approached very slowly, and the exiles were at last satisfied
that he was not an Indian. As he drew nearer to the island, he waved a
white rag, which was intended and understood as a sign of peace.
"Who can it be?" asked Fanny, greatly excited by the incident.
"I dunno; can't tell yet," replied Ethan.
"Do you think it is an enemy?"
"I don't reckon it is."
Both of them continued to watch the approaching visitor, until he had
come within twenty rods of the shore. He did not look like any human
being that Fanny had ever seen before. His clothes were tattered, and
of all colors. Great patches of tent canvas were sewed over a tunic
made of red and yellow blankets. He wore Indian leggins, and his head
was covered with a coon-skin cap. His hair and beard, of grizzly gray,
were tangled and matted in knots and snarls. Crossed on his breast were
the straps by which were supported his powder-horn and shot-flask.
"What a strange-looking man!" exclaimed Fanny, when the raft had come
near enough to enable her to make out the uncouth object upon it.
"I know him now," replied Ethan, "though I hevn't seen him afore for
more 'n a year."
"Who is he?"
"Thet's Rattleshag."
"Who?"
"Rattleshag--leastwise that's the only name anybody knows him by. He's
a hunter 'n trapper that goes roamin' round over the peraries."
"Where does he live?"
"He don't live nowhar; he goes travellin' round, livin' on the white
folks and Injins. They say he is the best shot west of the Miss'sip."
"He won't shoot us--will he?"
"No; he won't hurt nothin'."
The raft came up to the shore, and the trapper landed.
"How d'ye do, Rattleshag?" said Ethan.
The strange visitor made no reply, but walked deliberately up to the
young exiles, gave his hand first to Ethan, then to Fanny.
"Toler'ble, considering," said he, at last.
"Whar did you kim from?"
"Over thar," he answered, pointing to the settlement, and shaking his
head.
"Anybody thar?" asked Ethan, anxiously.
"Injins."
"No white folks?"
"All gone: some on 'em's killed, and some on 'em's kerried off. Awful
times, everywhar," added the trapper, shaking his head mournfully.
"Whar's the Injin boy?"
"Up thyer," answered Ethan, pointing to the cabin where Wahena had been
secured as soon as the raft was discovered, for another attack from the
Indians had been anticipated. "You may let him loose again, Fanny."
She was always glad to perform this office for her captive friend, and
she soon returned to the shore with Wahena.
"He's all safe--ain't he?" asked Rattleshag.
"Yes; we hain't hurt him; and he's as fond of Fanny as a pet puppy
dog."
"Glad on't. I was tooken by the Injins over thar, and got nigh bein'
skelped. Lean B'ar let me go to kim over here arter the boy," added the
trapper.
"We can't let him go," said Ethan.
"I reckon you mought."
Ethan explained in what manner the presence of Wahena had saved them
from the Indians.
"We can't spare him till we get out of the woods ourselves," added
Ethan.
"Then I must go back and be skelped," replied Rattleshag, solemnly. "I
promised Lean B'ar thet I'd git the boy, or else I'd kim back myself;
and old Rattleshag never broke his word to Injin or white man."
"Thet's so," said Ethan, who knew the reputation of the trapper for
simple honesty and fidelity.
"Hev you got a boat?" asked Rattleshag.
"Yes."
"Then I reckon we kin go down to Mankato. The sogers is drivin' the
Injins back. Thyer's ben awful times all through the country; more 'n a
thousand men, women, and children hes ben killed. I've trevelled all
through from Big Stone, dodgin' the Injins all the way. They are as
savage as painters. I kim down hyer to git away from 'em, but I found
they'd ben hyer too," added the trapper, with another melancholy shake
of the head. "It's awful."
Rattleshag over-estimated the number of victims to this terrible
massacre, though it has been stated as high as seven hundred. He
related to the young exiles his adventures in his long journey through
the devoted region which had been the scene of so much cruelty and
bloodshed. He told of the men, women, and children he had seen lying
dead and mangled in the deserted settlements; of the wounded, starving,
and dying fugitives he had met in their flight; and of the desolation
which lay in the track of the merciless savages.
The listeners were appalled and horrified at the sad and bloody tale.
Fanny wept, and Ethan with difficulty choked down the emotions which
agitated him.
"What shall be did?" asked the trapper, at last. "Kin you let the boy
go, or shall I go back and be skelped?"
"You certainly shall not go back!" exclaimed Fanny.
An earnest consultation followed, and a plan was soon agreed upon by
which Rattleshag could be saved.
CHAPTER XIX.
THE INDIAN AMBUSH.
Fanny was the originator of the scheme by which it was expected to save
the party from the ferocity of the Indians, and enable the trapper to
keep his plighted faith with them. The exiles, accompanied by their
new-found friend, were to descend the river in the bateau to Mankato.
Wahena was to be taken with them to some point above their destination,
where he was to be delivered to his friends, when his presence as a
hostage was no longer necessary to the safety of his captors.
This was thought to be the only safe plan, for even Rattleshag did not
pretend to believe that the Indians would not be treacherous when
Wahena was no longer in peril. It was arranged that the trapper should
return to Lean Bear, and inform him of the terms on which his son could
be saved. He was instructed to tell the savage chief that Ethan could
fire eight shots a minute, and that Wahena would surely atone with his
life for any treachery on the part of the Indians.
Rattleshag put off on his raft again, and paddled towards the
settlement. It was late in the evening when he returned with the
intelligence that Lean Bear had accepted the terms, though very
reluctantly, for they compelled him to send a party of his braves on a
journey of seventy miles to receive Wahena when he was delivered up.
Rattleshag had been obliged to argue the point with him; but the
assurance that the boy would certainly be shot if he did not yield,
induced him to comply. Six Indian horsemen were deputed to follow the
boat on the banks of the river, and insure them against any attack from
the wandering savages whom the exiles might encounter.
The next morning the bateau was lowered from its position, rolled down
to the lake, and launched. The muscular arm of the trapper rendered
this a comparatively easy task, and it was accomplished in a few hours.
The mast was stepped, the sail bent on, and the rigging adjusted under
the direction of Fanny, who was more familiar with such matters than
either of her companions. Such provisions as remained were stowed on
board, cooked ready for use.
At noon, with a fresh breeze from the westward, the party embarked,
and, with Fanny at the helm, sailed for the outlet at the north-east
corner of the lake. The party were very much fatigued after the hard
work required in making preparations for their departure, and
independently of the exciting circumstances of leaving the island home,
and the prospect of soon being in a place of entire safety, they
enjoyed the rest afforded by the voyage.
"What we go'n to do when we get to Mankato, Fanny?" asked Ethan.
"I'm sure I don't know."
"We hain't got no friends thar."
"Nor anywhere," replied Fanny, sadly. "I have no near relations now
that my uncle and aunt are gone."
"I never had none; but I s'pose I kin go to work, as I allers did,"
added Ethan, cheerfully.
"I doubt not we shall find plenty of friends. I am sure that Woodville,
where I have lived the last two years, will be open to me."
"I reckon we needn't borrow any trouble arter we git out of this
scrape. Ef we could stand what we've gone through with, we hain't got
nothin' to fear."
"I have no clothes but those I wear, and not a cent of money," added
Fanny, rather disturbed by the prospect before her.
"I reckon 'twill be all right," said Ethan.
"I have no doubt it will. I do not mean to complain. We have so much to
be grateful for, that it would be wicked to repine at our lot."
"Thet's my notion; and we won't think what we're go'n to do till we get
to Mankato."
This was a wise resolve, though it would be rather difficult to carry
it out. In a short time the bateau arrived at the outlet of the lake,
and on the bank of the river the exiles discovered their Indian escort,
which had been waiting since the middle of the forenoon for them. At
this point the serenity of the voyage was interrupted, for the river
was crooked, and the navigation often very difficult. The boat did not
draw more than a foot of water, but in some places it was not easy to
find even this depth.
Fanny found that all her slender knowledge of boating was called into
use, for the bends in the river were so frequent that the boat was
headed towards nearly every point of the compass within a single hour.
Her progress was necessarily very slow, and the Indians on the shore
soon began to manifest their impatience by grunting and growling. As
the bateau proceeded, Fanny became more skilful in its management. She
soon learned where the deepest water might be found, and instead of
attempting to cut across the bends, she followed the current round the
broadest sweep; but, with the best she could do, it was occasionally
necessary for Ethan and Rattleshag to resort to the poles to push her
over the shoal places.
At dark the question came up whether the party should continue the
voyage during the night, or moor the boat, and sail only by daylight.
