buried, but that one third had been exhumed. We 
left these hopeless toilers, and went down-town into 
the Forum, stepping aside on the way to look into 
one of the Pompeian Courts of Common Pleas. 



 



II. 

Now Pompeii is, in truth, so fall of marvel and 
surprise, that it would be unreasonable to express 
disappointment with Pompeii in fiction. And yet I
cannot help it. An exuberant carelessness of phrase 
in most writers and talkers who describe it had led 
me to expect much more than it was possible to find 
there. In my Pompeii I confess that the houses had 
no roofs in fact, the rafters which sustained the 
tiles being burnt, how could the roofs help falling in ? 
But otherwise my Pompeii was a very complete 
affair : the walls all rose to their full height ; door- 
ways and arches were perfect ; the columns were all 
unbroken and upright ; putting roofs on my Pompeii, 
you might have lived in it very comfortably. The 
real Pompeii is different. It is seldom that any wall 
is unbroken ; most columns are fragmentary ; and 
though the ground-plans are always distinct, very few 
rooms in the city are perfect in form, and the whole 
is much more ruinous than I thought. 

But this ruin once granted, and the idle disappoint- 
ment at its greatness overcome, there is endless ma- 
terial for study, instruction, and delight. It is the 
revelation of another life, and the utterance of the 
past is here more perfect than anywhere else in the 
world. Indeed, I think that the true friend of Pom- 
peii should make it a matter of conscience, on enter- 
ing the enchanted city, to cast out of his knowledge 
all the rubbish that has fallen into it from novels and 



 

travels, and to keep merely the facts of the town's 
luxurious life and agonizing death, with such inci- 
dents of the eruption as he can remember from the 
description of Pliny. These are the spells to which 
the sorcery yields, and with these in your thought 
you can rehabilitate the city until Ventisei seems to 
be a valet de place of the fiirst century, and your- 
selves a set of blond barbarians to whom he is show- 
ing off the splendors of one of the most brilliant 
towns of the empire of Titus. Those sad furrows 
in the pavement become vocal with the joyous rattle 
of chariot-wheels on a sudden, and you prudently 
step up on the narrow sidewalks and rub along by 
the little shops of wine, and grain, and oil, with 
which the thrifty voluptuaries of Pompeii flanked 
their street-doors. The counters of these shops run 
across their fronts, and are pierced with round holes 
on the top, through which you see dark depths of 
oil in the jars below, and not sullen lumps of ashes ; 
those stately amphorae behind are full of wine, and in 
the corners are bags of wheat. 

" This house, with a shop on either side, whose is 
it, XXVI. ? " 

" It is the house of the great Sallust, my masters. 
"Would you like his autograph ? I know one of his 
slaves who would sell it." 

You are a good deal stared at, naturally, as you 
pass by, for people in Pompeii have not much to do, 
and, besides, a Briton is not an every- day sight there, 
as he will be one of these centuries. The skins of 
wild beasts are little worn in Pompeii ; and those 



 

bold-eyed Roman women think it rather odd that we 
should like to powder our shaggy heads with brick- 
dust. However, these are matters of taste. We, 
for our part, cannot repress a feeling of disgust at 
the loungers in the street, who, XXVI. tells us, are 
all going to soak themselves half the day in the 
baths yonder ; for, if there is in Pompeii one thing 
more offensive than another to our savage sense of 
propriety, it is the personal cleanliness of the inhab- 
itants. We little know what a change for the better 
will be wrought in these people with the lapse of 
time, and that they will yet come to wash themselves 
but once a year, as we do. 

(The reader may go on doing this sort of thing 
at some length for himself; and may imagine, if he 
pleases, a boastful conversation among the Pompeians 
at the baths, in which the barbarians hear how Agric- 
ola has broken the backbone of a rebellion in Brit- 
ain ; and in which all the speakers begin their ob- 
servations with " Ho ! my Lepidus ! " and " Ha ! 
my Diomed ! " In the mean time we return to the 
present day, and step down the Street of Plenty 
along with Ventisei.) 



in. 

IT is proper, after seeing the sites of some of the 
principal temples in Pompeii (such as those of Jupi- 
ter and Venus), to cross the fields that cover a great 
breadth of the buried citv, and look into the amphi- 
theatre, where, as every body knows, the lions had 



 

no stomach for Glaucus on the morning of the fatal 
eruption. The fields are now planted with cotton, 
and of course we thought those commonplaces about 
the wonder the Pompeians would feel could they 
come back to see that New- World plant growing 
above their buried homes. We might have told 
them, the day of our visit, that this cruel plant, so 
long watered with the tears of slaves, and fed with 
the blood of men, was now an exile from its native 
fields, where war was plowing with sword and shot 
the guilty land, and rooting up the subtlest fibres of 
the oppression in which cotton had grown king. And 
the ghosts of wicked old Pompeii, remembering the 
manifold sins that called the fires of hell to devour 
her, and thinking on this exiled plant, the latest wit- 
ness of God's unforgetting justice, might well have 
shuddered, through all their shadow, to feel how 
terribly He destroys the enemies of Nature and man. 
But the only Pompeian presences which haunted 
our passage of the cotton-field were certain small 

" Phantoms of delight," 

with soft black eyes and graceful ways, who ran 
before us and plucked the bolls of the cotton and 
sold them to us. Embassies bearing red and white 
grapes were also sent out of the cottages to our ex- 
cellencies ; and there was some doubt of the cur- 
rency of the coin which we gave these poor children 
in return. 

There are now but few peasants living on the land 
over the head of Pompeii, and the Government al- 



 

lows no sales of real estate to be made except to 
itself. The people who still dwell here can hardly 
be said to own their possessions, for they are merely 
allowed to cultivate the soil. A guard stationed 
night and day prevents them from making excava- 
tions, and they are severely restricted from entering 
the excavated quarters of the city alone. 

The cotton whitens over two thirds of Pompeii yet 
interred : happy the generation that lives to learn 
the wondrous secrets of that sepulchre ! For, when 
you have once been at Pompeii, this phantasm of the 
past takes deeper hold on your imagination than any 
living city, and becomes and is the metropolis of your 
dreamland forever. O marvelous city ! who shall 
reveal the cunning of your spell? Something not 
death, something not life something that is the one 
when you turn to determine its essence as the other ! 
What is it comes to me at this distance of that which 
I saw in Pompeii? The narrow and curving, but 
not crooked streets, with the blazing sun of that Nea- 
politan November falling into them, or clouding their 
wheel-worn lava with the black, black shadows of the 
many-tinted walls ; the houses, and the gay columns 
of white, yellow, and red ; the delicate pavements of 
mosaic ; the skeletons of dusty cisterns and dead foun- 
tains ; inanimate garden spaces with pygmy statues 
suited to their littleness ; suites of fairy bed-cham- 
bers, painted with exquisite frescos ; dining - halls 
with joyous scenes of hunt and banquet on their 
walls ; the ruinous sites of temples ; the melancholy 
emptiness of booths and shops and jolly drinking- 



 

houses ; the lonesome tragic theatre, with a modern 
Pompeian drawing water from a well there ; the baths 
with their roofs perfect yet, and the stucco bass-reliefs 
all but unharmed ; around the whole, the city wall 
crowned with slender poplars ; outside the gates, the 
long avenue of tombs, and the Appian Way stretch- 
ing on to Stabias ; and, in the distance, Vesuvius, 
brown and bare, with his fiery breath scarce visible 
against the cloudless heaven ; these are the things 
that float before my fancy as I turn back to look at 
myself walking those enchanted streets, and to won- 
der if I could ever have been so blest. 

For there is nothing on the earth, or under it, like 
Pompeii. 

The amphitheatre, to which we came now, after 
our stroll across the cotton-fields, was small, like the 
vastest things in Pompeii, and had nothing of the 
stately magnificence of the Arena at Verona, nor 
any thing of the Roman Coliseum's melancholy and 
ruinous grandeur. But its littleness made it all the 
more comfortable and social, and, seated upon its 
benches under a cool awning, one could have almost 
chatted across the arena with one's friends ; could 
have witnessed the spectacle on the sands without 
losing a movement of the quick gladiators, or an 
agony of the victim given to the beasts which must 
have been very delightful to a Pompeian of compan- 
ionable habits and fine feelings. It is quite impossi- 
ble, however, that the bouts described by Bulwer as 
taking place all at the same time on the arena should 
really have done so : the combatants would have 



 

rolled and tumbled and trampled over each other an 
hundred times in the narrow space. 

Of all the voices with which it once rang the poor 
little amphitheatre has kept only an echo. But this 
echo is one of the most perfect ever heard : prompt, 
clear, startling, it blew back the light chaff we threw 
to it with amazing vehemence, and almost made us 
doubt if it were not a direct human utterance. Yet 
how was Ventisei to know our names ? And there 
was no one else to call them but ourselves. Our 
" dolce duca " gathered a nosegay from the crum- 
bling ledges, and sat down in the cool of the once- 
cruel cells beneath, and put it prettily together for 
the ladies. When we had wearied ourselves with 
the echo he arose and led us back into Pompeii. 



IV. 

THE plans of nearly all the houses in the city are 
alike : the entrance-room next the door ; the parlor 
or drawing-room next that ; then the impluviwm, or 
unroofed space in the middle of the house, where the 
rains were caught and drained into the cistern, and 
where the household used to come to wash itself, 
primitively, as at a pump ; the little garden, with its 
painted columns, behind the impluvium, and, at last, 
the dining-room. There are minute bed-chambers 
on either side, and, as I said, a shop at one side in 
front, for the sale of the master's grain, wine, and 
oil. The pavements of all the houses are of mosaic, 
which, in the better sort, is very delicate and beauti- 



 

ful, and is found sometimes perfectly uninjured. An 
exquisite pattern, often repeated, is a ground of tiny 
cubes of white marble with dots of black dropped reg- 
ularly into it. Of course there were many pictur- 
esque and fanciful designs, of which the best have 
been removed to the Museum in Naples ; but sev- 
eral good ones are still left, and (like that of the 
Wild Boar) give names to the houses in which 
they are found. 

But, after all, the great wonder, the glory, of these 
Pompeian houses is in their frescos. If I tried to 
give an idea of the luxury of color in Pompeii, the 
most gorgeous adjectives would be as poorly able to 
reproduce a vivid and glowing sense of those hues 
as the photography which now copies the drawing 
of the decorations ; so I do not try. 

I know it is a cheap and feeble thought, and yet, 
let the reader please to consider : A workman nearly 
two thousand years laying upon the walls those soft 
lines that went to make up fauns and satyrs, nymphs 
and naiads, heroes and gods and goddesses ; and get- 
ting weary and lying down to sleep, and dreaming 
of an eruption of the mountain ; of the city buried 
under a fiery hail, and slumbering in its bed of ashes 
seventeen centuries ; then of its being slowly ex- 
humed, and, after another lapse of years, of some one 
coming to gather the shadow of that dreamer's work 
upon a plate of glass, that he might infinitely repro- 
duce it and sell it to tourists at from five francs to 
fifty centimes a copy I say, consider such a dream, 
dreamed in the hot heart of the day, after certain 



 

cups of Vesuvian wine ! What a piece of Katzen- 
jammer (I can use no milder term) would that work- 
man think it when he woke again ! Alas ! what is 
history and the progress of the arts and sciences but 
one long Katzen yammer ! 

Photography cannot give, any more than I, the 
colors of the frescos, but it can do the drawing better, 
and, I suspect, the spirit also. I used the word work- 
man, and not artist, in speaking of the decoration 
of the walls, for in most cases the painter was only 
an artisan, and did his work probably by the yard, as 
the artisan who paints walls and ceilings in Italy does 
at this day. But the old workman did his work 
much more skillfully and tastefully than the modern 
threw on expanses of mellow color, delicately 
paneled off the places for the scenes, and penciled 
in the figures and draperies (there are usually more 
of the one than the other) with a deft hand. Of 
course, the houses of the rich were adorned by men 
of talent ; but it is surprising to see the community 
of thought and feeling in all this work, whether it be 
from cunninger or clumsier hands. The subjects are 
nearly always chosen from the fables of the gods, and 
they are in illustration of the poets, Homer and the 
rest. To suit that soft, luxurious life which people 
led in Pompeii, the themes are commonly amorous, 
and sometimes not too chaste ; there is much of Bac- 
chus and Ariadne, much of Venus and Adonis, and 
Diana bathes a good deal with her nymphs, not to 
mention frequent representations of the toilet of that 
beautiful monster which the lascivious art of the time 



 

loved to depict. One of the most pleasing of all the 
scenes is that in one of the houses, of the Judgment 
of Paris, in which the shepherd sits upon a bank 
in an attitude of ineffable and flattered importance, 
with one leg carelessly crossing the other, and both 
hands resting lightly on his shepherd's crook, while 
the goddesses before him await his sentence. Nat- 
urally the painter has done his best for the victress 
in this rivalry, and you see 

" Idalian Aphrodite beautiful," 

as she should be, but with a warm and piquant spice 
of girlish resentment in her attitude, that Paris should 
pause for an instant, which is altogether delicious. 

" And I beheld great Here's angry eyes." 

Awful eyes ! How did the painter make them ? The 
wonder of all these pagan frescos is the mystery of 
the eyes still, beautiful, unhuman. You cannot be- 
lieve that it is wrong for those tranquil-eyed men and 
women to do evil, they look so calm and so uncon- 
scious in it all ; and in the presence of the celestials, 
as they bend upon you those eternal orbs, in whose 
regard you are but a part of space, you feel that here 
art has achieved the unearthly. I know of no words 
in literature which give a sense (nothing gives the 
idea) of the stare of these gods, except that magnifi- 
cent line of Kingsley's, describing the advance over 
the sea toward Andromeda of the oblivious and un- 
sympathizing Nereids. They floated slowly up, and 
their eyes 

" Stared on her, silent and still, like the eyes in the house of the 
idols." 





The colors of this fresco of the Judgment of 
Paris are still so fresh and bright, that it photographs 
very well, but there are other frescos wherein there 
is more visible perfection of line, but in which the 
colors are so dim that they can only be reproduced 
by drawings. One of these is the Wounded Adonis 
cared for by Venus and the Loves ; in which the 
story is treated with a playful pathos wonderfully 
charming. The fair boy leans in the languor of his 
hurt toward Venus, who sits utterly disconsolate be- 
side him, while the Cupids busy themselves with such 
slight surgical offices as Cupids may render : one pre- 
pares a linen bandage for the wound, another wraps 
it round the leg of Adonis, another supports one of 
his heavy arms, another finds his own emotions too 
much for him and pauses to weep. It is a pity that 
the colors of this beautiful fresco are grown so dim, 
and a greater pity that most of the other frescos in 
Pompeii must share its fate, and fade away. The 
hues are vivid when the walls are first uncovered, 
and the ashes washed from the pictures, but then the 
malice of the elements begins anew, and rain and sun 
draw the life out of tints which the volcano failed to 
obliterate. In nearly all cases they could be pre- 
served by throwing a roof above the walls, and it is 
a wonder that the Government does not take this 
slight trouble to save them. 

Among the frescos which told no story but their 
own, we were most pleased with one in a delicately 
painted little bed - chamber. This represented an 
alarmed and furtive man, whom we at once pro- 



 

nounced The Belated Husband, opening a door with 
a night-latch. Nothing could have been better than 
this miserable wretch's cowardly haste and cautious 
noiselessness in applying his key ; apprehension sat 
upon his brow, confusion dwelt in his guilty eye. 
He had been out till two o'clock in the morning, 
electioneering for Pansa, the friend of the people 
(" Pansa, and Roman gladiators," " Pansa, and 
Christians to the Beasts," was the platform), and he 
had left his placens uxor at home alone with the 
children, and now within this door that placens uxor 
awaited him ! 

v. 

You have read, no doubt, of their discovering, a 
year or two since, in making an excavation in a 
Pompeian street, the molds of four human bodies, 
three women and a man, who fell down, blind and 
writhing, in the storm of fire eighteen hundred years 
ago ; whose shape the settling and hardening ashes 
took ; whose flesh wasted away, and whose bones lay 
there in the hollow of the matrix till the cunning of 
this time found them, and, pouring liquid plaster 
round the skeletons, clothed them with human form 
again, and drew them forth into the world once more. 
There are many things in Pompeii which bring back 
the gay life of the city, but nothing which so vividly 
reports the terrible manner of her death as these effi- 
gies of the creatures that actually shared it. The 
man in the last struggle has thrown himself upon his 
back, and taken his doom sturdily there is a sub- 



 

lime calm in his rigid figure. The women lie upon 
their faces, their limbs tossed and distorted, their 
drapery tangled and heaped about them, and in 
every fibre you see how hard they died. One presses 
her face into her handkerchief to draw one last 
breath unmixed with scalding steam ; another's arms 
are wildly thrown abroad to clutch at help ; another's 
hand is appealingly raised, and on .her slight fingers 
you see the silver hoops with which her poor dead 
vanity adorned them. 

The guide takes you aside from the street into the 
house where they lie, and a dreadful shadow drops 
upon your heart as you enter their presence. With- 
out, the hell-storm seems to fall again, and the whole 
sunny plain to be darkened with its ruin, and the city 
to send up the tumult of her despair. 

What is there left in Pompeii to speak of after 
this ? The long street of tombs outside the walls ? 
Those that died before the city's burial seem to have 
scarcely a claim to the solemnity of death. 

Shall we go see Diomed's Villa, and walk through 
the freedman's long underground vaults, where his 
friends thought to be safe, and were smothered in 
heaps? The garden-ground grows wild among its 
broken columns with weeds and poplar saplings ; in 
one of the corridors they sell photographs, on which, 
if you please, Ventisei has his bottle, or drink- 
money. So we escape from the doom of the ca- 
lamity, and so, at last, the severely forbidden buona- 
mano is paid. A dog may die many deaths besides 
