nature. A half-developed kind of human life it was. 
Stephen Dane stood there in the doorway. That 
was low and narrow ; he was tall and brawny, though 
thin, lacking the roundness and compactness the next 
decade would bring him, for he was but twenty-three; 
still, he nearly filled the space. 



 

His eyes were wandering riverward. Did you ever 
experience the curious sensation on looking over a 
river, that some help would come from the other side, 
an indistinct, but longed-for blessing? That peaceful 
country, lying in the purple haze of distance, seems like 
a nearer heaven, instinct with spiritual life. 

He was glancing over there now, and in a vague way 
felt this. He did not know what it was he wanted, 
only the luminous atmosphere floating there on the 
silver stream, or drifting beyond, up the shadowy 
slopes, stirred his soul with something intangible, per- 
plexing. For twenty-three years he had vegetated in 
content. Slept, eaten, worked that was all. . Not 
loved nor hated, nor struggled, nor hoped. I am not 
sure but men live these lives oftener than women. 

The picture before him was beautiful enough to 
speak to any soul that had not been born deaf and 
blind. Few are, I think. They lived on the out- 
skirts of the town Archibald Dane, Stephen, his son, 
and an orphan niece, his dead brother's child. This 
'had been their home ever since Stephen could remem- 
ber. At first Joe's mother was alive, but his own, 
dead. For several years Joe had been sole house- 
keeper. 

From the house down to the river there was a 
gradual slant, broken by little hillocks, tame enough, 
without jut or spur, and an occasional rambling gray 
rock. Interspersed were knolls of shrubbery, clumps 



 

of elder or hazel, with here and there some oaks, 
rising in majestic grandeur. When the blooming 
summer crowned it, when the wind wound its way in 
billowy furrows through the grass, making an emerald 
sea with frosted tips to the waves, you might study it 
for hours. Through vistas of twilight green the mur- 
murous river sparkled. In this opening you caught a 
glimpse of the misty hills beyond, rounded into a 
picture by softest tinting. In some places there was 
an abrupt earnestness, and the top became a golden- 
spired cathedral. Even now long, arrowy rays gleamed 
from them to penetrate the sloping sides. The river 
was broad and placid. Miles below, it was dammed 
up, and used for manufacturing purposes ; but here no 
one interfered with it. Just as God made it, here it 
lay, going along in a quiet, sleepy fashion. That was 
all it had to do in fair weather. But God sent it 
storms, sometimes, when it grew strong and turbulent, 
rushed madly into little coves and nooks, lashed the 
rocks at its edge, or beat against the bare roots of the 
trees as if it meant to sweep them away. But to-day 
it was calm, with a tender haze upon its bosom that 
reminded you of a bride's tremulous veil. Patches of 
mosfe and lichens at its edge looked like velvet. Even 
the brown, leafless trees were glorified. 

What meaning had it for Stephen Dane ? Did his 
thirsty soul go down to bathe, and find there the fabled 
fountain of new life, the magical draught more potent 



 

than Circean cup? Did the soft gray clouds, drifting 
about the sky, sending shadows upon its surface, speak 
of the doubts and fears that beset one continually, and 
yet are cleared up by the sun, eternal in the heavens? 

He was groping about blindly. For all the radiance 
of the sun he could not see. The eyes of the soul are so 
faint and uncertain at first. But he wanted something 
that was in the river, in the hills beyond, in the spring- 
tide sky. Out of the darkness of the past he called ; 
out of deeps, stagnant with the rank vegetation of evil. 
For weeds always thrive. No place so dark or noisome 
but some foul tiling will make it a home. And feeling 
this, knowing himself to be weak and vile, and misera- 
ble within, he cried to be lifted out of it all. May be 
the first time he had ever prayed in all his life. 

What did he want to do? 

He could not tell. Everything was so vague, so 
unformed within him. It was chaos, with a shadow 
moving upon the waters. It seems an easy thing to 
say to a blind, groping soul, "Let there be light; " but 
we are none of us Gods. And just then there was no 
one to say it to Stephen Dane. 

So he looked with hungry, longing, unreasoning 
eyes. They were touching eyes, too. Large, and of 
that soft, appealing brown, you sometimes see in a dog 
who questions you minutely. A shadow in them, as 
if he had never lived in the light. 

The face was indifferent. You see hundreds of 



 

such faces among the working poor. If you are care- 
less, you pronounce them stolid, and pass them by. 
Looking underneath, you may see a fine possibility in 
that starved and stunted development, a soul that could 
have grown to grander heights, but in some way 
missed its proper aliment. The brow was not very 
high, but broad, with rugged corners and great width 
of temple. It was overhung by shaggy chestnut curls, 
that seemed never to have been combed out thoroughly. 
The cheek bones were high, the nose straight and 
strong, with a good deal of character in it. The chin 
was resolute and well pronounced, giving a squareness 
and power to the face. The lips had a heavy, care- 
less expression, as if they dropped together, rather 
than shut with any firm purpose. 

The dress was indifferent, too. Thick gray trousers, 
fastened with a leathern belt in place of suspenders, 
and a blue flannel shirt. The old sou'wester, as he 
called his short, heavy jacket, was discarded to-day. 

After he had looked over the river, and entreated 
hill and sky in vain, he turned his glance in-doors. 
The house was old, built on a rocky slope, low, moss- 
grown, and crumbling into decay. Two or three large, 
flat stones lay before the door, which went in even with 
the ground. The room had a dingy look, with its 
ceiling of smoke-stained rafters. There was a fire in 
the wide fireplace, the ends of the logs resting upon 
bricks. One window and the door on one side, two 



 

windows on the other. A shambling, rickety wooden 
settle, some Windsor chairs, a high cupboard, and a little 
candle-stand painted green, comprised the furniture. 
A large table stood in the middle of the floor, with the 
remnants of dinner, and piled-up dishes. Joe, squatted 
on the hearth, her dress tucked round her ankles, was 
taking some pork and potatoes out of the large iron 
dinner kettle, that had been left in to keep hot, and not 
needed. On the settle lay Archy Dane, drowsing into 
his afternoon nap. 

He was a thin, stoop-shouldered, weazen-faced 
man, with watery eyes, a red nose, straggling gray 
whiskers, and straggling gray hair. He, too, ate and 
slept, but, instead of working, spent much of his time 
at the tavern, in a maudlin state. He had been a 
drinking man always. That accounted for the thrift- 
less-looking place. Perhaps, too, it accounted for 
Stephen Dane's stunted soul. 

He, the young man, took in this untidy picture. 
He had seen it hundreds of times before, but never 
with this sickening sensation. For out of doors all 
nature was clean and pure, teeming with new life. 
But this darkness and vileness within ! 

In his slow-thinking manner he had fancied it would 
go on thus always. He would marry Joe in the course 
of time, though he had never said anything to her 
about it ; never made love to her, as the phrase goes ; 
rarely kissed her. It would come about some way. 



 

And they would rear children to work and vegetate. 
He would drop into a bent old man, wrinkled and 
gray, go down to the tavern to hear the news, smoke a 
stumpy pipe, and at last die like a brute. 

Would he? 

He smote the door-post angrily with his fist. A 
great, powerful fist it was. You would not care to get 
a blow from it. 

" What's the matter, Stephen ? " 

Joe sprang up in affright. 

" Nothing ! " 

His voice was deep and full of sullen passionateness. 

She lifted the dish to the table. She came and 
looked curiously at him. 

" 'Tend to your work," he exclaimed, roughly. 

Then he turned to the river again. 

He rarely went to church. Now and then to a 
Methodist revival meeting, to have some fun. But 
to-day he felt there was a God. In a dumb, indignant 
way, he wondered what gratification it was for a greater 
and wiser Power to see men grovelling along, a little, 
and only a very little, removed from the beasts of the 
field. Somehow it didn't seem quite fair to give a man 
a soul, and place him where he could never use it. He 
ground his teeth with a wronged, bitter feeling. 

" Why, there's the bell, Stephen I Ain't you goin' 
to work?" and Joe wondered in her mind what pos- 
sessed him. 



 

He took down his old slouch hat and marched off 
without a word. Out into the bright, free air. It 
was a good mile to the Foundeiy. In old times the 
men didn't mind being late, but under the new regime 

well, who cared? Let it come. That man didn't 
own soul and body. So he sauntered along, the 
resentment against a huge wrong, that he did not 
understand, working out at every pore. If all his 
worldly good for years to come had depended upon 
his haste now, he would not have quickened one step. 
The man was in a sullen, reckless mood. 

But the glory of the day was gone. Purple hills 
and silver river no longer lulled him into dreamy 
languor. Something harder and sharper took pos- 
session of him. A great hungry life confronted him 

a life potatoes and bread could not satisfy. A 
furious instinct within goaded him on to a desperate 
move. He was tired of being a clod. He had a soul, 
and wanted to use it. Then a sardonic smile crossed 
his face did he have a soul ? 

Turning out of the lane, the street was long and 
wide, the gradual descent adding to the perspective. 
He saw the low, rambling place, with its tall black 
chimneys, where the dense smoke curled up against 
the azure sky, as if man wanted to shut out God's 
bright, beautiful world. It was hateful in his sight. 
And, drawing nearer, a smothering, strangling breath 
thickened the air. Then the clang, the jar, the roaring 



 

of fires, the whirring of machinery, the stroke of the 
heavy hammers smote upon his ear. Bars and piles of 
iron lay strewn around just where they had been thrown 
from the great wagons, waiting for the fierce flames to 
reduce and ripen them into available stock. A savage 
kind of discipline, and yet it brought this crude stuff 
into a state of civilization and usefulness. What if 
human souls, with iron in them, underwent some such 
process before they could give out the true steely ring ! 

A man stood at the wide gateway as Stephen Dane 
entered. That gate was a modern innovation, and 
hated of the workmen. And this man 

He was about forty ; barely average height, but with 
a compactness of frame, a vigor of limb and muscle, 
that spoke of hardy sinews and great strength. The 
feet and hands were large, the latter ridgy with dull 
blue veins. The face corresponded with the figure 
square, hard, coarse. A heavy under jaw, projecting 
forehead, with thick, beetling brows, and deep-set, 
keen gray eyes. The nose was short, with distended 
nostrils ; the mouth wide, but with thin, nervous lips. 
It was not self-indulgent nor sensual, yet supremely 
selfish. You knew the man would have his own, if he 
wrung out the last drop of one's heart's blood. But 
he was an honest man, so far as the world goes. 
When he made a bargain or a contract, he kept his 
part scrupulously. Why, there were men in the neigh- 
boring cities who would back his simple word against 



 

any other man's bond. His integrity had never been 
questioned. But there are some Utopian people who 
must needs have a higher law, an integrity of the 
heart. 

This face of power, will, and mastery turned full 
upon Stephen Dane; and he, having no weapons to 
meet it with, writhed angrily under it. 

"Late!" the master said, laconically, taking out a 
book and pencil. " Second offence, Dane." 

Ten minutes ago Stephen Dane thought he had 
courage enough to beard this lion was almost long- 
ing for a chance to fling out some of the bitter words 
gnawing at his heart. Now that the time had come, he 
was speechless. It was a hard matter to answer this 
man. 

"You know what I told the workmen, Dane. I'm 
bound to break up this lazy, lounging practice, if I 
send every hand away and shut up the Foundery." 

Then he no longer held him captive with his keen, 
resolute eye. Stephen Dane shuffled away uneasily, 
angry at himself for his cowardice. 

Through the large yard, into one of those smoke- 
blackened buildings. It came into his mind, just then, 
something about going down into the mouth of hell. It 
looked like it. These great furnaces full of molten 
metal, glaring in its vivid glow of a hue more intense 
than scarlet. Great cranes, loaded with their heavy 
chains, waiting to lift the steaming mass, and pour 



 

it, a scorching river, into these giant moulds. And 
here, where it lay in its dusky bed, taking on the im- 
press of a new form, a dense smoke arose, giving the 
faces of the workmen a weird, spectral air. Fierce 
eyes glared out ; brawny arms reached hither and 
thither ; gaunt, half-nude figures flitted about like the 
shadows of the lost souls in Dora's powerful illustra- 
tions of Dante. Voices sounded ghostly and terrible 
amid this din, and a laugh broke into short echoes, as 
if it might well be the scornful jeer of some doomed 
spirit. 

It must be confessed there was a better and brisker 
air about the place under the new reign. Before, it 
had been falling into a process of slow decay. Super- 
intendents were inefficient, workmen idle ; old Mr. Elli- 
cott easy and powerless ; Mr. Reardon confined- to a 
sick bed in a distant city, grumbling about the small 
profits, and threatening to close the concern. Insubor- 
dination and thriftlessness supreme rulers. 

Mr. Reardon died : Mr. Thomas Vennard, one of his 
creditors, came down to Trcgony to look at the Foun- 
dery. He had a quick eye and calculating brain. It 
was a kind of business he understood ; and he decided 
the thing could be worked up handsomely. The place 
was inventoried, and Reardon's share sold at auction, 
Mr. Vennard becoming purchaser. He would fain have 
ousted Ellicott ; but the old man had an odd persistency 
of affection for an establishment that had been handed 



 

down from generation to generation. Mr. Vennard's 
shrewd eyes discovered another way in which to gain 
his point. There was no Ellicott son now to follow in 
his father's steps. Only a daughter of three and 
twenty, an insipid-flavored young woman, with flaxen 
hair and pale blue eyes. Some people thought her 
handsome ; indeed, she had been quite a belle one win- 
ter in Philadelphia. She was soft, plastic, ready to take 
the impress of any strong hand that might be laid upon 
her. In a month Mr. Vennard had gauged every 
point and capability, as if she had been a steam-engine, 
and decided to marry her. Then the Ellicott works 
would be all his. He liked supreme power, and this 
indulgent old man's interference annoyed him. If he 
had been born south he would have made a w strong " 
master. 

He was a widower, with one child, a little girl. I 
will confess to you that he had not been exactly happy 
in his first marriage. Mrs. Vennard came from the 
"higher law" region. She had clear eyes and an 
honest soul; and when she learned what manner of 
man she had married, her heart died within her. One 
night, in the darkness and silence, it floated out on the 
great unknown sea, alone. Angel hands took it up 
with reverent tenderness. 

Mr. Vennard felt somehow that he had wronged this 
woman. They were not born for each other, though at 
first he had fancied her strongly. And, since she was 

 

comfortably dead, since the sad eyes would never re- 
proach him again with their prisoned pain, he sorrowed 
discreetly, and went his way breathing more freely. 

He had no fear of Miss Ellicott turning angel on his 
hands. Give her fine dresses and elegant jewelry, 
he liked them, too ; they set off a woman, a carriage 
to ride in, servants to wait upon her, and she would 
never trouble him with any vain and useless specu- 
lations. 

So he went to work in good earnest, wooing a wife 
and laying the foundation for a fortune. In ten years 
he meant to be a rich man. This was how a change 
had come over the Ellicott "Works. 

Mr. Vennard was not given to blustering. He called 
the men together one morning, and delivered a brief 
address. They had fallen into idle and vicious habits ; 
drank more rum than they did work ; he was not one 
to mince matters ; made bad iron, poor machinery, 
running the credit of the place down to the lowest ebb, 
and driving its owners to the very verge of bankruptcy. 
There was to be a new order of affairs instituted. Every 
man was expected to be on the mark when the bell 
rang, to do his work properly, to keep tolerably sober 
until hours were over. If they couldn't come under 
the rules, they could go. When he paid a man for his 
labor, he expected him to earn the money. 

No swearing with all this. Every word dropped 
down with a sharp, metallic click, like the closing of a 



 

vice. The tone was deep and strong. The men winced 
and glowered at each other from under threatening 
brows, but no one spoke. Instead, a cowed, savage 
sullenncss. They felt they had a master. 

Mr. Vennard brought in new foremen after his own 
heart ; but his keen vigilance never for an instant re- 
laxed. There were the usual mutinous outbreaks ; but 
every one concerned was discharged on the spot. New 
men came to fill their places. Being sent out of the 
Ellicott Works was as final as expulsion from Paradise. 

You know the kind of men who always manage mat- 
ters their own way. Some are born gentlemen, and do 
it by high intellectual force of will. Mr. Vennard was 
on a lower plane, but held his way as royally. 

There was little love lost between him and his work- 
men. But love was considerably below par with him 
not one of the stocks he cared to deal in. And in a 
town like this, where workmen marry and rear up fam- 
ilies, they become, as it were, a part of the soil. Not 
always taking root through affection. A hard necessity, 
like an iron chain, binds them to the spot. They are 
often a little in debt, cannot afford to lose time, nor 
spare the money for a removal. So capital and brains 
win the day. Two or three large manufactories in a 
small town have it all their own way, and uneducated, 
thriftless labor must submit or starve ; and starving is 
not generally a pleasant process. 

So the more thoughtful and far-sighted gave in to 



 

the Vennard reign from a sort of angry compulsion, 
since the lives of their wives and little ones depended 
on their submission. 

Stephen Dane had not espoused either side very 
warmly. He was reticent, self-contained, or rather 
would be when the coming manhood had sufficient force 
to assert itself. He had been indifferent, for these re- 
strictions did not touch him. He was quite too proud 
to defraud his employer that rugged, ungracious sort 
of pride one meets with now and then. He did his 
work well on the same principle. All had gone rightly 
enough with him until within a week or so. But now 
