
"You are an obstinate and self-willed fellow!" exclaimed the
principal, irritated by the result.

I made no reply.

"The consequences be upon your own head."

I bowed in silence.

"You have lost your good character and your boat."

I glanced out of the window, and saw the boys filing into the
school-room.

"I shall explain this matter to your fellow-students, and tell them
what I proposed."

"Do so," I answered.

He could not help seeing that I was thoroughly in earnest, and that I
did not intend to yield any more than I had indicated. He was vexed,
annoyed, angry, and bolted out of the room, at last, in no proper
frame of mind to conduct the religious exercises of the hour. It was
quite dark now; and I lay down upon the bed, to think of what had
passed, and to conjecture the result of my conduct. How I sighed then
for some kind friend to advise me! How I wished that I had a father
who would tell me what to do, and fight my battle for me! How I longed
for a tender mother, into whose loving face I could gaze as I related
the sad experience of that eventful day! Perhaps she would bid me
apologize to Poodles, for the sake of saving my good name, and
retaining my connection with the school. If so, though it would be
weak and unworthy, I could humble myself for her sake.

I felt that I had done right. I had made all the concession which
truth and justice required of me, and I was quite calm. I hardly
inquired why Mr. Parasyte was keeping me a prisoner in the Institute
after he had expelled me, or what he intended to do with me. About
nine o'clock my own clothes were brought back to me by one of the
servants; but the door was securely locked when he retired.

A few minutes later, and before the sound of the servant's retreating
footsteps had ceased, I heard some one thrust a key into the door. It
did not fit, and a dozen others were tried in like manner, but with no
better success. I heard a whispered consultation; and then the door
began to strain, and crack, until the bolt yielded, and it flew open.
My sympathizing friends, the students, headed by Bob Hale, had broken
it down.

"Come, Ernest," said Bob. "You needn't stay in here any longer. We
want you down stairs."

"What are you going to do?" I asked, quietly, of my excited
deliverers.

"There is no law or justice in this concern; and we are going to put
things to rights," replied Tom Rush, a good fellow, who had spent a
week's vacation with me circumnavigating Lake Adieno in the Splash.

"You know I don't approve of any rows or riots," I added.

"No row nor riot about it. We have taken possession of this
establishment, and we are going to straighten things out,--you can bet
your life on that."

"Where is Mr. Parasyte?"

"He has gone up to see your uncle. He told us, at evening prayers,
what an obstinate boy you were; how kind, and tender, and forgiving he
had been to you, and how he had exhausted good nature in trying to
bring you to a proper sense of duty."

"Did he say that?"

"He did, and much more. But come with us. The fellows have captured
the citadel, and we hold the school-room now, waiting for you."

"I will go with you; but I don't want the fellows to make a
disturbance."

"No disturbance at all, Ernest; but we have turned the assistant
teachers out, and mean to ascertain who is right and who is wrong in
this matter."

The rebellion had actually broken out again; and the students, in the
most high-handed manner, had established a tribunal in the
school-room, to try the issue of my affair with the principal. I
followed Bob Hale, Tom Rush, and half a dozen others, who constituted
the committee to wait on me. They conducted me to the main
school-room, which was a large hall. At every door and window were
stationed two or three of the larger boys, with their hockies, bats,
and rulers as weapons, to defend the court, as they called it, from
any interruption.

About two thirds of the students were there assembled; and though the
gathering was a riotous proceeding, the boys were in as good order as
during the sessions of the school. In an arm-chair, on the platform,
sat Henry Vallington, one of the oldest and most dignified students
of the Institute, who, it appeared, was to act as judge. Before him
were Bill Poodles and Dick Pearl,--the latter being one of the six
whose examples were all right,--arraigned for trial, and guarded by
four stout students.




CHAPTER VII.

IN WHICH ERNEST ATTENDS THE TRIAL OF BILL POODLES AND DICK PEARL.


I confess that I was appalled at the boldness and daring of my
fellow-students, who had actually taken possession of the Parkville
Liberal Institute, and purposed to mete out justice to me and to Bill
Poodles. There was a certain kind of solemnity in the proceedings,
which was not without its effect upon me. My companions were
thoroughly in earnest, and the affair was not to be a farce.

Mr. Parasyte, after prayer, had made a statement to the students in
regard to the unpleasant event of the day, in which he represented me
as a contumacious offender, one who desired to make all the trouble he
could; an obstinate, self-willed fellow, whose example was dangerous
to the general peace, and who had refused to be guided by reason and
common sense. He told the students that he had even offered to pay for
my boat--a concession on his part which had had no effect in softening
my obdurate nature. He appealed to them to sustain the discipline of
the Parkville Liberal Institute, which had always been celebrated as a
remarkably orderly and quiet establishment. He then added that he
should consult my uncle in regard to me, and be guided in some measure
by his judgment.

The students heard him in silence; but Bob Hale assured me that it was
with compressed lips, and a fixed determination to carry out the plan
which had been agreed upon while the boys were watching the chase on
the lake, and which had not been modified by the wilful destruction of
the Splash.

I glanced around at my fellow-students as I entered the hall; and
though they smiled as their gaze met mine, there was a look of
earnestness and determination which could not be mistaken. Henry
Vallington, the chairman, judge, or whatever the name of his office
was, had the reputation of being the steadiest boy in the school. It
was understood that he intended to become a minister. He was about
eighteen, and was nearly fitted to enter college. He never joined in
what were called the "scrapes" of the Institute, but devoted himself
with the closest attention to his studies. He was esteemed and
respected by all who knew him; and when I saw him presiding over this
irregular assemblage, I could not help regarding the affair as much
more serious than it had before seemed, even to me, the chief actor
therein.

Poodles and Pearl, I learned, had been captured in their rooms, and
dragged by sheer force into the school-room, to be examined on the
charges to be preferred against them. Poodles looked timid and
terrified, while Pearl was dogged and resolute.

"Thornton," said Henry Vallington, as my conductors paused before the
judge, "I have sent for you in order that we may ascertain the truth
of the charges brought against you by Mr. Parasyte. If you provoked
the quarrel to-day noon with Poodles, it is no more than fair and
right that you should make the apology required of you. If you did
not, we intend to stand by you. Have you anything to say?"

"I wish to say, in the first place, that, guilty or innocent, I am
willing to submit to whatever penalty the principal imposes upon me."

"That is very well for you, but it won't do for us," interposed the
judge. "If such gross injustice is done to one, it may be to another.
We act in self-defence."

"I don't know what you intend to do; but I am opposed to any
disorderly conduct, and to any violation of the rules of the
Institute."

"We know you are, Thornton; and you shall not be held responsible for
what we do to-night. If you are willing to tell us what you know about
this affair, all right. If not, we shall go on without you."

"I am willing to tell the truth here, as I have done to-day. As there
seems to be some mistake in regard to what transpired between Mr.
Parasyte and myself, up stairs, I will state the facts as they
occurred. He agreed to pay for my boat on condition that I would
apologize, privately, to Poodles, and publicly to the principal. I
offered to apologize to Mr. Parasyte, but not to Poodles, who was the
aggressor in the beginning. I told him, if Poodles would perform half
the examples now, I would make the apology to him."

"That's it!" shouted half a dozen boys.

"Order!" interposed the judge, sternly.

"I think that would be a good way to prove that Poodles did or did not
tell the truth, when he said he had performed the examples,"
interposed Bob Hale.

"Capital!" added Tom Rush.

"I approve the method; but let us have no disorder," replied
Vallington. "Conduct Poodles to the blackboard."

The custodians of the culprit promptly obeyed this order, and led him
to the blackboard, which was cleaned for immediate use. The
school-room was well lighted, and the expression on the faces of all
could be distinctly seen.

"Poodles, we desire to have justice done to all," said Vallington,
when the culprit had taken his place at the blackboard. "You shall
have fair play in every respect. You shall have a chance to prove
that you were right, and Thornton wrong."

"Well, I was right," replied Poodles.

"Did you perform all the examples on your paper without any help?"

"Of course I did."

"Then of course you know how to perform them. Here is an examination
paper. If you can perform five of the ten examples you shall be
acquitted."

"Perhaps I don't choose to do them," said Poodles, looking around for
some way to escape his fate.

"Are you not willing that the truth should come out?"

"I told the truth to-day."

"All right, if you did. You surely will not object to prove that you
did. You shall have fair play, I repeat."

"Suppose I don't choose to do them?" asked Poodles, doubtfully.

"Then we shall take it for granted that you did not do them, as you
declared on your paper."

"You can take it for granted, then, if you like," answered Poodles, as
he dropped the chalk.

"You refuse to perform the examples--do you?" demanded Vallington,
sternly.

"Yes, I do."

"Then you may take the consequences. Either you shall be expelled from
the Institute, or at least fifty of us will petition our parents to
take us from this school. We have done with you."

Bill Poodles smiled, and was pleased to get off so easily; but I
noticed that Dick Pearl turned pale, and looked very much troubled. He
was a relative of Mr. Parasyte, and it was generally understood that
he was a free scholar, his parents being too poor to pay his board and
tuition. While he expected to be ducked in the lake, or subjected to
some personal indignity, after the manner in which boys usually treat
such cases, his courage was good. Now, it appeared that the boys
simply intended to have Poodles expelled, or to ask their parents and
guardians to remove them; and as most of the students were from
fourteen to eighteen years of age, they would probably have influence
enough to effect their design.

"Pearl," said the judge, while the other culprit was apparently still
attempting to figure out the result of the trial.

"I'm here," replied Pearl.

"We are entirely satisfied that Poodles had some assistance in
performing his examples. It is believed that you gave him that
assistance. If you did, own up."

"Who says I helped Poodles?"

"I say so, for one," added the judge, sharply.

"Can you prove it?"

"I will answer that question after you have confessed or refused to
confess. You shall have fair play, as well as Poodles. If you wish to
put yourself right on the record, you can do so; if not, you shall
leave, or we will."

Pearl looked troubled. He was under very great obligations to Mr.
Parasyte. If he denied that he had helped Poodles, and it was then
proved against him, the boys would insist that he should be expelled.
If he stood out, he must either be expelled or the Institute be broken
up. He did not appear willing to take such a responsibility.

"You can do as you please, Pearl; but tell the truth, if you say
anything," continued Vallington.

"I did help Poodles," said he, looking down at the floor.

"How much did you help him?"

"I lent him my examination paper, and he copied all the solutions upon
his own."

"And after that you were willing to declare that you had not assisted
any one?" demanded the judge, with a look of supreme contempt on his
fine features.

"I had not helped any one when I signed my paper."

"Humph!" exclaimed Vallington, with a withering sneer. "That is the
meanest kind of a lie."

"I didn't mean to assist him; he teased me till I couldn't help
myself," pleaded Pearl.

A further examination showed that Poodles had browbeaten and
threatened him; and we were disposed to palliate Pearl's offence, in
consideration of his poverty and his dependent position, after he had
confessed his error.

"Are you willing to make this acknowledgment to Mr. Parasyte?" asked
the judge, in a tone of compassion.

"I don't want to; but I will. I suppose he will send me home then,"
replied the culprit.

"We will do what we can for you," added the judge.

Pearl had been a pretty good fellow among the boys, was generally
popular, and all were sorry for him. But his confession in a manner
absolved him, and the students heartily declared that they would stand
by him.

"Our business is finished," said Vallington, "unless Poodles has
something more to say."

Poodles had listened with consternation to the confession of Pearl,
and he now appeared to be dissatisfied with himself rather than with
the court.

"I didn't think Dick Pearl would let on in that way," said he, casting
a reproachful glance at his fellow-culprit.

"He has told the truth. If he had not confessed, we could have proved
that he helped you," added Vallington. "I have seen the six papers
that were all right myself. Pearl performed the third example in a
very peculiar and roundabout way; and Poodles had it in the same way,
while the other did it by the most direct method."

"I suppose it's of no use to stand out now," said Poodles, timidly.

"Will you confess now?"

"I will, if it will do any good."

"If you will tell the truth to Mr. Parasyte, that is all we want. The
fellows haven't anything against you. Will you do so?"

"I will if you say I shall not be expelled," whined Poodles.

"I can only say that we will not ask for your expulsion. I suppose
there is no danger of Mr. Parasyte expelling you," added the judge,
with a dry humor, appreciated by all the students.

"Mr. Parasyte!" exclaimed one of the sentinels at the door.

There was an attempt on the part of the principal to pull the door
open, but it was well secured upon the inside.

"Let him in," said the judge.

The door opened, and Mr. Parasyte entered the school-room.




CHAPTER VIII.

IN WHICH ERNEST VANQUISHES THE SCHOOLMASTER.


Mr. Parasyte had evidently obtained some information in regard to the
great rebellion before he entered the school-room; for though he
looked extremely troubled, he did not seem to be so much astonished as
might have been expected. He was admitted by order of the judge, and
took off his hat as he walked up the aisle to the platform, wiping
away the perspiration which gathered on his heated brow under the
severe mental struggles his position induced.

"What does all this mean?" he demanded, with a sternness which we
could not help seeing was assumed.

The boys were all orderly and quiet; the school room was as still as
during the regular sessions of the Institute. The sentinels, with
their bats and clubs, stood immovable at their stations, and the
scene produced its full impression upon the mind of the principal. As
he did not seem to be prepared to receive an answer to his question,
none was given; and Mr. Parasyte glanced uneasily around the room,
apparently seeking to obtain a better understanding of the scene.

"What does all this mean?" demanded he, a second time.

"It means, sir," replied Henry Vallington, "that the boys are
dissatisfied, and intend to have things set right."

"Is this a proper way to express their dissatisfaction--to take
advantage of my absence to get up a riotous assembly?"

"We have been perfectly orderly, sir," added the judge, in respectful
tones.

"How came you here, Thornton?" continued the principal, as his gaze
rested on me.

"We brought him here, sir," promptly interposed Vallington, anxious to
relieve me of any responsibility for my escape from my prison-chamber.

"Vallington, I confess my astonishment at seeing you engaged in an
affair of this kind," said Mr. Parasyte, reproachfully; and he fixed
his gaze upon the judge, and again wiped the perspiration from his
forehead. "I have always regarded you as an orderly and well-behaved
boy."

"I do not expect to forfeit my reputation as such by what I have done.
Mr. Parasyte, the boys are dissatisfied. We are not little children.
We have all reached the years of discretion, and we know the
difference between right and wrong, between justice and injustice."

"Do you intend to read me a lecture?" demanded the principal, angrily.

"No, sir; I had no such intention--only to state the facts."

"But you are arraigning me, the principal of the Parkville Liberal
Institute," added Mr. Parasyte, measuring the judge from head to foot.

"You may call it what you please, sir."

"May I ask what you purpose to do?" continued the principal, in a
sneering tone, not unmingled with timidity.

"Poodles," said the judge, turning to the lank toady, "stand up."

He obeyed; and being now with the majority of the boys, I think he was
mean enough to enjoy the discomfiture of Mr. Parasyte, for there can
be no real respect or true sympathy in the relation of one flunky with
another.

"Are you ready to tell the whole truth?" demanded Vallington.

"I am," replied Poodles.

"Perhaps you will be willing to inform Mr. Parasyte, in the beginning,
whether you do so of your own free will and accord, or not."

"I do so of my own free will and accord."

"Did you perform the examples on the examination paper without any
assistance?"

"I did not."

"How many did you do yourself?"

"None of them."

"Who struck the first blow in the affray on the pier with Thornton?"

"I did," answered Poodles, with a silly leer. "Thornton told the facts
just exactly as they were."

"You may sit down."

Mr. Parasyte wiped his brow again.

"Pearl," continued Vallington.

This culprit, unlike his companion in guilt, looked sheepish and
crestfallen, as he slowly rose from his seat. He was not so base and
low-minded as Poodles, and he felt a genuine shame for the mean
conduct of which he had been guilty.

"Have you anything to say, Pearl?" asked the judge.

"I lent my paper to Poodles, who copied the solutions from it,"
replied Pearl, with his glance fixed upon the floor.

"That's all; you may sit down."

Pearl seated himself; and if a pin had fallen to the floor then, it
might have been heard in the anxious silence that followed. Mr.
Parasyte's chest heaved with emotion. He wanted to storm, and scold,
and threaten, but seemed to be afraid to do so.

"I have nothing more to say at present, Mr. Parasyte. In the name and
in behalf of the students, I have brought the facts to your notice,"
said Vallington, breaking the impressive stillness, as the principal
did not seem disposed to do so.

"After the riotous proceedings of this afternoon, I might have
expected this; but I did not," the principal began. "You appear to
have intimidated Poodles to such an extent that he has entirely
modified and reversed the statements he made this afternoon. He is a
weak-minded boy, and it was not difficult to do so."

This remark roused the ire of Poodles, and it required a sharp
reprimand from the judge to repress his impertinence.

"Pearl is a poor boy, upon whose fears you seem to have successfully
