
"I can't bring the gentleman into court to say that he gave me the
money, which is the only thing against me."

"Have you told the person how you are situated, and of the charge
against you?"

"No, I haven't seen him. He lives a hundred miles from Torrentville."

"I suppose so. Such witnesses are always a great way off when they are
wanted," added my brother, with an ill-concealed sneer.

"I see that you think I am guilty, Clarence," I replied, wounded beyond
measure at his severe conclusions.

"I confess that the affair looks to me like a trumped-up story."

"No, no, Clarence," interposed poor Flora, her eyes filled with tears,
as she came to my chair and put her arm lovingly around my neck. "Dear
Buckland, I know you are innocent!"

"So do I," exclaimed Emily.

"Hookie!" ejaculated Sim Gwynn, who had been sitting in silence, with
his eyes and mouth wide open, but rather nervous when the battle seemed
to be going against me.

I wanted to cry myself, for I felt that my brother was very hard upon
me. While the others were reaching conclusions through their feelings
alone, he was taking the common-sense view of the case. The facts were
stubborn, as I had been obliged to acknowledge before; and all I could
bring to attest my innocence was my simple word. But the conference was
interrupted by the coming of the family physician, who had been sent for
to see Emily. She and her father left the room.

Clarence went over the history of the robbery again; and the more he
considered, the more dissatisfied he became with me. Dear Flora pleaded
for a more gentle judgment, and told him how ill Ham and Mrs. Fishley
treated me.

"I don't blame you for leaving the Fishleys," he added. "I blame myself
for permitting you to remain there, after you complained of them; but I
had just been taken into partnership with my employers, and I could not
well be absent. But I do blame you for leaving them with a stain upon
your character. Something must be done immediately. I will not permit
them to think you are guilty, unless you are so. If you are guilty, you
are no brother of mine."

"I am not guilty," I protested.

"Then you must prove it."

"I can't prove it."

"Are you willing to take your oath before God, in court, that you saw
Ham Fishley take the money and burn the letter?"

"I am."

"Very well. Then you shall go to Torrentville, and face your accusers."

"I am willing to do what you think is best."

"I can't believe you are guilty of this crime; but you were foolish to
run away from it."

"I will write to the person who gave me the money, and he may do as he
pleases about helping me out of the scrape."

"My business is nothing compared with this matter, and I will go with
you. Now, where is this raft?"

He wished to see it, and Sim and I went with him to the levee.




CHAPTER XXIV.

UP THE RIVER.


Clarence called a dray, and had all Flora's things conveyed to the house
he was fitting up as his residence. The raft and its apparatus he sold,
and he gave me the money. This was the end of the craft which had
brought us on our voyage of seventeen hundred and fifty miles. We
returned to the house of Mr. Goodridge in the afternoon.

The physician had only repeated his advice that Emily must have a change
of climate. Her father had already decided to accompany her to the North
himself. Clarence declared that Flora must not stay in the city during
the sickly season. He had been married a month before, and if we had
remained in Torrentville, the letter he wrote to us just before the
happy event would doubtless have reached us. It had been his plan to
start for New York early in August, and to return to New Orleans by the
way of the West in October, taking Flora and me with him. Our unexpected
arrival changed his purpose. In the course of a week it was arranged
that we should go to Torrentville at once, and Mr. Goodridge and his
daughter were to accompany us.

Flora and I remained at the house of the merchant during our stay in the
city, though we frequently saw my brother's wife. She soon became much
attached to Flora; the gentle invalid was so patient and loving that she
could not help it. If there had been no cloud hanging over me, I should
have been very happy in the bright prospect before me; but I hoped, when
we arrived at Torrentville, that Squire Fishley would find a way to
extricate me from my dilemma.

"Buck," said Clarence to me, on the day before we started, "you begin
life under brighter auspices than I did. Mr. Goodridge has just paid
over to me the sum of ten thousand dollars, to be invested for you, and
to be paid over to you when you are of age."

"Ten thousand dollars!" I exclaimed, amazed at the magnitude of the sum.

"And the same sum for Flora. Well, twenty thousand dollars is not much
for him. He is a very rich man, and Emily is his pet. He has three sons;
but all of them are bad boys, and all his hope in this world rests in
his daughter. You are a lucky fellow, Buck."

"I didn't think of anything of this kind," I added, filled with wonder
at my good fortune.

"I don't say you didn't deserve it; for, according to all accounts, you
behaved well, and the girl would certainly have been drowned if you had
not saved her. I am proud of you, Buck; but I wish you were well out of
this Torrentville scrape."

That worried him; and, indeed, it worried me, after I had heard so much
said about it. If I had understood the matter as well in the time of it
as I did afterwards, doubtless I should not have trusted to flight for
safety, but faced my accusers. My sudden departure could not have failed
to confirm the suspicions of Captain Fishley, and probably Ham had made
the best use of the circumstances.

The next day we went on board of a fine steamer bound to St. Louis.
State-rooms had been engaged for the whole party, and I should be glad
to tell the story of the journey if space would permit. We enjoyed it
very much, and on the way I pointed out to my companions the various
objects of interest connected with the slower voyage of the raft. At
first Emily was timid on board of the steamer; but her father introduced
the captain to her, and he assured her that the boilers were new, and
that he never raced with other boats under any circumstances. She
acquired confidence. Her health had improved a great deal, and she was
able to sit up all day.

At St. Louis we took another steamer, and from that were transferred to
a third, which went up the Wisconsin River. When we arrived at
Riverport, I felt as though I was at home, though I dreaded to appear
again in Torrentville. At St. Louis I had written a long letter to
Squire Fishley, narrating all the facts of the robbery of the mail, and
the charge against me. I assured him I should keep the promise I had
made to him, if I had to die in jail for doing so, and that he might do
as he pleased about assisting me. I told him our party would be in
Riverport by the 10th of June, and wished him to write me there,
advising me what to do.

On my arrival at Riverport I went to the post-office, and obtained the
letter which was waiting for me. The senator wrote that he would meet me
in Riverport as soon after the 10th of June as his business would
permit. He thanked me very warmly for keeping his secret so well, and
assured me I should not suffer for my fidelity to him.

This letter made me happy. I told Clarence that the gentleman who had
given me the money was coming to my relief, and would be in Riverport
within a few days. As the party were pleasantly situated at the hotel,
it was decided to remain until the "mysterious personage," as Clarence
called him, made his appearance. Then the awkward fact that when he did
come he would be recognized, by my friends, as the tippler who had
fallen overboard, would be disclosed; and I blamed myself for what I had
said to them. I stated my dilemma to Clarence, and he placed the whole
party under the seal of secrecy.

I had promised not to tell who had given me the money. I had not done
so; but I had said enough to enable my friends to know who he was when
the squire came. It was awkward, but I could not help it, though I
blamed myself for saying even as much as I did.

Emily and I had become fast friends. Before we started from New Orleans,
Clarence had dressed me up in a new suit of black clothes, and I
flattered myself that I was not a bad-looking fellow. I was satisfied
that Emily did not think I was an ill-favored young man. We had some
pleasant walks at the places where we stopped.

I was very impatient for the arrival of Squire Fishley. I expected him
the day after we reached Riverport; but he did not come. In the evening
I went to the vicinity of the post-office, and had a view of Darky and
the wagon; but it was driven by a strange boy, who had been employed to
take my place. I did not care to be recognized by any one from
Torrentville; but as this boy did not know me, I ventured to go up and
pat my friend the black horse on the neck. The old fellow seemed to
know me, and whether he enjoyed the interview or not, I am sure I did.
While I was caressing the horse, the new boy came out of the office with
the mail-bag in his hand. He looked curiously at me, and seemed to
wonder how I happened to be on such good terms with his horse.

"What's the news up to Torrentville?" I asked.

"Nothing particular, as I know of," he replied, looking hard at me.

"Is Captain Fishley there now?"

"Yes."

"How's Ham?"

"First rate."

"How long have you driven the mail team?"

"Going on three weeks. You see the feller that drove it before robbed
the mail, and had to run away."

"Did he? What became of him?"

"That's what puzzles 'em. They can't git no clew to him. He cleared
about two months ago, and they hain't seen hide nor hair on him sence.
Do you know him?"

"Know whom?" I asked, startled by this direct question.

"Buck Bradford, the feller that robbed the mail and run away."

"Why do you ask?"

"O, nothin'; only the postmaster here told me to tell Captain Fishley
that a letter came here for Buck Bradford, and that a young feller took
it out. You haven't seen nothin' on him--have you?"

I did not choose to answer this question, and I edged off, without
making any reply. It appeared that I was generally known in Torrentville
as the mail robber, who had run away to escape the consequences of his
crime. The reflection galled me; but the day of redemption was at hand.
I did not quite like it that the postmaster had sent word of my presence
in Riverport to my tyrants; for I did not wish to be taken up before the
arrival of my most important witness. I deemed it prudent, therefore, to
keep out of sight to some extent, though I did not put myself out much
about it.

Squire Fishley did not come on the second day after our arrival, to my
very great disappointment, for I began to fear that I should be snapped
up by some greedy constable. The keeper of the hotel, who did not
recognize me in the trim suit I wore, had a very handsome keel boat,
prettily painted, which he kept for the use of the pleasure travel
frequenting his house. Sim and I had rowed our friends up and down the
river in this boat, and I engaged it for the third day, as soon as I
found that the senator was not a passenger on the down-river steamer. I
intended to make a long excursion in her, as much to keep myself out of
the way, as for the fun of it. I invited Emily and Flora to go, and they
gladly accepted the invitation.



After breakfast we embarked, with a plentiful supply of luncheon on
board, for we did not mean to return till the middle of the afternoon. I
proposed to go up the creek, and then up the branch to the swamp, where
we had started on our long voyage upon the raft. Sim and I pulled
cheerfully, and our passengers were delighted with the trip. We entered
the gloomy swamp; but the river had fallen, so that its banks were no
longer covered with water. I showed Emily the place where Sim and I had
built the raft. We landed, and walked up the slope far enough for her to
see the house and store of the Fishleys. In the cool shade of the
swamp we lunched, and enjoyed ourselves to the utmost. My fair companion
was an interested listener, and wished to know every particular in
regard to the raft, which had been the means of saving her life.

About three o'clock we started to return, and the passage was so
pleasant that it seemed like a dream of fairy-land. I sat at the after
oar, with Emily directly in front of me; and I am not altogether sure
that this circumstance was not the origin of the fairy idea; at any
rate, her presence enhanced the joy of the occasion. All went merry as a
marriage bell till we reached a part of the river called the Ford.

At this stage of the river the water was not three feet deep; and, just
as we were passing the shoalest part of the Ford, two men leaped into
the water, and waded out to the boat. Sim and I were resting on our oars
at the time, and so sudden was the movement that I had no time to get
out of the way.

One of these men seized the boat, and the other, in whom I recognized
Stevens, the constable from Torrentville, grasped me by the collar, and
dragged me out of the boat to the shore.

"We have got you at last," said the officer.

"Hookie!" shouted Sim, as he stood up in the boat gazing at me, with his
eyes distended, and his mouth wide open.

My tyrants had me again.




CHAPTER XXV.

TWO HOURS IN JAIL.


The appearance of the constable was a sufficient explanation of the
misfortune which had befallen me. The man with him was a stranger to me.
The mail boy had delivered his message to Captain Fishley, and the
constable had been sent down to Riverport to arrest me; but not finding
me there, and probably learning from the hotel-keeper where I had gone,
he lay in wait for me at the Ford.

The officer and his companion were unnecessarily rough and insulting to
me, I thought; but when I consider the exceedingly bad reputation which
I had made, I am not much surprised. I was dragged out of the boat, my
legs soused into the water, and my elaborate toilet--made in view of the
fact that I was to face Miss Emily Goodridge during the excursion--was
badly deranged.

Of course Emily and Flora screamed when I was pulled out of the boat;
but I could hardly help laughing, in spite of my mishap, when I saw Sim
Gwynn standing on the seat of the boat so as to exhibit his bow legs to
the best advantage, with the stupid stare of wonder and terror on his
face. The boat was floating down the river with the current, bearing my
companions away from me.

"Row back to the hotel, Sim, and tell my brother I have been taken up,"
I shouted.

"Hookie!" responded Sim.

Before I could say any more, my savage captors, with as much parade and
violence as though I had been a grizzly bear, dragged me to the wagon in
the road, in which sat Captain Fishley. I was satisfied that Sim, after
he recovered his senses, would be able to conduct the boat in safety to
the hotel, and I did not worry about my companions.

"Well, Buck Bradford," said my old tyrant, "you are caught at last."

"Yes, I am caught at last," I replied; for I had resolved to put a
cheerful face upon the matter.

"What have you done with the money you stole from the letter?" he
demanded, gruffly.

"I didn't steal any money from the letter. You will have to ask Ham
Fishley what has become of that money."

"He seems to be dressed better than he was. I suppose he laid it out for
fine clothes," added the constable.

"Do you persist in saying that Ham Fishley robbed the mail?" said the
captain, angrily.

"I do; and I think I shall be able to prove it, too."

"You see, the fellow is a black-hearted scoundrel," said the postmaster,
turning to the man who was a stranger to me, and who, I afterwards
learned, was a post-office agent or detective. "This boy has been in my
family for several years, but he tries to screen himself by laying his
crime to my son."

"Have you got any money about you?" asked the constable.

"I have," I replied.

"Search him," added the captain, eagerly.

"You needn't be so savage about it," said I, when the constable came at
me as though I had been a royal Bengal tiger, with dangerous claws and
teeth. "I'll submit without any pounding."

I turned out my pockets. I had bought a new porte-monnaie in New
Orleans, and all my funds were in it. My old one, which contained the
burnt envelope, was in my carpet-bag at the hotel, so that I had no
motive for concealing anything. The officer opened the porte-monnaie,
and counted fifty-one dollars in bills, which he took from it. The trip
down the river had cost me about seventy dollars, but the proceeds of
the raft and its furniture had added twenty-five dollars to my
exchequer. As my brother had paid all my expenses on the journey up the
river, I had only spent a few dollars, mostly for the hotel boat.

"Here is more money than was taken from the letter," said the constable.

"That only proves that he has robbed the mail more than once," replied
Captain Fishley.

The post-office agent opened his eyes, and seemed to me to look
incredulous.

"Has this boy had anything to do with the mail during the last two
months?" asked he.

"Not that I know of," replied the postmaster.

The agent nodded his head, and did not seem to be quite satisfied. I
surmised that Ham had been robbing other letters.

"Where have you been for two months?" asked the agent, turning to me.

"I have been to New Orleans," I answered.

"You haven't been about here, then?"

"No, sir."

"Put him in the wagon, and we will drive home," said Captain Fishley.

The post-office agent took me in charge, and he was not so rude and
rough as the constable. He placed me on the back seat of the wagon, and
sat beside me himself. All three of my companions plied me with
questions on the way, and I told them all about my trip to New Orleans
on the raft.

"Is Clarence in Riverport?" asked Captain Fishley, much astonished, and
I thought troubled also.

"He is."

"What did you come back here for, after you had robbed the mail?" he
demanded.

"I came back to prove that I didn't rob the mail."

"I guess you can't prove that."

"I guess I can."

"How long has Clarence been in Riverport?"

"Three days."

"Why don't he come up to Torrentville and see the folks?"

"He's coming. We were waiting in Riverport to see a gentleman first," I
answered.

After I had told my story, they ceased questioning me, and I had an
opportunity to consider my position. Ham Fishley would not be glad to
see me. It would be more convenient for him not to have any examination
into the circumstances attending the robbing of the mail. From one or
two remarks of the post-office agent, I had come to the conclusion that
other letters than Miss Larrabee's were missing. Besides, the demeanor
of this man towards me was so considerate after I told my story, that I
was confident he had his doubts in regard to my guilt.

Captain Fishley drove up to the door of the store, and I was told to get
out. I obeyed, and went into the store. There I saw Ham Fishley. I
fancied that he looked pale, and that his lip quivered when he saw me.

"Got back--have you, Buck?" said he, with a ghastly grin.

"Yes, I've got back," I replied, with becoming dignity.

"They say the way of the transgressor is hard," he added.

"I think you will find it so, Ham, before this business is finished."

"You still lay it to me," he added, angrily.

Mrs. Fishley, hearing of my arrival, hastened into the shop to see me.

"So, you monster, you! you have come back--have you?" she began, in the
same refreshing, snarling tones which had so often enlivened my
existence in the past.

"I have come back, Mrs. Fishley; or rather I have been brought back," I
replied, pleasantly; for I felt that I could afford to be good-natured.

"Yes, mother; and he still sticks to it that I robbed the mail--that I
did!" added Ham, with the same sickly grin.

"I should like to know!" exclaimed she, placing her arms a-kimbo, and
staring me full in the face. "I should like to know! Haven't we done
enough for you, Buck Bradford, that you want to use us in this way? How
du'st you run away, and take Flora with you? You will make her as bad as
yourself byme-by."

"I hope not," I replied, smiling.

"She went all the way to New Orleans with him on a raft, and so did that
Sim Gwynn," interposed the captain.

"Well, there's no end of wonders with bad boys. But where's Flora now?"
asked Mrs. Fishley.

"She's at the hotel in Riverport, with Clarence and his wife."

My female tyrant wanted to know all about it, and I told her; but I will
omit the torrent of snapping, snarling, and abuse she poured out upon me
for my base ingratitude to her who had always treated me like a son. By
this time the news had begun to circulate in the village that "the mail
robber" had been caught, and men, women, and children came to see the
awful monster. It was an awkward and uncomfortable situation for me; but
I consoled myself by anticipating the triumphant acquittal which
awaited me. When the people had gazed at me to their satisfaction, the
constable conducted me to the jail. I did not shudder, as I supposed I
should, when I was cast into the lonely cell, for I knew I was innocent.

I had been there but a couple of hours, when the door was opened, and
Clarence came in. Sim had succeeded in navigating the boat back to the
hotel, and the story of my mishap had been told by Flora.

"The steamer arrived just before I left," said my brother. "A gentleman
came to the hotel inquiring for you. Who was he, Buck?"

"He will tell you himself, if he chooses. I suppose he is the person I
