were a table and two or three chairs. This was the place for the
superintendent, and for gentlemen who from time to time address the
boys.

The superintendent at that time was Mr. Charles O'Connor, who still
retains the office. Probably no one could be found better adapted to
the difficult task of managing the class of boys who avail themselves
of the good offices of the Newsboys' Home. His mild yet firm manner,
and more than all the conviction that he is their friend, and feels a
hearty interest in their welfare, secure a degree of decorum and good
behavior which could hardly be anticipated. Oaths and vulgar speech,
however common in the street, are rarely heard here, or, if heard, meet
with instant rebuke.

The superintendent was in the room when Ben and Mark entered.

"Well, Ben, what luck have you had to-day?" said Mr. O'Connor.

"Pretty good," said Ben.

"And who is that with you?"

"Mother Watson's nephew," said Ben, with a grimace.

"He's only joking, sir," said Mark. "My name is Mark Manton."

"I am glad to see you, Mark," said the superintendent. "What is your
business?"

"I sell matches, sir."

"Have you parents living?"

"No, sir; they are both dead."

"Where have you been living?"

"In Vandewater Street."

"With any one?"

"Yes, with a woman they call Mother Watson."

"Is she a relation of yours?"

"No, sir," said Mark, hastily.

"What sort of a woman is she?"

"Bad enough, sir. She gets drunk about every day and used to beat me
with a strap when I did not bring home as much money as she expected."

"So you have left her?"

"Yes, sir."

"Have you ever been up here before?"

"No, sir."

"I suppose you know the rules of the place."

"Yes, sir; Ben has told me."

"You had better go and wash. We shall have supper pretty quick. Have
you any money?"

"Yes, sir."

Mark took out his hoard of money, and showed it to the superintendent,
who was surprised at the amount.

"How did you get so much?" he asked.

"Part of it was given me," said Mark.

"What are you going to do with it? You don't need it all?"

"Will you keep it for me, sir?"

"I will put as much of it as you can spare into the bank for you. This
is our bank."

He pointed to a table beside the railing on the outside. The top of
it was pierced with narrow slits, each having a number attached. Each
compartment was assigned to any boy who desired it, and his daily
earnings were dropped in at the end of the day. Once a month the bank
was opened, and the depositor was at liberty to withdraw his savings if
he desired it. This is an excellent arrangement, as it has a tendency
to teach frugal habits to the young patrons of the Lodge. Extravagance
is one of their besetting sins. Many average a dollar and over as
daily earnings, yet are always ragged and out at elbows, and often are
unsupplied with the small price of a night's lodging at the Home. The
money is squandered on gambling, cigars, and theatre-going, while the
same sum would make them comfortable and independent of charity. The
disposition to save is generally the first encouraging symptom in a
street boy, and shows that he has really a desire to rise above his
circumstances, and gain a respectable position in the world.

Ben, who had long frequented the Lodging House off and on, led the
way to the washing-room, where Mark, to his satisfaction, was able to
cleanse himself from the dust and impurity of the street. At Mother
Watson's he had had no accommodations of the kind, as the old lady was
not partial to water either internally or externally. He was forced to
snatch such opportunities as he could find.

"Now," said Ben, "we'll go into the gymnasium."

A room opposite the main room had been fitted up with a few of the
principal appliances of a gymnasium, and these were already in use by
quite a number of boys.

Mark looked on, but did not participate, partly from bashfulness, and
partly because he did not very well understand the use of the different
appliances.

"How do you like it?" asked Ben.

"Very much," said Mark, with satisfaction. "I'm glad you brought me
here."

"I'll show you the beds by and by," said Ben.

The rooms on the floor below were used for lodging. Tiers of neat beds,
some like those in a steamboat or a hospital, filled a large room.
They were very neat in appearance, and looked comfortable. In order to
insure their continuing neat, the superintendent requires such as need
it to wash their feet before retiring to bed.

The supper was of course plain, but of good quality and sufficient
quantity.

About nine o'clock Mark got into the neat bed which was assigned
him, and felt that it was more satisfactory even than the cabin of a
Brooklyn ferry-boat. He slept peacefully except towards morning, when
he dreamed that his old persecutor, Mother Watson, was about to apply
the dreaded strap. He woke up terrified, but soon realized with deep
satisfaction that he was no longer in her clutches.




CHAPTER XIII.

WHAT BEFELL THE MATCH BOY.


During the next three months Mark made his home at the Lodging House.
He was easily able to meet the small charges of the Lodge for bed and
breakfast, and saved up ten dollars besides in the bank. Ben Gibson
began to look upon him as quite a capitalist.

"I don't see how you save up so much money, Mark," he said. "You don't
earn more'n half as much as I do."

"It's because you spend so much, Ben. It costs you considerable for
cigars and such things, you know, and then you go to the Old Bowery
pretty often."

"A feller must have some fun," said Ben. "They've got a tearin' old
play at the Bowery now. You'd better come to-night."

Mark shook his head.

"I feel pretty tired when it comes night," he said. "I'd rather stay at
home."

"You aint so tough as I am," said Ben.

"No," said Mark, "I don't feel very strong. I think something's the
matter with me."

"Nothin' aint ever the matter with me," said Ben, complacently; "but
you're a puny little chap, that look as if you might blow away some
day."

It was now April, and the weather was of that mild character that saps
the strength and produces a feeling of weakness and debility. Mark had
been exposed during the winter to the severity of stormy weather, and
more than once got thoroughly drenched. It was an exposure that Ben
would only have laughed at, but Mark was slightly built, without much
strength of constitution, and he had been feeling very languid for a
few days, so that it was with an effort that he dragged himself round
during the day with his little bundle of matches.

This conversation with Ben took place in the morning just as both boys
were going to work.

They separated at the City Hall Park, Ben finding a customer in front
of the "Times" building, while Mark, after a little deliberation,
decided to go on to Pearl Street with his matches. He had visited the
offices in most of the lower streets, but this was a new region to him,
and he thought he might meet with better success there. So he kept on
his way.

The warm sun and the sluggish air made his head ache, and he felt
little disposition to offer his wares for sale. He called at one or two
offices, but effected no sales. At length he reached a large warehouse
with these names displayed on the sign over the door:--

  "ROCKWELL & COOPER."

This, as the reader will remember, was the establishment in which
Richard Hunter, formerly Ragged Dick, was now book-keeper.

At this point a sudden faintness came over Mark, and he sank to the
ground insensible.

A moment before Richard Hunter handed a couple of letters to the office
boy,--known to the readers of the earlier volumes in this series as
Micky Maguire,--and said, "Michael, I should like to have you carry
these at once to the post-office. On the way you may stop at Trescott
& Wayne's, and get this bill cashed, if possible."

"All right, Mr. Hunter," said Michael, respectfully.

Richard Hunter and Micky Maguire had been boot-blacks together, and
had had more than one contest for the supremacy. They had been sworn
enemies, and Micky had done his utmost to injure Richard, but the
latter, by his magnanimity, had finally wholly overcome the antipathy
of his former foe, and, when opportunity offered, had lifted him to a
position in the office where he was himself employed. In return, Micky
had become an enthusiastic admirer of Richard, and, so far from taking
advantage of their former relations, had voluntarily taken up the habit
of addressing him as Mr. Hunter.

Michael went out on his errand, but just outside the door came near
stepping upon the prostrate form of the little match boy.

"Get up here!" he said, roughly, supposing at first that Mark had
thrown himself down out of laziness and gone to sleep.

Mark didn't answer, and Micky, bending over, saw his fixed expression
and waxen pallor.

"Maybe the little chap's dead," he thought, startled, and, without
more ado, took him up in his strong arms and carried him into the
counting-room.

"Who have you got there, Michael?" asked Richard Hunter, turning round
in surprise.

"A little match boy that was lyin' just outside the door. He looks as
if he might be dead."

Richard jumped at once from his stool, and, approaching the boy, looked
earnestly in his face.

"He has fainted away," he said, after a pause. "Bring some water,
quick!"

Micky brought a glass of water, which was thrown in the face of Mark.
The match boy gave a little shiver, and, opening his eyes, fixed them
upon Richard Hunter.

"Where am I?" he asked, vacantly.

"You are with friends," said Richard, gently. "You were found at our
door faint. Do you feel sick?"

"I feel weak," said Mark.

"Have you been well lately?"

"No, I've felt tired and weak."

"Are you a match boy?"

"Yes."

"Have you parents living?"

"No," said Mark.

"Poor fellow!" said Richard. "I know how to pity you. I have no parents
either."

"But you have got money," said Mark. "You don't have to live in the
street."

"I was once a street boy like you."

"You!" repeated the match boy, in surprise.

"Yes. But where do you sleep?"

"At the Lodging House."

"It is a good place. Michael, you had better go to the post-office now."

Mark looked about him a little anxiously.

"Where are my matches?" he asked.

"Just outside; I'll get them," said Michael, promptly.

He brought them in, and then departed on his errand.

"I guess I'd better be going," said Mark, rising feebly.

"No," said Richard. "You are not able. Come here and sit down. You will
feel stronger by and by. Did you eat any breakfast this morning?"

"A little," said Mark, "but I was not very hungry."

"Do you think you could eat anything now?" Mark shook his head.

"No," he said, "I don't feel hungry. I only feel tired."

"Would you like to rest?"

"Yes. That's all I want."

"Come here then, and I will see what I can do for you."

Mark followed his new friend into the warehouse, where Richard found
a soft bale of cotton, and told Mark he might lie down upon it. This
the poor boy was glad enough to do. In his weakness he was disposed
to sleep, and soon closed his eyes in slumber. Several times Richard
went out to look at him, but found him dozing, and was unwilling to
interrupt him.

The day wore away, and afternoon came.

Mark got up from his cotton bale, and with unsteady steps came to the
door of the counting-room.

"I'm going," he said.

Richard turned round.

"Where are you going?"

"I'm going to the Lodge. I think I won't sell any more matches to-day."

"I'll take all you've left," said Richard. "Don't trouble yourself
about them. But you are not going to the Lodge."

Mark looked at him in surprise.

"I shall take you home with me to-night," he said. "You are not well,
and I will look after you. At the Lodge there will be a crowd of boys,
and the noise will do you harm."

"You are very kind," said Mark; "but I'm afraid I'll trouble you."

"No," said Richard, "I shan't count it a trouble. I was once a poor boy
like you, and I found friends. I'll be your friend. Go back and lie
down again, and in about an hour I shall be ready to take you with me."

It seemed strange to Mark to think that there was somebody who proposed
to protect and look after him. In many of the offices which he visited
he met with rough treatment, and was ordered out of the way, as if he
were a dog, and without human feelings. Many who treated him in this
way were really kind-hearted men who had at home children whom they
loved, but they appeared to forget that these neglected children of the
street had feelings and wants as well as their own, who were tenderly
nurtured. They did not remember that they were somebody's children,
and that cold, and harshness, and want were as hard for them to bear
as for those in a higher rank of life. But Mark was in that state of
weakness when it seemed sweet to throw off all care or thought for the
future, and to sink back upon the soft bale with the thought that he
had nothing to do but to rest.

"That boy is going to be sick," thought Richard Hunter to himself. "I
think he is going to have a fever."

It was because of this thought that he decided to carry him home. He
had a kind heart, and he knew how terrible a thing sickness is to these
little street waifs, who have no mother or sister to smooth their
pillows, or cheer them with gentle words. The friendless condition of
the little match boy touched his heart, and he resolved that, as he had
the means of taking care of him, he would do so.

"Michael," he said, at the close of business hours, "I wish you would
call a hack."

"What, to come here?" asked Micky, surprised.

"Yes. I am going to take that little boy home with me. I think he is
going to be sick, and I am afraid he would have a hard time of it if I
sent him back into the street."

"Bully for you, Mr. Hunter!" said Micky, who, though rough in his
outward manners, was yet capable of appreciating kindness in others.
There were times indeed in the past when he had treated smaller boys
brutally, but it was under the influence of passion. He had improved
greatly since, and his better nature was beginning to show itself.

Micky went out, and soon returned in state inside a hack. He was
leaning back, thinking it would be a very good thing if he had a
carriage of his own to ride in. But I am afraid that day will never
come. Micky has already turned out much better than was expected, but
he is hardly likely to rise much higher than the subordinate position
he now occupies. In capacity and education he is far inferior to his
old associate, Richard Hunter, who is destined to rise much higher than
at present.

Richard Hunter went to the rear of the warehouse where Mark still lay
on his bale.

"Come," he said; "we'll go home now."

Mark rose from his recumbent position, and walked to the door. He saw
with surprise the carriage, the door of which Micky Maguire held open.

"Are we going to ride in that?" he asked.

"Yes," said Richard Hunter. "Let me help you in."

The little match boy sank back in the soft seat in vague surprise at
his good luck. He could not help wondering what Ben Gibson would say if
he could see him now.

Richard Hunter sat beside him, and supported Mark's head. The driver
whipped up his horse, and they were speedily on their way up the Bowery
to St. Mark's Place.




CHAPTER XIV.

RICHARD HUNTER'S WARD.


It was about half-past five o'clock in the afternoon when the carriage
containing Richard Hunter and the match boy stopped in front of his
boarding-place in St. Mark's Place. Richard helped the little boy out,
saying, cheerfully, "Well, we've got home."

"Is this where you live?" asked Mark, faintly.

"Yes. How do you like it?"

"It's a nice place. I am afraid you are taking too much trouble about
me."

"Don't think of that. Come in."

Richard had ascended the front steps, after paying the hackman, and
taking out his night-key opened the outside door.

"Come upstairs," he said.

They ascended two flights of stairs, and Richard threw open the door
of his room. A fire was already burning in the grate, and it looked
bright and cheerful.

"Do you feel tired?" asked Richard.

"Yes, a little."

"Then lie right down on the bed. You are hungry too,--are you not?"

"A little."

"I will have something sent up to you."

Just then Fosdick, who, it will be remembered, was Richard Hunter's
room-mate, entered the room. He looked with surprise at Mark, and then
inquiringly at Richard.

"It is a little match boy," explained the latter, "who fell in a
fainting-fit in front of our office. I think the poor fellow is going
to be sick, so I brought him home, and mean to take care of him till he
is well."

"You must let me share the expense, Dick," said Fosdick.

"No, but I'll let you share the care of him. That will do just as well."

"But I would rather share the expense. He reminds me of the way I was
situated when I fell in with you. What is your name?"

"Mark Manton," said the match boy.

"I've certainly seen him somewhere before," said Fosdick, reflectively.
"His face looks familiar to me."

"So it does to me. Perhaps I've seen him about the streets somewhere."

"I have it," said Fosdick, suddenly; "don't you remember the boy we saw
sleeping in the cabin of the Fulton Ferry-boat?"

"Yes."

"I think he is the one. Mark," he continued, turning to the match boy,
"didn't you sleep one night on a Brooklyn ferry-boat about three months
ago?"

"Yes," said Mark.

"And did you find anything in your vest-pocket in the morning?"

"Yes," said the match boy with interest. "I found a dollar, and didn't
know where it came from. Was it you that put it in?"

"He had a hand in it," said Fosdick, pointing with a smile to his
room-mate.
