 that bondage, as finding it quite insupportable, though candidly
 acknowledging that no effort of duty or affection has been wanting on
 my part. He has too painfully convinced me that all these attempts
 to contribute towards his happiness were wholly useless, and most
 unwelcome to him. I enclose this letter to my father, wishing it to
 receive his sanction.

  'Ever yours most affectionately,

  'A. I. BYRON.'

We observe in this letter that it is written to be shown to Lady
Byron's father, and receive his sanction; and, as that father was
in ignorance of all the deeper causes of trouble in the case, it
will be seen that the letter must necessarily be a reserved one.
This sufficiently accounts for the guarded character of the language
when speaking of the causes of separation. One part of the letter
incidentally overthrows Lord Byron's statement, which he always
repeated during his life, and which is repeated for him now; namely,
that his wife forsook him, instead of being, as she claims,
expelled by him.

She recalls to Lord Byron's mind the 'desire and determination he has
expressed ever since his marriage to free himself from its bondage.'

This is in perfect keeping with the 'absolute desire,' signified
by writing, that she should leave his house on the earliest day
possible; and she places the cause of the separation on his having 'too
painfully' convinced her that he does not want her--as a wife.

It appears that Augusta hesitates to show this note to her brother. It
is bringing on a crisis which she, above all others, would most wish to
avoid.

In the meantime, Lady Byron receives a letter from Lord Byron, which
makes her feel it more than ever essential to make the decision final.
I have reason to believe that this letter is preserved in Lady Byron's
papers:--

  'Feb. 4, 1816.

 'I hope, my dear A., that you would on no account withhold from your
 brother the letter which I sent yesterday in answer to yours written
 by his desire, particularly as one which I have received from himself
 to-day renders it still more important that he should know the
 contents of that addressed to you, I am, in haste and not very well,

  'Yours most affectionately,

  'A. I. BYRON.'

The last of this series of letters is less like the style of Lady Byron
than any of them. We cannot judge whether it is a whole consecutive
letter, or fragments from a letter, selected and united. There is a
great want of that clearness and precision which usually characterised
Lady Byron's style. It shows, however, that the decision is made,--a
decision which she regrets on account of the sister who has tried so
long to prevent it.

  'KIRKBY MALLORY, Feb. 14, 1816.

 'The present sufferings of all may yet be repaid in blessings. Do
 not despair absolutely, dearest; and leave me but enough of your
 interest to afford you any consolation by partaking of that sorrow
 which I am most unhappy to cause thus unintentionally. You will be
 of my opinion hereafter; and at present your bitterest reproach would
 be forgiven, though Heaven knows you have considered me more than a
 thousand would have done,--more than anything but my affection for
 B., one most dear to you, could deserve. I must not remember these
 feelings. Farewell! God bless you from the bottom of my heart!

  'A. I. B.'

We are here to consider that Mrs. Leigh has stood to Lady Byron in
all this long agony as her only confidante and friend; that she has
denied the charges her brother has made, and referred them to insanity,
admitting insane attempts upon herself which she has been obliged to
watch over and control.

Lady Byron has come to the conclusion that Augusta is mistaken as to
insanity; that there is a real wicked purpose and desire on the part
of the brother, not as yet believed in by the sister. She regards the
sister as one, who, though deceived and blinded, is still worthy of
confidence and consideration; and so says to her, 'You will be of my
opinion hereafter.'

She says, 'You have considered me more than a thousand would have
done.' Mrs. Leigh is, in Lady Byron's eyes, a most abused and innocent
woman, who, to spare her sister in her delicate situation, has taken on
herself the whole charge of a maniacal brother, although suffering from
him language and actions of the most injurious kind. That Mrs. Leigh
did not flee the house at once under such circumstances, and wholly
decline the management of the case, seems to Lady Byron consideration
and self-sacrifice greater than she can acknowledge.

The knowledge of the whole extent of the truth came to Lady Byron's
mind at a later period.

We now take up the history from Lushington's letter to Lady Byron,
published at the close of her statement.

The application to Lord Byron for an act of separation was positively
refused at first; it being an important part of his policy that all the
responsibility and insistance should come from his wife, and that he
should appear forced into it contrary to his will.

Dr. Lushington, however, says to Lady Byron,--

 'I was originally consulted by Lady Noel on your behalf while you
 were in the country. The circumstances detailed by her were such
 as justified a separation; but they were not of that aggravated
 description as to render such a measure indispensable. On Lady
 Noel's representations, I deemed a reconciliation with Lord Byron
 practicable, and felt most sincerely a wish to aid in effecting it.
 There was not, on Lady Noel's part, any exaggeration of the facts,
 nor, so far as I could perceive, any determination to prevent a
 return to Lord Byron: certainly none was expressed when I spoke of a
 reconciliation.'

In this crisis, with Lord Byron refusing the separation, with
Lushington expressing a wish to aid in a reconciliation, and Lady Noel
not expressing any aversion to it, the whole strain of the dreadful
responsibility comes upon the wife.

She resolves to ask counsel of her lawyer, in view of a statement of
the whole case.

Lady Byron is spoken of by Lord Byron (letter 233) as being in town
with her father on the 29th of February; viz., fifteen days after the
date of the last letter to Mrs. Leigh. It must have been about this
time, then, that she laid her whole case before Lushington; and he gave
it a thorough examination.

The result was, that Lushington expressed in the most decided terms his
conviction that reconciliation was impossible. The language he uses is
very striking:--

 'When you came to town in about a fortnight, or perhaps more, after my
 first interview with Lady Noel, I was, for the first time, informed
 by you of facts utterly unknown, as I have no doubt, to Sir Ralph and
 Lady Noel. On receiving this additional information, my opinion was
 entirely changed. I considered a reconciliation impossible. I declared
 my opinion, and added, that, if such an idea should be entertained, I
 could not, either professionally or otherwise, take any part towards
 effecting it.'

It does not appear in this note what effect the lawyer's examination
of the case had on Lady Byron's mind. By the expressions he uses, we
should infer that she may still have been hesitating as to whether a
reconciliation might not be her duty.

This hesitancy he does away with most decisively, saying, 'A
reconciliation is impossible;' and, supposing Lady Byron or her
friends desirous of one, he declares positively that he cannot, either
professionally as a lawyer or privately as a friend, have anything to
do with effecting it.

The lawyer, it appears, has drawn, from the facts of the case,
inferences deeper and stronger than those which presented themselves to
the mind of the young woman; and he instructs her in the most absolute
terms.

Fourteen years after, in 1830, for the first time the world was
astonished by this declaration from Dr. Lushington, in language so
pronounced and positive that there could be no mistake.

Lady Byron had stood all these fourteen years slandered by her husband,
and misunderstood by his friends, when, had she so chosen, this opinion
of Dr. Lushington's could have been at once made public, which fully
justified her conduct.

If, as the 'Blackwood' of July insinuates, the story told to Lushington
was a malignant slander, meant to injure Lord Byron, why did she
suppress the judgment of her counsel at a time when all the world
was on her side, and this decision would have been the decisive blow
against her husband? Why, by sealing the lips of counsel, and of all
whom she could influence, did she deprive herself finally of the very
advantage for which it has been assumed she fabricated the story?




CHAPTER IV.

THE CHARACTER OF THE TWO WITNESSES COMPARED.


It will be observed, that, in this controversy, we are confronting two
opposing stories,--one of Lord and the other of Lady Byron; and the
statements from each are in point-blank contradiction.

Lord Byron states that his wife deserted him. Lady Byron states that he
expelled her, and reminds him, in her letter to Augusta Leigh, that the
expulsion was a deliberate one, and that he had purposed it from the
beginning of their marriage.

Lord Byron always stated that he was ignorant why his wife left him,
and was desirous of her return. Lady Byron states that he told her that
he would force her to leave him, and to leave him in such a way that
the whole blame of the separation should always rest on her, and not on
him.

To say nothing of any deeper or darker accusations on either side,
here, in the very outworks of the story, the two meet point-blank.

In considering two opposing stories, we always, as a matter of fact,
take into account the character of the witnesses.

If a person be literal and exact in his usual modes of speech,
reserved, careful, conscientious, and in the habit of observing
minutely the minor details of time, place, and circumstances, we give
weight to his testimony from these considerations. But if a person
be proved to have singular and exceptional principles with regard to
truth; if he be universally held by society to be so in the habit of
mystification, that large allowances must be made for his statements;
if his assertions at one time contradict those made at another; and if
his statements, also, sometimes come in collision with those of his
best friends, so that, when his language is reported, difficulties
follow, and explanations are made necessary,--all this certainly
disqualifies him from being considered a trustworthy witness.

All these disqualifications belong in a remarkable degree to Lord
Byron, on the oft-repeated testimony of his best friends.

We shall first cite the following testimony, given in an article from
'Under the Crown,' which is written by an early friend and ardent
admirer of Lord Byron:--

 'Byron had one pre-eminent fault,--a fault which must be considered as
 deeply criminal by everyone who does not, as I do, believe it to have
 resulted from monomania. He had a morbid love of a bad reputation.
 There was hardly an offence of which he would not, with perfect
 indifference, accuse himself. An old schoolfellow who met him on the
 Continent told me that he would continually write paragraphs against
 himself in the foreign journals, and delight in their republication
 by the English newspapers as in the success of a practical joke.
 Whenever anybody has related anything discreditable of Byron, assuring
 me that it must be true, for he heard it from himself, I always felt
 that he could not have spoken upon worse authority; and that, in all
 probability, the tale was a pure invention. If I could remember,
 and were willing to repeat, the various misdoings which I have from
 time to time heard him attribute to himself, I could fill a volume.
 But I never believed them. I very soon became aware of this strange
 idiosyncrasy: it puzzled me to account for it; but there it was, a
 sort of diseased and distorted vanity. The same eccentric spirit
 would induce him to report things which were false with regard to his
 family, which anybody else would have concealed, though true. He told
 me more than once that his father was insane, and killed himself. I
 shall never forget the manner in which he first told me this. While
 washing his hands, and singing a gay Neapolitan air, he stopped,
 looked round at me, and said, "There always was madness in the
 family." Then, after continuing his washing and his song, he added, as
 if speaking of a matter of the slightest indifference, "My father cut
 his throat." The contrast between the tenour of the subject and the
 levity of the expression was fearfully painful: it was like a stanza
 of "Don Juan." In this instance, I had no doubt that the fact was as
 he related it; but in speaking of it, only a few years since, to an
 old lady in whom I had perfect confidence, she assured me that it was
 not so. Mr. Byron, who was her cousin, had been extremely wild, but
 was quite sane, and had died very quietly in his bed. What Byron's
 reason could have been for thus calumniating not only himself but
 the blood which was flowing in his veins, who can divine? But, for
 some reason or other, it seemed to be his determined purpose to keep
 himself unknown to the great body of his fellow-creatures; to present
 himself to their view in moral masquerade.'

Certainly the character of Lord Byron here given by his friend is
not the kind to make him a trustworthy witness in any case: on the
contrary, it seems to show either a subtle delight in falsehood for
falsehood's sake, or else the wary artifices of a man who, having a
deadly secret to conceal, employs many turnings and windings to throw
the world off the scent. What intriguer, having a crime to cover, could
devise a more artful course than to send half a dozen absurd stories to
the press, which should, after a while, be traced back to himself, till
the public should gradually look on all it heard from him as the result
of this eccentric humour?

The easy, trifling air with which Lord Byron made to this friend a
false statement in regard to his father would lead naturally to the
inquiry, on what other subjects, equally important to the good name
of others, he might give false testimony with equal indifference.

When Medwin's 'Conversations with Lord Byron' were first published,
they contained a number of declarations of the noble lord affecting the
honour and honesty of his friend and publisher Murray. These appear
to have been made in the same way as those about his father, and with
equal indifference. So serious were the charges, that Mr. Murray's
friends felt that he ought, in justice to himself, to come forward and
confront them with the facts as stated in Byron's letters to himself;
and in vol. x., p. 143, of Murray's standard edition, accordingly
these false statements are confronted with the letters of Lord Byron.
The statements, as reported, are of a most material and vital nature,
relating to Murray's financial honour and honesty, and to his general
truthfulness and sincerity. In reply, Murray opposes to them the
accounts of sums paid for different works, and letters from Byron
exactly contradicting his own statements as to Murray's character.

The subject, as we have seen, was discussed in 'The Noctes.' No doubt
appears to be entertained that Byron made the statements to Medwin; and
the theory of accounting for them is, that 'Byron was "bamming" him.'

It seems never to have occurred to any of these credulous gentlemen,
who laughed at others for being 'bammed,' that Byron might be doing the
very same thing by themselves. How many of his so-called packages sent
to Lady Byron were real packages, and how many were mystifications?
We find, in two places at least in his Memoir, letters to Lady Byron,
written and shown to others, which, he says, were never sent by him.
He told Lady Blessington that he was in the habit of writing to her
constantly. Was this 'bamming'? Was he 'bamming,' also, when he told
the world that Lady Byron suddenly deserted him, quite to his surprise,
and that he never, to his dying day, could find out why?

Lady Blessington relates, that, in one of his conversations with her,
he entertained her by repeating epigrams and lampoons, in which many
of his friends were treated with severity. She inquired of him, in
case he should die, and such proofs of his friendship come before the
public, what would be the feelings of these friends, who had supposed
themselves to stand so high in his good graces. She says,

 '"That," said Byron, "is precisely one of the ideas that most amuses
 me. I often fancy the rage and humiliation of my quondam friends in
 hearing the truth, at least from me, for the first time, and when I
 am beyond the reach of their malice.... What grief," continued Byron,
 laughing, "could resist the charges of ugliness, dulness, or any of
 the thousand nameless defects, personal or mental, 'that flesh is heir
 to,' when reprisal or recantation was impossible?... People are in
 such daily habits of commenting on the defects of friends, that they
 are unconscious of the unkindness of it.... Now, I write down as well
 as speak my sentiments of those who think they have gulled me; and I
 only wish, in case I die before them, that I might return to witness
 the effects my posthumous opinions of them are likely to produce in
 their minds. What good fun this would be!... You don't seem to value
 this as you ought," said Byron with one of his sardonic smiles, seeing
 I looked, as I really felt, surprised at his avowed insincerity. I
 feel the same pleasure in anticipating the rage and mortification of
 my soi-disant friends at the discovery of my real sentiments of
 them, that a miser may be supposed to feel while making a will that
 will disappoint all the expectants that have been toadying him for
 years. Then how amusing it will be to compare my posthumous with my
 previously given opinions, the one throwing ridicule on the other!"'

It is asserted, in a note to 'The Noctes,' that Byron, besides his
Autobiography, prepared a voluminous dictionary of all his friends and
acquaintances, in which brief notes of their persons and character
were given, with his opinion of them. It was not considered that the
publication of this would add to the noble lord's popularity; and it
has never appeared.

In Hunt's Life of Byron, there is similar testimony. Speaking of
Byron's carelessness in exposing his friends' secrets, and showing or
giving away their letters, he says:--

 'If his five hundred confidants, by a reticence as remarkable as his
 laxity, had not kept his secrets better than he did himself, the
 very devil might have been played with I don't know how many people.
 But there was always this saving reflection to be made, that the man
 who could be guilty of such extravagances for the sake of making
 an impression might be guilty of exaggeration, or inventing what
 astonished you; and indeed, though he was a speaker of the truth on
 ordinary occasions,--that is to say, he did not tell you he had seen
 a dozen horses when he had seen only two,--yet, as he professed not
 to value the truth when in the way of his advantage (and there was
 nothing he thought more to his advantage than making you stare at
 him), the persons who were liable to suffer from his inconsistency had
 all the right in the world to the benefit of this consideration.'[44]

[Footnote 44: Hunt's Byron, p. 77. Philadelphia, 1828.]

With a person of such mental and moral habits as to truth, the inquiry
always must be, Where does mystification end, and truth begin?

If a man is careless about his father's reputation for sanity, and
reports him a crazy suicide; if he gaily accuses his publisher and
good friend of double-dealing, shuffling, and dishonesty; if he tells
stories about Mrs. Clermont,[45] to which his sister offers a public
refutation,--is it to be supposed that he will always tell the truth
about his wife, when the world is pressing him hard, and every instinct
of self-defence is on the alert?

[Footnote 45: From the Temple Bar article, October 1869. 'Mrs. Leigh,
Lord Byron's sister, had other thoughts of Mrs. Clermont, and wrote
to her offering public testimony to her tenderness and forbearance
under circumstances which must have been trying to any friend of Lady
Byron.'--Campbell, in the New Monthly Magazine, 1830, p. 380.]

And then the ingenuity that could write and publish false documents
about himself, that they might re-appear in London papers,--to what
other accounts might it not be turned? Might it not create documents,
invent statements, about his wife as well as himself?

The document so ostentatiously given to M. G. Lewis 'for circulation
among friends in England' was a specimen of what the Noctes Club would
call 'bamming.'

If Byron wanted a legal investigation, why did he not take it in the
first place, instead of signing the separation? If he wanted to cancel
it, as he said in this document, why did he not go to London, and enter
a suit for the restitution of conjugal rights, or a suit in chancery to
get possession of his daughter? That this was in his mind, passages in
Medwin's 'Conversations' show. He told Lady Blessington also that he
might claim his daughter in chancery at any time.

Why did he not do it? Either of these two steps would have brought on
that public investigation he so longed for. Can it be possible that all
the friends who passed this private document from hand to hand never
suspected that they were being 'bammed' by it?

But it has been universally assumed, that, though Byron was thus
remarkably given to mystification, yet all his statements in regard
to this story are to be accepted, simply because he makes them. Why
must we accept them, any more than his statements as to Murray or his
own father?

So we constantly find Lord Byron's incidental statements coming in
collision with those of others: for example, in his account of his
marriage, he tells Medwin that Lady Byron's maid was put between his
bride and himself, on the same seat, in the wedding-journey. The lady's
maid herself, Mrs. Mimms, says she was sent before them to Halnaby, and
was there to receive them when they alighted.

He said of Lady Byron's mother, 'She always detested me, and had not
the decency to conceal it in her own house. Dining with her one day, I
broke a tooth, and was in great pain; which I could not help showing.
"It will do you good," said Lady Noel; "I am glad of it!"'

Lady Byron says, speaking of her mother, 'She always treated him with
an affectionate consideration and indulgence, which extended to every
little peculiarity of his feelings. Never did an irritating word escape
her.'

Lord Byron states that the correspondence between him and Lady Byron,
after his refusal, was first opened by her. Lady Byron's friends deny
the statement, and assert that the direct contrary is the fact.

Thus we see that Lord Byron's statements are directly opposed to
those of his family in relation to his father; directly against
Murray's accounts, and his own admission to Murray; directly against
the statement of the lady's maid as to her position in the journey;
directly against Mrs. Leigh's as to Mrs. Clermont, and against Lady
Byron as to her mother.

We can see, also, that these misstatements were so fully perceived by
the men of his times, that Medwin's 'Conversations' were simply laughed
at as an amusing instance of how far a man might be made the victim of
a mystification. Christopher North thus sentences the book:--

 'I don't mean to call Medwin a liar.... The captain lies, sir, but
 it is under a thousand mistakes. Whether Byron bammed him, or he, by
 virtue of his own egregious stupidity, was the sole and sufficient
 bammifier of himself, I know not; neither greatly do I care. This much
 is certain, ... that the book throughout is full of things that were
 not, and most resplendently deficient quoad the things that were.'

Yet it is on Medwin's 'Conversations' alone that many of the magazine
assertions in regard to Lady Byron are founded.

It is on that authority that Lady Byron is accused of breaking open
her husband's writing-desk in his absence, and sending the letters
she found there to the husband of a lady compromised by them; and
likewise that Lord Byron is declared to have paid back his wife's
ten-thousand-pound wedding portion, and doubled it. Moore makes no such
statements; and his remarks about Lord Byron's use of his wife's money
are unmistakable evidence to the contrary. Moore, although Byron's
ardent partisan, was too well informed to make assertions with regard
to him, which, at that time, it would have been perfectly easy to
refute.

All these facts go to show that Lord Byron's character for accuracy
or veracity was not such as to entitle him to ordinary confidence as a
witness, especially in a case where he had the strongest motives for
misstatement.

And if we consider that the celebrated Autobiography was the finished,
careful work of such a practised 'mystifier,' who can wonder that it
presented a web of such intermingled truth and lies that there was no
such thing as disentangling it, and pointing out where falsehood ended
and truth began?

But in regard to Lady Byron, what has been the universal impression
of the world? It has been alleged against her that she was a precise,
straight-forward woman, so accustomed to plain, literal dealings, that
she could not understand the various mystifications of her husband; and
from that cause arose her unhappiness. Byron speaks, in 'The Sketch,'
of her peculiar truthfulness; and even in the 'Clytemnestra' poem,
when accusing her of lying, he speaks of her as departing from

  'The early truth that was her proper praise.'

Lady Byron's careful accuracy as to dates, to time, place, and
circumstances, will probably be vouched for by all the very large
number of persons whom the management of her extended property and
her works of benevolence brought to act as co-operators or agents
with her. She was not a person in the habit of making exaggerated or
ill-considered statements. Her published statement of 1830 is clear,
exact, accurate, and perfectly intelligible. The dates are carefully
ascertained and stated, the expressions are moderate, and all the
assertions firm and perfectly definite.

It therefore seems remarkable that the whole reasoning on this Byron
matter has generally been conducted by assuming all Lord Byron's
