"But how was it? Tell me about it. Where did you find her?" asked Mr.
Gracewood.

"I congratulate you, sir," said Lieutenant Pope, approaching the spot,
having learned the substance of the story from Corporal Flint.

"I am the happiest man in the world," added Mr. Gracewood, with
enthusiasm. "Phil Farringford is a hero! Now let us know where you
found her."

"Here's Kit Cruncher, too," I added, unwilling that my stalwart ally
should be ignored.

Mr. Gracewood shook hands with Kit, who was duly introduced to the
lieutenant.

"I'm hyer, Mr. Mell'ton, or Mr. Greasewood--if that's your name."

"Gracewood," interposed the happy Ella.

"Jest so; Greasewood--that's what I say. I'm hyer, and I want to tell
the cap'n whar the redskins is; but I don't reckon my story'll spile
while Phil tells you about the gal. Go on, boy; wag your tongue as fast
as you wagged your legs to-day."

"I've had rather a long tramp to-day, and I'll sit down and rest while
we talk," I answered, availing myself of a log.

I related minutely all the circumstances of the recapture of Ella, and
gave her explanation of the plan by which the Indians had escaped from
the soldiers.

"I never thought of those dugouts," said the lieutenant. "We have not
been near the river to-day."

"Now, cap'n," interposed Kit Cruncher, "the Injuns from the nor'ard is
on a rampage. More'n a hund'ed on 'em is camped on the head streams of
the Little Fish, working down this way. They mean to wipe out all on
us. They stole Matt's hosses, but we got 'em back. Then they kim down
on us, and two or three on 'em got shot. Now the whole on 'em's comin'
down."

"I will take care of them if you will show me where they are," added
the officer.

"I'll do that. I ain't no milintry man, but I kin tell you how to fix
them redskins. Them Injuns up thar has got hosses. They're go'n' to
come down by the Little Fish. Phil tells me you sent a force to the
Castle. Ef you take 'em in the rear with your men, by marchin' round
across both the Fish rivers, the t'other kin take 'em in front, and
atwixt the two you'll chaw 'em all up."

"Do you think we had better march to-night?" asked Lieutenant Pope,
evidently impressed by the suggestion of the veteran hunter.

"No; that would spile the whole game. Let 'em kim down as fur's they
will."

"But where are the three Indians who were engaged in the capture of
Miss Gracewood?"

"They're doggin' round the clearin'; but I don't reckon they know any
sogers is over thar yet."

"They will join the large force on the Little Fish, and inform them of
our presence here."

"They mought do it; but a march of seven mile will fotch you to 'em.
They'll start arly 'n the mornin'; and them three Injuns won't go up to
their camp to-night, for they're as fur off from it as we are. Ef you
start at sunrise, you kin git in behind 'em, crossin' both rivers in
the forenoon."

Kit Cruncher was very clear in his views, and the commander of the
troops saw the wisdom of his plan. The latter knew nothing of the
country, and was dependent upon the information afforded by such men as
Kit for the means of punishing the Indians when they violated their
treaty obligations.

"As my daughter cannot go with you, we need remain here no longer,"
said Mr. Gracewood.

"But you can't get to the clearing to-night," replied Lieutenant Pope.
"You may be intercepted by these strolling savages; and I cannot spare
my men to escort you, for they may be obliged to march all day
to-morrow."

"Where is my barge, Kit?" asked the anxious father.

"In the bushes down the river."

"We can carry it across the land to the Crooked River, and go down in
that way. I am very anxious to join my wife, who is still suffering
with anxiety for our child," added Mr. Gracewood.

"Very well; if you feel safe to leave the camp, I shall not object,"
continued the lieutenant. "My men shall carry your boat over to the
river."

"Phil will go with me, and I don't think there is any danger."

"I should be glad to have you go, for I wish to send some orders to
Lieutenant Jackson, commanding the men at the clearing."

"Exactly, cap'n," interposed Kit. "Send word for 'em to form a line
atween the Little Fish and the pond. Phil kin show 'em whar it is."

Four men were sent to carry the barge across the country to Crooked
River, and Kit explained to the officer the nature of the region where
he suggested that the line of defence should be established. By the
light of a match, the lieutenant wrote an order, which he gave to me,
to be delivered to the officer in command of the detachment at the
Castle. Bidding the lieutenant good night, we started for the river,
attended by Kit, who was determined to see us safely embarked.

"I am afraid you are too tired to walk, Ella," said I, placing myself
at her side.

"I am very tired, and I hope the distance is not long."

"Not less than two miles," I replied.

"I will try to do it," said she, with all the courage she could muster.

After going half the distance, we met the men who were carrying the
boat. They had laid it on a couple of poles, and were bearing it on
their shoulders. By this time poor Ella was almost fainting with
exhaustion.

"We kin tote the gal in the boat," said Kit.

"She cannot sit on the keel of it," replied Mr. Gracewood; for the
soldiers had placed it bottom upwards on the sticks.

"We kin turn it t'other side up," added Kit. "Drop that boat, sogers."



The men, who were full of sympathy for Ella, laid the boat upon the
ground. Kit turned it over, and with the painter and another line,
slung it to the poles right side up. Ella seated herself in the barge,
and the soldiers lifted it up, placing the poles upon their shoulders.
The march was resumed, and occasionally Kit and Mr. Gracewood relieved
the men, so that it was not very hard work. We reached the river, and
embarked.

"Take care of yourself. There'll be a big fight to-morrer, and the
Injuns'll git squeezed."

"I will endeavor to take care of myself," I replied, as we pushed off.

Mr. Gracewood took the oars, and I was permitted to rest myself, after
the severe fatigue and excitement of the day.

"Is there any danger now, father?" asked Ella.

"No, child, I don't think there is," replied Mr. Gracewood.

"Do you think there is, Phil?" she added, appealing to me.

"No; but I should like to know where those two dugouts are."

"According to your story, one of them has gone adrift, and the other is
up this river," said Mr. Gracewood. "Is your rifle in order, Phil?"

"Yes, sir."

"Then keep a sharp lookout, Phil; and I think we shall be all right."

And we were all right till we reached a point near the mouth of Fish
River, where I discovered a dugout moving out into the Missouri, and
containing three men.




CHAPTER XVI.

IN WHICH PHIL ARRIVES AT THE CASTLE.


Mr. Gracewood was not rowing at the time I discovered the dugout, for
the swift current of the Missouri gave us sufficient headway, and the
oars were only used to keep the boat from whirling. Poor Ella, worn out
by the fatigues and perils of the day, had dropped asleep, her head
resting upon my shoulder. I only raised my hand, and pointed out the
position of the dugout. Mr. Gracewood understood me, and looked in the
direction indicated.

The three Indians in the boat were doubtless the ones who had visited
the island in the morning. I concluded that they had found the dugout
in which I had shot the savage, and which had probably grounded
somewhere in the shallow water. But the Indians were not coming towards
us, and I judged from their movements that they did not see us. The
dugout came into the great river, and then headed down the stream.

"Don't move," I whispered to Mr. Gracewood.

"But the current is carrying us upon them," he replied, his anxiety
apparent in his tones.

"If you can work her farther in shore without making any noise, do so,"
I added.

In paddling the dugout the Indians all faced ahead, instead of astern
as in rowing. We were under the shadow of the high bank of the river,
which was covered with wood. Mr. Gracewood carefully worked the barge
nearer to the bank, until I was able to grasp the branch of a tree
which had fallen down as the earth caved off beneath its roots. I held
it there, and in a moment more the dugout disappeared in the gloom.

"They are not looking for us," said Mr. Gracewood.

"No; but they have not come down here for nothing," I replied.

"What do you think they intend to do?"

"They fired at us as we were coming down the river. Possibly they
followed us, and saw us go up the Big Fish. Perhaps they think now that
there is no one at the Castle, and they can plunder it without
opposition. They will soon discover their blunder."

"But Mrs. Gracewood is there."

"So are the soldiers."

"They may capture her if she is in the Castle, while the soldiers are
encamped in the rear, not expecting an enemy on the river side."

"We need not stay here any longer," I added, letting go the branch, and
permitting the current to carry the barge down the stream. "Don't make
any noise with the oars, Mr. Gracewood."

"We must hurry forward and alarm the soldiers. They have no suspicion
that there are any Indians within many miles of them."

"What's the matter, father?" cried Ella, waking with a start.

"Hush! Ella. Don't make any noise. We are safe, and there is no
danger."

"What has happened?" she whispered, trembling with fear.

"Nothing has happened; but we saw three Indians go down the river. They
did not discover us, and there is nothing to fear. Don't be alarmed."

The barge floated down to the mouth of the Fish, and Mr. Gracewood,
using the oars very carefully, guided it to the landing, where we went
on shore. I hastened up the rising ground to ascertain if there was any
demonstration against the Castle. On the way, I heard old Firefly
neigh; and then I remembered that I had left him there when I started
to follow the Indians. The old fellow was very glad to see me, for he
probably did not like to be excluded from his warm stable, and robbed
of his supper.

I jumped upon his back, and rode down to the landing, where Mr.
Gracewood was hauling up his boat. My appearance on horseback startled
him and Ella, but the sound of my voice reassured them. I explained in
what manner I happened to be mounted so speedily.

"I will ride up to the Castle, and see that the soldiers are on the
lookout for those Indians," I added. "I will return with the wagon in a
few minutes, and carry you to the house."

"And leave us here alone?" said Mr. Gracewood.

"Do you think there is any danger?" I inquired.

"Those Indians may land here and discover us. For myself I don't care;
but I am afraid on account of Ella, who is too weak to run, how ever
great the peril."

"I will take her on the horse with me if you like," I suggested.

"But you may meet the savages, and a bullet from the cunning foe might
destroy all my hopes in this world."

"I will not leave you, then, sir; but I thought Ella was too feeble to
walk another mile."

"I could not walk a mile," added she, faintly.

"What shall we do, then?" I asked.

"We will go a little way with you."

Ella had sat so long in the barge that her limbs were stiff, and she
was unable to walk, even a short distance. Her father had lifted her
out of the boat, and seated her on a log.

"I could do nothing if the Indians came upon me, with my child in this
helpless condition. I will carry her in my arms a little way, and we
will conceal ourselves in the bushes. Go as quick as you can, Phil
Farringford," said the anxious father.

"I will not be absent long," I replied, as I urged Firefly forward.

The horse was anxious to reach his stable, and he galloped at the top
of his speed. I kept a wary lookout for the savages, as I approached
the Castle, but I saw none.

"Halt!" shouted a sentinel, placing himself in the road.

This vigilance on the part of the troops assured me the Castle was in
no danger of a surprise, and I reined in my steed.

"Who goes there?" demanded the guard.

"Friend, in a tremendous hurry," I replied.

"Advance, friend in a tremendous hurry, and give the countersign."

"I have no countersign; but I am Phil Farringford."

"O, the young fellow that belongs here!"

"Yes; and by this time there are three Indians in a dugout in front of
you. Stir up your men, and send two or three of them down towards the
landing. Mr. Gracewood and his daughter are there, and the Indians may
find them."

"Has the girl been found?"

"Yes; but I can't stop to talk. Wake up your officer."

I hurried Firefly to the barn, and dismounted.

"Who is it? What has happened?" asked Mrs. Gracewood, in trembling
tones, as she came towards the stable.

"It's only Phil," I replied. "All right, Mrs. Gracewood."

"Where have you been? I was afraid the Indians had caught you."

"I have been after Ella."

"O, have you heard anything from her?" demanded she, choking with
emotion.

"Yes, we have heard from her. She's all right," I answered, as I throw
the harness upon Firefly.

"What do you mean? Don't deceive me, Phil."

"I won't, Mrs. Gracewood. You shall see her yourself in ten minutes."

"Where is she?" gasped the poor mother, apparently unable to believe
the good news.

"She is down at the landing; but she is all worn out, and not able to
move a step. I am going down with the wagon after her."

"Do you really mean so?"

"Certainly I do, Mrs. Gracewood; and her father is with her."

"Father in heaven, I thank thee!" exclaimed she, fervently, sobbing and
weeping.

"It's just as I tell you; but you had better go into the house, for
there are some Indians along the river somewhere."

"I am not afraid of them, if I can only see Ella."

By this time, the sentinel who had confronted me had passed the word to
the camp, and the soldiers were all under arms. A squad of them
hastened to the river, and presently I heard a couple of shots in that
direction. I had finished harnessing the horses, and was putting old
Matt's bed upon the wagon for Ella to lie upon, when Lieutenant
Jackson, the officer in command of the detachment, rushed up to me.

"What is the matter?" he demanded. "Are we attacked?"

"There are three Indians on the river. I suppose your men are firing at
them. Here is an order from Lieutenant Pope," I added, handing him the
paper, and jumping upon the wagon, where Mrs. Gracewood had already
placed herself. "We have recovered the young lady, and I am going down
to the landing after her."

"But I wish to know----"

"Well, I can't stop now to talk, sir."

"I will go with you;" and he leaped upon the wagon.

"I advise you to take two or three more with you. You may capture the
three Indians your men are firing at now."

He called three of his men, who joined us in the wagon, and I drove off
as fast as I could make the horses go.

"Where did you see Lieutenant Pope?" asked Mr. Jackson.

"At his camp on the Big Fish. You must keep those three Indians from
going up the Fish River if you can."

"Why so?"

But the violent jolting of the wagon prevented me from talking, and him
from hearing; so I deferred my explanation till a more convenient
season. In a few minutes, I stopped the horses a short distance from
the landing, when Mr. Gracewood hailed me from a clump of bushes. I
felt relieved when I saw that Ella and he were safe. I helped the
trembling mother out of the wagon, and conducted her to the spot.

"My child! O, Ella!" cried Mrs. Gracewood, as she bent over the form of
her daughter.

"I am safe, mother," she replied, faintly.

They sobbed and wept in each other's arms till Mr. Gracewood
interposed, and then we placed the sufferer on the bed in the wagon.

"Now, lieutenant, if you will let one of your men drive the horses up
to the Castle, I will tell how the land lies here," said I, when the
party was ready to start.

Mr. Jackson ordered one of the soldiers to go with the wagon, and
return with it; but Mr. Gracewood preferred to drive himself while Ella
was a passenger. As the team started, I walked with the officer and two
soldiers down to the landing. I imparted all the information I had
obtained, including the movements of the Indians who had captured Ella.

"You are a plucky little fellow to stand up and shoot down an Indian:
but I think you would have done better if you had called me, instead of
following the Indians yourself," said Lieutenant Jackson.

"I don't think so. We might have gone a dozen miles before we found
them, if I had lost sight of them. The three Indians went down the
river just as we came in sight. I heard your men fire at them. Now you
must not let them go up the Fish, for they will carry information to
the large party up that river, and spoil the plan of Lieutenant Pope."

"You are right, my boy," replied the officer, as he posted his two men
where they could see the dugout as it approached.

"You will have a big fight to-morrow," I added.

"I should think so from what you say; but I haven't read my orders
yet."

"Hark!"

I heard the splashing of paddles in the river below us, and I concluded
that the three Indians who had failed in front of the Castle were
returning to Fish River.




CHAPTER XVII.

IN WHICH PHIL CONDUCTS THE SOLDIERS TO THE LINE OF DEFENCE.


I had a theory of my own in regard to the movements of the four Indians
who had come down the Crooked River in the two dugouts. The savages
were incensed against us because they had failed to obtain our horses,
and because we had shot two or three of their men in the skirmishes
which followed. This party had gone home and stirred up the Indians,
who were now upon the war-path. Mr. Gracewood had identified himself
with the defence of the Castle, and they had visited his island to
wreak their vengeance upon him, and obtain his property.

If he was at home, they would kill him; if not, they would appropriate
or destroy his property. Having disposed of him, if he were there, the
four Indians were to go down the river to the front of the Castle, and
when the main body appeared in the forest, make an attack on the river
side, or steal upon us in the night, and murder us in our sleep. At any
rate, these Indians knew that a large force of their own people were
coming down the Fish, and they were in some manner to assist them.

Lieutenant Jackson and myself went to the bank of the river, and soon
saw the dugout, two of the Indians in it paddling with all their might.
They had discovered their blunder, in part at least, when the soldiers
opened upon them. The fact that any one was awake at the Castle was
enough to turn them from their purpose, for they had not the courage to
stand up before the rifle of Kit Cruncher, whom they doubtless supposed
to be there.

"Give them a shot, Morgan," said the lieutenant to one of his men.

The soldier fired, but without effect, except to alarm the Indians.

"Why didn't you hit them?" added the officer, as the savages turned the
dugout from the shore, and paddled with renewed zeal towards the
opposite side of the great river.

"So I would if they would hold still long enough for me to cover them,"
replied the soldier.

The other man fired, but with no better success, so far as we could
discover. Before they could reload their pieces, the dugout was too far
off to warrant the wasting of any more powder and lead.

"You will not see them again to-night," said I, as the Indians
disappeared in the gloom.

"Can they get to the rear of our position by any other way than up this
river?" asked Lieutenant Jackson.
