
There was a great throb in Kathie's heart, and she 
tried to steady the quiver in her voice. 

" Dear Aunt Euth," she said, " it is all right and 
best as it is. Why shouldn't I give up a little 
pleasure for you ? If I were ill you would do it 
willingly. Dr. Markham approves of my staying, 
and so did Uncle Eobert, and now you shall see 
how merry I am going to be. First I shall bathe 
your face and hands, and then see about your break- 
fast. It is a glorious day ! Look at the sun." 

Aunt Euth was soon made ready. Kathie ran 
down to the kitchen and begged the nurse to let her 



 

toast some bread. Her mother had a fashion of 
making very delightful milk toast, and Kathie did 
this to a charm. Then there was a rare bit out of 
the tenderloin steak to broil. 

" I did everything myself," she exclaimed, laugh- 
ingly. " Cook is going to give me a recommendation 
when I want a new place ! ' : 

" The odor is quite tempting," was Aunt Euth's 
reply. 

"And you must eat it all." 

They had quite a gay time over the breakfast, and 
for a wonder Aunt Euth's appetite appeared im- 
proved. 

" I believe I really do feel better," she exclaimed, 
much encouraged. 

" Good tidings," said Kathie, " and it will be a 
great joy to me ! " 

" Now you must run down to the dining-room 
yourself, for there goes the bell." 

" I think I 'll take the Afghan with me " ; and 
Kathie brought it out of the closet. " It is not quite 
finished, but I can do that afterward; and to-day 
seems the time for gifts." 

She had spent all her leisure time upon it, and it 





was very pretty indeed. Crocheted in stripes, the 
alternate ones being black, embroidered with bright 
flowers. A little of the work still remained to be 
clone, for Kathie had met with so many interruptions 
during the past fortnight. She wrapped herself in it, 
laughing gayly, and stole softly down. 

Dr. Markham was just coming out of his office. 
" Who is this ? ' he exclaimed, catching her in his 
arms, for she was enveloped head and ears. 

" Santa Glaus," she made answer, in a rather 
smothered tone of voice. 

" What has he sent me, you little rogue of a mes- 
senger ? Three good kisses, three good wishes * 

"'And a slice of ginger' done up in this," she 
answered, with which the Afghan fell at his feet. 

" This is the ginger, then, I suppose ? " and he 
kissed her rosy cheek. " But, seriously, Miss Kathie, 
all this gay - Why, it 's a carriage-blanket ! and I 
doubt if it came down the chimney, it looks so fresh 
and beautiful." 

Mrs. Markham ventured out of the breakfast-room. 
She had been in^the secret, and enjoyed the surprised 
look of the doctor very much. 

" I think these little fingers had something to do 
with it," she said, clasping Kathie's hand. 



 

" My dear child, - - for me ? Why, you are the 
dearest little Santa Glaus I ever saw ! I don't know 
what to say to you. I have half a mind to steal you 
from your kith and kin and take you to the moon, 
wrapped in this blanket." 

" Let her have a little breakfast first, for I don't 
believe they have muffins and chocolate in the 
moon," interposed Mrs. Markham. 

" I must tell you that you have an invitation to a 
Christmas-tree to-night at my nephew's. I wish 
there was a branch of it round here just now " ; 
and the doctor's eyes twinkled. 

Kathie turned her plate over after she was seated. 
A small, square, red Eussia-leather box lay under- 
neath. There was a tiny, golden ornamented scroll, 
containing her own name, set in the top. 

" A miniature I " she exclaimed. 

" Open it " ; and the doctor smiled. 

There was a card on which was written, " To my 
darling Kathie. E. C." 

" Uncle Eobert. Oh ! ?: And then for a moment 
Kathie could do nothing but look. The loveliest 
watch imaginable, the case richly engraved, and 
bits of enamelled leaves that seemed set with 

 





diamonds, while attached was a very handsome 
chain. 

"You knew about this," Kathie said, glancing up 
at the doctor, with a bright smile. 

"Yes, it was left in my charge." 

Kathie's face was one glow of delight, good to 
behold. She could hardly eat her breakfast, so full 
of pleasure was every nerve and every breath. 

" I must go up stairs with you," the doctor said, 
" or I am afraid you will set Miss Conover wild ; and 
I can't have my patient tampered with." 

So they went together, Kathie hopping up two 
steps at a time ; but the doctor held her hand 
tightly, and would not let her get much in advance. 

" Your business comes afterward, being of less 
importance," he began, gravely nodding his head to 
Kathie, as he helped himself to a chair and greeted 
his patient cordially. 

" Why, here is quite a pulse instead of the mere 
thread I 've had to hunt for the last fourteen days," 
he said, in surprise. " Have you been getting up an 
excitement ? " 

" I really do feel better," Aunt Euth returned. " I 
ate quite a breakfast." 





" Oh, you 'll be frisking about with the best of them 
next year this time, hanging up your stocking and all 
that nonsense ! I dare say we shall have you dan- 
cing a jig." 

Kathie laughed at this, it seemed so very amus- 



ing. 



" Yes, there is a decided improvement. I think 
you are well enough to hear about my Christ- 



mas ! 



He told the most comical story imaginable, in 
which Kathie scarcely recognized herself, but his 
hearer enjoyed it immensely. 

Here there was an interruption. Mrs. Havens, 
Kathie's old friend, who had been away on a visit 
and but just returned, sent to know if Kathie would 
not like to go to church with her. The children were 
to sing some beautiful carols. 

Kathie looked undecided, and raised her eyes to 
Aunt Euth. 

" Of course you will," said the doctor. " You 
want a sniff of fresh air, and by that time your 
auntie will desire a quiet rest. Go and keep Christ- 
mas - - I need not add with a happy heart, for you 
always have that." 





Then lie gave a few directions to Miss Conover 
and left them together. Kathie displayed her beau- 
tiful gift. 

" 'T is just what I have been wishing for, Aunt 
Euth, but Uncle Eobert was always doing so many 
kind things that it seemed ungrateful to ask for any 
other gift. my little darling, you 're just good 
enough to kiss for dear Uncle Eobert's sake." 

" It is very lovely, and I am so glad to see you 
enjoy it thoroughly." 

" And, Aunt Euth, you think - - you feel sure that 
Uncle Eobert will always love us ? " 

She knelt down by the bed and buried her face 
close to Aunt Euth's cheek. It seemed treason to 
doubt any one so kind. Somehow she wished Ada 
had not mentioned the surmise. 

" My darling, yes. God has sent us one of the 
dearest and kindest of friends. While he lives, we 
shall not lack for tender care." 

Yes, it was selfish and wicked to grudge him any 
happiness, and if he wanted to marry Miss Jessie 
they would all rejoice over it. Not another troubled 
thought could she admit. He would always love 
them, and that was sufficient. With that Kathie's 



 

burden fell away, and it was just as if she entered 
in at the gate Beautiful. 

She th on ff lit so as she sat in church with Mrs. 

t^_y 

Havens listening to the joyous carols. A throng of 
happy children raising their sweet young voices in. 
glorious hymns of rejoicing, and the great organ 
tones swelling out strains that were inspiration. 
Kathie's heart was full, moved to the uttermost. It 
seemed to her that there was not room for another 
throb of satisfaction. 

Mrs. Havens would fain have taken Kathie home 
with her, but the child could not leave Aunt Ruth 
so long on this of all days. She found her comfort- 
able and in cheerful spirits, and it did seem as if she 
were really getting well. 

Several medical friends of the doctor were in to 
dinner, and Kathie saw no more of him until eight 
in the evening, though she had been happy enough. 
Then he called her down and tucked her in the 
sleigh beside Mrs. Markham, and they drove off to 
Mr. Meredith's. 

The lights in the drawing-room were so bright that 
it looked as if they might be having a party. And a 
party sure enough it proved. The. room was quite 





full, some of the neighbors having been invited in, 
as well as the relatives, and one whom she hardly 
expected to see, - - Mr. Edward Meredith. 

He clasped both hands and wished her merry 
Christmas a dozen times. The evening before he 
had been at Cedarwood. 

" They missed you very much, you may be sure " ; 
he said. " Those little Gardiner girls were over, and 
one or two others, - - and Charlie Darrell " 

" And Miss Jessie, of course ? " 

"Yes." At that Mr. Meredith looked rather 
peculiar, and a warm flush suffused Kathie's face. 
He had guessed the truth as well as Ada. 

" Tell me about the tree. What did Freddy have, 
and how did he enjoy it ? ' 

" Oh, the child went nearly crazy. It was a com- 
plete surprise to him, for he had no idea how a 
Christmas-tree looked. But he wanted to hang up 
his stocking all the same." 

That made Kathie laugh. 

" Uncle Edward," said Ada, " here are the children 
clamoring for Kathie. She has spoiled them by so 
much attention, and they can't understand that a 
drawing-room isn't a nursery. Kathie, how do you 
do ? Have you had any Christmas yet ? ' : 



 

"This"; and Kathie displayed her watch. 

" Oh, how lovely ! Why, it 's handsomer than 



mine." 



" Want to see ! " said Florence, pushing her curly 
head between the two dresses. 

" You haven't kissed me," exclaimed George. 
" A good, sweet Christmas kiss ! ' 

" And me ! ' : said Master Willie, eagerly. 

" What a nuisance ! " and Ada gave her head a 
toss. " Don't let them have your watch, Kathie ; 
they 'll break it to fragments." 

She held it for them to admire. They climbed 
over her and kissed her to their hearts' content. 

" And we 're going to have a real Santa Glaus ! " 
announced George. 

" Will he come down the chimney ? " was Kathie's 
merry question as she looked at them with laughing 
eyes. 

" He 'd get a little burned," said Florence, with 
a wise shake of the head. 

"A good deal, I guess, and all black. Do Santa 
Clauses come down the chimney Kathie ? " asked 
Willie, rather perplexed. 

" So people say ! " 





" Did you ever see Mm ? " 

" Oh, I used to hang up my stocking and go to 
bed." 

" Children ! " exclaimed their mother. " Mary, 
don't let them annoy Miss Kathie." 

" Here is a Santa Glaus/' said Ada, looking back 
from a group of very fashionably attired little 
girls. 

The children held their breath and opened their 
eager eyes. Mary raised Florence in her arms. 

The folding doors between the drawing-room and 
library opened slowly. There was the tree, its wide- 
spread arms glittering with burning tapers and tiny 
brilliantly colored balls that swung tremulously in 
the heated air. After they had partly taken in this, 
the younger ones uttered an exclamation of sur- 
prise and delight, for there was a veritable Santa 
Glaus. 

A comical personage, enormously stout, and wrapped 
in furs from head to foot, with a fur cap upon his 
head. His cheeks were puffy and red as the reddest 
apple, his nose was a little hooked one way, and his 
pointed chin turned up so that the two nearly met. 
He had the broadest grin on his countenance, and 






 

altogether he was a funny-looking object, to say noth- 
ing of the great pack slung upon his back. 

The children gave a shout of glee. Willie wanted 
to run and speak to him, and thought Mary very 
cruel because she restrained him. 

Santa Claus rang a little bell, and began to make 
a speech. He was travelling around, he said, to 
find good children. He had some gifts in his bag for 
them, but all those who had been naughty during the 
year had better go to bed, he thought. 

"I VP. been good," said Willie, boldly. 

" And I 've been good," echoed Florence. 

George laughed, but said nothing. Several of the 
little ones around looked quite sober. 

Santa Claus put down his pack. 

He worked and tugged at the straps, puffing and 
blowing, and they came apart at length with such an 
impetus that he almost sprawled on the floor, at which 
nearly every one laughed. Then he fumbled about, 
and at last drew forth a package. Here he had to 
stop and search his pockets for an enormous pair of 
green spectacles before he could read the name. 

George was first. He went up boldly, and bore off 
his gift in triumph. Then Willie WA? summoned 





who advanced rather cautiously. Two or three others, 
then Kathie Alston's name was called. She colored 
rather vividly, and went up with some shyness. 

" Open it," said George, " I 'll let you see mine." 

There were half a dozen papers at least, then a 
dainty velvet case. Inside a brooch, ear-rings, and 
sleeve-buttons of white onyx, very handsomely set. 
Two initials were on a card, " A. M." She glanced 
up at Mrs. Markham with a grateful smile. Ada 
came to inspect. 

" They are very pretty," she said, " only there are 
so many imitations of onyx." 

That did not spoil the pleasure for Kathie, however. 

There were a great many funny things in that 
wonderful pack of Santa Glaus. The children laughed, 
and so did the grown people. Dogs that would bark, 
cats that would mew, a comical little man who always 
would turn a somersault before he could settle him- 
self, and numberless oddities. And when he could 
find no more he turned it inside out and shook it, 
and then he came to the tree. 

There were numerous gifts for the elders here. 
Kathie was more than surprised to find herself 
remembered by  many friends. Mrs. Havens had 



 

sent a beautiful glove-box containing half a dozen 
pairs of gloves in different colors ; Mrs. Meredith, 
some pretty handkerchiefs with her initials embroi- 
dered in the corner ; from Mr. Edward Meredith a 
necklace and cross ; from Dr. Markham a set of books 
bound very handsomely, and, best of all, a dear re- 
membrance from mamma, that had come from the 
Christmas-tree ao Cedarwood. 

" Where is your uncle ? " asked Kathie of Ada 
presently. In the excitement and confusion she had 
but just missed him. 

Ada laughed and looked mysterious. 

" Oh ! " said Kathie, and then she smiled at the 
Santa Glaus, who was making a final speech aud bow- 
ing himself away. 

How odd that she had not suspected it, for it did 
not seem to. her that any one else could have been 
