give her more. Probably, if Tom remained with her, she would not fare as
hard as formerly; but this she did not intend to do. She had come to
dislike granny, who, she felt instinctively, was not really her
relation, and still cherished the intention of running away as soon as
there was a good opportunity.

Meanwhile the cars sped on till seventy-five miles separated them from
the city. Broad fields extended on either side the railway track. To
Tom, who was a true child of the city, who had rarely seen green grass,
since the round of her life had been spent within a short distance of
City Hall Park, it seemed strange. She wondered how it would seem to
live in the country, and rather thought she should not like it.

At length they came to a station where supper was to be obtained. Granny
was hungry and rose with alacrity.

“Shall I go with you?” asked Tom.

“No,” said Mrs. Walsh, “set right here. I’ll go and buy something for
you.”

They were so far away from the city now that granny had no fear of Tom’s
escaping, particularly as she had no money.

Tom retained her seat, therefore, and granny entered the station-house,
where some of her fellow-passengers were already hurrying down their
suppers.

She stepped up to the counter, and soon was engaged in a similar way.

“Will you have a cup of coffee, ma’am?” inquired the waiter.

“Haven’t you got some whiskey?” inquired the old woman.

“No, we don’t keep it.”

Granny looked disappointed. She was very fond of whiskey, and, having
plenty of money, saw no reason why she should be deprived of her
favorite beverage.

“Aint there any to be got near by?” she asked.

“There’s a saloon a few rods up the road,” was the reply.

“Could I find it easy?”

“Yes, there’s a sign outside. It’s a small one-story building. You can’t
miss it.”

Mrs. Walsh hastily bought a couple of cakes for Tom, and hurried out of
the building. There stood the cars, liable to start at any time. It was
the part of prudence to get in, and granny hesitated. But the desire for
a dram was strong within her, and she thought she could run over and get
a glass, and be back in time. The train stopped ten minutes for
refreshments, and she had not consumed more than five. The temptation
proved too strong for her to resist.

She reached the saloon, and, entering, said, “Give me a glass of
whiskey, quick. I’m going right off in the train.”

The whiskey was poured out, and granny drank it with a sense of
exquisite enjoyment.

“Give me another,” she said.

Another was poured out, and she had half drunk it, when the whistle was
heard. This recalled the old woman to the risk she incurred of being
left by the train. Setting down the glass hastily, she was hurrying out
of the saloon, when she was stopped by the bar-tender.

“You haven’t paid for your drinks, ma’am,” he said bluntly.

Granny saw the train just beginning to move.

“I can’t stop,” she said desperately. “I shall be left.”

“That don’t go down!” said the bar-tender, roughly; “you must pay for
your drinks.”

“I’ll send it to you,” said granny, trying to break away.

“That trick won’t work,” said the man, and he clutched the old woman by
the arm.

“I’ve got a gal aboard,” screamed granny, desperately, trying at the
same time to break away.

“I don’t care if you’ve got forty gals aboard, you must pay.”

Mrs. Walsh drew a bill from her pocket, and, throwing it down, rushed
for the train without waiting for the change. But too much time had
already been lost. The cars were now speeding along at a rate which made
it quite impossible for her to catch them, and get aboard.

“Stop!” she shrieked frantically, running with a degree of speed of
which she would have been thought incapable. “I’ve got a gal aboard. I
shall lose her.”

Some of the passengers saw her from the windows, and were inclined to
laugh rather than sympathize with her evident distress.

“Serves her right!” said a grouty old fellow. “Why didn’t she come back
in time?”

“There’s a woman left behind,” said another passenger to the conductor.

He shrugged his shoulders, and said, indifferently, “That’s her lookout.
If she didn’t choose to come to time, she must take the consequences.”

“Couldn’t you stop the train?” asked a kind-hearted little woman.

“No ma’am. Quite impossible. We’re behind time already.”

So the train sped on, leaving granny frantic and despairing, waving her
arms and screaming hoarsely, “Stop! I’ve got a gal aboard!”

“What would Mr. Lindsay say?” she could not help thinking. Only four
hours had passed since Tom had been placed in her charge, and they were
separated. She cared little or nothing for Tom, or her welfare, but for
her own interests, which were likely to be seriously affected, she cared
a great deal. She was to have a comfortable annuity as long as she kept
Tom safe in custody, and that was at an end unless she could manage to
get her back.

She went into the station-house, and inquired when the next train would
leave. She learned that several hours must elapse. Having plenty of
time, therefore, she went back to the saloon, and recovered the change
due her, taking an additional glass of whiskey, to drown her chagrin and
disappointment.




                              CHAPTER XXIV
                           TOM’S ADVENTURES.


Among those who looked out of the window, and witnessed granny’s frantic
gesticulations was Tom.

“Aint that rich?” she uttered, in high delight.

“What’s the matter?” asked an old lady, who sat just in front, bending
over and speaking to Tom.

“It’s my granny,” said Tom, laughing afresh. “She’s left behind. You
ought to see her shakin’ her fist at the cars.”

“Are you laughing at your grandmother’s disappointment?” asked the old
lady’s daughter, a prim-visaged maiden lady. “For shame, child!”

“I’m glad to get rid of her,” said Tom, coolly. “She aint my granny; she
only pretends to be.”

“Hasn’t she had the care of you?”

“No,” said Tom. “I’ve had the care of her. She took all the money I
earned, and spent it for rum.”

“What are you going to do?” inquired the old maid.

“I don’t know,” said Tom, her attention being now first called to the
embarrassment of her situation. She was nearly eighty miles from New
York, and this distance was fast increasing. She had no railway ticket
and no money. What was she to do?

“Have you had any supper, child?” asked the old lady.

“No,” answered Tom. “Granny went out to get some.”

“Priscilla,” said the old lady, “haven’t you got some of them cookies
left?”

“Yes, ma,” said the daughter.

“You’d better give some of them to the child.”

The younger lady took several hard seed-cakes from a paper bag, and
offered them to Tom, who accepted and ate them with avidity.

Meanwhile she was considering what was best to be done. She wanted to
get back to New York, where she felt at home. Then she could go back to
Mrs. Murphy’s, whom she had paid for a week’s board in advance. She had
no money, for granny had forcibly taken from her what she had left after
paying for her dinner. How she was to get back seemed rather a problem.
One thing, however, appeared evident: every moment carried her farther
away from the city. So Tom concluded that the sooner she got off, the
better.

When the cars reached the next stopping-place, Tom got up and went to
the door.

“Where are you going?” asked the old lady.

“I’m going to look out,” answered Tom, fearing that some impediment
might be placed in her way.

“Don’t you get off, or you may get lost too.”

“All right.”

Tom stepped on the platform, and, quietly jumping from the cars, ran
round the depot, to escape notice. The stop was a short one, and
directly she heard the noise of the departing train. When it was fairly
on the way, Tom began to look around her and consider her situation.

It was a small station, and there was scarcely a house near the depot.
It was already twilight, and to Tom, who was accustomed to the crowded
city, it appeared very lonely and desolate. She knew not where she
should pass the night. She had often been in that position in the city,
and it did not trouble her. Here, however, she was rather startled at
the unwonted solitude. Besides, being wholly ignorant of the country, it
occurred to her that she might meet some wild animal prowling around.

Just as this thought came into her mind, she saw advancing towards her a
cow, followed by a farmer’s boy, about two years older than herself. Now
Tom was brave enough constitutionally, but this was the first cow she
had ever seen, and the branching horns led her to suppose it fierce and
dangerous, like a lion, for example.

She rushed with headlong speed to a stone wall and climbed over.

“Ho! ho!” laughed the boy; “are you afraid of a cow?”

“Won’t she kill me?” asked Tom, a little reassured.

“She wouldn’t kill a fly. Didn’t you ever see a cow afore?”

“No, I didn’t,” said Tom. “I thought it was something like a lion.”

“Where’ve you lived all your life?” asked the boy, astonished at Tom’s
greenness, as he considered it.

“In New York.”

“I thought everybody’d seen cows. Where are you going?”

“I don’t know,” answered Tom.

“You aint stoppin’ to Doctor Simpson’s, be you?”

“I’m stoppin’ on this fence,” said Tom, rather humorously.

“Taint a fence; it’s a stone wall.”

“What’s the odds?”

“How did you come here?”

“By the cars,” said Tom. “I got left.”

“You did? Where are you going to sleep to-night?”

“I don’t know.”

“There’s a tavern in the village.”

“What’s that?”

“A tavern. Don’t you know? A hotel.”

“I haven’t got any money.”

“That’s queer,” said the boy, staring. “Where are you goin’ to sleep?”

“On the grass,” said Tom; “only I’m afraid of the wild animals.”

“Pooh! there aint no wild animals round here. But you mustn’t sleep
out-doors. You’ll catch cold. If you’ll come home with me, mother’ll let
you sleep in our house.”

“Thank you,” said Tom. “You’re a brick.”

“You talk queer for a girl. What’s your name?”

“Tom.”

“Tom? That’s a boy’s name.”

“They call me so. My right name is Jane.”

“Well, Jane, come along, and I’ll show you where we live.”

The two walked together, soon becoming sociable. The boy, James Hooper,
was amazed at Tom’s ignorance of the most common things pertaining to
country life, but found that in other ways she was sharp enough.

“You talk just like a boy,” he said.

“Do I?” said Tom. “I used to wish I was a boy, but I don’t know now. I
think I’d like to grow up a lady,—a tip-top one, you know,—and dress
fine.”

“Are all the girls in New York like you?” asked James, curiously.

“No,” said Tom. “There’s Mary Merton, she isn’t a bit like me. This is
the way she walks,” and Tom imitated Mary’s languid, mincing gait.

“I like you best,” said John. “But here we are. Do you see that house
down the lane?”

“Yes,” said Tom.

“That’s where we live.”

It was a large, square, comfortable farm-house, such as we often see in
farming towns. The farmer’s wife, a stout, comely woman, stood at the
door.

“Who’ve you got with you, James?” she asked.

“It’s a girl that got left by the train,” said James. “She’s got no
money to pay for her lodging. I told her you would let her sleep here.”

“Of course I will. Come right in, child. How did you get left?”

“I just got out a minute,” said Tom, “and the cars went off and left
me.”

“What a pity! Who was travelling with you?”

“My granny,” answered Tom.

“What’ll she do? She’ll be very much frightened.”

“I expect she will,” said Tom, who had made up her mind not to tell too
much.

“Were you going back to the city?”

Tom answered in the affirmative. I do not mean to defend the lie, for a
lie it was, but I have not represented Tom as perfect in any respect. In
the future she will improve, I hope, when placed under more favorable
circumstances. Her object in saying what she did was to prevent any
opposition being made to her return to the city.

“You haven’t had any supper, have you?” asked Mrs. Hooper.

“I ate a few cakes,” answered Tom.

“That isn’t hearty enough for a growing girl,” said the good woman. “You
must take some supper with us.”

The family supper had been eaten, but a tempting array of dishes was
soon set before Tom, whose appetite was always ready to answer any
reasonable demands upon it.

In the evening Tom’s best course was discussed. She expressed a strong
desire to return at once to the city, saying she would be all right
there.

“If your grandmother would not feel anxious about you,” said Mrs.
Hooper, “we should be glad to have you stop with us a day or two.”

“I guess I’d better go back,” said Tom, for, knowing that granny had
been left by the cars only five miles away, she was under some
apprehensions that she might find her way thither.

“You can take the nine-o’clock train to-morrow morning,” said James,
“and get to the city before night.”

“Before night? She’ll get there by one o’clock,” said his mother.

“I haven’t got any money to buy a ticket,” said Tom.

“We will lend you the necessary amount,” said the farmer, “and your
grandmother can pay it back whenever it is convenient.”

Tom felt a little reluctant to accept this money, for she knew that
there was no hope of repayment by granny; but she determined to accept
it, and work hard till she could herself save up money enough to pay the
debt incurred. She felt grateful to the farmer’s family for their
kindness, and was resolved that they should not suffer by it.

In the evening they gathered in the plain sitting-room, covered with a
rag-carpet. Tom helped James make a kite. She was ignorant, but learned
readily. In her interest, she occasionally let slip some street phrases
which rather surprised James, who was led to wonder whether Tom was a
fair specimen of New York girls. He had always fancied that he should
feel bashful in their society; but with Tom he felt perfectly at home.

In the morning he accompanied Tom to the depot, and paid for her ticket,
being supplied with money for the purpose by his mother.

“Good-by,” he said, shaking her hand as she entered the cars.

“Good-by, old fellow,” said Tom. “I’ll pay you back that money if granny
don’t.”

The train started and was soon whirling along at the rate of twenty
miles an hour. Half-way between this and the next station they passed a
train bound in an opposite direction. Looking through the window on the
side towards the other train, Tom caught a glimpse of granny’s face. The
old woman had been compelled to stop till morning, and had taken the
first train bound westward. She did not see Tom, who quickly moved her
head from the window.

“Sold again!” thought Tom, in high delight. “When granny catches me
again, she’ll know it.”




                              CHAPTER XXV
                         TOM FINDS HER MOTHER.


Tom sat back in her seat and enjoyed the prospect from the windows, as
the train sped along. She felt in unusually good spirits, knowing that
she had put granny entirely off the track, and that there was no
immediate chance of her recapture.

“If I only had that money granny took from me, I’d be all right,” she
said to herself. However, her board and lodging were paid at Mrs.
Murphy’s for a week in advance, and that was something.

About forty miles from New York a number of passengers got into the
cars. The seats were mostly occupied, but the one beside Tom was
untaken. A gentleman advanced up the aisle with a lady, looking about
him for a seat.

“Is this seat engaged?” he inquired of Tom.

“No,” answered Tom.

“Then you had better sit here, Rebecca,” said the gentleman. “I think
you will have no trouble. You won’t forget where you are to go,—Mrs.
Thurston’s, West Twenty-Fifth Street. I can’t recall the number, but a
glance in the Directory will settle that.”

“I wish you knew the number,” said the lady.

“It was very careless of me to lose it, I confess. Still, I think you
will have no trouble. But good-by, I must hurry out, or I shall be
left.”

“Good-by. Let me see you soon.”

The gentleman got out, and the lady settled down into her seat, and
looked about her. Finally her glance rested on her young companion. She
was inclined to be social, and accordingly opened a conversation with
Tom.

“Are you going to New York?” she inquired.

“Yes, ma’am.”

“I suppose you live there?”

“Yes.”

“I have never been there, and know nothing at all about the city.”

“It’s a big place,” remarked Tom.

“Yes, I suppose so. I have always lived in the country, and I am afraid
I shan’t feel at home there. But my sister, who is boarding with a Mrs.
Thurston, who keeps a large boarding-house on West Twenty-Fifth Street,
has invited me to come up and spend a few weeks, and so I have got
started.”

“I guess you’ll like it,” said Tom.

“Do you live anywhere near West Twenty-Fifth Street?”

“Not now,” said Tom. “I did live in West Sixteenth Street, but I don’t
now.”

“Are you travelling alone?”

“Yes,” said Tom.

“I suppose you live with your father and mother?”

“I haven’t got any,” answered Tom, laconically.

“I suppose you are well acquainted with the city?”

“Yes,” said Tom. “I know it like a book.”

The fact was, that Tom knew it a great deal better than a book, for her
book-knowledge, as we very well know, was by no means extensive.

“Do you board?”

“Yes,” said Tom. “I board with Mrs. Murphy, in Mulberry Street.”

It struck the lady that Murphy was an Irish name, but the name of the
street suggested nothing to her. She judged from Tom’s appearance that
she belonged to a family in comfortable circumstances.

“I wish I knew the number of Mrs. Thurston’s house,” said the lady
rather anxiously. “I’m so afraid I shan’t find it.”

“I’ll tell you what,” said Tom, “I’ll go with you, if you want me to.”

“I wish you would,” said the lady, much relieved. “It would be a great
favor.”

“I s’pose you won’t mind givin’ me a quarter,” added Tom, with a sharp
