she looked — why, she looked as if she 'd be poor 
folks herself, if only she could say how sorry she 
was for us. Then she blazed out at us ! ' Did 
Mr. Garrick ever tell any man of us a word but 





honest truth ? ' she wanted to know. ' And has 
n't he proved himself a friend to every soul of 
you that needed friendliness ?' says she. 'And 
when he told you that he must reduce your 
wages, you shouldn't have sent for me ! ' says 
she. But then she talks to us about the trouble 
that the Company was in, and a foolishness 
creeps round amongst us, as if we wished we 
were at home. It 's not that they so much 
disbelieved Mr. Garrick," said Sip, "but when she 
said she couldn't afford to pay 'em, they believed 
that!' 

" I don't understand about these things," said 
Reuben Mell, slowly stepping out from the 
crowd. " It 's very perplexing to me. It doesn't 
mean a dollar's worth less of horses and carriages, 
and gra;nd parties to the Company, such a trouble 
as this don't seem to. And it means as we go 
without our breakfast so 's the children sha'n't be 
hungry ; and it means as when our shoes are wore 
out, we know no more than a babby in its cradle 
where the next pair is to come from. That 's 
what reduction o' wages means to us. I don't 
understand the matter myself, but I 'm free to 
say that we 'll not doubt as the young leddy does. 





I 'll take the young leddy's word for it, this time, 
for one." 

Mr. Mell, with this, peaceably stepped up and 
took the reduction from the counter, and peaceably 
went home with it. 

There was a little writhing of the flood-tide at 
this, and then an ebb. 

Miss Kelso came out of it, and left it to bub- 
ble by itself for a while. 

Within half an hour it had ebbed away, leaving 
only a few weeds of small boys and a fellow 
too drunk to float in sight of the mill-gate. 

Until at least next " Lord's day," there would 
be no strike in Hayle and Kelso. 

By that time Mr. Garrick hoped that we 
should be upon our feet again. 

Mr. Garrick walked home with Miss Kelso in 
the autumn rain. 

Unfortunately for the weed of a fellow stranded 
in the mill-yard, they passed and recognized him. 
It was the overseer, Irish Jim. Next morning 
he received his notice. They had borne with 
him too long, and warned him too often, Mr. 
Garrick insisted. Go he should, and go he did. 

- But Mr. Garrick walked home with Miss Kelso 
in the autumn rain. 



They passed between the cotton-house and 
the old boiler, in going out. Dirk Burdock had 
stepped through just before them, trying to over- 
take Sip in the distance, hurrying home. Either 
this circumstance or a mood of the mill-master's 
own recalled to his mind his midnight talk with 
the young watchman on that spot, and what Dirk 
had said of its being a " churchly place." It was 
a dreary, dingy place now, in the gray storm- 
light, prosaic and extremely rusty. He held the 
lady's cloak back from the boiler in passing by. 

His hand had but brushed the hem of her 
garment, but it trembled visibly. He touched a 
priestess in a water-proof Fire from heaven fell 
before his eyes upon the yellow boiler. Such a 
" churchliness " struck the mill-yard, that the 
man would have lifted his hat, but considered 
that he would take cold, and so kept it on like a 
sensible fellow. 

Of course he loved her. How should he help 
it ? Anybody but Perley would have thought 
of it, long ago. 

Yet, oddly enough, nobody had thought of it. 
Occasionally one meets people, though they are 
rather apt to be men than women, who seem to 





go mailed through life in a gossip-proof armor. 
Perley Kelso is one of them. Rumor winks and 
blinks and shuts its eyes upon her. Your un- 
pleasant stories, " had upon authority," pass her 
by unscathed. This young lady's life had been a 
peculiar, rather a public one, for now nearly two 
years, and in its most vital interests Stephen 
Garrick had stood heart and soul and hand in 
hand with her. Yet her calm eyes turned upon 
him that autumn afternoon as placidly as they 
did upon the old boiler. When she saw that 
tremble of the hand, she said : " You are cold !
It is growing chilly. The counting-room was 
close." 

How could man help it ? Of course he loved 
her. He had seen the shining of her rare, fine 
face in such strange places ! In sick-rooms and 
in the house of mourning he had learned to hsten 
for the stealing, strong sweetness of her young 
voice. They had met by death-beds and over 
graves. They had burrowed into mysteries of 
misery and sin, in God's name, together. Wher- 
ever people were cold, hungry, friendless, deso- 
late, in danger, in despair, she struck across his 
path. Wherever there was a soul for which no 





man cared, he found her footprints. Wherever 
there was a life to be lifted from miasmas to 
heights, he saw the waving of her confident 
white hand. If ever there were earnest work, 
solemn work, solitary work, mistrusted work, 
work misunderstood, neglected, discouraging, 
hopeless, thankless, — Christ's work, to be done, 
he faced her. 

Now, among several hundred factory-opera- 
tives, it naturally happened that he had thus 
faced her not infrequently. 

The woman's life had become a service in a 
temple, and he had lighted the candles for her. 
One would miss it, perhaps, to worship in the 
dark .' The man asked himself the question, turn- 
ing his face stiffly against the autumn storm. 

There had been no sun since yesterday. The 
sky was locked with a surcharged cloud. A fine, 
swift rain blurred the outlines of the river-banks 
and hills. 

" And yet," he said, " the day seems to be full 
of sun. Do you notice ? There is light about us 
everywhere." 

" It is from the hickories and maples," said 
Perley. 





Ripened leaves streaked and dotted their path, 
wreathed blazing arms about the pine groves, 
smouldered over the fields, flung themselves 
scorched into the water, flared across the dam, 
and lighted the little cascades luridly. The singular
effect of dying trees on a dead day was at 
its richest. One could not believe that the sun 
did not shine. 

"An unreal light," said Stephen Garrick, hardly, "
and ugly. We should find it cold to live 

by." 

" I had not thought of that," said Perley, 
smiling ; " I rather like it." 

Her face, as she lifted it to his, seemed to warm 
itself at its own calm eyes ; slowly, perhaps, as if 
the truant day had tried to leave a chill upon it, 
but thoroughly and brightly. 

Garrick turned, and looked it over and over 
and through and through, — the lifted haunting 
face ! 

What a face it was ! His own turned sharply 
gray. 

" I see no room for me there ! " he said, and 
stopped short where he stood. 

No ; he was right. There was no room. The 


womanly, calm face leaped with quick color, then 
drifted pale as his own. 

" Let us walk on," said Garrick, with a twang 
in his voice. 

They walked on nervously. Neither spoke 
just then. They walked on, under and through 
a solid arch of the unreal sunshine, which a pha- 
lanx of maples made in meeting over their heads. 

" I had hoped," said Stephen Garrick then, 
between his breath, " that I had — a chance. I 
have been — stupid, perhaps. A man is so slow 
to feel that he has — no chance. I have not 
played at love like — many men. There has 
been such an awfulness," said Stephen Garrick, 
passing his hand confusedly over his eyes, — 
" such an awfulness about the ground I have 
seen you tread upon. Most men love women in 
parlors and on play-days ; they can sing them 
little songs, they can tie up flowers for them, 
they can dance and touch their hands. I — I 
have had no way in which to love you. We 
have done such awful work together. In it, 
through it, by it, because of it, I loved you. I 
think there 's something — in the love — that is 
like the work. It has struck me under a ledge 





of granite, I believe. Miss Kelso, it would come 
up — hard." 

His hand dropped against his side, very slowly, 
but the blue nails clenched the flesh from its 
palm. 

What did the woman mean ? What should he 
do with the sight, sound, touch of her ; the rustle 
of her dress, the ripple of her sweet breath, the 
impenetrable calm of her grieving eyes .'' 

He felt himself suddenly lifted and swung from 
the centre of his controlled, common, regula- 
ted, and regulating days. Five Falls operatives 
ceased to appear absorbing as objects of life. 
How go dribbling ideal Christian culture through 
highways and hedges, if a man sat and starved on 
husks himself, before the loaded board .'' The 
salvation of the world troubled him yesterday. 
To-day there was only this woman in it. 

They two, in the mock light of dying leaves, 
they two only and together, stood, the Alpha and 
Omega, in the name of nature and in the sight 
of God. 

" I have loved you," said the man, trembling 
heavily, " so long ! My life has not been like 
that of — many people. I have taken it — hard 





and slowly. I have loved you slowly, and — 
hard. You ought to love me. Before God, I 
say you ought to love me ! " 

" The fact is — " said Perley, in her sensible, 
every-day voice. 

Stephen Garrick drew breath and straightened 
himself. His blanched face quivered and set 
into its accustomed angles. His shut fingers 
opened, and he cleared his throat. He struck to 
his orbit. Ah ! Where had he been ? Most 
too old a man for that ! See how he had let 
the rain drip on her. He grasped his umbrella. 
He could go to a Mission meeting now. All the 
women in the world might shake their beautiful 
heads at him under yellow maple-trees in an 
autumn rain ! 

" The fact is ? " he gravely asked. 

" The fact is,'' repeated Perley, " that I have no 
time to think of love and marriage, Mr. Garrick. 
That is a business, a trade, by itself to women. 
I have too much else to do. As nearly as I can 
understand myself, that is the state of the case. 
I cannot spare the time for it." 

And yet, as nearly as she understood herself, 
she might have loved this man. The dial of her 





young love and loss cast a little shadow in her 
sun to-day. She felt old before her time. All 
the glamour that draws men and women together 
had escaped her somehow. Possible wifehood 
was no longer an alluring dream. Only its prosaic
and undesirable aspects presented them- 
selves to her mind. No bounding impulse cried 
within her : That is happiness ! There is rest ! 
But only : It were unreasonable ; it is unwise. 

And yet she might have loved the man. In 
all the world, she felt as if he only came within 
calling distance of her life. Out of all the world, 
she would have named him as the knightly soul 
that hers delighted to honor. 

Might have loved him .'' Did she love him .' 
Garrick's hungry eyes pierced the lifted face 
again over and over, through and through. If 
not in this world, in another, perhaps .' In any .? 
Somewhere .' Somehow ? 

'.' I cannot tell," said the woman, as if she had 
been called ; '' I do not need you now. Women 
talk of loneliness. I am not lonely. They are 
sick and homeless. I am neither. They are 
miserable. I am happy. They grow old. I am 
not afraid of growing old. They have nothing 





to do. If I had ten lives, I could fill them ! No, 
I do not need you, Stephen Garrick." 

" Besides,'' she added, half smiling, half 
sighing, " I believe that I have been a silent partner 
long enough. If I married you, sir, I should in- 
vest in life, and you would conduct it. I suspect 
that I have a preference for a business of my 
own. Perhaps that is a part of the trouble." 

They had reached the house, and turned, faces 
against the scattering rain, to look down at the 
darkening river, and the nestling that the town 
made against the hill. The streets were full ; and 
the people, through the distance and the rain, 
had a lean look, passing to and fro before the 
dark, locked mills. 

Perley Kelso, with a curious, slow gesture, 
stretched her arms out toward them, with a face 
which a man would remember to his dying day. 

" Shall they call," she said, " and I not answer .' 
If they cried, should not I hear ? " 

" Mr. Garrick ! " She faced him suddenly on 
the dripping lawn. " If a man who loves a 
woman can take the right hand of fellowship 
from her, I wish you would take it from me ! " 

She held out her full strong hand. The rain 





dripped on it from an elm-tree overhead. Stephen 
Garrick gently brushed the few drops, as if they 
had been tears, away, and, after a moment's hesi- 
tation, took it. 

If not in this world in another, perhaps ? In 
any .' Somewhere .' Somehow ? 

" I shall wait for you," said the man. Perhaps 
he will. A few souls can. 







CHAPTER XIII. 

A FEVERISH PATIENT. 

'THE Pompeian statues in Hayle and Kelso 
 were on exhibition in a cleared and bur- 
nished condition for nearly a week last spring. 

That is to say, Hayle and Kelso were off work, 
for high water. It will be well remembered how 
serious the season's freshets were, and that Five 
Falls had her full share of drenching. 

The river had been but two days on the gallop 
before the operatives, wandering through their 
holidays in their best clothes, began to knot into 
little skeins about the banks, watching the leap 
that the current made over the dam. 

By the third day the new mill was considered 
in danger, and diked a little. 

By the fourth day heavy wagons were forbid- 
den the county bridge. 

The skeins upon the banks interwound and 
thickened. Five Falls became a gallery. Sun- 





break had flung back the curtain from a picture 
which hundreds crept up on tiptoe to see. 

Between the silent, thronged banks and the 
mute, unclouded sky, the river writhed like a 
thing that was tombed alive. The spatter of the 
cascades had become smooth humps, like a 
camel's. The great pulse of the dam beat hor- 
ribly. The river ran after it, plunged at it, would 
run full and forever. It looked as hopeless as 
sin, and as long as eternity. You gazed and de- 
spaired. There was always more, more, more. 
There was no chain for its bounding. There was 
no peace to its cries. No sepulchre could stifle 
it, no death still it. You held out your hands and 
cried for mercy to it. 

Beautiful whirlpools of green light licked the 
base of the stone river- walls. Flecks of foam 
were picked up in the fields. People stood for 
hours in the spray, clinging to the iron railings 
by the dam, deafened and drenched, to watch the 
sinuous trail of the under-tints of malachite and 
gold and umber that swung through. As one 
looked, the awful oncoming of the upper waters 
ceased to be a terror, ceased, or seemed to cease, 
to be a fact. Mightiness of motion became re- 







pose. The dam lay like a mass of veined agate 
before the eyes, as solid as the gates of the city 
whose builder and maker is God ; of the city in 
which sad things shall become joy, dark things 
light, stained things pure, old things new. 

The evening and the morning were the fifth 
day. Between their solemn passing. Sip and 
Catty sat alone in the little damp, stone house. 

The air was full of the booming of the flood, 
and Catty laid her head upon Sip's knee, listen- 
ing, as if she heard it. The wind was high and 
blew a kind of froth of noise in gusts against the 
closed windows and doors ; but never laid finger's 
weight upon the steady, deadly underflow of sound 
that filled the night. A dark night. Sip, going to 
the window, from whence she could dimly see the 
sparks of alarm-lights and the shadows of
watchmen on the endangered bridge, felt a little
displeasure with the night. It was noisy and confused 
her. It was wild and disturbed her. The 
crowds still lingered on the banks, where the 
green whirlpools had grown black, and where the 
tints of malachite and gold ai>d umber, swinging 
on their bright arms through the dam, had 
become purple and gray and ghastliness, and 





wrapped the stone piers in dark files, as if they 
