that he wouldn't eat a bit of anything else." 
The father said he was the life of their house ; 
and Frank said he knew how that was, — that he had 
a life of the house of his own ; and then the father 
thanked him very simply and touchingly, and with 
the decent New England self-restraint, which is 
doubtless so much better than any sort of efiusion. 
"Say good-night to the gentleman, Freddy," he 
said at the door ; and Freddy with closed eyes mur- 
mured a good-night from far within the land of 
dreams, and then was borne away to the house out 
of which the life had wandered with his little feet. 
" I don't know, Sallie," said Frank, when he had 
given all the eagerly demanded particulars about the 
child's father, — "I don't know whether I should 
want many such holidays as this, in the course of the 
summer. On the whole, I think I'd better over- 
work myself and not take any relaxation, if I mean 
to live long. And yet I'm not sure that the day 's 
been altogether a failure, though all our purposes Oi 
enjoyment have miscarried. I didn't plan to find a 
lost child here, when I got home, and I'm afraid I 
haven't had always the most Christian feeling towards 
him ; but he's really the saving grace of the adair ; 
and if this were a little comedy I had been playing, 
I should turn him to account with the jaded audi- 
ence, and advancing to the foot-lights, should say, 
with my hand on my waistcoat, and a neat bow, that 
although every hope of the day had been disap- 
pointed, and nothing I had meant to do had been 
done, yet the man who had ended at midnight by 
restoring a lost child to the arms of its father, must 
own that, in spite of adverse fortune, he had enjoyed 
A Day's Pleasure." 
It was long past the twilight hour, which has 
been already mentioned as so oppressive in suburban 
places, and it was even too late for visitors, when 
a resident, whom I shall briefly describe as a Con- 
tributor to the magazines, was startled by a ring at 
his door. As any thoughtful person would have done 
upon the like occasion, he ran over his acquaintance 
in his mind, speculating whether it were such or such 
a one, and dismissing the whole list of improbabili- 
ties, before he laid down the book he was reading, 
and answered the bell. When at last he did this, he 
was rewarded by the apparition of an utter stranger 
on his threshold, — a gaunt figure of forlorn and 
curious smartness towering far above him, that jerked 
him a nod of the head, and asked if Mr. Hapford lived 
there. The face which the lamp-light revealed was 
remarkable for a harsh two days' growth of beard, 
and a single bloodshot eye ; yet it was not otherwise 
a sinister countenance, and there was something in 
the strange presence that appealed and touched. 
The contributor, revolving the facts vaguely in his 
mind, was not sure, after all, that it was not the 
man's clothes rather than his expression that soft- 
ened him toward the rugged visage : they were so 
tragically cheap, and the misery of helpless needle- 
 
women, and the poverty and ignorance of the pur- 
chaser, were so apparent in their shabby newness, of 
which they appeared still conscious enough to have 
led the way to the very window, in the Semitic 
quarter of the city, where they had lain ticketed, 
" This nobby suit for $15." 
But the stranger's manner put both his face and 
his clothes out of mind, and claimed a deeper inter- 
est when, being answered that the person for whom 
he asked did not live there, he set his bristling lips 
hard together, and sighed heavily. 
" They told me," he said, in a hopeless way, 
" that he lived on this street, and I've been to every 
other house. I'm very anxious to find him, Cap'n," 
— the contributor, of course, had no claim to the 
title with which he was thus decorated, — " for I've 
a daughter living with him, and I want to see her ; 
I've just got home from a two years' voyage, and " 
— there was a struggle of the Adam's-apple in the 
man's gaunt throat — "I find she's about all there is 
lefb of my family." 
How complex is every human motive ! This con- 
tributor had been lately thinking, whenever he 
turned the pages of some foolish traveller, — some 
empty prattler of Southern or Eastern lands, where 
all sensation was long ago exhausted, and the oxygen 
has perished from every sentiment, so has it been 
breathed and breathed again, — that nowadays the 
wise adventurer sat down beside his own register 
and waited for incidents to seek him out. It seemed 
to him that the cultivation of a patient and receptive 
 
spirit was the sole condition needed to insure the 
occurrence of all manner of surprising facts within 
the range of one's own personal knowledge ; that 
not only the Greeks were at our doors, but the fairies 
and the genii, and all the people of romance, who 
had but to be hospitably treated in order to develop 
the deepest interest of fiction, and to become the 
characters of plots so ingenious that the most cun- 
ning invention were poor beside them. I myself am 
not so confident of this, and would rather trust Mr. 
Charles Reade, say, for my amusement than any 
chance combination of events. But I should be 
afraid to say how much his pride in the character of 
the stranger's sorrows, as proof of the correctness of 
his theory, prevailed with the contributor to ask him 
to come in and sit down ; though I hope that some 
abstract impulse of humanity, some compassionate 
and miselfish care for the man's misfortunes as mis- 
fortunes, was not wholly wanting. Indeed, the help- 
less simphcity with which he had confided his case 
might have touched a harder heart. " Thank you," 
said the poor fellow, after a moment's hesita,tion. 
*'I believe I will come in. I've been on foot all 
day, and after such a long voyage it makes a man 
dreadfully sore to walk about so much. Perhaps 
you can think of a Mr. Hapford living somewhere in 
the neighborhood." 
He sat down, and, after a pondering' silence, in 
which he had remained with his head fallen upon 
his breast, " My name is Jonathan Tinker," he said, 
with the unaffected air which had already impressed 
 
the contributor, and as if he felt that some form of 
introduction was necessary, "and the girl that I 
want to find is Julia Tinker." Then he added, r=i- 
suming the eventM personal history which the 
listener exulted, while he regretted, to hear : " You 
see, I shipped first to Liverpool, and there I heard 
from my family ; and then I shipped again for Hong- 
Kong, and after that I never heard a word : I seemed 
to miss the letters everywhere. This morning, at 
four o'clock, I left my ship as soon as she had hauled 
into the dock, and hurried up home. The house 
was shut, and not a soul in it ; and I didn't know 
what to do, and I sat down on the doorstep to wait 
till the neighbors woke up, to ask them what had 
become of my family. And the first one come out 
he told me my wife had been dead a year and a half, 
and the baby I'd never seen, with her ; and one of 
my boys was dead ; and he didn't know where the 
rest of the children was, but he'd heard two of the 
little ones was with a family in the city." 
The man mentioned these' things with the half- 
apologetic air observable in a certain kind of Amer- 
icans when some accident obliges them to confess the 
infirmity of the natural feelings. They do not ask 
your sympathy, and you offer it quite at your own 
risk, with a chance of having' it thrown back upon 
your hands. The contributor assumed the risk so 
far as to say, " Pretty rough ! " when the stranger 
paused ; and perhaps these homely words were best 
suited to reach the homely heart. The man's quiv- 
ering lips closed hard agam, a kind of spasm passed 
 
over his dark face, and then two very small drops of 
brine shone upon his weather-worn cheeks. This 
demonstration, into which he had been surprised, 
seemed to stand for the passion of tears into which 
the emotional races fall at such times. He opened 
his lips with a kind of dry click, and went on : — 
" I hunted about the whole forenoon in the city, 
and at last I found the children. I'd been gone so 
long they didn't know me, and somehow I thought 
the people they were with weren't over-glad I'd 
turned up. Finally the oldest child told me that 
Julia was living with a Mr. Hapford on this street, 
and I started out here to-night to look her up. If I 
can find her, I'm all right. I can get the family to- 
gether, then, and start new." 
" It seems rather odd," mused the listener aloud, 
" that the neighbors let them break up so, and that 
they should all scatter as they did." 
" Well, it ain't so curious as it seems, Cap'n. 
There was money for them at the owners', all the 
time ; I'd left part of my wages when I sailed ; but 
they didn't know how to get at it, and what could 
a parcel of children do ? Julia 's a good girl, and 
when I find her I'm all right." 
The writer could only repeat that there was no 
Mr. Hapford living on that street, and never had 
been, so far as he knew. Yet there might be such a 
person in the neighborhood ; and they would go out 
together, and ask at some of the houses about. But 
the stranger must first take a glass of wine ; for he 
looked used up. 
 
The sailor awkwardly but civilly enough protested 
that he did not want to give so much trouble, but 
took the glass, and, as he put it to his lips, said for- 
mally, as if it were a toast or a kind of grace, " I 
hope I may have the opportunity of returning the 
compliment." The contributor thanked him ; though, 
as he thought of all the circumstances of the case, 
and considered the cost at which the stranger had 
come to enjoy his pohteness, he felt little eagerness 
to secure the return of the compliment at the same 
price, and added, with the consequence of another 
set phrase, " Not at ajl." But the thought had made 
him the more anxious to befriend the luckless soul 
fortune had cast in his way ; and so the two sallied 
out together, and rang door-bells wherever lights 
were still seen burning in the windows, and asked 
the astonished people who answered their summons 
whether any Mr. Hapford were known to hve in the 
neighborhood. 
And although the search for this gentleman proved 
vain, the contributor could not feel that an expedi- 
tion which set familiar objects in such novel lights 
was altogether a failure. He entered so intimately 
jito the cares and anxieties of his protSffS, thait at 
times he felt himself in some inexphcable sort a ship- 
mate of Jonathan Tinker, and almost personally a 
partner of his calamities. The estrangement of all 
things which takes place, within doors and vvdthout, 
about midnight may have helped to cast this doubt 
upon his identity ; — he seemed to be visiting now 
for the first time the streets and neighborhoods near- 
est his own, and his feet stumbled over the accus- 
tomed walks. In his quality of houseless wanderer, 
and — so  far as appeared to others — possibly 
worthless vagabond, he also got a new and instruc- 
tive effect upon the faces which, in his real character, 
he knew so well by their looks of neighborly greet- 
ing; and it is his belief that the first hospitable 
prompting of the human heart is to shut the door in 
the eyes of homeless strangers who present them- 
selves after eleven o'clock. By that time the ser- 
vants are all abed, and the gentleman of the house 
answers the bell, and looks out with a loath and be- 
wildered face, which gradually changes to one of 
suspicion, and of wonder as to what those fellows 
can possibly want of him, till at last the prevailing 
expression is one of contrite desire to atone for the 
first reluctance by any sort of service. The con- 
tributor professes to have observed these changing 
phases in the visages of those whom he that night 
called from their dreams, or arrested in the act of 
going to bed; and he drew the conclusion — very 
proper for his imaginable connection with the garrot- 
ing and other adventurous brotherhoods — that the 
most flattering moment for knocking on the head 
people who answer a late ring at night is either in 
their first selfish bewilderment, or their final self- 
abandonment to their better impulses. It does not 
seem to have occurred to him that he would himself 
have been a much more favorable subject for the 
predatory arts that any of his neighbors, if his ship- 
mate, the unknown companion of his researches for 
Mr. Hapford, had been at all so minded. But the 
faith of the gaunt giant upon which he reposed was  
good, and the contributor continued to wander about 
with him in*perfect safety. Not a soul among those 
they asked had ever heard of a Mr. Hapford, — fer 
less of a Julia Tinker Hving with him. But they all 
listened to the contributor's explanation with interest 
and eventual sympathy ; and in truth, — briefly told, 
with a word now and then thrown in by Jonathan 
Tinker, who kept at the bottom of the steps, showing 
like a gloomy spectre in the night, or, in his gro- 
tesque length and gauntness, like the other's shadow 
cast there by the lamphght, — it was a story which 
could hardly fail to awaken pity. 
At last, after ringing several bells where there 
were no lights, in the mere wantonness of good-will, 
and going away before they could be answered (it 
would be entertaining to know what dreams they 
caused the sleepers within), there seemed to be 
nothing for it but to give up the search till morning,, 
and go to the main street and wait for the last horse- 
car to the city. 
There, seated upon the curbstone, Jonathan 
Tinker, being plied with a few leading questions, 
told in hints and scraps the story of his hard life, 
which was at present that of a second mate, and had 
been that of a cabin-boy and of a seaman before the 
mast. The second mate's place he held to be the 
hardest aboard ship. You got only a few dollars 
more than the men, and you did not rank with the 
officers ; you took your meals alone, and in every- 
thing you belonged by yourself. The men did not 
respect you, and sometimes the captain abused you 
awfully before the passengers. The hardest captain 
that Jonathan Tinker ever sailed with was Captain 
Gooding of the Cape. It had got to be so that no 
man would ship second mate under Captain Good- 
ing ; and Jonathan Tinker was with him only one 
voyage. When he had been home awhile, he saw 
an advertisement for a second mate, and he went 
round to the owners'. They }iad kept it secret who 
the captain was ; but there was Captain Gooding in 
the owners' office. " Why, here's the man, now, 
that I want for a second mate," said he, when Jona- 
than Tinker entered ; " he knows me." — " Captain 
Gooding, I know you 'most too well to want to sail 
under you," answered Jonathan. " I might go if I 
hadn't been with you one voyage too many already." 
" And then the men ! " said Jonathan, " the men 
coming aboard drunk, and having to be pounded 
sober! And the hardest of the fight falls on the 
second mate ! Why, there isn't an inch of me 
that hasn't been cut over or smashed into a jell. 
I've had three ribs broken ; I've got a scar from a 
knife on my cheek; and I've been stabbed bad 
enough, half a dozen times, to lay me up." 
Here he gave a sort of desperate laugh, as if the 
notion of so much misery and such various mutila- 
tion were too grotesque not to be amusing. " Well, 
what can you do ? " he went on. " If you don't 
strike, the men think you're afraid of them ; and so 
you have to begin hard and go on hard. I always 
 
tell a man, ' Now, my man, I always begin with a 
man the way I mean to keep on. You do your duty 
and you're all right. But if you don't ' — Well, 
the men ain't Americans any more, — Dutch, Span- 
iards, Chinese, Portuguee, — and it ain't like abusing 
a white man." 
Jonathan Tinker was plainly part of the horrible 
tyranny which we all know exists on shipboard ; and 
his hstener respected him the more that, though he 
had heart enough to be ashamed of it, he was too 
honest not to own it. 
Why did he still follow the sea? Because he did 
not know what else to do. When he was younger, 
he used to love it, but now he hated it. Yet there 
was not a prettier life in the world if you got to be 
captain. He used to hope for that once, but not 
now ; though he thought he could navigate a ship. 
Only let him get his family together again, and he 
would — yes, he would — try to do something ashore. 
No car had yet come in sight, and so the con- 
tributor suggested that they should walk to the car- 
office, and look in the "Directory," which is kept 
there, for the name of Hapford, in search of whom it 
had already been arranged that they should renew 
their acquaintance on the morrow. Jonathan Tinker, 
when they had reached the office, heard with con- 
stitutional phlegm that the name of the Hapford, 
for whom he inquired was not in the " Directory." 
" Never mind," said the other ; " come round to my 
house in the morning. We'll find him yet." So they 
parted with a shake of the hand, the second mate say- 
 
ing that he believed he should go down to the vessel 
and sleep aboard, — if he could sleep, — and murmur- 
ing at the last moment the hope of returning the 
compliment, while the other walked homeward, weary 
as to the flesh, but, in spite of his sympathy for Jona- 
than Tinker, very elate in spirit. The truth is, — 
and however disgraceftd to human nature, let the 
truth still be told, — he had recurred to his primal 
satisfaction in the man as calamity capable of being 
used for such and such literary ends, and, while he 
pitied him, rejoiced in him as an episode of real life 
quite as striking and complete as anything in fiction. 
It was literature made to his hand. Nothing could 
be better, he mused ; and once, more he passed the 
details of the story in review, and beheld all those 
pictures which the poor fellow's artless words had so 
vividly conjured up : he saw him leaping ashore in 
the gray summer dawn as soon as the ship hauled 
into the dock, and making his way, with his vague 
sea-legs unaccustomed to the pavements, up through 
the silent and empty city streets ; he imagined the 
tumult of fear and hope which the sight of the man's 
home must have caused in him, and the benumbing 
shock of finding it blind and deaf to all his appeals ; 
he saw him sitting down upon what had been his 
own threshold, and waiting in a sort of bewildered 
patience till the neighbors should be awake, while 
the noises of the streets gradually arose, and the 
wheels began to rattle over the stones, and the milk- 
man and the ice-man came and went, and the wait- 
ing figure began to be stared at, and to challenge the 
 
curiosity of the passing policeman ; he fancied the 
opening of the neighbor's door, and the slow, cold 
understanding of the case ; the manner, whatever it 
was, in which the sailor was told that one year be- 
fore his wife had died, with her babe, and that his 
children were scattered, none knew where. As the 
contributor dwelt pityingly upon these things, but at 
the same time estimated their aesthetic value one by 
one, he drew near the head of his street, and found 
himself a few paces behind a boy slouching onward 
through the night, to whom he called out, adventur- 
ously, and with no real hope of information, — 
" Do you happen to know anybody on this street 
by the name of Hapford?" 
" Why no, not in this town," said the boy; but 
he added that there was a street of the same name 
in a neighboring suburb, and that there was a" Hap- 
ford living on it. 
" By Jove I " thought the contributor, " this is 
more like literature than ever ; " and he hardly 
knew whether to be more provoked at his own stu- 
pidity in not thinking of a street of the same name in 
the next village, or delighted at the element of fatal- 
ity which the fact introduced into the story ; for 
Tinker, according to his own account, must have 
landed from the cars a few rods from the very door 
he was -seeking, and so walked fai'ther and farther 
from it every moment. He thought the case so 
curious, that he laid it briefly before the boy, who, 
however he might have been inwardly affected, was 
sufficiently true to the national traditions not tc 
make the smallest conceivable outward sign of con- 
cern in it. 
At home, however, the contributor related his 
adventures and the story of Tinker's life, adding the 
fact that he had just found out where Mr. Hapford 
lived. " It was the only touch wanting," said he ; 
" the whole thing is now perfect." 
" It's too perfect," was answered from a sad enthu- 
siasm. " Don't speak of it ! I can't take it in." 
" But the question is," said the contributor, peni- 
tently taking himself to task for forgetting the hero 
of these excellent misfortunes in his delight at their 
perfection, " how am I to sleep to-night, thinking of 
that poor soul's suspense and uncertainty ? Never 
mind, — I'll be up early, and run over and make 
sure that it is Tinker's Hapford, before he gets out 
here," and have a pleasant surprise for him. Would 
it not be a justifiable coup de thSdtre to fetch his 
daughter here, and let her answer his ring at the 
door when he comes in the morning ? " 
This plan was discouraged. " No, no ; let them 
meet in their own way. Just take him to Hapford's 
house and leave him." 
" Very well. But he's too good a character to 
lose sight of. He's got to come back here and tell 
us what he intends to do." 
The birds, next morning, not having had the sec- 
ond mate on their minds either as an unhappy man 
or a most fortunate episode, but having slept long 
and soundly, were singing in a very sprightly way 
in the way-side trees; and the sweetness of thefa 
 
notes made the contributor's heart light as he 
climbed the hill and rang at Mr. Hapford's door. 
The door was opened by a young girl of fifteen or 
sixteen, whom lie knew at a glance for the second 
mate's daughter, but of whom, for form's sake, he 
asked if there were a girl named Julia Tinker living 
there."  
" My name's Julia Tinker," answered the maid, 
who had rather a disappointing face. 
" Well," said the contributor, " your father's got 
back from his Hong-Kong voyage." 
" Hong-Kong voyage ? " echoed the girl, with a 
stare of helpless inquiry, but no other visible emo- 
tion. 
" Yes. He had never heard of yoyr mother's 
death. He came home yesterday morning, and was 
looking for you all day." 
Julia Tinker remained open-mouthed but mute ; 
and the other was puzzled at the want of feeling 
shown, which he could not account for even as a na- 
tional trait. " Perhaps there's some mistake," he 
said. 
" There must be," answered Julia : " my father 
hasn't been to sea for a good many years. My 
father," she added, with a diffidence indescribably 
mingled with a sense of distinction, — " my father's 
in State's Prison. What kind of looking man was 
this ? " 
The contributor mechanically described him. 
Julia Tinker broke into a loud, hoarse laugh. 
" Yes, it 's him, sure enough." And then, as if the 
joke were too good to keep : " Miss Hapford, Miss 
Hapford, father's got out. Do come here ! " she 
called into a back room. 
When Mrs. Hapford appeared, Julia fell back, 
and, having deftly caught a fly on the door-post, 
occupied herself in plucking it to pieces, while she 
listened to the conversation of the others. 
" It 's all true enough," said Mrs. Hapford, when 
the writer had recounted the moving story of Jona- 
than Tinker, " so far as the death of his wife and 
baby goes. But he hasin't been to sea for a good 
many years, and he must have just come out of 
State's Prison, where he was put for bigamy. 
There's always two sides to a story, 'you know ; but 
they say it broke his first wife's heart, and she died. 
His friends don't want him to find his children, and 
this girl especially." 
" He's found his children in the city," said the 
contributor, gloomily, being at a loss what to do or 
say, in view of the wreck of his romance. 
" O, he's found 'em has he ? " cried Juha, with 
heightened amusement. " Then he'll have me next, 
if I don't pack and go." 
" I'm very, very sorry," said the contributor, se- 
cretly resolved never to do another good deed, no 
matter how temptingly the opportunity presented 
itself. "But you may depend he won't find out 
from me where you are. Of course I had no earthly 
reason for supposing his story was not true." 
