God is so rich, and that he has made things so beautiful."

There was something in this speech that jarred upon Norton; something,
though he could not have told what it was, that seemed to separate
Matilda from him; there was a sweet, innocent kind of appropriation
which he could not share; it told of relations in which Matilda stood
and to which he was a stranger. Norton liked nothing that seemed like
division between them; but he did not find anything just then to say,
and remained silent; while Matilda rode along in a kind of glorious
vision that was half heavenly and half earthly. That was this snowy
morning to her. Covered up warm in the furs of the sleigh, she leaned
back and used her eyes; rejoicing in the white brilliance of the earth
and the sunny blue of the heaven, and finding strange food for joy in
them; or what appears strange to those who do not know it. The sleigh
rushed along, past houses and shops and the familiar signs hung out
along the street; then reaching the corner, whirled round to the left.
Matilda's home, until now, had always lain the other way. She turned
her head and looked back, up the street.

"What is it?" Norton asked.

"Nothing--except that I am so glad not to be going that way."

"No," said Norton. "Not that way any more. We have got you, Pink."

"I don't understand it," said Matilda. "It makes me dizzy when I think
of it."

"Here we are!" cried Norton, as the horses wheeled in through the iron
gate. "It's all snow, Pink; it will be too late to plant our tulips and
hyacinths."

But even that was forgotten, as the sleigh stopped, and Norton helped
Matilda out from under the furs, and she realized that she had come
home. Home; yes, when her feet stepped upon the marble pavement of the
hall she said to herself that this was home. It was very strange. But
Mrs. Laval's warm arms were not strange; they were easy to understand;
she would hardly let Matilda out of them, and kissed her and kissed
her. The kisses were instead of words; they said that Matilda had
come home.

"Run up now, dear, to your room," she said at last, "and get your wraps
off. I have somebody here to see me on business; but I will come to you
by and by."

Dismissed with more kisses, Matilda went up the stairs like one in a
dream. Sharp and snowy as the world was without, here, inside the hall
door, it was an atmosphere of summer. Soft warm air was around her as
she mounted the stairs; in Mrs. Laval's room a wood fire was burning;
in her own, oh joy! there was a little coal fire in the grate; all
bright and blazing. Matilda slowly drew off her things and looked
around her. The pretty green furniture with the rosebuds painted on it,
this was her own now; a warm carpet covered the mat; the bed with its
luxurious belongings was something she had not now to say good bye to;
the time of parting had not come after all; would never come, as long
as she lived. Slowly Matilda pulled off hood and gloves and moccasins,
and went to the window. It was her own window! The hills and the
country in view from it were hers to look at whenever she pleased. Mrs.
Candy's bell could not sound there to break in upon anything. The child
was so happy that she was almost afraid; it seemed too good to be
really true and lasting. Gradually, as she stood there by the window,
looking at what seemed to her "the treasures of the snow," it came to
her mind what she had been thinking about that; the myriads of
wonderfully fashioned, exquisite crystal stars, for every one of which
God took care. Then she remembered, "the hairs of your head are all
numbered;" and if so, of course no event that happened to any of God's
children could be without meaning or carelessly sent. And also, if he
was so rich in the beauty and perfectness of the snow supply for the
earth, he was rich toward his children too, and would and could give
them what were the best things for them. But then came the question; if
he had brought a child like her into these new circumstances, into such
a new home, what did he mean her to do with it? what use should she
make of it? what effect was it intended to have upon her and upon her
life? This seemed a very great question to Matilda. She softly shut her
door and took out her Bible and kneeled down beside it. She would study
and pray till she found out.

It happened well that Mrs. Laval's man of business kept her a good
while. All that while Matilda kept up her study and search.
Nevertheless she was puzzled. It was a question too large for her. All
she could make out amounted to this; that she must be careful not to
forget whose child she was; that before Mrs. Laval she owed love and
obedience to her Saviour; that she must be on the watch for
opportunities; and not allow her new circumstances to distract or
divert her from them or make her unfitted for them when they came.

"I think I must watch," was Matilda's conclusion. "I might forget.
Norton will want me to do things,--and Mrs. Laval will want me to do
other things,--perhaps other people yet. If I keep to Mr. Richmond's
rule--'Whether ye eat or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do all to the Lord
Jesus,'--I shall be sure to be right; and He will teach me."

Some very earnest prayer ended in this conclusion. Then the question
came up in Matilda's mind, what opportunities were likely to spring out
of her new, changed circumstances? She could not tell; she found she
could do nothing with that question; she could only leave it, and
watch, and wait.

She opened her door then, to be ready for Mrs. Laval's coming; and
presently the soft step and gentle rustle of drapery reminded Matilda
anew that she had done for ever with Mrs. Candy's plump footfall and
buckram skirts.

"My darling," said Mrs. Laval, "you have been all this time alone!" She
took Matilda in her arms and sat down with her, looking at her as one
examines a new, precious possession.

"You smile, as if being alone was nothing very dreadful," she went on.

"I don't think it is," said Matilda.

"I do! But you and I will not be alone any more, darling, will we?
Norton is a boy; he must go and come; but you are my own--my little
daughter!--yes, now and always."

She clasped Matilda in her arms and kissed her with lips that trembled
very much; trembled so much that Matilda was afraid she would break
into a passion of tears again; but that was restrained. After a little
she sat back, and stroking Matilda's hair from her brow, asked softly,--

"And what do you say to it, Matilda?"

Matilda tried to find words and could not; trembled; was very near
crying for her own part; finally answered in the only way. In her turn
she threw her arms round Mrs. Laval's neck; in her turn kissed cheeks
and lips, giving herself up for the first time to the feeling of the
new relationship between them. The lady did not let her go, but sat
still with her arms locked around Matilda and Matilda's head in her
neck and both of them motionless, for a good while.

"Will you call me mamma, some day?" she whispered. "Not now;--when you
feel like it. I do not ask it till you feel like it."

"Yes,"--Matilda whispered in answer.

Presently Mrs. Laval began to tell her about the ship fever, and the
nursing, and Miss Redwood; and how she and Miss Redwood had been alone
with everything to do. Then she wanted to hear how Matilda had spent
the weeks at the parsonage; and she was very much amused.

"I believe I'll get you to teach me some day," she said. "It's bad to
be so helpless. But I have learned something in these weeks. Now,
darling, is there anything you would like, that I can give you?
anything that would be a pleasure to you? Speak and tell me, before we
go down to lunch."

The colour started into Matilda's face.

"If I could," she said,--"I would like, if you liked it,--if Norton
could go with me again,--I would like very much, to go and see Maria."

"Maria!" said Mrs. Laval. "At Poughkeepsie. Certainly. You shall
go--let me see, this is Monday,--Norton shall take you Thursday. You
must try and find something to take to Maria that she would like. What
would she like?"

Mrs. Laval was drawing out her purse. Matilda, in a flush of delight,
could not think what Maria would like; so Mrs. Laval gave her five
dollars and bade her come to her for more if she needed it.

Five dollars to buy Maria a present! Matilda went down to luncheon with
her head and her heart so full that she could hardly eat What should
the present be? and what a beginning of beautiful and delightful things
was this. She was as still as a mouse, and eat about as much. Mrs.
Laval and Norton were full of business.

"How soon do we go to town, mamma?"

"As soon as possible! You ought to be going to school. But--what day is
it to-day?"

"Monday, mamma."

"No, no; I mean what day of the month. It is the middle of November,
and past. I can't go till the beginning of next month."

"Soon enough," said Norton. "Mamma, is Pink to go to school?"

Mrs. Laval looked at Matilda, smiled, but made no answer.

"Mamma, let me teach her."

"You?" said Mrs. Laval. "We will see."

"There's another thing. Mamma, is she to have an allowance?"

"Certainly."

"How much, mamma?"

"As much as you have."

"Then she'll be rich," said Norton. "She hasn't got boots to buy. My
boots eat up my money."

"I am afraid Matilda's boots will be quite as troublesome to her. Don't
you think she will want boots?"

"Girls' boots don't cost so much, do they?"

"It depends on where you get them."

"Mamma, Pink will not get her boots where you get yours, unless you
give her the direction very carefully. She will think she must save the
money for Lilac lane. You must take care of her, mamma; or she will
think she ought to take a whole district on her hands, and a special
block of old women."

Mrs. Laval again looked fondly at Matilda, and put a delicate bit on
her plate, observing that she was not eating anything.

"You are to take her to Poughkeepsie Thursday, Norton, to see her
sister."

"That's jolly," said Norton. "I want to be in Poughkeepsie, to see
about some business of my own. We'll go to Blodgett's, Pink, and choose
the hyacinths and tulips for our beds."

"You had a great deal better go to Vick, at Rochester," said Mrs.
Laval. "You can depend upon what he gives you. I have not found
Blodgett so careful."

"I should like to go to Mr. Vick's very much; but Rochester is rather
too far off," said Norton.

"You can write, you foolish boy."

"Well," said Norton, "I believe that will be best. We cannot put the
bulbs in now, unless we have a great stroke of good luck and there
comes a soft bit of weather. I'll write to Vick. But we'll go to
Blodgett's and get a few just for house blooming. Wouldn't you like
that, Pink?"

Matilda liked it so much that she found no words to express herself.
Norton and his mother both laughed at her.

After dinner Mrs. Laval went with Matilda up to her room, and looked
over her whole wardrobe. Most of the things which belonged to it Mrs.
Laval threw aside; Matilda's old calico dresses and several of the
others; and her old stockings and pocket handkerchiefs; and told
Matilda she might give them away. New linen, she said, Matilda should
have, as soon as she could get it made; meanwhile some new things were
provided already. She bade Matilda take a bath; and then she had her
own maid come in to arrange her hair and dress her. There was not much
to be done with Matilda's hair; it was in short wavy locks all over her
head; but the maid brushed it till Matilda thought she would never have
done; and then she was dressed in a new dark brown merino, made short,
and bound with a wide ribband sash; and new stockings were put on her
that were gartered above her knees; and Matilda felt at once very nice
and very funny. But when it was done, Mrs. Laval took her in her arms
and half smothered her with caresses.

"We will get everything put in order, as soon as we get to New York,"
she said; "my rosebud! my pink, as Norton calls you; my Daphne blossom!"

"What is that, ma'am?" said Matilda laughing.

"Daphne? you shall have a plant of it, and then you will know. It is
something very sweet, and yet very modest. It never calls people to
come and look at it."

She had Matilda on her lap; and she stroked her hair, putting it back
from her brow; took her face in both hands and looked at it and kissed
it; played with her hands; passed her fingers over the new stockings to
see how they fitted; tried the garters to see if they were too tight;
Matilda felt the touch of motherly hands again, like no other hands.
It filled her with a warm gladness and sorrow, both together; but it
bound her to Mrs. Laval. She threw both arms at last around her neck,
and they sat so, wrapped up in each other.

"You must go and call upon your aunt, Matilda," Mrs. Laval said after a
long silence.

"Must I? I suppose I must," said Matilda.

"Certainly. And the sooner you do it, the more graceful it will be. I
have been to see her. So it is only necessary for you. It is a proper
mark of respect."

"I will go to-morrow; shall I?"

"Yes; go to-morrow. Now Norton spoke about an allowance. Would you like
it?"

"I don't know what it is, ma'am."

"I give Norton, that is, I allow him, five dollars a month; fifteen
dollars a quarter. Out of that he must provide himself with boots and
shoes and gloves; the rest is for whatever he wants, fish-hooks or
hyacinths, as the case may be. I shall give you the same, Matilda; five
dollars every month. Then I shall expect you to be always nicely and
properly dressed, in the matter of boots and shoes and gloves, without
my attending to it. You are young to be charged with so much care of
your dress, but I can trust you. With what is left of your allowance
you will do whatever you like; nobody will ask any questions about it.
Do you like that, my dear?"

"Very much, ma'am."

"I thought so," said Mrs. Laval smiling. "Now I want you to go with me
and get something to put on your head. I have had a pelisse made for
you that will do till we go to the city and can find something better.
This can be then for second best. Put it on, dear, and be ready; the
carriage will be at the door in a moment now."

Wondering, Matilda put on the pelisse. She had never had anything so
nice in her life. It was of some thick, pretty, silver-grey cloth,
lined and wadded, and delicately trimmed with silk. Then she went off
with Mrs. Laval in the carriage, and was fitted with a warm little hat.
Coming home towards evening, at the close of this eventful day, Matilda
felt as if she hardly knew herself. To lay off her coat and hat in such
a warm, cheery little room, where the fire in the grate bade her such a
kind welcome; to come down to the drawing-room, where another fire
shone and glowed on thick rugs and warm-coloured carpets and soft
cushions and elegant furniture; and to know that she was at home amid
all these things and comforts; it was bewildering. She sat down on a
low cushion on the rug, and tried to collect her wits. What was it, she
had resolved to do?--to watch for duty, and to do everything to the
Lord Jesus? Then, so should her enjoyment of all this be. But Matilda
felt as if she were taken off her feet. So she went to praying, for she
could not think. She had only two minutes for that, before Norton
rushed in and came to her side with Vick's Catalogue; and the whole
rest of the evening was one delicious whirl through the wonders of a
flower garden, and the beauties of various coloured hyacinths and
tulips in particular.

The next day Matilda had two great matters on her heart; the present
for Maria, and the visit to her aunt. She resolved to do the
disagreeable business first. So she marched off to Mrs. Candy's in the
middle of the morning, when she knew they were at leisure; and was
ordered up into her aunt's room, where she and Clarissa were at work
after the old fashion. The room had a dismal, oppressive air to
Matilda's refreshed vision. Her aunt and cousin received each a kiss
from her, rather than gave it.

"Well, Matilda," said Mrs. Candy, "how do you do?"

This, Matilda knew, was an introduction to something following. The
answer was a matter of form.

"You've changed hands; how do you like it?" Mrs. Candy went on.

It would seem ungracious to say she liked it; so Matilda said nothing.

"I suppose things are somewhat different at Mrs. Laval's from what you
found them here?"

"Yes, ma'am; they are different."

"Have Mrs. Laval's servants got quite well?"

"Yes, ma'am, quite well."

"How many of them are there?"

"There are the mother and father, and two daughters, and the brother of
the father, I believe."

"And does Mrs. Laval keep other servants beside those?"

"O yes. Those are the farm servants, partly. But one of them cooks, and
one of the daughters is laundry maid; and the other is the dairy woman."

"And how many more?" asked Clarissa.

"There are the waiter and coachman, you know; and the chambermaid; and
Mrs. Laval's own maid, and the sempstress."

"A sempstress constantly on hand?" said Mrs. Candy.

"I believe so. I have always seen her there. She seems to belong there."

"Well, you find some difference between a house with a dozen servants,
and one where they keep only one, don't you?"

"It is different--" said Matilda, not knowing how to answer.

"What do you do, in that house with a dozen servants?"

"I don't know, ma'am; I haven't done anything yet."

"How did you get among the sick people in the first place? how came
that? It was very careless!"

"Nobody knew what was the matter with them, aunt Candy. Mrs. Laval was
gone to town, and I went to take some beef tea that the doctor had
ordered."

"Doctor Bird?"

"Yes."

"Doctor Bird ought to have known better. He ought to have taken better
care," said Clarissa.

"It is easy to say that afterwards," remarked Mrs. Candy. "How came
Mrs. Laval not to be there herself?"

"She was there. She was only gone to New York to get help; for all the
servants had run away."

"Then they knew what was the matter," said Clarissa.

"I don't know," said Matilda. "They seemed frightened or jealous. They
all went off."

"Like them," said Mrs. Candy. "Who did the nursing at last?"

"Mrs. Laval and Miss Redwood."

"Who is Miss Redwood?"

"She keeps house for Mr. Richmond."

A perceptible shadow darkened the faces of both mother and daughter.
Matilda wished herself away; but she could not end her visit while it
was yet so short; that would not do.

"And so you have been wasting six weeks at the parsonage,--doing
absolutely nothing!"

It had not been precisely that. But Matilda thought it was best to be
silent.

"It seems to me you are not improving in politeness," Mrs. Candy
remarked. "However, that is somebody else's affair now. Are you going
to school?"

"Not yet, ma'am."

"When are you going to begin?"

"I do not know. Not till we get to New York, I think."

"To New York! Then you are going to New York?"

"How soon?" Clarissa inquired.

"Not till next month."

"That is almost here," said Mrs. Candy. "Well, it would have been a
great deal better for you to have remained here with me; but I am clear
of the responsibility, that is one thing. If there is one thing more
thankless than another, it is to have anything to do with children that
are not your own. You know how to darn stockings, at any rate, Matilda;
I have taught you that."

"And to mend lace," Clarissa added.

"Matilda may find the good of that yet. She may have to earn her bread
with doing it. Nothing is more likely."

"I hope not," said Clarissa.

"It is an absurd arrangement anyhow," Mrs. Candy went on. "Matilda at
Mrs. Laval's, and Anne and Letitia earning their bread with something
not a bit better than mending lace. They will not like it very well."

"Why not, aunt Candy?" Matilda asked.

"Wait and see if they do. Will they like it, do you think, to see that
you do not belong to them any more and are part and parcel of quite
another family? Will they like it, that your business will be to forget
them now? See if they like it!"

"Why I shall not forget them at all!" cried Matilda; "how could I? and
what makes you say so?"

"You are beginning by forgetting your mother," said Mrs. Candy, with a
significant glance at the silver-grey pelisse.

"Yes," said Clarissa, "I noticed the minute she came in. How could Mrs.
Laval do so!"

"What?" said Matilda. "That isn't true at all, aunt Candy."

"I see the signs," said Mrs. Candy. "There is no need to tell me what
they mean. In this country it is considered a mark of respect and a
sign that we do not forget our friends, to wear a dress of remembrance."

"It reminds us of them, too," said Clarissa. "And we like to be
reminded of those we love."

"I do not want anything to remind me of her," said Matilda; and the
little set of her head at the moment spoke volumes. "And besides, aunt
Candy and Clarissa, I did not wear mourning when I was here, except
only when I went to church."

"That shewed the respect," said Mrs. Candy. "You can see easily what
Mrs. Laval means, by her dressing you out in that style. Have you got a
black dress under your coat?"

"Let us see what you have got," said Clarissa.

As Matilda did not move, Mrs. Candy rose and went to her and lifted up
the folds of her pelisse so as to show the brown merino.

"I thought so," she remarked, as she went back to her seat.

"Mrs. Laval ought to be ashamed!" said her daughter.
