
Private Joseph Drakes, with the generosity of an enemy expecting
drink-money, pointed out the sign, board on the face of the crag
commemorating ‘Montgomery’s death’; and then showed them the officers’
quarters and those of the common soldiers, not far from which was a
line of hang-dog fellows drawn up to receive sentence for divers small
misdemeanors, from an officer whose blond whiskers drooped Dundrearily
from his fresh English cheeks. There was that immense difference between
him and the men in physical grandeur and beauty, which is so notable
in the aristocratically ordered military services of Europe, and which
makes the rank seem of another race from the file. Private Drakes
saluted his superior, and visibly deteriorated in his presence, though
his breast was covered with medals, and he had fought England’s battles
in every part of the world. It was a gross injustice, the triumph of a
thousand years of wrong; and it was touching to have Private Drakes say
that he expected in three months to begin life for himself, after twenty
years’ service of the Queen; and did they think he could get anything
to do in the States? He scarcely knew what he was fit for, but he
thought--to so little in him came the victories he had helped to win
in the Crimea, in China, and in India--that he could take care of a
gentleman’s horse and work about his place. He looked inquiringly at
Basil, as if he might be a gentleman with a horse to be taken care of
and a place to be worked about, and made him regret that he was not a
man of substance enough to provide for Private Drakes and Mrs. Drakes
and the brood of Ducklings, who had been shown to him stowed away in one
of those cavernous rooms in the earthworks where the married soldiers
have their quarters. His regret enriched the reward of Private Drakes’
service,--which perhaps answered one of Private Drakes’ purposes, if
not his chief aim. He promised to come to the States upon the pressing
advice of Isabel, who, speaking from her own large experience, declared
that everybody got on there,--and he bade our friends an affectionate
farewell as they drove away to the Plains of Abraham.

The fashionable suburban cottages and places of Quebec are on the St.
Louis Road leading northward to the old battle-ground and beyond it;
but, these face chiefly towards the rivers St. Lawrence and St. Charles,
and lofty hedges and shrubbery hide them in an English seclusion from
the highway; so that the visitor may uninterruptedly meditate whatever
emotion he will for the scene of Wolfe’s death as he rides along. His
loftiest emotion will want the noble height of that heroic soul, who
must always stand forth in history a figure of beautiful and singular
distinction, admirable alike for the sensibility and daring, the poetic
pensiveness, and the martial ardor that mingled in him and taxed his
feeble frame with tasks greater than it could bear. The whole story of
the capture of Quebec is full of romantic splendor and pathos. Her fall
was a triumph for all the English-speaking race, and to us Americans,
long scourged by the cruel Indian wars plotted within her walls or
sustained by her strength, such a blessing as was hailed with ringing
bells and blazing bonfires throughout the Colonies; yet now we cannot
think without pity of the hopes extinguished and the labors brought to
naught in her overthrow. That strange colony of priests and soldiers, of
martyrs and heroes, of which she was the capital, willing to perish for
an allegiance to which the mother-country was indifferent, and fighting
against the armies with which England was prepared to outnumber the
whole Canadian population, is a magnificent spectacle; and Montcalm
laying down his life to lose Quebec is not less affecting than Wolfe
dying to win her. The heart opens towards the soldier who recited, on
the eve of his costly victory, the “Elegy in a Country Churchyard,”
 which he would “rather have written than beat the French to-morrow;” but
it aches for the defeated general, who, hurt to death, answered, when
told how brief his time was, “So much the better; then I shall not live
to see the surrender of Quebec.”

In the city for which they perished their fame has never been divided.
The English have shown themselves very generous victors; perhaps nothing
could be alleged against them, but that they were victors. A shaft
common to Wolfe and Montcalm celebrates them both in the Governor’s
Garden; and in the Chapel of the Ursuline Convent a tablet is placed,
where Montcalm died, by the same conquerors who raised to Wolfe’s memory
the column on the battle-field.

A dismal prison covers the ground where the hero fell, and the monument
stands on the spot where Wolfe breathed his last, on ground lower than
the rest of the field; the friendly hollow that sheltered him from the
fire of the French dwarfs his monument; yet it is sufficient, and the
simple inscription, “Here died Wolfe victorious,” gives it a dignity
which many cubits of added stature could not bestow. Another of those
bitter showers, which had interspersed the morning’s sunshine,
drove suddenly across the open plain, and our tourists comfortably
sentimentalized the scene behind the close-drawn curtains of their
carriage. Here a whole empire had been lost and won, Basil reminded
Isabel; and she said, “Only think of it!” and looked to a wandering fold
of her skirt, upon which the rain beat through a rent of the curtain.

Do I pitch the pipe too low? We poor honest men are at a sad
disadvantage; and now and then I am minded to give a loose to fancy, and
attribute something really grand and fine to my people, in order to make
them worthier the reader’s respected acquaintance. But again, I forbid
myself in a higher interest; and I am afraid that even if I were less
virtuous, I could not exalt their mood upon a battle-field; for of all
things of the past a battle is the least conceivable. I have heard men
who fought in many battles say that the recollection was like a dream to
them; and what can the merely civilian imagination do on the Plains
of Abraham, with the fact that there, more than a century ago, certain
thousands of Frenchmen marched out, on a bright September morning, to
kill and maim as many Englishmen? This ground, so green and oft with
grass beneath the feet, was it once torn with shot and soaked with the
blood of men? Did they lie here in ranks and heaps, the miserable slain,
for whom tender hearts away yonder over the sea were to ache and break?
Did the wretches that fell wounded stretch themselves here, and writhe
beneath the feet of friend and foe, or crawl array for shelter into
little hollows, and behind gushes and fallen trees! Did he, whose soul
was so full of noble and sublime impulses, die here, shot through like
some ravening beast? The loathsome carnage, the shrieks, the hellish din
of arms, the cries of victory,--I vainly strive to conjure up some image
of it all now; and God be thanked, horrible spectre! that, fill the
world with sorrow as thou wilt, thou still remainest incredible in
its moments of sanity and peace. Least credible art thou on the old
battle-fields, where the mother of the race denies thee with breeze
and sun and leaf and bird, and every blade of grass! The red stain in
Basil’s thought yielded to the rain sweeping across the pasture-land
from which it had long since faded, and the words on the monument, “Here
died Wolfe victorious,” did not proclaim his bloody triumph over the
French, but his self-conquest, his victory over fear and pain and love
of life. Alas! when shall the poor, blind, stupid world honor those who
renounce self in the joy of their kind, equally with those who devote
themselves through the anguish and loss of thousands? So old a world and
groping still!

The tourists were better fitted for the next occasion of sentiment,
which was at the Hotel Dieu whither they went after returning from the
battlefield. It took all the mal-address of which travellers are masters
to secure admittance, and it was not till they had rung various wrong
bells, and misunderstood many soft nun-voices speaking French through
grated doors, and set divers sympathetic spectators doing ineffectual
services, that they at last found the proper entrance, and were answered
in English that the porter would ask if they might see the chapel. They
hoped to find there the skull of Brebeuf, one of those Jesuit martyrs
who perished long ago for the conversion of a race that has perished,
and whose relics they had come, fresh from their reading of Parkman,
with some vague and patronizing intention to revere. An elderly sister
with a pale, kind face led them through a ward of the hospital into the
chapel, which they found in the expected taste, and exquisitely neat and
cool, but lacking the martyr’s skull. They asked if it were not to be
seen. “Ah, yes, poor Pere Brebeuf!” sighed the gentle sister, with the
tone and manner of having lost him yesterday; “we had it down only last
week, showing it to some Jesuit fathers; but it’s in the convent now,
and isn’t to be seen.” And there mingled apparently in her regret for
Pere Brebeuf a confusing sense of his actual state as a portable piece
of furniture. She would not let them praise the chapel. It was very
clean, yes, but there was nothing to see in it. She deprecated their
compliments with many shrugs, but she was pleased; for when we renounce
the pomps and vanities of this world, we are pretty sure to find them in
some other,--if we are women. She, good and pure soul, whose whole life
was given to self-denying toil, had yet something angelically coquettish
in her manner, a spiritual-worldliness which was the clarified likeness
of this-worldliness. O, had they seen the Hotel Dieu at Montreal? Then
(with a vivacious wave of the hands) they would not care to look at
this, which by comparison was nothing. Yet she invited them to go
through the wards if they would, and was clearly proud to have them see
the wonderful cleanness and comfort of the place. There were not many
patients, but here and there a wan or fevered face looked at them
from its pillow, or a weak form drooped beside a bed, or a group of
convalescents softly talked together. They came presently to the last
hall, at the end of which sat another nun, beside a window that gave a
view of the busy port, and beyond it the landscape of village-lit plain
and forest-darkened height. On a table at her elbow stood a rose-tree,
on which hung two only pale tea-roses, so fair, so perfect, that Isabel
cried out in wonder and praise. Ere she could prevent it, the nun,
to whom there had been some sort of presentation, gathered one of the
roses, and with a shy grace offered it to Isabel, who shrank back a
little as from too costly a gift. “Take it,” said the first nun, with
her pretty French accent; while the other, who spoke no English at all,
beamed a placid smile; and Isabel took it. The flower, lying light in
her palm, exhaled a delicate odor, and a thrill of exquisite compassion
for it trembled through her heart, as if it had been the white,
cloistered life of the silent nun: with its pallid loveliness, it was
as a flower that had taken the veil. It could never have uttered the
burning passion of a lover for his mistress; the nightingale could have
found no thorn on it to press his aching poet’s heart against; but
sick and weary eyes had dwelt gratefully upon it; at most it might have
expressed, like a prayer, the nun’s stainless love of some favorite
saint in paradise. Cold, and pale, and sweet,--was it indeed only a
flower, this cloistered rose of the Hotel Dieu?

“Breathe it,” said the gentle Gray Sister; “sometimes the air of
the hospital offends. Not us, no; we are used; but you come from the
outside.” And she gave her rose for this humble use as lovingly as she
devoted herself to her lowly taxes.

“It is very little to see,” she said at the end; “but if you are
pleased, I am very glad. Goodby, good-by!” She stood with her arms
folded, and watched them out of sight with her kind, coquettish little
smile, and then the mute, blank life of the nun resumed her.

From Hotel Dieu to Hotel Musty it was but a step; both were in the
same street; but our friends fancied themselves to have come an immense
distance when they sat down at an early dinner, amidst the clash of
crockery and cutlery, and looked round upon all the profane travelling
world assembled. Their regard presently fixed upon one company which
monopolized a whole table, and were defined from the other diners by
peculiarities as marked as those of the Soeurs Grises themselves. There
were only two men among some eight or ten women; one of the former had a
bad amiable face, with eyes full of a merry deviltry; the other, clean
shaven, and dark, was demure and silent as a priest. The ladies were
of various types, but of one effect, with large rolling eyes, and faces
that somehow regarded the beholder as from a distance, and with an
impartial feeling for him as for an element of publicity. One of them,
who caressed a lapdog with one hand while she served herself with the
other, was, as she seemed to believe, a blonde; she had pale blue
eyes, and her hair was cut in front so as to cover her forehead with a
straggling sandy-colored fringe. She had an English look, and three or
four others, with dark complexion and black, unsteady eyes, and various
abandon of back-hair, looked like Cockney houris of Jewish blood; while
two of the lovely company were clearly of our own nation, as was the
young man with the reckless laughing face. The ladies were dressed and
jeweled with a kind of broad effectiveness, which was to the ordinary
style of society what scene-painting is to painting, and might have
borne close inspection no better. They seemed the best-humored people
in the world, and on the kindliest terms with each other. The waiters
shared their pleasant mood, and served them affectionately, and were
now and then invited to join in the gay talk which babbled on over
dislocated aspirates, and filled the air with a sentiment of vagabond
enjoyment, of the romantic freedom of violated convention, of something
Gil Blas-like, almost picaresque.

If they had needed explanation it would have been given by the
announcement in the office of the hotel that a troupe of British blondes
was then appearing in Quebec for one week only.

After dinner they took possession of the parlor, and while one strummed
fitfully upon the ailing hotel piano, the rest talked, and talked shop,
of course, as all of us do when several of a trade are got together.

“W’at,” said the eldest of the dark-faced, black haired British blondes
of Jewish race,--“w’at are we going to give at Montrehal?”

“We’re going to give ‘Pygmalion,’ at Montrehal,” answered the British
blonde of American birth, good-humoredly burlesquing the erring h of her
sister.

“But we cahn’t, you know,” said the lady with the fringed forehead;
“Hagnes is gone on to New York, and there’s nobody to do Wenus.”

“Yes, you know,” demanded the first speaker, “oo’s to do Wenus?

“Bella’s to do Wenus,” said a third.

There was an outcry at this, and “‘Ow ever would she get herself up for
‘Venus?” and “W’at a guy she’ll look!” and “Nonsense! Bella’s too
‘eavy for Venus!” came from different lively critics; and the debate
threatened to become too intimate for the public ear, when one of their
gentlemen came in and said, “Charley don’t seem so well this afternoon.”
 On this the chorus changed its note, and at the proposal, “Poor Charley,
let’s go and cheer ‘im hop a bit,” the whole good-tempered company
trooped out of the parlor together.

Our tourists meant to give the rest of the afternoon to that sort of
aimless wandering to and fro about the streets which seizes a foreign
city unawares, and best develops its charm of strangeness. So they
went out and took their fill of Quebec with appetites keen through long
fasting from the quaint and old, and only sharpened by Montreal, and
impartially rejoiced in the crooked up-and-down hill streets; the
thoroughly French domestic architecture of a place that thus denied
having been English for a hundred years; the porte-cocheres beside every
house; the French names upon the doors, and the oddity of the bellpulls;
the rough-paved, rattling streets; the shining roofs of tin, and the
universal dormer-windows; the littleness of the private houses, and the
greatness of the high-walled and garden-girdled convents; the breadths
of weather-stained city wall, and the shaggy cliff beneath; the
batteries, with their guns peacefully staring through loop-holes of
masonry, and the red-coated sergeants flirting with nursery-maids upon
the carriages, while the children tumbled about over the pyramids of
shot and shell; the sloping market-place before the cathedral, where yet
some remnant of the morning’s traffic lingered under canvas canopies,
and where Isabel bought a bouquet of marigolds and asters of an old
woman peasant enough to have sold it in any market-place of Europe; the
small, dark shops beyond the quarter invaded by English retail trade;
the movement of all the strange figures of cleric and lay and military
life; the sound of a foreign speech prevailing over the English; the
encounter of other tourists, the passage back and forth through the
different city gates; the public wooden stairways, dropping flight after
flight from the Upper to the Lower Town; the bustle of the port, with
its commerce and shipping and seafaring life huddled close in under the
hill; the many desolate streets of the Lower Town, as black and ruinous
as the last great fire left them; and the marshy meadows beyond,
memorable of Recollets and Jesuits, of Cartier and Montcalm.

They went to the chapel of the Seminary at Laval University, and admired
the Le Brun, and the other paintings of less merit, but equal interest
through their suggestion of a whole dim religious world of paintings;
and then they spent half an hour in the cathedral, not so much in
looking at the Crucifixion by Vandyck which is there, as in reveling
amid the familiar rococo splendors of the temple. Every swaggering
statue of a saint, every rope-dancing angel, every cherub of those that
on the carven and gilded clouds above the high altar float--

     “Like little wanton boys that swim on bladders,”--

was precious to them; the sacristan dusting the sacred properties with a
feather brush, and giving each shrine a business-like nod as he passed,
was as a long-lost brother; they had hearts of aggressive tenderness for
the young girls and old women who stepped in for a half-hour’s devotion,
and for the men with bourgeois or peasant faces, who stole a moment from
affairs and crops, and gave it to the saints. There was nothing in the
place that need remind them of America, and its taste was exactly that
of a thousand other churches of the eighteenth century. They could
easily have believed themselves in the farthest Catholic South, but for
the two great porcelain stoves that stood on either side of the nave
near the entrance, and that too vividly reminded them of the possibility
of cold.

In fact, Quebec is a little painful in this and other confusions of the
South and North, and one never quite reconciles himself to them. The
Frenchmen, who expected to find there the climate of their native land,
and ripen her wines in as kindly a sun, have perpetuated the image of
home in so many things, that it goes to the heart with a painful emotion
to find the sad, oblique light of the North upon them. As you ponder
some characteristic aspect of Quebec,--a bit of street with heavy stone
houses opening upon a stretch of the city wall, with a Lombardy poplar
rising slim against it,--you say, to your satisfied soul, “Yes, it
is the real thing!” and then all at once a sense of that Northern sky
strikes in upon you, and makes the reality a mere picture. The sky is
blue, the sun is often fiercely hot; you could not perhaps prove that
the pathetic radiance is not an efflux of your own consciousness that
summer is but hanging over the land, briefly poising on wings which flit
at the first dash of rain, and will soon vanish in long retreat before
the snow. But somehow, from without or from within, that light of the
North is there.

It lay saddest, our travellers thought, upon the little circular
garden near Durham Terrace, where every brightness of fall flowers
abounded,--marigold, coxcomb, snap-dragon, dahlia, hollyhock, and
sunflower. It was a substantial and hardy efflorescence, and they
fancied that fainter-hearted plants would have pined away in that
garden, where the little fountain, leaping up into the joyless light,
fell back again with a musical shiver. The consciousness of this latent
cold, of winter only held in abeyance by the bright sun, was not deeper
even in the once magnificent, now neglected Governor’s Garden, where
there was actually a rawness in the late afternoon air, and whither they
were strolling for the view from its height, and to pay their duty to
the obelisk raised there to the common fame of Wolfe and Montcalm. The
sounding Latin inscription celebrates the royal governor-general who
erected it almost as much as the heroes to whom it was raised; but these
spectators did not begrudge the space given to his praise, for so fine a
thought merited praise. It enforced again the idea of a kind posthumous
friendship between Wolfe and Montcalm, which gives their memory its rare
distinction, and unites them, who fell in fight against each other, as
closely as if they had both died for the same cause.

Some lasting dignity seems to linger about the city that has once been a
capital; and this odor of fallen nobility belongs to Quebec, which was
a capital in the European sense, with all the advantages of a small
vice-regal court, and its social and political intrigues, in the French
times. Under the English, for a hundred years it was the centre
of Colonial civilization and refinement, with a governor-general’s
residence and a brilliant, easy, and delightful society, to which the
large garrison of former days gave gayety and romance. The honors of
a capital, first shared with Montreal and Toronto, now rest with
half-savage Ottawa; and the garrison has dwindled to a regiment
of rifles, whose presence would hardly be known, but for the natty
sergeants lounging, stick in hand, about the streets and courting
the nurse-maids. But in the days of old there were scenes of carnival
pleasure in the Governor’s Garden, and there the garrison band still
plays once a week, when it is filled by the fashion and beauty of
Quebec, and some semblance of the past is recalled. It is otherwise a
lonesome, indifferently tended place, and on this afternoon there was
no one there but a few loafing young fellows of low degree, French and
English, and children that played screaming from seat to seat and path
to path and over the too-heavily shaded grass. In spite of a conspicuous
warning that any dog entering the garden would be destroyed, the place
was thronged with dogs unmolested and apparently in no danger of the
threatened doom. The seal of a disagreeable desolation was given in
the legend rudely carved upon one of the benches, “Success to the Irish
Republic!”

The morning of the next day our tourists gave to hearing mass at the
French cathedral, which was not different, to their heretical senses,
from any other mass, except that the ceremony was performed with a
very full clerical force, and was attended by an uncommonly devout
congregation. With Europe constantly in their minds, they were
bewildered to find the worshippers not chiefly old and young women, but
men also of all ages and of every degree, from the neat peasant in
his Sabbath-day best to the modish young Quebecker, who spread his
handkerchief on the floor to save his pantaloons during supplication.
There was fashion and education in large degree among the men, and there
was in all a pious attention to the function in poetical keeping with
the origin and history of a city which the zeal of the Church had
founded.

A magnificent beadle, clothed in a gold-laced coat aid bearing a silver
staff, bowed to them when they entered, and, leading them to a pew,
punched up a kneeling peasant, who mutely resumed his prayers in the
aisle outside, while they took his place. It appeared to Isabel very
unjust that their curiosity should displace his religion; but she
consoled herself by making Basil give a shilling to the man who,
preceded by the shining beadle, came round to take up a collection.
The peasant could have given nothing but copper, and she felt that this
restored the lost balance of righteousness in their favor. There was
a sermon, very sweetly and gracefully delivered by a young priest of
singular beauty, even among clergy whose good looks are so notable as
those of Quebec; and then they followed the orderly crowd of worshippers
out, and left the cathedral to the sacristan and the odor of incense.

They thought the type of French-Canadian better here than at Montreal,
and they particularly noticed the greater number of pretty young girls.
All classes were well dressed; for though the best dressed could not be
called stylish according to the American standard, as Isabel decided,
and had only a provincial gentility, the poorest wore garments that were
clean and whole. Everybody, too, was going to have a hot Sunday dinner,
if there was any truth in the odors that steamed out of every door and
window; and this dinner was to be abundantly garnished with onions, for
the dullest nose could not err concerning that savor.

Numbers of tourists, of a nationality that showed itself superior to
every distinction of race, were strolling vaguely and not always
quite happily about; but they made no impression on the proper local
character, and the air throughout the morning was full of the sentiment
of Sunday in a Catholic city. There was the apparently meaningless
jangling of bells, with profound hushes between, and then more jubilant
jangling, and then deeper silence; there was the devout trooping of
the crowds to the churches; and there was the beginning of the long
afternoon’s lounging and amusement with which the people of that faith
reward their morning’s devotion. Little stands for the sale of knotty
apples and choke-cherries and cakes and cider sprang magically into
existence after service, and people were already eating and drinking at
them. The carriage-drivers resumed their chase of the tourists, and the
unvoiceful stir of the new week had begun again. Quebec, in fact, is but
a pantomimic reproduction of France; it is as if two centuries in a new
land, amidst the primeval silences of nature and the long hush of the
Northern winters, had stilled the tongues of the lively folk and made
them taciturn as we of a graver race. They have kept the ancestral
vivacity of manner; the elegance of the shrug is intact; the talking
hands take part in dialogue; the agitated person will have its share of
expression. But the loud and eager tone is wanting, and their dumb show
mystifies the beholder almost as much as the Southern architecture under
the slanting Northern sun. It is not America; if it is not France, what
is it?

Of the many beautiful things to see in the neighborhood of Quebec, our
wedding-journeyers were in doubt on which to bestow their one precious
afternoon. Should it be Lorette, with its cataract and its remnant of
bleached and fading Hurons, or the Isle of Orleans with its fertile
farms and its primitive peasant life, or Montmorenci, with the unrivaled
fall and the long drive through the beautiful village of Beauport?
Isabel chose the last, because Basil had been there before, and it had
to it the poetry of the wasted years in which she did not know him. She
had possessed herself of the journal of his early travels, among the
other portions and parcels recoverable from the dreadful past, and from
time to time on this journey she had read him passages out of it, with
mingled sentiment and irony, and, whether she was mocking or admiring,
equally to his confusion. Now, as they smoothly bowled away from the
city, she made him listen to what he had written of the same excursion
long ago.

It was, to be sure, a sad farrago of sentiment about the village and the
rural sights, and especially a girl tossing hay in the field. Yet it
had touches of nature and reality, and Basil could not utterly despise
himself for having written it. “Yes,” he said, “life was then a thing
to be put into pretty periods; now it’s something that has risks and
averages, and may be insured.”

There was regret, fancied or expressed, in his tone, that made her
sigh, “Ah! if I’d only had a little more money, you might have devoted
yourself to literature;” for she was a true Bostonian in her honor of
our poor craft.

“O, you’re not greatly to blame,” answered her husband, “and I forgive
you the little wrong you’ve done me. I was quits with the Muse, at any
rate, you know, before we were married; and I’m very well satisfied to
be going back to my applications and policies to-morrow.”

To-morrow? The word struck cold upon her. Then their wedding journey
would begin to end tomorrow! So it would, she owned with another sigh;
and yet it seemed impossible.

“There, ma’am,” said the driver, rising from his seat and facing round,
while he pointed with his whip towards Quebec, “that’s what we call the
Silver City.”

They looked back with him at the city, whose thousands of tinned roofs,
rising one above the other from the water’s edge to the citadel, were
all a splendor of argent light in the afternoon sun. It was indeed as if
some magic had clothed that huge rock, base and steepy flank and crest,
with a silver city. They gazed upon the marvel with cries of joy that
satisfied the driver’s utmost pride in it, and Isabel said, “To live
there, there in that Silver City, in perpetual sojourn! To be always
going to go on a morrow that never came! To be forever within one day of
the end of a wedding journey that never ended!”

From far down the river by which they rode came the sound of a cannon,
breaking the Sabbath repose of the air. “That’s the gun of the Liverpool
steamer, just coming in,” said the driver.

“O,” cried Isabel, “I’m thankful we’re only to stay one night more,
for now we shall be turned out of our nice room by those people who
telegraphed for it!”

There is a continuous village along the St. Lawrence from Quebec, almost
to Montmorenci; and they met crowds of villagers coming from the church
as they passed through Beauport. But Basil was dismayed at the change
that had befallen them. They had their Sunday’s best on, and the women,
instead of wearing the peasant costume in which he had first seen them,
were now dressed as if out of “Harper’s Bazar” of the year before. He
anxiously asked the driver if the broad straw hats and the bright sacks
and kirtles were no more. “O, you’d see them on weekdays, sir,” was
the answer, “but they’re not so plenty any time as they used to be.” He
opened his store of facts about the habitans, whom he praised for every
virtue,--for thrift, for sobriety, for neatness, for amiability; and his
words ought to have had the greater weight, because he was of the Irish
