" It didn't seem as if I could see the sky," 
said Matilda, gazing up into the living blue 
depth above her. " I can see it now." 
" You are funny," said Maria. " It don't 
seem to me as if I had seen anything, for 
weeka. Dear me ! to-day will be only too 
short." 
" It is half past six now," said Matilda. 
" Between now and nine o'clock to-night there 
are let me see ; half past twelve will be six 
hours, and half past six will be twelve hours ; 
six, seven, eight, nine, nine will be two 
hours and a half more ; that will be fourteen 
and a half hours." 
" Fourteen," said Maria, " That half we 
shall be expecting them." 
" Well, we've got to go in and put the 
house in order, first thing," said Matilda. 
" Let's make haste." 
" Then I'll let the kitchen fire go out," said 
Maria ; " and we'll dine on bread and butter 
and cold potatoes. I like cold potatoes; 
don't you?" 
" No," said Matilda ; " but I don't care 
what we have. I'll have bread and butter and 
cold coffee, Maria ; let us save the coffee. 
That will do." 
With these arrangements made, the day 
began. The two girls flew round in a kind 
of glee to put the rooms up and get all the 
work done out of the way. Work was a kind 
 
of play that morning. Then they agreed to 
take their dinner early and dress themselves. 
Maria was going out after that to see some 
friends and have some fun, she said. Matilda 
on her part had a sort of faint hope that to 
day, when it would be so opportune, it might 
happen that Norton Laval would come to see 
what had become of her. She was almost 
afraid to go out and lose the chance; 
though to be sure it was only the ghost of a 
chance. Yet for that ghost of a chance she 
did linger and wait in the house for an hour 
or two after Maria had gone out. Then it 
began to press upon her, that her aunt had 
ordered her to get some strawberries from Mr. 
Sample's for tea ; she was uneasy till it was 
done ; and at last took her hat and her basket 
and resolved to run round into Butternut 
street and get that off her mind. 
She was standing in Mr. Sample's shop, 
patiently waiting until her turn should come 
to be served, when a hand was laid upon her 
shoulder. 
" How do you do, Tilly ? You are grown 
a stranger." 
" O Mr. Richmond ! " was Matilda's 
startled response. And it was more startled 
than glad. 
" What is the matter? you look as if I had 
frightened you, almost," said the minister 
smiling. Matilda did not say what was the 
matter. 
" Have you been quite well ? " 
" Yes, sir." 
" You were not in your place on Suday." 
No, sir." 
And Matilda's tone of voice gave an unconscious commentary upon her very few 
words. 
" And you have not been to take tea with 
me in a great while." 
" No, Mr. Richmond." 
" Suppose you corne to-day." 
" O I cannot, sir." 
" Why not ? I think you can." 
" I don't know whether my aunt would let 
me." 
" We will go and ask her." 
" O no, sir ; she is not at home, Mr. Rich 
mond. She has gone to New York." 
" For how long ? " 
" Only till nine o'clock to-night." 
" Then there can be no possible harm in 
your coming to take tea at the parsonage." 
" I don't know whether she would let me," 
said Matilda, with an evident intimation that 
^he doubt was barrier enough. 
" You think she would not like it? " 
" I think perhaps she would not. 
Thank you, Mr. Richmond!" 
" But Tilly, I want to talk to you. Have 
you nothing to say to me ? " 
" Yes, sir. A great deal," said the child 
with the look of slow meditation. The 
minister considered her for a moment. 
" I shall take the decision of the question 
upon myself, Tilly, and I will make it all 
right with your aunt. Come to the parsonage, or rather, go to the parsonage ; and I will 
join you there presently. I hePve half an 
hour's business first to attend to. You must 
carry those strawberries home ? Very well ; 
then go straight to the parsonage and wait 
there for me." 
Arid with an encouraging nod and smile, 
Mr. Richmond walked off. Matilda took her 
basket home ; carried the key of the house 
door to Maria at Mrs. Trembleton's ; and set 
her face up Butternut street. 
She was very glad ; it seemed like getting 
out of prison ; though she was not altogether 
satisfied in her mind that Mr. Richmond 
might be able to make it all right with Mrs. 
Candy. She was obliged to risk that, for 
Mr. Richmond's invitation had had the force 
of an injunction. So she took the good of 
the moment, and turned in at the gate of the 
parsonage lane with something like a feeling 
of exultation and triumph. The shadow of 
the elms was sweet on the road ; the smooth 
quiet of the grounds, railed off' from worldly 
 
business and care, seemed proper only to the 
houses of peace which stood upon them. 
The old creamy brown church on one side ; 
on the other the pretty new Sunday school 
house ; in front, at the end of the avenue of 
elms, the brown door of the parsonage. Ma 
tilda felt as if her own - life had got away 
from out of peaceful enclosures; and she 
walked up the avenue slowly ; too slowly for 
such a young life-traveller. She had no need 
to knock this time, but just opened the door 
and went straight to Mr. Richmond's study. 
That was peace itself. It was almost too 
pleasant, to Matilda's fancy. A cool matting 
was on the floor; the light softened by green 
hanging blinds ; the soft gloom of books, as 
usual, all about; Mr. Richmond's table and 
work materials and empty chair telling of his 
habitual occupation ; and on his table a jar 
of beautiful flowers, which some parishioner's 
careful hand had brought for his pleasure. 
The room was sweet with geranium and lily 
odours ; and so still and pure-breathed, that 
 
the flowers in their depth of colour and 
wealth of fragrance seemed to speak through 
the stillness. Matilda did not ask what they 
said, though maybe she heard. She came a 
little way into the room, stood still and looked 
about her a while ; and then the child flung 
herself down on her knees beside a chair and 
burst into a passion of weeping. 
It lasted so long and was so violent that 
she never heard Mr. Richmond come in. And 
he on his part was astonished. At the first 
sound of his voice Matilda stopped crying 
and let him raise her from the floor ; but he 
did not put her into a chair. Instead of that 
he sat down himself and drew her to his side. 
Of course he asked what the matter was. 
Also of course Matilda could not tell him. 
Mr. Richmond found that out, and then took 
another road to his object. He let Matilda 
get quite quiet ; gave her a bunch of grapes 
to eat, while he seemed to busy himself 
among his books and papers ; at last put 
that down and took Matilda's plate from her. 
" You do not come to church in the evening 
lately, I observe, Tilly," he remarked. 
" No, sir. Aunt Candy does not like me to 
go." 
" And you have not been to the prayer 
meeting either, or to the meetings of our 
Commission. The ' Band ' is called our 
* Christian Commission,' now." 
" No, sir." And Matilda's eyes watered. 
" For the same reason ? " 
" Yes, sir." 
" Not because you have lost pleasure in 
such meetings ? " 
" O no, Mr. Richmond ! Did you think I 
had ? " she asked timidly. 
" I could not know, you know," said Mr. 
Richmond, " and I wanted to ask you. I 
am very glad to hear it is no bad reason that 
keeps you away." 
" I didn't say that, Mr. Richmond," Ma 
tilda answered slowly. " Could it be a good 
reason ? " 
" Why it might," said Mr. Richmond cheerfully. " You might be not well enough ; or 
you might have more important duties to do 
at home ; or you might be unwilling to come 
alone ; and all those might be good reasons 
for staying away." 
" It was no such reason," said Matilda. 
There was silence. 
" You wanted to talk to me, you said," 
Mr. Richmond observed. 
" Yes, Mr. Richmond, I do ; if I only knew 
how." 
"Is it so difficult? It never used to be 
very difficult, Matilda." 
" No, sir ; but things are different." 
" You are not different, are you ? " 
" I don't know " said Matilda slowly ; 
" I am afraid so. I feel very different." 
" In what way ? " 
" Mr. Richmond,," she went on, still slowly, 
and as if she were meditating her words, 
" I don't see how I can do just right." 
" In what respect ? " said the minister very 
quietly. Again Matilda paused. 
" Mr. Richmond is it always wrong to 
hate people ? " 
" What things should make it right for us 
to hate people ? " 
" I don't know" said Matilda in the same 
considering way ; " when there isn't the 
least thing you can love them for, or like 
them?" 
" What if the Lord had gone by that rule 
in dealing with us ? " 
" O, but he is so good." 
" And has commanded us to be just as 
good, has he not ? " 
" But can we, Mr. Richmond ? " 
"What do you think, Tilly, the Lord 
meant when he gave us the order? " 
" He meant we should try." 
" Do you think he meant that we should 
only try ? do you think he did not mean that 
we should be as he said? " 
" And love hateful people ? " 
What do you think, Tilly ? " 
" O Mr. Richmond, I think I'm no't good." 
 
" What is the matter, my dear child ? " Mr. 
Richmond said tenderly, as Matilda burst into 
quiet tears again. " What troubles you ? " 
" That, Mr. Richmond. I'm afraid I am 
not good, for I am not like that ; and I don't 
see how I can be." 
" What is the hindrance ? or the difficulty?" 
" Because, Mr. Richmond, I am afraid I 
hate my aunt Candy." 
Mr. Richmond was quite silent, and Ma 
tilda sobbed awhile. 
" Do I understand you aright ? " he said at 
last. " Do you say that you hate your aunt ? " 
" I am afraid I do." 
" Why should you hate her ? Is she not 
very kind to you ? " 
" I do not call her kind,!' said Matilda. 
" In what respect is she not kind ? " 
The child sobbed again, with the unspoken 
difficulty; stifled sobs. 
" She is not cruel to you ? " said Mr. 
Richmond. 
" I think she is cruel," said Matilda ; " for 
she does not in the least care about doing 
things that I do not like ; she does not care 
at all whether I like them or not. I think 
she likes it." 
"What?" 
"Just to do things that I can't bear, Mr. 
Richmond ; and she knows I can't bear 
them." 
" What is her reason for doing these 
things?" 
" I think the greatest reason is because she 
knows I can't bear them. I think I am 
growing wicked." 
" Is it because you displease her in anyway, that she does it for a punishment ? " 
" I do not displease her in any way," said 
poor Matilda. 
" And yet she likes to grieve you ? " 
" She said I wanted putting down. And 
now, I suppose I am put down. I am just 
in prison. I can't do anything. I can't go to 
Mrs. Laval's house any more. I must not 
 
go to Lilac lane any more. She won't let 
me. And oh, Mr. Richmond, we were going 
to do such nice things ! " - 
" Who were going to do such nice things ? " 
" Norton Laval and I." 
" What things were they ? " 
" We were going to do suck nice things ! 
Mrs. Laval gave me money for them, and 
Norton, he has money always ; and we were 
going to have Mrs. Eldridge's house cleaned, 
and get a bedstead, and towels, and a table, 
and ever so many things for her, to make her 
comfortable ; and I thought it would be so 
pleasant to get the things and take them to 
her. And aunt Candy says I am not to go 
again." 
"Did you tell your aunt what you were 
going to do?" 
"O no, sir; she thinks I have no business 
with such things ; and she does not like any 
body to go into very poor houses." 
" Then you did not ask her leave ? " 
" It never is any use to ask her anything. 
She won't let me go out to church now, 
except in the morning, and then sometimes 
she makes me go with her." 
Mr. Richmond was silent for some time. 
Matilda grew quiet, and they both were still. 
" And the worst of it all is," resumed 
Matilda, at last, "that it makes me hate her." 
" I do not like to hear you say that." 
" No, Mr. Richmond," said Matilda very 
sorrowfully. 
" Do you think it is right? " 
No, sir." 
" Do you think you cannot help doing 
what is wrong." 
" I don't think I can like aunt Candy." 
" We will pass that. But between not 
liking and hating, there is a wide distance. 
Are you obliged to hate her ? " 
Matilda did not answer. 
" Do you think anybody can be a child of 
God and have hatred in his heart ? " 
" How can I help it, Mr. Richmond ? " 
said Matilda piteously. 
 
" How can you help anything ? The best 
way is to be so full of love to Jesus that 
you love everybody for his sake." 
" But people that are not good " said 
Matilda. 
" It is easy to love people that are good. 
The wonder of the love of the Lord Jesus is, 
that it comes to people who are not good. 
And his children are like him. ' Be ye followers of God,' he tells them, ' as dear children ; 
and walk in love.' " 
" I am not like that, Mr. Richmond," Ma 
tilda said sadly. 
" Didn't you love little Lena Dow ? I am 
sure he is not very good." 
" But he never troubled me, much," said 
Matilda. " He does not make me miserable 
all the day long." 
Mr. Richmond paused again. 
" Our Master knew what it was to be ill 
treated by bad people, Matilda." 
Yes, Mr. Richmond." 
" How did he feel towards them ?" 
 
" O but I am not like that," said Matilda 
again. 
" You must be, if you are his child." 
" Must I ? " said Matilda, the tears dropping from her eyes quietly. "How can I? 
If you only knew, Mr. Richmond ! " 
" No matter ; the Lord knows. Tell him 
all about it ; and pray to be made so like 
him and to love him so well, that you may 
love even this unkind friend." 
" I don't think she is my friend," said Matilda ; " but it don't make any difference." 
" No, it does not make any difference." 
" Mr. Richmond," said Matilda timidly 
after a moment, " won't you pray with me ? " 
Which the minister instantly did. Matilda 
wept quietly all the time of his prayer and 
after they rose from their knees, leaning her 
head on Mr. Richmond's shoulder where she 
had poured out her troubles once before. 
Her friend let her alone, keeping his arm 
round her kindly, till the child raised her head 
and wiped her eyes. 
 
" Do you feel better ? " he whispered then. 
Matilda answered "yes," in an answering 
whisper. 
" But Mr. Richmond," she said presently, 
" I am very sorry for Lilac lane." 
" I am very sorry," he said. 
" There is the money in my purse, all ready, 
and our list of things. It would have been 
so pleasant." 
" Very pleasant," Mr. Richmond answered. 
" And now I can't do Band work any more," 
Matilda went on. " I have no opportunities 
for anything any more. I cannot do anything 
at all." 
" There might be something to say about 
that," Mr. Richmond replied ; " but I think 
you have had enough talk just now. Is your 
sorrow on account of Lilac lane because you 
have lost the pleasure? or because Mrs. 
Eldridge has lost it ? " 
" Why, both," said Matilda. 
" I suppose so. Would it be any comfort 
 
to you to know that the work was done, even 
though you did not see it?" 
" What, you mean the house cleaned and 
the things got, and Mrs. Eldridge fixed up as 
we meant to do it ? " 
" I mean that." 
" O yes," said Matilda. " If I could know 
it was done, I would not be half so sorry 
about it. But Norton can't manage alone ; 
and Maria has no time." 
" No, but somebody else might. Now go 
off and talk to Miss Redwood ; and make 
some more gingerbread or something; and 
after tea we will see about your lost opportunities if you like." 
"Would Miss Redwood do all that for 
me?" said Matilda. 
" You can consult her and find out." 
CHAPTER VII. 
MISS REDWOOD was mopping up the 
yellow painted floor of her kitchen, as 
Matilda softly pushed open the door and 
looked in. 
" Who's that? " said the housekeeper. 
"Floor's all wet; and I don't want no company till there's a place for 'em to be. Stop ! 
is that Tilly Englefield? Why I declare it 
is ! Come right in, child. You're the 
greatest stranger in town." 
" But I am afraid to come in, Miss Redwood." 
" Then you're easy scared. Come in, child. 
Step up on that cheer and sit down on my 
table. There! now I nn look at you, and 
you can look at me, if you want to. I'll be 
through directly, and it won't take this paint 
 
no time to dry. How's all the folks at your 
house? " 
" Gone to New York for the day ; aunt 
Candy and cousin Clarissa are." 
" Wouldn't ha' hurted 'em to have took 
you along. Why didn't they ? " 
" O they were going shopping," said Ma 
tilda. 
" Well, had you any objections to go shopping ? " said the housekeeper, sitting back on 
her feet and wringing her cloth, as she looked 
at Matilda perched up on the table. 
" I hadn't any shopping to do, you know," 
said Matilda. 
" I hain't no shopping to do, nother," said 
Miss Redwood resuming her work vigorously ; 
"but I always like to see other folks' goins 
on. It's a play to me, jest to go in 'long o' 
somebody else and see 'em pull down all the 
things, and turn over all the colours in the 
rainbow r , and suit themselves with purchases 
I wouldn't look at, and leave my gowns and 
shawls high and dry on the shelf. And when 
 
I go out, I have bought as many dresses as 
they have, and I have kept my money for all." 
" But sometimes people buy what you 
would like too, Miss Redwood, don't they ? " 
" Well, child, not often ; 'cause, you see, 
folks's minds is sot on different things; and 
somehow, folks's gowns have a way o' comin' 
out o' their hearts. I kin tell, pretty well, 
what sort o' disposition there is inside of a 
dress, or under a bonnet, without askin' 
nobody to give me a character. What's be 
come o' you all these days ? Ha' you made 
any more gingerbread ? " 
No." 
" I guess you've forgotten all about it, then. 
What's the reason, eh ? " 
" I have been too busy, Miss Redwood." 
" Goin' to school again ? " 
" No, I've been busy at home." 
" But makin' gingerbread is play, child ; 
that ain't work." 
Matilda was silent; and the housekeeper 
presently came to a pause again ; sat back on 
her feet, wrung her mopping cloth, and considered Matilda. 
" Don't you want to make some this after 
noon ? " 
" If you please ; yes, I should like it," said 
the little girl. 
" Humph ! " said the housekeeper. " What 
have you been tiring yourself with to-day ? " 
" I am not tired," said Matilda. " Thank 
you, Miss Redwood." 
" If I was to get a good bowl o' sour cream 
now, and shew you how to toss up a shortcake how would you like that ? " 
"  I would like it very much if I
could." 
" Sit still then," said the housekeeper, " till 
my floor's dry. Why hain't you been to see 
me before, eh ? Everybody else in creation 
has been in at the parsonage door but you. 
You ain't begin nin' to take up with that 
French minister, air you ? " 
" O no indeed, Miss Redwood ! But he 
isn't a French minister." 
 
