THE 1st of September saw go into complete effect 
the laws enacted in 1867, whicli have inaugurated 
the greatest changes in business and social life, and mark 
an era in the progress of the people worthy of fetes and 
commemorative bronzes. We heard the other night at 
the opera-house " William Tell " unmutilated. For many- 
years this liberty-breathing opera was not permitted to 
be given in Bavaria, except with all the life of it cut out. 
It was first presented entire by order of young King 
Ludwig, who, they say, was induced to command its 
unmutilated reproduction at the solicitation of Richard 
Wagner, who used to be, and very likely is now, a 
" Red," and was banished from Saxony in 1848 for fight- 
ing on the people's side of a barricade in Dresden. It is 
the fashion to say of the young king, that he pays no 
heed to the business of the kingdom. You hear that the 
handsome boy only cares for music and horseback exer- 
cise : he plays much on the violin, and rides away into 
the forest attended by only one groom, and is gone for 
days together. He has composed an opera, which has 
not yet been put on the stage. People, when they speak 
of him, tap their foreheads with one finger. But I don't 
believe it. The same liberality that induced him, years 
ago, to restore William Tell to the stage has character- 
ized the government under him ever since. 

Formerly no one could engage in any trade or busi- 
ness in Bavaria without previous examination before, 



and permission from, a magistrate. If a boy wished to 
be a baker, for instance, he had first to serve four years 
of apprenticeship. If then he wished to set up business 
for himself, he must get permission, after passing an 
examination. This permission could rarely be obtained ; 
for the magistrate usually decided that there were 
already as many bakers as the town needed. His only 
other resource was to buy out an existing business, and 
this usually costs a good deal. When he petitioned for 
the privilege of starting a bakery, all the bakers pro- 
tested. And he could not even buy out a stand, and 
carry it on, without strict examination as to qualificar- 
tions. This was the case in every trade. And to make 
matters worse, a master workman could not employ a 
journeyman out of his shop ; so that, if a journeyman 
could not get a regular situation, he had no work. Then 
there were endless restrictions upon the manufacture and 
sale of articles : one person could only make one article, 
or one portion of an article; one might manufacture 
shoes for women, but not for men ; he might make an 
article in the shop and sell it, but could not sell it if any 
one else made it outside, or vice versa. 

Nearly all this mass of useless restriction on trades 
and business, which palsied all effort in Bavaria, is 
removed. Persons are free to enter into any business 
they like. The system of apprenticeship continues, but 
so modified as not to be oppressive ; and all trades are 
left to regulate themselves by natural competition. Al- 
ready Munich has felt the benefit of the removal of 
these restrictions, which for nearly a year has been anti- 
cipated, in a growth of population and increased busi- 
ness. 

But the social change is still more important. The 
restrictions upon marriage were a serious injury to the 
state. If Hans wished to marry, and felt himself ade- 
quate to the burdens and responsibilities of the double 
state, and the honest fraulein was quite willing to under- 
take its trials and risks with him, it was not at all 





enough that in the moonlighted beer-garden, while the 
band played, and they peeled the stinging radish, and 
ate the Switzer cheese, and drank from one mug, she 
allowed his arm to steal around her stout waist. All 
this love and fitness went for nothing in the eyes of the 
magistrate, who referred the application for permission 
to marry to his associate advisers, and they inquired into 
the applicant's circumstances ; and if, in their opinion, 
he was not worth enough money to support a wife prop- 
erly, permission was refused for him to try. The conse- 
quence was late marriages, and fewer than there ought 
to be, and other ill results. Now the matrimonial gates 
are lifted high, and the young man has not to ask per- 
mission of any snuffy old magistrate to marry. I do not 
hear that the consent of the maidens is more difficult to 
obtain than formerly. 

No city of its size is more prolific of pictures than 
Munich. I do not know how all its artists manage to 
live, but many of them count upon the American public. 
I hear everywhere that the Americans like this, and do 
not like that ; and I am sorry to say that some artists, 
who have done better things, paint professedly to suit 
Americans, and not to express their own conceptions of 
beauty. There is one who is now quite devoted to 
dashing off rather lamp-blacky moonhghts, because, he 
says, the Americans fancy that sort of thing. I see one 
of his smirchy pictures hanging in a shop-window, await- 
ing the advent of the citizen of the United States. I 
trust that no word of mine will injure the sale of the 
moonlights. There are some excellent figure-painters 
here, and one can still buy good modern pictures for 
reasonable prices. 



FASHION IN THE STREETS. 

" ITAS there ever elsewhere such a blue, transparent 
sky as this here in Munich? At noon, looking 
up to it from the street, above the gray houses, the color 
and depth are marvellous. It makes a background for 
the Grecian art buildings and gateways, that would 
cheat a risen Athenian who should see it into the behef 
that he was restored to his beautiful city. The color 
holds, too, toward sundown, and seems to be poured, like 
something solid, into the streets of the city. 

You should see then the Maximilian Strasse, when the 
light floods the platz where Maximilian in bronze sits 
in his chair, illuminates the frescos on the pediments 
of the Hof Theatre, brightens the Pompeian red under 
the colonnade of the post-office, and streams down the 
gay thoroughfare to the trees and statues in front of the 
National Museum, and into the gold-dusted atmosphere 
beyond the Isar. The street is filled with promenaders : 
strangers who saunter alons; with the red book in one 
hand, — a man and his wife, the woman dragged reluc- 
tantly past the windows of fancy articles, which are " so 
cheap," the man breaking his neck to look up at the 
buildings, especially at the comical heads and figures in 
stone that stretch out from the little oriel-windows in 
the highest story of the Four-Seasons Hotel, and look 
down upon the moving throng ; Munich bucks in coats 
of velvet, swinging; ligbt canes, and smoking cigars 
through long and elaborately-carved meerschaum hold- 
ers ; Munich ladies in dresses of that inconvenient length 


tliat neither sweeps the pavement nor clears it ; peasants 

from the Tyrol, the men in black, tight breeches, that 

button from the knee to the ankle, short jackets and 

vests set thickly with round silver buttons, and conical 

-hats with feathers, and the women in short quilted and 

quilled petticoats, of barrel-like roundness from the 

broad hips down, short waists ornamented with chains 

and barbarous brooches of white metal, with the oddest 

head-gear of gold and silver heirlooms ; students with 

little red or green embroidered brimless caps, with the 

ribbon across the breast, a folded shawl thrown over one 

shoulder, and the inevitable switch-cane ; porters in red 

caps, with a coil of twine about the waist ; young fellows 

from Bohemia, with green coats, or coats trimmed with 

green, and green felt hats with a stiff feather stuck in 

the side ; and soldiers by the hundreds, of a,ll ranks and 

organizations ; common fellows in blue, staring in at the 

shop-windows, officers in resplendent uniforms, clanking 

their swords as they swagger past. Now and then, an 

elegant equipage dashes by, — perhaps the four horses of 

the handsome young king, with mounted postihons and 

outriders, or a liveried carriage of somebody born with 

a von before his name. As the twilight comes on, the 

shutters of the shop-windows are put up. It is time to 

go to the opera, for the curtain rises at half-past six, or 

to the beer-gardens, where delicious music marks, but 

does not interrupt, the flow of excellent beer. 

Or you may if you choose, and I advise you to do it, 
walk at the same hour in the English Garden, which is 
but a step from the arcades of the Hof Garden, — but a 
step to the entrance, whence you may wander for miles 
and miles in the most enchanting scenery. Art has not 
been allowed here to spoil nature. The trees, which 
are of magnificent size, are left to grow naturally ; the 
Isar, which is turned into it, flows in more than one 
stream with its mountain impetuosity ; the lake is grace- 
fully indented and overhung with trees, and presents 
ever-changing aspects of loveliness as you walk along its 





banks ; there are open, sunny meadows, in whicli single 
giant trees or splendid groups of them stand, and walks 
without end winding under leafy Gothic arches. You 
know already that Munich owes this fine park to the 
foresight and liberality of an American Tory, Benjamin 
Thompson (Count Rumford), born in E,umford, Vt., who 
also relieved Munich of beo-gars. 

I have spoken of the number of soldiers in Munich. 
For six weeks the Landwehr, or militia, has been in 
camp in various parts of Bavaria. There was a grand 
review of them the other day on the Field of Mars, by 
the king, and many of them have now gone home. They 
strike an unmilitary man as a very efficient body of troops. 
So far as I could see, they were armed with breech-load- 
ing rifles. There is a treaty by which Bavaria agreed 
to assimilate her military organization to that of Prussia. 
It is thus that Bismarck is continually getting ready. 
But if the Landwehr is gone, there are yet remaining 
troops enough of the line. Their chief use, so far as it 
concerns me, is to make pageants in the streets, and to 
send their bands to play at noon in the public squares. 
Every day, when the sun shines down upon the mounted 
statue of Ludwig I., in front of the Odeon, a band plays 
in an open Loggia, and there is always a crowd of idlers 
in the square to hear it. Everybody has leisure for that 
sort of thing here in Europe ; and one can easily learn 
how to be idle and let the world wag. They have found 
out here what is disbelieved in America, — that the world 
will continue to turn over once in about twenty-four 
hours (they are not accurate as to the time) without 
their aid. To return to our soldiers. The cavalry most 
impresses me ; the men are so finely mounted, and they 
ride royally. In these sparkling mornings, when the 
regiments clatter past, with swelling music and shining 
armor, riding away to I know not what adventure and 
glory, I confess that I long to follow them. I have long had 
this desire ; and the other morning, determining to satisfy 
it, I seized my hat and went after the prancing proces- 




sion. I am sorry I did. For, after trudging after it 
through street after street, the fine horsemen all rode 
through an arched gateway, and disappeared in barracks, 
to my great disgust ; and the troopers dismounted, and 
led their steeds into stables. 

And yet one never loses a walk here in Munich. I 
found myself that morning by the Isar Thor, a restored 
mediaeval city-gate. The gate is double, with flanking 
octagonal towers, enclosing a quadrangle. Upon the 
inner wall is a fresco of '' The Crucifixion." Over the 
outer front is a representation, in fresco painting, of the 
triumphal entry into the city of the Emperor Louis of 
Bavaria after the battle of Ampfing. On one side of the 
gate is a portrait of the Virgin, on gold ground, and on 
the other a very passable one of the late Dr. Hawes of 
Hartford, with a Pope's hat on. Walking on, I came to 
another arched gateway and clock-tower ; near it an old 
church, with a high wall adjoining, whereon is a fresco 
of cattle led to slaughter, showing that I am in the vicin- 
ity of the Victual Market; and I enter it through a 
narrow, crooked alley. There is nothing there but an 
assemblage of shabby booths and fruit-stands, and au 
ancient stone tower in ruins and overgrown with ivy. 

Leaving this, I came out to the Marian Platz, where 
stands the column, with the statue of the Virgin and 
Child, set up by Maximilian I. in 1638 to celebrate the 
victory in the battle which established the Catholic 
supremacy in Bavaria. It is a favorite praying-place 
for the lower classes. Yesterday was a fete day, and 
the base of the column and half its height are lost in a 
mass of flowers and evergreens. Li front is erected an 
altar with a broad, carpeted platform ; and a strip of the 
platz before it is enclosed with a railing, within which 
are praying-benches. The sun shines down hot ; but 
there are several poor women kneeling there, with their 
baskets beside them. I happen along there at sundown ; 
and there are a score of women kneeling on the hard 
stoneSj outside the railing saying their prayers in loud 


voices. The mass of flowers is still sweet and gay and 
fresh ; a fountain with fantastic figures is flashing near 
by ; the crowd, going home to supper and beer, gives no 
heed to the praying; the stolid drosche-drivers stand 
listlessly by. At the head of the square is an artillery 
station, and a row of cannon frowns on it. On one side 
is a house with a tablet in the wall, recording the fact 
that Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden once lived in it. 

When we came to Munich, the great annual fair was 
in progress ; and the large Maximilian Platz (not to be 
confounded with the street of that name) was filled with 
booths of cheap merchandise, puppet-shows, lottery 
shanties, and all sorts of popular amusements. It was 
a fine time to study peasant costumes. The city was 
crowded with them on Sunday; and let us not forget 
that the first visit of the peasants was to the churches : 
they invariably attended early mass before they set out 
upon the day's pleasure. Most of the churches have 
services at all hours till noon, some of them with fine 
classical and military music. One could not but be 
struck with the devotional manner of the simple women, 
in their queer costumes, who walked into the gaudy edi- 
fices, were absorbed in their prayers for an hour, and 
then went away. I suppose they did not know how odd 
they looked in their high, round fur hats, or their fan- 
tastic old ornaments, nor that there was any thing amiss 
in bringing their big baskets into church with them. 
At least, their simple, unconscious manner was better 
than that of many of the city people, some of whom 
stare about a good deal, while going through the service, 
and stop in the midst of crossings and genuflections to 
take snuff" and pass it to their neighbors. But there are 
always present simple and homelike sort of people, who 
neither follow the fashions nor look round on them ; 
respectable, neat old ladies, in the faded and carefully- 
preserved silk gowns, such as the New-England women 
wear to " meeting." 

No one can help admiring the simplicity, kindliness, 





and honesty of the Germans. The universal courtesy 
and friendliness of manner have a very different seeming 
from the politeness of the French. At the hotels in the 
country, the landlord and his wife and the servant join 
in hoping you will sleep well when you go to bed. The 
little maid at Heidelberg who served our meals always 
went to the extent of wishing us a good appetite when 
she had brought in the dinner. Here in Munich the 
people we have occasion to address in the street are uni- 
formly courteous. The shop-keepers are obliging, and 
rarely servile, like the English. You are thanked, and 
punctiliously wished the good day, whether you purchase 
any thing or not. In shops tended by women, gentlemen 
invariably remove their hats. If you buy only a kreu- 
zer's worth of fruit of an old woman, she says words that 
would be, literally translated, " I thank you beautifully.'* 
With all this, one looks kindly on the childish love the 
Germans have for titles. It is, I believe, difficult for the 
German mind to comprehend that we can be in good 
standing at home, unless we have some title prefixed to 
our names, or some descriptive phrase added. Our good 
landlord, who waits at the table and answers our bell, 
one of whose tenants is a living baron, having no title 
to put on his door-plate under that of the baron, must 
needs dub himself " privatier ; " and he insists upon 
prefixing the name of this unambitious writer with the 
ennobling von; and at the least he insists, in common 
with the tradespeople, that I am a "Herr Doctor." 
The bills of purchases by madame come made out to 

"Frau , well-born." At a hotel in Heidelberg, 

where I had registered my name with that distinctness 
of penmanship for which newspaper men are justly con- 
spicuous, and had added to my own name " & wife," I 
was not a little flattered to appear in the reckoning aa 
" Herr Doctor Mamesweise." 



THE GOTTESACKER AND BAVARIAN 
FUNERALS. 

TO change the subject from gay to grave. The 
Gottesacker of Munich is called the finest cemetery 
in Germany ; at least, it surpasses them in the artistic 
taste of its monuments. Natural beauty it has none : it is 
simply a long, narrow strip of ground enclosed in walls, 
with straight, parallel walks running the whole length, 
and narrow cross-walks; and yet it is a lovely burial- 
ground. There are but few trees ; but the whole enclosure 
is a conservatory of beautiful flowers. Every grave is cov- 
ered with them, every monument is surrounded with 
them. The monuments are unpretending in size, but 
there are many fine designs, and many finely-executed 
busts and statues and allegorical figures, in both marble 
and bronze. The place is full of sunlight and color. I 
noticed that it was much frequented. In front of every 
place of sepulchre stands a small urn for water, with a 
brush hanging by, with which to sprinkle the flowers. I 
saw, also, many women and children coming and going 
with watering-pots, so that the flowers never droop for 
want of care. At the lower end of the old ground is an 
open arcade, wherein are some effigies and busts, and 
many ancient tablets set into the wall. Beyond this is 
the new cemetery, an enclosure surrounded by a high 
wall of. brick, and on the inside by an arcade. The 
space within is planted with flowers, and laid out for the 
burial of the people; the arcades are devoted to the 
occupation of those who can afford costly tombs. Only 


a small number of them are yet occupied ; there are some 
good busts and monuments, and some frescos on the 
panels rather more striking for size and color than for 
beauty. 

Between the two cemeteries is the house for the dead. 
When I walked down the long central allee of the old 
ground, I saw at the farther end, beyond a fountain, 
twinkling lights. Coming nearer, I found that they pro- 
ceeded from the large windows of a building, which was 
a part of the arcade. People were looking in at the win- 
dows, going and coming to and from them continually ; 
and I was prompted by otiriosity to look within. A most 
unexpected sight met my eye. In a long room, upon ele- 
vated biers, lay people dead: they were so disposed 
that the faces could be seen ; and there they rested in a 
solemn repose. Officers in uniform, citizens in plain 
dress, matrons and maids in the habits that they wore 
when living, or in the white robes of the grave. About 
most of them were lighted candles. About all of them 
were flowers : some were almost covered with bouquets. 
There were rows of children, — little ones scarce a span 
long, — in the white caps and garments of innocence, as 
if asleep in beds of bowers. How naturally they all were 
lying, as if only waiting to be called ! Upon the thumb 
of every adult was a ring in which a string was tied that 
went through a pulley above and communicated with a 
bell in the attendant's room. How frightened he would 
be if the bell should ever sound, and he should go into 
that hall of the dead to see who rang ! And yet it is a 
most wise and humane provision ; and many years ago, 
there is a tradition, an entombment alive was prevented 
by it. There are three rooms in all ; and all those who 
die in Munich must be brought and laid in one of them, 
to be seen of all who care to look therein. I suppose 
that wealth and rank have some privileges ; but it is the 
law that a person having been pronounced dead by the 

Ehysician shall be the same day brought to the dead- 
ouse, and lie there three whole days before interment. 





There is something peculiar in the obsequies of Mu- 
nich, especially in the Catholic portion of the population. 
Shortly after the death, there is a short service in the 
courtyard of the house, which, with the entrance, is liung 
in costly mourning, if the deceased was rich. The body 
is then carried in the car to the dead-house, attended by 
the priests, the male members of the family, and a pro- 
cession of torch-bearers, if that can be afforded. Tliree 
days after, the bui-ial takes place from the dead-house, 
only males attending. The women never go to the fune- 
ral ; but some days after, of which public notice is given 
by advertisement, a public service is held in church, at 
which all the family are present, and to which the friends 
are publicly invited. Funeral obsequies are as costly 
here as in America ; but every thing is here regulated 
and fixed by custom. There are as many as five or six 
classes of funerals recognized. Those of the first class, 
as to rank and expense, cost about a thousand guldens. 
The second class is divided into six sub-classes. The 
third is divided into two. The cost of the first of the 
third class is about four hundred guldens. The low- 
est class of those able to have a funeral costs twenty-five 
guldens. A gulden is about two francs. There are no 
carriages used at the funerals of Catholics, only at those 
of Protestants and Jews. 

I spoke of the custom of advertising the deaths. A 
considerable portion of the daily newspapers is devoted 
to these announcements, which are printed in display 
type, like the advertisements of dry-goods sellers with 
you. I will roughly translate one which I happen to see 
just now. It reads, " Death advertisement. It has 
pleased God the Almighty, in his inscrutable providence, 
to take away our innermost loved, best husband, father, 

grandfather, uncle, brother-in-law, and cousin, Herr 

, dyer of cloth and silk, yesterday night, at eleven 
