
MANDEVILLE. That 's because the performers 
acted the worn stage plays, and attempted to do 
them in the manner they had seen on the stage. 
It is not always so. 

THE FIRE -TENDER. I suppose Mandeville 
would say that acting has got into a mannerism 
which is well described as stagey ; and is sup 
posed to be natural to the stage, just as half the 
modern poets write in a recognized form of lit 
erary manufacture, without the least impulse from 
within, and not with the purpose of saying any 
thing, but of turning out a piece of literary work. 
That 's the reason we have so much poetry that 
impresses one like sets of faultless cabinet-furni 
ture made by machinery. 

THE PARSON. But you needn't talk of nature 



 

or naturalness in acting or in anything. I tell 
you nature is poor stuff. It can't go alone. 
Amateur acting they get it up at church socia 
bles nowadays is apt to be as near nature as a 
school-boy's declamation. Acting is the Devil's 
art. 

THE MISTRESS. Do you object to such inno  
cent amusement ? 

MANDEVILLE. What the Parson objects to is, 
that he isn't amused. 

THE PARSON. What 's the use of objecting ? 
It 's the fashion of the day to amuse people into 
the kingdom of heaven. 

HERBERT. The Parson has got us off the 
track. My notion about the stage is, that it keeps 
along pretty evenly with the rest of the world ; 
the stage is usually quite up to the level of the 
audience. Assumed dress on the stage, since 
you were speaking of that, makes people no 
more constrained and self-conscious than it 
does off the stage. 

THE MISTRESS. What sarcasm is coming 
now? 

HERBERT. Well, you may laugh, but the 



 

world hasn't got used to good clothes yet. 
The majority do not wear them with ease. 
People who only put on their best on rare and 
stated occasions step into an artificial feeling. 

OUR NEXT DOOR. I wonder if that 's the 
reason the Parson finds it so difficult to get 
hold of his congregation. 

HERBERT. I don't know how else to account 
for the formality and vapidity of a set " party," 
where all the guests are clothed in a manner to 
which they are unaccustomed, dressed into a 
condition of vivid self-consciousness. The same 
people, who know each other perfectly well, 
will enjoy themselves together without restraint 
in their ordinary apparel. But nothing can be 
more artificial than the behavior of people to 
gether who rarely " dress up." It seems impos 
sible to make the conversation as fine as the 
clothes, and so it dies in a kind of inane helpless 
ness. Especially is this true in the country, 
where people have not obtained the mastery of 
their clothes that those who live in the city have. 
It is really absurd, at this stage of our civiliza 
tion, that we should be so affected by such an 



 

insignificant accident as dress. Perhaps Mande- 
ville can tell us whether this clothes panic pre 
vails in the older societies. 

THE PARSON. Don't. We 've heard it ; about 
its being one of the Englishman's thirty-nine 
articles that he never shall sit down to dinner 
without a dress-coat, and all that. 

THE MISTRESS. I wish, for my part, that 
everybody who has time to eat a dinner would 
dress for that, the principal event of the day, and 
do respectful and leisurely justice to it. 

THE YOUNG LADY. It has always seemed sin 
gular to me that men who work so hard to build 
elegant houses, and have good dinners, should 
take so little leisure to enjoy either. 

MANDEVILLE. If the Parson will permit me, I 
should say that the chief clothes question abroad 
just now is, how to get any ; and it is the same 
with the dinners. 

II. 

IT is quite unnecessary to say that the talk 
about clothes ran into the question of dress- 
reform, and ran out, of course. You cannot 



 

converse on anything nowadays that you do not 
run into some reform. The Parson says that 
everybody is intent on reforming everything but 
himself. We are all trying to associate ourselves 
to make everybody else behave as we do. Said 

OUR NEXT DOOR. Dress reform ! As if peo 
ple couldn't change their clothes without concert 
of action. Resolved, that nobody should put on 
a clean collar often er than his neighbor does. 
I 'm sick of every sort of reform. I should like 
to retrograde awhile. Let a dyspeptic ascer 
tain that he can eat porridge three times a day 
and live, and straightway he insists that every 
body ought to eat porridge and nothing else. I 
mean to get up a society every member of which 
shall be pledged to do just as he pleases. 

THE PARSON. That would be the most radical 
reform of the day. That would be independence. 
If people dressed according to their means, acted 
according to their convictions, and avowed their 
opinions, it would revolutionize society. 

OUR NEXT DOOR. I should like to walk into 
your church some Sunday and see the changes 
under such conditions. 



I Q 

THE PARSON. It might give you a novel sen 
sation to walk in at any time. And I 'm not 
sure but the church would suit your retrograde 
ideas. It 's so Gothic that a Christian of the 
Middle Ages, if he were alive, couldn't see or 
hear in it. 

HERBERT. I don't know whether these reform 
ers who carry the world on their shoulders in 
such serious fashion, especially the little fussy 
fellows, who are themselves the standard of the 
regeneration they seek, are more ludicrous than 
pathetic. 

THE FIRE-TENDER. Pathetic, by all means. 
But I don't know that they would be pathetic 
if they were not ludicrous. There are those 
reform singers who have been piping away 
so sweetly now for thirty years, with never 
any diminution of cheerful, patient enthusi 
asm ; their hair growing longer and longer, their 
eyes brighter and brighter, and their faces, I 
do believe, sweeter and sweeter ; singing always 
with the same constancy for the slave, for the 
drunkard, for the snuff-taker, for the suffragist, 
"There 's-a-good-time-com-ing-boys (nothing of- 



 

fensive is intended by " boys," it is put in for eu 
phony, and sung pianissimo, not to offend the 
suffragists), it 's-almost-here." And what a bright 
ening up of their faces there is when they say, 
" it 's-al-most-here," not doubting for a moment 
that "it V coming to-morrow ; and the accom 
panying melodeon also wails its wheezy sugges 
tion that " it 's-al-most-here," that " good-time " 
(delayed so long, waiting perhaps for the inven 
tion of the melodeon) when we shall all sing and 
all play that cheerful instrument, and all vote, 
and none shall smoke, or drink, or eat meat, 
" boys." I declare it almost makes me cry to 
hear them, so touching is their faith in the 
midst of a jeering world. 

HERBERT. I suspect that no one can be a 
genuine reformer and not be ridiculous. I mean 
those who give themselves up to the unction of 
the reform. 

THE MISTRESS. Doesn't that depend upon 
whether the reform is large or petty ? 

THE FIRE-TENDER. I should say rather that 
the reforms attracted to them all the ridiculous 
people, who almost always manage to become 



the most conspicuous. I suppose that nobody 
dare write out all that was ludicrous in the great 
abolition movement. But it was not at all comi 
cal to those most zealous in it ; they never could 
see more 's the pity, for thereby they lose 
much the humorous side of their perform 
ances, and that is why the pathos overcomes 
one's sense of the absurdity of such people. 

THE YOUNG LADY. It is lucky for the world 
that so many are willing to be absurd. 

HERBERT. Well, I think that, in the main, 
the reformers manage to look out for themselves 
tolerably well. I knew once a lean and faithful 
agent of a great philanthropic scheme, who con 
trived to collect every year for the cause just 
enough to support him at a good hotel com 
fortably. 

THE MISTRESS. That 's identifying one's self 
with the cause. 

MANDEVILLE. You remember the great free- 
soil convention at Buffalo, in 1848, when Van 
Buren was nominated. All the world of hope 
and discontent went there, with its projects of 
reform. There seemed to be no doubt, among 



 

hundreds that attended it, that if they could get 
a resolution passed that bread should be buttered 
on both sides, that it would be so buttered. The 
platform provided for every want and every woe. 

THE FIRE-TENDER. I remember. If you could 
get the millennium by political action, we should 
have had it then. 

MANDEVILLE. We went there on the Erie 
Canal, the exciting and fashionable mode of travel 
in those days. I was a boy when we began the 
voyage. The boat was full of conventionists ; 
all the talk was of what must be done there. I 
got the impression that as that boat-load went so 
would go the convention ; and I was not alone in 
that feeling. I can never be enough grateful for 
one little scrubby fanatic who was on board, who 
spent most of his time in drafting resolutions and 
reading them privately to the passengers. He 
was a very enthusiastic, nervous, and somewhat 
dirty little man, who wore a woollen muffler about 
his throat, although it was summer ; he had 
nearly lost his voice, and could only speak in a 
hoarse, disagreeable whisper, and he always car 
ried a teacup about, containing some sticky com- 



 

pound which he stirred frequently with a spoon, 
and took, whenever he talked, in order to improve 
his voice. If he was separated from his cup for 
ten minutes his whisper became inaudible. I 
greatly delighted in him, for I never saw any one 
who had so much enjoyment of his own impor 
tance. He was fond of telling what he would do 
if the convention rejected such and such resolu 
tions. He 'd make it hot for 'em. I didn't know 
but he 'd make them take his mixture. The con 
vention had got to take a stand on tobacco, for 
one thing. He 'd heard Giddings took snuff; 
he 'd see. When we at length reached Buffalo 
he took his teacup and carpet-bag of resolutions 
and went ashore in a great hurry. I saw him 
once again in a cheap restaurant, whispering a 
resolution to another delegate, but he didn't 
appear in the convention. I have often won 
dered what became of him. 

OUR NEXT DOOR. Probably he 's cr nsul some 
where. They mostly are. 

THE FIRE-TENDER. After all, it 's the easiest 
thing in the world to sit and sneer at eccentrici 
ties. But what a dead and uninteresting world it 



 







would be if we were all proper, and kept within 
the lines ! Affairs would soon be reduced to 
mere machinery. There are moments, even 
days, when all interests and movements appear 
to be settled upon some universal plan of equi 
librium ; but just then some restless and absurd 
person is inspired to throw the machine out of 
gear. These individual eccentricities seem to be 
the special providences in the general human 
scheme. 

HERBERT. They make it very hard work for 
the rest of us, who are disposed to go along 
peaceably and smoothly. 

MANDEVILLE. And stagnate. I 'm not sure 
but the natural condition of this planet is war, 
and that when it is finally towed to its anchorage 
if the universe has any harbor for worlds out 
of commission it will look like the Fighting 
Temeraire in Turner's picture. 

HERBERT. There is another thing I should 
like to understand : the tendency of people who 
take up one reform, perhaps a personal regen 
eration in regard to some bad habit, to run 
into a dozen other isms, and get all at sea in 



 

several vague and pernicious theories and prac 
tices. 

MANDEVILLE. Herbert seems to think there 
is safety in a man's being anchored, even if it is 
to a bad habit. 

HERBERT. Thank you. But what is it in 
human nature that is apt to carry a man who 
may take a step in personal reform into so many 
extremes ? 

OUR NEXT DOOR. Probably it's human nature. 

HERBERT. Why, for instance, should a reformed drunkard (one of the noblest examples of 
victory over self) incline, as I have known the 
reformed to do, to spiritism, or a woman suf 
fragist to " pantarchism " (whatever that is), and 
want to pull up all the roots of society, and 
expect them to grow in the air, like orchids ; or 
a Graham-bread disciple become enamored of 
Communism ? 

MANDEVILLE. I know an excellent Conserva 
tive who would, I think, suit you ; he says that 
he does not see how a man who indulges in the 
theory and practice of total abstinence can be a 
consistent believer in the Christian religion. 



 

HERBERT. Well, I can understand what he 
means : that a person is bound to hold himself in 
conditions of moderation and control, using and 
not abusing the things of this world, practising temperance, not retiring into a convent of artificial restrictions in order to escape the full responsibility of self-control. And yet his theory 
would certainly wreck most men and women. 
What does the Parson say ? 

THE PARSON. That the world is going crazy 
on the notion of individual ability. Whenever a 
man attempts to reform himself, or anybody else, 
without the aid of the Christian religion, he is 
sure to go adrift, and is pretty certain to be 
blown about by absurd theories, and shipwrecked 
on some pernicious ism. 

THE FIRE-TENDER. I think the discussion 
has touched bottom. 



III. 



I NEVER felt so much the value of a house with 
a backlog in it as during the late spring ; for its 
lateness was its main feature. Everybody was 




grumbling about it, as if it were something or 
dered from the tailor, and not ready on the day. 
Day after day it snowed, night after night it blew 
a gale from the northwest ; the frost sunk deep 
er and deeper into the ground ; there was a pop 
ular longing for spring that was almost a prayer ; 
the weather bureau was active ; Easter was set a 
week earlier than the year before, but nothing 
seemed to do any good. The robins sat under 
the evergreens, and piped in a disconsolate mood, 
and at last the bluejays came and scolded in the 
midst of the snow-storm, as they always do scold 
in any weather. The crocuses couldn't be coaxed 
to come up, even with a pickaxe. I 'm almost 
ashamed now to recall what we said of the 
weather, only I think that people are no more 
accountable for what they say of the weather 
than for their remarks when their corns are 
stepped on. 

We agreed, however, that, but for disappointed 
expectations and the prospect of late lettuce and 
peas, we were gaining by the fire as much as we 
were losing by the frost. And the Mistress fell 
to chanting the comforts of modern civilization. 




THE FIRE-TENDER said he should like to know, 
by the way, if our civilization differed essentially 
from any other in anything but its comforts. 

HERBERT. We are no nearer religious unity. 

THE PARSON. We have as much war as 
ever. 

MANDEVILLE. There was never such a social 
turmoil. 

THE YOUNG LADY. The artistic part of our 
nature does not appear to have grown. 

THE FIRE-TENDER. We are quarrelling as to 
whether we are in fact radically different from 
the brutes. 

HERBERT. Scarcely two people think alike 
about the proper kind of human government. 

THE PARSON. Our poetry is made out of 
words, for the most part, and not drawn from 
the living sources. 

OUR NEXT DOOR., And Mr. Gumming is un 
corking his seventh phial. I never felt before 
what barbarians we are. 

THE MISTRESS. Yet you won't deny that the 
life of the average man is safer and every way 
more comfortable than it was even a century ago. 





THE FIRE-TENDER. But what I want to know 
is, whether what we call our civilization has done 
anything more for mankind at large than to in 
crease the ease and pleasure of living ? Science 
has multiplied wealth, and facilitated intercourse, 
and the result is refinement of manners and a 
diffusion of education and information. Are men 
and women essentially changed, however ? I 
suppose the Parson would say we have lost faith, 
for one thing. 

MANDEVILLE. And superstition ; and gained 
toleration. 

HERBERT. The question is, whether toleration 
is anything but indifference. 

THE PARSON. Everything is tolerated now 
but Christian orthodoxy. 
