your views."

"Well, what have you to say?" stormed the father.

"I do not see that anything can be said."

"Your intentions?"

"Of course I can only submit."

"You begin to be sensible. You are my son, my only son, Edward," said
the old gentleman, in a milder tone. "All my hopes are in you. I have
never been hard with you."

"You have not, father."

"But I would rather lose every dollar I have in the world to-day, and
begin life anew at the age of sixty, than see you the husband of
Medway's daughter. I mean just what I say, and nothing less. It would
break my heart."

The young man wanted to say that it would break his heart not to be the
husband of Sara Medway; but he had learned to temporize and be insincere
before the unreasonable wrath of his father, and he was silent.

"You are twenty-one now. You have gone through college, and have only to
study your profession. You needn't make hard work of it, for you will
not be obliged to drudge for a living; but you may wish to go into
politics, and as a lawyer you will succeed better. You shall have all
the money you want. I have already decided to give you an allowance of
five thousand a year, and you can check it from the bank as you want it.
Go to Europe for the next year or two, if you wish; travel in your own
country first, if you like. Your health is somewhat shaken by your
confinement in college, and a couple of years' recreation will do you
good. You needn't hurry about your profession. Please yourself, Edward,
in everything except this Medway matter; and don't let me hear another
word about this girl; don't go near her; don't write to her."

The Honorable Mr. Montague, having delivered himself of his harsh
threat, and having smoothed it over in the most gingerly manner he
could, walked out of the library, where the conversation had taken
place. He evidently felt relieved, and, perhaps, thought that he had
bravely met a great responsibility, and had done his whole duty
faithfully to his son. He honestly believed that the Honorable Mr.
Medway was a villain of the blackest dye, not only politically, but
morally and socially; and, this postulate admitted, it followed, by his
narrow reasoning, that Mrs. Medway, Miss Medway, and all that related to
the fountain Medway were, utterly vile and villanous. He hated the
father, and he could not help hating the daughter.

Mr. Montague was a Whig, and Mr. Medway was a Democrat; or, Mr. Montague
was a Democrat, and Mr. Medway was a Whig; we cannot tell just how this
was; it is enough to say that they were on opposite sides in politics.
Mr. Montague was a wealthy man, and Mr. Medway was not; and both of them
were nominated for Congress in the same district, in the State of Maine.
It was a close contest, and party rancor was very bitter. Not only the
public acts, but the private lives of the candidates were criticised in
the severest manner by the opposition; and an unbiassed spectator,
believing all that was said, would have promptly concluded that both of
them were unmitigated scoundrels. Mr. Montague had a skeleton in an
almost forgotten closet, and, somehow, this skeleton stalked out into
the political arena, and perhaps frightened away some of its owner's
adherents. Perhaps it was a forgotten and repented sin; but Mr.
Montague's opponents made the most of it. Now, this gentleman, from
certain circumstances which need not be explained, was satisfied that
Mr. Medway had trotted out this skeleton and held it up as a bugbear to
the people, and he hated his rival with all his mind, heart, and soul.

The election came, and Mr. Montague was defeated by a very small
majority. He had been sure that he should be chosen, and the result
intensified his hatred of his successful opponent to a degree which made
it little short of insanity. Years hardly moderated its fervor, though
it ceased to find frequent expression. The hope of long years was
frustrated; the crown of glory and success was denied him, he firmly
believed, by the villany of his rival in exposing the skeleton in the
closet. He was a defeated candidate. The prestige was against him; and,
in the state of parties, he could not hope to be nominated again. His
enemy had overwhelmed him once and for all.

It is fair to say that Mr. Medway knew nothing about the skeleton, had
not brought it forward, and did not even believe in its existence.

The Honorable Mr. Medway went to Congress, and was once re-elected,
though he did not particularly distinguish himself as an orator or a
blackguard. He was a quiet, sensible man, who always voted on party
lines. He had a wife and one daughter, who endured Washington life for
one term, but after this preferred to spend the winters with Mrs.
Medway's sister in Brunswick. This lady's husband was a professor in the
college, and some of the students occasionally visited in his family.
Edward Montague was one of this number.

Sara Medway was a beautiful girl of his own age; and the young man,
having been absent during the political contest, and neither knowing nor
caring anything about its merits or demerits, was stupid enough to fall
in love with the professor's fair guest. He was very attentive to her,
and the affair became town talk, as such affairs usually do. His father
heard of it; but he had no opportunity to remonstrate with him in a
very decided manner until after Edward was graduated. When he went home,
the interview we have narrated occurred. The young man was confounded at
the violence of his father, and astonished to find that the old
gentleman, who had always been indulgent to the last degree, even to his
follies and vices, could be so harsh and implacable. There could be no
mistaking his father's meaning; and Edward was obliged to accept the
issue.

Mr. Medway had finished his second congressional term, and come home
with his family. Edward tried hard to obey his father, and travelled
till October. When he returned he heard with dismay that Sara Medway was
ill, and had some of the symptoms of incipient consumption. He had not
seen her for three months. Though not engaged, he was confident that she
reciprocated his affection; and his conscience smote him as he thought
his abrupt termination of their acquaintance might have affected her
health. But Edward dreaded his father's anger, while he could not wholly
resist his impulses.

One evening he stealthily called at the house of Mr. Medway, and was
cordially welcomed by all, and especially by Sara. More than ever before
he realized the depth of her affection, and traced in her looks, her
tones, and the blushes upon her pale cheek, the triumphal joy with which
she again welcomed him to her presence. He could not tell her that he
should come no more; but, while her mother left the room for a few
moments, he spoke a whole volume in a few words, and she frankly
declared her sentiments towards him. In a word, they were engaged.

Before he bade her adieu for the night, her father came home. Ho knew
his daughter's preference,--not that she had in words betrayed the
secret of her soul,--and was rejoiced to see the young man. He expressed
his satisfaction without reserve. Edward was troubled, not alone at the
prospect of losing his father's fortune, but with the fear of his
father's wrath. He dreaded the rupture that would separate the only son
from his father. Mr. Medway invited him to smoke a cigar in the library.
Edward disclosed what had passed between himself and Sara, and detailed
his interview with his father. Mr. Medway was astonished and shocked at
the unreasonableness of his late rival. He knew that Mr. Montague
disliked him, avoided him, and refused to take part in any enterprise
with him; but he had no suspicion of the depth of his hatred. He was
sorely troubled because his own presumed errors were visited upon his
innocent daughter.

Sara was sad and moody after Edward ceased so suddenly to visit her, and
her parents believed that her health had been impaired by her sorrow.
Her father hoped and believed that the return of Edward would prove to
be the panacea to restore her; and the young man's confession appalled
him. He could not counsel him to forsake fortune and family for his
daughter's sake, even while he feared that his refusal to do so would be
fatal to her. He could give no advice, though the young man asked for
it. He volunteered to conceal the fact of Edward's visit, which was
several times repeated with the same privacy.

Sara's health improved as her cheerfulness returned; but her physician
dreaded the long, cold winter. About this time appeared a volume
entitled Gan-Eden, or Pictures of Cuba, which fell into Mr. Medway's
hands. He read it, and was fully impressed with the desirableness of
Cuba as a winter residence for consumptives. He suggested the thought
to the doctor, and the result was, that Mr. Medway went to the island
with his wife and daughter. Edward saw her before her departure, and
their plighting was renewed, with the hope of meeting in the spring.

When she had gone, he was moody and discontented. A few weeks later Tom
Barkesdale, his chum in college, who resided in New Orleans, came to his
home to spend a few days. Edward and his father were courteous and
munificent hosts, and did all that was possible to make the guest happy.
He was happy, but he could not help seeing that his old college friend
was not.

"What's the matter with you, Ned?" said Tom, as they sailed in a small
yacht on the bright waters of Penobscot Bay, on one of the soft days of
the Indian summer. "You are as blue as a Yankee whetstone."

"Am I? I was not aware of it," replied Edward, shaking off his moodiness
for the moment.

"Yes, you are. If I stop talking for a moment, you sink away into a
gloomy dream. You seem to me to be half muddled. What ails you?"

"O, nothing."

"I don't believe you. You haven't seemed at all natural since I came. I
hope I'm not in the way of anything."

"Certainly not, Tom. You are never in the way."

"But, candidly and seriously, now, what ails you?"

"Nothing at all ails me, my dear fellow. If anything did, I would tell
you sooner than I would my own father."

"Not in love--are you, Ned?" added Tom, straightening up, and looking
full into the face of his friend. "By the way, where is the daughter of
that member of Congress whom you used to be sweet upon?"

"She has gone to Cuba to spend the winter," replied Edward.

"I see just how the land lies now. She has gone to Cuba for her health,
and you are pining away in solitude in the frozen north. But, Ned,
didn't you write me that the affair had slipped up, fallen through, or
something of that sort?"

"I thought it had; but I didn't know myself," replied the lover, with a
sigh.

"O, ho! I see. She's a beautiful girl. Upon my word, I envy you, Ned.
If you hadn't stepped in before me, my dear fellow, I should have fallen
into that trap myself."

"Don't say anything about a trap, Tom. You make me shudder."

"What ails you, Ned? Isn't it all smooth--the course of true love, and
all that sort of thing? Has she given you the mitten?"

"No, no. Everything is lovely so far as she is concerned."

"Is her father inimical? Does her mother dislike you, or her grandmother
frown upon your hopes?"

"No. Her father and mother are entirely satisfied to let the affair take
its course."

"Then what are you moping about?" demanded Tom.

"The opposition comes from my father," answered Edward, as he tacked the
boat, and stood off on a long stretch, evidently with the intention of
telling his friend all about it.

"What has your father to do with it?" asked Tom.

"He dislikes her father."

"But, if I understand you correctly, you don't purpose to marry her
father."

"There is an old feud, a political affair, between them. The row
occurred while I was away from home, fitting for college," added Edward,
as he proceeded to disclose his present relations with Sara Medway, and
to explain the nature and intensity of his father's opposition to the
match.

"That's awkward, Ned," said Tom. "Your governor is a hard case on a
feud."

"But in everything else he is as indulgent as he can be. I tried to be
dutiful, even in a matter of this kind; and I did not see Miss Medway
for three months. Then I heard she was ill, and my conscience reproached
me. I called to see her. I shall never forget the expression of joy she
bestowed upon me. She is as much attached to me as I am to her, and I
know that if I desert her she will die of grief."

"You have a good opinion of yourself, Ned."

"I am in earnest. I think so. I made the first advances, not she."

"I should hope not," laughed Tom.

"And for that reason I feel a sense of responsibility, in addition to my
devotion to Sara. Now you know all. What can I do?"

"Upon my word, Ned, that's a hard question; and a man must be a Solon to
advise you."

"You are the sole un who can advise me, Tom," replied Edward, with a
sickly smile.

"That's a lovesick pun. You are in a tight place. If you hold on, you
will be frozen to death; if you let go, you will be burned to death. But
I am inclined to think, my dear fellow, from what I have seen of you
since I came here, that there is still a third consideration. If you
obey your governor, the girl will die of grief; if you marry her, you
lose fortune and father; but if you retain fortune and father, you may
die of grief yourself. You are moping now; you look pale, and the
situation is wearing upon you."

"But what can I do?"

"I'll tell you. I'm going to read law this winter with Colonel Bushnel,
in New Orleans. Come with me, and we will read law together. Before
spring we shall be able to solve the problem."

The boat returned to the town. Edward liked the plan, for Louisiana was
nearer Cuba than Maine was. His father did not seriously object; and in
another fortnight both the young men were in the Crescent City.




CHAPTER II.

THE END OF A SAD STORY.


In New York Edward Montague mailed a letter to Sara Medway. Before he
had been in New Orleans a week her answer came to him. She was better;
her cough had entirely left her, and she slept well. Nothing was needed
to make her happy but his presence.

"Go, Ned; go, by all means," said Tom Barkesdale.

"But my father--"

"Never mind your father," interposed Tom, whose impetuous southern
temperament could hardly brook the cold caution of his friend.

"I promised to write to him at least once a month."

"Do so, then."

"But my letters will betray me."

"Date them at New Orleans, a day or two ahead, and send them to me
under cover. I will mail them here, and your father will believe you are
in this city all the time."

"That's a mean deception," said Edward, whose impulses were rather above
such conduct.

"All is fair in love and war," laughed Tom. "Your letters from home will
come here, and I will forward them to you."

Under the temptation that beset him Edward did not long consider this
scheme before he adopted it; and he went to Havana in the steamer which
had brought the letter from Sara. The Medways were still in the city,
for the cottage at Limonar, which was to be their residence, was not yet
ready for their reception. On his arrival Edward found father and
daughter plunged in the deepest grief. However the climate agreed with
Sara, it did not agree with her mother. She was taken sick in a sudden
and violent manner, and in less than three days she breathed her last,
though she was attended by the most skilful resident and foreign
physicians.

Edward's office was now that of comforter, and his presence alone seemed
to save the stricken ones from utter despair. Both father and daughter
leaned upon him, and he faithfully discharged the duties which devolved
upon him. After the funeral of Mrs. Medway, Edward conducted Mr. Medway
and Sara to their new home at Limonar. In a few weeks the poignancy of
their grief was abated; but Edward's presence seemed to be even more
necessary than ever. Tom Barkesdale forwarded his letters and cashed his
drafts in New Orleans; and the Honorable Mr. Montague in Maine had no
suspicion that his son was not reading law in the Crescent City.

Two months after the death of Mrs. Medway, Edward Montague was privately
married, by an English clergyman, to Sara Medway. The circumstances
seemed to justify the breaking through of the ordinary proprieties which
regulate the interval between a funeral and a wedding. This event seemed
to sweep away all the clouds which lowered over the happiness of the
young people.

Edward had made up his mind to face the wrath of his father, but he
desired to postpone the tempest as long as possible. He wrote to Tom a
full account of the step he had taken, and that worthy assured him he
could conceal his marriage for an indefinite period. The young husband
did not flatter himself that even a year could elapse before the
momentous secret would be exposed. There were scores of invalids at
Limonar, but, fortunately, none who recognized him or the Medways. He
was very happy in his new relation, and the health of his wife appeared
to be completely restored.

Letters came regularly from his father--brief, business-like epistles,
in which the old gentleman, in his clumsy way, expressed his affection
for his son. Edward used his spare time in reading law and studying the
Spanish language.

In the spring Edward's letters, in accordance with a suggestion from
Tom, began to hint at a trip to the Rocky Mountains, for it was hardly
possible for the young couple to spend the summer in Cuba. In May Edward
went to New Orleans with his wife, but was very careful to avoid public
places. Two months later, attended by Tom, the party went up the
Mississippi and Missouri Rivers, and spent the summer in a quiet
village. From this point Edward went home to pass a month with his
father, in order to remove any suspicion in the old gentleman's mind, if
any had been created; but the old gentleman had never received even a
hint of the new relation of his son.

The news of Mrs. Medway's death had reached the town, and it was known
that Sara and her father were spending the winter in the west. This
intelligence had been communicated by Mr. Medway, who, of course, did
not allude to the marriage of his daughter.

After spending a month at home, Edward departed for the west, saying
that he was to meet Tom Barkesdale at St. Louis, and, after a trip to
the Rocky Mountains, they would return to New Orleans, and resume their
law studies. The young man wrote to his father from the place where he
joined his wife and father-in-law. In the autumn the party went to the
south, and, as soon as it was prudent to do so, Edward, his wife, and
Mr. Medway returned to Cuba. The cottage at Limonar was just as they had
left it, and they resumed their quiet domestic life as before. Edward
had observed, with fear and trembling, that some of the consumptive
symptoms of his wife appeared while she was at the north. Indeed, she
had brought back with her a hacking cough, which, however, soon yielded
to the softening influence of the climate.

Limonar is but a short distance from Matanzas, by railroad, and either
Mr. Medway or Edward was obliged to visit the city occasionally, to
procure the comforts and luxuries not to be had in a country village.

Sara's knowledge of Spanish was very limited, though by this time Edward
spoke it quite fluently. Her Spanish servants were a constant perplexity
to her, and she very much desired to obtain an English or American woman
to perform the ordinary offices of the household. On one of his visits
to the city Edward met an American woman in great distress. Her husband
was a cooper, with whom she had come from a seaport town in Maine, to
better their fortunes. High wages tempted him to remain through the
summer; but as late as October he fell a victim to yellow fever. He had
sent most of his surplus funds home, and his widow soon exhausted her
scanty supply of money. Instead of applying to the American consul, she
went to live with an English family as a nurse. But there she was taken
sick herself, and was sent away from her comfortable home to a
boarding-house, lest she should communicate some contagious disease to
her employer's family. Here she had contracted a debt which she could
not pay, and was seeking a friend to assist her, when she met Edward in
a shop. Hearing him speak English, she addressed him.

Though Mrs. Wayland desired only to return to her home in Maine, Edward
prevailed upon her to go with him to Limonar. He paid her debts,
provided her with everything she needed, and offered her large wages.
All were so kind and indulgent to her that she soon became much attached
to her new friends. When she had been a month at the cottage, Edward
Montague became the happy father of a fine boy.

But with this joy came the heaviest of sorrows. Sara's health began to
fail, and the incipient malady which had been working upon her physical
frame so silently for years rapidly developed itself. The delicious
climate had lost its influence; and when the boy was only three months
old, his mother breathed her last. Edward and Mr. Medway were stunned by
the blow, and wept as those without hope. The young wife was buried by
the side of the mother in the cemetery in the vicinity of Havana.

There was no longer any motive for the survivors to remain in Cuba.
Limonar had lost all its glory now, and Edward could not endure the
sight of the familiar localities which had been hallowed by the presence
of his lost wife. Mr. Medway was alone in the world. His own health was
feeble, and he desired only to return to his native land. His spirit was
broken, and all this world seemed to have passed away. It was decided
that Mr. Medway, with Mrs. Wayland and the child, should take the
steamer for New York, and return to Maine, while Edward went home by the
way of New Orleans.

Much as the young father had loved his boy before, he appeared to be in
a measure indifferent to him now. His wife and child were a real joy;
but the boy alone only reminded him of her whom he had lost.

When the steamer arrived at New York, Mr. Medway was too feeble to
travel. Mrs. Wayland was a faithful nurse to him; but her charge died in
a week after he landed. The last of the family was gone. His remains
were sent home, and Mrs. Wayland and the child went with them. She knew
the whole of the story we have related; and, in his last illness, Mr.
Medway had impressed upon her mind, in the strongest manner, the
necessity of entire secrecy in regard to his daughter's marriage and the
paternity of the child. If Edward chose to acknowledge it, he would do
so in due time.

Mrs. Wayland had no relations to trouble themselves about her affairs;
and when she appeared in Camden, which had been the residence of her
husband, no one thought of asking whether or not the child was her own.
She volunteered no information on this subject; and, recovering the
money which her husband had sent home, she was comfortably situated for
the present. She found a good boarding-place, and devoted herself wholly
to the little one, who already occupied a large place in her affections.

Edward Montague went to New Orleans, and when he presented himself
before his college friend, he looked like another man, so severe had
been the workings of his grief upon him. Tom Barkesdale pressed his hand
in silence, for he had already been informed by letter of the sad event
of the last month.

"It is all over with me now, Tom," said he, gloomily, as the tears
gathered in his hollow eyes.

"Don't take it so hardly, Ned. Time softens the severest trials."

"Not mine. I am ready to die myself now."

"No you are not. Don't give up the battle so. Be a man."

"I can be nothing now. I shall go home, and let my life ebb out with my
sorrows."

"Don't go home as you are now. You will only make your father miserable.
You have no right to do that."

"I must tell him all."

"Don't do it, Ned."

"Why not?"

"It will only vex and torment your governor to no purpose. He is an old
man, and cannot live many years more. Don't disturb him with the
reflection that you have disobeyed him."

"But my child!"

"Keep the child in the shade for a few years," said Tom; and Edward
fully understood him. "One of these days you can acknowledge it, and all
will be well. Out of regard to your father's happiness you ought to keep
still."

"As my wife is dead now, I hope he will forgive me."

"Perhaps he would, perhaps not. What is the use of stirring up the
waters and making a storm, when everything is quiet now?"

