exacting man. And I call to mind now that he always admired thunder. You
remember, child, your father always admired thunder?”
“He adored it.”
“No doubt it reminded him of battle,” said Laura.
“Yes, I think perhaps it did. He had a great respect for Nature. He
often said there was something striking about the ocean. You remember
his saying that, daughter?”
“Yes, often, Mother. I remember it very well.”
“And hurricanes... He took a great interest in hurricanes. And animals.
Dogs, especially--hunting dogs. Also comets. I think we all have our
predilections. I think it is this that gives variety to our tastes.”
Laura coincided with this view.
“Do you find it hard and lonely to be so far from your home and friends,
Miss Hawkins?”
“I do find it depressing sometimes, but then there is so much about
me here that is novel and interesting that my days are made up more of
sunshine than shadow.”
“Washington is not a dull city in the season,” said the young lady. “We
have some very good society indeed, and one need not be at a loss for
means to pass the time pleasantly. Are you fond of watering-places, Miss
Hawkins?”
“I have really had no experience of them, but I have always felt a
strong desire to see something of fashionable watering-place life.”
“We of Washington are unfortunately situated in that respect,” said the
dowager. “It is a tedious distance to Newport. But there is no help for
it.”
Laura said to herself, “Long Branch and Cape May are nearer than
Newport; doubtless these places are low; I’ll feel my way a little and
see.” Then she said aloud:
“Why I thought that Long Branch--”
There was no need to “feel” any further--there was that in both faces
before her which made that truth apparent. The dowager said:
“Nobody goes there, Miss Hawkins--at least only persons of no position
in society. And the President.” She added that with tranquility.
“Newport is damp, and cold, and windy and excessively disagreeable,”
 said the daughter, “but it is very select. One cannot be fastidious
about minor matters when one has no choice.”
The visit had spun out nearly three minutes, now. Both ladies rose with
grave dignity, conferred upon Laura a formal invitation to call, and
then retired from the conference. Laura remained in the drawing-room and
left them to pilot themselves out of the house--an inhospitable thing,
it seemed to her, but then she was following her instructions. She
stood, steeped in reverie, a while, and then she said:
“I think I could always enjoy icebergs--as scenery but not as company.”
Still, she knew these two people by reputation, and was aware that they
were not ice-bergs when they were in their own waters and amid their
legitimate surroundings, but on the contrary were people to be respected
for their stainless characters and esteemed for their social virtues
and their benevolent impulses. She thought it a pity that they had to be
such changed and dreary creatures on occasions of state.
The first call Laura received from the other extremity of the Washington
aristocracy followed close upon the heels of the one we have just been
describing. The callers this time were the Hon. Mrs. Oliver Higgins,
the Hon. Mrs. Patrique Oreille (pronounced O-relay,) Miss Bridget
(pronounced Breezhay) Oreille, Mrs. Peter Gashly, Miss Gashly, and Miss
Emmeline Gashly.
The three carriages arrived at the same moment from different
directions. They were new and wonderfully shiny, and the brasses on the
harness were highly polished and bore complicated monograms. There were
showy coats of arms, too, with Latin mottoes. The coachmen and footmen
were clad in bright new livery, of striking colors, and they had black
rosettes with shaving-brushes projecting above them, on the sides of
their stove-pipe hats.
When the visitors swept into the drawing-room they filled the place with
a suffocating sweetness procured at the perfumer’s. Their costumes,
as to architecture, were the latest fashion intensified; they were
rainbow-hued; they were hung with jewels--chiefly diamonds. It would
have been plain to any eye that it had cost something to upholster these
women.
The Hon. Mrs. Oliver Higgins was the wife of a delegate from a distant
territory--a gentleman who had kept the principal “saloon,” and sold
the best whiskey in the principal village in his wilderness, and so,
of course, was recognized as the first man of his commonwealth and its
fittest representative.
He was a man of paramount influence at home, for he was public spirited,
he was chief of the fire department, he had an admirable command of
profane language, and had killed several “parties.” His shirt fronts
were always immaculate; his boots daintily polished, and no man could
lift a foot and fire a dead shot at a stray speck of dirt on it with a
white handkerchief with a finer grace than he; his watch chain weighed a
pound; the gold in his finger ring was worth forty five dollars; he wore
a diamond cluster-pin and he parted his hair behind. He had always been
regarded as the most elegant gentleman in his territory, and it was
conceded by all that no man thereabouts was anywhere near his equal
in the telling of an obscene story except the venerable white-haired
governor himself. The Hon. Higgins had not come to serve his country
in Washington for nothing. The appropriation which he had engineered
through Congress for the maintenance of the Indians in his Territory
would have made all those savages rich if it had ever got to them.
The Hon. Mrs. Higgins was a picturesque woman, and a fluent talker, and
she held a tolerably high station among the Parvenus. Her English was
fair enough, as a general thing--though, being of New York origin, she
had the fashion peculiar to many natives of that city of pronouncing saw
and law as if they were spelt sawr and lawr.
Petroleum was the agent that had suddenly transformed the Gashlys from
modest hard-working country village folk into “loud” aristocrats and
ornaments of the city.
The Hon. Patrique Oreille was a wealthy Frenchman from Cork. Not that he
was wealthy when he first came from Cork, but just the reverse. When
he first landed in New York with his wife, he had only halted at Castle
Garden for a few minutes to receive and exhibit papers showing that he
had resided in this country two years--and then he voted the democratic
ticket and went up town to hunt a house. He found one and then went to
work as assistant to an architect and builder, carrying a hod all day
and studying politics evenings. Industry and economy soon enabled him
to start a low rum shop in a foul locality, and this gave him political
influence. In our country it is always our first care to see that
our people have the opportunity of voting for their choice of men to
represent and govern them--we do not permit our great officials to
appoint the little officials. We prefer to have so tremendous a power
as that in our own hands. We hold it safest to elect our judges and
everybody else. In our cities, the ward meetings elect delegates to the
nominating conventions and instruct them whom to nominate. The publicans
and their retainers rule the ward meetings (for everybody else hates
the worry of politics and stays at home); the delegates from the ward
meetings organize as a nominating convention and make up a list
of candidates--one convention offering a democratic and another a
republican list of incorruptibles; and then the great meek public come
forward at the proper time and make unhampered choice and bless Heaven
that they live in a free land where no form of despotism can ever
intrude.
Patrick O’Riley (as his name then stood) created friends and influence
very fast, for he was always on hand at the police courts to give straw
bail for his customers or establish an alibi for them in case they had
been beating anybody to death on his premises. Consequently he presently
became a political leader, and was elected to a petty office under the
city government. Out of a meager salary he soon saved money enough to
open quite a stylish liquor saloon higher up town, with a faro bank
attached and plenty of capital to conduct it with. This gave him fame
and great respectability. The position of alderman was forced upon him,
and it was just the same as presenting him a gold mine. He had fine
horses and carriages, now, and closed up his whiskey mill.
By and by he became a large contractor for city work, and was a bosom
friend of the great and good Wm. M. Weed himself, who had stolen
$20,600,000 from the city and was a man so envied, so honored,--so
adored, indeed, that when the sheriff went to his office to arrest
him as a felon, that sheriff blushed and apologized, and one of the
illustrated papers made a picture of the scene and spoke of the matter
in such a way as to show that the editor regretted that the offense of
an arrest had been offered to so exalted a personage as Mr. Weed.
Mr. O’Riley furnished shingle nails to the new Court House at three
thousand dollars a keg, and eighteen gross of 60-cent thermometers at
fifteen hundred dollars a dozen; the controller and the board of audit
passed the bills, and a mayor, who was simply ignorant but not criminal,
signed them. When they were paid, Mr. O’Riley’s admirers gave him a
solitaire diamond pin of the size of a filbert, in imitation of the
liberality of Mr. Weed’s friends, and then Mr. O’Riley retired from
active service and amused himself with buying real estate at enormous
figures and holding it in other people’s names. By and by the
newspapers came out with exposures and called Weed and O’Riley
“thieves,”--whereupon the people rose as one man (voting repeatedly)
and elected the two gentlemen to their proper theatre of action, the New
York legislature. The newspapers clamored, and the courts proceeded to
try the new legislators for their small irregularities. Our admirable
jury system enabled the persecuted ex-officials to secure a jury of nine
gentlemen from a neighboring asylum and three graduates from Sing-Sing,
and presently they walked forth with characters vindicated. The
legislature was called upon to spew them forth--a thing which the
legislature declined to do. It was like asking children to repudiate
their own father. It was a legislature of the modern pattern.
Being now wealthy and distinguished, Mr. O’Riley, still bearing the
legislative “Hon.” attached to his name (for titles never die in
America, although we do take a republican pride in poking fun at such
trifles), sailed for Europe with his family. They traveled all about,
turning their noses up at every thing, and not finding it a difficult
thing to do, either, because nature had originally given those features
a cast in that direction; and finally they established themselves in
Paris, that Paradise of Americans of their sort.--They staid there two
years and learned to speak English with a foreign accent--not that it
hadn’t always had a foreign accent (which was indeed the case) but now
the nature of it was changed. Finally they returned home and became
ultra fashionables. They landed here as the Hon. Patrique Oreille and
family, and so are known unto this day.
Laura provided seats for her visitors and they immediately launched
forth into a breezy, sparkling conversation with that easy confidence
which is to be found only among persons accustomed to high life.
“I’ve been intending to call sooner, Miss Hawkins,” said the Hon. Mrs.
Oreille, “but the weather’s been so horrid. How do you like Washington?”
Laura liked it very well indeed.
Mrs. Gashly--“Is it your first visit?”
Yes, it was her first.
All--“Indeed?”
Mrs. Oreille--“I’m afraid you’ll despise the weather, Miss Hawkins. It’s
perfectly awful. It always is. I tell Mr. Oreille I can’t and I won’t
put up with any such a climate. If we were obliged to do it, I wouldn’t
mind it; but we are not obliged to, and so I don’t see the use of it.
Sometimes its real pitiful the way the childern pine for Parry--don’t
look so sad, Bridget, ‘ma chere’--poor child, she can’t hear Parry
mentioned without getting the blues.”
Mrs. Gashly--“Well I should think so, Mrs. Oreille. A body lives in
Paris, but a body, only stays here. I dote on Paris; I’d druther scrimp
along on ten thousand dollars a year there, than suffer and worry here
on a real decent income.”
Miss Gashly--“Well then, I wish you’d take us back, mother; I’m sure I
hate this stoopid country enough, even if it is our dear native land.”
Miss Emmeline Gashly--“What and leave poor Johnny Peterson behind?” [An
airy genial laugh applauded this sally].
Miss Gashly--“Sister, I should think you’d be ashamed of yourself!”
Miss Emmeline--“Oh, you needn’t ruffle your feathers so: I was
only joking. He don’t mean anything by coming to the house every
evening--only comes to see mother. Of course that’s all!” [General
laughter].
Miss G. prettily confused--“Emmeline, how can you!”
Mrs. G.--“Let your sister alone, Emmeline. I never saw such a tease!”
Mrs. Oreille--“What lovely corals you have, Miss Hawkins! Just look
at them, Bridget, dear. I’ve a great passion for corals--it’s a pity
they’re getting a little common. I have some elegant ones--not as
elegant as yours, though--but of course I don’t wear them now.”
Laura--“I suppose they are rather common, but still I have a great
affection for these, because they were given to me by a dear old
friend of our family named Murphy. He was a very charming man, but very
eccentric. We always supposed he was an Irishman, but after he got rich
he went abroad for a year or two, and when he came back you would have
been amused to see how interested he was in a potato.
He asked what it was! Now you know that when Providence shapes a mouth
especially for the accommodation of a potato you can detect that fact at
a glance when that mouth is in repose--foreign travel can never remove
that sign. But he was a very delightful gentleman, and his little foible
did not hurt him at all. We all have our shams--I suppose there is a
sham somewhere about every individual, if we could manage to ferret
it out. I would so like to go to France. I suppose our society here
compares very favorably with French society does it not, Mrs. Oreille?”
Mrs. O.--“Not by any means, Miss Hawkins! French society is much more
elegant--much more so.”
Laura--“I am sorry to hear that. I suppose ours has deteriorated of
late.”
Mrs. O.--“Very much indeed. There are people in society here that have
really no more money to live on than what some of us pay for servant
hire. Still I won’t say but what some of them are very good people--and
respectable, too.”
Laura--“The old families seem to be holding themselves aloof, from what
I hear. I suppose you seldom meet in society now, the people you used to
be familiar with twelve or fifteen years ago?”
Mrs. O.--“Oh, no-hardly ever.”
Mr. O’Riley kept his first rum-mill and protected his customers from
the law in those days, and this turn of the conversation was rather
uncomfortable to madame than otherwise.
Hon. Mrs. Higgins--“Is Francois’ health good now, Mrs. Oreille?”
Mrs. O.--(Thankful for the intervention)--“Not very. A body couldn’t
expect it. He was always delicate--especially his lungs--and this odious
climate tells on him strong, now, after Parry, which is so mild.”
Mrs. H:--“I should think so. Husband says Percy’ll die if he don’t have
a change; and so I’m going to swap round a little and see what can be
done. I saw a lady from Florida last week, and she recommended Key
West. I told her Percy couldn’t abide winds, as he was threatened with a
pulmonary affection, and then she said try St. Augustine. It’s an awful
distance--ten or twelve hundred mile, they say but then in a case of
this kind--a body can’t stand back for trouble, you know.”
Mrs. O.--“No, of course that’s off. If Francois don’t get better soon
we’ve got to look out for some other place, or else Europe. We’ve
thought some of the Hot Springs, but I don’t know. It’s a great
responsibility and a body wants to go cautious. Is Hildebrand about
again, Mrs. Gashly?”
Mrs. G.--“Yes, but that’s about all. It was indigestion, you know, and
it looks as if it was chronic. And you know I do dread dyspepsia. We’ve
all been worried a good deal about him. The doctor recommended baked
apple and spoiled meat, and I think it done him good. It’s about the
only thing that will stay on his stomach now-a-days. We have Dr. Shovel
now. Who’s your doctor, Mrs. Higgins?”
Mrs. H.--“Well, we had Dr. Spooner a good while, but he runs so much to
emetics, which I think are weakening, that we changed off and took Dr.
Leathers. We like him very much. He has a fine European reputation, too.
The first thing he suggested for Percy was to have him taken out in the
back yard for an airing, every afternoon, with nothing at all on.”
Mrs. O. and Mrs. G.--“What!”
Mrs. H.--“As true as I’m sitting here. And it actually helped him for
two or three days; it did indeed. But after that the doctor said it
seemed to be too severe and so he has fell back on hot foot-baths at
night and cold showers in the morning. But I don’t think there can be
any good sound help for him in such a climate as this. I believe we are
going to lose him if we don’t make a change.”
Mrs. O. “I suppose you heard of the fright we had two weeks ago last
Saturday? No? Why that is strange--but come to remember, you’ve all
been away to Richmond. Francois tumbled from the sky light--in the
second-story hall clean down to the first floor--”
Everybody--“Mercy!”
Mrs. O.--“Yes indeed--and broke two of his ribs--”
Everybody--“What!”
Mrs. O. “Just as true as you live. First we thought he must be injured
internally. It was fifteen minutes past 8 in the evening. Of course we
were all distracted in a moment--everybody was flying everywhere, and
nobody doing anything worth anything. By and by I flung out next door
and dragged in Dr. Sprague; President of the Medical University no time
to go for our own doctor of course--and the minute he saw Francois he
said, ‘Send for your own physician, madam;’ said it as cross as a bear,
too, and turned right on his heel, and cleared out without doing a
thing!”
Everybody--“The mean, contemptible brute!”
Mrs. O--“Well you may say it. I was nearly out of my wits by this time.
But we hurried off the servants after our own doctor and telegraphed
mother--she was in New York and rushed down on the first train; and when
the doctor got there, lo and behold you he found Francois had broke one
of his legs, too!”
Everybody--“Goodness!”
Mrs. O.--“Yes. So he set his leg and bandaged it up, and fixed his ribs
and gave him a dose of something to quiet down his excitement and put
him to sleep--poor thing he was trembling and frightened to death and it
was pitiful to see him. We had him in my bed--Mr. Oreille slept in the
guest room and I laid down beside Francois--but not to sleep bless you
no. Bridget and I set up all night, and the doctor staid till two in the
morning, bless his old heart.--When mother got there she was so used up
with anxiety, that she had to go to bed and have the doctor; but when
she found that Francois was not in immediate danger she rallied, and
by night she was able to take a watch herself. Well for three days and
nights we three never left that bedside only to take an hour’s nap at
a time. And then the doctor said Francois was out of danger and if ever
there was a thankful set, in this world, it was us.”
Laura’s respect for these women had augmented during this conversation,
naturally enough; affection and devotion are qualities that are able to
adorn and render beautiful a character that is otherwise unattractive,
and even repulsive.
Mrs. Gashly--“I do believe I should a died if I had been in your place,
Mrs. Oreille. The time Hildebrand was so low with the pneumonia Emmeline
and me were all alone with him most of the time and we never took a
minute’s sleep for as much as two days and nights. It was at Newport and
we wouldn’t trust hired nurses. One afternoon he had a fit, and jumped
up and run out on the portico of the hotel with nothing in the world on
and the wind a blowing like ice and we after him scared to death;
and when the ladies and gentlemen saw that he had a fit, every lady
scattered for her room and not a gentleman lifted his hand to help, the
wretches! Well after that his life hung by a thread for as much as ten
days, and the minute he was out of danger Emmeline and me just went to
bed sick and worn out. I never want to pass through such a time again.
Poor dear Francois--which leg did he break, Mrs. Oreille!”
Mrs. O.--“It was his right hand hind leg. Jump down, Francois dear, and
show the ladies what a cruel limp you’ve got yet.”
Francois demurred, but being coaxed and delivered gently upon the floor,
he performed very satisfactorily, with his “right hand hind leg” in the
air. All were affected--even Laura--but hers was an affection of the
stomach. The country-bred girl had not suspected that the little whining
ten-ounce black and tan reptile, clad in a red embroidered pigmy
blanket and reposing in Mrs. Oreille’s lap all through the visit was the
individual whose sufferings had been stirring the dormant generosities
of her nature. She said:
“Poor little creature! You might have lost him!”
Mrs. O.--“O pray don’t mention it, Miss Hawkins--it gives me such a
turn!”
Laura--“And Hildebrand and Percy--are they--are they like this one?”
Mrs. G.--“No, Hilly has considerable Skye blood in him, I believe.”
Mrs. H.--“Percy’s the same, only he is two months and ten days older and
has his ears cropped. His father, Martin Farquhar Tupper, was sickly,
and died young, but he was the sweetest disposition.--His mother had
heart disease but was very gentle and resigned, and a wonderful ratter.” As impossible and exasperating as this conversation may sound to a person who is not an idiot, it is scarcely in any respect an exaggeration of one which one of us actually listened to in an American drawing room--otherwise we could not venture to put such a chapter into a book which, professes to deal with social possibilities.--THE AUTHORS.]
So carried away had the visitors become by their interest attaching to
this discussion of family matters, that their stay had been prolonged to
a very improper and unfashionable length; but they suddenly recollected
themselves now and took their departure.
Laura’s scorn was boundless. The more she thought of these people and
their extraordinary talk, the more offensive they seemed to her; and
yet she confessed that if one must choose between the two extreme
aristocracies it might be best, on the whole, looking at things from a
strictly business point of view, to herd with the Parvenus; she was in
Washington solely to compass a certain matter and to do it at any cost,
and these people might be useful to her, while it was plain that her
purposes and her schemes for pushing them would not find favor in the
eyes of the Antiques. If it came to choice--and it might come to that,
sooner or later--she believed she could come to a decision without much
difficulty or many pangs.
But the best aristocracy of the three Washington castes, and really the
most powerful, by far, was that of the Middle Ground: It was made up of
the families of public men from nearly every state in the Union--men
who held positions in both the executive and legislative branches of the
government, and whose characters had been for years blemishless, both
at home and at the capital. These gentlemen and their households were
unostentatious people; they were educated and refined; they troubled
themselves but little about the two other orders of nobility, but moved
serenely in their wide orbit, confident in their own strength and
well aware of the potency of their influence. They had no troublesome
appearances to keep up, no rivalries which they cared to distress
themselves about, no jealousies to fret over. They could afford to mind
their own affairs and leave other combinations to do the same or
do otherwise, just as they chose. They were people who were beyond
reproach, and that was sufficient.
Senator Dilworthy never came into collision with any of these factions.
He labored for them all and with them all. He said that all men
were brethren and all were entitled to the honest unselfish help and
countenance of a Christian laborer in the public vineyard.
Laura concluded, after reflection, to let circumstances determine
the course it might be best for her to pursue as regarded the several
aristocracies.
Now it might occur to the reader that perhaps Laura had been somewhat
rudely suggestive in her remarks to Mrs. Oreille when the subject of
corals was under discussion, but it did not occur to Laura herself. She
was not a person of exaggerated refinement; indeed, the society and
the influences that had formed her character had not been of a nature
calculated to make her so; she thought that “give and take was fair
play,” and that to parry an offensive thrust with a sarcasm was a neat
and legitimate thing to do. She sometimes talked to people in a way
which some ladies would consider, actually shocking; but Laura rather
prided herself upon some of her exploits of that character. We are sorry
we cannot make her a faultless heroine; but we cannot, for the reason
that she was human.
She considered herself a superior conversationist. Long ago, when the
possibility had first been brought before her mind that some day she
might move in Washington society, she had recognized the fact that
practiced conversational powers would be a necessary weapon in that
field; she had also recognized the fact that since her dealings there
must be mainly with men, and men whom she supposed to be exceptionally
cultivated and able, she would need heavier shot in her magazine than
mere brilliant “society” nothings; whereupon she had at once entered
upon a tireless and elaborate course of reading, and had never since
ceased to devote every unoccupied moment to this sort of preparation.
Having now acquired a happy smattering of various information, she used
it with good effect--she passed for a singularly well informed woman in
Washington. The quality of her literary tastes had necessarily undergone
constant improvement under this regimen, and as necessarily, also the
duality of her language had improved, though it cannot be denied that
now and then her former condition of life betrayed itself in just
perceptible inelegancies of expression and lapses of grammar.
CHAPTER XXXIV.
When Laura had been in Washington three months, she was still the same
person, in one respect, that she was when she first arrived there--that
is to say, she still bore the name of Laura Hawkins. Otherwise she was
perceptibly changed.--
She had arrived in a state of grievous uncertainty as to what manner of
woman she was, physically and intellectually, as compared with eastern
women; she was well satisfied, now, that her beauty was confessed, her
mind a grade above the average, and her powers of fascination rather
extraordinary. So she was at ease upon those points. When she arrived,
she was possessed of habits of economy and not possessed of money; now
she dressed elaborately, gave but little thought to the cost of things,
and was very well fortified financially. She kept her mother and
Washington freely supplied with money, and did the same by Col.
Sellers--who always insisted upon giving his note for loans--with
interest; he was rigid upon that; she must take interest; and one of the
Colonel’s greatest satisfactions was to go over his accounts and note
what a handsome sum this accruing interest amounted to, and what a
comfortable though modest support it would yield Laura in case reverses
should overtake her.
In truth he could not help feeling that he was an efficient shield for
her against poverty; and so, if her expensive ways ever troubled him for
a brief moment, he presently dismissed the thought and said to himself,
“Let her go on--even if she loses everything she is still safe--this
interest will always afford her a good easy income.”
Laura was on excellent terms with a great many members of Congress, and
there was an undercurrent of suspicion in some quarters that she was one
of that detested class known as “lobbyists;” but what belle could escape
slander in such a city? Fairminded people declined to condemn her on
mere suspicion, and so the injurious talk made no very damaging headway.
She was very gay, now, and very celebrated, and she might well expect to
be assailed by many kinds of gossip. She was growing used to celebrity,
and could already sit calm and seemingly unconscious, under the fire of
fifty lorgnettes in a theatre, or even overhear the low voice “That’s
she!” as she passed along the street without betraying annoyance.
The whole air was full of a vague vast scheme which was to eventuate in
filling Laura’s pockets with millions of money; some had one idea of the
scheme, and some another, but nobody had any exact knowledge upon the
subject. All that any one felt sure about, was that Laura’s landed
estates were princely in value and extent, and that the government was
anxious to get hold of them for public purposes, and that Laura was
willing to make the sale but not at all anxious about the matter and
not at all in a hurry. It was whispered that Senator Dilworthy was a
stumbling block in the way of an immediate sale, because he was
resolved that the government should not have the lands except with the
understanding that they should be devoted to the uplifting of the negro
race; Laura did not care what they were devoted to, it was said, (a
world of very different gossip to the contrary notwithstanding,) but
there were several other heirs and they would be guided entirely by the
Senator’s wishes; and finally, many people averred that while it would
be easy to sell the lands to the government for the benefit of the
negro, by resorting to the usual methods of influencing votes, Senator
Dilworthy was unwilling to have so noble a charity sullied by any taint
of corruption--he was resolved that not a vote should be bought. Nobody
could get anything definite from Laura about these matters, and so
gossip had to feed itself chiefly upon guesses. But the effect of it
all was, that Laura was considered to be very wealthy and likely to be
vastly more so in a little while. Consequently she was much courted and
as much envied: Her wealth attracted many suitors. Perhaps they came
to worship her riches, but they remained to worship her. Some of the
noblest men of the time succumbed to her fascinations. She frowned upon
no lover when he made his first advances, but by and by when she was
hopelessly enthralled, he learned from her own lips that she had formed
a resolution never to marry. Then he would go away hating and cursing
the whole sex, and she would calmly add his scalp to her string, while
she mused upon the bitter day that Col. Selby trampled her love and her
pride in the dust. In time it came to be said that her way was paved
with broken hearts.
Poor Washington gradually woke up to the fact that he too was an
intellectual marvel as well as his gifted sister. He could not conceive
how it had come about (it did not occur to him that the gossip about his
family’s great wealth had any thing to do with it). He could not account
for it by any process of reasoning, and was simply obliged to accept the
fact and give up trying to solve the riddle. He found himself dragged
into society and courted, wondered at and envied very much as if he
were one of those foreign barbers who flit over here now and then with
a self-conferred title of nobility and marry some rich fool’s absurd
daughter. Sometimes at a dinner party or a reception he would find
himself the centre of interest, and feel unutterably uncomfortable in
the discovery. Being obliged to say something, he would mine his brain
and put in a blast and when the smoke and flying debris had cleared away
the result would be what seemed to him but a poor little intellectual
clod of dirt or two, and then he would be astonished to see everybody as
lost in admiration as if he had brought up a ton or two of virgin gold.
Every remark he made delighted his hearers and compelled their applause;
he overheard people say he was exceedingly bright--they were chiefly
mammas and marriageable young ladies. He found that some of his good
things were being repeated about the town. Whenever he heard of an
instance of this kind, he would keep that particular remark in mind and
analyze it at home in private. At first he could not see that the remark
was anything better than a parrot might originate; but by and by he
