felt a little afraid that Clement, in his earnest and almost 
impatient desire to recover our lost home, would lose sight 
of some of the higher duties of life. But to see him thus 
thoughtful of needs besides his own, is a great comfort to 
me." 

" O, mamma ! As if Clement could ever be anything but 
noble ! " exclaimed Madge. 

"My dear, there are temptations everywhere. Are we 
not all commanded to watch and pray ? " 

Philip's soul and conscience were at rest after he had 
obeyed Clement's bidding. And then he began to watch 
his father more narrowly than before. How the face and 
figure had changed ! The shoulders were bent a little, 
the cheeks thin and rather sunken, the hair and beard fast 
turning silvery white. But there was something that he 
had not remarked before. A kind of hesitancy, coupled 
with an almost painful watchfulness, as if he were listening 
for a sound that he might not readily understand, or the 



 

coming of a dreaded visitant. Had there leen an uncon- 
fessed symptom of paralysis ? 

In this anxiety, Philip had recourse to Dr. Oonway 
once more. 

" He is considerably worn and shattered, but I see no 
cause for apprehension," was the doctor's verdict. " Truth 
to tell, he is not able to endure the fatigues of business. 
He needs a holiday." 

" And he shall have it," said Philip, with a swelling 
heart. 

He took Madge and Jessie into council. If, when the 
warm weather came, they could persuade both parents to 
take a pleasant trip somewhere among country scenes, 
where peace and rest forever brooded in the air, and every 
breath brought new life ! 

"It is too hard to have him work at all!" said Philip. 
" If he would be content to give up entirely ! " 

They pressed each other's hands in silence. Poverty 
was no romance with them, but a bitter, actual fact. They 
felt it most keenly for their father's sake. They were 
young, and could face it sturdily, bear all the deprivations, 
for they had not taken such firm root among the graces 
and appliances of wealth. 

Philip considered a long while how best to broach the 
subject to his father. The idea of a two months' vacation 
might startle him ; and then again, if the situation had to 
be filled would he be willing to go? 

These perplexities soon came to an end. The holiday 
was proffered without any asking, only it was final. 

He came home early one March afternoon, his face more 
wan than ever, and the soft eyes full of despair. Jessie 
was alone. Madge had persuaded her mother into taking 
a ramble around the Park. 

"O, papal Are you ill?" and Jessie's tender anni 
were about him, her warm cheek against his. 

" No, my darling." 





There was a curious calmness in his tone, though ht 
Was trembling in every limb. 

"But you are home sooner than usual ! n 

"Yes." 

There was a faint sinking of the lines about the mouth, 
a half-fearful expression as if some blow had been struck, 
and he apprehended another. 

She stood looking at him, mutely questioning him with 
her fond eyes. 

" I have been discharged, Jessie; " with a little cry, as if 
the pain went deep. 

" O, papa ! That is not so very hard to bear." 

The comforting voice was low and untrembling, the 
scarlet lips parting to a half smile. 

"That is not all, Jessie. There was a mistake I don't 
know how I could have made it I go over things so 
many times ; " in a weary tone. " But Mr. Evans was 
angry. You can hardly understand, my darling, how it 
seems to have a man much younger, and your inferior in 
every way, a kind of coarse, grudging nature, glad to find 
fault on the slightest pretext, placed over you as master, 
and to bear petty sneers and pompous commands. And 
though I answered mildly, it was nothing against the 
torrent." 

" Forget all about it, papa. Philip has been planning 
something a pleasure, and this just conies in right." 

"But you don't know" clasping his thin fingers to- 
gether "you don't know all. That was this morning; 
and I have been trying ever since to find some em- 
ployment. They think me old and incapable ; I see it in 
every one's face." 

His pale lips twitched convulsively, and a tear dropped 
on the carpet. 

"You need a little rest; Philip said so. And then I
think it will all come right. Dear papa, let us trust " 

" It is so hard when one is unfortunate." 



 

" And that is just the time." 

"If there was no one if I could be spared but it 
seems as if the time had not quite come yet. I wanted 
Clement to be tolerably free of burdens for a few years, 
since he has taken the one high task upon himself." 

Something strange and awesome seemed to find entrance 
in Jessie's brain. This Home Nook, so dear and precious, 
was a kind of promised land to them here in the wilder- 
ness. They were all striving, and hoping, and praying 
but what if God meant they should never possess it again ? 
She grew cold with a painful apprehension. It was the 
first time she had ever thought of the improbability. 

" Papa," she said, in a low tone, " all we can do is to 
trust God. He never will forsake us." 

"True, my darling." 

And then Mr. Ashburton was silent. It was more diffi 
cult to trust in adversity. One could not help asking why 
one must be stricken so sorely, rendered so helpless! 

He made several efforts after this, but with no success. 
Business was very dull at least, anything that he 
could do. 

Philip gained consent to his plan. Some one recom- 
mended a quiet little sea-side place on Long Island, where 
board could be obtained at moderate terms. Thither Mr. 
and Mrs. Ashburton went, and were well pleased with 
their surroundings. 

" But it seems as if I ought not to be a burden on my 
children," he said to his wife. " I always meant to do so 
much for them." 

" And shall we refuse to let them do for us?" 

"It does not appear right," in his slow, sad manner. 

" We must thank God for these two noble boys, and 
leave the rest in his hands." 

Madge and Jessie missed the two familiar faces sorely ; 
but both were brave ; and they began to consider what 
manner of life lay before them. 





" I believe I ought to make application for a situation, 
said Madge. "I never could endure the thought of teach- 
ing school ; but Nelly used to consider it genteel, and I 
hardly know what else I could do. We are not both 
needed at home." 

It was very true. 

"And since my destiny appears to be decided, and if 
one in which there bids fair to be a good deal of waiting, ' 
with a kind of half-sad smile, " perhaps it would be as well 
to make myself useful." 

" I am sorry to have you undertake anything you do 
not like." 

" It may be a good discipline, perhaps. I find that I 
am quite prone to consult my own likes and dislikes. And 
if I knew just what would suit me! I run over the list of 
female employments, and find that some of the higher ones 
are altogether out of my reach. O, dear ! Life is full of 
perplexities." 

Poor Madge. The realities were rapidly crowding upon 
her. 

But that afternoon, as she sat alone, puzzling her brains 
with many unanswerable questions, Jessie having gone out 
to do some errands, she was startled from her reverie by 
a ring at the door. 

" O ! " with a glad cry ; and the next instant she was 
sobbing in her young lover's arms. 

" My darling ! " he cried, in alarm. 

She raised her wet, blushing face with a touch of Elea- 
nor's dignity, for Charlie Westlake was manlier than ever. 
How dared she give way to such weakness and folly ! 

" My dear girl, are you not going to ask me in ? " with 
a little of the old gayety in his voice. " I thought I should 
surprise you, but I had not dreamed of so sad a greeting. 
The others ?" 

a Are well," Madge hastened to say, shyly preceding hef 
Lover into the parlor. 



"Did I startle you ? I ought to have known." 

"I should have cried in another moment anyhow. Your 
coming is only a lame excuse," and she tried to smile. 

"I do not want to lose my bright little gypsy Madge, 
for we have a way before us that will require a good deal 
of patience and hope." 

" Mine was foolishness," said Madge, resolutely. 

" Was it ? And are you all alone ? O, what lovely 
roses ! They are from Miss Jessie's estate, I know." 

A choice bouquet stood on the centre-table, in the cool, 
pleasant-looking parlor. Jessie was a marvellous gardener. 
Everything she tended came straight to perfection. 

"I am glad to find you alone, Madge, for various 
reasons," and the young lover's face grew a trifle graver. 
" I have a great deal to tell you, but first I must hear about 
your sorrow." 

" I do not know as it ought to be dignified with such a 
high-sounding title," and the girl smiled again. 

"But there was some pain in it, or there would have 
been no tears. Am I not your nearest friend? nay, 
more than a friend ? " 

She turned partly away. The sympathy was too dan- 
gerously sweet. 

" What was the trouble ? " in a low, persuasive voice. 

" Not worth the telling." 

" Only that I have a right to know." 

There was a little authority in his voice. Insensibly 
they were coming to that second estate where soul speaks 
to soul the power on a man's side, the obedience on a 
woman's. 

Was it about your father? " 

Partly." 

And presently it all came out. The hundred little fears 
shadowing their path, the question that had become so im- 
portant with her, what she should do, and how she 
should do it 





" School teaching does appear to be about the only re 
source of an educated woman, unless she has a special 
genius. And it does keep one fresh, up to a certain mark, 
in acquirements. But, my darling, I am so sorry to see 
you compelled to enter the arena of toil and strife. If I 
could take you now " 

" Don't," she said, as if a little pained. " You know we 
promised to abide by mamma's decision." 

"And I have hardly kept my promise. Nay, Madge," 
with a grave smile, "wait until you hear; "for she was 
just ready to speak. " I have confessed all to my mother." 

" O ! " in a relieved tone. 

" Yes, at last. I think truly that we have been trying 
to wear out each other's patience. As if she suspected, she 
would not let me talk. But coming home, I had to make 
some decision." 

" And she disapproves ? " Madge cried, with the quick un- 
reason of youth. 

"I will not deceive you, my dear brave girl. She affects 
to consider it merely a boyish fancy. I think the loss of 
fortune does make some difference with her, Madge, but I 
do believe that when she comes to understand this as the 
great faith of my life, the one crown of my manhood, she 
will be won into consenting. And since we should have 
to wait in any event n 

" I don't mind the waiting," Madge said, hurriedly. 

"I told mother that hitherto we had been friends only, 
but henceforward it would be an engagement. She was 
qiite anxious for me to wait until my return, but finally 
she assented. O, Madge ! why do you look so grave f 
Surely this is not bad news." 

"Are you quite sure you will never repent? I feel aa 
if I ought to give it up. We shall never be rich again, 
as we once were, and I should be most sorry to enter any 
family where I was not welcome. I see all these things 
in a so much clearer light now.'' 



 

"There is another course. I thought if mother and 
I came to any open controversy, I should take it that is, 
to give up my plans, accept a situation somewhere, and 
marry. Nay, you need not turn so pale ; I was very reso- 
lute." 

" You shall not give up your hopes for me," she an- 
swered decisively. 

" This is my mother's plan. I think it does deserve 
some consideration. It was her pet project to go abroad 
as soon as I had graduated. Now the doctor has reo- 
ommended it for my cousin, who is in delicate health. 
They both want me, and perhaps need me for a pro- 
tector ! " 

"And you are going?" 

Madge gave a gasp. To be left alone as it were, in this 
time of all !

"My darling, it is as you decide. I could go at my law 
studies immediately, and be near you ; or, as I said before, 
I can take some position that will enable me to marry 
presently. If I go, it is with the undertanding that I am 
engaged to you." 

" O ! " said Madge, " everything has a dark and troubled 
side. I wonder if it was for the best? I was so happy 
that day, so thoughtless ; but what seemed simple and 
natural then, has grown complicated, until one hardly dares 
move in the matter." 

She shrank back a little as she uttered this. Life had 
become so much wider and more sacred in these years. 

" I do believe it is for the best. It does not seem as if 
God could allow two persons to love one another so dearly, 
and not have it come to its highest joy some time. We 
are young and strong, and I feel as if there was a long life 
before us. Yet, my darling, I shall do nothing without 
your consent." 

Madge was trying to bridge over the commonplace and 
the heroic. It was BO much easier to think of sacnfioei 




than to make them. If mamma were only here to find the 
right way out of the tangle !" 

"I think you ought to go," she said, at length, choking 
down a little cry in her throat. 

" I will tell you how it appears to me. It is a long- 
cherished plan of mother's ; she has talked of it ever since 
I can remember ; and as she consents to our engagement on 
that condition, it seems ungrateful to refuse." 

M O1" and Madge brightened. "Then she does consent?" 

" If I keep my mind ; " and he smiled so assured of his 
own love. " It will only be a year or two, and we can 
correspond." 

" It is not so bad after all ; " and a rift of sunshine illu- 
mined the sweet face. 

" We are to go in June, so there can be some blessed 
weeks, my darling. We will keep them for remembrances, 
and look forward to the precious re-union. O, Madge, 
you never will doubt me ! " 

"Doubt you? Why, you do not understand this 
love is my very life ! Perhaps being poor, and having 
fewer resources, renders it a more sacred thing to me, but 
I never could love any one again ; " and her lip quiv- 
ered. 

He caught her in his arms and kissed the sweet, flushed 
face in a transport of profound affection. 

" I am going to see Mr. and Mrs. Ashburton to-morrow. 
I want our affairs placed on a firm basis, with the privilege 
of considering you mine, and corresponding with you. 
We are old enough now to know our own minds." 

Jessie returned at this juncture, and by degrees Madge 
came out of the spell that seemed to have overwhelmed 
her. Yet whether she was most sorry or most glad, it 
would have been hard to tell. 

True to his word, Charlie Westlake saw Mr. and Mrs. 
Ashburton the next day. His straightforward, earnest 



 

manner pleased them both. That he was simere and reso- 
lute, they coull not for a moment doubt, and to refuse to 
sanction the engagement now seemed cruel. 

"And yet our daughters are not marrying under happy 
auspices," said Mr. Ashburton, sadly. 

"This may prove brighter in the end. I am sorry that 
it happened, but since neither he nor Madge change their 
minds, there is no excuse for breaking the claim. Mrs. 
Westlake may feel less bitter and disappointed as the years 
go on ; and since we have to walk blindfold at every step, 
we will endeavor to bear the burdens sent upon us, trust- 
ing to see light at last." 

"O, for your blessed faith, my wife ! For somehow the 
way is dark, and I seem to wander." 

Some quiet tears came to Mrs. Ashburton's eyes. Of 
late her husband had grown very much depressed, more 
so than during their first sharp losses. 

Charlie Westlake had softened the truth in some par- 
ticulars, and withheld one fact, that might, perhaps, have 
thrown a little light upon later events. Yet he did it 
from a tender and honest humility. How could he con- 
fess that his mother had declared his cousin May's life 
was centred in her love for him? He fancied if May's 
penchant were worn out by mere cousinly kindness, or if 
she should be attracted elsewhere during their tour, Mrs. 
Westlake would consent the more readily to receive 
Madge as a daughter. Then his mother's almost kind 
compliance to his wishes softened in his mind her first 
bitter opposition, and he was too loyal a son to say aught 
more than the circumstances required. 

To Madge, after the first excitement was over, there 
came a bright holiday indeed. Because the period was 
so brief, Charlie felt disposed to make the most of it. He 
brought the girls flowers, he persuaded Philip to " beg ofljt 
and take two or three delightful drives with them, and then 
there were dainty little suppers that were like fessie'a 
own self. 





For this young lover seemed to add one to the family, 
His coming never made any break. Jessie sat and sewed 
while they discoursed of future plans, for nothing concern- 
ing Madge was a secret. 

"I shall hunt up your sister," he said, " and maybe bring 
her home with me. You never would believe," with a 
gay smile> " that I was always half afraid of Miss Ash- 
burton." 

