right to guide you," said Aunt Faith. 
" I have never given him any right," said 
Sibyl, hastily. " I presume he thinks I am a 
selfish, hard-hearted creature," she added in 
another tone. 
" He thinks more highly of you than your own 
aunt did, Sibyl ; he said so himself. He believes, 
or has believed, firmly in the purity of your 
religious faith and firm principle. I have several 
times been surprised to see how sure he was of 
you." 
" He asked too much," said Sibyl ; " he is too 
severe with me." 
" Not more severe than he is with himself, my 
dear. He has taken all his little savings for 
Margaret Brown, and I presume those savings 
represent comforts, not luxuries like pearls." 
" Mr. Leslie should not try me by the same 
test he uses for himself; I cannot stand it." 
" That is where he made his mistake, my 
dear. He thought you could." 
Sibyl colored angrily. " Mr. Leslie is an 
enthusiast." she said ; " he expects people to 
throw down all their treasures at his feet." 
" Not at his feet ; at the foot of the cross, 
dear " 
 
" Aunt Faith, do you really believe people can 
be happy in such a life ? " said Sibyl vehemently. 
" Mr. Leslie is happy, my child." 
" He is a single man with few cares. I am 
alluding to married people, burdened with responsibility and anxiety. " 
" If they are so burdened, my dear, so much 
the more reason why they should seek help from 
Him who said ; come unto me all ye that are 
heavy laden, and I will give you rest.' " 
" But in e very-day life there are so many petty 
annoyances, aunt. ,, 
" Will they be any the less annoying without 
His aid, dear ? " 
" They will be less annoying if people are 
rich, Aunt Faith." 
" Some of the most unhappy women I have 
ever known, have been rich, Sibyl." 
" But I would not be one of those, aunt.' I 
would be rich and happy at the same time." 
" If you could, my dear. But wealth brings 
with it its own troubles ; sometimes in the 
 
shape of the donor ; I trust you would not 
marry for money ? " 
"Not for money alone, aunt. But I see no 
reason why a rich man might not be loved for 
himself as well as a poor man. It does not 
follow that because a man is rich he must therefore be selfish or ill-tempered." 
' Certainly not, my dear ; but we will not 
discuss it any longer, at present. You are 
young, and I wish you to understand yourself 
thoroughly. Take no rash steps, and re- 
member that wealth is as nothing compared to a 
true heart, and that this world's best treasures 
are perishable, while religious faith abides with 
us through life and death into eternity." 
In the afternoon Mr. Leslie came again to the 
old stone house, and inquired for Mrs. Sheldon. 
" I have come to ask for your horses," he said, as 
Aunt Faith entered the parlor ; I have secured 
a large carriage that will take all the family, 
and now, if you will send Jonas down with the 
horses, we can hope to have Margaret safely 
established at Mr. Green's before night." 
 
" Certainly, Mr. Leslie. Is there nothing 
more I can do ? " 
" Not to-day, thank you. I shall go out with 
them myself." 
" How are the children ? " 
" Worse, I fear ; but I have large faith in 
country air." 
" I shall be anxious to know how they bear the 
ride." 
" I will stop on my way home as I must come 
back with the carriage," said the young clergy- 
man as he went away. 
" Was not that Mr. Leslie ? " asked Hugh, 
coming in from the dining-room a few moments 
afterward. 
" Yes," replied Aunt Faith ; " he came to see 
me on business." 
" Didn't he ask for Sibyl?" said Hugh. 
" No," replied Aunt Faith, with a warning 
look at her nephew, as Sibyl came in. But Hugh 
was not to be warned. " Sibyl," he said, 4t Mr. 
Leslie has been here and did not ask for you" 
 
" Is that so very surprising ? " said his sister 
coldly ; she had regained all her composure and 
her face was calm and quiet. 
" Of course it is surprising," said Hugh 
bluntly. " He has been in the habit of coming 
here to see you for months, and, let me tell you, 
Sibyl, he is one in a thousand ; he is a hero, 
every inch, and I heartily respect and like him." 
" I have said nothing to the contrary, Hugh." 
" Don't be a hypocrite, Sibyl," said Hugh 
with brotherly frankness. "I am not good at 
splitting hairs, but there is no more comparison 
between Mr. Leslie and Graham Marr, than 
there is between an eagle and a sickly chicken." 
" I have never thought of comparing them, 
Hugh. I do not like comparisons, and yours is 
entirely unjust. But even supposing it was cor- 
rect, /have no taste for standing on a mountain- 
peak, in the icy air of unknown heights, and gaz- 
ing at the sun all day as an eagle does," said 
Sibyl, as she crossed the hall into the parlor. In 
a few moments the Spring-Song sounded forth 
 
from the piano, and under cover of the music, 
Hugh said to Aunt Faith, " there is nothing 
wrong between them I hope ? " 
" There is nothing between them either right 
or wrong," replied Aunt Faith with a sigh. 
" Sibyl is not suited to Mr. Leslie." 
"Then it is her fault," said Hugh warmly. 
" There is no doubt in my mind that John Leslie 
is deeply interested in her, and I should be 
proud and glad to have him for a brother. He 
is the truest, most honest man I know." 
" That is because he is such a sincere^ earnest 
Christian." 
" I know it, aunt. He works hard, and he 
thoroughly believes in his work. He really 
thinks there is nothing in the city so vitally im- 
portant as that little chapel, and those work- 
men." f 
" He is right, Hugh. To him there should be 
nothing so important as their welfare." 
" Yes, I suppose so ; that is, if I could look at 
it with his eyes. But it is rare to see practice so 
consistent with theory in every-day life." 
 
" It is, as you say, rare indeed ; but he is a 
rare man, Hugh." 
" He is, truly. That is the reason why I feel 
Sibyl's manner. Can it be possible that she 
really prefers Graham Marr ? " 
" I do not know, Hugh. Graham will be rich 
some day." 
" That is the worst of it, aunt. Who would 
have thought Sibyl could be so mercenary ! " 
" Do not judge her harshly, dear. She has 
none of that impulse which you admire, but her 
heart has always been true, — at least so far," 
said Aunt Faith gently. Then, after a pause, 
she continued in a lower tone, " Hugh, if you 
like and admire Mr. Leslie so much, why are 
you not willing to follow his example ? " 
" What ! Become a clergyman, Aunt 
Faith ? " 
"Not that, unless you feel an inward call 
towards the blessed vocation," replied Aunt 
Faith reverently ; " but why do you delay to 
come forward and make your open profession of 
 
faith ? Is it honest, is it manly, to hang back- 
ward ? " 
" Oh, Aunt Faith, I am not good enough ! " 
said Hugh quickly. 
" Goodness is not required of any of us, Hugh ; 
only repentance, and an earnest endeavor to im- 
prove. My dear boy, I never see you come and 
go, without an aching desire to have you enrolled 
under His banner, to have you a soldier of the 
Cross, openly, before all men. Have you 
thought over our last conversation on this sub- 
ject?" 
" Yes, aunt, many times ; but I have such a 
high idea of a professing Christian. It seems to 
me that such an one ought to be like Mr. Leslie, 
working with all his might for the salvation of 
souls. ,, 
" It is not required that all professing Chris- 
tians should be ministers of the word, Hugh. 
There are many other spheres of action, and 
many qualifications, varied according to our 
varied temperaments and positions. The Bible 
 
makes that point very clear. You read it, I 
hope ? " 
" Yes ; but I always read the same part, the 
Gospel of St. John. I like it best of all. There 
are so many beautiful verses in it which are 
found nowhere else, so much love and warm 
faith ! For instance ; Let not your heart be 
troubled, neither let it be afraid.' And ' I will 
not leave you comfortless, I will come unto you.' 
And, 'woman, behold thy son; behold thy 
mother ; ' to me one of the most touching inci- 
dents in the Gospel. Then there is the story of 
Lazarus, and the verse ' Jesus wept.' He sor- 
rowed for the mourners, too ! Oh, I cannot un- 
derstand how true Christians can mourn so 
bitterly for their dead, when they believe that 
this loving Saviour cares for them.". 
" It is not always so much for their lost ones 
as for themselves, Hugh ; their own loneliness, 
their crushed hopes, and perhaps their remorse 
that in the lifetime of those they mourn they 
did not do more for their happiness." 
 
" You have lost many dear ones, Aunt Faith, ! ' 
said Hugh thoughtfully. 
" Yes ; my husband, my parents, and among 
my intimate friends, all my generation." 
" Do you often think of them, aunt ? " 
" Yes, Hugh, very often. At first with tears 
and sadness, but gradually with hope, and a 
certain looking forward instead of backward. 
At first I kept all my anniversaries sacred, the 
many clays hallowed by associations with my 
dear ones ; but gradually I tried to break up the 
habit, and now I only think of their heavenly 
birthdays, — the days when they left the earth, 
— and even these have come to be pleasant. I 
have always been fond of autumn. There is 
something that charms me in the hazy air and 
colored foliage. It is not sadness, — it is not 
joy, — but a sweet peace. Then, my dead 
always seem near to me. If you like, I will 
give you something I once wrote on the subject, 
expressing this feeling." 
"Do, aunt!" said Hugh, earnestly; for so 
 
seldom did Aunt Faith allude to her past lifo 
and its sorrows, that all the cousins held it in 
reverent respect, and although they often spoke 
of it among themselves, they never broke 
through the bounds of Aunt Faith's silence. 
In her own room hung the portrait of her hus- 
band, Lester Sheldon, a young man's face, with 
blue eyes, and thick golden hair, tossed carelessly 
back from the white forehead, while below, the 
firm mouth told of decision and self-control be- 
yond his years. Once, when Bessie was a child, 
she sat looking at this portrait for some time in 
silence. Then she said, " Aunt Faith, if that is 
your husband, what makes him so young when 
you are so old ? " 
" He died when he was a young man, little 
Bessie.' , 
" But he won't know you when you go to 
heaven, I'm afraid," continued the child, looking 
anxiously at her aunt's gray hair. 
" Oh, I shall be young then, too, Bessie. Here 
is a picture of me when I was eighteen,"' said 
 
Aunt* Faith, taking a box from her drawer, and 
drawing out a miniature. It was one of those 
lovely, old-fashioned ivory pictures, showing a 
fresh young face with dimples, and a sunny 
smile. 
" Oh, auntie, that isn't you ! " Bessie had ex- 
claimed, and the other children having come 
into the room, the picture was shown to them 
also. Since that clay they had never seen it, but 
Hugh retained a vivid remembrance of the pic- 
ture, and, as Aunt Faith looked through her 
desk to find the paper, something in her face re- 
called it to his mind, and there came across him, 
like a revelation, a vision of what she was at 
eighteen. Faith Warrington at eighteen ! Faith 
Warrington, who had long been Mrs. Sheldon with 
her gray hair and pale face. Going up to his 
room, Hugh seated himself by the window, and 
opening the paper, read the following lines : — 
" Far back within the cycles of the past, 
A train of centuries rolls, 
From out whose cloudy borders came the day 
 
Of memory for all souls. 
How long it seems, a thousand years ago ! 
How dark and weary, if we did not know 
A thousand years are but as yesterday within His 
sight, 
Seeing that it is past like one brief watch within the 
night I 
Could they have known, those men of childlike faith, 
Half ignorant, half sublime, 
The fitness of the souls' memorial day 
Falling within the time 
Of Nature's holy calm, her blest repose, — 
When all the land with loving fervor glows, 
And from the naked woods, the empty fields, through 
the soft haze, 
Her work well done, her garners full, she offers up 
her praise. 
A stillness fills the consecrated air, — 
The blustering winds that swept 
The red and yellow leaves in giddy rounds, 
By mighty hands are kept 
In their four corners, while the liquid gold 
And purple tints over the earth unrolled, 
And full of mystery and heavenly peace, as though 
the skies 
Had opened, and let out the atmosphere of Paradise. 
Departed souls I Their memory may come 
 
With grief in Spring's soft hours,— 
With weary, lonely sadness when our hands 
Are gathering summer flowers, — 
With wild despair in winter, when the graves 
Are white with drifted snow, and wildly raves 
The wind among the stones and monuments, in 
accents dread, 
Calling in vain the sculptured names of our beloved 
dead. 
But in this golden dream-time of the year, 
Our bitter murmurs cease; — 
We seem to feel the presence of the dead, 
Their shadowy touch of peace ; 
We seem to see their faces as we gaze 
Longingly forth into the purple haze, 
And hear the distant chorus of the happy souls at 
rest, — 
And catch the well-known accents of the voice we 
loved the best." 
All Souls' Day, November 2nd. 
In the evening, as Aunt Faith was sitting on 
the piazza with Bessie, Mr. Leslie came up the 
walk ; Sibyl was in the parlor playing soft chords 
on the piano, but she could hear his words as he 
spoke. Mr. Leslie's voice was deep, but clear, 
and his pronunciation perfectly distinct without 
 
any apparent effort. He did not obtrude the al- 
phabet unpleasantly upon his hearers ; he was 
not so anxious to show his correct pronunciation 
of " Been " as to force it to rhyme with " Seen ; " 
he was not so much concerned with " Institute," 
as to te-u-ute the last syllable into undue impor- 
tance ; neither did he bombard his hearers with 
the arrogance of rolling rrs. Although his voice 
was not loud, any one occupying even the last 
seat in the chapel could not only hear him, but 
was absolutely invited to listen by the pleasant 
distinctness of the words. 
" I am pleased to be able to tell you that Mar- 
garet and the children are safe in the farm-house, 
Mrs. Sheldon," he said, taking a seat on the 
piazza. " Poor girl, how glad she was to get 
there ! She sent her grateful thanks to you." 
" How did the children bear the ride ? " asked 
Aunt Faith. 
" Better than I expected. Indeed, the novel- 
ty, and perhaps the pleasant country air, seemed 
to revive them, and lessen the fever. They even 
 
walked about the garden when we arrived there, 
and began to make bouquets of flowers, but be- 
fore I left, the reaction had come and they looked 
very tired." 
" You look tired, also, Mr. Leslie," said Aunt 
Faith ; the light from the hall-lamp shone on the 
young clergyman's face and showed its pale weari- 
ness. 
" I am tired," he replied, " but a night's rest 
is all I need." Then he leaned back in his chair 
and sat talking pleasantly with Bessie and Aunt 
Faith. " This is a charming old house," he said, 
" it must have been built a long time ago." 
" Yes," replied Aunt Faith ; " for a western 
town it is quite venerable. The main portion 
was built in 1822, and the wings were added as 
the family increased, without much regard for 
architectural regularity. The stairs were origin- 
ally out-doors on the back piazza, but father fi- 
nally had them enclosed. You may have noticed 
that the west side has only two windows, and 
that those are singularly placed. It is amusing 
 
to think that so implicit was grandfather's belief 
in the growth of Westerton, then hardly more 
than a pioneer village, that he built up that side 
without any windows so as not to interfere with 
the blocks of dwellings which he was sure would 
press up against this house as the town grew 
into a city. It was only after many years that 
father was allowed to pierce the thick wall and 
with great difficulty insert those two windows." 
" That is something like my old home, a little 
village in the interior of New York," said Mr. 
Leslie. " One old man was so impressed by the 
growth of the town, that meeting my father he 
shook him by the hand and exclaimed, 4 how it 
do grow, Judge ! Please heaven, we'll make a 
seaport of it yet ! ' " 
They all laughed at this story. Then Aunt 
Faith said, " I should like to think that some of 
the children would occupy this old house after I 
am gone. But in America, and especially in the 
Western States that is hardly possible." 
" I will live here, if I can, Aunt Faith," said 
 
Bessie warmly. "I love every stone in the old 
house, and every old flower in the old garden." 
"Are flowers ever old, Miss Darrell?" said 
Mr. Leslie, smiling. 
" Oh, yes. Flowers grow old-fashioned and 
out of date just like people. We have a genuine 
old-fashioned garden here, and all the neighbors 
laugh at it in comparison with their smooth 
lawns and choice plants. We have bachelor's- 
buttons, lady-slippers, tiger-lilies, flower-de-luce, 
hollyhocks, and pinks, besides bushes of lilac and 
matrimony; then we have old cedars clipped 
into shape, and ever so many little paths and 
garden-beds edged with box. Oh, we are entire- 
ly behind the times ! But for all that, I love the 
old garden better than the smoothest trimmed 
lawn, and I can pick you a bunch of violets 
which you cannot match in Westerton ; real violets, 
too, not flaring pansies." 
" I too am fond of old-fashioned gardens, Miss 
Darrell," said Mr. Leslie. " My mother had 
one, not so large as this, but resembling it in gen- 
 
eral arrangement. I remember we had a little 
patch of trailing arbutus ; it grew wild, and I 
can distinctly recall its perfume as the snow mel- 
ted. I have never seen it in the West." 
"No, it does not grow here," replied Aunt 
Faith ; " our climate is too warm for it." 
" There is a great difference between the 
climate of the lake country and that of New 
England," said Mr. Leslie ; " there is so little 
snow here." 
" Snow ! " exclaimed Bessie. " I scarcely 
know what snow is ; and as for stories of 
drifts over the fences, and tunnels cut through 
them, I can scarcely believe anything of the 
kind. They are as much like legends to me as 
the fairy tale of little Kay and the Robber 
Maiden. Once at Featherton Hall the eastern 
girls were talking about sleigh-riding, and I told 
them that snow was so scarce in Westerton that 
when a few snow-flakes actually fell, they were 
immediately fenced in and guarded by the police, 
and then the whole population assembled in 
sleighs, cutters, and pungs, to ride over them in 
alphabetical order. Of course, as aunt's name 
began with S, there was not much left of the 
snow-flakes when our turn came." 
"You ridiculous child!" said Aunt Faith, 
laughing, " how can you invent such exaggera- 
tions?" 
" Oh, Bessie can invent anything ! " said 
Hugh, coming out from the sitting-room ; " if 
she had charge of even the Patent-Office Reports, 
she would gild them into veritable romances." 
Later in the evening, Graham Marr came up 
the garden walk. " Good-evening, Mrs. Shel- 
don! " he said ; "is Miss Warrington at home? " 
" Yes; she is in the parlor," said Aunt Faith. 
" Will you go in, Mr. Marr ? " 
" Thank you, yes. I came especially to see 
her," replied Graham, taking off his straw hat, 
and passing through the group on the piazza. 
"Excuse me, Miss Darrell. Is that you, 
Hugh ? Ah ! — Mr. Leslie, I believe. I did not 
observe you in the darkness. I hope you ex* 
 
perieneed no ill feeling after your exposure 
yesterday ? " 
" None at all, Mr. Marr. And you ? " 
" I took cold, as I expected ; but, so far, my 
head has given me no severe pain," said Graham, 
passing on into the parlor. 
" Is Mr. Marr subject to pain in his head ? " 
inquired Mr. Leslie, as Graham disappeared. 
" Chronic inflammation of the brain, produced 
by intense stucly and seething, poetical thoughts," 
said Hugh, in a dramatic whisper. 
Soon afterwards, Mr. Leslie rose to take leave. 
" I feel very tired, so I will say good-night," 
he said. " I will let you know the condition of 
the children some time to-morrow, Mrs. Sheldon." 
" Thank you. If it is quite convenient I 
shall be glad to know," replied Aunt Faith. 
Graham Marr stayed until a late hour, so late 
that, Bessie and Hugh had gone upstairs when 
he took leave, and Sibyl, coming in to the sitting- 
room, found Aunt Faith alone. 
" You look tired, my dear," said the elder lady 
kindlv. 
 
" I am tired, aunt. Graham talked a long 
time. He had something to tell me. His uncle 
is dead, and he has come into the fortune." 
" Ah ! — " said Aunt Faith. She made no 
