shaking both her open hands in his face, " he's 
dead ! He died last night ! " 



XVIII. 

THE terrible stroke sobered Ferris ; he woke from 
his long debauch of hate and jealousy and despair ; 
for the first time since that night in the garden, he 
faced his fate with a clear mind. Death had set 
his seal forever to a testimony which he had been 
able neither to refuse nor to accept ; in abject sor 
row and shame he thanked God that he had been 
kept from dealing that last cruel blow ; but if Don 
Ippolito had come back from the dead to repeat 
his witness, Ferris felt that the miracle could not 
change his own passive state. There was now but 
one thing in the world for him to do: to see Florida, 
to confront her with his knowledge of all that had 
been, and to abide by her word, whatever it was. 
At the worst, there was the war, whose drums had 
already called to him, for a refuge. 

He thought at first that lie might perhaps over 
take the Vervains before they sailed for America, 
but he remembered that they had left Venice six 
weeks before. It seemed impossible that he could 
wait, but when he landed in New York, he was tor 
mented in his impatience by a strange reluctance 
and hesitation. A fantastic light fell upon his 
plans; a sense of its wilduess enfeebled his purpose, 
was he going to do ? Had he come four 



 

thousand miles to tell Florida that Don Ippolito 
was dead ? Or was he going to say, " I have 
heard that you love me, but I don 't bslieve it : is it 
true ? " 

He pushed on to Providence, stifling these antic 
misgivings as he might, and without allowing him 
self time to falter from his intent, he set out to find 
Mrs. Vervain's house. He knew the street and the 
number, for she had often given him the address in 
her invitations against the time when he should re 
turn to America. As he drew near the house a 
tender trepidation filled him and silenced all other 
senses in him ; his heart beat thickly ; the universe 
included only the fact that he was to look upon the 
face he loved, and this fact had neither past nor 
future. 

But a terrible foreboding as of death seized him 
when he stood before the house, and glanced up at 
its close-shuttered front, and round upon the dusty 
grass-plots and neglected flower-beds of the door- 
yard. With a cold hand he rang and rang again, 
and no answer came. At last a man lounged up to 
the fence from the next house-door. " Guess you 
won 't make anybody hear," he said, casually. 

" Does n t Mrs. Vervain live in this house ? " 
asked Ferris, finding a husky voice in his throat 
that sounded to him like some other's voice lost 
there. 

" She used to, but she isn 't  at home. Family's 
in Europe." 



 

They had not corne back yet. 

" Thanks," said Ferris mechanically, and he went 
away. He laughed to himself at this keen irony of 
fortune ; he was prepared for the confirmation of his 
doubts ; he was ready for relief from them, Heaven 
knew ; but this blank that the turn of the wheel 
had brought, this Nothing ! 

The Vervains were as lost to him as if Europe 
were in another planet. How should he find them 
there ? Besides, he was poor ; he had no money to 
get back with, if he had wanted to return. 

He took the first train to New York, and hunted 
up a young fellow -of his acquaintance, who in the 
days of peace had been one of the governor's aides. 
He was still holding this place, and was an ardent 
recruiter. He hailed with rapture the expression of 
Ferris's wish to go into the war. " Look here ! " 
he said after a moment's thought, " didn 't you 
have some rank as a consul ? " 

" Yes," replied Ferris with a dreary smile, " I 
have been equivalent to a commander in the navy 
and a colonel in the army I don 't mean both, but 
either." 

" Good ! " cried his friend. " We must strike 
high. The colonelcies are rather inaccessible, just 
at present, and so are the lieutenant- colonelcies ; 
but a majorship, now " . . . . 

" Oh no ; don 't ! " pleaded Ferris. u Make me 
a corporal or a cook. I shall not be so mischiev 
ous to our own side, then, and when the other fel 
lows shoot me. T shall not be so much of a loss." 



 

" Oh, they won 't shoot you," expostulated his 
friend, high-heartedly. He got Ferris a commission 
as second lieutenant, and lent him money to buy a 
uniform. 

Ferris's regiment was sent to a part of the south 
west, where he saw a good deal of fighting and 
fever and ague. At the end of two years, spent al 
ternately in the field and the hospital, he was riding 
out near the camp one morning in unusual spirits, 
when two men in butternut fired at him : one had 
the mortification to miss him; the bullet of the 
other struck him in the arm. There was talk of 
amputation at first, but the case was finally man 
aged without, In Ferris's state of health it was 

O 

quite the same an end of his soldiering. 

He came North sick and maimed and poor. He 
smiled now to think of confronting Florida in any 
imperative or challenging spirit ; but the current of 
his hopeless melancholy turned more and more 
towards her. He had once, at a desperate venture, 
written to her at Providence, but he had got no an 
swer. He asked of a Providence man among the 
artists in New York, if he knew the Vervains ; the 
Providence man said that he did know them a little 
when he was much younger ; they had been abroad 
a great deal ; he believed in a dim way that they 
were still in Europe. The young one, he added, 
used to have a temper of her own. 

" Indeed ! " said Ferris stiffly. 



 

. The one fast friend whom he found in New York 
was the governor's dashing aide. The enthusiasm 
of this recruiter of regiments had not ceased with 
Ferris's departure for the front ; the number of dis 
abled officers forbade him to lionize any one of 
them, but he befriended Ferris ; he made a feint of 
discovering the open secret of his poverty, and 
asked how he could help him. 

" I don 't know," said Ferris, " it looks like a 
hopeless case, to me." 

" Oh no it is n t," retorted his friend, as cheer 
fully and confidently as he had promised him that 
he should not be shot. " didn 't you bring back 
any pictures from Venice with you ? " 

"I brought back a lot of sketches and studies. 
I'm sorry to say that I loafed a good deal there ; 
I used to feel that I had eternity before me ; and I 
was a theorist and a purist and an idiot generally. 
There are none of them fit to be seen." 

" Never mind ; let's look at them." 

They hunted out Ferris's property from a catch- 
all closet in the studio of a sculptor with whom he 
had left them, and who expressed a polite pleasure 
in handing them over to Ferris rather than to his 
heirs and assigns. 

" Well, I'm not sure that I share your satisfac 
tion, old fellow," said the painter ruefully; but he 
unpacked the sketches. 

Their inspection certainly revealed a dishearten 
ing condition of half-work. " And I can 't do any- 



A FOREGONE CONCLUSION. 

thing to help the matter for the present," groaned 
Ferris, stopping midway in the business, and mak 
ing as if to shut the case again. 

"Hold on," said his friend. "What's this? 
Why, this isn 't  so bad." It was the study of Don 
Ippolito as a Venetian priest, which Ferris beheld 
with a stupid amaze, remembering that he had 
meant to destroy it, and wondering how it had got 
where it was, but not really caring much. " It's 
worse than you can imagine," said he, still looking 
at it with this apathy. 

" No matter ; I want you to sell it to me. 
Come ! " 

" I can 't ! " replied Ferris piteously. " It would 
be flat burglary." 

" Then put it into the exhibition." 
The sculptor, who had gone back to scraping the 
chin of the famous public man on whose bust he 
was at work, stabbed him to the heart with his 
modeling-tool, and turned to Ferris and his friend. 
He slanted his broad red beard for a sidelong look 
at the picture, and said : " I know what you mean, 
Ferris. It's hard, and it's feeble in some ways ; 
and it looks a little too much like experimenting. 
But it isn 't  so infernally bad." 

" don 't be fulsome," responded Ferris, jadedly. 
He was thinking in a thoroughly vanquished mood 
what a tragico-comic end of the whole business it 
was that poor Don Ippolito should come to his 
rescue in this fashion, and as it were offer to succor 



A FOREGONE CONCLUSION. 

him in his extremity. He perceived the shamefu.- 
ness of suffering such help ; it would be much better 
to starve ; but he felt cowed, and he had not cour 
age to take arms against this sarcastic destiny, 
which had pursued him with a mocking smile from 
one lower level to another. He rubbed his fore 
head and brooded upon the picture. At least it 
would be some comfort to be rid of it ; and Don 
Ippolito was dead ; and to whom could it mean 
more than the face of it ? 

His friend had his way about framing it, and it 
was got into the exhibition. The hanging-com 
mittee offered it the hospitalities of an obscure cor 
ner ; but it was there, and it stood its chance. No 
body seemed to know that it was there, however, 
unless confronted with it by Ferris's friend, and 
then no one seemed to care for it, much less want 
to buy it. Ferris saw so many much worse pic 
tures sold all around it, that he began gloomily to 
respect it. At first it had shocked him to see it on 
the Academy's wall ; but it soon came to have no 
other relation to him than that of creatureship, like 
a poem in which a poet celebrates his love or la 
ments his dead, and sells for a price. His pride as 
well as his poverty was set on having the picture 
sold ; he had nothing to do, and he used to lurk 
about, and see if it would not interest somebody at 
last. But it remained unsold throughout May, and 
well into June, long after the crowds had ceased to 
frequent the exhibition, and only chance visitors 
from the country straggled in by twos and threes. 



 

One warm, dusty afternoon, when he turned into 
the Academy out of Fourth Avenue, the empty hall 
echoed to no footfall but his own. A group of 
weary women, who wore that look of wanting lunch 
which characterizes all picture-gallery-goers at home 
and abroad, stood faint before a certain large Ve 
netian subject which Ferris abhorred, and the very 
name of which he spat out of his mouth with loath 
ing for its unreality. He passed them with a som 
bre glance, as he took his way toward the retired 
spot where his own painting hung. 

A lady whose crapes would have betrayed to her 
Own sex the latest touch of Paris stood a little way 
back from it, and gazed fixedly at it. The pose of 
her head, her whole attitude, expressed a quiet de 
jection ; without seeing her face one could know its 
air of pensive wistfulness. Ferris resolved to in 
dulge himself in a near approach to this unwonted 
spectacle of interest in his picture ; at the sound of 
his steps the lady slowly turned a face of somewhat 
heavily molded beauty, and from low-growing, thick 
pale hair and level brows, stared at him with the 
sad eyes of Florida Vervain. She looked fully the 
last two years older. 

As though she were listening to the sound of his 
steps in the dark instead of having him there visi 
bly before her, she kept her eyes upon him with a 
dreamy unrecognition. 

" Yes, it is I," said Ferris, as if she had spoken. 

She recovered herself, and with a subdued, sor 



 

rowful quiet in her old directness, she answered, 
" I supposed you must be in New York," and she 
indicated that she had supposed so from seeing this 
picture. 

Ferris felt the blood mounting; to his head. u Do 

O 

you think it is like ? " he asked. 

" No," she said, " it isn t just to him ; it attrib 
utes things that didn 't belong to him, and it leaves 
out a great deal." 

" I could scarcely have hoped to please you in a 
portrait of Don Ippolito." Ferris saw the red light 
break out as it used on the girl's pale cheeks, and 
her eyes dilate angrily. He went on recklessly : 
" He sent for me after you went away, and gave 
me a message for you. I never promised to deliver 
it, but I will do so now. He asked me to tell you 
when we met, that he had acted on your desire, and 
had tried to reconcile himself to his calling and his 
religion ; he was going to enter a Carmelite con 
vent." 

Florida made no answer, but she seemed to ex 
pect him to go on, and he was constrained to do so. 

" He never carried out his purpose," Ferris said, 
with a keen glance at her ; " he died the night 
after I saw him." 

" Died ? " The fan and the parasol and the two 
or three light packages she had been holding slid 
down one by one, and lay at her feet. " Thank 
you for bringing me his last words," she said, but 
did not ask him anything more. 



 

Ferris did not offer to gather up her things ; he 
stood irresolute ; presently he continued with a 
downcast look : " He had had a fever, but they 
thought he was getting well. His death must have 
been sudden." He stopped, and resumed fiercely, 
resolved to have the worst out : " I went to him, 
with no good- will toward him, the next day after 
I saw him ; but I came too late. That was God's 
mercy to me. I hope you have your consolation. 
Miss Vervain." 

It maddened him to see her so little moved, and 
he meant to make her share his remorse. 

" Did he blame me for anything ? " she asked. 

" No ! " said Ferris, with a bitter laugh, " he 
praised you." 

" I am glad of that," returned Florida, " for I 
have thought it all over many times, and I know 
that I was not to blame, though at first I blamed 
myself. I never intended him anything but good. 
That is my consolation, Mr. Ferris. But you," she 
added, " you seem to make yourself my judge. 
Well, and what do you blame me for ? I have a 
right to know what is in your mind." 

The thing that was in his mind had rankled 
there for two years ; in many a black reverie of 
those that alternated with his moods of abject 
self-reproach and perfect trust of her, he had con 
fronted her and flung it out upon her in one sting 
ing phrase. But he was now suddenly at a loss ; 
the words would not come ; his torment fell dumb 




before her ; in her presence the cause was unspeak 
able. Her lips had quivered a little in making that 
demand, and there had been a corresponding break 
in her voice. 

" Florida ! Florida ! " Ferris heard himself say 
ing, " I loved you all the time ! " 

" Oh indeed, did you love me ? " she cried, in 
dignantly, while the tears shone in her eyes. " And 
was that why you left a helpless young girl to 
meet that trouble alone ? Was that why you're 
fused me your advice, and turned your back on me, 
and snubbed me ? Oh, many thanks for your 
love ! " She dashed the gathered tears angrily 
away, and went on. u Perhaps you knew, too, 
what that poor priest was thinking of ? " 

" Yes," said Ferris, stolidly, " I did at last : he 
told me." 

" Oh, then you acted generously and nobly to let 
him go on ! It was kind to him, and very, very 
kind to me ! " 

" What could I do ? " demanded Ferris, amazed 
and furious to find himself on the defensive. " His 
telling me put it out of my power to act." 

"I'm glad that you can satisfy yourself with 
such a quibble ! But I wonder that you can 'tell 
me any woman of it ! " 

" By Heavens, this is atrocious ! " cried Ferris. 
" Do you think .... Look here ! " he went on 
rudely. " I'll put the case to you, and you shall 
judge it. Remember that I was such a fool as to 



 

be in love with you. Suppose Don Ippolito had 
told me that he was going to risk everything go 
ing to give up home, religion, friends on the ten 
thousandth part of a chance that you might some 
day care for him. I did not believe he had even so 
much chance as that ; but he had always thought 
me his friend, and he trusted me. Was it a quibble 
that kept me from betraying him ? I don 't know 
what honor is among women ; but no man could 
have done it. I confess to my shame that I went 
to your house that night longing to betray him. 
And then suppose your mother sent me into the 
garden to call you, and T saw . . . what has made 
my life a hell of doubt for the last two years ; what 
. . . No, excuse me ! I can 't put the case to yuu 
after all." 

" What do you mean ? " asked Florida. " I don 't 
understand . you ! " 

" What do I mean ? You don 't understand ? 
Are you so blind as that, or are you making a fool 
of me ? What could I think but that you had 
played with that priest's heart till your own ". . . . 

" Oh ! " cried Florida with a shudder, starting 
away from him, " did you think I was such a wicked 
girl as that ? " 

It was no defense, no explanation, no denial ; it 
simply left the case with Ferris as before. He 
stood looking like a man who does not know 

o
whether to bless or curse himself, to laugh or blaspheme. 



. 

She stooped and tried to pick up the things she 
had let fall upon the floor ; but she seemed not able 
to find them. He bent over, and, gathering them 
together, returned them to her with his left hand, 
keeping the other in the breast of his coat. 

" Thanks," she said ; and then after a moment. 
" Have you been hurt ? " she asked timidly. 

" Yes," said Ferris in a sulky way. " I have had 
my share." He glanced down at his arm askance. 
"It's rather conventional," lie added. " It isn t 
much of a hurt ; but then, I wasn t much of a 
soldier. 

The girl's eyes looked reverently at the conven 
tional arm ; those were the days, so long past, when 
women worshipped men for such things. But she 
