level pine-barrens to the west; the level blue sea to the east; north,
the silver sands of the Florida main-land; and south, the stretch of
Anastasia Island, its backbone distinctly visible in the slope of the
low green foliage.

“How soft and blue the ocean looks!” said Iris. “I should like to sail
away to the far East and never come back.”

“If I only had my yacht here now, Miss Iris!” said Mokes, gallantly.
“But we should want to come back some time, you know. Egypt and the
Nile--well, they are dirty places; although I--er--I always carry every
thing with me, it is almost impossible to live properly there.”

We all knew what Mokes meant; he meant his portable bath. He aped
English fashions, and was always bringing into conversation that blessed
article of furniture, which accompanied him every where in charge of his
valet. So often indeed did he allude to it that we all felt, like the
happy-thought man, inclined to chant out in chorus, to the tune of the
Mistletoe Bough,

    “Oh, his portable ba-ath!
     Oh, his por-ta-ble ba-ath!”

“You have, I am told, Mr. Mokes, the finest yacht in this country,” said
John Hoffman.

Well, it wasn’t a bad one, Mokes allowed.

“I don’t know which I would rather own,” pursued John, “your yacht or
your horses. Why, Sir, your horses are the pride of New York.”

I glanced at John; he was as grave as a judge. Mokes glowed with
satisfaction. Iris listened with downcast eyes, and Aunt Diana, who had
at last reached the top stair, gathered her remaining strength to smile
upon the scene. Mokes came out of his shell entirely, and graciously
offered his arm to Aunt Diana for the long descent.

But Aunt Di could--“excuse me, Mr. Mokes”--really hold on “better by the
railing;” but “perhaps Iris--”

Yes, Iris could, and did.

John looked after the three as they wound down the long spiral with a
smile of quiet amusement.

“All alike,” he said to me, with the “old-comrade” freedom that had
grown up between us. “La richesse est toujours des femmes le grand
amour, Miss Martha.”

“Don’t quote your pagan French at me,” I answered, retreating outside,
where on the little platform I had left Sara gazing out to sea. She was
looking down now, leaning over the railing as if measuring the dizzy
height.

“If I should throw myself over,” she said, as I came up, “my body would
go down; but where would my soul go, I wonder?”

“Don’t be morbid, Sara.”

“Morbid? Nonsense! That is a duty word, a red flag which timid people
always hang out the moment you near the dangerous ground of the great
hereafter. We must all die some time, mustn’t we? And if I should die
now, what difference would it make? The madam-aunt would think me highly
inconsiderate to break up the party in any such way; Iris would shed a
pretty tear or two; Mokes would really feel relieved; the Professor
would write an account of the accident for the Pith-and-Ponder
Journal, with a description of the coquina quarry thrown in; Miss Sharp
would read it and be ‘so interested;’ and even you, Martha, would
scarcely have the heart to wish me back again.” Tears stood in her eyes
as she spoke, her face had softened with the sad fancies she had woven,
and for the moment the child-look came back into her eyes, as it often
comes with tears.

“And John Hoffman,” I said, involuntarily. I knew he was still within
hearing.

“Oh, he would decorously take his prayer-book and act as chief mourner,
if there was no one else,” replied Sara, with a mocking little laugh.

“Come down!” called Aunt Di’s voice from below; “we are going to the
coquina quarry.”

I lingered a moment that John might have full time to make his escape,
but when at length we went inside, there he was, leaning on the railing;
he looked full at Sara as she passed, and bowed with cold hauteur.

“It is useless to try and make any body like her,” I thought as I went
down the long stairway. “Why is it that women who write generally manage
to make themselves disagreeable to all mankind?”

We found Miss Sharp seated on a stair, half-way down, loaded with
specimens, shells, and the vicious-looking roots of Fish Island.

“I am waiting for Professor Macquoid,” she explained, graciously. “He
came as far as this, and then remembering a rare plant he had forgotten
to take up, he went back for it, leaving the other specimens with me. I
have no doubt he will soon return; but pray do not wait.”



We did not; but left her on the stair.

Sara and I strolled over to the old light-house--a weather-beaten tower
standing almost in the water, regularly fortified with walls, angles,
and loop-holes--a lonely little stronghold down by the sea. It was a
picturesque old beacon, built by the Spaniards a long time ago as a
look-out; when the English came into possession of Florida, in 1763,
they raised the look-out sixty feet higher, and planted a cannon on the
top, to be fired as a signal when a vessel came in sight. The light
that we had so often watched flashing and fading in the twilight as we
walked on the sea-wall was put in still later by the United States
government; in old times a bonfire was lighted on top every night.



“I like this gray old beacon better than yonder tall, spying, brand-new
tower,” I said. “This is a drowsy old fellow, who sleeps all day and
only wakes at night, as a light-house should, whereas that wide-awake
striped Yankee over there is evidently keeping watch of all that goes on
in the little city. Iris must take care.”

“Do you think he can spy into the demi-lune?” said Sara, smiling.

At the coquina quarry we found the Professor, scintillating all over
with enthusiasm. “A most singular conglomerate of shells cemented by
carbonate of lime,” he said, putting on a stronger pair of glasses--“a
recent formation, evidently, of the post-tertiary period. You are aware,
I suppose, that it is found nowhere else in the world? It is soft, as
you see, when first taken out, but becomes hard by exposure to the air.”
Knee-deep in coquina, radiating information at every pore, he stood--a
happy man!

“And Miss Sharp?” I whispered.

“On the stair,” replied Sara.

Not until we were on our way back to the sail-boat was the governess
relieved from her vigil; then she heard us passing, and came out of her
own accord, loaded with the relics.

“Why, Miss Sharp, have you been in the light-house all this time?” asked
Aunt Diana.

The governess murmured something about a “cool and shady place for
meditation,” but bravely she held on to her relics, and was ready to
hear every thing about coquina and the post-tertiary, as well as a
little raid into the glacial theory, with which the Professor
entertained us on the way to the landing.

“Do you hear the drum-fish drumming down below?” said John, as the
Osceola sailed merrily homeward. We listened, and caught distinctly
the muffled tattoo--the marine band, as Iris said.

“I came across an old dilapidated book, written, I suppose, fifty years
ago,” said John. “Here is an extract about the old light-house and the
drum-fish, which I copied from the coverless pages: ‘We landed on
Anastasia Island, and walked to the old light-house. Here a Spaniard
lives with his family, the eldest, a beautiful dark-eyed little muchacha
(young girl), just budding into her fourteenth year. Here, in this
little fortified castle, Señor Andro defies alike the tempests and the
Indians. Having spent an hour or two in the hospitable tower, and made a
delicious repast on the dried fish which garnishes his hall from end to
end, eked out with cheese and crackers and a bottle or two of
Frontignac, besides fruit and brandy, we bade farewell to the pretty
Catalina and the old tower, for it was time to go drumming. Fair
Anastasia, how delightful thy sunny beach and the blue sea that kisses
buxomly thy lonely shore! Before me rolls the eternal ocean, mighty
architect of the curious masonry on which I stand, the animal rock which
supports the vegetable soil. How many millions upon millions of these
shell-fish must have been destroyed to form a substratum for one rood of
land! But it was time for drumming, the magic hour (between the fall of
the ebb and the rise of the flood) for this delightful sport, whose
superior enchantment over all others in the Walton line I had so often
heard described with rapture--the noble nature of the fish, his size and
strength, the slow approach which he makes at first to the hook, like a
crab; then the sudden overwhelming transport that comes over you when
you feel him dashing boldly off with the line is comparable to nothing
save pulling along a buxom lass through a Virginia reel.’ What do you
say to that, Mokes? That part about the Virginia reel, now, is not to be
despised.”

But Mokes had never danced the Virginia reel--had seen it once at a
servants’ ball, he believed.

“What are you doing, Sara?” I said, sleepily, from the majestic old
bed, with its high carved posts and net curtains. “It is after eleven;
do put up that pencil, at least for to-night.”

“I am amusing myself writing up the sail this afternoon. Do you want to
hear it?”

“If it isn’t historical.”

“Historical! As though I could amuse myself historically!”

“It mustn’t be tragedy either: harrowing up the emotions so late at
night is as bad as mince-pie.”

“It is light comedy, I think--possibly farce. Now listen: it begins with
an ‘Oh’ on a high note, sliding down this way: ‘Oh-o-o-o-o-h!’


“MATANZAS RIVER.

      “Oh! rocking on the little blue waves,
      While, flocking over Huguenot graves,
    Come the sickle-bill curlews, the wild laughing loons,
    The heavy old pelicans flying in platoons
    Low down on the water with their feet out behind,
    Looking for a sand-bar which is just to their mind,
      Eying us scornfully, for very great fools,
      In which view the porpoises, coming up in schools,
              Agree, and wonder why
              We neither swim nor fly.

      “Oh! sailing on away to the south,
      There, hailing us at the river’s mouth,
    Stands the old Spanish look-out, where ages ago
    A watch was kept, day and night, for the evil foe--
    Simple-minded Huguenots fleeing here from France,
    All carefully massacred by the Spaniard’s lance
      For the glory of God; we look o’er the side,
      As if to see their white bones lying ’neath the tide
              Of the river whose name
              Is reddened with the shame.

      “Oh! beating past Anastasia Isle,
      Where, greeting us, the light-houses smile,
    The old coquina beacon, with its wave-washed walls,
    Where the spray of the breakers ’gainst the low door falls,
    The new mighty watch-tower all striped in black and white,
    That looks out to sea every minute of the night,
      And by day, for a change, doth lazily stand
      With its eye on the green of the Florida land,
              And every thing doth spy--
              E’en us, as we sail by.

      “Oh! scudding up before wind and tide,
      Where, studding all the coast alongside,
    Miles of oysters bristling stand, their edges like knives,
    Million million fiddler-crabs, walking with their wives,
    At the shadow of our sail climb helter-skelter down
    In their holes, which are houses of the fiddler-crab town;
      While the bald-headed eagle, coming in from the sea,
      Swoops down upon the fish-hawk, fishing patiently,
              And carries off his spoil,
              With kingly scorn of toil.

      “Oh! floating on the sea-river’s brine,
      Where, noting each ripple of the line,
    The old Minorcan fishermen, swarthy and slow,
    Sit watching for the drum-fish, drumming down below;
    Now and then along shore their dusky dug-outs pass,
    Coming home laden down with clams and marsh grass;
      One paddles, one rows, in their outlandish way,
      But they pause to salute us, and give us good-day
              In soft Minorcan speech,
              As they pass, near the beach.

      “Oh! sweeping home, where dark, in the north,
      See, keeping watch, San Marco looms forth,
    With its gray ruined towers in the red sunset glow,
    Mounting guard o’er the tide as it ebbs to and fro;
    We hear the evening gun as we reach the sea-wall,
    But soft on our ears the water-murmurs fall,
      Voices of the river, calling ‘Stay! stay! stay!
      Children of the Northland, why flee so soon away?’
              Though we go, dear river,
              Thou art ours forever.”

After I had fallen asleep, haunted by the marching time of Sara’s verse,
I dreamed that there was a hand tapping at my chamber door, and, half
roused, I said to myself that it was only dreams, and nothing more. But
it kept on, and finally, wide awake, I recognized the touch of mortal
fingers, and withdrew the bolt. Aunt Diana rushed in, pale and
disheveled in the moonlight.

“What is the matter?” I exclaimed.

“Niece Martha,” replied Aunt Di, sinking into a chair, “Iris has
disappeared!”

Grand tableau, in which Sara took part from the majestic bed.

“She went to her room an hour ago,” pursued Aunt Di; “it is next to
mine, you know, and I went in there just now for some camphor, and found
her gone!”

“Dear, dear! Where can the child have gone to?”

“An elopement,” said Aunt Di, in a sepulchral tone.

“Not Mokes?”

“No. If it had been Mokes, I should not have--that is to say, it would
have been highly reprehensible in Iris, but--However, it is not Mokes;
he is sound asleep in his room; I sent there to see.” And Aunt Diana
betook herself to her handkerchief.

“Can it be John Hoffman?” I mused, half to myself.

“Mr. Hoffman went up to his room some time ago,” said Sara.

“And pray how do you know, Miss St. John?” asked Aunt Di, coming out
stiffly from behind her handkerchief. “Mr. Hoffman would have been very
glad to--and, as it happens, he is not in his room at all.”

“Then of course--Oh, irretrievable folly!” I exclaimed, in dismay.

“But it isn’t John Hoffman, I tell you,” said Aunt Diana, relapsing into
dejection again. “He has gone out sailing with the Van Andens; I heard
them asking him--a moonlight excursion.”

Then the three of us united:

  MYSELF (doubtfully). “Can it be--   }
                                        }
  SARA (decidedly). “It must be--     } the Captain!”
                                        }
  AUNT DI (dejectedly). “Yes, it is-- }
                                        }




                           THE ANCIENT CITY.

                        IN TWO PARTS.--PART II.

    “The tide comes in; the birds fly low,
       As if to catch our speech:
     Ah, Destiny! why must we ever go
       Away from the Florida Beach?”


Aunt Diana declared that I must go with her back to the hotel, and I in
my turn declared that if I went Sara must accompany me; so it ended in
our taking the key of the house from the sleepy Sabre-boy and all three
going back together through the moon-lighted street across the plaza to
the hotel. Although it was approaching midnight, the Ancient City had
yet no thought of sleep. Its idle inhabitants believed in taking the
best of life, and so on moonlight nights they roamed about, two and two,
or leaned over their balconies chatting with friends across the way in
an easy-going, irregular fashion, which would have distracted an
orthodox New England village, where the lights are out at ten o’clock,
or they know the reason why. When near the hotel we saw John Hoffman
coming from the Basin.



“We had better tell him,” I suggested.

“Oh no,” said Aunt Di, holding me back.

“But we must have somebody with us if we are going any farther to-night,
aunt, and he is the best person.--Mr. Hoffman, did you enjoy the sail?”

“I did not go,” answered John, looking somewhat surprised to see us
confronting him at that hour, like the three witches of Macbeth. Aunt
Di was disheveled, and so was I, while Sara’s golden hair was tumbling
about her shoulders under the hat she had hastily tied on.

“Have you been out all the evening?” asked Aunt Di, suspiciously.

“I went to my room an hour ago, but the night was so beautiful I slipped
down the back stairs, so as to not disturb the household, and came out
again to walk on the sea-wall.”

“Sara did hear him go up to his room: she knows his step, then,” I
thought. But I could not stop to ponder over this discovery. “Mr.
Hoffman,” I said, “you find us in some perplexity. Miss Carew is out
loitering somewhere, in the moonlight, and, like the heedless child she
is, has forgotten the hour. We are looking for her, but have no idea
where she has gone.”

“Probably the demi-lune,” suggested John. Then, catching the ominous
expression of Aunt Diana’s face, he added, “They have all gone out to
the Rose Garden by moonlight, I think.”

“All?”

“Miss Sharp and the Professor.”

ALL THREE OF US. “Miss Sharp and the Professor?”

JOHN (carelessly). “The Captain too, of course.”

ALL THREE OF US. “The Captain too, of course!”

JOHN. “Suppose we stroll out that way and join them?”

MYSELF. “The very thing--it is such a lovely evening!” Then to Aunt Di,
under my breath, “You see, it is only one of Iris’s wild escapades,
aunt; we must make light of it as a child’s freak. We had better stroll
out that way, and all walk back together, as though it was a matter of
course.”

AUNT DI. “Miss Sharp and the Professor!”

SARA. “What a madcap freak!”

AUNT DI. “Not at all, not at all, Miss St. John. I am at a loss to know
what you mean by madcap. My niece is simply taking a moonlight walk in
company with her governess and Professor Macquoid, one of the most
distinguished scientific men in the country, as I presume you are
aware.”

Brave Aunt Di! The first stupor over, how she rallied like a Trojan to
the fight!

We went out narrow little Charlotte Street--the business avenue of the
town.

“A few years ago there was not a sign in St. Augustine,” said John.
“People kept a few things for sale in a room on the ground-floor of
their dwellings, and you must find them out as best you could. They
seemed to consider it a favor that they allowed you to come in and buy.
They tolerated you, nothing more.”

“It is beyond any thing, their ideas of business,” said Aunt Diana. “The
other day we went into one of the shops to look at some palmetto hats.
The mistress sat in a rocking-chair slowly fanning herself. ‘We wish to
look at some hats,’ I said. ‘There they are,’ she replied, pointing
toward the table. She did not rise, but continued rocking and fanning
with an air that said, ‘Yes, I sell hats, but under protest, mind you.’
After an unaided search I found a hat which might have suited me with a
slight alteration--five minutes’ work, perhaps. I mentioned what changes
I desired, but the mistress interrupted me with, ‘We never alter
trimmings.’ ‘But this will not take five minutes,’ I began; ‘just take
your scissors and--’ ‘Oh, I never do the work myself,’ replied
Majestic, breaking in again with a languid smile; ‘and really I do not
know of any one who could do it at present. Now you Northern ladies are
different, I suppose.’ ‘I should think we were,’ I said, laying down the
hat and walking out of the little six-by-nine parlor.”

“I wonder if the people still cherish any dislike, against the
Northerners?” I said, when Aunt Di had finished her story with a general
complaint against the manners of her own sex when they undertake to keep
shop, North or South.

“Some of the Minorcans do, I think,” said John; “and many of the people
regret the incursion of rich winter residents, who buy up the land for
their grand mansions, raise the prices of every thing, and eventually
will crowd all the poorer houses beyond the gates. But there are very
few of the old leading families left here now. The ancien régime has
passed away, the new order of things is distasteful to them, and they
have gone, never to return.”

Turning into St. George Street, we found at the northern end of the town
the old City Gates, the most picturesque ruin of picturesque St.
Augustine. The two pillars are moresque, surmounted by a carved
pomegranate, and attached are portions of the wall, which, together with
an outer ditch, once extended from the Castle of San Marco, a short
distance to the east, across the peninsula to the San Sebastian, on the
west, thus fortifying the town against all approaches by land. The
position of St. Augustine is almost insular. Tide-water sweeps up around
and behind it, and to this and the ever-present sea-breeze must be
attributed the wonderful health of the town, which not only exists, but
is pre-eminent, in spite of a neglect of sanitary regulations which
would not be endured one day in the villages of the North.

Passing through the old gateway, we came out upon the Shell Road, the
grand boulevard of the future, as yet but a few yards in length.

“They make about ten feet a year,” said John; “and when they are at
work, all I can say unto you is, ‘Beware!’ You suppose it is a load of
empty shells they are throwing down; but no. Have they time, forsooth,
to take out the oysters, these hard-pressed workmen of St. Augustine? By
no means; and so down they go, oysters and all, and the road makes known
its extension on the evening breezes.”

The soft moonlight lay on the green waste beyond the gates, lighting up
the North River and its silver sand-hills. The old fort loomed up dark
and frowning, but the moonlight shone through its ruined turrets, and
only the birds of the night kept watch on its desolate battlements. The
city lay behind us. It had never dared to stretch much beyond the old
gates, and the few people who did live outside were spoken of as very
far off--a sort of Bedouins of the desert encamping temporarily on the
green. As we went on the moonlight lighted up the white head-stones of a
little cemetery on the left side of the road.

“This is one of the disappointing cemeteries that was ‘nothing to speak
of,’ I suppose,” said Sara.

“It is the Protestant cemetery,” replied John, “remarkable only for its
ugliness and the number of inscriptions telling the same sad story of
strangers in a strange land--persons brought here in quest of health
from all parts of the country, only to die far away from home.”

“Where is the old Huguenot burying-ground?” asked Aunt Di.

“The Huguenots, poor fellows, never had a burying-ground, nor so much
even as a burying, as far as I can learn,” said Sara.

“But there is one somewhere,” pursued Aunt Di. “I have heard it
described as a spot of much interest.”

“That has been a standing item for years in all the Florida
guide-books,” said John, “systematically repeated in the latest
editions. They will give up a good deal, but that cherished Huguenot
