“ Look here ! What do you suppose I told you the 
names of those points for?” 

I tremblingly considered a moment, and then the 
devil of temptation provoked me to say : 

“Well — to — to — be entertaining, I thought.” 

This was a red rag to the bull. He raged and 
stormed so (he was crossing the river at the time) that 
I judge it made him blind, because he ran over the 
steering-oar of a trading-scow. Of course the traders 
sent up a volley of red-hot profanity. Never was a 
man so grateful as Mr. Bixby was; because he was 
brimful, and here were subjects who could talk back . 
He threw open a window, thrust his head out, and such 
an irruption followed as I never had heard before. 
The fainter and farther away the scowmen’s curses 
drifted, the higher Mr. Bixby lifted his voice and the 
weightier his adjectives grew. When he closed the 
window he was empty. You could have drawn a seine 



through his system and not caught curses enough to 
disturb your mother with. Presently he said to me in 
the gentlest way: 

“ My boy, you must get a little memorandum-book ; 
and every time I tell you a thing, put it down right 
away. There’s only one way to be a pilot, and that is 
to get this entire river by heart. You have to know it 
just like A B C.” 

That was a dismal revelation to me ; for my memory 
was never loaded with anything but blank cartridges. 
However, I did not feel discouraged long. I judged 
that it was best to make some allowances, for doubtless 
Mr. Bixby was “stretching.” Presently he pulled a 
rope and struck a few strokes on the big bell. The 
stars were aU gone now, and the night was as black as 
ink. I could hear the wheels churn along the bank, 
but I was not entirely certain that I could see the 
shore. The voice of the invisible watchman called up 
from the hurricane deck : 

“What’s this, sir?” 

“Jones’ plantation.” 

I said to myself, “ I wish I might venture to offer a 
small bet that it isn’t.” But I did not chirp. I only 
waited to see. Mr. Bixby handled the engine-bells, 
and in due time the boat’s nose came to the land, a 
torch glowed from the forecastle, a man skipped 
ashore, a darkey’s voice on the bank said, “ Gimme 
de k’yarpet-bag, Mass’ Jones,” and the next moment 
we were standing up the river again, all serene. I re- 
flected deeply a while, and then said — but not aloud — 
“Well, the finding of that plantation was the luckiest 
accident that ever happened; but it couldn’t happen 
again in a hundred years.” And I fully believed it 
iv as an accident, too. 

By the time we had gone seven or eight hundred 
miles up the river, I had learned to be a tolerably 


plucky up-stream steersman, in daylight, and before we 
reached St. Louis I had made a trifle of progress in 
night-work, but only a trifle. I had a note-book that 
fairly bristled with the names of towns, “points’ 
bars, islands, bends, reaches, etc. ; but the information 
was to he found only in the note-book — none of it 
was in my head. It made my heart ache to think I 
had only got half of the river set down ; for as our 
watch was four hours off and four hours on, day and 
night, there was a long four-hour gap in my book for 
every time I had slept since the voyage began. 

My chief was presently hired to go on a big New 
Orleans boat, and I packed my satchel and went with 
him. She was a grand affair. When I stood in her 
pilot-house I was so far above the water that I seemed 
perched on a mountain; and her decks stretched so far 
away, fore and aft, below me, that I wondered how I 
could ever have considered the little Paul Jones a large 
craft. There were other differences, too. The Paul 
Jones' pilot-house was a cheap, dingy, battered rattle- 
trap, cramped for room; but here was a sumptuous 
glass temple ; room enough to have a dance in ; showy 
red and gold window-curtains; an imposing sofa; 
leather cushions and a back to the high bench where 
visiting pilots sit, to spin yarns and “look at the 
river”; bright, fanciful “ cuspadores,” instead of a 
broad wooden box filled with sawdust ; nice new oil- 
cloth on the floor; a hospitable big stove for winter ; 
a wheel as high as my head, costly with inlaid work; a 
wire tiller- rope ; bright brass knobs for the bells ; and 
a tidy, white-aproned, black “ texas-tender,” to bring 
up tarts and ices and coffee during mid-watch, day and 
night. Now this was “something like”; and so I 
began to take heart once more to believe that piloting 
was a romantic sort of occupation after all. The 
moment we were under way I began to prowl about 

the great steamer and fill myself with joy. She was as 
clean and as dainty as a drawing-room ; when I looked 
down her long, gilded saloon, it was like gazing 
through a splendid tunnel; she had an oil-picture, by 
some gifted sign-painter, on every state-room door ; 
she glittered with no end of prism-fringed chandeliers ; 
the clerk’s office was elegant, the bar was marvelous, 
and the barkeeper had been barbered and upholstered 
at incredible cost. The boiler-deck (i. e., the second 
story of the boat, so to speak), was as spacious as a 
church, it seemed to me; so with the forecastle; and 
there was no pitiful handful of deck-hands, firemen, 
and roustabouts down there, but a whole battalion of 
men. The fires were fiercely glaring from a long row 
of furnaces, and over them were eight huge boilers ! 
This was unutterable pomp. The mighty engines — - 
but enough of this. I had never felt so fine before. 
And when I found that the regiment of natty servants 
respectfully “sir'd” me, my satisfaction was complete. 


CHAPTER VII. 


A DARING DEED 

W HEN I returned to the pilot-house St. Louis was 
gone, and I was lost. Here was a piece of river 
which was all down in my book, but I could make 
neither head nor tail of it: you understand, it was 
turned around. I had seen it when coming up-stream, 
but I had never faced about to see how it looked when 
it was behind me. My heart broke again, for it was 
plain that I had got to learn this troublesome river both 
ways. 

The pilot-house was full of pilots, going down to 
“look at the river .’ 9 What is called the “upper 
river” (the two hundred miles between St. Louis and 
Cairo, where the Ohio comes in) was low; and the 
Mississippi changes its channel so constantly that the 
pilots used to always find it necessary to run down to 
Cairo to take a fresh look, when their boats were to 
lie in port a week; that is, when the water was at a 
low stage. A deal of this “ looking at the river” was 
done by poor fellows who seldom had a berth, and 
whose only hope of getting one lay in their being 
always freshly posted and therefore ready to drop into 
the shoes of some reputable pilot, for a single trip, on 
account of such pilot’s sudden illness, or some other 
necessity. And a good many of them constantly ran 
up and down inspecting the river, not because they 
ever really hoped to get a berth, but because (they 
being guests of the boat) it was cheaper to “look at 
the river” than stay ashore and pay board. In time 
these fellows grew dainty in their tastes, and only 
infested boats that had an established reputation for 
setting good tables. All visiting pilots were useful, 
for they were always ready and willing, winter or sum- 
mer, night or day, to go out in the yawl and help buoy 
the channel or assist the boat’s pilots in any way they 
could. They were likewise welcome because all pilots 
are tireless talkers, when gathered together, and as 
they talk only about the river they are always under- 
stood and are always interesting. Your true pilot cares 
nothing about anything on earth but the river, and his 
pride in his occupation surpasses the pride of kings. 

We had a fine company of these river inspectors 
along this trip. There were eight or ten, and there 
was abundance of room for them in our great pilot- 
house. Two or three of them wore polished silk hats, 
elaborate shirt-fronts, diamond breastpins, kid gloves, 
and patent-leather boots. They were choice in their 
English, and bore themselves with a dignity proper to 
men of solid means and prodigious reputation as pilots. 
The others were more or less loosely clad, and wore 
upon their heads tall felt cones that were suggestive of 
the days of the Commonwealth. 

I was a cipher in this august company, and felt sub- 
dued, not to say torpid. I was not even of sufficient 
consequence to assist at the wheel when it was neces- 
sary to put the tiller hard down in a hurry; the guest 
that stood nearest did that when occasion required — 
and this was pretty much all the time, because of the 
crookedness of the channel and the scant vater. I 
stood in a corner ; and the talk I listened to took the 
hope all out of me. One visitor said to another: 

“Jim, how did you run Plum Point, coming up?” 


“ It was in the night, there, and I ran it the way one 
of the boys on the Diana told me ; started out about 
fifty yards above the wood-pile on the false point, and 
held on the cabin under Plum Point till I raised the 
reef — quarter less twain — then straightened up for 
the middle bar till I got well abreast the old one- 
limbed cottonwood in the bend, then got my stern on 
the cottonwood, and head on the low place above the 
point, and came through a-booming — nine and a 
half.” 

“ Pretty square crossing, an’t it?” 

“ Yes, but the upper bar's working down fast.” 

Another pilot spoke up and said : 

“I had better water than that, and ran it lower 
down; started out from the false point — mark twain 
— raised the second reef abreast the big snag in the 
bend, and had quarter less twain.” 

One of the gorgeous ones remarked : 

“ I don’t want to find fault with your leadsmen, but 

that’s a good deal of water for Plum Point, it seems to  
me. '

There was an approving nod all around as this qiuet 
snub dropped on the boaster and “settled” him. 
And so they went on talk-talk-talking. Meantime, the 
thing that was running in my mind was, “Now, if my 
ears hear aright, I have not only to get the names of 
all the towns and islands and bends, and so on, by 
heart, but I must even get up a warm personal ac- 
quaintanceship with every old snag and one-limbed 
cottonwood and obscure wood-pile that ornaments the 
banks of this river for twelve hundred miles; and more 
than that, I must actually know where these things are 
in the dark, unless these guests are gifted with eyes 
that can pierce through two miles of solid blackness. 

I wish the piloting business was in Jericho and I had 
never thought of it.” 


At dusk Mr. Bixby tapped the big bell three times 
(the signal to land), and the captain emerged from his 
drawing-room in the forward end of the “ texas,” and 
looked up inquiringly. Mr. Bixby said: 

“ We will lay up here all night, captain.” 

“ Very well, sir.” 

That was all. The boat came to shore and was tied 
up for the night. It seemed to me a fine thing that 
the pilot could do as he pleased, without asking so 
grand a captain’s permission. I took my supper and 
went immediately to bed, discouraged by my day’s 
observations and experiences. My late voyage’s note- 
booking was but a confusion of meaningless names. It 
had tangled me all up in a knot every time I had 
looked at it in the daytime. I now hoped for respite 
in sleep ; but no, it reveled all through my head till 
sunrise again, a frantic and tireless nightmare. 

Next morning I felt pretty rusty and low-spirited. 
We went booming along, taking a good many chances, 
for we were anxious to “get out of the river” (as 
getting out to Cairo was called) before night should 
overtake us. But Mr. Bixby’s partner, the other 
pilot, presently grounded the boat, and we lost so 
much time getting her off that it was plain the darkness 
would overtake us a good long way above the mouth. 
This was a great misfortune, especially to certain of 
our visiting pilots, whose boats would have to wait for 
their return, no matter how long that might be. It 
sobered the pilot-house talk a good deal. Coming up- 
stream, pilots did not mind low water or any kind of 
darkness ; nothing stopped them but fog. But down- 
stream work was different; a boat was too nearly help- 
less, with a stiff current pushing behind her ; so it was 
not customary to run down-stream at night in low 
water. 

There seemed to be one small hope, however: if we 
could get through the intricate and dangerous Hat 
Island crossing before night, we could venture the rest, 
for we would have plainer sailing and better water. 
But it would be insanity to attempt Hat Island at 
night. So there was a deal of looking at watches all 
the rest of the day, and a constant ciphering upon the 
speed we were making; Hat Island was the eternal 
subject; sometimes hope was high and sometimes we 
were delayed in a bad crossing, and down it went 
again. For hours all hands lay under the burden of 
this suppressed excitement; it was even communicated 
to me, and I got to feeling so solicitous about Hat 
Island, and under such an awful pressure of responsi- 
bility, that I wished I might have five minutes on shore 
to draw a good, full, relieving breath, and start over 
again. We were standing no regular watches. Each 
of our pilots ran such portions of the river as he had 
run when coming up-stream, because of his greater 
familiarity with it; but both remained in the pilot- 
house constantly. 

An hour before sunset Mr. Bixby took the wheel, 
and Mr. W. stepped aside. For the next thirty min- 
utes every man held his watch in his hand and was 
restless, silent, and uneasy. At last somebody said, 
with a doomful sigh: 

” Well, yonder's Hat Island — and we can't make 
it.” 

All the watches closed with a snap, everybody sighed 
and muttered something about its being <; too bad, 
too bad — ah, if we could only have got here half an 
hour sooner ! ” and the place was thick with the atmo- 
sphere of disappointment. Some started to go out, 
but loitered, hearing no bell-tap to land. The sun 
dipped behind the horizon, the boat went on. Inquir- 
ing looks passed from one guest to another; and one 
who had his hand on the door-knob and had turned it, 
waited, then presently took away his hand and let the 
knob turn back again. We bore steadily down the 
bend. More looks were exchanged, and nods of sur- 
prised admiration — but no words. Insensibly the 
men drew together behind Mr. Bixby, as the sky 
darkened and one or two dim stars came out. The 
dead silence and sense of waiting became oppressive. 
Mr. Bixby pulled the cord, and two deep, mellow notes 
from the big bell floated off on the night. Then a 
pause, and one more note was struck. The watch- 
man’s voice followed, from the hurricane deck: 

"Labboard lead, there! Stabboard lead !” 

The cries of the leadsmen began to rise out of the 
distance, and were gruffly repeated by the word-passers 
on the hurricane deck. 

"M-a-r-k three ! M-a-r-k three ! Quarter-less-three ! 
Half twain ! Quarter twain ! M-a-r-k twain ! Quar- 
ter-less — 

Mr. Bixby pulled two bell-ropes, and was answered 
by faint jinglings far below in the engine-room, and 
our speed slackened. The steam began to whistle 
through the gauge-cocks. The cries of the leadsmen 
went on — and it is a weird sound, always, in the 
night. Every pilot in the lot was watching now, with 
fixed eyes, and talking under his breath. Nobody was 
calm and easy but Mr. Bixby. He would put his 
wheel down and stand on a spoke, and as the steamer 
swung into her (to me) utterly invisible marks — for 
we seemed to be in the midst of a wide and gloomy 
sea — he would meet -and fasten her there* Out of the 
murmur of half-audible talk, one caught a coherent 
sentence nofa and then — such as: 

"There; she’s over the first reef all right!” 

After a pause, another subdued voice: 

“Her stern’s coming down just exactly right, by 
George !' 



“ Now she's in the marks; over she goes!” 

Somebody else muttered : 

“Oh, it was done beautiful — beautiful ” 

Now the engines were stopped altogether, and we 
drifted with the current. Not that I could see the boat 
drift, for I could not, the stars being all gone by this 
time. This drifting was the dismalest work; it held 
one’s heart still. Presently I discovered a blacker 
gloom than that which surrounded us. It was the 
head of the island. We were closing right down upon 
it. We entered its deeper shadow, and so imminent 
seemed the peril that I was likely to suffocate ; and I 
had the strongest impulse to do something , anything, 
to save the vessel. But still Mr. Bixby stood by his 
wheel, silent, intent as a cat, and all the pilots stood 
shoulder to shoulder at his back. 

“ She’ll not make it!” somebody whispered. 

The water grew shoaler and shoaler, by the leads- 
man’s cries, till it was down to: 

‘Eight-and-a-half ! E-i-g-h-t feet ! E-i-g-h-t feet ! 
“ Seven-and ” 

Mr. Bixby said warningly through his speaking tube 
to the engineer : 

“ Stand by, now !” 

“Ay, ay, sir !” 

 ‘ Seven-and-a-half ! Seven feet ! Six- and * ’ 

We touched bottom ! Instantly Mr. Bixby set a lot 
of bells ringing, shouted through the tube, “ Now , let 
her have it — every ounce you’ve got!” then to his 
partner, “Put her hard down! snatch her! snatch 
her!” The boat rasped and ground her way through 
the sand, hung upon the apex of disaster a single 
tremendous instant, and then over she went! And 
such a shout as went up at Mr. Bixby's back never 
loosened the roof of a pilot-house before ! 

There was no more trouble after that. Mr. Bixby 

was a hero that night; and it was some little time, 
too, before his exploit ceased to be talked about by 
river men. 

Fully to realize the marvelous precision required in 
laying the great steamer in her marks in that murky 
waste of water, one should know that not only must 
she pick her intricate way through snags and blind 
reefs, and then shave the head of the island so closely as 
to brush the overhanging foliage with her stern, but at 
one place she must pass almost within arm's reach of a 
sunken and invisible wreck that would snatch the hull 
timbers from under her if she should strike it, and 
destroy a quarter of a million dollars' worth of steam- 
boat and cargo in five minutes, and maybe a hundred 
and fifty human lives into the bargain. 

The last remark I heard that night was a compliment 
to Mr. Bixby, uttered in soliloquy and with unction by 
one of our guests. He said : 

“By the Shadow of Death, but he’s a lightning 
pilot!” 



CHAPTER VIII. 


PERPLEXING LESSONS 

A T the end of what seemed a tedious while, I had 
managed to pack my head full of islands, towns, 
bars, “ points,” and bends; and a curiously inanimate 
mass of lumber it was, too. However, inasmuch as I 
could shut my eyes and reel off a good long string of 
these names without leaving out more than ten miles of 
river in every fifty, I began to feel that I could take a 
boat down to New Orleans if I could make her skip 
those little gaps. But of course my complacency 
could hardly get start enough to lift my nose a trifle 
into the air, before Mr. Bixby would think of some- 
thing to fetch it down again. One day he turned on 
me suddenly with this settler: 

” What is the shape of Walnut Bend?” 

He might as well have asked me my grandmother's 
opinion of protoplasm. I reflected respectfully, and 
then said I didn’t know it had any particular shape. 
My gun-pow T dery chief went off with a bang, of course, 
and then went on loading and firing until he was out 
of adjectives. 

I had learned long ago that he only carried just so 
many rounds of ammunition, and was sure to subside 
into a very placable and even remorseful old smooth- 
bore as soon as they were all gone. That word " old ” 
is merely affectionate ; he was not more than thirty- 
four. I waited. By and by he said: 



'' My boy, you’ve got to know the shape of the 
river perfectly. It is all there is left to steer by on a 
very dark night. Everything else is blotted out and 
gone. But mind you, it hasn’t the same shape in the 
night that it has in the daytime' 

"How on earth am I ever going to learn it, then?" 

"How do you follow a hall at home in the dark? 
Because you know the shape of it. You can’t see it." 

"Do you mean to say that I’ve got to know all the 
million trifling variations of shape in the banks of this 
interminable river as well as I know the shape of the 
front hall at home?" 

