glasses.

"How should I know?" said Sam, rather abashed. "I didn't know about no
other train."

"You come near makin' me go wrong."

"I can't help it. It would be just as bad for me."

"When does the train go to York, somebody?" asked the old lady,
looking about her in a general way.

"Next train; comes round in about five minutes."

Sam helped the old lady back into the depot, rather ashamed of the
mistake he had made. He saw that she had lost some of her confidence
in him, and it mortified him somewhat.

It was nearly ten minutes afterwards,--for the train was late, before
the right cars came up.

Sam dashed into the depot again, and seized a bandbox.

"Here's the cars. Come along," he said.

"I won't stir a step till I know if it's the right cars," said the old
lady firmly.

"Then you may stay here," said Sam. "I'm goin'."

"Don't leave your grandmother," said a gentleman, standing by.

"She isn't my grandmother. Isn't this the train to New York?"

"Yes."

Sam seized the bandbox once more, and this time the old lady followed
him.

They got into the cars without difficulty, and the old lady breathed a
sigh of relief.

Sam took a seat at the window just behind her, and his heart bounded
with exultation as he reflected that in a few hours he would be in the
great city, of which he had such vague and wonderful ideas. The only
drawback to his enjoyment was the loss of his usual morning meal. The
crackers helped to fill him up, but they were a poor substitute for
the warm breakfast to which he had been accustomed at the deacon's.
Still Sam did not wish himself back. Indeed, as he thought of the
deacon's bewilderment on discovering his disappearance, he broke into
an involuntary laugh.

"What are you laffin' at?" asked the old lady, suspiciously.

Sam answered, "I was thinkin' how near we came to bein' carried off to
the wrong place."

"That aint anything to laff at," said the old lady, grimly.




CHAPTER XI.

FIRST EXPERIENCES IN THE CITY.

There are few boys who do not enjoy a trip on the railroad, especially
for the first time. The five hours which Sam spent on his journey gave
him unqualified delight. Occasionally his attention was called off
from the scenery by an exclamation from the old lady, who at every
jolt thought the cars were off the track.

Sam liberally patronized the apple and peanut merchant, who about once
an hour walked through the cars. The crackers which he had purchased
at the grocery store had not spoiled his appetite, but rather appeared
to sharpen it. The old lady apparently became hungry also, for she
called the apple vender to her.

"What do you ask for them apples?" she inquired.

"The largest are three cents apiece, the smallest, two cents."

"That's an awful price. They aint worth half that."

"We can't sell 'em for less, and make any profit."

"I'll give you a cent for that one," she continued, pointing to the
largest in the basket.

"That! Why, that's a three-center. Can't take it nohow."

"I'll give you three cents for them two."

"No, ma'am, you may have 'em for five cents."

"Then I won't buy 'em. My darter will give me plenty for nothin'."

"She may, but I can't."

So the old lady heroically put away the temptation, and refused to
purchase.

All things must have an end, and Sam's journey was at length over. The
cars entered the great depot. Sam hurried out of the cars, never
giving a thought to the old lady, who expected his help in carrying
out her bandboxes. He was eager to make his first acquaintance with
the streets of New York. There was a crowd of hackmen in waiting, all
of whom appeared to Sam to be seeing which could talk fastest.

"Have a carriage, sir? Take you to any hotel."

One of them got hold of Sam by the arms, and attempted to lead him to
his carriage.

"Hold on a minute, mister," said Sam, drawing back. "Where are you
goin' to take me?"

"Anywhere you say. Astor House, St. Nicholas, or any other."

"Is it far?"

"About five miles," said the hackman, glibly.

"How much are you goin to charge?"

"Only three dollars."

"Three dollars!" repeated Sam, in amazement.

He had less than seven dollars now, and, though he was not
particularly provident, he knew that it would never do to spend almost
half his slender stock of money for cab-hire.

"Never mind," said he. "I'll walk."

"You can't; it's too far," said the hackman, eager for a fare.

"I'll try."

So Sam walked out of the depot, and walked away. He didn't know
exactly where to go, and thought he would follow a man with a
carpet-bag who appeared to know his way. This man unconsciously guided
him to Broadway. Sam realized, from the stately character of the
buildings, that he was in an important street, and, cutting loose from
his guide, walked down towards the City Hall Park. It seemed to him
like a dream; these beautiful warehouses, showy stores, and the moving
throng, which never seemed to grow less, surprised him also. Though he
knew in advance that New York must be very different from the little
country town which, until now, had been his home, he was not prepared
for so great a difference, and wandered on, his mouth and eyes wide
open.

At last he reached the City Hall Park, and, catching sight of a bench
on which one or two persons were already sitting, Sam, feeling tired
with his walk, entered the Park, and sat down too.

"Black yer boots?" inquired a dirty-faced boy, with a box slung over
his shoulders.

Sam looked at his shoes, begrimed with a long country walk, and
hesitated.

"What do you ask?" he said.

"It's worth a quarter to black them shoes," said the boy, swinging
them critically.

"Then I can't afford it,"

"Twenty cents."

"No," said Sam. "I've got to earn my own living, and I can't afford
it. Is blackin' boots a good business?"

"Some days it is, but if it comes rainy, it isn't. I'll give you a
bully shine for ten cents."

"Will you show me afterwards where I can get some dinner cheap?" asked
Sam, who was still hungry.

"Yes," said the boot-black. "I know a tip-top place."

"Is it far off?"

"Right round in Chatham street--only a minute's walk."

"All right. Go ahead. I'll give you ten cents."

Sam felt that he was paying his money not only for the actual service
done, but for valuable information besides. On the whole, though he
knew he must be economical, it seemed to him a paying investment.

"Did you come from the country?" asked the young knight of the
blacking-brush, while he was vigorously brushing the first shoe.

"Yes," said Sam. "I only got here just now."

"That's what I thought."

"Why?"

"Because you look like a greenhorn."

"Do you mean to insult me?" asked Sam, nettled.

"No," said the other; "only if you've never been here before of course
you're green."

"I won't be long," said Sam, hastily.

"Course you won't, 'specially if you have me to show you round."

"Have you lived long in New York?" inquired Sam.

"I was born here," said the boy.

"Have you been long blackin' boots?"

"Ever since I was knee-high to a door-step."

"Then you make a living at it?"

"I don't starve. What made you leave the country?"

"I got tired of working on a farm."

"Did you have enough to eat?"

"Yes."

"And a good bed to sleep in?"

"Yes."

"Then you'd ought to have stayed there," said the boot-black.

"I think I shall like the city better," said Sam. "There's a good deal
more goin' on."

"I'd like to try the country. You don't live at the West, do you?"

"No."

"Lots of boys goes West. Maybe I'll go there, some time."

"Is it a good place?"

"That's what they say. The boys gets good homes out there on farms."

"Then I don't want to go," said Sam. "I'm tired of farmin'."

By this time the shoes were polished.

"Aint that a bully shine?" asked the boot-black, surveying his work
with satisfaction.

"Yes," said Sam. "You know how to do it."

"Course I do. Now where's the stamps?"

Sam drew out ten cents, and handed to the boy.

"Now show me where I can get some dinner."

"All right. Come along!" and the boy, slinging his box over his
shoulder, led the way to a small place on Chatham street. It was in a
basement, and did not look over-neat; but Sam was too hungry to be
particular, and the odor of the cooking was very grateful to him.

"I guess I'll get a plate o' meat, too," said the boot-black. "I aint
had anything since breakfast."

They sat down side by side at a table, and Sam looked over the bill of
fare. He finally ordered a plate of roast beef, for ten cents, and his
companion followed his example. The plates were brought, accompanied
by a triangular wedge of bread, and a small amount of mashed potato.
It was not a feast for an epicure, but both Sam and his companion
appeared to enjoy it.

Sam was still hungry.

"They didn't bring much," he said. "I guess I'll have another plate."

"I aint got stamps enough," said his companion.

"If you want another plate, I'll pay for it," said Sam, with a sudden
impulse of generosity.

"Will you? You're a brick!" said the boot-black heartily. "Then I
don't mind. I'll have another."

"Do they have any pie?" asked Sam.

"Course they do."

"Then I'll have a piece afterwards."

He did not offer to treat his companion to pie, for he realized that
his stock of money was not inexhaustible. This did not appear to be
expected, however, and the two parted on very good terms, when the
dinner was over.




CHAPTER XII.

CLARENCE BROWN.

Sam continued to walk about in the neighborhood of the City Hall Park,
first in one direction, then in another; but at last he became
fatigued. It had been an unusually exciting day, and he had taken more
exercise than usual, though he had not worked; for his morning walk,
added to his rambles about the city streets, probably amounted to not
less than twelve miles. Then, too, Sam began to realize what older and
more extensive travellers know well, that nothing is more wearisome
than sight-seeing.

So the problem forced itself upon his attention--where was he to
sleep? The bed he slept in the night before was more than a hundred
miles away. It struck Sam as strange, for we must remember how
inexperienced he was, that he must pay for the use of a bed. How much,
he had no idea, but felt that it was time to make some inquiries.

[Illustration of Sam speaking with the room-clerk,]

He went into a hotel on the European system, and asked a man who was
standing at the cigar stand, "What do you charge for sleeping here?"

"Ask of that man at the desk," said the cigar-vender.

Sam followed directions, and, approaching the room-clerk, preferred
the same inquiry.

"One dollar," was the answer.

"One dollar, just for sleeping?" inquired Sam, in surprise, for in his
native village he knew that the school-teacher got boarded for three
dollars a week, board and lodging complete for seven days.

"Those are our terms," said the clerk.

"I don't care about a nice room," said Sam, hoping to secure a
reduction.

"We charge more for our nice rooms," said the clerk.

"Aint there any cheaper hotels?" asked our hero, rather dismayed at
his sudden discovery of the great cost of living in New York.

"I suppose so," said the clerk, carelessly; but he did not volunteer
any information as to their whereabouts.

Sam walked slowly out of the hotel, quite uncertain where to go, or
what to do. He had money enough to pay for a night's lodging, even at
this high price, but he judged wisely that he could not afford to
spend so large a part of his small stock of money.

"I wonder where the boys sleep that black boots," he thought. "They
can't pay a dollar a night for sleeping."

He looked around for the boy who had guided him to a restaurant, but
could not find him.

It was now eight o'clock, and he begun to think he should have to go
back to the hotel after all, when a shabby-looking man, with watery
eyes and a red nose, accosted him.

"Are you a stranger in the city, my young friend?" he asked.

"Yes," said Sam, rather relieved at the opportunity of speaking to
somebody.

"So I thought. Where are you boarding?"

"Nowhere," said Sam.

"Where do you sleep to-night?"

"I don't know," said Sam, rather helplessly.

"Why don't you go to a hotel?"

"They charge too much," said Sam.

"Haven't you got money enough to pay for a lodging at a hotel?" asked
the stranger, with rather less interest in his manner.

"Oh, yes," said Sam, "a good deal more than that; but then, I want to
make my money last till I can earn something."

"To be sure, to be sure," answered the stranger, his interest
returning. "You are quite right, my dear friend. I am glad to see that
you are so sensible. Of course you ought not to go to a hotel. They
charge too high altogether."

"But I must sleep somewhere," said Sam, anxiously. "I only got to New
York this morning, and I don't know where to go."

"Of course, of course. I thought you might be in trouble, seeing you
were a stranger. It's lucky you met me."

"Can you tell me of any place to spend the night?" asked Sam,
encouraged by the stranger's manner.

"Yes; I'll let you stay with me, and it shan't cost you a cent."

"Thank you," said Sam, congratulating himself on his good luck in
meeting so benevolent a man. He could not help admitting to himself
that the philanthropist looked shabby, even seedy. He was not the sort
of man from whom he would have expected such kindness, but that made
no difference. The offer was evidently a desirable one, and Sam
accepted it without a moment's hesitation.

"I remember when I came to the city myself," explained the stranger.
"I was worse off than you, for I had no money at all. A kind man gave
me a night's lodging, just as I offer one to you, and I determined
that I would do the same by others when I had a chance."

"You are very kind," said Sam.

"Perhaps you won't say so when you see my room," said the other. "I am
not a rich man."

Glancing at the man's attire, Sam found no difficulty in believing
him. Our hero, though not very observing, was not prepossessed in
favor of the New York tailors by what he saw, for the stranger's coat
was very long, while his pants were very short, and his vest was
considerably too large for him. Instead of a collar and cravat, he
wore a ragged silk handkerchief tied round his throat. His hat was
crumpled and greasy, and the best that could be said of it was, that
it corresponded with the rest of his dress.

"I don't live in a very nice place," said the stranger; "but perhaps
you can put up with it for one night."

"Oh, I don't mind," said Sam, hastily. "I aint used to anything very
nice."

"Then it's all right," said the stranger. "Such as it is, you are
welcome. Now, I suppose you are tired."

"Yes, I am," said Sam.

"Then I'll take you to my room at once. We'll go up Centre street."

Sam cheerfully followed his conductor. He felt like a storm-tossed
mariner, who has just found port.

"What is your name?" asked his guide.

"Sam Barker."

"Mine is Clarence Brown."

"Is it?" asked Sam.

He could not help thinking the name too fine for a man of such shabby
appearance, and yet it would be hard, when names are so cheap, if all
the best ones should be bestowed on the wealthy.

"It's a good name, isn't it?" asked the stranger.

"Tip-top."

"I belong to a good family, though you wouldn't think it to look at me
now," continued his guide. "My father was a wealthy merchant."

"Was he?" asked Sam, curiously.

"Yes, we lived in a splendid mansion, and kept plenty of servants. I
was sent to an expensive school, and I did not dream of coming to
this."

Mr. Brown wiped his eyes with his coat-sleeve, as he thus revived the
memories of his early opulence.

"Did your father lose his money?" asked Sam, getting interested.

"He did indeed," said the stranger, with emotion. "It was in the panic
of 1837. Did you ever hear of it?"

"I guess not," said Sam, who was not very conversant with the
financial history of the country.

"My father became a bankrupt, and soon after died of grief," continued
the stranger. "I was called back from boarding-school, and thrown upon
the cold mercies of the world."

"That was hard on you," said Sam.

"It was, indeed, my young friend. I perceive that you have a
sympathetic heart. You can feel for the woes of others."

"Yes," said Sam, concluding that such an answer was expected.

"I am glad I befriended you. Have you also seen better days?"

"Well, I don't know," said Sam. "It's been pleasant enough to-day."

