Sunday morning, winter or summer, when the family was at home, on which
a loaf of this bread has not graced my breakfast-table, and unless
when, through negligence, it has been slightly scorched or underdone, I
have never known it to come short of excellence.

In cutting corn-bread, do not forget to hold the knife
perpendicularly, that the spongy interior of the loaf may not be
crushed into heaviness. Very good corn-bread is often ruined by neglect
of this precaution.


CORN-MEAL MUFFINS. (Raised.) +

3 cups white Indian meal.

3 table-spoonfuls yeast.

1 cup flour.

1 quart scalding milk.

3 eggs, beaten to a froth, yolks and whites apart.

1 table-spoonful white sugar.

1 table-spoonful lard.

1 table-spoonful butter.

1 teaspoonful salt.

Pour the milk boiling hot upon the meal; stir well and leave until
nearly cold. Then beat in gradually the yeast, sugar and flour, and set
in a moderately warm place. It should be light enough in five or six
hours. Melt, without overheating, the butter and lard; stir into the
batter, with the salt, lastly the beaten eggs. Beat all together three
minutes; put in greased muffin-rings; let these rise on the hearth for
a quarter of an hour, with a cloth thrown lightly over them. Bake about
twenty minutes in a quick, steady oven, or until they are of a light
golden-brown.

Send at once to table, and in eating them, break, not cut them open.


CORN-MEAL MUFFINS. (Quick.) +

2 cups Indian meal.

1 cup flour.

3 eggs, beaten very light.

3 cups milk.

2 table-spoonfuls melted butter.

1 table-spoonful white sugar.

1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water.

2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar, sifted with flour.

Mix quickly, beating all the ingredients well together; pour into
greased muffin-rings, or, better still, into the small round or oval
iron pans, now sold for baking corn-bread. Bake in a brisk oven, and
send directly to table. All kinds of corn-bread are spoiled if allowed
to cool before they are eaten.


CHRISSIE’S CORN-BREAD.

1 cup white corn-meal.

1 cup flour.

½ cup white sugar.

1 cup cream and 1 egg, or 1 cup half-milk, half-cream, and 2 eggs.

1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water.

2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar, sifted in the flour.

1 saltspoonful salt.

Bake in two loaves, or several small tins.


SOUTHERN BATTER-BREAD OR EGG-BREAD. +

2 cups white Indian meal.

1 cup cold boiled rice.

3 eggs, well beaten.

1 table-spoonful melted butter.

2½ cups milk, or enough for soft batter.

1 teaspoonful of salt.

A pinch of soda.

Stir the beaten eggs into the milk; the meal, salt, butter, last of all
the rice. Beat up well from the bottom for two or three minutes, and
bake quickly in a round, shallow pan.


BATTER BREAD. (No. 2.)

2 cups Indian meal.

3½ cups milk.

2 eggs, well beaten.

1 small cup stale, fine bread-crumbs.

1 teaspoonful salt.

1 table-spoonful melted lard.

½ teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water, and mixed with the milk.

1 teaspoonful cream tartar.

Soak the bread-crumbs in the milk, and rub to a smooth paste. Into this
stir the beaten eggs, the lard, the salt, and finally the meal, into
which the cream tartar has been sifted.

Bake in shallow pans in a hot oven.


BOILED MUSH, TO BE EATEN WITH MILK.

1 quart boiling water.

2 cups Indian meal.

2 table-spoonfuls flour.

1 teaspoonful salt.

Wet up meal and flour in a little cold water. Stir them into the hot
water, which should be actually boiling on the fire when they go in.
Boil at least half an hour, slowly, stirring deeply every few minutes,
and constantly toward the last. Send to table in a deep dish, but not
covered, or the steam will render it clammy.

Eat in saucers, with cream or milk poured over it.


OATMEAL PORRIDGE (for breakfast).

1 quart boiling water.

2 scant cups best Scotch or Irish oatmeal, previously soaked over night
in enough cold water to cover it well.

Salt to taste.

Stir the oatmeal into the water while boiling, and let it boil
steadily, stirring up frequently from the bottom, for at least
three-quarters of an hour. Send to table in an uncovered deep dish, to
be eaten with cream, and, if you like, with powdered sugar.

This is a wholesome and pleasant article of food. If you give it a
place upon your regular bill of fare, you would do well to provide
yourself with a farina-kettle expressly for cooking it.


OATMEAL GRUEL (For Invalids). +

2 cups Irish or Scotch oatmeal.

2 quarts water.

1 teaspoonful salt.

Set the oatmeal to soak over night in half the water. In the morning
strain through a coarse tartelane bag, pressing through all the
farinaceous matter that will go. Add the rest of the water with the
salt, and boil down until it begins to thicken perceptibly. Let it cool
enough to become almost a jelly, and eat with powdered sugar and cream.

It is very good for others besides invalids.


MILK PORRIDGE. (Very nice.) +

2 cups best oatmeal.

2 cups water.

2 cups milk.

Soak the oatmeal over night in the water; strain in the morning, and
boil the water half an hour. Put in the milk with a little salt, boil
up well and serve. Eat warm, with or without powdered sugar.


TEA ROLLS.

1 quart of flour.

2 eggs.

1 table-spoonful butter, melted.

2 great spoonfuls yeast.

Enough milk to work into a soft dough.

1 saltspoonful salt.

1 teaspoonful white sugar.

Rub the butter into the sifted flour. Beat the eggs well with a cup of
milk, and work into the flour, adding more milk, if necessary, to make
the dough of right consistency. Stir the sugar into the yeast, and work
this into the dough with a wooden spoon, until all the ingredients are
thoroughly incorporated. Do not knead it with the hands. Set to rise
in a moderately warm place until very light. Make into rolls lightly
and quickly, handling as little as possible. Set these in rows in your
baking-pan, just close enough together to touch. Throw a cloth lightly
over them, and set on the hearth for the second rising, until they
begin to “plump,” which should be in about fifteen minutes.

Bake half an hour in a steady oven. They are best eaten hot.


FRENCH ROLLS.

1 pint of milk.

2 eggs.

4 table-spoonfuls of yeast.

3 table-spoonfuls of butter.

1 teaspoonful of salt.

3 pints of flour, or enough to work into a soft dough.

1 table-spoonful of white sugar.

Warm the milk slightly, and add to it the beaten eggs and salt. Rub
the butter into the flour quickly and lightly, until it is like yellow
powder. Work into this gradually, with a wooden spoon, the milk and
eggs, then the yeast. Knead well, and let it rise for three hours, or
until the dough is light and begins to crack on top. Make into small
rolls; let them stand on the hearth twenty minutes before baking in a
quick oven. Just before taking them up, brush over with white of egg.
Shut the oven door one minute to glaze them.


PLAIN LIGHT ROLLS.

1 quart of flour.

1 heaping table-spoonful butter or lard.

3 large table-spoonfuls yeast.

1 cup of warm milk.

Salt to taste.

Rub the butter and flour together; add milk and yeast. Knead well; let
it rise until light; make into rolls; let these stand in a warm place
half an hour, and bake in a steady oven.


RICE CRUMPETS. +

2 cups of milk.

4 table-spoonfuls yeast.

1 table-spoonful white sugar.

2 table-spoonfuls melted butter.

Nearly a cup of well-boiled rice.

4 cups flour, or enough to make good batter.

Salt to taste.

¼ teaspoonful of soda added just before baking.

Beat the ingredients well together; set to rise for six hours, or until
very light. Put into muffin-tins (having stirred in the soda, dissolved
in a little hot water), let them stand fifteen minutes, and bake
quickly. Eat hot.


HOMINY CRUMPETS

Are made as above, substituting boiled hominy (or samp) for the rice.


ALL-DAY ROLLS.

1 quart flour.

1 cup scalded milk, not boiled.

2 table-spoonfuls yeast.

1 table-spoonful white sugar.

1 table-spoonful butter.

A very little salt.

Let the milk cool, mix with yeast, sugar, and one cup of flour. Put the
rest of the flour into a bowl, make a well in the middle, pour in the
mixture, and set aside in a moderately warm place until next day. In
the morning melt the butter, and add to the sponge; work all together
well, and let the dough rise six hours, at least. Make into oblong
rolls; range them in baking-pan, at such a distance from one another
that they will not run together, and let them rise three hours longer.
Bake in a steady quick oven, glazing, when done, with white of egg.

I have never tried this receipt myself, but having eaten the rolls
made according to it, can cordially recommend it.


UNITY LOAF. +

1 quart flour.

1 pint milk.

1 tablespoonful butter, melted.

1 egg.

1 saltspoonful salt.

1 table-spoonful white sugar.

1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water.

1 dessertspoonful (equal to 2 teaspoonfuls) cream tartar, sifted in the
flour.

Mix the beaten egg with the milk, then the butter, sugar, salt and
soda; next, the flour. Beat well, and bake in buttered cake-mould. The
oven should be quite hot, and very steady. Turn out, and cut in slices
at table. Eat hot.

A simple, easy and excellent breakfast or tea-loaf.


QUICK LOAF. +

3 cups flour.

1 cup milk.

2 table-spoonfuls white sugar.

2 eggs, thoroughly beaten.

1 table-spoonful butter—a liberal one.

1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water.

2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar, sifted in flour.

1 saltspoonful salt.

Beat well, but quickly together, and bake in well-greased mould. One
with a cylinder in the middle is best. Test with a straw to see when it
is done; turn out upon a plate, and cut hot at table into slices.


EXCELLENT MUFFINS.

3 cups milk.

1 table-spoonful melted butter.

2 eggs—beaten stiff.

3 table-spoonfuls good yeast.

1 table-spoonful white sugar.

1 teaspoonful salt, and ¼ teaspoonful soda.

Flour to make a pretty stiff batter.

Make all the ingredients except the eggs, into a sponge, and set to
rise over night. Half an hour before breakfast, add the eggs and
the soda (dissolved in hot water); beat all together hard; put into
muffin-rings; let them stand on the hearth ten minutes, and bake about
twenty in a brisk oven.


BROWN BISCUIT. +

2 cups Graham flour.

1 cup white flour.

1 cup milk.

2 table-spoonfuls brown sugar.

4 table-spoonfuls home-made yeast, or half as much brewer’s.

1 great spoonful melted butter.

1 teaspoonful salt.

½ teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water.

Set a dough made of all the ingredients except the butter and soda,
to rise over night. In the morning, add these; knead quickly, roll
into a sheet half an inch thick, cut with a cake-cutter; range in the
baking-pan. When it is full, set on the warm hearth ten minutes before
baking.


MINUTE BISCUIT, (brown.) +

2 cups Graham flour.

1 cup white flour.

2 table-spoonfuls mixed butter and lard.

1 table-spoonful light-brown sugar.

3 cups milk, or enough for soft dough.

1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water.

2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar, sifted in flour.

1 teaspoonful salt.

Chop the shortening into the flour; add sugar and salt, at last the
milk in which the soda has been put. Roll out, with as little handling
as may be, into a rather thick sheet. Cut into round cakes; prick with
a fork, and bake immediately in a brisk oven.

These biscuits are very good and wholesome.


GRAHAM GEMS. (No. 1.)

1 quart water.

1 cup molasses.

1 yeast-cake, or 4 table-spoonfuls best yeast.

1 saltspoonful salt.

Flour to make thick batter.

When light, bake in hot “gem” pans, or iron muffin-rings, in a very
quick oven.

Break open and eat hot.


GRAHAM GEMS. (No. 2.)

1 quart of milk.

4 eggs.

1 saltspoonful salt, and 2 table-spoonfuls melted butter.

Flour for tolerably thick batter, about the consistency of pound cake.

Stir the eggs until whites and yolks are mixed, but do not whip them.
The milk should be blood-warm when these are put into it. Add the
flour, handful by handful, and when of the right consistency, the
melted butter. Beat long and hard.

Bake in greased iron pans—“gem” pans, as they are called—previously
heated on the range. The oven can hardly be over-heated for any kind of
“gems.”


GRAHAM GEMS. (No. 3.)

3 eggs, beaten very light.

3 cups of milk—blood-warm.

3 cups flour, or enough to make good batter.
