her married life had gone by as a series of bright, pan- 
oramic pictures." Ralph Tremaine loved her very 
dearly, though she had been rather persuaded into the 
marriage. And she had come to love him in a manner 
that almost terrified herself. Perhaps because she saw 
such a possibility, she was the more fearM of some un- 
toward disappointment. 
Mrs. Maybin came nip stairs with her slow, stately 
step, her dark cambric gown rustling as if it had been 
silk. 
"Mrs. Tremaine, there is a person at the door with 
a note for you," she announced. 
"Why did you not bring it up?" 
"He will not deliver it into any one's hands but 
yours. Those were his instructions, he says." 
"Oh!" 
Then Mrs. Tremaine ran down, while pompous Mrs. 
Maybin was nursing a sense* of affront. 
A young man of eighteen or twenty handed her the 
missive in question. He was a stranger, and the hand- 
writing on the envelope quite unknown to her. Its 
contents were simply these : — 
"If Mrs. Tremaine will come immediately to No.—, 
Wall street, she will hear something of the utmost im- 
portance." 
There was also a card enclosed, containing the name 
of "Leonard Colby," and the number of the room. 
"Who sent you?" she asked, abruptly. 
"Mr. Colby. I was to deliver the note to Mrs. Tre- 
maine:" 
He had evidently received no further instructions, 
for he turned away. 
"Is there to be no answer?" 
He stared blankly at the Virginia creeper against the 
column of the portico, 
"He didn't say," 
"Very well." 
She went to her rQom thinking it over. What could 
the mysterious summons be? "Of the utmost impor- 
tance." She did not remember of ever hearing ]Mr, 
Colby's name before — and the whole thing savored of 
mystery. 
Then she turned suddenly and deathly white. What 
if it were something connected with that old, old story ? 
The man she feared and hated, now, was dead, surely. 
For seven years she had not heard a whisper concerning 
him, save the tale of the shipwreck. And yet she 
knew that people did return after years and years of 
absence. There was a horrible constriction in her throat ; 
her parched tongue refused to make the faintest motion, 
although she wanted to cry out with terror. She 
clasped her hands over her throbbing eyes for many 
moments. When, at length, she roused herself, she 
seemed weak, as if after a month's illness. 
"I will go to Ralph, at once," she thought, " I will 
not have any secret from him. He shall hear and 
judge — and if he loves me still " 
Acting upon this impulse, she began to change her 
dress immediately. A dainty gray walking suit, and 
straw hat to match, with a cluster of green leaves and 
scarlet berries. As she put on her gloves, she remarked 
how icy cold her hands were. 
She walked slowly enough now. In the hall she 
paused, and called to Mrs. Maybin. 
" I am going into town a little while." 
She had quite forgotten about her dressmaker, and 
left no orders. 
CHAPTER II. 
AT HOME, ALONE. 
[HE day had been a busy one to Ralph Tremaine, 
and yet, he had hardly thought of the comers 
and goers. His rose had stood in a little vase 
on his desk, all day, and the words — " The wife who 
loves you," had floated through his brain like a chord 
of suggestive music. At the earliest possible moment, 
he turned the business over to the book-keeper, put on 
his hat and coat, and reached out for his rose. He 
felt a little warmth steal into his cheeks as he bungled 
over the pinning. Indeed he had an idea that Lindsay 
was watching him with an amused smile. 
Then he went for the strawberries. They would 
have them in the garden at home,in a week's time, but 
Dora waft extravagantly fond of them, and they looked 
so luscious, so tempting ! There was a little girl selling 
violets. Theirs were out of bloom, and violets were 
another penchant of Dora's, so he must have a bunch. 
With it all, he was ready for the train at four. He 
would surprise her, to-day, by an early return. What 
had she been doing ! Bothering over old dresses — what 
a fuss women always made when there was nothing 
half so pretty as white, and flounces and flirbelows and 
laces were not of much account. But, then,he supposed 
there was no appeal from a dress-maker's fiat. 
To-morrow he would go shopping with Dora. It 
never was any bore, for she did not dawdle over goods, 
and have everything pulled about to gratify her curiosity. 
Then he would buy her something pretty, by way of 
surprise — she had spoken of a coral set — perhaps it 
might be that. 
. He was relieved at the sight of familiar Woodlea, for 
the strawberries had stained the paper through. It was 
but a short walk to the house. The air was so delight- 
fully fragrant, the lawn so smooth and velvety, with 
clumps of blossoming shrubbery,here and there, wigelia, 
lilacs, snowball, rhododendron, and hosts of snowy 
spireas. Dora's window overlooked the avenue, and 
not infrequently, when she heard the sharp click of the 
gate latch, she glanced out. She did not now. He 
hoped Miss Ayers was not still pottering about. 
Somehow the house seemed very, very still. He had 
thought, more than once, of the homes where gtoups of 
children frolicked about, and he had a longing for their 
arch, merry faces and gay voices. Nearly all the houses 
in the row held out such tantalizing pictures. And if a 
small, silvery treble were to say "papa" on this porch— 
"There are some berries, Mrs. Maybin," he said, 
going straight through to the kitchen. "Have you a 
napkin handy, with which I can wipe my hands?" 
She glanced through the door into the spacious hall, 
and then at her master) rather questioning! j. 
"The dinner, will not be ready until six — as you 
gave orders a few days ago. If I had known " 
"Never mind, Mrs. Maybin, it is all right. I do not 
care for dinner any earlier in the summer." 
Then he was off again with his violets. She gave an 
Injured sniff. Hie had never been the same man since 
his marriage. Before that, everything went on like 
clock work. If he was put out five minutes he showed 
it, though never unpleasantly. That was what she 
liked to see — some authority from the head of the 
house. Now the madame twisted him around her fin- 
gers, and everything went at sixes and sevens. If it 
were not that Mr. Tremaine would actually be neglected, 
she should feel tempted to throw up her commission. 
And strawberries bought, when loads of their own were 
ripening in the garden ! 
Ralph Tremaine went up the steps two at a time, and 
entered his wife's sitting-room, smiling at the expecta- 
tion of finding her asleep on the lounge. There was no 
Dora, no dresses strewn about, the willow workstand b}- 
the window covered, and the low sewing chair standing 
in the corner. The blinds all clfosed, the room filled 
with a shady green gloom, and strangely silent. 
"The wife who loves you." Dora's bright, warm 
lips had uttered the words this morning. He wanted 
to hear her say them over dozens of times. Where 
could she be hiding? Oh, Mrs. Maybin could you im- 
agine such an undignified thought finding a resting 
place in your master's brain ? 
' 'Dora ? " he called softly. 
No answer. Then he glanced into the sleeping room. 
Her morning-dress had been carelessly thrown across 
the bed, and her tiny, rosetted slippers stood there, 
looking as if she had just stepped out of them. 
He went slowly down stairs again. Mrs. Maybin was 
sorting the strawberries, and taking off a few stray 
hulls. 
' 'Has Mrs. Tremaine gone out?" he asked. 
"Did not she come home with you?" and the worthy 
housekeeper's face was full of astonishment. 
"Why, she has not been to the City?". 
"She said she was going. And it was but ten min- 
utes of twelve, just time for the train." 
' 'Had the Dressmaker been here ? " 
"No. Mrs. Tremaine did not leave any word. I do 
not think she expected her. 
"And no message for " 
"Have not you seen her — all day? she never said a 
word, but, that 'she was going in town for a little while.' 
A } r oung man came with a note, which he would not 
give to any one else — he said those were his instruc- 
tions. So I called her down stairs ; and about half an 
hour afterwards she went away." 
Mrs. Maybin delivered this speech in a straightforward, 
sententious tone, as if she were a witness on the 
stand. She had never loved her mistress cordially, but 
she was not a woman to swerve from the truth, or start 
any ill-natured suspicion, though she admitted to her 
self, instantly, that it did look strange. 
' ' A young man," you said. * 'What kind of a fellow ? 
How did he look?" • 
''Like a clerk." Mrs. Maybin prided herself, a good 
deal, on her power of distinguishing between clerks and 
gentlemen. 
"And no word of any kind? Not even a message 
for the dressmaker?" 
"No, sir." 
It was strange, mysterious, and vexing to Mr. Tre- 
maine. He was one of those open, honorable men, 
who, if he were going out of the store, generally left 
word of where he could be found, and how long he ex- 
pected to be absent. He was not a saint by any means, 
in fact, rather old bachelorish and set in his ways, and 
hated to be put out. He never could see any reason 
why a person could not come straight to the point, at 
once,and say just what he or she meant. 
And now, it must be confessed that his first feeling 
was one of annoyance that Dora had not left some word, 
or dropped in upon him and given a little explanation 
of her sudden resolve. 
He went slowly back to her room, wondering what it 
could all mean. Not even a line left anywhere for him ! 
The scene of the morning rushed over him with pecu- 
liar distinctness. She had refused to come down to the 
city on account of the dressmaker, who, it seems, she 
had not expected very strongly, or she would have left 
some message with Mrs. M^ybin. Then she had re- 
ceived a mysterious note, and obej T ed its summons, and 
was not home yet. 
He walked up and down uneasily, then a new thought 
occurred to him. He would go down to the station and 
watch for her. But he had the grace to say to Mrs. 
Maj'bin, "I am going to meet Mrs. Tremaine." 
One train came in shortly. He gave every body a 
sharp glance — familiar faces many of them were — but 
the one,he longed to see most of all, was not there. Then 
he wandered about impatiently, the longest half hour, it 
seemed to him, that he had ever known in his life. The 
shrill whistle was a welcome sound to him. 
Disappointed again. This time a chill foreboding 
struck hard against his heart. There was a momen- 
tary delay, and the conductor sprang down beside him 
and gave him a little nod as he said — "Tremaine," 
which was all the greeting he could bestow. 
Like a flash, Mr. Tremaine remembered that Barton 
was conductor on the down train at noon. He took a 
stride or two after him and.grasped his arm. ' 'Barton," 
he exclaimed in a rather husky tone. "Mrs. Tremaine 
went down at twelve, did you see her?" 
" Tes." She had purchased her ticket in the car, and 
that was fresh in Barton's mind. 
"There was not any accident ? We have missed each 
other, some way ;" and Tremaine gave a sickly smile, 
coming nearer to a falsehood, than was his usual custom. 
"No." And then Barton stopped suddenly. The 
strangest event flashed before his mind, just like a pict- 
ure. Probably he might never have thought of it again, 
but for this. As he was running off of the platform, in 
the city, he had passed a hack, and by it stood a dark, 
handsome fellow, with a kind of fierce, brigand look, 
and a slight woman. He could see her figure and her 
dress, so exactly, in his memory, that he knew it was 
Mrs. Tremaine, although her face was turned away at 
the time. 
It was but a moment, then the warning whistle 
sounded. "Tremaine," he said hurriedly, "if you do 
not hear any news, meet me here at ten — my train 
goes down then, you know." 
He was sorry the instant the words were uttered. 
Tremaine's face took on such a wan, frightened look, 
and his body swayed uncertainly, as if some one had 
struck him a blow. 
" Something is wrong ! " he said to himself, as he 
whizzed past. 
As for Ralph Tremaine ha was stunned. Barton's 
tone gave him a dim, agonizing assurance. No acci- 
dent, no cause for delay, and yet, here it was six o'clock. 
Should he go up to the house or down to the .city ? His 
usually clear head was in a whirl. Yet there might be 
a faint hope. He tramped up and down,in the summer 
twilight, actually unable to come to any decision. To 
rush to the city, and make inquiries at the depot, seemed 
absolutely coarse and indelicate. If she had gone away 
of her own accord, it was only meant for the briefest ^ 
temporary absence. Though he might have felt a little 
vexed, a while ago, he would.as soon cut off his right 
hand as suspect her of evil. And if there had been 
any force or fraud used — but that was folly I An orphan, 
without a relative in the world, standing in no o*£s 
way : no, that view of the case was utterly improbable. 
She might have gone somewhere and been detained, 
that appeared the most reasonable solution. 
The purple dusk was falling softly, as he returned up 
the avenue- Then he remembered Mrs. Maybin and 
the dinner. 
He almost expected Dora to rise out of some 
corner, with her gay, perplexing laugh. Instead, a 
solemn stillness, an awral something brooding every- 
where, hardly less terrible than death itself. 
"The dinner has been ready these two hours ! " an- 
nounced Mrs. Maybin, tartly. She looked sharply be- 
hind her master, as if there might be a form lingering 
in the darkness. c 'Mrs- Tremaine ? " 
Something has happened to her. We cannot tell 
until — to-morrow, perhaps." 
This explanation suggested itself the most naturally, 
and, as I said before, he was no man for mysteries. 
Mrs. Maybin looked astonished. She might have 
been roused out of her impassable groove, and asked a 
question or two, but that grave, stony face chilled her. 
"No matter about the dinner, I am going down to 
New York, at ten, and shall not be back — " 
Mr. Tremaine went up to his wife's room again, 
lighted a lamp, and took a thorough search for some 
clue to guide him. Altogether in vain. Just then, the 
faded rosebud in his coat caught his eye. How happily 
the day had begun ! She had said the rose was an 
emblem of herself. He recalled the look and tone, and 
somehow, wished that she had never uttered those words. 
And yet only a moment before she had said — "The 
wife who loves you." That remembrance brought him 
to a tender mood, and he laid Hie flower carefully aside. 
The hours passed wearily enough. It seemed as if 
the sixty minutes never would drag out their slow length. 
Before the time appointed he was at the station ag$in. 
The summer night had gloomed over cloudily, and there 
was scarcely a star visible. He was glad to hear the 
train come thundering along, but Barton did not step 
out. For the last four hours he had been wishing des- 
perately that he had not made the promise to Mr.- Tre- 
maine, and would have avoided it gladly. 
He saw the tall figure coming through the car. Tre- 
maine looked haggard and worn, and a gleam of hun- 
gering suspense had settled about his brow. 
"What, no news?" said Barton, in a cheery tone, as 
if the matter was of very little importance. 
"No. And I came to hear what you had to say," 
with a wandering tremulous sound in his voice. 
"Not much. I thought I saw Mrs. Tremaine, but I 
may have been mistaken." ' 
"When?" The eager eyes* asked the questi<m as 
well. 
"Oh, this morning. Sit down. I will be back pres- 
ently." 
They were under full headway when Barton returned. 
Mr. Tremaine was sitting near the end of the car, quite 
alone. The conductor had been taking counsel with 
himself. First and last, for he was forty, and had 
spent all his life on the road, he had known of a good 
many strange affairs, with just about the clue of this 
one. There were wives who had come back to their 
husbands, but generally, the game had not been worth 
the candle. He had known Tremaine half a dozen 
years, in this sort of travelling way. A grave, steady- 
going,upright business fellow, making a fortune. He 
had seen the bride on her wedding tour, and really ad- 
mired her self-possession and unconciousness. Tre- 
maine had always appeared very fond of her, but he 
tfO$H not care to stake his soul upon Mrs. Tremaine. 
She might be very good, of course, it was only fair to 
believe all women so, until they were proved otherwise. 
And yet, to hide this from Mr. Tremaine would only be 
maudlin sympathy. He must know it, sooner or later, 
that is, if anything was wrong. So the truth would be 
best. 
"Was not your wife going to some friends?" he 
asked. "Did she not leave any word?" 
"No. An accident of some kind has suuely occurred. 
Did you see her after she left the car?" 
"I think I did," said Barton, candidly. "Some 
moments after, I had an errand round to the side office, 
and just outside the rail stood a hack. A man was 
holding open the door, and'a woman was about entering. 
I didn't look her square in the face ; but, by the dress 
and figure, I had an impression that it was Mrs. Tre- 
maine. I may be mistaken, you know," with great 
apparent fairness, as if he was quite ready to be con- 
vinced. 
"And the man — the driver you mean?" 
"No. The driver was on his box. I have a fancy 
that I could identify him, though I did not look partic- 
ularly sharp. The man was — a stranger, I think, 
rather foreign; a strong, deep, handsome fellow, 
ready for any villainy, I should say. Before I was out 
of hearing the hack rolled away." 
Ralph Tremaine's pale face turned a swarthy crim- 
son. He knew what a story like this meant. 
"Barton," he said clutching at a forlorn hope, "yo 
must be mistaken." 
"I am quite willing to admit that. The matter may 
be explained to-morrow." 
But Mr. Tremaine felt that if he gave up this, he 
would have no clue whatever. 
' 'Barton — what would you advise ? " 
The words came brokenly. 
"If you want the matter settled, sharp, I should say 
place it in the hands of a detective this very night. 
You can tell this story, or not." 
Tremaine looted the other fairly in the face for a 
moment. 
"Barton," he began, in a curiously steady voice, 
"whatever happens, admitting this woman to be Mrs. 
Tremaine, I, her husband, declare her to be above 
the slightest suspicion. Whatever step she may have 
taken can be explained satisfactorily to me, the only 
man to whom she is accountable. You will remember ? " 
There was something very grand and manly in this 
simple defence. Barton felt awed by both face and 
voice. 
They were coming in to the city, and the two men 
parted with a friendly bow. 
CHAPTER m. 
A LINK IN THE CHAIN. 
RALPH TKEMAINE wandered about, aimlessly, 
 Barton's suggestion was repugnant to every sentiment of honor and 
delicacy. His own suspense was torture, but his suffer- 
ing for Dora brought a still keener pang. If this were 
she, by this one inadvertent step, she had placed herself 
in a false position, and he felt inclined to know more of 
it,before it was bruited abroad to the world. What he 
had said to Barton concerning her was the simplest 
truth. He felt sure that she could explain the matter 
satisfactorily, in the first five minutes they were together. 
But when and how should he see her. 
It was true that the little discrepancies kept haunting 
him. Had she intended to go to the city, or not? and 
then, who could have sent the note? There was, evi- 
dently, some secret, but that she had taken any wrong 
step, he refused utterly to believe. She might be willful 
and tormenting, she might tease him by refusing to an- 
swer questions, but he had never known her to tell a 
deliberate untruth. In fact, sometimes, he had thought 
her too frank, for honest. And surely if ever a woman 
loved, she had that morning. 
Therewith dismay he remembered her agitation, her 
terror at the possibility of some untoward event. She 
had even vaguely hinted at a separation, but she cer- 
tainly would have been a sufferer in such an event. 
Why, the mystery was maddening ! his brain whirled in 
helpless chaos. He knew not what step to take. 
It ended at last by his going to a hotel, as the city 
clocks told the hour of midnight. He used to do this 
in his bachelor dajs, when he was very busy and com- 
pelled to stay late. He gave a faint, wan smile at the 
remembrance, for it- seemed years ago, and yet it would 
be only two years, in August^since he had married Dora 
Verner. 
A rather peculiar marriage, to be sure. He had known 
Gilbert Verner many years, a sort of crabbed, dog- 
matic old fellow, but learned in many ways, and when 
he chose, a very agreeable companion. Some curious 
tie linked the two men together. He knew a niece came 
to live with him, adopted daughter, really , for he made 
the name of Verner legally her own. "The child of a 
sister who is dead," was all the explanation ever vouch- 
safed. In those days Ralph Tremaine was suffering 
from a hard blow of fate, and all women and girls were 
to him like shadows. 
How he had first come to take an interest in Dora 
Verner, he hardly remembered. Gilbert Verner was ill 
a long while, worse and better by turns, and no one 
could comfort him like Ralph Tremaine. So he had 
fallen into the habit of watching her, and being amused 
by her very indifference. If she had tried to attract 
him, he would have been wary enough, for he professed 
to have lost faith in the sex. 
One night Gilbert Verner thought himself dying. 
He gave Tremaine some instructions, making him 
Dora's guardian, and his executor, and then he bewailed 
the fact of having to leave her friendless. Where 
would she find a home? 
"If you were. only married, Tremaine." 
"Why should I not be? I can amply afTord it. If you 
will give me Dora — if she will many me!" 
He was very much astonished at himself, and not 
quite satisfied, perhaps, to have Mr. Verner accept the 
ofTer so readily. It came about without any trouble- 
some wooing, and a month afterwards, he was really 
glad to marry her. 
She had said — "I will not pretend that I am desper- 
ately in love with you, Mr. Tremaine, for that you 
would not believe of me, unless I were a forward, silly 
girl, but I do admire and esteem you highly. I think 
a woman might be very happ}* with you. And since I 
love no other person, my lesson msky not be a difficult 
one to learn." 
She looked so absolutely bewitching as she uttered 
this, that he fell in love with her, then and there, and 
resolved that, in time, she should love him. He would 
be patient, tender and fond. He would make her' life 
bright and enjoyable. 
Truth to tell, it had not been very charming, hitherto. 
Uncle Gilbert had proved kind, in one way, but he was 
t} T rannical and full of whims. True, the cheerful home 
was a. great improvement on her former life, but when 
she looked her future in the face, and found that it was 
a choice between marrying Ralph Tremaine, or being 
turned adrift, again, friendless and penniless, for Uncle 
Gilbert did not scruple to threaten, she decided upon 
the pleasant, comfortable life. And she did like Mr.' 
Tremaine. If she had not, no earthly consideration 
would have induced her to take such a step. He was 
so good and kind, his patience was unwearying, his 
generosity fine and pure ; a, trusty friend, a loyal lover. 
She had made one condition with her uncle. He 
rallied a little, before her marriage, indeed lived some 
months after, but on his death bed confessed that it 
had not been observed. 
"It is perfect folly, girl, a mad, wild step now. Do 
not take it. What difference can it make ? The past 
is past." 
That look of reproach and pain, was the last thing 
the dying man saw in Dora's eyes. 
He left her all he had — no great sum, about twelve 
thousand dollars. This she insisted upon her husband's 
taking, and utterly refused any separate settlements. — 
Some day, she promised herself that she would confess 
her secret to him, but, thus far, she had not. 
Her life had been very happy. She was just of an 
age, when circumstances tend so much toward the de- 
