Dr. Kinnard vetoed the plan at once. "If it is for a 
larger salary, Dudley," he said in his straightforward 
way, "half a dozen of the present subscriptions shall be 
increased." 
" No, it is not that. Do not suspect me of such merce 
nary motives, nry dear friend." 
"Then, Dudley," for the doctor could keep silence no 
longer, " my advice to you is, to go on with the rectory, 
and marry a nice pleasant girl, who will just fit into the 
niche of a clergyman's wife, and proceed with your work 
here. I think you can do both." 
Arthur Dudley colored vividly. 
 
He went over to consult Mr. Endicott. Daisy sat in a 
corner of the study, crocheting a little tippet for some 
of her parish poor. 
" No, don't go," Mr. Dudley said with a gesture of 
the hand. " You may be able to help us to a decision." 
She resumed her seat and her work, and listened. 
What came over her ? A kind of dismay at first, then a 
quick sense of loss and loneliness. "Was he more than 
a friend to her ? 
Dinner was announced before they were through. 
Daisy rose with averted face, and tried to compose her 
tumultuous feelings. Mr. Dudley had been reading his 
friend's letter descriptive of the place and the work. 
Mr. Endicott had said, " It may be your duty to go." 
She understood presently how it was with her. The 
hazy pleasantness cleared up sharp and distinct. With 
Mr. Van Alstyne it had been a dazzling glimpse of pos 
sible love, fervent, delicious, but comprehending nothing 
beyond, a supremely selfish delight. And this was so 
different. Yes, she would like to enter into this man's 
life, the loving, sympathizing, keeping his home pretty 
and neat and cheerful, as mamma had done in her 
sphere, reading and talking to him, taking part in that 
wider work, the whole world. Every thing would be 
rnado more sacred and beautiful l>y sharing it with him. 
A sense of soul-life revealed and brought close, an awak 
ening to a great richness, a consciousness that thrilled, 
but wavered not, that here might be her abiding-place. 
Might be ! Ah, what if it was too late ? 
If he had taken her at her word ; for in this friendly 
demeanor of the last year she could not> recall one lover- 
like look or act, one tone warmer than the clear good 
Christian fellowship. They had ridden and walked to 
gether : there had been opportunities 
Like a swift rushing tide it came over her. Whether 
he went or staid, no matter what his duty or condition, 
she would be shut out : she had shut herself out. 
She seemed to draw long breaths in an unillumined 
polar solitude. She was hurt and chilled ; and yet it had 
been her own sad mistake. Would God give her the 
grace to live out of this, and ever be calmly happj" again ? 
She helped about clearing away the dinner-dishes. 
She could not go back to the study again : it would seem 
strange to sit in her own room alone. If she had an 
errand to Fan's, or to Mrs. Fairlie's. But no: she could 
not talk on pleasant indifferent subjects. Then some one 
came for papa, an urgent summons. 
" Don't go yet, Dudley. I want you to look over that 
new commentary. Come in, Daisy, and keep him com 
pany while I am gone. Let me see where did I lay my 
gloves? " 
Daisy knew, and brought them. He stooped to kiss her 
cheek, then gave her an almost startled look. 
" Why, childie, are you not paler than usual? " 
She was brilliant then ; and the^y both laughed a little, 
he blaming his old eyes. Then she took her seat in the 
corner, and went on with her work. Mr. Dudley turned 
the leaves of the book. The fire in the grate sent out a 
ruddy glow ; and some pale yellow bars of sunshine lay on 
the floor. Neither of them could begin a conversation : 
so the ticking of the clock alone broke the silence. 
Arthur Dudley was thinking it over. He knew now 
that he should never care to many any woman save Daisy 
Enclicott. /Love and marriage were sacraments to him, 
not to be profaned by the mere sense of usefulness. A 
housekeeper or cook could be hired : a tolerably cheerful 
home could be made with books, pictures, easj'-chairs, and 
glowing fires. If he could not have her, he would have 
the other ; but no woman should mar it for him, under 
the mistaken idea that she was lending it a glory. If he 
could not have her well, then it would be best to go 
He rose, and crossed over to her corner. As well 
decide the matter now as to let it hang for days in tor 
menting alternations. 
"Miss Knclicott," he began (for although, in their 
household relations, these girls had boon used to various 
diminutives, for the world they hedged themselves about 
with that air of fine breeding which did not allow undue 
familiarity) , "Miss Endicott, you have expressed no 
opinion yet. Ought I to go, or staj'? " 
She did not raise her ej'es, and even her breath seemed 
to become entangled with that flutter in her throat. Over 
her face and neck stole a wavering pink ; and her fingers 
trembled visibly. Perhaps the most cruel impulse of his 
whole life was to prolong the moment, and read those 
delicious signs of agitation that could hardly be wrongly 
translated. 
He placed his hand over the fingers, gathering them up, 
cold and trembling as they were. 
" If I stay', Dais*, I must ask again for the boon I was 
once denied. If you can, love me with your whole heart : 
but do not answer out of pity, or any sentiment less 
strong than my love for you." 
She did not stir, nor offer to raise her drooping head, 
not even withdraw her hand from that close, warm pres 
sure. Oh ! had he failed again ? He stooped a little, brought 
his face nearer hers : she felt his breath on her cheek. 
"Oh!" she cried, with sudden, eager trcmulousness. 
" I ought not answer you until I have told you something. 
Then, if you still care " 
She had loved another, .then. 
" Yes, let me tell you." She raised her blushing face 
now, with the tears shining in her proud, honest eyes. 
" Yes, tell me," he repeated, sitting down beside her. 
Had she been less morally brave, she could not have 
confessed her stor\* in such a straightforward manner. It 
was very simple, after all, her girlish mistake, her 
socrec', the one kiss upon her hand. 
 
" And I have come to see now how wild such a thing 
would have been for me. Only a few months of bliss, 
and a whole long lifetime of neglect or indifference. I 
don't know whether it is jealousy or not; but I should 
want the whole heart of the man I many, and I would 
strive, oh, so earnestly ! to cherish and return the fullest 
regard." 
"It is not very much," with a satisfied smile, "yet, 
Daisy, I am thankful that it has been so little. Some 
how I think I should not want the love of a woman who 
had been tr}*ing every one within her reach, as some 
women do. And now will you answer my question? " 
" If I will be your wife? Gladly," with a bright, quiv 
ering blush. " And I will tiy to make you so happy ! I 
have been studying mamma ;" and there she paused, con 
fused by her own naive confession. 
" No, the other question." 
She looked up puzzled, then, taking in the whole ex 
pression of his face, bent hers lower, until it almost hid 
itself on his breast. 
" If I love you," she answered in a soft, trembling whis 
per. " I think I have loved you a long while ; though I 
never realized quite what it was until to-day." 
lie raised the sweet face, and kissed it many times, 
with a kind of exulting consciousness that he had put in 
a pre-emption claim with the first kiss of so long ago. 
Papa Euclicott sighed a little ; and yet he welcomed his 
new son-in-law cordially. 
"I think she will make a good clergyman's wife," he 
said. 
So they settled that the rectory should go on. There 
would be work enough in Edgerly ; and being near Nelly 
added to the pleasure of it. 
Arthur Dudley returned home a very happy man. At 
the station, he saw the Gale's box-wagon and the man. 
"Are you going right out home?" he asked. 
" Yes," answered the man. " Can I give you a lift?" 
" As far as Dr. Kinnard's, if you please." 
u All right. Jump in." 
For lie could not rest, until he had told Barton Kinnard 
that the closest human tie possible between them was 
henceforth to make them brothers. 
CHAPTER XXII. 
" That all of good the past hath had 
Eemains to make our own time glad, 
Our common daily life divine, 
And every land a Palestine. 
Through the harsh noises of our day 
A low, sweet prelude finds its way: 
Through clouds of doubt, and creeds of fear, 
The light is breaking calm and clear." J. G. WHITTIER. 
"WE often think the story ends with a marriage. It 
seemed to me, that, when Fan and I were married, the 
whole world was swept up clean and clear, and had noth 
ing to do but fold its hands in its silk-aproned lap, and 
rest. I was so childishly happy. It seemed as if there 
never could be a great event in the world again, hardly a 
lover beside Fan's and mine. 
"I suppose I narrowed the great events, because I 
thought they were done happening to me. But, before the 
baby came, I had found out my mistake. I daresay many 
of us have a brief season when we think we are the very 
centre, and the worlds not lighted by us are hardly lighted 
at all. 
" Then Nelly married Dr. Kinnard. I did not dread 
so much him or the children, as his mother, and the first 
Mrs. Kinnard's sister. I think, now, it must have been 
very hard ; the}" had ruled the house so long, and he was 
so accustomed to their rule. Then, too, he was peculiar 
in many things. 
' ' She had worked some wonders before our first visit to 
 
her home, which, though old-fashioned, was really very 
lovely. Dr. Kinnard treated her in an indulgent, fatherly 
manner, as if she were a pet or plaything. I wondered 
if she would ever get into the very middle and heart of 
his life, as I was in Stephen's. If she ever felt free to 
talk and laugh over trifles, or confess any little perplexity, 
or even badness ; for wrong thoughts and tempers will 
intrude occasionally. I could see there would be trouble 
about the children. It seemed to me no one in Dr. 
Kinnard' s household really loved children, not even him 
self. They were to be endured, to be made to behave 
properly, and kept out of the way as much as possible. 
The little boy had gone to school, sorely against his 
aunt's will ; and Nelly tried to humanize him a little. 
But his grandmother fretted ; his aunt sneered and cav 
illed at nearly every thing he did ; and his father was 
often annoyed by his blundering. 
" ' No one realty wants her to love the children,' said 
Stephen to me. - It is bad for her too. Unless Nelly 
is a very exceptional woman, her heart will be centred 
in her own ; and they, poor things, will be worse than 
orphaned. I can't help feeling sorry for them, though 
they are not lovable in themselves.' 
'"Nell}* must change very much,' I answered deci 
sively, ' before she can make an unjust or even indifferent 
stepmother. She will do her very best.' 
" ' Circumstances are so much against her.' 
" I used to think of her often. Her letters were bright 
and cheery : she had taken up some pleasant church- 
relations. I liked the clergyman, Mr. Dudley, so much. 
He was so clear and staunch in his faith. Dr. Kinnard 
used to argue with him in a kind of half- whimsical, half- 
in-earnj'st way, and bring up bits of science that seemed 
overwhelming ; but they never confused, or appeared to 
trouble him. When the conversation was brisk and 
animating, I used to think of the old dialogues Louis was 
 
so fond of reading. Here was the modern Christian and 
the ancient philosopher. 
" I had a great deal of interest in my own home. True, 
Stephen did not bring his business to me ; but there were 
mairy subjects besides, and I always had Louis. He was 
superintendent of a mission Sunday school. He asked 
two or three of the boys to call around in the evening ; 
and, after a while, we came to have quite a reading-club in 
the nice warm kitchen. He supplied them with books 
and papers ; and I always used to bring out a plate of 
sandwiches, and another of cake, old-fashioned cookies 
and queencake, real Dutch crullers and doughnuts. It 
was such a pleasure to see them eat ! One night Louis 
asked two of the bo}^ to wash their hands, and took them 
to the sink. After that, their hands and faces fairly 
shone. Then, as occasion offered, he and Stephen used 
to get situations for them. 
" Then Mrs. Whitcoinb had an opportunity to go abroad 
with a very lovely woman, who possessed an abundance 
of means, but who was an incurable invalid. She was 
so well fitted for the post ; and then* too, it would be such 
a delightful thing to see all Europe, or even a part of it. 
Mrs. Ra*mond had already spent five years there. 
"'Yon would like to go?' Stephen said to me. I 
know my eyes were shining with anticipation for her. 
" ' Oh, how delightful it would be ! ' 
" ' Wiry couldn't we go, Stephen?' said Louis. 'Not 
jnst now : I would rather wait until I am in orders. 
You will want a rest from business some time ; and, when 
the baby is older ' 
" 'Yes,' answered Stephen, rather absently I thought. 
" I wondered if he did not care to go. He had been 
over the British Isles, to Germany, and Paris. Perhaps 
but I should never tease him. I could be very happy 
without Europe, when I had so much. 
" Mrs. Whitcomb's leaving gave me a little more care. 
 
I was really housekeeper then, planning meals, looking 
after bed-linen and napen*, counting the sih-er, and 
seeing that my best china was not kept around for every 
day uses. Then there were visits, too, from all the folks. 
I did use to enjo}" Fan when she came to shop. We used 
to talk about all Wachusett ; and now we took in Edgeiiy. 
Ah, how happy we all were ! Only now and then I used 
to say, ' Poor Nelly ! ' thinking of aunts and grand 
mothers, and stepchildren who almost broke their backs, 
and had to be nursed for months and months. No own 
mother could have been more devoted than Nelly was. 
Daisy used to tell over bits of her care and kindliness. 
' And it is odd,' she would sa}*, ' but I do believe Nelly 
is teaching Dr. Kinnard to love his own children.' 
" Fancy any one teaching Stephen to love our little 
boy ! But, then, he was so rarely beautiful and cunning ! 
" I like to linger over these days. It is a bit of fairy- 
lifc ; and jet there was not much real grandeur in it, 
a plain, three-story brick house, just around from a fash 
ionable avenue, pretty, but not extravagantly furnished. 
It seemed quite a palace to me when I was first married ; 
but Stephen had friends living in so much greater style, 
that I soon began to feel very modest. 
" I used to think, if we could only keep a horse and car 
riage, I would not ask to live any more elegantly, but for 
Stephen to have a little more leisure, and the carriage at 
our command. Not that I suffered much in this respect. 
Louis used to take baby and me out pleasant afternoons. 
The income of his part amply sufficed for a few indul 
gences of this kind ; and then he never cared to go alone. 
It was having a kind and tender brother to anticipate 
every want. 
" We did not see so much of Stuart. He was in a large 
mercantile house, and doing considerable travelling, as he 
expected, in a year or two more, to have a share in the 
business. He was considered very promising and bill- 
 
liant ; and young ladies were beginning to be fascinated 
with him. 
" Right in the midst of this came the blow and the 
sorrow. Last week, brightness and laughter ; tiny feet 
pattering up and down ; silvery tones floating through the 
atmosphere with such a glad, sunshiny, tremulous vibra 
tion ; tender kisses at morn ; a little praj-cr at night, a 
blessedness so perfect, that I used sometimes to ask why 
I was singled out for the exceeding great joy. 
" And then an awesome, fearful silence ; a little coffin ; 
flowers whose scent will be indissolubly connected with 
my first-born, if I should live centuries ; and then a 
darkened house ; a sorrow so wordless that I could cnly 
sit in its fearful grasp, holding close and fast to some 
thing, not God, not heaven where he had gone, not 
any comfort or consolation, but a strange phantom, a 
baby that was never out of my heart or arms, who lay 
there still and motionless, who could not answer my kisses 
or my passionate longings. 
" I was quiet a good deal, for Stephen's sake ; but, be 
sides, such an awful terror had fallen upon me, that I did 
not want to speak. Daisy came to stay with me. I was 
so glad for Stephen's sake ! She used to talk to him ; 
and she had such sweet, comforting ways ! I who had 
measured the ache and agony of his soul could not bear 
to touch upon it. 
" What daj's they were ! The common duties of life were 
gone through with. I did not neglect my house, nor my 
church, nor my poor neighbors, in whom I had taken an 
interest heretofore. I used to wish there were more for 
me to do, that every moment could be full, leaving no 
room for listless sorrow. I fancied I fought against it, in 
just enduring passively, in not rebelling. 
" The first thing that roused and interested me was 
Louis's coming ordination. I had meant, all along, to 
make a surplice for him, I was so fond of fine needle- 
 
work and embroidery. He drew patterns for the latter : 
he had such a genius for designs and emblems and win 
dows, and finding the hidden meanings, the types that 
were a soul-substance to our thoughts, that brought us 
somehow nearer to God, the fine-twined linen, the cun 
ning work, the beaten gold, the service for him. And so 
I took it in hand while he sat and talked of examinations, 
of hope, of a diviner life, all the poetry and ideality of his 
nature coming out. I used to wonder, sometimes, if this 
was really the Louis Duncan of years ago. But it was 
not, altogether. The love of God had constrained him to 
better thoughts and purposes. I used to feel now, that, if 
he were not to be a clergj'man, he would be an artist. 
" The time came ; and he took his solemn vows, was set 
apart to sacred uses. Papa and mamma were present ; 
and their cup of joy filled to the brim. " Son Louis," 
father said with tender solemnity ; and he seemed, some 
how, adopted into our family, made one of us. 
" It came to me then it was a foolish thought, I know ; 
but there was Daisy. If Louis could but like her ! She 
would make such a lovely clergyman's wife ! 
" Then Fan planned a grand summering at the White 
Mountains, not hotel life, with its set routine, but the 
grand freedom of house-keeping on a farm. Mr. Ogden 
knew of a house the}* could hire. The Kinnards were to 
join ; and if we would come ! 
" ' I wish you would, Rose ! ' said Stephen with much 
solicitude in his tones. ' You need a change. And I 
think I shall have to go to Chicago presently for two 
weeks or so. Louis might stay all the time.' 
' ' Louis looked at me questioningh r . 
" ' No,' I answered : ' I don't want to go. They will 
all be gay and happj', and I want quiet.' 
" That night he asked me if I would go to Europe. 
He might get off by August, he thought ; and we could 
have six months. 
" ' No,' I returned, not even tempted by that. Aftei*- 
ward I was so glad I had not caught at the relief. 
"There was another plan presently. Papa was going 
with the party. His parish would pay expenses, and find 
a substitute while he was gone. Would not Louis like 
to come, and Stephen and I? Daisy was to stay to keep 
house. 
" ' Oh, it would be delightful ! ' exclaimed Louis. ' A 
whole summer spent there ! Eose, we might live over 
what was good in the old times.' 
" Stephen studied me then with some anxiety. 
" ' Yes/ I returned: ' I do believe I would like that. 
Only, can you come, Stephen ? ' 
" ' I will try my best. Yes, I shall be there a good 
deal.' 
" So it came to pass that we went home for the summer. 
Not until after the rest had all gone : I did not feel as if 
I could bear the bustle of getting off, and the good-bys. 
"We came in and took possession. I in the guest- 
chamber, because it was large and airy ; and I knew, too, 
that Louis would rather have some other one. There 
were only Daisy and Gertrude left. So we took up a 
quiet house-keeping. The Churchill carriage was placed 
at our convenience. 
" After a fortnight Stephen started for Chicago. Busi 
ness was in a perplexing state ; and, instead of two weeks, 
he was detained six ; and then he had to go farther West. 
Altogether, it was two months before he reached home ; 
and then he could only make a flying visit with us. Of 
course, I could not go back with him, and leave the girls. 
" Was I happy that summer? Looking back, I can 
hardly answer, either way. It was a kind of languid 
content. Louis was so good and watchful. He would 
never allo\v me to tire myself out going around with 
Daisy ; he drove me out often ; he read to me, talked to 
me, sat through the twilight evenings with me, and, some- 
how, I came to be strangely comforted. I gave up my 
project for him and Daisy. She was too practical : she 
was a curious mixture of frankness and indifference ; 
sunny, but not enkindling. He needed a different nature ; 
and I doubted much whether she would be strongly 
attracted towards him. 
" So we drifted on very pleasantly. They all returned 
home at length, with Queenie's brave lover. "We had con 
sidered Fan a most fortunate girl ; but this would distance 
her complete]y. The Mallorys were old friends of the 
Duncan family : Stephen and I had met them incidentally. 
Mrs. Mallory was 'such a charming old lady ! I always 
thought she was like the solitaire diamonds she wore, 
bright, sparkling, the very finest of their kind, but not too 
much in any way. She never tired you. When she was 
going out of the room, yon wished she could stay ten min 
utes longer : when she ceased talking, you wanted to ask 
her two or three more questions. She appeared fond of 
marnma ; but she perfectly adored papa and Bessie. 
' ' I moved about them quietly. They had all distanced 
me. I was not jealous. Nelly was so happy, so handsome 
too. Fan always had her cup running over. No sorrow 
for any of them. I was glad with a pure, unalloyed glad 
ness ; but I hugged my own sorrow to my heart. 
" ' You are still fretting, Rose,' Stephen said, his brows 
drawn a little, as if somehow it displeased him. 
" ' No, I am not fretting,' I made answer almost cold 
ly. ' I have been quite quite happy.' I had meant to 
say content ; but I altered it to please him. 
" ' You don't look bright : yon are thin and pale.' 
" ' As if I could ever be bright again ! ' 
" I was sorry the moment I had uttered it. Stephen 
turned and walked away. What had come to him of late? 
" Louis found me afterward, crying, and comforted me. 
"I did not realize any of these things then. I was self 
ishly wrapped in my own grief. So long as I was not 
 
obtrusive, I thought I had a right to it. And the almost 
womanly Sympathy of Louis confirmed, instead of rous 
ing, me. Stephen appeared a good deal pro-occupied. 
" Then we made ready, and went back to the city. Bus 
iness seemed urgent and perplexing. Some evenings, 
Stephen did not get home until late ; and then he was 
tired. We had so few of those sweet little matrimonial 
privacies, that, though foolish, are very endearing between 
husband and wife, and, after all, are never meant for the 
world. I did not bother him about any thing, because I 
wanted him to rest while he was in the house ; and then 
I always had Louis. He had taken an assistantship in 
a church not far distant. I used to go to morning and 
evening praj-ers ; and yet it was not like the religion of 
my girlhood. 
" But I had not come to troubles then. 
" Was I growing any better or happier? Life seemed so 
dreary, I wanted to be away and at rest. I only thought 
of heaven, in those days, as a place of brooding bliss, 
where one might wander dreamily by the river-side, and 
pluck healing fruits to strengthen and refresh their souls 
as nothing on this earth could help them to do. I was 
calm and placid : it was not my nature to be fretful. 
" One night after we had gone to our room, Stephen sat 
down on the edge of the bed. He had been home all the 
evening, and very quiet. Louis had been explaining to 
me a guild association, that was to be in working-order 
another summer to look after sick children and weary 
mothers, and take them out of the city now and then. 
My heart had melted over the thought of the poor, wan, 
poverty-stricken babies. I was planning what I would do 
to help as I brushed out my hair. I never wore any curls 
now : they seemed sacred to baby-fingers, laid away as 
his little clothes were. 
" ' Rose,' Stephen said, ' will you come here a few 
moments? ' 
'" There was a strained, hollow sound in his voice, that 
gave me a shiver. I went and stood by him wonderingly. 
Was he going to be ill ? 
" He twined his arms about my neck, drawing me down 
beside him, and kissed me with a strange solemnity. 
" ' Rose, how much do you love me? ' 
" It is curious how the pathetic and the ridiculous things 
in life jostle one another. I could have quoted Shak- 
speare with a laugh : ' There's beggary in love that can be 
reckoned.' 
" ' Rose, my darling, is it enough to help you bear a 
great misfortune ? ' 
" ' What? ' I asked in surprise. 
