invisible wreck that would snatch the hull timbers 
from under her if she should strike it, and destroy 
a quarter of a million dollars' worth of steamboat 
and cargo in hve minutes, and maybe a hundred 
and lifty human lives into the bargain. 
The last remark I heard that night was a com- 
pliment to Mr. B , uttered in soliloquy and with 
unction by one of our guests. He said : — 
" By the Shadow of Death, but he's a lightning 
pilot.
CHAPTER III. 
THE CONTINUED PERPLEXITIES OF CUB" 
PILOTING. 
At the end of what seemed a tedious while, I had 
managed to pack my head full of islands, towns, 
bars, "points," and bends; and a curiously inani- 
mate mass of lumber it was, too. However, inas- 
much as I could shut my eyes and reel off a good 
long string of these names without leaving out 
more than ten miles of river in every fifty, I began 
to feel that I could take a boat down to New Or- 
leans if I could make her skip those little gaps. 
But of course my complacency could hardly get 
start enough to lift my nose a trifle into the air, 
before Mr. B would think of something to 
fetch it down again. One day he turned on me 
suddenly with this settler : 
" What is the shape of Walnut Bend ? " 
He might as well have asked me my grand- 
mother's opinion of protoplasm, I reflected respect- 
fully, and then said I didn't know it had any particular shape.
My gunpowdery chief went off with 
a bang, of course, and then went on loading and 
firing until he was out of adjectives. 
I had learned long ago that he only carried just 
so many rounds of ammunition, and was sure to 
subside into a very placable and even remorseful 
old smooth-bore as soon as they were all gone. 
That word " old " is merely affectionate ; he was 
not more than thirty-four. I waited. By and by 
he said, — 
" My boy, you've got to know the shape of the 
river perfectly. It is all there is left to steer by on 
a very dark night. Everything else is blotted out 
and gone. But mind you, it has'nt the same shape 
in the night that it has in the day-time." 
" How on earth am I ever going to learn it, 
then ? " 
" How do you follow a hall at home in the dark ? 
Because you know the shape of it. You can't see 
it." 
" Do you mean to say that I've got to know all 
the million trifling variations of shape in the banks 
of this interminable river as well as I know the 
shape of the front hall at home ? " 
" On my honor you 've got to know them better 
than any man ever did know the shapes of the 
halls in his own house." 
" I wish I was dead ! " 
" Now I don't want to discourage you, but " — 
" Well, pile it on me ; I might as well have it 
DOW as another time." 
" You see, this has got to be learned ; there isn't 
any getting around it. A clear starlight night 
throws such heavy shadows that if you didn't know 
the shape of a shore perfectly you would claw away 
from every bunch of timber, because you would 
take the black shadow of it for a solid cape ; and 
you see you would be getting scared to death every 
fifteen minutes by the watch. You would be fifty 
yards from shore all the time when you ought to be 
within twenty feet of it. You can't see a snag in 
one of those shadows, but you know exactly where 
it is, and the shape of the river tells you when you 
are coming to it. Then there's your pitch dark 
night ; the river is a very different shape on a pitch 
dark night from what it is on a starlight night. All 
shores seem to be straight lines, then, and mighty 
dim ones, too ; and you d run them for straight 
lines, only you know better. You boldly drive your 
boat right into what seems to be a solid, straight 
wall (you knowing very well that in reality there 
is a curve there), and that wall falls back and 
makes way for you. Then there's your grey mist. 
You take a night when there's one of these grisly, 
drizzly, grey mists, and then there isn't any parti- 
cular shape to a shore. A gray mist would tangle 
the head of the oldest man that ever lived. Well, 
then, different kinds of moonlight change the shape 
of the river in different ways. You see " — 
" Oh, don't say any more, please ! Have I got to 
Learn the shape of the river according to all these 
five hundred thousand different ways ? If I tried 
to carry all that cargo in my head it would make 
me stoop-shouldered.''
" No ! you only learn the shape of the river ; and 
you learn it with such absolute certainty that you 
can always steer by the shape that's in your headM 
and never mind the one that's before your eyes." 
" Very well, I'll try it ; but after I have learned 
it can I depend on it ? Will it keep the same form 
and not go fooling around ? " 
Before Mr. B could answer, Mr. W came 
in to take the watch, and he said, — 
" B , you'll have to look out for President's 
Island and all that country clear away up above 
the Old Hen and Chickens. The banks are caving 
and the shape of the shores changing like every- 
thing. Why, you would'nt know the point above 
40. You can go up inside the old sycamore snag, 
now."
So that question was answered. Here were 
leagues of shore changing shape. My spirits were 
down in the mud again Two things seemed pretty 
apparent to me. One was, that in order to be a 
pilot a man had got to learn more than any one 
man ought to be allowed to know ; and the other 
was, that he must learn it all over again in a differ- 
ent way every twenty-four hours. 
That night we had the watch until twelve. Now 
It may not be necessary, but still it can do no harm to explain 
that " inside " means between the snag and the shore,
it was an ancient river custom for the two pilots to 
chat a bit when the watch changed. While the 
relieving pilot put on his gloves and lit his cigar, 
his partner, the retiring pilot, would say something 
like this : — 
" I judge the upper bar is making down a little 
at Hale's Point ; had quarter twain with the lower 
lead and mark twain i with the other." 
" Yes, I thought it was making down a little, lant 
trip. Meet any boats ? " 
"Met one abrest the head of 21, but she was 
away over hugging the bar, and I couldn't make 
her out entirely I took her for the Sunny South 
— hadn't any skylights forward of the chimneys." 
And so on. And as the relieving pilot took the 
wheel his partner would mention that we were in 
such-and-such a bend, and say we were abreast of 
viuch-and-such a man's wood-yard or plantation. 
This was courtesy ; I supposed it was necessity. 
But Mr. W came on watch : all twelve minutes 
late, on this particular night — a tremendous breach 
of etiquette ; in fact, it is the unpardonable sin 
among pilots. So Mr. B gave him no greeting 
whatever, but simply surrendered the wheel and 
marched out of the pilot-house without a word. I 
was appalled ; it was a villainous night for black- 
ness, we were in a particular wide and blind part 
1 Two fathoms. Quarter twain is 2 fathoms, 13 feet, 
three is three fathoms. 
2 '' Partner" is technical for '' the other pilot." 
of the river, where there was no shape or substance 
to anything, and it seemed incredible that Mr. h — 
should have left that i)oor fellow to kill the boat 
trying to find out where he was. But I resolved 
that I would stand by him any way. He should 
find that he was not wholly friendless. So I stood 
around, and waited to be asked where we were. 
But Mr. W plunged on serenely through the 
solid firmament of black cats that stood for an at- 
mosphere, and never opened his mouth. Here is a 
proud devil, thought I ; here is a limb of Satan that 
would rather send us all to destruction than put 
himself under obligations to me, because I am not 
yet one of the salt of the earth and privileged to 
snub captains and lord it over everything dead and 
alive in a steamboat. I presently climbed up on 
the bench ; I did not think it was safe to go to 
sleep while this lunatic was on watch. 
However, I must have gone to sleep in the course 
of time, because the next thing I was aware of was 
the fact that day was breaking, Mr. W gone, and 
Mr. B at the wheel again. So it was four o'clock 
and all well — but me; I felt like a skinful of dry 
bones and all of them trying to ache at once. 
Mr. B asked me what I had stayed up there for. 
I confessed that it was to do Mr. W a benevo- 
lence ; tell him where he was. It took five minutes 
for the entire prepostero sness of the thing to filter 
into Mr. B 's system, and then I judge it filled 
him nearly up to the chin; because he paid me a 
compliment — and not much of one either. He 
said, — 
" Well, taking you by-and-large, you do seenr to 
be more different kinds of an ass than any creature 
I ever saw before. What did you suppose he want- 
ed to know for ?" 
I said I thought it might be a convenience to him. 
" Convenience ! Dash ! Didn't I tell you that a 
man's got to know the river in the night the same 
as he'd know his own front hall ? " 
" Well, I can follow the front hall in the dark if 
I know it is the front hall ; but suppose you set me 
down in the middle of it in the dark and not tell 
me which hall it is ; how am  to know ? " 
" Well you've got to, on the river I " 
" All right. Then I'm glad I never said anything 
to Mr. W ." 
" I should say so. Why, he'd have slammed you 
through the window and utterly ruined a hundred 
dollars' worth of window-sash and stuff." 
I was glad this damage had been saved, for it 
would have made me unpopular with the owners. 
They always hated anybody who had the name of 
being careless, and injuring things. 
I went to work, now, to learn the shape of the 
river ; and of all the eluding and ungraspable ob- 
jects that ever I tried to get mind or hands on, that 
was the chief I would fasten my eyes upon a sharp 
wooded point that projected far into the river some 
li 's ahead of me, and go to laboriously photographing 
its shape upon my brain ; and just as I was be- 
ginning to succeed to my satisfaction, we would 
draw up toward it and the exasperating thing would 
begin to melt away and fold back into the bank ! 
If there had been a conspicuous dead tree standing 
upon the very point of the cape, I would find that 
tree inconspicuously merged into the general forest, 
and occupying the middle of a straight shore, when 
I got abreast of it. No prominent hill would stick 
to its shape long enough for me to make up my mind 
what its form really was, but it was as dissolving 
and changeful as if it had been a mountain of butter 
in the hottest corner of the tropics. Nothing ever 
had the same shape when I was coming down stream 
that it had borne when I went up. I mentioned 
these little difficulties to Mr. B . He said, — 
" That's the very main virtue of the thing. If 
the shapes didn't change every three seconds they 
wouldn't be of any use. Take this place where we 
are now, for instance. As long as that hill over 
yonder is only one hill, I can boom right along the 
way I'm going, but the moment it splits at the top 
and forms a V, I know I've got to scratch to star- 
board in a hurry, or I'll bang this boat's brains out 
asfainst a rock: and then the moment one of the 
prongs of the V swings behind the other, I've got to 
waltz to larboard again, or I'll have a misunder- 
standing with a snag that would snatch the keelson 
out of this steamboat as neatly as if it were a silver 
in your hand. If that hill didn't change its shape 
on bad nights there would bean awful steamboa\) 
grave-yard around here inside of a jear." 
It was plain that I had got to learn the shape of 
the river in all the different ways that could be 
thought of, — upside down, wrong end first, inside 
out, fore-and-aft, and " thortships," — and then know 
what to do on gray nights when it had'nt any shape 
at all. So I set about it. In the coui-se of time I 
began to get the best of this knotty lesson, and 
my self-complacency moved to the front once more. 
Mr. B was all fixed, and ready to start it to the 
rear again. He opened on me after this fashion : — 
"How much water did we have in the middle 
crossing at Hole-in-the-Wall, trip before last ? " 
I considered this an outrage. I said : 
" Every trip, down and up, the leadsmen are sing- 
ing through that tangled place for three quarters of 
an hour on a stretch. How do you reckon I can 
remember such a mess as that ? " 
" My boy, you've got to remember it. You've got 
to remember the exact spot and the exact marks the 
boat lay in when we had the shoalest water, in 
every one of the two thousand shoal places between 
St. Louis and New Orleans ; and you musn't get the 
shoal soundings and marks of one trip mixed up 
with the shoal soundings and marks of another, 
either, for they're not often twice alike. You must 
keep them separate." 
When I came to myself again, I said, — 
" When I get so that I can do that, I'll be able to 
raise the dead, and then I won't have to pilot a steam- 
boat in order to make a living. I want to retire 
from this business. I want a slush-bucket and a 
brush ; I'm only fit for a roustabout. I haven't got 
brains enough to be a pilot ; and if I had I wouldn't 
liave stxcngth enough to carry them around, unless 
I went on crutches." 
" Now drop that ! When I say I'll learn* a man 
the river I mean it. And you can depend on it I'll 
learn him or kill him." 
There was no use in arguing with a person like 
this. I promptly put such a strain on my memory 
that by and by even the shoal water and the countless 
crossing marks began to stay with me. But the result 
V as just the same. I never could more than get one 
knotty thing learned before another presented itself. 
Now I had often seen pilots gazing at the water and 
pretending to read it as if it were a book ; but it 
was a book that told me nothing. A time came at 
last, however, when Mr, B seemed to think me 
far enough advanced to bear a lesson on water-read- 
ing. So he began : — 
" Do you see that long slanting line on the face £ 
the water ? Now that's a reef. Moreover, it's a bluff 
reef. There is a solid sand-bar under it that is nearly 
as straight up and down as the side of a house. 
There is plenty of water close up to it, but mighty 
little on top of it. If you were to hit it you would 
knock the boat's brains out. Do you see w're the 
line fringes out at the upper end and begins to fade 
away ? " 
" Yes, sir." 
" Well, that is a low place ; that is the head of the 
reef You can climb over there, and not hurt any- 
thing. Cross over, now, and follow along close under 
the reef — easy water there — not much current." 
I followed the reef along till I approached the 
fringed end. Then Mr. B said, — 
" Now get I'eady. Wait till I give the word. 
She won't want to mount the reef; a boat hates 
shoal water. Stand by — wait — wait — keep her well 
in hand. Now cramp her down ! Snatch her! snatch 
her ! " 
He seized the other side of the wheel and helped 
to spin it around until it was hard down, and then 
we held it so. The boat resisted and refused to 
answer for a while, and she next came surging to 
starboard, mounted the reef, and sent a long, angry 
ridge of water foaming away from her bows. 
" Now watch her ; watch her like a cat, or she 'll 
get away from you. When she fights strong and 
the tiller slips a little, in a jerky, greasy sort of 
way, let up on her a trifle ; it is the way she tejls 
you at night that the water is too shoal ; but keep 
edging her up, little by little toward the point. 
You are well up on the bar, now ; there is a bar 
under every point, because the water that comes 
down around it forms an eddy and allows the sedi- 
ment to sink. Do you see those fine lines on the 
face of the water that branch out like the ribs of a 
fan ? Well, those are little reefs ; you want to 
just miss the ends of them, but ryn them pretty 
close. Now look out — look out ! Don't you crowd 
that slick, greasy-looking place ; there am't nine 
feet there ; she won't stand it. She begins to 
smell it ; look sharp, I tell you ! Oh blazes, there 
you go ! Stop the starboard wheel ! Quick ! Ship 
up to back ! Set her back ! " 
The engine bells jingled and the engines ans- 
wered promptly, shooting white colu*.. ns of steam 
far aloft out of the scape pipes, but it was too late. 
The boat had " smelt " the bar in good earnest ; 
the foamy ridges that radiated from her bows sud- 
denly disappeared, a great dead swell came rolling 
forward and swept ahead of her, she careened far 
over to larboard, and went tearing away toward 
the other shore as if she were about scared to 
death. We were a good mile from where we ought 
to have been, when we finally got the upper hand 
of her again. 
During the afternoon watch the next day, Mr. 
B asked me if I knew how to run the next few 
miles. I said ; — 
" Go inside the first snag above the point, out- 
side the next one, start out from the lower end of 
Higgins's wood-yard, make a square crossing 
and"— 
" That's all right. I 'll be back before you close 
ap on the next point " 
But he wasn't. He was still below when I 
rounded it and entered upon a piece of river which 
I had some misgivings about. I did not know 
that he was hiding behind a chimney to see how I 
would perform. I went gayly along, getting 
prouder and prouder, for he had never left the boat 
in my sole charge such a length of time before. I 
even got to "setting" her and letting the wheel go, 
entirely, while I vain-gloriously turned my back 
inspected the stern marks and hummed a tune, a 
sort of easy indifference which I had prodigiously 
admired in B and other great pilots. Once I 
inspected rather long, and when I faced to the 
front again my heart flew into my mouth so sud- 
denly that if I hadn't clapped my teeth together I 
would have lost it. One of those frightful bluff 
reefs was stretching its deadly length right across 
our bows : My head was gone in a moment ; I did 
not know which end I stood on ; I gasped and 
could not get my breath ; I spun the wheel down 
with such rapidity that it wove itself together like 
a spider's web ; the boat answered and turned 
square away from the reef, but the reef followed 
her ! I fled, and still it followed — still it kept 
right across my bows ! I never looked to see 
where I was going, I only fled. The awful crash 
was imminent — why didn't that villain come ! If 
I committed the crime of ringing a bell, I might 
get thrown overboard. But better that than kill 
the boat. So in blind desperation I started such a 
rattling " shivaree " clown below as never had 
astounded an engineer in this world before, I fancy. 
Amidst the frenzy of the bells the engines began to 
back and fill in a furious way, and my reason for- 
sook its throne — we were about to crash into the 
woods on the other side of the river. Just then 
Mr. B stepped calmly into view on the huricane 
deck. My soul went out to him in gratitude. My 
distress vanished ; I would have felt safe on the 
brink of Niagara, with Mr. B on the hurricane 
deck. He blandly and sweetly took his tooth-pick 
out of his mouth between his fingers, as if it were 
a cigar, — we were just in the act of climbing an 
overhanging big tree, and the passengers were 
scudding astern like rats, — and lifted up these com- 
mands to me ever so gently : — 
" Stop the starboard. Stop the larboard. Set 
her back on both." 
The boat hesitated, halted, pressed her nose 
among the boughs a critical instant, then reluctant- 
ly began to back away. 
" Stop the larboard. Come ahead on it. Stop 
the starboard. Come ahead on it. Point her for 
the bar." 
I sailed away as serenely as a summer's morn 
ing. Mr. B came in and said, with mock sim- 
plicity,— 
" When" you have a hail, my boy, you ought to 
tap the big bell three timee before you land, so that 
the enginsers can get ready." 
I blushed under the sarcasm, and said I hadn't 
had any hail. 
" Ah ! Then it was for wood,. I suppose. The 
officer of the watch will tell you when he wants to 
wood up." 
I went on consuming, and said I wasn't after 
wood. 
" Indeed ? Why, what could you want over here 
in the bend, then ? Did you ever know of a boat 
following a bend up-stream at this stage of the 
river ? " 
"No, sir, — and  wasn't trying to follow it. I 
was getting away from a bluff reef 
" No, it wasn't a bluff reef ; there isn't one 
within three miles of where you were." 
" But I saw it. It was as bluff as that one 
yonder." 
" Just about. Run over it ! '' 
" Do you give it as an order ? " 
" Yes. Run over it ! " 
" If I don't, I wish I may die." 
" All right ; I am taking the responsibility." 
I was just as anxious to kill the boat, now, as I 
had been to save her before. I impressed my 
orders upon my memory, to be used at the inquest, 
and made a straight break for the reef. As it dis- 
appeared under our bows I held my breath ; but 
we slid over it like oil. 
" Now don't you see the difference ? It wasn't 
anything but a wind reef. The wind does that." 
" So I see. But it is exactly like a bluff reef. 
How am I ever going to tell them apart ? " 
'' I can't tell you. It is an instinct. By and by 
you will just naturally know one from the other, 
but you never will be able to explain why or how 
you know them apart." 
It turned out to be tnie. The face of the water, 
in time became a wonderful book — a book that was 
a dead language to the uneducated passenger, but 
which told its mind to me without reserve, deliver- 
ing its most cherished secrets as clearly as if it ut- 
tered them with a voice. And it was not a book 
to be read once and thrown aside, for it had a new 
story to tell every day. Throughout the long 
twelve hundred miles there was never a page that 
was void of interest, never one that you could leave 
unread without loss, never one that you would 
want to skip, thinking you could find higher en- 
joyment in some other thing. There never was so 
wonderful a book written by man; never one 
whose interest was so absorbing, so unflagging, so 
sparklingly renewed with every re-perusal. The 
passenger who could not read it was charmed with 
a peculiar sort of faint dimple on its surface (on the 
rare occasions when he did not overlook it alto- 
gether) ; but to the pilot that was an italicized 
passage ; indeed, it was more than that, it was a 
legend of the largest capitals with a string of shout- 
ing exclamation points at the end of it ; for it meant 
that a wreck or a rock was buried there that could 
tear the life out of the strongest vessel that ever 
floated. It is the faintest and simplest expression 
the water ever makes, and the most hideous to a 
pilot's eye. In truth, the passenger who could not 
read this book saw nothing but all manner of 
pretty pic f ires in it, painted  y the sun and shaded 
by the clouds, whereas to iLe trained eye these 
were not pictures at all, but the grimmest and most 
dead-earnest of reading-matter. 
Now when I had mastered the langua?" =i of this 
water and had come to know every trifling feature 
that bordered the great river as familiarly as I 
knew the letters of the alphabet, I had made a 
valuable acquisition. But I had lost something, 
too. I had lost something which could never be re- 
stored to me while I lived. All the grace, the 
beauty, the poetry had gone out of the majestic 
river ! I still keep in mind a certain wonderful 
sunset which I witnessed when steamboating was 
