
Hazel paused and took her former position against a tree stem, 
leaning back as if she was tired.

'I should like to leave the whole thing on your hands,' she said,
'and then I could lose myself comfortably in the woods, and when 
everybody was gone you could come and find me. No, that would 
not do, either' She roused herself and walked on. 'There is 
nothing for it to-day but to go straight through. I think people are 
all bewitched and beside themselves!'

He laughed at her a little, and let her go with a consoling assurance 
that they "would soon end all that." And as the day was wearing 
on, and the pleasure of such pleasure-seekers as then filled Wych 
Hazel's woods was especially variety, they were very ready to quit 
the chestnuts and saunter up to the house; in hope of the luncheon 
which there awaited them. Mrs. Bywank knew her business; and 
the guests knew, not that, but the fact that somebody knew it and 
that the luncheons at Chickaree were pleasant times and very 
desirable. So there was soon a universal drawing towards the hill 
top, from all the forsaken chestnut trees, which were left by no 
means despoiled of their harvest. They had served their turn; now 
came the turn of patties and cold meats and jellies and ices and 
fruits. The gathering was rather large; larger than it had shewn for 
in the woods. The Chickaree house was full and running over; and 
chestnutters were found to have fearful appetites; and flirtations 
took new life and vivacity in the new atmosphere; and the whole 
of it was, people would not go away. Not only Wych Hazel but 
both her guardians had sharp work for hour after hour attending to 
the wants and the pleasure of the guests; who at last, when the day 
was waning, and not till then, slowly made up their minds to take 
their departure, and one by one took leave of their hostess with 
thanks and flatteries expressive of highest gratification and 
admiring delight. Party after party Dane saw to their carriages and 
bowed off; the house was emptied at last; Mr. Falkirk had betaken 
himself to the seclusion of his cottage already some time before; 
and when the afternoon was really darkening, enough to make the 
glow of the fires within tell in ruddy cheer upon walls and curtains, 
Dane left the hall door and the latest departure and went into the 
house to find Wych Hazel and get his "notes" paid.


CHAPTER XIV.

THE WORTH OF A FEATHER.


The door of the red room stood open now, and the room was filled 
with firelight which came streaming out into the hall to usher him 
in. Hazel was down before the fire, sending persuasive puffs from 
her bellows into the very depths of the coals.

'What is left of you?' said Dane coming and taking the bellows 
from her hand.

'Much more than you are aware of. Have some chestnuts?just 
for variety,'and Hazel took from her pocket and poured into his 
hand her collection of extra specimens. Then quietly slipping from 
her fingers all the disguising rings she dropped them one by one 
into the empty pocket, until the emerald was left alone.

'Good fruit'said Dane viewing the big chestnuts.

'I have been saving them up for you all day. You know I could not 
always help taking them.'

'Do you mean that people have been paying tribute to you in your 
own chestnuts?'

'Having nothing of their own that I would touch.'

'In the meanwhile, what besides have you touched? I want to 
know.'

'Never mindwe will have tea by and by. Dr. Maryland said you 
were to wait here for himor for a message. Whichever came 
first, I suppose.'

'I am not going to wait here for him,'said Dane, ringing the bell. 
'Will this bring Dingee?'

'No,' said Hazel laughing; 'that will bring Phoebe. Dingee 
acknowledges nothing but my whistle.'

'Where is that?'

'Here'touching the little gold toy at her belt. 'But you do not 
know how to blow it, Mr. Rollo.'

Dane lifted the trinket and examined it, and then remarking that 'a 
whistle is a whistle,' put his lips to it and made the call sound loud 
and clear through the house.

'What do you want?' said Hazel laughing at him. 'Dingee will 
know better than to think me responsible for that. Tell me what 
you want, and I will obey ordersas usual.'

'Dingee will know better than to think anybody else has blown 
your whistle. Dingee!'as the boy appeared,'go and say to Mrs. 
Bywank, with my compliments, that your mistress has had nothing 
to eat all day, except chestnuts. I think she will know what to do.'

Dingee took in the situation and went off with a flourish.

'Did you see John Charteris here to-day?' Hazel said suddenly.

'I think he crossed my line of vision,' said Dane carelessly.

'Well I did not ask him.'

'What then?' said Rollo looking amused at her.

'I did not want you should think that I would.' And Hazel, full of 
her own successful schemes in the mill business, smiled down 
upon the fire a whole sweet fund of triumph and delight, to which 
not only lips but eyes bore witness. Still looking amused, but with 
a great tenderness coming upon that, Rollo considered her.

'It is beyond the power of John Charteris to give me any 
uneasiness,' he said. 'And you are forgetting my emerald, Hazel.' 

'I? What? Forgetting?'

'Forgetting what it means. Hazelwhat is your ideal of a 
wedding?'

Rollo was drawing one of Hazel's brown curls through his fingers 
and spoke in the coolest manner of abstract speculation. But the 
question came too close upon emeralds not to call up a vivid start 
of colour. As soon as she could, Hazel answered that 'as she had 
none, it was impossible to tell.'

'Let me state mine,' said Rollo. 'It may be useful to find out 
whether we think alike. In the first place, then, as to the scene of 
action.The main thing is, to be where a large number of people 
can see us, and where we shall make part of an imposing picture. I 
can think of nothing better, in this country, than the Capitol of 
Washington. That would be showy, and central. I have no doubt it 
could be obtained for the occasion. I cannot think of any place 
more public or more demonstrative; can you?'

'Well?' said Hazel, stifling a laugh, for Dane's face was perfectly 
grave.

'We should of course in that case invite the Senate and House of 
Representatives, and give a cold collation to the city of 
Washington. With your money and mine, we could not well do 
less.'

' "We" is rather superfluous.'

'How so?' very innocently.

'Never mind now; go on.'

'You approve, so far?' enquired Rollo, with dangerous demureness 
in the wise gray eyes.

'O I have nothing to do with the matter,' said Hazel. 'It is your 
imagination that has slipped its bridle, and I am simply curious to 
see where it will bring up.'

'I don't know myself,' said Rollo. 'I am trying to fancy what the 
presents will be. Of course, since we ask the Senate and House of 
Representatives to the wedding, every man of them will send you a 
piece of plate; probably the majority of them will be teakettles. As 
I do not drink tea, it hardly concerns me much; but they will be 
very convenient for you. The arrangement of them for inspection is 
a matter of some difficulty;I would suggest a pyramidal 
scaffolding on which they might be all disposed with very striking 
effect; indeed if it were done cleverly I conceive it might be 
possible to give the impression of a solid pyramid of teakettles; 
which would be imposing. The Hall of Representatives would be a 
good place, I should think; allowing of an effective display of the 
bronze statuettes which will probably accompany the teakettles. 
Every giver's name, of course, is to be appended to his own piece 
of plate; so that it can be seen at a glance who has given most; and 
then with the income tax reports in your hand, you can see who 
ought to have given most. I think all New York would be there. Be 
a good thing for the railway companies!'

Wych Hazel laughed a little bit, but she was too shy of the subject 
and too conscious of hot cheeks, to enter upon it very freely.

'There is one thing you have forgotten,' she said. 'Your "ideal" is 
not complete, Mr. Rollo.'

'What do you suggest?'

'An ideal woman. I am waiting for that.'

'Did you think I was going to have a wedding without a bride?'

'Wellcan you match the colours? You have put in the teakettles 
rather strong.'

'I hope they'll be strong,' said Dane, 'if they are anything. If there is 
anything I don't like, it is weak ware.'

Hazel was silent, looking rather intently into the fire.

'I think I have mentioned everything except the bride's dress and 
the wedding journey. And the first subject I feel myself 
incompetent to approach. In general, the main thing is that it 
should gratify curiosity and be somehow in advance of anything of 
the kind ever worn before. Is not that the great point?'

'Did you ever set Prim to talk to me about my dress?' said Hazel, 
facing round upon him with a wide change of subject in her own 
mind. Dane, with his own still before him, laughed and said no; 
and then asked with some curiosity why she enquired?'

'I was afraid you had,that is all.'

'That is a little too much. I never set other people to do my work.'

He could see a gleam of pleasure cross her face, but she only said 
quietly, 'I am glad.'

'What did Prim say to you?'

'O it was some time agothe night we were in Norway together. 
Prim asked me what I was going to "do" about dress. And to this 
day I do not know what she meant.'

'Your wedding dress?'

'Ah be quiet!' said Hazel. 'I am talking sense. Is your imagination 
too exhausted to bring you back to the land of reality?'

'I am speaking the most commonplace sense I possess. If Prim was 
not referring to your wedding dress, what did she mean?'

'That is just what I do not quite know. Prim asked that all of a 
sudden, and I said, I did not know what she meant by "do;" and she 
said "manage;" and I said I never managed. And then she saidat 
least asked'

'What?' said Dane, a trifle imperatively.

'Whether I thought you would like to have me dress as I do,'said 
Hazel in a low voice.

The gray eyes took quick account of several items in the little 
lady's attire, then turned away; and Dane remarked that 'Prim had 
meant no harm.'

'No, not a bit. But it puzzled me,and I looked down at my dress, 
justas you did now. And Prim said, of course she did not mean 
what I wore then, but that I always dressed so beautifully. And 
then I thought,' said Hazel with the laugh in her voice, 'that maybe 
she thought it was wrong to have one's dress hang right. And next 
morning I was naughty enough to pull out her loopings and do 
them over. Then I asked her if she felt demoralized, or something. 
And Prim wanted to know if I thought she meant that? and bade 
me look at your dress. Which I have, very often,' Hazel added with 
a shy glance, 'but I do not find that it gives me any help about my 
own.'

Dane rewarded this speech with a look of grave deliberation, 
which ended with the corners of his mouth breaking into all 
manner of lines of fun. Hazel smiled too, partly at him, partly at 
herself.

'You see what always happens when I talk out,' she said. 'I am sure 
to be laughed at for my "confidence," as you call it. But Mr. Rollo, 
I did not much mind what Prim said. Not a bit, only for two little 
things.'

'What little things, Hazel?' and there was the force of a dozen 
"dears" and "my loves" in the quiet intonation.

'I thought for a while that you had told her to talk to me. As you 
did once before.'

A quick look denied all knowledge of such an occasion.

'At Greenbushthat night,' said Hazel.

'That night,' said Dane smiling again. 'But I did not set her to talk 
to you then. I only sent her to do what I supposed at the moment 
she might do more acceptably.'

'I know'said Hazel, 'but I never could take second-hand orders. 
That was one of the times when you made a mistake in your 
dealings with me.'

'Well? You know I shall not make such mistakes any more. And 
yet, Hazel,' said he growing grave, 'that is too much for me to say 
even lightly. Perhaps I shall make mistakes. Till we have lived 
long enough together to know each other thoroughly, I might. 
What will you do then?'

She laughed a little, half raised her eyes, and let them fall. 'No,' she 
said, 'you will not repeat those two or three great ones; and others 
do not matter.'

'Two or three!' said Dane; but then he began again.'What was 
the other "little thing" that annoyed you in Prim's words the other 
night?'

'About as wise as the first! I never supposed you noticed my 
dress,or would,while I kept out of yellow feathers and sky 
blue gloves. But Prim left a sort of impression, that if ever you 
should, it would be to dislike it. And that troubled me a little bit at 
the time, and has troubled mejust a little bitever since.'

Probably Dane's first thoughts were not put into words. What he 
did, was to get hold of Wych Hazel's hand, and between the kisses 
he gave it he remarked,

'I never noticed your dress without feeling a certain delight in its 
perfect harmonies; andI never saw you without noticing your 
dress.'

'You?' Hazel said with a quick, timid intonation. And then there 
came a great flush of pleasure, and she looked away and was 
silent; thinking to herselfwhat she herself would have called "all 
sorts of things."

'Don't you think,' said Dane coolly, 'that as we have evidently so 
much respectively to learn about each other, we had better begin as 
soon as possible?'

'Are you expecting such new developments?But then,' she said, 
the doubtful look waking up again, 'what did Primrose mean? She 
meant something,and you know what it was.'

'Do I? I suppose Primrose felt that I had changed from my once 
views of that, as of other subjects.'

'What were your "once" views?' said Hazel. 'I hardly knew that 
people had what you call "views" about dress.'

Rollo smiled.

'I suppose mine were what yours are now.'

'Then yours never had existence.'

'And your dress happens. Do you mean that?'

'No, no!but if I had worn two or three necklaces to the woods 
this morning, it would have been want of sense and taste, not of 
views.'

'Certainly. Your "views" of dress are sense and taste. Or rather, 
your instinct, I should say.'

'But,' said Hazel,'no, that is not what I mean. Sense and taste 
have to do directly with the subject,they grow out of it, or are 
mixed up with it,I wish anybody had ever taught me to talk, 
among other things!I mean, they are intrinsic. And "views" 
always seemed to take an outside stand, irrespective of everything. 
I think I do not like "views." '

'You cannot help having them,' said Dane laughing at her. ' 
"Views" are merely the simplest word for how you see a thing; 
under what light, and proportions, and relations.'

Hazel shook her head.

'I never was famous for seeing things,' she said. 'I think I go more 
by instinct. What do you compliment me by supposing my views 
of dress to be, Mr. Rollo?'

'That is something from which you are to get, and give, the sense 
of beauty, in infinite variety.'

"Well, leaving that statement for the present, what are yours, 
please?'

'That it is a usable thing, which I am to use, like everything else,
for my Master.'

Hazel glanced at him, and looked away.

'Up to a certain point,' she said, 'our views go side by side; we both 
call it a power.'

Dane was silent, with a certain sweet, grave silence, that evidently 
was not in want of thoughts. Hazel sat still too for a few minutes, 
knotting her little fingers together. She glanced at him again before 
she went on.

'But further than that, I do not understand. I think, generally, I have 
dressed to please myself,not often for a purpose; though I could 
do that, I suppose, upon occasion. That is, in my sort of way. But 
in yours, Mr. Rollo,I should get in such a labyrinth of black 
merino and green silk and blue velvet and white muslin, no line 
that ever was twisted would be long enough to guide me out.'

'There's a short way out,' said Rollo. 'I will not let you get into a 
labyrinth.'

'That may alter the case,' said Hazel with a half laugh. 'But just 
Prim's words, and the thought of your criticising my dress, put me 
in such confusion to-day that I was very near not getting dressed at 
all; and was ever so much ashamed of myself.' The fluttering white 
dress, by the way, had given place to one of the soft leaf-brown 
silks in which she delighted. Perhaps Rollo's eyes liked it too; for 
they took a complacent view and came back to her face with a 
smile.

'It is a problem, to be worked out,' he said.

'In my way, to your ends?' queried Hazel. 'The difference lying in 
the use or disposal of the power when in hand. Is that what you 
mean?'

'That will do. But sometimes it happens, that beauty of effect must 
give way before more important uses.'

'Why? And how?' she said looking at him.

'Do you want me to go into it?'

'Yes, of course. And get me out.'

'I don't know about that. Well,I have seen you,to come to 
personalities,I have seen you, for instance, wearing a hat and 
feather. I have good reason to remember it; for the play of that 
feather used to gratify and irritate me, both at once, beyond what 
was on the whole easy to bear. The hat suited the feather, and the 
feather became the hat; and hat and feather were precisely suited to 
you. Your purpose, or "views," in dressing, were perfectly 
attained. Suppose I could shew you that the pretty brown plume 
represented what would keep a certain poor family from suffering 
through the winter months?'

If Hazel was ready to laugh at one point of this speech, she grew 
grave enough over the remainder; the sensitive colour stirring and 
deepening in her cheeks. Anything that ever came near direct 
personal criticism was so new to her.

'But Mr. Rollo' she began.

'Yes,' he said gently and taking her hand, 'I am waiting for that. 
Say just what is in your mind.'

'The poor family did not come forward, or they could have had 
what they wanted. I did not know where they were. You do not 
think I invest everything in feathers,feelings and all?'

'Hazel, I am putting a case. It is a constant case, certainly; but 
brought forward just now to illustrate a principlenothing else. 
Suppose the poor family did come forward and get its supply; then 
I could tell you of a case of sickness, and shew you that your 
feather represented the professional attendance and skill which 
poverty could not command.'

'But, but,' said Hazel earnestly,'I mean. Suppose,I have 
enough for them and myself too?'

'Then I could tell you of a poor invalid, to whom a few weeks in 
the country would be life and health; but she cannot stop work. Or 
I could tell you of a family just turned out of house and home 
because illness has made them behindhand with the rent. I could 
shew you friendless children, to one of whom your feather would 
give safety and food for a year. Or feeble and ailing people, to 
whom it would supply the delicacies they cannot get nor do 
without. Or poor ministers, to whom it could go in an invaluable 
parcel of books. Or ignorant poor, seeking instruction, to whom it 
would be months of schooling. And then, I should but have given 
you samples, Hazel, which you might multiply by the hundred and 
the thousand, and still keep far within the literal fact.'

She listened with a grave face, trying to follow; but it is hard for 
eighteen to realize at all what even fourscore takes in but dimly.

'You think I am extravagant,' she said.

'That would be a very harsh word in this connection. I do not mean 
it. I was trying to answer you. You said, "Suppose I have enough 
for them and myself too." '

'I wonder if I am?' she said with a half laugh and yet soberly.'I 
wish I could stand off and look at myself. Mr. Rollo, will you give 
me another instance? I shall have to forgive that feather, because it 
had the honour of "irritating" you, and so enlists my sympathies; 
but what else have you seen me wear, that could do so much more 
than itself?'

'The red squirrel has no business to preach to the shrew mouse,' 
said he lightly, but looking at her as if doubtful how far it were 
best to go.

'I am not a shrew,' said Hazel with somewhat prompt decision. 
'Nor a mouse. Nor spun glass. So all those little preliminaries are 
disposed of. And I do not see why you should preach to everybody 
else and not to me.'

Dane however had scruples. He looked at Wych Hazel, and though 
his gray eyes were all afire with purpose and spirit, he pursed up 
his lips with a low whistle and getting up from his chair took a turn 
or two through the large room. Finally came and stood before 
Wych Hazel.

'What is the cost of that dress you have on,' said he. 'I mean, by the 
yard?'
