you love me, and be glad to do it. Don’t be frightened. I’ve not lost my
wits I’ve just found them. I don’t ask anything I’ll never speak of my
hope, but it is no use to stop me. I must try it, and I will succeed!”

With the last words, uttered in a ringing voice while his face glowed,
his eyes shone, and he looked as if carried out of himself by the
passion that possessed him, Mac abruptly left the room, like one eager
to change words to deeds and begin his task at once.

Rose was so amazed by all this that she sat down trembling a little, not
with fear or anger, but a feeling half pleasure, half pain, and a sense
of some new power subtle, strong, and sweet that had come into her life.
It seemed as if another Mac had taken the place of the one she had
known so long an ardent, ambitious man, ready for any work now that the
magical moment had come when everything seems possible to love. If hope
could work such a marvelous change for a moment, could not happiness
do it for a lifetime? It would be an exciting experiment to try, she
thought, remembering the sudden illumination which made that familiar
face both beautiful and strange.

She could not help wondering how long this unsuspected sentiment
had been growing in his heart and felt perplexed by its peculiar
demonstration, for she had never had a lover like this before. It
touched and flattered her, nevertheless and she could not but feel
honored by a love so genuine and generous, for it seemed to make a
man of Mac all at once, and a manly man, too, who was not daunted by
disappointment but could “hope against hope” and resolve to make her
love him if it took years to do it.

There was the charm of novelty about this sort of wooing, and she tried
to guess how he would set about it, felt curious to see how he would
behave when next they met, and was half angry with herself for not being
able to decide how she ought to act. The more she thought, the more
bewildered she grew, for having made up her mind that Mac was a genius,
it disturbed all her plans to find him a lover, and such an ardent one.
As it was impossible to predict what would come next, she gave up trying
to prepare for it and, tired with vain speculations, carried Dulce off
to bed, wishing she could tuck away her love troubles as quietly and
comfortably as she did her sleepy little charge.

Simple and sincere in all things, Mac gave Rose a new surprise by
keeping his promise to the letter asked nothing of her, said nothing
of his hope, and went on as if nothing had happened, quite in the old
friendly way. No, not quite, for now and then, when she least expected
it, she saw again the indescribable expression on his face, a look
that seemed to shed a sudden sunshine over her, making her eyes fall
involuntarily, her color rise, and her heart beat quicker for a moment.
Not a word did he say, but she felt that a new atmosphere surrounded
her when he was by, and although he used none of the little devices most
lovers employ to keep the flame alight, it was impossible to forget that
underneath his quietude there was a hidden world of fire and force ready
to appear at a touch, a word from her.

This was rather dangerous knowledge for Rose, and she soon began to feel
that there were more subtle temptations than she had expected, for it
was impossible to be unconscious of her power, or always to resist the
trials of it which daily came unsought. She had never felt this desire
before, for Charlie was the only one who had touched her heart, and he
was constantly asking as well as giving, and wearied her by demanding
too much or oppressed her by offering more than she could accept.

Mac did neither; he only loved her, silently, patiently, hopefully, and
this generous sort of fidelity was very eloquent to a nature like hers.
She could not refuse or chide, since nothing was asked or urged; there
was no need of coldness, for he never presumed; no call for pity, since
he never complained. All that could be done was to try and be as just
and true as he was, and to wait as trustfully for the end, whatever it
was to be.

For a time she liked the new interest it put into her life, yet did
nothing to encourage it and thought that if she gave this love no food
it would soon starve to death. But it seemed to thrive on air, and
presently she began to feel as if a very strong will was slowly but
steadily influencing her in many ways. If Mac had never told her that he
meant to “make her love him,” she might have yielded unconsciously, but
now she mistook the impulse to obey this undercurrent for compassion and
resisted stoutly, not comprehending yet the reason for the unrest which
took possession of her about this time.

She had as many moods as an April day, and would have much surprised Dr.
Alec by her vagaries had he known them all. He saw enough, however, to
guess what was the matter, but took no notice, for he knew this fever
must run its course, and much medicine only does harm. The others were
busy about their own affairs, and Aunt Plenty was too much absorbed in
her rheumatism to think of love, for the cold weather set in early, and
the poor lady kept her room for days at a time with Rose as nurse.

Mac had spoken of going away in November, and Rose began to hope he
would, for she decided that this silent sort of adoration was bad for
her, as it prevented her from steadily pursuing the employments she
had marked out for that year. What was the use of trying to read useful
books when her thoughts continually wandered to those charming essays on
“Love” and “Friendship”? To copy antique casts, when all the masculine
heads looked like Cupid and the feminine ones like the Psyche on her
mantelpiece? To practice the best music if it ended in singing over and
over the pretty spring song without Phebe’s bird chorus? Dulce’s company
was pleasantest now, for Dulce seldom talked, so much meditation was
possible. Even Aunt Plenty’s red flannel, camphor, and Pond’s Extract
were preferable to general society, and long solitary rides on Rosa
seemed the only thing to put her in tune after one of her attempts to
find out what she ought to do or leave undone.

She made up her mind at last, and arming herself with an unmade pen,
like Fanny Squeers, she boldly went into the study to confer with Dr.
Alec at an hour when Mac was usually absent. “I want a pen for marking
can you make me one, Uncle?” she asked, popping her head in to be sure
he was alone.

“Yes, my dear,” answered a voice so like the doctor’s that she entered
without delay.

But before she had taken three steps she stopped, looking rather
annoyed, for the head that rose from behind the tall desk was not rough
and gray, but brown and smooth, and Mac, not Uncle Alec, sat there
writing. Late experience had taught her that she had nothing to fear
from a tete-a-tete and, having with difficulty taken a resolution, she
did not like to fail of carrying it out.

“Don’t get up, I won’t trouble you if you are busy, there is no hurry,”
 she said, not quite sure whether it were wiser to stay or run away.

Mac settled the point by taking the pen out of her hand and beginning to
cut it, as quietly as Nicholas did on that “thrilling” occasion. Perhaps
he was thinking of that, for he smiled as he asked, “Hard or soft?”

Rose evidently had forgotten that the family of Squeers ever existed,
for she answered: “Hard, please,” in a voice to match. “I’m glad to see
you doing that,” she added, taking courage from his composure and going
as straight to her point as could be expected of a woman.

“And I am very glad to do it.”

“I don’t mean making pens, but the romance I advised,” and she touched
the closely written page before him, looking as if she would like to
read it.

“That is my abstract on a lecture on the circulation of the blood,”
 he answered, kindly turning it so that she could see. “I don’t write
romances I’m living one,” and he glanced up with the happy, hopeful
expression which always made her feel as if he was heaping coals of fire
on her head.

“I wish you wouldn’t look at me in that way it fidgets me,” she said a
little petulantly, for she had been out riding, and knew that she did
not present a “spiritual” appearance after the frosty air had reddened
nose as well as cheeks.

“I’ll try to remember. It does itself before I know it. Perhaps this may
mend matters.” And, taking out the blue glasses he sometimes wore in the
wind, he gravely put them on.

Rose could not help laughing, but his obedience only aggravated her, for
she knew he could observe her all the better behind his ugly screen.

“No, it won’t they are not becoming, and I don’t want to look blue when
I do not feel so,” she said, finding it impossible to guess what he
would do next or to help enjoying his peculiarities.

“But you don’t to me, for in spite of the goggles everything is
rose-colored now.” And he pocketed the glasses without a murmur at the
charming inconsistency of his idol.

“Really, Mac, I’m tired of this nonsense, it worries me and wastes your
time.”

“Never worked harder. But does it really trouble you to know I love
you?” he asked anxiously.

“Don’t you see how cross it makes me?” And she walked away, feeling that
things were not going as she intended to have them at all.

“I don’t mind the thorns if I get the rose at last, and I still hope I
may, some ten years hence,” said this persistent suitor, quite undaunted
by the prospect of a “long wait.”

“I think it is rather hard to be loved whether I like it or not,”
 objected Rose, at a loss how to make any headway against such
indomitable hopefulness.

“But you can’t help it, nor can I so I must go on doing it with all my
heart till you marry, and then well, then I’m afraid I may hate somebody
instead,” and Mac spoilt the pen by an involuntary slash of his knife.

“Please don’t, Mac!”

“Do which, love or hate?”

“Don’t do either go and care for someone else; there are plenty of nice
girls who will be glad to make you happy,” said Rose, intent upon ending
her disquiet in some way.

“That is too easy. I enjoy working for my blessings, and the harder I
have to work, the more I value them when they come.”

“Then if I suddenly grew very kind, would you stop caring about me?”
 asked Rose, wondering if that treatment would free her from a passion
which both touched and tormented her.

“Try and see.” But there was a traitorous glimmer in Mac’s eyes which
plainly showed what a failure it would be.

“No, I’ll get something to do, so absorbing I shall forget all about
you.”

“Don’t think about me if it troubles you,” he said tenderly.

“I can’t help it.” Rose tried to catch back the words, but it was too
late, and she added hastily, “That is, I cannot help wishing you would
forget me. It is a great disappointment to find I was mistaken when I
hoped such fine things of you.”

“Yes, you were very sure that it was love when it was poetry, and now
you want poetry when I’ve nothing on hand but love. Will both together
please you?”

“Try and see.”

“I’ll do my best. Anything else?” he asked, forgetting the small task
she had given him in his eagerness to attempt the greater.

“Tell me one thing. I’ve often wanted to know, and now you speak of it
I’ll venture to ask. Did you care about me when you read Keats to me
last summer?”

“No.”

“When did you begin?” asked Rose, smiling in spite of herself at his
unflattering honesty.

“How can I tell? Perhaps it did begin up there, though, for that talk
set us writing, and the letters showed me what a beautiful soul you had.
I loved that first it was so quick to recognize good things, to use them
when they came, and give them out again as unconsciously as a flower
does its breath. I longed for you to come home, and wanted you to find
me altered for the better in some way as I had found you. And when you
came it was very easy to see why I needed you to love you entirely, and
to tell you so. That’s all, Rose.”

A short story, but it was enough the voice that told it with such simple
truth made the few words so eloquent, Rose felt strongly tempted to add
the sequel Mac desired. But her eyes had fallen as he spoke, for she
knew his were fixed upon her, dark and dilated, with the same repressed
emotion that put such fervor into his quiet tones, and just as she was
about to look up, they fell on a shabby little footstool. Trifles affect
women curiously, and often most irresistibly when some agitation sways
them. The sight of the old hassock vividly recalled Charlie, for he
had kicked it on the night she never liked to remember. Like a spark it
fired a long train of recollections, and the thought went through her
mind: “I fancied I loved him, and let him see it, but I deceived myself,
and he reproached me for a single look that said too much. This feeling
is very different, but too new and sudden to be trusted. I’ll neither
look nor speak till I am quite sure, for Mac’s love is far deeper than
poor Charlie’s, and I must be very true.”

Not in words did the resolve shape itself, but in a quick impulse, which
she obeyed certain that it was right, since it was hard to yield to it.
Only an instant’s silence followed Mac’s answer as she stood looking
down with fingers intertwined and color varying in her cheeks. A foolish
attitude, but Mac thought it a sweet picture of maiden hesitation and
began to hope that a month’s wooing was about to end in winning for a
lifetime. He deceived himself, however, and cold water fell upon his
flame, subduing but by no means quenching it, when Rose looked up with
an air of determination which could not escape eyes that were growing
wonderfully farsighted lately.

“I came in here to beg Uncle to advise you to go away soon. You are very
patient and forbearing, and I feel it more than I can tell. But it
is not good for you to depend on anyone so much for your happiness, I
think, and I know it is bad for me to feel that I have so much power
over a fellow creature. Go away, Mac, and see if this isn’t all a
mistake. Don’t let a fancy for me change or delay your work, because
it may end as suddenly as it began, and then we should both reproach
ourselves and each other. Please do! I respect and care for you so much,
I can’t be happy to take all and give nothing. I try to, but I’m not
sure I want to think it is too soon to know yet.”

Rose began bravely, but ended in a fluttered sort of way as she moved
toward the door, for Mac’s face though it fell at first, brightened
as she went on, and at the last word, uttered almost involuntarily, he
actually laughed low to himself, as if this order into exile pleased him
much.

“Don’t say that you give nothing, when you’ve just shown me that I’m
getting on. I’ll go; I’ll go at once, and see if absence won’t help
you ‘to think, to know, and to be sure’ as it did me. I wish I could do
something more for you. As I can’t, good-bye.”

“Are you going now?” And Rose paused in her retreat to look back with a
startled face as he offered her a badly made pen and opened the door
for her just as Dr. Alec always did; for, in spite of himself, Mac did
resemble the best of uncles.

“Not yet, but you seem to be.”

Rose turned as red as a poppy, snatched the pen, and flew upstairs, to
call herself hard names as she industriously spoiled all Aunt Plenty’s
new pocket handkerchiefs by marking them “A.M.C.”

Three days later Mac said “good-bye” in earnest, and no one was
surprised that he left somewhat abruptly, such being his way, and a
course of lectures by a famous physician the ostensible reason for a
trip to L----. Uncle Alec deserted most shamefully at the last moment
by sending word that he would be at the station to see the traveler
off, Aunt Plenty was still in her room, so when Mac came down from his
farewell to her, Rose met him in the hall, as if anxious not to delay
him. She was a little afraid of another tete-a-tete, as she fared so
badly at the last, and had assumed a calm and cousinly air which she
flattered herself would plainly show on what terms she wished to part.

Mac apparently understood, and not only took the hint, but surpassed her
in cheerful composure, for, merely saying “Good-bye, Cousin; write
when you feel like it,” he shook hands and walked out of the house as
tranquilly as if only a day instead of three months were to pass before
they met again. Rose felt as if a sudden shower bath had chilled her
and was about to retire, saying to herself with disdainful decision:
“There’s no love about it after all, only one of the eccentricities of
genius,” when a rush of cold air made her turn to find herself in what
appeared to be the embrace of an impetuous overcoat, which wrapped her
close for an instant, then vanished as suddenly as it had come, leaving
her to hide in the sanctum and confide to Psyche with a tender sort of
triumph in her breathless voice: “No, no, it isn’t genius that must be
love!”




Chapter 19 BEHIND THE FOUNTAIN

Two days after Christmas a young man of serious aspect might have been
seen entering one of the large churches at L----. Being shown to a seat,
he joined in the services with praiseworthy devotion, especially the
music, to which he listened with such evident pleasure that a gentleman
who sat nearby felt moved to address this appreciative stranger after
church.

“Fine sermon today. Ever heard our minister before, sir?” he began, as
they went down the aisle together among the last, for the young man had
lingered as if admiring the ancient building.

“Very fine. No, sir, I have never had that pleasure. I’ve often wished
to see this old place, and am not at all disappointed. Your choir,
too, is unusually good,” answered the stranger, glancing up at several
bonnets bobbing about behind the half-drawn curtains above.

“Finest in the city, sir. We pride ourselves on our music, and always
have the best. People often come for that alone.” And the old gentleman
looked as satisfied as if a choir of cherubim and seraphim “continually
did cry” in his organ loft.

“Who is the contralto? That solo was beautifully sung,” observed the
younger man, pausing to read a tablet on the wall.

“That is Miss Moore. Been here about a year, and is universally
admired. Excellent young lady couldn’t do without her. Sings superbly in
oratorios. Ever heard her?”

“Never. She came from X, I believe?

“Yes, highly recommended. She was brought up by one of the first
families there. Campbell is the name. If you come from X, you doubtless
know them.”

“I have met them. Good morning.” And with bows the gentlemen parted, for
at that instant the young man caught sight of a tall lady going down the
church steps with a devout expression in her fine eyes and a prayer-book
in her hand.

Hastening after her, the serious-minded young man accosted her just as
she turned into a quiet street.

“Phebe!”

Only a word, but it wrought a marvelous change, for the devout
expression vanished in the drawing of a breath, and the quiet face
blossomed suddenly with color, warmth, and “the light that never was on
sea or land” as she turned to meet her lover with an answering word as
eloquent as his.

“Archie!”

“The year is out today. I told you I should come. Have you forgotten?”

“No I knew you’d come.”

“And are you glad?”

“How can I help it?”

“You can’t don’t try. Come into this little park and let us talk.” And
drawing her hand through his arm, Archie led her into what to other
eyes was a very dismal square, with a boarded-up fountain in the middle,
sodden grass plots, and dead leaves dancing in the wintry wind.

But to them it was a summery Paradise, and they walked to and fro in the
pale sunshine, quite unconscious that they were objects of interest
to several ladies and gentlemen waiting anxiously for their dinner or
yawning over the dull books kept for Sunday reading. “Are you ready
to come home now, Phebe?” asked Archie tenderly as he looked at the
downcast face beside him and wondered why all women did not wear
delightful little black velvet bonnets with one deep red flower against
their hair.

“Not yet. I haven’t done enough,” began Phebe, finding it very hard to
keep the resolution made a year ago.

“You have proved that you can support yourself, make friends, and earn a
name, if you choose. No one can deny that, and we are all getting proud
of you. What more can you ask, my dearest?”

“I don’t quite know, but I am very ambitious. I want to be famous, to do
something for you all, to make some sacrifice for Rose, and, if I can,
to have something to give up for your sake. Let me wait and work longer
I know I haven’t earned my welcome yet,” pleaded Phebe so earnestly
that her lover knew it would be in vain to try and turn her, so wisely
contented himself with half, since he could not have the whole.

“Such a proud woman! Yet I love you all the better for it, and
understand your feeling. Rose made me see how it seems to you, and I
don’t wonder that you cannot forget the unkind things that were looked,
if not said, by some of my amiable aunts. I’ll try to be patient on one
condition, Phebe.”

“And what is that?”

“You are to let me come sometimes while I wait, and wear this lest you
should forget me,” he said, pulling a ring from his pocket and gently
drawing a warm, bare hand out of the muff where it lay hidden.

“Yes, Archie, but not here not now!” cried Phebe, glancing about her as
if suddenly aware that they were not alone.

“No one can see us here I thought of that. Give me one happy minute,
after this long, long year of waiting,” answered Archie, pausing just
where the fountain hid them from all eyes, for there were houses only on
one side.

Phebe submitted and never did a plain gold ring slip more easily to its
place than the one he put on in such a hurry that cold December day.
Then one hand went back into the muff red with the grasp he gave it, and
the other to its old place on his arm with a confiding gesture, as if it
had a right there.

“Now I feel sure of you,” said Archie as they went on again, and no one
the wiser for that tender transaction behind the ugly pyramid of boards.
“Mac wrote me that you were much admired by your church people, and that
certain wealthy bachelors evidently had designs on the retiring Miss
Moore. I was horribly jealous, but now I defy every man of them.”

Phebe smiled with the air of proud humility that was so becoming and
answered briefly: “There was no danger kings could not change me,
whether you ever came or not. But Mac should not have told you.”

“You shall be revenged on him, then, for, as he told secrets about you,
I’ll tell you one about him. Phebe, he loves Rose!” And Archie looked as
if he expected to make a great sensation with his news.

“I know it.” And Phebe laughed at his sudden change of countenance as he
added inquiringly, “She told you, then?”

“Not a word. I guessed it from her letters, for lately she says nothing
about Mac, and before there was a good deal, so I suspected what the
silence meant and asked no questions.”

“Wise girl! Then you think she does care for the dear old fellow?”

“Of course she does. Didn’t he tell you so?”

“No, he only said when he went away, ‘Take care of my Rose, and I’ll
take care of your Phebe,’ and not another thing could I get out of him,
for I did ask questions. He stood by me like a hero, and kept Aunt Jane
from driving me stark mad with her ‘advice.’ I don’t forget that, and
burned to lend him a hand somewhere, but he begged me to let him manage
his wooing in his own way. And from what I see, I should say he knew how
to do it,” added Archie, finding it very delightful to gossip about love
affairs with his sweetheart.

“Dear little mistress! How does she behave?” asked Phebe, longing
for news, but too grateful to ask at headquarters, remembering how
generously Rose had tried to help her, even by silence, the greatest
sacrifice a woman can make at such interesting periods.

“Very sweet and shy and charming. I try not to watch but upon my word I
cannot help it sometimes, she is so ‘cunning,’ as you girls say. When I
carry her a letter from Mac she tries so hard not to show how glad she
is that I want to laugh and tell her I know all about it. But I look as
sober as a judge and as stupid as an owl by daylight, and she enjoys her
letters in peace and thinks I’m so absorbed in my own passion that I’m
blind to hers.”

“But why did Mac come away? He says lectures brought him, and he goes,
but I am sure something else is in his mind, he looks so happy at times.
I don’t see him very often, but when I do I’m conscious that he isn’t
the Mac I left a year ago,” said Phebe, leading Archie away, for
inexorable propriety forbade a longer stay, even if prudence and duty
had not given her a reminding nudge, as it was very cold, and afternoon
church came in an hour.

“Well, you see Mac was always peculiar, and he cannot even grow up like
other fellows. I don’t understand him yet, and am sure he’s got some
plan in his head that no one suspects, unless it is Uncle Alec. Love
