• She could go with Martha to the new house now. There 
was no more occasion to worry about the time when uncle 
Frank would be old, and not have enough to keep him. 
CHAPTER XXIII. 
Though the chameleon feeds on air, I am one who is nourished hy 
victuals.” — Two Gejjtlemen of Verona. 
We had one very delightful episode during my vacation. 
Mr. Germain had taken a cottage at Long Branch, indeed 
bought considerable proper!y there. It was to be made 
one of the most attractive watering-places in the country. 
Mrs. Germain invited us three girls down for a fortnight. 
Mollie, Jo, and Adrienne were to be there. Molhe came 
over with the invitation, which was an actual written letter, 
and most cordial. 
“ You needn’t buy any thing new,” explained Mollie in 
her vehement way. “Portia has stacks of clothes. You 
can’t think how handy it comes in for Jo and Ad, when 
she sends a great trunk full ; and those two young women 
are very fond of fine apparel. I think we are getting to 
be quite swells, coming into prosperity so rapidly, that it 
may ton our heads, which were never over well balanced. 
Where did I start from? Oh! about the clothes. There 
are all kinds of skirts and wraps and jackets, and Heaven 
only knows what all ; and Portia’s just as good-natured as 
the day is long, — a summer day, I mean,” laughingly. 
We had a best black silk, a simple grenadine, and some 
white gowns : so we literally obeyed Mollie ’s behest. 
Prosperity certainly had not spoiled Mrs. Portia. If she 
was not a second Daniel, she was a wonderfully pretty and 
attractive woman, and drew a cii’cle about her w"herever 
she appeared, — one of the women who make the world 
 
the happier for their being rich. Her past experience 
enabled her to see at a glance where a little would give 
so much pleasure ; then the Henderson girls were all gen- 
erous in temperament, with that hearty, honest, electric 
sympathy. 
Mrs. Germain looked us over after we were dressed. 
“Now,” she would say, “ there is such a thing,” what- 
ever the article might be, “go bring it here, Marie. — 
Girls, isn’t that just the style for Mrs. Ross? — See how 
pretty it makes you! ” turning Theo round to the glass. 
“ I knew it was absurd for me when I bought it ; but you 
see, like the door-plate, it is so handy to have in the 
house. You must wear it: I shall be real vexed if you 
don’t.” 
So we disported ourselves in lace and India shawls and 
various elegant garments. We were out driving, we had 
“evenings” and “dinners,” and attended one grand 
“hop.” Six girls were a goodly number to matronize ; 
but she did it beautifully. 
One day Mr. Germain escorted Jo and Dell and myself 
to Philadelphia ; though I think he was the most taken 
with Theo. He hired a carriage, and had us driven around 
while he attended to some business, and then escorted us 
to a hotel for dinner. It was a delightful little tour. 
“ Oh ! ” said Theo with a sigh, “no one can ever preach 
me out of the belief that it is just lovely to be rich. It 
has its cares, no doubt, and possibly some drawbacks ; but 
to think of that heavenly state of mind, when you can 
have peach-preserves and pine-apple at the same tea, and 
no troublesome conscience to teU you that you must save 
one for to-morrow night ; that ‘ wilful waste will make a 
woful want ; ’ that, if you ‘ shoe the horse and the mare,’ 
you must let the poor little dainty colt ‘ go bare ; ’ and 
all those wise old saws. Does any one realize, I won- 
der, how many platitudes are preached about poverty? 
The ‘ sleep of the laboring man,’ who is so tired, that he 
 
lies like a log, while his poor wife wrestles all night with a 
fretful baby and mosquitoes and a back-ache, and planning 
how she can pnch out and eke out, and stretch the poor 
pittance until Saturday night. I’d rather be Mrs. Portia. 
And then it is so dehghtful to make other people happy ! 
people like us, I mean,” and Theo smiles bewitchingly 
in the midst of her sermon, — “ who can appreciate and 
enjoy, but who can never have any thing much on their 
own money. To be sure, there is content. But the most 
contented thing I ever saw was a toad catching flies. He 
sat and waited with royal indifference, and didn’t seem to 
care whether they came or not. Honestly I don’t believe 
he was of much importance, after all. If everybody had 
been content, like the sublime red Indian in his wigwam, 
I am afraid the world would not have made much ad- 
vancement.” 
“ Bravo ! ” exclaims Mollie, coming in at the last, and 
clapping her hands. 
The Germains are to spend the winter at Washington ; 
and Jo is invited to “ come and be married off,” Mollie 
says. “ And really I think it maybe Johnny’s and my 
turn next ; but it does seem a shame to break up the home 
and such grand good times ! I don’t believe there ever 
was such a jolly set ; and, oh ! what pinches we have been 
in ! Had only one or two decent pairs of boots between 
us, and a party dress that everybody but Portia took a 
turn at the same winter, — I believe it was hers first, 
handed down, come to think. And before I had a regular 
situation, — when Jack Rutherford was cutting up all sorts 
of ways, and poor Portia taking care of Toodles, who was 
the crossest of babies, — we used sometimes to sit in sol- 
emn state, like the three black crows, and ask ourselves 
the same sublime question, — 
“ What shall we do for food to ate? ” 
She shakes her head now with grotesque seriousness. 
I dare say it has been so. I am tempted to envy that 
hght-hearted jollity. How much care and thought and 
pains we have taken in our lives ! 
However, I am rewarded for my patient, plodding in- 
dustry, by promotion at school, and — what I begin to value 
much more highly now, — a rise of one hundred dollars. I 
am vice-principal, and have now been teaching seven years. 
I begin to feel as old as the “ everlasting hills.” So many 
of my young friends are married ! The little girls are 
grown up ; and some midget announces, with a triumphant 
elevation of the chin in the air, that her aunt Mary went 
to school with Miss Durant. I console myself with the 
reminder that it is a stylish name. 
We are going now to address ourselves seriously to this 
mortgage-business. It has been renewed for two years. 
The interest seems to eat up so much. Taxes have swelled 
tremendously. Instead of the paltry fourteen dollars at 
first, it is now fifty-four. There is a life-insurance of 
thirty-eight. The interest makes two hundred and thirty- 
two dollars to pay every }*ear : luckily the house was in- 
sured in such a manner that the cost now is trifling. If 
father worked every week in the year, which he cannot, 
— for there are days, and parts of days, when stuff gives 
out, or something doesn’t come to hand, or masons are in 
the way, or it rains, when all the work is outside, — he 
would earn a little over nine hundred dollars. There are 
six of us : and ten dollars a week is our limit for table-ex- 
penses. To keep in health, one cannot live on mush and 
molasses, or Dio Lewis’s famed beans. Fuel (and coal is 
high) costs us from fifty to sixty dollars. A pleasantly- 
warm house mother considers an aid to health and cheer- 
fulness. Gas-bills are much higher, of course. The twelve 
dollars has swelled to twenty-eight. We are very careful, 
and even discuss kerosene ; but there is the smell, which 
we abhor, the breakage of chimneys, and the time con- 
sumed in cleaning, trimming, and polishing glass ; “ for I 
 
never could abide such dull, smoked chimneys as some 
people use,” declares Theo emphatically. All this counts 
up past eight hundred dollars. Then with lost time, doc- 
tor’s bills, and clothes, there cannot be much to save. 
What can we give up? We have studied cookery-books, 
chemistry, and tried experiments. The most nutritious 
food on the smallest outlay of money is the question. 
Soups are nourishing, say the French and the nurses. 
Father, Theo, and I care very little about them ; would lose 
appetite upon them indeed. Indian is like lead to Theo ; 
though we do now and then have a delicious corn-cake. 
Nice home-made wheat-bread, alternated with rye and 
graham, good butter, and beef, comprise the greater part 
• of our diet, with sufficient vegetables for a variety. When 
the weather comes nice and cold, we buy a quarter of beef, 
using what we can while fresh, and putting the rest in 
brine. The difference in price pays. Then a whole mut- 
ton, part of which is pickled and spiced, and is delightful. 
So we try hard again. Theo says we shall come to hate 
the word “ economy ; ” and I think she is more than half 
right. 
Then some one talks about wages being so high. Work- 
ing-men ought to lay up money, ought now to get a home. 
Rents are enormous. A four or five thousand dollar house 
is offered on the tempting terms of only one thousand 
down. 
‘ ‘ Such houses as some of them are ! ’ ’ says father indig- 
nantly, — “ mere shells, with but one thin coat of plaster, 
the surbase and joints opening everywhere, the windows 
rattling in the shghtest gust. The tenants must use double 
the coal to keep them warm in the winter. It is abomi- 
nable that any reputable city should be built up in that 
way ! ’ ’ 
“ But the middling classes come over from New York 
to buy. It looks so cheap to them,” cry the capitalists. 
A sorry cheapness they find it in after-years. 
“So few things are done well!” says father. “Mr. 
Woodford is continually telling me I am too particular. 
‘ Cheap and rapid ’ is his cry. I suppose my carefulness 
does make me a slower workman.” 
Dell works cheerily at the machine, and buys her own 
clothes, with now and then a bit laid by for housekeeping. 
She is a sweet, happy girl. 
Theo is “miserable” for weeks, — palpitation, faint- 
ness, days when she can sit up but very little ; yet she lies 
on the sofa, and smiles cheerfully. Dr. Sheldon is so good 
to her : indeed, he has become quite a family’ friend. At 
the beginning of every year, Theo receives a little note 
from him, enclosing her bill receipted. At first she de- 
murred somewhat. 
“ Hold your tongue I ” said the doctor gruffly. “ I’m big 
enough and old enough, and have sense enough, to do as 
I like.” 
Father takes one severe feverish cold, and we are greatly 
alarmed. It passes over, however, with a fortnight’s rest. 
That is just thirty-six dollars out of our income. 
Mrs. Stephen Miller gets into her new house. 
It is on a stylish street “down town.” Mrs. James 
Miller’s is next door. Mrs. Martha keeps only one ser- 
vant, and manages to get a great deal of work out of 
her. The business is being settled. Uncle Frank made 
a will just after grandmother died, leaving every thing to 
his dear wife. Aunt Hetty says exultantly that she made 
him do it : she wasn’t going to have it all at loose ends. 
Martha has persuaded her to board with her, — a nice 
large room and closet, very cheap at four dollars a week, 
when everybody else is charging from six to eight. Of 
course she will not mind looking after the children a little, 
dusting, and doing odds and ends. 
Her part of the estate will be worth from ten to twelve 
thousand dollars. Stephen invests some in railroad stock 
that pays ten per cent semi-annually. Aunt Hetty sings 
his praises continually. 
 
“ Yet Frank would not have had the start but for me,” 
says father. “ I fairly pushed him into it, and showed 
him where he could raise the money.” 
“It seems rather small in Martha,” says mother, “to 
charge aunt Hetty any board. Why, she works just like 
a second girl.” 
Mrs. James Miller is “ awfully swell,” to use the slang 
of the day. She keeps a carriage, and always figures on 
managing boards for orphan asylums, and homes, and 
fairs. James grows stouter, louder, redder in the face, 
but much richer withal. He sometimes contradicts his 
wife fiatly in company ; and it is whispered that she has 
a temper of her own. He still treats the king’s English 
disrespectfully ; but he has travelled, is jolly and blunder- 
ing and “ smart.” 
Do I ever repent as I see Mrs. James go by in her 
carriage ? 
We are very happy, we three girls. The years of 
maturity, and perhaps the sorrows, bring us nearer to- 
gether. We share each other’s very thoughts, and are 
foolish enough to take a deep interest in Dell’s love- 
affairs. Not that Theo has ceased to be attractive. We 
have considerable company, and, when she is sufficiently 
well, we go out ; but it is not young, laughing, protesting 
lovers. I suppose Theo and I feel that our romances are 
over. 
Mollie Henderson and her dear Johnny are married this 
spring, in the very parlor where they have seen so many 
good times. It is at ten in the morning. Molhe looks 
— well, quite compactly put together ; but the fiowers 
do fall out of her hair soon after she is Mrs. McKnight. 
There is a wedding-breakfast, when they do not have to 
send out for bread. Such a crush! AYliy, it seems as if 
half New York was anxious to do honor to this plain, 
freckled, attractive, and really lovable woman. 
At three they sail for Europe. They have all the 
“ correspondence ” they will be able to do. Johnny has 
made his appearance in some noted magazine-articles, and 
is a “ rising young litterateur.’' Mollie is actually going 
to write a novel. 
They go off with smiles, good wishes, much waving of 
hands, and some tears. Oh! when shall we see Molhe 
again ? 
Josepha is engaged to a Washington banker. Mrs. 
Germain is still radiant. The house is to be hired out, 
‘ ‘ ma ’ ’ and “ pa ” boarding with the tenant ; and pert 
little Adrienne is to go and come as she lists, until she 
gets through coquetting. 
With all our earnest, honest endeavors, we have been 
able to save but three hundred dollars. Still that is 
something, and lowers our interest twenty-one dollars. 
The cost of living begins to decrease a trifle. Dry-goods 
are quite coming down ; taxes are higher ; and everybody 
seems wild about property". Fabulous prices are asked, 
and large tracts bought upon speculation. Some one 
wants to trade with father, — a great frame building, store 
and tenement. He offers it for ten thousand ; and it is 
rented for eleven hundred. 
Mother thinks it over. “ Five hundred would pay our 
rent,” she says; “and, as our family will grow smaller 
instead of larger, we do not need quite so much room. 
Then there would be six hundred,” and she looks up 
questioningly. 
The trader is willing to allow seven thousand for our 
house, taking the difference in cash. In two years we 
might be out of debt, and have a little income. It is 
really worth looking after. 
‘ ‘ I would give up the house to have you easy in your 
mind, and to feel that you need not work quite so hard,” 
says mother in her sweet, caressing tone. 
Father, Theo, and I go to look at it one Saturday after- 
noon. It is in one of the poor neighborhoods. A Gep 
 
man keeps the untidy grocery-store ; and his family live 
at the back, a wife and four children in two rooms. They 
pay five hundred dollars. Up stairs there are four families 
on the two fioors ; and the six hundred is divided between 
them. There is a muddy little yard, wdth a leaky hydrant ; 
no water through the house ; all the drainage must be carried 
down by hand. The rooms are small, low-ceiled, smoky, 
dirty, out of repair: indeed, the house is a mere shell. 
We turn away in disgust. 
“I couldn’t keep tenants so much like pigs,” says 
father indignantly. “ I should want to spend a thousand 
on repairing and cleaning ; and a house like that costs 
every year, if you keep it in order. I don’t believe I am 
the kind of man to undertake such a thing. Although it 
rents high, it is not worth ten thousand. Let employment 
fall off, and half the tenements will be empty.” 
Mr. Day comes several times to talk it over, and finally 
offers father eight thousand for our house. “ I doubt if 
you are ever offered such a price again,” he says emphati- 
cally. “ A man w'ho can’t take that don’t know a good 
bargain when he sees it.” 
‘ ‘ Will you give me eight thousand cash ? ’ ’ asks fa- 
ther. 
“ Why, no : it doesn’t begin to be worth that ! I can 
get one of those houses of Crane’s, around in Warren 
Street, for six thousand cash ; French roof, marble man- 
tels all through ; been built two years only.” 
‘ ‘ There seems to be some difference between a cash 
price and a trade. I shouldn’t want to give you more 
than six thousand for yours, Mr. Day.” 
“ But look at the rent ! I shall raise it the first of Jan- 
uary. I can get two hundred more for that house.” 
“ I pity the poor who have to pay it. But, if it is such 
a good investment, why do you wish to dispose of it, Mr. 
Day ? ” 
‘‘Oh! I’ve had it some time; and changing about 
makes business brisk.” 
“It is like pouring pennies from one hand into the 
other : you make a great stir and clatter, but you have 
no more money. Every thing is so inflated, that few of 
us know just where we do stand.” 
“Oh, you are one of the croakers I If everybody felt 
like you, Mr. Durant, there’d be no good times, no busi- 
ness-activity. You would keep on the steady jog-trot year 
after year.” 
“ I should endeavor to keep out of debt.” 
‘ ‘ I have not seen one trade yet wdiere I could better 
myself,” declares father afterward ; “ and it seems to me 
this continual changing injures legitimate business. It is 
just like the pennies : you have a great rattle, but are no 
richer.” 
We thought, when vacation came, that we would go to 
some quiet countiy- place and board. Dell seemed to be 
wearing, and growing thin. Roger had promised to return ; 
but there had been another wonderful opening. He might 
stay a year longer. Dell was disappointed. 
‘ ‘ Is the whole world going mad for money ? ’ ’ she ques- 
tioned. 
We made inquiries about board in attractive quarters ; 
from eight to twelve dollars. 
“We can’t give any such prices,” declared Theo. 
“ Twelve dollars for the three ought to be our utmost 
limit. We shall not eat much, and keep our own rooms 
clean. Do you remember how small the actual outlay 
was that summer on Long Island? And in some farmers’ 
houses they w'ould not feel our cost at all. Nice plain 
living is all we ask.” 
We hear of a place in Pennsyivania, “ among the 
Dutch,” w'ith mountains at the back, and the Delaware 
River not half a mile away. Good JVIrs. Wenecke will take 
 
US three for twelve dollars. We pack up and go. A stout, 
phlegmatic, motherly woman, with a broad, pleasant face, 
ushers us into a double-bedded room large enough for a 
barn, I was going to say. We eat, sleep, and ramble ; 
we instruct our landlady in the sublime art of cooking, 
and do some fine sewing for her. Oh ! how sweet and 
clean and healthful it all is ! We take back with us some 
fine, wholesome fiesh, and bright red blood that fiushes 
our cheeks. It is worth forty-eight dollars, when one has 
to work almost a year without stopping. 
“Come again, come again!” Mrs. Wenecke says, 
bobbing her round head, with a bald spot on the top. 
Ay, that we will, if opportunity offers. 
We are all very much surprised, on our return, to hear 
that Miss Newby is to be married. Not but what she is 
sweet enough, for all her thirty odd years, — a gracious 
and noble woman. Her dead love will never be quite for- 
gotten. 
The new husband is a man of forty, fine looking, cul- 
tured, and wealthy. They are not to fly off to Europe, 
but to take a leisurely tour through the wonders of their 
own country. 
Then we hear that Miss Cummings — who was not 
young when I began to teach ; who is cross and sallow, 
and always wears an unhappy scowl — has bestowed her- 
self upon a comfortable widower. The girls in her class 
actually jump up and down when the joyful news reaches 
them. 
What a changing world it is ! Wisely did Dr. Johnson 
advise people to keep their friendships in repair. I begin 
to feel that I have not done so. The old friends have 
gone east, west, or are occupied with husbands and babies, 
and give you a pitying sigh as they talk about Bobby’s 
tooth, and Charley’s measles, and show you Mamie’s 
lovely new dress, and Susie’s cloak. I know those pretty 
young girls down the street think me quite an old 
maid.” 
Well, I had “ a day,” and laughed and danced. Why, 
I do believe I could dance now with feet as light as then, 
even if my heart were not as gay. Would I be considered 
crazy? Oh, magical, sweet sixteen I 
CHAPTER XXIV. 
We were tolerably fortunate in every thing this year, 
and at March paid seven hundred dollars on our mort- 
gage, with the savings of the year before. Theo had 
earned fifty of it herself by doing fine flannel embroidery. 
Now there was but thirteen hundi'ed left. Dick had gi’ad- 
uated the year previous, and taken a fancy to learn jewehy 
engraving. Father did not think very well of it ; but Dick 
had such a liking for delicate work. He was offered four 
dollars a week the first year. 
“ Not so good as my apprenticeship,” said father. “ I 
had my board ; and I do not suppose Dick could get his 
board and washing anywhere for less than six dollars : so 
he could not learn a trade If he had to care wholly for 
himself.” 
Roger had come to St. Louis, and fallen in with some 
friends, and another chance to “make something;” but 
he would be home by September, sure. 
In May father had a bad tall through a building. 
When they first picked him up, they thought him dead ; 
but he revived presently. One ankle was broken, and his 
back a good deal injured. For a month he lay in bed 
very patiently ; and then the doctor decided he was sound 
everywhere but the limb. That being such a very serious 
fracture, great care would be required, and, above all, 
time. 
 
 
But we knew now that his “ best days were over,” as 
people say. He was going down the shady side of fifty; 
and, if he could take life a little easy hereafter, it might 
still be fair with him ; but here was poverty to confront 
us. 
If Dick’s fancy had been for some business in which he 
and father might join afterward ; but there was nothing to 
hope from this, save high wages for himself, if times were 
good. 
Yet we had some pleasant events to interest us this 
summer. Miss Newby — Mrs. Hildreth as she was now — 
had returned. Her husband kept a business-connection 
in New York ; but he did not care to live there. Some 
miles above us, in direct communication with that city, 
was a pretty suburban town, quite substantial, if it had 
come up in a night. It was on high ground, and com- 
manded a magnificent view of the surrounding country. 
Here they purchased a handsome stone house, built like 
an old-fashioned castle. A few rooms were made habit- 
able : the rest she meant to furnish by degrees. The 
grounds were beautiful ; the tract had been a pine and 
hemlock woods ; and some magnificent old trees were left 
standing. 
She came down to see us, and carried off Theo. Then 
it was mine, and afterward Dell’s turn. One of the 
friends that it is charming to have, who does not make 
you feel her magnificence oppressive, hke aunt Clara. 
She gathered around her educated and cultured people. 
Mr. Hildreth had a great many nice acquaintances. It 
was a little like, and very unlike, the Hendersons ; but 
to us it made a welcome break in the routine of life. 
I heard from Mollie now and then. At present they 
were in Germany, and had the most absurd and ridiculous 
baby imaginable. Persephone, Mrs. Dr. Waring, was 
living quite stylishly with her mother-in-law in New York ; 
Jo had invited me most cordially to come to Washington ; 
 
and the Germains were living in the utmost magnificence 
in Baltimore. Ad was still flirting. 
Alfred Dayton came home this summer. He had held 
a charge two years ; but there had been ‘ ‘ a little dissatis- 
faction.” His sisters were still unmarried. Hither he 
came, with wife and baby, to wait for an opening. 
I do believe the honest fellow felt that he had been 
pushed and persuaded into the wrong place. He was 
thoroughly good ; but nature had evidently not designed 
him for a clergyman. He had so little tact, and blundered 
into the wrong channels. I felt really sorry. His wife 
was still sweet and clinging and indolent. All her early 
years she had been made a pet and playing in a rich 
household, who had taken her to educate because she was 
a “missionary’s daughter.” She could play and sing, 
but she had no intellectual strength or judgment, cared 
nothing for reading or study, and had no ambition for her 
husband. She could not make the plainest garment for 
herself or her cliild : housework was her abhorrence. “ It 
spoiled your hands so ! and a clergyman’s wife ought to 
have a nobler emplojunent than mere drudgery.” She 
was fond of going to female meetings, or any, in fact, where 
she could talk ; and she had a pretty, saiut-like way, that 
was quite fascinating to many peojole. 
He took up his old relations with us. Dell seemed to 
amuse him immensely. He could not realize that she was 
a grown young woman. He soon began to say Chrissie 
and Theo. As for young Mrs. Dayion, we did not like 
her very much, and tried not to drift into an intimacy. 
But here was father, ready for any chance visitor. He 
could get about a little on a crutch ; yet he spent a great 
deal of the time on the front-porch. Mr. Sargent, too, 
had taken to coming again. Somehow we did not get on 
famous with Mrs. Sargent. I began to think, after a 
little, there was too much sameness to her, too much out- 
