


   

finer quality of pluck, than common occasion de- 
manded. Mr. Wentworth would never have risked 
the intimation that Acton was made, in the small- 
est degree, of the stuff of a hero ; but this is small 
blame to him, for Robert would certainly never 
have risked it himself. Acton certainly exercised 
great discretion in all things beginning with his 
estimate of himself. He knew that he was by no 
means so much of a man of the world as he was 
supposed to be in local circles ; but it must be 
added that he knew also that his natural shrewd- 
ness had a reach of which he had never quite given 
local circles the measure. He was addicted to tak- 
ing the humorous view of things, and he had dis- 
covered that, even in the narrowest circles such a 
disposition may find frequent opportunities. Such 
opportunities had formed for some time that is, 
since his return from China, a year and a half be- 
fore the most active element in this gentleman's 
life, which had just now a rather indolent air. 
He was perfectly willing to get married. He was 
very fond of books, and he had a handsome li- 
brary ; that is, his books were much more numer- 
ous than Mr. Wentworth's. He was also very fond 
of pictures ; but it must be confessed, in the fierce 
light of contemporary criticism, that his walls were 
adorned with several rather abortive masterpieces. 
He had got his learning and there was more of 



 

it than commonly appeared at Harvard College ; 
and he took a pleasure in old associations, which 
made it a part of his daily contentment to live so 
near this institution that he often passed it in driv- 
ing to Boston. He was extremely interested in 
the Baroness Miinster. 

She was very frank with him ; or at least she 
intended to be. "I am sure you find it very 
strange that I should have settled down in this 
out-of-the-way part of the world ! " she said to him 
three or four weeks after she had installed herself. 
" I am certain you are wondering about my mo- 
tives. They are very pure." The Baroness by 
this time was an old inhabitant; the best society 
in Boston had called upon her, and Clifford Went- 
worth had taken her several times to drive in his 
buggy. 

Robert Acton was seated near her, playing with 
a fan ; there were always several fans lying about 
her drawing-room, with long ribbons of different 
colors attached to them, and Acton was always 
playing with one, "No, I don't find it at all 
strange," he said slowly, smiling. " That a clever 
woman should turn up in Boston, or its suburbs 
that does not require so much explanation. 
Boston is a very nice place.'* 

" If you wish to make me contradict you," said 
the Baroness, " vous vous y prenez mal. In certain 
moods there is nothing I am not capable of 
agreeing to. Boston is a paradise, and we are in 
the suburbs of Paradise." 

" Just now I am not at all in the suburbs ; I 
am in the place itself," rejoined Acton, who was 
lounging a little in his chair. He was, however, 
not always lounging; and when he was he was 
not quite so relaxed as he pretended. To a cer- 
tain extent, he sought refuge from shyness in this 
appearance of relaxation ; and like many persons 
in the same circumstances he somewhat exagger- 
ated the appearance. Beyond this, the air of being 
much at his ease was a cover for vigilant observa- 
tion. He was more than interested in this clever 
woman, who, whatever he might say, was clever 
not at all after the Boston fashion ; she plunged 
him into a kind of excitement, held him in vague 
suspense. He was obliged to admit to himself 
that he had never yet seen a woman just like this 
not even in China. He was ashamed, for in- 
scrutable reasons, of the vivacity of his emotion, 
and he carried it off, superficially, by taking, still 
superficially, the humorous view of Madame Miin- 
ster. It was not at all true that he thought it 
very natural of her to have made this pious pilgrim- 
age. It might have been said of him in advance 
that he was too good a Bostonian to regard in the 
light of an eccentricity the desire of even the re- 



 

motest alien to visit the New England metropolis. 
This was an impulse for which, surely, no apology 
was needed ; and Madame Miinster was the for- 
tunate possessor of several New England cousins. 
In fact, however, Madame Miinster struck him as 
out of keeping with her little circle ; she was at 
the best a very agreeable, a gracefully mystifying 
anomaly. He knew very well that it would not 
do to address these reflections too crudely to Mr. 
Wentworth ; he would never have remarked to 
the old gentleman that he wondered what the 
Baroness was up to. And indeed he had no great 
desire to share his vague mistrust with any one. 
There was a personal pleasure in it ; the greatest 
pleasure he had known at least since he had come 
from China. He would keep the Baroness, for 
better or worse, to himself ; he had a feeling that 
he deserved to enjoy a monoply of her, for he was 
certainly the person who had most adequately 
gauged her capacity for social intercourse. Before 
long it became apparent to him that the Baroness 
was disposed to lay no tax upon such a monopoly. 
One day (he was sitting there again and play- 
ing with a fan) she asked him to apologize, should 
the occasion present itself, to certain people in 
Boston for her not having returned their calls. 
" There are half a dozen places," she said ; " a 
formidable list. Charlotte Wentworth has writ- 



   

ten it out for me, in a terrifically distinct hand. 
There is no ambiguity on the subject; I know 
perfectly where I must go. Mr. Wentworth in- 
forms me that the carriage is always at my dis- 
posal, and Charlotte offers to go with me, in a 
pair of tight gloves and a very stiff petticoat. 
And yet for three days I have been putting it off. 
They must think me horribly vicious." 

" You ask me to apologize," said Acton, " but 
you don't tell me what excuse I can offer." 

" That is more," the Baroness declared, " than 
I am held to. It would be like my asking you to 
buy me a bouquet and giving you the money. I 
have no reason except that somehow it 's too 
violent an effort. It is not inspiring. Would n't 
that serve as an excuse, in Boston ? I am told 
they are very sincere ; they don't tell fibs. And 
then Felix ought to go with me, and he is never 
in readiness. I don't see him. He is always 
roaming about the fields and sketching old barns, 
or taking ten-mile walks, or painting some one's 
portrait, or rowing on the pond, or flirting with 
Gertrude Wentworth." 

" I should think it would amuse you to go and 
see a few people," said Acton. " You are having 
a very quiet time of it here. It 's a dull life for 
you." 

"Ah, the quiet, the quiet!" the Baroness 



 

exclaimed. " That 's what I like. It 's rest. 
That 's what I came here for. Amusement ? I 
have had amusement. And as for seeing people 
I have already seen a great many in my life. 
If it did n't sound ungracious I should say that 
I wish very humbly your people here would leave 
me alone ! " 

Acton looked at her a moment, and she looked 
at him. She was a woman who took being looked 
at remarkably well. " So you have come here 
for rest ? " he asked. 

"So I may say. I came for many of those 
reasons that are no reasons don't you know ? 
and yet that are really the best : to come away, 
to change, to break with everything. When once 
one comes away one must arrive somewhere, and 
I asked myself why I should n't arrive here." 

" You certainly had time on the way ! " said 
Acton, laughing. 

Madame Miinster looked at him again ; and 
then, smiling : " And I have certainly had time, 
since I got here, to ask myself why I came. How- 
ever, I never ask myself idle questions. Here I 
ain, and it seems to me you ought only to thank 
me." 

" When you go away you will see the difficul- 
ties I shall put in your path." 

" You mean to put difficulties in my path ? " 
she asked, rearranging the rosebud in her corsage. 



   

" The greatest of all that of having been so 
agreeable" 

" That I shall be unable to depart? Don't be 
too sure. I have left some very agreeable people 
over there." 

" Ah," said Acton, " but it was to come here, 
where I am I " 

" I did n't know of your existence. Excuse me 
for saying anything so rude ; but, honestly speak- 
ing, I did not. No," the Baroness pursued, " it 
was precisely not to see you such people as you 
that I came." 

" Such people as me ? " cried Acton. 

" I had a sort of longing to come into those nat- 
ural relations which I knew I should find here. 
Over there I had only, as I may say, artificial re- 
lations. Don't you see the difference ? " 

" The difference tells against me," said Acton. 
" I suppose I am an artificial relation." 

" Conventional," declared the Baroness ; " very 
conventional." 

" Well, there is one way in which the relation 
of a lady and a gentleman may always become 
natural," said Acton. 

" You mean by their becoming lovers ? That 
may be natural or not. And at any rate," re- 
joined Eugenia, " nous n'en sommes pas Id ! " 

They were not, as yet ; but a little later, when 



 

she began to go with him to drive, it might almost 
have seemed that they were. He came for her 
several times, alone, in his high " wagon," drawn 
by a pair of charming light-limbed horses. It 
was different, her having gone with Clifford Went- 
worth, who was her cousin, and so much younger. 
It was not to be imagined that she should have 
a flirtation with Clifford, who was a mere shame- 
faced boy, and whom a large section of Boston 
society supposed to be "engaged" to Lizzie Acton. 
Not, indeed, that it was to be conceived that the 
Baroness was a possible party to any flirtation 
whatever ; for she was undoubtedly a married 
lady. It was generally known that her matri- 
monial condition was of the " morganatic " order ; 
but in its natural aversion to suppose that this 
meant anything less than absolute wedlock, the 
conscience of the community took refuge in the 
belief that it implied something even more. 

Acton wished her to think highly of American 
scenery, and he drove her to great distances, pick- 
ing out the prettiest roads and the largest points 
of view. If we are good when we are contented, 
Eugenia's virtues should now certainly have been 
uppermost ; for she found a charm in the rapid 
movement through a wild country, and in a com- 
panion who from time to time made the vehicle 
dip, with a motion like a swallow's flight, over 



   

roads of primitive construction, and who, as she 
felt, would do a great many things that she might 
ask him. Sometimes, for a couple of hours to- 
gether, there were almost no houses ; there were 
nothing but woods and rivers and lakes and hori- 
zons adorned with bright-looking mountains. It 
seemed to the Baroness very wild, as I have said, 
and lovely ; but the impression added something 
to that sense of the enlargement of opportunity 
which had been born of her arrival in the New 
World. 

One day it was late in the afternoon : Acton 
pulled up his horses on the crest of a hill which 
commanded a beautiful prospect. He let them 
stand a long time to rest, while he sat there and 
talked with Madame Miinster. The prospect was 
beautiful in spite of there being nothing human 
within sight. There was a wilderness of woods, 
and the gleam of a distant river, and a glimpse of 
half the hill-tops in Massachusetts. The road had 
a wide, grassy margin, on the further side of which 
there flowed a deep, clear brook ; there were wild 
flowers in the grass, and beside the brook lay the 
trunk of a fallen tree. Acton waited a while ; at 
last a rustic wayfarer came trudging along the 
road. Acton asked him to hold the horses a 
service he consented to render, as a friendly turn 
to a fellow-citizen. Then he invited the Baroness 



 

to descend, and the two wandered away, across 
the grass, and sat down on the log beside the 
brook. 

" I imagine it does n't remind you of Silber- 
stadt," said Acton. It was the first time that he 
had mentioned Silberstadt to her, for particular 
reasons. He knew she had a husband there, and 
this was disagreeable to him ; and, furthermore, 
it had been repeated to him that this husband 
wished to put her away a state of affairs to 
which even indirect reference was to be depre- 
cated. It was true, nevertheless, that the Baron- 
ess herself had often alluded to Silberstadt ; and 
Acton had often wondered why her husband 
wished to get rid of her. It was a curious posi- 
tion for a lady this being known as a repudiated 
wife ; and it is worthy of observation that the 
Baroness carried it off with exceeding grace and 
dignity. She had made it felt, from the first, that 
there were two sides to the question, and that her 
own side, when she should choose to present it, 
would be replete with touching interest. 

" It does not remind me of the town, of course," 
she said, " of the sculptured gables and the Gothic 
churches, of the wonderful Schloss, with its moat 
and its clustering towers. But it has a little look 
of some other parts of the principality. One 
might fancy one's self among those grand old Ger- 


man forests, those legendary mountains ; the sort 
of country one sees from the windows at Shrecken- 
stein." 

" What is Shreckenstein ? " asked Acton. 

" It is a great castle, the summer residence of 
the Reigning Prince." 

'* Have you ever lived there ? " 

" I have stayed there," said the Baroness. Ac- 
ton was silent ; he looked a While at the un castled 
landscape before him. " It is the first time you 
have ever asked me about Silberstadt," she said. 
" I should think you would want to know about 
my marriage ; it must seem to you very strange." 

Acton looked at her a moment. " Now you 
would n't like me to say that ! " 

" You Americans have such odd ways ! " the 
Baroness declared. " You never ask anything 
outright ; there seem to be so many things you 
can't talk about." 

" We Americans are very polite," said Acton, 
whose national consciousness had been complicated 
by a residence in foreign lands, and who yet dis- 
liked to hear Americans abused. "We don't like 
to tread upon people's toes," he said. "But I 
should like very much to hear about your mar- 
riage. Now tell me how it came about." 

" The Prince fell in love with me," replied the 
Baroness simply. " He pressed his suit very hard. 



 

At first he did n't wish me to marry him ; on the 
contrary. But on that basis I refused to listen to 
him. So he offered me marriage in so far as 
be might. I was young, and I confess I was 
rather flattered. But if it were to be done again 
now, I certainly should not accept him." 

" How long ago was this ? " asked Acton. 

" Oh several years," said Eugenia. " You 
should never ask a woman for dates." 

" Why, I should think that when a woman was 
relating history " .... Acton answered. "And 
now he wants to break it off ? " 

" They want him to make a political marriage. 
It is his brother's idea. His brother is very 
clever." 

" They must be a precious pair ! " cried Robert 
Acton. 

The Baroness gave a little philosophic shrug. 
" Que voulez-vous? They are princes. They 
think they are treating me very well. Silberstadt 
is a perfectly despotic little state, and the Reign- 
ing Prince may annul the marriage by a stroke of 
his pen. But he has promised me, nevertheless, 
not to do so without my formal consent." 

" And this you have refused ? " 

" Hitherto. It is an indignity, and I have 
wished at least to make it difficult for them. 
But I have a little document in my writing-desk 



   

which I have only to sign and send back to the 
Prince." 

" Then it will be all over ? " 

The Baroness lifted her hand, and dropped it 
again. " Of course I shall keep my title; at least, 
I shall be at liberty to keep it if I choose. And I 
suppose I shall keep it. One must have a name. 
And I shall keep my pension. It is very small 
it is wretchedly small ; but it is what I live on." 

" And you have only to sign that paper ? " 
Acton asked. 

The Baroness looked at him a moment. " Do 
you urge it ? " 

He got up slowly, and stood with his hands in 
his pockets. " What do you gain by not doing 
it?" 

" I am supposed to gain this advantage that 
if I delay, or temporize, the Prince may come 
back to me, may make a stand against his brother. 
He is very fond of me, and his brother has pushed 
him only little by little." 

" If he were to come back to you," said Acton, 
" would you would you take him back ? " 

The Baroness met his eyes ; she colored just a 
little. Then she rose. " I should have the sat- 
isfaction of saying, 4 Now it is my turn. I break 
with your serene highness ! ' : 

They began to walk toward the carriage. 



 

" Well," said Robert Acton, " it 's a curious 
story ! How did you make his acquaintance ? " 

" I was staying with an old lady an old 
Countess in Dresden. She had been a friend 
of my father's. My father was dead ; I was very 
much alone. My brother was wandering about 
the world in a theatrical troupe." 

" Your brother ought to have stayed with you," 
Acton observed, " and kept you from putting your 
trust in princes." 

The Baroness was silent a moment, and then, 
" He did what he could," she said. " He sent me 
money. The old Countess encouraged the Prince ; 
she was even pressing. It seems to me," Mad- 
ame Minister added, gently, " that under the 
circumstances I behaved very well." 

