



exactly right, and when he sees other children it makes 
him angry like, because he can't run around and play." 

" Was he hurt ? " asked Titania, sympathetically. 

" Yes, dear," and the mother sighed again. " It's a long 
story, all of it. You see you'll find this out for yourself be- 
fore long Owen drinks now and then. If it wasn't for that 
I'd be a happier woman, though I do say Owen has never 
struck me, and he's provided well at the worst of times. 
But when Ranny was about three he wasn't very well, and 
kinder fretty, as children often are. Owen came home late 
one night, an' had been drinking, an' wanted to tumble into 
bed with all his clothes on, an' I wouldn't let him. Mebbe 
t'would have been better ; " and Mrs Thomas wiped her 
eyes with the corner of her apron. " The baby woke and
cried, an' he struck it. I interfered. I couldn't lay there 
an' see my own flesh an' blood abused for nothing. And
then we had a reg'lar quarrel, and he made a spring at the 
baby, and threw it across the room. It cried and sobbed 
till it was all beat out, and had a great bump on its forehead. 
The next day it had an awful fit, and was droopy for ever 
so long afterwards, when its back took to growing out, and 
Owen he knows he hurt it that night. And though it's 
a poor 'flicted thing, an' ugly to look at, it's dear to me. 
Owen's pretty good to him most of the time. Then he's 
away a great deal, an' I get along. But, goodness ! You 
ain't eat a bit ! " 

" I can't,' cried Titania, sick at heart. She was thinking 
of the horrible fate of having this man for her master. 

" Don't say a word to Owen. He wouldn't like me to 
tell. But it isn't the poor lamb's fault that he ain't like 
other children. Let me give you just a mouthful of wine, 
it will help you up a Int." 

At this juncture Mr. Thomas entered in high, good 
spirits, having only partaken of the glass that cheers, and 
raised some money also. The man had an ambition to at- 
tain to the position of a theatrical manager and lessea 





He had made two fortunate hits in his life, and lost th 
good results of both through the demon of intemperance. 
During the past winter he had been quite prosperous again, 
and had resolved now upon starring it with a Variety 
Troupe, having made some promising arrangements, and 
secured attractive, if not first-class talent. He hoped to 
make a star of Queen Titania, and had overbid the manager 
of another troupe for her. 

He was pleased to find the house quiet, and his wife 
thus careful of his protege's welfare. Then he bade her 
put on her hat, and come with him, as she was to have a 
practice at one of the theatres. 

Titania shrank from the task with painful intensity. 
When they reached the place, she found there had been 
a rehearsal of a play, and a few loungers were still hanging 
about. The dim lights gave the stage a weird, dingy ap- 
pearance, and the vast auditorium was as sepulchral as the 
catacombs. Various articles were scattered about. The 
walls of canvas, and iron, and timber, with their attendant 
machinery, made grim goblins and fantastic scenes, while 
bits of glitter, here and there, looked drearily common- 
place and tawdry. Coming from the warmth and sun- 
shine it appalled the unaccustomed eye, and was almost 
like entering an inferno. 

' Hillo I Here's Thomas ! " cried a voice that was warm 
and human. " We were just going out, old fellow. We've 
had our festival of high art. Whose stray kid is that, with 
her clouds of gorgeous golden hair, if I may be bold 
enough to ask." 

" There's little you'd stop at for lack of boldness," was 
the curt rejoinder. " Be off with the lot of you. This 
stage is mine for the next hour." 

" How proud we are ! How fond to show our clothes, 
and call them rich and new," recited the first speaker, in a 
funny, breathless tone, with no pauses or emphasis. " Poor 





sheep and silk-worm I Thomas will have nothing to do 
with you until you are satin and broadcloth." 

"Get out with your chaffing;" was the impatient an. 
ewer. 

A young woman darted forward at that moment, clasp- 
ing Titania to her bosom, and kissing her rapturously. 

"Oh, you angel I" she cried. "I was sure, after two 
good looks at you, though you have forgotten me, I dare 
say. It's Barretti's little Queen. You're going to take 
her to Canada, Thomas ? " 

" Well, it's my business, I s'pose I " 

" Oh, you needn't be snappy ! It's dangerous in dog-days. 
Lu, come and look at this child. She's the one I've been 
raving about. You never saw anything so handsome in 
your life. Kiss me, little darling." 

" Then she wasn't Barretti's own child ? What a fool 
that woman was to marry Chippenham ! '' 

" I shall always think she was Barretti's child," said the 
first speaker, pointedly. 

" Come, stop your everlasting gabbling, and clear out," 
said Thomas, gruffly. ' Time is precious, and the child is 
all out of training. We are to start on Tuesday." 

" Oh, do let us stay ! " pleaded a chorus of voices. 

"Not one of you. Come, I haven't interfered with you 
any, and I'm not going to devour the child. You'll see 
her again. She can't stand this rabble." 

" Rabble, indeed ! " with a scornful laugh. " You'll be 
glad of the rabble some night." 

" Will you go ! " and now an angry light shot up in the 
eyes of Owen Thomas. " The child shan't so much as 
take off her hat while you stay." 

They saw he was in earnest, and, after a few imperti- 
nences, took their way out through the side-scenes. He 
followed to make sure they were really gone, and then 
arranged the stage for her well known rope-dancing. 





" Oh, I cannot I " she cried with sudden vehemence. " I 
cannot do it ever again ! I am afraid ! " 

" We'll see, I guess. I haven't hired you for nothing ; " 
was the reply. 







CHAPTER XIV. 

THE CLANK OF THE CHAIN. 

TITANIA stood shivering and trembling. This man had 
no personal magnetism like Dick Bridge r. He could only 
inspire her with repulsion and fear. She was weary and 
nervous. The parting with Kate, the long, lonely after- 
noon in a strange place, the change of that morning, her 
fright with the terrible Ranny, and the dread of her new 
master, seemed to deprive her alike of nerve and physical 
strength. 

" You've not been on the stage since Barretti's death," 
he questioned, abruptly. 

"No. And I can't, without Dick, my dear Dick!" 
and Titania gave way to a violent fit of weeping. 

" See here ! " and Thomas confronted her fiercely 
" I've hired you and I'm going to pay a big price, too, 
more'n you're worth, may be. Chip's a blasted old screw, 
when he gets a chance, like all beggars ! Just wait until 
the tables are turned it won't do for him to ask favors 
of me ; " and Thomas shook his fist at his imaginary ad- 
versary. " There, I don't expect much of you to-day, but you 
see there's precious little time. It 'll all come back to you. 
Don't be afraid ! Why, I've seen you make people hold 
their breath, at some of your feats. Come ! " 

Would he beat her if she refused ? 

" There isn't any music. I didn't think how inspiring it 
was; but I don't expect you to do much dancing. It's the 
posturing mostly that I want to get at. Balance yourself." 

She attempted it without a word, and once there, the 
fear of accident gave her strength ; but it was the daring 





of one in ghastly peril. More than once she almost toppled 
over. The wonderful grace remained, but the brilliant 
courage quite failed her. 

"You must do better than that!" Thomas said sharply. 
"I think the lights, and music, and applause have some- 
thing to do with it. Now I want you to try a new feat." 

He brought out a small platform, about six feet high, 
and placed it in the middle of the stage. On this he sat a 
sort of pedestal, nearly as high again. The top was flat, 
with a diameter two feet, or so. 

"Run up this ladder," and he placed one against the 
base. 

She obeyed, but paused on the platform. 

"Go on just steady yourself with your hands." 

"Not up to the top ! " she exclaimed, aghast. 

"Yes, to the top. Don't stop to think about it. You've 
done more dangerous thinsrs." 

"Oh, I can't!'' and she shrank back in dismay. 

" Get up, and no fooling, if you don't want your neck 
broke!" and the man uttered a fierce oath. Then, seeing 
her terrified eyes and ashen face, he gave a forced laugh. 

" Come, my girl," and there was a more persuasive ac- 
cent in his tone, "I don't mean to be rough, nor frighten 
you, but the thing has got to be done ! And you won't 
mind it after a time or two. Here, let me steady you a 
bit. Now if you feel dizzy-like, or fancy yourself going, 
make a spring to my arms. I'll catch you, never fear." 

She stepped to the top, and he handed her the balancing- 
pole. 

" You must leam to do without that. There ! It isn't 
BO bad, after all. I have some stunning new feats in my 
mind. The public must have a variety, you see." 

She drew a slow breath, as if a feather's weight might 
unsettle her. Perched way up there, with the dreary 
twilight-waste on every hand, and the dim, ghost-haunted 





corners ready to send out some lurking phantom, she could 
hardly resist a scream of terror. 

"Now I'll lower a ring for you to catch. Drop your 
pole and hold fast of that." 

Titania clutched it like a drowning man. 

" That will steady you, and give you courage. Now I 
want you to pose on one foot, a little more, there. 
Now try the other. Let me see ; if I whistle I think you 
can dance. I'll have some music to-morrow. Now let's 
begin." 

It was a rather spiritless performance, Titania felt. 
Thomas had the good sense to make no discouraging com- 
ment. The little face looked frightfully white. 

"There, you may come down now. It wasn't so bad 
after all, but you 'll have to do it a sight better than that. 
Gad ! just think of an audience watching such a mite of a 
thing way up there, and not knowing whether she 'll come 
down alive or not. It's like the harrowin' part of a novel, 
when the hero's in some awful fix. People like that kind 
of suspense." 

He had her safely in his arms, but the heart beat fear- 
fully against his shoulder. 

" Sit down and rest. Here's a sup of wine for you ; 
why, you ain't much in the way of daring, after all. I hope 
I shan't lose money on you, and I must make a lot if you 
pay. I've a chap engaged that will beat Barretti all to 
nothing." 

Titania shuddered as she listened to the man's loud, im- 
portant voice, whose tones were exaggerated by the space 
and ghostly quiet. 

" There, you feel better now, don't you ? The wine put 
a little color in your face. Now I want you to try it 
again." 

She had hoped the cruel test was over, for this time. 
One glance she gave at the dizzy height, and then she 
almost shrieked, 





" Oh, don't make me ! I am tired, sick ! I should 
throw myself off, and be killed I Only wait until to-morrow. 
I will try then, indeed I will. Let me go home, and go to 
bed!" 

Her beseeching voice might have moved the mythical 
heart of a stone, and her strained, despairing face did touch 
the man. 

" Well," he returned, ungraciously, " but it won't do for 
you to cut up many such shines. I'll let you off to-day, 
you're a bit strange, I know. Get your hat, and come. 
Women always are the devil for contrariness, it's born in 
'em. But don't you try this trick over too often, or you'll 
see who is master I " 

She followed him through the tortuous piles of stage 
trumpery, and they emerged to daylight. Thomas kept a 
sharp eye on her, but he need not have feared. She was 
too spiritless to escape. 

The streets were full of children at play, with now and 
then a brawling mother rushing out to meet a little one, or 
a shrill voice calling from a window. Was everybody 
cruel to children ? It seemed so in her small experience. 
But Dick had loved her. 

Indeed, her life with Dick Bridger was clean and whole- 
some. Beyond the inseparable hardships of the training 
he had been indulgent. He had cared for her physical 
comforts with something beyond the mere reference to 
bodily well-being, tenderness, for the man was not hard 
or cruel from any delight in torture. When a point must 
be attained he took the shortest and most decisive way, 
even if it were sharp. 

Though the months with Kate had been delightfully 
luxurious, still she had missed the strong, sustaining 
affection. But to be plunged into this dreary desert ! 

" If I might go to my own room ? " she said, timidly, to 
Mrs. Thomas, as they entered the house. 

"Why, child, wait up and have some supper, do. 





Ranny's real good-natured now, and wants to see the 
pretty girl. I don't believe but what you could make 
quite friends with him. Come and see." 

"Oh no! no!" Titania cried convulsively. "I am so 
tired ! I do not want any supper. Please let me go to 
bed." 

"Let the child do as she likes!" said Owen Thomas, 
gruffly. 

" But it's so early." Then she caught sight of the tired 
little face. " Well," she continued, " maybe it will be best. 
There's nothing like a good rest, only it looks so queer to 
see a child willing to go to bed before dark. Come along, 
then. Your things are all up- stairs." 

She followed her hostess to the third floor, an old- 
fashioned attic, with dormer windows, the house being 
shared with another family. The Thomases had but one 
room up here. It was clean, but close and warm, and the 
bed looked inviting. 

" I expect you feel a bit strange, poor thing," and there 
was a motherly kindness in the voice. " Still, 'twould a 
been different if the woman that married what was her 
name ? had been any real kin. Blood's thicker 'n water, I 
always say, and you can't feel for anybody quite as you 
can for your own. I often think if I was dead there 'd be 
no one to care for Ranny, for fathers never seem to have 
the same feeling," and the illogical woman paused. 
" Shan't I help you take off your clothes ? " 

" No," said Titania, " And if you wouldn't mind going 
down-stairs." 

" O dear, no. But you're a queer little thing. Suppose 
I bring you up some tea ? " 

" No ! I don't want anything." 

" You're dead tired, that's it. I hope you'll rest comfortably. 
Good-by till morning." 

After she had gone a few steps she came back. 





" Maybe you'll leel safer to lock your door on the in 
side," she added, and changed the key. 

Titania locked it immediately. Then she threw hersell 
on the bed, and gave way to a flood of bitter, passionate 
tears. So young, and so miserable ! Cast out of home 
and love a thing for public amusement merely. How 
hideous it was! There were dim and undefined strivings 
of womanhood within, chaotic fancies, and remembrances 
that eluded her on every hand. Was life always to be 
thus? 

She hardly realized until now what a blow Kate's mar- 
riage had been to her, and she hated Mr. Chippenham 
with an unreasoning, impotent, but enduring hate. What 
would he do after he had taken all Kate's money ? Oh, 
if Kate could come back and care for her while she went 
on the stage, and if she could earn money enough for them 
both. And what right had Mr. Chippenham to sell her 
to this man ; for to her childish understanding she appeared 
as truly sold as the pretty dogs that changed owners now 
and then. First it had been Mother Mell who wanted to 
get rid of her, and then that vile, wolfish-looking man in 
the hideous den and Dick dear Dick oh, why did 
God take him away ! She did not hold against him the 
blows and severity, she remembered only the love, the 
care, the tenderness, and cried as if her heart were break- 
ing, until she fell asleep, still in her dress, overcome by 
sheer exhaustion. 

She felt rested the next morning, and the elasticity 
of childhood triumphed over its transient despair. Mrs. 
Thomas was kind, and Ranny not quite so terrible. The 
practice, too, was under more auspicious circumstances, 
and she pleased her new master better. 

But it was a trying change from her recent life of lux- 
ury and leisure. Perhaps it was well that the blow had 
come so suddenly, for to have brooded over it would have 
invested it with terrors too bitter to be borne. 





Escape might have presented itself as feasible if she had 
known more of the world, or less. But her past experi- 
ences had not been of the reassuring kind, and there was 
no one to whom she could turn. You cannot well con- 
ceive of a more friendless little being than this enchanting 
Queen Titania, who, if she had only known the magical 
word lying in her possession, like a rare gem picked from 
the highway, upon which no sign or seal of value has yet 
been set, would open the door of friendship and give her 
the delights of home, perchance lead to the restoration of 
that past, dim now even in dreams. 

Oh, how the cruel old world mocks us, after all J 

Yet Titania found friends, such as they were, among the 
party destined to be her companions for some time to 
come. Her sadness was beguiled by the excitement, and 
though her strength was severely taxed by the rehearsals, 
still she delighted to watch the others, and her child- 
ish heart was gladdened by the kisses and compliments 
showered upon her. Jane Hewlett she met again, and 
made Dolly St. John's aquaintance, who was one of the 
eager, rapturous, fun-loving sort. Mademoiselle Julie 
Pearl condescended to meet with them a time or two. 
A vain, supercilious beauty, who some way had gained a 
hold on the public, and of whom wonderful things were 
predicted. 

" She'll spoil the whole thing, you see if she don't ; w 
said Jane Hewlett, in an aside. " Thomas made a big mis- 
take when he engaged her ; but I'm not going to take any 
of her airs or impudence, I'll let him know that ! I can 
get an engagement almost anywhere, and I'll keep money 
enough by me to come home if I don't like starring in the 
provinces." 

Indeed, it was a pity that Mr. Thomas had not used 
more judgment in the selection of his materials, but 'the 
Pearl,' as she was termed, possessed a flavor of newness 
that had been most captivating through the winter. 


Titania, meanwhile, became quite attached to Mrs, 
Thomas. Ranny's moods were peculiarly variable and 
vicious, but Titania managed to get through, with no more 
Berious incident than having a handful of hair torn out by 
the roots. Several times, indeed, he was quite amiable, 
but she stood in deadly fear of his treachery, and was glad 
to say adieu. 
