him crossed, and she came to his help against herself 
and his father, since it was only supposing the case. 
" I presume," she said, " that we could have looked 
at it as a missionary work." 

"It isn 't a missionary work, mother," answered 
Halleck, severely, " in any sense that you mean. I 
should go down there to teach, and I should be paid 
for it. And I want to say at once that they have no 
yellow-fever nor earthquakes, and that they have not 
had a revolution for six years. The country 's per 
fectly safe every way, and so wholesome that it will 
be a good thing for me. But I shouldn 't expect to 
convert anybody." 

" Of course not, Ben," said his mother, soothingly. 

" I hope you wouldn 't object to it if it were a mis 
sionary work," said one of the elder sisters. 

" No, Anna," returned Ben. 

" I merely wanted to know, " said Anna. 

" Then I hope you 're satisfied, Anna," Olive cut in. 
" Ben won 't refuse to convert the Uruguayans if they 
apply in a proper spirit." 

" I think Anna had a right to ask," said Miss Louisa, 
the eldest. 





" Oh, undoubtedly, Miss Halleck," said Olive. " I 
like to see Ben reproved for misbehavior to his mother, 
myself." 

Her father laughed at Olive 's prompt defence. 
" Well, it 's a cause that we 've all got to respect ; but 
I don 't see why you should go, Ben, as I said before. 
It would do very well for some young fellow who had 
no settled prospects, but you 've got your duties here. 
I presume you looked at it in that light. As you 
said in your letter, you 've fooled away so much time 
on leather and law " 

" I shall never amount to anything in the law ! " Ben 
broke out. His mother looked at him in anxiety ; his 
father kept a steady smile on his face ; Olive sat alert 
for any chance that offered to put down her elder sis 
ters, who drew in their breath, and grew silently a 
little primmer. " I 'm not well " 

" Oh, I know you 're not, dear," interrupted his 
mother, glad of another chance to abet him. 

" I 'm not strong enough to go on with the line of 
work I 've marked out, and I feel that I 'm throwing 
away the feeble powers I have." 

His father answered with less surprise than Hal 
leck had evidently expected, for he had thrown out his 
words with a sort of defiance ; probably the old man 
had watched him closely enough to surmise that it 
might come to this with him at last. At any rate, lie 
was able to say, without seeming to assent too readily, 
"Well, well, give up the law, then, and come back 
into leather, as you call it. Or take up something 
else. We don 't wish to make anything a burden to 
you ; but take up some useful work at home. There 
are plenty of things to be done." 

" Not for me," said Halleck, gloomily. 

" Oh, yes, there are," said the old man. 

" I see you are not willing to have me go," said 
Halleck, rising in uncontrollable irritation. "But I 
wish you wouldn 't all take this tone with me ! " 



" We haven 't taken any tone with you, Ben," said 
his mother, with pleading tenderness. 

" I think Anna has decidedly taken a tone," said 
Olive. 

Anna did not retort, but " What, tone ?" demanded 
Louisa, in her behalf. 

" Hush, children," said their mother. 

" Well, well," suggested his father to Ben. " Think 
it over, think it over. There 's no hurry." 

" I 've thought it over ; there is hurry," retorted 
Halleck. "If I go, I must go at once." 

His mother arrested her thread, half drawn through 
the seam, letting her hand drop, while she glanced at 
him. 

" It isn 't so much a question of your giving up the 
law, Ben, as of your giving up your family and going 
so far away from us all," said his father. " That 's 
what I shouldn 't like." 

" I don 't like that, either. But I can 't help it." 
He added, " Of course, mother, I shall not go with 
out your full and free consent. You and father must 
settle it between you." He fetched a quick, worried 
sigh as he put his hand on the door. 

" Ben isn 't himself at all," said Mrs. Halleck, with 
tears in her eyes, after he had left the room. 

" No," said her husband. " He 's restless. He 'll  
get over this idea in a few days." He urged this 
hope against his wife 's despair, and argued himself 
into low spirits. 

" I don 't believe but what it would be the best 
thing for his health, may be," said Mrs. Halleck, at 
the end. 

"I 've always had my doubts whether he would 
ever come to anything in the law," said the father. 

The elder sisters discussed Halleck 's project apart 
between themselves, as their wont was with any 
family interest, and they bent over a map of South 



 

America, so as to hide what they were doing from 
their mother. 

Olive had left the room by another door, and she 
intercepted Halleck before he reached his own. 

" What is the matter, Ben ? " she whispered. 

" Nothing," he answered, coldly. But he added, 
" Come in, Olive." 

She followed him, and hovered near after he turned 
up the gas. 

" I can 't stand it here, I must go," he said, turning 
a dull, weary look upon her. 

" Who was at the Elm House that you knew this 
last time ? " she asked, quickly. 

" Laura Dixmore isn 't driving me away, if you 
mean that," replied Halleck. 

" I couldn 't believe it was she ! I should have 
despised you if it was. But I shall hate her, whoever 
it was." 

Halleck sat down before his table, and his sister 
sank upon the corner of a chair near it, and looked 
wistfully at him. " I know there is some one!" 

" If you think I 've been fool enough to offer my 
self to any one, Olive, you 're very much mistaken." 

" Oh, it needn 't have come to that," said Olive, 
with indignant pity. 

" My life 's a failure here," cried Halleck, moving his 
head uneasily from side to side. " I feel somehow as 
if I could go out there and pick up the time I 've lost. 
Great Heaven ! " he cried, " if I were only running 
away from some innocent young girl 's rejection, what 
a happy man I should be ! " 

" It 's some horrid married thing, then, that 's been 
flirting with you ! " 

He gave a forlorn laugh. " I d almost confess it to 
please you, Olive. But I d prefer to get out of the 
matter without lying, if I could. Why need you sup 
pose any reason but the sufficient one I 've given ? 



 

Don 't afflict me ! don 't imagine things about me, don 't 
make a mystery of me ! I 've been blunt and awk 
ward, and I 've bungled the business with father and 
mother ; but I want to get away because I 'm a mis 
erable fraud here, and I think I might rub on a good 
while there before I found myself out again." 

" Ben," demanded Olive, regardless of his words, 
" what have you been doing ? " 

" The old story, nothing." 

" Is that true, Ben ? " 

" You used to be satisfied with asking once, Olive." 

" You haven 't been so wicked, so careless, as to get 
some poor creature in love with you, and then want to 
run away from the misery you 've made ? " 

" I suppose if I look it there 's no use denying it," 
said Halleck, letting his sad eyes meet hers, and smil 
ing drearily. " You insist upon having a lady in the 
case ? " 

" Yes. But I see you won 't tell me anything ; and 
I won 't afflict you. Only I 'm afraid it 's just some 
silly thing, that you 've got to brooding over, and that 
you 'll  let drive you away." 

" Well, you have the comfort of reflecting that I 
can 't get away, whatever the pressure is." 

" You know better than that, Ben ; and so do I. 
You know that, if you haven 't got father and mother 's 
consent already, it 's only because you haven 't had the 
heart to ask for it. As far as that 's concerned, you 're 
gone already. But I hope you won 't go without 
thinking it over, as father says, and talking it over. 
I hate to have you seem unsteady and fickle-minded, 
when I know you 're not ; and I 'm going to set myself 
against this project till I know what 's driving you 
from us, or till I 'm sure that it 's something worth 
while. You needn 't expect that I shall help to make 
it easy for you ; I shall help to make it hard." 

Her loving looks belied her threats ; if the others 



 

could not resist Ben when any sort of desire showed 
itself through his habitual listlessness, how could she, 
who understood him best and sympathized with him 
most ? " There was something I was going to talk to 
you about, to-night, if you hadn 't scared us all with 
this ridiculous scheme, and ask you whether you 
couldn 't do something." She seemed to suggest the 
change of interest with the hope of winning his 
thoughts away from the direction they had taken; 
but he listened apathetically, and left her to go fur 
ther or not as she chose. " I think," she added ab 
ruptly, "that some trouble is hanging over those 
wretched Hubbards." 

" Some new one ? " asked Halleek, with sad sar 
casm, turning his eyes towards her, as if with the res 
olution of facing her. 

" You know he 's left his place on that newspaper." 

" Yes, I heard that when I was at home before." 

" There are some very disagreeable stories about it. 
They say he was turned away by Mr. Witherby for 
behaving badly, for printing something he oughtn 't 
to have done." 

" That was to have been expected," said Halleck. 

" He hasn 't found any other place, and Marcia says 
he gets very little work to do. He must be running 
into debt, terribly. I feel very anxious about them. 
I don 't know what they 're living on." 

" Probably on some money I lent him," said Hal 
leck, quietly. " I lent him fifteen hundred in the 
spring. It ought to make him quite comfortable for 
the present." 

" Oh, Ben ! Why did you lend him money ? You 
might have known he wouldn 't do any good with it." 

Halleck explained how and why the loan had been 
made, and added : " If he 's supporting his family with 
it, he 's doing some good. I lent it to him for her 
sake." 

 



 

Halleck looked hardily into his sister 's face, but he 
dropped his eyes when she answered, simply : " Yes, 
of course. But I don 't believe she knows anything 
about it ; and I in glad of it : it would only add 
to her trouble. She worships you, Ben ! " 

" Does she ? " 

" She seeins to think you are perfect, and she never 
comes here but she asks when you 're to be home. 
I suppose she thinks you have a good influence on 
that miserable husband of hers. He 's going from 
bad to worse, I guess. Father heard that lie is bet 
ting on the election. That 's what he 's doing with 
your money." 

"It would be somebody else 's money if it wasn 't 
mine," said Halleck. " Bartley Hubbard must live, 
and he must have the little excitements that make 
life agreeable." 

" Poor thing ! " sighed Olive, " I don 't know what 
she would do if she heard that you were going away. 
To hear her talk, you would think she had been 
counting the days and hours till you got back. It 's 
ridiculous, the way she goes on with mother ; asking 
everything about you, as if she expected to make 
Bartley Hubbard over again on your pattern. I 
should hate to have anybody think me such a saint as 
she does you. But there isn 't much danger, thank 
goodness ! I could laugh, sometimes, at the way 
she questions us all about you, and is so delighted 
when she finds that you and that wretch have any 
thing in common. But it 's all too miserably sad. 
She certainly is the most single-hearted creature 
alive," continued Olive, reflectively. " Sometimes she 
scares me with her innocence. I don 't believe that 
even her jealousy ever suggested a wicked idea to 
her: she 's furious because she feels the injustice 
of giving so much more than he does. She hasn 't 
really a thought for anybody else : I do believe that 



 

if she were free to choose from now till doomsday 
she would always choose Bartley Hubbard, bad as 
she knows him to be, And if she were a -widow, 
and anybody else proposed to her, she would be 
utterly shocked and astonished." 

" Very likely," said Halleck, absently. 

" I feel very unhappy about her," Olive resumed. 
" I know that she 's anxious and troubled all the time. 
Cant you do something, Ben ? Have a talk with 
that disgusting thing, and see if you can 't put him 
straight again, somehow ? " 

" No ! " exclaimed Halleck, bursting violently from 
his abstraction. " I shall have nothing to do with 
them ! Let him go his own way and the sooner he 
goes to the I won 't interfere, I can t, I mustn 't ! 
I wonder at you, Olive ! " He pushed away from 
the table, and went limping about the room, searching 
here and there for his hat and stick, which were on 
the desk where he had put them, in plain view. As 
he laid hand on them at last, he met his sister 's as 
tonished eyes. " If I interfered, I should not inter 
fere because I cared for him. at all ! " he cried. 

" Of course not," said Olive. " But I don 't see any 
thing to make you wonder at me about that." 

" It would be because I cared for her " 

" Certainly ! You didn 't suppose I expected you, 
to interfere from any other motive ? " 

He stood looking at her in stupefaction, with his 
hand on his hat and stick, like a man who doubts 
whether he has heard aright. Presently a shiver 
passed over him, another light came into his eyes, 
and he said quietly, " I 'm going out to see Atherton." 

" To-night ? " said his sister, accepting provisionally, 
as women do, the apparent change of subject. " Don 't 
go to-night, Ben ! You 're too tired." 

" I 'm not tired. I intended to see him to-night, 
at any rate. I w r ant to talk over this South Ameii- 



 

can scheme with him." He put on his hat, and moved 
quickly toward the door. 

" Ask him about the Hubbards," said Olive. " Per 
haps he can tell you something." 

" I don 't want to know anything. I shall ask him 
nothing." 

She slipped between him and the door. " Ben, you 
haven 't heard anything against poor Marcia, have 
you?" 

"No!" 

" You don 't think she 's to blame in any way for 
his going wrong, do you ? 

" How could I ? " 

" Then I don 't understand why you won 't do any 
thing to help her." 

He looked at her again, and opened his lips to 
speak once, but closed them before he said, " I 've 
got my own affairs to worry me. Isn 't that reason 
enough for not interfering in theirs ? " 

" Not for you, Ben." 

" Then I don 't choose to mix myself up in other 
people 's misery. I don 't like it, as you once said." 

" But you can 't help it sometimes, as you said." 

"I can this time. Olive. Don 't you see, "he 
began. 

" I see there 's something you won 't tell me. But 
I shall find it out." She threatened him half play 
fully. 

"I wish you could," he answered. "Then perhaps 
you d let me know." She opened the door for him 
now, and as he passed out he said gently, "I am 
tired, but I shan 't  begin to rest till I have had this 
talk with Atherton. I had better go." 

" Yes," Olive assented, " you d better." She added 
in banter, " You 're altogether too mysterious to be of 
much comfort at home." 

The family heard him close the outside door be- 



 

hind him after Olive came back to them, and she 
explained, " He 's gone out to talk it over with Mr. 
Atherton." 

His father gave a laugh of relief. "Well, if he 
leaves it to Atherton, I guess we needn 't worry 
about it." 

" The child isn 't at all well," said his mother. 



 



XXXIII. 

HALLECK met Atherton at the door of his room with 
his hat and coat on. " Why, Halleck ! I was just 
going to see if you had come home ! " 

" You needn 't now," said Halleck, pushing by him 
into the room. " I want to see you, Atherton, on 
business." 

Atherton took off his hat, and closed the door with 
one hand, while he slipped the other arm out of his 
overcoat sleeve. " Well, to tell the truth, I was 
going to mingle a little business myself with the 
pleasure of seeing you." He turned up the gas in his 
drop-light, and took the chair from which he had 
looked across the table at Halleck, when they talked 
there before. " It 's the old subject," he said, with a 
sense of repetition in the situation. " I learn from 
Witherby that Hubbard has taken that money of 
yours out of the Events, and from what I hear else 
where he is making ducks and drakes of it on elec 
tion bets. What shall you do about it ? " 

" Nothing," said Halleck. 

"Oh! Very well," returned Athertou, with the ef 
fect of being a little snubbed, but resolved to take 
his snub professionally. He broke out, however, in 
