"I shall be most happy to accept your very kind invitation," replied
Colonel Hungerford, promptly.

By this time the steamer he had engaged to take his "people," as he
called them, like one of the patriarchs of old, came alongside. The
four planters had a consultation, as to what disposition should be made
of the servants, and the business manager of one of them was appointed
to take the entire charge of the party. The other planters were going
to New Orleans, and the same steamer was to convey them there.

In less than half an hour the boat started, and we restored things to
their former condition on board of the Sylvania and Islander. We lashed
boats again, and restored the bridge from one vessel to the other. All
hands were employed in cleaning up the Sylvania; and I asked Captain
Blastblow not to allow any of his passengers or crew to come on board
till this had been done. He complied with my request, and sent all his
crew on board to help.

We did not get under way until this was done, as Moses wanted to
overhaul the engine a little, for he declared that such a wrenching as
he had given the machine was enough to start half the nuts and bolts.
My father remained in the pilot-house talking with the planter. But the
subject of their conversation was the inundation. I lay upon the sofa,
resting myself, and rather dreading to meet the people on board the
Islander, for I had been praised enough, and this sort of thing was
becoming more embarrassing. As the hands were drowning the decks again,
Washburn brought the family of Colonel Hungerford into the pilot-house,
which was about the only place for them, unless they went into the
cabin.

The planter introduced his wife, son and daughter to my father and
myself. In the daughter I saw a very beautiful young lady; the son was
very affable and pleasant, and the father and mother were not less so.
All of them began to express their obligations to me, and I replied as
cheerfully as I could.

"We shall have a very pleasant party up to Baton Rouge, Colonel
Hungerford," I ventured to say, in order to turn the current of the
conversation.

"It's no use, Blanche," said the colonel to his daughter, who had been
the last to speak. "Captain Alick won't let you speak of any
obligation, and he won't even give me his address."

"I don't think he has any address in particular at present," interposed
my father, "unless it be on the high seas or the Great Lakes. I have
not yet made a home in America, as I intend to do. When we have one, we
shall be very glad to have you discharge whatever sense of obligation
you may feel by making us a visit; and we shall judge of the depth of
the obligation by the length of the visit."

"Upon my word, that would be an odd way to discharge an obligation; and
we should be obliged to stay with you all the year round," replied the
planter.

The young lady had snapping black eyes; and I saw that she wanted to
say something, but was restrained by the newness of the acquaintance.

"If we had got out on the river half an hour sooner, we might have
saved imposing ourselves upon your hospitality, for a large steamer
went up then," said Colonel Hungerford. "She stopped a little while at
the crevasse, I am told, but finding she could do no good, she went
on."

"I am glad she did, as otherwise she would have cheated us out of your
pleasant company," replied my father.

"You are very kind, Major Garningham," replied the colonel. "I confess
I am greatly interested in your steamer, for I never have seen one like
it before that I can remember."

Washburn reported that the engine was in order, and that the cleaning
process was finished. I directed the pilot to blow his whistle and go
ahead. In a few minutes we were again stemming the tide of the
Mississippi. The crowd on the levees and the steamers honored us with a
series of rousing cheers, to which the pilot replied with the steam
whistle.

As soon as we were fairly out of the vicinity of the late exciting
scene, the passengers of the Islander, including Mrs. Shepard, came on
board. They were all presented to the planter and his family, and of
course there was a great deal to say about the inundation, including
the details of the escape of the people on the knoll. I found that the
party were soon the best of friends, and I went into my room to lie
down. I was so tired that I dropped asleep.

I was awakened by Captain Blastblow coming into my room. He seemed to
be considerably excited; but I was sure he would not be where he was if
any accident had happened to either steamer.

"Sorry to disturb you, Captain Alick, but this has been a very exciting
time; and while we were all so busy, your two prisoners have taken to
themselves legs or wings, and cleared out," said he, with a lugubrious
gaze at me, as I sat upon the bed.

"Cleared out!" I exclaimed. "Where have they gone?"

"That's what bothers me. I kept my eye on them for a good while, but
they behaved so well that I soon forgot all about them as we became so
absorbed in the fate of the Sylvania," replied the captain, blankly. "I
know I ought to have kept an eye on them to the end, and I am to blame.
But it wasn't quite human to mind much about those rascals when we
expected every minute to see your steamer fall back and be swamped. I
had both boats ready to drop into the water."

"Gone, have they?" I repeated. "Haven't you any idea where they went?
Your steamer was not near the levee, and they would not have gone
ashore there, if it had been."

"I can only guess where they went. Not long before you got out of that
hole, a large passenger steamer came alongside, and held on at our
bowsprit-bitts awhile. She kept her wheels working all the time, while
I was telling the captain what had happened. I am inclined to think
that Cornwood and Boomsby stepped on board of her before she left. I
found just now that their baggage was gone; and they could easily have
got it out of the fore-cabin while I was talking to the captain. I am
sorry for it, and if it hadn't been for that break, and your running
into that hole, it would not have happened."

"How far ahead of us is that steamer?" I asked.

"She must be all of two hours ahead," replied Captain Blastblow.

"I am sorry we have lost them, but it can't be helped," I added, as I
led the way out into the pilot-house where the passengers were
assembled. I told my father of the escape of the robbers, and asked him
if the money was still safe, meaning the four thousand dollars.

"It must be, for it was in my trunk in the Sylvania all the time you
were inside of the levee," replied he. "But I will make sure of it." He
went down into the after cabin, and returned with the intelligence that
it was where he had put it. This was some relief; and we dropped the
matter because we could not do anything about the escape of the
rascals. I felt rather cheap about the matter, because I had not
delivered them to the police at New Orleans.

While I was asleep, my father and Mr. Tiffany had directed Cobbington
to remove their portmanteaus, as they called their trunks, from the
grand state-rooms. They reported to me, and I assigned one of them to
the planter and his wife, and the other to Miss Blanche. They were
delighted with the apartments. Owen insisted upon giving up his room to
Mr. Tiffany; and there were berths enough for my father and my cousin.
Our cabin was about full again.

I saw that my father was very much pleased with the planter and his
family; and I think one might have gone all over the country to find
people more agreeable.

Supper was ready by the time the passengers had taken possession of
their rooms and berths. I took the captain's place in the cabin for
this occasion, though I often did so while we were in the river and the
Sylvania was in charge of the pilot. Colonel Hungerford sat next to me
on one side, and I told him all about the robbery of the bank
messenger, and the escape of our prisoners.

He thought it very probable that they had taken the steamer bound up
the river.

"Donaldsonville is the next town of any importance; and there we can
telegraph to some place ahead of the steamer, and have the robbers
detained by the police. Does any one remember the name of the steamer?"
asked the colonel.

Miss Margie Tiffany remembered that it was the Queen of the South. Owen
was so reckless as to say he was glad the prisoners had got away, and
he hoped they would succeed in eluding the police. We were yachting on
the Mississippi, and we could not bother with arresting and holding
prisoners. We had the money they had stolen, and that was enough.

"We may find the Queen of the South at Donaldsonville when we get
there," continued Colonel Hungerford. "It is seventy-four miles from
St. Charles, which is the nearest post-office to my plantation. When
shall we get there?"

"Not until early in the morning," I replied. "We can't get along very
fast against this current."

"The Queen may be there, as she will arrive in the night, waiting for
freight or passengers," replied the planter. "If you will allow me, I
will take charge of the apprehension of those men, for I think I shall
understand it better than you, as I have had considerable experience in
such cases."

Colonel Hungerford looked slyly at his wife and daughter. I could not
understand the meaning of his expressive communication; but I was
entirely willing he should cause the arrest of the fugitives.




CHAPTER XXVIII.

A DISTINGUISHED PASSENGER.


The planter went on deck with me after supper, and we paid our first
visit to the Islander, where we were courteously received by the
Shepards. On our return we went on the hurricane deck to take a look at
the shores, as well as we could see them, for it was almost dark by
this time.

"Who is your father, Captain Garningham, or, if you will forgive me for
it, Captain Alick?" asked the Colonel.

"Major Garningham, formerly of the British army," I replied.

"Yes, yes, I know all that; but what is he?" persisted my new
passenger.

"I don't know that he is anything in particular just now," I answered,
perplexed by the earnestness of Colonel Hungerford. "He is certainly
neither a soldier nor a sailor, a tinker nor a tailor."

"Is he an American?"

"No, sir; he was born in England. His father was Sir Alexander
Garningham, and he is Sir Bent Garningham, Baronet, whose estates and
last residence were at Shalford, Essex."

"I see," said the passenger. "Then he is a baronet."

"He is; but he insists upon dropping his title in this country."

"In my intercourse with him I shall take pleasure in dropping it,"
added the planter. "But, Captain Alick,--excuse me if I am too
familiar."

"I am seldom called by any other name, and I have not the slightest
objection to the name," I interposed.

"As I was going to say, Captain Alick, I am not a little embarrassed by
the situation. You and your associates have rendered me an important
service, and it would afford me very great satisfaction to acknowledge
it. You are the captain of the steamer, and your father is a very
wealthy man."

"He is, sir," I replied; for I wished to leave no doubt in his mind on
this subject.

"Your mate was very efficient. What is he?"

"He is the son of a distinguished ex-governor of one of the States, and
the nephew of----"

"Precisely so; I know his uncle very well. I can do nothing for him.
And your two deckhands?" continued the planter.

"They are the sons of English gentlemen, over here on a vacation, and
their fathers have each an income of over ten thousand pounds a-year,"
I added, quietly.

"Your engineer, whose skill and pluck carried us through the crevasse,
is, I dare say, one of the sons of her Majesty, the Queen of England,"
added the passenger, laughing.

"On the contrary, he is a son of a Michigan farmer, now well to do in
the world," I replied.

"Of course, he is a millionaire!"

"O, no, sir, only in comfortable circumstances. He has known what
poverty is, but he has enough to live on now."

"By the way, Captain Alick, do you happen to have anybody on board who
is not 'well to do,' as you call it?" asked the planter.

"Ben Bowman, the assistant, who was in the boat that brought off your
family to the steamer, has been a lake sailor, cook and fireman all his
life; and I don't know that he has five hundred dollars in the world.
He sends most of his wages to his mother, and is one of the truest and
bravest men I ever saw."

I also told him the story of Cobbington and the two firemen. I judged
that he felt very grateful for the service the Sylvania had rendered to
him and "his people," and that he was thinking up some way to reward
her officers and crew for what they had done.

"The pilot is a Louisiana man, and says he was raised near St.
Charles," I added.

"His name is Billy Bell, and I know him very well," replied Colonel
Hungerford. "You have a very distinguished and wealthy ship's company,
Captain Alick. I wished to distribute a thousand dollars, more or less,
among them; but I see that such a proposition would be taken as an
insult by some of them."

"It would be taken as it was intended, not as an insult; but it would
be respectfully declined by the captain, the mate, the two deck-hands,
and perhaps by all the others; for I am sure that no one on board would
be willing to be paid for an act of common humanity," I replied.

"A strange ship and a strange crew," added Colonel Hungerford. "Perhaps
we shall find some way to get out of it."

I had just resolved not to assist him in his task, for it was a little
humiliating to have my crew paid for what they had done, when Miss
Blanche and Miss Margie came on the hurricane deck. They were already
fast friends. The English girl began to pour out a volley of questions
about the river and the steamers we saw, and I answered them as well as
I could; but Colonel Hungerford was better acquainted with the scene,
and he took the task upon himself of informing her, leaving Miss
Blanche to ply me with other interrogatories.

I told her all about the steamer, her going south, our adventures in
Florida, and our yachting on the Mississippi, which had thus far been a
series of adventures. Then she wanted to know who and what my father
was, and I told her all I had just related to her father.

"Then you will one day be Sir Alexander Garningham, and as a genuine
republican, I shall be under the necessity of hating you, Captain
Alick," said she, mirthfully.

"Then I promise never to allow myself to be called by that title," I
replied. "I have said as much to my father; and he does not like to be
called by anything but his military title, for he says he has earned
that fighting against the enemies of his queen. But I am a democrat,
and don't believe in any titles. Are you really a Republican, Miss
Hungerford?"

"I am a republican, but I am also a Democrat."

"I see! and I am a democrat and also a Republican."

"I don't think it will be safe for us to talk politics. You may do that
with father."

"I have told you my story, Miss Hungerford; and now it is no more than
fair that you should tell me yours," I added.

"I shall be very happy to give you my whole history from my birth to
the present day," replied the fair maiden, laughing. "I was born at St.
Charles, and lived there and in New Orleans until about a year ago,
since which time we have resided most of the time in Baton Rouge."

"Then your home is not at St. Charles?"

"Oh, yes! Our home is there, but we have one at the capital of the
state also," said the mischievous girl.

"I thought you were going to your uncle's in Baton Rouge to stay until
the mansion was repaired."

"I haven't any uncle in Baton Rouge, or anywhere else," chuckled Miss
Blanche.

"Your father certainly said he should stay at his brother's in Baton
Rouge," I added, puzzled by the statement.

"That was just as we girls used to say we were 'going to grandmother's'
when we went to the seminary."

"Who is your father, Miss Hungerford?" I asked, repeating the question
the planter had put to me.

"Colonel Hungerford," she answered, naïvely.

"Yes, I know; but what is he?"

"The Governor of Louisiana," replied Miss Blanche, with a merry laugh.

"The governor!" I exclaimed, appalled to think I had been talking so
familiarly to the chief magistrate of the state.

"But he won't let any one call him governor when he is not attending to
his official duties, if he can help it. He likes to be a plain citizen
when he is off duty," continued the young lady. "We went down to stay a
few days at the plantation."

Miss Margie's father called her, and thought it was too damp for her to
be out after dark. We all went below, and the colonel said he must
smoke his cigar. I conducted him to the pilot-house, where Owen and
Miss Edith were spending the evening. My father was there also; and I
took the occasion to introduce our distinguished guest to him again,
with his title in full.

"So you have found me out, Captain Alick," said his excellency, with a
pleasant laugh, which did much to restore the equilibrium between us.
"That puss of mine has been telling family secrets, and you must
promise not to tell anybody what you have discovered."

"No one not on board," I replied.

"Everybody else will know the secret, so that I shall gain nothing. But
we will not quarrel about trifles."

Everybody on board was tired enough to retire early, and before ten
o'clock we had the deck and pilot-house to ourselves. The watches
continued the same as before. Washburn gave up his berth in our room to
Billy Bell, as we learned to call him, for the captain and mate never
had their watch below at the same time, and we could both occupy the
same bed at different times. The river is a mile wide, and at the
present high stage of the water, there was no difficulty in steering,
under the instructions of the pilot.

We had a sort of panorama, or diagram of the river, which I had
obtained in New Orleans, arranged on the space between the windows of
the pilot-house, so that we could tell where we were at all times. Ben
Bowman had put the chart on rollers, and it could be wound up from one
end to the other. The only things that were likely to bother us were
the bayous and cut-offs; and the pilot was at hand at any moment he
might be needed.

We passed no place of importance during the night; and at five o'clock
in the morning we were at Donaldsonville. We made fast to the levee,
and as we were in no hurry, I did not call any of the passengers. I
told Gopher and Cobbington who the planter we had rescued was, that
they might have things in proper condition at the breakfast-table. I
inquired what boats had stopped at the place, and learned that the
Queen of the South had left two hours before. This showed that her
speed did not exceed that of our little fleet.

I asked if any passengers had landed, and was informed that several had
done so. I thought I would visit the hotels, and see if Cornwood and
Nick were at any one of them. I was about to leave the steamer when the
governor came out of the cabin. He insisted that I should not leave the
vessel, as the rascals might see me. They could not escape from the
place except by boat. He went ashore himself, after I had given him a
full description of the fugitives.

He returned in a short time, and said a report would come down in the
course of an hour or two. Our party had a merry time at breakfast, and
the meal was as elaborate as the resources of the New Orleans market
and the skill of Gopher could make it. Colonel Hungerford, as he
insisted that we should call him, was in the highest spirits. Before
the meal was over, a gentleman came on board and desired to see the
governor. He was the marshal of the city. No such passengers as had
been described to him had landed. He had telegraphed to Baton Rouge for
the police to search the steamer on her arrival.

Nothing more could be done, and we started up the river again. We
arrived at the capital of the state at four in the afternoon. We spent
the day in viewing the wonders of the mighty river, the waters of which
were almost up to the top of the levees. The governor said that the
country was inundated for thirty miles, though we could see but little
water except what was between the fringe of the trees on the banks of
the stream.

It takes the waters about a month to travel from the melting snows on
the north and north-west to the Gulf. At the mouth of the Missouri the
flood rises about twenty-five feet; below the Ohio the rise is
sometimes more than fifty feet, while at New Orleans it seldom exceeds
twelve feet. The greater height, caused by the addition of the waters
of the Ohio to the flood, is reduced in Louisiana by the passage of
much of the flow through the Atchafalaya, La Fourche, and other bayous,
into the Gulf of Mexico.

On our arrival at the capital, we found that the Queen had not been
searched, for telegraphic communication with points below had been cut
off by the flood.




CHAPTER XXIX.

UP THE RIVER FOR MANY DAYS.


Colonel Hungerford was even more vexed at the failure of the plan to
arrest the fugitives than I was. But Baton Rouge was on the last of the
bluffs that one sees in descending the great river, and above the
region of continuous levees. There was no doubt we could operate from
this region, and secure the capture of the fugitives.

"How long since the Queen left?" asked the governor, of the man who had
given us the information.

"She must have been gone nearly three hours," he replied.

"The fugitives are not likely to leave the steamer before she gets to
Vicksburg, for there is no railroad from any point this side of that
city. It is thirty-five miles from here to Bayou Sara. The steamer may
stop there, and may not," said the governor, musing. "That is the last
place in this State at which she is at all likely to make a landing. I
will telegraph at once."

Without waiting to see any of our passengers ashore, I went with the
governor to the telegraph office. He sent the dispatch to an official,
directing him to board the steamer, if she did not stop, and arrest the
fugitives, a sufficient description of whom I gave him. When this was
done, Colonel Hungerford had time to attend to the landing of the
party. He insisted that all the passengers should go to his residence
and stay over Sunday with him. Colonel Shepard declined, and declared
that he and his family had no claims upon his hospitality. A
good-natured controversy ensued, and ended in the Colonel and all the
others yielding the point.

Three carriages started for the residence of the chief magistrate, and
another was awaiting his orders at the levee. By this time a reply came
from the official in Bayou Sara, in which he promised to follow the
instructions of the governor as soon as the steamer came in sight, for
she had not yet appeared.

"Now, Captain Alick, if you will get into the carriage, I will take you
up to the house," said Colonel Hungerford.

"You must excuse me, sir, for I have to attend to the affairs of the
vessel," I answered.

"Must I argue this same question with you, too?" demanded the governor.
