coming upon her, two firm hands were placed upon each side of her waist
from behind, very slightly lifting her, as if to show her that she was
safe even if the support did give way beneath her. It was Heathcote,
standing on the table below. He had been detailed as scene-shifter
(Rachel, being behind the scenes herself, had arranged this), had
noticed the barrel as it moved, and had sprung up unseen behind the
draperied pyramid to assist the goddess. No one saw him. When the
curtain reached the foot-lights again he was assisting all the
allegorical personages to descend from their heights, and first of all
Liberty, who was trembling. No one knew this, however, save himself.
Rachel, gorgeous as Autumn, drew him away almost immediately, and Anne
had no opportunity to thank him until the next afternoon.

"You do not know how frightful it was for the moment," she said. "I had
never felt dizzy in my life before. I had nothing with which I could
save myself, and I could not jump down on the tables below, because
there was no footing: I should only have thrown down the others. How
quick you were, and how kind! But you are always kind."

"Few would agree with you there, Miss Douglas. Mr. Dexter has far more
of what is called kindness than I have," said Heathcote, carelessly.

They were sitting in the same arbor. Anne was silent a moment, as if
pondering. "Yes," she said, thoughtfully, "I believe you are right. You
are kind to a few; he is kind to all. It would be better if you were
more like him."

"Thanks. But it is too late, I fear, to make a Dexter of me. I have
always been, if not exactly a grief to my friends, still by no means
their pride. Fortunately I have no father or mother to be disturbed by
my lacks; one does not mind being a grief to second cousins." He paused;
then added, in another tone, "But life is lonely enough sometimes."

Two violet eyes met his as he spoke, gazing at him so earnestly,
sincerely, and almost wistfully that for an instant he lost himself. He
began to speculate as to the best way of retaining that wistful
interest; and then, suddenly, as a dam gives way in the night and lets
out the flood, all his good resolutions crumbled, and his vagrant fancy,
long indulged, asserted its command, and took its own way again. He knew
that he could not approach her to the ordinary degree and in the
ordinary way of flirtation; she would not understand or allow it. With
the intuition which was his most dangerous gift he also knew that there
was a way of another kind. And he used it.



His sudden change of purpose had taken but a moment. "Lonely enough," he
repeated, "and bad enough. Do you think there is any use in trying to
be better?" He spoke as if half in earnest.

"We must all try," said the girl, gravely.

"But one needs help."

"It will be given."

He rose, walked to the door of the arbor, as if hesitating, then came
back abruptly. "You could help me," he said, standing in front of her,
with his eyes fixed upon her face.

She started slightly, and turned her eyes away, but did not speak. Nor
did he. At last, as the silence grew oppressive, she said, in a low
voice: "You are mistaken, I think. I can not."

He sat down again, and began slowly to excavate a hole in the sand with
the end of his cane, to the consternation of a colony of ants who lived
in a thriving village under the opposite bench, but still in dangerous
proximity to the approaching tunnel.

"I have never pretended to be anything but an idle, useless fellow," he
said, his eyes intent upon his work. "But my life does not satisfy me
always, and at times I am seized by a horrible loneliness. I am not all
bad, I hope. If any one cared enough--but no one has ever cared."

"You have many friends," said Anne, her eyes fixed upon the hues of the
western sky.

"As you see them. The people here are examples of my friends."

"You must have others who are nearer."

"No, no one. I have never had a home." He looked up as he said this, and
met her eyes, withdrawn for a moment from the sunset; they expressed so
much pity that he felt ashamed of himself. For his entire freedom from
home ties was almost the only thing for which he had felt profoundly
grateful in his idle life. Other boys had been obliged to bend to the
paternal will; other fellows had not been able to wander over the world
and enjoy themselves as he had wandered and enjoyed. But--he could not
help going on now.

"I pretend to be indifferent, and all that. No doubt I succeed in
appearing so--that is, to the outside world. But there come moments
when I would give anything for some firm belief to anchor myself to,
something higher and better than I am." (The tunnel was very near the
ants now.) "I believe, Miss Douglas, I can not help believing, that
you could tell me what that is."

"Oh no; I am very ignorant," said Anne, hurriedly, returning to the
sunset with heightened color.

"But you believe. I will never make a spectacle of myself; I will never
ask the conventional questions of conventional good people, whom I hate.
You might influence me--But what right have I to ask you, Anne? Why
should I think that you would care?"

"I do care," said the low voice, after a moment, as if forced to answer.

"Then help me."

"How can I help you?"

"Tell me what you believe. And make me believe it also."

"Surely, Mr. Heathcote, you believe in God?"

"I am not sure that I do."

She clasped her hands in distress. "How can you live!" she cried,
almost in tears.

Again Heathcote felt a touch of compunction. But he could not make
himself stop now; he was too sincerely interested.

"There is no use; I can not argue," Anne was saying. "If you do not
feel God, I can not make you believe in him."

"Tell me how you feel; perhaps I can learn from you."

Poor Anne! she did not know how she felt, and had no words ready.
Undeveloped, unused to analysis, she was asked to unfold her inmost soul
in the broad garish light of day.

"I--I can not," she murmured, in deep trouble.

"Never mind, then," said Heathcote, with an excellent little assumption
of disappointment masked by affected carelessness. "Forget what I have
said; it is of small consequence at best. Shall we go back to the house,
Miss Douglas?"

But Anne was struggling with herself, making a desperate effort to
conquer what seemed to her a selfish and unworthy timidity. "I will do
anything I can," she said, hurriedly, in a low voice.

They had both risen. "Let me see you to-morrow, then."

"Yes."

"It is a beginning," he said. He offered his arm gravely, almost
reverently, and in silence they returned to the house. It seemed to Anne
that many long minutes passed as they walked through the garden, brushed
by the roses on each side: in reality the minutes were three.

For that evening meteors had been appointed by the astronomers and the
newspapers. They were, when they came, few and faint; but they afforded
a pretext for being out on the hill. Anne was there with Mr. Dexter, and
other star-gazers were near. Heathcote and Rachel, however, were not
visible, and this disturbed Dexter. In spite of himself, he could never
be quite content unless he knew where that dark-eyed woman was. But his
inward annoyance did not affect either his memory or the fine tones of
his voice. No one on the hill that night quoted so well or so aptly
grand star-like sentences, or verses appropriate to the occasion.

"When standing alone on a hill-top during a clear night such as this,
Miss Douglas," he said, "the roll of the earth eastward is almost a
palpable movement. The sensation may be caused by the panoramic glide of
the stars past earthly objects, or by the wind, or by the solitude; but
whatever be its origin, the impression of riding along is vivid and
abiding. We are now watching our own stately progress through the
stars."

"Hear Dexter quote," said Heathcote, in his lowest under-tone, to
Rachel. They were near the others, but, instead of standing, were
sitting on the grass, with a large bush for background; in its shadow
their figures were concealed, and the rustle of its leaves drowned their
whispers.

"Hush! I like Mr. Dexter," said Rachel.

"I know you do. You will marry that man some day."

"Do you say that, Ward?"

An hour later, Anne, in her own room, was timidly adding the same name
to her own petitions before she slept.

The next day, and the next, they met in the garden at sunset as before,
and each time when they parted she was flushed and excited by the effort
she was making, and he was calm and content. On the third afternoon they
did not meet, for there was another picnic. But as the sun sank below
the horizon, and the rich colors rose in the sky, Heathcote turned, and,
across all the merry throng, looked at her as if in remembrance. After
that he did not see her alone for several days: chance obstacles stood
in the way, and he never forced anything. Then there was another
unmolested hour in the arbor; then another. Anne was now deeply
interested. How could she help being so, when the education of a soul
was placed in her hands? And Heathcote began to be fascinated too.

By his own conversion?

August was nearly over. The nights were cool, and the early mornings
veiled in mist. The city idlers awakened reluctantly to the realization
that summer was drawing to its close; and there was the same old
surprise over the dampness of the yellow moonlight, the dull look of the
forest; the same old discovery that the golden-rods and asters were
becoming prominent in the departure of the more delicate blossoms. The
last four days of that August Anne remembered all her life.

On the 28th there occurred, by unexpected self-arrangement of small
events, a long conversation of three hours with Heathcote.

On the 29th he quarrelled with her, and hotly, leaving her overwhelmed
with grief and surprise.

On the 30th he came back to her. They had but three minutes together on
the piazza, and then Mr. Dexter joined them. But in those minutes he had
asked forgiveness, and seemed also to yield all at once the points over
which heretofore he had been immovable.

On the 31st Helen came.

It was late. Anne had gone to her room. She had not seen Heathcote that
day. She had extinguished the candle, and was looking at the brassy moon
slowly rising above the trees, when a light tap sounded on her door.

"Who is it?" she said.

"Helen, of course," answered a sweet voice she knew. She drew back the
bolt swiftly, and Mrs. Lorrington came in, dressed in travelling attire.
She had just arrived. She kissed Anne, saying, gayly: "Are you not glad
to see me? Grandfather has again recovered, and dismissed me. I spend my
life on the road. Are you well, Crystal? And how do you like Caryl's?
No, do not light the candle; I can see you in the moonlight, all draped
in white. I shall stay half an hour--no longer. My maid is waiting, and
I must not lose my beauty-sleep. But I wanted to see you first of all.
Tell me about yourself, and everything. Did you put down what happened
in a note-book, as I asked you?"

"Yes; here it is. But the record is brief--only names and dates. How
glad I am to see you, Helen! How very, very glad! It seemed as if you
would never come." She took Helen's hands, and held them as she spoke.
She was very deeply attached to her brilliant friend.

Helen laughed, kissed her again, and began asking questions. She was
full of plans. "Heretofore they have not staid at Caryl's in the
autumn," she said, "but this year I shall make them. September and part
of October would be pleasant here, I know. Has any one spoken of going?"

"Mrs. Bannert has, I think."

"You mean my dearest friend Rachel. But she will stay now that I have
come; that is, if I succeed in keeping--somebody else. The Bishop has
been devoted to her, of course, and likewise the Tenor; the Haunted Man
and others skirmish on her borders. Even the Knight-errant is not, I am
sorry to say, above suspicion. Who has it especially been?"

"I do not know; every one seems to admire her. I think she has not
favored one more than another."

"Oh, has she not?" said Mrs. Lorrington, laughing. "It is well I have
come, Crystal. You are too innocent to live." She tapped her cheek as
she spoke, and then turned her face to the moonlight. "And whom do you
like best?" she said. "Mr. Dexter?"

"Yes," said Anne; "I like him sincerely. And you will find his name very
often there," she added, looking at the note-book by Helen's side.

"Yes, but the others too, I hope. What I want to know, of course, is
the wicked career of the Knight-errant."

"But is not Mr. Dexter the Knight-errant?"

"By no means. Mr. Dexter is the Bishop; have you not discovered that?
The Knight-errant is very decidedly some one else. And, by-the-way, how
do you like Some One Else--that is, Mr. Heathcote?"

"Mr. Heathcote!"

"It is not polite to repeat one's words, Crystal. But--I suppose you do
not like him; and half the time, I confess, he is detestable. However,
now that I have come, he shall behave better, and I shall make you like
each other, for my sake. There is just one question I wish to ask here:
has he been much with Rachel?"

"No--yes--yes, I suppose he has," murmured Anne, sitting still as a
statue in the shadow. The brassy moon had gone slowly and coldly behind
a cloud, and the room was dim.

"You suppose? Do you not know?"

"Yes, I know he has." She stopped abruptly. She had never before thought
whether Heathcote was or was not with Rachel more than with others; but
now she began to recall. "Yes, he has been with her," she said again,
struck by a sudden pang.

"Very well; I shall see to it, now that I am here," said Helen, with a
sharp tone in her voice. "He will perhaps be sorry that I have arrived
just at the end of the season--the time for grand climaxes, you know;
but he will have to yield. My half-hour is over; I must go. How is the
Grand Llama? Endurable?"

"She is helping the children; I am grateful to her," replied Anne's
voice, mechanically.

"Which means that she is worse than ever. What a dead-alive voice you
said it in! Now that I am here, I will do battle for you, Crystal, never
fear. I must go. You shall see my triumphal entrance to-morrow at
breakfast. Our rooms are not far from yours. Good-night."

She was gone. The door was closed. Anne was alone.




CHAPTER XVI.

                  "You who keep account
    Of crisis and transition in this life,
    Set down the first time Nature says plain 'no'
    To some 'yes' in you, and walks over you
    In gorgeous sweeps of scorn. We all begin
    By singing with the birds, and running fast
    With June days hand in hand; but, once for all,
    The birds must sing against us, and the sun
    Strike down upon us like a friend's sword, caught
    By an enemy to slay us, while we read
    The dear name on the blade which bites at us."

    --ELIZABETH BARRETT BROWNING.


It is easy for the young to be happy before the deep feelings of the
heart have been stirred. It is easy to be good when there has been no
strong temptation to be evil; easy to be unselfish when nothing is
ardently craved; easy to be faithful when faithfulness does not tear the
soul out of its abiding-place. Some persons pass through all of life
without strong temptations; not having deep feelings, they are likewise
exempt from deep sins. These pass for saints. But when one thinks of the
cause of their faultlessness, one understands perhaps better the meaning
of those words, otherwise mysterious, that "joy shall be in heaven over
one sinner that repenteth, more than over ninety and nine just persons,
which need no repentance."

Anne went through that night her first real torture; heretofore she had
felt only grief--a very different pain.

Being a woman, her first feeling, even before the consciousness of what
it meant, was jealousy. What did Helen mean by speaking of him as though
he belonged to her? She had never spoken in that way before. Although
she--Anne--had mistaken the fictitious titles, still, even under the
title, there had been no such open appropriation of the Knight-errant.
What did she mean? And then into this burning jealous anger came the
low-voiced question, asked somewhere down in the depths of her being, as
though a judge was speaking, "What--is--it--to--you?" And again, "What
is it to you?" She buried her face tremblingly in her hands, for all at
once she realized what it was, what it had been, unconsciously perhaps,
but for a long time really, to her.

She made no attempt at self-deception. Her strongest trait from
childhood had been her sincerity, and now it would not let her go. She
had begun to love Ward Heathcote unconsciously, but now she loved him
consciously. That was the bare fact. It confronted her, it loomed above
her, a dark menacing shape, from whose presence she could not flee. She
shivered, and her breath seemed to stop during the slow moment while the
truth made itself known to her. "O God!" she murmured, bursting into
tears; and there was no irreverence in the cry. She recognized the
faithlessness which had taken possession of her--unawares, it is true,
yet loyal hearts are not conquered so. She had been living in a dream,
and had suddenly found the dream reality, and the actors flesh and
blood--one of them at least, a poor wildly loving girl, with the mark of
Judas upon her brow. She tried to pray, but could think of no words. For
she was false to Rast, she loved Heathcote, and hated Helen, yet could
not bring herself to ask that any of these feelings should be otherwise.
This was so new to her that she sank down upon the floor in utter
despair and self-abasement. She was bound to Rast; she was bound to
Helen. Yet she had, in her heart at least, betrayed them both.

Still, so complex is human nature that even here in the midst of her
abasement the question stole in, whispering its way along as it came,
"Does he care for me?" And "he" was not Rast. She forgot all else to
weigh every word and look of the weeks and days that had passed. Slowly
she lived over in memory all their conversations, not forgetting the
most trivial, and even raised her arm to get a pillow in order that she
might lie more easily; but the little action brought reality again, and
her arm fell, while part of her consciousness drew off, and sat in
judgment upon the other part. The sentence was scathing.



Then jealousy seized her again. She had admired Helen so warmly as a
woman, that even now she could not escape the feeling. She went over in
quick, hot review all that the sweet voice and delicate lips had ever
said concerning the person veiled under the name of Knight-errant, and
the result was a miserable conviction that she had been mistaken; that
there was a tie of some kind--slight, perhaps, yet still a tie. And
then, as she crushed her hands together in impotent anger, she again
realized what she was thinking, and began to sob in her grief like a
child. Poor Anne! she would never be a child again. Never again would be
hers that proud dauntless confidence of the untried, which makes all
life seem easy and secure. And here suddenly into her grief darted this
new and withering thought: Had Heathcote perceived her feeling for him?
and had he been playing upon it to amuse himself?

Anne knew vaguely that people treated her as though she was hardly more
than a child. She was conscious of it, but did not dispute it, accepting
it humbly as something--some fault in herself--which she could not
change. But now the sleeping woman was aroused at last, and she blushed
deeply in the darkness at the thought that while she had remained
unconscious, this man of the world had perhaps detected the truth
immediately, and had acted as he had in consequence of it. This was the
deepest sting of all, and again hurriedly she went over all their
conversations a second time; and imagined that she found indications of
what she feared. She rose to her feet with the nervous idea of fleeing
somewhere, she did not know where.

The night had passed. The sun had not yet risen, but the eastern sky was
waiting for his coming with all its banners aflame. Standing by the
window, she watched the first gold rim appear. The small birds were
twittering in the near trees, the earth was awaking to another day, and
for the first time Anne realized the joy of that part of creation which
knows not sorrow or care; for the first time wished herself a flower of
the field, or a sweet-voiced bird singing his happy morning anthem on a
spray. There were three hours yet before breakfast, two before any one
would be stirring. She dressed herself, stole through the hall and down
the stairs, unbolted the side door, and went into the garden; she longed
for the freshness of the morning air. Her steps led her toward the
arbor; she stopped, and turned in another direction--toward the bank of
the little river. Here she began to walk to and fro from a pile of
drift-wood to a bush covered with dew-drops, from the bush back to the
drift-wood again. Her feet were wet, her head ached dully, but she kept
her mind down to the purpose before her. The nightmare of the darkness
was gone; she now faced her grief, and knew what it was, and had decided
upon her course. This course was to leave Caryl's. She hoped to return
to Mademoiselle at the half-house, and remain there until the school
opened--if her grandaunt was willing. If her grandaunt was
willing--there came the difficulty. Yet why should she not be willing?
The season was over; the summer flowers were gone; it was but
anticipating departure by a week or two. Thus she reasoned with herself,
yet felt all the time by intuition that Miss Vanhorn would refuse her
consent. And if she should so refuse, what then? It could make no
difference in the necessity for going, but it would make the going hard.
She was considering this point when she heard a footstep. She looked up,
and saw--Ward Heathcote. She had been there some time; it was now seven
o'clock. They both heard the old clock in the office strike as they
stood there looking at each other. In half an hour the early risers
would be coming into the garden.

Anne did not move or speak; the great effort she had made to retain her
composure, when she saw him, kept her motionless and dumb. Her first
darting thought had been to show him that she was at ease and
indifferent. But this required words, and she had not one ready; she was
afraid to speak, too, lest her voice should tremble. She saw, standing
there before her, the man who had made her forget Rast, who had made her
jealous of Helen, who had played with her holiest feelings, who had
deceived and laughed at her, the man whom she--hated? No, no--whom she
loved, loved, loved: this was the desperate ending. She turned very
white, standing motionless beside the dew-spangled bush.

And Heathcote saw, standing there before him, a young girl with her fair
face strangely pale and worn, her eyes fixed, her lips compressed; she
was trembling slightly and constantly, in spite of the rigidity of her
attitude.

He looked at her in silence for a moment; then, knocking down at one
blow all the barriers she had erected, he came to her and took her cold
hands in his. "What is it she has said to you?" he asked.

She drew herself away without speaking.

"What has Helen said to you? Has she told you that I have deceived you?
That I have played a part?"

But Anne did not answer; she turned, as if to pass him.

"You shall not leave me," he said, barring the way. "Stay a moment,
Anne; I promise not to keep you long. You will not? But you shall. Am
I nothing in all this? My feelings nothing? Let me tell you one thing:
whatever Helen may have said, remember that it was all before I
knew--you."

Anne's hands shook in his as he said this. "Let me go," she cried, with
low, quick utterance; she dared not say more, lest her voice should
break into sobs.

"I will not," said Heathcote, "until you hear me while I tell you that I
have not played a false part with you, Anne. I did begin it as an
experiment, I confess that I did; but I have ended by being in
earnest--at least to a certain degree. Helen does not know me entirely;
one side of me she has never even suspected."

"Mrs. Lorrington has not spoken on the subject," murmured Anne, feeling
compelled to set him right, but not looking up.

"Then what has she said about me, that you should look as you do, my
poor child?"

"You take too much upon yourself," replied the girl, with an effort to
speak scornfully. "Why should you suppose we have talked of you?"

"I do not suppose it; I know it. I have not the heart to laugh at you,
Anne: your white face hurts me like a sharp pain. Will you at least tell
