IX.


The shore upon which we had landed was thickly populated, as I have
said. Through a sweep of surpassingly beautiful suburbs, we approached
the streets of a town. It is hard to say why I should have been
surprised at finding in this place the signs of human traffic,
philanthropy, art, and study--what otherwise I expected, who can say? My
impressions, as Marie Sauvée led me through the city, had the confusion
of sudden pleasure. The width and shining cleanliness of the streets,
the beauty and glittering material of the houses, the frequent presence
of libraries, museums, public gardens, signs of attention to the wants
of animals, and places of shelter for travelers such as I had never seen
in the most advanced and benevolent of cities below,--these were the
points that struck me most forcibly.

The next thing, which in a different mood might have been the first that
impressed me was the remarkable expression of the faces that I met or
passed. No thoughtful person can have failed to observe, in any throng,
the preponderant look of unrest and dissatisfaction in the human eye.
Nothing, to a fine vision, so emphasizes the isolation of being, as the
faces of people in a crowd. In this new community to which I had been
brought, that old effect was replaced by a delightful change. I
perceived, indeed, great intentness of purpose here, as in all
thickly-settled regions; the countenances that passed me indicated close
conservation of social force and economy of intellectual energy; these
were people trained by attrition with many influences, and balanced with
the conflict of various interests. But these were men and women, busy
without hurry, efficacious without waste; they had ambition without
unscrupulousness, power without tyranny, success without vanity, care
without anxiety, effort without exhaustion,--hope, fear, toil,
uncertainty it seemed, elation it was sure--but a repose that it was
impossible to call by any other name than divine, controlled their
movements, which were like the pendulum of a golden clock whose works
are out of sight. I watched these people with delight. Great numbers of
them seemed to be students, thronging what we should call below
colleges, seminaries, or schools of art, or music, or science. The
proportion of persons pursuing some form of intellectual acquisition
struck me as large. My little guide, to whom I mentioned this, assented
to the fact, pointing out to me a certain institution we had passed, at
which she herself was, she said, something like a primary scholar, and
from which she had been given a holiday to meet me as she did, and
conduct me through the journey that had been appointed for me on that
day. I inquired of her what her studies might be like; but she told me
that she was hardly wise enough as yet to explain to me what I could
learn for myself when I had been longer in this place, and when my
leisure came for investigating its attractions at my own will.

“I am uncommonly ignorant, you know,” said Marie Sauvée humbly, “I have
everything to learn. There is book knowledge and thought knowledge and
soul knowledge, and I have not any of these. I was as much of what you
used to call a heathen, as any Fiji-Islander you gave your missionaries
to. I have so much to learn, that I am not sent yet upon other business
such as I should like.”

Upon my asking Marie Sauvée what business this might be, she hesitated.
“I have become ambitious in Heaven,” she answered slowly. “I shall never
be content till I am fit to be sent to the worst woman that can be
found--no matter which side of death--I don’t care in what world--I want
to be sent to one that nobody else will touch; I think I might know how
to save her. It is a tremendous ambition!” she repeated. “Preposterous
for the greatest angel there is here! And yet I--I mean to do it.”

I was led on in this way by Marie Sauvée, through and out of the city
into the western suburbs; we had approached from the east, and had
walked a long distance. There did not occur to me, I think, till we had
made the circuit of the beautiful town, one thing, which, when I did
observe it, struck me as, on the whole, the most impressive that I had
noticed. “I have not seen,” I said, stopping suddenly, “I have not seen
a poor person in all this city.”

“Nor an aged one, have you?” asked Marie Sauvée, smiling.

“Now that I think of it,--no. Nor a sick one. Not a beggar. Not a
cripple. Not a mourner. Not--and yet what have we here? This building,
by which you are leading me, bears a device above the door, the last I
should ever have expected to find here.”

It was an imposing building, of a certain translucent material that had
the massiveness of marble, with the delicacy of thin agate illuminated
from within. The rear of this building gave upon the open country, with
a background of hills, and the vision of the sea which I had crossed.
People strolled about the grounds, which had more than the magnificence
of Oriental gardens. Music came from the building, and the saunterers,
whom I saw, seemed nevertheless not to be idlers, but persons busily
employed in various ways--I should have said, under the close direction
of others who guided them. The inscription above the door of this
building was a word, in a tongue unknown to me, meaning “Hospital,” as I
was told.

“They are the sick at heart,” said Marie Sauvée, in answer to my look of
perplexity, “who are healed there. And they are the sick of soul; those
who were most unready for the new life; they whose spiritual being was
diseased through inaction, they are the invalids of Heaven. There they
are put under treatment, and slowly cured. With some, it takes long. I
was there myself when I first came, for a little; it will be a most
interesting place for you to visit, by-and-by.”

I inquired who were the physicians of this celestial sanitarium.

“They who unite the natural love of healing to the highest spiritual
development.”

“By no means, then, necessarily they who were skilled in the treatment
of diseases on earth?” I asked, laughing.

“Such are oftener among the patients,” said Marie Sauvée sadly. To me,
so lately from the earth, and our low earthly way of finding amusement
in facts of this nature, this girl’s gravity was a rebuke. I thanked her
for it, and we passed by the hospital--which I secretly made up my mind
to investigate at another time--and so out into the wider country, more
sparsely settled, but it seemed to me more beautiful than that we had
left behind.

“There,” I said, at length, “is to my taste the loveliest spot we have
seen yet. That is the most homelike of all these homes.”

We stopped before a small and quiet house built of curiously inlaid
woods, that reminded me of Sorrento work as a great achievement may
remind one of a first and faint suggestion. So exquisite was the carving
and coloring, that on a larger scale the effect might have interfered
with the solidity of the building, but so modest were the proportions
of this charming house, that its dignity was only enhanced by its
delicacy. It was shielded by trees, some familiar to me, others strange.
There were flowers--not too many; birds; and I noticed a fine dog
sunning himself upon the steps. The sweep of landscape from all the
windows of this house must have been grand. The wind drove up from the
sea. The light, which had a peculiar depth and color, reminding me of
that which on earth flows from under the edge of a breaking storm-cloud
at the hour preceding sunset, formed an aureola about the house. When my
companion suggested my examining this place, since it so attracted me, I
hesitated, but yielding to her wiser judgment, strolled across the
little lawn, and stood, uncertain, at the threshold. The dog arose as I
came up, and met me cordially, but no person seemed to be in sight.

“Enter,” said Marie Sauvée in a tone of decision. “You are expected. Go
where you will.”

I turned to remonstrate with her, but the girl had disappeared. Finding
myself thus thrown on my own resources, and having learned already the
value of obedience to mysterious influences in this new life, I gathered
courage, and went into the house. The dog followed me affectionately,
rather than suspiciously.

For a few moments I stood in the hall or ante-room, alone and perplexed.
Doors opened at right and left, and vistas of exquisitely-ordered rooms
stretched out. I saw much of the familiar furniture of a modest home,
and much that was unfamiliar mingled therewith. I desired to ask the
names or purposes of certain useful articles, and the characters and
creators of certain works of art. I was bewildered and delighted. I had
something of the feeling of a rustic visitor taken for the first time to
a palace or imposing town-house.

Was Heaven an aggregate of homes like this? Did everlasting life move on
in the same dear ordered channel--the dearest that human experiment had
ever found--the channel of family love? Had one, after death, the old
blessedness without the old burden? The old sweetness without the old
mistake? The familiar rest, and never the familiar fret? Was there
always in the eternal world “somebody to come home to”? And was there
always the knowledge that it could not be the wrong person? Was all
that eliminated from celestial domestic life? Did Heaven solve the
problem on which earth had done no more than speculate?

While I stood, gone well astray on thoughts like these, feeling still
too great a delicacy about my uninvited presence in this house, I heard
the steps of the host, or so I took them to be; they had the indefinable
ring of the master’s foot. I remained where I was, not without
embarrassment, ready to apologize for my intrusion as soon as he should
come within sight. He crossed the long room at the left, leisurely; I
counted his quiet footsteps; he advanced, turned, saw me--I too,
turned--and so, in this way, it came about that I stood face to face
with my own father.

... I had found the eternal life full of the unexpected, but this was
almost the sweetest thing that had happened to me yet.

Presently my father took me over the house and the grounds; with a
boyish delight, explaining to me how many years he had been building and
constructing and waiting with patience in his heavenly home for the
first one of his own to join him. Now, he too, should have “somebody to
come home to.” As we dwelt upon the past and glanced at the future, our
full hearts overflowed. He explained to me that my new life had but now,
in the practical sense of the word, begun; since a human home was the
centre of all growth and blessedness. When he had shown me to my own
portion of the house, and bidden me welcome to it, he pointed out to me
a certain room whose door stood always open, but whose threshold was
never crossed. I hardly feel that I have the right, in this public way,
to describe, in detail, the construction or adornment of this room. I
need only say that Heaven itself seemed to have been ransacked to bring
together the daintiest, the most delicate, the purest, thoughts and
fancies that celestial skill or art could create. Years had gone to the
creation of this spot; it was a growth of time, the occupation of that
loneliness which must be even in the happy life, when death has
temporarily separated two who had been one. I was quite prepared for his
whispered words, when he said,--

“Your mother’s room, my dear. It will be all ready for her at any time.”

This union had been a marriage--not one of the imperfect ties that
pass under the name, on earth. Afterwards, when I learned more of the
social economy of the new life, I perceived more clearly the rarity and
peculiar value of an experience which had in it the elements of what
might be called (if I should be allowed the phrase) eternal permanency,
and which involved, therefore, none of the disintegration and
redistribution of relations consequent upon passing from temporary or
mistaken choices to a fixed and perfect state of society.

Later, on that same evening, I was called eagerly from below. I was
resting, and alone;--I had, so to speak, drawn my first breath in
Heaven; once again, like a girl in my own room under my father’s roof;
my heart at anchor, and my peace at full tide. I ran as I used to run,
years ago, when he called me, crying down,--

“I’m coming, Father,” while I delayed a moment to freshen my dress, and
to fasten it with some strange white flowers that climbed over my
window, and peered, nodding like children, into the room.

When I reached the hall, or whatever might be the celestial name for the
entrance room below, I did not immediately see my father, but I heard
the sound of voices beyond, and perceived the presence of many people in
the house. As I hesitated, wondering what might be the etiquette of
these new conditions, and whether I should be expected to play the
hostess at a reception of angels or saints, some one came up from behind
me, I think, and held out his hand in silence.

“St. Johns!” I cried, “Jamie St. Johns! The last time I saw you”--

“The last time you saw me was in a field-hospital after the battle of
Malvern Hills,” said St. Johns. “I died in your arms, Miss Mary. Shot
flew about you while you got me that last cup of water. I died hard. You
sang the hymn I asked for--‘Ye who tossed on beds of pain’--and the
shell struck the tent-pole twenty feet off, but you sang right on. I was
afraid you would stop. I was almost gone. But you never faltered. You
sang my soul out--do you remember? I’ve been watching all this while for
you. I’ve been a pretty busy man since I got to this place, but I’ve
always found time to run in and ask your father when he expected you.

“I meant to be the first all along; but I hear there’s a girl got ahead
of me. She’s here, too, and some more women. But most of us are the
boys, to-night, Miss Mary,--come to give you a sort of
house-warming--just to say we’ve never forgotten!... and you see we want
to say ‘Welcome home at last’ to our army woman--God bless her--as she
blessed us!

“Come in, Miss Mary! Don’t feel bashful. It’s nobody but your own boys.
Here we are. There’s a thing I remember--you used to read it. ‘For when
ye fail’--you know I never could quote straight--‘they shall receive
you into everlasting habitations’--Wasn’t that it? Now here. See! Count
us! Not one missing, do you see? You said you’d have us all here
yet--all that died before you did. You used to tell us so. You prayed
it, and you lived it, and you did it, and, by His everlasting mercy,
here we are. Look us over. Count again. I couldn’t make a speech on
earth and I can’t make one in Heaven--but the fellows put me up to it.
Come in, Miss Mary! Dear Miss Mary--why, we want to shake hands with
you, all around! We want to sit and tell army-stories half the night. We
want to have some of the old songs, and--What! Crying, Miss
Mary?--You? We never saw you cry in all our lives. Your lip used to
tremble. You got pretty white; but you weren’t that kind of woman. Oh,
see here! Crying in HEAVEN?”--




X.


From this time, the events which I am trying to relate began to assume
in fact a much more orderly course; yet in form I scarcely find them
more easy to present. Narrative, as has been said of conversation, “is
always but a selection,” and in this case the peculiar difficulties of
choosing from an immense mass of material that which can be most fitly
compressed into the compass allowed me by these few pages, are so great,
that I have again and again laid down my task in despair; only to be
urged on by my conviction that it is more clearly my duty to speak what
may carry comfort to the hearts of some, than to worry because my
imperfect manner of expression may offend the heads of others. All I can
presume to hope for this record of an experience is, that it may have a
passing value to certain of my readers whose anticipations of what they
call “the Hereafter” are so vague or so dubious as to be more of a pain
than a pleasure to themselves.

From the time of my reception into my father’s house, I lost the sense
of homelessness which had more or less possessed me since my entrance
upon the new life, and felt myself becoming again a member of an
organized society, with definite duties as well as assured pleasures
before me.

These duties I did not find astonishingly different in their essence,
while they had changed greatly in form, from those which had occupied me
upon earth. I found myself still involved in certain filial and domestic
responsibilities, in intellectual acquisition, in the moral support of
others, and in spiritual self-culture. I found myself a member of an
active community in which not a drone nor an invalid could be counted,
and I quickly became, like others who surrounded me, an exceedingly busy
person. At first my occupations did not assume sharp professional
distinctiveness, but had rather the character of such as would belong to
one in training for a more cultivated condition. This seemed to be true
of many of my fellow-citizens; that they were still in a state of
education for superior usefulness or happiness. With others, as I have
intimated, it was not so. My father’s business, for instance, remained
what it had always been--that of a religious teacher; and I met women
and men as well, to whom, as in the case of my old neighbor, Mrs.
Mersey, there had been set apart an especial fellowship with the spirits
of the recently dead or still living, who had need of great guidance. I
soon formed, by observation, at least, the acquaintance, too, of a wide
variety of natures;--I met artisans and artists, poets and scientists,
people of agricultural pursuits, mechanical inventors, musicians,
physicians, students, tradesmen, aerial messengers to the earth, or to
other planets, and a long list besides, that would puzzle more than it
would enlighten, should I attempt to describe it. I mention these
points, which I have no space to amplify, mainly to give reality to any
allusions that I shall make to my relations in the heavenly city, and to
let it be understood that I speak of a community as organized and as
various as Paris or New York; which possessed all the advantages and
none of the evils that we are accustomed to associate with massed
population; that such a community existed without sorrow, without
sickness, without death, without anxiety, and without sin; that the
evidences of almost incredible harmony, growth, and happiness which I
saw before me in that one locality, I had reason to believe extended to
uncounted others in unknown regions, thronging with joys and activities
the mysteries of space and time.

For reasons which will be made clear as I approach the end of my
narrative, I cannot speak as fully of many high and marvelous matters in
the eternal life, as I wish that I might have done. I am giving
impressions which, I am keenly aware, have almost the imperfection of a
broken dream. I can only crave from the reader, on trust, a patience
which he may be more ready to grant me at a later time.

I now began, as I say, to assume regular duties and pleasures; among the
keenest of the latter was the constant meeting of old friends and
acquaintances. Much perplexity, great delight, and some disappointment
awaited me in these dénouements of earthly story.

The people whom I had naturally expected to meet earliest were often
longest delayed from crossing my path; in some cases, they were
altogether missing. Again, I was startled by coming in contact with
individuals that I had never associated, in my conceptions of the
future, with a spiritual existence at all; in these cases I was
sometimes humbled by discovering a type of spiritual character so far
above my own, that my fancies in their behalf proved to be unwarrantable
self-sufficiency. Social life in the heavenly world, I soon learned, was
a series of subtle or acute surprises. It sometimes reminded me of a
simile of George Eliot’s, wherein she likened human existence to a game
of chess in which each one of the pieces had intellect and passions, and
the player might be beaten by his own pawns. The element of
unexpectedness, which constitutes the first and yet the most unreliable
charm of earthly society, had here acquired a permanent dignity. One of
the most memorable things which I observed about heavenly relations was,
that people did not, in the degree or way to which I was accustomed,
tire of each other. Attractions, to begin with, were less lightly
experienced; their hold was deeper; their consequences more lasting. I
had not been under my new conditions long, before I learned that here
genuine feeling was never suffered to fall a sacrifice to intellectual
curiosity, or emotional caprice; that here one had at last the stimulus
of social attrition without its perils, its healthy pleasures without
its pains. I learned, of course, much else, which it is more than
difficult, and some things which it is impossible, to explain. I testify
only of what I am permitted.

Among the intellectual labors that I earliest undertook was the command
of the Universal Language, which I soon found necessary to my
convenience. In a community like that I had entered, many nationalities
were represented, and I observed that while each retained its own
familiar earthly tongue, and one had the pleasant opportunity of
acquiring as many others as one chose, yet a common vocabulary became a
desideratum of which, indeed, no one was compelled to avail himself
contrary to his taste, but in which many, like myself, found the
greatest pleasure and profit. The command of this language occupied much
well-directed time.

I should not omit to say that a portion of my duty and my privilege
consisted in renewed visits to the dearly-loved whom I had left upon the
earth. These visits were sometimes matters of will with me. Again, they
were strictly occasions of permission, and again, I was denied the power
to make them when I most deeply desired to do so. Herein I learned the
difference between trial and trouble, and that while the last was
stricken out of heavenly life, the first distinctly remained. It is
pleasant to me to remember that I was allowed to be of more than a
little comfort to those who mourned for me; that it was I who guided
them from despair to endurance, and so through peace to cheerfulness,
and the hearty renewal of daily human content. These visits were for a
long time--excepting the rare occasions on which I met Him who had
spoken to me upon the sea-shore--the deepest delight which was offered
me.

Upon one point I foresee that I shall be questioned by those who have
had the patience so far to follow my recital. What, it will be asked,
was the political constitution of the community you describe? What place
in celestial society has worldly caste?

When I say, strictly none at all, let me not be misunderstood. I
observed the greatest varieties of rank in the celestial kingdom, which
seemed to me rather a close Theocracy than a wild commune. There were
powers above me, and powers below; there were natural and harmonious
social selections; there were laws and their officers; there was
obedience and its dignity; there was influence and its authority; there
were gifts and their distinctions. I may say that I found far more
reverence for differences of rank or influence than I was used to
seeing, at least in my own corner of the earth. The main point was that
the basis of the whole thing had undergone a tremendous change.
Inheritance, wealth, intellect, genius, beauty, all the old passports to
power, were replaced by one so simple yet so autocratic, that I hardly
know how to give any idea at once of its dignity and its sweetness. I
may call this personal holiness. Position, in the new life, I found
depended upon spiritual claims. Distinction was the result of character.
The nature nearest to the Divine Nature ruled the social forces.
Spiritual culture was the ultimate test of individual importance.

I inquired one day for a certain writer of world-wide--I mean of
earth-wide--celebrity, who, I had learned, was a temporary visitor in
the city, and whom I wished to meet. I will not for sufficient reasons
mention the name of this man, who had been called the genius of his
century, below. I had anticipated that a great ovation would be given
him, in which I desired to join, and I was surprised that his presence
made little or no stir in our community. Upon investigating the facts, I
learned that his public influence was, so far, but a slight one, though
it had gradually gained, and was likely to increase with time. He had
been a man whose splendid powers were dedicated to the temporary and
worldly aspects of Truth, whose private life was selfish and cruel, who
had written the most famous poem of his age, but “by all his searching”
had not found out God.

In the conditions of the eternal life, this genius had been obliged to
set itself to learning the alphabet of spiritual truth; he was still a
pupil, rather than a master among us, and I was told that he himself
ardently objected to receiving a deference which was not as yet his due;
having set the might of his great nature as strenuously now to the
spiritual, as once to the intellectual task; in which, I must say, I was
not without expectation that he would ultimately outvie us all.

On the same day when this distinguished man entered and left our city
(having quietly accomplished his errand), I heard the confusion of some
public excitement at a distance, and hastening to see what it meant, I
discovered that the object of it was a plain, I thought in her earthly
life she must have been a poor woman, obscure, perhaps, and timid. The
people pressed towards her, and received her into the town by
acclamation. They crowned her with amaranth and flung lilies in her
path. The authorities of the city officially met her; the people of
influence hastened to beseech her to do honor to their homes by her
modest presence; we crowded for a sight of her, we begged for a word
from her, we bewildered her with our tributes, till she hid her blushing
face and was swept out of our sight.

“But who is this,” I asked an eager passer, “to whom such an
extraordinary reception is tendered? I have seen nothing like it since I
came here.”

“Is it possible you do not know ---- ----?”

My informant gave a name which indeed was not unfamiliar to me; it was
that of a woman who had united to extreme beauty of private character,
and a high type of faith in invisible truths, life-long devotion to an
unpopular philanthropy. She had never been called a “great” woman on
earth. Her influence had not been large. Her cause had never been the
fashion, while she herself was living. Society had never amused itself
by adopting her, even to the extent of a parlor lecture. Her name, so
far as it was familiar to the public at all, had been the synonym of a
poor zealot, a plain fanatic, to be tolerated for her conscientiousness
and--avoided for her earnestness. Since her death, the humane
consecration which she represented had marched on like a conquering army
over her grave. Earth, of which she was not worthy, had known her too
late. Heaven was proud to do honor to the spiritual foresight and
sustained self-denial, as royal as it was rare.

I remember, also, being deeply touched by a sight upon which I chanced,
one morning, when I was strolling about the suburbs of the city, seeking
the refreshment of solitude before the duties of the day began. For,
while I was thus engaged, I met our Master, suddenly. He was busily
occupied with others, and, beyond the deep recognition of His smile, I
had no converse with Him. He was followed at a little distance, as He
was apt to be, by a group of playing children; but He was in close
communion with two whom I saw to be souls newly-arrived from the lower
life. One of these was a man--I should say he had been a rough man, and
had come out of a rude life--who conversed with Him eagerly but
reverently, as they walked on towards the town. Upon the other side, our
Lord held with His own hand the hand of a timid, trembling woman, who
scarcely dared raise her eyes from the ground; now and then she drew His
garment’s edge furtively to her lips, and let it fall again, with the
slow motion of one who is in a dream of ecstasy. These two people, I
judged, had no connection with each other beyond the fact that they were
simultaneous new-comers to the new country, and had, perhaps, both borne
with them either special need or merit, I could hardly decide which. I
took occasion to ask a neighbor, an old resident of the city, and wise
in its mysteries, what he supposed to be the explanation of the scene
before us, and why these two were so distinguished by the favor of Him
whose least glance made holiday in the soul of any one of us. It was
then explained to me, that the man about whom I had inquired was the
hero of a great calamity, with which the lower world was at present
occupied. One of the most frightful railway accidents of this generation
had been averted, and the lives of four hundred helpless passengers
saved, by the sublime sacrifice of this locomotive engineer, who died
(it will be remembered) a death of voluntary and unique torture to save
his train. All that could be said of the tragedy was that it held the
essence of self-sacrifice in a form seldom attained by man. At the
moment I saw this noble fellow, he had so immediately come among us that
the expression of physical agony had hardly yet died out of his face,
and his eye still blazed with the fire of his tremendous deed.

“But who is the woman?” I asked.
