required the decks to be washed down for the sake of the practice. By
the aid of the steam-pump the planks were soon covered with water.
They were scrubbed with brooms, and dried with swabs, the first and
second officers superintending the work.

The boys worked as though they enjoyed it. The sun soon dried the deck,
and it looked as white as though it had been holystoned. The next
lesson was in heaving the lead; and one by one the boys were mounted
on the rail, and exercised till they could do it to the satisfaction
of the principal.

It was now eleven o’clock, and the Sylph was half-way to Plattsburgh.
It was necessary to see what had been done about dinner, and the
captain went into the forward cabin. He found the three stewards on
board very busy setting the table. They had found every thing they
needed, and the table looked well. The principal encouraged the boys
with some words of praise, and then went to the galley. There was a
good fire in the range, and Pemberton Millweed was frying “chips.”

The principal tasted the potatoes, and pronounced them excellent. The
second cook was busy at the table preparing the vegetables. As both of
them appeared to know what they were about, the captain asked no
questions, and allowed the cooks and stewards to proceed with the
dinner in their own way.

A visit to the engine-room revealed the fact that Corny Minkfield, the
first assistant-engineer, was in charge there, the chief-engineer
being engaged in instructing the firemen in their duties. But Corny
had been on steamers a great deal, and had some ideas in regard to
machinery. He sat upon the sofa abaft the engine, and looked as
dignified as though he had served in this department a dozen years.

In the fire-room Mr. Jepson was doing his duty faithfully. The firemen
asked a great many questions, all of which were carefully answered.
The second engineer was one of the party, for it was necessary that
the engineers should fully understand the duties of the firemen. There
was nothing for the principal to do, and he returned to the deck.

Dory was directed to take the wheel. When he went to the pilot-house,
he found that Oscar Chester was steering the steamer. He was doing
very well for a beginner, and the first pilot did not interfere.




CHAPTER XVIII.

ANOTHER BATTLE AT PLATTSBURGH.


Dory, without saying a word to Oscar, relieved Bates, and took his
place at the starboard window in front. Captain Gildrock was pacing
the hurricane deck, and the first pilot did not fear an attack from
the rebel. But Oscar looked ugly, and bestowed savage glances upon his
associate in the pilot-house.

“We shall get to Plattsburgh just at dinner-time,” said Captain
Gildrock, stopping at the door of the pilot-house.

“I suppose we can take dinner at the wharf as well as anywhere else,”
replied Dory.

“We shall not go up to the wharf; but we will keep the boat going till
after dinner,” added the captain. “What is your course, second pilot?”

“I am steering for that lighthouse ahead,” replied Oscar.

“All right; but you may go to the eastward of it.”

“What shall I steer for, sir?” inquired the second pilot.

“I don’t know of any object near enough to guide you; but you can
steer by compass, and make the course north by east,” added the
principal in a matter-of-fact way.

“I never steered by compass, sir, and I don’t know how,” said Oscar.

“That is one of the things a pilot ought to learn very early in his
course. There is a compass in front of you on the shelf.”

“I have seen it, but Bates told me to steer for that lighthouse.”

“You did quite right. That is Cumberland Head light. You are steering
just north by the compass, but there is a variation of the needle of
about eleven and a half degrees. Now, port the helm until the point
‘N. by E.’ comes to the mark on the front of the case. Steer small,”
continued Captain Gildrock, placing himself by the side of the second
pilot.

Oscar had learned enough of Bates to enable him to do this. He even
knew that “steering small” was to move the wheel but a little at a
time.

“That’s right: now you have the steamer on her course. Remember, that,
so far as any turning is concerned, the compass is stationary. It is
the steamer, and not the compass, that turns, the needle always
pointing to the north.”

“I think I understand it, sir,” replied Oscar.

But he did not, for the very first time he moved the wheel he turned
it the wrong way.

“The other way, Chester,” interposed the principal very gently. “You
are doing first-rate, and you will soon get the hang of the new
schoolhouse.”

Oscar reversed the movement of the wheel, and soon got the course
again. He was wholly absorbed in his duty, and at that moment he had
forgotten that Dory stood within a few feet of him. In a few minutes
the second pilot got the nack of keeping the point for which he was
steering on the mark.

“You are all right now, Chester,” said the captain. “You will make a
good pilot in due time.”

“Thank you, sir,” replied Oscar, who certainly appeared to have been
greatly humanized by his experience on board.

The Sylph went along on her new course very well. The second pilot
had learned the art of steering small, and the steamer hardly wabbled
at all. He kept his eyes fixed steadily on the compass, and the danger
was that he would see nothing else. A small steamer was directly
ahead, bound up the lake. Oscar did not appear to see her. Presently
she blew one whistle. Dory waited for the second pilot to respond to
the signal, but he did not appear to understand it. He had been shut
up in the ice-house the night before when these signals were
explained. Bates had had no occasion to instruct him in the manner of
passing other steamers.

Dory pulled the line, and gave the required signal. Oscar looked at
him with a scowl on his face, but neither of the pilots spoke. The
little steamer sheered off, but hardly enough to pass the Sylph in
safety. Dory did not like to interfere, lest he should give offence to
the waspish associate in the pilot-house.

“Excuse me, Oscar Chester, but you must port the helm a little in
order to pass that steamer,” said Dory, when he found that his
companion was likely to shave a hair off the approaching vessel.

“You are the first pilot, and I will obey whatever order you give me,”
replied Oscar in snappish tones, as he put the wheel to port.

“When a steamer blows one whistle, it is a signal that she intends to
go to the starboard of us; and we have to reply with the one whistle,”
added Dory, glad to find that the second pilot could speak to him even
in waspish tones.

“All right,” growled Oscar.

At this moment one of the hands struck eight strokes, in couples, on
the bell on the bitts. Bates had been explaining the bells to the
crew.

“All the starboard watch will go to dinner now!” shouted Captain
Gildrock.

The first officer and the second pilot were in the starboard watch.
The engineer had arranged the watches to suit himself.

“I will relieve you while you are at dinner, Oscar Chester,” said
Dory, taking hold of the wheel.

“Thank you,” replied Oscar gruffly, as he left the pilot-house.

Dinner was on the table in the forward cabin. The three stewards stood
behind the chairs. The table looked as neat as that of a first-class
hotel. The linen was clean and white, the articles were arranged with
good taste, and the dishes were neatly disposed in their proper
places.

Captain Gildrock took his place at the head of the table, with the
chief steward behind his chair. The first officer was directed to take
the seat at the opposite end of the table. Mr. Jepson and Mr.
Brookbine sat on the right and left of the captain, and the rest took
such places as they chose.

The dinner was not an elaborate one, and both of the cooks were equal
to such a meal every day in the week. In front of the captain was a
dish of beefsteak, and before the first officer a platter of
veal-cutlets. There were several kinds of vegetables, besides boiled
potatoes and chips.

Every thing was well cooked; and the occupants of the galley declared
that it ought to be, for both of them had done this thing times enough
to learn how. The captain declared that Pemberton Millweed was good
for something; and, if he would devote himself to the art of cooking,
he could make more money in one year than he could in six as a
counter-jumper. The captain said as much as this to him after dinner.

“But it is not quite so genteel,” replied Pemberton with a smile.

“Genteel!” exclaimed the captain in a most contemptuous tone. “I will
venture to say, that the cook of a first-class hotel in New York, not
to mention many private families, is more genteel than any
counter-jumper in Burlington. The most genteel man I ever saw was a
journeyman barber. The bartenders cut the biggest swell in some
cities. I can’t see why a cook should not be as genteel as a
counter-jumper, if he is so disposed. Male cooks get anywhere from six
hundred to three thousand dollars a year, and they can better afford
to be genteel than clerks on five to ten dollars a week.”

The captain was rather curious to know what had happened at the house
of Farmer Millweed after the poor man went home that morning, but he
was not willing to ask either of the boys about it. The sons had both
joined the school, and both were discharging their duties manfully.
Doubtless there had been a stormy scene at the house of the farmer,
and Mr. Millweed had risen somewhat in the estimation of the
shipmaster.

The tables were set a second time at half-past twelve; and the port
watch fared as well as the starboard, for, as far as practicable, a
fresh meal had been cooked for its members. Mr. Jepson reported
Bolingbroke as both willing and intelligent. He knew all about a
steam-engine, and not a little about chemistry and the mathematics;
for which the captain was willing to give the credit to the Genverres
high-school.

Obeying the instructions of the captain, Dory had come about, and the
steamer was headed up the lake. At Cumberland Head she changed her
course again, and ran for Plattsburgh. At the north beacon on the
breakwater, he rang to stop her. The second officer, prompted by the
captain, had the anchor all ready to let go. The pilot gave the order
when he was ready.

“Let go the anchor!” shouted Will Orwell.

Splash it went into the water: the Sylph swung around, and all hands
were called. Captain Gildrock made a little speech to the boys,
praised them for what they had done during the forenoon, and then gave
them two hours’ liberty to go on shore. He expected them to behave
like gentlemen, and not disgrace the uniform they wore. They were to
be on the wharf at three o’clock, in readiness to return to the
steamer.

The dummy exercise of lowering the boats was made real; and, with the
exception of Jepson and Bates, all hands went on shore. No restraint
was put upon them as to where they should go. Dory thought he would
call upon some of his old friends in the place; and he started for the
town, which is about three-quarters of a mile from the lake-shore.
After he had passed the railroad-station, Oscar Chester suddenly
presented himself before him. He had evidently been lying in wait for
him.

“Dory Dornwood, we meet now on an equal footing; and I think I can
keep my feet on the solid land as well as you can,” said the second
pilot savagely. “I promised to get even with you, and my time has
come.”

“If your time has come, Oscar Chester, my time has not gone,” replied
Dory calmly; and therein he had the advantage of the rebel. “I don’t
want to quarrel with you, and I won’t if I can help it. I should like
to talk the matter over with you, for I think you will be fair when
you look on both sides of the question.”

“I don’t want to talk it over. You insulted me last night, and then
you caused me to be tumbled into the lake. I am going to have
satisfaction; for I never forgive an insult,” added Oscar, waxing
fierce as his anger boiled within him.

“I did not intend to insult you; and I only did what any skipper would
have done under the same circumstances,” continued Dory.

“No more talk. I intend to thrash you here and now, till you say you
have had enough of it, and are willing to beg my pardon,” stormed
Oscar, as he threw off his uniform sack, and tossed his badged cap
upon the grass at the side of the road.

By this time a party of the ship’s company came up. The second officer
was in it; and, as soon as he understood what was going on, he
hastened to the scene. He spoke to Oscar, and tried to induce him not
to meddle with Dory. The others were not disposed to interfere with
such a fellow as the second pilot. Will Orwell was his crony; and he
persisted, taking his friend by the arm, and trying to lead him away.

“Don’t talk to me, Will Orwell! You are half a traitor to me,” said
Oscar, shaking off his crony.

Without waiting for another word, the rebel leaped upon Dory. An
instant later Oscar went over backwards, with the blood spurting from
his nose. He sprang to his feet, and renewed the attack. In two
minutes more he lay upon the ground, unable to rise.




CHAPTER XIX.

SOMETHING THAT HAPPENED ON SHORE.


Oscar Chester was not killed, or even very seriously injured. The last
blow of Dory had been planted in a sensitive place, and he had been
stunned by it. His companions gathered around him, lifted him up, and
procured some water from the Fouquet Hotel, with which they washed his
head. In a few minutes his senses came back to him, and he was able to
comprehend the situation.

Dory had been hit several times; but he was a tough youngster, and
seemed to be none the worse for the battle. As he viewed the matter,
he had simply defended himself, according to the first law of nature.
He had done his best beforehand to avoid the fight, and had proposed
to talk the matter over in order to ascertain who was to blame.

“That was an awful crack you gave him at the end,” said Fireman
Bolingbroke Millweed, joining Dory, who stood alone on the grass. “I
didn’t know that you were such a hard hitter.”

“I did not know it myself,” replied Dory, wiping the perspiration from
his brow. “I am not a fighting character, and I never struck a blow in
my life except in self-defence.”

“I think Chester has got enough of it,” added the fireman.

“I don’t know about that. He acts to me as though he was crazy. It
would be just like him to pitch into me again as soon as he feels able
to do so. I am sure I don’t want to quarrel with him, especially as he
is to be in the pilot-house with me. If I have done any thing out of
the way, I am willing to beg his pardon; but he wouldn’t even talk
with me about his grudge against me.”

“I saw the whole of it, and heard all that was said. I am sure you are
not to blame,” added Bolingbroke. “But I was glad to see you knock him
out after he was so unreasonable.”

“You were in the boat last night when the trouble began, and I hope
you will be able to remember what passed between Oscar and me; for,
after this, my uncle will be very likely to investigate the case.”

“I remember all about it. Oscar wanted to steer the boat, and you
objected. When he got up from his seat,--to take the helm, I
suppose,--you told him to sit down; and you spoke rather sharply. Then
the boat gave a lurch, and he went overboard. If it hadn’t been for
you, Dory, he would have been drowned as sure as fate,” replied
Bolingbroke, rehearsing the facts precisely as they were.

“I am ready to face the music, and if I have done any thing wrong I
shall be glad to apologize for it. In this fight, I only defended
myself, as I think every fellow ought to do.”

“How are you, Dory?”

The pilot looked around, and saw Mr. Peppers, a constable of
Plattsburgh, who sometimes did detective work. He had sailed down the
lake with Dory in the Goldwing a few weeks before, and Peppers had a
strong regard for the skipper.

“I am glad to see you, Mr. Peppers,” replied Dory, shaking hands with
the detective.

“You have settled that fellow so that he won’t want any more of your
love-pats,” replied Peppers, laughing. “I saw the whole of it, and it
was handsomely done.”

“I merely defended myself. He pitched into me, and I could not help
myself,” answered the pilot in the language and tone of apology; for
he did not want any one to think that he ever engaged in a voluntary
fight.

“I know it: I saw the whole of it. You were trying to talk with him
when he rushed upon you,” added Peppers.

By this time Oscar Chester appeared to have recovered from the heavy
blows of his brother pilot. He and Will Orwell walked up the street
towards the town. The excitement was all over, and the other pupils
scattered. Peppers followed Chester. Dory was doubtful what to do. At
first he thought of going on board of the Sylph, and reporting the
battle to his uncle.

After a little consideration, and some talk with Bolingbroke about it,
he decided not to do so. He was ready to answer to any charge that
might be brought against him, and it would be time enough to defend
himself when he was accused. He called at the Witherill House, had a
chat with the landlord and the clerk, and then returned to the wharf.
By this time most of the boys had seen all they wanted to of the town,
and were ready to go on board. Captain Gildrock had come on shore, and
had just gone on board with the two Plattsburgh boys who were to join
the school.

Bates was in charge of the boats; and, as soon as the crew of one of
them appeared, he sent one load on board. The principal was
instructing the two new hands, who had already put on the uniform. One
was a steward, and the other belonged to the port watch.

At a little after three o’clock the other boat came off, and the
students rushed up the accommodation steps as though they enjoyed the
steamer and the lake more than the town. George Duane, the new
steward, was handed over to Bob Swanton, after a proper introduction;
and they retired to the forward cabin.

“Have all hands come on board?” asked Captain Gildrock.

The boys looked about them, as though they were unable to answer the
question.

“You don’t know: well, we can soon ascertain by calling the roll,”
added the principal, as he took the list of students from his pocket.
“Mr. Glovering.”

“Here sir,” replied the first officer in the midst of the laughter of
the boys when they heard the handle applied to his name.

“Mr. Orwell.”

“Here, sir.”

“Mr. Dornwood.”

“Here, sir.”

“Mr. Chester.”

There was no response to this name, and it was repeated. There was no
answer.

“Is the second pilot on board?” asked Captain Gildrock; and Dory
wondered if he knew any thing about the second battle of Plattsburgh.

The first and second officers looked about the deck and into the
cabins for the missing pilot, but he could not be found. A more
thorough search was made by all hands, and it was soon evident that
“Mr. Chester” was not on board. The captain finished the call of the
roll, and made no remark in regard to the disappearance of the second
pilot. He directed the first officer to get up the anchor.

It looked as though Oscar Chester had absconded, notwithstanding his
good conduct during the forenoon. Possibly some of the boys,
especially Will Orwell, knew something about the matter; but they did
not volunteer to give any information, and the principal did not ask
for any. He said nothing at all, in fact, about the missing student.
The captain did not appear to be in the least degree disturbed by the
absence of the refractory pupil.

Captain Gildrock looked on while the crew walked around the capstan.
The officers had learned their lesson well; and, for a first trial,
the operation of getting up the anchor was handsomely done.

The first pilot was at his post; and, as soon as “anchor aweigh” was
reported to him, he rang the gong. Mr. Jepson stood on deck, near the
door of the engine-room, having stationed his first assistant at the
machine. He opened the valve slowly, and the thumping of the screw was
immediately heard.

Captain Gildrock had gone to the hurricane deck, where he could see
all that was done in the pilot-house and on the forecastle. He cast
occasional glances at the wharf, and he directed Dory to run in that
direction. Then he called the first officer, and told him to get ready
to make a landing.

Dory ran the Sylph up to the wharf, where she was secured by the
enthusiastic crew. The portion of the bulwark at the starboard gangway
was removed, and the plank run out. While Mr. Glovering was wondering
who was going on shore, Oscar Chester stepped out of the building on
the wharf, and walked on board as coolly as though nothing had
happened to disturb his equanimity.

“Haul in the plank!” called the captain. “Cast off, Dory.”

The pilot on duty blew a sharp whistle, which was the signal to cast
off the fasts; and the officers below attended to this duty. The Sylph
backed out from the wharf, and then went ahead, the engine being
wholly managed by Corny Minkfield. Oscar Chester went directly to the
hurricane deck, and was about to enter the pilot-house, when he was
confronted by Captain Gildrock.

“You are late, Mr. Chester,” said the principal.

“I came on board against my will, sir. In fact, I was brought down to
the wharf,” replied Oscar.

“Indeed? Who brought you to the wharf?” asked the captain with a
half-suppressed chuckle.

“I wasn’t introduced to him, but he said he was a constable.”

“You ought to have been introduced to him,” laughed the captain. “I
can’t go through the ceremony now, because the constable is not here;
but his name is Peppers. Dory knows him, and he will introduce you if
I don’t happen to be present when you meet again. Am I to understand
from what you say that you did not intend to return to the steamer?”

“I did not intend to return: on the contrary, I meant to run away; for
I suppose that is what you would call it,” replied Oscar.

“If I remember rightly, you promised this morning to behave as well as
you knew how, if I released you from the brig,” added the captain.

“I meant what I said at the time, and intended to keep my promise; but
something happened on shore that prevented me from doing so,” replied
Oscar rather sheepishly for him.

“What is the matter with your face, Mr. Chester? Your nose is swelled,
and you have a mouse under each eye. I should say that both of your
eyes would be in mourning for the next week,” added Captain Gildrock.

“The black eyes are in consequence of something that happened on shore,”
answered the second pilot.

“What was that?”

