read the Gerusalemme Liberata, with Professor 
Grandi, and I can repeat all of the Vita Nuova by 
heart, and some of the " 

"For the present that is enough," said the count. 
" If you nothing better to do have, will you so kind 
be as to begin ? " 



 

" Begin ? " said Nino, not understanding. 

"Yes, signore; it would unsuitable be if I my 
daughter to the hands of a man committed unacquainted with the matter he to teach her proposes. 
I desire to be satisfied that you all these things really 
know." 

"Do I understand, Signor Conte, that you wish 
me to repeat to you some of the things I know by 
heart?" 

"You have me understood," said the count severely. "I have all the books bought, of which 
you speak. You will repeat, and I will in the book 
follow. Then shall we know each other much 
better." 

Nino was not a little astonished at this mode of 
procedure, and wondered how far his memory would 
serve him in such an unexpected examination. 

" It will take a long time to ascertain in this way " 
he began. 

"This," said the count coldly, as he opened a volume of Dante, " is the celestial play by Signor Alighieri. If you anything know, you will it repeat." 

Nino resigned himself, and began repeating the 
first canto of the Inferno. When he had finished it 
he paused. 

"Forwards," said the count, without any change 
of manner. 

" More ? " inquired Nino. 

"March!" said the old gentleman in military 
tone, and the boy went on with the second canto. 

"Apparently know you the beginning." The 
count opened the book at random in another place. 



 

The thirtieth canto of Purgatory. You will now 
it repeat." 

"Ah!" cried Nino, "that is where Dante meets 
Beatrice." 

" My hitherto not - by - any - means - extensive, but 
always from - the - conscience - undertaken, reading 
reaches not so far. You will it repeat. So shall we 
know." Nino passed his hand inside his collar as 
though to free his throat, and began again, losing all 
consciousness of his tormentor in his own enjoyment 
of the verse. 

"When was the Signore Alighieri born?" in 
quired Graf von Lira, very suddenly, as though to 
catch him. 

"May, 1265, in Florence," answered the other as 
quickly. 

" I said when, not where. I know he was in Florence born. When and where died he?" The question was asked fiercely. 

"Fourteenth of September, 1321, at Ravenna." 

" I think really you something of Signore Alighieri 
know," said the count, and shut up the volume of 
the poet, and the dictionary of dates he had been 
obliged to consult to verify Nino's answers. " We 
will proceed." 

Nino i& fortunately one of those people whose faculties serve them best at their utmost need, and during the three hours three blessed hours that 
Graf von Lira kept him under his eye, asking questions and forcing him to repeat all manner of things, 
he acquitted himself fairly well. 

" I have now myself satisfied that you something 





know," said the count, in his snappish military fashion, and he shut the last book, and never from that 
day referred in any manner to Nino's extent of 
knowledge, taking it for granted that he had made 
an exhaustive investigation. "And now," he continued, " I desire you to engage for the reading of 
literature with my daughter, upon the usual terms
Nino was so much pleased that he almost lost his 
self-control, but a moment restored his reflection. 

" I am honoured " he began. 

"You are not honoured at all," interrupted the 
count coldly. " What are the usual terms ? " 

" Three or four francs a lesson " suggested Nino. 

" Three or four francs are not the usual terms. I 
have inquiries made. Five francs are the usual 
terms. Three times in the week, at eleven. You 
will on the morrow begin. Allow me to offer you 
some cigars." And he ended the interview. 



CHAPTER IV. 

IN a sunny room overlooking the great courtyard 
of the Palazzo Carmandola, Nino sat down to give 
Hedwig von Lira her first lesson in Italian literature. He had not the remotest idea what the lesson 
was to be like, for in spite of the tolerably wide 
acquaintance with the subject which he owed to my 
care and my efforts to make a scholar of him, he 
knew nothing about teaching. Nevertheless, as his 
pupil spoke the language fluently, though with the 
occasional use of words of low origin, like all foreigners who have grown up in Rome and have 
learned to speak from their servants, he anticipated 
little difficulty. He felt quite sure of being able 
to interpret the hard places, and he had learnt from 
me to know the best and finest passages in a number 
of authors. 

But imagine the feelings of a boy of twenty, per 
fectly in love, without having the smallest right to 
be so, suddenly placed by the side of the object of 
his adoration, and told to teach her all he knows 
with her father in the next room and the door open 
between ! I have always thought it was a proof of 
Nino's determined character, that he should have got 
over this first lesson without accident. 

Hedwig von Lira, the contessina, as we always 



 

call her, is just Nino's age, but she seemed much 
younger, as the children of the North always do. I 
have told you what she was like to look at, and you 
will not wonder that I called her a statue. She looked 
as cold as a statue, just as I said, and so I should 
hardly describe her as beautiful. But then I am not 
a sculptor, nor do I know anything about those arts, 
though I can tell a good work when I see it. I do 
not wish to appear prejudiced, and so I will not say 
anything more about it. I like life in living things, 
and sculptors may, if it please them, adore straight 
noses, and level brows, and mouths that no one could 
possibly eat with. I do not care in the least, and if 
you say that I once thought differently I answer that 
I do not wish to change your opinion, but that I will 
change my own as often as I please. Moreover, if 
you say that the contessina did not act like a statue 
in the sequel, I will argue that if you put marble in 
the fire it will take longer to heat and longer to cool 
than clay; only clay is made to be put into the fire, 
and marble is not. Is not that a cunning answer? 

The contessina is a foreigner in every way, al 
though she was born under our sun. They have all 
sorts of talents, these people, but so little ingenuity 
in using them that they never accomplish anything. 
It seems to amuse them to learn to do a great many 
things, although they must know from the beginning 
that they can never excel in any one of them. I 
dare say the contessina plays on the piano very creditably, for even Nino says she plays well; but is it 
of any use to her ? 

Nino very soon found out that she meant to read 



 

literature very seriously, and, what is more, she 
meant to read it in her own way. She was as different from her father as possible in everything else, but 
she resembled him in a despotic determination to do 
exactly as she liked. Nino was glad that he was 
not called upon to use his own judgment, and there 
he sat, content to look at her, twisting his hands 
together below the table to concentrate his attention, 
and master himself; and he read just what she told 
him to read, expounding the words and phrases she 
could not understand. I dare say that with his hair 
well brushed, and his best coat, and his eyes on the 
book, he looked as proper as you please. But if the 
high-born young lady had returned the glances he 
could not refrain from bending upon her now and 
then, she would have seen a lover, if she could see 
at all. 

She did not see. The haughty Prussian damsel 
hardly noticed the man, for she was absorbed by the 
professor. Her small ears were all attention, and 
her slender fingers made notes with a common pencil, 
so that Nino wondered at the contrast between the 
dazzling white hand and the smooth, black, varnished 
instrument of writing. He took no account of time 
that day, and was startled by the sound of the mid 
day gun and the angry clashing of the bells. The 
contessina looked up suddenly and met his eyes, but 
it was the boy that blushed. 

"Would you mind finishing the canto?" she 
asked. "There are only ten lines more" Mind! 
Nino flushed with pleasure. 

"Anzi by all means," he cried. "My time is 
yours, signorina." 



 

When they had done, he rose, and his face was 
sad and pale again. He hated to go, but he was 
only a teacher, and at his first lesson, too. She also 
rose, and waited for him to leave the room. He 
could not hold his tongue. 

"Signorina" he stammered, and checked himself. She looked at him, to listen, but his heart 
smote him when he had thus arrested her attention. 
What could he say, as he stood bowing? It was 
sufficiently stupid, what he said. 

" I shall have the honour of returning to-morrow 
the day after to-morrow, I would say." 

"Yes," said she, "I believe that is the arrange 
ment. Good-morning, Signor Professore." The title 
of professor rang strangely in his ear. Was there 
the slightest tinge of irony in her voice? Was she 
laughing at his boyish looks? Ugh! the thought 
tingled. He bowed himself out. 

That was the first lesson, and the second was like 
it, I suppose, and a great many others about which I 
knew nothing, for I was always occupied in the middle of the day, and did not ask where he went. It 
seemed to me that he was becoming a great dandy, 
but as he never asked me for any money from the 
day he learned to copy music, I never put any questions. He certainly had a new coat before Christ 
mas, and gloves, and very nice boots, that made me 
smile when I thought of the day when he arrived, 
with only one shoe and it had a hole in it as big as 
half his foot. But now he grew to be so careful of 
his appearance that Mariuccia began to call him the 
"signorino." De Pretis said he was making great 



 

progress, and so I was contented, though I always 
thought it was a sacrifice for him to be a singer. 

Of course, as he went three times a week to the 
Palazzo Carmandola, he began to be used to the 
society of the contessina. I never understood how 
he succeeded in keeping up the comedy of being a 
professor. A real Roman would have discovered 
him in a week. But foreigners are different. If 
they are satisfied, they pay their money and ask no 
questions. Besides, he studied all the time, saying 
that if he ever lost his voice he would turn man of 
letters which sounded so prudent that I had nothing to say. Once, we were walking in the Corso, 
and the contessina with her father passed in the 
carriage. Nino raised his hat, but they did not see 
him, for there is always a crowd in the Corso. 

"Tell me," he cried excitedly as they went by, 
"is it not true that she is beautiful?" 

"A piece of marble, my son," said I, suspecting 
nothing; and I turned into a tobacconist's to buy a 
cigar. 

One day Nino says it was in November the 
contessina began asking him questions about the 
Pantheon. It was in the middle of the lesson, and 
he wondered at her stopping to talk. But you may 
imagine whether he was glad or not, to have an 
opportunity of speaking about something besides 
Dante. 

"Yes, signorina,"he answered, "Professor Grandi 
says it was built for public baths ; but, of course, we 
all think it was a temple." 

"Were you ever there at night?" asked she, in- 



 

differently, and the sun through the window so 
played with her golden hair that Nino wondered how 
she could ever think of night at all. 

"At night, signorina? No indeed! What should 
I go there at night to do, in the dark! I was never 
there at night." 

"I will go there at night," she said briefly. 

" Ah you would have it lit up with torches, as 
they do the Coliseum ? " 

"No. Is there no moon in Italy, professore?" 

"The moon there is. But there is such a little 
hole in the top of the Rotonda" that is our Roman 
name for the Pantheon " that it would be very 
dark." 

"Precisely," said she. "I will go there at night, 
and see the moon shining through the hole in the 
dome." 

"Eh," cried Nino, laughing, "you will see the 
moon better outside in the piazza. Why should you 
go inside, where you can see so little of it?" 

" I will go, " replied the contessina. " The Italians 
have no sense of the beautiful the mysterious." 
Her eyes grew dreamy as she tried to call up the 
picture she had never seen. 

" Perhaps, " said Nino, humbly. " But, " he added, 
suddenly brightening at the thought, "it is very 
easy, if you would like to go. I will arrange it. 
Will you allow me ? " 

"Yes, arrange it. Let us go on with our lesson." 

I would like to tell you all about it; how Nino 
saw the sacristan of the Pantheon that evening, and 
ascertained from his little almanach which has all 



 

kinds of wonderful astrological predictions, as well 
as the calendar when it would be full moon. And 
perhaps what Nino said to the sacristan, and what 
the sacristan said to Nino, might be amusing. I am 
very fond of these little things, and fond of talking 
too. For since it is talking that distinguishes us 
from other animals, I do not see why I should not 
make the most of it. But you who are listening to 
me have seen very little of the Contessina Hedwig 
as yet, and unless I quickly tell you more you will 
wonder how all the curious things that happened to 
her could possibly have grown out of the attempt of 
a little singer like Nino to make her acquaintance. 
Well, Nino is a great singer now, of course, but he 
was little once ; and when he palmed himself off on 
the old count for an Italian master without my knowledge, nobody had heard of him at all. 

Therefore since I must satisfy your curiosity before 
anything else, and not dwell too long on the details 
the dear, commonplace details I will simply say 
that Nino succeeded without difficulty in arranging 
with the sacristan of the Pantheon to allow a party 
of foreigners to visit the building at the full moon, 
at midnight. I have no doubt he even expended a 
franc with the little man, who is very old and dirty, 
and keeps chickens in the vestibule but no details I 

On the appointed night Nino, wrapped in that old 
cloak of mine, which is very warm, though it is 
threadbare, accompanied the party to the temple, or 
church, or whatever you like to call it. The party 
were simply the count and his daughter, an Austrian 
gentleman of their acquaintance, and the dear baroness that sympathetic woman who broke so many 
hearts and cared not at all for the chatter of the people. Every one has seen her, with her slim, grace 
ful ways, and her face that was like a mulatto peach 
for darkness and fineness, and her dark eyes and 
tiger-lily look. They say she lived entirely on 
sweetmeats and coffee, and it is no wonder she was 
so sweet and so dark. She called me "count" 
which is very foolish now, but if I were going to fall 
in love I should have loved her. I should not love 
a statue. As for the Austrian gentleman, it is not 
of any importance to describe him. 

These four people Nino conducted to the little 
entrance at the back of the Pantheon, and the sac 
ristan struck a light to show them the way to the 
door of the church. Then he put out his taper, and 
let them do as they pleased. 

Conceive if you can the darkness of Egypt, the 
darkness that can be felt, impaled and stabbed 
through its whole thickness by one mighty moon 
beam, clear and clean and cold, from the top to the 
bottom. All around, in the circle of the outer 
black, lie the great dead in their tombs, whispering 
to each other of deeds that shook the world; whis 
pering in a language all their own as yet the lan 
guage of the life to come the language of a stillness 
so dread and deep that the very silence clashes against 
it, and makes dull, muffled beatings in ears that 
strain to catch the dead men's talk: the shadow of 
immortality falling through the shadow of death, and 
bursting back upon its heavenward course from the 
depth of the abyss ; climbing again upon its silver 



 

self to the sky above, leaving behind the horror of 
the deep. 

So in that lonely place at midnight falls the moon 
upon the floor, and through the mystic shaft of rays 
ascend and descend the souls of the dead. Hedwig 
stood out alone upon the white circle on the pavement beneath the dome, and looked up as though she 
could see the angels coming and going. And, as 
she looked, the heavy lace veil that covered her head 
fell back softly, as though a spirit wooed her and 
would fain look on something fairer than he, and 
purer. The whiteness clung to her face, and each 
separate wave of hair was like spun silver. And she 
looked steadfastly up. For a moment she stood, and 
the hushed air trembled about her. Then the silence 
caught the tremor, and quivered, and a thrill of 
sound hovered and spread its wings, and sailed forth 
from the night. 

"Spirto gentil dei sogni miei " 

Ah, Signorina Edvigia, you know that voice now, 
but you did not know it then. How your heart 
stopped, and beat, and stopped again, when you first 
heard that man sing out his whole heartful you in 
the light and he in the dark ! And his soul shot out 
to you upon the sounds, and died fitfully, as the 
magic notes dashed their soft wings against the 
vaulted roof above you, and took new life again and 
throbbed heavenward in broad, passionate waves, till 
your breath came thick and your blood ran fiercely 
ay, even your cold northern blood in very triumph that a voice could so move you. A voice in 
the dark. For a full minute after it ceased you stood 



 

there, and the others, wherever they might be in the 
shadow, scarcely breathed. 

That was how Hedwig first heard Nino sing. 
When at last she recovered herself enough to ask 
aloud the name of the singer, Nino had moved quite 
close to her. 

" It is a relation of mine, signorina, a young fellow who is going to be an artist. I asked him as a 
favour to come here and sing to you to-night. I 
thought it might please you." 

" A relation of yours ! " exclaimed the contessina. 
And the others approached so that they all made a 
group in the disc of moonlight. "Just think, my 
dear baroness, this wonderful voice is a relation of 
Signor Cardegna, my excellent Italian master!" 
There was a little murmur of admiration ; then the 
old count spoke. 

"Signore," said he, rolling in his gutturals, "it 
is my duty to very much thank you. You will now, 
if you please, me the honour do, me to your all-the- 
talents-possible-possessing relation to present. " Nino 
had foreseen the contingency, and disappeared into 
the dark. Presently he returned. 

"I am so sorry, Signor Conte," he said. "The 
sacristan tells me that when my cousin had finished 
he hurried away, saying he was afraid of taking some 
ill if he remained here where it is so damp. I will 
tell him how much you appreciated him." 

"Curious is it," remarked the count. "I heard 
