" Yes, on the whole, I prefer ours." 

"Well, these models," began Mr. Striker. "You 
put them into an attitude, I suppose?" 

" An attitude, exactly." 

" And then you sit down and look at them?" 

"You must not sit too long. You must go at your 
clay and try to build up something that looks like them." 

" Well, there you are with your model in an attitude 
on one side, yourself in an attitude too, I suppose, on the 
other, and your pile of clay in the middle, building up, 
as you say. So you pass the morning. After that I 
hope you go out and take a walk and rest from your 
exertions." 



 

"Unquestionably. But to a sculptor who loves his 
work there is no time lost. Everything he looks at 
teaches or suggests something." 

" That 's a tempting doctrine to young men with a taste 
for sitting by the hour with the page unturned, watching 
the flies buzz, or the frost melt on the window-pane. 
Our young friend in this way must have laid up stores of 
information which I never suspected !" 

"It is very possible," said Rowland, with an unresent- 
ful smile, "that he will prove some day the completer 
artist for some of those lazy reveries. " 

This theory was apparently very grateful to Mrs. 
Hudson, who had never had the case put for her son 
with such ingenious hopefulness, and who found herself 
disrelishing the singular situation of seeming to side 
against her own flesh and blood with a lawyer whose con 
versational tone betrayed the habit of cross-questioning. 

"My son, then," she ventured to ask, "my son has 
great what you would call great powers?" 

To my sense very great powers. " 

Poor Mrs. Hudson actually smiled, broadly, gleefully, 
and glanced at Miss Garland as if to invite her to do 
likewise. But the young girl 's face remained as serious 
as the eastern sky when the opposite sunset is too feeble 
to make it glow. Do you really know ? " she asked, 
looking at Rowland. 

" One can't know in such a matter save after proof, 
and proof takes time. But one can believe." 

" And you believe ?" 

"I believe." 

But even then Miss Garland vouchsafed no smile ; her 
face became graver than ever. 

"Well, well," said Mrs. Hudson, "we must hope 
that it is all for the best." 

Mr. Striker eyed his old friend for a moment with a 
look of some displeasure ; he saw that this was but a 
cunning feminine imitation of resignation, and that, 



 

through some untraceable process of transition, she was 
now taking more comfort in the opinions of this sophisti 
cal stranger than in his own tough dogmas. He rose to 
his feet, without pulling down his waistcoat, but with a 
wrinkled grin at the inconsistency of women. " Well, 
sir, Mr. Roderick 's powers are nothing to me," he said, 
"no, nor the use he makes of them. Good or bad, he 's 
no son of mine. But in a friendly way I m glad to hear 
so fine an account of him. I m glad, madam, you re so 
satisfied with the prospect. Affection, sir, you see, must 
have its guarantees !" He paused a moment, stroking 
his beard, with his head inclined and one eye half closed, 
looking at Rowland. The look was grotesque, but it 
was significant, and it puzzled Rowland more than it 
amused him. " I suppose you are a very brilliant young 
man," he went on, "very enlightened, very cultivated, 
quite up to the mark in trie fine arts and all that sort of 
thing. I m a plain practical old boy, content to follow 
an honourable profession in a free country. I didn't go 
off to the Old World to learn my business ; no one took 
me by the hand ; I had to grease my wheels myself, and 
such as I am I m a self-made man, every inch of me ! 
Well, if our young friend is booked for fame and fortune 
I don't suppose his going to Rome will stop him. But, 
mind you, it won't help him such a long way either. 
If you have undertaken to put him through, there 's a thing 
or two you had better remember. The crop we gather 
depends upon the seed we sow. He may be the biggest 
genius of the age ; his potatoes won't come up without 
his hoeing them. If he takes things so almighty easy as 
well, as one or two young fellows of genius I ve had 
under my eye his produce will never gain the prize. 
Take the word for it of a man who has made his way 
inch by inch and doesn't believe that we wake up to find 
our work done because we have lain all night a-dreaming 
of it ; anything worth doing is devilish hard to do ! If 
your young gentleman finds things easy and has a good 



 

time of it and says he likes the life, it 's a sign that as I 
may say you had better step round to the office and look 
at the books. That 's all I desire to remark. No offence 
intended. I hope you ll have a first-rate time." 

Rowland could honestly reply that this seemed pregnant 
sense, and he offered Mr. Striker a friendly hand-shake 
as the latter withdrew. But Mr. Striker 's rather grim 
view of matters cast a momentary shadow on his com 
panions, and Mrs. Hudson seemed to feel that it neces 
sitated between them some little friendly agreement not 
to be overawed. 

Rowland sat for some time longer, partly because he 
wished to please the two women and partly because he 
was strangely pleased himself. There was something 
touching in their worldly fears and diffident hopes, some 
thing almost terrible in the way poor little Mrs. Hud 
son seemed to flutter and quiver with intense maternal 
passion. She put forth one timid conversational venture 
after another, and asked Rowland a number of questions 
about himself, his age, his family, his occupations, his 
tastes, his religious opinions. Rowland had an odd feel 
ing at last that she had begun to believe him very exem 
plary, and that she might make later some perturbing 
discovery. He tried, therefore, to invent something that 
would prepare her to find him fallible. But he could 
think of nothing. It only seemed to him that Miss 
Garland secretly mistrusted him, and that he must leave 
her to render him the service, after he had gone, of mak 
ing him the object of a little conscientious derogation. 
Mrs. Hudson talked with low-voiced eagerness about 
her son. 

" He 's very lovable, sir, I assure you. When you come 
to know him you will find him very lovable. He 's a 
little spoiled, of course ; he has always done with me as 
he pleased ; but he 's a good boy, I am sure he 's a good 
boy. And every one thinks him very attractive : I am 
sure he would be noticed anywhere. Don't you think 



he 's very handsome, sir ? He is the very copy of his 
poor father. I had another perhaps you have been 
told. He was killed. " And the poor little lady bravely 
smiled, for fear of doing worse. " He was a very fine 
boy, but very different from Roderick. Roderick is a 
little strange ; he has never been an easy boy. Some 
times I feel like the goose wasn't it a goose, dear?" 
and startled by the audacity of her comparison she 
appealed to Miss Garland "the goose or the hen, who 
hatched a swan 's egg. I have never been able to give 
him what he needs. I have always thought that in more 
in more brilliant circumstances he might find his place 
and be happy. But at the same time I was afraid of the 
world for him ; it was so dangerous and dreadful so 
mixed. No doubt I know very little about it. I never 
suspected, I confess, that it contained persons of such 
liberality as yours." 

Rowland replied that evidently she had done the world 
but scanty justice. 

"No," objected Miss Garland after a pause, "it is 
like something in a fairy tale." 

"What, pray?" 

" Your coming here all unknown, so rich and so polite, 
and carrying off my cousin in a golden cloud." 

If this was badinage Miss Garland had the best of it, 
for Rowland almost fell a-musing silently over the ques 
tion whether there were a possibility of irony in the young 
lady 's lucid glance. Before he withdrew Mrs. Hudson 
made him tell her again that Roderick 's powers were 
extraordinary. He had inspired her with a clinging, 
caressing faith in his wisdom. " He will really do great 
things ?" she asked " the very greatest ?" 

" I see no intrinsic reason why he should not." 

"Well, we shall think of that as we sit here alone," 
she rejoined. " Mary and I will sit here and talk about 
it. So I give him up," she went on, as he was going. 
" I am sure you will be the best of friends to him ; but 




if you should ever forget him or grow tired of him if 
you should lose your interest in him and he should come 

to any harm or any trouble, please, sir, remember " 

and she paused, with a tremulous voice. 

" Remember, my dear madam ? " 

" That he is all I have that he is everything and 
that it would be very terrible." 

"In so far as I can help him he shall succeed," was 
all Rowland could say. He turned to Miss Garland to 
bid her good-night, and she rose and put out her hand. 
She was very straightforward, but he could see that if 
she was too modest to be bold she was much too simple 
to be shy. " Have you no injunctions to give me ? " he 
asked to ask her something. 

She looked at him a moment, and then, although she 
was not shy, she blushed. "Make him do his best," 
she said. 

Rowland noted the soft intensity with which the words 
were uttered. "Do you take a great interest in him?" 
he demanded. 

"Certainly." 

" Then if he will not do his best for you he will not 
do it for me." She turned away with another blush and 
Rowland took his leave. 

He walked homeward, thinking of many things. The 
great Northampton elms inter-arched far above in the 
darkness, but the moon had risen and through scattered 
apertures was hanging the dusky vault with silver lamps. 
There seemed to Rowland something intensely serious in 
the scene in which he had just taken part. He had 
laughed and talked and braved it out in self-defence ; 
but when he reflected that he was really meddling with 
the simple stillness of this little New England home, and 
that he had ventured to disturb so much living security 
in the interest of a far-away fantastic hypothesis, he 
paused, amazed at his temerity. It was true, as Cecilia 
had said, that for an unofficious man it was a singular 



 

position. There stirred in his mind an odd feeling of 
annoyance with Roderick for having so peremptorily 
taken possession of his mind. As he looked up and 
down the long vista, and saw the clear white houses 
glancing here and there in the broken moonshine, he 
could almost have believed that the happiest lot for any 
man was to make the most of life in some such tranquil 
spot as that. Here were kindness, comfort, safety, the 
warning voice of duty, the perfect absence of temptation. 
And as Rowland looked along the arch of silvered 
shadow and out into the lucid air of the American night, 
which seemed so doubly vast, somehow, and strange and 
nocturnal, he felt like declaring that here was beauty 
too beauty sufficient for an artist not to starve upon it. 
As he stood there lost in the darkness, he presently 
heard a rapid tread on the other side of the road, accom 
panied by a loud jubilant whistle, and in a moment a 
figure emerged into an open gap of moonshine. He had 
no difficulty in recognising Hudson, who was presumably 
returning from a visit to Cecilia. Roderick stopped 
suddenly and stared up at the moon, with his face vividly 
illumined. He broke out into a snatch of song 

" The splendour falls on castle walls 
And snowy summits old in story ! " 

And with a great musical roll of his voice he went 
swinging off into the darkness again as if his thoughts 
had lent him wings. He was dreaming of the inspira 
tion of foreign lands of castled crags and historic 
landscapes. What a pity, after all, thought Rowland, 
as he went his own way, that he shouldn't have a taste 
of it ! 



 



IV. 

IT had been a very just remark of Cecilia 's that Roderick 
would change with a change in his circumstances. 
Rowland had telegraphed to New York for another berth 
on his steamer, and from the hour the answer came 
Hudson 's spirits rose to incalculable heights. He was 
radiant with good humour, and his charming gaiety 
seemed the pledge of a brilliant future. He had forgiven 
his old enemies and forgotten his old grievances he 
seemed every way reconciled to a world in which he was 
going to count as an active force. He was inexhaust 
ibly jocose and suggestive, and, as Cecilia said, he had 
suddenly become so good that it was only to be feared 
he was going to start not for the Old World, but for the 
Next ! He took long walks with Rowland, who felt 
more and more the fascination of his brilliant disposition. 
Rowland returned several times to Mrs. Hudson s, and 
found the two ladies doing their best to be happy in 
their companion 's happiness. Mary Garland, he thought, 
was succeeding better than her demeanour on his first 
visit had promised. He tried to have some especial 
talk with her, but her extreme reserve forced him to 
content himself with such response to his rather urgent 
overtures as might be extracted from a keenly attentive 
smile. It must be confessed, however, that if the re 
sponse was vague, the satisfaction was great, and that 
Rowland after his second visit kept seeing a lurking 
reflection of this smile in the most unexpected places. 
It seemed strange that she should please him so well at 
so slender a cost ; but please him she did, extraordinarily, 
and his pleasure had a quality altogether new to him. 
It made him restless and a trifle melancholy ; he walked 
about absently, wondering and wishing. He wondered, 
among other things, why fate should have condemned 



 

him to make the acquaintance of a girl whom he would 
make a sacrifice to know better, just as he was leaving 
the country for years. It seemed to him that he was 
turning his back on a chance of happiness happiness of 
a sort of which the slenderest germ should be cultivated. 
He asked himself whether, feeling as he did, if he had 
only himself to please he should give up his journey and 
wait. He had Roderick to please now, for whom 
disappointment would be cruel ; but he said to himself 
that certainly had there been no Roderick in the case 
the ship should sail without him. He asked Hudson 
several questions about his cousin, but Roderick, con 
fidential on most points, seemed to have reasons of his 
own for being reticent on this one. His measured 
answers quickened Rowland 's curiosity, for the girl, with 
her irritating half-suggestions, had only to be a subject 
of guarded allusion in others to become intolerably in 
teresting. He learned from Roderick that she was the 
daughter of a countiy minister, a far-away cousin of his 
mother, settled in another part of the State ; that she 
was one of half a dozen daughters, that the family was 
very poor, and that she had come a couple of months 
before to pay his mother a long visit. " It is to be a 
very long one now," he said, "for it is settled that she 
is to remain while I am away." 

The fermentation of contentment in Roderick 's soul 
reached its climax a few days before the young men were 
to make their farewells. He had been sitting with his 
friends on Cecilia 's verandah, but for half an hour past 
he had said nothing. Lounging back against a column 
muffled in creepers, and gazing idly at the stars, he kept 
carolling softly to himself with that indifference to cere 
mony for which he always found allowance, though it 
had nothing conciliatory but what his good looks gave 
it. At last, springing up " I want to strike out hard !" 
he exclaimed. " I want to do something violent, to let 
off steam !" 



 

"I ll tell you what to do, this lovely weather," said 
Cecilia. " Give a picnic. It can be as violent as you 
please, and it will have the merit of leading off our over- 
emotion into a safe channel, as well as yours." 

Roderick laughed uproariously at Cecilia 's very practi 
cal remedy for his sentimental need, but a couple of days 
later, nevertheless, the picnic was given. It was to be a 
family party, but Roderick, in his magnanimous geniality, 
insisted on inviting Mr. Striker, a decision which Row 
land mentally applauded. "And we will have Mrs. 
Striker too," he said, "if she will come, to keep my 
mother in countenance ; and at any rate we will have 
Miss Striker the divine Petronilla !" The young lady 
thus denominated formed, with Mrs. Hudson, Miss Gar 
land, and Cecilia, the feminine half of the company. Mr. 
Striker presented himself, sacrificing a morning 's work, 
with a magnanimity greater even than Roderick s, and 
foreign support was further secured in the person of Mr. 
Whitefoot, the young Orthodox minister. Roderick had 
chosen the feasting place ; he knew it well and had 
passed many a summer afternoon there, lying at his 
length on the grass and gazing at the blue undulations 
of the horizon. It was a meadow on the edge of a wood, 
with mossy rocks protruding through the grass and a 
little lake on the other side. It was a cloudless August 
day ; Rowland always remembered it, and the scene, 
and everything that was said and done, with extraordi 
nary distinctness. Roderick surpassed himself in friendly 
jollity, and at one moment, when exhilaration was at the 
highest, was seen in Mr. Striker 's high white hat, drink 
ing champagne from a broken tea-cup to Mr. Striker 's 
health. Miss Striker had her father 's pale blue eye ; 
she was dressed as if she had been going to sit for her 
photograph, and remained for a long time with Roderick 
on a little promontory overhanging the lake. Mrs. 
Hudson sat all day with a little meek apprehensive smile. 
She was afraid of an "accident," though unless Miss 



 

Striker (who indeed was a little of a romp) should push 
Roderick into the lake, it was hard to see what accident 
could occur. Mrs. Hudson was as neat and crisp and 
uncrumpled at the end of the festival as at the beginning. 
Mr. Whitefoot, who but a twelvemonth later became a 
convert to Episcopacy and was already cultivating a cer 
tain conversational sonority, devoted himself to Cecilia. 
He had a little book in his pocket, out of which he read 
to her at intervals, lying stretched at her feet ; and it 
was a lasting joke with Cecilia afterwards that she would 
never tell what Mr. Whitefoot 's little book had been. 
Rowland had placed himself near Miss Garland while 
the feasting went forward on the grass. She wore a so- 
called gipsy hat a little straw hat, tied down over her 
ears, so as to cast her eyes into shadow, by a ribbon 
passing outside of it. When the company dispersed 
after lunch, he proposed to her to take a stroll in the 
wood. She hesitated a moment, and looked towards 
Mrs. Hudson as if for permission to leave her. But 
Mrs. Hudson was listening to Mr. Striker, who sat 
gossiping to her with relaxed consistency, his waistcoat 
unbuttoned and his hat on his nose. 

"You can give your cousin your society at any time," 
said Rowland. "But me perhaps you will never see 
again. " 

"Why, then, should we wish to be friends, if nothing 
is to come of it?" she asked with homely logic. But 
by this time she had consented, and they were treading 
the fallen pine-needles. 

" Oh, one must take all one can get," said Rowland. 
"If we can be friends for half an hour it 's so much 
gained." 

" Do you expect never to come back to Northampton 
again?" 

" Never is a good deal to say. But I go to Europe 
for a long stay." 

Do you prefer it so much to your own country ? " 



 

" I will not say that. But I have the misfortune to 
be a rather idle man, and in Europe the burden of idle 
ness is less heavy than here." 

She was silent for a few minutes; then at last, "In 
that, then, we are better than Europe, " she said. To a 
certain point Rowland agreed with her, but he demurred, 
to make her say more. 

"Wouldn't it be better," she asked, "to work to get 
reconciled to America than to go to Europe to get recon 
ciled to idleness?" 

" Doubtless, but you know work is hard to find." 

" I come from a little place where every one has 
plenty," said Mary Garland. "We all work; every 
one I know works. And really," she added presently, 
" I look at you with curiosity ; you are the first unoccu 
pied man I ever saw." 

" Don't look at me too hard," said Rowland, smiling. 
" I shall sink into the earth. What is the name of your 
little place?" 
