characters probity, purity, and self-denial are alone triumphant. In
what, then, does his immorality consist? In his vast conception, it was
necessary, he explained,[17] here to signalize an abuse and here to
point out an evil; but every writer who has an aim and who breaks a
fresh lance in the domain of thought is invariably considered immoral.
Socrates was immoral; Christ was immoral: both were persecuted by the
people whom they reformed.

In describing in the “Comédie Humaine” all the elements of society, in
grasping it in the immensity of its agitations, it was inevitable that
one part should expose more wickedness than virtue, that one part of
the fresco represented a culpable group: hence the critic has brought
his charge of immorality without observing the morality of other parts
destined to form a perfect contrast. And in this particular we must
observe that the most conscientious moralists are agreed that society
is incapable of producing as many good as evil actions, yet in the
“Comédie Humaine” the virtuous characters exceed in number those of a
reprehensible disposition.

Blamable actions, faults, crimes, from the slightest to the most grave,
find therein an invariable punishment, human or divine, evident or
secret; and while it would be impossible to clothe two or three
thousand characters in white and orange blossoms, it must be evident
even to the most careless observer that the Marneffes, male and female,
the Hulots, Brideaus e tutti quanti, are not imagined,—they are
simply described.

-----

Footnote 14:

  See Introduction by M. Felix Davin to the first edition of the
  Comédie Humaine.

Footnote 15:

  Correspondance de H. de Balzac.

Footnote 16:

  See also La Peau de Chagrin.

Footnote 17:

  Preface to the Comédie Humaine.




                             CHAPTER III.

                        THE BUSKIN AND THE SOCK.

                 “Le génie, c’est la patience.”—BUFFON.

In the story of “Albert Savarus” Balzac drew a picture of the hero
which, with slight modifications, might have served as his own.

He was tall and somewhat stout. His hands were those of a prelate, and
his head was that of a Nero. His hair was black and dense, and his
forehead, furrowed by sabre-cuts of thought, was high and massive. His
complexion was of an olive hue; his nose was prominent and slightly
arched; his mouth was sympathetic, and his chin firm. But his most
remarkable characteristic was the expression of his gold-brown eyes,
which, eloquent with interrogations and replies, seemed, instead of
receiving light from without, to project jets of interior flame.

His many vicissitudes had endowed him with an air of such calm
tranquillity as might have disconcerted a thunderbolt; while his voice,
at once penetrating and soft, had the charm attributed to Talma’s.

In conversation persuasive and magnetic, he held his auditors
breathless in a torrent of words and gesture. He convinced almost at
will, and his imagination, once unbridled, was sufficient to cause a
vertigo. “He frightens me,” said Gérard de Nerval; “he is enough to
drive one crazy.”

“He possessed,” Gautier said, “a swing, an eloquence, and a brio
which were perfectly irresistible. Gliding from one subject to another,
he would pass from an anecdote to a philosophical reflection, from an
observation to a description. As he spoke, his face flushed, his eyes
became peculiarly luminous, his voice assumed different inflections,
while at times he would burst out laughing, amused by the comic
apparitions which he saw before describing, and announced, in this way,
by a sort of fanfare, the entrance of his caricatures and witticisms.
The misfortunes of a precarious existence, the annoyances of debt,
fatigue, excessive work, even illness, were unable to change this
striking characteristic of continual and Rabelaisian joviality.”

Friends, enemies, editors, strangers, money-lenders, and usurers, all
with whom he came in contact, were fascinated and coerced by the
extraordinary magnetism which he exerted without effort, and the most
vigorous intellects were bewildered by his projects of fortune and
dreams of glory.

Attracted by the mine of wealth which the theatre opens to the popular
playwright; and burdened with a real or imaginary weight of debt, from
which one or two dramas, if favorably received, would free him
entirely; and desirous, moreover, of experiencing the delirious
intoxication which the plaudits of the gallery bring to the successful
dramatist, Balzac’s inflammable imagination became a veritable
whirlwind of plots and epigrams whenever a new play was well received.

But for the playwright, as for the mechanic, an apprenticeship is
obligatory, and, though Balzac’s novels contained action and analysis,
drama and observation, it was not, as we have seen, until after a long
and laborious preparation that he was enabled to attract the attention
of the public; and it is evident that the heights which he then scaled
were so fatiguing and time-consuming that his life, wearied by the
struggle, was not of sufficient duration to permit his winning equal
triumphs on the stage.

From his early schooldays, however, in which, it will be remembered, he
commenced a tragedy on the Incas, which was afterwards followed by a
drama in blank verse entitled “Cromwell,” the stage had possessed an
irresistible attraction for him; and if therein he was not at first
successful, it was perhaps from the very cause which brought to him his
original popularity, and the superabundance of his ideas, paradoxical
as it at first appears, was undoubtedly his greatest stumbling-block.

To imagine a plot was nothing, the scenes were but details, and the
outline of a melodrama was to him the work of as little labor as would
be required in the conception of a pleasing menu; but when the general
plan was sketched, each scene would suggest a dozen others, and the
Coliseum of Vespasian would not have been large enough to present the
simultaneous action which the play, at once interminable and
impossible, would have demanded.

Another reason for his lack of immediate success was the jealousy of
his colleagues and the hatred of the critics; and as at that time the
existence of a play depended entirely upon the manner in which the
first representation was received, it was not very difficult to create
a cabal against this usurper, who, not content with his legitimate
celebrity, seemed, at the bare mention of a play, to meditate a
universal literary monarchy, in which he would reign supreme; and while
the conquest of both spheres has been effected by Hugo, Voltaire, and
others of like ilk, yet these authors were careful to fortify their
progress with a book in one hand and a play in the other, whereas it
was not until Balzac had reached his apogee that he began a serious
attack on the stage.

It was in the year 1840 that Balzac submitted “Vautrin,” his first
drama, to the director of the Porte-St.-Martin. The play was at once
accepted; for the author’s reputation was not only gigantic, but the
Porte-St.-Martin had almost foundered in successive tempests, and to
the director, who was as penniless as he was appreciative, the offer
was little less than a godsend. An agreement was signed forthwith, and
Balzac abandoned Les Jardies for more convenient quarters, where he
could attend to the rehearsals and remodel the scenes on the stage
itself, which, it may be added, he continued to do up to the very last
moment.

During these preparations, the boulevards were agog with excitement.
The actors and the director, accompanied by Balzac’s friends, wandered
daily from the Boulevard Bonne Nouvelle to Tontoni’s and the Café
Riche, exciting the curiosity of the flaneurs by their reticence or
murmured confidences; and Balzac’s ingress and egress from the theatre
were, it is said, watched and waited for by curious crowds.

Never in the history of the drama had a first representation been so
impatiently awaited; and Balzac, foreseeing the immense sale which the
seats would have, bought up the entire house, and then, while
endeavoring that the tickets should circulate only among his friends
and their acquaintances, sold the better part of it over again at a
large advance.

“My dear friend,” he wrote to Dablin, “if among your acquaintances
there are any who wish to assist at the first representation of
‘Vautrin,’ let me know who they are, as I prefer to let the boxes to
those whom I know about, rather than to those who are unknown to me. I
particularly wish to have handsome women present. The demand for boxes
is greater than the supply. The journalists are to be sacrificed.”

To Gozlan he wrote,—

“I have sent you a ticket for the stalls. The rehearsals have almost
killed me. You will witness a memorable failure. I have been wrong, I
think, to summon the public.

“Morituri te salutant, Cæsar!”

Unfortunately, the interval between the sale of the seats and the first
representation was sufficiently great to permit of two thirds of the
tickets falling into the hands of those who were unknown or hostile to
Balzac; and consequently, when the great day arrived, the critics
sharpened their knives, and in place of the indulgent friends and
handsome women whom Balzac had expected to welcome his play the theatre
was crowded with malevolent faces.

The title-rôle was taken by Frédéric Lemaître, and while the first
three acts were received without any demonstrations, either of approval
or disapprobation, over the fourth there burst a tempest which, since
the birth-night of “Hernani,” was unequaled in the annals of the stage;
for Lemaître, reappearing in the costume of a Mexican general,
seemed—whether by accident or design, it has never been clearly
understood—to present an insulting resemblance to Louis Philippe,
whose eldest son happened to be in one of the most conspicuous boxes.

The entire house, from pit to gallery, re-echoed with hisses and
catcalls. Threats and even blows were exchanged, for here and there, in
spite of the general indignation, a few still remained faithful to
Balzac.

Through Lemaître’s eccentricity, the battle was lost and the drama
killed. Further representations were prohibited by the government; and
though, a few days later, M. de Rémusat called upon Balzac, and offered
in the name of the state an indemnity for the pecuniary loss which he
had sustained, it was haughtily refused. “If my play was justly
prohibited, there is,” he said, “no reason why I should be indemnified;
if it be otherwise, I can accept nothing, unless an indemnity be also
made to the manager and actors of the Porte-St.-Martin.”

Two years after the failure of “Vautrin,” and entirely unaffected by
its sudden collapse, Balzac knocked at the door of the Odéon which was
at that time under the management of Lireux. By this gentleman Balzac
was received with the greatest cordiality; for while his first play had
fallen flat, yet it had fallen with such a crash that, in the lapse of
time, it was difficult to distinguish its failure from success.
Moreover, the Odéon was bankrupt, and as Balzac, with his customary
enthusiasm, offered nothing less than a Golconda in his manuscript, he
was fêted, caressed, and altogether received with open arms.

From the office to the green room, from the door-keeper to the
scene-shifters, smiles, compliments, and welcomes were showered upon
him, and he was unanimously requested to read his play at once. As
soon, therefore, as the actors were assembled and silence obtained,
Balzac began to read “Les Ressources de Quinola.” At first thick and
embarrassed, his voice gradually grew clearer, and expressed the most
fugitive undulations of the dialogue. His audience laughed and wept by
turns, and Balzac laughed and wept with them; the entire troop was
fascinated, and applauded as only actors can. Suddenly, however, at the
end of the fourth act, Balzac stopped short, and explained in the
simplest and most unaffected manner that, as he had not yet written the
fifth, he would be obliged to recite it to them.

The stupor and surprise of his audience can be more readily imagined
than described: for the fifth act of “Quinola” is the unraveling of all
the tangled threads, the union of all the joints; it is the climax and
logical termination of all that has gone before; and Balzac, as he
calmly rolled up his manuscript and tied it with a bit of string,
easily, fluently, and unhesitatingly continued the drama through the
six final scenes, and without a break, without a pause, through a
torrent of varied intonations, led his listeners by a magnificent tour
de force to the very fall of the curtain.

Lireux was bewildered and entranced. “The rehearsals shall commence
to-morrow,” he said. “But to what address, M. de Balzac, shall I send
the announcements?”

“It is unnecessary to send any,” Balzac replied. “I can come without
them.”

“Ah, no, that is impossible. There will be a rehearsal one day, and
none the next; and I never know until the morning at what hour a
rehearsal is to take place. What is your address?”

But Balzac had not the least intention of telling where he lived, and
either because he was playing hide-and-go-seek with his creditors, or
else was at that time possessed of one of the inexplicable manias which
caused him at times to keep his habitat a secret even from his most
intimate friends, he refused flatly to impart the wished-for
information.

“I do not see what we can do,” Lireux murmured helplessly, “unless we
use a carrier pigeon.”

“I do,” replied Balzac, ever fertile in expedients. “Listen to me. Send
a messenger up the Champs-Élysées with the notice every morning at nine
o’clock. When he reaches the Arc de l’Étoile, let him turn to the left,
and he will see a man beneath the twentieth tree, who will pretend to
be looking up in the branches for a sparrow.”

“A sparrow?”

“A sparrow or any other bird.”

“My pigeon, perhaps.”

“Let me continue. Your messenger will approach my sentinel, and will
say to him, ‘I have it.’ Thereupon my sentinel will reply, ‘Since you
have it, what are you waiting for?’ Then your messenger will hand the
notice to him, and immediately go away, without once looking behind
him. I will attend to the rest.”

Lireux saw no objection to this fantastic whim, and contented himself
by expressing the hope that if the twentieth tree should be destroyed
by lightning M. de Balzac would see no insuperable objection to posting
his sentinel at the twenty-first.

“No,” Balzac answered, “but I should prefer the nineteenth; the number
is more quaint.”

This plan amicably arranged, the actors agreed upon, and the date of
the first representation settled, Balzac proceeded to talk finance.

“Beside the customary royalty, I wish the entire house for the first
three nights.”

“But what shall I get?” Lireux timidly inquired.

“Half the profits, which will be incalculable.”

Lireux reflected for a moment. “Very good,” he said; “I accept.”

From the first rehearsal Balzac recommenced with “Quinola” the
treatment to which “Vautrin” had been subjected. Sometimes a phrase was
altered, sometimes a scene, while at others an entire act was
remodeled. That which pleased him one day displeased him the next, and
each rehearsal brought fresh corrections and alterations, until the
original manuscript was entirely obliterated with erasures and new
ideas.

Besides undergoing the mental and physical labor attendant on these
rehearsals, Balzac undertook the entire charge of the sale of the
seats, or rather the entire charge of refusing seats to all comers; for
the box office was opened merely for form’s sake, and tickets were to
be had only of Balzac in person. To obtain one was not so much a
question of money as of position and influence. The orchestra stalls he
reserved for the nobility, the avant-scènes for the court circle; the
boxes in the first gallery were for the ambassadors and
plenipotentiaries; the second gallery was for the statesmen, the third
for the moneyed aristocracy, the fourth for the select bourgeoisie. “As
for the critics,” he said, “they can buy their seats, if there are any
left, and there will be none.”

As a rule, therefore, when any one asked for a box, Balzac would reply,
“Too late: last one just sold to the Princesse de Machin and the Grande
Duchesse de Chose.” During the first few days of the sale, seats were
in consequence sold at extraordinary prices; but later on the anxiety
to obtain them decreased, and during the week preceding the first
performance Balzac was very glad to dispose of them to any one at the
regular rates.

On the 6th of March, 1842, thirteen days before the play was to be
performed, he wrote to a friend as follows:—

“DEAR SOFKA,—Send me the address of the Princess Constantine
Razumovska, that I may learn from her whether she wishes a box. Let me
know also whether the two Princesses Troubetskoï want boxes, whether
Kraïeska wishes one, whether the Malakoffs, and the Countess Léon, and
the Countess Nariskine,—seven boxes in all. I must know, too, whether
they want them in the upper or lower tier of the first gallery. I wish
the handsome women in front.... It is a favor to be admitted to this
solemnity. There are at the theatre a hundred and fifty applications
for boxes from people whom I do not know and who will get nothing.”

On the 12th he wrote to the same person: “The avant-scènes are for the
king and the cabinet; they take them by the year. I can only give,
therefore, to the Princess Troubetskoï a box in the first gallery, but
it is one of the best in the house.... The costumes have cost 20,000
francs; the scenery is entirely new. Every one insists that the play is
a masterpiece, and that makes me shudder. In any event, it will be a
terrible solemnity. Lamartine has asked for a box; I will place him
among the Russians. Every morning I receive thirty or forty
applications, but I will have no one whom I do not know about.... Tell
your Russian friends that I must have the names and addresses, each
accompanied by a written and personal recommendation of those of their
friends (men) who wish stalls. There are over fifty people a day who
come under assumed names and refuse to give their address; they are
enemies, who wish to ruin the piece. In a week I shall not know what I
am about. We are obliged to observe the most severe precautions. I am
intoxicated with the play.”

The severe precautions resulted on the night of the first
representation in a half-empty house.

Few imagined that seats could really be had, and it was even reported
that Balzac had been obliged to refuse a seat to the Duc de Nemours.
The amateurs resigned themselves, therefore, almost without a struggle,
and determined that as they could not obtain seats for the first
performance they would find solace in the second or third; but on
reading the articles which appeared the next day they felt little need
of consolation, for the fate of “Vautrin” had been repeated, and
“Quinola” had fallen flat. The most sympathetic of all the criticisms
which then appeared was one contained in Le National for the 16th of
March, 1842. It runs as follows:—

“The subject of M. de Balzac’s drama was excellent, but unfortunately,
through eccentricity or negligence, he passed but to one side of the
idea, without resolutely entering it and extracting all its wealth.

“The Odéon is the theatre of tumultuous representations, but never has
this terrible battle-field offered such a conglomeration of
exclamations and confusing cries. The pit, like a sharp-shooter, took
up an ambush behind the substantives and verbs, and slaughtered the
play while it maimed the actors, who, brave though wounded, struggled
on to the end with a praiseworthy and melancholy courage. At times the
comedy, through its sudden flashes of originality and abrupt cannonades
of wit, seemed about to rout the enemy and wave aloft a tattered but
victorious flag. The faults, however, were too numerous and the errors
too grave, and in spite of many advantages the battle, in the end, was
fairly lost.”

But in spite of the derision, insults, and abuse with which the first
representation was received, in spite of the financial and dramatic
shipwreck, after the commotion had subsided and the audience had
dispersed, Balzac, superior to destiny and indifferent to fate, was
found fast asleep and snoring in his box.[18]

In addition to “Vautrin” and “Quinola,” three other plays of Balzac’s
have been produced, namely, “Paméla Giraud,” “La Marâtre,” and “Le
Faiseur” (“Mercadet”), of which the first was performed at the Gaieté
in September, 1843, and enjoyed a moderate success. Concerning the
second, M. Hostein, formerly director of the Théatre-Historique, has
offered some curious information.[19] Balzac, it appears, called upon
him one day, and explained that for some time past he had been thinking
over an historical drama for the Théatre-Historique.


“I shall call it,” he said, “‘Pierre et Catharine,’ Peter the Great and
Catharine of Russia. That, I think, would be an excellent subject.”

“Treated by you, it could not be otherwise. But are you far advanced,
M. de Balzac?”

“It is all here,” Balzac answered, tapping his forehead. “I have but to
write it out, and, if you care to, the first tableau can be rehearsed
the day after to-morrow.”

“Can you give me an idea of this first tableau?” I asked.

“Certainly. We are in a Russian inn. You can see it from here. In this
inn plenty of action: the troops are passing by; soldiers come in,
drink, chat for a moment, and then off again, but everything is done
rapidly. Among the people of the inn is a servant-girl, young, active,
and alert,—pay attention to her: her figure is good; she is not
handsome, but she is peculiarly attractive. The soldiers jest with her;
she smiles at every one, but her admirers are obliged to be careful,
for any familiarity is answered with a slap, which is as good as a blow.

“A soldier enters who is more daring than the others. He is charged
with a particular mission; his time, therefore, is his own. He can
drink at his ease and chat with the servant, if she pleases him; for
that matter, she pleases him at first sight, and she likes the soldier,
too. ‘Here,’ he says, catching hold of her arm, ‘sit down at this table
and drink with me.’

“The soldier takes a seat, and the girl does the same. Noticing,
however, some objection on the part of the innkeeper, he rises angrily,
and strikes the table with his fist. ‘If any one interferes with what I
do, I will burn the whole shanty down.’

“And he would have done it, too. He is a good soldier, but terrible
with his inferiors. The old innkeeper motions to the girl to obey. The
soldier sits down again. He places one arm tenderly about the girl’s
neck, and then, having drunk deeply, he whispers, ‘I will give you a
better home than this.’ While they are talking together, inattentive to
the others, the door at the back opens. An officer enters, and every
one rises, with respect. The soldiers make the regulation salute, and
stand motionless. The soldier and the servant alone remain seated. The
officer notices this, and grows angry. He looks at the girl and
advances toward the table; having reached the soldier, he raises his
arm, and lets it fall with a terrible force on the shoulder of the poor
devil, who bends beneath the shock.

“‘Up, rascal!’ the officer cries. ‘Go write your name and regiment, and
bring the paper to me.’

“At the first moment, that is to say on receiving the blow, without
knowing by whom it had been directed, the soldier turns to avenge
himself; but on recognizing his superior he rises automatically,
salutes the officer, and goes to another table to obey the command. The
officer, on his part, examines the servant with renewed attention. Her
appearance pleases and calms him. The soldier returns, and respectfully
presents his paper.

“‘Very good,’ the officer says, as he returns it to him. ‘Off with you.’

“The soldier salutes him again, turns right about face, and marches
off, without even looking at the girl. The officer, however, smiles at
her, and she smiles at him.

“‘A good-looking man,’ she thinks.

“The good-looking man takes the seat previously occupied by the
soldier, orders the best that the inn affords, and invites the servant
to keep him company. She accepts without hesitation. The conversation
begins, and they are soon quite friendly. A stranger appears at the
doorway. He is enveloped in a long cloak. At his entrance, men and
women fall on their knees; some of them even bend their foreheads to
the ground. As was the case with the soldier, the officer does not
notice what is going on behind him. His seductive companion has
captivated him completely. In a moment of enthusiasm, the officer
exclaims, ‘You are divine! I will take you with me. You shall have a
beautiful apartment, where it will be always warm.’

“From afar the stranger scrutinizes the couple, and, in spite of
himself, the girl’s sympathetic appearance attracts his attention. He
approaches the table, and, throwing open his cloak, stands with his
arms crossed on his breast.

“The officer looks around, and, immediately rising, bends on one knee,
and stammers these words:—

“‘Your pardon, sire!’

“‘Rise.’

“Like the soldier, the officer then stands erect, awaiting the good
pleasure of his master. The master, meanwhile, is engaged in looking at
