The next day Lucian and his wife came down to the Giron plantation;
Madam Giron had consented to take them in.

       *       *       *       *       *

Three nights afterwards, Margaret, awake between midnight and one
o'clock, thought she heard Garda's door open; then, light steps in the
hall. She left her bed, and opening the door between their two rooms,
went through into Garda's chamber. It was empty, the moonlight shone
across the floor. She returned to her own room, hastily threw on a white
dressing-gown, twisted up her long soft hair, and put on a pair of low
shoes; then she stole out quietly, went down the stone staircase and
through the lower hall, and found, as she expected, the outer door
unfastened; she opened it, closed it softly after her, and stood alone
in the night. She had to make a choice, and she had only the faintest
indication to guide her--a possible clew in a remembered conversation;
she followed this clew and turned towards the live-oak avenue. Her step
was hurried, she almost ran; as she drew the floating lace-trimmed robe
more closely about her, the moonlight shone, beneath its upheld folds,
on her little white feet. She had never before been out alone under the
open sky at that hour, she glanced over her shoulder, and shivered
slightly, though the night was as warm as July. Her own shadow, keeping
up with her, was like a living thing. The moonlight on the ground was so
white that by contrast all the trees looked black.

The live-oak avenue, when she entered it, seemed a shelter; at least it
was a roof over her head, shutting out the sky. The moonlight only came
at intervals through the thick foliage, making silver checker-work on
the path.

There were two or three bends, then a long straight stretch. As she came
into this straight stretch she saw at the far end, going towards the
lagoon, a figure--Garda; behind Garda, doubly grotesque in the changing
shade and light, stepped the crane.

Margaret's foot-falls made no sound on the soft sand of the path; she
hurried onward, and passing the crane, laid her hand on the girl's
shoulder. "Garda," she said.

Garda stopped, surprised. But though surprised, she was not startled,
she was as calm as though she had been found walking there at noonday.
She was fully dressed, and carried a light shawl.

"Margaret, is it you? How in the world did you know I was here?"

Margaret let her head rest for a moment on Garda's shoulder; her heart
was beating with suffocating rapidity. She recovered herself, stood
erect, and looked at her companion. "Where are you going?" she asked.

"I am going to try and find Lucian; but it may be only trying. He was to
start from the Giron landing at one, when the tide would serve, he said;
but you heard him, so you know as much as I do."

"No. For I don't know what you're going to do."

"Why, I've told you; I'm going to try to go with him, if I can. I'm
going to stand out at the edge of the platform, and then, when he comes
by, perhaps he will see me--it's so light--and take me in. I want to
sail through that thick soft fog he told us about (when it comes up
later), with the moonlight making it all queer and white, and the gulls
fast asleep and floating--don't you remember?"

"Then he doesn't expect you?"

"Oh no," said Garda; "it's my own idea. I knew he would be alone,
because Mrs. Rosalie can't go out in fogs, she's afraid of rheumatism."

"And you see nothing out of the way in all this?"

"No."

"--Stealing out secretly--"

"Only because you would have stopped it if you had known."

"--At night, and by yourself?"

"The night's as good as the day when there's moonlight like this. And I
shall not be by myself, I shall be with Lucian; I'd rather be with him
than anybody."

"And Evert?"

"Well," said Garda, "the truth is--the truth is I'm tired of Evert."

"You'd better tell him that," said Margaret, with a quick and curious
change in her voice.

"I will, if you think best."

"No, don't tell him; you're not in earnest," said Margaret, calming
himself.

"Yes, I am in earnest. But I shall miss Lucian if I stay here longer."

"Garda, give this up."

"I don't see how you happened to hear me come out," said the girl,
laughing and vexed.

"Have you been out in this way before?"

"No; how could I? Lucian has only just come down here. I should a great
deal rather tell you everything, Margaret, as fast as I think of it, and
I would--only you would be sure to stop it."

"I want to stop this. Give it up--if you care at all for me; I make it a
test."

"You know I care; if you put it on that ground, of course I shall have
to give it up," said Garda, disconsolately.

"Come back to the house, then," said Margaret, taking her hand.

"No, I'm not going back, I'm going down to the landing," answered the
girl. She appeared to think that she had earned this obstinacy by her
larger concession.

"But you said you would give up--"

"If we keep back under the trees he cannot see us; I mean what I say--he
shall not. But I want to see him, I want to see him go by."

She drew Margaret onward, and presently they reached the shore. "There
he comes!" she said--"I hear the oars." And she held tightly to
Margaret's hand, as if to keep herself from running out to the
platform's edge.

The broad lagoon, rippling in the moonlight, lay before them; the night
was so still that they heard the dip of the oars long before they saw
the boat itself; Patricio, opposite, looked like a country in a dream.
The giant limbs of the live-oak under which they stood rose high in the
air above them, and then drooped down again far forward, the dark shade
beneath concealing them perfectly, in spite of Margaret's white robe.
Now the boat shot into sight. Its sail was up, white as silver, but as
there was no wind, Lucian was rowing. It was a small, light boat, almost
too small for the great silver sail; but that was what Lucian liked. He
kept on his course far out in the stream; he was bound for the mouth of
the harbor.

Garda gave a long sigh. "I ought to be there!" she murmured. "Oh, I
ought to be there!" She stood motionless, watching the boat come nearer,
pass, and disappear; then she turned and looked at Margaret in silence.

"We can go out to-morrow evening, if you like," said Margaret, ignoring
the expression of her face.

"Yes, at eight o'clock, I suppose, with Evert, and Mrs. Rosalie!"

"Would you prefer to go in the middle of the night?"

"Infinitely. And with Lucian alone."

"I should think that might be a little tiresome."

"Oh, come, don't pretend; you don't know how," said Garda, laughing. "At
heart you're as serious as death about all this--you know you are.
Tiresome, did you say? Just looking at him, to begin with--do you call
that tiresome? And then the way he talks, the way he says things! Oh,
Margaret, I give you my word I adore being amused as Lucian amuses
me." She turned as she said this and met Margaret's eyes fixed upon her.
"You can't understand it," she commented. "You can't understand that I
prefer Lucian to Evert."

Margaret turned from her. But the next instant she came back. "There are
some things I must ask you, Garda."

"Well, do stay here a little longer then, it's so lovely; we'll sit down
on the bench. But perhaps you'll be chilled--you're so lightly dressed.
What have you on your feet? Oh Margaret! only those thin shoes--no more
than slippers?" She took her shawl, and kneeling down, wrapped it round
Margaret's ankles. "What little feet you have!" she said, admiringly.
"It reminds me of my wet shoes that night on the barren," she added,
rising; and then, standing there with her hands clasped behind her, she
appeared to be meditating. "Now that time I was in earnest too!" she
said, with a sort of wonder at herself.

"What do you mean?" asked Margaret.

"Oh, nothing of consequence. Are you sure you're not cold?"

"I'm quite warm; it's like summer."

"Yes, it's warm," said Garda, sitting down beside her. "Oh, I wish I
were in that boat!" And she put her head down on Margaret's shoulder.

After a moment Margaret began her interrogatory. "You consider yourself
engaged to Evert, don't you?"

"Yes, after a fashion. He doesn't care about it."

"Yes, he does. You don't comprehend him."

"Don't you think he ought to make me comprehend, then? It seems to me
that that's his part. But no, the real trouble is that he doesn't in the
least comprehend me. He has got some idea of his own about me, he has
had it all this time. But I'm not like his idea at all; I wonder how
long it will be before he will find it out?"

"Don't you care for him, Garda?"

"No, not any more. I did once; at least that night on the barren I
thought I did. But if I did, I am sure I don't know what has become of
the feeling! At any rate it has gone, gone entirely; I only care for
Lucian now."

"And would you give up Evert, engaged to him as you are, with your own
consent and the consent of all your friends, for a mere fancy like
this?"

"Mere fancy? I shall begin to think, Margaret, that you don't know what
'mere fancies,' as you call them, are!"

"And what view do you take of the fact that Lucian is a married man?"
Margaret went on, gravely.

"A horribly melancholy one, of course. Still, it's a great pleasure just
to see him; I try to see him as often as I can."

"And you're willing to follow him about as you do--let him see how much
you like him, when, in reality, he doesn't care in the least for you? If
he had cared he would never have left you, as he did last winter, at a
moment's notice and without a word."

"No, I know he doesn't care for me as I care for him," said Garda. "But
perhaps he will care more in time; I have thought that perhaps he would
care more when he found out how I felt towards him; that is what I have
been hoping."

Margaret got up, she made a motion with her hands almost as if she were
casting the girl off. "Garda," she said, "you frighten me. I have tried
to speak with the greatest moderation, because I have not thought you
realized at all what you were saying; but you are so calm, you speak in
such a tone!--I cannot understand it."

"Well, Margaret, I've never tried to understand it myself. Why, then,
should you try?" said Garda, in her indolent way.

Then, as she looked at Margaret, she became conscious of the marked
change in her face, and it seemed to startle her. She rose and came to
her. "One thing I know," she said, quickly, "if you are vexed with me,
so vexed that you will have nothing more to do with me, I don't know
what will become of me. You are the only woman I care for. Don't throw
me over, Margaret. There's one thing that may happen," she added,
looking at her friend with luminous gaze, "I may stop caring for Lucian
of my own accord before long; you know I stopped caring for Evert."

"Oh, Garda! Garda!" murmured Margaret, putting her hand over her eyes.

"You are shocked because I tell you the exact truth. I believe you would
like it better if I should dress it up, and pretend to have all sorts of
reasons. But I never have reasons, I only know how I feel; and you can't
make me believe, either, that it isn't better to be true about your
feelings whatever they are, than to tell lies just to make people think
well of you."

"Garda, promise me not to see Lucian in this way again; that is, not to
plan to see him," said Margaret, with a kind of desperation in her tone.

"Why, how can you suppose I would ever promise that?" asked Garda,
astonished.

"Very well. Then I shall speak to him myself." And as she stood there,
her tall slender figure outlined in white, her dark blue eyes fixed on
the girl, Margaret Harold looked almost menacing.

"No, I don't think you would do that," answered Garda; "because as he
doesn't care for me, it would be like throwing me at his head; and that
you wouldn't like because you have a pride about it--for Evert's sake, I
mean. Why don't you tell Evert instead of Lucian? I've thought of
telling Evert myself. The idea of his needing to be told!"

"It's because he has such a perfect belief in you," began Margaret. "He
would never dream that you could--" She stopped, her lips had begun to
tremble a little.

But Garda was not paying heed to what Margaret was saying. "No, you'll
never speak to Lucian," she repeated, "I know you never will; you
couldn't."

"You're right, I couldn't. And the reason would be because I should be
ashamed--ashamed for you."

But Garda was not moved by this. "I don't see why we should be ashamed
of our real feelings," she said again, with a sort of sweet stolidity.

"We go through life, Garda, more than half of us--women, I mean--obliged
always to conceal our real feelings."

"Then that I never will do;" said Garda, warmly. "And you shall see
whether I come out any the worse for it in the end."

"You intend to do what you please, no matter who suffers?"

"They needn't suffer, it's silly to suffer. They'd better go and do what
they please."

"And you think that right? You see nothing wrong in it?"

"Oh, right, wrong--I think it's right to be happy, as right as possibly
can be; and wrong to be unhappy, as wrong as possibly can be; I think
unhappy people do a great deal of harm in the world, besides being so
very tiresome! I was a goose to be as unhappy as I was last winter; I
might have known that I should either get over caring for him, or else
that I should see him again. In this case both happened."

After this declaration of principles the girl walked down the slope and
out to the edge of the platform, where she stood in the moonlight
looking northward up the lagoon.

"I can just make out his sail," she said, calling back to Margaret,
excitedly, and evidently having entirely forgotten her reasoning mood of
the moment before. "The fog is rising. Come quick and look."

But Margaret did not come. When the sail finally disappeared, Garda came
back, bright and happy. Then, as she saw her friend's face, her own face
changed to sudden sympathy.

"Margaret," she said, taking her hands, "I cannot bear to see you so
distressed."

"How can I help it?" murmured Margaret. She looked exhausted.

"You wouldn't care about all this as you do--care so deeply, I mean--if
it were not for Evert," Garda went on; "it's that that hurts you so.
Don't care so much about Evert; throw him over, as I have done."

"It's true that I care about Evert--about his happiness," answered
Margaret, in the same lifeless tone; "I have missed happiness myself, I
don't want him to miss it." Here she raised her eyes, she looked at
Garda for a long moment in silence.

The girl smiled under this inspection; she leaned forward, and put her
soft cheek against Margaret's, and her arm round Margaret's shoulders
with a caressing touch.

A revulsion of feeling swept over the elder woman, she took the girl's
face in both her hands, and looked at it.

"Promise me to say nothing to Evert, not one word--I mean about this
renewal of fancy you have for Lucian," she said, quickly.

"You call it fancy--"

"Never mind what I call it. Promise."

"Why, that's as you choose, I left it to you," Garda answered.

"I choose, then, that you say nothing. You're not really in earnest, you
don't know what you're talking about. It's a girl's foolishness; you
will come to your senses in time."

"Is that the way you arrange it? Any way you like. Perhaps you really do
know more about me than I know about myself," said Garda, with a
momentary curiosity as to her own characteristics.

"We must go back," said Margaret, her fatigue again showing in her
voice.

Garda put her arm round her as a support, and, thus linked, they walked
back through the long avenue over the silver lace-work cast by the moon
upon the path. Carlos Mateo, who had been off on unknown excursions,
joined them again, issuing in a ghostly manner from the Spanish-bayonet
walk, and falling into his usual place behind them. The linked figures
crossed the open space, which was again as white as snow with black
trees at the edges, and went softly in through the unfastened door.

"I'm going to get you a glass of wine," Garda whispered.

Margaret declined the wine, and they separated, each going noiselessly
to her own room.

But, half an hour later, Garda stole in and leaned over her friend.
"You're crying," she said--"I knew it! Oh, Margaret, Margaret, why do
you suffer so?"

"Don't mind," said Margaret, controlling herself. "I have my own
troubles, Garda, and must bear them as I can. Go back to your room."

But Garda would not go. As there was no place for her in Margaret's
narrow white bed, she got a coverlet and pillows and lay down on a
lounge that was near; here, almost immediately, though she said she
should not, she fell asleep. The elder woman did not sleep, she lay
watching the moonlight steal over the girl, then fade away. Later came
the pink flush of dawn; it touched the lounge, but Garda slept on; she
slept like a little child; her curling hair fell over her shoulders, her
cheek was pillowed on her round arm.

"So much truthfulness--such absolute truthfulness!" the elder woman was
thinking; "there must be good in it, there must."




CHAPTER XX.


"It's the most absurd thing--my being caught here in this way," said
Lucian Spenser. "But who would ever have imagined that Madam Giron could
turn into a tourist! As well imagine Torres a commercial traveller."

"I think he felt rather like one," answered Margaret, smiling; "he
seemed to consider it an extraordinary state of affairs to be closing
houses and taking journeys at a lawyer's bidding."

It was the 19th day of December. The thermometer outside stood at
sixty-eight Fahrenheit. In the drawing-room of East Angels were Mrs.
Carew, Margaret, Garda, Lucian Spenser, and Dr. Kirby. Lucian and his
wife had left Gracias within a week after that sail through silver fog
which had tempted Garda. Their departure had been sudden, it was due to
a telegraphic despatch which had come to Rosalie from her uncle in New
York; he was seriously ill, and wished to see her. This was the uncle
under whose roof she had spent her childhood and youth. She had not been
especially attached to him, she had never supposed that he was attached
to her. But all who bore the Bogardus name (save perhaps Rosalie
herself) reserved to themselves the inalienable right of being as
disagreeable to each other personally, year in, year out, as they chose
to be, while remaining, nevertheless, as a family, indissolubly united;
that is to say, that though as Cornelia and John, Dick and Alida, they
might detest each other, and show not the slightest scruples about
evincing that feeling, designated by their mutually shared surname their
ranks closed up at once, like a line of battle under attack, presenting
to the world an unbroken front. Dying, old John Bogardus had wished to
see Rosalie--Rosalie, his brother Dick's child, who had made that
imprudent marriage; he felt it to be his duty to advise her about
certain investments. In answer to his despatch, Lucian had taken his
wife north.

When they reached New York, Rosalie found her uncle better; the
physicians gave no hope of recovery, but they said that he might linger
in this way for two months or more. In this state of affairs Lucian
suggested to his wife that he should leave her there, and take a flying
trip to New Orleans; he had always wished to make that journey in the
winter, and this seemed as good an occasion as any, since, naturally,
"Uncle Giovanni" could have no very burning desire to see him, Lucian,
day after day. Rosalie, anxious always to put herself in accord with her
husband's ideas, gave her consent; the separation, even for a few weeks,
would be hard for her, but that she would bear to give Lucian
entertainment.

He left her, therefore, a little before the middle of December. And if
he arrived at Gracias-á-Dios instead of at New Orleans, this was because
he was taking in Gracias on the way; was it not as easy to come first to
Florida, and then cross the southern country westward to the beautiful
city on the Louisiana shore, as to follow the long course of the
Mississippi down? If it was not as easy, in any case he preferred it,
and the course Lucian Spenser preferred he generally followed.

It was fortunate, therefore, that he preferred nothing very evil. In the
present instance his preference held intentions quite without that
element; he should spend four or five days in Gracias; he should collect
various small possessions, which, owing to his hasty departure, he had
left scattered about there, at East Angels, at Madam Giron's, at the
rectory; he should finish two or three sketches in which he felt an
interest; and he should say good-by in a more leisurely way to his
relatives, the Moores, as well as to the other people there whom he
liked so well, for he had the feeling that a long time might elapse
before he should see the little coast hamlet again. He had hoped to stay
with Madam Giron, as before. But when he arrived at her door, late in
the afternoon of the 19th, he found it barred and that lady absent:
evidently his letter had not reached her.

Madam Giron had seemed to him like one of those barges which lie moored
far up some quiet bay, with their masts removed and a permanent plank
walk made from the deck to the shore. The idea that this stationary
craft could have gone to sea, that this sweet-tempered lady, with her
beautiful eyes, redundant figure, many children, and complete
non-admiration for energy, could have started suddenly on her travels,
had never once occurred to him.

Until five days before, it had never occurred to Madam Giron herself.

At that date she had received a letter from Cuba telling her that a
share in some property was awaiting her there; a long-contested lawsuit
having at length been decided in favor of her mother's family. Madam
Giron consulted her friends: was it an occasion when duty demanded that
she should make the great effort of going in person to Cuba for the sake
of "these dear angels," her children (the lawyer having written that her
presence would be necessary), or was it not? Gracias discussed this
point. It was an effort for a lady to make; a lady was not in the
habit of leaving the cherished seclusion of her own circle, to rush
about the world at a lawyer's request, exposing herself in public
conveyances to association with all sorts of people; some of her
friends, notably the Señor Ruiz and her own nephew, Adolfo Torres, were
decidedly of the opinion that she should not go.

"It's so characteristic--their discussing it as they are doing,"
Winthrop remarked to his aunt--"discussing whether or not to take a
short journey in order to secure an inheritance."

"It's a very small inheritance, isn't it!" asked Aunt Katrina,
languidly.

"About fifteen hundred dollars, I believe. But you must remember that
without it those children, probably, will have nothing but that
mortgaged land."

"I don't think the people here know or care whether they've got money or
not," said Aunt Katrina, in a disgusted tone.

