"Not good for me, or at least not the best, or I 
should have them." 

This answer was with a smile so absolutely 
shadowless, that the colonel found nothing to an 
swer but a groan, which was made up of pain and 
pride and pleasure in inscrutable proportions. 





The next step was to speak to Miss Fairbairn. 
That wise woman shewed no surprise and did not 
distress Esther with any sympathy; she took it 
as the most natural thing in the world that her 
favourite pupil should wish to become a teacher; 
and promised her utmost help. In her own school 
there was now no longer any opening; that chance 
was gone; but she gave Esther a recommendation 
in person to the principal of another establishment, 
where in consequence Miss Gainsborough found 
ready acceptance. 

And now indeed she felt herself a stranger, and 
found herself alone. This was a different thing 
from her first entering school as a pupil. And 
Esther began also presently to perceive that her 
father had not been entirely wrong in his estimate 
of a teacher's position and experiences. It is not a 
path of roses, that such a one has to tread; and 
even the love she may bear to those she teaches, 
and even the genuine love of teaching them, do not 
avail to make it so. Wo to the teacher who has 
not those two alleviations and helps to fall back 
upon ! Esther soon found both ; and yet, she gave 
her father credit for having known more about the 
matter than she did. She was truly alone now; 
the children loved her, but scattered away from 
her as soon as their tasks were done; her fellow 
teachers she scarcely saw; they were busy and 
jaded; and with the world outside of school she 
had nothing to do. She had never had much to do 
with it; yet at Miss Fairbairn's she had sometimes 



 

a little taste of society that was of high order; and 
all in the house had been at least well known to 
her and she to them, even if no particular congeniality had drawn them together. She had lost all 
that now. And it sometimes came over Esther in 
these days, the thought of her English aunts and 
cousins, as a vision of strange pleasantness. To 
have plenty of friends and relations, of one's own 
blood, and therefore inalienable; well-bred and refined and cultivated ; (whereby I am afraid Esther's 
fancy made them a multiplication of Pitt Dallas;) 
it looked very alluring ! She went bravely about 
her work, and did it beautifully, and was very contented in it, and relieved to be earning money; yet 
these visions now and again would come over her 
mind, bringing a kind of distant sunshiny glow 
with them, different from the light that fell on 
that particular bit of life's pathway she was tread 
ing just then. They came and went; what came 
and did not go was Esther's consciousness that she 
was earning only a little money, and that with that 
little she could not clear off all the debts that had 
accrued and were constantly accruing. When 
She had paid the butcher, the grocer's bill presented itself; and when she had after some delay 
got rid of that, then came the need for a fresh sup 
ply of coal. Esther spent nothing on her own dress 
that she could help; but her father's was another 
matter, and tailor's charges she found were heavy. 
She went bravely on ; she was young and full of 
spirit, and she was a Christian and full of confidence ; nevertheless she did begin to feel the worry 
of these petty, gnawing, money cares, which have 
broken the heart of so many a woman before her. 
Moreover, another thing demanded consideration. 
It was necessary, now that she had no longer a 
home with Miss Fairbairn, it was necessary that 
she should go into town and come back every day; 
and, furthermore, as she was giving lessons in a 
school, no circumstance, of weather or anything else, 
must hinder her being absolutely punctual. Yet Es 
ther foresaw that as the winter came on again it 
would be very difficult sometimes to maintain this 
punctuality; and it became clear to her that it 
would be almost indispensable for them to move 
into town. If only a house could be found ! 

Meantime Christopher went and came about the 
house; cultivated the garden and took care of the 
horse and drove Esther to school, all just as usual; 
his whilorne master never having as yet said one 
word to him on the subject of his marriage and 
consequent departure. Whether his wages were 
paid him, Esther was anxiously doubtful; but she 
dared not ask. I say " whilome " master, for there 
is no doubt that Mr. Bounder in these days felt 
that nobody was his master but himself. He did 
all his duties faithfully, but then he took leave to 
cross the little field which lay between his old 
home and his new, and to disappear for whole 
spaces of time from the view of the colonel's 
family. 

It was one evening in November. Mrs. Barker 



 

was just sitting down to her tea, and Christopher 
was preparing himself to leave her. I should remark that Mrs. Barker had called on the former 
Mrs. Blumenfeld, and established civil relations 
between the houses. 

" Won't you stay, Christopher ? " asked his sister. 

"No thank ye. I've got a little woman over 
there, who's expecting me." 

" Does she set as good a table for you as I used 
to do? in those days when I could," the house 
keeper added with a sigh. 

" Well, she aint just up to some o your arts," said 
Christopher, with a contented face in which his 
blue eye twinkled with a little slyness; "but I'll 
tell you what, she can cook a dish o pot pie that 
you can't beat, nor nobody else; and her rye bread 
is just uncommon ! " 

" Rye bread ! " said the housekeeper with an 
utterance of disdain. 

" I'll bring a loaf over," said Christopher nodding 
his head; "and you can give some to Miss Esther 
if you like. Good night ! " 

He made few steps of it through the dark cold 
evening to the house that had become his home. 
The room that received him might have pleased 
a more difficult man. It was as clean as hands 
could make it; bright with cleanliness; lighted and 
warmed with a glowing fire, and hopeful with a 
most savoury scent of supper. The mistress of 
the house was busy about her hearth, looking neat 
and comfortable enough to match her room. As 




Christopher came in she lit a candle that stood on 
the supper table. Christopher hugged himself at 
this instance of his wife's thrift, and sat down. 

" You've got something that smells uncommon 
good there ! " said he approvingly. 

" I allays du think a hot supper's comfortable at 
the end o a cold day," returned the new Mrs. 
Bounder. " I don't care what I du as long's I'm 
busy with all the world all the day long; I kin take 
a piece and a bite and go on; but when it comes 
night, and I hev time to think I'm tired, then I 
like a good hot something or other." 

" What have you got there ? " said Christopher, 
peering over at the dish on the hearth which Mrs. 
Bounder was filling from a pot before the fire. 
She laughed. 

" You wouldn't be any wiser if I told you. It's 
a little o everything. Give me a good garden, and 
I kin live as well as I want to, and cost no one 
more'n a few shillin's, neither. Taint difficult, if 
you know how. Now see what you say to that." 

She dished up her supper, put a plate of green 
pickles on the table, filled up her tea-pot, and cut 
some slices from a beautiful brown loaf, which must 
have rivalled the rye though it was not that colour. 
Christopher sat down, said grace reverently, and 
attacked the viands; while the mistress poured him 
out a cup of tea. 

" Christopher," she said as she handed it to him, 
"I'd jes like to ask you something." 

" What is it?" 



 

" I'd like to know jes why you go through that 
performance ? " 

" Performance ? " echoed Christopher. " What 
are you talkin about ? " 

"I mean, that bit of a prayer you think it is right 
to make, whenever you're goin to put your fork to 
your mouth." 

"Oh! I couldn't imagine what you were driv 
ing at. Why do I do it ? " 

"I'd like to know, if you think you kin tell." 

" Respectable folks always does it." 

" Hm ! I don know about that. So it's for respectability you keep it up ? " 

" No,-" said Christopher a little embarrassed how 
to answer. "It's proper. Don't you know the 
Bible bids us give thanks ? " 

"Wall, hev you set out to du all the rest o the 
things the Bible bids you du? that's jes what I'm 
comin to." 

A surly man would not perhaps have answered 
at all, resenting this catechizing; but Christopher 
was not surly, and not at all offended. He was 
perplexed a little ; looked at his wife in some sly 
wonder at her, but answered not. 

" Ef I began, I'd go through. I wouldn't make 
no half way with it; that's all I was goin to say," 
his wife went on, with a grave face that shewed 
she was not jesting. 

" It's saying a good deal ! " remarked Christopher, 
still looking at her. 

" It's sayin a good deal, to make the first prayer; 





but if I made the first one, I'd make all the rest. 
I don't abide no half work in my garden, Christopher ; that's what I was thinkin ; and I don't be 
lieve Him you pray to likes it no better." 

Christopher was utterly unprepared to go on 
with this subject; and finally gave up trying, and 
attended to his supper. After a little while his 
wife struck a new theme. She was not a trained 
rhetorician; but when she had said what she had 
to say she was always contented to stop. 

" How are things going up your way to-day ? " 
she asked. 

" My way is down here, I'm happy to say." 

"Wall, up to the colonel's, then. What's the 
news?" 

"Aint no sort o news. Never is. They're al 
ways at the old things. The colonel he lies on his 
sofy, and Miss Esther she goes and comes. They 
want to get a house in town, now she's goin so 
regular; only they can't find one to fit." 

Kint find a house ? I thought there was houses 
enough, in all New York." 

" Houses enough, but they all is set up so high 
in their rents, you see." 

" Is that the trouble ? " 

" That is exactly the trouble ; and Miss Esther, I 
can see she doesn't know just what to do." 

"They aint gittin along well, Christopher?" 

" Well, there is no doubt they aint ! I should say 
they was gettin on uncommon bad. Don't seem 
as if they could any way pay up all their bills at 



 

once. They pay this man, and then run up a new 
score with some other man. Miss Esther, she tries 
all she knows; but there aint no one to help her." 

"They git this house cheaper than they'd git any 
one in town, I guess. They'd best stay where they 
be." 

"Yes, but you see, Miss Esther has to go and 
come every day now; she's teachin in a school, 
that's what she is," said Christopher, letting his 
voice drop as if he were speaking of some desecration. "That's what she is; and so she has to be 
there regular, rain or shine makes no difference. 
An if they was in town, you see, they wouldn't 
want the horse, nor me." 

" You don't cost em nothin ! " returned Mrs. 
Bounder. 

"No; but they don't know that; and if they 
knowed it, you see, there'd be the devil to pay." 

" I wouldn't give myself bad names, if I was 
you," remarked Mrs. Bounder quietly. "Chris 
topher" 

"What then?" 

" I'm jes thinkin " 

" What are you thinkin about ? " 

" Jes you wait till I know myself, and I'll tell 

ye." 

Christopher was silent, watching from time to 
time his spouse, who seemed to be going on with 
her supper in orderly fashion. Mr. Bounder was 
not misled by this, and watched curiously. He 
had acquired in a few months a large respect for 





his wife. Her very unadorned attire and her peculiar way of knotting up her hair, did not hinder 
that he had a great and growing value for her. 
Christopher would have liked her certainly to dress 
better and to put on a cap; nevertheless, and odd 
as it may seem, he was learning to be proud of his 
very independent wife, and even boasted to his 
sister that she was a "character." Now he waited 
for what was to come next. 

" I guess I was a fool," began Mrs. Bounder at 
last. "But it came into my head, if they're in 
such a fix as you say, whether maybe they wouldn't 
take up with my house. I guess, hardly likely." 

" Tour house? " inquired Christopher in astonish 
ment. But his wife calmly nodded. 

" Your house ! " repeated Christopher. " Which 
one?" 

"Wall, not this one, I guess," said his wife 
quietly. " But I've got one in town." 

"A house in town! Why I never heard of it 
before." 

" No, cause it's been standin empty for a spell 
back ; doin nothin . Ef there had been rent comin 
in, I guess you'd have heard of it. But the last 
folks went out; and I hadn't found no one that 
suited me to let hev it." 

" Would it do for the colonel and Miss Esther ? " 

"That's jes what I don know, Christopher. It 
would du as fur's the rent goes; an it's all right 
and tight. It won't let the rain in on em; I've 
kep it in order." 



 

"I should like to see what you don't keep in 
order ! " said Christopher admiringly. 

"Wall, I guess it's my imagination. For come 
to think of it, it aint jes sich a house as your folks 
are accustomed to." 

"The thing is," said Christopher gravely, "they 
can't have just what they're accustomed to. Least 
ways I'm afeard they can't. I'll just speak to Miss 
Esther about it." 

" Wall, you kin du that. Twon't du no harm. 
I allays think, when anybody's grown poor he'd 
best take in his belt a little." 



CHAPTER XXXI. 

MAJOR STREET. 

ACCORDING to the conclusion thus arrived at, 
Christopher took the opportunity of speaking 
to Esther the very next time he was driving her 
in from school. Esther immediately pricked up 
her ears, and demanded to know where the house 
was situated. Christopher told her. It was a street 
she was not acquainted with. 

"Do you know how to find the place, Christopher?" 

" yes, Miss Esther ; I can find the place to be 
sure; but I'm afraid my little woman has made a 
mistake." 

"What is the rent?" 

Christopher named the rent. It was less than 
what they were paying for the house they at present 
occupied; and Esther at once ordered Christopher 
to turn about and drive her to the spot. 

It was certainly not a fashionable quarter, not 
even near Broadway or State St.; nevertheless it 
was respectable, inhabited by decent people. The 
house itself was a small wooden one. Now it is 

true that at that day New York was a very different place from what it is at present; and a 
wooden house, and even a small wooden house, did 
not mean then what it means now; an abode of 
Irish washerwomen or of something still less distinguished. Yet Esther startled a little at the 
thought of bringing her father and herself to in 
habit it. Christopher had the key; and he fas 
tened Buonaparte and let her in, and went all over 
the house with her. It was in order truly, as its 
owner had said ; even clean ; and nothing was off 
the hinges or wanting paint or needing plaster. 
"Right and tight" it was, and susceptible of being 
made an abode of comfort; yet it was a very humble dwelling, comparatively, and in an insignificant neighbourhood; and Esther hesitated. Was 
it pride? she asked herself. Why did she hesitate? 
Yet she lingered over the place, doubting and questioning and almost deciding it would not do. Then 
Christopher, I cannot tell whether consciously or 
otherwise, threw in a makeweight that fell in the 
scale that was threatening to rise. 

" If you please, Miss Esther, would you speak 
to the master about the blacksmith's bill ? I don't 
hardly never see the colonel, these days." 

Esther faced round upon him. The word " bill " 
always came to her now like a sort of stab. She 
repeated his words. " The blacksmith's bill ? " 

"Yes, mum; that is Creasy, the blacksmith ; just 
on the edge o the town. It's been runnin along, 
cause I never could get sight o the colonel to 
speak to him about it." 





"Bill for what?" 

" Shoes, mum." 

"Shoes?" repeated Esther. "The blacksmith? 
what do you mean ? " 

" Shoes for Buonaparty, mum. He does kick off 
his shoes as fast as any horse ever I see; and they 
does wear, mum, on the stones." 

"How much is the bill?" 

"Well, mum," said Christopher uneasily, "it's 
been runnin along and it's astonishin how things 
does mount up. It's quite a good bit, mum; it's 
nigh on to fifty dollars." 

It took away Esther's breath. She turned away, 
that Christopher might not see her face, and began 
to look at the house as if. a sudden new light had 
fallen upon it. Small and mean, and unfit for Col. 
Gainsborough and his daughter, that had been 
her judgment concerning it five minutes before; 
but now it suddenly presented itself as a refuge 
from distress. If they took it, the relief to their 
finances would be immediate and effectual. There 
was a little bit of struggle in Esther's mind; to 
give up their present home for this would involve 
a loss of all the prettiness in which she had found 
such refreshment; there would be here no river 
and no opposite shore, and no pleasant country 
around with grass and trees and a flower garden. 
There would be no garden at all, and no view, except of a very humdrum little street, built up and 
inhabited by mechanics and tradespeople of a humble grade. But then no debt! And Esther remembered that in her daily prayer for daily bread 
she had also asked to be enabled to "owe no man 
anything." Was here the answer ? And if this 
were the Lord's way for supplying her necessities, 
