
"Tossed oars? Where did you toss them?" asked the commodore; and it was
plain enough now that the Chesterfields did not understand the
manoeuvre.

"We raised them to a perpendicular; and this is the highest honor one
boat can pay to another. We should not have tossed oars to you if we had
intended to insult you," replied Dory with spirit.

"Do you call that showing off a complimentary salute?" demanded Mad,
with a sneer. "It's no use to talk any more about it: when you make the
apology for insulting us we will give up the clothes."

The crews of both the Chesterfield boats applauded. The wind appeared to
be freshening, or it had driven the boats farther out into the lake,
where they felt it more. At any rate Mad's last remark indicated a
desire to end the conference on the waves.

"I hope there will be no trouble," said Dory, as he glanced at the
Gildrock again, though she was still a mile from the scene.

"There will be no talk at any rate," replied Mad. "We are going ashore
now, and we will see you on the land if you like."

"You will not go ashore until you have given up those clothes," added
Dory firmly.

"I'm not going to fool with you, as Wash did, and if you don't get out
of our way we will sink you!" exclaimed the new commodore.

"I think you will have to understand a little more about handling a boat
than you do now, before you can do that," replied Dory quietly, as he
backed the Winooski a little way from the Racer.

With some difficulty Mad got his boat about so that it was headed to
the shore, and the Dasher, with Jeff Monroe acting as coxswain, was
trying to follow her example. The waves were very rude, and it looked as
though the latter would be swamped before she got about. As soon as Dory
saw that the Dasher had accomplished the feat, he repeated his former
manoeuvre, shoving the bow of the barge entirely around, in spite of all
the efforts of her crew to prevent it.

Mad Twinker ordered his oarsmen to beat off the assailants with their
oars; but the moment the boat got into the trough of the sea, the bow
oarsmen were utterly unable to stand up. In swinging around, the
Winooski brought up against the side of the Racer, and two of the
latter's oars were snapped in twain in the collision. But Dory drew back
before any further damage was done, though the Chesterfield boat had
only seven oars left.

By this time the Racer had nearly come about, and Dory gave her a shove
which sent her back to her former position in the trough of the sea. Mad
Twinker was downright mad in fact, as well as in name, when he found
himself beaten. But the Winooski kept out of his reach, and he was
utterly powerless. Her coxswain did not have the least difficulty in
swinging her around as he wished, in the smart sea.

The wind was blowing the boats farther out into the lake every moment,
and the white-caps had a terrific aspect to the inexperienced boatmen.
Mad brought his barge about again. Placing one of his oarless crew at
the tiller lines, he crawled forward himself, and took a position in the
bow. Arming himself with the boathook he directed his rowers to give
way.

This time Dory did not wait till the Racer was headed to the shore, but
darted upon her just as she came out of the trough of the sea. He called
to Thad Glovering to boat his oar, and look out for his head, for Mad
evidently intended to hit anyone who came within reach of his weapon.

"Oars!" shouted Dory with energy. "Stern all!"

But in spite of his care he struck the Racer harder than he intended,
and a lively snapping of cedar boards was heard. The sound created a
panic among the crew; they all stopped rowing, and looked behind them to
see what had happened. About three feet of the bow of the boat was stove
in, and the water was pouring in through the break.

"There! Do you see what you have done?" yelled Mad Twinker, appalled at
the disaster to the Dasher.

"Will you give up those clothes, or will you take another rap?" called
Dory sharply.

"Another rap! Do you mean to drown us all?" cried Mad.

"I mean to have our clothes!" answered Dory.

"Let them have the clothes!" yelled one of the terrified crew.

"Let them have them! We can't do anything more," added another.

Mad said nothing more, but he picked up such of the clothes as were
within his reach, and held them out in the direction of the Winooski.
His crew followed his example, and Dory ran the barge near enough to
receive them.

"That's all there are in this boat," said Mad Twinker.

"If you all move a little farther aft, the water won't run into your
boat," said Dory in a quiet tone. "Here are five oars that belong to
your boats. I have no further business with you to-day, unless we find
some of our clothes are missing; and we wish you good evening."

"We shall have further business with you, and you won't see the end of
this affair for one while," growled Mad Twinker, as he crawled to the
stern-sheets of his barge.

While this scene was transpiring, the Dasher had succeeded in getting
about, and her crew were pulling for the shore, though they lay upon
their oars when they saw the catastrophe to her consort. Dory followed
the other barge without any delay, and was soon in position to "ram" the
bow, as he had that of the Racer; but the Dashers decided not to be
wrecked, as their consort had been. Jeff Monroe shouted that they would
give up the clothes and they were delivered. The Winooski went to the
shore, and the crew clothed themselves. None of the clothes were
missing, and the coxswain was glad he had no further demand to make upon
the Chesterfields. Before the boys were half clothed the Gildrock joined
them.

"What in the world have you fellows been about?" asked Matt Randolph.
"We thought you were in a row out there with the Chesterfields, and we
were hurrying up to help you out."

"We were in a row, and we have smashed in the bow of one of their
boats," replied Dory. "Our fellows have behaved first-rate, and I think
we have come out of the scrape with clean hands."

"Not if you have smashed one of their boats," added Matt seriously.

"Captain Gildrock must settle that question; and I suppose Colonel
Buckmill will have something to say about it," answered Dory, as he
proceeded to relate in detail what had happened at Sandy Beach.

The event was discussed with no little excitement for a considerable
time. Beech Hill was very indignant at the conduct of the Chesterfields,
and heartily delighted that they had been beaten in the end. But all
felt, as Mad Twinker had suggested, that they had not seen the end of
the affair yet, and it was voted that a state of war existed between the
two institutions on opposite sides of the lake; and perhaps it was a
happy circumstance that four miles of fresh water lay between them.

"I say, Dory, I don't quite understand how it was that you beat us so
awfully in that little scrub race we had," said the coxswain of the
Gildrock. "I was sure we could whip you every time when we came out of
the river."

"I knew that you had been giving your crew a little private training,"
replied Dory, laughing, as they walked down to the barges. "I know just
why you were beaten; and I think you had better wait till you get out of
the woods before you do any crowing next time. The three cheers you gave
were rather cutting to our fellows."

"I was confident we could pass you every time; and your crew were taking
it very easy. We gave the cheers to stir you up, and give us a chance to
beat you when you were doing your best," Matt explained. "But how did
you give us such an awful waxing?"

"Simply by minding our own business: that's all I know about it. Our
fellows row first-rate, and they are in splendid discipline. Your crew
got demoralized when they saw us gaining on them, and they couldn't do
anything more. It was as easy to beat them then as it is to go to sleep
when you can't keep awake."

Matt did not understand the cause of his defeat much better than before.
He said he had been training his crew, and trying to find out what the
matter was.

The barges returned to Beech Hill, and after they were secured, there
was nothing talked about but the encounter with the Chesterfields. As in
duty bound, Dory reported the affair, with full details, to the
principal.

"I am afraid this is rather serious business, Dory," said Captain
Gildrock. "It looks like a standing quarrel between our school and the
Institute, and it may lead to disagreeable consequences. Of course the
students on the other side will have their own story to tell, and
probably I shall hear from Colonel Buckmill, who will claim damages for
the injury done the barge."

"We had to recover our clothes, or come home without our shirts,"
pleaded Dory.

"I have no doubt you have told the story correctly as you understand it,
but almost always there are two sides to any story. You appear to have
acted with prudence and forbearance, and I have no fault to find with
you," added Captain Gildrock. "We will wait and see what comes of the
affair."

It may as well be said here that nothing came of it, and Colonel
Buckmill was not informed in regard to the collision. The Racer was
rowed to Westport that evening, and the next morning she had been
repaired, and was in as good condition as ever. But the Chesterfields
nursed their wrath, and vowed vengeance for the humiliation to which
they had been subjected.




CHAPTER IX.

A REBELLION IN THE SCHOOLROOM.


After breakfast on the following morning the students were provided with
the new uniform, if so simple a suit could be dignified by such a title.
It consisted of a sack, pants, and vest of blue flannel, and a cap on
which was a monogram of the letters B. H. I. S. The buttons on the coat
and cap were plain and nickel-plated, as was the monogram. It was a very
neat dress, and most of the boys were pleased with it.

"Where is your uniform, Life?" asked Dory of the strike oarsman of the
Winooski, as they were about to enter the school and shop building.

"I don't intend to wear any uniform," replied Life Windham. "I am not a
monkey, a soldier, or a policeman."

"As the rest of us are neither soldiers nor policemen, I suppose you
regard us as monkeys," added Dory, laughing.

"I don't say that you are monkeys, only that you are dressed like
monkeys," replied Life.

"I think you are making a mistake, and I hope you will consider well
what you are about," continued Dory seriously. "My uncle pays for the
clothes of all the students, and it seems to me he ought to be allowed
to say what the garments should be."

"If Captain Gildrock wanted you to go about town with a chapeau on your
head, should you be willing to do it?" demanded Life, with considerable
vim in his tones.

"But he don't ask you to wear a chapeau, or even a soldier's cap. You
argue against something that is ridiculous, instead of the actual
thing," returned Dory warmly. "It is a common cap, just such a one as
you wore when you came to Beech Hill, only there are four letters on
it."

"It is a uniform, any way, and we are all to be punished because two
fellows drank beer in a saloon," persisted Life.

"There is no punishment about it."

"Didn't Captain Gildrock say we were to wear a uniform because two of
the fellows drank beer?" demanded Life.

"No, he did not!" protested Dory. "He said he did not believe the
fellows would have drank the beer if they had worn the uniform of the
school."

"Why not? Because they would be afraid of being found out?" sneered
Life.

"Not at all. Didn't he say that he expected the fellows to have a proper
regard for the honor and credit of the school? He thinks that respect
for the institution would prevent the fellows from doing anything out of
the way. The uniform would keep the fact that they are members
constantly in their minds. In Boston all the pupils of the high schools
wear a uniform cap."

"I don't see it in that light, and I look upon wearing a uniform as a
punishment, served out to the innocent as well as the guilty."

"If I were you I should go and put the uniform on, and then carry my
grievance to the principal," added Dory, sorry that the stroke oarsman
of the boat should get himself into trouble for nothing at all.

"We argued the matter yesterday. I am not the only fellow who won't wear
the uniform. There are eight of us, and we had a meeting this morning,"
replied Life, "and not one of them will put on monkey rigging."

"You are making a bad mistake, Life. Not a word was said yesterday about
punishment, and I am sure my uncle will set matters right if you only
obey orders. If you stand out, he won't say a word to comfort you. Put
on the uniform, go to him this morning, and say that you object to
wearing it, for you look upon it as a punishment, served out to the
innocent as well as the guilty," reasoned Dory.

"We said all we had to say yesterday," replied Life; and he joined
several others not in uniform as they went into the building.

In the schoolroom Dory had a chance to see who the rebels were, for all
the others wore the uniform, while the objectors had on the garments in
which they had come to the school. There were four from the first class,
and four from the second. Besides Life Windham, of his own crew, he
found Phil Gawner, Lick Milton, and Tom Ridley. He was sorry he had not
known who the rebels were before, for he thought he could have
influenced them in the right direction. Ben Ludlow, who had had the most
to say against the uniform the day before, wore the prescribed costume.

Eight out of twenty-six were nearly one third of the whole school. He
wished he could have a chance to talk the subject over with the other
rebels in his crew before they were called to order in the schoolroom,
for Captain Gildrock was a thorough disciplinarian. He would yield a
great deal to respectful remonstrance, but not a hair to rebellion. If
the eight rebels took a decided stand, the principal would regard it as
a case of disobedience, and treat it accordingly.

But there was no time to argue the matter, and hardly a word had been
said about it among the crews of the barges. The rebels had preferred to
confine their discussion to their own number, instead of getting the
views and feelings of the other members of the school.

Every pupil had a single desk in the schoolroom, which contained his
books and other property. Each one took his place, and the roll was
called by Miss Fatima Millweed, who was the clerk of the institution.
All answered to their names. Most of those who wore the uniform did not
seem to know that there was a rebellion in progress, and they looked
with some astonishment at their companions in plain clothes.

The principal had not yet come in, and as he had announced other
business for the opening of the session, the instructors waited for him.
But the captain was a methodical and punctual man, and the roll-call was
hardly finished before he made his appearance upon the platform. He had
a roll of papers in his hand, and seemed to be thinking of the business
of the moment. He proceeded to unroll his papers, without bestowing any
attention upon the new uniform, for he had noticed and commented upon it
before school time.

"Now, boys, I have something to say about the plans for the new
boat-house and hall for recreation," the principal began, as he took his
place at the desk on the platform. "The idea does not include merely the
building, but a wharf for the Sylph, docks for the barges, and the
location and general arrangement of the building and grounds. For the
best plan of the building the prize will be fifty dollars. The same
amount will be given for the best location and method of constructing
the wharf and arranging the grounds of the new structure."

"Architecture and civil engineering," suggested Bolingbroke Millweed,
deeply interested in the business of the occasion.

"Precisely so, only we shall not meddle much with ornamental
architecture," replied Captain Gildrock, looking over the pupils to
observe the impression the announcement of the prize made upon them.

Then he suddenly suspended his remarks, and stepped out to the side of
the desk. For a moment he looked the boys over, as though his thoughts
had taken a new turn. He left his papers on the desk, as though he had
abandoned the subject of the building.

"I think I directed that the new uniform should be put on this morning,"
said the principal, after a considerable pause. "I see that most of you
wear it, and I suppose the others could not find suits that would fit
them. Mr. Sheers was to be here to assist in fitting you. Wasn't he
here, Shoreham?"

"Yes, sir; he was here, and he selected a uniform that he said would fit
me," replied Lew.

"But you have not put it on?"

"No, sir."

"I see there are several others who have not put on the uniform,"
continued the principal; and he proceeded to call the names of those in
plain clothes. "If any one of you did not find a uniform that would fit
him, he will signify it."

No one raised a hand or spoke a word, and it was evident that there was
no trouble at all about fitting the garments.

"Shoreham, why have you not put on your uniform?" demanded the
principal, rather sternly.

"I have decided not to wear a uniform," replied Lew, in an entirely
respectful tone.

"You have decided not to wear a uniform," repeated Captain Gildrock.
"Cornwall, I see that you are in plain clothes."

"I have also decided not to wear a uniform," answered Bart.

"There appears to be several of you who made the same decision," added
Captain Gildrock.

"Eight of us, sir," said Bob Swanton.

"I wish to say, Captain Gildrock, that we do so with entire respect to
you, sir," added Lew Shoreham.

"With entire respect to me, you intend to disobey my orders," said the
principal, with a smile.

"We have agreed that not a disrespectful word shall be spoken to you,
sir," continued Lew, who had apparently been appointed the spokesman for
the rebellion.

"In other words, you intend to do wrong in a gentlemanly way, which is
perhaps better than doing it in an ungentlemanly way," added the
principal.

"I desire to give the reasons why we decline to wear a uniform," said
Lew Shoreham, rising from his chair as though he intended to make a
speech of some length; and perhaps he could do it better than any other
student in the school.

"I decline to hear the reasons--I respectfully decline. After I have
given an order I don't argue the matter," replied Captain Gildrock.

"But we wish--"

"While you stand in the attitude of disobedience, you must excuse me
from listening to what you wish, Shoreham. Those who have decided not to
wear the uniform of the Beech Hill Industrial School may stand."

The eight rebels rose from their seats, and stood by the side of their
desks. They held their heads up as though they meant to be manly and
independent, and no doubt they felt so.

"I don't think you are quite fair, Captain Gildrock, not to hear what--"

"You are entitled to your own opinion. The eight boys who have decided
not to wear the uniform will go to their rooms, and each remain in his
own apartment until further orders," continued Captain Gildrock, in a
very mild but decidedly firm tone.

"I wish to say--" Lew Shoreham began.

"You will say nothing!" interposed the principal, in a very stern voice.
"Go to your rooms, and stay in them till you have permission to leave
them."

Lew Shoreham was extremely anxious to argue the question, and to do so
before the school. Physically he was rather clumsy, and was not likely
to distinguish himself in athletic sports; but he was a good speaker for
a boy, and a bit of a lawyer besides. Doubtless he and his companions
thought they were grossly abused in not being allowed to argue the
question of obedience. The rebels retired from the schoolroom, and the
principal picked up his papers.




CHAPTER X.

IMPORTANT TO BOY ARCHITECTS AND ENGINEERS.


The principal said a few words to Mr. Darlingby, one of the instructors,
as soon as all the rebels had left the schoolroom. The teacher followed
the eight boys who had decided not to wear a uniform to the dormitory.
He sad nothing, but merely saw that the rebels went to their rooms, as
they had been directed. He then called Bates, the old sailor who had
been quartermaster and mate under Captain Gildrock for may years, who
did any kind of duty at Beech Hill required of him, from running the
steamer down to blacking the principal's boots.

The old seaman always obeyed orders, and never asked any questions or
made any speeches. Mr. Darlingby stationed him in the hall of the
dormitory, and directed him not allow any of the eight boys to leave the
building, or more than one of them to come out of his room at a time.
Bates knew what discipline was, for he had been thoroughly trained by
his employer. The instructor returned to the schoolroom, and reported
the orders executed.

After the rebels had departed from the room, Captain Gildrock made no
allusion whatever to them. He pointed no moral for the benefit of the
rest of the students, and did not seem to be in the least degree
disturbed by the event of the morning. He picked up his papers, and went
on with his announcements as though nothing had occurred to interrupt
them.

"You have had valuable instruction in drawing from Mr. Jepson,"
continued Captain Gildrock; "but you have not yet had a great deal of
practice. Of course I don't expect finished drawings from you, and the
nicety of the work will not affect the result. All the plans must be
drawn by scale, and must be intelligible, but the prizes are to be given
for the ideas, and not for the artistic finish of the plans."

"On what scale must the plans be drawn?" asked Luke Bennington.

"Mr. Jepson must answer that question."

"A quarter of an inch to the foot," added Mr. Jepson, the master
machinist and instructor in drawing.

"Do you all understand what rooms and closets we want in the
boat-house? That is what the new building will be called," continued the
principal. "I think you had better make a list of these things, so that
you won't forget anything."

"Are the sailboats to be provided for in the building?" asked George
Duane.

"Certainly not; it would take too high a building to cover the topmast
of the Gold wing," replied the principal. "The safest place for the
sailboats is at their moorings in the lake."

"I don't quite understand how the two barges are to be accommodated
under cover," suggested Harry Franklin.

"There must be two slips, or docks for them, at least fifty-four feet
long by eight or nine feet wide, with doors at the water end of them, so
that the boats can be locked in. I shall say no more about the docks;
but you can put them down at the head of your list. Then we want about
forty dressing-rooms, for we must provide for the future as well as the
present. They must be at least three feet square and light enough to
enable the occupant to see what he is about."

"But where are these dressing-rooms to be located?" inquired Dave
Winslow.
