Among the latter was the Hon. Richard Lawbrook, a prominent lawyer in
the county, who had been made a senator, though without pledges, in part
by the influence of the major. But when the legislator was requested and
pressed to promote by his eloquence a more than questionable enterprise,
his conscience revolted, and he refused his aid. This had produced a
bitter quarrel between himself and the magnate, though all the honest
people believed that the senator was an upright and just man.

Doubtless, the mention of the senator's name had produced a decided
effect upon the mind of the magnate. Mr. Lawbrook was a man of
influence, who believed that the laws should be impartially executed
upon the rich as well as the poor. The prospect ahead was not pleasant.

There was no "pile of fun" to be had at the point that day, and
Commodore Woodhorn backed away from the beach as soon as his crews were
in a condition to do so. Without asking the major any questions, he
conveyed his distinguished passenger over to the town, and landed him at
the steps. The procession was formed to escort him to his elegant
mansion when Mr. Bulfington appeared, and respectfully announced that he
had a warrant for the arrest of the object of the parade. The major was
impatient when the officer presented himself, and told him to call at
his house if he had any business with him.

The constable politely intimated that it was a criminal proceeding, and
that he was under the necessity of taking his prisoner wherever he could
find him. He treated the culprit just as though he had been a poor man,
which was a new experience to the magnate. He was taken to the lockup,
and confined in a cell. With the major behind the bars, Mr. Bulfington
was complaisant enough to do anything he required. A couple of wealthy
friends were sent for, and the major and the six ruffians were bailed
out in the course of an hour.

There had been some earnest talk between Captain Gildrock and Mr.
Lawbrook, for the former wished to know whether justice represented a
substantial idea in the State of New York. The senator was confident
that all men were equal before the law; and as he had more influence
with the constable than any other person had, Mr. Bulfington was
unwilling to assume any special responsibility in regard to his powerful
prisoner.

The Beech Hill fleet went home, and not only the students, but the
families at the mansion and at Hornet Point had enough to talk about for
the rest of the day. The next morning, when all the students except Paul
were at their studies in the school-room, the Sylph, with Mrs. Bristol
and Lily on board with Paul, sailed for Westport.




CHAPTER XXIV.

THE STUDENTS DECIDE "WHAT'S IN A NAME."


Major Billcord had the services of a distinguished lawyer from
Plattsburgh and of another from Elizabethtown to defend himself and the
six ruffians. They almost made a "celebrated case" of it. They got the
trial into the county court, and the six ruffians were sentenced to ten
days confinement in the county prison, and the major himself to thirty
days.

The assault and the conspiracy were too outrageous, in the opinion of
the justice, to be punished with a simple fine. The workingmen and the
farmers had got hold of the case and talked a great deal about it.
Against the advice of the eminent legal gentlemen he employed, Paul
Bristol was prosecuted for the first assault upon Walker Billcord, and
this brought in the testimony of Lily and her mother, which the lawyers
wanted to keep out. This evidence completed the history of the case by
filling in the beginning of the trouble.

Paul was fully justified and acquitted, and the people praised him for
his defence of his sister. Fathers and mothers were interested, for they
looked to the law for the protection of their children. Every effort was
made to save the magnate from the disgrace of being confined in a common
prison, but public sentiment would have been indignant, and he had to
serve out his time.

The farmers and mechanics were inclined to go as far the wrong way in
one direction as the major and his friends were in the other. The
magnate was a "soulless capitalist," a "bloated bondholder," and he
suffered, especially among the mill hands, for this senseless reason.
But the judge was even-handed between the two parties, and the major
learned a lesson which was worth half his fortune to him--that before
the law he was no more than the equal of the poor man.

Four of the six ruffians were taken from the institute by their parents,
who had sent them there to be fitted for college, and they were sure
that their sons had been led away by the influence of Major Billcord,
and by the lack of proper discipline in the school. Three others were
removed for the same reason. The loss of these pupils was a severe blow
to Colonel Buckmill, who had condemned the conduct of the major from
the first.

Though other students were soon obtained to take their places, and even
to increase the number of pupils in the school, the colonel realized
that he was not managing the institution on the right principle. The
magnate had lost much of his influence in the vicinity, and the
principal found that he could afford to be independent of him, for it
would pay better.

On the day of the examination, Captain Gildrock called the students of
Beech Hill together in the school-room in the afternoon, after the
studies had been finished. The model to which he had alluded at the time
of his lecture on shipbuilding was still on the table where it had been
placed on that occasion. The students had examined it with a great deal
of interest. They had read all they could find in the books in the
library on the subject, and studied the three plans on the wall.

They were very impatient, as young men always are, to begin the actual
work of building the boat. It was even more to their taste than erecting
a house, though many of them were now competent to frame a building from
the plans.

The subject of a name for the craft had engaged their attention, and
they had given a great deal of thought to it. They were all ambitious to
name the schooner, and a great variety of names was likely to be
presented. They had all been handed in; and when the principal announced
that the first business was to select one from them, Mr. Bentnick handed
him the envelope which contained them.

"Lily," said the captain, laughing, as he took the first paper from the
enclosure.

All the boys looked very good-natured, though something like
embarrassment appeared upon the faces of not a few of them.

"Lily," continued the captain, reading the second suggestion.

The good-natured looks expanded into smiles.

"Lily," the principal said again, as he drew out the third paper. The
smile became a little more intense.

"Lily," repeated the principal once more, and then he emptied all the
slips of paper from the envelope, and began to sort them over.

Principal, instructors and students were all laughing merrily by this
time. It was evident that the boys were very impressible fellows, and
had been captivated by the beauty of Miss Bristol. Possibly some of
them were disturbed because they found that others had made the same
selection as their own.

"They are not all alike," said Captain Gildrock, when he had finished
sorting the papers. "Only about two thirds of them are 'Lily.' It is
certainly a very pretty name, and there is no flower more pure and
beautiful than the lily. But the name is rather general and indefinite.
We have the tiger lily, the lily of the valley, the pond lily, and other
kinds. What do you say to calling the schooner the Pond Lily?"

"No, sir!" shouted a majority of the students, with one voice.

"The Tiger Lily, then?"

"No, sir," was the emphatic reply.

"Then Lily of the Valley?"

"No, sir!" again voted the majority.

"Perhaps I shall have to ask Miss Millweed for the names of other kinds
of lilies," added the principal, with a very pleasant smile.

"None of them!" exclaimed the crowd, encouraged by the cheerful
expression of the captain.

"None of them?"

"Lily Bristol!" called Luke Bennington. "I put in another name, but that
is what the fellows mean."

"Yes, sir!" cried the majority.

Captain Gildrock improved this opportunity to say something about the
influence of female society, and especially of young ladies. If Beech
Hill were not a school of mechanic arts, he should be in favor of having
as many young ladies as young gentlemen on its roll of pupils. He was in
favor of co-education, whereat Mr. Bentnick shook his head, and seemed
to be uneasy in his seat, though Mr. Darlingby showed a disposition to
clap his hands. The captain was an old-fashioned man, he said, but he
hoped he had modern and progressive ideas. He was not in favor of
"pretty girls."

At this point about half a dozen of the students gave something like a
suppressed groan. The principal paused, the dissentients wished they had
said nothing; but he did not add a word. He seemed to feel that they had
as much right to express themselves in this manner as to applaud, or
express themselves in other ways.

"I don't believe in pretty girls as such," he continued, "because they
monopolize the sole attention of young men, to the exclusion of others
even more worthy who are personally less attractive. But I hardly expect
young gentlemen to adopt my views on this subject before they have
lived to be as old as I am. When you have an opportunity, boys, bestow
some attention upon the 'wallflowers.'"

He had not intended to say so much on this part of the subject, and he
resumed the general topic. Ladies should be treated with the utmost
respect, whether attractive or not, and even if they did not conduct
themselves like ladies. He did not prohibit the students from
associating with the young ladies of Genverres and the neighboring
towns, under proper circumstances, and thought female society was
beneficial to them. But profound respect must be the basis of such
relations. There should be nothing like undue familiarity with them, and
a young lady, even if not more than fifteen, should not be addressed by
her Christian name except by her relatives. It must always be "Miss
Bristol," and not "Lily," or even "Miss Lily."

"Not Miss Lily?" said a puzzled student.

"That is a grade of familiarity between the surname and the given name,
proper enough for persons who are intimate enough to use it, but not
applicable in the present instance. Now, to return to the name of the
schooner, from which the papers withdrew my attention. I am entirely
willing that you should give her a name."

After what the principal had said about pretty girls, most of the
students concluded that any attempt to give the name of one of that
sisterhood to the craft would be vetoed. They were not quite satisfied
to have their wishes disregarded. His last words, however, gave them a
little encouragement. The principal picked up the slips of paper and
counted them, or a portion of them.

"Twenty-three have given in the name of 'Lily,'" said he, taking up
those which indicated some other name. "'Champlain,' 'Lake Bird,' 'Lake
Gem,' 'Saranac,' and the names of most of the lakes and rivers in
Vermont. Among them are 'Addison' (our county), 'Genverres,' either of
which would be a very good, and a very appropriate name. I don't like
the fancy names, such as 'Gem of the Lake,' as well as the more
substantial ones. Now you may vote on the question, and the name among
those I have read which has a majority shall be the one selected."

This announcement brought out some applause. Then the captain said it
would be in order for any student who wished to recommend any particular
name, to say what he pleased on the subject. This permission brought
Luke Bennington to his feet.

"I don't believe there is a craft on the lake now called the
'Champlain.' There has been a large steamer, but she is no longer in
existence," said the speaker, with considerable earnestness. "In my
opinion--and I have seen the lakes of Scotland and Switzerland--Lake
Champlain is the finest lake in the world."

"Oh! Oh! Oh!" murmured several listeners.

"Of course the size of the lake comes into the comparison, or Lake
George might be nothing by the side of a little pond between a couple of
hills. We have the Adirondacks on one side, and the Green Mountains on
the other; and, taking everything into consideration, I vote for Lake
Champlain as the finest. For this reason, and because it is the element
on which the schooner is to figure, I hope its name will be given to
her."

Another student spoke in favor of "Battenkill," but he proved to be the
only one who had ever heard the name. He explained that it was a river
which had its source in Vermont, though it soon wandered into New York.
A third student spoke for "Addison," and a fourth for "Genverres." The
advocates of "Lily" seemed to be conscious of their strength, and all
of them were too bashful to make a speech in its favor.

Mr. Darlingby passed around the box, and all voted. The ballots were
quickly counted by the instructors, who appeared to be quite as much
interested as the boys, and the principal read the result. It was
evident then that a few did not care a straw for the name, and voted for
the fun of it.

"Tiger Lily, 1; Pond Lily, 1; Lake Gem, 1; Genverres, 1; Addison, 1;
Battenkill, 1; Champlain, 2; Lily, 28," the principal read from the
paper made out by Mr. Bentnick.

The vote was received with tremendous applause, and the students
continued to clap their hands until the captain raised his linger as a
signal for them to cease.

"The schooner will be called the 'Lily,'" added the principal.




CHAPTER XXV.

BUILDING THE BOAT.


While the boys were getting over the excitement attending the vote on
the name of the unbuilt schooner, Captain Gildrock moved the table on
which the model of the craft stood to the front of the platform, where
all could see it. It was a very graceful form, and the nautical boys
were sure that the schooner would be a fast sailer.

"I told you before," said the principal, "that this model was
constructed on a new plan; but I have since learned that the idea is not
as original as I supposed it was, and that boats have been built by this
method. I supposed I should be the first to introduce it, but I find I
am not, though the model-maker had never made one before.

"The plans are drawn and the model made on the scale of one inch to a
foot. Whatever measures an inch in the plan or model measures a foot in
the boat. Every stick in the craft will therefore be twelve times the
size it is in this model. The Lily will have a beam of thirteen feet,
which is a little more than one-third of the length.

"This model is made of soft pine and mahogany. The ribs are to be
twenty-one inches from the centre of one to the centre of the next one.
What looks to you like the space between the timbers, or ribs, is pine.
The mahogany strips, which are comparatively narrow, represent the
timbers. The pieces are transverse sections of the hull, made separately
and put together.

"This is the stem," continued the principal, detaching the piece from
the model. "A model of it is to be made of soft wood, enlarged to twelve
times the size of this piece. Removing a piece of the pine, we come to a
mahogany section. As the bow is round, these sections radiate from a
shorter line on the keel than the horizontal line above it on the deck
would be."

The captain held up one of these diagonal sections, the top or deck part
of which was in the shape of a triangle with a very acute angle. The
parts were in pairs, one belonging on each side of the bows.

"The outer edge of this half section gives the shape of the bow where
this piece belongs. If you lay it on a smooth board, you can mark from
it the exact curve of the timber which is to go where this piece is
taken out. It must be enlarged to twelve times the size of the section.
Of course the outer surface of the section only is of any use to you;
but having obtained the exact shape of the outside, the rib may be made
of any width and thickness we wish."

The principal removed several of the diagonal half sections, all of
which were to be treated like the first one. At the widest part of the
model he came to pieces which were of uniform thickness. These were also
in pairs, separated on the vertical plane above the keel. The lines of
the outer surface in these half sections were to be transferred and
enlarged as before, and the mould or pattern was to be made from them.

In this manner the model was pulled to pieces, and from the edges of the
transverse sections the shape of the craft was to be obtained. The
stern-post, stern-knees and transoms were to be shaped in the same way.
The captain stated that the model represented the craft after she was
planked, and it would be necessary, in drafting the moulds, to allow for
its thickness.

Mr. Jepson then took the platform and explained in what manner the
outlines of the half sections were to be enlarged. To give all the
details would take a whole volume, and doubtless it would be very dry
reading to most young people. Only an idea of how the work was to be
done can be given, and those who wish to build such a craft as the Lily,
or even a boat or a canoe of a third of her length, need full drawings
and very minute explanations.[A]

These lectures used up the rest of the afternoon. The next day was
devoted to making the moulds. At the end of ten days the frame was ready
to set up. The keel was laid down at an angle of three-quarters of an
inch to the foot, so that it would readily slide off when the time came
to launch it. The boys had been studying on the subject, and the
principal had supplied the library with all the available works. They
labored very hard because they were very deeply interested.

Setting up the frame was an exceedingly exciting labor with them; but
when it was up they found the shape corresponded with the model. Some
had done their work better than others, and here and there it was
necessary to do considerable fitting. In another week the frame was
ready for the planking. Captain Gildrock gave frequent lectures on the
proper methods of doing the work, and explained the construction of
larger vessels than the Lily.

A part of the Champlain mechanics, as they still called themselves,
worked in the shop, and a part in the building-shed. There were a great
many bolts of iron and copper, and a great many metal plates, braces and
straps to be prepared, which gave abundant employment to the machinists,
who had been instructed by the head of this department in forge-work, as
well as filing and turning.

The carpenters had plenty to do in the shop, with abundant opportunity
to learn many things which are not required in the ordinary experience
of such mechanics. There was also room enough for the exercise of their
inventive powers.

With so many enthusiastic workmen, who found abundant variety in their
operations as the schooner advanced towards completion, the planking was
soon finished. Then a dozen of the carpenters went to work upon it with
the smoothing-planes, and the outer surface was made as smooth as a
floor.

The hull rested in the cradle which had been erected for it, and the
tops of the timbers were secured in their places by cross-stays. So far,
little or nothing had been said about the interior of the hull, for the
reason that the frame and planking had absorbed all the attention of the
workmen. The next step was to put in the deck-beams, and secure the
shelves on which they were to rest.

"Now, boys, we must decide upon the plan for the inside of the
schooner," said the principal, when he had called the students together
in the building-shed. "What accommodations shall we provide on board?"

"A cabin and a standing-room," replied Life Windham.

"Like the Goldwing," suggested Matt Randolph.

"The Goldwing contains a cabin, cook-room and standing-room. We can have
all these on a larger scale in the Lily; and there will be space in the
run for a store-room and ice-house, with a door into it from the cabin."

"Behind the steps at the companion-way," added Matt.

"There is no other way to reach it unless you put a scuttle in the floor
of the standing-room, which is liable to leak," replied the principal.
"The steps can be hung on hinges and turn up, but I think it is better
to slip them back out of the way. How long will you have the cabin?"
"How much clear space have we inboard?" asked Luke Bennington.

"About thirty feet, after allowing for the bend of the bows and the rake
of the stern," answered the principal.

"Cabin fourteen feet, I should say," continued Luke. "That will leave
eight feet besides the overhang for the standing-room, and the same for
the cook-room."

"That was my calculation," replied Captain Gildrock. "Then we want a
trunk fourteen feet long, which may be about nine feet wide on the main
deck. This will make a very roomy apartment for a lake craft. On each
side of it we must build up transoms, or divans, for seats or berths. As
we have no centreboard in the middle of it, there will be nothing in our
way." "Why didn't we build a centreboard boat?" asked Matt Randolph.

"I think a keel boat is safer and stiffer. In Lake Champlain we have
plenty of water, though we shall draw about five feet aft. There are
shoal places, but there isn't the least need of running over them."

"In a centreboard boat, if you get aground, there is a chance for you to
work off when you cannot in a keel," said Matt.

"That is very true; but I think the stiffness of the keel craft more
than compensates for the advantage of light draft in these waters."

The principal then made a drawing to illustrate the method of putting in
the beams and the knees that were to support them. As only a portion of
the beams could extend entirely across the boat, on account of the
elevation of the trunk, it required careful work and planning to secure
the necessary strength. But this problem had been solved by the
instructors, and the descriptions of the timbers were obtained.

In a few days more the frame of the trunk and deck was in place. While a
part of the workmen were planking the deck, the rest were putting down
the floor of the cabin, and building the transoms. Before the 1st of
July the work on the hull was completed. The boys had contrived a great
many lockers in the cook-room and cabin, for the storage of dishes and
cooking utensils, and for everything needed on board.

Inside and outside, all hands went over the work with sandpaper. A gang
of calkers had already filled the seams with oakum. Tar, pitch, and
putty had been used where they were needed, and no one considered it
possible for the craft to leak a drop.

A thin coat of lead color was then put on the outside, and one of white
inside. The boys had some skill in painting, for they had been called
upon to do all kinds of work, from laying brick up to tinkering a watch.
Several coats were given to the whole, but the last two on the outside
were of black.

Captain Gildrock had decided to have an iron false keel added, partly to
protect the wood and partly to serve as ballast. A pattern of the
casting had been made and sent up to Port Henry to be cast. It was in
one piece, and weighed over a ton. Of course, it had to be bolted on
before the Lily was launched. It was too heavy and cumbrous to be
transported on the Sylph; but Mr. Miker had to deliver a cargo of stone
at Port Henry, and it could be brought down on the gundalow. It was
nothing but fun for the students to tow the unwieldy craft about the
lake, and the next Saturday holiday was to be used for this purpose.

At eight o'clock in the morning the Sylph, fully manned by the students
this time, started out of the creek with her tow. Paul Bristol had been
assigned to a place as a deck hand on board, and he had made several
trips in the steamer. On the present occasion he had asked to be
excused, in order to attend to some work for his mother.

For two weeks before, Lily had been at work for Mr. Bissell, taking the
place of Susy Wellington, who had gone to visit her friends in Albany.
She had written to her mother that she should like to spend Sunday at
home. It was difficult and expensive to get from Westport to Genverres
then, for the steamers did not go up Beaver River.

Paul thought he could manage it. As it was a still day on the lake, he
was going after her in the flatboat, in the afternoon. It was a ten-mile
pull, but he was good for that. He had hauled up the boat after dinner
to put it in order, when he discovered a queer-looking craft coming down
the creek.

FOOTNOTE:

[A] The editor of "Forest and Stream" has prepared a work for
amateurs, called "Canoe and Boat Building," which may be obtained of the
publishers of that valuable paper, or at the bookstores.




CHAPTER XXVI.

THAT CUNNING TOM TOPOVER.

