incidents would occur whereby he might re-establish 
all the loving intimacy which seemed to have been so 
unexpectedly shaken. And so, consoling himself 
with the hopes of the future, and striving to overlook 
the present, he fell asleep, wearied with the fatigues 
and sorrows of the day. 

But Nehushta lay all night upon her silken cushions, and watched the flickering little lamp and the 
strange shadows it cast among the rich, painted carvings of the ceiling. She slept little, but waking she 
dreamed of the gold and the glitter of Shushan, of the 
magnificence of the young king, and of the brilliant 
hard-featured beauty of Atossa, whom she already 
hated or had determined to hate. The king inter- 
ested her most. She tried to recall his features and 
manner as he had appeared when he tarried one night 
in the fortress a year previous. She remembered a 



 

black-browed man in the prime of youth, with heavy 
brows and an eagle nose ; his young beard growing 
black and square about his strong dark features, 
which would have seemed coarse saving for his bright 
eyes that looked every man fearlessly in the face. 
A short man he seemed in her memory, square built 
and powerful as a bloodhound, of quick and decisive 
speech, expecting to be understood before he had 
half spoken his thoughts; a man, she fancied, who 
must be untiring and violent of temper, inflexible 
and brave in the execution of his purpose — a strong 
contrast outwardly to her tall and graceful lover. 
Zoroaster's faultless beauty was a constant delight 
to her eyes ; his soft deep voice sounded voluptuously 
passionate when he spoke to herself, coldly and 
deliberately dominating when addressing others. He 
moved with perfect certainty and assurance of purpose, his whole presence breathed a high and superior 
wisdom and untainted nobility of mind; he looked 
and acted like a god, like a being from another world, 
not subject to mortal passions, nor to the temptations 
of common mankind. She gloried in his perfection 
and in the secret knowledge that to her alone he 
was a man simply and utterly dominated by love. 
As she thought of him she grew proud and happy in 
the idea that such a man should be her lover, and she 
reproached herself for doubting his devotion that 
evening. After all, she had only complained that he 
had neglected her — as he had really done, she added. 
She wondered in her heart whether other men would 
have done the same in his place, or whether this 
power of coldly disregarding her presence when he 



 

was occupied with a serious matter were not due to 
a real and unconquerable hardness in his nature. 

But as she lay there, her dark hair streaming over 
the yellow silk of her pillows, her mind strayed from 
her lover to the life before her, and the picture rose 
quickly in her imagination. She even took up the 
silver mirror that lay beside her and looked at herself 
by the dim light of the little lamp, and said to herself that she was beautiful, and that many in Shushan 
would do her homage. She was glad that Atossa 
was so fair — it would be a better contrast for her 
own dark southern beauty. 

Towards morning she slept, and dreamed of the 
grand figure of the prophet, as she had seen him 
stretched upon his death-bed in the upper chamber 
of the tower ; she thought the dead man stirred and 
opened his glazed eyes and pointed at her with his 
bony fingers, and spoke words of anger and reproach. 
Then she woke with a short cry in her terror, and the 
light of the dawn shone gray and clear through the 
doorway of the corridor at the end of her room, 
where two of her handmaids slept across the threshold, their white cloaks drawn over their heads 
against the chill air of the night. 

Then the trumpets rang out in long-drawn clang- 
ing rhythm through the morning air, and Nehushta 
heard the trampling of the beasts that were being got 
ready for the journey, in the court without, and the 
cries of the drivers and of the serving-men. She rose 
quickly from her bed — a lithe white-clad figure in 
the dawn light — and pushed the heavy curtains 
aside and looked out through the lattice; and she 



 

forgot her evil dream, for her heart leaped again at 
the thought that she should no more be shut up in 
Ecbatana, and that before another month was over 
she would be in Shushan, in the palace, where she 
longed to be. 



 



CHAPTER V. 

The sun was almost setting, and his light was 
already turning to a golden glow upon the vast plain 
of Shushan, as the caravan of travellers halted for 
the last time. A few stades away the two mounds 
rose above the royal city like two tables out of the 
flat country ; the lower one surmounted by the mar- 
ble columns, the towers and turrets and gleaming 
architraves of the palace ; and in front, upon the 
right, the higher elevation crowned by the dark and 
massive citadel of frowning walls and battlements. 
The place chosen for the halt was the point Avhere 
the road from Nineveh, into which they had turned 
when about half-way from Ecbatana, joined the broad 
road from Babylon, near to the bridge. For some 
time they had followed the quiet stream of the 
Choaspes, and, looking across it, had watched how 
the fortress seemed to come forward and overhang 
the river, while the mound of the palace fell away 
to the background. The city itself was, of course, 
completely hidden from their view by the steep 
mounds, that looked as inaccessible as though the;y 
had been built of solid masonry. 

Everything in the plain was green. Stade upon 
stade, and farsang upon farsang, the ploughed fur- 
rows stretched away to the west and south ; the corn 
standing already green and high, and the fig-trees 



 

putting out their broad green leaves. Here and there 
in the level expanse of country the rays of the declin- 
ing sun were reflected from the whitewashed walls 
of a farmhouse ; or in the farther distance lingered 
upon the burnt-brick buildings of an outlying village. 
Beyond the river, in the broad meadow beneath the 
turret-clad mound, half-naked, sunburnt boys drove 
iiome the small humped cows to the milking, scaring 
away, as they went, the troops of white horses that 
pastured in the same field, clapping their hands and 
crying out at the little black foals that ran and frisked 
by the side of their wliite dams. Here and there a 
broad-shouldered, bearded fisherman angled in the 
stream, or flung out a brown casting-net upon the 
placid waters, drawing it slowly back to the bank, 
with eyes intent upon the moving cords. 

The caravan halted on the turf by the side of the 
dusty road ; the mounted guards, threescore stalwart 
riders from the Median plains, fell back to make room 
for the travellers, and, springing to the ground, set 
about picketing and watering their horses — their 
brazen armour and scarlet and blue mantles blazing 
in a mass of rich colour in the evening sun ; while 
their wild white horses, untired by the day's march, 
plunged and snorted, and shook themselves, and bit 
each other in play by mane and tail, in the delight of 
being at least half free. 

Zoroaster himself — his purple mantle somewhat 
whitened with the dust, and his fair face a little 
browned by the three weeks' journey — threw the 
bridle of his horse to a soldier and ran quickly forward. A magnificent litter, closed all around with a 



 

gilded lattice, and roofed with three awnings of white 
linen, one upon the other, as a protection against the 
sun, was being carefully unyoked from the mules 
that had borne it. Tall Ethiopian slaves lifted it, 
and carried it to the greenest spot of the turf by the 
softly flowing river; and Zoroaster himself pushed 
back the lattice and spread a rich carpet before it. 
Nehushta took his proffered hand and stepped lightly 
out, and stood beside him in the red light. She was 
veiled, and her purple cloak fell in long folds to her 
feet, and she stood motionless, with her back to the 
city, looking towards the setting sun. 

" Why do we stop here ? " she asked suddenly. 

" The Great King, may he live for ever, is said not 
to be in the city," answered Zoroaster, " and it would 
ill become us to enter the palace before him." He 
spoke aloud in the Median language that the slaves 
might hear him ; then he added in Hebrew and in a 
lower voice, " It would be scarcely wise, or safe, to 
enter Shushan when the king is away. Who can tell 
what may have happened there in these days? Baby- 
lon has rebelled; the empire is far from settled. All 
Persia may be on the very point of a revolt." 

"A fitting time indeed for our journey — for me 
and my women to be travelling abroad with a score 
of horsemen for a guard! Why did you bring me 
here ? How long are we to remain encamped by 
the roadside, waiting the pleasure of the populace to 
let us in, or the convenience of this new king to 
return ? " 

Nehushta turned upon her companion as she spoke, 
and there was a ring of mingled scorn and disappointment in her voice. Her dark eyes stared coldly at 
Zoroaster from the straight opening between her 
veils, and before he could answer, she turned her 
back upon him and moved a few steps away, gazing 
out at the setting sun across the fertile meadows. 
The warrior stood still, and a dark flush overspread 
his face. Then he turned pale, but whatever were 
the words that rose to his lips, he did not speak 
them, but occupied himself with superintending the 
pitching of the women's tents. The other litters 
were brought, and set down with their occupants; 
the long file of camels, some laden with baggage and 
provisions, some bearing female slaves, kneeled down 
to be unloaded upon the grass, anxiously craning 
their long necks the while in the direction of the 
stream ; the tent-pitchers set to work ; and at the last 
another score of horsemen, who had formed the rear 
guard of the caravan, cantered up and joined their 
companions who had already dismounted. With the 
rapid skill of long practice, all did their share, and in 
a few minutes all the immense paraphernalia of a 
Persian encampment were spread out and disposed 
in place for the night. Contrary to the usual habit 
Zoroaster had not permitted the tent-pitchers and 
other slaves to pass on while he and his charges 
made their noonday halt ; for he feared some upris 
ing in the neighbourhood of the city in the absence 
of the king, and he wished to keep his whole company 
together as a measure of safety, even at the sacrifice 
of Nehushta's convenience. 

She herself still stood apart, and haughtily turned 
away from her serving-women, giving them no answer 



 

when they saluted her and offered her cushions and 
cooling drinks. She drew her cloak more closely 
about her and tightened her veil ujjon her face. She 
was weary, disappointed, almost angry. For days 
she had dreamed of the reception she would have at 
the palace, of the king and of the court ; of the luxury 
of rest after her long journey, and of the thousand 
diversions and excitements she would find in revisiting the scenes of her childhood. It was no small 
disappointment to find herself condemned to another 
night in camp ; and her first impulse was to blame 
Zoroaster. 

In spite of her love for him, her strong and dominating temper often chafed at his calmness, and resented the resolute superiority of his intelligence ; and 
then, being conscious that her own dignity suffered 
by the storms of her temper, she was even more angry 
than before, with herself, with him, with every one. 
But Zoroaster was as impassive as marble, saving that 
now and then his brow flushed, and paled quickly ; 
and his words, if he spoke at all, had a chilled icy 
ring in them. Sooner or later, Nehushta's passionate 
temper cooled, and she found him the same as ever, 
devoted and gentle and loving ; then her heart went 
out to him ancAv, and all her being was filled with the 
love of him, even to overflowing. 

She had been disappointed now, and would speak 
to no one. She moved still farther from the crowd 
of slaves and tent-pitchers, followed at a respectful 
distance by her handmaidens, who whispered together 
as they went; and again she stood still and looked 
westward. 



 

As the sun neared the horizon, his low rays caught 
upon a raising cloud of dust, small and distant as the 
smoke of a lire, in the plain towards Babylon, but 
whirling quickly upwards. Nehushta's eye rested on 
the far-off point, and she raised one hand to shade her 
sight. She remembered how, when she was a girl, 
she had watched the line of that very road from the 
palace above, and had seen a cloud of dust arise out 
of a mere speck, as a body of horsemen galloped into 
view. There was no mistaking what it was. A troop 
of horse were coming — perhaps the king himself. 
Instinctively she turned and looked for Zoroaster, and
started, as she saw him standing at a little distance 
from her, with folded arms, his eyes bent on the 
horizon. She moved towards him in sudden excitement. 

" What is it ? " she asked in low tones. 

"It is the Great King — may he live for ever!" 
answered Zoroaster. "None but he would ride so 
fast along the royal road." 

For a moment they stood side by side, watching 
the dust cloud ; and as they stood, Nehushta's hand 
stole out from her cloak and touched the warrior's 
arm, softly, with a trembling of the fingers, as though 
she timidly sought something she would not ask for. 
Zoroaster turned his head and saw that her eyes were 
moistened with tears ; he understood, but he would 
not take her hand, for there were many slaves near, 
besides Nehushta's kinsfolk, and he would not have 
had them see ; but he looked on her tenderly, and on 
a sudden, his eyes grew less sad, and the light returned in them. 



 

" My beloved ! " he said softly. 

"I was wrong, Zoroaster — forgive me," she mur- 
mured. She suffered him to lead her to her tent, 
which was already pitched ; and he left her there, 
sitting at the door and watching his movements, 
while he called together his men and drew them up 
in a compact ranli by the roadside, to be ready to 
salute the king. 

Nearer and nearer came the cloud; and the red 
glow turned to purple and the sun went out of sight; 
and still it came nearer, that whirling cloud-canopy 
of fine powdered dust, rising to right and left of the 
road in vast round puffs, and hanging overhead like 
the smoke from some great moving fire. Then, from 
beneath it, there seemed to come a distant'"oar like 
thunder, rising and falling on the silent air, but rising 
ever louder; and a dark gleam of polished bronze, 
with something more purple than the purple sunset, 
took shape slowly ; then with the low roar of sound, 
came now and then, and then more often, the clank 
of harness and arms ; till at last, the whole stamping, 
rushing, clanging crowd of galloping horsemen seemed 
to emerge suddenly from the dust in a thundering 
charge, the very earth shaking beneath their weight, 
and the whole air vibrating to the tremendous shock 
of pounding hoofs and the din of clashing brass. 

A few lengths before the serried ranks rode one 
man alone, — a square figure, wrapped in a cloak of 
deeper and richer purple than any worn by the ordinary 
nobles, sitting like a rock upon a great white horse. 
As he came up, Zoroaster and his fourscore men threw 
up their hands. 



 

" Hail, king of kings ! Hail, and live for ever ! " 
they cried, and as one man, they prostrated themselves npon their faces on the grass by the roadside. 

Darius drew rein suddenly, bringing his steed from 
his full gallop to his haunches in an instant. After 
him the rushing riders threw up their right hands as 
a signal to those behind ; and with a deafening concussion, as of the ocean breaking at once against a 
wall of rock, those matchless Persian horsemen halted 
in a body in the space of a few yards, their steeds 
plunging wildly, rearing to their height and struggling on the curb; but helpless to advance against 
the strong hands that held them. The blossom and 
flower o^i^all the Persian nobles rode there, — their 
purple niantles flying with the wild motion, their 
bronze cuirasses black in the gathering twilight, 
their bearded faces dark and square beneath their 
gilded helmets. 

" I am Darius, the king of kings, on whom ye call," 
cried the king, whose steed now stood like a marble 
statue, immovable in the middle of the road. " Rise, 
speak and fear nothing, — unless ye speak lies." 

Zoroaster rose to his feet, then bent low, and taking 
a few grains of dust from the roadside, touched his 
mouth with his hand and let the dust fall upon his 
forehead. 

" Hail, and hve for e-ver ! I am thy servant, Zoro- 
aster, who was captain over the fortress and treasury 
of Ecbatana. According to thy word I have brought 
the kinsfolk of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, — chief of 
whom is Nehushta, the princess. I heard that thou 
wast absent from Shushan, and here I have waited for 



 

thy coming. I also sent thee messengers to announce 
that Daniel, surnamed Belteshazzar, who was Satrap 
of Media from the time of Cambyses, is dead ; and I 
have buried him fittingly in a new tomb in the garden 
of the palace of Ecbatana." 

Darius, quick and impulsive in every thought and 
action, sprang to the ground as Zoroaster finished 
speaking, and coming to him, took both his hands 
and kissed him on both cheeks. 

" What thou hast done is well done, — I know thee 
of old. Auramazda is with thee. He is also with 
me. By his grace I have slain the rebels at Babylon. 
They spoke lies, so I slew them. Show me Nehushta, 
the daughter of the kings of Judah." 

" I am thy servant. The princess is at hand," an- 
swered Zoroaster ; but as he spoke, he turned pale to 
the lips. 

By this time it had grown dark, and the moon, just 
past the full, had not yet risen from behind the mound 
of the fortress. The slaves brought torches of mingled wax and fir-gum, and their black figures shone 
strangely in the red glare, as they pressed toward the 
door of Nehushta's tent, lighting the way for the king. 

Darius strode quickly forward, his gilded harness 
clanging as he walked, the strong flaring light illuminating his bold dark features. Under the striped 
curtain, drawn up to form the entrance of the tent, 
stood Nehushta. She had thrown aside her veil and 
her women had quickly placed upon her head the 
linen tiara, where a single jewel shown like a star in 
the white folds. Her thick black hair fell in masses 
upon her shoulders, and her mantle was thrown back, 



 

displaying the grand proportions of her figure, clad in 
tunic and close-fitting belt. As the king came near, 
she kneeled and prostrated herself before him, touching her forehead to the ground, and waiting for him 
to speak. 

He stood still a full minute and his eyes flashed 
fire, as he looked on her crouching figure, in very 
pride that so queenly a woman should be forced to 
kneel at his feet — but more in sudden admiration of 
her marvellous beauty. Then he bent down, and 
took her hand and raised her to her feet. She sprang 
up, and faced him with glowing cheeks and flashing 
eyes ; and as she stood she was nearly as tall as he. 

" I would not that a princess of thy line kneeled 
before me," said he ; and in his voice there was a 
strange touch of softness. " Wilt thou let me rest 
here awhile before I go up to Shushan ? I am weary 
of riding and thirsty from the road." 

"Hail, king of the world! I am thy servant, 
Rest thee and refresh thee here," answered Nehushta, 
drawing back into the tent. The king beckoned to 
Zoroaster to follow him and went in. 

Darius sat upon the carved folding-chair that stood 
in the midst of the tent by the main pole, and eagerly 
drained the huge golden goblet of Shiraz wine which 
Zoroaster poured for him. Then he took off his head- 
piece, and his thick, coarse hair fell in a mass of dark 
curls to his neck, like the mane of a black lion. He 
breathed a long breath as of relief and enjoyment of 
well-earned repose, and leaned back in his chair, letting 
his eyes rest on Nehushta's face as she stood before 
him looking down to the ground. Zoroaster remained 



 

on one side, holding the replenished goblet in his hand, 
in case the king's thirst were not assuaged by a single 
draught. 

" Thou art fair, daughter of Jerusalem," said the 
king presently. '' I remember thy beauty, for I saw 
thee in Ecbatana. I sent for thee and thy kinsfolk 
that I might do thee honour ; and I will also fulfil 
my words. I will take thee to be my Avife." 

Darius spoke quietly, in his usual tone of absolute 
determination. But if the concentrated fury of a 
thousand storms had suddenly broken loose in the 
very midst of the tent, the effect could not have been 
more terrible on his hearers. 

