but I will see what I can do. I will make a 
point of meeting the girl, and I will see that — 
do not worry. I will go at once, and you had 
better remain here for the present. There is 
no danger of anyone intruding upon you: this 
room was never intended for three." He paused 
a moment. " Good-bye, Margaret ! " he said. 
She started sharply, but rose to her feet and 
put out her hand: " Good-bye," she said. 
He lifted her hand to his lips, then the 
portiere fell behind him and she was alone. 
He went directly to the ball-room and asked 
Hollington to present him to Miss Penrhyn. 
She was standing with her back to him and did 
not notice his approach, and his name was 
pronounced while her eyes were still on the face 
of the man to whom she was talking. She gave 
him a glance of swift scorn, bent her head 
haughtily, and all but turned her back upon him. 
But Dartmouth, indolent and lazy as he was, was 
not the man to be lightly disposed of when once 
roused to action. 
" Bolton," he said, to her companion, " they are 
waiting for you in the billiard-room; you have an 
engagement to play a game with our host at 
twelve. It is now exactly the hour. I will take 
charge of Miss Penrhyn; " and before the 
bewildered Bolton could protest, or Miss Penrhyn' 
realize his purpose, he had drawn the girl's arm 
through his own and was half-way down the 
room. 
" Where have I met you before ? " he de- 
manded, when they were safely lost in the 
crowd. " Surely, we are not altogether 
strangers." 
" I do not know," haughtily; " I have never 
met you before that I am aware of." 
" It is strange, but I cannot get rid of the idea 
that I have seen you elsewhere," Continued 
Dartmouth, unmoved. "And yet, if I had, I most 
assuredly could not have forgotten it." 
" You are flattering, but I must ask you to
excuse me. I am engaged for the next dance, and 
I see my partner looking for me." 
" Indeed, I shall do nothing of the kind. I 
have no idea of resigning you so lightly." 
And he calmly led her into a small with- 
drawing-room and seated her behind a 
protecting screen. He took the chair beside her 
and smiled down into her angry face. Her eyes, 
which had a peculiar yellow flame m them, now 
within, now just without the iris, as if from a tiny 
lantern hidden in their depths, were blazing. 
" Well ? " he said, calmly; " of what are you 
thinking ?" 
" That you are the rudest and the most 
impertinent man I have ever met," she replied, hotly. 
"You are flnkind; [ have been unfortunate 
enough to incur your disapproval, but you judge 
me cruelly. I am undoubtedly a very repre- 
hensible character, IVliss Penrhyn, but I don't 
think that I am worse than most men." He recog- 
nized at once that it would be folly to tell the 
usual lie: she would simply laugh in his face. 
He must accept the situation, plead guilty and 
rnake a skilful defense. Later, when he had 
established himself in her confidence, he would 
exonerate his cousin. 
Miss Penrhyn 's lip curled disdainfully. " I am 
 
not aware that I have asked you to justify
yourself," she said. " It is of no possible interest to 
me whether you are better or worse than most 
men. It is quite possible, however," she added, 
hastily and unwillingly, " that in this case, as in 
others, there may be the relief of an exception to 
prove the rule." 
Dartmouth saw his advantage at once. She 
was not merely disgusted; she was angry; and 
in her anger she forgot herself and condescended 
to sarcasm. There was one barrier the less to 
be broken down. " AVe are a bad lot, I am 
afraid. Miss Penrhyn," he replied, quietly; "but 
keep your illusions while you can. You are 
happier for them, and I would be the last to
dispel them." 
"You are considerate," she retorted: " it is 
more than possible you will not dispel my 
illusions; there will not be " 
" You mean to imply, delicately," he interrupted 
her, " that you do not consider me worthy of 
being added to the list of your acquaintances ? " 
" I really have given the matter no thought, 
and I do not see what advantage either side 
could derive from further acquaintance." But 
she colored slightly as she spoke, and turned to 
him an angrily severe profile. 
" Don't you think," he said — and his calm, 
drawling tone formed a contrast to her own lack 
of control which she could not fail to appreciate 
 
— " don't you think that you judge me with
exaggerated harshness ? Do you think the life of 
any one of these men who have surrounded you 
to-night, and upon whom you certainly did not 
frown, would bear inspection ? It would almost 
appear as if I had personally incurred your 
displeasure, you are so very hard upon me. You 
forget that my offense could not have any
individual application for you. Had I known you, 
you might reasonably have been indignant had I 
gone from you, a young girl, to things which you 
held to be wrong. But I did not know you; you 
must remember that. And as for the wrong 
itself, I hope the knowledge of greater wrong 
may never come to you. When you have lived 
in the world a few years longer, I am very much 
afraid you will look upon such things with an 
only too careless eye." 
The cruel allusion to her youth told, and the 
girl's cheek flushed, as she threw back her head 
with a spirited movement which delighted 
Dartmouth, while the lanterns in her eyes leaped up 
afresh. Where had he seen those eyes before ? 
"I don't know what your ideas of honor 
may be in regard to the young ladies of your 
acquaintance," she said, with an additional dash of 
ice in her voice, " but it seems to me a peculiar 
kind of honor which allows a man to insult his 
hostess by making love to a married woman in 
her house." 
" Pret-ty good for a baby! " thought Dartmouth. 
" She could not have done that better if she had 
been brought up Lady Langdon's daughter, 
instead of having been under that general's tuition, 
and emancipated from a life of seclusion, just about 
six months. Decidedly, she is worth cultivating." 
He looked at her reflectively. That he was in 
utter disgrace admitted of not a doubt. Women 
found little fault with him, as a rule. They had 
shown themselves willing, with an aptitude which 
savored of monotony, to take him on any terms; 
and to be sat in judgment upon by a penniless 
girl with the face and air of an angry goddess, had 
a flavor of novelty about it decidedly thrilling. 
He determined to conquer or die. Clever as she 
was, she was still absolutely a child, and no match 
for him. He placed his elbow on his knee and 
leaned his head on his hand. 
"Your rebuke is a very just one," he said, 
sadly. "And I have only the poor excuse to 
offer that in this wicked world of ours we grow 
very callous, and forget those old codes of honor 
which men were once so strict about, no matter 
what the irregularities of their lives might be. I 
am afraid it is quite true that I am not fit to 
touch your hand; and indeed," he added hastily, 
"it is a miserable business all round, and God 
knows there is little enough in it." 
She turned and regarded him with something 
less of anger, something more of interest, in her 
eyes. 
 
" Then, why do not you reform ? " she asked, 
in a matter-of-fact tone. " Why do you remain 
so bad, if you regret it ? " 
" There is nothing else to do," gloomily. 
' Life is sue h a wretched bore that the only thing 
to do is to seize what little spice there is in it; 
and the spice, alas ! will never bear analysis." 
" Are you unhapp)'?" she demanded. Her 
eyes were still disapproving, but her voice was a 
shade less cold. 
He smiled, but at the same time he felt a little 
ashamed of himself; the weapons were so trite, 
and it was so easy to manage an unworldly-wise 
and romantic girl. There was nothing to do but 
go on, however. " No, I am not unhappy. Miss 
Penrhyn," he said; "that is, not unhappy in the 
sense you would mean. I am only tired of life. 
That is all — but it is enough." 
" But you are very young," she said, innocently. 
"You cannot yet be thirty." 
He laughed shortly. " I am twenty-eight. Miss 
Penrhyn — and I am — forty-five. You cannot 
understand, and it is well you should not. But 
this much I can tell you: I was born with a 
wretched load of ennui on my spirits, and all 
things pall after a brief experience. It has been 
so since the first hour I can remember. My 
grandmother used to tell me that I should wake 
up some day and find myself a genius; that I re, 
joiced in several pointed indications toward that 
desirable end; that I had only to wait, and ample 
compensation for the boredom of life would 
come. But, alas ! I am twenty-eight, and there 
are no signs of genius yet. I am merely a com- 
monplace young man pursuing the most com- 
monplace of lives — but I am not going to bore 
you by talking about myself any longer. I never 
do. I do not know why I do so to-night. But 
there is something about you which is strangely 
sympathetic, in spite of your " — he hesitated— 
"your unkindness." 
She had kept her eyes implacably on the oppo- 
site wall, but when he finished she turned to him 
suddenly, and he saw that her face had perceptibly 
relaxed. 
" You impress me very strangely," she said, 
abruptly. " I am willing to tell you that frankly, 
and I hardly understand it. You are doubtless 
correct when you say I have no right to be angry 
with you, and I suppose it is also true that you 
are no worse than other men. When I pushed 
aside that portiere to-night I felt an unreasoning 
anger which it would be hard to account for. 
Had it been Lord Bective Hollington or Mr. 
Bolton I — I should not have cared. I should 
not have been angry; I am sure of it. And 
yet I never saw you before to-day, and had no 
possible interest in you. I do not understand 
it. I hardly know whether I like you very much 
or hate you very much." 
He bent his head and looked down sharply 
into her eyes. He was so used to the coquetry 
and finesse of women ! Was she like the rest ? 
But the eyes she had turned to him were sincere 
to disquiet, and there was not a suggestion of 
coquetry about her. 
" Do not hate me," he said, softly, " for I would 
give more for your good opinion than for that 
of any woman I know. No, I do not mean 
that for idle flattery. You may not realize it, 
but you are very different from other women — 
Oh, bother ! " — this last under his breath, as their 
retreat was invaded by two indignant young men 
who insisted upon the lawful rights of which 
Dartmouth had so unblushingly deprived them. 
There was nothing to do but resign himself to 
his fate. 
Knowing that a second uninterrupted 
conversation would be impossible with her that night, 
he left the house shortly after, not, however, 
before a parting word had assured him that though 
she still might disapprove, he would have many 
future opportunities to plead his cause, and, 
furthermore, that she would not risk the loss of 
his admiration by relating what she had seen. 
When he reached his apartment he exchanged 
his coat for a smoking-jacket, lit a cigar, and 
throwing himself down on a sofa, gave himself 
up to thoughts of Miss Penrhyn. 
"A strange creature," he mentally announced. 
 
" If one can put one's trust in physiognomy, I 
should say she had about ten times more in her 
than dwells in ordinary women. She has no sus- 
picion of it herself, however; she will make that 
discovery later on. I should like to have the 
power to render myself invisible; but no, I beg 
pardon, I should like to be present in astral 
body when her nature awakens. I have always 
wanted to study the successive psychological 
evolutions of a woman in love. Not of the 
ordinary compound of the domestic and the fash- 
ionable; there is nothing exciting in that; and 
besides, our realistic novelists have rendered such 
researches on my part superfluous; but of a type, 
small, but each member of which is built up 
of infinite complexities — like this girl. The 
nature would awaken with a sudden, mighty 
shock, not creep toward the light with slow, well- 
regulated steps — but, bah! what is the use of 
indulging in boneless imaginings ? One can never 
tell what a woman of that sort will think and feel, 
until her experience has been a part of his own. 
And there is no possibility of my falling in love 
with her, even did I wish it, which I certainly do 
not. The man who fascinates is not the man who 
loves. Pardon my modesty, most charming of 
grandmothers, if your soul really lurks behind 
that wonderful likeness of yours, as I sometimes 
think it does, but a man cannot have the double 
power of making many others feel and of feeling 
 
himself. At least, so it seems to me. Love 
lightly roused is held as lightly, and one loses 
one's respect for even the passion in the abstract. 
Of what value can a thing be which springs into 
life for a trick of manner, an atom or two more of 
that negative quality called personal magnetism, 
while wiser and better men pass by unnoticed ? 
One naturally asks. What is love ? A spiritual 
enthusiasm which a cold-blooded analyst would 
call sentimentality, or its correlative, a fever of 
the senses ? Neither is a very exalted set of 
conditions. I have been through both more than 
once, and if my attacks have been light, I 
have been the better enabled to study my fair 
inspiration. I never discovered that she felt 
more deeply; simply more strongly, more
tempestuously, after the nature of women. Her 
feelings were not more complex, they were 
merely more strongly accentuated. A woman in 
love imagines that she is the pivot on which the 
world revolves. A general may immortalize himself,
an emperor be assassinated and his empire 
plunged into a French Revolution, and her pass- 
ing interest is not roused; nor is she unapt to 
wonder how others can be interested in matters 
so purely impersonal. She thinks she loves as 
no woman ever loved before, and sometimes she 
succeeds in making the man think so too. But 
when a man has gone through this sort of thing 
a couple of dozen times, he becomes impressed 
 
with the monotony, the shallowness, and the 
racial resemblance, so to speak, of the divine pas- 
sion; and his own capacity for indulging in it 
diminishes in proportion. If Miss Penrhyn is 
capable of anything wider and deeper and higher 
than her 'average sister, I have met her too late 
to be inspired with anything beyond passing
curiosity. In fact, I doubt if I could be capable of 
so much as indulging in the surmise had I never 
known my grandmother. There was a woman 
unique in her generation. So strong was her 
individuality that I was forced to appreciate it, 
even in the days when I used to make her life a 
burden by planting her silver spoons in the rose- 
garden and re-setting her favorite cuttings wrong 
side up. I wish she had lived longer; it would 
have been both a pleasure and a profit to have 
studied and analyzed her. And how I should 
like to know her history ! That she had one 
there is no doubt. The lines of repression in her 
face were the strongest I have ever seen, to say 
nothing of the night I found her standing over 
the Byzantine chest with her hands full of yellow 
papers. There were no lines of repression in 
her face just then; she looked fairly murderous. 
She did not see me, and I left with a brevity 
worthy of its cause. I should like to know who 
wrote those letters. I looked for them after her 
death, but she had either destroyed them or else 
that old Byzantine chest has a secret drawer. If 
it has I'll discover it some day when time hangs 
heavily. 
" No," he continued, settling himself down 
more comfortably among his pillows, and 
tossing the end of his cigar into the grate, " I 
shall marry some day, undoubtedly, but I must 
find a woman with the brains and charm of my 
grandmother. This girl, they say, is brilliant, 
and certainly she cut me up sharply enough to- 
night; but she would be altogether too much to 
handle for a lifetime. It would be very pleasant 
for a time, but a deuced bore later on. What a 
beauty she is, though! I cannot get her out of 
my mind. She has been posing before my 
mental vision all the time I have been trying to think 
about something else. Those eyes — gods ! 
And what a figure ! What — " 
With a nervous, precipitate motion, he rose to 
his feet and drew in his breath, as if to throw a 
sudden load from his chest. He stood irresolute 
for a moment, then revolving slowly on his heel, 
walked, as if independently of his own volition, 
over to his desk. He felt very strangely; he 
did not remember to have ever felt so strangely 
before. His head had become suddenly confused, 
but at the same time he was aware that 
his brain had thrown open its doors to a new 
arrival, and that the visitor was trying to make 
itself heard. It appeared to be a visitor of 
great importance, and Dartmouth was con- 
 
scious that it had presented itself to his
perceptions in the form of an extraordinarily strong 
impulse; a great and clamorous Desire. He had 
been aware of the same desire before, but only 
in an abstract way, a general purposeless long- 
ing; but now this peremptory, loudly-knocking 
consciousness was vaguely suggesting another — 
just behind. It would almost seem, if it were 
not too preposterous a supposition, as if that 
second struggling consciousness were trying to 
announce itself under the high-sounding title of 
— what ? He could not formulate it. If his 
brain wiere only not so confused ! What could 
so suddenly have affected him ? He was always 
so clear-headed and logical. Was he going to 
be ill ? When he reached his desk he sat down 
before it and mechanically took up his pen. He 
leaned his head on his hand, like a man in a state 
of mental exhaustion, and closed his eyes for a 
moment. Then he opened them wide, with an 
exclamation which was almost a cry; and of his 
usual calm repose there was not a trace remaining. 
He leaned forward breathlessly and put his 
pen to the paper. " Her eyes! Her skin! Her 
form! " he muttered uncertainly. " Her — her — 
her — Oh! what is \tl Why cannot I say it ? It 
has come at last — she was right after all — but the 
words — the words — why will not they come? 
The music is there — a great rhythm and harmony 
— but the words are floating about like 
 
wraiths of mist. If I could only grasp and 
crystallize them, and set them to that wonderful 
music, the world — the world would rise at last 
and call me great! Her eyes — her hair — oh, my 
God, what is it?" He threw down his pen and 
staggered to his feet. His face was blanched 
and drawn, and his eyes had lost their steady 
light. He grasped the chair to save himself 
from falling; he had lost over himself both phys- 
ical and mental control. It seemed to him that 
two beings, two distinct entities, were at war 
within his brain — that new, glorious consciousness, 
and a tangible power above, which forced it down 
with an iron hand — down — down — into the depths 
of his mind, where its cries for speech came up 
in faint, inarticulate murmurs. And it tried and 
tried, that strange new thing, to struggle from 
its dungeon and reach the wide, free halls of his 
thought, but it could not; it beat against that 
unrelaxing iron hand only to fall back again and 
again. And it sang and sang and sang, in spite 
of its struggles and captivity. The faint, sweet 
echo came up — if he could but catch the words! 
If he could but dash aside that iron hand, and 
let his brain absorb them ! Surely a word or two 
must force their way — yes! yes! they had come ! 
"Her face! her form!" — He tore open his waist- 
coat; his lungs felt as if they had been ex- 
hausted. Then, how he never knew, he man- 
aged to reach his sofa, and fell face downward 
upon it; and the next morning, when his valet 
came in and drew aside the curtains and let in 
the light of mid-day, he found him there as he 
had fallen. 
III. 
Harold Dartmouth came of a family cele- 
brated throughout its history for producing men 
of marked literary and political ability. Few 
generations had passed without a Dartmouth
distinguishing himself, and those members of the 
family less gifted were not in the habit of having 
their fine intellectual qualities called to account. 
The consequence was that their young descendant, 
who inherited all the family cleverness, although 
as yet he had betrayed the possession of none of 
its higher gifts, paid the penalty of his mental 
patrimony. His brain was abnormally active, 
both through conditions of heredity and personal 
incitement; and the cerebral excitation neces- 
sarily produced^ resulted not infrequently in 
violent reaction, which took the form of protracted 
periods of melancholy. These attacks of 
melancholy had begun during his early school-days, 
when, a remarkably bright but extremely wild boy, 
he had been invariably fired with ambition as
examinations approached, and obliged to cram to 
make up for lost time. As years went by they 
grew with his growth, and few months passed 
without an attack of the blues more or less 
violent, no matter how brief. They came after 
hours of brooding over his desire to distinguish 
himself, and his fatal want of ability; they came 
during his intervals of purely intellectual disgust 
with himself and with life; but more frequently 
still they came upon him from no apparent cause 
whatever. They were a part of his personality, 
just as humor, or light, unthinking gaiety, or a 
constantly bubbling wit may form the predominating 
characteristic of another man. 
For a week after the night of his futile impulse 
to put into shape the nebulous verse which had 
tormented his brain, no one saw Harold Dart- 
mouth. The violent shock and strain had
induced an attack of mental and spiritual depression 
which amounted to prostration, and he lay 
on his sofa taking no notice of the days as they 
slipped by, eating little and speaking to no one. 
At first Jones, his man-servant, was not
particularly disturbed. He had brought Dartmouth up, 
and had come to look upon his moods as a matter 
of course. He therefore confined himself to 
forcing his master to take his food and to parrying 
the curiosity of the French servants; he knew 
Dartmouth's temper too well to venture to call a 
doctor, and he hoped that in a few days the 
mood would wear itself out. But at the end of a 
week he became seriously alarmed. He had 
spent the last day but one in a desperate and 
fruitless attempt to rouse Dartmouth, and had 
 
used every expedient his ingenuity could suggest. 
Finally, at his wits' end, he determined to 
