one only, why she should not. But that one reason, he told himself, was
a force in itself. The resuscitation of hope was so sudden that the
blood mounted to his temples and pulsated through his veins.

He left the bed in which his meditations had been passed. "They say
everything comes to him who waits," he muttered, and then proceeded to
dress. He took a tub and got himself, absent-mindedly, into a morning
suit. "I don't believe it," he exclaimed, at last, "the world belongs to
the impatient, and I am impatient of her."

Tristrem was in no sense a diplomatist. In his ways there was a candor
that was as unusual as it is delightful; yet such is the power of love
that, in its first assault, the victim is transformed. The miser turns
prodigal, the coward brave, the genius becomes a simpleton, and in the
simpleton there awakes a Machiavelli. Tristrem passed a forenoon in
trying to unravel as cruel a problem as has ever been given a lover to
solve--how, in a city like New York, to meet a girl of whom he knew
absolutely nothing, and who was probably unaware of his own existence.
He might have waited, it is true--chance holds many an odd trick--but he
had decided to be impatient, and in his impatience he went to Gramercy
Park and drank tea there, not once, but four afternoons in succession,
an excess of civility which surprised Mrs. Weldon not a little.

That he should make an early visit of digestion was quite in the order
of things, but when that visit was repeated again and again, Mrs.
Weldon, with a commingling of complacency and alarm, told herself that,
in her quality of married woman, such persistence should be discouraged.
But the opportunity for such discouragement did not present itself, or
rather, when it did the need of discouragement had passed. Tristrem
drank tea with her several times, and then disappeared abruptly. "He
must have known it was hopeless," she reflected, when a week went by
unmarked by further enterprise on his part. And then, the intended
discouragement notwithstanding, she felt vaguely vexed.

In the tea-drinking Tristrem's object, if not apparent to Mrs. Weldon,
was perfectly clear to himself. He desired to learn something of Miss
Raritan, and he knew, if the tea-drinking was continued with sufficient
endurance, not only would he acquire, from a talkative lady like his
hostess, information of the amplest kind, which after all was secondary,
but that in the course of a week the girl herself must put in an
appearance. A dinner call, if not obligatory to him, was obligatory to
her, and on that obligation he counted.

To those who agree to be bound by what the Western press calls
etiquette, there is nothing more inexorable than a social debt. A woman
may contest her mantua-maker's bill with impunity, her antenuptial
promises may go to protest and she remain unestopped; but let her leave
a dinner-call overdue and unpaid, then is she shameless indeed. In this
code Tristrem was necessarily learned. On returning to Fifth Avenue he
had marvelled somewhat at noting that laws which applied to one sex did
not always extend to the other, that civility was not exacted of men,
that politeness was relegated to the tape-counter and out of place in a
drawing-room; in a word, that it was not good form to be courteous, and
not ill-bred to be rude.

While the tea-drinking was in progress he managed without much
difficulty to get Mrs. Weldon on the desired topic. There were spacious
digressions in her information and abrupt excursions into irrelevant
matter, and there were also interruptions by other visitors, and the
consequent and tedious exchange of platitude and small-talk. But after
the fourth visit Tristrem found himself in possession of a store of
knowledge, the sum and substance of which amounted to this: Miss Raritan
lived with her mother in the shady part of the Thirties, near Madison
Avenue. Her father was dead. It had been rumored, but with what truth
Mrs. Weldon was not prepared to affirm, that the girl had some intention
of appearing on the lyric stage, which, if she carried out, would of
course be the end of her socially. She had been very much ruin after on
account of her voice, and at the Wainwarings the President had said that
he had never heard anything like it, and asked her to come to Washington
and be present at one of the diplomatic dinners. Personally Mrs. Weldon
knew her very slightly, but she intimated that, inasmuch as the
government had once sent Raritan père abroad as minister--in order
probably to be rid of him--his daughter was inclined to look down on
those whose fathers held less exalted positions--on Mrs. Weldon herself,
for example.

It was with this little store of information that Tristrem left her on
the Thursday succeeding the dinner. It was meagre indeed, and yet ample
enough to afford him food for reflection. During the gleaning many
people had come and gone, but of Miss Raritan he had as yet seen
nothing. The next afternoon, however, as he was about to ascend Mrs.
Weldon's stoop for the fifth time in five days, the door opened and the
girl on whom his thoughts were centred was before him.

Throughout the week he had lived in the expectation of meeting her, it
was the one thing that had brought zest to the day and dreams to the
night; there was even a little speech which he had rehearsed, but for
the moment he was dumb. He plucked absently at his cuff, to the palms of
his hands there came a sudden moisture. In the vestibule above, a
servant stood waiting for Miss Raritan to reach the pavement before
closing the door, and abruptly, from a barrel-organ at the corner, a
waltz was thrown out in jolts.

The girl descended the steps before Tristrem was able to master his
emotion.

"Miss Raritan," he began, hastily, "I don't suppose you remember me. I
am Mr. Varick. I heard you sing the other night. I have come here every
day since in the hope of----; you see, I wanted to ask if I might not
have the privilege of hearing you sing again?"

"If you consider it a privilege, certainly. On Sunday evening, though, I
thought you seemed rather bored." She made this answer very graciously,
with her head held like a bird's, a trifle to one side.

Tristrem gazed at her in a manner that would have mollified a tigress.
"I was not bored. I had never heard anyone sing before."

"Yet your friend, Mr. Weldon, tells me that you are very fond of music."

"That is exactly what I mean."

At this speech of his she looked at him, musingly. "I wish I deserved
that," she said.

Tristrem began again with new courage. "It is like anything else, I
fancy. I doubt if anyone, ignorant of difficulties overcome, ever
appreciates a masterpiece. A sonnet, if perfect, is only perfect to a
sonneteer. The gallery may applaud a drama, it is the playwright who
judges it at its worth. It is the sculptor that appreciates a
Canova----"

They had reached the corner where the barrel-organ was in ambush. A
woman dragging a child with Italy and dirt in its face followed them,
her hand outstretched. Tristrem had an artful way of being rid of a
beggar, and after the fumble of a moment he gave her some coin.

"--And the artist who appreciates rags," added Miss Raritan.

"Perhaps. I am not fond of rags myself, but I have often caught myself
envying the simplicity which they sometimes conceal. That woman, now,
she may be as pleased with my little gift as I am to be walking with
you."

"I thought it was my voice you liked," Miss Raritan answered, demurely.

Tristrem experienced a mental start. A suspicion entered his mind which
he chased indignantly. There was about the girl an aroma that was
incompatible with coquetry.

"You would not, I am sure, have me think of you in the vox et præterea
nihil style," he replied. "To be candid, I thought that very matter
over the other night." He hesitated, as though waiting for some
question, but she did not so much as look at him, and he continued
unassisted. "I thought of a flower and its perfume, I wondered which was
the more admirable, and--and--I decided that I did not care for tulips."

"But that you did care for me, I suppose?"

"Yes, I decided that."

Miss Raritan threw back her head with a movement indicative of
impatience.

"I didn't mean to tell you," he added--"that is, not yet."

They had crossed Broadway and were entering Fifth Avenue. There the
stream of carriages kept them a moment on the curb.

"I hope," Tristrem began again, "I hope you are not vexed."

"Vexed at what? No, I am not vexed. I am tired; every other man I
meet--There, we can cross now. Besides, I am married. Don't get run
over. I am going in that shop."

"You are not married!"

"Yes, I am; if I were a Harvard graduate I would say to Euterpe. As it
is, Scales is more definite." She had led him to the door of a milliner,
a portal which Tristrem knew was closed to him. "If you care to come and
see me," she added, by way of congé, "my husband will probably be at
home." And with that she opened the door and passed into the shop.

"I can imagine a husband," thought Tristrem, with a glimmer of that
spirit of belated repartee which Thackeray called cab-wit, the
brilliancy which comes to us when we are going home, "I can imagine a
husband whose greatest merit is his wife."




IV.


The fact that few days elapsed before Tristrem Varick availed himself of
Miss Raritan's invitation, and that thereafter he continued to avail
himself of it with frequence and constancy, should surprise no one.
During the earliest of these visits he met Miss Raritan's mother, and
was unaccountably annoyed when he heard that lady address her daughter
as Viola. He had been so sure that her baptismal name was Madeleine that
the one by which he found she was called sounded false as an alias, and
continued so to sound until he accustomed himself to the syllables and
ended by preferring it to the Madeleine of his fancy. This, however, by
the way. Mrs. Raritan was a woman who, in her youth, must have been very
beautiful, and traces of that beauty she still preserved. When she spoke
her voice endeared her to you, and in her manner there was that
something which made you feel that she might be calumniated, as good
women often are, but yet that she could never be the subject of gossip.
She did not seem resolute, but she did seem warm of heart, and Tristrem
felt at ease with her at once.

Of her he saw at first but little. In a city like New York it is
difficult for anyone to become suddenly intimate in a household, however
cordial and well-intentioned that household may be. And during those
hours of the winter days when Miss Raritan was at home it was seldom
that her mother was visible. But it was not long before Tristrem became
an occasional guest at dinner, and it was in the process of breaking
bread that a semblance of intimacy was established. And at last, when
winter had gone and the green afternoons opposed the dusk, Tristrem now
and then would drop in of an evening, and in the absence of Miss Raritan
pass an hour with her mother. Truly she was not the rose, but did she
not dwell at her side?

Meanwhile, Miss Raritan's attitude differed but little from the one
which she had first adopted. She treated Tristrem with exasperating
familiarity, and kept him at arm's length. She declined to see him when
the seeing would have been easy, and summoned him when the summons was
least to be expected. He was useful to her as a piece of furniture, and
she utilized him as such. In the matter of flowers and theatres he was a
convenience. And at routs and assemblies the attention of an heir
apparent to seven million was a homage and a tribute which Miss Raritan
saw no reason to forego.

In this Tristrem had no one but himself to blame. He had been, and was,
almost canine in his demeanor to her. She saw it, knew it, felt it, and
treated him accordingly. And he, with the cowardice of love, made little
effort at revolt. Now and then he protested to Mrs. Raritan, to whom he
had made no secret of his admiration for her daughter, and who consoled
him as best she might; but that was all. And so the winter passed and
the green afternoons turned sultry, and Tristrem was not a step further
advanced than on the day when he had left the girl at the milliner's. On
the infrequent occasions when he had ventured to say some word of that
which was nearest his heart, she had listened with tantalizing
composure, and when he had paused for encouragement or rebuke, she would
make a remark of such inappositeness that anyone else would have planted
her there and gone. But Tristrem was none other than himself; his nature
commanded and he obeyed.

It so happened that one May morning a note was brought him, in which
Miss Raritan said that her mother and herself were to leave in a day or
two for the country, and could he not get her something to read on the
way. Tristrem passed an hour selecting, with infinite and affectionate
care, a small bundle of foreign literature. In the package he found room
for Balzac's "Pierrette" and the "Curé de Tours," one of Mme. Craven's
stupidities, a volume of platitude in rhyme by François Coppée, a copy
of De Amicis' futile wanderings in Spain--a few samples, in fact, of the
pueris virginibusque school. And that evening, with the bundle under
his arm, he sought Miss Raritan.

The girl glanced at the titles and put the books aside. "When we get in
order at Narragansett," she said, "I wish you would come up."

Had she kissed him, Tristrem could not have revelled more. "There are
any number of hotels," she added, by way of douche.

"Certainly, if you wish it, but--but----"

"Well, but what?"

"I don't know. You see--well, it's this way: You know that I love you,
and you know also that you care for me as for the snows of yester-year.
There is no reason why you should do otherwise. I don't mean to
complain. If I am unable to make you care, the fault is mine. I did
think--h'm--no matter. What I wanted to say is this: there is no reason
why you should care, and yet----. See here; take two slips of paper,
write on one, I will marry you, and, on the other, Put a bullet through
your head, and let me draw. I would take the chance so gladly. But that
chance, of course, you will not give. Why should you, after all? Why
should I give everything I own to the first beggar I meet? But why
should you have any other feeling for me than that which you have? And
yet, sometimes I think you don't understand. Any man you meet could be
more attractive than I, and very easy he would find it to be so; but no
one could care for you more--no one----"

Miss Raritan was sitting opposite to him, her feet crossed, her head
thrown back, her eyes fixed on the ceiling. One arm lay along the back
of the lounge which she occupied, the other was pendant at her side. And
while he still addressed her, she arose with the indolence of a panther,
crossed the room, picked up a miniature from a table, eyed it as though
she had never seen it before and did not particularly care to see it
again, and then, seating herself at the piano, she attacked the Il
segreto per esser felice, the brindisi from "Lucrezia Borgia."

In the wonder of her voice Tristrem forgot the discourtesy of the
action. He listened devoutly. And, as he listened, each note was an
electric shock. Il segreto per esser felice, indeed! The secret of
happiness was one which she alone of all others in the world could
impart. And, as the measures of the song rose and fell, they brought him
a transient exhilaration like to that which comes of champagne, dowering
him with factitious force wherewith to strive anew. And so it happened
that, when the ultimate note had rung out and the girl's fingers
loitered on the keys, he went over to her with a face so eloquent that
she needed but a glance at it to know what he was seeking to say.

With a gesture coercive as a bit, she lifted one hand from the keys and
stayed his lips. Then, she stood up and faced him. "Tristrem," she
began, "when I first saw you I told you that I was married to my art.
And in an art such as mine there is no divorce. It may be that I shall
go on the stage. After all, why should I not? Is society so alluring
that I should sacrifice for it that which is to me infinitely
preferable? If I have not done so already it is because of my mother.
But should I decide to do so, there are years of study before me yet. In
which case I could not marry, that is self-evident, not only because I
would not marry a man who would suffer me to sing in public--don't
interrupt--but also because--well, you told me that you understood the
possibilities of the human voice, and you must know what the result
would be. But even independent of that, you said a moment ago that I did
not love you. Well, I don't. I don't love you. Tristrem, listen to me. I
don't love you as you would have me. I wish I did. But I like you. I
like you as I can like few other men. Tristrem, except my mother, I have
not a friend in the world. Women never care for me, and men--well, save
in the case of yourself, when their friendship has been worth the
having, it belonged to someone else. Give me yours."

"It will be hard, very hard."

Miss Raritan moved from where she had been standing and glanced at the
clock. "You must go now," she said, "but promise that you will try."

She held her hand to him, and Tristrem raised it to his lips and kissed
the wrist. "You might as well ask me to increase my stature," he
answered. And presently he dropped the hand which he held and left the
house.

It was a perfect night. The moon hung like a yellow feather in the sky,
and in the air was a balm that might have come from fields of tamaris
and of thyme. The street itself was quiet, and as Tristrem walked on,
something of the enchantment of the hour fell upon him. On leaving Miss
Raritan, he had been irritated at himself. It seemed to him that when
with her he was at his worst; that he stood before her dumb for love,
awkward, embarrassed, and ineffectual of speech. It seemed to him that
he lacked the tact of other men, and that, could she see him as he
really was when unemotionalized by her presence, if the eloquence which
came to him in solitude would visit him once at her side, if he could
plead to her with the fervor with which he addressed the walls, full
surely her answer would be other. She would make no proffer then of
friendship, or if she did, it would be of that friendship which is born
of love, and is better than love itself. But as he walked on the
enchantment of the night encircled him. He declined to accept her reply;
he told himself that in his eagerness he had been abrupt; that a girl
who was worth the winning was slow of capture; that he had expected
months to give him what only years could afford, and that Time, in which
all things unroll, might yet hold this gift for him. He resolved to put
his impatience aside like an unbecoming coat. He would pretend to be but
a friend. As a friend he would be privileged to see her, and then, some
day the force and persistence of his affection would do the rest. He
smiled at his own cunning. It was puerile as a jack-straw, but it seemed
shrewdness itself to him. Yes, that was the way. He had done wrong; he
had unmasked his batteries too soon. And such batteries! But no matter,
of his patience he was now assured. On the morrow he would go to her and
begin the campaign anew.

He had reached the corner and was on the point of turning down the
avenue, when a hansom rattled up and wheeled so suddenly into the street
through which he had come, that he stepped back a little to let it pass.
As he did so he looked in at the fare. The cab was beyond him in a
second, but in the momentary glimpse which he caught of the occupant, he
recognized Royal Weldon. And as he continued his way, he wondered where
Royal Weldon could be going.

The following evening he went to dine at the Athenæum Club. The house in
Waverley Place affected him as might an empty bier in a tomb. The bread
that he broke there choked him. His father was as congenial as a
spectre. He only appeared when dinner was announced, and after he had
seated himself at the table he asked grace of God in a low, determined
fashion, and that was the end of the conversation. Tristrem remembered
that in the infrequent vacations of his school and college days, that
was the way it always had been, and being tolerably convinced that that
was the way it always would be, he preferred, when not expected
elsewhere, to dine at the club.

On entering the Athenæum on this particular evening, he put his hat and
coat in the vestiary and was about to order dinner, when he was accosted
by Alphabet Jones.

"I say, Varick," the novelist exclaimed--(during the winter they had
seen much of each other), "do you know who was the originator of the
cloak-room? Of course you don't--I'll tell you; who do you suppose now?
Give it up? Mrs. Potiphar! How's that? Good enough for Theodore Hook,
eh? Let's dine together, and I'll tell you some more."

"Let's dine together" was a formula which Mr. Jones had adopted.
Literally, it meant, I'll order and you pay. Tristrem was aware in what
light the invitation should be viewed, he had heard it before; but,
though the novelist was of the genus spongia, he was seldom tiresome,
often entertaining, and moreover, Tristrem was one who would rather pay
than not. As there were few of that category in the club, Mr. Jones made
a special prey of him, and on this particular evening, when the ordering
had been done and the dinner announced, he led him in triumph to the
lift.

As they were about to step in, Weldon stepped out. He seemed hurried and
would have passed on with a nod, but Tristrem caught him by the arm. Of
late he had seen little of him, and it had seemed to Tristrem that the
fault, if fault there were, must be his own.

"I caught a glimpse of you last night, didn't I, Royal?" he asked.

Weldon raised his eyebrows for all response. Evidently he was not in a
conversational mood. But at once an idea seemed to strike him. "I dare
say," he answered, "I roam about now and then like anyone else. By the
way, where are you going to-night? Why not look in on my wife? She says
you neglect her."

"I would like it, Royal, but the fact is I am going to make a call."

"In Thirty-ninth Street?"

Tristrem looked at him much as a yokel at a fair might look at a wizard.
He was so astonished at Weldon's prescience that he merely nodded.

"You can save yourself the trouble then--I happened to meet Miss Raritan
this afternoon. She is dining at the Wainwarings. Look in at Gramercy
Park." And with that he turned on his heel and disappeared into the
smoking-room.

"Didn't I hear Weldon mention Miss Raritan?" Jones asked, when he and
Tristrem had finished the roast. "There's a girl I'd like to put in a
book. She has hell in her eyes and heaven in her voice. What a heroine
she would make!" he exclaimed, enthusiastically; and then in a complete
change of key, in a tone that was pregnant with suggestion, he added,
"and what a wife!"

"I don't understand you," said Tristrem, in a manner which, for him, was
defiant.

Whether or not Jones was a good sailor is a matter of small moment. In
any event he tacked at once.

"Bah! I am speaking in the first person. I don't believe in matrimony
myself, I am too poor. And besides, I never heard of but one happy
marriage, and that was between a blind man and a deaf-mute. Though even
then it must have been difficult to know what the woman thought. Now, in
regard to Miss Raritan, half the men in the city are after her, pour le
bon motif, s'entend; but when a girl has had the dessus du panier at
her feet, no fellow can afford to ask her to take a promenade with him
down the aisle of Grace Church, unless he has the Chemical Bank in one
pocket and the United States Trust Company in the other. Et avec ça!"
And Jones waved his head as though not over-sure that the coffers of
those institutions would suffice.

"I don't see what that has to do with it," Tristrem indignantly
interjected.

"Isn't that odd now?" was Jones' sarcastic reply. "Dr. Holmes says that
no fellow can be a thorough-going swell unless he has three generations
in oil. And mind you, daguerreotypes won't do. There are any number of
your ancestors strung along the walls of the Historical Society, and how
many more you may have in that crypt of yours in Waverley Place, heaven
only knows. Imprimis, if you accept Dr. Holmes as an authority, you are
a thorough-going swell. In the second place, you look like a Greek
shepherd. Third, you are the biggest catch in polite society. Certainly
it's odd that with such possibilities you should see no reason for not
marrying a girl who will want higher-stepping horses than Elisha's, and
who, while there is a bandit of a dressmaker in Paris, will decline to
imitate the lilies of the field. Certainly----"

"I never said anything about it, I never said anything about marrying or
not marrying----"

"Oh, didn't you? I thought you did." And Jones leaned back in his chair
and summoned a waiter with an upward movement of the chin. "Bring
another pint of this, will you."

"I think I won't take anything more," said Tristrem, rising from the
table as he spoke. "It's hot in here. I may see you down-stairs." And
with that he left the room.

Mr. Alphabet Jones looked after him a second and nodded sagaciously to
himself. "Another man overboard," he muttered, as he toyed with his
empty glass. "Ah! jeunesse, jeunesse!"




V.


Tristrem descended the stair and hesitated a moment at the door of the
smoking-room. Near-by, at a small table, two men were drinking brandy.
He caught a fragment of their speech: it was about a woman. Beyond,
another group was listening to that story of the eternal feminine which
is everlastingly the same. Within, the air was lifeless and heavy with
the odor of cigars, but in the hall there came through the wide portals
of the entrance the irresistible breath of a night in May.

Tristrem turned and presently sauntered aimlessly out of the club and up
the avenue. Before him, a man was loitering with a girl; his arm was in
hers, and he was whispering in her ear. A cab passed, bearing a couple
that sat waist-encircled devouring each other with insatiate eyes. And
at Twenty-third Street, a few shop-girls, young and very pretty, that
were laughing conspicuously together, were joined by some clerks, with
whom they paired off and disappeared. At the corner, through the
intersecting thoroughfares came couple after couple, silent for the most
part, as though oppressed by the invitations of the night. Beyond, in
the shadows of the Square, the benches were filled with youths and
maidens, who sat hand-in-hand, oblivious to the crowd that circled in
indolent coils about them. The moon had not yet risen, but a leash of
stars that night had loosed glowed and trembled with desire. The air was
sentient with murmurs, redolent with promise. The avenues and the
