guardian, I demand that the dollar be given to me."

"Give it to me to keep for you, Sam," said Bob.

Sam gladly took it from his pocket, and threw it towards Bob, who
dexterously caught it.

"Now, Mr. Wolverton," said Bob, quietly; "you will have to demand the
money from me; Sam hasn't got it."

"You'll have to pay for your impudence, Robert Burton!" said Wolverton,
wrathfully. "You forget that you are all in my power."

"You may find yourself mistaken, Mr. Wolverton," said Bob. "At any rate,
I don't think I shall lose any sleep on that score."

"You can tell your mother I shall call this evening," continued
Wolverton. "I expect her to be ready with the interest, which is long
overdue."

"I will give her your message, Mr. Wolverton. Now, Clip, let us go on.
Mr. Wolverton will excuse us, I know, when I tell him that we have an
errand in the village."

"Yah, yah!" laughed Clip, gleefully; not that there was anything
particular to laugh at, but because it took very little to excite Clip's
risibilities.

Mr. Wolverton turned upon Clip with a frown. He had not forgotten the
trick Clip played upon him when he was upset in the river, and he would
have liked nothing better than to flog him till he roared for mercy.

"What is that black ape grinning about?" he demanded.

Clip ought to have felt insulted, but he was only amused.

"Yah, yah!" he laughed again.

Aaron Wolverton made a dash at him with his recovered whip, but Clip
nimbly jumped to one side and laughed again.

"Didn't do it dat time, Massa Wolverton," said Clip, showing his teeth.

"I'll get even with you yet, you black monkey!"

If Clip had been alone, Wolverton would have proceeded then and there to
carry out his threat. But he had a wholesome respect for Bob, whose
physical strength and prowess he well knew. It made him angry whenever
he thought of this boy, who seemed born to be a thorn in his side. He
was stronger than Wolverton, though the land agent was a man grown, and
it was humiliating to Wolverton to be obliged to admit this fact.

But he had one consolation in the mortgage he held upon the Burton
ranch. Here the law was on his side, and he saw his way clear to annoy
and injure Bob and his family, without running any risk himself. As for
the chance of the mortgage ever being paid off, that he thought
extremely small. If Richard Burton were still alive, he would have been
right, but Bob, young as he was, bade fair to be a better manager than
his father. He was not so sanguine, or, if the truth must be told, so
reckless in his expenditures. Besides, he knew, though his father was
ignorant of it, that Wolverton, for some reason which he could not
penetrate, was a bitter enemy of the family, and that his forbearance
could not be depended upon.

When Bob and Clip had left the scene Aaron Wolverton turned to Sam, and
scowled at his unfortunate nephew, in a way which was by no means
pleasant or reassuring.

"I've a good mind to flog you for all the trouble you've brought upon
me," he said.

"I don't see what I've done, uncle."

"You don't, hey? Haven't you sided with that upstart, the Burton boy?"

Sam was judiciously silent, for he saw his uncle was very much
irritated.

"Why did you give that dollar to him?"

"He told me to."

"Suppose he did; is he your guardian or am I?"

"You are, Uncle Aaron."

"I'm glad you are willing to admit it. Then why did you give him the
dollar?"

"Because his mother gave it to me. If you had given it to me, I wouldn't
have done it."

"You'll have to wait a good while before I give you a dollar."

Sam was of the same opinion himself, but did not think it wise to say
so.

"You deserve to be punished for what you have done," said his uncle,
severely.

"I wish I were as strong and brave as Bob," thought Sam. "I don't see
how he dares to stand up before Uncle Aaron and defy him. He makes me
tremble."

The truth was, Sam was not made of heroic mold. He was a timid boy and
was easily overawed. He lacked entirely the qualities that made Bob so
bold and resolute. He could admire his friend, but he could not imitate
him.

"Now, come home," said Wolverton, shortly.

Sam followed his uncle meekly.

When they reached home Sam was set to work. At twelve o'clock the bell
rang for dinner. Sam dropped his axe (he had been splitting wood) and
entered the kitchen, where the frugal meal was spread. His uncle was
already sitting in his place, and Sam prepared to sit down in his usual
chair.

"Samuel," said his uncle, "you have disobeyed me. You do not deserve any
dinner."

Sam's countenance fell, for he was very hungry.

"I am very hungry," he faltered.

"You should have thought of that when you disobeyed me and gave your
money to the Burton boy. This is intended as a salutary lesson, Samuel,
to cure you of your stubbornness and disobedience."

"You are quite right, Aaron," said Miss Sally in her deep voice. "Samuel
needs chastening."

Poor Sam slunk out of the door in a state of depression. Not being
ordered to return to his work, he went out into the street, where he met
Bob and Clip, and to them he told his tale of woe.

"Your uncle is as mean as they make 'em," said Bob. "Here, go into the
baker's and buy some doughnuts and pie."

He handed Sam a quarter, and the hungry boy followed his advice, faring
quite as well as he would have done at his uncle's table. Rather to Mr.
Wolverton's surprise, he worked all the afternoon without showing signs
of hunger, and that gentleman began to consider whether, after all, two
meals a day were not sufficient for him.




CHAPTER XII.

WOLVERTON'S WATERLOO.


Though the receipt was lost, Wolverton could not give up his plan of
extorting the interest from Mrs. Burton a second time. It might have
been supposed that he would have some qualms of conscience about robbing
the widow and the fatherless, but Mr. Wolverton's conscience, if he had
any, gave him very little trouble. He would have thought himself a fool
to give up one hundred and fifty dollars if there was the slightest
chance of securing them.

Towards evening of the day on which Bob had interfered with him, he took
his hat and cane, and set out for Burton's Ranch.

It so happened that Bob answered the bell. He had been sitting with his
mother, chatting about their future plans.

"Good-evening, Mr. Wolverton," said Bob, who felt it incumbent upon him
to be polite to a guest, even though he disliked him.

"Evening," returned Wolverton, curtly. "Is your mother at home?"

"Yes, sir. Will you come in?"

Wolverton had not the good manners to acknowledge the invitation with
thanks, but strode into the sitting-room, following Bob.

The widow anticipated his visit, having been informed by Bob that he had
announced his intention of coming.

"Good-evening, Mr. Wolverton. Take a seat," she said, pointing to a
chair a few feet from her own. "Robert, take Mr. Wolverton's hat."

Wolverton looked at the widow with a hungry gaze, for she was the only
woman, he had ever loved.

"If she would only marry me, all her troubles would be over," he said to
himself. "She's a fool to refuse."

We, who have some idea of Mr. Wolverton's character and disposition, are
more likely to conclude that marriage with such a man would be only the
beginning of trouble.

"I've come on business, Mrs. Burton," said the visitor, in an aggressive
tone.

"State it, if you please, Mr. Wolverton," the widow answered, calmly.

"Hadn't you better send your son out of the room? We'd better discuss
this matter alone."

"I have no secrets from Robert," said the widow.

"Oh, well, just as you please; I don't care to have him interfere in
what doesn't concern him."

"Any business with my mother does concern me," said Bob; "but I will try
not to give you any trouble."

"The business is about that interest," Wolverton began, abruptly.

"What interest?"

"You must know what I mean--the interest on the mortgage."

"My husband paid it on the day of his death."

"It's easy enough to say that," sneered Wolverton, "but saying it isn't
proving it, as you must have the good sense to know."

"When my husband left me on that fatal morning, he told me that he was
going to your office to pay the interest. I know he had the money and
with him, for he had laid down the wallet, and I saw the roll of bills."

"Why didn't he pay it, then? That's what I'd like to know."

"Didn't he pay it to you, Mr. Wolverton?" asked Mrs. Burton, with a
searching glance. "Carry back your memory to that day, and answer me
that question."

Mr. Wolverton showed himself a little restive under this interrogatory,
but he assumed an air of indignation.

"What do you mean, widder?" he demanded, bringing down his cane with
emphasis upon the floor. "Do you doubt my word?"

"I think you may be mistaken, Mr. Wolverton," said Mrs. Burton,
composedly.

"Who has been putting this into your head, widder? Is it that boy of
yours?"

Bob answered for himself:

"I don't mind saying that I did tell mother that I thought the money had
been paid."

"Humph! you think yourself mighty smart, Bob Burton," snarled Wolverton.
"Nat'rally you'd like to get rid of paying the interest, if you could;
but you've got a business man to deal with, not a fool."

"You are no fool where money is concerned, there's no doubt about that.
But I want to ask you one thing, if my father didn't pay you the money
which mother can testify to his carrying with him on the morning of his
death, what became of it?"

"How should I know? Did you search his wallet when he was brought home?"

"Yes."

"And you didn't find the money?"

"No."

"So you conclude that he paid it to me. Let me tell you, young man, that
doesn't follow. He may have been robbed when he was lying on the ground
insensible."

"I think very likely he was," returned Bob, quietly.

"What do you mean by that?" demanded Wolverton, uneasily. "Who could
have robbed him?"

"Possibly some one that we wouldn't be likely to suspect."

"What does he mean? Can he possibly suspect me?" thought Wolverton,
fixing his eyes on Bob's face. "But no! I certainly didn't take any
money from him."

"You may be right," he said aloud; "but that hasn't anything to do with
my claim for interest. Whether your father was robbed of the money, or
spent it, is all one to me. It wasn't paid to me, I can certify."

"Would you be willing to swear that the money was not paid to you that
day, Mr. Wolverton?"

"Do you mean to insult me? Haven't I told you it was not paid?"

"Do you expect me to pay it to you, then?" asked Mrs. Burton.

"Widder, I am surprised you should ask such a foolish question. It lies
in a nutshell. I'm entitled to interest on the money I let your husband
have on mortgage. You admit that?"

"Yes."

"I'm glad you admit that. As your husband didn't pay, I look to you for
it. I can say no more."

Mrs. Burton took a pocket-book from a pocket in her dress, and handed it
to Robert. Bob opened it, and drew therefrom a folded paper.

"Mr. Wolverton," he said, quietly, "I hold in my hand a receipt signed
by yourself for the interest--one hundred and fifty dollars--dated the
very day that my poor father died. What have you to say to it?"

Mr. Wolverton sprang to his feet, pale and panic-stricken.

"Where did you get that paper?" he stammered, hoarsely.






CHAPTER XIII.

WHAT BOB FOUND IN THE CREEK.


"When my poor husband left your office this receipt was in his
possession," answered Mrs. Burton.

"I deny it," exclaimed Aaron Wolverton, in a tone of excitement.

"Where else should it be?" inquired the widow, eying him fixedly.

"I don't know. How should I?"

"So you deny that the signature is yours, Mr. Wolverton?"

"Let me see it."

"I would rather not," said Bob, drawing back the receipt from
Wolverton's extended hand.

"That's enough!" said Wolverton quickly. "You are afraid to show it. I
denounce it as a base forgery."

"That will do no good," said the boy, un-terrified. "I have shown the
receipt to Mr. Dornton, and he pronounces the signature genuine."

"What made you show it to him?" asked Wolverton, discomfited.

"Because I thought it likely, after your demanding the interest the
second time, that you would deny it."

"Probably I know my own signature better than Mr. Dornton can."

"I have no doubt you will recognize it," and Bob, unfolding the paper,
held it in such a manner that Wolverton could read it.

"It may be my signature; it looks like it," said Wolverton, quickly
deciding upon a new evasion, "but it was never delivered to your
father."

"How then do you account for its being written?" asked Mrs. Burton, in
natural surprise.

"I made it out on the day your husband died," Wolverton answered glibly,
"anticipating that he would pay the money. He did not do it, and so the
receipt remained in my desk."

Bob and his mother regarded each other in surprise. They were not
prepared for such a barefaced falsehood.

"Perhaps you will account for its not being in your desk now," said Bob.

"I can do so, readily," returned Wolverton, maliciously. "Somebody must
have stolen it from my desk."

"I think you will find it hard to prove this, Mr. Wolverton."

"It is true, and I don't propose to lose my money on account of a stolen
receipt. You will find that you can't so easily circumvent Aaron
Wolverton."

"You are quite welcome to adopt this line of defense, Mr. Wolverton, if
you think best. You ought to know whether the public will believe such
an improbable tale."

"If you had the receipt why didn't you show it to me before?" Wolverton
asked in a triumphant tone. "I came here soon after your father's death,
and asked for my interest. Your mother admitted, then, that she had no
receipt."

"We had not found it then."

"Where, and when, did you find it?"

"I do not propose to tell."

Wolverton shook his head, satirically.

"And a very good reason you have, I make no doubt."

"Suppose I tell you my theory, Mr. Wolverton."

"I wish you would," and Wolverton leaned back in his chair and gazed
defiantly at the boy he so much hated.

"My father paid you the interest, and took a receipt. He had it on his
person when he met with his death. When he was lying outstretched in
death"--here Bob's eyes moistened--"some one came up, and, bending over
him, took the receipt from his pocket."

Mr. Wolverton's face grew pale as Bob proceeded.

"A very pretty romance!" he sneered, recovering himself after an
instant.

"It is something more than romance," Bob proceeded slowly and gravely.
"It is true; the man who was guilty of this mean theft from a man made
helpless by death is known. He was seen at this contemptible work."

"It is a lie," cried Wolverton, hoarsely, his face the color of chalk.

"It is a solemn truth."

"Who saw him?"

"I don't propose to tell--yet, if necessary, it will be told in a court
of justice."

Wolverton saw that he was found out, but he could not afford to
acknowledge. His best way of getting off was to fly into a rage, and
this was easy for him.

"I denounce this as a base conspiracy," he said, rising as he spoke.
"That receipt was stolen from my desk."

"Then we do not need to inquire who took it from the vest-pocket of my
poor father."

"Robert Barton, I will get even with you for this insult," said
Wolverton, shaking his fist at the manly boy. "You and your mother."

"Leave out my mother's name," said Bob, sternly.

"I will; I don't think she would be capable of such meanness. You, then,
are engaged in a plot to rob me of a hundred and fifty dollars. To
further this wicked scheme, you or your agent have stolen this receipt
from my desk. I can have you arrested for burglary. It is no more nor
less than that."

"You can do so if you like, Mr. Wolverton. In that case the public shall
know that you stole the receipt from my poor father after his death. I
can produce an eye-witness."

Wolverton saw that he was in a trap. Such a disclosure would injure him
infinitely in the opinion of his neighbors, for it would be believed.
There was no help for it. He must lose the hundred and fifty dollars
upon which, though he had no claim to it, he had so confidently
reckoned.

"You will hear from me!" he said, savagely, as he jammed his hat down
upon his head, and hastily left the apartment. "Aaron Wolverton is not
the man to give in to fraud."

Neither Bob nor his mother answered him, but Mrs. Burton asked
anxiously, after his departure:

"Do you think he will do anything, Bob?"

"No, mother; he sees that he is in a trap, and will think it wisest to
let the matter drop."

This, in fact, turned out to be the case. Mortifying as it was to give
in, Wolverton did not dare to act otherwise. He would have given
something handsome, mean though he was, if he could have found out,
first, who saw him rob the dead man, and next, who extracted the stolen
receipt from his desk. He was inclined to guess that it was Bob in both
cases. It never occurred to him that Clip was the eye-witness whose
testimony could brand him with this contemptible crime. Nor did he think
of Sam in connection with his own loss of the receipt. He knew Sam's
timidity, and did not believe the boy would have dared to do such a
thing.

All the next day, in consequence of his disappointment, Mr. Wolverton
was unusually cross and irritable. He even snapped at his sister, who
replied, with spirit:

"Look here, Aaron, you needn't snap at me, for I won't stand it."

"How will you help it?" he sneered.

"By leaving your house, and letting you get another housekeeper. I can
earn my own living, without working any harder than I do here, and a
better living, too. While I stay here, you've got to treat me decently."

Wolverton began to see that he had made a mistake. Any other housekeeper
would cost him more, and he could find none that would be so economical.

"I don't mean anything, Sally," he said; "but I'm worried."

"What worries you?"

"A heavy loss."

