coloured signals, its metal roof, and its air of animation. He 
could not help thinking that the effect was something like that 



 

once produced upon him when he had come back to the University 
town from the funeral of an eminent person whom he had never seen. 
He had been obliged to attend the burial with the whole body of 
the students, and had stood more than an hour in the churchyard 
before he could get away. He remembered how unusually bright 
and lively the town had appeared to him by contrast when he 
returned. Even the thought of Hilda could not now make the 
recollection of his home a pleasant one, for Hilda herself was 
intimately connected, by her last words, with the whole impression 
of funereal gloominess from which the busy railway station fur- 
nished him with the means of escape. 



CHAPTER VI 

THE system of student life in Germany with its duelling, its 
associations into Korps, its festivals, and its rabid tenacity to 
tradition, has frequently been pronounced ridiculous by European 
and American writers, though it does not appear that those who 
laugh at it have entered into Korps life themselves, even when 
they have resided during a considerable time at a German University. 
There is, however, much to be said in favour of its existence in 
the only country where it has taken root as a permanent institution 
and since it is necessary to follow Greif's history from the time 
when he was still a student, some explanation of a matter 
generally little understood may not be out of place at this point. 

Every one knows that a German University has no resemblance, 
even in principle, with what English-speaking people generally 
understand by the word University. The students do not live in 
communities, nor in any set of buildings appropriated for their 
dwelling. The University, so far as its habitation is concerned, 
means only the lecture-rooms. Instructors and pupils live where 
they please and as they please, according to their individual 
fortune or pleasure. The students are differently situated from 
other members of society in one respect. They are not amenable 
to the police for any ordinary offence, but in such cases are 
brought before the University authorities, and are liable to be 
confined in the University prison, attending the lectures belonging 
to their course, during the period of their detention, for which 
purpose they are let out and shut up again at stated hours. This 
corresponds to some extent with the English system of ' gating.' 

A very large body of young men, of various ages, find themselves 
almost entirely their own masters, at an age when the English under- 
graduate is bound to be at home at twelve o'clock, to attend 
chapel and hall dinners, besides fulfilling the obligations imposed 
by a regular course of study. They live in lodgings, free of any 



supervision whatever, they eat where and when they please, if 
they do not choose to hear lectures there is no one to oblige them 
to do so, for they are supposed to possess enough common sense 
to know that the loss is theirs if they fail at their examinations. 
It is natural that under these circumstances they should form 
associations among themselves. In every University there will be 
a certain number of students from each of the country's principal 
provinces. Fellow-countrymen will generally be drawn together 
when they are forced to live under similar conditions in one place. 
To this instinct may be traced the origin of Korps, and, generally, 
of all associations that wear colours, except the so-called Teutoma, 
which is probably the oldest of all, and which was originally a 
political institution having for its object the promotion of liberal 
ideas together with the unity of Germany. There are Korps of 
the same name, but the two are always quite distinct and their 
colours are generally different. 

There are three classes of associations. The Burschenschaften, 
or fellowships, the Landsmannschaften, or fellow-countrymen's 
unions, and the Korps. The latter word is French, and was formerly 
spelt ' Corps ' ; as no better word could be found, or introduced, the 
German initial letter is used to distinguish the meaning when used 
in this sense. Besides these three classes of acknowledged associa- 
tions, all wearing colours, and recognised by the University, there 
are usually a number of subordinate ones, termed contemptuously 
' Blasen,' which maybe translated 'bubbles,' a designation given 
on account of their supposed instability. 

Although admission to these unions is generally, and probably 
always, obtained by ballot, they are not clubs in any ordinary sense 
of the word. Each has a habitation or lodge, called a Kneipe, or 
drinking-hall, and a fencing-room, or a share in the use of one, but 
there is no set of apartments corresponding to a club, nor intended 
for the same manifold purposes. The organisation and object of 
the union require no such conveniences. 

The Korps rank highest in estimation and are generally the 
most exclusive. In a country where caste prejudice has attained to 
such gigantic proportions as it has in Germany, its effects are felt 
very early in life ; and in Universities where every advantage of 
education is placed within easy reach of the very poorest, a course of 
lectures for a term often costing but one pound sterling, it is impossible 
that there should not be circles formed, in a regular scale, by young 
men whose fortunes are more or less alike. Upon these social and 
financial distinctions the Korps have grown to be what they are. 

Every Korps has three orders of members, and three regular 



 

officers, to each of whom is assigned one department in the 
management of the associations. The orders consist of two regular 
and one irregular. The lowest and least important, is considered 
irregular, and those who are not admitted further have no claim to 
anything but a place in the drinking-hall, and the protection of the 
regular Korps. They may be men of any age, but are generally 
students who are prevented from fighting by some physical defect, 
or by the serious objection of their parents, without whose consent 
no one is supposed to be admitted to the full fellowship of the 
union. 

The second order consists of novices, who are designated by the 
name of ' foxes.' The appellation is probably derived from the 
custom of playing a kind of game, at the opening of the term, 
which is called the fox-hunt, and in which the novices, riding 
astride of chairs, are made to run the gauntlet through the ' fellows ' 
who are armed with blackened corks, and who, without moving from 
their places, attempt to smudge the faces of the youngsters as they 
hop past. These ' foxes ' are young students who have just joined, 
and who are not admitted to the rank of fellows until they have 
fought a certain number of times. They are raised to the higher 
dignity after a ballot, at which they are not present, and the term 
of probation generally lasts six months, or one term. 

The fellows, or Burschen, are full-fledged Korps students, 
eligible to become officers. The officers are three, and are called 
respectively the first, second and third, ' in charge.' The first is 
the chief, who presides at formal meetings and in the drinking-hall, 
where the Korps assembles officially on two evenings of the week. 
He also represents the Korps at the weekly meetings of all the 
representatives. The second in charge manages all affairs relative 
to fighting, and is personally responsible to the association for all 
formalities relating to the duels of its members. If any fellow, 
or novice, has challenged, or been challenged by, any one else, he 
must immediately report the affair to the second in charge, who 
arranges the meeting for him, and warns him, at least twelve hours 
beforehand, of the time appointed. The third in charge is secretary 
and treasurer ; he keeps the minutes of all meetings, collects the 
dues from the members, pays the bills, and is responsible for the 
financial department and correspondence. 

In well-conducted Korps, and there are many such, the 
president considers himself morally bound to see that all the 
members attend their lectures regularly. That the associations 
are not generally mere idle, riotous bands of students, is sufficiently 
shown by the fact that almost every prominent man in German 



 

public life has belonged to one of them, from the great chancellor 
downwards. Generally speaking, too, each novice is considered to 
be personally under the charge of one of the fellows, whose duty 
it is to keep him out of trouble and to see that he is not idle. It 
will be seen that the system of organisation is good, and that in 
reality it has a strong military element, like most organisations 
which find favour in Germany. 

But if it is military it is also militant, and it is the fact that 
fighting is one of its chief objects, which has caused it to be so 
much abused by foreigners. It is necessary in the first place to 
understand the conditions of the sanguinary battles between the 
Korps, and the points by which they are distinguished from the 
more serious affairs which are occasionally settled by appeal to arms. 

The ordinary student's duel is not a dangerous affair, though it 
is often far more serious than is commonly supposed. The weapon 
used is a long, light rapier, square at the point, two-edged and 
sharpened like a razor down the whole length of the front, and to 
about nine inches from the point at the back. The hilt is a 
roomy basket of iron, though in some Universities a bell-hilted 
sword is used, and in that case the guard is similar to the first 
position in sabre fencing or single stick. The blade is very pliable 
and not highly tempered, so that in unskilful hands it is apt to 
bend and become useless. 

The law requires that the combatants should both wear an iron 
protection over the eyes, lest the loss of sight should render the 
student useless for military service. To protect life also, a heavy 
silk scarf bandage is placed round the throat, completely protecting 
the jugular vein and the carotid artery. The right arm, which in 
this peculiar fencing is used to parry the cut in tierce, is also pro- 
tected by bandages, and the body is covered by a leathern cuirass, 
heavily padded, from the middle of the breast to the knees. It 
will be seen that the whole head, excepting the eyes, is exposed, 
as well as the chest and shoulders. Thrusting is forbidden as well 
as the cut in second, below guard, but the latter is permitted when 
either of the combatants is left-handed, owing to the difference of 
the position. 

Novices' duels consist generally of fifteen rounds, the first being 
merely a formal salute. The fellows fight during fifteen minutes, 
unless one of them is severely wounded before the end of the time. 
An umpire has a stop-watch in his hand, and only the exact time 
of actual fencing is reckoned, which is rather a delicate and trouble- 
some matter. Speaking is not allowed. If both combatants are 
good fencers and cautious it sometimes happens that neither is 



 

touched, but as many as thirty slight wounds are occasionally 
inflicted on both sides. A surgeon is always present and decides 
when a wound is too severe to allow of further fighting. This 
usually occurs when a large artery is cut, or a splinter raised upon 
a bone. 

Meetings are generally arranged for novices, as soon as they 
have learned to handle the rapier, whether they have had any 
quarrel or not, and such encounters rarely lead to any result worth 
mentioning. The intention is to accustom the student to fighting 
for its own sake, and he must submit to the conditions or leave 
the Korps with ignominy. He learns to fence with coolness and 
judgment, in a way that could never be learned on the fencing 
ground with masks and blunted weapons, and he acquires from the 
first the habit of facing an armed man with little but his own 
blade to protect him. 

It must be remembered that duelling is a social institution in 
Germany. It is not necessary here to enter into a discussion of 
the merits of the system ; it is enough to recall the late Emperor's 
speech in regard to it, in which he declared that he would punish 
any officer who fought a duel, but would dismiss from the army 
any one who refused to do so. The first clause of this apparent 
paradox restrains the practice from becoming an abuse or a general 
evil ; the second imposes it as a necessity in serious cases. The 
penalty consists in a longer or shorter period of arrest, fixed within 
certain limits, and in case of the death of one of the combatants 
the survivor is confined in a fortress for three years, provided that 
the duel has taken place with the consent of the superior officers 
of the regiment sitting officially as a council of honour, and that 
the encounter has been conducted in accordance with the require- 
ments of the law. Any informality is most severely visited. The 
regimental council takes charge of the officer's reputation, and if it 
declares that there need be no meeting, honour is satisfied. In 
private life any individual may appeal to the decision of a court of 
honour chosen by himself and his adversary, and such decisions are 
considered final. But if any person refuses either to fight or to 
appeal to such arbitration, he is mercilessly excluded from all polite 
society wherever the facts are known. 

The customs of the country being of this nature, the existence 
of fighting associations among students can be both explained and 
defended. That some other nations consider the practice of 
duelling as altogether barbarous and antiquated, has nothing to 
do with the case in hand. An individual cannot change the 
conditions of the society in which he is obliged to live, and must 



 

either conform to them or be excluded from intercourse with his 
fellows. To learn to fight is, in Germany, as necessary as learning 
to eat decently is in England, and the schools of fighting are the 
Korps and other University unions. As a direct consequence, they 
are also schools of life, and in some degree of etiquette. A man 
learns there exactly what sort of language is courteous, what words 
may be spoken without giving offence, and in what an insult really 
consists. By this means a vast amount of trouble is saved for 
society, and a uniform standard of behaviour is secured which 
is universally respected and adhered to by all who call themselves 
gentlemen. The council of the Korps represents the council of 
the regiment, or the social court of honour appealed to by 
civilians. The conversation of the members with each other, 
though familiar in the extreme, is regulated by rigid rules. The 
slightest approach to discourtesy between members of the same 
Korps must be followed by an instant apology, the refusal of 
which entails the immediate ejection of the offender with ignominy, 
and what is more, the announcement of the fact by circular 
letter within the month to every Korps student in every one of 
the numerous Universities of the empire. A dishonourable action 
of any kind is visited in the same way. The publicity of such 
a scandal is enormous. Seven or eight thousand young men are 
simultaneously informed that one of their number is disgraced, 
and at the end of the year all those older men who have been 
Korps students in their youth, are also informed of the fact. 
This amounts to warning some thirty or forty thousand gentlemen, 
chiefly in the higher ranks of society, against an individual, who, 
in one circumstance or another, is almost certain to be brought 
into contact with some of them. Such an institution cannot be 
laughed at, and its censure is no joke. 

But even a Korps student's life is not made up merely of 
fighting and study. There is a very jovial side to it, and if its 
jollity is sometimes made the subject of reproach this is due to 
the fact that the few thoroughly lazy students are of necessity 
the very ones who are most seen. It cannot be denied that beer 
plays a considerable part in the life of German students. It is 
also an important element in the existence of the nation. German 
beer, however, is not English ale, any more than it is to be 
confounded with the nauseous concoctions sold under its name in 
other countries. German beer is protected by law, and un- 
oppressed by taxation. To adulterate it is a crime, an attempt 
to tax it would bring about a convulsion of the empire. Its use. 
in quantities that amaze the understanding, does not appear to 

F 



 

have made Germans cowards in war, nor laggards in commerce ; 
still less does it seem to have stupefied the national intellect, or 
dulled the Teutonic keenness in the race of nations. The first 
military power in the world drinks as much beer as all the rest 
of the universe together, and probably a little more. The 
commercial nation that undersells Englishmen in England, French- 
men in France, Italians in Italy and Turks in Turkey, consumes 
more malt liquor than they drink of all other liquors. The in- 
tellectual race that has produced Kant, Goethe and Helmholtz, 
Bismarck, Moltke, Mommsen, and Richard Wagner in a century, 
swallows Homeric draughts of beer at breakfast, dinner and 
supper. That other nations do not follow their example, and 
laugh at their potations is of little consequence. Even if the 
Germans do not to some extent owe their national characteristics to 
their national drink, it cannot be asserted with any show of reason 
that beer has swamped their intelligence, damped their military 
ardour or drowned their commercial genius. Beer is the natural 
irrigator of conservative principles and intellectual progress. A 
little of it is good, much is better, and too much of it can never 
produce delirium tremens. Can more be said of any potable 
concoction manufactured by humanity for its daily use ] 

The Korps student drinks beer, therefore, and as though he 
felt a sort of religious reverence for the drink of his fathers, he 
has invented laws and rules for the ceremony, from which no 
departure is allowable. Every meeting of the Korps begins and 
ends with a 'Salamander.' At the president's word the glasses 
or stone jugs are moved rhythmically upon the oaken board. 
Another word of command, and each student empties his beaker. 
Then the vessels are rattled on the table, while he slowly counts 
three, with the precision of a military drum, then struck sharply 
again three times, so that they touch the table all together, and 
the meeting is opened or closed, as the case may be. The same 
ceremony is performed when the health of any one is drunk by 
the whole Korps. The principle is that on peaceful occasions the 
drinking-cup takes the place of the rapier, and is used for saluting 
and for combat, as the sword is used in the duel To give as 
much as is received is the object of both. As much as one 
student drinks to another's health, so much must the others drink 
in return. If two fall out in a discussion, the one may challenge 
the other to a beer duel. The weapons are full glasses, there is 
an umpire who gives the word, and he who empties his glass the first 
is the conqueror. The president can order any one to drink a 
certain quantity pro poend, as a penalty for breaking a known 



 

rule, and the fellows have the same privilege in regard to the 
novices. 

There is another element, and a very important one, in the 
conduct of the jovial meetings. Singing is a traditional and in- 
dispensable business at every regular Kneipe. Every student has 
a standard song-book at his place, containing both the words and 
music. As singing at sight is taught in every common school 
throughout the country, the result is not so cacophonous as might 
be expected. The voices are young, fresh and manly, the tunes 
full of life and of an easy nature, the verses simple and often 
grand, for they are selected from the writings of celebrated poets. 
The spirit of the poetry is generally patriotic or fraternal, always 
essentially national. The whole effect is fine and elevating, 
and those who have sat as young men at the table of a numerous 
Korps do not easily forget the sensations evoked by the strains in 
which they have joined. Song holds a large place in German 
life, and 'an essentially good one. As a means of strengthening 
popular patriotism no one has ever denied its efficacy, and as a 
mere pastime it is probably the most pacific and harmless that 
could be named. It may even be believed that the capacity and 
willingness among young men to amuse themselves with chorus 
singing indicates to some extent a national love of law and order. 
Italians are soloists, in music and in principles. Germans are born 
chorus singers, and their great men do not sing themselves, but 
conduct the singing of others. 

The University of which Greif was a student, and which shall 
be called for convenience Schwarzburg, was one of the oldest in the 
country. The town in which it was situated possessed in a high 
degree the associations and the architectural features which throw 
a mediaeval shadow over many northern cities, causing even the 
encroaching paint-brush of modern progress to move in old-fashioned 
lines of subdued colour. In northern lands antiquity is not 
associated with the presence of dirt, as it is in the south. Nurem- 
berg does not look modern because its streets are clean and there 
are no beggars, nor does the ancient seat of the Teutonic Knights 
at Marienburg look like a hotel because its lofty corridors and 
graceful halls, with their cross vaults springing from central columns, 
are carefully swept and free from dust. It would be interesting 
to examine the causes which produce this odd artistic phenomenon. 
In Italy the process of cleansing is destroying altogether the 
associations of antiquity and the artistic beauty which once charmed 
the traveller. Heidelberg, Nuremberg, and most places in Germany 
seem to have gained rather than lost in outward appearance by 



 

the advance of civilisation. Possibly, the Germans of to-day 
resemble their ancestors of the fourteenth century more closely 
than a modern Florentine resembles Lorenzo De' Medici. Possibly, 
in Germany such restorations as are necessary are executed with a 
keener perception of beauty in the model. Possibly, too, German 
conservatism, Gothic, thoughtful, stern, expresses itself in all it does ; 
even as the Italian's queer love of change and fetish worship of 
what, in other lands, was called progress thirty years ago, shows 
itself in all his visible works. Architecture exhibits a nation's feeling 
far more exactly than literature or any other branch of art or science. 
People may, or may not, read the books that fill the market, and 
nobody cares whether they do or not except the author and the 
publisher. But people must live in houses of some sort, and, if 
they are rich enough to choose, they will not live in houses they do 
not like, nor worship in temples of which the architecture irritates 
their nerves. Now architects are placed in the same position 
towards the house builders of the nation, in which authors stand 
towards the reading public. If people are conservative, and like 
old-fashioned buildings, the architect must satisfy his customer's 
love of tradition, just as the professional writer must write what is 
wanted, or starve. The difference in the result is that houses last 
some time whereas books do not. 

Greif was deeply attached to the University town. He had 
spent many happy hours within its walls, and had passed through 
many exciting moments of his young life amidst its high, narrow 
streets and ancient buildings. Such a place naturally exercised a 
greater influence over him than over most men of his age. Born 
and bred in the heart of the Black Forest, brought up in the house 
that had sheltered his race for centuries, he would have felt un- 
easy and out of his element if he had been all at once trans- 
ported to a modern capital. But in Schwarzburg he felt that he 
was at home. The huge cathedral with its spires and arches and 
rich fretwork of dark stone, seemed to him the model of what all 
cathedrals should be. The swift river that ran between over- 
hanging buildings, and beneath old bridges that were carved with 
armorial bearings and decorated with the rare ironwork of cunning 
smiths, famous long ago, bore in its breast the legends of his own 
forest home, and was impersonated in many a verse he had learned 
to sing with his comrades. The shady nooks and corners, the turns 
in the crooked streets, the dark archways of old inns, the swinging 
signs with their rich deep colour and Gothic characters, the projecting; 
balconies/glazed with round bull's eyes of blown glass set in heavy 
lead, the marvellously wrought weathercocks of iron and gold on the 



 

corners of the houses, every outward detail of the time-honoured 
and time-mellowed town spoke to his heart in accents he not only 
understood but loved. Even the modern note did not jar upon him. 
There were few officers in the streets, few soldiers in bright uniforms. 
Occasionally a troop of white cuirassiers rode slowly through the 
main thoroughfare, looking more like mediseval knights than 
Prussian soldiers. Their enormous stature, their bronzed faces, their 
snow-white dress and gleaming corslets, the stately, solemn tramp 
of their great horses, their straight broad blades without curve or 
bend erect at their sides, all made them utterly unlike the ordinary 
soldiery of present times, and rendered their appearance perfectly 
harmonious with their surroundings. Even the students in their 
long boots and coloured caps did not look modern, as they strolled 
along in knots of three and four from the University to the mess at 
dinner-time, or thronged the pavements of the high street towards 
evening, when the purple light was on the cathedral spires and the 
shadows were deepening below. 

Greif loved it all, and to some extent his affection was returned. 
He was certainly the most popular student who had ever trod the 
stones of Schwarzburg, as he was by nature one of the most thoroughly 
German. He had his quarrels, no doubt, but the way he settled 
them only served to increase his reputation. He was pointed out 
as the man of forty duels, who had never received a serious wound, 
and it was said to his credit that he never wantonly provoked any 
man, and that his victories had been qhiefly gained over adversaries 
from neighbouring Universities. He was looked upon as the 
natural representative of Schwarzburg in all great affairs, and when 
he presided, in the turn of his Korps, over one of the periodical 
festivities, his appearance was the occasion for a general ovation. 
The feeling that he was to be warmly welcomed was pleasant to 
Greif as he got out upon the platform and shook hands with a 
dozen who awaited him, but the remembrance that this was 
probably his last return as a student among his comrades gave him 
a passing sensation of sadness. He was approaching the end of a 
very happy period in his life, and though there was much happiness 
