cried. " The greatest flirt I ever knew, only there 
is not a bit of sentiment in any of it. I hope - no, I 
will not be unchristian." 

" You ridiculous girl ! Mr. Bradford is leagues 
and leagues above such pastime." 

" But Sadie flirts with the soberest people. All is 
fish that comes to her net. It would be amusing to 
see him caught." 

Oddly enough, a week later we had quite an 
influx of calls from the Athenians. I gave up my 
office to Eve. She had added some womanly touches, 
and we had flowers blooming in the window. I felt 
proud of my fair sister, who was a lady anywhere. 

Indeed, now we seemed to have a social status. 
We were asked to join a young people's guild ; and I 
took two seats in a partly rented pew at church, 
so that we might feel at home. 

The month passed rapidly, and at its close Eve 
looked over the accounts. 

" We have been extravagant in the way of pleas 
ures," she declared. " Three dollars for club-tickets, 
two dollars for a library-ticket, and three dollars in 
going to and fro." 



 

" But we shall have books five months longer, and 
there are three more entertainments." 

"And Christmas will come next month. Well, 
we have not spent quite all our money." 

" But we need a little pleasure." 

" And the eight hundred dollars " 

" Bother that ! " I interrupted. 

"Getting and saving is likely to be bother 
enough." 

But after a walk the next morning, Eve came in 
radiant. 



" What do you think ? " she began breathlessly. 
" I have three music-scholars, and one in painting. 
Forty dollars a quarter ! " 

"Eve!" 

"Well, it is just nothing at all. Mrs. Morrison 
was very much taken with my playing the other 
evening at the Whartons's, and I said I wished I 
could find some music-scholars, when she offered me 
her two little girls. Annie plays quite well already. 
Then she said she had seen those pretty birthday 
favors at the Corwins's, and asked if I ever gave 
lessons in painting; and I answered that I would 
readily. She wants a quarter's lessons. Mrs. Clark 
happened in just then; and as she was dissatisfied 
with her daughter's teacher, and had given her up, 
she engaged me. Think of it ! Some money all my 




own ! And that it should come to me without any 
trouble ! I do wish tfiere was room for my piano." 

That was at Long Branch. Aunt Carry had 
written Eve two quite lengthy letters, and in the 
second sent the invitation for the month of February. 
Helen was having a splendid time, and no end of ad 
mirers. But Eve decided not to go to Washington. 

"You see, I can be quite gorgeously apparelled 
here," she said laughingly; " and my vanity prompts 
me to stay where I can make the most show. What 
would my old gowns be there ? " 

Eve certainly was very happy. Young people 
began to throng around her, and invitations were 
showered upon us. We had four for a Christinas 
dinner, and three for a party in the evening. Then 
there were Christmas greens and a children's treat. 
Mr. Bradford paid her some especial notice, and 
begged her to take part in the carols. 

" It is so different from last winter, with teas and 
germans, and receptions and crushes, and racking 
your brains about gowns ! But I enjoy the change, 
and it isn't half such hard work." 

We did have a very pleasant time, and then Eve 
went to New York for a week. Sadie Brooke' came 
over for her, and the days were crowded full of 
enjoyment; though she returned home looking rather 
fagged out. 



 

" I do not mean to go out of an evening for the 
next two weeks," she declared. " We will turn over 
a new leaf. Why, I am ever so much more dissipated 
in this benighted little Athens than I was at Great 
Mammoth Beach." 

We both laughed at that. 

There was a week of wintry weather with snow 
and rain and sleet. Business was dull. But, oh! 
how cosey and snug we were in our odd little 
home ! 

I was reading aloud one evening from "My 
Summer in a Garden." Eve had been sewing ; but 
presently she dropped her work, and her eyes 
wandered into vacancy. I paused, but she did not 
appear to remark it. 

" Eve ! " I exclaimed. 

" Oh ! " with a long sigh and a dreamy kind of 
smile as she roused from her revery. "I was not 
asleep." 

" What were you thinking of so intently ? " 

" I had a vision." 



" A vision ! " I repeated, startled. 

" Yes. I saw us both in a garden. Adam, let us 
stay here at Athens. It will be so lovely in the 
spring, and all through the summer. And if you do 
not earn so much, I can make a little. Let us have 
the garden and fruit, and flowers and poultry. Some 



 

people make money at that. And if one could have 
a permanent home " 

Some one came in the waiting-room, stamping the 
snow off his boots. 

" Hillo ! " cried a cheery voice. " You two people 
are the picture of content." 

" We are content," answered Eve. " Could there 
be a more cosey interior ? " and she glanced around 
in triumph. 

I knew very well that Pryor thought it would 
be hard to find a prettier girl. For Eve's eyes 
were so softly bright, and her cheeks a dainty peach- 
pink. 

" Yet you were wishing for something else." 

" Are you quite sure it wasn't some one else the 
lad you left behind you in New York ? " 

" There were so many of them ! " said Eve with a 
graceful little shrug. " And now they are dancing 
with other girls, so why should I bewail them ? In 
sober truth," and a serious expression crossed her 
face, "I was going back to what my brother terms 
first principles." 

Pryor looked puzzled, and glanced from one to the 
other. 

" It is not lovers or husbands, though the world 
insists that is a woman's greatest and most absorbing 
subject of contemplation. Adam and I have formed 




a league of amity and good-fellowship, and we want 
to go back to the garden." 

He laughed doubtfully as if he did not quite see 
the point. Then he said, "Do you want a real 
garden, or is it some figurative " 

" German, with favors. No : what I mean is real 
solid earth, that will raise berries, chickens, and 
flowers." 

" There, Thurston ! " Pryor exclaimed triumph 
antly, "you can't do better than take the Cassel 
place. I had a letter from the owner to-day. She 
offers it for thirty-five hundred. I am almost certain 
three thousand will take it." 

" My dear fellow," I replied, annoyed at his perti 
nacity, " I am in the position of the man, who, when 
corner-lots were selling at a dollar apiece, couldn't 
buy half a one." 

" And she will take five hundred dollars down, with 
good security for the rest." 

" That pretty place on the hill ? " asked Eve. " I 
have looked at that with a longing eye, and the eye 
of faith also. It has possibilities." 

" It is a bargain. She might throw off enough to 
put the place in order." 

"We all looked at each other like guilty conspirators, 
until the silence was positively ridiculous. Then Eve 
drew a long breath, and laughed in a ringing fashion. 



 

" Little does Mrs. Cassel know of the deep plots 
against her interest," said I. 

" See here," began Pryor : " suppose she had sold 
it five years ago for three thousand, and put the 
money out at six per cent. Reckon it up at simple 
interest nine hundred dollars, where it's safe to say 
it hasn't paid her a penny. Why, it would be to her 
best interest to dispose of it as speedily as possible. 
My advice is, when a thing doesn't pay, and isn't 
likely to pay, get rid of it as soon as you can." 

" I should like to go through the house," said Eve 
quietly. 

" The first decent day we will," replied Pryor. 

He talked on about places. The last train came, 
and I began to prepare for the night. A fine sleet 
had set in ; but the young man pulled up his coat- 
collar, and lighted his lantern. 

" Pryor is the most persistent fellow I ever saw," 
I said impatiently. "Heaven help the woman he 
sets out to gain if she doesn't want him ! " 

Eve began to fold up her work. I had a misgiving 
that the serpent had entered Paradise. 

I dreamed that night of processions of chickens, 
and long rows of berry-pickers, while crates were 
piled mountain high. 

It stormed furiously again the next day, but just at 
sundown the air grew wonderfully mild. I shovelled 



 

away the snow. Mr. Bradford came up on the train, 
and stopped in the office to chat with Eve, a small 
matter that amazed me. 

We read again in the evening, then we talked farm 
and garden. 

"You have given the subject a good deal of 
thought, Eve," I said presently. 

" Yes. Now and then I have felt like proposing to 
you that we should go West, and pre-empt a tract of 
land ; but I should not like the grand and awful lone 
liness. I am social, and fond of my kind, even if they 
do flirt and tell fibs occasionally. And it puzzles 
me to know how you live the first year while your 
crops are growing, and you haven't any money. 
Now, if one can keep a situation, and be getting a 
place in order ; if one can save up a little money to 
pay on it all the time, there will come a year when 
you have your own home." 

" But we couldn't buy any thing with six hundred 
dollars. And it might not be wisdom to put our 
little money where we could not get it in case of 
sickness or trouble. And if any thing happened to 
us that we could not meet payments, away would go 
every thing under foreclosure." 

" There wouldn't even a tiny lion's whelp in the 
way miss your apprehensive eyes," said Eve laugh- 
ingty. " I have been used to seeing ventures. Oddly 



 

enough, while I was dancing and junketing around 
in New York, I was studying up some of these sub 
jects. Mrs. Stannard, Mrs. Brooke's sister, who is a 
rather imaginary invalid, I think, has three dozen 
fresh-laid eggs brought in to her every week, for 
which she pays fifty cents a dozen, from the first of 
December until the first of April. There are plenty 
of others I heard of one lady giving sixty cents for 
white Leghorn eggs. And as for flowers well, I 
never realized before how much money was spent in 
flowers." 

" But for flowers, you must have a greenhouse ; 
and no person on a small scale can compete with the 
larger gardeners, who have every appliance. And if 
your hens laid abundantly in winter, so would others, 
and down would go prices." 

" At all events, I would like to try, in a home of 
my own where I could have matters as I desired. I 
wonder these stupid Athenians do not start up and 
do something with their land." 

" There is another thing, Eve," I said gravely: "just 
as you were settled in this paradise of flowers and 
hens, there might come a tempting offer of matri 
mony. You are too young and quite too charming 
to remain a wall-flower. Even here " 

" Yes, there is Gordon Pryor devoted to your inter 
ests, I observe, and Dan Montgomery and two or 



 

three others ; but I am afraid the flowers and hens 
that you mention so disdainfully would be potent 
rivals. Indeed, you might want to marry; but it 
seems to me, that, if we both had money in one house, 
we might settle it amicably." 

" My dear Eve " 

She clasped her arms about my neck. 

" You are not going to get rid of me so easily," she 
said, with something that sounded like a sob. " And 
I am going to help you make your eight hundred 
dollars, for that will be our share at the next 
census, whether you will or not." 

There followed a week of rather cold but beautiful 
weather. Sleigh-riding was perfect, and not a day 
but some one came for Eve. Pryor was away four 
days on business, and the house had a rest. 

So it was almost the last of January before we took 
our peep at it, cast a wistful eye where we had no 
possessions. It was a bright, sunny day, though 
roads and streets were still white with snow. 

There was, as I have said, a porch in front, but it 
ran only half across. The southern end jutted out 
about six feet, and there was a large double window 
that opened on a balcony. Pryor unlocked the 
creaking door, and ushered us into a room, a sort of 
reception-room and hall. It was large ; and quite at 
the end, the stairs went up with two turns, but were 



 

broad and easy. There were two windows on the 
north side, that overlooked Jay Street ; and opposite 
a chimney with a grate set. A door opened on each 
side of this, the nearest into a pretty parlor. Here 
the chimney was across the corner of the room, with 
a quaint hard-wood mantel. On the south side this 
had two windows. Back of this, and opening on the 
hall as well, was the dining-room, with a square bay- 
window at the south, and just such a corner mantel 
as in the parlor. Indeed, one stack of chimneys did 
duty for the three places. Back of this room was a 
wash-room and a kitchen, and another chimney that 
answered for both. From the kitchen a back-stairs 
started up, and we followed these. There was only 
a little sort of loft over the kitchen, but in the main 
house four sleeping-rooms; the hall being divided in 
two, not so large as the others, but nicely furnished 
with closets. Up in the attic were three gable-ends, 
in one of which there was a very fair servant's room. 

The paint and the walls were something dreadful. 
There had been some papering and some very 
wretched kalsomining. Several panes of glass were 
out, and sash-cords were broken. It had a forlorn and 
dilapidated air ; but, as Eve observed, it had possibili 
ties. The ceilings were moderately high, the doors 
and wood-work were good in spite of shabbiness. 

We retraced our steps, and investigated the cellar. 



 

It was under the main house, and had been very nice 
in its day of good order. There was a large closet, 
but the door had been carried away. The coal-bins 
had been partly torn down. There was an ash-shaft 
in the foundation of the chimney. When we went 
up again, we investigated. It connected with the 
grate ; and in the dining-room was set an odd sort of 
thing, a kind of fireplace heater, but different from 
any I had ever seen, more nearly resembling a fur 
nace in fact. There was a register through in the 
parlor, and three in rooms up-stairs. 

"If it heats at all," said Eve, "it must be 
excellent." 

On examination, I did not see why it should not 
heat ; as it was extremely simple, and its manner of 
disposing of the ashes was commendable. 

We had kept up a running fire of comment, fault 
finding, depreciation, and approval. It was oddly 

planned, yet convenient enough, with no waste room, 

\ 
no great useless halls. 

One small bedroom up-stairs had no mode of egress 
save through another, but that might not be much 
detriment. 

Then we went out to the barn. That was not 
large ; but it had a nice loft, and on this sunny day 
was positively warm. The hen-house would have to 
be made over altogether. It would take a good deal 



 

of time and labor, and not a little money, to get it in 
good order. 

It was nearing train-time, and we had to return. 
"I'll drop in this evening," said Piyor. "Miss 
Thurston, it is an excellent chance." 

We discussed it pro and con. I said the house 
was larger than our needs, and that a smaller place 
would cost less. I had come to have a horror of 
indebtedness. 

" A house is not quite like any thing else," per 
sisted Eve. 

"But the interest on three thousand dollars, 
repairs, and taxes," I suggested. 

" I could earn all that, I am sure," said she. 

" But you must have clothes and journeys " 

" Aunt Carry's trunkful is not exhausted yet," 
with a bright smile. " I shall have another music- 
scholar ; and when spring opens, I shall try to get a 
class in flower-painting." 

She had set her heart, on having a house and 
garden, I could plainly see. 

" After all, suppose we do give up a good many 
things for the next five years we can imagine our 
selves out on the ranch ; and when we have almost 
expired from sheer loneliness, we can go into New 
York." 

"But I might do better than forty-five dollars a 


