not run in ruts, like an old fellow who had got hack- 
neyed ; he would not have any hobbies ; he would 
not have any friends nor any enemies. Besides, he 
would have to meet people, and March was a man 
that people took to ; she knew that herself ; he had 
a kind of charm. The editorial management was 
going to be kept in the background, as far as the 
public was concerned; the public was to suppose that 
the thing ran itself. Fulkerson did not care for a 
great literary reputation in his editor — he implied 
that March had a very pretty little one. At the 
same time the relations between the contributors 
and the management were to bo much more inti- 
mate than usual. Fulkerson felt his personal dis- 
qualification for working the thing socially, and he 
counted upon Mr. March for that ; that was to say, 
he counted upon Mrs. March. 

She protested lie must not count upon her ; but it 
by no means disabled Fulkerson's judgment in her 
view that March really seemed more than anything 
else a fancy of his. He had been a fancy of hers ; 
and the sort of affectionate respect with which Ful- 
kerson spoke of him laid for ever some doubt she had 
of the fineness of Fulkerson's manners, and recon- 
ciled her to the graphic slanginess of his speech. 



 

The afliiir was now irretrievable, but she gave 
her approval to it as superbly as if it were submitted 
in its inception. Only, Mr. Fulkerson must not sup- 
pose she should ever like New York. She would 
not deceive him on that point. She never should 
like it. She did not conceal, either, that she did 
not like taking the children out of the Friday even- 
ing class ; and she did not believe that Tom would 
ever be reconciled to going to Columbia. She took 
courage from Fulkcrson's suggestion that it was pos- 
sible for Tom to come to Harvard even from New 
York ; and she heaped him with questions concern- 
ing the domiciliation of the family in that city. He 
tried to know something about the matter, and he 
succeeded in seeming interested in points necessarily 
indifferent to him. 



VL 



In the uprooting and transplanting of their home 
that followed, Mrs. March often trembled before 
distant problems and possible contingencies, but she 
was never troubled by present difficulties. She kept 
up with tireless energy ; and in the moments of de- 
jection and misgiving which harassed her husband 
she remained dauntless, and put heart into him when 
he had lost it altogether. 

She arranged to leave the children in the house 
with the servants, while she went on with INIarch to 
look up a dwelling of some sort in New York. It 
made him sick to think of it ; and when it came to 
the point, he would rather have given up the whole 
enterprise. She had to nerve him to it, to repre- 
sent more than once that now they had no choice 
but to make this experiment. Every detail of part- 
ing was anguish to him. He got consolation out of 
the notion of letting the house furnished for the 
winter ; that implied their return to it ; but it cost 
him pangs of the keenest misery to advertise it ; and 
when a tenant was actually found, it was all he 
could do to give him the lease. He tried his wife's 
love and patience aS a man must to whom the future 



 

is easy in the mass, but terrible as it translates itself 
piecemeal into the present. He experienced remorse 
in the presence of inanimate things he was going to 
leave as if they had sensibly reproached him, and an 
anticipative homesickness that seemed to stop his 
heart. Again and again his wife had to make him 
reflect that his depression was not prophetic. She 
convinced him of what he already knew ; and per- 
suaded him against his knowledge that he could be 
keeping an eye out for something to take hold of in 
Boston if they could not stand New York. She 
ended by telling him that it was too bad to make 
her comfort him in a trial that was really so much 
more a trial to her. She had to support him in a 
last access of despair on their way to the Albany 
depot the morning they started to New York ; but 
when the final details had been dealt with, the 
tickets bought, the trunks checked, and the hand- 
bags hung up in their car, and the future had massed 
itself again at a safe distance and was seven hours 
and two hundred miles away, his spirits began to 
rise and hers to sink. He would have been willing 
to celebrate the taste, the domestic refinement of the 
ladies' waiting-room in the depot, where they had 
spent a quarter of an hour before the train started. 
He said he did not believe there was another station 
in the \vorld where mahogany rocking-chairs were jiro- 
vided ; that the dull red warmth of the walls -was as 
cosey as an evening-lamp, and that he always hoped 
to see a fire kindled on that vast hearth, and under 
that resthctic mantel, but he supposed now he never 



 

should. He said it was all vciy difTercnt from tnat 
tunnel, the old Albany depot, where they had vraited 
the morning they went to New York when they 
were starting on their wedding journey. 

" The morning, Basil ! " cried his wife. " "We went 
at night; and we were going to take the boat, but 
it stormed so ! " She gave him a glance of such 
reproach that he could not answer anything, and 
now she asked him whether he supposed their cook 
and second girl would be contented with one of those 
dark holes where they put girls to sleep in New 
York flats, and what she should do if Margaret, 
especially, left her. He ventured to suggest that 
Margaret would probably like the city ; but if she 
left, there were plenty of other girls to be had in 
New York. She replied that there were none she 
could trust, and that she kncw Margaret would not 
stay. He asked her why she took her, then ; why 
she did not give her up at once ; and she ansAA'ered 
that it would he inhuman to give her up just in the 
edge of the winter. She had promised to keep her ; 
and Margaret was jileascd with the notion of going to 
Ncw York, where she had a cousin. 

'' Then perhaps she 'll be pleased with the notion 
of staying," he said. 

" Oh, much you know about it ! " she retorted ; 
and in view of the hypothetical difficulty and his 
want of sympathy, she fell into a gloom, from which 
she roused herself at last by declaring that if there 
was nothing else in the flat they took, there should 
be a light kitchen and a bright sunny bedroom for 



 

Margarct. Ho expressed the belief that they coukl 
easily find such a flat as that, and she denounced his 
fatal optimism, which buoyed him up in the absence 
of an undertaking, and let him drop into the depths 
of desjiair in its presence. 

He owned this defect of temperament, but he said 
that it compensated the opposite in her character. 
" I suppose that 's one of the chief uses of marriage ; 
people supplement each other, and form a pretty 
fair sort of human being together. The only draw- 
back to the theory is that unmarried people seem 
each as complete and whole as a married pair." 

She refused to be amused ; she turned her face to 
the window and put her handkercliicf up under her 
veil. 

It was not till the dining-car was attached to their 
train that they were both able to escape for an hour 
into the carc-frce mood of their earlier travels, when 
they were so easily taken out of themselves. The 
time had been when they could have found enough 
in the conjectural fortunes and characters of their 
fellow-passengers to occupy them. This phase of 
their youth had lasted long, and the world was still 
full of novelty and interest for them ; but it re- 
quired all the charm of the dining-car now to lay 
the anxieties that beset them. It was so potent for 
the moment, however, that they could take an objec- 
tive view at their sitting cosily down there together, 
as if they had only themselves in the world. They 
wondered what the children were doing, the chil- 
dren who possessed them so intensely when present, 



 

and now, by a fantastic operation of absence, seemed 
almost non-existent. They tried to be homesick for 
them, but failed ; they recognised with comfortable 
self-abhorrence that this was terrible, but owned a 
fascination in being alone ; at the same time they 
could not imagine how people felt who never had 
any children. They contrasted the luxury of din- 
ing that way, with every advantage except a band 
of music, and the old way of rushing out to snatch 
a fearful joy at the lunch-counters of the "Worcester 
and Springfield and New Haven stations. They 
had not gone often to New York since their wcd- 
ding journey, but they had gone often enough to 
have noted the change from the lunch-counter to 
the lunch-basket brought in the train, from which 
you could subsist with more case and dignity, but 
seemed destined to a superabundance of pickles, 
whatever you ordered. 

They thought well of themselves now that they 
could be both critical and tolerant of flavours not 
very sharply distinguished from one another in 
their dinner, and they lingered over their coffee 
and watched the autumn landscape through the 
windows. 

"Not quite so loud a pattern of calico this year," 
he said, with patronising forbearance toward the 
painted woodlands whirling by. "Do you see how 
the foreground next the train rushes from us 
and the background keeps ahead of us, while the 
middle distance seems stationary ? I don't think I 
ever noticed that effect before. There ought to be 



 

something literary in it : retreating past and advanc- 
ing future, and deceitfully permanent present : 
something like that ? " 

His wife brushed some crumbs from her lap 
before rising. "Yes. You mustn't waste any of 
these ideas now." 

" Oh no ; it would be money out of Fulkerson's 
pocket." 



VII. 

TiiFvY -went to a quiet hotel far down-town, and 
took a small apartment which they thought they 
could easily afford for the day or two they need 
si)cnd in looking up. a furnished flat. They were 
used to staying at tliis hotel when they came on for 
a little outing in New York, after some rigid winter 
in Boston, at the time of the spring exhibitions. 
They were remembered there from year to year ; 
the coloured call-boys, who never seemed to get any 
older, smiled upon them, and the clerk called March 
Ijy name even before he registered. lie asked if 
Mrs. March were with him, and said then he sup- 
posed they would want their usual quarters ; and in 
a moment they were domesticated in a far interior 
that seemed to have been waiting for them in a 
clean, quiet, patient disoccupation ever since they 
left it two years before. The little parlour, with its 
gilt paper and ebouised furniture, was the lightest 
of the rooms, but it was not very light at noonday 
without the gas, which the bell-boy now flared up 
for them. The uproar of the city came to it in a 
soothing murmur, and they took posession of its 
peace and comfort with open celebration. After all. 



 

they agreed, there v:o.s no place in the world so de- 
lightful as a hotel apartment like that ; the boasted 
charms of home -were nothing to it ; and then the 
magic of its being always there, ready for any one, 
every one, just as if it were for some one alone : it 
was like the experience of an Arabian Xights hero 
come true for all the race. 

" Oh, why can't we always stay here, just we two ! " 
Mrs. March sighed to her husband, as he came out 
of his room rubbing his face red with the towel, 
while she studied a new arrangement of her bonnet 
and hand-bog on the mantel. 

" And ignore the past ] I 'm willing. I "vc no 
doubt that the children could get on perfectly well 
without us, and could find some lot in the scheme of 
Providence that would really be just a.s well for 
them." 

" Yes ; or could contrive somehow never to have 
existed. I should insist upon that. If they are, 
don't you see that we couldn't wish them not to be ? " 

" Oh yes ; I see your point ; it 's simply incon- 
trovertible." 

She laughed, and said : " "Well, at any rate, if we 
can't find a flat to suit us we can all crowd into 
these three rooms somehow, for the winter, and 
then browse about for meals. By the week we 
could get them much cheaper ; and we could save 
on the eating, as they do in Europe. Or on some- 
thing else." 

" Something else, probably," said March. " But 
we won't take this opartment till the ideal furnished 


 

flat winks out altogether. We shall not h:vve .iny 
trouble. We can easily find some one avIio is going 
South for the winter, and will be glad to give up 
their flat ' to the right party ' at a nominal rent. 
That 's my notion. That 's what the Evanses did 
one winter when they came on here in February. 
All but the nominality of the rent." 

" Yes, and we could pay a very good rent and 
still save something on letting our house. You can 
settle yourselves in a hundred diff'erent ways in New 
York, that is one merit of the place. But if every- 
thing else fails, we can come back to this. I want 
you to take the refusal of it, Basil. And we 'll com- 
mence looking this very evening as soon as we 've 
had dinner. I cut a lot of things out of the Herald 
as we came on. See here ! " 

She took a long strip of paper out of her hand- 
bag with minute advertisements junned transversely 
upon it, and forming the effect of some glittering 
nondescript vertebrate. 

"Looks something like the sea-serpent," said 
March, drying his hands on the towel, while he 
glanced up and down the list. "But we shan't 
have any trouble. I 've no doubt there are half a 
dozen things there that will do. You haven't gone 
up-town ? Because we must be near the Ereri Other 
Week ofiice." 

" No ; but I tvish Mr. Fulkerson hadn't called it 
that ! It always makes one think of 'jam yesterday 
and jam to-morrow, but never jam to-day,' in Through 
the Looking-glass. They're all in this region." 



 

They were still at their table, beside a low window, 
whei'e some sort of never-blooming shrub symme- 
trically balanced itself in a large pot, with a leaf to 
the right and a leaf to the left and a spear up 
the middle, when Fulkerson came stepping square- 
footedly over the thick dining-room carpet. He 
wagged in the air a gay hand of salutation at sight 
of them, and of repression when they offered to rise 
to meet him ; then, with an apparent simultaneity 
of action he gave a hand to each, pulled up a chair 
from the next table, put his hat and stick on the 
floor beside it, and seated himself. 

"Well, you've burnt your ships behind you, sure 
enough," he said, beaming his satisfaction upon 
them from eyes and teeth. 

" The ships are burnt," said March, " though I 'm 
not sure we did it alone. But here we are, looking 
for shelter, and a little anxious about the disposition 
of the natives." 

" Oh, they 're an awful peaceable lot," said Ful- 
kerson. " I 've been round amongst the caciques a 
little, and I think I 've got two or three places that 
will just suit you, Mrs. March. How did you leave 
the children ? " 

" Oh, how kind of you ! Very well, and very 
proud to be left in charge of the smoking wrecks." 

Fulkerson naturally paid no attention to what she 
said, being but secondarily interested in the chil- 
dren at the best. " Here are some things right in 
this neighbourhood, within gunshot of the office, 
and if you want you can go and look at them to- 


night ; the agents gave me houses where the people 
woukl be in." 

" "We will go and look at them instantly" said 
Mrs. March. "Or, as soon as you've had coffee 
with us." 

" Never do," Fulkerson replied. He gathered up 
his hat and stick. " Just rushed in to say Hello, 
and got to run right away again. I tell you, March, 
things are humming. I 'm after those fellows with 
a sharp stick all the while to keei) them from 
loafing on my house, and at the same time I 'm just 
bubbling over with ideas about The Lone Hand — 
wish we could call it that ! — that I want to talk 
with you." 

" Well, come to breakfast," said Mrs. March cor- 
dially. 

" No ; the ideas will keep till you 've secured 
your lodge in this vast wilderness. Good-bye." 

"You're as nice as you can be, Mr. Fulkerson," 
she said, " to keep us in mind when you have so 
much to occupy you." 

" I wouldn't have anyih.\ng to occupy me if I 
hadn't kept yon in mind, IMrs. March," said Ful- 
kerson, going off upon as good a speech as he could 
apparently hope to make. 

"Why, Basil," said Mrs. March, when he was 
gone, " he 's charming ! But now we mustn't lose 
an instant. Let's sec where the places are." She 
ran over the half-dozen agents' permits. "Capital 
— first-rate — the very thing— every one. "Well, I 
consider ourselves settled ! "We can go back to the 
children to-morrow if we like, though I rather tliink 



 

I should like to stay over another day and got a 
little rested for the final pulling up that's got to 
come. But this simplifies everything enormously, 
and Mr. Fulkerson is as thoughtful and as sweet as 
he can be. I know you will get on well with him. 
He has such a good heart. And his attitude toward 
you, Basil, is beautiful always — so respectful ; or not 
that so much as appreciative. Yes, apjireciative — 
that 's the word ; I must always keep that in mind." 

" It 's quite important to do so," said March. 

" Yes," she assented seriously, " and we must not 
forget just what kind of flat we are going to look 
for. The sine qua nons are an elevator and steam- 
heat, not above the third floor, to begin with. Then 
we must each have a room, and you must have your 
study and I must have my parlour ; and the two girls 
must each have a room. "With the kitchen and 
dining-room, how many does that make ? " 

"Ten." 

"I thought eight. Well, no matter. You can 
work in the parlour, and run into your bedroom when 
anybody comes ; and I can sit in mine, and the girls 
must put up with one, if it 's large and sunny, though 
I 've always given them two at home. And the 
kitchen must be sunny, so they can sit in it. And 
the rooms must all have outside light. And the 
rent must not be over eight hundred for the winter. 
V\''e only get a thousand for our whole house, and 
we must save something out of that, so as to cover 
the expenses of moving. Now, do you think you 
can remember all that ? " 

" Not the half of it," said March. " But you can ; 



 

or if you forget a third of it, I can come in with my 
partial half, and more than make it up." 

She had brought her bonnet and sack downstairs 
with her, and was transferring them from the hat- 
rack to her person while she talked. The friendly 
door-boy let them into the street, and the clear 
October evening air inspirited her so, that as she 
tucked her hand under her husband's arm and began 
to pull him along, she said, "If we find something 
right away — and we 're just as likely to get the right 
flat soon as late ; it 's all a lottery — we 'll go to the 
theatre somewhere." 

She had a moment's panic about having left the 
agents' permits on the table, and after remembering 
that she had put them into her little shopping-bag, 
