the Japanese laws were so cruel as to condemn innocent persons to
death."

"Is there a law in Europe which allows a prisoner to escape?"

"There is certainly no written law, but if he has not pledged his word
of honor, it is allowable for him to seize on any favorable
opportunity for flight."

With this equivocal explanation, the examination ended, and the
Governor now made a long speech, in which he said: If we were
Japanese, and had secretly left our prison, the consequences for us
would have been very serious; but as we were foreigners, and not
acquainted with the Japanese laws, and had, moreover, no object in
view which was injurious to the Japanese, but were influenced solely
by a desire to see again our native land, which is dearest to every
man; therefore, his good opinion of us remained unchanged. It was true
that he could not answer for the light in which the government would
regard our flight, but he would still hold himself devoted to our
interests, and endeavor to get permission for us to return to Russia;
but until our affairs were settled, we must, according to the Japanese
laws, return to prison, and be more carefully guarded than before.

After the governor had finished his speech, he left the hall, whilst
we were immediately bound, and led to a prison, which, like our former
ones, consisted of cages. I was put into a small one, whilst my
companions were confined together in one of a large size. They stood,
however, so near together, that we could converse very easily. Our
food was now given to us with a very sparing hand, and the sailors
continually complained of hunger. After supper, which we ate about
four o'clock, our prison was shut up, and as the walls were made of
boards, instead of lattice work, not a ray of light reached us after
that hour. As soon as it struck six o'clock, the guards came to
examine us, which they did very thoroughly, and if we were asleep woke
us, to answer to our names. On the fourth of May, we were again led
into the hall, at daybreak, where, as I received many hints, something
very important was this time to be determined. When we had taken our
places on the benches, which were prepared for us, they unloosened
our hands, but did not remove from our waists the rope, which we were
led by. The governor now repeated the questions he had before asked
us, and had the answers we gave, carefully explained. But now came the
most important question, which was, whether I considered my conduct as
right or wrong, and whether I thought I had acted properly towards the
Japanese or not.

"The Japanese," replied I, "forced us to the course we took, by first
taking us prisoners by stratagem, and then refusing to give credence
to our assertions."

The governor appeared very much astonished at my words; the capturing
of us, he said, was now a by-gone affair, about which it was useless
to say any thing; he merely wished to know whether I considered myself
innocent or guilty, as in the former case he could not lay our case
before the Emperor. All the objections I made, did no good; they only
made him angry, and he kept repeating the same question. At last as I
began to see what he was aiming at, and that he only had our interests
in view, I frankly confessed that we had not acted rightly, and that
our conduct merited punishment. He seemed very well satisfied with
this confession of mine, and we were told that our affairs were
prospering.

We were now led back to the house, where we had dwelt before our
flight, and treated very well. Besides our usual fare, they gave us
tea, and very good tobacco, and provided us, too, with combs,
handkerchiefs, and also curtains, to protect us against the gnats,
which were very troublesome. Besides these marks of good-will, they
gave us some Russian books to read, and pens, ink, and paper; but
when we expressed a wish to learn to write the Japanese tongue, they
told us that their laws expressly forbade them to teach Christians
their language. We never, however, received permission to take walks
again, but in order that we might enjoy the fresh air, the governor
ordered the doors of our dwelling to be left open from morning until
evening.

In this manner, with all our wants gratified, but with time hanging
heavy on our hands, we lived until the sixth of September. On that day
we were again conducted to the castle, and received the joyful
intelligence that the Diana was again at Kumachir, and treating with
the Japanese government for our liberation. Our joy, however, was of
short duration, for we received information in a letter from the
commander of the vessel, that in order to satisfy the Japanese, he was
obliged to return to Russia to procure from the government the
required avowal, that the acts of violence perpetrated in Japanese
territory, was done without their knowledge or consent. We were,
therefore, obliged to remain for another year, but during that time we
were treated with the greatest consideration.

In September following, word was brought to us that a Russian vessel
had again arrived in the Japanese waters, and a few days afterwards we
were informed that the negotiations had been successfully terminated,
and that we would soon begin our journey to Khakodade. From this time
forward, we were most hospitably entertained. Several officers, with
their children, visited us, and heartily wished us joy at our
liberation. The mayor of the town, also came to see us, and presented
us with a beautifully lacquered casket, filled with confectionary, as
a token of remembrance. On the following morning, amid the rejoicing
of the inhabitants, we left Matsmai, and after a journey of three
days, reached Khakodade, where the Diana soon afterwards arrived,
accompanied by a multitude of Japanese boats, tastefully ornamented.

On the morning of the fifth of October, an officer, in the most
respectful manner, presented me with my hat and sword, which, during
our imprisonment, had been carefully preserved. I was, however,
obliged to dress myself as the Japanese wished, namely, in a jacket,
and wide breeches of costly silk, which had been made expressly for
the occasion. The hat and sword must have made this dress appear
strange enough in the eyes of Europeans, but as it was all the same to
the Japanese, and since they had returned our arms, they had ceased to
regard us as prisoners. I willingly complied with their wishes, and
determined to present myself before my countrymen, in a costume in
which they would have some difficulty in recognizing me.

As every thing was ready for our departure, we went down to the shore,
accompanied by the governor and all the officers. Here we found a
magnificently decorated barge waiting for us, in which we embarked,
after having taken leave of a crowd of people, who wished us a
pleasant journey. A multitude of boats, laden with every thing
belonging to us, and numerous presents besides, shot from the shore,
and accompanied us to the vessel.

On board the Diana, the officers and men received us with a joy which
only brothers or bosom friends feel under such circumstances. As for
ourselves, when after an imprisonment of two years, two months, and
twenty-six days, we again found ourselves on board an imperial vessel
of war, and surrounded by our countrymen, we felt what can only be
felt, and not described. On the tenth of October we weighed anchor,
and with a favorable wind left the land of our sufferings, whose
inhabitants, nevertheless, we had learned to esteem and love.

So ends the narrative of Golownin. He resumed the command of his
vessel, sailed for Kamtschatka, and from there went to St. Petersburg,
where he and his rescued companions were richly rewarded by the
Emperor.




A Sea-Fight on the Cuban Coast.


By the orders of the British government, I cruised for a season in the
Cuban waters, for the express purpose of aiding in the suppression of
the slave trade, which, in spite of all treaties and efforts to put an
end to it, was still carried on with the most unblushing boldness. I
had under my command a small, but well-armed schooner, with a crew of
picked men, and sailed for my destination with the most positive
orders to sink or capture all suspected vessels. We cruised about for
some time without making any prizes, and the weary and monotonous life
I led, became almost unbearable to me, driving me from the cabin to
the deck, and from the deck to the cabin, seeking in vain for some
relief from the ennui I suffered.

One very dark evening, it might have been about eight o'clock, I went
on deck depressed in spirits, and completely out of sorts. Here I
found Timothy Tailtackle, who had the watch, gazing into the
surrounding darkness so intently that he did not perceive me until I
was standing close to him.

"Any thing in sight, Master Tailtackle?" asked I, eagerly.

"Not exactly, sir, but I have just been begging for your glass. See
there! once, twice; but it is as dark as pitch Pray, sir, tell me how
far are we from the Hole in the Wall?"

The Hole in the Wall is a very remarkable rock forming the southern
promontory of the island of Abaco, one of the Bahamas. As its name
signifies, it resembles, either, from the action of the waves, or from
the cannonadings it has received, a perforated wall. It rises some
forty feet above the surface of the water.

"We are ten miles distant, at least," said I.

"Then," cried Tailtackle, in a sharp tone, "there must be a sail to
windward, and not far off either."

"Where?" asked I, eagerly; "quick, get my glass."

"Here it is, sir."

"Let me see, then."

I looked through the glass until my eyes ached, but as I could
perceive nothing, I resumed my walk on deck, satisfied in my own mind
that Timothy had been mistaken. The latter, however, continued to look
through the glass, and when I approached him, a few minutes
afterwards, said:

"Well, sir, now that it brightens a little, I see what it is that has
been puzzling me."

"The deuce you do! give me the glass." In a moment I saw it also.

"By Jove, Tailtackle, you're right. Send the men to their posts, get
the long guns ready, and clear the deck for action."

These orders of mine quickly changed our hitherto quiet vessel into a
scene of bustle and confusion. I kept my eyes steadily fixed on the
object which had attracted the watchful gaze of Timothy Tailtackle,
but all that I could make out was that it was a strange sail. On
account of the distance, and unusual darkness of the night, I could
distinguish neither its size nor rig. All this time a fine breeze was
driving us rapidly towards the coast of Cuba.

"Give the glass to the boatswain, Master Tailtackle, and come forward
here."

The long gun was now swung round, and the other pieces run into the
opened ports. They were all double shotted and carefully primed, and
the whole crew, even to a negro we had on board, stood at their posts
ready for action.

"I see her now, sir, plain enough," cried Tailtackle.

"Good! What does she look like?"

"A large brig, sir, hard up against the wind. You can see her now
without the glass."

I looked in the direction indicated by Tailtackle, and sure enough,
there was a dark mass towering above the surface of the water, dim and
black like a spirit from the deep.

"She's a large vessel, sir," said Tailtackle, "there's no doubt of
that; there goes her lower sails, and now they're furling her topsail;
ha! she's crossing our bows; look out, sir, here comes a shot."

"The devil!" ejaculated I. I now saw the vessel plain enough, scudding
before the wind.

"Keep her close to the wind--ease her a little--that's right--now give
that fellow a shot across his bows--we'll find out what he's made of.
Reefpoint," continued I, to one of the midshipmen, "show our signal."

"Aye, aye, sir."

The shot was fired and the lights shown, but still our ghostly friend
remained silent and dark.

"Scarfemwell," said I to the gunner, "go forward to the long gun;
Tailtackle, I've no great liking for that chap, open the magazine."

The stranger had now neared us considerably, and he shortened sail;
but when he found that his endeavors to cross our bows in order to
rake us, were unsuccessful, as we ran with him before the wind,
broadside to broadside, he hastily let go his topsail, as he was now
not more than a cable's length from us. At this moment, Tailtackle, in
his shirt, pantaloons, and shoes, put his head out of the hatchway,
and said:

"If I might advise, sir, I think we had better keep our hatches down;
that fellow is not honorable, depend upon it, sir."

"Very well, Tailtackle, very well. Forward there, Master Jigmaree;
give him a shot, if he won't speak, right between the masts, sir. Do
you hear?"

"Aye, aye, sir," answered the boatswain.

"Fire."

The gun was discharged, and immediately we heard the crashing of
timbers on board the stranger, accompanied by a piercing cry, such as
a negro makes at the death of his companions, and then came a long and
doleful howl.

"A slaver, sir, and our shot has struck him," cried Handlead, the
gunner.

"Then we shall have a little sport," remarked I. Hardly had I spoken,
when the brig again shortened sail, and fired a shot from her bows;
then came another, and another, and another.

"She shows a good set of teeth," cried Jigmaree; "nine on a side, as I
am a living sinner!"

Three of the shots struck us, mortally wounding a sailor, and injuring
the poor little midshipman, Reefpoint, who was hit by a splinter.

"Steady, men--aim low--fire!"

Again the long gun was discharged, together with two smaller pieces.
But our friend was too nimble for us; he crowded on sail, and escaped
in spite of our efforts to overtake him. In less than an hour we lost
sight of him.

"Crowd on sail, and after him, Master Jigmaree," said I; but as I
feared lest he might lead us too near the coast, I went down into the
cabin to consult the chart.


II.

In the cabin I found Wagtail, Gelid, and Bangs, three British
officers, stationed at the West Indies, capital fellows, who finding
their time hang heavy on their hands, had procured leave of absence,
and accompanied me in my cruise, which though somewhat dangerous it is
true, still offered occasional opportunities of amusement. They were
sitting round a small table, smoking, and before them stood glasses of
brandy and water.

"Something of a fight, eh?" said Paul Gelid, a long-limbed Creole from
the Bahamas, but a warm-hearted, honorable fellow, with a drawling
voice. "Not very pleasant in the evening, I should say."

"You're a pretty fellow," retorted Aaron Bangs, "to be plaguing us
with your chatter at such an unseasonable moment as this."

Bangs had been an active and brave officer, but ease and comfort was
every thing to him, and when he could not fight, he did not like to
hear it spoken of.

Pepperpot Wagtail was a little round fellow, of an irritable
temperament, but great goodness of heart, and very scrupulous in his
dealings with mankind. He had been sick and had come on board in order
to recruit his health. I do not know how to describe his appearance
better than to compare him to an egg, to the large end of which, his
little feet were fastened.

"My dear sir," he said to Bangs, "reach me that cursed biscuit."

Bangs gave him the bowl, throwing into it some pieces of biscuit which
were as hard as stones.

All this time I was occupied with my chart. Wagtail took a piece of
the biscuit and put it into his mouth.

"Zounds! my dear Aaron," cried he, ironically, "what dentist are you
in league with? Gelid has just broken off his favorite tooth, and now
you want"--

"Bah!" replied Bangs, "don't frighten yourself; but what the deuce is
this? Wagtail, Gelid, my dear fellows, look here!"

A sailor, who was followed by the ship's surgeon, brought down on his
back, the poor fellow who had been wounded, and laid him on the table.
I must here remark that the captain's cabin in small vessels is
sometimes used as a cockpit, as it now was.

"Your pardon, captain and gentlemen," said the surgeon, "but I must,
I fear, perform an ugly operation on this poor lad, and I think it
better that you should go on deck."

I had now an opportunity of seeing what kind of mettle my friends were
made of.

"Doctor," said Bangs, pulling off his coat, "I can be of use, I know
very well--no skill, but firm nerves."

"And I," cried Wagtail, "can tie a bandage, although I am not a
surgeon."

Gelid said nothing, but when it came to the pinch was the most useful
of all. The wounded lad Wiggins, a fine young man, was weak and very
pale, but bold as a lion. A cannon shot had shivered the bone of his
leg just above the knee. Round his thigh was a tourniquet, and in
consequence he did not bleed much.

"Captain," said the poor boy, "I shall get over this. I have no great
pain, sir; I have not indeed."

All this time the surgeon was cutting his pantaloons from his leg, and
now a shocking sight presented itself to our view. The foot and leg
were blue and shrivelled, and connected with the thigh by only a small
ligament; the knee pan too was shattered. The doctor made the young
man swallow a glass of brandy, containing a strong dose of opium, and
then began to amputate the limb above the knee. As long as the knife
was used, Aaron remained firm, but when the saw grated against the
bone, he murmured with a shudder:

"I'm going on deck captain: I can't stand this--I'm sick as a dog."

He was so weak that I released him and took his place, holding Wiggins
in my arms. Wagtail, too, was soon obliged to beat a retreat, but
Gelid remained firm as a rock. The leg was amputated, the arteries
tied, and the surgeon busy in loosening the tourniquet, when suddenly
the thread which bound the principal artery, gave way, and a stream of
blood gushed forth, as if driven by an engine. The poor fellow had
hardly time to cry "Take away that cold hand from my heart!" when his
eyes grew dim, his lower jaw fell, and in a minute it was all over
with him.

"Dead as Julius Cæsar, captain," said Gelid coolly.

Dead enough, thought I, and left the cabin to go on deck. At the foot
of the companion-ladder, I stumbled over something.

"What the deuce is this?" growled I.

"It's me, sir."

"Me--and who's me?"

"Reefpoint, sir."

"Gracious God! what are you doing here youngster? You're not wounded,
I hope."

"A little, sir; a scratch from a splinter, sir. The same shot that
tripped up poor Wiggins, sent a splinter after me."

"Why don't you go to the doctor, Reefpoint?"

"I was waiting until he had finished with Wiggins, sir, but as it is
all over with him now, I'll go and have my wound dressed."

His voice grew weaker and weaker, until I could hardly understand what
he said. I took him in my arms, carried him into the cabin, and
undressed him. I found that he was wounded in the right side just
above the hip. Bangs, who in the meanwhile had got over his weakness
by the aid of a glass of water, lent his aid, and the natural goodness
of his heart now made itself apparent.

"What, Reefpoint! little reefer," he cried; "you are surely not
wounded, my dear friend--such a little fellow; why I should as soon
have thought they would have shot at a fly."

"Indeed, I am wounded, Master Bangs; look there."

Bangs examined the wound, holding the poor little midshipman in his
arms.

"God bless me!" he cried, with an outbreak of the most heartfelt
grief; "you seem more fit to be in your mother's nursery, than to be
knocked about in this way."

Reefpoint sank fainting into his arms.

"With the captain's permission you must have my bed," said Aaron to
him, whilst he and Wagtail undressed the boy with the greatest care
and tenderness, and laid him in the hammock.

"Thank you, sir," sobbed little Reefpoint, "if my mother were here,
she would thank you too."


III.

My duty called me on deck, and I heard no more. The night was very
dark, and I could see nothing of the stranger, but I steered as near
as I could in the direction I believed him to have taken, hoping to
catch a glimpse of him at daybreak. After a little while Bangs came on
deck.

"Well, captain, now that the little reefer is asleep, what do you
think of this business? A pretty large vessel, eh? We nearly had a
brush with her. I'm not particularly sorry, though, she has taken
herself off, especially as the wind has gone down."

"Ah, but my dear sir," replied I, "I don't think that we have done
with her yet. I hope to have a brush with her at daybreak."

"Now, captain, you're jesting; you don't wish that really and truly,
do you?"

"Really and truly, my dear fellow, and the only thing which troubles
me, is that you and your friends will thereby be exposed to danger."

"Bah! don't bother yourself about that, but reflect before you engage
with this slaver, how is it possible to gain any advantage over him?
Remember that he has twice as many men as we have, and eighteen guns
to our three."

"Time will show," replied I, smiling; "but I must and will fight, if I
can only get alongside of him. And now, my dear friend, as the surgeon
has left the cabin, I advise you to go down to your hammock--good
night. I fear that I must remain on deck."

"Good night, captain. Heaven guard you. I will go down and comfort my
friends."

He went below, and I continued my walk on deck, stopping every moment
to look through the nightglass, until my eyes ached. The long night
was at last over, and the light of day found me leaning against the
mast, sleeping soundly. The noise made by the sailors, in holy-stoning
the deck, woke me, and I discovered our friend of the previous night,
under full sail, about four miles to leeward of us, and evidently
striving to reach the coast of Cuba. During the night, however, we had
sailed faster than he had expected, and as we were now between him and
the island, his purpose was frustrated. When he saw that he was thus
cut off from the land, he hoisted his lower sails, fired a gun, and
run up the Spanish flag, as if he had been a vessel of war. It was now
bright day, and Wagtail, Bangs, and Gelid, were all three on deck,
washing themselves. I, myself, was standing forward by the long gun,
when Pegtop, Bangs' black servant, came to me, and said:

"Scuse me, massa captin; could ye gibe me some guns?"

"Some guns," replied I; "certainly, a half dozen of them, if you wish
it."

"Jist de number massa told me to fotch him; tank'e, massa captin."

Pegtop was very fond of this word, "massa," and could never get
accustomed to any other title used by the whites.

"Listen, friend," said I to Pegtop, "now that you have got the guns;
is your master really going to fight?"

The negro stood still, rolling his eyes, and expressing in his
countenance the greatest astonishment.
