derly, more manly, and more nearly universal 
acceptance, than any form of religious belief 
detached from natural research is now likely to 
command. Suppose that the revelation of fact 
and the revelation of faith are met together. 
Suppose that the progress of fact does not pro- 
ceed, as Spencer would have it, from evolution 
to dissolution, but from evolution through ap- 
parent dissolution to real evolution ; and that 
the splendid blossom of the greatest discovery 
of modern thought has as yet but begun to 
bud. 

We ask for this aloe, precious and perfect, 
in the name of reason, that it may be rooted 
in the hope of everlasting life, for which it is 
our honorable service to contend. 

We ask for this hope in the name of science, 
which has rendered unto nature the 
things that are nature's, but unwittingly unto 
God the things that are God's. The glory of 
the law moves on. The higher science has its 
prophets. Its scholars are to come. In an 
age when we are called upon to study " the 
sagacity and morality of plants," we may be 
justified in demanding an adaptation of sci- 




entific method to the fine fibres and hidden 
seed of the human spirit. 

If these things be so, the mind is dazzled 
by the vision of those future types of which 
both faith and science promise us so much. 
To what refinement and enforcement the high 
organizations of this present life may rise, he 
only can intelligently imagine who has the 
student's lens and the believer's eye. What 
man may be a century or two hence, what the 
average of nature with which he must contend, 
what the ideal by which he shall achieve superiority,
what, in short, the intensification of 
his entire form of strife with his conditions, 
it is only possible for us to guess by some 
conception of the fact of spiritual nature, and 
the nature of a science based upon that fact. 
What the select man, survivor of this or the 
future environment, may become in the life 
beyond, to what unimagined evolution he may 
be liable, through what supreme equilibration 
of power incapable of dissolution the rhythm 
of spiritual motion shall sweep him, who can 
say? 

Once again. We have spoken of the love 
of life as one of the constituent elements of 



life ; and, in this connection, we have observed
that death sets in with the passion for 
death. It is reasonable to suggest that in the 
higher, as in the lower life, the analogy holds. 
In the strife for eternal existence, it may be 
true that the amount of contending desire represents 
the amount of contending power ; that 
the love of eternal life, itself, bespeaks, to an 
extent, the capacity for it ; that the instincts 
or the impulses of belief are not without their 
significance, other things being equal, as salvable
agencies ; in short, that the longing to 
live forever not only carries with it the power 
to conquer the materials of duration, but indicates 
in a measure the force of the life-prin- 
ciple in the soul. A man may live forever 
because he loves his eternal life, and he loves 
his eternal life because he is to live forever. 

If, on the other hand, death sets in with the 
passion for death, may there be a significance 
invisible and invincible as a zymotic disease, 
in the reluctance to conquer immortality which 
is sometimes cultivated either as a conscious 
whim, or a supposed sign of mental strength ? 
Hume speaks, somewhere, of a " decline of 
soul." Side by side with what may be almost 



called devout unbelievers, we find men whose 
skepticism as to spiritual facts is a species of 
new game, a philosophical lawn-tennis, where- 
with to pass life's midsummer; and over against 
these, we find others still, by whom dispute 
with supernaturalism is rated as a synonym 
for force of character, and cultivated as an 
egotism rather than a consecration. May there 
not be among these cases of spiritual suicide ? 
Has he perhaps already begun to die in whom 
the tolerance of death is so indulgently regarded ? 
Is his life-principle already vitiated 
who can so idly court results which a sound 
and sane soul-vigor should abhor ? " Earnest- 
ness is the path of life," says the Dhamma- 
pada, " Thoughtlessness the path of death. 
Those who are in earnest do not die ; those 
who are thoughtless are as if dead already ! " 

Experts will tell us with what firmness, yet 
with what tenderness, the suicidal impulse is 
treated in hospitals for the insane ; how the 
unnatural passion for death is discouraged by 
exposing its unnaturalness, or by fostering 
the feeble love of life, if that be possible ; how 
gently the nature is aroused against itself; 
how surgically the diseased conditions are 




handled, and how, upon the chance of the sufferer's 
recognizing his pathological position, 
and approaching himself as his own patient, 
all his hope of cure may hang. 

It is by no means impossible that the sui- 
cidal nature of unbelief in a life to come, may 
yet find its soul-physicians in some psycholog- 
ical asylum of the future, wherein these dis- 
eases of the spirit shall be treated by a skill 
which must make our present methods of dealing
with them seem, by contrast, like the 
blood-letting and strait - jacket, the dungeons 
and the chains of the Dark Age. 

But once again : If these things be so, the 
familiar thought (even, as we have already 
seen, the familiar language) of the lower sci- 
ence has been the subject of a solemn uncon- 
scious selection in the service of that higher 
science of the soul to which we look. 

In the struggle for immortality, the position 
of the individual holds a curiously interesting 
attitude toward the elevated nature of his en- 
vironment. What is the insistence of individuality 
but the persistence of force ? Or what its 
victory but a conservation of energy ? What 
close economies there may be in spiritual 



agency, or what Law of Variation in spiritual 
inheritance, we know not. What is the 
protoplasm of spirit we can but guess. What 
supernatural selection may be at work upon 
us, we have yet to learn. 

And yet again : Supposing there to be any 
value in these thoughts, they go toward prov- 
ing the doctrine of the survival of the fittest 
a sublime and an inspired thing. If we have 
been thinking in the right direction, that is a 
doctrine which substantiates religious belief 
only less than religious belief substantiates it. 

The revelation of nature and the revelation 
of the Word confirm each other as respects 
this stimulating conception of the human 
problem. The old urgency of faith and the 
new impetus of science move upon the same 
pulley. 

Life is a proof of the power to live. Life 
is a proof of the qualification for life. We 
compete and strive, we yield or conquer, we 
adjust our individuality to our odds, we adjust 
our moral freedom to our individuality, we 
adjust our elemental love of duration to our 
moral freedom, and the lawful result abides. 
The spiritually weakest goes to the wall. The 




spiritually strongest conquers. He is the unfit 
who is beaten to death on the spiritual side of 
his nature. He is the fit survivor who saves 
his soul alive. 

What manner of man may he be who shall 
be found capable of the final survival ? Honest 
perplexity has its visions, and struggles toward 
them with noble discontent. Believing Chris- 
tianity points to her Nazarene and clings to 
the feet of the sweet and solemn ideal which 
he has carved like a statue in the world. 

Whether we have fixed our eyes upon the 
marble or the dream, the complicated nature 
of the struggle in which we are involved re- 
mains at least the one fact about which there 
can be no dispute. The finer we are, the more 
threads to our destinies. The stronger we are, 
the more strain upon our fibre. That first 
flaw of conduct which weakens our resistant 
power may find no steel fingers like those in 
the machinery of woolen-mills, which detect 
the defective threads and stop the weaving on 
the spot. 

Supernatural selection has what may be 
called an artistic task in dealing with human 
character. The materials of duration may be 



 

found in mere morality, or a martyr's fate ; 
they may pause at veracity, or fly to aspira- 
tion ; they may be sought in common human- 
ity, or hide in exalted consecration. 

Who shall say how the chance turns? At 
least, plainly, since law is justice, not against 
the paupers of heredity ; not against the poor 
devils of the world as opposed to their betters. 
Noblesse oblige in the aristocracy of nature as 
in that of accident, and the highly-born may 
run the highest risks. 

The man of many excellent qualities who 
protected himself at the expense of a woman 
— the woman of good intentions whose petty 
exactions defrauded a man of his best possibili- 
ties — might be beating the first retreat in the 
long struggle wherein the power of advance 
grows feeble faster than the consciousness of 
feebleness. The jocund entrance into the for- 
est of worldliness, wherein, before we know it, 
the soul has lost the trail — the thin coating 
of social courage which we take for moral 
armor, when it may be only a species of me- 
tallic paint — the rust of selfishness wrought 
by sorrow or disease, and worn like an orna- 
ment by our unconscious vanity — might be 



 



the sign of the weakness which should defeat 
us in the ultimate struggle for survival, under 
some tremendous moral emergency, or crushing 
spiritual strain. 

Our self-respect arises like a knight, " with- 
out fear and without reproach," to defend such 
a view of the appeal of human life to human 
strength. Magnificent and terrible that chal- 
lenge ! 

Is a man to be the weak, the worsted, the 
defective of nature ? Is he crippled, maimed, 
unable of soul ? Shall he surrender his chance 
at continuance for some inefficiency of tem- 
perament, or flabbiness of purpose, or lack of 
moral gentility ? Shall he yield to that slight 
tendency to be satisfied with an undertone in 
ideals, which may be the first step toward 
spiritual discord that must resist harmonizing 
unless in finer hands than his ? 

Shall he narcotize the nerve, or loll aw r ay 
the muscularity of a soul that had fitness in 
its power and survival at its bid ? 

All that he hath, will he not give for his 
life? 



The special ignorance of the generally edu- 
cated presents a tempting subject for study ; 
it might form the intellectual fad of a wearied 
scholar, with zest to himself and the public. 
There is a certain action of the mind, so swift 
and so easy that it might almost be called the 
toboggan tendency, to slide plump down into 
each recurrent delusion that makes a coasting- 
ground for society ; to pick itself up, find its 
bruises, climb up, and do it all over again with 
undiminished simplicity and ardor. Nowhere 
is this curious inaccuracy of civilized intelli- 
gence more evident than in questions dealing 
with religious interests. We are used to it 
even in the detail of narrative literature. 
When one of the leading authors of America, 
a few years ago, wrote of the " wardens " of 
an orthodox Congregational church, one need 
not care the less for his novels, but one might 



 



remember that lie would have found it diffi- 
cult to make an equivalent blunder upon any 
purely secular topic. So far as I know, only 
one reader, a clergyman, ever observed the 
slip. A brother novelist, of the same school, 
antedated the typewriter the other day, in 
a story, and half the critics in the country 
barked. 

The latest illustration of intellectual tobog- 
ganing lies easily in the history of the Russian 
dreamer, whose peculiarities have become the 
aesthetico-religious play-ground of the literary 
world. Tolstoi must allow himself the priv- 
ilege of many a veiled smile at the species of 
attention with which he has been honored. He 
is himself of far too sincere and strenuous a 
nature to comprehend the intellectual games 
for which he has furnished the open field. 
Shortly said, what is it that we have in the 
story of this interesting person and in his re- 
markable influence upon a certain phase of 
thought ? There is given to us a highly-edu- 
cated man with a consecrated conscience ; the 
world has known such before. He has ex- 
pressed views of truth protestant to a velvet- 
and - sealskin religion ; in this particular he 


 

does not stand alone. He has developed the 
genius of consistency; in this respect he is 
remarkable, but not original. He has tried 
to live the life of a Christian theorist ; in this 
regard he is to be reverenced ; he is not 
unique. 

The attempt to imitate the life of Christ is 
a very old experiment. It began in the del- 
icate nature of that preferred disciple whom 
we are told in literature older than " My Re- 
ligion " that the Founder of our religion 
" loved." A classic which critical culture has 
been accustomed to regard as not inferior to 
" Anna Karenina," some time since familiar- 
ized the world with principles which it might 
have missed, had it waited until such date as 
presented Count Leo Tolstoi's rising genius to 
the approval of American critics. 

Tolstoi is an earnest, intellectual man. He 
has written good books. He has lived a good 
life. He makes it his daily business to live a 
better. He has both the head and the heart 
to appreciate the supreme value of the per- 
sonality of Jesus Christ, and he has the inde- 
pendence to pursue his own interpretation of 
that transcendent life in his own way. For 



 



this he is to be admired and respected — to be 
studied, if you like. He is the latest prom- 
inent specimen of a clean departure from the 
trite in faith. 

But any educated Christian knows that the 
history of his belief presents examples of 
courage as devout, of self-sacrifice as fine, of 
consecration as stimulating, of life as Christ- 
like. We are not sure that it would be im- 
possible to find instances of interpretative 
vigor in the application of Christianity to 
affairs as worthy the attention of the realistic 
school of fiction. Even in flitting from one 
sentence to another, the mind carries flash- 
light pictures of dedicated lives dear to Chris- 
tian memory. We see the soul of Luther dar- 
ing the world — " Here I stand. I cannot 
otherwise. God help me. Amen " ; Frederick 
Robertson, popular preacher of a fashionable 
church in which the undergraduates of Oxford 
stood packed to hear him, walking the streets 
by night, a sick, a dying man, to save the 
fallen women of Brighton ; Dorothea Triidel, 
healing the sick of Switzerland with no ma- 
teria medica but that of a consecrated life and 
awful prayer; Elizabeth Frye, " visiting" her 



Master "in prison," and Christianizing the 
penal system of the world. We recall those 
select spirits who, at any cost, stood pledged 
to protect the fugitive slave of our own coun- 
try, presenting himself with the historic pass- 
word, u I was a stranger, and ye took me in." 
We speak below our breath with reverence 
the name of Father Damien, that Christian 
priest who elected to take up his abode upon 
the leper-island of the Sandwich group, and 
there, a leper, died. We see with blinding 
eyes obscure homes that we have known, in 
which are the saintly sick, the voluntary poor, 
the neighborhood nurse ; men and women who 
do not know worldly ambition when they look 
at it ; who have consumed life in an unre- 
corded passion of self-sacrifice that shames our 
parlors, that shames our libraries, that shames 
our pillows, that shames our literature, and 
that shames our pulpits "for Christ's sake, 
Amen." 

Now this Russian enthusiast, who flits from 
a shoemaker's bench to the manuscripts of 
his novels, may be far above most of us in 
his theory and practice of personal holiness ; 
this does not affect the circumstance that his 



 



standard has been equaled or excelled by bet- 
ter Christians than we are, and that the kind 
of religious deference which he has excited 
upon the part of literary criticism is in fact 
the result of imperfectly-trained vision. It is 
really nothing more than deficient education 
which has put this heavy emphasis upon the 
Sclavic idealist. We are not often reminded, 
but we cannot remember too often, that our 
critics, as a class, are not religious men, and 
that facts familiar to many minds of other- 
wise less general culture than the litterateur 
is supposed to possess, may easily be found 
out of his orbit. At the death of M. Leon 
Gozlan, no member of his family could tell 
whether he had professed the Jewish or the 
Christian religion, although he had written 
twenty volumes and fifteen comedies, and had 
edited ten newspapers. The specific ignorance 
of the irreligious intellect is natural ; it is 
almost inevitable. Our culture follows the 
line of our sympathies. A mistake now and 
then is to be expected. What is called the 
faith of the higher life has not failed to find 
disciples in intellectual circles which have wel- 
comed as " some new thing " the enthusiasm 




older than Madame Guyon, as old as the first 
Oriental dreamer who concentrated his being 
upon the mystic OM, or projected his willing 
soul toward Nirvana. There is something 
very suggestive in the tendency of a certain 
class of educated minds to find religious in- 
spiration anywhere except in the forms ac- 
cepted by the mass of Christian believers. In 
our day, spiritualism has found amazing vic- 
tims — not of the unlearned ; theosophy, in- 
credible adherents — not of the ignorant. It 
has proved more interesting that Koot Hoomi 
should appear in mid-ocean with a letter from 
India, than that Paul should be caught into 
the third heaven. Many a mind has gone rev- 
erently mad over Mozoomdar, which found no 
spiritual impetus in the Gospel of John. A 
man in New York capped the climax by sac- 
rificing an ox to Jupiter in his back-parlor. 

Now, it seems to us that the Tolstoi mania 
is, in part, another form of the same tendency. 
Canon Farrar has so well pointed out, in an 
earlier number of the " Forum," the antiquity 
of the Tolstoian experiment, that nothing re- 
mains to be said by way of historical foot-note 
