arms towards heaven, and exclaiming, " Lord have 
mercy on me !" 
II. 
Although I distinctly felt myself lifted into the air, and 
thought that all was most certainly over with me, I 
retained my perfect consciousness, and a spark of hope still 
glimmered within me. I fell into the sea in the midst of 
the ruins of my shattered vessel. When I found myself in 
the water, my courage revived wonderfully. I seemed quite 
a different man. I looked around me and perceived the 
 
mainmast upon one side of me ; clinging to this, I began 
to consider the sad destruction around m-?, " heaven," 
I sighed, " has then my beautiful ship sunk forever !" 
Wherever I turned I saw no living soul ; bait after a few 
moments, a young man emerged from the water not very 
far from me, and swam hastily. He soon reached the bro- 
ken bowsprit, which was floating near him, placed him- 
self upon it, and said to himself, "I am at least alive!" 
When I heard his voice I looked around and exclaimed, 
" God, does any one beside myself survive !" At the 
same time I recognized in him,Harman Van Kniphausen, 
a young man from Eyden. I saw near him, a stout spar, 
and as I retained my hold, only with the greatest difficulty, 
upon the main-mast, which was continually rolling over, I 
cried out to Harman: "Push that spar towards me; I will 
swim to you upon it, and we will then both seat ourselves 
upon the bowsprit." The attempt succeeded, most fortu- 
tunately, for I should not have been able to reach him 
without the spar, as I felt myself much bruised in the 
back, and had received two wounds upon the head. 
All these injuries, which I had hot felt at first, now be- 
gan to be so painfiil that I could scarcely hear or see, and 
the words broke from me, " heaven if this suffering 
increases I shall die." We swam together, both clinging 
to the bowsprit; from time to time we gazed around in 
hopes of seeing one of the boats; at last we discovered 
them, but at such a distance that we could not tell whether 
they were approaching us or sailing in a different direction. 
The sun was already near its sitting, and I said to my com- 
panion : " Friend, there is no hope for us ; we cannot pos- 
 
sibly keep our hold all night ; we must raise our souls to 
God and pray for a speedy rescue, or for perfect submis- 
sion to his will." We began to pray and our prayers were 
answered, for when we again looked around, we perceived 
the boats quite near to us, to our great joy, for we had cer- 
tainly given ourselves up for lost. 
" Save the captain !" I cried now as loudly as possible, 
and I heard shouted back from the boat, " The captain is 
still living!" They now sailed towards us as fast as pos- 
sible, but were afraid to come close to us, lest the heavy 
bowsprit should injure their boats. Harman, who had been 
very little injured by being blown up, felt strong enough 
to swim, and so was saved. " 
"If you would save me," I cried, "you must come for 
me, for I am so badly wounded that I cannot swim. The 
boatswain, a stout youth, sprang immediately into the 
water and handed me the end of a rope, which I wound 
around my body, and by the mercy of God, at last reached 
the long boat, where all wondered not a little to see me 
again. 
I lay down in the stern to recover myself a little for I 
felt so miserably that I thought my end must be fast ap- 
proaching ; my back was very painful, as were also, the 
wounds in my head. Yet, I recovered myself somewhat,' 
and said to Hein Eol and the others : " We shall do well 
to reniain near the wreck all night long, for when the day 
breaks we can certainly recover something to eat, and per- 
haps we can find a compass, which we must have, if we 
ever hope to reach land." 
Among many almost indispensable things, we wanted 
 
a compass charts, and quadrant ; our provisions, too, were 
very scanty, so great had been the haste to get away from 
the vessel. Hein Kol did not heed my advice, and con- 
tinued to sail on through the night in hopes of seeing land 
in the morning ; but when he saw this hope disappointed, 
and found the next morning that we were still far from 
the land, he remembered my advice, and the men, finding 
me yet alive, cried out to me : " Captain, what will become 
of us ? we are far from the wreck, and can discover no 
land ; we have nothing to eat or drink, and no compass or 
charts, what shall we do ?" 
" My friends," I replied, " you should have followed my 
advice, and remained all night near the wreck, for whilst  I 
was clinging to the mast I saw such quantities of things 
floating about me, that they hindered me from swimming, 
and were quite dangerous." 
With their assistance I crawled upon deck ; and when I 
saw that they were still rowing on, I asked them, " My 
friends, how much food have you ?" They pointed to a 
cask which might hold at most seven or eight pounds of 
biscuit." 
" Stop rowing," I continued, " for you will exhaust 
yourselves, and then have nothing to eat wherewith to 
recruit your strength." 
" But what shall we do ?" they asked. 
I advised them to take off" their shirts and make sails 
of them. As we had no thread, I bade them untwist 
some ends of rope that were lying about, and with these 
they sewed together, as well as they could, some small 
sails. We found that we numbered forty-eLs. in the long- 
 
boat, and twenty-six in the other. A sailor's blue jacket, 
and a cushion, which we found in the boat, were, by com- 
mon consent, accorded to me, in consideration of my 
suffering condition. The ship's surgeon was among us, 
but he had no medicines; chewed biscuit was the only 
thing that he could apply to my wounds, and in the mercy 
of God it healed them. I wished to give my shirt, like 
the others, for the sails, but they would not consent, and I 
most gratefully acknowledged the consideration with which 
I was treated. 
We rested all day long, that we might not weary our- 
eelves with rowing ; but we finished the sails, which were 
up before night. All this happened on the day after the 
shipwreck. 
We directed our course by the stars, whose rising and 
setting we observed carefully; and I drew, as well as I 
could, upon one of the planks of the deck, a chart repre- 
senting the islands of Sumatra and Java, with the straits 
between them, through which we hoped to steer. On the 
day when the ship was blown up, we were, by the most 
exact calculation, five and a half degrees south of the line 
and twenty miles from land. The nights were now so cold 
that in the mornings we were perfectly stiff, while in the 
day time we suffered from the most intense heat, for the 
sun was directly above our heads. 
The few pounds| of biscuit, which was all our store, I 
divided into rations and distributed daily among the men ; 
but we were very near the end of them, althrugh the 
piece that each one had for the whole day, was scarcely 
half a finger in size. Our supply of fresh water had failed 
 
entirely, so the first time that it rained we spresui out the 
Bail and caught the water, with which we filled two small 
casks. to serve us on days when we had no rain. But we 
were soon obliged to break into this last supply, and I 
dipped up the water in the end of a shoe ; each man came 
to me, drank his portion, and then went quickly back to 
his place. But in the midst of their thirst, the men all 
said to me, " Drink yourself, captain, as much as you 
want, for we all depend upon your Although their kind- 
ness touched me, I could not bring myself to take more 
than my share. 
Up to this time the two boats had always ket in sight 
of each other, but as the long boat sailed much faster than 
the other, the men in the latter exerted themselves to get 
nearer to us ; and, as they knew almost nothing of the 
management of a boat, entreated us to take them up into 
ours, lest they should be separated from us during the 
night. But our crew refused their request, and cried out 
to me, " Captain, if we take them in, we shall all go to 
the bottom, for the boat will not be able to sail" I could 
not prevail with them, and we were obliged to leave them 
to their fate. 
We were now miserable in the extreme. Our biscuit 
was all consumed, and we could see no land. I used all 
my powers of eloquence to convince the men that we could 
not be far from the coast of Java, and prayed them to 
hiive patience, but their patience did not last long ; they 
soon ceased to listen to me, and began to murmur and 
whisper among themselves, "Let the captain sav wliatie 
will, we are just as likely to be sailing abcut on the open 
sea as approaching the coast of Java." 
After we had fasted for a long time, and starvation 
seemed inevitable, a few sea-mews chanced to fly so near 
to us that we caught them in our hands, stripped off the 
feathers, and cut them up into little pieces, which we divi- 
ded most conscientiously; each man devoured the share 
that fell to him with the greatest avidity. As for myself, 
I thought it better than any delicacy I had evdr tasted ; 
honey had never been half so sweet to me, and we lamen- 
ted that there was no chance of our again enjoying such a 
treat. There was still no sign of land, and the men lost 
all courage, and silently awaited their fate, when the other 
boat again approached us, and the men in it renewed their 
entreaties to be taken in. As death seemed inevitable, we 
consented at least to die all together, and they left their 
boat to the mercy of the waves, bringing with them their 
thirty oars, which I arranged upon the benches, so as to 
form a kind of deck under which our seventy-two men, 
divided into two parties, alternately rested. 
In spite of all this, we were, as can easily be imagined, 
huddled very closely together, and gazed upon each other 
with the despairing expression of men who had nothing to 
"eat, no water to drink, and who could not see a bird upon 
the sea, nor a cloud in the air which might bring them 
relief. When we had given up all hope and had begun to 
prepare ouselves for death, it pleased God to reanimate our 
sinking courage once more, for a great number of flying 
Qsh sprung out of the waves and fell into the Voat ; we 
seized them eagerly, and devoured them raw, with as much 
 
enjoyment as formerly in the case of the searmews. But 
now our thirst increased fearfully, and in their despair, 
Bome of the men began to drink the water from the sea, 
although I cried out, " friends, forbear to drink the salt 
water, it will not quench your thirst and will kill you." 
Others sought refuge in the little pieces of lead and rusty 
nails that they could find in the vessel, which they chewed 
for a temporary relief. 
Our misery increased every day, and despair took pos- 
session of us, for the men cast upon each other angry, 
greedy looks, as though they longed to fall upon and 
devour one another; indeedj they soon began to speak 
openly of it, declaring that they would begin with the 
cabin-boy. Such horror seized me at this dreadful ide 
that I almost lost my courage and presence of mind. In 
this extremity I turned to God, and begged him as fer- 
vently as I could, not to permit such a horrible crime ; I 
then addressed my men, who were actually preparing to 
kill the cabin-boy, with all the earnestness, and with the 
most touching words at my command : 
"Friends, what are you about to do ? Do you not recoil 
from such a crime? Turn your thoughts to God; he 
will look in mercy upon you, and deliver you from this 
dreadful temptation, for we cannot be far from land." 
Then I showed them on the chart which I had cut on 
the deck, the spot where I believed we were, but they 
replied that I had said the same thing for many days, and 
deceived them with hopes that were never realized ; they 
could not tell whether I was deceived myself, or was only 
bent upon deceiving them. Spite of these threatening 
 
speeclies, they consentedj at my entreaty, to wait for three 
days, but swore to carry out their cruel determination if 
help did not appear at the end of that time. This decis- 
ion almost broke my heart. I redoubled my prayers, and 
implored God to have pity upon us and prevent the com- 
mission of such a crime. In the meanwhile the time flew 
by, and our hunger and thirst were so intense that they 
could scarcely be endured. 
" Ail," cried some, " if we were only on land, we could 
at least eat grass like the cattle." 
From this, one can form some idea of our fierce hunger; 
I tried to cheer up the men with the most encouraging 
words that I could think of Hope, which was decreasing 
rapidly in my breast, still sustained me, and although my 
wounds had weakened me much, and still pained me, I 
was among the strongest, and could still walk from one 
end to the other of the boat, while many could not stir 
from the spot where they were lying. 
Thirteen days had passed since the shipwreck, and our 
hope of reaching the coast of Sumatra, which I had not 
thought far distant, grew every hour more indistinct. All 
declared that our thirst was no longer to be borne, when 
the weather grew cloudy and rain began to fall; we imme- 
diately spread out the sail and laid down upon the deck 
to catch every drop that we could in our mouths, while we 
filled our casks as before. 
I was steering the vessel at this time, and according to 
my calculations, we were very near land ; I hoped that the 
weather would clear up, but it continued to rain so vio- 
lently, and I was so cold and wet that I could hold out no 
 
longer. I called to one of the sailors to relieve me, and 
crept under the deck to warm me. 
IV. 
"Land! land! Friends, we are close to the coast," 
suddenly cried the steersman, before he had been more 
than an hour at the helm, quite beside himself With joy. 
The land which we should have discovered much sooner 
in clear weather, lay really just before us, and it was a 
pleasure to see how all immediately aroused themselves, 
and came eagerly forward to see how far distant it was 
and how soon we could reach it. We spread all sail that 
we might arrive before nightfall. As we approached we 
perceived that the breakers were too strong to admit of 
our weathering them, and we discovered a little island 
where was a small bay, in which we cast anchor. The 
starved crew, gathering together all their remaining 
strength, sprang on shore, and distributed themselves 
every where, in search of something to eat; I threw 
myself upon the ground, kissed it, and gave thanks to 
God for his timely ?iid, and for having shielded us from the 
commission of so foul a crime as the men would have per- 
petrated on the following day, for this was the last of the 
days that they had promised to wait, and the cabin boy 
would have been killed on the morrow. 
We found an abundance of cocoanuts on the island, but 
no sweet water ; we were, however, quite satisfied with the 
refreshing juice of the youngest and tenderest nuts, while 
the harder ones served us for meat. We indulged too freely 
in this delicious food after our long fast, and were extremely 
ill the next day ; we rolled on the ground and shrieked 
with agony; but it did not last long, and on the following 
morning we were well again. 
We explored the island but found no food but cocoanuts, 
and encountered quite a large serpent ; we saw no human 
beings, but found traces of vessels having touched there. 
As it could not be far from Sumatra, according to our cal- 
culations, we loaded our vessel with cocoanuts and set sail 
again towards evening. The next morning, Sumatra lay 
in sight, and with a favourable breeze we bore down upon 
the coast and sailed along, looking for a harbor where we 
might land, until our provision of nuts was exhausted. 
Then, as the breakers seemed every where too strong to 
trust ourselves to them, it was decided that four or five of 
the best swimmers should attempt to reach the shore, and 
search more narrowly for a good landing place. This plan 
succeeded, and they soon arrived upon the shore of a river 
where they gave us the signal agreed upon.; we steered in 
that direction, but just at the mouth of the river there 
was a sand-bank, upon which the waves broke with great 
fury. 
" Friends," I cried, " I cannot undertake to land here 
without your unanimous consent and co-operation, for if 
the boat strikes, which is quite possible, I cannot bear the 
blame alone." 
I then asked them for their advice ; they had but one 
opinion — it was best to attempt the landing. 
" Well, then," I replied, " if you are all willing, I am 
ready to share the danger with you." 
I then placed myself at the helm, and prepared to eut 
 
directly through the breakers, but the Sni wave filled our 
boat half full with water. 
" Friends," I cried, " bale her out as quickly as possible." 
This they did as well as they could with hats, shoes, and 
the two casks that we had on board, and with such success 
that our boat was almost empty again, when a second wave 
filled it anew, so that for a while it could make no further 
progress, and was near sinking. 
" Keep her as steady as possible," I cried, " and redouble 
your exertions, or we are all lost." 
The men worked, indeed, with superhuman energy ; the 
third wave was small and did not bring us much water, 
and, as immediately afterward the sea ebbed, we passed 
safely through the raging breakers. When we had sailed 
a little further, we tried the water and found it firesh ; this 
occasioned us no little joy. We landed on the river, which 
was covered with low bushes, upon which we found a kind 
of small sweet beans, which tasted excejllently. Some of 
our people, ascending a little hill just before us, found the 
glimmering coals of a recent fire, and some tobacco, with 
which they joyfully returned. Some natives had probably 
encamped there, and had forgotten the tobacco, or left it 
there purposely. We now fell to with the axes that we 
had with us, and cut down several small trees, of which we 
made fires in five or six different places, and the crew, 
lying at their ease around them, smoked the tobacco with 
the most intense enjoyment. 
In the evening we replenished the fires, and three of us 
Kept watch to guard against an attack from the natives, 
whom we stood in great dread of, particularly as the moon 
 
was on the wane, and the night was very dark. Sea icely 
had we lam down, when the beans, which we had eaten in 
such quantities, caused us such fearful agony that we 
scarcely hoped to survive it. Just when the pain was 
most violent, our watch startled u with the cry, " The 
savages are coming !" We started up, and spite of oux 
illness, and although we had no weapons beside the two 
axes and an old rusty sword, the instinct of self-preservap 
tion gave us new courage and strength. We all with one 
accord seized the fire-brands, and ran towards the enemy ; 
the sparks, being scattered on all sides, must have pre- 
sented an imposing appearance, for the natives took to 
flight, and concealed themselves in a neighboring forest. 
Our people now assembled again around the fires, but 
the rest of the night was spent in great suffering. Hein 
Rol and I did not like the idea of remaining upon the 
land, and we betook ourselves to our craft. 
On the following morning, at sunrise, three natives ap- 
proached us from the forest, and we sent three of our peo- 
ple to meet them, who had learnt the Malay language, 
which is spoken in Sumatra. A conference was immedi- 
ately held, and the natives inquired first of all to what 
nation the strange men belonged. 
" We are Dutchmen," our men replied, " and have lost 
our vessel by fire, and have landed here to buy provisions 
of you, if you have them." 
" We have chickens and rice," they replied, to our {rreat 
satisfaction, for it was just this kind of food that we stood 
most in need of. 
During the conversation the savages drew nearer to the 
 
vessel, aiid asked inquisitively if we had any weapons with, 
us ; we answered as prudence dictated, that we were welt 
provided with them, as well as with powder and shot. As 
I had spread out the sails upon our hoat, they could not 
look in to convince themselves of the truth of our asser- 
tion. They now brought us some boiled rice and a few 
chickens, for which we paid with a few Spanish coins that 
we had in our pockets. 
" Well, my friends," I said, " let us betray no fear, but 
sit directly down, and eat what we have procured, and 
then consider what we shall next do." 
When we had finished our meal, we consulted how we 
should supply our necessities. As we were not perfectly 
sure of our whereabouts, we asked the natives to tell us 
the name of their country, and though we could neither 
understand, nor make ourselves understood perfectly, we 
gathered from them that we were really upon Sumatra, for 
when we mentioned Java, they pointed towards the south- 
east, and uttered distinctly the name of Jan Coen, who was 
the Dutch commander upon that island. We were now 
convinced that we were upon the right road, and were not 
a little rejoiced. 
Being still in need of provisions, it was determined that,, 
in order to procure them, I, with four of our men, should 
go in a light pirogue, belonging to the natives, to one of the 
nearest villages. I reached it safely, bought a good supply 
of rice and chickens, and sent them to Hein Eol to dis- 
tribute amonff the men. Then  I and my four men cooked 
 
several fowls and some rice, and eat a good hearty meal; 
we drank besides a quantity of a kind of wine made from 
the sap of a tree, so strong as to be intoxicating. "While 
eating, the inhabitants of the village sat round us, and 
fievoured with their eyes every mouthful that we took. 
After dinner I bought a buffalo, which, however, was too 
wild to be led away. As we had already wasted some 
time, I proposed to return to our friends, and leave the 
buffalo till the next day. My four sailors begged me so 
earnestly to allow them to spend the night in the village, 
assuring me that they could easily take the buffalo when 
he should lay down for the night, that although I hesitated ; 
at first, I at last consented, took leave of them, and bade 
them good night. 
"When I came to the bank of the river, where the 
pirogue lay, I encountered a multitude of savages, who 
were arguing with one another very earnestly, the point 
being, as I gathered from their gestures, whether they 
should detain me or let me go. Without a moment's 
delay I seized two of them by the arms, and pushed them 
forwards, whilst I gave them to understand by signs that 
they must row me down the river, as my servants or 
slaves. They eyed me maliciously, but were so overawed 
by my boldness that they obeyed, and entered the canoe. 
I seated myself in the middle of the boat, and the two 
savages, who both wore daggers in their girdles, took their 
places before and behind me. They had only made one 
or two strokes \yith the oars, when the one sitting behind 
me, gave me to understand, by signs, that he wanted 
money ;  I quietly put my hand in my pocket and gave 
 
him a small coin, which he looked at for some tinle, evi- 
dently undecided what to do, and finally tied it up in the 
comer of the girdle that he wore around his waist, and 
then resumed his oars. When the other savage perceived 
how his companion's request had been answered, he also 
made the same signs ; with the same coolness I drew a 
small piece of money from my pocket and handed it to 
him. He turned it over in his hand and seemed still more 
undecided than his companion, whether he should take it 
,quietly or fall upon me. He niight have overcome me 
very easily, for I was unarmed, and I felt like a lainb 
between two wolves. Heaven knows how my heart was 
beating at that moment. 
In the meantime, as the tide was ebbing we glided 
  quickly down the river, and were, about mid-day, on our 
return, when the two natives commenced a conversation 
which grew more and more earnest, and from which t 
could only too clearly understand their murderous inten- 
tions. This threw me into such a panic that I actually 
liila-embled, and I inwardly prayed most fervently that God 
would instruct me what to do in this trying emergency. 
Scarcely was my prayer ended when a voice within ine 
suggested that I should begin to sing. Althougli .i cold 
shudder was running over me, I began to sing immediately 
with all my might, so that the forests which lined the 
shore echoed again, and I discovered for the first time that 
fear will drive a man to singing. 
When my two guides heard me singing they broke out 
into peals of laughter, and I read plainly in their faces 
that they considered my conduct as a proof that I enter- 
 
tained neitner fear nor suspicion. They were, however, 
quite mistaken ; my state of mind was very different from 
what they imagined it. I sung on without interruption, 
and very soon the canoe came in sight of our vessel. I 
arose and made a sign to some of my men stationed as a 
guard along the shore ; they observed it and hastened 
towards me. My courage rose, and when they were near 
enough to lend me any assistance that I might need, I 
commanded my two oarsman to land before me, for I 
thought this the surest way of guarding against a stab 
from behind; they obeyed me without the slightest hesi- 
tation, and thus I rejoined my companions in safety. The 
savages, without betraying the least vexation at the des- 
truction of their plan, asked various questions as to where 
we stayed and slept, and after I had satisfied them by 
pointing out to them the vessel and some huts made 
of the boughs of trees, they got into their pirogue and 
rowed off. 
The night passed without any disturbance, and we all 
slept so soundly that we did not wake until long after sun 
rise. When I heard that the men whom I had left behind 
in the village, had not yet returned, I became uneasy and 
began to fear that they might have met with some acci- 
dent. A few minutes afterwards, two natives appeared in 
the distance, driving a buffalo before them ; as they came 
nearer I observed that it was not the same that I had 
bought the day before, and asked them, through a sailor, 
who understood their language, why they had made an 
exchange, and where our four men were. They replied 
fihat they had found it impossible to bring the unruly ani- 
