is gone forever. It is not his own doing that the Bradley- 
prestige is tarnished beyond any future recall. And the 
man who gave him the irremediable birthright has gone to 
his account. Ah, he could forgive Perdita now and here, 
if she loved him with the fervor and devotion that his 
mother loved his father. What curious romances there are 
in the world, what blurred and broken lives ! Yet almost 
he has won the esteem of that clear, high, unswervingly 
conscientious Regina. But if a man deceived her, she 
could kill him with her cold displeasure. Well, let them 
all go. They will not be able to wrest from him what he 
has, only — it is such a drop in the bucket. And that 
great, honest, stupid boor over there at Warwick will just 
. go on and on in the great waves of prosperity ! Yes, life 
is a queer game. 

Regina goes her way ignorant that she is watched and 
speculated upon. Through these days a soft, sweet grace 
flares up like a candle carried in the wind. It lights her, 
then wavers almost to darkness, the depths of utter humil- 
iation. She has wanted a prophet to lead her up to great 
heights, a certainty of the grand fulfilment of her ambi- 
tious, and she finds all this high climbing is a mistake of 
wasted aspiration. The heaven of satisfaction is in the 
small, daily duties well done. With a new strenuous eager- 
ness she accepts them. If through any fault or neglect of 
hers Perdita's life has been marred and set to a false 
chord, she must help to restore the disturbed harmony. 
She must be brave for her and bear cheerfully the vague 
gossip and unsatisfied wonderings, that often merge into 
unfriendly suspicions without any real ill-feeling in the 
souls of those who distribute them so carelessly. She under- 
stands that Jasper has really never loved Perdita with that 
unwearying tenderness which must be the corner-stone of 
all lasting affection. Is he not too intensely selfish, too 
much occupied with his own present pleasure, to make any- 
one permanently happy ? 



 

She has liked liiin for what he represented to her, for his 
delicate appreciation of certain refinements, and he has 
been devoted to his father, — let her give him fnll credit 
for any virtue he may possess. But she could never have 
entered into that finest of all relations with him, because, 
as she realizes now, she never wholly trusted him. There 
was an undercurrent that always disturbed the repose of 
perfect agreement. So far as that is concerned, she has no 
regrets. Yet she did realize that Perdita could no more 
satisfy that changeful, exacting, absorbing nature than ho 
could have contented her. 

It is true no one is really answerable for the child's 
unfortunate marriage. But she knows she impatiently re- 
sented Cynthia's strictures upon him, feeling assured that 
Alice Hilliard had in some way influenced her. She has 
all along been secretly protesting against this power when- 
ever she has recognized it in either sister or brother. She 
has been narrow and unjust when she thought herself 
superior. 

It really seems imperative that Perdita should be re- 
moved as soon as possible. Miss Hilliard's need of change 
is urgent, though Lois and Cynthia have spared her all the 
nursing. The delay has been partly because she hated to 
go away alone. 

" Cynthia," Regina says one morning, " mother and I 
have settled the summer plans. You are to go away with 
Miss Hilliard. In a day or two Perdita can be removed, 
and now that we have Dolly I can take her out every day 
and entertain her. You must have an entire change, or 
when autumn comes you will be quite worn out. She 
longs so to have you. And you have earned a larger 
reward than any you can possibly obtain." 

A soft light shines in her eyes, and her voice is so ten- 
derly persuasive that it touches the younger. 

" But oh — are you quite sure " — 

"Quite," Regina answers decisively. "You must agree 
to let me do a little when you have done so much." 

" But it has pleased me," returns Cynthia brightly, " and. 





I've thougM, Re, that I never could have stayed at home in 
that little round and kept as sweet and gracious as you 
have done." 

"The little round has taught me some grand lessons," 
Regina says with a humility quite new to Cynthia. " I 
found I had been mistaken in many things, — that one has 
no right to live for purely selfish aims and advancements." 

" You were not selfish, Regina " — Cynthia is amazed. 

" It was that most dangerous form of selfishness, the 
desire to thrust beyond the pale of consideration every- 
thing that did not come up to one's standard. A hard and 
bitter reformer I should have made truly," she says with a 
fine contempt. "But I have done with all that forever, I 
trust. And I am quite willing to take up what I once dis- 
dained, learning to give what will comfort others and per- 
haps make them happier. I shall try with Perdita. I 
shall devote my life to her and mother," she cries with a 
long, passionate breath, and she looks beautifully heroic. 
" For after all, you see, Cynthia, I have only the gifts of an 
ordinary woman, and I can do nothing greater than to adorn 
womanhood. I have given up all my dreams. It is you 
who will be the moving power, you with all your outflow- 
ing love and rich capacities. I shall make myself con- 
tent." 

The tears quiver over Cynthia's eyes like the pulsing 
tide of wind-blown waves. She smiles through them, her 
joy comes so quickly to the surface. Her arms are about 
Regina and their lips meet in fond affection. 

" I feel like a fraud ! " cries Cynthia with a half-sobbing 
laugh. "I can't get over the consciousness that I have 
taken something belonging to you." 

" You could not have taken unless God gave. I have 
been steadfastly fighting for what he withheld, and have 
gained nothing — yes, that greater truth, willingness to 
accept what is. And with His help I shall go my way 
loyally." 

" Re, do yon know, I think a beautiful woman could be a 
great power in the world ? There is something so win- 



 

ring, so compelling, in beauty. If you had been holding 
yourself above all other women on the strength of that 
regal gift, if you had . been haughty and exclusive because 
you were beautiful, I could have understood that. But we 
see that money and birth give only a sort of fictitious value 
after all. I am not despising either wheu they have 
wrought a good work, but it seems to me in their poverty 
and barrenness they are like the rocks and ' faults ' in the 
iron veins, they only serve to bar true progress. You have 
to overturn them to get at what is really good. The great 
thing is whether one can be of service to the world, eveu 
if it is only a little world with a few people in it." 

" We have rambled from oar text," says Regina, wonder- 
ing how Cynthia came by this wisdom for which she has 
been making a hard fight. " It is that you will accompany 
Miss Hilliard without a demur. Mother considers it abso- 
lutely necessary." 

" And you will stay at home " — ' Cynthia feels that she 
ought to be queening it somewhere. " Oh, if it wasn't for 
Perdita — but we are all agreed, I think, that she cannot 
be trusted .to Jasper Bradley again. And if the suit is 
decided against him, I do not think he will want to be bur- 
dened with her, although he has her part of the fortune 
in his hands. See how mistaken we have all been in him ! 
Everybody was charmed with him last summer. Wliy, he 
could -have married almost any one ! " the girl declares 
incisively. " I dare say more than one envied poor little 
Perdita. I think if there had been a real engagement all 
this would not have happened. So you see that scores one 
for the conventionalities of society. I'm coming to believe 
in them. No doubt I shall turn into quite an aristocrat 
when I mount my pinnacle of fame," and she laughs with 
the overflow of her sunny nature. 

Miss Hilliard is gratified beyond measure. Cynthia's 
year has been too much of a drain not to have some recu- 
perative influences before she begins work again. Winter- 
burne has been studying seaside resorts, where there can 
be the beneficial tonic of society and interest, without the 
mad i-nsh of fashion nnd dissipation. 





He drives Eegina down to the station that evening. This 
sad incident has brought them curiously together again, 
has served for the first time in their acquaintanceship to 
give a subtile definiteness to their positions. Perhaps it is 
because he has the greater assurance of success in many 
ways that he takes the kind of manful authority he has 
displayed so very slightly heretofore. If she wanted to 
resist there would be no opportunity, but she is not so cer- 
tain of any of her premises as she was six months ago. 
She has done him a great injustice. It is not of the kind 
one can frankly explain and regret, she must live out of it 
in certain delicate substitutions to preserve her own self- 
respect. What it may mean to him she does not inquire. 
She has answered his question so definitely, she is so dif- 
ferent from his preconceived ideals of her that she fully 
believes he is disfranchised from all that old fancy. 

They talk over the plans about Perdita. 

"I am glad you decided Cynthia's pleasure," he says, 
with the little touch of gratefulness implying the favor 
done him personally. " It will be of great benefit to her 
as well as my sister. They are coming to be quite insep- 
arables. I believe tiiey are planning a book together." 

A touch of jealousy wrings Kegina's soul, the old ardent 
longing for the place she will never fill. She cannot now 
be Miss Hilliard's dearest friend, and she has a strange, 
unsatisfied desire to have some one stand in this most 
delightful place to her. 

" Yes, Cynthia needed it," she says. " She has been so 
brave, our mainstay through this unfortunate time. You 
have been very generous to our poor Perdita " — Her 
voice trembles a little. 

"I owed her some reparation, and — you all," he pro- 
ceeds with a slight hesitation. -•' It was my decision that 
brought about this utterly unexpected event. When the 
forgery was first discovered Mr. Sayre appealed to me as 
to what course it was best to pursue. I could not think of 
any reason why the lawful, legal, just method should not 
at once be adopted. In any event, the Bradleys would re- 



 

tain half. It was not because / was grasping " — His 
eager face flushes in his own defence. 

She colors a little, and turns her face slightly, but it 
only serves to bring out the beautiful rounding of cheek 
and chin and the fine slope of the neck. 

" You see," he continues, " Perdita could not have gone 
on with this terrible half-knowledge between them. Mr. 
Sayre's letter and notice only precipitated what must have 
happened a little later. If Perdita belonged to me I should 
be thankful it came so soon, without any more real suffer- 
ing. I shall always take a peculiar interest in her, and if 
there should arise any after-difficulties I hope you will 
allow me to keep a brother's place and authority over her. 
We are all so linked in together, — all human souls, that 
the wrong-doing of one reaches much farther than another 
is apt to imagine." 

" Oh," Begina responds after some consideration. Surely 
she cannot disparage his motives. It is not simply a mat- 
ter affecting her wishes or desires, it is her mother's rights, 
and she would have no prerogative of decision. 

" Well," after a long silence, " have I banned myself out 
forever? Have I brought about an. irreparable misfor- 
tune ? " 

He does not glance her way now. She shall answer 
quite by herself. 

" You did what was right," she returns slowly. " I do 
not see what other step you could have taken, unless the 
far-fetched one of misplaced generosity." 

" Mr. Sayre would have taken it up on your mother's 
behalf. I do not think you could have prevented it in any 
event.. But I am glad " — 

The train is coming in. Both know what the ending of 
the sentence would be, that she is not offended, though he 
must be identified largely with the trouble, and in a cer- 
tain manner it gives him friendly rights which he might 
not have gained otherwise. 

As she is being whirled along the picturesque riverside 
a sentence of Jasper Bradley's recurs to her.  he set 





Cynthia in the place Once offered to her ? She has won it 
fairly. Since all the good gifts of fortune gravitate to her 
— Well, her own life and her own duties are mapped out. 

Norman Winterburne has a strange new light in his eyes 
wlien he returns. They talk over the plans, and he answers 
the proposal they have had under consideration. He will 
make little excursions to them as opportunity oifers, but 
he cannot be absent long at a time. They are to finish 
their preparations with what speed they can, for the summer 
will wane before they have laid in a sufficient supply of 
ozone. To-morrow or the next day he will take Perdita to 
Beverly, as the physician thinks she can stand the removal. 

He sends Alice to bed. Lois has the tea dishes out of 
the way and goes up with her. 

" Come out for a walk," he says to Cynthia in his insist- 
ent man's fashion. " You are getting pale and heavy-eyed, 
and we cannot afford to have you dropping down. You 
-are the chief corner-stone ; " and his face is alight with a 
tender radiance that appears , only in moments of great 
satisfaction. 

Cynthia's pulses speed to a certain delightful thrill. She 
has come to be o« such friendly terms — is it merely 
friendly ? The appreciation touches her. It is so simply 
direct, so honest, with none of the introverted meanings 
that mystify her in some others. 

" You and Regina must have agreed excellently, " she 
says with a mirthful intonation. 

" Why, can you tell when we do not agree ? " he asks 
with nervous apprehension. 

" There is always something in the air. The polarity is 
disturbed. Regina is a circle of attraction and repulsion ; 
that is, some uncomprehended thing, very slight indeed, 
may touch the rim with the power of repulsion. She isn't 
always conscious of it, either. And I know she is trying 
to live outside of it. Complex natures take a long while to 
settle." 

" We were talking of Perdita. I wanted her to know — 
I have been meaning to tell her that I was at the bottoin 
of this "Teat trouble " 



 

"N"o, you were not," cries Cynthia incisively. "You 
surely did not tell her that ? " and she stops surprised. 

" She understood at once." 

" You feel that if it had been left to Eegina she would 
have given up our part of the money rather than have 
stirred in a matter likely to make a scandal! Kemember 
she would not have had the right. The money, if it is 
again awarded to us, is mothei-'s. Still, I am glad she 
had no voice in the matter. It is against her traditions 
that any member of a family two centuries old should 
forge a will or appropriate what was not his. Virtues are 
not always handed down in one groove. And I tliink if 
anything, the punishment should be greater. But she has a 
curiously conscientious tenderness for Perdita that will out- 
weigh all other considerations. She almost blames herself 
for the marriage. I think at that time she was endeavor- 
ing to detach Perdita from Jasper. I cannot see that it 
was any one's fault. We all liked him a good deal, but we 
should have taken time to examine into the fitness, the 
suitability, of such a step. Regina had no hand in forward- 
ing it, not as much as I. And I wish she hadn't this morbid 
conscientiousness about things. She ought to be set in a 
great open space where the sun could shine all around her, 
where there wasn't even a swinging bough to make a 
shadow." 

" Yes," laughing softly at the conceit. 

" I am thankful tjjere wasn't any difference of opinion," 
Cynthia appends archly. "As we shall have to depend 
somewhat upon you for an unbiassed rendering of affairs, I 
am glad a sort of friendly understanding has been estab- 
lished. It has always puzzled me that you and Regina, as 
relatives, have been keyed on rather discordant octaves. 
Why, I wonder ? " 

She turns suddenly in her quick way and faces him. 
There is no moon, but the great golden planets are shining 
in their sea of blue. The summer night air is rare and fine, 
— that wonderful transparency in which you can see a leaf 
stir. And his face has in it a sudden tremulous scarlet ; a 





speechless force of questioning, insistent passion lights his 
eyes. 

" Are we — do you think us so very discordant ? Ave 
there no grand thirds and fifths in human lianuonies ? 
Does it not come to be understood after a while ? " 

He is not talking to her. It is a confession to the stars, 
a whispering into the bland airs of the night that they 
alone may carry the sacred knowledge. Like a far flash it 
comes to Cynthia, — this thing she has half-suspected in a 
girlish fashion, doubted because it did not hold in it her 
preconceived elements of love, come to disbelieve in it at 
last, — to fancy him free from any lingering regard. Has 
there been anything more ? 

"Yes," be says with a sudden brusque alternation in 
tone, " are we so very discordant ? " 

It was as if he resented it. Cynthia feels a strong shiver 
seize her in spite of the warm summer air. This knowl- 
edge has come upon her with such an overwhelming force 
that she can only brace herself mentally. Her shattered 
resources do not at first admit of an answer. 

" Nothing is quite hopeless to a man until the end of 
life," he says softly. "And whatever I wanted, what- 
ever point of agreement was worth striving for, I should 
never give up until convinced beyond a peradventure. 
Are we talking nonsense ? " with his wholesome, tender 
laugh. Then he draws her hand just a trifle through his 
arm and they walk on in silence for some minutes. 

"We shall all befriend Perdita," he says presently. 
" She is very young, and I cannot believe this unfortuiiale 
marriage is to blight her whole life. But I would as soon 
place her in the lair of some prowler of the wilderness as 
to send her back to Jasper Bradley. I do not believe he 
will ever ask it. He has made no further effort that I can 
leam. How does he know where she is — whether in want 
or suffering or lying dead somewhere ? " 

The picture of him in his grace and beauty, in his curious 
golden lights, comes up before Cynthia. His devotion to 
his father, his kindly, touching attentions to her mother, 




the many charming theories, half-beliefs, delightful quali- 
ties ; and one other remembrance that touches her sweet 
nature with a kind of acrid temper, — Hegina has preferred 
him to Winterburne, has not hesitated to subtly place the 
latter on that lower round when he should have reigned a 
king. 

" Regina is stirred with profound tenderness for the 
poor little girl," he says in that delicate approval, alrhost 
like a stab to Cynthia. Has no one else been tender ? 

Cynthia is curiously unresponsive. To-night of all 
nights he longs to hear the tender praise, the soft, excusing 
words that fall so readily from the younger's lips. There 
is a vague sense of loss, an uncomprehended disturbance in 
the fine sympathy she has been wont to give. 

" Are you tired ? " he asks presently in that sweet inde- 
scribable tone. " Your steps lag a little. I ought not 
have brought you out. You must not let me blunder so in 
seeking my own pleasure." 

He turns her round. The rest of the talk is about the 
six weeks when he shall have none of the charming home 
life that he declares has spoiled both him and Arinitage. 
Jason Prall and his wife are sitting side by side in the 
starlight on the step of the back porch, — the wanderers 
have come through the garden. Cynthia stares a little 
blindly at these commonplace people, who have cared for 
each other nearly forty years with no wide range of senti- 
ment. 

She looks in at Perdita who is sleeping restlessly with 
one thin arm over her head. Lois sits nodding. Alice is 
in her bed, a white ghost. 

" Come and tell me if you had a nice walk," she says 
cordially, holding out one hand. 

" I believe I was too tired to enjoy it." 

Cynthia's tone is weary, the clasp of her fingers languid. 

" You poor child. I am afraid we haven't half consid- 
ered you, doing double duties everywhere. When we are 
away by ourselves " — 

"Yes." Cynthia gives a feeble little laugh and says 





good-night.- The story that Alice has counted on — she 
can see everything in this sharp second sight, — will never 
be hers to tell. 

Cynthia Hal ford sits by the open window in a wide 
wakefulness she has rarely linown before. It seems as if 
she would never sleep again. Like a picture, the summer 
passes before her, the sweet summer that can never come 
again, the vague beatitude that can have no name. It has 
