On the whole, you had better find something to say, and say it--verse,
if possible. They say you have a knack at verses."

"Carnival meeting Lent," said Ghisleri, thoughtfully. Then he laughed.
"I will try--though I am no poet. I will trust a little to my acting to
help my lame feet."

Ghisleri laughed again, as though an amusing idea had struck him. That
night he went home early, and as very often happened, in a bad humour
with himself and with most things. He was a very unhappy man, who felt
himself to be always the centre of a conflict between opposing passions,
and he had long been in the habit of throwing into a rough, impersonal
shape, the thoughts that crossed his mind about himself and others, when
he was alone at night. Being, as he very truly said, no poet, he quickly
tore up such odds and ends of halting rhyme or stumbling prose, either
as soon as they were written, or the next morning. Whatever the form of
these productions might be, the ideas they expressed were rarely feeble
and were indeed sometimes so strong that they might have even shocked
some unusually sensitive person in the gay set.

Being, as has been said, in a bad humour on that particular evening, he
naturally had something to say to himself on paper, and as he took his
pencil he thought of Gouache's suggestion. In a couple of hours he had
got what he wanted and went to sleep. The great artist liked the verses
when Ghisleri read them to him on the following day, the Contessa
consented to act the part of the nun, and the affair was settled.

It was a great success. Gouache's wife, Donna Faustina, had entered into
her husband's plans with all her heart. She was of the Montevarchi
family, sister to the Marchesa di San Giacinto, the latter's husband
being a Saracinesca, as every Italian knows. Gouache did things in a
princely fashion, and sixty people, including all the gay set and a few
others, sat down to the dinner which Anastase was pleased to call a
supper. Every one was very gay. Almost every one was in some fancy dress
or mask, there was no order of precedence, and all were placed where
they would have the best chance of amusing themselves. The halls of the
studio, with their magnificent tapestries and almost priceless objects
of art, were wonderful to see in the bright light. Many of the costumes
were really superb and all were brilliant. No one knew what was to take
place after supper, but every one was sure there was to be dancing, and
all were aware that it was the last dance before Easter, and that the
best dancers in Rome were all present.

One of the halls had been hastily fitted up as a theatre, with a little
stage, a row of footlights, and a background representing a dark wall,
with a deep archway in the middle, like the door of a church. When every
one was seated, a deep, clear voice spoke out a little prologue from
behind the scenes, and the figures, as they were described, moved out
from opposite sides of the stage to meet and group themselves before the
painted doorway. Let prologue and verse speak for themselves.

"It was nearly midnight--the midnight that ends Shrove Tuesday and
begins Ash Wednesday, dividing Carnival from Lent. I left the tables,
where all the world of Rome was feasting, and pretending that the feast
was the last of the year. The brilliant light flashed upon silver and
gold, dyed itself in amber and purple wine, ran riot amongst jewels, and
blazed upon many a fair face and snowy neck. The clocks were all
stopped, lest some tinkling bell should warn men and women that the day
of laughter was over, and that the hour of tears had struck. But I,
broken-hearted, sick in soul and weary of the two months' struggle with
evil fate, turned away from them and left them to all they loved, and to
all that I could never love again.

"I passed through the deserted ball-room, and my heart sank as I thought
of what was over and done. The polished floor was strewn with withered
blossoms, with torn and crumpled favours from the dance, with shreds of
gauze and lace; many chairs were overturned; the light streamed down
like day upon a great desolation; the heated air was faint with the sad
odour of dead flowers. There was the corner where we sat, she and I,
to-night, last week, a week before that--where we shall never sit again,
for neither of us would. I shivered as I went out into the night.

"Through the dark streets I went, not knowing and not caring whither,
nor hearing the tinkling mandolines and changing songs of the revellers
who passed me on their homeward way."

At this point a mandoline was really heard in the very faintest tones
from behind the scenes, playing scarcely above a whisper, as it were,
the famous "Tout pour l'amour" waltz of Waldteuffel.

"Suddenly," the voice resumed, above the delicate notes of the
instrument, "the bells rang out and I knew that my last Carnival was
dead." Here deep-toned bells struck twelve, while the mandoline still
continued. "Then, all at once, I was aware of two figures in the gloom,
advancing towards the door of a church in front of me. The one was a
woman, a nun in white robe and black hood, whose saintly violet eyes
seemed to shine in the darkness. The other was a monk."

The Contessa dell' Armi came slowly forward, her pale, clear face lifted
and thrown into strong relief by the black head-dress, grasping a heavy
rosary in her folded hands. Behind her came San Giacinto, recognisable
only by his colossal stature, his face hidden in the shadow of a black
cowl. Both were admirable, and a murmur of satisfaction ran through the
room.

"As they reached the door," continued the reader, "a wild train of
maskers broke into the street."

Ghisleri entered from the opposite side, arrayed somewhat in the manner
of Mephistopheles, a mandoline slung over his shoulder, on which he was
playing. Donna Adele and a dozen others followed him closely, in every
variety of brilliant Carnival dress, dancing forward with tambourines
and castanets, their eyes bright, their steps cadenced to the rhythm of
the waltz tune which now broke out loud and clear--fair young women with
flushed cheeks, all life, and motion, and laughter; and young men
following them closely, laughing, and talking, and singing, all dancing
in and out with changing steps. Then all at once the music died away to
a whisper; the nun and the monk stood back as though in horror against
the church door, while the revellers grouped themselves together in
varied poses around them, Ghisleri the central figure in the midst,
bowing with a diabolical smile before the white-robed nun.

"In front of all," said the voice again, "stood one whose face I shall
never forget, for it was like my own. The features were mine, but upon
them were reflected all the sins of my life, and all the evil I have
done. I thought the other revellers did not see him."

Again the music swelled and rose, and the train of dancers passed on
with song and laughter, and disappeared on the opposite side of the
stage. Ghisleri alone stood still before the saint-like figure of the
Contessa dell' Armi, bowing low and holding out to her a tall red glass.

"He who was like me stayed behind," continued the reader, "and the light
from his glass seemed to shine upon the saintly woman's face, and she
drew back as though from contamination, to the monk's side for
protection. I knew her face when I saw it--the face I have known too
long, too well. Then he who was like me spoke to her, and the voice was
my own, but as I would have had it when I have been worst."

As the reader ceased Ghisleri began to speak. His voice was strong, but
capable of considerable softness and passionate expression, and he did
his best to render his own irregular verses both intelligible and moving
to his hearers, in which effort he was much helped by the dress he wore
and by the gestures he made use of.

   "So we meet at the last! You the saint, I the time-proved sinner;
    You the young, I the old; I the world-worn, you the beginner;
    At the end of the season here, with a glass of wine
    To discuss the salvation and--well--the mine and thine
    Of all the souls we have met this year, and dealt with,
    Of those you have tried to make feel, and those I've felt with:
    Though, after all, dear Saint, had we met in heaven
    Before you got saintship, or I the infernal leaven
    That works so hot to kill the old angel in me--
    If you had seen the world then, as I was able to see
    Before Sergeant-Major Michael gave me that fall,--
    Not a right fall, mind you, taking the facts in all,--
    We might have been on the same side both. But now
    It is yours to cry over lost souls, as it's mine to show them how
    They may stumble and tumble into the infernal slough.
    So here we are. Now tell me--your honour true--
    What do you think of our season? Which wins? I? You?
    Ha, ha, ha! Sweet friend, you can hardly doubt
    The result of this two months' hard-fought wrestling bout.
    I have won. You have lost the game. I drive a trade
    Which I invented--perhaps--but you have made.
    Without your heaven, friend Saint, what would be my hell?
    Without your goodness, could I hope to do well
    With the poor little peddler's pack of original sin
    They handed me down, when they turned me out to begin
    My devil's trade with souls. But now I ask
    Why for eternal penance they gave me so light a task?
    You have not condescended from heaven to taste our carnival feast,
    But if you had tasted it, you would admit at least
    That the meats were passably sweet, and might allure
    The nicest of angels, whose tastes are wholly pure.
    Old friend--I hate you! I hate your saintly face,
    Your holy eyes, your vague celestial grace!
    You are too cold for me, whose soul must smelt
    In fires whose fury you have never felt.
    But come, unbend a little. Let us chatter
    Of what we like best, of what our pride may flatter,--
    Salvation and damnation--there's the theme--
    Your trade and mine--what I am, and what you seem.
    Come, count the souls we have played for, you and I,
    The broken hearts you have lost on a careless jog of the die,
    Hearts that were broken in ire, by one short, sharp fault of the head,
    Souls lifted on pinions of fire, to sink on wings of lead.
    We have gambled, and I have won, while you have steadily lost,
    I laughing, you weeping your senseless saintly tears each time you
      tossed.
    So now--give it up! Dry your eyes; your heaven's a dream!
    Sell your saintship for what it is worth, and come over--the Devil's
      supreme!
    Make Judas Iscariot envy the sweets of our sin--
    Poor Judas, who ended himself where I could have wished to begin!
    A chosen complexion--hell's fruit would not have been wasted
    Had he lived to eat his fill at the feast he barely tasted.
    Ah, my friend, you are horribly good! Oh! I know you of old;
    I know all your virtues, your graces, your beauties; I know they are
      cold!
    But I know that far down in the depths of your crystalline soul
    There's a spot the archangel physician might not pronounce whole.
    There's a hell in your heaven; there's a heaven in my hell. There we
      meet.
    What's perdition to you is salvation to me. Ah, the delicate sweet
    Of mad meetings, of broken confessions, of nights unblest!
    Oh, the shadowy horror of hate that haunts love's steps without rest,
    The desire to be dead--to see dead both the beings one hates,
    One's self and the other, twin victims of opposite fates!
    How I hate you! You thing beyond Satan's supremest temptation,
    You creature of light for whom God has ordained no damnation,
    You escape me, the being whose searing hand lovingly lingers
    On the neck of each sinner to brand him with five red-hot fingers!
    You escape me--you dare scoff at me--and I, poor old pretender,
    Must sue for your beautiful soul with temptation more tender
    Than a man can find for a woman, when night in her moonlit glory
    Silvers a word to a poem, makes a poem of a commonplace story!
    So I sue here at your feet for your soul and the gold of your heart,
    To break my own if I lose you--Lose you? No--do not start.
    You angel--you bitter-sweet creature of heaven, I love you and hate
      you!
    For I know what you are, and I know that my sin cannot mate you.
    I know you are better than I--by the blessing of God!--
    And I hate what is better than I by the blessing of God!
    What right has the Being Magnificent, reigning supreme,
    To wield the huge might that is his, in a measure extreme?
    What right has God got of his strength to make you all good,
    And me bad from the first and weighed down in my sin's leaden hood?
    What right have you to be pure, my angel, when I am foul?
    What right have you to the light, while I, like an owl,
    Must blink in hell's darkness and count my sins by the bead--
    While you can get all you pray for, the wine and the mead
    Of a heavenly blessing, showered upon you straight--
    Because you chance to stand on the consecrate side of the gate?
    Ah! Give me a little nature, give me a human truth!
    Give me a heart that feels--and falls, as a heart should--without
      ruth!
    Give me a woman who loves and a man who loves again,
    Give me the instant's joy that ends in an age of pain,
    Give me the one dear touch that I love--and that you fear--
    And I will give my empire for the Kingdom you hold dear!
    I will cease from tempting and torturing, I will let the poor sinner
      go,
    I will turn my blind eyes heavenward and forget this world below,
    I will change from lying to truth, and be forever true--
    If you will only love me--and give the Devil his due!"

It had been previously arranged that at the last words the nun should
thrust back his Satanic majesty and take refuge in the church. But it
turned out otherwise. As he drew near the conclusion, Ghisleri crept
stealthily up to the Contessa's side, and threw all the persuasion he
possessed into his voice. But it was most probably the Contessa's love
of surprising the world which led her to do the contrary of what was
expected. At the last line of his speech, she made one wild gesture of
despair, and threw herself backward upon Ghisleri's ready arm. For one
moment he looked down into her white upturned face, and his own grew
pale as his gleaming eyes met hers. With characteristic presence of
mind, San Giacinto, the monk, bent his head, and stalked away in holy
horror as the curtain fell.




CHAPTER IV.


As the curtain went down, a burst of applause rang through the room. The
poetry, if it could be called poetry, had assuredly not been of a high
order, and as for the sentiments it expressed, a good number of the
audience were more than usually shocked. But the whole thing had been
effective, unexpected, and striking, especially the ending, over which
the world smacked its lips.

"I do not like it at all," said Laura Carlyon to Arden, as they left the
seats where they had sat together through the little performance.

"They looked very well," he answered thoughtfully. "As for what he said,
it was Ghisleri. That is the man's character. He will talk in that way
while he does not believe a word he says, or only one out of ten."

"Then I do not like his character, nor him," returned the young lady,
frankly. "But I should not say it to you, dear, because he is your best
friend. He shows you all the good there is in him, I suppose, and he
shows us all the bad."

"No one ever said a truer thing of him," said Arden, limping along by
her side. "But I admire the man's careless strength in what he does."

"It is easy to use strong language," replied Laura, quietly. "It is
quite another thing to be strong. I believe he is weak, morally
speaking. But then, how should I know? One only guesses at such things,
after all."

"Yes, it is all guess-work. But I think I understand him better to-night
than before."

A moment later the sound of dance music came from the most distant and
the largest of the rooms. Ghisleri and the Contessa dell' Armi were
already there. She was so slight of figure, that she draped her nun's
dress over her gown, and had only to drop it to be herself again. They
took a first turn together, and Ghisleri talked softly all the time as
he danced.

"Shockingly delightful--the whole thing!" exclaimed Donna Adele,
watching them. "How well they acted it! They must have rehearsed very
often."

"Quite often enough, I have no doubt," said the Marchesa di San
Giacinto, with a laugh.

An hour or two passed away and Laura Carlyon found herself walking about
with Ghisleri after dancing with him. He was a very magnificent
personage in his scarlet, black and gold costume, and Laura herself
looked far more saintly in her evening gown than the Contessa dell' Armi
had looked in the dress of a nun. The two made a fine contrast, and some
one said so, unfortunately within hearing of both Adele Savelli and
Maddalena dell' Armi. The latter turned her cold face quickly and looked
at Laura and Ghisleri, but her expression did not change.

"What a very uncertain person that dear Ghisleri is!" observed Donna
Adele to Pietrasanta, as she noticed the Contessa's movement. She spoke
just so loud that the latter could hear her, then turned away with her
companion and walked in the opposite direction.

Meanwhile Ghisleri and Laura were together. The young girl felt an odd
sensation as her hand lay on his arm, as though she were doing something
wrong. She did not understand his life, nor him, being far too young and
innocent of life's darker thoughts and deeds. She had said that she
disliked him, because that seemed best to express what she felt--a
certain vague wish not to be too near him, a certain timidity when he
was within hearing which she did not feel at other times.

"You did not mean any of those things you said, did you, Signor
Ghisleri?" she asked, scarcely knowing why she put the question.

"I meant them all, and much more of the same kind," answered Pietro,
with a hard laugh.

"I am sorry--I would rather not believe it."

"Why?"

"Because it is not right to think such things, nor even to say them in a
play."

Ghisleri looked at her in some surprise. Laura felt a sort of impulse of
conscience to say what she thought.

"Ah! you are horribly good!" laughed Ghisleri, quoting his own verse.

Laura felt uncomfortable as she met his glance. He really looked very
Satanic just then, as his eyebrows went up and the deep lines deepened
between his eyes and on his forehead.

"Either one believes or one does not," she said. "If one does--" She
hesitated.

"If one does, does it follow that because God is good to you, He has
been good to me also, Miss Carlyon?"

His expression changed, and his voice was grave and almost sad. Laura
sighed almost inaudibly, but said nothing.

"Will you have anything?" he asked indifferently, after the short pause.
"A cup of tea?"

"Thanks, no. I think I will go to my mother."

Ghisleri took her to the Princess's side and left her.

"You seemed to be having a very interesting conversation with Miss
Carlyon just now," said the Contessa dell' Armi as he sat down beside
her a quarter of an hour later. "What were you talking about?"

"Sin," answered Ghisleri, laconically.

"With a young girl!" exclaimed the Contessa. "But then--English--"

"You need not raise your eyebrows, nor talk in that tone, my dear lady,"
replied Ghisleri. "Miss Carlyon is quite beyond sarcasms of that sort.
Since you are curious, she was telling me that it was sinful to say the
things you were good enough to listen to in the tableau, even in a
play."

"Ah? And you will be persuaded, I dare say. What beautiful eyes she has.
It is a pity she is so clumsy and heavily made. Really, has she got you
to promise that you will never say any of those things again--after the
way I ended the piece for you?"

"No. I have not promised to be good yet. As for your ending of the
performance, I confess I was surprised."

"You did not show it."

"It would hardly have been in keeping with my part, would it? But I can
show you that I am grateful at least."

"For what?" asked the Contessa, raising her eyebrows again. "Do you
think I meant anything by it?"

"Certainly not," replied Ghisleri, with the utmost calmness. "I suppose
your instinct told you that it would be more novel and effective if the
Saint yielded than if she played the old-fashioned scene of crushing the
devil under her foot."

"Would you have let yourself be crushed?"

"By you--yes." Ghisleri spoke slowly and looked steadily into her eyes.

The Contessa's face softened a little, and she paused before she
answered him.

"I wish I knew--I wish I were sure whether I really have any influence
over you," she said softly, and then sighed and looked away.

It was very late when the party broke up, though all had professed the
most positive intention of going home when the clock struck twelve. The
Princess of Gerano offered Arden a seat in her carriage, and Pietro
Ghisleri went away alone. As he passed through the deserted dining-room,
and through the hall where he had sat so long with the Contessa, he
could not help glancing at the corner where they had talked, and he
thought involuntarily of the prologue to the tableau. His face was set
rather sternly, but he smiled, too, as he went by.

"It is not my last Carnival yet," he said to himself, as he drew on a
great driving-coat which covered his costume completely. Then he went
out.

It is very hard to say whether he was a sentimental man or not. Men who
write second-rate verses when they are alone, generally are; but, on the
other hand, those who knew him would not have allowed that he possessed
a grain of what is commonly called sentimentality. The word probably
means a sort of vague desire to experience rather fictitious emotions,
with the intention of believing oneself to be passionate by nature, and
in that sense the weakness could not justly be attributed to Ghisleri.
But on this particular night he did a thing which many people would
undoubtedly have called sentimental. He turned aside from the highway
when he left the great palace in which Gouache lived, and he allowed
himself to wander aimlessly on through the older part of the city, until
he stopped opposite to the door of a church which stood in a broad
street near the end of the last by-way he had traversed. The night was
dark and gloomy and the stillness was only broken now and then by a
distant snatch of song, a burst of laughter, or the careless twang of a
guitar, just as Ghisleri had described it. Indeed it was by no means the
first time that he had walked home in the small hours of Ash Wednesday
morning, after a night of gaiety and emotion.

It chanced that the church upon which he had accidentally come was the
one known as the Church of Prayer and Death. It stands in the Via
Giulia, behind the Palazzo Farnese. He realised the fact at once, and it
seemed like a bad omen. He stood still a long time, looking at the
gloomy door with steady eyes.

"Just such a place as this," he said, in a low tone. "Just such a church
as that, just such a man as I am. Is this the comedy and was this
evening the reality? Or is it the other way?"

He called up before his eyes the scene in which he had acted, and his
imagination obeyed him readily enough. He could fancy how the monk and
the nun would look, and the train of revellers, and their movements and
gestures. But the nun's face was not that of the Contessa. Another shone
out vividly in its place.

"Just God!" ejaculated the lonely man. "Am I so bad as that? Not to care
after so much?"

He turned upon his heel as though to escape the vision, and walked
quickly away, hating himself. But he was mistaken. He cared--as he
expressed it--far more than he dreamed of, more deeply, perhaps, in his
own self-contradictory, irregular fashion than the woman of whom he was
thinking.

People talked for some time of the Shrove Tuesday feast at Gouache's
studio. Then they fell to talking about other things. Lent passed in the
usual way, and there was not much change in the lives of the persons
most concerned in this history. Ghisleri saw much less of Arden than
formerly, of course, as the latter was wholly absorbed by his passion
for his future wife. As for the world, it was as much occupied with
dinner parties, musical evenings, and private theatricals as it had
formerly been with dancing. The time sped quickly. The past season had
left behind it an enormous Corpus Scandalorum Romanorum which made
conversation both easy and delightful. How many of the unpleasant
stories concerning Lord Herbert Arden, Laura Carlyon, Pietro Ghisleri,
and Maddalena dell' Armi could have been distinctly traced to Adele
Savelli, it is not easy to say. As a matter of fact, very few persons
excepting Ghisleri himself took any trouble to trace them at all. To the
average worldly taste it is as unpleasant to follow up the origin of a
delightfully savoury lie, as it is to think, while eating, of the true
history of a beefsteak, from the meadow to the table by way of the
slaughter-house and the cook's fingers.

Holy week came, and the muffled bells and the silence in houses at other
times full and noisy, and the general air of depression which results,
most probably, from a certain amount of genuine repentance and devotion
which is felt in a place where by no means all are bad at heart, and
many are sincerely good. The gay set felt uncomfortable, and a certain
number experienced for the first time the most distinct aversion to
confessing their misdeeds, as they ought to do at least once a year. As
far as they were concerned, Ghisleri's verses expressed more truth than
they had expected to find in them. Ghisleri himself was rarely troubled
by any return of the qualm which had seized him before the door of the
Church of Prayer and Death, and never again in the same degree. If he
did not go on his way rejoicing, he at all events proceeded without
remorse, and was wicked enough and selfish enough to congratulate
himself upon the fact.

Arden and Laura were perfectly happy. They, at least, had little cause
to reproach themselves with any evil done in the world since they had
met, and Arden had assuredly better reason for congratulating himself.
