Now the Freshman has views about haz 
ing ; he considers it a brutal and unmanly 
practice. The Sophomore replaces these 
opinions by the lax creed of conscious power. 
The Sophomore regards hazing as an inno 
cent custom, affording a little college fun, 
and to be deprecated, chiefly, when it meets 



 

with mishaps which bring the practice before 
the attention of the faculty or the police. 

Don, I regret to say, had suffered this 
" class change " in his principles. From a 
Freshman and a hazee he had become a 
Sophomore and a hazor. His position was 
underaroinar one of the revolutions which 
circumstances wrest from any of us if we have 
not acquired a pretty firm moral and mental 
leverage of our own. 

In the course of time that is to say, in 
the course of the first term of Sophomore 
year Don, without much thought, easily 
and lightly as such boys do such things, " for 
the fun of it," joined a hazing party which 
had for its objective point two or three 
unpopular Freshmen. Of these, Calhoun 
was the most prominent, and the especially 
doomed man. Calhoun had never been a 
favorite at Harle. From the first week of 
his college career he had contrived to create 
an atmosphere of personal irritation around 
himself. It was hard to say just how this 
was done, except by a series of petty offenses, 
all of them bearing in some form or other 
upon the sense of caste that in Calhoun was 
developed to a degree against which the 
hearty, healthy spirit of human equality 



 

among his classmates rebelled. Calhoun, in 
short, considered himself a gentleman who 
must maintain his position. The students 
of Harle College considered him a disagree 
able fellow who hadn't any position, because 
he felt it necessary to maintain it. 

This was a difference of opinion not easily 
reconciled, and snobbishness is the last fault 
which a college full of sturdy young demo 
crats will overlook. In an institution where 
the negro was respected, and the prize-fight 
er 's son personally respectable, Calhoun was 
not at home. The Vermont clergyman 's boy 
and the New York gentleman 's son knew 
how to adapt themselves to the social
problems of that world-in-little which a large New 
England college represents. But Calhoun 
had received a different education. 

The accident at the interrupted rush, in 
which Calhoun had been so unpleasantly 
prominent, gave the final touch to his 
unpopularity. A fellow who would spoil a 
rush, hit foul, and turn on a classmate, met 
with small favor at Harle College. From 
the date of that event Calhoun was doomed 
for the severest hazing of the year. 

Donald Marcy went into the affair hotly 
enough. The vigorous sense of chivalry in 



 

him, which Calhoun had so offended, was not 
balanced enough to keep him out of a secret 
personal attack, ten men to one. It did 
not occur to him that he might be doing as 
mean a deed as Calhoun 's ; clearly a meaner 
one from certain points of view, such as 
regulate the conditions of conflict between man 
and man in any other civilized set of 
circumstances outside of a college world. He 
plunged in, and thought about it as little as 
possible. 

Calhoun was in his room when the boys 
came upon him, a group of ten, disguised, 
masked, and determined. The door was 
locked. The hazors demanded admittance. 
Calhoun requested them, firmly enough, to 
visit a region geographically warmer than 
the entry of North Middle, top floor, upon 
that chilly night. 

" May as well let us in," insisted Donald 
Marcy. " We're bound to have you." 

" I 'll see you further, first ! " replied the 
Freshman. 

" It would save you some expense in locks," 
suggested one of the Sophomores. 

Calhoun made no answer. The pleasant 
puff of a plantation cheroot came out through 
the cracks of the door. The hazing party 



 

agreeably suggested that if he kept such a 
weed as that, he should invite them in for one 
apiece all round. Receiving no hospitality 
of this nature, they put their shoulder to the 
locked and bolted door, burst it in, and piled 
pell-mell into the Freshman 's room. 

Calhoun was standing there in the middle 
of the room, in his embroidered slippers and 
quilted dressing-gown, looking as pale and 
as plucky as was possible. He knew that he 
was unpopular in Harle College, and he 
knew that his hour had come. 

" Why didn't you let us in? " asked one 
of the fellows. " It would have been better 
for you." 

" I open my doors to gentlemen," replied 
the Southerner, " not to burglars." 

There was something in the justice and 
in the dignity of this reply not calculated to 
soothe the hazing party, who revenged them 
selves by proceeding to extreme measures 
with their victim without further parley. 
One of the boys produced a pair of hand 
cuffs, with which he intimated the intention 
of securing the Freshman, to start with ; for, 
as they all knew, he was a hot-blooded fellow. 
This particular Sophomore, his name, by 
the way, was Braggs ; Ben Braggs, when 



 

he had taken ten steps toward Calhoun, 
uttered an exclamation more warm than 
polite, and retreated more heartily than he had 
advanced. He was confronted by a fine 
Southern rifle, held straight to his face ; so 
close, that he could feel the cold lips of the 
weapon upon his forehead. 



CHAPTER IV. 

BURIED ALIVE. 

HARDLY had Calhoun presented the rifle 
when he observed that he would be some- 
thing-or-othered if they tried that again. 

" Oh, come," said Don Marcy. " What 's 
the use, Calhoun ? Why don't you put 
up with college fun as other fellows do ? 
There 's no sense in shooting. We're not 
blacklegs." 

" Oh, aren't you ? " asked Calhoun with 
his cold sneer. " It 's just as well you 
mentioned it. Pray, what are you, then ? " 

" Gentlemen and scholars," replied Don 
promptly. 

" Really ? " scoffed Calhoun. " Dear me ! 
I'm so glad you told me." 

" Look here ! " roared Trouncey O Grian 
in his big, bass voice, " we've fooled with 
you long enough, Calhoun. I'll put those 
handcuffs on, if you please, in the name of 
the Sophomore class of Harle College." 

Trouncey presented himself, breast to the 



 

rifle, with incredible coolness, and made a 
magnificent spring upon the Freshman, whose 
arms he pinioned with his own mighty ones 
sooner than the time it takes to tell it. As 
Calhoun sank into the scientific embrace of 
the prize-fighter 's son the trigger snapped, 
and the rifle dropped harmlessly to the floor 
as the handcuffs closed upon the Freshman 's 
writhing wrists. 

Trouncey O Grian smiled. He did not 
stop just then to explain to his host that he 
had climbed into that room at supper-time 
four stories up by the blinds and a peg or 
two he had taken pains to insert, and a rope 
or so thrown from the entry window by 
a friendly hand, and had successfully 
ransacked the Freshman 's apartments for that 
very weapon. Calhoun was understood to 
be a good shot ; he came from Carolina. 
Trouncey had embarrassed that rifle with 
cold soapsuds, dried it carefully upon the 
outside, and put it back in the closet of 
Calhoun 's apartment. For the chance that 
Calhoun might have discovered the trick and 
reloaded, he risked it, being the son of his 
father. The law of chances was against it. 
Trouncey felt that it was the advantage of 
an education to know that. 



 

It is my unpleasant duty to record that 
Calhoun was subjected to almost every in 
dignity that Harle Sophomores, in those long- 
past days, ever inflicted upon an unpopular 
Freshman. The incident of the rifle made 
the Sophomores too angry to keep their 
senses. 

Calhoun was choked, tossed in a blanket 
till he hit the ceiling, run out of his window 
on a rope, dangled in the cold night air in a 
very lightly robed condition, fed with milk 
from a bottle, and washed with vinegar and 
salt. 

His infuriated resistance added fire to the 
boys vengeance ; and worse things soon fell 
upon him. 

The night had now worn on to be quite late. 

Seizing a convenient opportunity, when 
discovery was unlikely, the hazing party 
took their victim, dressed only in flannel and 
trousers, out of doors and tied him in a 
wheelbarrow, by means of which they rode 
him to a pump in the outskirts of the town. 
The night was cold. The water was colder. 
The Freshman was held under the pump, 
and, it must be admitted, cruelly ducked. 

" I 'll kill you ! " hissed Calhoun between 
his teeth. " If I live to get out of this, I 'll 



 

shoot every man of you down as I would so 
many niggers." 

" Pity you said that," drawled Ben Braggs. 
" We'd have let you go, if you hadn't. Now 
we shall have to bury you alive in simple 
self-defense. You're in for it now." 

" Look here," said Trouncey O Grian, 
" we've gone far enough. I move we're out 
of it." 

Trouncey 's view of the case did not meet 
with general approval ; and he, at that point, 
left the party. He said he didn't think it 
was fair play, and he was tired of it. 

" All right," said Braggs. " We 'll do 
without you." 

" Get him some dry clothes first," urged 
Marcy, excited and hesitating. " Anyhow, 
we mustn't kill the fellow." 

So Calhoun was taken into the shelter of 
a shed, and rubbed off, and put into fresh 
clothes that somebody brought from some 
where ; and then, forthwith, that hazing 
party did proceed to an old, deserted ceme 
tery without the city limits, where a scout or 
two awaited them, standing like mourners, 
mutely in the ghastly dark. A coffin stood 
there on a bier. Beyond it, yawned a newly- 
made grave. The tombstones of the long-for- 



 

gotten dead slanted tipsily, showing faintly 
white in the night, and in the flash of a 
single dark lantern, carried by one of the 
boys. 

Calhoun was now wild with terror; but 
either he had too much spirit left to 
manifest the full force of his fears, or the boys 
were now too far gone in the hazing fever to 
appreciate the real seriousness of the situation.
They were not brutes, though they 
acted like them ; and who meant to hurt the 
fellow ? It was only " college fun." 

Calhoun was uncompromisingly buried. 
He was put into the coffin, the lid shut, only 
the face-lid turned back to give him air ; he 
was actually lowered by ropes into the newly- 
made grave, and left there. Voices called 
to him to say his prayers. Other voices 
chanted dirges upon the edge of his grave. 
Then the earth began to drop upon that 
coffin, a handful first. The half-insensible 
man, listening in an agony, heard a spade 
ful fall, another ; two, three, more 

" Great heavens ! " thought Calhoun. 
" They are burying me alive ! I scared 
them, saying I'd shoot them and they're 
afraid to let me go. I am murdered ! I am 
buried alive ! 



 

He called in mortal terror for help 
mercy life pardon - - everything he 
could think of that might appeal to the 
sympathy of the young savages. But no one 
answered him. 

Steps retreated, grew fainter, ceased. 
The Freshman in his coffin was left alone. 
Giving one yell of despair, he swooned away 
from the consciousness of his situation. 



CHAPTER V. 

GHOSTS ! 

WHEN the hazing party had stealthily left 
the cemetery, they stood outside the walls 
consulting in whispers what to do next. Don 
Marcy was not happy. A growing uneasiness 
possessed him to the exclusion of all 
pleasure in that night 's performance. It did 
not seem to him as funny as he had expected, 
to put a live man through a mock burial, 
and go off and leave him in a coffin at the 
bottom of a grave. 

" I move we go right back," suggested 
Don. 

" Oh, no," said Braggs, " too soon yet. 
Scare him a little. Leave him there half an 
hour or so." 

" I don't agree with you," urged Donald 
more earnestly. " I think we've gone far 
enough with this thing, boys." 

For his own part, Don wished he had 
backed out of the whole thing when 
Trouncey O Grian did. But he did not feel like 



 

saying so. He was a little ashamed that the 
prize-fighter 's son should have shown a finer 
sense of hazing honor than he himself. 

The rest of the fellows wavered, but, on 
the whole, disagreed with him. Ben Braggs 
carried the day, or, we might say, carried the 
night, and the students seated themselves on 
the cemetery wall, to wait awhile, till the 
buried Freshman should be suitably pun 
ished for all his general and particular 
unpopularity. A few took their cigars ; but 
most of them did not smoke. The receiving- 
tomb looked a little too near, and too ghastly, 
rising gray and dumb^in the darkness beside 
them. Thoughts they would not entertain 
glided through their minds like ghosts. They 
heartily wished, some of them, that the 
business were over. But they thought it 
" manly " not to say so. They began to talk 
in low tones, to keep each other 's courage up. 
The fellow who held the dark lantern turned 
it round and round perpetually, with a be 
nevolent intention of enlivening the scene. 
When the dark side came toward the grave 
yard, he looked over his shoulder. Then the 
fellow beside him would start and look over 
his shoulder. In fact, all those brave boys 
who had fallen, ten to one, upon a defense- 



 

less fellow, and subjected him to outrages 
which the civil statutes would have probably 
justified him in resenting with the sacrifice 
of their ten lives, all those courageous 
young men looked over their shoulders with 
a frequency and a nervousness surprising ; 
and always did they look in the direction of 
the tipsy old tombstones, and the deserted 
dead. 

While they were amusing each other in 
this desolate fashion, Donald Marcy, 
unnoticed by any of the hazing party, had slipped 
away. 

He had now become too uneasy to bear it 
another moment. As he made his way back 
silently through the graveyard, to the spot 
where Calhoun had been left, he wondered 
how he ever could have thought it amusing 
to get into such a scrape as this. Stretching 
out his arms to feel his way, he shrank back 
with an awful chill ; they had closed about 
the cold body of a slate headstone, a hundred 
years old. As he clasped it, the stone stirred, 
shook, and lumbered heavily over upon him. 
With an exclamation of horror, and a 
bruised knee, Donald extricated himself from 
the horrid weight and pushed on. 

His feet sank in sodden places whose nature 
lie did not dare to contemplate. Stum 
bling in and out, and hurrying to put an end 
to these horrors, he tripped and fell over a 
large flat mound, which must have been a 
grave made not too long ago to have lost its 
natural proportions. Briers and mud rubbed 
his face and tore his hands as he lay there ; 
and disgust entered his heart as he struggled 
up and made on. 

He had now managed to reach the open 
grave where the partially entombed Fresh 
man lay. As he came up to the dark and 
dreadful spot, it seemed less and less 
amusing to Donald that he should have had a 
hand in this affair. No sound issued from 
the grave. It was as still as it was dark. 

" Calhoun ! " called Marcy softly. 

There was no reply. 

" Calhoun ! Lee Calhoun ! Calhoun ! " 

Silence only answered what had become a 
very eagerly urgent cry. That silence did 
not seem funny at all to Donald Marcy ; in 
fact, a biennial examination would have been 
funnier. It would have struck him as more 
interesting at that moment to have been 
cramming for rank, or earning the name of 
a " dig," or even getting up in season to go 
to morning prayers, or pursuing any of those 



 
