he was welcomed hilariously by his boon 
companions. 
A wild fandango in a neighboring booth 
provided relaxation for the gamblers. In an hour 
or two Reinaldo found his way to this well- 
known haven. Black-eyed dancing-girls in 
short skirts of tawdry satin trimmed with 
cotton lace, mock jewels on their bare necks and 
in their coarse black hair, flew about the room 
and screamed with delight as Reinaldo flung 
gold pieces among them. The excitement 
continued in all its variations until morning. Men 
bet and lost all the gold they had brought with 
them, then sold horse, serape, and sombrero to 
the men who neither drank nor gambled, but 
came prepared for close and profitable bargains. 
Reinaldo lost his purloins, won them again, 
stood upon the table and spoke with torrential 
eloquence of his wrongs and virtues, kissed all 
the girls, and when by easy and rapid stages 
he had succeeded in converting himself into a 
tank of aguardiente, he was carried home and 
put to bed by such of his coonpanions as were 
sober enough to make no noise. 
XIV. 
Chonita, clad in a black gown, walked slowly 
up and down the corridor of Casa Grande. 
The rain should have dripped from the eaves, 
beaten with heavy monotony upon the hard 
clay of the court-yard, to accompany her mood, 
but it did not. The sky was blue without fleck 
of cloud, the sun like the open mouth of a 
furnace of boiling gold, the air as warrri and sweet 
and drowsy as if it never had come in shock 
with human care. Prudencia sat on the green 
bench, drawing threads in a fine linen smock, 
her small face rosy with contentment. 
" Why dost thou wear that black gown this 
beautiful morning?" she demanded, suddenly. 
" And why dost thou walk when thou canst sit 
down ? " 
'*I had a dream last night. Dost thou be- 
lieve in dreams ? " She had as much regard 
for her cousin's opinion as for the twittering of 
a bird, but she felt the necessity of speech at 
times, and at least this child never remembered 
what she said. 
"Sure, my Chonita. Did not I dream that 
the good captain would bring pink silk 
stockings ? and are they not my own this minute ? " 
And she thrust a diminutive foot from beneath 
the hem of her gown, regarding it with admi- 
ration. "And did not I dream that Tomaso 
and Liseta would marry ? What was thy 
dream, my Chonita? " 
" I do not know what the first part was ; 
something very sad. All I remember is the 
roar of the ocean and another roar like the wind 
through high trees. Then a moment that shook 
and frightened me, but sweeter than anything 
I know of, so I cannot define it. Then a swift 
awful tragedy — I cannot recall the details of 
that, either. The whole dream was like a 
black mass of clouds, cut now and again by a 
scythe of lightning. But then, like a vision 
within a dream, I seemed to stand there and 
see myself, clad in a black gown, walking up 
and down this corridor, or one like it, up and 
down, up and down, never resting, never 
daring to rest, lest I hear the ceaseless clatter of a 
lonely fugitive's horse. When I awoke I was 
as cold as if I had received the first shock of 
the surf. I cannot say why I put on this black 
gown to-day. I make no haste to feel as I did 
when I wore it in that dream, — the desolation, 
the endlessness but I did." 
''That was a strange dream, my Chonita," 
said Prudencia, threading her needle. "Thou 
must have eater '^too many dulces for supper : 
didst thou ? " 
'* No," said Chonita, shortly, " I did not." 
She continued her aimless walk, wondering 
at her depression of spirits. All her life she had 
felt a certain mental loneliness, but a healthy 
body rarely harbors an invalid soul, and she 
had only to spring on a horse and gallop over 
the hills to feel as happy as a young animal. 
Moreover, the world — all the world she knew 
— was at her feet ; nor had she ever known the 
novelty of an ungratified wish. Once in a 
while her father arose in an obdurate mood, 
but she had only to coax, or threaten tears, — 
never had she been seen to shed one, — or stamp 
her foot, to bring that doting parent to terms. 
It is true that she had had her morbid moments, 
an abrupt impatient desire for something that 
was not all light and pleasure and gold and ad- 
ulation ; but, being a girl of will and sense, 
she had turned resolutely from the troublous 
demands of her deeper soul, regarding them as 
coals fallen from a mind that burned too hotly 
at times. 
This morning, however, she let the blue 
waters rise, not so rnucb because they were 
stronger than her will, as because she wished 
to understand what was the matter with her. 
She was filled with a dull dislike of every one 
she had ever known, of every condition which 
had surrounded her from birth. She felt a deep 
disgust of placid contentment, of the mere 
enjoyment of sunshine and air. She recalled 
drearily the clock-like revolutions of the year 
which brought bull-fights, races, rodeos, church 
celebrations ; her mother's anecdotes of the 
Indians ; her father's manifold interests, ever 
the theme of his tongue ; Reinaldo's 
grandiloquent accounts of his exploits and intentions ; 
Prudencia's infinite nothings. She hated the 
balls of which she was La Favorita, the 
everlasting serenades, the whole life of pleasure 
which made that period of California the most 
perfected Arcadia the modern world has known. 
Some time during the past few weeks the girl 
had crossed her hands over her breast and lain 
down in her eternal tomb. The woman had 
arisen and come forth, blinded as yet by the 
light, her hands thrust out gropingly. 
" It is that man, "she told herself, with angry 
frankness. "I had not talked with him ten 
minutes before I felt as I do when the scene 
changes suddenly in one of Shakespeare's 
plays, — as if I had been flung like a meteor into 
a new world. I felt the necessity for mental 
alertness for the first time in my life ; always, 
before, I had striven to conceal what I knew. 
The natural consequences, of course, were first 
the desire to feel that stimulation again and 
agc.in, then to realize the littleness of every- 
thing but mental companionship. I have read 
that people who begin with hate sometimes 
end with love ; and if I were a book woman I 
suppose I should in time love this man whom 
I now so hate, even while I admire. But I am 
no lump of wax in^ the hands of a writer of 
dreams. I am Chonita Iturbi y Moncada, and 
he is Diego Estenega. I could no more love 
him than could the equator kiss the poles. 
Only, much as I hate him, I wish I could see 
him again. He knows so much more than 
any one else. I should like to talk to him, to 
ask him many things. He has sworn to marry 
me." Her lip curled scornfully, but a sudden 
glow rushed over her. " Had he not been an 
Estenega, — yes, I could have loved him, — that 
calm, clear-sighted love that is born of regard ; 
not a whirlwind and a collapse, like most love. 
I should like to sit with my hands in my lap 
and hear him talk forever. And we cannot 
even be friends. It is a pity." 
The girls mind was like a splendid castle 
only one wing of which had ever been 
illuminated. By the light of the books she had read, 
and of acute observation in a little sphere, she 
strove to penetrate the thick walls and carry the 
torch into broader halls and lofty towers. But 
superstition, prejudice, bitter pride, 
inexperience of life, conjoined their shoulders and 
barred the way. As Diego Estenega had 
discerned, under the thick Old- World shell of 
inherited impressions was a plastic being of all 
womanly possibilities. But so little did she 
know of herself, so futile was her struggle in 
the dark with only sudden flashes to blind her 
and distort all she saw, that with nothing to 
shape that moulding kernel it would shrink and 
wither, and in a few years she would be but a 
polished shell, perfect of proportion, hollow at 
the core. 
But if strong intellectual juices sank into that 
sweet, pliant kernel, developing it into the 
perfected form of woman, establishing the current 
between the brain and the passions, finishing the 
work, or leaving it half completed, as 
Circumstance vouchsafed ? — what then ? 
" Ay, Senor ! " exclaimed Prudencia, as two 
people, mounted on horses glistening with 
silver, galloped into the court-yard. " Val- 
encia and Adan ! " 
I came out of the sala at that moment and 
watched them alio^ht : Adan, that faithful, dog- 
like adorer, of whose kind every beautiful 
woman has a half-dozen or more, Valencia the 
bitter- hearted rival of Chonita. She was a tall, 
dazzling creature, with flaming black eyes large 
and heavily lashed, and a figure so lithe that 
she seemed to sweep downward from her horse 
rather than spring to the ground. She had the 
dark rich skin of Mexico — another source of 
envy and hatred, for the Iturbi y Moncadas, like 
most of the aristocracy of the country, were of 
pure Castilian blood and as white as porcelain 
in consequence — and a red full mouth. 
'* Welcome, my Chonita ! " she cried. " Val- 
game Dios ! but I am glad to see thee back ! " 
She kissed Chonita effusively. " Ay, my poor 
brother!" she whispered, hurriedly. "Tell 
him that thou art glad to see him." And then 
she welcomed me with words that fell as softly 
as rose-leaves in a zephyr, and patted Pru- 
dencia's head. 
Chonita, with a faint flush on her cheek, gave 
Adan her hand to kiss. She had given this 
faithful suitor little encouragement, but his un- 
swerving and honest devotion had wrung from 
her a sort of careless affection; and she told me 
that first night in Monterey that if she had
 
made up her mind to inr.rry she thought she 
would select Adan : he was more tolerable 
than any one she knew. It is doubtful if he 
had crossed her mind since ; and now, with all 
a woman's unreason, she conceived a sudden 
and violent dislike for him because she had 
treated him too kindly in her thoughts. I liked 
Adan Menendez ; there was something manly 
and sure about him, — the latter a restful if 
not a fascinating quality. And I liked his 
appearance. His clear brown eyes had a kind 
direct regard. His chin was round, and his
profile a little thick ; but the gray hair brushed up 
and away from his low forehead gave dignity 
to his face. His figure was pervaded with the 
indolence of the Californian. 
" At your feet, senorita mia," he murmured, 
his voice trembling. 
"It gives me pleasure to see thee again, 
Adan. Hast thou been well and happy since 
I left .? " 
, It was a careless question, and he looked at 
her reproachfully. 
" I have been well, Chonita," he said. 
At this moment our attention was startled by 
a sharp exclamation from Valencia. Prudencia 
had announced her engagement. Valerxria had 
refused many suitors, but she had intended to 
marry Reinaldo Iturbi y Moncada. Not that 
she loved him : he was the most brilliant 
match in three hundred leagues. Within the 
last year he had bent the knee to the famous 
coquette ; but she had lost her temper one day, 
— or, rather, it had found her, — and after a 
violent quarrel he had galloped away, and gone 
almost immediately to Los Angeles, there to 
remain until Don Juan went after him with a 
bushel of gold. She controlled herself in a 
moment, and swayed her graceful body over Pru- 
dencia, kissing her lightly on the cheek. 
"Thou baby, to marry!" she said, softly. 
"Thou didst take away my breath. Thou 
dost look no more than fourteen years. I had 
forgotten the grand merienda of thy eighteenth 
birthday." 
Prudcncia's little bosom swelled with pride 
at the discomfiture of the haughty beauty who 
had rarely remembered to notice her. 
Prudencia was not poor ; she owned a goodly 
rancho ; but it was an hacienda to the state of 
a Menendez. 
" Thou wilt be one of my bridesmaids, no, 
Dofia Valencia ?" she asked. 
"That will be the proud day of my life," 
said Valencia, graciously. 
'*We have a ball to-night," said Chonita. 
 
" Thou wouldst have had word to-day. Thou 
wilt stay now, no? and not ride those five 
leagues twice again ? I will send for thy 
gown." 
'* Truly, I will stay, my Chonita. And thou 
wilt tell me all about thy visit to Monterey, 
no?" 
"All? Ay! sure!" 
Adan kissed both Prudencia's little hands in 
earnest congratulation. As he did so, the door 
of Reinaldo's room opened, and the heir of the 
Iturbi y Moncadas stepped forth, gorgeous in 
black silk embroidered Vv'ith gold. He had 
slept off the effects of the night's debauch, and 
cold water had restored his freshness. H e kissed 
Prudencia's hand, his owh to us, then bent 
over Valencia's with exaggerated homage. 
" At thy feet, O loveliest of California's daugh- 
ters. In the immensity of thought, going to 
and coming from Los Angeles, my imagination 
has spread its wings like an eagle. Thou hast 
been a beautiful day-dream, posing or reclining, 
dancing, or swaying with grace superlative on 
thy restive steed. I have not greeted my good 
friend Adan. I can but look and look and keep 
on looking at his incomparable sister, the rose 
of roses, the queen of queens." 
" Thy tongue carols as easily as a lark's," 
said Valencia, with but half-concealed bitterness. 
" Thou couldst sing all day, — and the 
next forget. " 
"I forget nothing, beautiful sefiorita, — 
neither the fair days of spring nor the ugly 
storms of winter. And I love the sunshine and 
flee from the tempest. Adan, brother of my 
heart, welcome as ever to Casa Grande 
Ay ! here is my father. He looks like Sancho 
Panza." 
Don Guillermo's sturdy httle mustang bore 
him into the court-yard, shaking his stout master 
not a little. The old gentleman's black silk 
handkerchief had fallen to his shoulders : 
his face was red, but covered with a broad 
smile. 
'* I have letters from Monterey," he said, as 
Reinaldo and Adan ran down the steps to help 
him alight. "Alvarado goes by sea to Los 
Angeles this month, but retunis by land in the 
next, and will honor us with a visit of a week. 
I shall write to him to arrive in time for 
the wedding. Several members of the Junta come 
with him, and of their number is Diego
Estenega.'* 
'*Who?" cried Reinaldo. '*An Estenega? 
Thou wilt not ask him to cross the threshold 
of Casa Grande ? " 
" I always liked Diego," said the old man, 
somewhat confusedly. " And he is the friend 
of Alvarado. How can I avoid to ask him, 
when he is of the party ? " 
" Let him come," cried Reinaldo. '* God of 
my life ! — I am glad that he comes, this lord of 
redwood forests and fog-bound cliffs. It is well 
that he see the splendor of the Iturbi y Mon- 
cadas, — our pageants and our gay diversions, 
our cavalcades of beauty and elegance under 
a canopy of smiling blue. Glad I am that he 
comes. Once for all shall he learn that, 
although his accursed family has beaten ours 
in war and politics, he can never hope to rival 
our pomp and state." 
" Ah ! " said Valencia to Chonita, " I have 
heard of this Diego Estenega. I too am glad 
that he comes. I have the advantage of thee 
this time, my friend. Thou and he must hate 
each other, and for once I am without a rival. 
He shall be my slave." And she tossed her 
spirited head. 
"He shall not ! " cried Chonita, then checked 
herself abruptly, the blood rushing to her hair. 
" I hate him so," she continued hurriedly to 
the astonished Valencia, "that I would see no 
woman show him favor. Thou wilt not like 
him, Valencia. He is not handsome at all,— 
no color in his skin, not even white, and eyes 
in the back of his head. No mustache, no 
curls, and a mouth that looks, — oh, that mouth, 
so grim, so hard ! — no, it is not to be described. 
No one could ; it makes you hate him. And 
he has no respect for women ; he thinks they 
were made to please the eye, no more. I do 
not think he would look ten seconds at an ugly 
woman. Thou wilt not like him, Valencia, 
sure. " 
'' Ay, but I think I shall. What thou hast 
said makes me wish to see him the more. 
God of my life ! but he must be different from 
the men of the South. And I shall like that." 
''Perhaps," said Chonita, coldly. "At 
least he will not break thy heart, for no woman 
could love him. But come and take thy siesta, 
no? and refresh thyself for the. dance. I will 
send thee a cup of chocolate." And, bending 
her head to Adan, she swept down the corridor, 
followed by Valencia. 
XV. 
Those were two busy months before Pru- 
dencia's wedding. Twenty girls, sharply 
watched and directed by Dona Trinidad and 
the sometime mistress of Casa Grande, worked 
upon the marriage wardrobe. Prudencia would 
have no use for more house-linen ; but enough 
fine linen was made into underclothes to last 
her a lifetime. Five keen-eyed girls did nothing 
but draw the threads for deshalados, and so 
elaborate was the open-work that the wonder was 
the bride did not have bands and stripes of 
rheumatism. Others fashioned crepes and 
flowered silks and heavy satins into gowns 
with long pointed waists and full flowing skirts, 
some with sleeves of lace and high to the base 
of the throat, others cut to display the plump 
whiteness of the owner. Twelve rebosos were 
made for her ; Dona Trinidad gave her one of 
her finest mantillas ; Chonita, the white satin 
embroidered with poppies, for which she had 
conceived a capricious dislike. She also 
invited Prudencia to take what she pleased from 
her wardrobe ; and Prudencia, who was noth- 
ing if not practical, helped herself to three 
gowns which had been made for Chonita at 
great expense in the city of Mexico, four shawls 
of Chinese crepe, a roll of pineapple silk, and an 
American hat. 
The house until within two weeks of the wed- 
ding was full of visitors, — neighbors whose ran- 
chos lay ten leagues away or nearer, and the 
people of the town ; all of them come to offer 
congratulations, chatter on the corridor by day 
and dance in the sala by night. The court 
was never free of prancing horses pawing the 
ground for eighteen hours at a time under their 
heavy saddles. Dona Trinidad's cooking-girls 
were as thick in the kitchen as ants on an ant- 
hill, for the good things of Casa Grande were 
as famous as its hospitality, and not the least 
of the attractions to the merry visitors. When 
we did not dance at home we danced at the 
neighbors' or at the Presidio. During the last 
two weeks, however, every one went home to 
rest and prepare for the festivities to succeed 
the wedding ; and the old house was as quiet 
as a canon in the mountains. 
Chonita took a lively concern in the prep- 
arations at first, but her interest soon
evaporated, and she spent more and more time in
the little library adjoining her bedroom. She did 
less reading than thinking, however. Once 
she came to me and tried for fifteen minutes to 
draw from me something in Estenega's dis- 
praise ; and when I finally admitted that he had 
a fault or two I thought she would scalp me. 
Still, at this time she was hardly more than fas- 
cinated, interested, tantalized by a mind she 
could appreciate but not understand. If they 
had never met again he would gradually have 
moved backward to the horizon of her memory, 
growing dim and more dim, hovered in a 
cloud-bank for a while, then disappeared into 
that limbo which must exist somewhere for 
discarded impressions, and all would have been 
well.
XVI. 
The evening before the wedding Prudencia 
covered her demure self with black gown and 
reboso, and, accompanied by Chonita, went 
up to the Mission to make her last maiden
confession. Chonita did not go with her into the 
church, but paced up and down the long
corridor of the wing, gazing absently upon the deep 
wild valley and peaceful ocean, seeing little 
beyond the images in her own mind. 
That morning Alvarado and several mem- 
bers of the Junta had arrived, but not Estenega. 
He had come as far as the Rancho Temblor, 
Alvarado explained, and there, meeting some 
old friends, had decided to remain over night 
and accompany them the next day to the 
ceremony. As Chonita had stood on the corridor 
and watched the approach of the Governor's 
cavalcade her heart had beaten violently, and 
she had angrily acknowledged that her 
nervousness was due to the fact that she was about to 
meet Diego Estenega again. When she discovered 
that he was not of the party, she 
turned to me with pique, resentment, and dis- 
appointment in her face. 
" Even if I cannot ever like him," she said, 
'* at least I might have the pleasure of hearing 
him talk. There is no harm in that, even if he 
is an Estenega, a renegade, and the enemy of 
my brother. I can hate him with my heart and 
like him with my mind. And he must have 
cared little to see us again, that he could linger 
for another day." 
'*Iam mad to see Don Diego Estenega," 
said Valencia, her red lips pouting. " Why 
did he, of all others, tarry ? " 
" He is fickle and perverse," I said, — "the 
most uncertain man I know." 
" Perhaps he thought to make us wish to see 
him the more," suggested Valencia. 
"No," I said: "he has no ridiculous van- 
ities. " 
Chonita wandered back and forth behind the 
arches, waiting for Prudencia's long confession 
of sinless errors to conclude. 
''What has a baby like that to confess?" 
she thought, impatiently. "She could ndt sin 
if she tried. She knows nothing of the dark 
storms of rage and hatred and revenge which 
can gather in the breeists of stronger and 
weaker beings. I never knew, either, until
lately ; but the storm is so black I dare not 
face it and carry it to the priest. I am a sort 
of human chaos, and I wish I were dead. I 
