" But I must really thank you for the 
information. I had been a bit worried 
about her. You see," and as he said this he 
turned to the girl, " she carried a cargo of 
coffee for me, and she should have been in 
before this." 
" Do you mean," Bancroft hurriedly inter- 
jected, "that the Earl of Cloden mentioned 
in the paper is a ship ? " 
" Why, what in the world did you think 
it was?" the young lord with an air of 
the most innocent surprise inquired. " A 
a naphtha launch ? " 
" Lord Cloden, I have been in the wrong, 
and I beg your pardon." 
To this amende, however, Prince Charm- 
ing did not seem inclined to pay much 
attention, but he turned to Mrs. Smithwick 
and smiled. 
Before he could speak Harris appeared, 
and in an undertone addressed Bancroft. 
The latter left the room. 
" It is an infamy ! " cried Mrs. Smithwick, 
the moment the door had closed. "What 
can you think of such a man ? He acted 
like a wild boar." 
" Not wild, dear Mrs. Smithwick ; you 
'
exaggerate. Generally speaking, he ap- 
pears, I admit, like a lunatic ; but he 
seems to have lucid intervals in which 
he is merely stupid as just now, for in- 
stance." 
CHAPTER V 
THE ROOM WITH THE GAPING CHIMERAS 
" HE said there was no hurry, sir," Harris 
continued, when Bancroft reached the hall. 
"I showed him in there." 
And as he designated a little reception- 
room that gave on the veranda, he added, 
in a manner which was both solicitous and 
apologetic : 
" I 'ope as nothing 'as gone wrong again, 
sir." 
Bancroft did not seem to hear. He 
brushed on and passed into the room 
beyond a room hateful to every one, one 
which Mrs. Smithwick had hung with night- 
mares of discordant stuffs ; with scarlet silks 
over which blue Japanese monsters roamed ; 
violences of striped and crescented surahs 
from Turkey ; canary and pink parallelo- 
grams from Ispahan ; the apple-green loz- 
enges of Lahore ; and portieres, terrors in 
lilac and saffron, hideous with Koranic 
inscriptions in silver thread a room that 
jarred on the nerves, that violated the eye 
as the rasp of slate pencils punctures the 
ear, one in which an ebony desk alive with 
wide-mouthed chimeras confronted and 
leered in your face. 
There, his back to the door, his hands 
behind him, a man stood gazing out at the 
grounds. As Bancroft entered, he turned. 
" Why, sergeant," the lawyer exclaimed, 
"the man told me you were here, but" 
He hesitated. 
The detective nodded ; he appeared to 
understand. " I was too sure of myself," 
he said slowly, and moving to the door, 
looked out on the hall " Or rather," he 
continued, as he turned again, "I was too 
sure of him." 
"Of Quain, you mean. Yes, yes, of 
course. But why didn't you come to me 
after he cheated us both, after he jumped 
overboard from the Sidonia ? " 
"I was in Gibraltar, sir." 
Bancroft stared. 
u When I found that he had sailed I took 
ship too, only I went by the French line, and 
from Paris took the Southern Express." 
" But why to Gibraltar ? " 
" It was there the ship he was on was to 
make its first landing, and I thought " 
" The ship he was on ! " Bancroft had 
come close to the detective, and now as he 
spoke he caught him by the arm. " Was he 
not on the Sidonia ? " 
The sergeant shook his head. " He sailed 
by the Rubattino line. The Sidonia busi- 
ness was a fake. It was Isaacstein who 
arranged that. I would have had him, but 
his ship put in at Lisbon. It was there he 
got off." 
" Well ? " The perspiration had started 
on Bancroft's forehead. He drew out a 
handkerchief and mopped himself. " Well ? " 
" Well, he had doubled on me for the 
second time. But I had your instructions ; 
you had made me a very liberal offer " 
" Yes, yes." 
" And, besides, we all have our pride. I 
wanted to get him, if only for the bother he 
had put me to." 
Bancroft dropped on a chair. " Sit down," 
he said hoarsely. 
In seeming abstraction the detective 
turned again to the window. " But it was 
a tougher job," he added presently, as he 
seated himself, " far tougher than I had sup- 
posed. I got to Lisbon, and it was weeks 
later, and then only by accident, that I found 
he had gone in a sailing vessel to Havre. 
The way it came about " 
Bancroft waved a hand impatiently. 
"No matter about that." 
" From Havre I tracked him to South- 
ampton, and lost him again at Charing 
Cross. It was two months and more before 
I found a clew. I had got out of the underground one day at Cannon Street and was 
walking on to the stair, when the train which 
had started moved past me, and in one of 
the windows I saw Isaacstein. It was too 
late to attempt to get on again, but the 
next day I was there, and the next and the 
next. Finally I saw my man. He was rid- 
ing third class, the carriage was full. I got 
into another, and at every stop looked out ; 
it was at Marylebone he alighted. From 
there he walked down Great Portland 
Street, I after him, and crossed over into 
Chandos Place. There he rapped at No. 2. 
On the door was a plate on which was in- 
scribed ' Mr. Hobart.' It was three when he 
went in, it was after five when he came out. 
From there I followed him to Camden 
Town, to a house which he opened with a 
latch-key. Above the door hung a square 
paper sign, marked 'Apartments.' That 
night I was back there asking for lodgings. 
I wore green glasses, and I represented 
myself as a Kimberly engineer come to 
London to be treated for cataract. There 
was, I learned, but one other lodger, Isaac- 
stein,, known to the landlady as Mr. Moss. 
He occupied the two rooms which constituted the first floor, but there was another 
room on the ground floor which I secured. 
Thereafter I interested myself wholly in Mr. 
Moss. He had, I soon discowered, a routine 
as invariable as the laws of the Swedes and 
Prussians. At ten he was in Chandos Place. 
At noon he was at Finsbury Pavement. At 
three he went back to Chandos Place, re- 
mained there two hours, and at six returned 
to Camden Road, where he had dinner in 
his sitting-room, and sat drinking whiskey 
and water until eleven. He had but one 
visitor, a tout for a money-lender to whose 
office he went each day. My room was un- 
der the one in which they sat ; but sound 
ascends, I could hear nothing. Under pre- 
text that the noise from the street disturbed 
me, I got the landlady to give me a room on 
the second floor. By means of an aperture 
which I then made I could hear distinctly, 
only they talked in German, and what they 
said left me no wiser than before. Mean- 
while, I need not tell you that I had very 
thoroughly informed myself in regard to 
Mr. Hobart. He was, I learned, a surgeon, 
and could have tacked the better part of 
the alphabet after his name. His reputation 
was Ai. Though from a brother practi- 
tioner in Harley Street, which, as you 
know, is just around the corner, I gathered 
that he was fanciful, given to experiments, 
and addicted to writing, a thing to which it 
appears the profession object, as indicating 
either that the writer is using his pen as 
an advertisement or that his income is not 
dependent on fees. This information was 
meagre enough, and puzzle over it as I 
might I could not at the time fathom what 
connection there could be between Hobart 
and Isaacstein, nor yet when Quain came 
in. For that he did I was certain. But 
how ? That was what I then determined to 
discover. Furnished with indications from 
the physician in Harley Street, I went to 
the British Museum and set to work to read 
everything which Mr. Hobart had written 
articles in the Lancet, essays in the Medical, 
monographs in book form, every line even to 
foot-notes, not only once but twice, and was 
about to give it up, when I chanced on a 
cross notice to the Revue Scientifique. I 
can't read French ; the chance that there 
might be anything in the paper was slim, 
yet it was the last of that particular pile 
of stones, and something kept telling me 
not to leave it unturned. As a conse- 
quence I had it translated. You may re- 
member I told you when I took the lodgings 
in Camden Road I had stated I was to be 
treated for cataract. Well, I had not read 
the first paragraph of that translation before 
it was as though a cataract had really been 
removed. I saw. 
" The connection over which I had puzzled 
so was plain to me at last. Camden Town 
is not in the cab radius, but I found a han- 
som at the corner, and finished the paper 
while I was being driven to Chandos Place. 
Never since the time I marooned Jabez 
Myers, the forger, out of Montevideo have 
I been as excited as I was when I rang that 
bell. I felt that I had my hand on Quain. 
But when the door opened I was told that 
Mr. Hobart was out of town. He had gone 
that morning, the serwant said, he had left 
no address ; he might be back on the morrow, and yet again he might not be back for 
a month ; his locum tenens was Dr. Forbush in 
Cavendish Square. From Dr. Forbush, to 
whom I went at once, I extracted only a sur- 
mise that Mr. Hobart might have run down 
into Surrey, as was his habit when he wished 
to write undisturbed by interruptions, but 
where in Surrey he could not or would not 
say. I returned then to Chandos Place and 
gave the serwant ten shillings, and a promise 
of ten more, to notify me the moment Mr. 
Hobart got back. And, as a feeler, I offered 
him a sowereign to find out where he had 
gone. But of that he declared himself in- 
capable, and with the idea that no doubt 
Isaacstein was wiser than any one, and that 
if asked by the landlady whether he knew 
of a first-class surgeon he might unsuspiciously give the address, I hurried to Camden 
Town. In my haste to get to Chandos 
Place, however, I had ruined any such 
chance as that. During my absence Isaac- 
stein had driven up in a fourwheeler, packed 
his belongings, and had gone no one knew 
whither, though the slavey thought she had 
heard him direct the cabman to Charing 
Cross." 
Bancroft moved, and his eyes roamed 
impatiently from the detective to the chimeras and back again, as though in wonder 
whether nothing could hasten this tiresome 
tale. 
" Well, sir," continued the sergeant, by 
whom the pantomime had been properly 
construed, " the upshot of the matter was 
that I could do nothing until Mr. Hobart 
returned. The moment I got news of him 
I was in Chandos Place, and so soon as I 
was admitted to his office I came to the 
point one which I had had enough time to 
prepare, for I had crammed that article in 
the Revue Scientifique and got it, technical 
terms and all, as you will presently see, by 
heart. 
"' Mr. Hobart,' said I, I have a daugh- 
ter ; she is malformed in face and body, 
I happened on a treatise of yours in a 
French magazine, and it occurred to me 
that you might make her like other women.' 
" ' What is the nature of the deformities ? ' 
he asked. 
" ' She is bovvlegged,' I answered. ' Her 
arms are abnormally long, her cheek bones 
very high, her nose is squat, she has unusu- 
ally thick lips, her front teeth protrude, and 
one of her eyes is brown, the other blue.' 
"'So were Anne Boleyn's,' he returned, 
quick as that. ' It used to be considered a 
great charm. How old is your daughter ? ' 
"'Going on twenty.' 
" He got up and consulted a note-book. 
" ' It will take six months, at least. The 
eyes I can't do. Nor the teeth. But any 
dentist any dentist who understands him- 
self can. The eyes, you would have to go 
to Paris for that. I will give you the ad- 
dress of an operator there who can change 
either of them to the color of the other.' 
" ' By tattooing ? ' I asked. 
" ' Yes ; that is the nature of the process. 
But you had best have that attended to first, 
that and the teeth. Then you can bring 
her to me. My fee will be a thousand 
guineas.' 
"'I have, of course, sir,' I said, 'every 
confidence, otherwise I should not be here ; 
but permit me to ask, is there any danger of 
a fatal termination ? ' 
" Then he wanted to know had she any 
organic troubles. I told him none that I 
was aware of. 
" ' You need give yourself no uneasiness,' 
said he. ' I have recently operated on a 
young man under circumstances almost pre- 
cisely similar. His ears protruded, his feat- 
ures were squat, his arms were simian, his 
teeth projected, and while there was nothing 
the matter with his eyes, the French opera- 
tor of whom I spoke changed them from 
blue to hazel. His legs were not bowed, 
but they were not in proportion to his body. 
I increased their length by over three 
inches.' 
" ' That must have been a marvellous 
undertaking,' I threw in. 
" ' On the contrary,' he answered. ' It is 
quite simple. There are four operations, 
one on each thigh and leg, but that on the 
leg is twofold. The method is essentially 
the same as when we deal with a collar- 
bone. The bones are broken, and after 
being cut quite obliquely, the fragments are 
drawn apart until each thigh-bone is elon- 
gated two inches, and each leg one and one- 
half inch, while at the same time the de- 
formed lower limbs are made shapely and 
symmetrical. An apparatus which I have 
devised is necessary for this operation, which 
can be executed simultaneously on the 
shoulders.' 
" ' But is there no resistance on the part 
of the muscular structures ? ' I asked. 
" ' None at all,' he answered. ' More- 
over, in this particular case the added height 
took all exaggeration from the length of the 
arms. And a slight stoop with which the 
patient was afflicted, I treated as an ordinary 
curvature. Your daughter has nothing jof 
that sort, has she ? ' 
"'It is her face that worries her most,' I 
replied. He smiled at that, and well he 
might. 
" ' You say her ears stand out ? ' he asked. 
" ' Like fans,' I answered. 
" ' So did the young man's,' said he. 
' From the posterior part, from the rim of 
the ear down and on to the head, I removed 
the skin, stitched the smooth-cut skin edge 
of the ear to that of the scalp, and the ears 
lay back flat as you please. It is a simple 
operation, less complex than that which I 
performed on the lips. With your daughter 
as with him I should make a longitudinal 
incision from the corner of the mouth, a half 
inch from the vermilion border, running it 
parallel with the white skin line and continu- 
ing the incision to the opposite corner of the 
mouth. Then removing an oblong piece of 
the sub-mucous and cellular tissue each side 
of the median line, I should, in turning away 
enough of the membrane, so operate that 
when the wound and its edges were approxi- 
mated with fine silk sutures, the margin of 
the lip would be drawn down and rolled 
under, giving it not only an sesthetic appear- 
ance, but the cupid's bow as well. The 
lower lip would, of course, be similarly 
treated, and in a fortnight the result desired 
is obtained. 
" ' In the operation on the cheek bones,' 
he w-ent on to say, 'I divide the mucous 
membrane in the mouth from near the 
median line to the posterior border of the 
superior maxillary bone, separating all tis- 
sues together with the periosteum, and then 
with a sharp chisel removing enough of the 
molar bone to make the face symmetrical 
and oval. The cheek, of course, is, during 
the operation, well retracted by assistants, 
and the mucous membrane is finally stitched 
up.' 
"  Does it leave no scar ? ' I asked. 
" ' Not one,' he answered. ' Nor does the 
operation on the nose. The cartilages are 
detached from the nasal bones, and the peri- 
osteum and tissues separated from them. A 
small portion of the septum is removed also, 
and so much of the bridge is then cut that, 
when toward the median line both sides are 
broken with forceps, they just meet and form 
a perfectly straight Greek nose.' 
"'It seems incredible,' I' exclaimed. 
' Would it be at all possible for me to see 
the young man on whom you operated ? 
You can understand that my daughter is 
timorous, and a word with him ' 
" But no, that was out of the question. 
Mr. Hobart told me he himself had just 
returned from Paris where he had gone to 
assist at the tattooing of the eyes, and 
since then the patient had started on a 
recuperative journey. 
" ' But,' said he, ' if it will give your 
daughter any satisfaction to have you say 
that you have seen pictures of him, taken 
before and after, here they are.' 
"And -with that, Mr. Bancroft, he handed 
me first a kodak likeness of Oswald 
Quain " 
Bancroft had sprung to his feet. 
" And then ? " 
" And then," added the detective, pointing 
through the gaping chimeras to the room 
beyond, "a likeness of the young man that 
is in there." 
CHAPTER VI 
MR. BANCROFT HAS HIS SAY 
FOR a space neither spoke. The sergeant 
stood up, moved to the window, looked out 
again, turned, and coughed. 
" Of course," he began at last, " I would 
have taken him at the Logerot this morning, 
but learning how the land lay I thought it 
best to wait a bit and see you." 
Bancroft, who had been staring motion- 
less as an idol at the blue dragons on the 
wall, started with that shake of the head a 
bull has when he lunges at a toreador, but 
abruptly he mastered himself. The phrase 
in regard to the lay of the land, garnered 
unconsciously in that cerebral condition 
which a chess-player betrays when he an- 
swers at the end of a move a question ad- 
dressed to him at the beginning, affected 
him like a douche. There was but one 
thing of importance now Myrrha's susceptibilities. Apart from that, nothing mattered. 
At his elbow was a bell, he touched it. 
In a moment the butler appeared. 
" Harris, just say to Lord Cloden, with 
my compliments, that I would like a word 
with him." 
" That was a neat thing Isaacstein put 
him up to," the sergeant remarked, when 
Harris had gone. " When I addressed him 
as Mr. Moss this morning, and asked how 
was the folks in Chandos Place and Camden 
Town, you could have knocked him down 
with a feather." 
" Is he here, too ? " 
" As Lord Cloden 's valet. He has got 
one of my men looking after him now. He 
gave in at once, split on his pal. It was 
murder they did here, I think, that night, 
though I doubt it's too late to prove it. 
But he has been the head in all this busi- 
ness ; the other " 
The detective turned on his heel like a 
top. In the doorway Prince Charming 
stood, buttoning a glove, indifferent and 
cavalier, fair as a girl, and bright as a god. 
" Do me the fayor to step in for a min- 
ute," said Bancroft, with great civility. " I 
wanted a word with you." 
The young man had crossed the threshold 
and halted in the middle of the room, his 
eyes wandering from the pink and canary 
parallelograms to the hieroglyphics from 
the Koran. And as in affected unconcern 
he scrutinized the portiere, the door beneath 
it closed, the sergeant placed himself before 
it, and for a moment there was silence in 
that room. 
Indifferent still, occupied yet with the 
button of his glove, the young man turned 
from one to the other. But in Bancroft's 
face were such commotions, in his eyes 
such threats, about his mouth such vindictiveness, that instinctively he stepped back. 
" You wished did I understand " 
" No." And as the word fell from the 
lawyer he approached nearer. " You don't 
understand. I do. You can't drop your 
mask as you once did, but behind it I can 
see the felon Quain. I felt it was you, you 
scoundrel, the moment I looked into ) 7 our 
eyes ; you could change their color but not 
their greed. Where is the knife you used 
so well that night ? You haven't it by you 
now, have you ? No, but I have a better 
weapon the law." 
His arm shot out as he spoke and pointed 
to the detective. 
" Do you happen to know, my good sir, 
whether this gentleman is screwed, or 
whether he is mad ? By gad, it strikes me 
he must be both." 
And the young man, who had quailed for 
a second under the blight of Bancroft's ar- 
raignment, turned to the detective with an 
air of manifest concern. 
" Sane and sober as Mr. Hobart," was the 
terse reply, but it was accompanied by a 
