&lt;Yes," he said. 
She slipped away, and after searching for 
some time, cried, "The matches are all gone, 
but here is a piece of paper, a letter; do you 
want it? I can light it over the lamp." 
She held up an envelope to him. 
"I can light it over the lamp," she repeated. 
"What is the address" 
"It is very long, I can't read it all, only Flor 
ence, Italy. ' 
"Burn it, "he said, in a voice so low she could 
scarcely hear him. 
Presently she came over and knelt down by 
his side. Neither spoke or moved. 
"The candle is lighted," she whispered, at 
last. 
"And the lamp?" 
"Is out." 
CHAPTER IX. 
Cholmondeley Rowden had invited a select 
circle of friends to join him in a "petit diner a 
la stag," as he expressed it. 
Eight months of Paris and the cold, cold 
world had worked a wonderful change in Mr. 
Rowden. For one thing, he had shaved his whiskers and now wore only a mustache. For 
another, he had learned to like and respect a 
fair portion of the French students, and in con 
sequence was respected and liked in return. 
He had had two fights, in both of which he 
had contributed to the glory of the British Empire, and prize ring. 
He was a better sparrer than Clifford, and 
was his equal in the use of the foils. Like Clifford, 
he was a capital banjoist, but he insisted that 
cricket was far superior to base-ball, and this 
was the only bone of contention that ever fell 
between the two. 
Clifford played his shameless jokes as usual, 
accompanied by the enthusiastic applause of 
Rowden. Clifford also played "The Widow 
Nolan's Goat" upon his banjo, accompanied by 
the intricate pizzicatos of Rowden. 
Clifford drank numerous bottles of double X 
with Rowden, and Rowden consumed uncounted 
egg- flips with Clifford. They were inseparable; 
in fact, the triumvirate, Clifford, Elliott and 
Rowden, even went so far as to dress alike, and 
mean-natured people hinted that they had but 
one common style in painting. But they did 
not make the remark to any of the triumvirate. 
They were very fond of each other, these pre 
cious triumvirs, but they did not address each 
other by nicknames, and perhaps it was because 
they respected each other enough to refrain 
from familiarities that this alliance lasted as long 
as they lived. 
It was a beautiful sight, that of the three 
youths, when they sallied forth in company, 
hatted, clothed, and gloved alike, and each followed by a murderous-looking bull-dog. The 
animals were of the brindled variety, and each 
was garnished with a steel spiked collar. Timid 
people often crossed to the other side of the 
street on meeting this procession. 
 
Braith laughed at the whole performance, 
but secretly thought that a little of their spare 
energy and imagination might have been spent 
to advantage upon their artistic productions. 
Braith was doing splendidly. His last year's 
picture had been hung on the line and, in spite 
of his number three, he had received a third 
class medal, and had been praised, even generously, by artists and critics, including Albert 
Wolff. He was hard at work on a large canvas for 
the coming International Exhibition at Paris; 
he had sold a number of smaller studies, and 
besides had pictures well hung in Munich, and 
in more than one gallery at home. 
At last, after ten years of hard work, struggles, 
and disappointments, he began to enjoy a meas 
ure of success. He and Gethryn saw little of 
each other this winter, excepting at Julien s. 
That last visit to the Rue Monsieur le Prince 
was never mentioned between them. They were 
as cordial when they met as ever, but Braith 
did not visit his young friend any more, and 
Gethryn never spoke to him of Yvonne. 
"Good-bye, old chap!" Braith would say, 
when they parted, gripping Rex's hand and 
smiling at him. But Rex did not see Braith's 
face as he walked away. 
Braith felt helpless. The thing he most 
dreaded for Rex had happened; he believed he 
could see the end of it all, and yet he could 
prevent nothing. If he should tell Rex that 
he was being ruined, Rex would not listen, and 
who was he that he should preach to another 
man for the same fault by which he had wasted 
his own life? No, Rex would never listen to 
him, and he dreaded a rupture of their friend 
ship. 
Gethryn had made his debut in the Salon 
with a certain amount of eclat. True, he had 
been disappointed in his expectations of a med 
al, but a first mention had soothed him a little, 
and, what was more important, it proved to be 
the needed sop to his discontented aunt. But 
somehow or other his new picture did not pro 
gress rapidly, or in a thoroughly satisfactory 
manner. In bits and spots it showed a certain amount of feverish brilliancy, yes, even 
mature solidity; in fact, it was nowhere bad, 
but still it was not Gethryn and he knew that. 
"Confound it!" he would mutter, standing 
back from his canvas; but even at such times, 
he could hardly help wondering at his own 
marvelous technique. 
"Technique be'd ned! Give me stupidity 
in a pupil every time, rather than cleverness," 
Harrington had said to one of his pupils, and the 
remark often rang in Gethryn's ears even when 
his eyes were most blinded by his own wonder 
ful facility. 
"Some fools would medal this," he thought; 
"but what pleasure could a medal bring me 
when I know how little I deserve it?" 
Perhaps he was his own hardest critic, but it 
was certain that the old, simple honesty, the 
subtle purity, the almost pathetic effort to tell 
the truth with paint and brush, had nearly dis 
appeared from Gethryn's canvases during the last 
eight months, and had given place to a fierce 
and almost startling brilliancy, never, perhaps, 
hitting, but always threatening some brutal note 
of discord. 
Even Elise looked vaguely troubled, though 
she always smiled brightly at Gethryn's criticism of his own work. 
"It is so very wonderful and dazzling, but - 
but the color seems to me unkind." 
And he would groan and answer, "Yes v yes, 
Elise, you're right; oh, I can never paint anoth 
er like the one of last June !" 
"Ah, that!" she would cry, "that was delicious "but checking herself, she would add, 
"Courage, let us try again; I am not tired, 
indeed I am not" 
Yvonne never came into the studio when Gethryn had models, but often, after the light was 
dim, and the models had taken their leave, she 
would slip in, and, hanging lightly over his 
shoulder, her cheek against his, would stand 
watching the touches and retouches with which 
the young artist always eked out the last rays 
of daylight. And when his hand drooped, and 
she could hardly distinguish his face in the 
gathering gloom, he would sigh and turn to her, 
smoothing the soft hair from her forehead, say 
ing: "Are you happy, Yvonne?" And Yvonne 
always answered, "Yes, Rex, when you are." 
Then he would laugh, and kiss her and tell 
her he was always happy with La Belle He"lene, 
and they would stand in the gathering twilight 
until a gurgle from the now well-grown pups 
would warn them that the hour of hunger had 
arrived, 
 
The triumvirate, with Thaxton, Rhodes, 
Carleton, and the rest, had been frequent visitors all winter at the "Menagerie," as Clifford's 
bad pun had named Gethryn's apartment; but, 
of late, other social engagements and, possibly, 
a small amount of work, had kept them away. 
Clifford was a great favorite with Yvonne. . 
Thaxton and Elliott she liked. Rowden she 
tormented, and Carleton she endured. She 
captured Clifford by suffering him to play his 
banjo to her piano. Rowden liked her because 
she was pretty and witty, though he never got 
used to her quiet little digs at his own respected 
and dignified person. Clifford openly avowed 
his attachment, and spent many golden hours 
away from work, listening to her singing. She 
had been taught by a good master, and her 
voice was pure and pliant, although as yet only 
half developed. The little concerts they gave 
their friends were really charming, with 
Clifford's banjo, Gethryn's guitar, Thaxton's 
violin, Yvonne's voice and piano. Clifford made 
the programmes. They were profusely illustrated, and he spent a great deal of time rehearsing, writing verses, and re-hashing familiar airs 
(he called it "composing"), which would have 
been as well devoted to his easel. 
In Rowden, Yvonne was delighted to find 
a cultivated musician. Clifford listened to their 
talk of chords and keys, went and bought a 
"Musical Primer" on the Quai'd Orsay, spent 
a wretched hour groping over it, swore softly, 
and closed the book forever. 
But neither the triumvirate nor the others had 
been to the "Menagerie" for over a fortnight, 
when Rowden, feeling it incumbent upon him 
to return some of Gethryn's hospitality, issued 
very proper cards, indeed they were very swell 
cards for the Latin Quarter, for a "dinner," 
to be followed by a "quiet evening" at the Bal 
Masqud at the Opera. 
The triumvirate had accordingly tied up their 
brindled bull-dogs, "Spit," "Snap" and "Tug;" 
had donned their white ties and collars of awful 
altitude, and were fully prepared to please and 
to be pleased. Although it was nominally a 
"stag" party, the triumvirate would as soon have 
cut off their tender mustaches as have failed to 
invite Yvonne. But she had replied to Row- 
den's invitation by a dainty little note, ending: 
 
"and I am sure that you will understand when I 
say that this time I will leave you gentlemen in 
undisturbed possession of the evening, for I 
know how dearly men love to meet and behave 
like bears all by themselves. But I shall see 
you all afterward at the Opera. Au revoir then, 
at the Bal Masque. Y. D." 
The first sensation to the young men was one 
of disappointment. But the second was that 
Mademoiselle Descarte's tact had not failed 
her. 
The triumvirate were seated upon the side 
board swinging their legs. Rowden cast a sat 
isfied glance at the table laid for fifteen, and 
flicked an imaginary speck from his immac 
ulate shirt front. 
"I think it's all right," said Elliott, noticing 
his look, "eh, Clifford?" 
"Is there enough champagne?" asked that 
youth, calculating four quart bottles to each 
person. 
Rowden groaned. 
"Of course there is. What are you made of?" 
"Human flesh," acknowledged the other 
meekly. 
At eleven the guests began to arrive, welcomed by the triumvirs with great state and dig 
nity. Rovvden, looking about, missed only one 
Gethryn, and he entered at the same moment. 
"Just in time," said Rowden, and made the 
move to the table. As Gethryn sat down, he 
noticed that the place on Rowden's right was 
vacant, and before it stood a huge bouquet of 
white violets. 
"Too bad she isn't here," said Rowden, glancing at Gethryn and then at the vacant place. 
"That's awfully nice of you, Rowden," cried 
Gethryn, with a happy smile; "she will have a 
chance to thank you to-night." 
He leaned over and touched his face to the 
flowers. As he raised his head again, his eyes 
met Braith s. 
"Hello!" cried Braith, cordially. 
Rex did not notice how pale he was, and called 
back, "Hello!" with a feeling of relief at Braith's 
tone. It was always so. When they were apart 
for days, there weighed a cloud of constraint on 
Rex's mind, which Braith's first greeting always 
dispelled. But it gathered again in the next 
interval. It rose from a sullen deposit of self- 
 
reproach down deep in Gethryn's own heart. 
He kept it covered over; but he could not pre 
vent the ghost-like exhalations that gathered 
there and showed where it was hidden. 
Speeches began rather late. Elliott made one 
and offered a toast to "la plus jolie demoiselle de 
Paris, "which was drunk amid great enthusiasm, 
and responded to by Gethryn, ending with a 
toast to Rowden. Rowden's response was stiff, 
but most correct. The same could not be said 
of Clifford's answer to the toast, "The struggling 
Artist Heaven help him!" 
Towards i A. M. Mr. Clifford's conversation 
had become incoherent. But he continued to 
drink toasts. H3 drank Yvonne's health five 
times, he pledged Rowden and Gethryn and 
everybody else he could think of, down to Mrs. 
Gummidge and each separate kitten, and finally 
pledged himself. By that time he had reached 
the lachrymose state. Tears, it seemed, did 
him good. A heart-rending sob was usually the 
sign of reviving intelligence. 
"Well," said Gethryn, buttoning his great 
coat, "I'll see you all in an hour, at the Opera." 
 
Braith was not coming with them to the Ball, 
so Rex shook hands and said "Good-night," and 
calling "Au revoir" to Rowden and the rest, 
ran downstairs three at a time. He hurried into 
the court and after spending five minutes shout 
ing "Cordon!" succeeded in getting out of the 
door, and into the Rue Michelet. From there he 
turned into the Avenue de 1 Observatoire, and 
cutting through into the Boulevard, came to his 
hotel. 
Yvonne was standing before the mirror, tying 
the hood of a white silk domino under her chin. 
Hearing Gethryn's key in the door, she hurriedly 
slipped on her little white mask and confronted 
him. 
"Why, who is this?" cried Gethyrn. "Yvonne, 
come and tell me who this charming stranger is!" 
"You see before you the Princess Helene, 
Monsieur," she said, gravely bending the little 
masked head. 
"Oh, in that case, you needn't come, Yvonne, 
as I have an engagement with the Princess 
Helene of Troy." 
"But you mustn't kiss me!" she cried, hastily 
placing the table between herself and Geth- 
 
ryn; "you have not yet been presented. Oh, 
Rex! Don't be so so idiotic; you spoil my 
dress there, yes, only one, but don't you dare 
to try Oli, Rex! Now I am all in wrinkles, 
you you bear!" 
"Bears hug that's a fact," he laughed. "Come, 
are you ready or I'll just " 
"Don't you dare!" she cried, whipping off 
her mask and attempting an indignant frown. 
She saw the big bunch of white violets in his 
hand, and made a diversion by asking what 
those were. He told her, and she declared, de 
lightedly, that she should carry them with 
Rex's roses to the Ball. 
"They shall have the preference, Monsieur," 
she said, teasingly. "Oh, Rex! don't please " 
she entreated. 
"All right, I won t," he said, drawing her 
wrap around her; and Yvonne, replacing the 
mask and gathering up her fluffy skirts, slipped 
one small gloved hand through his arm, and 
danced down the stairs. 
On the corner of the Vaugirard and the Rue 
de Medicis one always finds a line of cabs, and 
presently they were bumping and bouncing away 
down the Rue de Seine to the river. 
"Je fais ce que sa fantaisie 
Veut m ordonner, 
Et je puis,'s il lui faut ma vie 
La lui dormer, " 
sang Yvonne, deftly thrusting tierce and quarte 
with her fan to make Gethryn keep his distance. 
"Do you know it is snowing?" he said pres 
ently, peering out of the window, as the cab 
rattled across the Pont Neuf. 
"Tant mieux!" cried the girl; "I shall make 
a snowball, a she opened her blue eyes 
impressively, "a very, very large one, and 
"And?" 
"Drop it on the head of Mr. Rowden," she 
announced, with cheerful decision. 
"I'll warn poor Rowden of your intention," 
he laughed, as the cab rolled smoothly up the 
Avenue de 1 Opera, across the Boulevard des 
Italiens, and stopped before the glittering pile 
of the great Opera. 
She sprang lightly to the curbstone and stood 
tapping her little feet against the pavement 
while Gethryn fumbled about for his fare. 
The steps of the Opera and the Plaza were 
covered with figures in dominoes, blue, red or 
 
black, many grotesque and bizarre costumes, 
and not a few sober claw-hammers. The great 
flare of yellow light which bathed and flooded 
the shifting, many-colored throng, also lent a 
strangely weird effect to the now heavily falling 
snow-flakes. Carnages and cabs kept arriving 
in countless numbers. It was half past two, and 
nobody who wanted to be considered anybody 
thought of arriving before that hour. The peo 
ple poured in a steady stream through the por 
tals. Groups of English and American students 
in their irreproachable evening attire, groups of 
French students in someone else's doubtful 
evening attire, crowds of rustling silken dominoes, herds of crackling muslin dominoes, 
countless sad faced Pierrots, fewer sad-faced 
Capuchins, now and then a slim Mephistopheles, 
now and then a fat, stolid Turk, Arry, Tom, 
and Billy, redolent of plum pudding and Seven 
Dials, Gontran, Gaston and Achille, savoring of 
brasseries and the Sorbonne. And then, from 
the carriages and nacres; Mademoiselle Patch 
ouli and good old Monsieur Bonvin, Mademoi 
selle Nitouche and bad young Monsieur de 
Sacrebleu, Mademoiselle Moineau and Don Caesar 
Imberbe; and the pink silk domino of "La Pat- 
aude" mais n importe! 
Aliens, Messieurs, Mesdames, to the cloak 
room to the foyer! To the escalier! or you, 
Madame la Comtesse, to your box, and smooth 
out your crumpled domino; as for "LaPataude," 
she is going to dance to-night. 
Gethryn, with Yvonne clinging tightly to his 
arm, entered the great vestibule and passed 
through the railed lanes to the broad inclined 
aisle which led to the floor. 
"Do you want to take a peep before we go to 
our box?" he asked, leading her to the door 
way. 
Yvonne's little heart beat faster as she leaned 
over and glanced at the dazzling spectacle. 
"Come, hurry, let us go to the box!" she 
whispered, dragging Gethryn after her up the 
stairway. 
He followed, laughing at her excitement, and in 
a few minutes they found the door of their lodge 
and slipped in. 
Gethryn lighted a cigarette and began to 
unstrap his field glasses. 
"Take these, Yvonne," he said, handing them 
 
to her while he adjusted her own tiny gold 
ones. 
Yvonne's cheeks flushed and her eyes sparkled 
under the little mask, as she leaned over 
the velvet railing and gazed at the bewildering 
spectacle below. Great puffs of hot, perfumed 
air bore the crash of two orchestras to their 
ears, mixed with the distant clatter and whirl of 
the dancers, and the shouts and cries of ths 
maskers. 
At the end of the floor, screened by banks 
of palms, sat the musicians, and round 
about, rising tier upon tier, the glittering boxes 
were filled with the elite of the demi-monde, 
who ogled and gossiped and sighed, entirely 
content with the material and social barriers 
which separate those who dance for ten francs 
from those who look on for a hundred. 
But there were others there who should not 
by any means be confounded with their sisters 
of the "half-world." 
The Faubourg St. Germain, the Champs 
Elysees, and the Pare Monceau were possibly 
represented among those muffled and disguised 
beauties, who began the evening with their fans 
so handy in case of need. Ah, well, now they 
lay their fans down quite out of reach in case of 
emergency, and who shall say if disappointment 
lurks under these dainty dominoes, that there is 
so little to bring a blush to modest cheeks, 
alas! few emergencies. 
And you over there you of the "American 
Colony," who are tossed like shuttle-cocks in the 
social whirl, you, in your well-appointed masks 
and silks, it is all very new and exciting yes, 
but why should you come? American women, 
brought up to think clean thoughts, and see with 
innocent eyes, to exact a respectful homage 
from men and enjoy a personal dignity and in 
dependence unknown to women anywhere else, 
why do you want to come here? Do you not 
know that the foundations of that liberty which 
makes you envied in the old world are laid in 
the respect and confidence of men? Undermine 
that, become wise and cynical, learn the mean 
ing of doubtful words and gestures whose signif 
icance you never need have suspected, meet 
men on the same ground where they may any 
day meet fast women of the continent, and fix 
at that moment on yo-ur free limbs the same 
 
chains which corrupt society has forged for the 
women of Europe. 
Yvonne leaned back in her box with a little 
gasp. 
"But I can't make out any one at all," she 
said; "it's all a great, sparkling sea of color." 
"Try the field glasses, "replied Gethryn, giving 
them to her again, at the same time opening her 
big plumy fan and waving it to and fro beside 
the flushed cheek. 
Presently she cried out, "Oh, look! There 
is Mr. Elliott and Mr. Rowden, and I think Mr. 
Clifford, but I hope not," 
He leaned forward and swept the floor with 
the field glass. 
"It's Clifford, sure enough," he muttered; 
"what on earth induces him to dance in that set?" 
It was Clifford. 
At that moment, he was addressing Elliott 
in pleading, though hazy, phrases. 
"Come long, Elliott, don't be so so un- 
comft ble n p tic lar! W t's use of be ng 
shnobbish?"he urged, clinging hilariously to his 
partner, a pigeon-toed ballet girl. But Elliott 
only laughed and said; 
"No; waltzes are all I care for. No quadrille 
for me " 
The crash of the orchestra drowned his voice, 
and Clifford, turning and bowing gravely to his 
partner, and then to his vis-a-vis, began to per 
form such antics and cut such pigeon-wings, 
that his pigeon-toed partner glared at him 
through the slits of her mask in envious astonishment. The floor was dotted with numerous 
circles of maskers, tenor fifteen deep, all watch 
ing and applauding the capers of the hilarious 
couples in the middle. 
But Clifford's set soon attracted a large and 
enthusiastic audience, who were connoisseurs 
