
In midwinter Jack went to Washington on busi- 
ness. It was necessary to see Mavick, and Mr. 
Henderson, who was also there. To spend a few 
weeks at the capital, in preparation for Lent, has 
become a part of the programme of fashion. There 
can be met people like-minded from all parts of 
the Union, and there is gayety, and the entertain- 
ment to be had in new acquaintances, without in- 
curring any of the responsibilities of social contin- 
uance. They meet there on neutral ground. Half 
Jack's set had gone over or were going. Young 







Van Dam would go with him. It will be only for 
a few days, Jack had said, gayly, when he bade 
Edith good-by, and she must be careful not to let 
the boy forget him. 

It was quite by accident, apparently, that in the 
same train were the Chesneys, Miss Tavish, and 
Carmen going over to join her husband. This gave 
the business expedition the air of an excursion. 
And indeed at the hotel where they stayed this Xew 
York contingent made something of an impression, 
promising an addition to the gayety of the season, 
and contributing to the importance of the house as 
a centre of fashion. Henderson's least movements 
were alwa\ r s chronicled and speculated on, and for 
years he had been one of the stock subjects, out of 
which even the dullest interviewers, who watch 
the hotel registers in all parts of the country, felt 
sure that they could make an acceptable paragraph. 
The arrival of his wife, therefore, was a newspaper 
event. 

They said in Washington at the time that Mrs. 
Henderson was one of the most fascinating of 
women, amiable, desirous to please, approachable, 
and devoted to the interests of her husband. If 
some of the women, residents in established so- 
ciety, were a little shy of her, if some, indeed, 
thought her dangerous women are always think- 
ing this of each other, and surely they ought to 
know nothing of this appeared in the reports. 







The men liked her. She had so much vivacity, 
such esprit, she understood men so well, and the 
world, and could make allowances, and was always 
an entertaining companion. More than one Sen- 
ator paid marked court to her, more than one brill- 
iant young fellow of the House thought himself 
fortunate if he sat next her at dinner, and even 
cabinet officers waited on her at supper. It could 
not be doubted that a smile and a confidential or 
a witty remark from Mrs. Henderson brightened 
many an evening. "Wherever she went her charm- 
ing toilets were fully described, and the public 
knew as well as her jewellers the number and cost 
of her diamonds, her necklaces, her tiaras. But 
this was for the world and for state occasions. At 
home she liked simplicity. And this was what im- 
pressed the reporters when, in the -line of their 
public duty, they were admitted to her presence. 
"With them she was very affable, and she made 
them feel that they could almost be classed with 
her friends, and that they were her guardians 
against the vulgar publicity, which she disliked 
and shrank from. 

There went abroad, therefore, an impression of 
her amiability, her fabulous wealth in jewels and 
apparel, her graciousness and her cleverness and 
her domesticity. Her manners seemed to the re- 
porters those of a " lady," and of this both her wit 
and freedom from prudishness and her courteous 







treatment of them convinced them. And the best 
of all this was that while it was said that Hender- 
son was one of the boldest and shrewdest of oper- 
ators, and a man to be feared in the Street, he was 
in his family relations one of the most generous 
and kind-hearted of men. 

Henderson himself had not much time for the 
frivolities of the season, and he evaded all but the 
more conspicuous social occasions, at which Car- 
men, sometimes with a little temper, insisted that 
he should accompany her. "You would come 
here," he once said, "when you knew I was im- 
mersed in most perplexing business." 

" And now I am here," she had replied, in a tone 
equally wanting in softness, " you have got to make 
the best of me." 

"Was Jack happy in the whirl he was in ? Some 
days exceedingly so. Some days he sulked, and 
some days he threw himself with recklessness born 
of artificial stimulants into the always gay and rat- 
tling moods of Miss Tavish. Somehow he could 
get no nearer to Henderson or to Mavick than when 
he was in New York. Not that he could accuse 
Mavick of trying to conceal anything; Mavick 
bore to him always the open, " all right " attitude, 
but there were things that he did not understand. 

And then Carmen? Was she a little less de- 
pendent on him, in this wide horizon, than in New 
York? And had he noticed a little disposition to 



patronize on two or three occasions ? It was ab- 
surd. He laughed at himself for such an idea. 
' Old Eschelle's daughter patronize him ! And yet 
there was something. She was very confidential 
with Mavick. They seemed to have a great deal 
in common. It so happened that even in the little 
expeditions of sight-seeing these two were thrown 
much together, and at times when the former rela- 
tions of Jack and Carmen should have made them 
comrades. They had a good deal to say to each 
other, and momentarily evidently serious things, 
and at receptions Jack had interrupted their glances 
of intelligence. But what stuff this was ! He jeal- 
ous of the attentions of his friend to another man's 
wife ! If she was a coquette, what did it matter 
to him? Certainly he was not jealous. But he 
was irritated. 

One day after a round of receptions, in which 
Jack had been specially disgruntled, and when he 
was alone in the drawing-room of the hotel with 
Carmen, his manner was so positively rude to her 
that she could not but notice it. There was this 
trait of boyishness in Jack, and it was one of the 
weaknesses that made him loved, that he always 
cried out when he was hurt. 

Did Carmen resent this ? Did she upbraid him 
for his manner ? Did she apologize, as if she had 
done anything to provoke it? She sank down 
wearily in a chair and said : 



" I'm so tired. I wish I were back in New 
Tork." 

" You don't act like it," Jack replied, gruffly. 

"No. You don't understand. And now you 
want to make me more miserable. See here, Mr. 
Delancy," and she started up in her seat and turned 
to him, " you are a man of honor. Would you ad- 
vise me to make an enemy of Mr. Mavick, know- 
ing all that he does know about Mr. Henderson's 
affairs." 

" I don't see what that has got to do with it," 
said Jack, wavering. " Lately your manner " 

" Nonsense !" cried Carmen, springing up and ap- 
proaching Jack with a smile of animation and 
trust, and laying her hand on his shoulder. " We 
are old, old friends. And I have just confided to 
you what I wouldn't to any other living being. 
There !" And looking around at the door, she 
tapped him lightly on the cheek and ran out of 
the room. 

Whatever you might say of Carmen, she had 
this quality of a wise person, that she never cut 
herself loose from one situation until she was en- 
tirely sure of a better position. 

For one reason or another Jack's absence was 
prolonged. He wrote often, he made bright com- 
ments on the characters and peculiarities of the 
capital, and he said that he was tired to death of 
the everlasting whirl and scuffle. People plunged 







in the social whirlpool always say they are weary 
of it, and they complain bitterly of its exactions 
and its tax on their time and strength. Edith 
judged, especially from the complaints, that her 
husband was enjoying himself. She felt also that 
his letters were in a sense perfunctory, and gave 
her only the surface of his life. She sought in 
vain in them for those evidences of spontaneous 
love, of delight in writing to her of all persons in 
the world, the eagerness of the lover that she re- 
called in letters written in other days. However 
affectionate in expression, these were duty letters. 
Edith was not alone. She had no lack of friends, 
who came and went in the common round of so- 
cial exchange, and for many of them she had a 
sincere affection. And there were plenty of rela- 
tives on the father's and on the mother's side. But 
for the most part they were old-fashioned, home- 
keeping New-Yorkers, who wefe sufficient to them- 
selves, and cared little for the set into which 
Edith's marriage had more definitely placed her. 
In any real trouble she would not have lacked 
support. She was deemed fortunate in her mar- 
riage, and in her apparent serene prosperity it was 
believed that she was happy. If she had had 
mother or sister or brother, it is doubtful if she 
would have made either a confidant of her anxi- 
eties, but high-spirited and self-reliant as she was, 
there were days when she longed with intolerable 







heartache for the silent sympathy of a mother's 
presence. 

It is singular how lonely a woman of this nature 
can be in a gay and friendly world. She had her 
interests, to be sure. As she regained her strength 
she took up her social duties, and she tried to re- 
sume her studies, her music, her reading, and she 
occupied herself more and more with the charities 
and the fortunes of her friends who were giving their 
lives to altruistic work. But there was a sense of 
unreality in all this. The real thing was the soul 
within, the longing, loving woman whose heart 
was heavy and unsatisfied. Jack was so lovable, 
he had in his nature so much nobility, if the world 
did not kill it, her life might be so sweet, and so 
completely fulfil her girlish dreams. All these 
schemes of a helpful, altruistic life had been in her 
dream, but how empty it was without the mutual 
confidence, the repose in the one human love for 
which she cared. 

Though she was not alone, she had no confidant. 
She could have none. What was there to confide ? 
There was nothing to be done. There was no 
flagrant wrong or open injustice. Some women 
in like circumstances become bitter and cynical. 
Others take their revenge in a career reckless, but 
within social conventions, going their own way in 
a sort of matrimonial truce. These are not notice- 
able tragedies. They are things borne with a dumb 





ache of the heart. There are lives into which the 
show of spring comes, but without the song of 
birds or the scent of flowers. They are endured 
bravely, with a heroism for which the world does 
not often give them credit. Heaven only knows 
how many noble women noble in this if in noth- 
ing else carry through life this burden of an un- 
satisfied heart, mocked by the outward convention 
of love. 

But Edith had one confidant the boy. And 
he was perfectly safe ; he would reveal nothing. 
There were times when he seemed to understand, 
and whether he did or not she poured out her heart 
to him. Often in the twilight she sat by him in 
this silent communion. If he were asleep and he 
was not troubled with insomnia he was still com- 
pany. And when he was awake, his efforts to 
communicate the dawning ideas of the queer world 
into which he had come were a never-failing de- 
light. He wanted so many more things than he 
could ask for, which it was his mother's pleasure 
to divine ; later on he would ask for so many 
things he could not get. The nurse said that he 
had uncommon strength of will. 

These were happy hours, imagining what the 
boy would be, planning what she would make 
his life, hours enjoyed as a traveller enjoys 
way -side flowers, snatched before an approach- 
ing storm. It is a pity, the nurse would say, that 







his father cannot see him now. And at the 
thought Edith could only see the child through 
tears, and a great weight rested on her heart in all 
this happiness. 



CHAPTER XVI 

WHEN Father Damon parted from Edith he 
seemed to himself strengthened in his spirit. His 
momentary outburst had shown him where he 
stood the strength of his fearful temptation. To 
see it was to be able to conquer it. He would hu- 
miliate himself ; he would scourge himself ; he 
would fast and pray ; he would throw himself more 
unreservedly into the service of his Master. He 
had been too compromising with sin and sinners, 
and with his own weakness and sin, the worst of 
all. 

The priest walked swiftly through the wintry 
streets, welcoming as a sort of penance the biting 
frost which burned his face and penetrated his gar- 
ments. He little heeded the passers in the streets, 
those who hurried or those who loitered, only, if 
he met or passed a woman or a group of girls, he 
instinctively drew himself away and walked more 
rapidly. He strode on uncompromisingly, and his 
clean-shaved face was set in rigid lines. Those who 
saw him pass would have said that there went an 
ascetic bent on judgment. Many who did know 
him, and who ordinarily would have saluted him, 



sure of a friendly greeting, were repelled by his 
stern face and determined air, and made no sign. 
The father had something on his mind. 

As he turned into Bivington Street there ap- 
proached him from the opposite direction a girl, 
walking slowly and undecidedly. When he came 
near her she looked up, with an appealing recogni- 
tion. In a flash of the quick passing he thought 
he knew her a girl who had attended his mission 
and whom he had not seen for several months 
but he made no sign and passed on. 

" Father Damon !" 

He turned about short at the sound of the weak, 
pleading voice, but with no relaxation of his severe, 
introverted mood. " Well ?" 

It was the girl he remembered. She wore a dress 
of silk that had once been fine, and over it an am- 
ple cloak that had quite lost its freshness, and a 
hat still gay with cheap flowers. Her face, which 
had a sweet and almost innocent expression, was 
drawn and anxious. The eyes were those of a 
troubled and hunted animal. 

" I thought," she said, hesitatingly, " you didn't 
know me." 

" Yes, I know you. Why haven't you been at 
the mission lately ?" 

" I couldn't come. I " 

" I'm afraid you have fallen into bad ways." 

She did not answer immediately. She looked 



away, and, still avoiding his gaze, said, timidly : " I 
thought I would tell you, Father Damon, that I'm 
that I'm in trouble. I don't know what to do." 

"Have you repented of your sin?" asked he, 
with a little softening of his tone. " Did you want 
to come to me for help ?" 

" He's deserted me," said the girl, looking down, 
absorbed in her own misery, and not heeding his 
question. 

" Ah, so that is what you are sorry for ?" The 
severe, reproving tone had come back to his voice. 

"And they don't want me in the shop any 
more." 

The priest hesitated. Was he always to preach 
against sin, to strive to extirpate it, and yet always 
to make it easy for the sinner? This girl must 
realize her guilt before he could do her any good. 
" Are you sorry for what you have done ?" 

" Yes, I'm sorry," she replied. Wasn't to be in 
deep trouble to be sorry ? And then she looked 
up, and continued with the thought in her mind, 
" I didn't know who else to go to." 

" Well, my child, if you are sorry, and want to 
lead a different life, come to me at the mission and 
I will try to help you." 

The priest, with a not unkindly good-by, passed 
on. The girl stood a moment irresolute, and then 
went on her way heavily and despondent. What 
good would it do her to go to the mission now ? 





Three days later Dr. Leigh was waiting at the 
mission chapel to speak with the rector after the 
vesper service. He came out pale and weary, and 
the doctor hesitated to make known her errand 
when she saw how exhausted he was. 

" Did you wish me for anything ?" he asked, 
after the rather forced greeting. 

" If you feel able. There is a girl at the Woman's 
Hospital who wants to see you." 

" Who is it ?" 

" It is the girl you saw on the street the other 
afternoon ; she said she had spoken to you." 

" She promised to come to the mission." 

" She couldn't. I met the poor thing the same 
afternoon. She looked so aimless and forlorn that, 
though I did not remember her .at first, I thought 
she might be ill, and spoke to her, and asked her 
what was the matter. At first she said nothing 
except that she was out of work and felt miser- 
able ; but the next moment she broke down com- 
pletely, and said she hadn't a friend in the world." 

" Poor thing !" said the priest, with a pang of 
self-reproach. 

" There was nothing to do but to take her to the 
hospital, and there she has been." 

"Is she very ill?" 

" She may live, the house surgeon says. But she 
was very weak for such a trial." 

Little more was said as they walked along, and 





when they reached the hospital, Father Damon was 
shown without delay into the ward where the sick 
girl lay. Dr. Leigh turned back from the door, and 
the nurse took him to the bedside. She lay quite 
still in her cot, wan and feeble, with every sign of 
having encountered a supreme peril. 

She turned her head on the low pillow as Father 
Damon spoke, saying he was very glad he could 
come to her, and hoped she was feeling better. 

" I knew you would come," she said, feebly. 
" The nurse says I'm better. But I wanted to tell 
you : And she stopped. 

" Yes, I know," he said. " The Lord is very 
good. He will forgive all your sins now, if you 
repent and trust Him." 

" I hope " she began. " I'm so weak. If I 
