some account go out like the snuff of a candle! Where’s the girl?”
glancing around.
“In there.” Mrs. Murphy nodded towards the room.
Dil lay motionless, but for the faint breathing. The doctor listened
with his ear down on her heart, felt her pulse, and seemed in a study.
“Let her sleep as long as she can. She has worn herself out. She used to
wheel this one round,” nodding. “Have in some fresh air; the room is
stifling. How any one lives—”
Dil roused without opening her eyes.
“Was it you, Bess? Oh, is it morning?”
“No, no; go to sleep again. The night’s just begun. She’s dead tired
out,” to the women. “Let the mother come round when she can, and get rid
of these young ones before the girl wakes. If there’s anything else
wanted, send round. Are these people very poor?”
“Mrs. Quinn goes out washing. And the babies are taken in by the day. I
don’t know”—doubtfully.
“The mother will settle that. And the old lady—the city must bury her, I
suppose?”
“’Deed an’ it must. She’s had nothin’ but her pinshin, an’ has no folk.”
They found Bess’s nice white frock pinned up in a cloth, beautifully
ironed and laid away in anticipation of the journey—the very journey she
had taken so unknowingly. They put it on, and smoothed down the poor
little legs with tender hands. Then they laid her on her mother’s bed
until Dil should rouse.
Mrs. Minch brought up her sewing, while Mrs. Murphy went to her own room
to look after Mrs. Bolan. Mrs. Carr, another neighbor, came in and
helped with the babies, and wondered how Dilly Quinn had ever been able
to do as much work as a hearty, grown woman, and she not bigger than a
ten-year-old child!
It was three o’clock when Dil roused. Mrs. Minch sat quietly at her
sewing. The wagon was pushed clear up to the window, empty.
“O Mrs. Minch, what has happened?” She sprang out, wild-eyed and
quivering.
“My dear,” Mrs. Minch took her in her arms, “Bess is better off. She is
in heaven with the good God, who will be tenderer of her than any human
friend. She will have no more pain. She will be well and strong, and a
lovely angel. You would not wish her back—”
“Yes, I do, I do. We was goin’ to heaven together in the spring; we had
it all planned. And Bess wouldn’t ’a’ gone without me—oh, I know she
wouldn’t. Where is she? What have you done with her?”
“She is in there.”
Dil flew to her mother’s room. The ironing-board lay on the bed, and a
strange, still shape imperfectly outlined under the sheet.
“She looks like an angel,” said Mrs. Minch.
Dilsey Quinn stared, bereft of her senses for some moments. Slowly the
incidents of the morning came over her—of last night, when Bess seemed
so improved, so hopeful. She had seen dead people. Death was no stranger
in Barker’s Court. There were “wakes,” and quiet, hurried burials. They
died and were taken away, that was all. With a curious, obstinate
unreason she knew Bess had died like all the rest; yet she had been so
sure Bess could not die. But she had not gone to heaven. The breath
had gone out of her body, but a breath couldn’t go to heaven. She had
left her body here; the poor hurted legs the Lord Jesus would have
mended. They could never be mended now, for they would be put in the
ground.
She stood so still that Mrs. Minch raised the sheet. The pinched look
was going out of the face, as it often does after death. The eyes were
closed; the long bronze lashes were beautiful; the thin lips had been
pressed rather tightly, as if in fear that they might betray their
secret. Yet it had a strange, serene beauty.
Dil did not cry or utter a sound. A great solitude enveloped her, as if
she were alone in a wide desert. She would never have any one to love or
caress; a thick darkness settled all about her, as if now she and Bess
were shut out of heaven forever. For what would the palace be, and the
angels innumerable, if Bess was not there?
She turned and went to her own room, began to pick up the things and
tidy it, spread the cot, shook the cushion of the poor dilapidated
wagon, carefully laid over it the blanket she had taken so much pains to
make.
“Mrs. Minch,” she said, “will you please bring Bess in here. Mammy
wouldn’t like her there. An’ I want her here—on my bed.”
Mrs. Minch looked at her in surprise. The face was rigid and
unresponsive, but there was an awesome, chilling sorrow in every line.
She reverently obeyed Dil’s behest.
“You are very good. You see, no one cared ’bout her but jes’ me an’
Patsey an’”—Ah, what would John Travis say? “An’ I want to keep her
here.”
“My dear, dear child—”
She put away the kindly hands, not ungently, but as if she could not
quite bear them—as if she was too sore for any human touch.
“How did I come to sleep so long?” she asked, in a strained, weary tone.
“You were so tired, poor dear. The doctor was in, and he said it was the
best thing for you. Mrs. Murphy has been in and out, and Mrs. Carr.”
“You took care of the babies?” Her lips quivered, and a few big tears
rolled down her cheeks. She could suffer, if the time to sorrow had not
yet come.
“Yes, dear. I don’t see how you get along so with them. And do you feel
better?”
The kind eyes studied her with concern.
“I’m well. I never do get sick.”
“Do you know where your mother is?”
“Not the street. No, ma’am. The people have a queer long name. An’
she’ll be late th’ night.”
Mrs. Murphy looked in the door.
“Ah, yer up, an’ ye do look better. Hev ye had anything to ate? Do ye
mind if I have Mrs. Minch come up-stairs just a bit?”
“Oh, no.” Dil did not notice the strain in the eyes, the awesomeness of
facing death.
“I cudden’t be alone. She’s roused, but she’s almost gone; fightin’ fer
life, one may say, at the very end,” she whispered as they went up the
stairs.
The babies were amusing themselves. Dil uncovered the face of her dead,
and looked long and earnestly, as if she knew there was a great mystery
she ought to solve. Ah, how sweet she was! Dil’s heart swelled with a
sense of triumph. She had always been so proud of Bess’s beauty.
But what was dead? It happened any time, and to anybody, to babies
mostly, and made you cold and still, useless. Then you were taken away
and buried. It was altogether different from going to heaven. What
strange power had taken Bess, and kept her from that blessed journey?
Why did the Lord Jesus let any one do it? John Travis couldn’t have been
so mistaken, and Christiana, and the children.
She was so glad they had put on her best dress, bought with John
Travis’s money. Ah, if they only had started that day and risked all!
Here was her blue sash and the blue bows for her sleeves. She hardly had
the courage to touch the beloved form.
How strangely cold the little hands were. She kissed them, and then she
no longer felt afraid. She raised the frail figure, and passed the
ribbon round the waist. Almost it seemed as if Bess breathed.
She brought the brush and comb, and curled the hair in her own flowing
fashion, picking out the pretty bang in rings, kissing the cold cheeks,
the shell-like eyelids. Why, surely Bess was only asleep. She must, she
would waken, to-morrow morning perhaps. A sudden buoyant hope
electrified her. She had her again, and the horrible thought of
separation vanished. Dil was too ignorant to formulate any theories, but
every pulse stirred within her own body.
Two of the mothers came for babies, but she uttered no word of what had
happened. Then she fed the others, and fixed the fire, and Dan peered in
fearfully. She gave him a slice of bread, and he was glad to be off.
Up-stairs they had watched the breath go out of the poor body.
“Pore thing! God rist her sowl wheriver it is,” and Mrs. Murphy crossed
herself.
“Has she no friends?”
“Not a wan, I belayve. She used to talk of some nevys whin she first
come, that’s nigh two years ago. But she’d lost track of them. I’m sure
I’ve taken good care of the pore ould craythur, an’ I hope some wan will
do the same to me at the last.”
“You’re a kindly woman, Mrs. Murphy, and God grant it. We don’t know
where nor when the end will come.”
Mrs. Minch stopped as she went down-stairs.
“Poor old Mrs. Bolan has gone to the better land. She and Bess will have
a Christmas with the angels. They will not want to come back here.”
Dil had no courage to argue. But she knew to the very farthest fibre of
her being, that nothing could so change Bess that she would desire to
stay anywhere without her.
Mrs. Garrick had heard the tidings before she came in for her baby, and
was profuse in her sympathies.
“But it’s the Lord’s mercy, for she were a poor sufferer, and was jist
waitin’. How did it happen? Was it in the night, whilst ye were all
asleep? An’ to think yer poor mother whint away knowin’ nothin’.”
“I can’t talk about it. I—I don’t know.”
“An’ old Mis’ Bolan. Well, I’ll run up-stairs a bit, an’ see Mrs.
Murphy.”
She was rewarded for her trouble here; the strange curiosity of some, as
if the dead face could answer the mystery.
“She’s a moighty quare girl, that Dilsey Quinn. Niver to be askin’ one
to look at the corpse; an’ if Bess hadn’t been so peaked, she would have
been a pritty child. She had such iligant hair.”
The neighbors began to make calls of condolence. Two deaths in a house
was an event rather out of the common order of things.
Dil awed them by her quiet demeanor, and answered apathetically, busying
herself with the supper.
“What hev ye done wid her?” asked one. “Shure, she’s not bin tuk away?”
“No; she’s in ther’, in my room. An’—an’ she’s mine.”
For to Dil there seemed something sacred about Bess, and she kept guard
rigorously. It was not simply a dead body to gloat over. They could go
up-stairs and look at Mrs. Bolan.
It was nine o’clock when her mother came home laden with budgets, and
Dan following in a vaguely frightened manner. He had been hanging about
Mrs. MacBride’s, waiting for her. She had gone in and taken her “sup o’
gin,” and heard the news, also the complaints.
“Whiniver did it happen, Dil?” throwing down her budgets. “She’s been no
good to hersilf nor no wan else this long while. An’ she cudden’t iver
git well, an’ was a sight o’ trouble. But I’m clear beat. Week after
week I thought she’d be sure to go, but when you’re lookin’, the thing
niver comes. An’ it’s took me so suddent like, that I had no breath left
at all. Was it true—did ye find her dead, an’ faint clear away?”
She looked rather admiringly at Dil.
“Yes—she were cold,” said Dil briefly. “An’ then I don’t know what
happened.”
“Ye pore colleen! Ye’ll be better widout her, an’ ye’ll be gittin well
an’ strong agin. It’s bin a hard thing, an’ yer divil of a father shud a
had his own back broke. But he’s fast enough, and I hope they’ll kape
him there. Any word of Owny?”
“No.” Oh, what would Owny say—an’ Patsey.
“Who kem an’ streeked her? Let’s see.”
She took the lamp and went in. It seemed to Dil as if she would even now
shake her fist at Bess, and the child stood with bated breath.
“She were a purty little thing, Dil,” the mother said with a softened
inflection. “Me sister Morna had yellow hair an’ purplish eyes, and was
that fair an’ sweet, but timid like. I believe me mother had some such
hair, but the rest of us had black. She looks raile purty, an’ makes a
better corpse than I iver thought. Why didn’t ye lit thim see her, Dil?
Ye’s needn’t a been shamed of her.”
Dil was saved from answering by the advent of a throng of neighbors. The
room seemed so warm, and there was such a flurry, she dropped on the
lounge faint and breathless.
“Go to bed, Dan,” said his mother.
Dil rose again and opened the door. The cold air, close and vile as it
was, felt grateful.
“Go up-stairs a bit in Mrs. Murphy’s;” and though the permission was a
command, Dil went gratefully.
Mrs. Murphy sat sewing to make up for lost time. Her little girl was
asleep in the cradle. She had improved since cooler weather had set in.
The door of one room was shut. The old chintz-covered Boston rocker was
empty.
“I couldn’t stay to see them all lookin’ at her,” she exclaimed
tremulously, as she almost tottered across the room.
“No, dear.” Mrs. Murphy took her in her arms. “Ye look like a ghost. But
Bess is main pritty, an’ it’s a custom. Will ye sit here?”
Dil shuddered as she looked at the empty chair where Mrs. Bolan used to
sit.
“No; I’ll take the stool. I just want to be a bit still like an’ think.
I couldn’t talk ’bout her, you know.”
“Yes, dear,” with kindly sympathy.
Dil dropped on a box stool, leaning her folded arms on a chair. Mrs.
Murphy took up her sewing again. She longed to comfort, but she was sore
afraid the two lorn souls were wandering about purgatory. She had a
little money of Mrs. Bolan’s that she meant to spend in masses. But who
would pay for a mass for Bessy Quinn’s soul? And she had never been
baptized. The ignorant, kindly woman was sore distressed.
Dil seemed to look through the floor and see the picture down-stairs.
All her sense of possession rose in bitter revolt. Yet now she was
helpless to establish her supreme right. Her mother had grudged Bess the
frail, feeble spark of life; she alone had cared for her, loved her,
protected her, and she was shut out, sent away. Now that Bess needed no
care and lay there quiet, they could come and pity her.
Presently more tranquil thoughts came. Even her mother could not do
anything to hurt Bess. She was safe at last.
There had been so much repression and self-control in Dil’s short life,
that it made her seem apathetic now. And yet, slowly as the poor pulses
beat, there was a strange inward fire and stir, as if she must do
something. A curious elusiveness shrouded the duty or work, and yet it
kept hovering before her. Oh, what was it?
Did she fall asleep, and was it a vision, a vague remembrance of
something she had heard? Bess was not dead, but in a strange, strange
sleep. Once there had been a little girl in just this sleep, and One had
come—yes, she would get up—about midnight these strange charms worked.
She would get up and go softly over to Bess. She would take the little
hand in hers; she would kiss the pale, still lips, and say, “Bess, my
darling, wake up. I can’t live without you. You have had such a nice
long rest. Open your eyes an’ look at me. Bess, dear, you remember we
are to go to heaven in the spring. He will be waitin’ for us, an’
wonderin’ why we don’t come. He is goin’ to fight the giants, to show us
the way, an’ row us over the river to the pallis.”
Then the eyes would open blue as the summer sky, the lips would smile,
the little hands reach out and grow warm. There would be a strange
quiver all through the body, and Bess would sit up and be alive once
more. Oh, the glad cry of joy! Oh, the wordless, exquisite rapture of
that moment! And Bess, in some mysterious way, would be better,
stronger, and the days would fly by until the blessed spring came.
Mrs. Murphy touched her, and roused her from this trance of delight. She
heard her mother’s voice and started.
“It’s a nice sleep ye’ve had,” said Mrs. Murphy’s kindly voice. “An’
it’s full bedtime, an’ past. They’ve all gone, an’ yer mother wants ye.”
Dil groped her way down-stairs. There was a vicious smell of beer and
kerosene-smoke in the warm room.
“It’s time ye were in bed,” said her mother. “Ye kin sleep in there,”
indicating her own room with a nod; “fer I’ll not sleep the night with
me child lyin’ dead in the house. Bridget Malone has kem to stay wid me.
We’ll jist sit up.”
“O mother,” cried Dil, aghast, “let me sleep in my own room! I’d rather
be there with Bess.”
“Is the colleen’s head turned wid grafe? Sleepin’ wid a corpse! Who iver
heerd of sich a thing? Indade ye’ll not, miss! Go to bed at wunst, an’
not a word outen you.”
Her first impulse was to defy the woman looming up so tall and
authoritative. But the shrewd sense that comes early to the children of
poverty restrained her. She would be worsted in the end, so she went
reluctantly. Had she dreamed? No, it must be true. She could waken
Bess. Again the uplifting hope took possession of her. She seemed wafted
away to a beautiful country with Bess. So absorbing was the vision that
it filled her with a certainty beyond the faintest doubt. She did not
even take off her dress, but lay there wide-eyed and rapturous.
After a while the chatter ceased and the snoring began. How still it was
everywhere! But Dil was not afraid.
X—IN THE DESERT ALONE
Dilsey Quinn rose with a peculiar lightness of heart, and seemed walking
on air. A curious tingle sped through her nerves, and her eyes had a
strange light of their own. She pushed the door open and looked out
cautiously. Her mother was on the lounge. Bridget sat by the stove, her
chair tilted back against the door-jamb. The lamp had been turned down a
little, the stove-lid lifted; and it made a strange, soft semicircle on
the ceiling, such as Dil had seen around the heads in pictures when she
had stolen a glance at the show windows.
The silence, for that impressed her, in spite of snoring in different
keys, and the weird aspect, made the room instinct with supernatural
life. Dil did not understand this, but she felt it, and was filled and
possessed by that exaltation of mysterious faith. She walked softly but
fearlessly across the room,—if she could open the door without Bridget
hearing.
John Travis should have seen her at that moment, with the unearthly
radiance on her face, the uplifted confident eyes.
Her small hand was on the knob. She opened the door—a moment more—
Alas! Bridget had an impression, and sprang up. Seeing the figure she
uttered a wild shriek.
“A banshee! A banshee!” she cried in a spasm of terror.
Dil stood rooted to the spot. Mrs. Quinn sprang across the room.
“Hould yer murtherin’ tongue!” she cried. “Why—it’s Dil,” seizing her by
the shoulder. “Whativer are ye doin’, walkin’ in yer slape an’ rousin’
the house? An’ yer’ a fool, Bridget!”
Bridget Malone stared at the small grayish figure, unconvinced.
“Wake up, ye omadhoun!” and the mother shook Dil fiercely. “Ye can’t do
nothin’ fer the child. Let her rist in peace; she’s better off nor she’s
been this many a day.”
“O Mrs. Quinn, don’t be hard on the poor gurrul. She’s bin dreamin’ af
the little wan, bein’ so used to tindin’ on her all hours af the night.
But I thought sure it was Bess’s ghost, bein’ but half awake mesilf.”
“Wid no legs to walk on!” was the sarcastic rejoinder.
“As af a ghost had need of legs! An’ I won’t be sittin’ there by the
dure—”
“Git back to yer bed, Dil, an’ we won’t have no more sich capers in the
dead o’ night, frightin’ folks out of their sinsis.”
She led Dil roughly back to her bed. Then for safe keeping she slipped
the chair back just under the knob, and Dil was a prisoner in a black
hole, a small improvement on that of Calcutta.
A whirlwind of passion swept over Dilsey Quinn—a pitiful, helpless
passion. She could have screamed, she could have torn the bed-clothes to
pieces, or stamped in that uncontrollable rage and disappointment. But
she knew her mother would beat her, and she was too sore and helpless to
be banged about.
Her mother would not let her bring Bess back to life if she knew. And
she could not explain—there was nothing to be put in words. You just
went and did it. Oh, it seemed as if something might have helped her,
some great, strong power that made people rich and happy, and gave them
so many lovely things. Bess was only such a little out of all the big
world!
And now she would never, never come back. An awful, cold despair
succeeded the passion. They could never go to heaven together. Bess was
dead, just like Mrs. Bolan, like the people who died in the court. They
would take her out and bury her. That was all!
An indescribable horror fell upon Dil. The horror of the solitude that
comes of doubt and darkness, the ghost of that final solitude that seems
watching at the gates of death. Bess had gone off, been swallowed up in
it, and there was nothing, nothing!
The morning dawned at last. Dil, half-stifled with bad air, and racked
with that fearful mental inquisition, collapsed. She seemed shrunken and
old, as old as Mrs. Bolan. There was nothing more for her.
Bridget Malone was to stay. The two women had a cup of coffee together,
then Mrs. Quinn went to see the ’Spensary doctor. When she came back
they spread a sheet over the small table, and brought out the body of
the dead child.
“Folks’ll be comin’ in to see it,” she said with some pride. “An’ she
looks that swate no one need be ashamed of her! She’d been a purty girl
but for the accidint, for that stopped her growin’. I’ve had a long
siege wid her, the Lord knows! An’ now I must run up to Studdemyer’s an’
tell ’em of the sorrow an’ trouble, an’ mebbe I’ll get lave to do
somethin’ to-morrow. But I’ll be back afore the men kim in.”
Dil moved about silently, and went frequently into her own room. The
intense fervor and belief of the night had vanished. The court children
straggled in and stared, half-afraid. The women said she was better off
and out of her trouble; and now and then one spoke of her being in
heaven.
She was not in heaven, Dil knew. And how could she be better off in the
cold, hateful ground than in her warm, loving arms?
One gets strangely accustomed to the dear dead face. Dil paid it brief
visits when no one else was by. A little change had come over it,—the
inevitable change; but to Dil it seemed as if Bess was growing sorry
that she had died; that the little shrinking everywhere meant regret.
Mrs. Quinn came back with a gift from her sympathetic customer, who
imagined she had found heroic motherly devotion in this poor woman who
had four children to care for. There were numberless visitors who
gossiped and were treated to beer—there was quite a dinner, with an
immense steak to grace the feast.
Presently a man came in and took the measure of the body, and then went
up-stairs. An hour later a wagon stopped before the court, and two men
shouldered a coffin. The small one went into the Quinns’. It was of
stained wood with a muslin lining, and the little body was laid in its
narrow home. Then the attendant went up-stairs, and some of the women
followed. There was a confusion of voices, then the two men came
lumbering down the winding stairs with their load, slid it into the
wagon, while a curious throng gathered round in spite of the chill
blast. They came up again, one man with a screwdriver in his hand.
“Take a look at her, Dil. Poor dear, she’s gone to her long rest.”
Mrs. Quinn pushed her forward. The women fell back a little. The man put
down the coffin lid,—it was all in one piece,—and began to screw it
down.
Dil gave a wild shriek as it closed over the pretty golden head, and
would have dropped to the floor, but some one caught her. The man
completed his task, picked up the burthen, it was so light; and when Dil
came out of her faint Bess, with two other dead bodies, was being jolted
over the stones to a pauper’s grave.
“Come now,” began Mrs. Quinn, “it’s full time ye wer sensible. She’s
dead, an’ it’s a blissid relase, an’ she’s got no more suf’frin’ to go
tru wid. It’s bin a hard thrial, an’ she not able to take a step this
four year. Ye’d better go to bed an’ rist, for ye look quare ’bout the
eyes. Ye kin have my bed if ye like.”
Dil shook her head, and tottered to her own little cot. “O Bess! Bess!”
she cried in her heart, but her lips made no sound. How could people die
who were not old nor sick? For she wanted to die, but she did not know
how.
There were people around until after supper. Then two or three of them
went down to Mrs. MacBride’s. Mrs. Murphy promised to stay with Dil.
“Shure,” said some one, “there’ll be a third goin’ out prisintly. It’s
bad luck when more than wan corpse goes over the trashold to wunst. An’
that Dil don’t look like long livin’. She’s jist worn hersilf out wid
that other poor thing.”
In the evening Patsey came rushing up-stairs with some Christmas for the
two girls. He was shocked beyond measure. He hardly dared go in and see
Dil, but she called him in a weak, sad tone.
“O Dil!” That was all he said for many minutes, as he sat on the side of
the cot, holding her hand. The strange look in her face awed him.
“Have ye seen Owny?” he whispered.
“Not since the night mother beat him.”
“Owny—he’s safe. He’ll do well. Don’t bodder yees poor head ’bout him.
He’s keepin’ out o’ der way, ’cause he’s ’fraid de old woman’ll set de
cop on him. He ain’t comin’ back no more, but don’t you worry. But he’ll
feel nawful! O Dil, I never s’posed she’d go so soon, if she was
’pindlin’ an’ weakly. Seemed when she’d lived so long—”
Patsey broke down there.
“O Patsey, I didn’t s’pose she could die, jes’ common dyin’ like other
folks. They’ve taken her away an’ put her with dead people—I don’t know
where. You’ll tell him. An’—an’ mebbe ’twould be better if he didn’t
come back. Mother’d beat him nawful, and ’pears ’s if I couldn’t see any
more beatin’s. Don’t tell me an’ then I won’t know. But you’ll see an’
keep him safe.”
“Poor Dil! I’m jist as sorry’s I kin hold. I loved you an’ Bess, for I
didn’t never hev any folks,” said the boy brokenly.
“An’, Patsey, d’ye mind the wild roses ye brought in the summer? They
was so sweet. She ’most went crazy over ’em with pure joy. An’ that
night she talked of thim, an’ smelled thim, an’ it was a bad sign. If
I’d knowed, I might a done somethin’, or had the doctor. An’ she talked
so beautiful—”
Dil was choked with sobs.
“Ye did iverything. Ye were like an angel. She wouldn’t a lived half so
long, but for yous. O Dil, I wisht I could bring her back. There was a
boy tellin’ ’bout some one—he heerd it at the Mission School—that jist
took a man outen his coffin, an’ made him alive. I’ll ask him how it
was, an’ tell yous.”
“Ye’s so good, Patsey,” with a weary sigh.
“An’ I’ll be droppin’ in an’ bring ye news. An’ ye mustn’t git sick, fer
whin spring opens we’ll spring a trap that’ll s’prise ye. O Dil dear!”
He bent over and kissed her, his face all wet with tears. He had often
kissed little Bess, though he was not “soft on gals.” It was a solemn
caress. Dil seemed so far away, as if he might lose her too.
The next morning the Christmas chimes rang out, and there were houses
full of happy children making merry over Christmas gifts. The mission
schools were crowded, the Christmas-trees and the feasts thronged. There
were hundreds of poor children made happy, even if they could not take
in the grand truth that eighteen hundred years ago a Saviour had been
born to redeem the world. “Why is it not redeemed?” cried the cavillers,
looking on. “If the truth is powerful, why has it not prevailed?” But
the children amid their pleasures asked no questions.
Churches were full of melody, homes were full of joy and gladness, the
streets in a tumult of delight; but Bessy Quinn was in her small grave,
and Dil bitterly alone.
John Travis thought of them both this morning. “I hope Miss Nevins has
planned a nice Christmas for them,” he said to himself, since his
Christmas in a foreign land was not as hopeful as he could wish. Perhaps
Miss Nevins had found a way to Mrs. Quinn’s heart. Women could sometimes
do better than men.
Dilsey Quinn could not die; and if she was miserable and forlorn she had
not the morbid brain to consider suicide, though she knew people had
killed themselves. But the utter dreariness of the poor child’s soul was
overwhelming.
Still, she rose on Monday morning, did her work, and cared for the
babies as usual. It seemed so cruelly lonesome with only her and Dan.
Mrs. Murphy was very good to her, and begged her to go to the priest;
but she listened in a weary, indifferent manner. If Bess was in
purgatory, then she would like to go too. But in her heart she knew Bess
wasn’t. She was just dead, and couldn’t be anywhere but in the ground.
She had never known any joyous animal life. Hers had been all work and
loving service. There was nothing to buoy her up now, nothing to which
she could look forward. She was too old, too experienced, to be a child,
to share a child’s trivial joys.
Her mother questioned her closely about Owen. Hadn’t he never sneaked in
for some clothes? Didn’t Patsey know where he was?
“I’ll ast him if he comes agen,” she said, as if even Owen was of no
moment to her. “He hasn’t been here sence—sence that night.”
“Ye’s not half-witted, Dil Quinn, an’ you grow stupider every day!
Sometime I’ll knock lightnin’ outen yer! An’ if ye dast to keep it from
me that he kem’d home, I’d break yer neck, yer sassy trollope. He’ll be
saunterin’ in some night, full o’ rags, an’ no place to go, an’ there be
a pairty, now, I tell ye!”
But Owny knew when he was well off. Dan went to school regularly, and
was much improved.
After the holidays the winter was hard. Work fell off, and babies were
slow coming in. Mrs. Murphy’s little one took a severe cold, and was
carried off with the croup. She gave up her rooms and went out to
service. So poor Dil lost another friend.
One Sunday during the latter part of January, Dil summoned up pluck
enough to go out for a walk. There had been three or four lovely days
that suggested spring, bland airs and sunshine, and the indescribable
thrill in the air that stirs with sudden longing.
Dil wandered over to Madison Square. Some one had given her mother a
good warm cloak, quite modern. How Bess would have enjoyed seeing her
dressed in it! But though the sun shone so gloriously, she was cold in
body and soul, as if she could never be warm again. The leafless
branches were full of swallows chirping, but the flowers were gone, the
fountain silent. No one noted the solitary little figure sitting just
where she had sat that happy afternoon.
“Oh,” she cried softly, while her heart swelled to breaking, and her
eyes wandered southward, “do you know that Bess is dead, an’ we can’t
never go to heaven together as we planned? I d’know’s I want to now. I
jes’ want to die an’ be put in the ground. I wisht I could be laid
’long-side of her, an’ I’d stretch out my arms, an’ she’d come creepin’
to them, jes’ as she used. She’d know how to find me. An’ when you come
back you can’t see her no more. Oh, ’f we only could ’a’ started that
day! An’ mammy burned up Christiana an’ my beautiful picture, so I’m all
alone. There ain’t nothin’ left,” and she sighed drearily.
Where was he? “’Crost the ’Lantic Oshin,” as Bess had said. She had no
