He rode on as if he had been riding over velvet and 
treading upon pearls. 

Now came a fresh outburst of voices and of warm- 
hearted words : 

" Blessed be our King ! " 

" Peace in Heaven ! " 

"Glory in the Highest! Praise God for His 
mighty works I Blessed be Jesus our King ! " 

It was afterwards said that the most loving of these 
outcries came from the long-sick whom the healer had 
cured; and some of them from the sick of sin to 
whom he had given the health of purity ; and some 
from the bereaved to whom he had restored the dying 
or the dead ; that especially the very poor, and the 
altogether neglected, and the heart-broken whom he 
only had ever tried to comfort, and persons of no 
consequence whom only he had ever remembered, 
were in his retinue that day. These mingled their 
hosannas with the plaudits of the stranger pilgrims 
who had come out of the city. It was said, indeed, 
that Jesus was borne into the capital on the love of 
those who knew him best, and the trust of those who 
knew him least. 



INTO JERUSALEM 311 

But as lie rode along, it was noticed that his eyes 
were fixed upon Jerusalem. The stately city, hin- 
dered by Olivet, visible only at two or three points 
of the journey, now rose haughtily before him, 
terrace upon terrace, straight from the Valley of 
Kedron, as if from an abyss. From the Palace of 
the Maccabees and that of the High-priest to the 
towers and gardens of Herod, Jerusalem shot up 
glittering. Her architecture had a cold look. Some- 
thing about it seemed to smile cruelly. 

The countenance of Jesus melted and broke. 
Those nearest him heard murmured words, one 
involuntary cry ; 

" Ah, Jerusalem ! If thou hadst known " Then 
he commanded himself and rode on. His face was 
wet. Something inexpressible on it wrung the heart 
to seo. But his demeanor was high, and so quiet 
that those whose hosannas had rung the loudest 
began to fall silent, one by one. A sudden hush 
smote the vociferating throng. 

In a silence which no man could understand, 
either in himself or in another, Jesus, the prophet of 
Nazareth in Galilee, passed through the Gate Shusan 
and entered the royal city. 

Thus the great democrat, traveling like a peasant, 
assuming and asserting nothing, avoiding lawlessness, 
spurning display, humble and gentle, followed and 
blessod by the poor, and loved by the unhappy, 
treated the practical chance of political power. 

Thus ho put aside the opportunity of his life and 
of his age. 



CHAPTER XIV 

IN THE TEMPLiE 

WITHOUT a symptom of fear the indicted man 
went straight into the Temple and remained there 
for a while. His manner was perfectly self-possessed, 
and he preserved a noticeable silence, making no 
public address that day to the turbulent people. 
Sheer amazement at his courage held the hands of 
the law back from him. Unmolested as he came, he 
returned that night to Bethany and to his friends. 

There they gave him such solace as they could. 
It was little enough. His demeanor forbadle intru- 
sion. The very air that he breathed seemed sur- 
charged with unknown tragedy. He was still cheer- 
ful, but the lines on his face grew tense. To the 
loyalty of the twelve the three at Bethany added 
an eager devotion, and two of these a subtler com- 
prehension. The solemn reticence of Lazarus, the 
watchful tenderness of Mary, protected Jesus from 
idle talk. His puzzled disciples would imitate this 
reserve, this calm. 

Here for a space he felt that he was so loved that 
it mattered less whether he were undexstood or not* 
He tried for the moment to throw off his intolerable 
burden. Love and life seemed to be of necessity 
one force united to demolish the fact of death. 



IN THE TEMPLE 313 

Quiet affection, home, peace, temporary respite from 
trouble, wrought upon him something of the incredu- 
lousness of pain and mortality which it is their na- 
ture to arouse in us all. The images of his torment 
retreated. That night the overstrained man knew 
the bliss of a little sleep. He needed to, for it was 
one of the last when rest was possible, either by the 
friction of events, or from the condition of his own 
brain and nerves. He awaked to thank God that 
any had been permitted him. 

But in the morning the consciousness of everything 
returned. His true position was not to be ignored. 
He faced it at once, and went directly into the capital. 
He acted like one who was more fearful of seeming 
to fly from danger than of danger itself. He was as 
a man moving upon a terrible errand whose object 
might be defeated if he deviated by a thought's 
breadth from a certain course. 

Those most in his confidence could not tell how 
definite his impressions were becoming of the man- 
ner or the moment of his fate. Did he go into 
Jerusalem each day knowing or iinknowing whether 
it would be his last? Could he or could he not 
yet perceive precisely whence the blow would fall, 
or who would strike it ? 

The group at Bethany held the breath, and choked 
the sobs, and adored him the more because they 
could not help knowing that but for them he might 
not have been in the strait that he was. 

For this thing was true, and time has confirmed 
the fact. But for Lasaarus, the story of Jesus of 
Nazareth might have boon a different cue to tell. 



314 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 

Loyalty to friendship, sympathy with sorrow, the 
tenderest, the greatest deed of his life, directly 
placed it in the final peril. 

The popular feeling aroused by the wonder 
Thought at Bethany did not decline. The Sanhe- 
drin became very much afraid of it. " The world 
has gone after him," said Pharisee to Pharisee. 

Unconsciously (for it would have broken her 
heart to know it), Mary, the gentlest, the most lov- 
ing of women, had herself added a mesh to the net 
which Bethany was destined to weave around him. 
The Indian nard lavished upon his feet served to 
mark the steps by which he was to be tracked and 
trapped. For this little incident had an unusual 
effect upon a low mind f It took disproportionate 
hold of the thoughts of Judas. The petty peculator 
had missed the opportunity to defraud on a large 
scale. He resented the loss of wealth which had 
never been, but might so easily have been, his. 
Then he was irritated by the social embarrassment 
of the Sabbath supper at Bethany, The gentle 
reproof of Jesus had rankled. 

Out of any twelve picked men chosen for an im- 
portant purpose, there is more than apt to be at 
least one failure. The treasurer of the society of 
Jesus had become that one. Judas had started in 
honestly enough. To begin with, he thought he 
loved his Kabbi, but the mercenary acid was in his 
nature. Dishonor had eaten its way by unnoticed 
degrees. He had deteriorated under the commission 
and concealment of small pecuniary irregularities. 

Judas, the only Judean of the twelve, had been 



IN THE TEMPLE 315 

an ambitious man as well. He counted upon politi- 
cal preferment when the Nazarene should come to 
the throne ; he had relied more upon this than had 
one or two others of the group who had said more 
about it. He hid his expectations, but fondled them 
accordingly. His present position gave him treach- 
erous hopes. He looked to nothing less than to be 
Treasurer of State at Jerusalem, perhaps even at 
Rome. He was bitterly disappointed at the turn 
which the affairs of Jesus were taking. Instead 
of capturing a throne, the misguided revolutionist 
seemed to be walking straight into a Roman dun- 
geon. Judas was displeased with the whole situa- 
tion. It began to occur to him that the disciples 
had a case against their Rabbi. It struck him that 
he had not been personally well treated. 

Judas was not a brave man. He had the timidity 
produced by undetected dishonor. He now began 
to dwell upon the risks of his position. What 
would become of the followers of the Nazarene in 
the event of Ms downfall ? He remembered the fiat 
of excommunication most dreadful of all things 
to a Jewish mind already extended to include all 
persons who admitted the claims of this Messiah.. 
There had been other messiahs. There might be 
others still. Was it possible, after all, that his Lord 
was a pretender ? How madly had he thrown away 
hia chances! This descendant of David, this heir 
to the Theocracy, had entered Jerusalem without 
a claim. 

The thoughts of Judas began to coarsen fast. 
Shapes of moustrous ideas groveling, crawled around 



316 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 

him. He tried to escape them at first. He called 
upon his early ideals, his young trust and affection. 
But his lost integrity did not respond. His sense 
of honor protested feebly for a little, but it had 
hardly life enough left in it to articulate. One day 
he put out his hesitating hand and choked it. 

He had gone away from the others to think this 
thing out by himself. In a moment it was suddenly 
plain to him. Now he knew what he should do. 
He did actually stretch his grasping hand into the 
hot air, and bring the fingers together as if he were 
strangling some small, living creature. His face 
had grown old when he rose and came back to the 
side of his Eabbi. It was withered ; it looked like 
the faxse of a corpse. For the highest in us is the 
vitality of us, and, in order to kill his honor, a 
man must kill himself. From that moment Judas 
moved about the living world like a dead man. He 
was done with it, and it with him. He made a few 
attempts, in which there was something to pity, to 
contend with his own condition. But the laws of 
moral corruption are as inexorable as those of phy- 
sical decay. There is such a thing on this warm 
earth as a dead soul. 

On Monday morning Jesus seemed restless, but 
his wan face was set with resolve. He was walking 
rapidly into the city, when he suddenly turned very 
faint. His broken night, part of it passed in the 
woods on the Mount of Olives, had poorly prepared 
him for the day's strain. He tried to find some 
fruit by the wayside, selecting a fig-tree, on which it 
seemed that some of last season's fruit might yet be 



IN THE TEMPLE 317 

hanging unobserved. But none was to be found, and 
with a momentary assumption of the royal manner 
which he sometimes wore, rebuking the tree (as he 
might have rebuked the faithless, fruitless city be- 
fore him for its disregard of his nature and his 
needs), he went on. 

The twelve wondered at this incident. The Rabbi 
was never impatient with little annoyances; he 
never scolded; this must have been a parable; 
but what ? The fishermen walked behind him into 
Jerusalem puzzled, always puzzled. That Passover 
week was a dense and terrible darkness through 
which they beat about blindly, like birds caught in 
the clouds of a tempest. All they understood was 
that they loved their Lord, their sad Lord, who 
was not going to be King, after all. The whole 
world was turning against him : he needed them ; he 
had never needed them so much. They clung to 
him lovingly, but in their hearts these simple men 
were terrified at the position in which they found 
themselves. 

Jesus arrived in the Temple at an early hour. 
Here he found the very same abuses which he had 
tried in vain to reform at the outset of his ministry. 
In the Court of the Gentiles the shops were full. 
"Wine, oil, fruit, doves, were selling rapidly. Here 
were the brokers vociferating, precisely as they did 
three years ago, when he had lashed them out. The 
old wrongs wore going on in the same old way. He 
felt the disappointment which any public teacher 
feels, in returning to the scene of a former effort, to 
find that everything that he lias done to destroy 



318 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 

an error is apparently thrown away. He looked 
about him for a while in bitter silence. Almost 
forgetting for the moment that he was approaching 
the end, and was not still at the beginning of his 
career, he began enthusiastically to repeat his wasted 
experiment to purify the holy place. 

No whip was needed this time to scatter the of- 
fenders. The authoritative force and influence of 
Jesus had greatly increased. His voice was a lash. 
It struck and stung. The porters carrying unlaw- 
ful loads by a short cut across the Temple to save 
steps, the brokers, the merchants, all the unwhole- 
some pack ran scattering before the command which 
sprang from his lips. 

Among the bedlam of noises, the bleating of 
lambs, the flutterings of frightened doves, the curses 
of the brokers, he stood, mournfully smiling. This 
excommunicated man ended his public career as he 
had begun it, by an act of passionate devotion to the 
honor and the purity of his church. Not to conform 
to the false because it was the ecclesiastical, but to 
protect the true because it was sacred, was his last 
as it had been his first devout and fearless care* 

Attracted by the commotion of the scene, and 
trusting to the reputation for human mercy which 
always followed the Nazarene as if it had boen white 
fire raying about his head, the beggars and decrepit 
folk from without the gates of the Temple began to 
clamor for him. As if to show what the religioxiw 
idea really meant to him, Jesus turned quickly from 
the desecrated Temple courts to these miserable 
people, 



IN THE TEMPLE 319 

Now, indeed, the mournf ulness went out of Ms 
look, and for the moment Ms own high joyousness 
flashed back to it. His instinctive happiness in 
relieving suffering could not be repressed. They 
crawled to him, the crippled, the neglected sick, 
the loathsome, and the blind ; and for one hour of 
eager gladness he gave himself to them. He healed 
with a dazzling swiftness never seen in his touch he- 
fore ; he comforted with a tenderness which might 
have melted the very stones in the Temple pave- 
ment beneath his unsandaled feet. What a smile ! 
It was soft fire from heaven itself. The artist who 
could have painted him as he looked then would 
have scorned the aureola. Jesus needed none but 
the light of his lips and eyes. 

Now he had never cured any of his patients in the 
Temple before, and the scene aroused an awed atten- 
tion. Many crowded in to hear and to see, and the 
physical discomfort of the press was as great as the 
moral irritation produced by the healer's success. 
The priests looked on darkly. Pharisees and Sad- 
ducees and Herodians whispered with sullen dis- 
pleasure. 

Nothing which this patient, gentle man could do 
was right, his noblest acts most wrong of all. 
Tho ecclesiastical officers were the more angered be- 
oauso he gave them so little ground of legal offense, 
anct they watched him narrowly with a helpless rage. 
The spectators looked at the priests, and many, who 
had begun to shout for Josus affectionately, were 
alarmed and grew cowardly quiet. 

But it happened that the chorister boys in the 



320 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 

Temple, the sons of the Levite priests, had come out 
to see the sight, and were not as quick as their elders 
to catch the idea that the tide, on whose brilliant 
flow the Nazarene had entered the city yesterday, 
had already begun to ebb. 

These boys came out, in their little consecrated 
robes, and clustered around the Rabbi. Some put 
up their hands and played with his talith. One or 
two leaned against him with a graceful attitude, half 
nestling, half aloof, prettily independent of too much 
show of emotion, as a growing boy is. He who 
loved children so heartily stopped to chat with the 
boys, and to welcome them ; for he was gratified by 
their affectionate attention. Then the boys, remem- 
bering how all the world had cried after him the 
day before, took up the words that they recalled most 
easily, and began to shout in chorus, as they were 
trained to sing, rhythmically : 

" Hosanna ! Hosanna ! 
To the Son of David 
Hosanna ! Hosanna ! " 

The chorister boys wondered why no one took up 
their tribute to the great Rabbi, but only a few 
voices joined in the children's hosannas ; these came 
from some of the poor folk, the cured patients of 
the healer, who were sobbing and laughing for joy 
in the Temple court. The mass of the crowd was 
ominously silent. The chorister boys, puzzled, put 
the hem of the Rabbi's robe to their lips, and stoutly 
gathered closer to him, with the battle instinct of 
boys coming up in them, and so repeated their 
chant : 



IN THE TEMPLE 321 

" Hosanna ! 

See the Son o David ! 
Hosanna! " 

Over this beautiful bulwark of youth, of trust, and 
of song the eyes of the heretic healer sought those 
of the officers of his church. For a moment there 
shot from his a blazing question, to which their fall- 
ing lids had no reply. Then the priests called the 
chorister boys and ordered them away. 

But the Kabbi, quoting softly from the Scriptures 
of the people, was heard to say : 

" Out of the mouths of babes ... is perfected 
praise." 

The chorister boys went away unwillingly, look- 
ing back with manful reluctance at the Nazarene, 
who watched them affectionately till the enfolding 
architecture of the Temple shut them from his sight. 
He was so grateful for the trust of these children 
that it makes the heart ache to think how small a 
measure of human lore did comfort him in the 
dark week when he needed all that Palestine could 
hold. 

ITo left the Temple at once, and went back to 
Bethany. A sudden reserve had wrapped him. 
Ho did not talk. Once ho raised his hands to his 
oars with an involuntary motion, as if he would smite 
thorn deaf from something that he only heard. . . . 

Tho clear, young voices of the boys rang on for a 
little in IUH brain. He hoard the ideal youth of the 
world's future crying to him* It might have loved 
and honored, it might yet honor and lovo him, how 
much, who could tell ? Olx, to live and know I ... 



322 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 

Where were the hosannas? They had changed 
to imprecations. One terrible word crashed in 
upon the silenced choral. 

" Crucify I " Who said that ? 

Ifo one ; nothing but the inner voices of his own 
fine organism, throbbing tinder laws which the 
coarser being could not formulate and never knew. 

Jesus collected himself and walked on to Bethany. 
He spent a part of the night in the house of his 
friends, wishing to give them the happiness of 
thinking that he rested; but midnight found him 
in the groves of the mountain. The olive-trees 
"were kind to him." Pacing among their silver 
arches, kneeling at their roots, his figure, solitary 
and solemn, moved from restlessness to exhaustion 
all night long. Prayer with him had never been an 
easy reverie ; rather, the truest application of mind 
and heart. It had always been energy. Now it 
was growing agony. Dawn touched the brow of the 
mountain. The sharp, slender outline of the high- 
est leaf on the tallest tree received the glitter, like 
a spear. He did not sleep. He had slept for the 
last time. 

On Tuesday he went back persistently to the city. 
His friends at Bethany, in anxiety all the more acute 
because it was so ignorant, perceived that no human 
