there--not even hearts. But this was only one of his little speeches. In
reality he did not believe much in the breaking of hearts; he had seen
them stretch so!

It may be said with truth that Noel had not thought of Miss Macks for
months. This was because he had had other things to think of. He had
sent her the books from Paris, with an accompanying note, a charming
little note--which gave no address for reply. Since then his mind had
been otherwise occupied. But as he never entirely forgot anything that
had once interested him, even although but slightly (this was in
reality a system of his; it gave him many holds on life, and kept
stored up a large supply of resources ready for use when wanted), he
came, after a while, on the canvas of his Roman impressions, to the
figure of Miss Macks. When he came to it he went to see her; that is, he
went to the street of the Hyacinth.

Of course, she might not be there; a hundred things might have happened
to her. He could have hunted up Horace Jackson; but, on the whole, he
rather preferred to see the girl herself first--that is, if she was
there. Mrs. Lawrence, the only person among his acquaintances who had
known her, was not in Rome. Reaching the street of the Hyacinth, he
interrogated the old woman who acted as portress at the lower door,
keeping up at the same time a small commerce in fritters; yes, the
Americans were still on the fourth floor. He ascended the dark stairway.
The confiding little "Ettie" card was no longer upon the door. In its
place was a small framed sign: "Miss Macks' School."

This told a story!

However, he rang. It was the same shrill, ill-tempered little bell, and
when the door opened it was Miss Macks herself who opened it. She was
much changed.

The parlor had been turned into a school-room--at present empty of
pupils. But even as a school-room it was more attractive than it had
been before. He took a seat, and spoke the usual phrases of a renewal of
acquaintance with his accustomed ease and courtesy; Miss Macks responded
briefly. She said that her mother was not very well; she herself quite
well. No, they had not left Italy, nor indeed the neighborhood of Rome;
they had been a while at Albano.

The expression of her face had greatly altered. The old direct, wide
glance was gone; gone also what he had called her over-confidence; she
looked much older. On the other hand, there was more grace in her
bearing, more comprehension of life in her voice and eyes. She was
dressed as plainly as before; but everything, including the arrangement
of her hair, was in the prevalent style.

She did not speak of her school, and therefore he did not. But after a
while he asked how the painting came on. Her face changed a little; but
it was more in the direction of a greater calm than hesitation or
emotion.

"I am not painting now," she answered.

"You have given it up temporarily?"

"Permanently."

"Ah--isn't that rather a pity?"

She looked at him, and a gleam of scorn filtered into the glance.

"You know it is not a pity," she said.

He was a little disgusted at the scorn. Of course, the only ground for
him to take was the ground upon which she stood when he last saw her; at
that time she proposed to pass her life in painting, and it was but good
manners for him to accept her intentions as she had presented them.

"I never assumed to be a judge, you know," he answered. "When I last had
the pleasure of seeing you, painting was, you remember, your cherished
occupation!"

"When you last had the pleasure of seeing me, Mr. Noel," said Miss
Macks, still with unmoved calm, "I was a fool."

Did she wish to go into the subject at length? Or was that merely an
exclamation?

"When I last had the pleasure of seeing you, you were taking lessons of
Mr. Jackson," he said, to give a practical turn to the conversation. "Is
he still here? How is he?"

"He is very well, now. He is dead."

(She was going to be dramatic then, in any case.)

He expressed his regret, and it was a sincere one; he had always liked
and respected the honest, morose Englishman. He asked a question or two.
Miss Macks replied that he had died here in the street of the
Hyacinth--in the next room. He had fallen ill during the autumn
following Noel's departure, and when his illness grew serious, they--her
mother and herself--had persuaded him to come to them. He had lived a
month longer, and died peacefully on Christmas Eve.

"He was one of the most honest men I ever knew," said Noel. Then, as she
did not reply, he ventured this: "That was the reason I recommended him
when you asked me to select a teacher for you."

"Your plan was made useless by an unfortunate circumstance," she
answered, with an evident effort.

"A circumstance?"

"Yes; he fell in love with me. If I did not consider his pure, deep, and
devoted affection the greatest honor of my life I would not mention it.
I tell you because it will explain to you his course."

"Yes, it explains," said Noel. As he spoke there came across him a
realization of the whole of the strength of the love such a man as
Horace Jackson would feel, and the way in which it would influence him.
Of course, he saw to the full the imperfection of her work, the utter
lack of the artist's conception, the artist's eye and touch; but
probably he had loved her from the beginning, and had gone on hoping to
win her love in return. She was not removed from him by any distance;
she was young, but she was also poor, friendless, and alone. When she
was his wife he would tell her the truth, and in the greatness of his
love the revelation would be naught. "He was a good man," he said. "He
was always lonely. I am glad that at last he was with your mother and
you."

"His goodness was simply unbounded. If he had lived he would have
remained always a faithful, kind, and respectful son to my dear mother.
That, of course, would have been everything to me." She said this
quietly, yet her tone seemed to hold intention.

For a moment he thought that perhaps she had married the Englishman, and
was now his widow. The sign on the door bore her maiden name, but that
might have been an earlier venture.

"Had you opened your school at that time?" he asked. "I may speak of it,
since, of course, I saw the sign upon the door."

"Not until two months later; I had the sign made then. But it was of
little use; day-schools do not prosper in Rome; they are not the custom.
I have a small class twice a week, but I live by going out as
day-governess. I have a number of pupils of that kind; I have been very
successful. The old Roman families have a fancy for English-speaking
governesses, you know. Last summer I was with the Princess C----, at
Albano; her children are my pupils."

"Her villa is a delightful one," said Noel; "you must have enjoyed
that."

"I don't know that I enjoyed, but I learned. I have learned a great
deal in many ways since I saw you last, Mr. Noel. I have grown very
old."

"As you were especially young when you saw me last it does not matter
much," he answered, smiling.

"Yes, I was especially young." She looked at him soberly. "I do not feel
bitterly towards you," she continued. "Strange! I thought I should. But
now that I see you in person it comes over me that, probably, you did
not intend to deceive me; that not only you tried to set me right by
selecting Mr. Jackson as my teacher, but again you tried when you sent
me those books. It was not much to do! But knowing the world as I now
know it, I see that it was all that could have been expected. At first,
however, I did not see this. After I went to Mr. Bellot, and, later, to
Mr. Salviati, there were months when I felt very bitterly towards you.
My hopes were false ones, and had been so from the beginning; you knew
that they were, yet you did not set me right."

"I might have done more than I did," answered Noel. "I have a habit of
not assuming responsibility; I suppose I have grown selfish. But if you
went to Bellot, then it was not Jackson who told you?"

"He intimated something when he asked me to marry him; after that his
illness came on, and we did not speak of it again. But I did not believe
him. I was very obstinate. I went to Mr. Bellot the 1st of January; I
wished him to take me as pupil. In answer he told me that I had not a
particle of talent; that all my work was insufferably bad; that I better
throw away my brushes and take in sewing."

"Bellot is always a brute!" said Noel.

"If he told the truth brutally, it was still the truth; and it was the
truth I needed. But even then I was not convinced, and I went to Mr.
Salviati. He was more gentle; he explained to me my lacks; but his
judgment was the same. I came home; it was the 10th of January, a
beautiful Roman winter day. I left my pictures, went over to St.
Peter's, and walked there under its bright mosaics all the afternoon.
The next day I had advertisements of a day-school placed at the bankers'
and in the newspapers. I thought that I could teach better than I could
sew." All this she said with perfect calm.

"I greatly admire your bravery, Miss Macks. Permit me to add that I
admire, even more, the clear, strong, good sense which has carried you
through."

"I had my mother to think of; my--good sense might not have been so
faithful otherwise."

"You do not think of returning to America?"

"Probably not; I doubt if my mother could bear the voyage now. We have
no one to call us back but my brother, and he has not been with us for
years, and would not be if we should return; he lives in California. We
sold the farm, too, before we came. No; for the present, at least, it is
better for us to remain here."

"There is one more question I should like to ask," said Noel, later.
"But I have no possible right to do so."

"I will give you the right. When I remember the things I asked you to do
for me, the demands I made upon your time, I can well answer a few
questions in return. I was a miracle of ignorance."

"I always did you justice in those respects, Miss Macks; all that I
understood at once. My question refers to Horace Jackson: I see you
appreciated his worth--which was rare--yet you would not marry him."

"I did not love him."

"Did any of his relatives come out from England?" he said, after a
moment of silence.

"After his death a cousin came."

"As heir to what was left?"

"Yes."

"He should have left it to you."

"He wished to do so. Of course, I would not accept it."

"I thank you for answering. My curiosity was not an idle one." He
paused. "If you will permit me to express it, your course has been very
brave and true. I greatly admire it."

"You are kind," said Miss Macks.

There was not in her voice any indication of sarcasm. Yet the fact that
he immediately thought of it made him suspect that it was there. He took
leave soon afterwards. He was smarting a little under the sarcasm he had
divined, and, as he was, it was like him to request permission to come
again.

For Raymond Noel lived up with a good deal of determination to his own
standard of what was manly; if his standard was not set on any very fine
elevation of self-sacrifice or heroism, it was at least firmly
established where it did stand, and he kept himself fairly near it. If
Miss Macks was sarcastic, he had been at fault somewhere; he would try
to atone.

He saw her four times during the five weeks of his stay in Rome; upon
three other occasions when he went to the street of the Hyacinth she was
not at home. The third week in April he decided to go to Venice. Before
going he asked if there was not something he could do for her; but she
said there was nothing, and he himself could think of nothing. She was
well established in her new life and occupations, and needed nothing--at
least, nothing that he could bestow.

The next winter he came back to Rome early in the season, before
Christmas. By chance one of the first persons he encountered was Mrs.
Lawrence. She began immediately to tell him a piece of American news, in
which he, as an American, would of course be interested; the news was
that "the brother of the Princess C---- --that is Count L----, you
know--is determined to marry Ettie Macks. You remember her, don't you? I
introduced you to her at the Dudley reception, three years ago."

Noel thought that probably he remembered her better than Mrs. Lawrence
did, seeing that that lady had never troubled herself to enter the
street of the Hyacinth. But he did her injustice. Mrs. Lawrence had
troubled herself--lately.

"It seems that she has been out at Albano for two summers, as governess
to his sister's children; it was there that he saw her. He has announced
his determination to the family, and they are immensely disturbed and
frightened; they had it all arranged for him to marry a second cousin
down at Naples, who is rich--these Italians are so worldly, you know!
But he is very determined, they say, and will do as he pleases in spite
of them. He hasn't much money, but of course it's a great match for
Ettie Macks. She will be a countess, and now, I suppose, more American
girls will come over than ever before! Of course, as soon as I heard of
it, I went to see her. I felt that she would need advice about a hundred
things. In the beginning she brought a letter of introduction to me from
a dear cousin of mine, and, naturally, she would rely upon me as her
chief friend now. She is very much improved. She was rather silent; but,
of course, I shall go again. The count is willing to take the mother,
too, and that, under the circumstances, is not a small matter; she is a
good deal to take. Until the other day I had not seen Mrs. Spurr!
However, I suppose that her deficiencies are not apparent in a language
she cannot speak. If her daughter would only insist upon her dressing in
black! But the old lady told me herself, in the most cheerful way, that
she liked 'a sprinkling of color.' And at the moment, I assure you, she
had on five different shades of red!"

Noel had intended to present himself immediately at the street of the
Hyacinth; but a little attack of illness kept him in for a while, and
ten days had passed before he went up the dark stairway. The maid said
that Miss Macks was at home; presently she came in. They had ten minutes
of conversation upon ordinary topics, and then he took up the especial
one.

"I am told that you are soon to be a countess," he said, "and I have
come to give you my best good wishes. My congratulations I reserve for
Count L----, with whom I have a slight acquaintance; he is, in my
opinion, a very fortunate man."

"Yes, I think he is fortunate; fortunate in my refusal. I shall not
marry Count L----."

"He is not a bad fellow."

"Isn't your praise somewhat faint?" This time the sarcasm was visible.

"Oh, I am by no means his advocate! All I meant was that, as these
modern Romans go, he was not among the worst. Of course I should have
expressed myself very differently if you had said you were to marry
him."

"Yes; you would then have honored me with your finest compliments."

He did not deny this.

"Shall you continue to live in Rome?" he asked.

"Certainly. I shall have more pupils and patronage now than I know what
to do with; the whole family connection is deeply obliged to me."

They talked awhile longer.

"We have always been unusually frank with each other, Miss Macks," he
said, towards the end of his visit. "We have never stopped at
conventionalities. I wonder if you will tell me why you refused him?"

"You are too curious. As to frankness, I have been frank with you; not
you with me. And there was no conventionality, simply because I did not
know what it was."

"I believe you are in love with some one in America," he said, laughing.

"Perhaps I am," answered Miss Macks. She had certainly gained greatly in
self-possession during the past year.

He saw her quite frequently after this. Her life was no longer solitary.
As she had said, she was overwhelmed with pupils and patronage from the
friends of the Princess C----; in addition, the American girl who had
refused a fairly-indorsed and well-appearing count was now something of
a celebrity among the American visitors in Rome. That they knew of her
refusal was not her fault; the relatives of Count L---- had announced
their objections as loud and widely as the count had announced his
determination. Apparently neither side had thought of a non-acceptance.
Cards, not a few, were sent to the street of the Hyacinth; some persons
even climbed the five flights of stairs. Mrs. Spurr saw a good deal of
company--and enjoyed it.

Noel was very fond of riding; when in Rome he always rode on the
Campagna. He had acted as escort to various ladies, and one day he
invited Miss Macks to accompany him--that is, if she were fond of
riding. She had ridden in America, and enjoyed it; she would like to go
once, if he would not be troubled by an improvised habit. They went
once. Then a second time, an interval of three weeks between. Then,
after a while, a third time.

Upon this occasion an accident happened, the first of Noel's life; his
horse became frightened, and, skilled rider though he was, he was
thrown. He was dragged, too, for a short distance. His head came against
some stones, and he lost consciousness. When it came back it did not
come wholly. He seemed to himself to be far away, and the girl who was
weeping and calling his name to be upon the other side of a wide space
like an ocean, over which, without volition of his own, he was being
slowly wafted. As he came nearer, still slowly, he perceived that in
some mysterious way she was holding in her arms something that seemed to
be himself, although he had not yet reached her. Then, gradually, spirit
and body were reunited, he heard what she was saying, and felt her
touch. Even then it was only after several minutes that he was able to
move and unclose his heavy eyes.

When she saw that he was not dead, her wild grief was at once merged in
the thought of saving him. She had jumped from her horse, she knew not
how; but he had not strayed far; a shepherd had seen him, and was now
coming towards them. He signalled to another, and the two carried Noel
to a house which was not far distant. A messenger was sent to the city;
aid came, and before night Noel was in his own rooms at the head of the
Via Sistina, near the Spanish steps.

His injuries proved to be not serious; he had lost consciousness from
the shock, and this, with his pallor and the blood from the cuts made by
the stones, had given him the look of death. The cuts, however, were not
deep; the effect of the shock passed away. He kept his bed for a week
under his physician's advice; he had a good deal of time to think during
that week. Later his friends were admitted. As has been said before,
Noel was a favorite in Rome, and he had friends not a few. Those who
could not come in person sent little notes and baskets of flowers. Among
these Miss Macks was not numbered. But then she was not fashionable.

At the end of two weeks the patient was allowed to go out. He took a
short walk to try his strength, and, finding that it held out well, he
went to the street of the Hyacinth.

Miss Macks was at home. She was "so glad" to see him out again; and was
he "really strong enough;" and he "should be very prudent for a while;"
and so forth and so forth. She talked more than usual, and, for her,
quite rapidly.

He let her go on for a time. Then he took the conversation into his own
hands. With few preliminaries, and with much feeling in his voice and
eyes, he asked her to be his wife.

She was overwhelmed with astonishment; she turned very white, and did
not answer. He thought she was going to burst into tears. But she did
not; she only sat gazing at him, while her lips trembled. He urged his
point; he spoke strongly.

"You are worth a hundred of me," he said. "You are true and sincere; I
am a dilettante in everything. But, dilettante as I am, in one way I
have always appreciated you, and, lately, all other ways have become
merged in that one. I am much in earnest; I know what I am doing; I have
thought of it searchingly and seriously, and I beg you to say yes."

He paused. Still she did not speak.

"Of course I do not ask you to separate yourself from your mother," he
went on, his eyes dropping for the moment to the brim of his hat, which
he held in his hand; "I shall be glad if she will always make her home
with us."

Then she did speak. And as her words came forth, the red rose in her
face until it was deeply colored.

"With what an effort you said that! But you will not be tried. One gray
hair in my mother's head is worth more to me, Mr. Noel, than anything
you can offer."

"I knew before I began that this would be the point of trouble between
us, Faith," he answered. "I can only assure you that she will find in me
always a most respectful son."

"And when you were thinking so searchingly and seriously, it was this
that you thought of--whether you could endure her! Do you suppose that I
do not see the effort? Do you suppose I would ever place my mother in
such a position? Do you suppose that you are of any consequence beside
her, or that anything in this world weighs in my mind for one moment
compared with her happiness?"

"We can make her happy; I suppose that. And I suppose another thing, and
that is that we could be very happy ourselves if we were married."

"The Western girl, the girl from Tuscolee! The girl who thought she
could paint, and could not! The girl who knew so little of social rules
that she made a fool of herself every time she saw you!"

"All this is of no consequence, since it is the girl I love," answered
Noel.

"You do not. It is a lie. Oh, of course, a very unselfish and noble one;
but a lie, all the same. You have thought of it seriously and
searchingly? Yes, but only for the last fourteen days! I understand it
all now. At first I did not, I was confused; but now I see the whole.
You were not unconscious out there on the Campagna; you heard what I
said when I thought you were dying, or dead. And so you come--come very
generously and self-sacrificingly, I acknowledge that--and ask me to be
your wife." She rose; her eyes were brilliant as she faced him. "I might
tell you that it was only the excitement, that I did not know or mean
what I was saying; I might tell you that I did not know that I had said
anything. But I am not afraid. I will not, like you, tell a lie, even
for a good purpose. I did love you; there, you have it! I have loved you
for a long time, to my sorrow and shame. For I do not respect you or
admire you; you have been completely spoiled, and will always remain so.
I shall make it the one purpose of my life from this moment to overcome
the feeling I have had for you; and I shall succeed. Nothing could make
me marry you, though you should ask me a thousand times."

"I shall ask but once," said Noel. He had risen also; and, as he did, he
remembered the time when they had stood in the same place and position,
facing each other, and she had told him that she was at his feet. "I did
hear what you said. And it is of that I have been seriously thinking
during the days of my confinement to the house. It is also true that it
is what you said which has brought me here to-day. But the reason is
that it has become precious to me--this knowledge that you love me. As I
said before, in one way I have always done you justice, and it is that
way which makes me realize to the full now what such a love as yours
would be to me. If it is true that I am spoiled, as you say I am, a love
like yours would make me better, if anything can." He paused. "I have
not said much about my own feelings," he added; "I know you will not
credit me with having any. But I think I have. I think that I love you."

"It is of little moment to me whether you do or not."

"You are making a mistake," he said, after a pause, during which their
eyes had met in silence.

"The mistake would be to consent."

She had now recovered her self-possession. She even smiled a little.

"Imagine Mr. Raymond Noel in the street of the Hyacinth!" she said.

"Ah, I should hardly wish to live here; and my wife would naturally be
with me."

"I hope so. And I hope she will be very charming and obedient and
sweet." Then she dropped her sarcasms, and held out her hand in
farewell. "There is no use in prolonging this, Mr. Noel. Do not think,
however, that I do not appreciate your action; I do appreciate it. I
said that I did not respect you, and I have not until now; but now I do.
