about by winds of doctrine; would she 
tell us her grounds for saying that Mary 
Ann Evans was not born here ? She 
smiled, as if it made very little differ- 
ence, and yet indulgently, as one might 
over the vagaries of uneasy Americans, 
inclined to spend their nervous energy 
in fighting windmills and hunting lions, 
and repeated her tale. But in the midst 
of it she stopped to listen, evidently to 
a call from within, and, after a word of 
apology, hastened up the stairs. She 
was soon back again, this time bearing 
a message. " Miss Evans says you may 
walk in the garden, miss, if you like." 
(Poor Miss Evans ! should we take this 
as the spontaneous impulse of a kindly 
heart, or was it a sop thrown to im- 


known barbarians, whom she expected 
presently in her bed-chamber?) At 
all events, we stayed not to question 
motives, but betook ourselves, with our 
gentle-mannered guide, to a fascinating 
old-fashioned garden at the back of the 
house, and there it was that an excit- 
ing and terrible event befell. For she 
suddenly exclaimed, in an undertone, 
"There is Mr. Evans himself! You 
can ask him where she was bom ! " and 
fled, leaving us in the presence of a 
tall, powerful man, clad in gray, and 
pushing a lawn - mower. There was 
notliing for us to do but flee also, or 
brazenly advance ; to our everlasting 
discredit, be it recorded that we chose 
the latter and ignoble course. Now, I 
confess that when I fell into talk with 
this quiet English land-agent, it was 
from a mood as uplifted and delirious 
as that of one who should " see Shelley 
plain," for it was borne in upon me that 
here, in the flesh, was Tom Tulliver, 
honest, stanch, indomitable of will, — 
yet not of wide vision and ever con- 
scious of his own infallibility. ("And 
the worst of it is," once said a clever 
woman, "that he not only thought so, 
 

but according to recognized standards 
Tom always was right.") This was the 
man with whose being George Eliot's 
own was knit during the most plastic 
period of her life, who could admit her 
to the highest heaven of happiness, as 
Tom had ever the power of doing in 
his intercourse with Maggie, and whose 
disapproval, even over so small a matter 
as the jam puffs, would poison the very 
fountain of her content. This was he 
of whom she wrote, 

" My doll seemed lifeless, and no girlish toy 
Had any reason, when my brother came." 

It was Tom, the real or imagined 
Tom, who praised her because, in a 
moment of still and happy dreaming, she 
caught a big fish, and learned thereby 
how "luck is with glory wed." It was 
Tom who was separated from her by 
that awful soul-distance brought about 
by "the dire years;" who perchance 
condemned where he could not under- 
stand, and drew from her at length the 
home-sick cry, 

" But were another childhood-world my share, 
I would be bom a little sister there." 

Here, for all present purposes, was 
Tom Tulliver, gray-bearded, with keen 
 

yet kindly gray eyes and a slow sad 
voice, — and oh, wonder ! with George 
Eliot's own Dante nose. Do you remem- 
ber when sweet Mary Seraskier came 
back to Peter Ibbetson from the outer, 
or mayhap the inner world, how he 
tried so vainly, in his waking moments, 
to recall her utterances, and put them 
into the language of every-day thought 
and speech ? Thus it happened when I 
talked with Tom Tulliver. I meant, for 
my own after-delight, to remember his 
phrasing exactly as it left his lips, but I 
can only repeat it now, hopelessly Amer- 
icanized. 

" No, she was not born here," he said. 
" She was bom at Arbury Farm, and 
brought here when she was but six 
months old." 

" And which was her window ? Where 
is her room ? " 

"Why, she was everywhere about the 
house," he answered, in his ponderous 
fashion. " She lived here." 

But it was evident that the George 
Eliot of universal fame was less to him 
than the little sister whose " tiny shoe " 
he had guided over the stepping-stones, 
so many years agone. He was half 
 

touched, half perplexed that we should 
be thus moved over the traces of their 
vanished youth. 

" You came from America ? " he asked. 
"It's along way." 

And then, when we stammeringly 
tried to tell him how we had first of all 
sought Shakespeare's home, inevitably 
to make this the second step in our 
pilgrimage of praise and worship, his 
reserve seemed to break up, as if, she 
being dead, he would thank the humblest 
soul for having loved her. 

"And youVe been to the church.?" 
he asked. " Ah, they Ve altered it ! 
You may see the pew where she used to 
sit, but in those days its walls were so 
high that she had to stand up on the 
seat to see the singers." (Still dream- 
ing over the child, and not the girl or 
woman ! Did she know, and was it an 
abiding joy that ever, in the home of his 
mind, she dwelt "a little sister" }) 

Needless to say that we did not linger, 
afraid of outstaying his tolerance. 

"And you will go to Arbury Farm ?" 
he asked, adding, after full directions for 
finding it, " Tell them I sent you." 

We left him in his garden and wan- 


dered at will for a moment, casting un- 
seeing eyes at the farm buildings and 
populous yard, where little Maggie light- 
heartedly trudged about, or brooded over 
the "bitter sorrows of childhood." 

It was all so faithful, so real! and 
nothing more so than the true present- 
ment of Tom, grown to man's estate. 
This was the apex of human experi- 
ence, so far as our present quest was 
concerned ; not only could we imagine 
the outer life of the fine spirit forever 
vanished, but we had seen him who was 
so responsible for a vast part of its 
emotional stress. Yet there was, and 
is to-day, a bitter drop in that jeweled 
cup ; we had behaved like the tradi- 
tional American whose gospel is " Push," 
and had earned thereby the condemna- 
tion pronounced upon such from of old 
by the courteous and the gentle. One 
grace only was left in us ; we kept our 
own counsel, lest other intrusive spirits, 
possibly worse than the first, should re- 
peat our deed, and still further persecute 
our patient host. But time and fate 
between them have taken the seal from 
our lips, — for the master of Griff House 
is dead. 



It is the eccentric dower of some to 
grow quite as hot-headed and tremulous 
over a prospective needle in a haymow 
as ever Midas could have been on 
receiving his gift. To such, Knutsford, 
in Cheshire, offers a perfect hunting- 
ground for that sort of plunder so 
humorously resembling Gratiano's rea- 
sons : " You shall seek all day ere you 
find them; and when you have them, 
they are not worth the search." No 
more satisfying occupation can be in- 
vented in this ancient world than the 
pursuit of what does not absolutely ex- 
ist, if only the hunter be just credulous 
enough ; bold in belief, yet " not too 
bold." He must cling to his guesswork 
with a dauntless zeal ; at the same time 
he shall, for his own ease, recognize 
the probable futility of such doggedness. 
For to reconstruct a habitation on the 
base of some foregone romance is to 
strike a balance between special disap- 
pointment and a vague general joy. 
 

The present Knutsford, in toto, is 
emphatically not the Cranford of Mrs. 
Gaskeirs homely chronicle, but it glit- 
ters with links of similitude ; moreover, 
a certain quaintness all its own is 
continually stimulating the mind to 
comparison between the fancied and 
the real, as living perfumes summon 
forth old memories. Here, at least, 
Mrs. Gaskell was a child, the little 
Elizabeth Cleghom Stevenson, storing 
up fragmentary impressions easily re- 
traced by one who has lived even a full 
day in the town ; here she was married, 
and in the green and pleasant yard of 
the old Unitarian Chapel she lies, with 
her husband, under lilies of the valley 
and the constant evergreen. The pros- 
pect of figuring in biography was never 
quite to her taste, and the simple facts 
of her life oflFer little temptation to 
literary gossip-mongers. Her mother 
was a Holland, of the family repre- 
sented now by Lord Knutsford. Little 
Elizabeth was bom at Chelsea in 1810, 
and it was after her mother's death that 
she was sent to live with Mrs. Lumb, a 
widowed aunt, at Knutsford, where she 
remained until marriage took her to per- 


manent residence in Manchester. Both 
her husband and her father were Unita- 
rian clergymen, and one can guess at 
her own gracious influence among that 
slowly growing sect, a power as moving 
as in literature and the practical walks 
of trade. It is an old story that her 
fiction taught the rich some of those 
trenchant lessons known at first-hand 
only by the poor ; but another deed, 
more golden yet, shall be remembered 
of her, — the creation of Cranford, a 
book to be loved so long as there are 
smiles and tears in this April world. 
Who could aspire to uncover its living 
presentment ? One might as well hope, 
some fortunate London hour, to stumble 
on Queen Bess setting forth in state to 
buU-baiting or the play. 

The region skirting Knutsford on 
every hand is rich in memories, but, 
better still, it offers a loving welcome 
to the eye. It is a placid, smiling 
country, diversified by great estates and 
happy in fat farmlands. Great herds of 
cows idle about, given over to that in- 
dustry which is no more than a drowsy 
day-dream ; cropping and chewing, and 
transmuting the riches of the common 
 

sod into such milk and cheese as need 
only naming for praise. Within the 
circle of this abounding prosperity lies 
the little town (ford of the great Ca- 
nute, some say, with reason), a lovable 
spot, irregular and pleasing, with individ- 
ual comers and passages covered by the 
dust of years, and delighting in their 
burial. It is presided over by two 
precise and respectable inns, both men- 
tioned "by name" in Cranford. So 
many of the strings of trade here are 
held by women that it is still approxi- 
mately, as in Cranford days, "in pos- 
session of the Amazons." No state of 
things could be more pleasing to us who 
would have time "stand still withal," 
and on the strength of it we may 
undoubtedly assume that, even in our 
present year of grace, "to be a man" 
is, in this delectable place, "to be 
'vulgar.'" 

Our course thither lay through Man- 
chester (Drumble), where we made brief 
halt to glance at the Unitarian Chapel, 
the old preaching-ground of the Rev- 
erend William Gaskell, and we reached 
Knutsford on the eve of a festival 
calculated to rend dear Miss Matty 
 

with deeper doubts than such as embit- 
tered her first half -hour at Signor 
Brunoni's exhibition. For the next 
afternoon had been set apart for 
May-day celebration, and Knutsford was 
already the scene of a wild saturnalia. 
It had lost its head in anticipatory 
delirium. It was baking and brewing 
for a probable influx of visitors by 
excursion train. The very air was 
tinged with the aroma of hot cakes, 
and landladies who on any other day 
would have curtsied profoundly in 
Shenstonian welcome, actually held their 
door-stone against us as though we 
were marauding Scots, or the rogues 
and vagabonds of a later interdict, ex- 
plaining: "It's so very, very awkward, 
miss, but to-morrow I shall be so busy ; 
and I could hardly give you the atten- 
tion I should wish. I'm very sorry, 
miss, but you see how it is, miss, I 'm 
sure ; " with that ingratiating lift at the 
end of the sentence so commendable 
on an English tongue. 

And so perforce we went to an inn, 
choosing, in deference to Cranford pre- 
judice, one under the firm and affable 
sway of two ladies. At that modest 
 

choice, said we, the Honorable Mrs. 
Jamieson would have been the better 
pleased. All that evening the delirium 
of hope and expectation continued. 
Swings had been erected on the large 
open space still known as " the Heath." 
Red-and-gold gondolas, cannily set upon 
springs, were gayly sliding about in 
a magic circle, — a lurid Venice. A 
strange aerial railway consisted of one 
strong wire high in air ; little wheels 
with handles on either side were 
arranged to fit it, and Darby or Joan, 
holding to the handles with desperate 
grip, went trundling through space like 
gibbeted criminals taking to the sky. 
The company of psychologists shall 
henceforth be augmented by the man 
who classifies the soul according to the 
bodily contortions induced by an aerial 
railway. I know not what he should 
be called, but his course of action will 
be plain. Especially in the case of 
womankind might he pronounce an 
unerring judgment, — for some among 
the lassies curled their dangling feet 
decently beneath their skirts, some let 
them fly amain ; others swayed like wil- 
low wands ; but the many swept on their 
 

playful way like very statues. In all 
there was one strange likeness: they 
took their pleasure " sadly," as became 
true Britons. No face relaxed; not a 
feature gave way to emotion lighter 
than a rigid determination to reach the 
goal. With the onlookers, the same 
seriousness prevailed, so that when the 
transatlantic observer gave way to hys- 
terics of mirth, she was regarded, not 
frowningly, but with a solemn com- 
passion which was in itself hopelessly 
upsetting. And over all the din of de- 
corous joy amid which the Knutsford 
youth thus disported itself arose the 
voice of china -venders and toy -mer- 
chants, the cry of those who would fain 
cloy their countrymen with gruesome 
lollipop and other sweets, made only to 
be shunned. Miss Deborah could never 
have approved ! We tried to cloak our 
delight under a decent thoughtfulness, 
and went home to bed. I think we 
should even have read a counter-irritating 
chapter of Rasselas had that very emi- 
nent work been at hand. 

Next day, Knutsford dissolved in rain, 
and the bakeries may well have wept 
also. No crowd of excursionists to race 
 

into the town like an invading flood, 
some ripple of which must surely inun- 
date the humblest eating-houses ! They 
sank beneath their sweets, like Tarpeia 
under her bribe, and the cardboard le- 
gend of "Tea" at every door fell into 
pulp and sadness. We too had hoped 
for a sunny May-day ; but, being mortal, 
we could not refrain from an acrid reflec- 
tion that many a landlady must now be 
repenting her short-sighted refusal of us. 
Last night we were minnows, for there 
were other fish in the sea. To-day we 
loomed as the leviathan, and we bore our- 
selves proudly. 

Only a few optimistic citizens had 
summoned the spirit to sand the side- 
walk in front of their houses, an ancient 
custom once accompanying Knutsford 
weddings, and still employed on days of 
high festival. Still, no one exerted his 
genius to the utmost ; for though the 
sand had been applied in patterns, they 
were quite simple, suggesting none of 
that elaboration and originality of design 
in which Knutsford can indulge when 
she chooses. But though the rain could 
bully her into curbing her handiwork, 
it could not dampen her poetic ardor. 
 

Across the street, from one sandless 
sidewalk to the other, swept a banner, 
and this was the proud legend there- 
of:— 

" All hall ! All haO thee, Queen of May I 
For this is our universal holiday !" 

A melancholy dryness, flecked by 
uncertain gleams of sun, succeeded the 
forenoon, and we betook ourselves, with 
an unadulterated joy, to the Heath, 
where we sat, chilled and happy, on the 
grand stand, watching the festival, and 
reconstructing the play-day of Old Eng- 
land from the too sophisticated pleas- 
ures of the New. This was May-day 
decked out in modem fripperies for the 
public entertainment, but it was not 
impossible to spy, beneath its lendings, 
the simpler sports of a long-past time. 
The procession was an historical pageant 
of high degree. Here walked Sir Wal- 
ter Raleigh, Lord Nelson, the Duke 
of Wellington, Dick Whittington, and 
Robin Hood, none of them over four 
feet high. Jack-in-the-Green danced, 
bear -wise, under an inverted cone of 
hemlock; the morris - dancers (lithe, 
bonny youths, dressed in blue velvet 
kneebreeches, white shirts, plaid sashes, 


and stockings of a vivid pink seldom 
seen outside a lozenge jar) wove a simple 
rhythm of movement entrancing to the 
eye, and the May queen rode in state, 
a pygmy lady of fashion, clad in white 
satin, elaborate, frosty, like a wedding- 
cake. But one would fain have seen 
her in simple white muslin enriched 
only with posies of her own plucking, 
gathered with the dew on them while 
even Corinna slept. "Wake and call 
me early," that I may hook myself into 
a ball dress and send for my wired 
bouquet ! Some bathos comes with 
time. 

But of all that winding throng one ob- 
ject alone had power to thrill the mind, 
— an old sedan chair, borne midway in 
the procession. Do you remember it in 
the annals of Cranford? Within that 
very chair did Miss Matty sit, tremulous 
but resolved, after the social evening at 
Mrs. Forrester's, when the dear ladies 
scared one another into panic with con- 
fession of the bogies most to their mind. 
From its unsafe seclusion did she cry 
aloud when the men " stopped just where 
