irresistibly of the nursery rhyme which might be the motto of the
American mother:
   ", out of breath,
   They trot the baby, most to death,
   Sick or well, or cold or hot,
   It's trottery, trottery, trottery, trot."
Of all these women there was not one who sat still for three
consecutive minutes. Heads were twisted to look at the name of the
corner lamp-posts, glove fingers were smoothed, the folds of
dress-skirts shaken out, hats straightened,--until I would fain have
cried out in irreverent paraphrase, at sight of the unrest which I
blush to confess made me conscious of my own nerves:
"Not one sitteth still--no, not one!"
That men have any patience with what they term "feminine fidgetiness,"
is but an evidence that they are better Christians than we of the
gentler sex are willing to admit. For I think I am not making a
sweeping assertion when I state that not one tolerably healthy man in
five hundred knows what it is to have nerves such as are the
birthright of his mother, sister, and wife. And yet how well the
physician, poet, autocrat and professor, Oliver Wendell Holmes, knows
and sympathizes with this weakness in us! He touches the truth in a
direct way that wrings a sigh of familiar pain from many a patient
soul.
"Some people have a scale of your whole nervous system and can play
all the gamut of your sensibilities in semi-tones, touching the naked
nerve-pulps as a pianist strikes the keys of his instrument. I am
satisfied that there are as great masters of this nerve-playing as
Vieuxtemps or Thalberg in their lines of performance. Married life is
the school in which the most accomplished artists in this department
are found. A delicate woman is the best instrument; she has such a
magnificent compass of sensibilities. From the deep inward moan which
follows pressure on the great nerves of right, to the sharp cry as the
filaments of taste are struck with a crashing sweep, is a range which
no other instrument possesses."
And again he speaks of the less serious affection of the nerves
as: ... "Not fear, but what I call nervousness,--unreasoning, but
irresistible; as when, for instance, one, looking at the sun going
down, says: 'I will count fifty before it disappears,' and as he goes
on and it becomes doubtful whether he will reach the number, he gets
strangely flurried, and his imagination pictures life and death and
heaven and hell as the issues depending on the completion or
non-completion of the fifty he is counting."
If a man can describe it all so well, what could a woman do? I fear
that her description would be too graphic to be read by us, her
sisters.
Many people have a way of saying of a sufferer:
"There is nothing the matter with her. She is only excessively
nervous."
This "only" is a very serious matter. There is no illness more
difficult to treat and more trying to bear than nervous prostration.
It is a slowly advancing malady which is scarcely recognized as
serious by one's friends until the tired mind succumbs and mental
aberration is the terrible finale of the seemingly slight
indisposition.
My readers may wonder why I dwell upon a subject that baffles even the
most eminent physicians in the country. It is because I feel that each
of us women has in herself the only check to the nervousness which we
all dread. We, as Americans, cannot afford to trifle with our
unfortunate inheritance, but must use every means at our command to
subjugate the evil instead of being subjugated by it. Too many women,
especially among the lower classes, think it "pretty" to be nervous.
The country practitioner will tell you of the precious hours he loses
every week in hearkening to the recital of personal discomforts as
poured into his professional ears by farmers' wives. And the
beginning, middle, and end of all their plaints is "my nerves."
Anything, from a sprained ankle to consumption, is attributed to or
augmented by these necessary adjuncts to the human anatomy.
Not long ago I was talking to the ignorant mother of a jaundiced,
colicky child of two years of age.
"What does she eat?" I asked.
"Well, she takes fancies, and her latest notion is that she won't eat
nothin' but ginger-nuts and bananas. So she mostly lives on them.
Sometimes she suffers awful."
"From indigestion?"
"Oh, no!" patronizingly. "She inherits all my nervous weakness. Her
nerves get the upper hand of her, and she turns pale and shivers all
over, and then she looks as if she would go into the spasms."
"But," I suggested, "don't you think that is caused by acute
indigestion?"
"No, ma'am. You see I know what it is, havin' had it so bad myself.
The nerves of her stomach all draw up, and cause the shakin' and
tremblin'."
Suggestions as to the modification of the little one's diet were
useless. Indigestion was unromantic (in the mother's judgment), and
"nerves" were highly aristocratic and refined.
I am happy to note that the girl of the rising generation is learning
that to succumb to weakness is not a sign of ladyhood. She does not
jump on a chair at sight of a mouse, scream when she meets a cow in a
country road, or cover her face and shudder at mention of a snake. She
is proud of being afraid of nothing, of having a good appetite, and of
the ability to sleep as soundly as a tired and healthy child.
It is not then to her, but to ourselves, that we mothers have need to
look. We are too often the ones who give way to hysterical tears or to
sharp words, or perhaps to unjust criticism, all of which we attribute
to nervousness. Our more frank girl, if affected in the same way,
would bluntly acknowledge that she was "as cross as a bear." Let us
quietly take hold of ourselves and ask ourselves the plain question,
"Are we nervous, or cross?" If the latter, we know how to remedy it. A
well person has no right to be so abominably bad-tempered or moody
that he cannot keep people from finding it out. If you are nervous,
there is some reason for it. Perhaps you did not sleep well last
night; perhaps you are suffering from dyspepsia; but in any case
will-power will do much towards lessening the trouble. If you are ill,
it may cause a struggle greater than your nearest and dearest can
imagine to repress the startled ejaculation at the slamming of a door,
or the angry exclamation when your bed is jarred. But you will be
better, not worse, physically, for this self-control. The woman, who,
though tortured by nervousness sets her teeth and says, "I will be
strong!" stands a better chance of speedy recovery than does she who
weakly gives way to hysterical sobs a dozen times a day. Your nerves
should be your servants, and, like all servants, may give you much
trouble, but as long as you are mistress of yourself you need not fear
them. Once let them get the control over you, and you are gone. There
is no tyrant more merciless than he who has hitherto been a slave.
May I add one word to those whom we, in exasperation, are apt to call
aggressively strong? If you, yourself, do not know what nervousness
is, pity and help the poor sufferer in your family who never knows
during day or night what it is to be without what you consider "the
fussiness that sets you wild." If this mother, or aunt, or sister,
does control herself, remember that she is stronger than you, as the
man who successfully curbs the fiery steed is more to be commended for
courage than he who holds the reins loosely over the back of the safe
farm-horse who does not know how to shy, kick, or run.
CHAPTER XI.
THE RULE OF TWO.
One character mentioned in the unique rhyme of Mary and her Little
Lamb, has never had due praise and consideration dealt out to him. The
teacher who heartlessly expelled from the temple of learning the
unoffending and guileless companion of the innocent maiden who is the
heroine of the above-mentioned ditty, was, in spite of his cruelty, a
philosopher. After the exit of the principal actors in the poem, we
are told that the following conversation ensued:
   "What makes the lamb love Mary so?"
     The eager children cry.
   "Because she loves the lamb, you know,"
     The teacher did reply.
The teacher was wise in his generation. In his "reply," lies a world
of meaning--one of the answers to the old question of the reason for
personal antipathies and attractions, and may perhaps be said, in this
case, to touch upon animal magnetism.
There are exceptions to every rule, and to the maxim that "love begets
love" there are many instances to be cited in which the contrary
proves true. We all have been so unfortunate at some time during our
lives as to be liked by people of whom we were not fond. But, if we
look the matter thoughtfully and honestly in the face, we will
acknowledge that in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred we are
attracted toward a person as soon as we learn that that person finds
us agreeable. Of course this knowledge must not be conveyed in a
manner that disgusts by effusiveness a sensitive person. None of us
like fulsome flattery, but a compliment so delicately hinted that it
does not shock, and scarcely surprises the person for whom it is
intended, seldom fails to produce an impression that is far from
disagreeable. Certainly no more graceful compliment can be paid a man
or woman by us selfish mortals than the acknowledgment of an affinity
between ourselves and the person whom we would honor by our
friendship. Said a well-known scholar to me:
"The most laudatory public speech ever addressed to me failed to make
my heart glow as warmly as did the remark of an old friend not long
ago. We had been separated for years, and at our reunion spent the
first hour in talking of old times, etc. Suddenly, my friend turned to
me, and grasping my hand exclaimed:
"'Old fellow! you always were, and still are, my affinity!'
"The subtle flattery of that one exclamation makes me even now thrill
with a delicious throb of self-conceit."
Not long ago, I asked of an acquaintance who is a wonderful reader of
character:
"Why has Mrs. S---- so many good friends?"
"Because she is such a good friend herself."
"But why is she attractive to so many people?" queried I.
"Because she is first attracted by them," was the quick response. "She
goes on the principle that there is some good in everybody, and sets
herself to work to find it. Each of us knows when she is thrown into
contact with a person who likes her. It is as if each were surrounded
with tinted atmospheres,--some green, some blue, some red, or
yellow--in fact, there are more shades and colors than you can
mention. When two reds meet, they mingle; when two harmonious tints
touch, they may form a pleasing combination; but when such enemies as
blue and green come together, they clash--fairly 'swear at one
another,' and the persons enveloped in the opposing atmospheres are
mutually disagreeable. The man who is surrounded by the color capable
of most harmonious combinations is said to have personal magnetism."
May not this explanation, while rather far-fetched, afford some clue
to the causes of personal popularity? And the thought following swift
upon this is: If this be true, how much may each of us have to do with
softening and making capable of harmony his and her own individual
atmosphere? While we cannot change our "colors" (to follow out my
friend's figure) we may shade them down and make them less pronounced,
so that in time they may become capable of a variety of combinations.
Does not Faber touch upon this point, when he says:
   "The discord is within which jars
     So roughly in life's song;
   'Tis we ourselves who are at fault
     When others seem so wrong,"
We blame others for being uncongenial When the "discord is within,"
that makes all things go awry. A drunken man sees the whole world go
around, and blames it, for its unsteadiness.
One way to render less obtrusive an inharmonious color, if we possess
such is to keep it out of a strong light that will attract all eyes to
it. Do not let us be proud of our personal defects and peculiarities.
They are subjects for regret, not pride. When a woman boasts that she
"knows she is often impatient, but she simply cannot help it, she is
so peculiarly constituted!" she acknowledges a weakness of which she
should be ashamed. If she is so undisciplined, so untrained, that she
cannot avoid making life uncomfortable for those around her, she would
better stay in a room by herself until she learns self-control. Often
the very eccentricities of character to which we cling so tenaciously
are but forms of vanity. Why should our preferences, our likes or
dislikes be of more account than those of thousands of other people?
Another great mistake we make is that we try the effect of other
colors with our own, and resent it hotly if they do not "go well
together." We do not insist that they shall be like ours in tint, but
they must act as good backgrounds, or form pleasing combinations with
ours, or we will none of them. Now it is quite possible for human
beings to hold contrary views from those entertained by you and me,
and still be excellent members of society and reputable Christians. To
many of us this seems incredible, but it is none the less true. Not
only are individual characters different, but environment and
education make us what we are. Very often a person who is uncongenial
to us, will, in the surroundings to which she is fitted, be at ease,
and perhaps even attractive.
I do not say that we must like everybody. That is a physical, mental
and moral impossibility. But we may do others the justice of seeing
their good traits as well as the bad. And sometimes when we find a
chance acquaintance drearily uninteresting, it is because we do not
take the trouble to find out what is in her.
Some people are always bored. May it not be because they look at
everything animate and inanimate from a selfish standpoint, with the
query in their minds, "How does that affect me?" The old definition of
a bore as "a person who talks so much of himself that he gives you no
chance to talk of yourself," may apply not only to the bore, but to
the bored. When you find yourself wearied and uninterested, be honest
enough to examine yourself calmly, and see if the reason is not
because your vis-a-vis is not talking about anything which interests
you especially. Should he turn the conversation upon your favorite
occupation or pastime, or even upon your personal likes and dislikes
(which, by the way, might be an infinite bore to him), would he not at
once become entertaining?
Viewed from a selfish and politic standpoint, it is to our interest to
make the best of everybody. We cannot always pick and choose our
associates in the school of life, and must frequently be thrown with
people whom we do not "take to," and, worse still, who may not "take
to" us. Since this be true, would it not be better for us to look at
their pleasantest side, and, by making ourselves agreeable to them,
insure their friendly feeling for us? The old saying that the
good-will of a dog is preferable to his ill-will, may still be quoted
with regard to many specimens of the genus homo which we daily meet.
There is one case in which I make an exception to all that I have
said--namely, when from the first, there is--not a feeling of dislike,
but a strong, uncontrollable personal antipathy. If you are generally
charitable and just, and have few actual dislikes, and meet a man
against whom your whole nature revolts, who is as repulsive to you as
a snake would be, avoid him. It is not necessary for you to tell
others of the uncomfortable impression he has made upon you. He may
not affect them in the same way. I acknowledge, not only from
observation, but from personal experience, that there are certain
people from whom one recoils with a feeling of physical as well as
mental repugnance. I believe that every woman who reads this talk has
an unerring feminine instinct which will thus prompt her when she
meets her own particular "Dr. Fell."
But I also believe that we seldom meet characters which repel us in
this especial way. Oftener some slight to ourselves, some one
unfortunate speech, biases our judgment, and those against whom we are
thus prejudiced are even sometimes connected to us by ties of
consanguinity. We would do well to analyze the causes which lead to
our feelings of dislike, and I fear we should often find that wounded
self-esteem was the root of the evil. And, after all, what a great
matter a little fire kindleth! Let us quench the spark before it
ignites. It is arrant folly, not to mention wickedness, to make
enemies for the little while we are here. There is an incurable
heartache which comes from such mistakes. Owen Meredith describes it
in a poem, every verse of which throbs with hopeless love and regret,
and one of which teaches a lesson so much needed by us all that we
would do well to commit to memory the last two lines, and repeat them
almost hourly:
"I thought of our little quarrels and strife,
   And the letter that brought me back my ring;
And it all seemed then, in the waste of life,
   Such a very little thing!"
CHAPTER XII.
THE PERFECT WORK OF PATIENCE.
A slender little treble was singing it over and over again in childish
sort, with so little appreciation of the meaning of the words that the
oddity of the ditty was the first thing to attract my attention to it.
   "You'd better bide a wee, wee, wee!
      Oh, you'd better bide a wee.
   La, la, la, la, la, la,
      You'd better bide a wee."
The elf was singing her dolly to sleep, swinging back and forth in her
little rocking-chair, the waxen face pressed against the warm pink cushion
of her own cheek, the yellow silk of curls palpitating with the owner's
vitality mingling with the lifeless floss of her darling's wig. The picture
was none the less charming because so common, but it was not in admiring
contemplation of it that I arrested my pen in the middle of a word, holding
it thus an inch or two above the paper in position to resume the rapid rush
along the sheet it had kept up for ten minutes and more. I mused a moment.
Then, with the involuntary shake one gives his cranium when he has a
ringing in his ears, I finished the sentence:--"sideration, I cannot but
think that patience has had her perfect work."
"You'd better bide a wee!"
lisped the baby's song.
I smiled slightly and sourly at what I called mentally "the pat
incongruity" of the admonition with mood and written words. A swift
review of the situation confirmed the belief that I did well to be
angry with the correspondent whose open letter lay upon the table
beside the unfinished reply. The letter head was familiar. Of late the
frequent sight of it had bred annoyance waxing into irritation. The
brisk interchange of epistles grew out of a business-matter in which,
as I maintained, I had been first ungenerously, then unfairly, finally
dishonestly dealt with. There was no doubt in my mind of the intention
to mislead, if not to defraud me, and the communication now under
advisement was in tone cavalier almost to the point of insult. Aroused
out of the enforced calm I had hitherto managed to preserve, I had
seated myself and set my pen about the work of letting him who had now
assumed the position of "that man," know how his conduct appeared in
the light of reason and common sense. I had not even withheld an
illusion to honesty and commercial morality. I had never done a better
piece of literary work than that letter. Warming to the task in
recounting the several steps of the transaction, I had not scrupled to
set off my moderation by a Rembrandtish wash of shadow furnished by my
correspondent's double-dealing, and to cast my civility into relief by
adroit quotations from his impertinent pages. When I said that
patience had had her perfect work, it was my intention to unfold in
short, stinging sentences my plans as to future dealings with the
delinquent.
The singing on the other side of the room meant no more than the
chirping of a grasshopper upon a mullein-stalk. I did not delude
myself with the notion of providential use of the tongue that tripped
at the consonants and lingered in liquid dalliance with favorite
vowels. Yet, after ten motionless minutes of severe thinking, the
letter was deliberately torn into strips and these into dice, and all
of these went into the waste-paper basket at my elbow. I had concluded
to "abide a wee." If the sun went down that once upon my anger, he
arose upon cold brands and gray ashes. I had not changed my
intellectual belief as to my correspondent's behavior, but the
impropriety of complicating an awkward business by placing myself in
the wrong to the extent of losing my temper was so obvious that I
blushed in recalling the bombastic periods of the torn composition.
Since that lesson, I have never sent off an angry or splenetic letter,
although the temptation to "have it out" upon paper has sometimes got
the better of my more sensible self. If the excitement is particularly
great, and the epistle more than usually eloquent of the fact that, as
the old-time exhorters used to say, I had "great liberty of speech," I
have always left it to cool over night. The "sunset dews" our mothers
sang of took the starch out of the bristling pages, and the "cool,
soft evening-hours," and nightly utterance of--"As we forgive them
that trespass against us,"--drew out the fire.
"You'd better bide a wee!"
I have sometimes thought of writing it down, as poor Jo of "Bleak
House" begged to have his last message to Esther Summerson
transcribed--"werry large,"--and pasting it upon the mirror that, day
by day, reflects a soberer face than I like to see in its sincere
depths--as one hot and hasty soul placarded upon her looking-glass the
single word "PATIENCE." To people whose tempers are quick and
whose actions too often match their tempers, one of the most difficult
of daily duties is to reserve judgment upon that which appears
ambiguous in the conduct of their associates. The dreary list of slain
friendships that makes retrospect painful to those of mature years;
the disappointments that to the young have the bitterness of death;
the tale of trusts betrayed and promises broken--how would the story
be shortened and brightened if conscientious and impartial trial of
the accused preceded sentence and punishment!--if, in short, we would
only "bide a wee" before assuming that our friend is false, or our
love unworthily given.
In a court of justice previous character counts for much. The number
and respectability of the witnesses to a prisoner's excellent
reputation and good behavior have almost as much weight with the jury
as direct testimony in support of the claim that he did not commit the
crime. To prove that he could not, without change of disposition and
habit, violate the laws of his country, is the next best thing to an
established alibi. I should be almost ashamed to set down a thing
which everybody knows so well were it not that each one of us, when
his best friend's fidelity to him is questioned, flies shamelessly in
the face of reason and precedent by ignoring the record of years. He
may have given ten thousand proofs of attachment to him whom he is now
accused of wronging; have showed himself in a thousand ways to be
absolutely incapable of deception or dishonorable behavior of any
sort. A single equivocal circumstance, a word half-heard, a gesture
misunderstood; the report to his prejudice of a tale-bearer who is his
inferior in every respect,--any one of these outbalances the plea of
memory, the appeal of reason, the consciousness of the right of the
arraigned to be heard. Were not the story one of to-day and of every
day, the moral turpitude it displays would arouse the hearer to
generous indignation.
Taking at random one of the multitude of illustrations crowding upon
my mind, let me sketch a vexatious incident of personal history. Some
years ago--no matter how many, nor how long was my sojourn in the town
which was the scene of the story--I accepted the invitation of an
acquaintance to take a seat in her carriage while on my way to call
upon a woman well known to us both. The owner of the equipage, Mrs.
D----, overtook me while I was trudging up the long street leading to
the suburb in which our common acquaintance lived. The day was bleak
and windy, and I was glad to be spared the walk. Mrs. C----, to whom
the visit was paid, came down to receive us with her hat and cloak on.
She was going down town presently, she said, and would not keep us
waiting while she laid aside her wraps. No! she would not have us
shorten our call on her account; she could go half an hour later as
well as now. A good deal was said of the disagreeable weather, and the
bad sidewalks in that new section of the city--as I recollected
afterward. At the time, I was more interested in her mention that her
favorite brother, an editor of note from another town and State, was
visiting her. She asked permission to bring him to call, and I
consented with alacrity, thinking, as I spoke, that I would, after
meeting him, arrange a little dinner-party of choice spirits in his
honor.
When we were ready to go, Mrs. D----, to my surprise and
embarrassment, did not propose that our hostess should drive down-town
with us, although we were going directly back, and a cold "Scotch
mist" was beginning to fall. To this day, I do not know to what to
attribute what I then felt--what I still consider--was gross
incivility. The most charitable supposition is that it never occurred
to her that it would be neighborly and humane to offer a luxurious
seat in her swiftly rolling chariot to the woman who must otherwise
walk a mile in the chill and wet. She had the reputation of
absent-mindedness. Let us hope that her wits were off upon an
excursion when we got into the carriage and drove away, leaving Mrs.
C---- at the gate.
Glancing back, uneasily, I saw her raise an umbrella and set out upon
her cheerless promenade directly in our wake, and I made a desperate
essay at redressing the wrong.
"It is a pity Mrs. C---- must go out this afternoon," I said,
shiveringly. "She will have a damp walk."
"Yes," assented my companion, readily. "That is the worst of being in
this vicinity. There is no street railway within half a mile."
She went no further. I could go no further. The carriage was hers--not
mine.
Mrs. C---- 's brother did not call on me, nor did she ever again. The
latter circumstance might not have excited surprise, had she not
treated me with marked coldness when I met her casually at the house
of a friend. In the busy whirl of an active life, I should have
forgotten this circumstance, or set it down to my own imagination, had
not her brother's paper contained, a month or so later, an attack upon
myself that amazed me by what I thought was causeless acrimony. Even
when I found myself described as rich, haughty and heartless,
"consorting with people who could pay visits to me in coaches with
monograms upon the doors, and turning the cold shoulder to those who
came on foot,"--I did not associate the diatribe with my visit to the
writer's relative. Five years afterward, the truth was made known to
me by accident. Mrs. C---- had judged from something said during our
interview that the equipage belonged to me, and that I had brought
Mrs. D---- to see her instead of being the invited party. I was now a
resident of another city. The story came to me by a circuitous route.
Explanation was impracticable. Yet it is not six months since there
fell under my eye a paragraph penned by the offended brother
testifying that his opinion of my insignificant self remains
unaltered.
Had he or his sister suspended judgment until the evidence against my
ladyhood and humanity could be investigated, I should have had to
look elsewhere for an incident with which to point the moral of my
Talk.
Rising above the pettiness of spiteful grudge-bearing against a
fellow-mortal, let me say a word of the unholy restiveness with which
we meet the disappointments which are the Father's discipline of His
own. "All these things are against me!" is a cry that has struck upon
His loving heart until Godlike patience is needed to bear with the
fretful wail.
Nothing that He lets fall upon us can be "against" us! In His hottest
fires we have but to "hold still" and bide His good time in order to
see that all His purposes in us are mercy, as well as truth to His
promises. In the Hereafter deeded to us as a sure heritage, we shall
see that each was a part of His design for our best and eternal good.
CHAPTER XIII.
"ACCORDING TO HIS FOLLY."
The hardest task ever set for mortal endeavor is for us to allow other
people to know less than we know.
The failure to perform this task has kindled the fagots about the
stake where heretics perished for obstinacy.
It is not a week, by the way, since I heard a woman, gently nurtured
and intellectual, lament that those "old Pilgrim forefathers were so
disagreeably obstinate." She "wondered that their generation did not
send them to the scaffold instead of across the sea."
Inability to suffer the rest of the world to be mistaken has set a
nation by the ears, broken hearts and fortunes, and separated more
chief friends than all other alienating causes combined. Many
self-deluding souls set down their impatience with others' errors to a
spirit of benevolence. They love their friends too dearly, they have
too sincere a desire for the welfare of acquaintances, to let them
hold mischievous tenets.
The cause of variance may appear contemptible to an indifferent third
party.
To the average reasoner who has no personal concern in the debate, it
may seem immaterial at what date Mrs. Jenkyns paid her last visit to
Boston. She is positive that it was in March, 1889. Mr. Jenkyns is as
certain that she accompanied him thither in April of that year. She
establishes her position by the fact that she left her baby for the
first time when the cherub was ten months old, and there is the Family
Bible to prove that he was born May 10, 1888. Is she likely to be
mistaken on such a point when she cried all night in Boston and the
bereft infant wailed all night in New York? What does Charles take her
for? Hasn't he said, himself, dozens of times, that there is no use
arguing as to times and seasons with a woman who verifies these by her
children's ages? Mr. Jenkyns has said so--but with a difference. There
is no use arguing with a woman in any circumstances, whatsoever. That
Emma tries to carry her point now by lugging in the poor little kid,
who has nothing whatever to do with the case, is but another proof of
the inconsequence of the sex. He has the stub of his check-book to
show that he paid the hotel bill in Boston, April 11, 1889. Figures
cannot lie. Mrs. Charles Jenkyns challenges the check-book on the
spot--and the wrangle goes on until she seeks her chamber to have her
cry out, and he storms off to office or club, irritated past
forbearance by the pig-headed perversity of a creature he called
