about Cynthy ? " 
 
" I don't know," Jackson answered, vaguely, and lie 
expressed by his indirection the sense he must some- 
times have had of his impending fate — " I don't know 
what she's going to do, her or mother, either." 
"Yes," JefE assented, "that's what I think of. 
And I'd do anything that I could — that you thought 
was right." 
Jackson apparently concentrated his mind upon the 
question by an eSort. "Do you care as much for 
Cynthy as you used to ? " 
"Yes," said JefE, after a moment, " as much as I 
ever did ; and more. But I've been thinking, since 
the thing happened, that, if I'd cared for her the way 
she did for me, it wouldn't have happened. Look 
here, Jackson ! You know I've never pretended to 
be like some men — like Mr. Westover, for example — 
always looking out for the right and the wrong, and 
all that. I didn't make myself, and I guess if the 
Almighty don't make me go right it's because he 
don't want me to. But I have got a conscience about 
Cynthy, and I'd be willing to help out a little if I 
knew how, about her. The devil of it is, I've got to 
being afraid. I don't mean that I'm not fit for her ; 
any man's fit for any woman if he wants her bad 
enough ; but I'm afraid I sha'n't ever care for her in 
the right way. That's the point. I've cared for just 
one woman in this world, and it a'n't Cynthy, as far 
as I can make out. But she's gone, and I guess I 
could coax Cynthy round again, and I could be what 
she wants me to be, after this." 
Jackson lay upon his shawl, looking up at the sky 
full of islands of warm clouds in its sea of blue ; he 
was silent so long that JefE began to think he had not 
been listening ; he could not hear him breathe, and he 
came forward to him quickly from the shadow of the 
tree where he sat. 
" Well ? " Jackson whispered, turning his eyes upon 
him. 
"Well?" Jeff returned. 
" I guess you'd better let it alone," said Jackson. 
" All right. That's what I think, too." 
XLIX. 
Jackson died a week later, and they buried him 
in the old family lot in the farthest corner of the or- 
chard. His mother and Cynthia put on mourning 
for him, and they stood together by his open grave, 
Mrs. Durgin leaning upon her son's arm and the girl 
upon her father's. The woman wept quietly, but 
JefE's eyes were dry, though his face was discharged 
of all its prepotent impudence. Westover, standing 
across the grave from him, noticed the marks on his 
forehead that he said were from his scrapping, and 
wondered what really made them. He recognized 
the spot where they were standing as that where the 
boy had obeyed the law of his nature and revenged 
the stress put upon him for righteousness. Over the 
stone of the nearest grave JeS had shown a face of 
triumphant derision when he pelted Westover with 
apples. The painter's mind fell into a chaos of con- 
jecture and misgiving, so that he scarcely took in the 
words of the composite service which the minister 
from the Union Chapel at the Huddle read over the 
dead. 
Some of the guests from the hotel came to the fu- 
 
neral, but otliers who were not in good healtli re- 
mained away, any there was a general sense among 
them, which imparted itself to Westover, that Jack- 
son's dying so, at the beginning of the season, was 
not a fortunate incident. As he sat talking with 
Jeff at a corner of the piazza late in the afternoon, 
Frank Whitwell came up to them and said there 'vyere 
some people in the office who had driven over from 
another hotel to see about board, but they had heard 
there was sickness in the house, and wished to talk 
with him. 
" I won't come," said Jeff. 
" They're not satisfied with what I've said," the 
boy urged. " What shall I tell them ? " 
" Tell them to — go to the devil," said Jeff, and 
when Frank Whitwell made off with this message for 
delivery in such decent terms as he could imagine for 
it, Jeff said, rather to himself than to Westover, " I 
don't see how we're going to run this hotel with that 
old family lot down there in the orchard, much 
longer." 
He assumed the air of full authority at Lion's 
Head ; and Westover felt the stress of a painful con- 
jecture in regard to the Whitwells intensified upon 
him from the moment he turned away from Jackson's 
grave. 
Cynthia and her father had gone back to their own 
house as soon as Jeff returned, and though the girl 
came home with Mrs. Durgin after the funeral, and 
helped her in their common duties through the after- 
noon and evening, Westover saw her taking her way 
 
down the liill with lier brother when the long day's 
work was over. Jeff saw her too ; he was sitting with 
Westover at the office door smoking, and he was talk- 
ing of the Whitwells. 
" I suppose they won't stay," he said, " and I can't 
expect it ; but I don't know what mother will do, ex- 
actly." 
At the same moment Whitwell came round the cor- 
ner of the hotel from the barn, and approached them. 
" Jeff, I guess I better tell you straight off that we're 
goin', the children and me." 
"All right, Mr. Whitwell," said Jeff, with respect- 
ful gravity, " I was afraid of it." 
Westover made a motion to rise, but Whitwell laid 
a detaining hand upon his knee. "There ain't any- 
thing so private about it, so far as I know." 
" Don't go, Mr. Westover," said Jeff, and Westover 
remained. 
"We a'n't a-goin' to leave you in the lurch, and 
we want you should take your time, especially Mis' 
Durgin. But the sooner the better. Heigh ? " 
"Yes, I understand that, Mr. Whitwell; I guess 
mother will miss you, but if you must go, you must." 
The two men remained silent a moment, and then 
Jeff broke out passionately, rising and flinging his 
cigar away : " I wish I  could go, instead ! That would 
be the right way, and I guess mother would like it 
full as well. Do you see any way to manage it ? " 
He put his foot up in his chair, and dropped his elbow 
on his knee, with his chin propped in his hand. 
Westover could see that he meant what he was saying. 
 
"If there was any way, I'd do it. I know what you 
think of me, and I should be just Hke you, in your 
place. I don't feel right to turn you out here, I don't, 
Mr. Whitwell, and yet if I stay, I've got to do it. 
What's the reason I can't go ? " 
" You can't," said Whitwell, " and that's all about 
it. We shouldn't let you, if you could. But I a'n't 
surprised you feel the way you do," he added, un- 
sparingly. "As you say, I should feel just so my- 
self if I was in your place. Well, good-night, Mr. 
Westover. " 
Whitwell turned and slouched down the hill, leav- 
ing the painter to the most painful moment he had 
known with Jefi Durgin, and nearer sympathy. 
"That's all right, Mr. Westover," JefE said, "I don't 
blame him." 
He remained in a constraint from which he pres- 
ently broke with mocking hilarity when Jombateeste 
came round the corner of the house, as if he had been 
waiting for Whitwell to be gone, and told JefE he 
must get somebody else to look after the horses. 
" Why don't you wait and take the horses with 
you, Jombateeste ? " he inquired. " They'll be hand- 
ing in their resignation, the next thing. Why not go 
altogether?" 
The little Canuck paused, as if uncertain whether 
he was made the object of unfriendly derision or not, 
and looked at Westover for help. Apparently he de- 
cided to chance it in as bitter an answer as he could 
invent. " The 'oss can't 'elp 'imself, Mr. Durgin. 'E 
stay. But you don' hown everybody." 
 
"That's so, Jombateeste," said Jeff. "That's a 
good hit. It makes me feel awfully. Have a cigar ? " 
The Canuck declined with a dignified bow, and Jeff 
said: " You don't smoke any more? Oh, I see ! It's 
my tobacco you're down on. What's the matter, 
Jombateeste ? What are you going away for ? " Jeff 
lighted for himself the cigar the Canuck had refused, 
and smoked down upon the little man. 
"Mr. W'itwell goin'," Jombateeste said, a little 
confused and daunted. 
"What's Mr. Whitwell going for?" 
" You hask Mr. W'itwell." 
" All right. And if I can get him to stay will you 
stay too, Jombateeste ? I don't like to see a rat leav- 
ing a ship ; the ship's sure to sink, if he does. How 
do you suppose I'm going to run Lion's Head without 
you to throw down hay to the horses ? It will be ruin 
to me, sure, Jombateeste. All the guests know how 
you play on the pitchfork out there, and they'll leave 
in a body if they hear you've quit. Do say you'll 
stay, and I'll reduce your wages one half on the spot." 
Jombateeste waited to hear no more injuries. He 
said, "You'll don' got money enough, Mr. Durgin, by 
gosh ! to reduce my wages," and he started down the 
hill towards Wbitwell's house with as great loftiness as 
could comport with a downhill gait and his stature. 
" Well, I seem to be getting it all round, Mr. West- 
over," said Jeff. " This must make you feel good. 
I don't know but I begin to believe there's a God in 
Israel, myself." 
He walked away without saying good-night, and 
Westover went to bed without the chance of setting 
himself right. In the morning, when he came down 
to breakfast, and stopped at the desk to engage a con- 
veyance for the station from Frank Whitwell, the boy 
forestalled him with a grave face. " You don't know 
about Mrs. Durgin ? " 
" No ; what about her ? " 
" Well, we can't tell exactly. Father thinks it's a 
shock ; Jombateeste's gone over to Lovewell for the 
doctor. Cynthia's with her. It seemed to come on 
in the night." 
He spoke softly, that no one else might hear ; but 
by noon the fact that Mrs. Durgin had been stricken 
with paralysis was all over the place. The gloom 
cast upon the opening season by Jackson's death was 
deepened among the guests. Some who had talked 
of staying through July went away that day. But 
under Cynthia's management the housekeeping was 
really unaffected by Mrs. Durgin's calamity, and the 
people who stayed found themselves as comfortable as 
ever. Jefi came fully into the hotel management, and 
in their business relation Cynthia and he were contin- 
ually together ; there was no longer a question of the 
Whitwells leaving him ; even Jombateeste persuaded 
himself to stay, and Westover felt obliged to remain 
at least till the present danger in Mrs. Durgin's case 
was past. 
With the first return of physical strength, Mrs. 
Durgin was impatient to be seen about the house, and 
to retrieve the season that her affliction had made so 
largely a loss. The people who had become accus- 
 
tomed to it stayed on, and the house filled up as she 
grew better, but even the sight of her in a wheeled 
chair did not bring back the prosperity of other years. 
She lamented over it with a keen and full perception 
of the fact, but in a cloudy association of it with the 
joint future of JefE and Cynthia. 
One day, after Mrs. Durgin had declared that she 
did not know what they were to do, if things kept 
on as they were going, Whitwell asked his daughter, 
" Do you suppose she thinks you and JefE have made 
it up again? " 
" I don't know," said the girl, with a troubled voice, 
" and I don't know what to do about it. It don't seem 
as if I could tell her, and yet it's wrong to let her go 
on." 
" Why didn't he tell her ? " demanded her father. 
" 'Ta'n't fair his leavin' it to you. But it's like him ! " 
The sick woman's hold upon the fact weakened 
most when she was tired. When she was better, she 
knew how it was with them. Commonly it was when 
Cynthia had got her to bed for the night that she sent 
for Jeff, and wished to ask him what he was going to 
do. " You can't expect Cynthy to stay here another 
winter helpin' you, with Jackson away. You've got 
to either take her with you, or else come here your- 
self. Give up your last year in college, why don't 
you ? I  don't want you should stay, and I don't know 
who does. If I was in Cynthia's place, I'd let you 
work off your own conditions now, you've give up the 
law. She'll kill herself, tryin' to keep you along." 
Sometimes her speech became so indistinct that no 
 
one but Cynthia could make it out ; and Je£E, listening 
with a face as nearly discharged as might be of its 
laughing irony, had to turn to Cynthia for the word 
which no one else could catch, and which the stricken 
woman remained distressfully waiting for her to re- 
peat to him, with her anxious eyes upon the girl's face. 
He was dutifully patient with all his mother's whims. 
He came whenever she sent for him, and sat quiet 
under the severities with which she visited all his past 
unworthiness. "Who you been hectorin' now, I 
should like to know," she began on him one even- 
ing when he came at her summons. " Between you 
and Fox, I got no peace of my life. Where is the 
dog?" 
" Fox is all right, mother," Jeff responded. " You're 
feeling a little better to-night, a'n't you ? " 
"I don't know; I can't tell," she returned, with a 
gleam of intelligence in her eye. Then she said, " I 
don't see why I'm left to strangers all the time." 
" You don't call Cynthia a stranger, do you, moth- 
er ? " he asked, coaxingly. 
" Oh, — Cynthy ! " said Mrs. Durgin, with a glance 
as of surprise at seeing her. " No, Cynthy's all right. 
But Where's Jackson and your father ? If I've told 
them not to be out in the dew once, I've told 'em a 
hundred times. Cynthy'd better look after her house- 
keepin' if she don't want the whole place to run be- 
hind, and not a soul left in the house. What time 
o' year is it now ? " she suddenly asked, after a little 
weary pause. 
" It's the last of August, mother." 
 
" Oh," she sighed, " I thought it was the begirniin' 
of May. Didn't you come up here in May ? " 
" Yes." 
" Well, then — Or, mebbe that's one o' them tor- 
mentin' dreams ; they do pester so ! What did you 
come for ? " 
JefE was sitting on one side of her bed and Cynthia 
on the other. She was looking at the sufferer's face, 
and she did not meet the glance of amusement which 
Jeff turned upon her at being so fairly cornered. 
" Well, I don't know," he said. " I thought you 
might like to see me." 
" What' d he come for ? " — the sick woman turned 
to Cynthia. 
" You'd better tell her," said the girl, coldly, to 
Jeff. " She -won't be satisfied till you do. She'll 
keep coming back to it." 
" Well, mother," said Jeff, still with something of 
his hardy amusement, " I hadn't been acting just 
right, and I thought I'd better tell Cynthy." 
" You better let the child alone. If I ever catch 
you teasin' them children again, I'll make Jackson 
shoot Fox." 
"All right, mother," said Jeff. 
She moved herself restively in bed. " What's 
this," she demanded of her son, " that Whit' ell's 
tellin' about you and Cynthy breakin' it off?" 
" Well, there was talk of that," said Jeff, passing 
his hand over his lips to keep back the smile that was 
stealing to them. 
" Who done it ? " 
Cynthia kept her eyes on JefE, who dropped his to 
, his mother's face. " Cynthy did it ; but I guess I 
gave her good enough reason ! " 
" About that hussy in Boston ? She was full more 
to blame than what you was. I don't see what Cyn- 
thy wanted to do it for on her account." 
" I guess Cynthy was right." 
Mrs. Durgin's speech had been thickening more and 
more. She now said something that JefE could not 
understand. He looked involuntarily at Cynthia. 
" She says she thinks I was hasty with you," the 
girl interpreted. 
JefE kept his eyes on hers, but he answered to his 
mother : " Not any more than I deserved. I hadn't 
any right to expect that she would stand it." 
Again the sick woman tried to say something. JefE 
made out a few syllables, and after his mother had 
repeated her words, he had to look to Cynthia for 
help. 
" She wants to know if it's all right now." 
" What shall I say ? " asked JeflE, huskily. 
" Tell her the truth." 
"What is the truth?" 
" That we haven't made it up." 
JefE hesitated, and then said: "Well, not yet, 
mother," and he bent an entreating look upon Cynthia 
which she could not feel was wholly for himself. " I 
— I guess we can fix it, somehow. I behaved very 
badly to Cynthia." 
" No, not to me ! " the girl protested in an indig- 
nant burst. 
Z 
" Not to that little scalawag, then ! " cried Jeff. 
" If the wrong wasn't to you, there wasn't any wrong." 
" It was to you ! " Cynthia retorted. 
" Oh, I guess I  can stand it," said Jeff, and his 
smile now came to his lips and eyes. 
His mother had followed their quick parley with 
eager looks, as if she were trying to keep her intelli- 
gence to its work concerning them. The effort seemed 
to exhaust her, and when she spoke again her words 
were so indistinct that even Cynthia could not under- 
stand them till she had repeated them several times. 
Then the girl was silent, while the invalid kept an 
eager look upon her. She seemed to understand that 
Cynthia did not mean to speak ; and the tears came 
into her eyes. 
" Do you want me to know what she said ? " asked 
Jeff, respectfully, reverently almost. 
Cynthia said, gently, " She says that then you must 
show you didn't mean any harm to me, and that you 
cared for me, all through, and you didn't care for 
anybody else." 
"Thank you,'' said Jeff, and he turned to his moth- 
er. " I'll do everything I can to make Cynthy believe 
that, mother." 
The girl broke into tears and went out of the room. 
She sent in the night-watcher, and then Jeff took leave 
of his mother with an unwonted kiss. 
Into the shadow of a starlit night he saw the figure 
he had been waiting for glide out of the glitter of 
the hotel lights. He followed it down the road. 
" Cynthia," he called ; and when he came up with 
 
her he asked, " What's the reason we can't make it 
true ? Why can't you believe what mother wants me 
to make you ? " 
Cynthia stopped, as her wont was when she wished 
to speak seriously. "Do you ask that for my sake or 
hers ? " 
" For both your sakes." 
" I thought so. You ought to have asked it for 
your own sake, Jeff, and then I might have been fool 
enough to believe you. But now ! " 
She started swiftly down the hill again, and this 
time he did not try to follow her. 
Mrs. Durgin's speech never regained the measure 
of clearness it had before ; no one but Cynthia could 
understand her, and often she could not. The doctor 
from Lovewell surmised that she had sustained another 
stroke, lighter, more obscure than the first, and it was 
that which had rendered her almost inarticulate. The 
paralysis might have also affected her brain, and 
silenced her thoughts as well as her words. Either 
she believed that the reconciliation between Jeff and 
Cynthia had taken place, or else she could no longer 
care. She did not question them again, but peacefully 
weakened more and more. Near the end of September 
she had a third stroke, and from this she died. 
The day after the funeral Jeff had a talk with Whit- 
well, and opened his mind to him. 
" I'm going over to the other side, and I sha'n't be 
back before spring, or about time to start the season 
here. What I want to know is whether, if I'm out of 
the house, and not likely to come back, you'll stay 
here, and look after the place through the winter. It 
hasn't been a good season, but I guess I can afford to 
 
make it worth your while if you look at it as a matter 
of business." 
Whitwell leaned forward and took a straw into his 
mouth from the golden wall of oat sheaves in the barn 
where they were talking. A soft rustling in the mow 
overhead marked the remote presence of Jombateeste, 
who was getting forward the hay for the horses, push- 
ing it towards the holes where it should fall into their 
racks. 
" I should want to think about it," said Whitwell. 
" I do' know as Cynthy' d care much about stayin'; or 
Frank." 
" How long do you want to think about it ? " Jefi 
demanded, ignoring the possible wishes of Cynthia 
and Frank. 
"I guess I could let you know by night." 
" All right," said Jeff. 
He was turning away, when Whitwell remarked : 
" I don't know as I should want to stay without I 
could have somebody I could depend on, with me, to 
look after the bosses. Frank wouldn't want to." 
" Who'd you like ? " 
" Well, — Jombateeste." 
" Ask him." 
Whitwell called to the Canuck, and he came for- 
ward to the edge of the mow, and stood, fork in 
hand, looking down. 
" Want to stay here this winter and look after the 
bosses, Jombateeste ? " Whitwell asked. 
" Nosseh ! " said the Canuck, with a misliking eye 
on Jeff. 
 
" I mean, along with me," Whitwell explained. " If 
I conclude to stay, will you ? Jeff's goin' abroad." 
"I guess I stay," said Jombateeste. 
" Don't strain yourself, Jombateeste," said Jeff, 
with malevolent derision. 
" Not for you, Jefi Dorrgin," returned the Canuck. 
" I strain myself till I bust, if I want." 
Jefi sneered to Whitwell: "Well, then, the most 
important point is settled. Let me know about the 
minor details as soon as you can." 
" All right." 
Whitwell talked the matter over with his children 
at supper that evening. Jeff had made him a good 
ofier, and he had the winter before him to provide for. 
" I don't know what deviltry he's up to," he said 
in conclusion. 
Frank looked to his sister for their common decis- 
ion. " I am going to try for a school," she said, 
quietly. " It's pretty late, but I guess I can get 
something. You and Frank had better stay." 
" And you don't feel as if it was kind of meechin', 
our takin' up with his ofier, after what's — ? " Whit- 
well delicately forbore to fill out his sentence. 
" You are doing the favor, father," said the girl. 
" He knows that, and I guess he wouldn't know where 
to look if you refused. And, after all, what's hap- 
pened now is as much my doing as his." 
" I guess that's something so," said Whitwell, with 
a long sigh of relief. " Well, I'm glad you can look 
at it in that light, Cynthy. It's the way the feller's 
built, I presume, as much as anything." 
His daughter -waived the point. " I shouldn't feel 
just right if none of us stayed in the old place. I 
should feel as if we had turned our backs on Mrs. 
Durgin." 
Her eyes shone, and her father said : " Well, I guess 
that's so, come to think of it. She's been like a 
mother to you, this past year, ha'n't she ? And it 
must have come pootty hard for her, sidin' agin Jeff. 
But she done it." 
The girl turned her head away. They were sitting 
in the little low keeping-room of Whitwell's house, 
and her father had his hat on provisionally. Through 
the window they could see the light of the lantern at 
the ofiBce door of the hotel, whose mass was lost in 
the dark above and behind the lamp. It was all very 
still outside. 
" I declare," Whitwell went on, musingly, " I 
wisht Mr. Westover was here." 
