large qualification into his account of his freedom. He had left his
young friend under her refusal to listen to him until he should be able,
on the contrary, to extend that picture; and his present submission was
all in keeping with the rigid honesty that his young friend had
prescribed.

It was this that formed the element through which Mona loomed large;
Fleda had enough imagination, a fine enough feeling for life, to be
impressed with such an image of successful immobility. The massive
maiden at Waterbath was successful from the moment she could entertain
her resentments as if they had been poor relations who needn't put her
to expense. She was a magnificent dead weight; there was something
positive and portentous in her quietude. "What game are they all
playing?" poor Fleda could only ask; for she had an intimate conviction
that Owen was now under the roof of his betrothed. That was stupefying
if he really hated Mona; and if he didn't really hate her what had
brought him to Raphael Road and to Maggie's? Fleda had no real light,
but she felt that to account for the absence of any result of their last
meeting would take a supposition of the full sacrifice to charity that
she had held up before him. If he had gone to Waterbath it had been
simply because he had to go. She had as good as told him that he would
have to go; that this was an inevitable incident of his keeping perfect
faith--faith so literal that the smallest subterfuge would always be a
reproach to him. When she tried to remember that it was for herself he
was taking his risk, she felt how weak a way that was of expressing
Mona's supremacy. There would be no need of keeping him up if there were
nothing to keep him up to. Her eyes grew wan as she discerned in the
impenetrable air that Mona's thick outline never wavered an inch. She
wondered fitfully what Mrs. Gereth had by this time made of it, and
reflected with a strange elation that the sand on which the mistress of
Ricks had built a momentary triumph was quaking beneath the surface. As
The Morning Post still held its peace, she would be, of course, more
confident; but the hour was at hand at which Owen would have absolutely
to do either one thing or the other. To keep perfect faith was to inform
against his mother, and to hear the police at her door would be Mrs.
Gereth's awakening. How much she was beguiled Fleda could see from her
having been for a whole month quite as deep and dark as Mona. She had
let her young friend alone because of the certitude, cultivated at
Ricks, that Owen had done the opposite. He had done the opposite indeed,
but much good had that brought forth! To have sent for her now, Fleda
felt, was from this point of view wholly natural: she had sent for her
to show at last how much she had scored. If, however, Owen was really at
Waterbath the refutation of that boast was easy.

Fleda found Mrs. Gereth in modest apartments and with an air of fatigue
in her distinguished face--a sign, as she privately remarked, of the
strain of that effort to be discreet of which she herself had been
having the benefit. It was a constant feature of their relation that
this lady could make Fleda blench a little, and that the effect
proceeded from the intense pressure of her confidence. If the confidence
had been heavy even when the girl, in the early flush of devotion, had
been able to feel herself most responsive, it drew her heart into her
mouth now that she had reserves and conditions, now that she couldn't
simplify with the same bold hand as her protectress. In the very
brightening of the tired look, and at the moment of their embrace, Fleda
felt on her shoulders the return of the load, so that her spirit frankly
quailed as she asked herself what she had brought up from her trusted
seclusion to support it. Mrs. Gereth's free manner always made a joke of
weakness, and there was in such a welcome a richness, a kind of familiar
nobleness, that suggested shame to a harried conscience. Something had
happened, she could see, and she could also see, in the bravery that
seemed to announce it had changed everything, a formidable assumption
that what had happened was what a healthy young woman must like. The
absence of luggage had made this young woman feel meagre even before her
companion, taking in the bareness at a second glance, exclaimed upon it
and roundly rebuked her. Of course she had expected her to stay.

Fleda thought best to show bravery too, and to show it from the first.
"What you expected, dear Mrs. Gereth, is exactly what I came up to
ascertain. It struck me as right to do that first. I mean to ascertain,
without making preparations."

"Then you'll be so good as to make them on the spot!" Mrs. Gereth was
most emphatic. "You're going abroad with me."

Fleda wondered, but she also smiled. "To-night--to-morrow?"

"In as few days as possible. That's all that's left for me now." Fleda's
heart, at this, gave a bound; she wondered to what particular difference
in Mrs. Gereth's situation as last known to her it was an allusion.
"I've made my plan," her friend continued: "I go for at least a year. We
shall go straight to Florence; we can manage there. I of course don't
look to you, however," she added, "to stay with me all that time. That
will require to be settled. Owen will have to join us as soon as
possible; he may not be quite ready to get off with us. But I'm
convinced it's quite the right thing to go. It will make a good change;
it will put in a decent interval."

Fleda listened; she was deeply mystified. "How kind you are to me!" she
presently said. The picture suggested so many questions that she
scarcely knew which to ask first. She took one at a venture. "You really
have it from Mr. Gereth that he'll give us his company?"

If Mr. Gereth's mother smiled in response to this, Fleda knew that her
smile was a tacit criticism of such a form of reference to her son.
Fleda habitually spoke of him as Mr. Owen, and it was a part of her
present vigilance to appear to have relinquished that right. Mrs.
Gereth's manner confirmed a certain impression of her pretending to more
than she felt; her very first words had conveyed it, and it reminded
Fleda of the conscious courage with which, weeks before, the lady had
met her visitor's first startled stare at the clustered spoils of
Poynton. It was her practice to take immensely for granted whatever she
wished. "Oh, if you'll answer for him, it will do quite as well!" she
said. Then she put her hands on the girl's shoulders and held them at
arm's length, as if to shake them a little, while in the depths of her
shining eyes Fleda discovered something obscure and unquiet. "You bad,
false thing, why didn't you tell me?" Her tone softened her harshness,
and her visitor had never had such a sense of her indulgence. Mrs.
Gereth could show patience; it was a part of the general bribe, but it
was also like the handing in of a heavy bill before which Fleda could
only fumble in a penniless pocket. "You must perfectly have known at
Ricks, and yet you practically denied it. That's why I call you bad and
false!" It was apparently also why she again almost roughly kissed her.

"I think that before I answer you I had better know what you're talking
about," Fleda said.

Mrs. Gereth looked at her with a slight increase of hardness. "You've
done everything you need for modesty, my dear! If he's sick with love of
you, you haven't had to wait for me to inform you."

Fleda hesitated. "Has he informed you, dear Mrs. Gereth?"

Dear Mrs. Gereth smiled sweetly. "How could he, when our situation is
such that he communicates with me only through you, and that you are so
tortuous you conceal everything?"

"Didn't he answer the note in which you let him know that I was in
town?" Fleda asked.

"He answered it sufficiently by rushing off on the spot to see you."

Mrs. Gereth met that allusion with a prompt firmness that made almost
insolently light of any ground of complaint, and Fleda's own sense of
responsibility was now so vivid that all resentments turned
comparatively pale. She had no heart to produce a grievance; she could
only, left as she was with the little mystery on her hands, produce,
after a moment, a question. "How then do you come to know that your son
has ever thought--"

"That he would give his ears to get you?" Mrs. Gereth broke in. "I had a
visit from Mrs. Brigstock."

Fleda opened her eyes. "She went down to Ricks?"

"The day after she had found Owen at your feet. She knows everything."

Fleda shook her head sadly; she was more startled than she cared to
show. This odd journey of Mrs. Brigstock's, which, with a simplicity
equal for once to Owen's, she had not divined, now struck her as having
produced the hush of the last ten days. "There are things she doesn't
know!" she presently exclaimed.

"She knows he would do anything to marry you."

"He hasn't told her so," Fleda said.

"No, but he has told you. That's better still!" laughed Mrs. Gereth. "My
dear child," she went on with an air that affected the girl as a sort of
blind profanity, "don't try to make yourself out better than you are.
I know what you are. I haven't lived with you so much for nothing.
You're not quite a saint in heaven yet. Lord, what a creature you'd have
thought me in my good time! But you do like it, fortunately, you idiot.
You're pale with your passion, you sweet thing. That's exactly what I
wanted to see. I can't for the life of me think where the shame comes
in." Then with a finer significance, a look that seemed to Fleda
strange, she added: "It's all right."

"I've seen him but twice," said Fleda.

"But twice?" Mrs. Gereth still smiled.

"On the occasion, at papa's, that Mrs. Brigstock told you of, and one
day, since then, down at Maggie's."

"Well, those things are between yourselves, and you seem to me both poor
creatures at best." Mrs. Gereth spoke with a rich humor which tipped
with light for an instant a real conviction. "I don't know what you've
got in your veins: you absurdly exaggerated the difficulties. But enough
is as good as a feast, and when once I get you abroad together--!" She
checked herself as if from excess of meaning; what might happen when she
should get them abroad together was to be gathered only from the way she
slowly rubbed her hands.

The gesture, however, made the promise so definite that for a moment her
companion was almost beguiled. But there was nothing to account, as yet,
for the wealth of Mrs. Gereth's certitude: the visit of the lady of
Waterbath appeared but half to explain it. "Is it permitted to be
surprised," Fleda deferentially asked, "at Mrs. Brigstock's thinking it
would help her to see you?"

"It's never permitted to be surprised at the aberrations of born fools,"
said Mrs. Gereth. "If a cow should try to calculate, that's the kind of
happy thought she'd have. Mrs. Brigstock came down to plead with me."

Fleda mused a moment. "That's what she came to do with me," she then
honestly returned. "But what did she expect to get of you, with your
opposition so marked from the first?"

"She didn't know I want you, my dear. It's a wonder, with all my
violence--the gross publicity I've given my desires. But she's as stupid
as an owl--she doesn't feel your charm."

Fleda felt herself flush slightly, but she tried to smile. "Did you tell
her all about it? Did you make her understand you want me?"

"For what do you take me? I wasn't such a donkey."

"So as not to aggravate Mona?" Fleda suggested.

"So as not to aggravate Mona, naturally. We've had a narrow course to
steer, but thank God we're at last in the open!"

"What do you call the open, Mrs. Gereth?" Fleda demanded. Then as the
other faltered: "Do you know where Mr. Owen is to-day?"

Mrs. Gereth stared. "Do you mean he's at Waterbath? Well, that's your
own affair. I can bear it if you can."

"Wherever he is, I can bear it," Fleda said. "But I haven't the least
idea where he is."

"Then you ought to be ashamed of yourself!" Mrs. Gereth broke out with a
change of note that showed how deep a passion underlay everything she
had said. The poor woman, catching her companion's hand, however, the
next moment, as if to retract something of this harshness, spoke more
patiently. "Don't you understand, Fleda, how immensely, how devotedly,
I've trusted you?" Her tone was indeed a supplication.

Fleda was infinitely shaken; she was silent a little. "Yes, I
understand. Did she go to you to complain of me?"

"She came to see what she could do. She had been tremendously upset, the
day before, by what had taken place at your father's, and she had posted
down to Ricks on the inspiration of the moment. She hadn't meant it on
leaving home; it was the sight of you closeted there with Owen that had
suddenly determined her. The whole story, she said, was written in your
two faces: she spoke as if she had never seen such an exhibition. Owen
was on the brink, but there might still be time to save him, and it was
with this idea she had bearded me in my den. 'What won't a mother do,
you know?'--that was one of the things she said. What wouldn't a mother
do indeed? I thought I had sufficiently shown her what! She tried to
break me down by an appeal to my good nature, as she called it, and from
the moment she opened on you, from the moment she denounced Owen's
falsity, I was as good-natured as she could wish. I understood that it
was a plea for mere mercy, that you and he between you were killing her
child. Of course I was delighted that Mona should be killed, but I was
studiously kind to Mrs. Brigstock. At the same time I was honest, I
didn't pretend to anything I couldn't feel. I asked her why the marriage
hadn't taken place months ago, when Owen was perfectly ready; and I
showed her how completely that fatuous mistake on Mona's part cleared
his responsibility. It was she who had killed him--it was she who had
destroyed his affection, his illusions. Did she want him now when he was
estranged, when he was disgusted, when he had a sore grievance? She
reminded me that Mona had a sore grievance too, but she admitted that
she hadn't come to me to speak of that. What she had come to me for was
not to get the old things back, but simply to get Owen. What she wanted
was that I would, in simple pity, see fair play. Owen had been awfully
bedeviled--she didn't call it that, she called it 'misled'--but it was
simply you who had bedeviled him. He would be all right still if I would
see that you were out of the way. She asked me point-blank if it was
possible I could want him to marry you."

Fleda had listened in unbearable pain and growing terror, as if her
interlocutress, stone by stone, were piling some fatal mass upon her
breast. She had the sense of being buried alive, smothered in the mere
expansion of another will; and now there was but one gap left to the
air. A single word, she felt, might close it, and with the question that
came to her lips as Mrs. Gereth paused she seemed to herself to ask, in
cold dread, for her doom. "What did you say to that?" she inquired.

"I was embarrassed, for I saw my danger--the danger of her going home
and saying to Mona that I was backing you up. It had been a bliss to
learn that Owen had really turned to you, but my joy didn't put me off
my guard. I reflected intensely for a few seconds; then I saw my issue."

"Your issue?" Fleda murmured.

"I remembered how you had tied my hands about saying a word to Owen."

Fleda wondered. "And did you remember the little letter that, with your
hands tied, you still succeeded in writing to him?"

"Perfectly; my little letter was a model of reticence. What I remembered
was all that in those few words I forbade myself to say. I had been an
angel of delicacy--I had effaced myself like a saint. It was not for me
to have done all that and then figure to such a woman as having done the
opposite. Besides, it was none of her business."

"Is that what you said to her?" Fleda asked.

"I said to her that her question revealed a total misconception of the
nature of my present relations with my son. I said to her that I had no
relations with him at all, and that nothing had passed between us for
months. I said to her that my hands were spotlessly clean of any attempt
to make him make up to you. I said to her that I had taken from Poynton
what I had a right to take, but had done nothing else in the world. I
was determined that if I had bit my tongue off to oblige you I would at
least have the righteousness that my sacrifice gave me."

"And was Mrs. Brigstock satisfied with your answer?"

"She was visibly relieved."

"It was fortunate for you," said Fleda, "that she's apparently not aware
of the manner in which, almost under her nose, you advertised me to him
at Poynton."

Mrs. Gereth appeared to recall that scene; she smiled with a serenity
remarkably effective as showing how cheerfully used she had grown to
invidious allusions to it. "How should she be aware of it?"

"She would if Owen had described your outbreak to Mona."

"Yes, but he didn't describe it. All his instinct was to conceal it from
Mona. He wasn't conscious, but he was already in love with you!" Mrs.
Gereth declared.

Fleda shook her head wearily. "No--I was only in love with him!"

Here was a faint illumination with which Mrs. Gereth instantly mingled
her fire. "You dear old wretch!" she exclaimed; and she again, with
ferocity, embraced her young friend.

Fleda submitted like a sick animal: she would submit to everything now.
"Then what further passed?"

"Only that she left me thinking she had got something."

"And what had she got?"

"Nothing but her luncheon. But I got everything!"

"Everything?" Fleda quavered.

Mrs. Gereth, struck apparently by something in her tone, looked at her
from a tremendous height. "Don't fail me now!"

It sounded so like a menace that, with a full divination at last, the
poor girl fell weakly into a chair. "What on earth have you done?"

Mrs. Gereth stood there in all the glory of a great stroke. "I've
settled you." She filled the room, to Fleda's scared vision, with the
glare of her magnificence. "I've sent everything back."

"Everything?" Fleda gasped.

"To the smallest snuff-box. The last load went yesterday. The same
people did it. Poor little Ricks is empty." Then as if, for a crowning
splendor, to check all deprecation, "They're yours, you goose!" Mrs.
Gereth concluded, holding up her handsome head and rubbing her white
hands. Fleda saw that there were tears in her deep eyes.




XVIII


She was slow to take in the announcement, but when she had done so she
felt it to be more than her cup of bitterness would hold. Her bitterness
was her anxiety, the taste of which suddenly sickened her. What had she
become, on the spot, but a traitress to her friend? The treachery
increased with the view of the friend's motive, a motive magnificent as
a tribute to her value. Mrs. Gereth had wished to make sure of her and
had reasoned that there would be no such way as by a large appeal to her
honor. If it be true, as men have declared, that the sense of honor is
weak in women, some of the bearings of this stroke might have thrown a
light on the question. What was now, at all events, put before Fleda was
that she had been made sure of, for the greatness of the surrender
imposed an obligation as great. There was an expression she had heard
used by young men with whom she danced: the only word to fit Mrs.
Gereth's intention was that Mrs. Gereth had designed to "fetch" her. It
was a calculated, it was a crushing bribe; it looked her in the eyes and
said simply: "That's what I do for you!" What Fleda was to do in return
required no pointing out. The sense, at present, of how little she had
done made her almost cry aloud with pain; but her first endeavor, in the
face of the fact, was to keep such a cry from reaching her companion.
How little she had done Mrs. Gereth didn't yet know, and possibly there
would be still some way of turning round before the discovery. On her
own side too Fleda had almost made one: she had known she was wanted,
but she had not after all conceived how magnificently much. She had been
treated by her friend's act as a conscious prize, but what made her a
conscious prize was only the power the act itself imputed to her. As
high, bold diplomacy it dazzled and carried her off her feet. She
admired the noble risk of it, a risk Mrs. Gereth had faced for the
utterly poor creature that the girl now felt herself. The change it
instantly wrought in her was, moreover, extraordinary: it transformed at
a touch her emotion on the subject of concessions. A few weeks earlier
she had jumped at the duty of pleading for them, practically quarreling
with the lady of Ricks for her refusal to restore what she had taken.
She had been sore with the wrong to Owen, she had bled with the wounds
of Poynton; now however, as she heard of the replenishment of the void
that had so haunted her, she came as near sounding an alarm as if from
the deck of a ship she had seen a person she loved jump into the sea.
Mrs. Gereth had become in a flash the victim; poor little Ricks had been
laid bare in a night. If Fleda's feeling about the old things had taken
precipitate form the form would have been a frantic command. It was
indeed for mere want of breath that she didn't shout: "Oh, stop
them--it's no use; bring them back--it's too late!" And what most kept
her breathless was her companion's very grandeur. Fleda distinguished as
never before the purity of such a passion; it made Mrs. Gereth august
and almost sublime. It was absolutely unselfish--she cared nothing for
mere possession. She thought solely and incorruptibly of what was best
for the things; she had surrendered them to the presumptive care of the
one person of her acquaintance who felt about them as she felt herself,
and whose long lease of the future would be the nearest approach that
could be compassed to committing them to a museum. Now it was indeed
that Fleda knew what rested on her; now it was also that she measured as
if for the first time Mrs. Gereth's view of the natural influence of a
fine acquisition. She had adopted the idea of blowing away the last
doubt of what her young friend would gain, of making good still more
than she was obliged to make it the promise of weeks before. It was one
thing for the girl to have heard that in a certain event restitution
would be made; it was another for her to see the condition, with a noble
trust, treated in advance as performed, and to be able to feel that she
should have only to open a door to find every old piece in every old
corner. To have played such a card was therefore, practically, for Mrs.
Gereth, to have won the game. Fleda had certainly to recognize that, so
far as the theory of the matter went, the game had been won. Oh, she had
been made sure of!

She couldn't, however, succeed for so very many minutes in deferring her
exposure. "Why didn't you wait, dearest? Ah, why didn't you wait?"--if
that inconsequent appeal kept rising to her lips to be cut short before
it was spoken, this was only because at first the humility of gratitude
helped her to gain time, enabled her to present herself very honestly as
too overcome to be clear. She kissed her companion's hands, she did
homage at her feet, she murmured soft snatches of praise, and yet in the
midst of it all was conscious that what she really showed most was the
wan despair at her heart. She saw Mrs. Gereth's glimpse of this despair
suddenly widen, heard the quick chill of her voice pierce through the
false courage of endearments. "Do you mean to tell me at such an hour as
this that you've really lost him?"

The tone of the question made the idea a possibility for which Fleda had
nothing from this moment but terror. "I don't know, Mrs. Gereth; how can
I say?" she asked. "I've not seen him for so long; as I told you just
now, I don't even know where he is. That's by no fault of his," she
hurried on: "he would have been with me every day if I had consented.
But I made him understand, the last time, that I'll receive him again
only when he's able to show me that his release has been complete and
definite. Oh, he can't yet, don't you see, and that's why he hasn't been
back. It's far better than his coming only that we should both be
miserable. When he does come he'll be in a better position. He'll be
tremendously moved by the splendid thing you've done. I know you wish me
to feel that you've done it as much for me as for Owen, but your having
done it for me is just what will delight him most! When he hears of it,"
said Fleda, in desperate optimism, "when he hears of it--" There indeed,
regretting her advance, she quite broke down. She was wholly powerless
to say what Owen would do when he heard of it. "I don't know what he
won't make of you and how he won't hug you!" she had to content herself
with lamely declaring. She had drawn Mrs. Gereth to a sofa with a vague
instinct of pacifying her and still, after all, gaining time; but it was
a position in which her great duped benefactress, portentously patient
again during this demonstration, looked far from inviting a "hug." Fleda
found herself tricking out the situation with artificial flowers, trying
to talk even herself into the fancy that Owen, whose name she now made
simple and sweet, might come in upon them at any moment. She felt an
immense need to be understood and justified; she averted her face in
dread from all that she might have to be forgiven. She pressed on her
companion's arm as if to keep her quiet till she should really know, and
then, after a minute, she poured out the clear essence of what in
happier days had been her "secret." "You mustn't think I don't adore him
when I've told him so to his face. I love him so that I'd die for him--I
love him so that it's horrible. Don't look at me therefore as if I had
not been kind, as if I had not been as tender as if he were dying and my
tenderness were what would save him. Look at me as if you believe me, as
if you feel what I've been through. Darling Mrs. Gereth, I could kiss
the ground he walks on. I haven't a rag of pride; I used to have, but
it's gone. I used to have a secret, but every one knows it now, and any
one who looks at me can say, I think, what's the matter with me. It's
not so very fine, my secret, and the less one really says about it the
better; but I want you to have it from me because I was stiff before. I
want you to see for yourself that I've been brought as low as a girl can
very well be. It serves me right," Fleda laughed, "if I was ever proud
and horrid to you! I don't know what you wanted me, in those days at
Ricks, to do, but I don't think you can have wanted much more than what
I've done. The other day at Maggie's I did things that made me,
afterwards, think of you! I don't know what girls may do; but if he
doesn't know that there isn't an inch of me that isn't his--!" Fleda
sighed as if she couldn't express it; she piled it up, as she would have
said; holding Mrs. Gereth with dilated eyes, she seemed to sound her for
the effect of these words. "It's idiotic," she wearily smiled; "it's so
strange that I'm almost angry for it, and the strangest part of all is
that it isn't even happiness. It's anguish--it was from the first; from
the first there was a bitterness and a kind of dread. But I owe you
every word of the truth. You don't do him justice, either: he's a dear,
I assure you he's a dear. I'd trust him to the last breath; I don't
think you really know him. He's ever so much cleverer than he makes a
show of; he's remarkable in his own shy way. You told me at Ricks that
you wanted me to let myself go, and I've 'gone' quite far enough to
discover as much as that, as well as all sorts of other delightful
things about him. You'll tell me I make myself out worse than I am,"
said the girl, feeling more and more in her companion's attitude a
quality that treated her speech as a desperate rigmarole and even
perhaps as a piece of cold immodesty. She wanted to make herself out
"bad"--it was a part of her justification; but it suddenly occurred to
her that such a picture of her extravagance imputed a want of gallantry
to the young man. "I don't care for anything you think," she declared,
