is made good by his family. He is the ninth emperor of the Manchu or
Tartar dynasty.
"As I said, China has nineteen provinces, including the island of
Formosa, all of which are represented on the map before you. The
divisions of the country are immensely populous; though the average of
the whole to the square mile is less than that of Belgium by nearly
one-half, several of whose provinces are more densely peopled than any
in China. It is also less than the State of Rhode Island, and but a
little above that of Massachusetts,--the two States the most densely
inhabited in our own country.
"Many say that the population of China has been exaggerated; and it is
variously given at from 282,000,000 to 413,000,000, a very great
difference, and you suit yourselves with the figures if you can. Dr.
Legge thinks that 400,000,000 is not an over-estimate. The area of the
eighteen provinces is 1,336,841 square miles, to which about 15,000 may
be added for Formosa; but the area of the whole Chinese empire is
4,218,401, while that of the United States, including Alaska, is
3,501,409.
"If you look at the map, you will see that there are numerous chains of
mountains in the countries lying west of China, especially in Tibet,
while China proper has but few of them. The land generally slopes from
the several ranges to the sea, but I will not perplex you with the names
of them. The rivers, of course, flow from the mountains, and you can see
that they have space for a long course. They are generally called ho
in the north, and chiang or kiang in the south. The Ho, Hoang-ho, or
Yellow River, and the Chiang, known to us as the Yang-tsze-Chiang, must
be over three thousand miles long. I will not follow them from source to
mouth. Canton, or Choo-Chiang River, which means Pearl River, is also
a very large stream. All these waterways, you notice on the map, have a
general course from west to east. All of them are navigable, though the
Hoang-ho is less so than the Yang-tsze-Chiang, the 'most beloved' of the
Chinese; for its counterpart in the north is a turbid stream, so tricky
that it changed its course in 1853 so that its mouth is now about two
hundred and fifty miles north of where it was before that date."
Mr. Gaskette pointed out the former course, which he had indicated by
double dotted lines, and that of the present course to the Gulf of
Pe-chi-li.
"Chinese history begins twenty-four hundred years before our era, when
the first human kings of Egypt were on the throne, with the narrative of
a tremendous inundation, which some have identified as that of the Flood
in the Old Testament. But the floods did not cease with that event, for
several others have followed. As late as 1887, only half a dozen years
ago, the treacherous Hoang-ho broke loose, and poured its waters into
the populous province of Honan, tearing everything to pieces and
destroying millions of lives. There have been so many of these floods
that they have given the great river the name of 'China's Sorrow.' But
the Manchu rulers are repairing damages, and providing against such
disasters in the future.
"I have to speak next about the Grand Canal and the Great Wall; but I
will defer it for half an hour for a recess, for I think you must be
tired of the dry details I have been giving you," said the professor, as
he stepped down from the rostrum.
The company then promenaded the deck for the time indicated.
CHAPTER XXXII
THE CONTINUATION OF THE LECTURE
A walk of half an hour had freshened up the minds and bodies of the
passengers, and they took their places on the promenade for the
continuation of the lecture. The professor had been to his stateroom,
and returned with additional notes.
"Dr. Legge quotes Marco Polo, the greatest traveller of the Middle Ages,
who visited China in the thirteenth century," the speaker began, taking
a paper from the table, and reading as follows in regard to the Grand
Canal: "'Kublâi caused a water communication to be made in the shape of
a wide and deep channel dug between stream and stream, between lake and
lake, forming as it were a great river on which large vessels can ply.'
Kublâi was the first sovereign of one of the old dynasties.
"The canal extended from Peking, the capital, in the north, to the south
of the empire, a distance of six hundred miles; and it was in use all
the way in former times. The Chinese were not distinguished as
navigators; but in modern times steamers ply between Canton and the
ports of the Gulf of Pe-chi-li, so that the canal is less necessary, and
much of it is in bad condition.
"The Great Wall is better known to all the world than the Grand Canal as
a peculiarly Chinese wonder, and every school boy and girl has heard of
it. It was built as a defence against the raids of the northern tribes,
though for this purpose it was a failure; but it still stands, though
some of the English newspapers only a few years ago treated it as a
myth; yet there is no doubt whatever of its existence, for it has been
visited by many reliable English and American travellers. It was begun
two hundred and fourteen years before the Christian era.
"Our artist has indicated the wall on the map;" and Mr. Gaskette pointed
it out on the west shore of the Gulf of Liau-tung, properly a part of
the Gulf of Pe-chi-li, and traced it some distance to the west. "Its
length, following its numerous twists and bends, through valleys and
over mountains, is fifteen hundred miles. It is twenty-five feet wide at
the base, and fifteen at the top. It is formed by two walls of brick,
different from those we use, weighing from forty to sixty pounds; and
the space between them is filled with earth and stones. It varies in
height from fifteen to thirty feet.
"The top of the wall is paved with brick, but is now overgrown with
grass. Along the wall, and not on it, are towers of brick at intervals.
You observe that at Peking the wall makes a sweep to the north, perhaps
thirty miles or more, enclosing a square of land of this extent outside
of the general course of the structure. I met an American gentleman who
had been to the capital of China, and he told me he had been to the
Great Wall. Dr. Legge may take the conceit out of some travellers when
he says: 'What foreigners go to visit from Peking is merely a loop-wall
of later formation, enclosing portions of Chih-li and Shan-hsî.'
"Leaving the Grand Canal and the Great Wall, we will pass on to the
lakes of China. They are not on a large scale, like the rivers; and they
are insignificant compared with those of our own country. The Tung-ting
Hû appears to be the largest, mostly in the province of Hunan, which is
sixty-five or seventy miles long. The others are Po-yang Hû, in
Chiang-hsî, and the Tai Hû, which is noted for its romantic scenery and
numerous islets.
"The temperature of the various provinces is on the average lower than
any other country in the same latitude. There is every variety of
climate in the vast territory of China. The natives consider the three
southern provinces, including the island of Hainan, less healthy than
the other portions of the country; but foreigners find no difficulty in
residing in them. In a region taking in over twenty degrees of latitude,
the productions vary from those of the tropics to those in the latitude
of central New York, from bananas and pineapples in the south to wheat
and Indian corn in the north.
"About all the common grains are raised in the north, and rice is the
staple product of the south. All sorts of vegetables and herbs, ginger,
and various condiments, are produced and largely used; though I believe
the people are not so hot, gastronomically, in their taste as we found
them in Batavia and some other places in the islands. They raise the
cane and make sugar in Formosa and the southern provinces. All the
fruits of our own country, including Florida and Louisiana, are grown in
different parts of China. Opium, which formerly came into the country
only from India, is now produced even in Manchuria.
"The Chinese are pre-eminently agriculturists, and farming is their
occupation above anything else. In the spring the emperor turns over a
few furrows in a sacred field, introducing the work of the season; and
the chief official in every province does the same, keeping the
importance of farming pursuits always before the people. The tools they
use are very primitive; the hoe being the principal hand-tool, and the
plough of ancient use for animal power. There is an extensive
application of irrigation, which is found to be so necessary in some of
our extreme Western States. In the north wells are used; and various
simple machinery is employed to raise water when the canal or river is
below the level of the field where it is needed, which you may have an
opportunity to see.
"No kind of fertilizer is wasted, and some are used which are often
neglected in other countries. A great deal of fun and sarcasm is applied
to the food of the Chinese, but most of us rather approved the dishes
set before us by our host of the Flowery Nation in Singapore. In some
articles used for culinary purposes, Parisians go beyond the Chinese, as
in the use of horse-beef. I have been in a provision store in Paris
where nothing else was sold; and every part of the animal was
economized, including the liver, kidneys, and tongue, and sausages of
this meat were on view and for sale to epicures in this flesh. But I
believe the Chinese do not eat the horse, unless it be in a season of
famine; and they had to eat cats in Paris during the siege of 1870.
"When you go into the markets you may see whole dogs dressed for food,
or cut up into pieces ready for cooking. These are not common yellow
dogs, such as you saw in the capital of the Turkish empire; but they are
the peculiar Chinese breed, sleek and hairless, which are carefully
fatted, and prepared for market. I have no doubt that your stomachs
revolt at the very idea of eating dog; but I cannot see that it is any
worse than eating pork and fowls, which feed more or less on animal
food. However, I do not hanker after dog-meat.
"The Buddhist religion prevails to a great extent here, which diminishes
the quantity of beef used, though not so much as the kindly feeling
towards the creature that is so useful in tilling the soil. Pork is the
most common in use for meat, and the number of pigs raised is enormous.
Geese and ducks are abundant, artificially hatched as in ancient Egypt,
and to a considerable extent in America, and are largely used for food.
"The sea, rivers, and lakes supply fish in all needed quantities. They
are taken in nets, and also by a novel method of fishing with which you
cannot be familiar. A boat goes out with a number of cormorants trained
for the purpose, which are fishers by nature. The birds dive and bring
up the fish, which they deposit in the hand-nets of the boatman.
"Dr. Legge says the Chinese are not gross feeders, as generally
represented, except the very poor, and that a Chinese dinner of
twenty-seven courses 'may hold its own with the most luxurious tables.'
He adds that the famous bird's-nest soup is a misnomer; but he admits
that nests from the Indian Archipelago are sliced into other soups, in
his opinion without improving the flavor.
"For a drink, tea has superseded every other beverage, and is taken
without sugar or milk. It was not used at all in ancient times, but its
use is universal at the present time. The plant is not grown in the
north. Black tea comes from the central provinces, and green from two
eastern mainly. Next to silk, if not equal to it, tea is the principal
article of export. The doctor says that tea-drinking promotes the
temperance of the people more than any other influence. Alcoholic
liquors are distilled from rice and millet.
"From the twelfth century B.C. the literature of the nation abounds in
temperance lectures, warning the people against the injury of strong
drinks; but tea has done vastly more to prevent their use than anything
else. As a people at home the Chinese make little use of liquors, though
that is not always the case with those who live in New York. They do not
sit down to tea as we do, but keep it at hand at all times, and treat
their visitors with it. Tea is written in the vernacular of the natives
ch'â. When it was first imported into England it was called t'ay;
but those who gave it the name were doubtless Irishmen, and they still
stick to it.
"There is no doubt that silk was first produced in China; and silk,
linen, and cotton form the clothing of the people. A ceremony like that
with the plough is performed by the emperor over the silkworms and
mulberry-trees, whose leaves are the food of the worm. From before the
twenty-third century B.C., the care of the silkworm, and the spinning
and weaving of the thread from the cocoon, has been the particular labor
of the women. The mulberry-tree grows everywhere in the country, and
silk is manufactured in greater or less quantities in every province.
"The cotton-plant has been propagated in China; and the cloth is largely
used there, though not equal in finish to the imported article, but is
heavier and more lasting in wear. Nankeen comes from Nanking. There are
no fireplaces in the houses; and the people keep warm, if they can, by
increasing their clothing. Woollen goods are not manufactured to any
great extent.
"I will not describe the pagodas, pavilions, bridges, and palaces; for
you will see them for yourselves. The streets of the cities in the south
and some in the north are no better than mere lanes; and the crowds of
people hustling through them fill them about full, and make you think
the place is vastly more populous than it really is. As a set-off to
this idea, you will wonder what has become of the women, for you rarely
meet any of them.
"The streets are paved with stone slabs, badly drained, and abounding in
bad odors, and you are not likely to enjoy your walks through them; but
they have magnificent names, which you will not read at the corners,
such as the street of Benevolence, Righteousness, etc. When you go into
the house of a tolerably well-to-do family, you will find the quantity
of furniture rather scanty, and not luxurious. The floor may be covered
with matting, but you will find no carpets or rugs. A table and some
straight-backed chairs are the principal pieces. On the walls you may
find Chinese pictures, which will not challenge your admiration, though
they may be artistic in China. Some jars and specimens of fine porcelain
may adorn the room, with writings on the walls expressing moral
sentiments. There may be a couch, or more of them, of bamboo and rattan.
"The bamboo is quite as important a production in China as we have found
it in India and the islands; and it is used for all the purposes here,
and more in addition than have been mentioned to you before. The
bastinado of the magistrate and the schoolmaster's instrument of torture
are both bamboos.
"Our Nimrods would not find much sport here; for the country is too
densely populated to afford hiding-places for wild animals, though a
bear or a tiger may sometimes appear, and is quickly killed. There are
elephants, rhinoceroses, and tapirs in the forests of Yun-nan; and the
emperor has tame elephants at Peking for state purposes. The brown and
the black bear are found in certain localities, as well as varieties of
deer.
"The domestic four-footed animals are small horses and small cattle,
which have not been improved. The donkey is a livelier beast than in
England or America. About the capital there are very fine mules, which
are fashionable there as they are in some parts of Spain. Birds of prey
are common, and magpies are sacred birds which the Nimrods must not
shoot. The people are very fond of song-birds and flowers, which proves
their good taste.
"There are vast quantities of minerals beneath the soil of the country,
yet little had been done in mining; though, since the government has
steamers of its own, they are doing more to develop the mines. The
currency of the country is nowhere; for the only coin that is legally
current is the copper cash, of which it takes ten to make our cent.
Large payments are made in silver by weight, and the housekeeper has to
keep a pair of scales handy to ascertain the value of the silver she
receives or expends.
"But I know, my friends, that I have wearied you; and though I have
something more to say about this very interesting country, I shall defer
it till such time as the commander shall appoint."
The professor bowed and retired; but, as an offset to his last remark,
the applause was more prolonged and vigorous than usual.
CHAPTER XXXIII
THE CONCLUSION OF THE LECTURE
At lunch the passengers talked about the lecture that was not yet
finished; and all of them who said anything declared that they were very
much pleased with it, and they hoped the remainder of it would be given
in the afternoon. Of course all of them had read more or less about
China; and while there was much that was new to them, they were glad to
have their knowledge of the country revived.
"I have been in Hong-Kong, Canton, and Shang-hai, and I have heard no
lecture on board that pleased me more than that to which we listened
this forenoon; and I appoint this afternoon at three o'clock for the
conclusion of it," said the commander.
At this hour all the company, including the passengers from the Blanche,
were in their places; and the speaker mounted the rostrum, apparently as
fresh as ever. He was received with as much and as earnest applause as
had been given at the end of the second part of his lecture; and with
this pleasant approval of his work, he continued his discourse.
"According to the accounts of all recent travellers, the roads of China
are in a villanously bad condition, and there are no railroads worth
mentioning," he began. "And yet the necessity of good common roads was
apparent to the ruler, even before the building of the Great Wall, and
twenty thousand of them have been constructed; but the Chinese, having
finished a great work, do not meddle with it again. The roads have never
been repaired thoroughly, and that accounts for their present condition.
The rivers and canals furnish the principal means of communication,
though the roads are still used.
"The dress of the poorer classes is very much the same for both sexes.
It is regulated by sumptuary laws for all classes; but it is varied by
the wealthy in the use of costly material, and the ornaments they add to
it. You have all seen Chinamen enough in the streets of New York and
other cities, and the dress they wear is about the same as that worn in
their native land. The queue is the most notable thing about them. This
was not the ancient custom of wearing the hair, but was introduced and
enforced by the Manchu rulers over three hundred years ago, when it was
considered a degrading edict; though now the Chinaman sticks to his
queue with as much tenacity as he does to his very life.
"The small feet of the women, even of the highest class, is quite as
notable as the queues. This species of deformity was not required by the
Manchus, for they wore their feet as God gave them; and it is not an
ancient custom, for it has prevailed only from the sixth century of our
era. Nature's growth is checked by tightly bandaging the feet in early
childhood, subjecting the victim to severe pain and discomfort. But you
will see the women for yourselves, and can judge of the effect upon
them. The very poor and those in menial conditions are not necessarily
subjected to the torture, but fashion carries even many of this class
into the custom. Small but natural feet are the pride of our young
ladies, and some of them complain that when the feet were given out they
got more than their share.
"The sexes are kept apart until marriage; and this has been a social
feature from the earliest time. Girls and boys in the family did not
occupy the same mat or eat together from the age of seven, and when the
former were ten they ceased to appear outside of the women's apartments.
Girls were taught manners therein, to handle the cocoons, to do all the
work appertaining to the manufacture of silk and the details of Chinese
housekeeping. This was in the feudal time; and the females were not
instructed in book-learning, and are not now, though they pick up
something of an education, and learned women are not unknown, even those
who have written books.
"In regard to marriage, the parents have entire control, and
professional match-makers are an institution. It is to a great extent a
matter of horoscopes. Usually the bride and groom have not seen each
other till the marriage ceremony, and of course they lose all that
delightful period which precedes the event. But they appear to take to
each other when brought together, and to be happy as man and wife.
Though the man has one legal wife, there is no law or custom to prevent
him from taking half a dozen more secondary wives.
"There are seven lawful grounds for divorcing a wife from her
husband,--disobedience to her husband's parents; failure to give birth
to a son; dissolute conduct; jealousy of her man, especially in regard
to the other wives; talkativeness; thieving; and leprosy. I will leave
the ladies to make their own comments. There are three considerations
which may set aside these reasons for divorce,--that her parents are no
longer living; that she has passed with her spouse through the years of
mourning for his parents; and that he has become rich after being poor.
The children are often affianced in childhood, and probably this fact
furnishes many of the grounds for proceedings in the divorce court.
"Infanticide is not an uncommon crime in China, female children being
almost always the victims. Probably its prevalence is somewhat
exaggerated. It is among the poorest class that this atrocity prevails,
the universal desire for male children, in connection with the ancestral
worship of the people, being the root of the evil. Public opinion is
against the practice, though not as decidedly as might be wished.
"The complexion of the Chinese is yellowish, as you have seen in our
streets; and from the extreme north to the Island of Hainan, they all
have long black hair, almond or oblique eyes, high cheek-bones, and
round faces. They are greatly addicted to opium and gambling wherever
you find them. Dr. Legge says that the longer one lives among them the
better he likes them, and the better he thinks of them; but we are not
likely to be able to test the correctness of this remark.
"The Chinese bury their dead in graves in the form of a horseshoe, and
with an almost infinite variety of ceremonies and sacrifices. Where the
friends are able to pay the expense, the last rites are ostentatious and
very costly. You may chance to see something of them before you leave
the country. When a very rich Chinaman travels, he takes his coffin with
him.
"They have no day in the week corresponding to our Sunday, but they have
an annual universal holiday at New Year's. It is a season of rejoicing
and festivity all over the country. Stores are closed for several days,
and the government offices are shut up for a month. The people 'dress
up,' and the temples are visited, the gambling resorts are in full
blast, and crackers and other fireworks make Fourth of July of the
season.
"There is some sort of a festival every month, such as the 'Feast of
Lanterns,' on the full moon, of the tombs, 'Dragon Boats,' and 'All
Souls,' in honor of departed relatives, when the supposed hungry spirits
from the other side of the Styx are fed at the cemeteries. The people
are extravagantly fond of theatricals; and a kind of bamboo tent is
erected for the performance, which is usually of inordinate length.
Females, as in India, do not appear on the stage.
"It would be quite impossible for me to follow the consecutive history
of China from 2637 B.C. down to the present time; it would be an
infliction upon you, and I shall only mention some of the principal
events. Our authority in these remarks numbers the Chinese army at three
hundred and fifty thousand; the Year Book makes it double this number.
Judged by a European standard, it does not amount to much outside of
mere numbers; though in addition to it there is a sort of militia,
camped in the several provinces, more in the nature of police than
soldiers, of twice as many men as the imperial army.
"The first great war in China was the Tâi-Ping rebellion, which the
older of you can remember. It began in 1851, and was continued for
nearly twenty years. Its leader was Hung, a poor student, who studied up
a new religion, which was certainly an improvement upon those of the
people, for it recognized the Great God, and Christ as the Elder
Brother. A strict morality and the keeping of the Sabbath were required
of its adherents, and idolatry and the use of opium were forbidden.
"Hung incited the rebellion; and its object was to overturn the ruling
dynasty of the Manchus, and place himself on the throne. It was at
first very successful in its progress, and it looked as though the
imperial cause was doomed. In 1855 the rebels, for the want of
sufficient re-enforcements in an attempt to capture Pekin, were
compelled to retreat to Nanking, and then the decline of the
insurrection began. A body of foreigners under an American by the name
of Ward joined the imperialists, and rendered important service; but he
was killed in battle in 1862. He was succeeded by one of the
subordinates, who became General Burgevine; and he was quite as
successful as General Ward had been. The new general fell out with the
government, and retired. By the influence of British residents at
Shang-hai, who had organized an effective army, General Charles George
Gordon, of whom you heard in Egypt, was placed in command. He captured
Nanking, and the rebellion was suppressed in 1865.
"You have been informed of the movements of the Portuguese, English,
French, Dutch, and Spaniards to obtain territory in the East from 1497,
when Vasco da Gama doubled the Cape of Good Hope. All of them
established colonies; and in 1516 they began to send their ships to
China, whose people did not receive them kindly. This was in the early
days of the Manchu rulers, who claimed to be superior to all other
monarchs on the face of the earth; they would not acknowledge the
visitors as their equals, and regarded them as vassals.
"When the Chinese ruler learned of the conquests of those from the West
he tried to prevent their approach to his dominions. But trade had been
established; and the opium traffic had its birth, and the people were
crazy to procure and smoke it. This was the cause of the wars between
China and England and France, with the vassal question. In 1800 an edict
of the emperor prohibited the importation of opium into his dominions.
"England before this had entered upon the task of making a treaty to
settle the relations between the two countries; but no treaty was made,
and the smuggling of opium continued for many years. In 1816 another
embassy went to Pekin; but it was summarily and contemptuously dismissed
because the ambassador refused to go through the ceremony of repeatedly
prostrating himself before the emperor, and acknowledging his own
sovereign as a vassal of the emperor.
"The trade went on after India passed to the government of England.
China was still obstinate, insisted upon the vassalship of the Western
nation, and was confident in her power to repress the opium trade. The
merchants pressed vigorously for the enlargement of their trade with
China, which did not seem to be aware of its weakness before a European
power. A famous mandarin was appointed governor-general of the Kwang
provinces to bring the barbarians to their senses. He proceeded in
earnest, and England declared war against the country in 1840. The
result was evident from the first, and the war ended with the peace of
Nanking in 1842. The items were the ceding of Hong-Kong to the victor,
the opening of five ports to the trade and residence of the British.
Correspondence was established between the officials of the two nations;
but not a word was said about opium, and the smuggling went on as
before.
"In 1857, after some troubles in Canton in which the English were at
fault, and the refusal of the governor-general to meet an agent of the
British government, the latter declared war again, with France as an
ally. Canton was captured the same year; and Yeh, the governor, was
taken prisoner, and sent to Calcutta. There was little fighting in this
war; and Canton being in possession of the allies, a joint commission,
attended by representatives of the United States and Russia, proceeded
to Pekin to make their demands upon the emperor. A treaty was made at
Tien-tsin, confirming the former, and with many important articles. One
provided for the appointment of ambassadors by each nation, another for
the protection of Christian missionaries, and several others of less
moment.
"It looked as though the Chinese emperor had been sufficiently
humiliated; but the treaty 'slipped up,' for its last clause provided
that the treaty should be ratified at Pekin within one year. The emperor
could not abide the idea of permitting the ambassadors to enter the
sacred capital, and he looked about him for the means of escaping the
issue. The forts between the capital and the Gulf of Pe-chi-li had been
rebuilt and were well armed. The Chinese officials urged the signing at
Tien-tsin, and this was done by several of the embassy; but France and
England insisted that it must be signed in Pekin, as provided in the
instrument itself.
"They started for the sacred city with several men-of-war, but they
found the mouth of the river closed to them by the forts. A severe
engagement followed, in which the allies were beaten, the only battle
gained by the Chinese. At the end of a year another expedition with
twenty thousand men went with the ambassadors, the forts were all taken,
and the officials went to Tien-tsin. The force marched on Pekin; and the
emperor fled, leaving his brother Prince Kung to meet the embassy. The
north-east gate of the city was surrendered, and the treaty was duly
signed at Pekin.
"In 1861 the emperor died, having named his son, six years old, as his
successor. A dozen years later he took possession of the throne, the
regency expiring then. He died two years later, and a nephew of Prince
Kung was appointed to the succession by the imperial family. He was a
child of four years of age then, and reigned under a regency till 1887,
when he took possession of the government at the age of sixteen.
"I should have said before that a change of the tariff in 1842 made the
importation of opium legal in the empire. The country has in recent
years employed foreign officers in its army and navy, and foreign
mechanics in its workshops. China is represented at five of the
principal nations of the world by ambassadors. It has built up a very
respectable navy, mostly at the shipyards of Great Britain; and foreign
officers have greatly improved the condition of the army.
"Telegraphic communication has been extensively established, and a
railroad eighty-one miles long has been built. Educational institutions
have been founded, and schools opened for the instruction of young men
in several foreign languages. The increasing consumption of opium, which
seems to have been placed in the way of the people by the action on the
part of England, is a cause for great regret among the friends of China.
I have said too much already, and I know you must be very tired. I thank
you for bearing with me so long; and I will promise not to do so again,
at least so far as China is concerned. China is at peace with all the
world, and I leave her so."
The professor retired with even greater applause than in the forenoon.
Since he spoke, China has been engaged in a great war with Japan; and
possibly his account of the country will assist those who are yet to
read the history of the conflict.
CHAPTER XXXIV
SIGHT-SEEING IN HONG-KONG AND CANTON
After the conclusion of the lecture in the afternoon, the passengers of
the two ships had another frolic, as Captain Ringgold called it, and
then dined in the cabin; after which those from the Blanche "went home,"
as the ladies termed it.
Towards the close of the following day, while the passengers of the
Guardian-Mother were seated on the promenade, the lookout forward
shouted, "Land, ho!" The announcement caused a sensation, as usual,
though it was an old story. It was reported off the port bow; and the
captain said it was Lema Island, a considerable distance from Hong-Kong.
"The Chinese name of Hong-Kong is Hiang-Kiang, which means 'sweet
waters,'" said the commander. "It is a ridge of rocks, the highest point
