but in the night the ghosts of little gray birds fill the branches,
singing of the sunshine of past years. He heard the song as he sat,
and he crushed his hands over his ears; but the gray birds joined with
the wind in the chimney, and he heard all that he dared not hear, and
he thought all that he dared not hope or think, and the swift tears
scalded his eyes.
In Mort-Dieu the nights are longer than anywhere on earth; he knew
it--why should he not know? This had been so for a year; it was
different before. There were so many things different before; days and
nights vanished like minutes then; the pines told no secrets of the
sea, and the gray birds had not yet come to Mort-Dieu. Also, there was
Jeanne, passeur at the Carmes.
When he first saw her she was poling the square, flat-bottomed ferry
skiff from the Carmes to Mort-Dieu, a red handkerchief bound across her
silky black hair, a red skirt fluttering just below her knees. The next
time he saw her he had to call to her across the placid river, "Ohé!
Ohé, passeur!" She came, poling the flat skiff, her deep blue eyes
fixed pensively on him, the scarlet skirt and kerchief idly flapping in
the April wind. Then day followed day when the far call "Passeur!" grew
clearer and more joyous, and the faint answering cry, "I come!" rippled
across the water like music tinged with laughter. Then spring came,
and with spring came love--love, carried free across the ferry from the
Carmes to Mort-Dieu.
The flame above the charred log whistled, flickered, and went out in
a jet of wood vapour, only to play like lightning above the gas and
relight again. The clock ticked more loudly, and the song from the
pines filled the room. But in his straining eyes a summer landscape was
reflected, where white clouds sailed and white foam curled under the
square bow of a little skiff. And he pressed his numbed hands tighter
to his ears to drown the cry, "Passeur! Passeur!"
And now for a moment the clock ceased ticking. It was time to go--who
but he should know it, he who went out into the night swinging his
lantern? And he went. He had gone each night from the first--from that
first strange winter evening when a strange voice had answered him
across the river, the voice of the new passeur. He had never heard
her voice again.
So he passed down the windy wooden stairs, lantern hanging lighted in
his hand, and stepped out into the storm. Through sheets of drifting
snow, over heaps of frozen seaweed and icy drift he moved, shifting his
lantern right and left, until its glimmer on the water warned him. Then
he called out into the night, "Passeur!" The frozen spray spattered
his face and crusted the lantern; he heard the distant boom of breakers
beyond the bar, and the noise of mighty winds among the seaward cliffs.
"Passeur!"
Across the broad flat river, black as a sea of pitch, a tiny light
sparkled a moment. Again he cried, "Passeur!"
"I come!"
He turned ghastly white, for it was her voice--or was he crazy?--and
he sprang waist deep into the icy current and cried out again, but his
voice ended in a sob.
Slowly through the snow the flat skiff took shape, creeping nearer
and nearer. But she was not at the pole--he saw that; there was only a
tall, thin man, shrouded to the eyes in oilskin; and he leaped into the
boat and bade the ferryman hasten.
Halfway across he rose in the skiff, and called, "Jeanne!" But the roar
of the storm and the thrashing of icy waves drowned his voice. Yet he
heard her again, and she called to him by name.
When at last the boat grated upon the invisible shore, he lifted his
lantern, trembling, stumbling among the rocks, and calling to her, as
though his voice could silence the voice that had spoken a year ago
that night. And it could not. He sank shivering upon his knees, and
looked out into the darkness, where an ocean rolled across a world.
Then his stiff lips moved, and he repeated her name; but the hand of
the ferryman fell gently upon his head.
And when he raised his eyes he saw that the ferryman was Death.
THE KEY TO GRIEF.
  The moving finger writes, and, having writ,
    Moves on; nor all your piety nor wit
  Shall lure it back to cancel half a line,
    Nor all your tears wash out a word of it.
                                        FITZGERALD.
THE KEY TO GRIEF.
  The wild hawk to the wind-swept sky
    The deer to the wholesome wold,
  And the heart of a man to the heart of a maid,
    As it was in the days of old.
                                        KIPLING.
I.
They were doing their work very badly. They got the rope around his
neck, and tied his wrists with moose-bush withes, but again he fell,
sprawling, turning, twisting over the leaves, tearing up everything
around him like a trapped panther.
He got the rope away from them; he clung to it with bleeding fists; he
set his white teeth in it, until the jute strands relaxed, unravelled,
and snapped, gnawed through by his white teeth.
Twice Tully struck him with a gum hook. The dull blows fell on flesh
rigid as stone.
Panting, foul with forest mould and rotten leaves, hands and face
smeared with blood, he sat up on the ground, glaring at the circle of
men around him.
"Shoot him!" gasped Tully, dashing the sweat from his bronzed brow; and
Bates, breathing heavily, sat down on a log and dragged a revolver from
his rear pocket. The man on the ground watched him; there was froth in
the corners of his mouth.
"Git back!" whispered Bates, but his voice and hand trembled. "Kent,"
he stammered, "won't ye hang?"
The man on the ground glared.
"Ye've got to die, Kent," he urged; "they all say so. Ask Lefty
Sawyer; ask Dyce; ask Carrots.--He's got to swing fur it--ain't he,
Tully?--Kent, fur God's sake, swing fur these here gents!"
The man on the ground panted; his bright eyes never moved.
After a moment Tully sprang on him again. There was a flurry of leaves,
a crackle, a gasp and a grunt, then the thumping and thrashing of two
bodies writhing in the brush. Dyce and Carrots jumped on the prostrate
men. Lefty Sawyer caught the rope again, but the jute strands gave
way and he stumbled. Tully began to scream, "He's chokin' me!" Dyce
staggered out into the open, moaning over a broken wrist.
"Shoot!" shouted Lefty Sawyer, and dragged Tully aside. "Shoot, Jim
Bates! Shoot straight, b' God!"
"Git back!" gasped Bates, rising from the fallen log.
The crowd parted right and left; a quick report rang
out--another--another. Then from the whirl of smoke a tall form
staggered, dealing blows--blows that sounded sharp as the crack of a
whip.
"He's off! Shoot straight!" they cried.
There was a gallop of heavy boots in the woods. Bates, faint and dazed,
turned his head.
"Shoot!" shrieked Tully.
But Bates was sick; his smoking revolver fell to the ground; his white
face and pale eyes contracted. It lasted only a moment; he started
after the others, plunging, wallowing through thickets of osier and
hemlock underbrush.
Far ahead he heard Kent crashing on like a young moose in November,
and he knew he was making for the shore. The others knew too. Already
the gray gleam of the sea cut a straight line along the forest edge;
already the soft clash of the surf on the rocks broke faintly through
the forest silence.
"He's got a canoe there!" bawled Tully. "He'll be into it!"
And he was into it, kneeling in the bow, driving his paddle to the
handle. The rising sun gleamed like red lightning on the flashing
blade; the canoe shot to the crest of a wave, hung, bows dripping in
the wind, dropped into the depths, glided, tipped, rolled, shot up
again, staggered, and plunged on.
Tully ran straight out into the cove surf; the water broke against his
chest, bare and wet with sweat. Bates sat down on a worn black rock and
watched the canoe listlessly.
The canoe dwindled to a speck of gray and silver; and when Carrots, who
had run back to the gum camp for a rifle, returned, the speck on the
water might have been easier to hit than a loon's head at twilight. So
Carrots, being thrifty by nature, fired once, and was satisfied to save
the other cartridges. The canoe was still visible, making for the open
sea. Somewhere beyond the horizon lay the keys, a string of rocks bare
as skulls, black and slimy where the sea cut their base, white on the
crests with the excrement of sea birds.
"He's makin' fur the Key to Grief!" whispered Bates to Dyce.
Dyce, moaning, and nursing his broken wrist, turned a sick face out to
sea.
The last rock seaward was the Key to Grief, a splintered pinnacle
polished by the sea. From the Key to Grief, seaward a day's paddle, if
a man dared, lay the long wooded island in the ocean known as Grief on
the charts of the bleak coast.
In the history of the coast, two men had made the voyage to the Key to
Grief, and from there to the island. One of these was a rum-crazed pelt
hunter, who lived to come back; the other was a college youth; they
found his battered canoe at sea, and a day later his battered body was
flung up in the cove.
So, when Bates whispered to Dyce, and when Dyce called to the others,
they knew that the end was not far off for Kent and his canoe; and they
turned away into the forest, sullen, but satisfied that Kent would get
his dues when the devil got his.
Lefty spoke vaguely of the wages of sin. Carrots, with an eye to
thrift, suggested a plan for an equitable division of Kent's property.
When they reached the gum camp they piled Kent's personal effects on a
blanket.
Carrots took the inventory: a revolver, two gum hooks, a fur cap, a
nickel-plated watch, a pipe, a pack of new cards, a gum sack, forty
pounds of spruce gum, and a frying pan.
Carrots shuffled the cards, picked out the joker, and flipped it
pensively into the fire. Then he dealt cold decks all around.
When the goods and chattels of their late companion had been divided by
chance--for there was no chance to cheat--somebody remembered Tully.
"He's down there on the coast, starin' after the canoe," said Bates
huskily.
He rose and walked toward a heap on the ground covered by a blanket. He
started to lift the blanket, hesitated, and finally turned away. Under
the blanket lay Tully's brother, shot the night before by Kent.
"Guess we'd better wait till Tully comes," said Carrots uneasily. Bates
and Kent had been campmates. An hour later Tully walked into camp.
He spoke to no one that day. In the morning Bates found him down on
the coast digging, and said: "Hello, Tully! Guess we ain't much hell on
lynchin'!"
"Naw," said Tully. "Git a spade."
"Goin' to plant him there?"
"Yep."
"Where he kin hear them waves?"
"Yep."
"Purty spot."
"Yep."
"Which way will he face?"
"Where he kin watch fur that damned canoe!" cried Tully fiercely.
"He--he can't see," ventured Bates uneasily. "He's dead, ain't he?"
"He'll heave up that there sand when the canoe comes back! An' it's
a-comin'! An' Bud Kent'll be in it, dead or alive! Git a spade!"
The pale light of superstition flickered in Bates's eyes. He hesitated.
"The--the dead can't see," he began; "kin they?"
Tully turned a distorted face toward him.
"Yer lie!" he roared. "My brother kin see, dead or livin'! An' he'll
see the hangin' of Bud Kent! An' he'll git up outer the grave fur to
see it, Bill Bates! I'm tellin' ye! I'm tellin' ye! Deep as I'll plant
him, he'll heave that there sand and call to me, when the canoe comes
in! I'll hear him; I'll be here! An' we'll live to see the hangin' of
Bud Kent!"
About sundown they planted Tully's brother, face to the sea.
II.
On the Key to Grief the green waves rub all day. White at the summit,
black at the base, the shafted rocks rear splintered pinnacles,
slanting like channel buoys. On the polished pillars sea birds
brood--white-winged, bright-eyed sea birds, that nestle and preen and
flap and clatter their orange-coloured beaks when the sifted spray
drives and drifts across the reef.
As the sun rose, painting crimson streaks criss-cross over the waters,
the sea birds sidled together, huddling row on row, steeped in downy
drowse.
Where the sun of noon burnished the sea, an opal wave washed, listless,
noiseless; a sea bird stretched one listless wing.
And into the silence of the waters a canoe glided, bronzed by the
sunlight, jewelled by the salt drops stringing from prow to thwart,
seaweed a-trail in the diamond-flashing wake, and in the bow a man
dripping with sweat.
Up rose the gulls, sweeping in circles, turning, turning over rock and
sea, and their clamour filled the sky, starting little rippling echoes
among the rocks.
The canoe grated on a shelf of ebony; the seaweed rocked and washed;
the little sea crabs sheered sideways, down, down into limpid depths of
greenest shadows. Such was the coming of Bud Kent to the Key to Grief.
He drew the canoe halfway up the shelf of rock and sat down, breathing
heavily, one brown arm across the bow. For an hour he sat there. The
sweat dried under his eyes. The sea birds came back, filling the air
with soft querulous notes.
There was a livid mark around his neck, a red, raw circle. The salt
wind stung it; the sun burned it into his flesh like a collar of
red-hot steel. He touched it at times; once he washed it with cold salt
water.
Far in the north a curtain of mist hung on the sea, dense, motionless
as the fog on the Grand Banks. He never moved his eyes from it; he knew
what it was. Behind it lay the Island of Grief.
All the year round the Island of Grief is hidden by the banks of mist,
ramparts of dead white fog encircling it on every side. Ships give it
wide berth. Some speak of warm springs on the island whose waters flow
far out to sea, rising in steam eternally.
The pelt hunter had come back with tales of forests and deer and
flowers everywhere; but he had been drinking much, and much was
forgiven him.
The body of the college youth tossed up in the cove on the mainland
was battered out of recognition, but some said, when found, one hand
clutched a crimson blossom half wilted, but broad as a sap pan.
So Kent lay motionless beside his canoe, burned with thirst, every
nerve vibrating, thinking of all these things. It was not fear that
whitened the firm flesh under the tan; it was the fear of fear. He
must not think--he must throttle dread; his eyes must never falter, his
head never turn from that wall of mist across the sea. With set teeth
he crushed back terror; with glittering eyes he looked into the hollow
eyes of fright. And so he conquered fear.
He rose. The sea birds whirled up into the sky, pitching, tossing,
screaming, till the sharp flapping of their pinions set the snapping
echoes flying among the rocks.
Under the canoe's sharp prow the kelp bobbed and dipped and parted; the
sunlit waves ran out ahead, glittering, dancing. Splash! splash! bow
and stern! And now he knelt again, and the polished paddle swung and
dipped, and swept and swung and dipped again.
Far behind, the clamour of the sea birds lingered in his ears, till
the mellow dip of the paddle drowned all sound and the sea was a sea of
silence.
No wind came to cool the hot sweat on cheek and breast. The sun blazed
a path of flame before him, and he followed out into the waste of
waters. The still ocean divided under the bows and rippled innocently
away on either side, tinkling, foaming, sparkling like the current in
a woodland brook. He looked around at the world of flattened water, and
the fear of fear rose up and gripped his throat again. Then he lowered
his head, like a tortured bull, and shook the fear of fear from his
throat, and drove the paddle into the sea as a butcher stabs, to the
hilt.
So at last he came to the wall of mist. It was thin at first, thin and
cool, but it thickened and grew warmer, and the fear of fear dragged at
his head, but he would not look behind.
Into the fog the canoe shot; the gray water ran by, high as the
gunwales, oily, silent. Shapes flickered across the bows, pillars of
mist that rode the waters, robed in films of tattered shadows. Gigantic
forms towered to dizzy heights above him, shaking out shredded shrouds
of cloud. The vast draperies of the fog swayed and hung and trembled as
he brushed them; the white twilight deepened to a sombre gloom. And now
it grew thinner; the fog became a mist, and the mist a haze, and the
haze floated away and vanished into the blue of the heavens.
All around lay a sea of pearl and sapphire, lapping, lapping on a
silver shoal.
So he came to the Island of Grief.
III.
On the silver shoal the waves washed and washed, breaking like crushed
opals where the sands sang with the humming froth.
Troops of little shore birds, wading on the shoal, tossed their
sun-tipped wings and scuttled inland, where, dappled with shadow from
the fringing forest, the white beach of the island stretched.
The water all around was shallow, limpid as crystal, and he saw the
ribbed sand shining on the bottom, where purple seaweed floated, and
delicate sea creatures darted and swarmed and scattered again at the
dip of his paddle.
Like velvet rubbed on velvet the canoe brushed across the sand. He
staggered to his feet, stumbled out, dragged the canoe high up under
the trees, turned it bottom upward, and sank beside it, face downward
in the sand. Sleep came to drive away the fear of fear, but hunger,
thirst, and fever fought with sleep, and he dreamed--dreamed of a
rope that sawed his neck, of the fight in the woods, and the shots. He
dreamed, too, of the camp, of his forty pounds of spruce gum, of Tully,
and of Bates. He dreamed of the fire and the smoke-scorched kettle, of
the foul odour of musty bedding, of the greasy cards, and of his own
new pack, hoarded for weeks to please the others. All this he dreamed,
lying there face downward in the sand; but he did not dream of the face
of the dead.
The shadows of the leaves moved on his blonde head, crisp with clipped
curls. A butterfly flitted around him, alighting now on his legs,
now on the back of his bronzed hands. All the afternoon the bees hung
droning among the wildwood blossoms; the leaves above scarcely rustled;
the shore birds brooded along the water's edge; the thin tide, sleeping
on the sand, mirrored the sky.
Twilight paled the zenith; a breeze moved in the deeper woods; a star
glimmered, went out, glimmered again, faded, and glimmered.
Night came. A moth darted to and fro under the trees; a beetle hummed
around a heap of seaweed and fell scrambling in the sand. Somewhere
among the trees a sound had become distinct, the song of a little
brook, melodious, interminable. He heard it in his dream; it threaded
all his dreams like a needle of silver, and like a needle it pricked
him--pricked his dry throat and cracked lips. It could not awake him;
the cool night swathed him head and foot.
Toward dawn a bird woke up and piped. Other birds stirred, restless,
half awakened; a gull spread a cramped wing on the shore, preened its
feathers, scratched its tufted neck, and took two drowsy steps toward
the sea.
The sea breeze stirred out behind the mist bank; it raised the feathers
on the sleeping gulls; it set the leaves whispering. A twig snapped,
broke off, and fell. Kent stirred, sighed, trembled, and awoke.
The first thing he heard was the song of the brook, and he stumbled
straight into the woods. There it lay, a thin, deep stream in the gray
morning light, and he stretched himself beside it and laid his cheek
in it. A bird drank in the pool, too--a little fluffy bird, bright-eyed
and fearless.
His knees were firmer when at last he rose, heedless of the drops that
beaded lips and chin. With his knife he dug and scraped at some white
roots that hung half meshed in the bank of the brook, and when he had
cleaned them in the pool he ate them.
The sun stained the sky when he went down to the canoe, but the eternal
curtain of fog, far out at sea, hid it as yet from sight.
He lifted the canoe, bottom upwards, to his head, and, paddle and pole
in either hand, carried it into the forest.
After he had set it down he stood a moment, opening and shutting his
knife. Then he looked up into the trees. There were birds there, if
he could get at them. He looked at the brook. There were the prints of
his fingers in the sand; there, too, was the print of something else--a
deer's pointed hoof.
He had nothing but his knife. He opened it again and looked at it.
That day he dug for clams and ate them raw. He waded out into the
shallows, too, and jabbed at fish with his setting pole, but hit
nothing except a yellow crab.
Fire was what he wanted. He hacked and chipped at flinty-looking
pebbles, and scraped tinder from a stick of sun-dried driftwood. His
knuckles bled, but no fire came.
That night he heard deer in the woods, and could not sleep for
thinking, until the dawn came up behind the wall of mist, and he rose
with it to drink his fill at the brook and tear raw clams with his
white teeth. Again he fought for fire, craving it as he had never
craved water, but his knuckles bled, and the knife scraped on the flint
in vain.
His mind, perhaps, had suffered somewhat. The white beach seemed to
rise and fall like a white carpet on a gusty hearth. The birds, too,
that ran along the sand, seemed big and juicy, like partridges; and
he chased them, hurling shells and bits of driftwood at them till he
could scarcely keep his feet for the rising, plunging beach--or carpet,
whichever it was. That night the deer aroused him at intervals. He
heard them splashing and grunting and crackling along the brook. Once
he arose and stole after them, knife in hand, till a false step into
the brook awoke him to his folly, and he felt his way back to the
canoe, trembling.
Morning came, and again he drank at the brook, lying on the sand where
countless heart-shaped hoofs had passed leaving clean imprints; and
again he ripped the raw clams from their shells and swallowed them,
whimpering.
All day long the white beach rose and fell and heaved and flattened
under his bright dry eyes. He chased the shore birds at times, till the
unsteady beach tripped him up and he fell full length in the sand. Then
he would rise moaning, and creep into the shadow of the wood, and watch
the little song-birds in the branches, moaning, always moaning.
His hands, sticky with blood, hacked steel and flint together, but so
feebly that now even the cold sparks no longer came.
He began to fear the advancing night; he dreaded to hear the big warm
deer among the thickets. Fear clutched him suddenly, and he lowered his
head and set his teeth and shook fear from his throat again.
Then he started aimlessly into the woods, crowding past bushes,
scraping trees, treading on moss and twig and mouldy stump, his bruised
hands swinging, always swinging.
The sun set in the mist as he came out of the woods on to another
beach--a warm, soft beach, crimsoned by the glow in the evening clouds.
And on the sand at his feet lay a young girl asleep, swathed in the
silken garment of her own black hair, round limbed, brown, smooth as
the bloom on the tawny beach.
A gull flapped overhead, screaming. Her eyes, deeper than night,
unclosed. Then her lips parted in a cry, soft with sleep, "Ihó!"
She rose, rubbing her velvet eyes. "Ihó!" she cried in wonder; "Inâh!"
The gilded sand settled around her little feet. Her cheeks crimsoned.
"E-hó! E-hó!" she whispered, and hid her face in her hair.
IV.
The bridge of the stars spans the sky seas; the sun and the moon are
the travellers who pass over it. This was also known in the lodges of
the Isantee, hundreds of years ago. Chaské told it to Hârpam, and when
Hârpam knew he told it to Hapéda; and so the knowledge spread to Hârka,
and from Winona to Wehârka, up and down, across and ever across, woof
and web, until it came to the Island of Grief. And how? God knows!
Wehârka, prattling in the tules, may have told Ne-kâ; and Ne-kâ,
high in the November clouds, may have told Kay-óshk, who told it to
Shinge-bis, who told it to Skeé-skah, who told it to Sé-só-Kah.
Ihó! Inâh! Behold the wonder of it! And this is the fate of all
knowledge that comes to the Island of Grief.
       
As the red glow died in the sky, and the sand swam in shadows, the girl
parted the silken curtains of her hair and looked at him.
"Ehó!" she whispered again in soft delight.
For now it was plain to her that he was the sun! He had crossed the
bridge of stars in the blue twilight; he had come!
"E-tó!"
She stepped nearer, shivering, faint with the ecstasy of this holy
miracle wrought before her.
He was the Sun! His blood streaked the sky at dawn; his blood stained
the clouds at even. In his eyes the blue of the sky still lingered,
smothering two blue stars; and his body was as white as the breast of
the Moon.
She opened both arms, hands timidly stretched, palm upward. Her face
was raised to his, her eyes slowly closed; the deep-fringed lids
trembled.
Like a young priestess she stood, motionless save for the sudden quiver
of a limb, a quick pulse-flutter in the rounded throat. And so she
worshipped, naked and unashamed, even after he, reeling, fell heavily
forward on his face; even when the evening breeze stealing over the
sands stirred the hair on his head, as winds stir the fur of a dead
animal in the dust.
       
When the morning sun peered over the wall of mist, and she saw it was
the sun, and she saw him, flung on the sand at her feet, then she knew
that he was a man, only a man, pallid as death and smeared with blood.
And yet--miracle of miracles!--the divine wonder in her eyes deepened,
and her body seemed to swoon, and fall a-trembling, and swoon again.
For, although it was but a man who lay at her feet, it had been easier
for her to look upon a god.
He dreamed that he breathed fire--fire, that he craved as he had never
craved water. Mad with delirium, he knelt before the flames, rubbing
his torn hands, washing them in the crimson-scented flames. He had
water, too, cool scented water, that sprayed his burning flesh, that
washed in his eyes, his hair, his throat. After that came hunger,
a fierce rending agony, that scorched and clutched and tore at his
entrails; but that, too, died away, and he dreamed that he had eaten
and all his flesh was warm. Then he dreamed that he slept; and when he
slept he dreamed no more.
One day he awoke and found her stretched beside him, soft palms tightly
closed, smiling, asleep.
V.
Now the days began to run more swiftly than the tide along the tawny
beach; and the nights, star-dusted and blue, came and vanished and
returned, only to exhale at dawn like perfume from a violet.
They counted hours as they counted the golden bubbles, winking with
a million eyes along the foam-flecked shore; and the hours ended, and
began, and glimmered, iridescent, and ended as bubbles end in a tiny
rainbow haze.
There was still fire in the world; it flashed up at her touch and where
she chose. A bow strung with the silk of her own hair, an arrow winged
like a sea bird and tipped with shell, a line from the silver tendon of
a deer, a hook of polished bone--these were the mysteries he learned,
and learned them laughing, her silken head bent close to his.
The first night that the bow was wrought and the glossy string attuned,
she stole into the moonlit forest to the brook; and there they stood,
whispering, listening, and whispering, though neither understood the
voice they loved.
In the deeper woods, Kaug, the porcupine, scraped and snuffed. They
heard Wabóse, the rabbit, pit-a-pat, pit-a-pat, loping across dead
leaves in the moonlight. Skeé-skah, the wood-duck, sailed past,
noiseless, gorgeous as a floating blossom.
Out on the ocean's placid silver, Shinge-bis, the diver, shook the
scented silence with his idle laughter, till Kay-óshk, the gray gull,
stirred in his slumber. There came a sudden ripple in the stream, a
mellow splash, a soft sound on the sand.
"Ihó! Behold!"
"I see nothing."
The beloved voice was only a wordless melody to her.
"Ihó! Ta-hinca, the red deer! E-hó! The buck will follow!"
"Ta-hinca," he repeated, notching the arrow.
"E-tó! Ta-mdóka!"
So he drew the arrow to the head, and the gray gull feathers brushed
his ear, and the darkness hummed with the harmony of the singing
string.
Thus died Ta-mdóka, the buck deer of seven prongs.
VI.
As an apple tossed spinning into the air, so spun the world above the
hand that tossed it into space.
And one day in early spring, Sé-só-Kah, the robin, awoke at dawn, and
saw a girl at the foot of the blossoming tree holding a babe cradled in
the silken sheets of her hair.
At its feeble cry, Kaug, the porcupine, raised his quilled head.
Wabóse, the rabbit, sat still with palpitating sides. Kay-óshk, the
gray gull, tiptoed along the beach.
Kent knelt with one bronzed arm around them both.
"Ihó! Inâh!" whispered the girl, and held the babe up in the rosy
flames of dawn.
But Kent trembled as he looked, and his eyes filled. On the pale green
moss their shadows lay--three shadows. But the shadow of the babe was
