mouth which were the exact opposite of what she had said. 
That fact would not be considered important by the 
University of Paris, and would not influence its decision 
or stir its humanity, in case it had any — which it hadn't 
when acting in a political capacity, as at present — but it 
was a brave thing for that good Manchon to do, all the 
same. 

The Twelve were sent to Paris next day, April 5th. 
That afternoon there was a great tumult in Rouen, and 
excited crowds were flocking through all the chief streets, 

chattering" and seeking for news ; for a report had gone 
abroad that Joan of Arc was sick unto death. In truth 
these long seances had worn her out, and she was ill indeed. 
The heads of the English party were in a state of con- 
sternation ; for if Joan should die uncondemned by the 
Church and go to the grave unsmirched, the pity and the 
love of the people would turn her wrongs and sufferings 
and death into a holy martyrdom, and she would be even 
a mightier power in France dead, than she had been when 
alive. 

The Earl of Warwick and the English Cardinal 
(Winchester) hurried to the castle and sent messengers 
flying for physicians. Warwick was a hard man, a rude, 
coarse man, a man without compassion. There lay the 
sick girl stretched in her chains in her iron cage — not an 
object to move man to ungentle speech, one would think ; 
yet Warwick spoke right out in her hearing and said to the 
physicians — 

' Mind you take good care of her. The King of 
England has no mind to have her die a natural death. 
She is dear to him, for he bought her dear, and he does 
not want her to die, save at the stake. Now then, mind 
you cure her.' 

The doctors asked Joan what had made her ill. She 
said the Bishop of Beauvais had sent her a fish and she 
thought it was that. 

Then Jean d'Estivet burst out on her, and called her 
names and abused her. He understood Joan to be charg- 
ing the Bishop with poisoning her, you see ; and that was 
not pleasing to him, for he was one of Cauchon's most 
loving and conscienceless slaves, and it outraged him to 
have Joan injure his master in the eyes of these great 
English chiefs, these being men who could ruin Cauchon 
and would promptly do it if they got the conviction that he 
was capable of saving Joan from the stake by poisoning 
her, and thus cheating the English out of all the real value 
gainable by her purchase from the Duke of Burgundy. 

Joan had a high fever, and the doctors proposed to 
bleed her. Warwick said — 

' Be careful about that ; she is smart and is capable of 
killing- herself.' 

He meant that to escape the stake she might undo the 
bandage and let herself bleed to death. 

But the doctors bled her anyway, and then she was 
better. 

Not for long, though. Jean d'Estivet could not hold 
still, he was so worried and angry about the suspicion of 
poisoning which Joan had hinted at ; so he came back in 
the evening and stormed at her till he brought the fever all 
back again. 

When Warwick heard of this he was in a fine temper, 
you may be sure, for here was his prey threatening to 
escape again, and all through the over-zeal of this meddling 
fool. Warwick gave D'Estivet a quite admirable cursing 
— admirable as to strength, I mean, for it was said by 
persons of culture that the art of it was not good — and 
after that the meddler kept still. 

Joan remained ill more than two weeks ; then she grew 
better. She was still very weak, but she could bear a 
little persecution now without much danger to her life. It 
seemed to Cauchon a good time to furnish it. So he called 
together some of his doctors of theology and went to her 
dungeon. Manchon and I went along to keep the record 
— that is, to set down what might be useful to Cauchon, 
and leave out the rest. 

The sight of Joan gave me a shock. Why, she was 
but a shadow ! It was difficult for me to realise that this 
frail little creature with the sad face and drooping form 
was the same Joan of Arc that I had so often seen, all fire 
and enthusiasm, charging through a hail of death and the 
lightning and thunder of the guns at the head of her 
battalions. It wrung my heart to see her looking like 
this. 

But Cauchon was not touched. He made another of 

those conscienceless speeches of his, all dripping with 
hypocrisy and guile. He told Joan that among her answers 
had been some which had seemed to endanger religion ; 
and as she was ignorant and without knowledge of the 
Scriptures, he had brought some good and wise men to 
instruct her, if she desired it. Said he, ' We are church- 
men, and disposed by our good will as well as by our 
vocation to procure for you the salvation of your soul and 
your body, in every way in our power, just as we would 
do the like for our nearest kin or for ourselves. In this we 
but follow the example of Holy Church, who never closes 
the refuge of her bosom against any that are willing to 
return.' 

Joan thanked him for these sayings and said : 

' I seem to be in danger of death from this malady ; if 
it be the pleasure of God that I die here, I beg that I may 
be heard in confession and also receive my Saviour ; and 
that I may be buried in consecrated ground.' 

Cauchon thought he saw his opportunity at last ; this 
weakened body had the fear of an unblessed death before 
it and the pains of hell to follow. This stubborn spirit 
would surrender now. So he spoke out and said — 

' Then if you want the Sacraments, you must do as all 
good Catholics do, and submit to the Church.' 

He was eager for her answer ; but when it came there 
was no surrender in it, she still stood to her guns. She 
turned her head away and said wearily — 

' I have nothing more to say.' 

Cauchon's temper was stirred, and he raised his voice 
threateningly and said that the more she was in danger of 
death the more she ought to amend her life ; and again he 
refused the things she begged for unless she would submit 
to the Church. Joan said — 

' If I die in this prison I beg you to have me buried 
in holy ground ; if you will not, I cast myself upon my 
Saviour.' 

There was some more conversation of the like sort, 

then Cauchon demanded again, and imperiously, that she 
submit herself and all her deeds to the Church. His 
threatening and storming went for nothing. That body 
was weak, but the spirit in it was the spirit of Joan of 
Arc ; and out of that came the steadfast answer which 
these people were already so familiar with and detested so 
sincerely — 

' Let come what may, I will neither do nor say any 
otherwise than I have said already in your tribunals.' 

Then the good theologians took turn about and worried 
her with reasonings and arguments and Scriptures ; and 
always they held the lure of the Sacraments before her 
famishing soul, and tried to bribe her with them to sur- 
render her mission to the Church's judgment — that is to 
their judgment — as if fAey were the Church ! But it availed 
nothing. I could have told them that beforehand, if they 
had asked me. But they never asked me anything ; I was 
too humble a creature for their notice. 

Then the interview closed with a threat ; a threat of 
fearful import ; a threat calculated to make a Catholic 
Christian feel as if the ground were sinking from under 
him — 

' The Church calls upon you to submit ; disobey, and 
she will abandon you as if you were a pagan ! ' 

Think of being abandoned by the Church ! — that august 
Power in whose hands is lodged the fate of the human 
race ; whose sceptre stretches beyond the furthest constel- 
lation that twinkles in the sky ; whose authority is over 
the millions that live and over the billions that wait trem- 
bling in purgatory for ransom or doom ; whose smile opens 
the gates of Heaven to you, whose frown delivers you to 
the fires of everlasting hell ; a Power whose dominion 
overshadows and belittles earthly empire as earthly empire 
overshadows and belittles the pomps and shows of a 
village. To be abandoned by one's King — yes, that is 
death, and death is much ; but to be abandoned by Rome, 
to be abandoned by the Church ! Ah, death is nothing 


to that, for that is consignment to endless life — and such 
a life ! 

I could see the red waves tossing in that shoreless lake 
of fire, I could see the black myriads of the damned rise 
out of them and struggle and sink and rise again ; and I 
knew that Joan was seeing what I saw, while she paused 
musing ; and I believed that she must yield now, and in 
truth I hoped she would, for these men were able to make 
the threat good and deliver her over to eternal suffering, 
and I knew that it was in their natures to do it. 

But I was foolish to think that thought and hope that 
hope. Joan of Arc was not made as others are made. 
Fidelity to principle, fidelity to truth, fidelity to her word, 
all these were in her bone and in her flesh — they were 
parts of her. She could not change, she could not cast 
them out. She was the very genius of Fidelity, she was 
Steadfastness incarnated. Where she had taken her stand 
and planted her foot, there she would abide ; hell itself 
could not move her from that place. 

Her Voices had not given her permission to make the 
sort of submission that was required, therefore she would 
stand fast. She would wait, in perfect obedience, let come 
what might. 

My heart was like lead in my body when I went out 
from that dungeon ; but she — she was serene, she was not 
troubled. She had done what she believed to be her duty, 
and that was sufiicient ; the consequences were not; her 
affair. The last thing she said, that time, was full of this 
serenity, full of contented repose — 

' I am a good Christian born and baptized, and a good 
Christian I will die.' 

CHAPTER XV 

Two weeks went by ; the second of May was come, the 
chill was departed out of the air, the wild flowers were 
springing in the glades and glens, the birds were piping in 
 the woods, all nature was brilliant with sunshine, all spirits 
were renewed and refreshed, all hearts glad, the world was 
alive with hope and cheer, the plain beyond the Seine 
stretched away soft and rich and green, the river was 
limpid and lovely, the leafy islands were dainty to see, and 
flung still daintier reflections of themselves upon the shin- 
ing water ; and from the tall bluffs above the bridge Rouen 
was become again a delight to the eye, the most exquisite 
and satisfying picture of a town that nestles under the 
arch of heaven anywhere. 

When I say that all hearts were glad and hopeful, I 
mean it in a general sense. There were exceptions — we 
who were the friends of Joan of Arc, also Joan of Arc 
herself, that poor girl shut up there in that frowning 
stretch of mighty walls and towers : brooding in darkness 
so close to the flooding downpour of sunshine yet so im- 
possibly far away from it ; so longing for any little glimpse 
of it, yet so implacably denied it by those wolves in the 
black gowns who were plotting her death and the blacken- 
ing of her good name. 

Cauchon was ready to go on with his miserable work. 
He had a new scheme to try, now. He would see what 
persuasion could do — argument, eloquence, poured out 
upon the incorrigible captive from the mouth of a trained 
expert. That was his plan. But the reading of the 
Twelve Articles to her was not a part of it. No, even 
Cauchon was ashamed to lay that monstrosity before her ; 
even he had a remnant of shame in him, away down deep, 
a million fathoms deep, and that remnant asserted itself 
now and prevailed. 

On this fair second of May, then, the black company 
gathered itself together in the spacious chamber at the 
end of the great hall of the castle — the Bishop of Beauvais 
on his throne, and sixty-two minor judges massed before 
him, with the guards and recorders at their stations and 
the orator at his desk. 

Then we heard the far clank of chains, and presently 

Joan entered with her keepers and took her seat upon her 
isolated bench. She was looking well, now, and most fair 
and beautiful after her fortnight's rest from wordy perse- 
cution. 

She glanced about and noted the orator. Doubtless 
she divined the situation. 

The orator had written his speech all out, and had it 
in his hand, though he held it back of him out of sight. 
It was so thick that it resembled a book. He began 
flowingly, but in the midst of a flowery period his 
memory failed him and he had to snatch a furtive glance 
at his manuscript — which much injured the effect. Again 
this happened, and then a third time. The poor man's 
face was red with embarrassment, the whole great house 
was pitying him, which made the matter worse ; then Joan 
dropped in a remark which completed his trouble. She 
said : 

' Read your book — and then I will answer you ! ' 

Why, it was almost cruel the way those mouldy vete- 
rans laughed ; and as for the orator, he looked so flustered 
and helpless that almost anybody would have pitied him, 
and I had difficulty to keep from doing it myself. Yes, 
Joan was feeling very well after her rest, and the native 
mischief that was in her lay near the surface. It did not 
show, when she made the remark, but I knew it was close 
in there back of the words. 

When the orator had gotten back his composure he 
did a wise thing ; for he followed Joan's advice : he made 
no more attempts at sham impromptu oratory, but read 
his speech straight from his ' book.' In the speech he com- 
pressed the Twelve Articles into six and made these his text. 

Every now and then he stopped and asked questions, 
and Joan replied. The nature of the church militant was 
explained, and once more Joan was asked to submit herself 
to it. 

She gave her usual answer. 

Then she was asked — 


' Do you believe the Church can err ? ' 

' I believe it cannot err ; but for those deeds and words 
of mine which were done and uttered by command of God, 
I will answer to Him alone.' 

' Will you say that you have no judge upon earth ? Is 
not our Holy Father the Pope your judge ? ' 

' I will say nothing to you about it. I have a good 
Master who is our Lord, and to Him I will submit all.' 

Then came these terrible words : 

' If you do not submit to the Church you will be pro- 
nounced a heretic by these judges here present and burned 
at the stake ! ' 

Ah, that would have smitten you or me dead with fright, 
but it only roused the lion heart of Joan of Arc, and in her 
answer rang that martial note which had used to stir her 
soldiers like a bugle-call— 

' I will not say otherwise than I have said already ; and 
if I saw the fire before me I would say it again ! ' 

It was uplifting to hear her battle-voice once more and 
see the battle-light burn in her eye. Many there were 
stirred ; every man that was a man was stirred, whether 
friend or foe ; and Manchon risked his life again, good 
soul, for he wrote in the margin of the record in good plain 
letters these brave words : ' Superba responsio ! ' and there 
they have remained these sixty years, and there you may 
read them to this day. 

' Superba responsio I ' Yes, it was just that. For this 
' superb answer ' came from the lips of a girl of nineteen 
with death and hell staring her in the face. 

Of course the matter of the male attire was gone over 
again, and as usual at wearisome length ; also, as usual, 
the customary bribe was offered : if she would discard that 
dress voluntarily they would let her hear mass. But she 
answered as she had often answered before — 

' I will go in a woman's robe to all services of the church 
if I may be permitted, but I will resume the other dress 
when I return to my cell.' 

They set several traps for her in a tentative forrtl ; that 
is to say, they placed supposititious propositions before her 
and cunningly tried to commit her to one end of the pro- 
positions without committing themselves to the other. 
But she always saw the game and spoiled it. The trap 
was in this form — 

' Would you be willing to do so and so if we should 
give you leave ? ' 

Her answer was always in this form or to this effect : 

' When you give me leave, then you will know.' 

Yes, Joan was at her best that second of May. She 
had all her wits about her, and they could not catch her 
anywhere. It was a long, long session, and all the old 
ground was fought over again, foot by foot, and the orator- 
expert worked all his persuasions, all his eloquence ; but 
the result was the familiar one — a drawn battle, the sixty- 
two retiring upon their base, the solitary enemy holding 
her original position within her original lines. 



CHAPTER XVI 

The brilliant weather, the heavenly weather, the bewitch- 
ing weather made everybody's heart to sing, as I have told 
you ; yes, Rouen was feeling light-hearted and gay, and 
most willing and ready to break out and laugh upon the 
least occasion ; and so when the news went around that 
the young girl in the tower had scored another defeat 
against Bishop Cauchon there was abundant laughter — 
abundant laughter among the citizens of both parties, for 
they all hated the Bishop. It is true, the English-hearted 
majority of the people wanted Joan burned, but that did not 
keep them from laughing at the man they hated. It would 
have been perilous for anybody to laugh at the English 
chiefs or at the majority of Cauchon's assistant judges, but 
to laugh at Cauchon or D'Estivet and Loyseleur was safe 
— nobody would report it. 



The difference between Cauchon and cochon  was not 
noticeable in speech, and so there was plenty of opportu- 
tunity for puns : the opportunities were not thrown away. 

Some of the jokes got well worn in the course of two 
or three months, from repeated use ; for every time Cauchon 
started a new trial the folk said ' The sow has littered  
again ; ' and every time the trial failed they said it over 
again, with its other meaning, ' The hog has made a mess 
of it.' 

And so, on the third of May, Noel and I, drifting about 
the town, heard many a wide-mouthed lout let go his joke 
and his laugh, and then move to the next group, proud of 
his wit, and happy to work it off again — 

' 'Ods blood, the sow has littered five times, and five 
times has made a mess of it ! ' 

And now and then one was bold enough to say — but he 
said it softly — 

' Sixty-three and the might of England against a girl, 
and she camps on the field five times ! ' 

Cauchon lived in the great palace of the Archbishop, 
and it was guarded by English soldiery ; but no matter, 
there was never a dark night but the walls showed, next 
morning, that the rude joker had been there with his paint 
and brush. Yes, he had been there, and had smeared 
the sacred walls with pictures of hogs in all attitudes ex- 
cept flattering ones ; hogs clothed in a Bishop's vestments 
and wearing a Bishop's mitre irreverently cocked on the 
side of their heads. 

Cauchon raged and cursed over his defeats and his 
impotence during seven days, then he conceived a new 
I scheme. You shall see what it was ; for you have not 
cruel hearts, and you would never guess it. 

On the ninth of May there was a summons, and Man- 
chon and I got our materials together and started. But 
this time we were to go to one of the other towers — not 

' Hog, pig. 

Cochonner to litter, to farrow ; also, ' to make a mess of ! ' 



the one which was Joan's prison. It was round and grim 
and massive, and built of the plainest and thickest and 
solidest masonry — a dismal and forbidding structure. 

We entered the circular room on the ground floor, and 
I saw what turned me sick — the instruments of torture 
and the executioners standing ready ! Here you have the 
black heart of Cauchon at the blackest, here you have the 
proof that in his nature there was no such thing as pity. 
One wonders if he ever knew his mother or ever had a 
sister. 

Cauchon was there, and the Vice-Inquisitor and the 
Abbot of St. Corneille ; also six others, among them that 
false Loyseleur. The guards were in their places, the rack 
was there, and by it stood the executioner and his aids in 
their crimson hose and doublets, meet colour for their 
bloody trade. The picture of Joan rose before me stretched 
upon the rack, her feet tied to one end of it, her wrists to 
the other, and those red giants turning the windlass and 
pulling her limbs out of their sockets. It seemed to me 
that I could hear the bones snap and the flesh tear apart, 
and I did not see how that body of anointed servants of 
the merciful Jesus could sit there and look so placid and 
indiff"erent. 

After a little, Joan arrived and was brought in. She 
saw the rack, she saw its attendants, and the same picture 
which I had been seeing must have risen in her mind ; but 
do you think she quailed, do you think she shuddered ? 
No, there was no sign of that sort. She straightened her- 
self up, and there was a slight curl of scorn about her lip ; 
but as for fear, she showed not a vestige of it. 

