quite ridiculous that this experiment should last 
only two years. Changes like this would weary 
her. In spite of her courage, a touch of desola 
tion crept over her. 
Willis Barthman was a very exigent lover. He 
had said a month was all the time he could possi 
bly spare from his business without great detri 
ment, and a week of it had gone already. There 
was no need of any great parade. They could go 
to church some day just at the last- 
But Miss Prentice found herself quite a centre 
of attraction. The Otis family were warmly in 
terested. Gifts poured in upon her from pupils 
 
and friends. And then she resolved to be married 
in her own home and have a dainty reception, a 
farewell. 
Thirza liked the plan immensely. The two 
rooms were adorned with their best gear, but the 
flowers showered upon them hid nearly every 
thing. Helen Otis was charming and helpful, 
and Mrs. Otis came to matronize the occasion. 
It was quite the event of the season in their 
circle. Mr. Barthman's fine presence won golden 
opinions. 
He had warmly seconded his betrothed's wish 
that Thirza should at least spend a year or two 
with them to make amends for the despoiling of 
her own pretty home. 
The marriage was in the presence of a few 
choice friends only, but the reception was thronged 
all the afternoon, even when the bride had said 
her good-bye and been whirled away to the station. 
Mrs. Otis insisted upon Thirza spending the night 
with them, but she declared she wanted to be 
alone and think. 
Seth and Clara had been writing importunate 
letters. "Seth's wife was- very poorly and it did 
seem as if Thirza might give them a few weeks 
her own folks, too. Clara was having her house 
altered at last. Mother wasn't strong, and they 
did need her." She could always recall the night 
 
after Nina's marriage. The rooms were heavy 
with the odor of flowers ; it looked like a garden. 
She could not sleep, and she sat by the open win 
dow in a curiously expectant mood, as if with the 
dawn something would happen. 
The only thing that did happen was making up 
her mind to give up her pleasant rooms of which 
she had grown so fond. It could never be the 
same with new people. She would go to Wes- 
thorpe for the summer. After that circumstances 
should guide her. But she had a stranded sort of 
feeling, as if somewhere she must begin life over 
again. There were other women in the world 
perhaps some of them were longing as desperately 
as she to find the real clue through the labyrinth. 
CHAPTER XIV 
THE MAN'S NEED 
" YOU'VE just come in time," declared John 
Kent as he met his wife's sister at the station. 
" Laury can't live through the day. Clara went 
over last night." 
It was the middle of June, and Westhorpe was 
abloom with roses and syringa. There had been 
so much for Thirza to do. Her choicest belong 
ings had gone to the care of the Otis household, 
the others had been boxed and stored. Business 
engagements had to be planned. Then she had 
promised in the coming autumn she would be the 
guest of Mrs. Otis for a month or two, while she 
was settling her future. 
"We're all up in heaps and piles," as they drew 
near the house. Thirza shuddered at the con 
fusion. A tall boy leaned on the gate; the rest 
of the fence had been taken down, and this looked 
queer standing. 
" Mother's come home," he announced; "Aunt 
Laura's dead." 
The unemotional tone shocked Thirza. He 
gave a tug at his cap and a half nod. This was 
Jack, called so to distinguish him from his father. 
" So you have come at last," and Mrs. Kent 
kissed her sister as if it was a seal of condemna 
tion for her dilatoriness. " Poor Laura's gone, 
and she did so want to see you. Seth's about 
wild. What in the world he'll do ! Mother 
Albert's there now. I had to come home. You 
see what a mess we're in." 
Her mother had grown more than two years 
older, Thirza thought. Aunt Abby was more 
wrinkled and crooked; the children had grown, 
and all of them talked together. Clara was tired 
and cross and flung out bits of captiousness. By 
the time the supper table was cleared away and 
the children in bed, Thirza felt that a week must 
have elapsed since she left the city. 
Her mother told her all the news in the evening. 
" Laura had consumption as much as anything. 
She always kept worrying for her baby, an' now 
she's gone to him, poor thing! And what Seth'll 
do I can't see. 'Pears to me he grows more an' 
more careless like, clear discouraged, I s'pose, with 
such luck. He's took up some money, and what 
he'll do about the farm I can't see. If I was a 
younger woman I'd take hold and help him, but I 
ain't very strong now, an' I don't know how Clara'd 
ever manage with the mending if I wa'n't here." 
 
Thirza went out to the farm the next morning. 
Seth broke down when he saw her. He had 
aged unaccountably. Mrs. Albert and one of her 
married daughters were staying on until after the 
funeral. The little girls had gone back to their 
forlorn aspect, and Edith had forgotten Aunt 
Thirza, who had once roused her love. 
" Seth ain't had a bit of management," declared 
Mrs. Albert, complainingly. " All poor Laura's 
money has been frittered away. Her grand 
mother might as well have divided it among all 
the girls, and some of it would have done good. 
'Twas for her name, you know. And Seth raised 
money on a mor'gage, to pay up some debts and 
give Clara hers; and he doesn't seem to make a 
livin', let alone money. Our old house is sold, so 
I've a little money for my old age ; but it is a shame 
about all of Laura's. Some one will have to come 
here, too. I -can't stay. Mary's goin' in her new 
house, and I'm to have the ell part. I want my own 
home. So we shall be most of the summer settlin'. 
I don't see how he could afford a housekeeper. 
But Laura's folks have done their full share ; and 
we ain't any on us rich, to say, though I've got 
enough to keep me without bein' beholden." 
Thirza was glad when the melancholy rites were 
over and Mrs. Albert had gone home. But what 
was Seth to do ? 
" I couldn't even take the children to tide over," 
said Clara. " We've hardly a place for ourselves. 
I should feel it my duty to go there if I was 
single. I don't suppose you'll marry now, Thirza, 
if you haven't had chances in the city. You're 
quite getting along. And it does seem as if you 
might spare a month or two to your own kin in 
sorrow as well as to go pleasuring about. We 
haven't asked much of you. I must say I think 
you've had a pretty easy time." 
" Have I asked anything of you, or mother, or 
Seth ? " returned Thirza, with spirit. " I have 
been earning my own living." 
" And spending your legacy ! " 
" What I have spent I have made good again. 
It seems to me I have the same right to my own 
life as you or Seth. Being single does not make 
any difference. You both chose to marry. I 
have the same right of choice." 
" It does make a difference," declared Clara, illog- 
ically. " Old maids are expected to fill up the 
chinks, and have a little care for people in trouble." 
" I am not old enough to be forced into any 
chink just yet," returned Thirza, with a touch of 
spirit. " Laura's sisters stand in the same posi 
tion in regard to the children." 
" They're not single. They have families of 
their own; and their first duty is to them." 
 
There was no use arguing with Clara. A single 
woman, in her estimation, had no right to herself, 
but must be at every one's beck and call. 
Seth's disconsolate pleading touched her. She 
had thought to spend the summer in Westhorpe. 
"You do not understand," she said to her 
brother, and she felt the hopelessness of making 
him see through her eyes. " I have accepted a 
business life, and my whole heart is in it. I have 
made engagements that I must keep. It would 
be a great sacrifice to give them up for six months 
or a year. If I do remain, I must do my own 
work as well. I could only supervise. A working 
housekeeper might be less expense." 
" But I'll do everything in my power, if you will 
only stay. I've never forgotten how smoothly 
things went that summer you were here, when 
Laura was ill. I've wanted you so this summer 
in all the trouble." Seth Rolfe wiped some tears 
out of his eyes. It moved Thirza deeply. 
"If you would only stay until Mrs. Albert could 
come," he pleaded. " I can't be left alone with 
strange people. Sometimes I feel like selling out 
everything and taking a fresh start elsewhere. I 
don't seem to have any luck here at Westhorpe. 
And there's Palmer going ahead like a steam 
engine, making money in his mill and everywhere. 
Queer about his wife, that she couldn't be content. 
She didn't do anything but drive around in her 
phaeton. And that she should take to theatre 
dancing ! But she agreed that women had a right 
to do what they were best fitted for, and if the 
stories are true, she wasn't much loss as a house 
keeper. There had to be two or three servants 
all the time." 
" And if I come, there will have to be a servant 
here," rejoined Thirza. " I couldn't give up the 
work I have promised. I dare say people will 
think me extravagant." 
She gave a soft little laugh. 
" If you'll only stay ! You can't imagine how 
lost and forlorn I feel." That plea was his sheet 
anchor. 
Besides the kindliness, it would give her time to 
plan out her own life a little, and, like Seth, she 
had rather a lost feeling. So she decided to re 
main awhile, yielding to the pressure. That she 
looked up suitable help did not surprise Mrs. 
Kent, though she counselled her not to run Seth 
too much in debt. 
" I shall pay her wages myself. Seth will only 
give her her living. It would be too great a sac 
rifice to waste my time about the house." 
" And of course you have forgotten all you did 
know. But we were brought up first-class house 
keepers, and I never felt second to anybody. If 
I had been a poor manager, John Kent wouldn't 
have prospered as he has, but when a woman sets 
out not to marry, of course she doesn't keep up in 
such matters." 
Clara had not cordially forgiven her sister in the 
matter of Chris Morrow. He had married a girl 
from an adjoining town, quite an heiress, a common 
place, rather pretty girl whose complacency stood 
her in the stead of education, and who, like Chris, 
thought money the great thing. But then Thirza 
had some money as well. And Clara felt curiously 
aggrieved that Thirza should keep her youthful 
looks, that her figure should be slim and graceful, 
and that the best people of the town should pay 
her such deference. Not that she thought any one 
really better than herself. She didn't care for all 
this talk about higher education. Her girls would 
be trained to make good wives and mothers. 
Thirza's touch was soon apparent in Seth Rolfe's 
home. Order, neatness, and regularity began to 
reign. Martha White had been living at the Pal 
mers', and though she was not much of a gossip, 
now and then she spoke of some infelicity, and 
wondered how Mr. Palmer could have been so 
patient and indulgent. 
While the children were at school, Thirza devoted 
herself to her work, and took now and then a 
part of the night, for she had been interrupted 
so much. But as an offset she had been working 
steadily all the spring. She had quite a reputation 
now, and could make her own selections. She 
found herself in demand in the town. There was 
a Ladies' Club much interested in social advance 
ments. The former Book Club had merged into 
a promising Free library, to which some of the well- 
to-do men had subscribed liberally. The churches 
had received a new impetus, and the plans for 
the Academy had been a success from the start. 
They talked of this, one evening, when Palmer 
was over. He dropped in quite often. How 
much he had improved, she thought, or had she 
been a little blind to his possibilities ? 
" Ward had half a mind to go away, at one time," 
Palmer said, glancing furtively at her. " The spirit 
of unrest was strong upon him. I think he could 
make a mark somewhere." 
" But why not make it here ? I am sure he is 
giving tone and character to the town. You have 
all done much in the matter of improvement. You 
are making Westhorpe a delightful place in the 
broader sense," and her interest shone in her 
face. " When I have realized my fortune I think 
I shall come back here and spend my leisure years. 
Such a dream is the avant coureur of old age, I 
believe," giving a gay little laugh. 
She did not show any indications of advancing 
 
age, he thought. Was it the intelligence of her 
life that kept her so fresh and sweet, her definite 
ambitions, and working them out that had added 
force and breadth to her character? She was a 
really lovely woman ; why should not Bernard 
Ward win her? Or was she meant to stand 
alone, to be sufficient for herself? 
" I am glad you care enough about us to dream 
of coming back. I thought the city's gleam and 
glare had fascinated you." 
" There are infinite points of interest in a great 
city. There are schools of every sort, teachers 
of every degree. There is the richness of many 
knowledges, there is entertainment, there is amuse 
ment of which one need only take the merest sip 
if one has the courage to be resolute. But its 
changes weary one, dishearten one, I might say. 
You make friends this year, and next year they 
may be on the other side of the continent. I 
am fond of permanency." 
His eyes kindled, his whole face softened. 
" Then you could be satisfied to come back here, 
if we go on improving the town to your liking ? " 
and he gave a cordial, yet retrospective kind 
of laugh, as if his question had some meaning 
in it. 
She colored with a touch of embarrassment, and 
said gravely : " I have always loved country places. 
I would not like to think my whole life must be 
spent in the city." 
Did it not argue well for Bernard Ward ? " Do 
you ever hear from " Thirza hesitated. She 
wanted to bring him back to a remembrance of his 
own duties. He should not be tempted, through 
her, to forget. 
"From Bessie?" His tone was very low. 
" Not in a long time. The company have been 
touring in Western cities, and expect to go South 
for a while. I think there is some prospect of 
their going abroad." 
" None of her return ? " 
He rose and began to pace the floor softly. 
They were quite alone. 
" No," he answered, with a slow decisiveness. 
" The life suits her. She is perfectly happy. She 
ridicules the idea of temptations, of dangers. 
Thirza, I have had no woman friend through all 
this time. When she first went away, I wanted to 
ask you to watch over her and keep me informed, 
but they left the city, and I had to trust her sense 
of propriety. Before that she had proposed a 
divorce." 
Thirza shuddered a little, and he noted it. 
" Perhaps I can never make any one understand 
how I came to marry her. I believe I was a good 
deal charmed with her, just at first. I thought 
 
Aunt Hannah quite hard with her. Then those 
people came. Thirza, that summer and the talks 
with you two girls made a curious difference in all 
my thoughts and aims. Perhaps Ward had begun 
it. We had been such friends, and his estimate of 
my^ capabilities would have been flattering to some 
young men. I hardly believed it. I had experi 
enced no particular want, but then a great, strange, 
tangled mass of thought seemed to pervade every 
pulse of my being, as if I was on the verge of some 
wonderful illumination. I wanted knowledge of all 
kinds. I began to study, read, and plan, and the 
new business projects crossed my path. My am 
bition was roused." 
His face was transfigured with the light of en 
ergy, the force and dignity of an earnest nature 
absorbed in a serious determination to achieve 
higher resolves than any it had hitherto enter 
tained. It was a fine face, and he had improved 
immeasurably. 
" I did truly believe she loved me. I was not 
flattered ; I think I was sorry it should be so. 
And at the crisis I did not see what was to be 
done. I was afraid to send her away to fight for 
herself. I don't believe she would have gone, 
then. So I married her. I had only a vague idea 
of love, but I think I knew, even then, what wor 
ship might be." 
He was not looking at her, but engrossed with 
some inward sight that seemed to remove him 
from her half-suspicion, half-fear. 
" If we could have waited. She saw her mis 
take first, I fancy, and fretted against it. There 
was nothing in my life that gave her any pleasure. 
Thirza, believe that I tried to love her, to make 
her happy. It could not be undone. People do 
outlive dissatisfactions. Incongruous natures get 
toned to each other." 
" I do believe you," Thirza said solemnly. 
" She made a friend a woman who boarded 
at Westhorpe " 
" Mrs. Lowndes ? Yes. One of those restless 
women always searching after novelties and excite 
ments, and keeping a certain position in spite of 
some unfavorable gossip." 
"She was an injudicious friend for my poor 
Bessie. She had a relative who was an actress, 
and they made the way possible and pleasant to 
her. She likes the life. I can offer no induce 
ment for her return. She has once or twice 
pleaded for freedom. When the law's demands 
have been complied with I may entertain the idea, 
but I shall wait the appointed time, unless she 
takes the matter in her own hands." 
Thirza drew a long breath. He had not asked 
for counsel. His way was straight and plain before 
 
him. He would not burden any friend with his 
perplexities. But he longed for a certain friendli 
ness to cheer him as he walked under the shadows. 
She could give it, and she had a feeling now that 
it would not be misunderstood. He had the full 
sympathy of Westhorpe, she knew well. 
She pondered occasionally on these two women 
who had made such wrecks of their lives. Laura's 
weak and inefficient nature, with its mistaken ideas 
of wifely love, a passionate sense of motherhood 
with no practical knowledge, but a shallow self- 
complacency that she considered experience. She 
had not only wasted her own brief life, shortened 
it as well, but nearly ruined another. Would Seth 
ever recover from the influence of these years ? 
It seemed a better thing that Bessie should take 
the matter in her own hands and go away, regain 
her freedom sometime, and leave Palmer to work 
out a new destiny on the lines he was considering 
for himself. Already he was one of the rising 
men of the town. 
Mrs. Albert could not come, as she had partly 
arranged. The farm was sold, the furniture 
divided, and then one of the daughters in a neigh 
boring state fell ill and sent for her. But Thirza 
was deeply interested in the children. Edith, who 
had a curious, passionate nature, moved deeply by 
music and poetry, possessing a remarkable if un- 
trained voice, was a child with many possibilities, 
and the saddest that of being misunderstood. She 
was considered a dull scholar, yet there were some 
things she seemed to understand by a rare intui 
tion. Thirza's heart warmed curiously to her. 
Hazel was much brighter in a commonplace 
fashion. 
But Thirza found matters bad enough with 
Seth. He was very much disheartened, and it did 
not seem possible for him to hold on to the farm 
and recover himself. 
They went over the affairs in a very thorough 
manner. Nothing had prospered with him, and he 
had dropped to the depths of a man who believes 
he was born for bad luck. Once he proposed she 
should buy the farm. He would work it. 
The old place ! For a moment the thought 
thrilled her. Yet it was not the home of her 
childish imagination. She would rather be farther 
in town. And to depend upon vascillating Seth ! 
" I feel as if I would like to sell out the 
whole thing and take a fair start somewhere 
else," he said, one evening. " When a man gets 
into a rut, it's best to have a change. I never 
shall be any success here. Do you remember 
the Irvings who went to Oxford ? You went 
to school with Ruth and Fanny." 
" Yes ; Ruth was married long ago." Thirza 
 
smiled a little. "Jennie was very bright and 
capable." 
" Ruth's husband has a great tract of land 
in Pasadena. He is prospering tremendously. 
Fanny went out there and married. Mrs. Irving 
died about two years ago, I think. There's Jen 
nie, Louise, and their father left. The boys are 
all married, and they think of going out" 
The Irving girls were healthy, good-natured, 
and industrious, at least as she remembered the 
older ones. There was a long silence. Then 
he cleared his throat and said : " I've half a 
mind to try life in a new place. I'm young 
enough to take a fresh start." 
" Yes, quite young enough." She glanced him 
over. He had improved in his few months of 
widowerhood. He had gained some flesh ; he 
held up his head with more assurance. Of 
course, he would marry again, sometime. 
" I'm tired of all this. I've got down, and 
it's hard getting up. There would be the chil 
dren to consider." 
"Seth," she put her soft hand over on his, 
" will you give me Edith ? She's a peculiar 
child ; everybody wouldn't understand her, and 
you might not be able to do what is best for 
her. She will have a fine voice, and she has 
a passionate love for music. It is doubtful if 
 
I marry ; but I shall always keep a home, and 
I shall be able to educate Edith." 
" You are awful good," he said, in a broken, 
childish fashion, his voice husky with emotion. 
" I was thinking of the children. Clara couldn't 
take them ; but the Alberts might awhile, until 
I could send or come back for them. Poor 
Laura was so fond of them ! " and he gave a 
soft, regretful sigh. 
Thirza was more assured. He had gone over 
the plan before, that was evident. 
" Then give me Edith. Laura would consent 
if she could. It will be a great interest in my 
life, something to live for, to work for." 
" See here, Thirza, you ought to be married 
and have children of your own. You have so 
many sweet, motherly ways," he exclaimed, with 
deep emotion. 
" Then you wil] feel the safer in trusting her 
to me. I will care for them both, if you like, 
