by an engine. Yes, there are a good many strange 
things. And steamships crossing the ocean. 
There used to be sailing-vessels, and it took such 
a long while.' 
;  
Hanny told grandmother about her friend who 
had gone abroad ; and grandmother, in return, told 
her about some Welsh ancestors who had to fly for 
their lives on account of being mixed up with some 
insurrection about a young prince, and the stormy 
time they had coming over,- -how they were driven 
up and down the coast, and their voyage consumed 
two months. They were almost out of provisions, 
and suffered many hardships. So the wisdom of 
the world had amounted to something. 
The children came in. They were going up the 
road, and didn't Hanny want to join them? Mrs. 
Odell said they must not stay very long, she was 
going home before supper. 
There was a protest about this ; but Mrs. Odell 
said there were people and children enough with- 
out them, and she had told her husband they 
would be home to supper. 
" Do we go by the poet's house? " Hanny asked 
as they passed the cross-road. 
"The poet?' Two or three of the children 
stared blankly. 
" Oh, Hanny means that Mr. Poe. Why, yes; 
it's the old Cromwell house. It isn't much to 
see. There, that little cottage." 
No, it was not much to see, - - a very bird's nest 
house with a great tree shading it, and a little 
porch at the side. A rather thin elderly woman 
sat sewing in a rocking-chair. She did not even 
look up at the children. 
They were full of fun and nonsense, and pres- 
ently were joined by two neighbouring girls. They 
went up by the old church, and then they wan- 
dered to the graveyard. It was a rather neglected 
place, as country graveyards were wont to be at 
that time. Some red clovers were in bloom, and 
a few belated buttercups. The trees were rather 
straggling, a few magnificent in their age. There 
were long-armed rose-trees that had done their 
best in the earlier season, a few wild roses, pale 
from growing in the shade, and the long slender 
blades of grass fell about in very weakness. There 
were some curious inscriptions ; there were places 
where relatives of several of the children were 
buried. 
"Oh, Hanny, come here," said Cousin Ann. 
" That Mr. Poe's wife is buried here. It 's the 
Valentine plot. They 're going to take her away 
sometime. They 're all very poor, you know. She 
died in the winter. People said she was beauti- 
ful ; but," Ann lowered her voice, - - " they were 
awful poor, and it is said she didn't have comfort- 
able things. I should hate to be so poor; shouldn't 
you?" 
Hanny shuddered. She was glad to get out in 
the sunshine again with her few wild flowers in her 
hand. 
Bessie Valentine made them come in and have a 
chunk of cake, and it was a chunk indeed. Those 
who liked had a glass of buttermilk. 
Cousin Jennie had gone up to the corner to look 
for them. Hanny espied her, and ran forward. 
" Oh," she cried, " I 've seen the house where 
Mr. Poe lives. And we went in the grave- 
yard. Who was the other lady sitting on the 
porch?" 
" That was Mrs. Clemm. I go up there to 
borrow books ; and I like Mr. Foe, only - - well, he 
is rather unfortunate." 
"Was she so beautiful? " asked the child, irrele- 
vantly. 
"Mrs. Poe? Yes; I think she must have been. 
She looked like a small white wraith - - do you 
know what a wraith is? " smilingly. 
" A kind of ghost. And were they very poor? ' 
" It 's a sad story. I think they were proud as 
well, for any one would have come in and done 
any needed thing. They had friends in the city 
who used to visit them. Mrs. Clemm was Mrs. 
Foe's mother and the poet's aunt; and it is said 
Annabel Lee means his wife. It 's a wild, musical 
thing. Every story or poem of his has a curious 
ghostly sound." 
"But- -the high-born kinsman - 
The little girl's eyes were vague and puzzled. 
" You can't understand it. Poets say queer 
things. I 'm not fond of poetry, only here and 
there. And the stories make you shiver. You 
wouldn't like them. He has all sorts of books, and 
he is very generous with them. We 've planned 
that you are to come up and stay a week with us. 
Some of the folks are going away, and there will 
be plenty of room." 
Hanny squeezed her hand. The throng of chil- 
dren ran over the grassy path from the shop ; and 
they all began to clamour that Polly and Janey 
should come up Saturday and go crabbing with 
them. 
Mrs. Odell said she 'd see, if they could get their 
work done in time. 
There was a hubbub of good-byes, and the small 
cavalcade started down the road. 
' 
CHAPTER X 
WITH A POET 
THE city by the sea sung itself in Hanny's brain. 
The sweet, young, beautiful wife, ruthlessly torn 
away, was somewhere in space, among the stars 
perhaps, and not in the old graveyard. She was 
floating on and on amidst all lovely things and 
divine fragrances. She could never grow old ; she 
would never want for anything. Ah, would she 
not want for the mother and the poet who loved 
her? 
An incident that had moved her strongly only a 
few weeks before, was a strange bit of reminiscence 
that could hardly be called a story. Ben had 
brought home a volume of De Otiincey, and 
* Suspiria de Profundis ' was among the papers. 
The others were too intellectual to interest her; 
but the touching, tender, immeasurable longing 
for the little sister gone out of life, filled her in- 
most soul with an emotion so sacred she could not 
talk it over with any one. This was akin to it. 
Yet Hanny did not live in the clouds or in 
vague memories all the time. Her father drove 
up the next day, and found she was not homesick ; 
and her mother was coming up the next week to 
spend the day ; and everybody was well. She had 
a great deal to tell him ; and she seemed very 
merry. He wasn't quite sure about the crabbing 
expedition ; but Mrs. Odell said there wasn't a 
mite of danger, for some of the big boys always 
went along ; and that it was a regular frolic for the 
children. 
So Saturday they put on their oldest clothes. 
Hanny wore an outgrown frock of Polly's. Mr. 
Odell said he would drive them down to the river, 
which would save half the walk. He had some 
business in that direction. 
He had the farm-waggon, and put some hay in 
the bottom, though he insisted Hanny should sit 
on the seat with him. They stopped at Fordham, 
and took in another relay; and the children were 
wild with the unreasoning gladness of youth. Mr. 
Odell was in an uncommon good-humour, and 
took them down the river quite a distance, to High 
Bridge, and then up again, when they espied the 
boys and baskets and the net, which had a long 
handle and looked to Hanny like a butterfly-net, 
only larger. 
A motley crew they were. The boys had their 
trousers rolled above their knees, and some of the 
girls took off their shoes and stockings and waded 
about in the wet, sedgy grass. There was a little 
dock where the boats were tied ; and soon two of 
them were loosened and filled up with a jolly crew. 
Big, cheerful Cousin Ben took charge of the little 
girl, and would not allow the others to frighten 
her. Ann was quite a famous hand on these 
expeditions. 
 
They rowed out a short distance, and then began 
business. Oh, the shrieks and laughter that came 
from the other boat, when some one dipped up 
two hands full of water and dashed it over the 
others. And it is strange how much you can 
make your hands hold at such a time. Hanny 
was glad she was not in that boat, when they rocked 
it up and down. But most of the children could 
swim, and they were not in the channel. 
" Quick ! ' exclaimed Cousin Ann, and the net 
was held out in a twinkling. Ann drew up a great 
green fellow with a frightful lot of legs, and he 
dropped in the net. They dumped him into a 
basket, and covered him with a piece of old fish- 
net ; and the more he struggled to get out, the 
more he entangled himself. Hanny felt rather 
glad he was not down her end of the boat. 
They had brilliant luck for a little while. Then 
the other boat shifted about ; they had not caught 
a single crab, and there were loud murmurs of dis- 
content. The others had the best place. 
" You make such a racket you frighten them 
away," said Ben. 
" Can they hear? ' asked Hanny. 
" I think about everything in this world can see 
and hear in some fashion." 
They certainly were dreadful looking. The 
laughter and the exclamations, the disappointment 
at losing one, the funny conundrums the children 
propounded to one another, and the limp appear- 
ance of the voyagers, partly made amends for the 
sudden fright every time the great sprawling things 
came up. Hanny would not even undertake the 
capture of one. 
The crabs grew wise presently. Not one of 
them could be aroused to the faintest curiosity 
concerning bait. Ben's boat had nineteen, the 
other eleven. They rowed up to the little dock, 
and managed to get them all in one basket. Jack 
showed Hanny how you could take hold of a crab, 
and render him helpless. It certainly did look 
funny to see him struggling with all his might and 
main, and his numerous legs. The two front ones 
were very fierce. 
" He could give you an awful pinch with them," 
said Jack ; and he made believe fling him at a 
group of girls, who scattered pellmell. 
" I suppose the legs are oars, and help him swim," 
said Hanny. 
" And help him grab his prey. He 's a sort of 
savage fellow, and lives on smaller folks." 
Then Ben and Jack went to dig for clams. 
There were very nice clam and oyster beds along 
the river then. There were not many people to 
disturb them, and no sewage to starve them out. 
Hanny thought planting oysters a very funny 
idea. They were put in their beds like other 
babies. 
The boys, and some of the girls, picked up the 
clams, until they had a half-bushel basket full. 
Tony Creese, the black man who did odd jobs, was 
to drive down for the " freight; ' but he seemed in 
no hurry. Some of the boys went in swimming; 
and Janey Odcll did wish she had brought another 
 
frock along. She could swim very well. They 
waded instead. Ben walked up to a little bank 
that, having lain in the sun all day, was warm and 
dry, and stretched himself out. Ann was too big 
to go 'Marking" about with the girls, so she and 
Hanny, and one or two others, sat down on the 
soft, sunburned turf. 
How beautiful it all was ! The sun was going 
down behind the New Jersey hills. The little rise 
of ground between this and the Hudson shut out 
the river ; but it could not shut out the amethystine 
splendour. Back of it all was heaven, to the child's 
faith. Miss Lois and her sister were there, and 
old Mr. Bounett, and the poet's young wife, and 
ever so many others. It was only the other side 
of the clouds, with their scarlet and gold and green 
battlements. She could see the ships sailing into 
port. She recalled " Pilgrim's Progress," and 
Christiana going across. In that moment of 
ecstasy she could have gone herself. 
Tony came down the road singing " Oh, Susan- 
nah ; ' Ben answered " Hillo ! ' and shook himself 
like a great bear. The two baskets were put into 
the waggon. 
" Now you girls who are too delicate for a long 
walk, or too much worn out by your day's toil, 
had better hop in. Ann, you go and keep an eye 
on Hanny. Now who else ? ' 
They were all pretty tired with their racing 
about, and the three smallest ones were picked 
out, as there was but one horse. The others formed 
the rear-guard, and marched on behind, with their 
arms about each other. They were too tired for 
even the tempting game of " tag," or the ambition 
of running races. 
Mr. Odell was waiting at the uncle's, having 
come around the other way. Supper was ready ; 
but he thought they had better be " gettin' on," as 
mother would wait supper for them. 
Hanny was very tired, and went to bed immedi- 
ately after the meal. 
They had some splendid clam-fritters for break- 
fast. Ben had proposed to divide the crabs ; but 
Mr. Odell reckoned, "He'd go crabbing the first 
leisure day," and was satisfied with part of the 
clams. 
And then, unexpected delight, Stephen and 
Dolly and the two babies came up to dinner. 
Little Stevie captured everybody, he was so merry 
and cunning ; and Polly wished they could keep him. 
" When he gets to be a big boy, and has a school 
vacation, I 'll be very glad to send him up, I dare 
say," was the response. 
"But, dear me, we'll be big too," said Polly; 
" and it won't be any fun." 
Dolly told her little sister-in-law all the news, 
and what everybody was doing. It seemed as if 
she had been away so long. Mother had spent a 
day with Martha, which she had been promising 
to do ever since Martha was married. 
The little girl almost wanted to go home with 
them ; but no one invited her, and she would not 
have been so silly or ungracious as to plead home- 
sickness, for she really wasn't homesick a bit. 
Then, on Tuesday, Joe came up with a letter 
from Daisy, who had gone to some German baths, 
and was drinking water twice as horrid as that at 
Saratoga. The things you had to eat were so very 
queer ; but the music everywhere was perfectly be- 
witching. Everything was so different. She was 
taking lessons of a Fraulein, and had to talk Ger- 
man at the table. They had been through several 
churches, and one picture gallery that was magnifi- 
cent. A little withered-up old German was giving 
her some painting lessons. If Hanny could only 
be there, she would be quite content; yet she did 
think she loved America best. 
Hanny was so delighted that her eyes shone, 
and her cheeks were pink as a rose-leaf. 
But Mrs. Odell said she could notice that her 
appetite was better, and she was doing her best to 
fat her up a little, and make her look like a country 
girl. 
Mr. Odell took her about with him when he 
could. There were so many beautiful places up 
and down the valley of the Bronx. They went up 
to White Plains, and took everybody by surprise. 
Grandmother up there was quite feeble now. 
Then it happened, rather oddly, that when Cousin 
Jennie came down for her, as there was no one 
scarcely at Fordham but the regular family, Mrs. 
Odell was going to have a houseful of relatives 
from the West. She just wished they had their 
new house at such times as these. She could make 
a bed on the floor for Janey and Polly, and that 
would give her two spare rooms. 
The girls didn't feel so badly, as there were two 
Western cousins of their age, and they would bring 
them up to Fordham. 
The little girl was not at all tired of her pleasant 
hosts; but there was a romantic side to the coming 
visit that she could not talk over with Polly and 
Janey ; and she was most famished for reading, as 
the Odells were not of the intellectual sort. Mrs. 
Odell didn't like the children to handle her 
parlour books, in their red morocco bindings, 
that were spread around on the centre-table. 
Hanny's favourite place at the Fordham house 
was up on the high piazza. To be sure, it was 
sunny in the morning; but then Doctor Joe said 
sunshine was good for her, and one corner soon 
grew shady. There was some one passing up and 
down continually : the priests from St. John's Col- 
lege, in their long black coats and queer hats, gen- 
erally reading as they walked ; the labourers who 
worked on the railroad ; the people going to the 
station ; and the girls out calling in the afternoons 
in their pretty white gowns. There was no Jerome 
Park for stylish driving. Indeed, it was a plain 
little country village, and most of the life centred 
about the corner grocery and the blacksmith shop, 
where men talked politics and the discovery of 
California, and discussed the merits of the heroes 
of the Mexican War. 
She sewed some patchwork for Cousin Jennie, 
who was making several bed-quilts, and who had a 
lover,- - a tall, bright-eyed young man who drove 
a very handsome horse. Hanny felt quite wise 
on the subject of lovers ; and though no one said 
anything special, she understood what the prepara- 
tions meant. 
" Now," Cousin Jennie said the next afternoon, 
" I am going up to Mr. Poe's, to return some books 
and get others. Will you go along?' 
Hanny was very glad. She had seen Mr. N. P. 
Willis and General Morris, and some others, on the 
street; but that wasn't like going to their houses. 
The dead young wife lent him a glamour of 
romance, to her girlish imagination. 
Mrs. Clemm sat on the farther end of the porch. 
It almost seemed as if she had not stirred since 
Hanny caught the first glimpse of her. She rose, 
a tall, rather thin woman with a sad, quiet face and 
a grave smile ; and the two had a little chat. 
There was no hall to the house, at least the 
door opened into the front room. A half closet 
stood at one side of the chimney, piled with books 
and papers, an old sofa and some chairs, a table 
in the centre, strewn with pamphlets and writing- 
materials, and the poet sitting beside it in a melan- 
choly pose, marking passages in a book. 
He glanced up and spoke. The little girl had 
an impression of a pallid face framed in dark, 
tumbled hair, and luminous eyes that seemed to be 
of some other world in their abstracted light. 
" You are quite welcome to any of the books, as 
you well know," said the poet. " I am glad to 
have some one interested in them." 
Then the white hand went on turning pages and 
making notes. The little girl stood by the window, 
almost expecting the, frail ghost to walk down from 
the graveyard and enter the door again. Later on, 
she understood the impression of weirdness, the 
almost ghostly stillness of the room ; and she 
found herself thinking over the poem that had 
so impressed her. 
Fordham, in those days, was neither poetical nor 
intellectual. That a man should starve on writing 
poetry, when there was other work to be done in 
the world, seemed rather absurd. In some of the 
centres, literature was becoming an honourable em- 
ployment ; but country places had not emerged from 
the twilight of respect for brawn rather than brain. 
Jennie made her selections, and expressed her 
obligation. The poet nodded absently. 
Mrs. Clemm rose, as they emerged from the 
door, and walked to the end of the porch with 
them. There was something wonderfully pathetic 
in the care-worn face, the reticent air, and gentle 
voice. 
" I wonder if you have a few eggs to spare," she 
asked, in a hesitating manner. " My poor Edgar's 
appetite is so wretched. He has had a bad spell, 
and eats next to nothing." 
"Yes, I can find you half-a-dozen, I know. Our 
hens are afflicted a little with summer laziness," 
and Jennie smiled. " We have been baking to-day, 
and I wish you would accept a loaf of bread. I 'll
send this little cousin up with them." 
" Oh, don't trouble ! I will come down." 
" I shall be glad to do it," said Hanny, with a 
gentle eagerness. 
 
Cousin Jennie put the bread and the eggs, - - she 
found seven, - - and part of a cake, in a little basket, 
and said, " Run along, Little Red Riding Hood. 
There are no wolves to catch you." 
They teased Cousin Jennie a little because the 
tall young man with bright eyes was named Woolf. 
Mrs. Clemm received the little girl's parcel with 
her usual quiet air, and thanked her for coming. 
And before she could hunt up her ever-scanty 
purse the child had said Good-evening, and 
vanished. 
Hanny heard the " spells " rather rudely explained 
a day or two after, and understood the melancholy 
shadow that hung about the house. People were 
not any more delicate in gossiping about their 
neighbour's short-comings then than now, when all 
the little faults and frailties of heroes are paraded 
to the public gaze and comment. 
But the exquisite care with which the mothei 
watched over the son of her heart, made her one 
of the little girl's heroines later on, when she could 
fully appreciate the tender solicitude that tried to 
shield him and save him from temptation, when 
possible, bearing her burthen with such heroic 
dignity that she w r as fain to persuade her own 
soul that she covered it from critical eyes. When 
one woman suffers bravely to the death, amid 
untold privation, and another takes up the dropped 
burthen with a devotion no anxiety can wear out, 
is it not proof that there must have been some 
charm in the poet seen more clearly by those 
who loved him? 
WITH A POET 
There was a new book by Miss Macintosh among 
those they had brought home ; and this Hanny de- 
voured eagerly, sitting on her high perch, while the 
rest were busy in the household routine. In the 
afternoon, she read aloud while the others sewed. 
Sometimes the Major came in to listen ; but he 
thought there were no novels written nowadays 
like " The Mysteries of Udolpho," " The Children 
of the Abbey," and "The Vicar of Wake field." 
" Oh," said the little girl, " isn't this funny ! 
We have the first volume of 'The Grumbler' 
and the second of 'The Grandfather.' I con't 
believe I can piece them together," with a bright, 
mirthful expression. 
" And I picked those up myself. No ; we are 
interested in the ' Grumbler ' now and must know 
what became of him." 
They were English novels by a Miss Pickering, 
long since forgotten, while less worthy ones are 
remembered. 
" We 'll walk up after supper and change them," 
continued Cousin Jennie. 
But visitors came in shortly afterward to stay to 
supper. People were not specially invited then; 
and the hostess did not expect to prepare a feast 
on ordinary occasions. So Jennie said Hanny 
might go up alone, if she didn't mind. 
She started gladly, yet a sense of diffidence 
oppressed her as she stood at the door, a half 
guilty consciousness, as if she had no right to the 
secret Mrs. Clemm was trying so assiduously to 
hide. 
The poet was pacing up and down the room ; 
but his pallid face and strange, shining eyes 
seemed looking out from some other world. Mrs. 
Clemm sat by the window with a magazine in her 
hand. 
Hanny preferred her request timidly. 
" Oh, come in and hunt them up. Your cousin 
is quite welcome to anything. Then there are 
some upstairs, though I brought down that pile 
over in the corner this very morning." 
