wish that he was going. But Jim counted the cost of everything now, for
he was trying to get out of debt.

The coach came up from the Jaspers' and Hanny was put inside. Joe
insisted on sharing the box with the driver.

When Daisy took off her wrap in the dressing-room, she had on a pale
pink silk. Part of her curls were tied up in a bunch on top of her head,
and fastened with a silver arrow and two roses. She would always wear it
in ringlets, or at least until she was so old she wouldn't mind about
her shoulders being not quite straight.

The affair was a banquet primarily. To be sure they gathered in the
Assembly room; and there was Ben, and Delia, who looked very nice and
bright in maize colour and brown.

"Oh, Hanny, you are as lovely as a picture," she whispered
enthusiastically. "But you are a little mite; there is no denying it.
I was so afraid you couldn't come, that something would happen at the
last moment. Miss Cynthia is capital."

Hanny coloured and almost sighed. She might as well give up hoping to be
tall, and accept the fact.

They went into the banquet-room, where there were two long tables. They
passed around to where a circle of men stood, some of them very fine
looking indeed. The advancing group were presented to the great
novelist, and in future years Hanny was to treasure the cordial smile
and pressure of the hand. But he was to come again when the world had
learned to pay him a finer and more discriminating admiration.

His end of the table was literary. The Jasper party were opposite, at
the other one. What brightness and wit spiced the party, they could
gather from the genial laughter. There were toasts and responses that
scintillated with gaiety and touched the border of pathos.

It was long, and of course the younger people who came for the ball were
not compelled to stay. The novelist was to leave at the close of the
dinner. And presently most of the company found their way to the dancing
room, where the band was discoursing enchanting music, and where every
one enjoyed the promenade.

But when the quadrille sets were formed and in motion, Hanny was
enraptured. Ben and Delia were among them. Delia certainly had a
frivolous side to her nature for a genius. She was very fond of fun and
pleasure and dancing, and had no lack of partners all the evening.

Some there were who danced like a fairy dream; others who made blunders
and gave the wrong hand, and betrayed various awkwardnesses. Doctor Joe
found several lady friends, and danced two or three times, then
proposed that Hanny should try, which he was sure "would inspire Daisy
into making the attempt," he said with a persuasive smile.

Hanny was very much afraid out on the large space. But Delia was in the
same set, and her bright merry eyes were full of encouragement. It was
not alarming. Indeed, in five minutes, the music had put a "spirit in
her feet," and she felt quite at home.

Then a friend of Ben's came to ask her; and Doctor Joe sat down to
persuade Daisy. While abroad, she had taken what we should now term a
series of physical culture lessons to strengthen and develop her limbs,
and to learn how to overcome her misfortune in every possible manner.
Indeed, it was hardly noticeable now, and she had outgrown the
sensitiveness of her childhood.

"Oh, mamma, do you think I could?"

"Of course she can," declared Doctor Joe. "I can't have you playing wall
flower altogether at your first ball. And if you drop down in surprise,
or faint away, I will carry you to the dressing-room at once."

He was so tender and full of nonsense, yet so much in earnest, that she
rose reluctantly. But like Hanny, with the eager joy of youth, she soon
forgot everything except the pure pleasure, and the delight of
gratifying dear Doctor Joe, who was so strong and gentle that she could
not even feel a bit nervous.

As for Hanny, she was really enchanted. The room full of people,
smiling and happy, the changing figures, the light airy dresses, the
shimmer of silks, the cloudlets of lace, the soft flying curls, for so
many people wore ringlets still, the happy smiling faces, and the throb
of the music was intoxicating. It was a strange, delightful world that
she had gone into with her first long gown and her hair done up.

She came back, flushed and excited, her pretty eyes shining, her red
lips all in a quiver.

"Now you must sit down and rest," said Mrs. Jasper. "And if you are very
obedient, you may get up in that Spanish dance. I think that quite
delightful and bewildering."

A lady sat on the other side of Mrs. Jasper, and resumed the incident
she was describing. Mr. Jasper came up with a young man.

"Here is an old friend!" he exclaimed. "Where is Daisy?"

"Somewhere with the Doctor. Oh, what a surprise!" and she took the young
man's hand.

"I wasn't sure I could get here; and it would have been very ungrateful
to Mr. Jasper, when he sent me a ticket. I wanted to see Miss Daisy
again. But I have just come on a flying business tour, and must start
to-morrow for Philadelphia. Still, I may have a little leisure when I
return. What a gay scene."

Hanny sat fanning herself, and feeling that her cheeks were scarlet. If
it only wouldn't culminate in her nose! Then Mr. Jasper turned and
introduced his young friend. Hanny moved a little, so he could sit
between her and Mrs. Jasper,--a very attractive young man, a Mr.
Andersen.

"Miss Underhill," he repeated, as Mr. Jasper turned away, "I've been
speculating on a Miss Underhill for five minutes. I wonder if you will
consider it impertinent; but perhaps you never speculate upon people,
and then it might be reprehensible. Just as I entered the room, there
was a merry group talking, and a sort of 'nut brown mayde,' all in brown
and yellow with bright hair and laughing eyes said, 'Miss Nan
Underhill.' Of course I was too well bred, and in too great a hurry to
listen to any more, or I might have found out about her. I had just an
instant interior gleam of what she must be like with that English name.
And I wonder if the fates have directed my steps to her?"

Mr. Andersen was not the tall, stern, gloomy hero of romance; he was
medium in height and figure, with a frank, eager sort of face, dark
hair, and eyes she thought black then, but afterwards came to know that
they were of the deep blue of a midnight sky in winter. He had such a
smiling mouth, and his voice had a curious, lingering cadence that
suggests that one may have heard it in a previous state.

Hanny caught the spirit of the half badinage, and the laughing light in
his face.

"I think I ought to know the ideal before I confess identity," she
replied.

"Can't I change the ideal? Or repent my vague, wild fancy?"

"Oh, was it wild? Then I must insist upon it. Miss Nan Underhill, an
English girl; of course she was tall, this vision of your imagination?"

Hanny was quite sure her face grew redder. And this ideal girl was
beautiful. Oh, dear!

"Yes, tall; a daughter of the gods, or the old Norse Vikings before they
were Anglicised, with fair hair. And you have the fair hair."

"But I am not tall! I am sorry to have you disappointed."

"I am not disappointed. What does a vagrant fancy amount to? I consider
myself fortunate in meeting Miss Underhill. Why, suppose I had gone
rambling about and missed you altogether? Have you known the Jaspers
long?"

"Oh, years and years. Before they went abroad."

"What a beautiful girl Daisy is! I am glad she is here enjoying herself.
Oh, isn't it the regulation thing to speak of the hero of the feast? Of
course when you heard he was coming to lecture you began to read his
novels--if you had not before."

"I had not read them before. There are a great many books I have not
read. But I tried at 'Vanity Fair;' and I am afraid I don't like it."

"I do not believe you will now. I can't imagine real young people liking
them. But when one has grown older and had sorrow and suffering and
experience, there are so many touches that go to one's heart. And
'Vanity Fair' is a novel without a hero. Still I always feel sorry for
poor Major Dobbins. I wonder if Amelia would have liked him better if
his name had been something else? Could you fall in love with such a
name?"

They both laughed. She raised her eyes. How exquisitely fair and sweet
and dainty she was! The soft hair had shining lights; and her eyes had a
twilight look that suggested a pellucid lake, with evening shades
blowing over it.

"A little more of something would have made him a hero, and spoiled the
book."

"But I don't like Amelia, nor Becky; and the Crawleys are horrid. And
Thackeray seems holding up everybody and laughing at them. I like to
believe in people."

"I am glad there is a time when we can believe in them: it is the
radiant time of youth. What did that little smile hide, and half betray?
Confess!"

"Are you so very old?"

The charming gravity was irresistible.

"Seven and twenty, and I am beginning to worship Thackeray. At seven and
thirty, he will be one of my passions, I know. Now and then I come to a
sentence that goes to my heart. No, do not read him yet awhile, unless
it is some of the little things. There is 'Dr. Birch and his Young
Friends;' and if you want to be amused you must read his continuation of
'Ivanhoe.' But then you will have neither heroines nor heroes left. And
if you and Miss Daisy want to laugh beyond measure, get the 'Rose and
the Ring,' that he wrote for his two little girls."

"Oh," said Hanny, "are they at home, in England?"

"Yes, with an aunt."

"Haven't they any mother?"

"They have no mother," he said gravely.

Years later, the novelist was to be one of the little girl's heroes,
when she knew all the bravery of his life, and why his little girls were
without a mother.

Joe and Daisy returned, and there was a pleasant rencontre; then Delia
and Ben came up, and they had a merry chat and a promenade.

"I wonder," as the musicians began tuning again, "if you are engaged for
all the dances. Could I be allowed one?"

He took up her card.

"I have been dancing so much already; but Mrs. Jasper said I might try
the Spanish dance."

"Oh, then try it with me! I am not too old to dance, if I have come to
adoring Thackeray. And I am to go away soon."

"To go away--where?" And she glanced up with an interest that gave him a
quick sense of pleasure.

"To Hamburg first; then to find some relations."

"In Germany? But you are not a German?" in surprise.

"I ought to be a Dane, if one's birth counts for anything; and if one's
ancestors count, then an old Dutch Knickerbocker," he returned, with a
soft, amused laugh. "But I believe I cannot boast of any English
descent, such as the son of a hundred earls. That doesn't sound as
poetic as the daughter of a hundred earls."

"Who was not one to be desired," interposed the young girl.

"Ah, you read Tennyson then? It is odd, but a good many of us begin on
poetry. I like it very much myself."

A touch of thought settled between Hanny's brows.

"Are you wondering about my mixed lineage? Part of it came from the old
Dutch governor, Jacob Leisler. My grandfather went to Germany, and ran
away with a lady of high degree, and brought her back to America, where
my father was born, and lived all his young life, until his marriage.
Then business took him abroad, and I was born; and my mother died at
Copenhagen. My father is connected with the importing house of Strang,
Zahner, & Co., of which Mr. Jasper is a member. He is married again, to
a very sweet, amiable German woman. Oh, here we are to take our places!"

Hanny hesitated an instant. She longed to have Mrs. Jasper's
approbation.

"We have been looking for you," said Ben. "Let us begin in the one set.
Here is Daisy and Joe."

Then it would be all right. She glanced up and smiled with cordial
assent.

The old-fashioned Spanish dance was a great favourite at that time, when
germans were unknown. Its graceful turns and windings, its stately
balances, until the dancers seemed all one long elegant chain, that
moved to the perfect time of the music, was indeed fascinating. People
danced then. Youth never dreamed of being bored, and walking languidly.
Every movement was delicate and refined.

Was she really in some enchanted country? When Mr. Andersen was
compelled to leave her, he glanced over or past his partner with an
expression so near a smile that Hanny's pulses quickened. When he came
back, the light touch of his hand gave her a little thrill that was
quite delicious. Now and then they had a bit of conversation.

Once he said, in his charming fashion, that was admiration rather than
criticism:--

"Why, you are very petite!"

"Yes; I am not the tall, slim English girl."

"I am very glad. We dance so well together; I wish I were not going away
so soon. And you can't guess--you will think it strange,--to American
ideas it is; but when I go back I have to hunt up a descendant of this
grandmother of high degree who has been making matrimonial overtures to
my father on my behalf."

"Oh, that is like a story! And what will you do?"

"I will think about it, and answer you when you return to me."

He gave her to the next partner, with a graceful inclination of the
head.

There were numberless evolutions before he could take her again. She
glanced up out of sweet, questioning eyes.

"I've been considering," he resumed, as if they had not parted. "You
see, it is this way. My father is very, very fond of me, though there
are other children. Then I have my mother's fortune, which he has been
very watchful of. He is a splendid, upright, honourable man. Now, if
your father asked such a thing of you,--what I mean is, if he asked you
to see some one and learn how well you could like her or him--"

She was off again. Oh, what a sweet little fairy she was! What poet
wrote about twinkling feet? Hers certainly twinkled in their daintiness.
He had not considered her prettiness at first; now it seemed as if she
was exquisitely fair, with that soft pink in her cheeks.

"Yes. Do you not believe you would go to please him, and see? And you
might not like her, and she might not like you. But sometimes people do
take sudden fancies. What do you think, looking at it out of an American
girl's eyes?"

"I should go for my father's sake."

There was such a delicate gravity in her clear eyes as she raised them a
little.

"Thank you," he returned softly. "What an odd thing to talk of in the
midst of our dancing! When you are older, you will find people making a
confidante of you very often, you seem so serious and truthful."

They were coming down to the end of the winding chain; Mr. and Mrs.
Jasper stood there. One more figure, and the cornet and horns and
violins gave three long breaths of melody and stopped.

"My dear children," said Mrs. Jasper, as she stretched out her hand.
"Daisy, you will be in bed all day to-morrow! Your mother will never
trust me with you again, Hanny; I didn't think it would be so long."

"But it was so delightful, mamma." Daisy was in a tumult of pleasure.

"We must go at once. Mr. Jasper will be back by the time we have found
our wraps. Doctor, I can't thank you for making such a patient martyr of
yourself, only you are always so good. Hanny, have you had a nice time?"

"It has been splendid," with a long, long breath, and shining lights in
her eyes.

Delia went to the dressing-room with them.

"I'm going to have two more dances," she said. "It is the first real
ball I've been to in a long while. I'm so glad you came. Ben says he
never imagined you were so pretty. Think of that, from one's own
brother! And Daisy did not shine you down, either."

Hanny kissed her with a sort of rapture. She couldn't understand; she
seemed to be walking on the azure clouds instead of solid earth.

Mr. Andersen went to the carriage with them, and said he should surely
call when he returned from Philadelphia.

Daisy leaned her head down on her mother's shoulder. She was more tired
than she would admit. Hanny's eyes were like stars, and her brain was
still filled with wonderful melodies and light airy figures trooping to
the ravishing sounds, the shimmering light and sparkle. Doctor Joe just
carried her up the steps, and opened the door with his latch-key. But
Mrs. Underhill had heard them, and she came downstairs, wrapped in a
shawl.

"Oh, Joe, how could you keep her out so late! Do you know it's almost
three o'clock?"

Then the mother folded her to her heart. It seemed as if she had been
snatched from some great danger; and now that she had her safe and
sound, she felt as if she should never let her go again.

"You're all excitement, Hanny; you tremble like a leaf. Such
dissipations are bad for growing girls."

"Oh, mother, I think I'm done growing," Hanny laughed, with a soft ring
of music in her voice. "I have wanted to be tall like Margaret; but now
I do not mind a bit. I think I shall always be father's little girl. And
the dancing was so delightful; but you can't think how queer and long
the supper was. And Mr. Thackeray really shook hands with me. He has two
little girls, and they haven't any mother. If you could have seen Daisy!
And she dances beautifully."

"Hanny, your tongue runs like a mill-race. Do keep still, child. Cynthia
has you pinned in every fashion. I hope your dress looked nice enough
for a little girl. There, I'll take care of them all. You will never
want to get up in the morning."

When she had hung the dress out of sight, she felt as if she had her
little girl once more. And the little girl fell asleep to the sound of
the most delicious music ever floating through one's brain.




CHAPTER XIX

THE COURSE OF TRUE LOVE


Yes, Hanny Underhill was a little girl again in gaiter-length dresses,
and her braids tied across at the back of her head. They let her sleep
until the latest moment; and then she had to hurry off to school. But
her eyes were bright; and she could have danced along the street, if it
had been the proper thing to do.

Daisy did not fare so well. She had a headache, and was very languid.
Joe said Hanny had better not go down; and that Daisy would be all right
to-morrow. So Hanny studied her lessons, and began to read "Vanity Fair"
aloud to grandmother. But grandmother said she didn't care about such a
silly girl as Amelia; and though there were wretched women in the world,
she didn't believe any one ever was quite so scheming and heartless as
Becky.

Then Hanny told her father about the dancing, and the partners she had,
and Mr. Andersen, who was going back to Germany to marry some distant
cousin. Altogether, it was a splendid time, only she felt as if there
had been some kind of a Cinderella transformation; and that she was
safe only as long as she wore short frocks.

A week afterward, Mr. Andersen returned to the city, and Hanny was
invited down to tea at the Jaspers. They had a nice time, only the talk
was not quite so charming as when it was interspersed with dancing.

He was to go to Paris also. And now Louis Napoleon had followed in the
footsteps of his illustrious uncle, and was really Emperor of France.
What a strange, romantic history his had been!

After this, life went on with tolerable regularity. There was plenty of
amusement. Old New York did not suffer. Laura Keene thrilled them with
the "Hunchback," and many another personation. Matilda Heron was doing
some fine work in Milman's "Fazio," and the play of "The Stranger" held
audiences spell-bound. Then there were lectures for the more
sober-minded people; and you heard youngish men who were to be famous
afterward. Spirit-rappings had fallen a trifle into disfavour; and
phrenology was making converts. It was the proper thing to go to
Fowler's and have your head examined, and get a chart, which sort of
settled you until something else came along. Young ladies were going
into Combe's physiology and hygiene and cold bathing. Some very hardy
and courageous women were studying medicine. Emerson was in a certain
way rivalling Carlyle. Wendell Phillips was enchanting the cities with
his silver tongue. There had been Brooke Farm; and Margaret Fuller had
flashed across the world, married her Italian lover, who fought while
she wrote for liberty; and husband, wife, and child had met their tragic
death in very sight of her native land.

People were thinking really great thoughts; and there was a ferment of
moral, transcendental, and æsthetical philosophy. Women met to discuss
them in each other's parlours, prefiguring the era of clubs. Alice and
Ph[oe]be Cary's receptions had grown to be quite the rage; and Anne C.
Lynch was another figure in the social-literary world. Beecher was
drawing large audiences in Brooklyn, and telling the old truths in a new
fashion. There is always a great seething and tumult before the water
fairly boils and precipitates the dregs to the bottom.

But whatever comes and goes, young girls are always growing up with the
flush and fragrance and elusive fascinations of spring. To-day, a
credulous tenderness and overwhelming faith in the past; to-morrow, a
little doubtful, hesitatingly anticipative, with the watchwords of "The
True, the Good, and the Beautiful;" and still concerned in the latest
style of doing one's back hair, and if silver combs and gilt pins would
keep in fashion; and flushing celestial rosy red, yet with an odd sense
of importance, when men began to lift their hats in a gravely polite
manner, as if the laughing, hoydenish girl of yesterday, who strung
herself out four or five wide on the sidewalk with books in hand, was
the shy, refined, hesitating, utterly delicious young woman of to-day.

There were times when Hanny stood on the mysterious borderland. She used
to steal up and look at the wraith of a ball-dress hanging in the
third-floor closet, put away with the "choice" garments. The skirt
looked so long, almost uncanny. She could see the girl who had gone to
the banquet, who had danced with young men who asked "the pleasure" with
the politest inclination of the head. And, oh, the lovely dances she had
with Mr. Andersen! The bewitching Spanish movement floated through her
brain; and the young man's voice--what a curious, lingering sweetness it
had--went over her like a wave of music. Of course his German cousin
would fall in love with him,--how could she help it?--and they would
marry. They would go to Paris once a year or so, when business took him;
they would go over to London; but their real home would be in some
German town, or maybe in the castle from which the pretty grandmother
had run away with her American lover. She was so glad there were real
romances left in the world. It wasn't likely any would happen to her.
She was not tall, nor elegant, nor handsome; and though she could sing
"Bonnie Doon," "Annie Laurie," "A Rose-tree in Full Bearing," and "The
Girl I Left behind me," for her father, she was not a company singer.
But she really didn't mind. Her father would want her. She wasn't quite
resigned to being an old maid; but then she need not worry until she was
twenty-five. And when you came to that, half the relatives were fighting
for Miss Cynthia Blackfan; and Mr. Erastus Morgan had invited her over
to Paris to see the new Emperor, who was copying in every way his
granduncle who had ruled half Europe.

Then she would close the closet door and run blithely downstairs with a
bit of song. That was Miss Nan Underhill up there; and in her short
school-girl frock she was plain household Hanny.

But they had delightful times. Doctor Joe bought a new buggy, very wide
in the seat, and used to take her and Daisy out when the days were
pleasant. Then Charles and Josie came over evenings, or they went to
Mrs. Dean's, and talked and sang and discussed their favourite poems and
stories, and thought how rich the world was growing, and wondered how
