and weak. The two boys had fallen head 
long into the corral. 
They were sobered and fraternal in a 
moment. The bear stood upon his hind 
legs and opened his arms invitingly. He 
stood in front of the gate. 
" Ay! ay!" gasped Benito. "He wili 
eat us!" 
" No ; he will eat the bull first ; but he 
will hug us to death that is, if he gets 
us which he won t. Adan!" he cried, 
" lower the ladder." 
Benito began to cry, his terror enhanced 
by the babel of voices on the wall, each of 
which was suggesting a different measure. 
On the opposite wall and in the branches 
of a neighbouring tree were the Indian 
servants and "the vaqueros. They stared 
stupidly, with shaking lips. 
Adan had recovered his presence of 
mind. With a firm hand, he lowered the 
ladder. But his wit was not quick. He 
should have carried it along the wall and 
placed it behind the boys. Instead, it de 
scended several yards away. The bear, 
who appeared to be no fool, lowered his 
forepaws and trotted slowly toward the 
boys. 
"Juan ! " shouted Roldan to a vaquero. 
" Lasso the bull and drag him to the west 
side far from the gate." 
The vaquero, alert enough under orders, 
swung the lasso with supple wrist and 
missed. The boys dodged the bear, who 
seemed in no haste, but stalked them 
methodically, nevertheless. The vaquero 
swung again. This time the rope caught 
the horns, was tightened by a quick turn, 
and the carcass went thudding across the 
yard. The bear gave a furious howl and 
plunged after. The boys scampered up the 
ladder. Don Jose took each by the collar 
and shook them soundly. When they 
were released they embraced each other. 
"Ay! but I was inhospitable to fight 
my guest," sobbed Benito. 
" Ay, my friend," said Roldan, with dig 
nity, winking back the tears started by 
various emotions. " It is I who should have 
had my ears boxed by the bear for insult 
ing my host, and bringing anguish to the 
house of Perez." Then he embraced Adan, 
but this time mutely. 
Doila Theresa had been carried to her 
room, where she lay prcstrated with a ner 
vous headache; but her family and guests 
did ample justice to the chickens stewed 
in tomatoes, the red peppers and onions, 
the fried rice, tomales, and dulces which 
her cook had prepared in honour of the 
event. Excitement and good will reigned ; 
even Don Jose had forgiven the young 
offenders, and they all talked at once, at 
the top of their voices, as fast as they could 
rattle and with no falling inflection.
Roldan and Adan were pressed to remain at 
the Hacienda Perez until the search was 
over, and although the former had a secret 
yearning for adventure he was more than 
half inclined to consent. 
After a brief siesta the entire male
population of the hacienda retired to the wall 
of the corral to pot the bear. It was 
agreed that each should fire at once, and 
 
that he who missed should have no dulces 
for a week. 
The bear was sitting near the middle of 
the corral, surly but replete, for he had 
eaten of the bull. Don Jose gave the 
signal. Twenty-two shots were fired. 
The bear gave a roar which awoke the 
echoes of the forest, lunged frantically on 
shattered legs, then fell, an ugly heap of 
dusty grey hair. 
As the smoke cleared and Don Jose 
was announcing that only two Indian 
servants had missed, Benito clutched Roldan's 
arm suddenly. 
" Look up," he said. " Do you see any 
thing? Are not those men ; soldiers ? " 
Roldan looked up to a ledge of the 
high mountain before the house. A bend 
of the trail traversed a clearing. In this 
open were three men on horseback, mo 
tionless for the moment. 
" Adan ! " shouted Roldan. He ran 
down the ladder. 
" I cannot be sure that those are the sol 
diers," he called up to Don Jose. " But I 
take no risks. We must go." 
 
The others descended hastily. " My 
sons will have to hide too," said Don Jose. 
" There is plenty of time. In a moment 
those men will be in the forest again and 
can see nothing more for half an hour. 
He must do nothing while they watch 
there ! they have gone." 
He shouted to the vaqueros to saddle 
six fresh horses, and ordered the house 
servants to pack the bags with food. 
" There is a cave in the mountain on the 
other side which I defy anyone to find," 
said Don Jose. " If there were a war my 
sons should fight, but I need them now." 
While the horses were saddling, Roldan 
and Adan consulted together. At the end 
of a few moments the former went up to 
Don Jose. 
" I think it would be wiser to separate," 
he said. " Adan and I will go one way, 
your sons another. That will put them 
off the track ; and the cave, Carlos says, 
i- not very large." 
"As you like," said Don Jose, who was 
perturbed and busy. " A vaquero will go 
with you for a distance and advise you." 
The truth was, Roldan fancied lying 
inert in a cave for several days as little as 
he fancied the somnolent life of a barrack, 
and Adan, who had a secret preference for 
the cave, was too loyal to oppose him. 
In ten minutes the horses were ready, 
affectionate good-byes said, and Roldan 
and Adan, followed by many good wishes, 
and prayers to return, started southeast 
ward through a dense canon. 
IV 
THE vaquero guided the boys rapidly 
through the cafion. The almost 
perpendicular walls, black with a dense 
growth of brush and scrub trees, towered 
so high above them- that the atmosphere 
was damp and the long strip of sky was 
like a pale-blue banner. The trail was 
well worn, and there was nothing to 
impede their progress. The mustangs responded to the lifted bridle and ran at 
breakneck speed. They emerged at the 
end of half an hour. It was an abrupt 
sally, and the great level plain before them 
seemed a blaze of sunlight. 
" Bueno" said the vaquero, halting. 
* Ride straight ahead. Keep to the trail. 
At night you will come to a river. Before 
you reach it all trace of you will be lost, 
because between now and there are many 
side trails, and as the ground is so hard 
they cannot tell which you take. Cross the 
river and take the trail to the left. That 
will bring you to the Mission about 
twenty miles farther where the good 
padres will let you rest and give you fresh 
horses. The senor, meanwhile, will throw 
the officers off the scent. But if you are 
wise, you will make for the Sierras and hide 
there. Adios, senor, adios, senor; "and he 
wheeled about and disappeared into the 
darkness of the canon. 
" We are like the babes in the wood," 
said Adan. " I feel as if we never should 
find our way home again." 
"We shall," said Roldan, stoutly;
although he, too, felt the chill of the
immense solitude. " And we have begun 
well ! What an adventure to start with I 
I am sure we shall have more." 
Adan crossed himself. 
The boys rode at a long even gallop, the 
high chaparral closing behind them. 
Every half hour they paused, and Roldan, 
dismounting, held his ear to the ground. 
But as yet they were unpursued. 
A soft wind blew over the plain, 
fragrant with the honeydew of the chaparral. 
 
The sun set in a great bank of yellow 
cloud. Then the night came suddenly. 
A few moments later Roldan called: 
" Halt ! " and held up his hand. " I hear 
the rush of the water," he said. " We must 
be near the river." 
" It sounds as if it was high," said Adan. 
" It has rained hard this month. Suppose 
these horses don't swim ? " 
" We'll make them. Come on." 
" Ay ! yi ! " exclaimed Adan, not many 
moments after. 
They pulled up suddenly on the banks 
of the river, a body of water about three 
hundred yards wide. It was swollen almost 
level with the high banks. The tumultuous 
waters were racing as if Neptune 
astride them was fleeing from angry gods. 
There is something unhuman in the 
roar of an angry river : it has a knell 
in it. 
Roldan and Adan looked at each other. 
The latter's face had paled. Roldan 
contracted his lids suddenly, and when his 
friend met the glance that grew between 
them he compressed his lips and involuntarily 
straightened himself: he knew its 
significance. 
" We must cross," said Roldan. " It 
would never do to spend the night on this 
side. If they followed, they would never 
suspect us of crossing. If we remained 
here, we could not hear them until they 
were upon us." 
" Very well," said Adan. 
Roldan raised his bridle. The mustang; 
did not move forward, but cowered. " I 
don't like to hurt horses," said the young 
don, " but he's got to go." He clapped 
his spurs savagely against the animal's, 
sides, and the next moment the waves were 
lashing about him. 
Adan was beside him at once, and 
together they breasted the rushing waters. 
The mustangs were strong and made fair 
headway, incited by terror and the spur. 
The water was very cold, but the boys 
scarcely felt it. Their eyes were strained 
.toward the opposite shore, measuring the 
distance, which seemed to grow less very 
slowly. The stars were thick and the 
moon was floating just above the chaparral, 
but the darkness about them was grim, 
and only a narrow line of white indicated 
the shore. 
The horses were not able to keep a 
straight course. The current lashed 
them about more than once, but they 
righted, shook the water from their 
quivering nostrils, and plunged on. 
The boys glance so persistently sought 
their haven that they saw nothing of what 
was passing about them. They were 
within twenty yards of the shore. Adan, 
having the stronger beast, was some little 
distance ahead. He did not observe it. 
He was registering a vow that if he 
reached land in safety he would be drafted 
every year of his life before he would ford 
another river after heavy rain. 
Suddenly Roldan became conscious 
that the wiry little body between his 
gripping knees had relaxed somewhat the 
tension of its muscles. Was the poor 
brute collapsing? Roldan leaned over 
and patted his neck. It responded for a 
moment, then fell back again. Roldan 
set his lips. As he did so he cast about 
 
him the instinctive glance of those in 
peril. A huge log was bearing down 
upon him like a projectile. 
In a second his feet were out of his stir 
rups and he was crouching on the mus 
tang's back. The losf struck the beast 
full in the side, tossing Roldan as if he had 
been a feather. The mustang gave a 
hoarse neigh, unheard above the roar of 
the water. 
Roldan, keeping his face from the 
pounding waves as best he could, struck 
out for the bank. But the current was 
too much for his slender body, plucky as 
it was. He made a mighty effort and 
shouted, 
"Adan!" 
The high clear note pierced to his com 
panion's ear. Adan turned his head, 
uttered a cry, and pulled his unwilling 
mustang about. But the current was 
carrying the white face on the waves 
rapidly past. 
"Lariat!" Roldan managed to scream. 
Adan's faculties had been paralysed for 
the moment, but they responded almost 
 
automatically to that imperious will. He 
unwound the lariat rapidly from the pom 
mel, hastily gathered the loops, then flung 
it with sure hand straight at his friend. 
It fell about Roldan's neck. The boy 
jerked it over his shoulders, then signed 
to A dan to proceed. 
A clan once more urged his horse for 
ward, not daring to look behind. Roldan 
made no attempt to swim; he merely 
used his arms to keep his head above 
water. There were but a few yards farther. 
The mustang, despite his double load, 
made them, and scrambled up the bank. 
Adan, realising for the first time that 
he was stiff with cold, scrambled off and 
pulled in the rope with hands that were 
aching and almost numb. He heard 
Roldan strike the bank, a moment later 
the snapping of brush. Roldan's head 
rose into view, Adan gave a last despair 
ing tug, and a moment later the two boys 
lay on their backs, panting for breath. 
" DO you want any more adventures?" 
 asked Adan feebly, after a time. 
" Not at present," said Roldan. 
He raised himself stiffly. "Come," he 
said, " this will never do. We shall both 
have rheumatism. We must have a fire 
at once." 
Adan groaned pathetically, but got on 
his feet. They had found refuge in the 
open ; but a grove of trees was near, and 
in a quarter of an hour they had piled a 
heap of branches and chaparral as high as 
an Indian pyre, hunted up two pieces of 
flint, and sent sparks flying through the 
dry mass. 
The boys divested themselves of their 
dripping clothes and hung them close to 
the fire, then raced up and down with 
what energy was left in them to scotch 
the chill night air. Finally they paused 
breathless before the pile, which was now 
roaring merrily. 
" I should like to know what we are 
to have for supper," said Roldan. " That 
Mission is twenty miles away, and I for 
one can't walk to it. Climb up a tree 
and see if there is a light anywhere." 
" Thanks, senor," said Adan, " when my 
clothes are dry." 
" True, we must keep our skin. I have 
it ! " He sprang on the back of the mus 
tang, who also had fallen upon reach 
ing the shore but had risen to nibble for 
supper, and stood on the tips of his feet 
" I can see well," he announced. " But all 
the same I can see nothing. We must 
stay here." 
He dismounted, and relieving the mus 
tang of the heavy saddle, emptied the bags. 
" The bread and sweets are soaked," he 
said, " not fit for a pig to eat ; but we can 
do something with the meat. Fetch some 
coals." 
Adan with infinite difficulty managed to 
scrape a few  apart from the bonfire, 
and over this they scorched the meat. As 
 
they crouched on the ground they looked 
like two little white savages, and they were 
neither comfortable nor happy. 
" We must keep this fire going all night," 
said Roldan, " or we shall be eaten by bears, 
to say nothing of rattlesnakes " 
" Hist ! " whispered Adan. " I hear one." 
Both boys sprang to their feet. 
" Where ? " 
" Near the horse." 
Roldan seized his pistol and ran in the 
direction indicated, keeping his eyes on 
the ground. Suddenly he paused. Some 
thing just beyond the light was growing 
into a series of graceful loops. A long 
neck slowly lifted itself and two baleful 
eyes fixed upon Roldan. He raised his 
pistol, and the rattler was beheaded as 
neatly as if it were stuffed and dismem 
bered with a pen knife. It shot out to full 
length, and the clever marksman took it by 
its horny tail and dragged it to the fire. 
" He didn't know that we'd have him 
for supper," said Adan, gleefully. " Here, 
let us eat our steak and then I'll skin 
him." 
 
The steak proved tough, and when it 
had been disposed of with many grum 
blings, the rattlesnake was skinned and 
roasted, and proved very delicate and 
edible. 
" Now," said Rolclan, " we must sleep." 
Their clothes being dry they dressed ; 
and after inspecting with a torch a circle 
of about two hundred yards to see that 
there were no snake holes, they built a hasty 
ring of chaparral, set fire to it that beasts 
and reptiles should keep their distance, 
then lay down and slept. Roldan was al 
ways a light sleeper, and with the fire on 
his mind awoke every few hours and 
gathered fresh chaparral or roused the 
heavier Adan. Coyotes wailed in the 
distance, and once as Roldan gathered brush 
he heard again the deadly rattle. But 
they were not disturbed, and even the 
skies were kind, for although clouds 
gathered, they passed. 
They awoke in the morning, fresh and 
vigorous but also hungry ; and there 
was little to eat. 
* I don't think I should fancy 
rattlesnake for breakfast,* said Roldan, and 
Adan shuddered at the mere thought. 
They cooked a small piece of meat, all 
that was left of their store, and it but 
whetted their appetite. 
" There's only one thing to do," said 
Roldan, " and that is to get to the Mission 
as quickly as possible. Chocolate ! Beans ! 
possibly chicken ! Think of it. Come ! 
Come!" 
Adan scrambled to his feet and saddled 
the mustang. It was agreed that they 
should ride him by turns, the other 
running at a brisk trot. 
The sun was barely up when they 
started. A light mist lay on the turbu 
lent waters and puffed among the sweet- 
scented chaparral. Roldan rode during the 
first hour, Adan running ahead, his glance 
darting from right to left, but encounter 
ing eyes neither malignant nor savage. 
Shortly after he mounted the horse the 
mist lifted and rolled back to the ocean. 
They had left the chaparral some time 
before and now discovered that they were 
in an open plain. In the distance were 
 
high hills over which wound a white trail. 
Between these hills and the travellers 
was a moving mass of something. Adan 
reined in suddenly. 
" Roldan," he said, " are those horses ? 
You have the longer sight." 
Roldan made a funnel of his hand. 
" Surely, surely ! " he cried. " What luck ! 
I hate walking. They are probably wild, 
but I never saw the mustang I could not 
lasso." 
" Yes, you can do the lassoing," said 
Adan, grimly. " My thumb nearly went 
off last night, and is twice its size." 
" Adan," said his friend, laying his hand 
on his comrade's knee. " I haven't 
thanked you. I haven't mentioned it ; but 
it is because well I lay awake an hour 
last night trying to think of something to 
say and and thinking that I loved 
you better than my own brothers " 
" That will do, then," said Adan, gruffly. 
" We'll be kissing each other in a minute 
as we did at the Hacienda Perez ; and I 
think that we are getting too big for that. 
I hear that American boys never kiss each 
other." 
 
"Don't they? "asked Roldan, pricking 
up his ears. " How I should like to know- 
some American boys. They must know 
so many things that we do not. Who 
told you?" 
" Antonio Scarpia has been in America, 
you know in Boston. He came back 
last month and rode over a few days ago 
for the night. I asked him many ques 
tions. He says they never show any 
feeling except when they get mad, and 
that they walk and row and play ball 
with the feet, caramba ! and run about 
in the snow. He says they would think 
we were like girls with our fine clothes 
and our hammocks " 
"Girls!" cried Roldan, indignantly. 
" I'd like to see American or any other 
boys do better with that bear than we did, 
or lasso a friend in the midst of a boiling 
river as you did. And if they come here 
to laugh at us they'll find one pair of fists 
that are not soft if they do have lace 
ruffles over them. And I'd like to see 
them live all day on a horse as we do."
" True, true, you are always right," said 
Adan, soothingly. u Ay, I think those 
horses are coming this way. Better get up. 
He moved back onto the aquera and 
Roldan sprang to his place and unwound 
