technical blunders.  With all this tendency to the classic in public
architecture, I don’t see why the Pompeian villa shouldn’t be the next
word for summer cottages.”

“Well, we’ll see what Fulkerson says.  He may see an ad. in it.  Would
you like to do it?”

“Why not do it yourself?  Nobody else could do it so well.”

“Thanks for the taffy; but the idea was yours.”

“I’ll do it,” said Kendricks after a moment, “if you won’t.”

“We’ll see.”

Miss Gage stared, and Mrs. March said—

“I didn’t suppose the House of Pansa would lead to shop with you two.”

“You never can tell which way copy lies,” I returned; and I asked the
girl, “What should you think, Miss Gage, of a little paper with a
thread of story, but mostly talk, on a supposititious Pompeian cottage?”

“I don’t believe I understand,” said she, far too remote from our
literary interests, as I saw, to be ashamed of her ignorance.

“There!” I said to Kendricks.  “Do you think the general public would?”

“Miss Gage isn’t the general public,” said my wife, who had followed the
course of my thought; her tone implied that Miss Gage was wiser and
better.

“Would you allow yourself to be drawn,” I asked, “dreamily issuing from
an aisle of the pine grove as the tutelary goddess of a Pompeian
cottage?”

The girl cast a bewildered glance at my wife, who said, “You needn’t pay
any attention to him, Miss Gage.  He has an idea that he is making a
joke.”

We felt that we had done enough for one afternoon, when we had done the
House of Pansa, and I proposed that we should go and sit down in Congress
Park and listen to the Troy band.  I was not without the hope that it
would play “Washington Post.”

My wife contrived that we should fall in behind the young people as we
went, and she asked, “What do you suppose she made of it all?”

“Probably she thought it was the house of Sancho Panza.”

“No; she hasn’t read enough to be so ignorant even as that.  It’s
astonishing how much she doesn’t know.  What can her home life have been
like?”

“Philistine to the last degree.  We people who are near to literature
have no conception how far from it most people are.  The immense majority
of ‘homes,’ as the newspapers call them, have no books in them except the
Bible and a semi-religious volume or two—things you never see out of such
‘homes’—and the State business directory.  I was astonished when it came
out that she knew about Every Other Week.  It must have been by
accident.  The sordidness of her home life must be something
unimaginable.  The daughter of a village capitalist, who’s put together
his money dollar by dollar, as they do in such places, from the
necessities and follies of his neighbours, and has half the farmers of
the region by the throat through his mortgages—I don’t think that she’s
‘one to be desired’ any more than ‘the daughter of a hundred earls,’ if
so much.”

“She doesn’t seem sordid herself.”

“Oh, the taint doesn’t show itself at once—

    ‘If nature put not forth her power
    About the opening of the flower,
    Who is it that would live an hour?’

and she is a flower, beautiful, exquisite.”

“Yes, and she had a mother as well as this father of hers.  Why shouldn’t
she be like her mother?”

I laughed.  “That is true!  I wonder why we always leave the mother out
of the count when we sum up the hereditary tendencies?  I suppose the
mother is as much a parent as the father.”

“Quite.  And there is no reason why this girl shouldn’t have her mother’s
nature.”

“We don’t actually know anything against her father’s nature yet,” I
suggested; “but if her mother lived a starved and stunted life with him,
it may account for that effect of disappointed greed which I fancied in
her when I first saw her.”

“I don’t call it greed in a young girl to want to see something of the
world.”

“What do you call it?”

Kendricks and the girl were stopping at the gate of the pavilion, and
looking round at us.  “Ah, he’s got enough for one day!  He’s going to
leave her to us now.”

When we came up he said, “I’m going to run off a moment; I’m going up to
the book-store there,” and he pointed toward one that had spread across
the sidewalk just below the Congress Hall verandah, with banks and
shelves of novels, and a cry of bargains in them on signs sticking up
from their rows.  “I want to see if they have the Last Days of
Pompeii.”

“We will find the ladies inside the park,” I said.  “I will go with you—”

“Mr. March wants to see if they have the last number of Every Other
Week,” my wife mocked after us.  This was, indeed, commonly a foible of
mine.  I had newly become one of the owners of the periodical as well as
the editor, and I was all the time looking out for it at the news-stands
and book-stores, and judging their enterprise by its presence or absence.
But this time I had another motive, though I did not allege it.

“I suppose it’s for Miss Gage?” I ventured to say, by way of prefacing
what I wished to say.  “Kendricks, I’m afraid we’re abusing your good
nature.  I know you’re up here to look about, and you’re letting us use
all your time.  You mustn’t do it.  Women have no conscience about these
things, and you can’t expect a woman who has a young lady on her hands to
spare you.  I give you the hint.  Don’t count upon Mrs. March in this
matter.”

“Oh, I think you are very good to allow me to bother round,” said the
young fellow, with that indefatigable politeness of his.  He added
vaguely, “It’s very interesting.”

“Seeing it through such a fresh mind?” I suggested.  “Well, I’ll own that
I don’t think you could have found a much fresher one.  Has she read the
Last Days of Pompeii?”

“She thought she had at first, but it was the Fall of Granada.”

“How delightful!  Don’t you wish we could read books with that utterly
unliterary sense of them?”

“Don’t you think women generally do?” he asked evasively.

“I daresay they do at De Witt Point.”

He did not answer; I saw that he was not willing to talk the young lady
over, and I could not help praising his taste to myself at the cost of my
own.  His delicacy forbade him the indulgence which my own protested
against in vain.  He showed his taste again in buying a cheap copy of the
book, which he meant to give her, and of course he had to be all the more
attentive to her because of my deprecating his self-devotion.




XI


IN the intimacy that grew up between my wife and Miss Gage I found myself
less and less included.  It seemed to me at times that I might have gone
away from Saratoga and not been seriously missed by any one, but perhaps
this was not taking sufficient account of my value as a spectator, by
whom Mrs. March could verify her own impressions.

The girl had never known a mother’s care, and it was affecting to see how
willing she was to be mothered by the chance kindness of a stranger.  She
probably felt more and more her ignorance of the world as it unfolded
itself to her in terms so altogether strange to the life of De Witt
Point.  I was not sure that she would have been so grateful for the
efforts made for her enjoyment if they had failed, but as the case stood
she was certainly grateful; my wife said that, and I saw it.  She seemed
to have written home about us to her father, for she read my wife part of
a letter from him conveying his “respects,” and asking her to thank us
for him.  She came to me with the cheque it enclosed, and asked me to get
it cashed for her; it was for a handsome amount.  But she continued to go
about at our cost, quite unconsciously, till one day she happened to
witness a contest of civility between Kendricks and myself as to which
should pay the carriage we were dismissing.  That night she came to Mrs.
March, and, with many blushes, asked to be allowed to pay for the past
and future her full share of the expense of our joint pleasures.  She
said that she had never thought of it before, and she felt so much
ashamed.  She could not be consoled till she was promised that she should
be indulged for the future, and that I should be obliged to average the
outlay already made and let her pay a fourth.  When she had gained her
point, Mrs. March said that she seemed a little scared, and said, “I
haven’t offended you, Mrs. March, have I?  Because if it isn’t right for
me to pay—”

“It’s quite right, my dear,” said my wife, “and it’s very nice of you to
think of it.”

“You know,” the girl explained, “I’ve never been out a great deal at home
even; and it’s always the custom there for the gentlemen to pay for a
ride—or dance—or anything; but this is different.”

Mrs. March said “Yes,” and, in the interest of civilisation, she did a
little missionary work.  She told her that in Boston the young ladies
paid for their tickets to the Harvard assemblies, and preferred to do it,
because it left them without even a tacit obligation.

Miss Gage said she had never heard of such a thing before, but she could
see how much better it was.

I do not think she got on with the Last Days of Pompeii very rapidly; its
immediate interest was superseded by other things.  But she always had
the book about with her, and I fancied that she tried to read it in those
moments of relaxation from our pleasuring when she might better have been
day-dreaming, though I dare say she did enough of that too.

What amused me in the affair was the celerity with which it took itself
out of our hands.  In an incredibly short time we had no longer the
trouble of thinking what we should do for Miss Gage; that was provided
for by the forethought of Kendricks, and our concern was how each could
make the other go with the young people on their excursions and
expeditions.  We had seen and done all the things that they were doing,
and it presently bored us to chaperon them.  After a good deal of talking
we arrived at a rough division of duty, and I went with them walking and
eating and drinking, and for anything involving late hours, and Mrs.
March presided at such things as carriage exercise, concerts, and
shopping.

There are not many public entertainments at Saratoga, except such as the
hotels supply; but a series of Salvation Army meetings did duty as
amusements, and there was one theatrical performance—a performance of
East Lynne entirely by people of colour.  The sentiments and incidents
of the heart-breaking melodrama, as the coloured mind interpreted them,
were of very curious effect.  It was as if the version were dyed with the
same pigment that darkened the players’ skins: it all came out negro.
Yet they had tried to make it white; I could perceive how they aimed not
at the imitation of our nature, but at the imitation of our convention;
it was like the play of children in that.  I should have said that
nothing could be more false than the motives and emotions of the drama as
the author imagined them, but I had to own that their rendition by these
sincere souls was yet more artificial.  There was nothing traditional,
nothing archaic, nothing autochthonic in their poor art.  If the scene
could at any moment have resolved myself into a walk-round, with an
interspersion of spirituals, it would have had the charm of these; it
would have consoled and edified; but as it was I have seldom been so
bored.  I began to make some sad reflections, as that our American
society, in its endeavour for the effect of European society, was of no
truer ideal than these coloured comedians, and I accused myself of a
final absurdity in having come there with these young people, who,
according to our good native usage, could have come perfectly well
without me.  At the end of the first act I broke into their talk with my
conclusion that we must not count the histrionic talent among the gifts
of the African race just yet.  We could concede them music, I supposed,
and there seemed to be hope for them, from what they had some of them
done, in the region of the plastic arts; but apparently the stage was not
for them, and this was all the stranger because they were so imitative.
Perhaps, I said, it was an excess of self-consciousness which prevented
their giving themselves wholly to the art, and I began to speak of the
subjective and the objective, of the real and the ideal; and whether it
was that I became unintelligible as I became metaphysical, I found
Kendricks obviously not following me in the incoherent replies he gave.
Miss Gage had honestly made no attempt to follow me.  He asked, Why,
didn’t I think it was pretty well done?  They had enjoyed it very much,
he said.  I could only stare in answer, and wonder what had become of the
man’s tastes or his principles; he was either humbugging himself or he
was humbugging me.  After that I left them alone, and suffered through
the rest of the play with what relief I could get from laughing when the
pathetic emotions of the drama became too poignant.  I decided that
Kendricks was absorbed in the study of his companion’s mind, which must
be open to his contemporaneous eye as it could never have been to my
old-sighted glasses, and I envied him the knowledge he was gaining of
that type of American girl.  It suddenly came to me that he must be
finding his account in this, and I felt a little less regret for the
waste of civilities, of attentions, which sometimes seemed to me beyond
her appreciation.

I, for my part, gave myself to the study of the types about me, and I
dwelt long and luxuriously upon the vision of a florid and massive matron
in diaphanous evening dress, whom I imagined to be revisiting the
glimpses of her girlhood in the ancient watering-place, and to be getting
all the gaiety she could out of it.  These are the figures one mostly
sees at Saratoga; there is very little youth of the present day there,
but the youth of the past abounds, with the belated yellow hair and the
purple moustaches, which gave a notion of greater wickedness in a former
generation.

I made my observation that the dress, even in extreme cases of elderly
prime, was very good—in the case of the women, I mean; the men there, as
everywhere with us, were mostly slovens; and I was glad to find that the
good taste and the correct fashion were without a colour-line; there were
some mulatto ladies present as stylish as their white sisters, or
step-sisters.

The most amiable of the human race is in great force at Saratoga, where
the vast hotel service is wholly in its hands, and it had honoured the
effort of the comedians that night with a full house of their own
complexion.  We who were not of it showed strangely enough in the dark
mass, who let us lead the applause, however, as if doubtful themselves
where it ought to come in, and whom I found willing even to share some
misplaced laughter of mine.  They formed two-thirds of the audience on
the floor, and they were a cloud in the gallery, scarcely broken by a
gleam of white.

I entertained myself with them a good deal, and I thought how much more
delightful they were in their own kindly character than in their
assumption of white character, and I tried to define my suffering from
the performance as an effect from my tormented sympathies rather than
from my offended tastes.  When the long stress was over, and we rose and
stood to let the crowd get out, I asked Miss Gage if she did not think
this must be the case.  I do not suppose she was really much more
experienced in the theatre than the people on the stage, some of whom I
doubted to have ever seen a play till they took part in East Lynne.
But I thought I would ask her that in order to hear what she would say;
and she said very simply that she had seen so few plays she did not know
what to think of it, and I could see that she was abashed by the fact.
Kendricks must have seen it too, for he began at once to save her from
herself, with all his subtle generosity, and to turn her shame to praise.
My heart, which remained sufficiently cold to her, warmed more than ever
to him, and I should have liked to tell her that here was the finest and
rarest human porcelain using itself like common clay in her behalf, and
to demand whether she thought she was worth it.

I did not think she was, and I had a lurid moment when I was tempted to
push on and make her show herself somehow at her worst.  We had
undertaken a preposterous thing in befriending her as we had done, and
our course in bringing Kendricks in was wholly unjustifiable.  How could
I lead her on to some betrayal of her essential Philistinism, and make
her so impossible in his eyes that even he, with all his sweetness and
goodness, must take the first train from Saratoga in the morning?

We had of course joined the crowd in pushing forward; people always do,
though they promise themselves to wait till the last one is out.  I got
caught in a dark eddy on the first stair-landing; but I could see them
farther down, and I knew they would wait for me outside the door.

When I reached it at last they were nowhere to be seen; I looked up this
street and down that, but they were not in sight.




XII


I DID not afflict myself very much, nor pretend to do so.  They knew the
way home, and after I had blundered about in search of them through the
lampshot darkness, I settled myself to walk back at my leisure,
comfortably sure that I should find them on the verandah waiting for me
when I reached the hotel.  It was quite a thick night, and I almost ran
into a couple at a corner of our quieter street when I had got to it out
of Broadway.  They seemed to be standing and looking about, and when the
man said, “He must have thought we took the first turn,” and the woman,
“Yes, that must have been the way,” I recognised my estrays.

I thought I would not discover myself to them, but follow on, and
surprise them by arriving at our steps at the same moment they did, and I
prepared myself to hurry after them.  But they seemed in no hurry, and I
had even some difficulty in accommodating my pace to the slowness of
theirs.

“Won’t you take my arm, Miss Gage?” he asked as they moved on.

“It’s so very dark,” she answered, and I knew she had taken it.  “I can
hardly see a step, and poor Mr. March with his glasses—I don’t know what
he’ll do.”

“Oh, he only uses them to read with; he can see as well as we can in the
dark.”

“He’s very young in his feelings,” said the girl; “he puts me in mind of
my own father.”

“He’s very young in his thoughts,” said Kendricks; “and that’s much more
to the purpose for a magazine editor.  There are very few men of his age
who keep in touch with the times as he does.”

“Still, Mrs. March seems a good deal younger, don’t you think?  I wonder
how soon they begin to feel old?”

“Oh, not till along in the forties, I should say.  It’s a good deal in
temperament.  I don’t suppose that either of them realises yet that
they’re old, and they must be nearly fifty.”

“How strange it must be,” said the girl, “fifty years old!  Twenty seems
old enough, goodness knows.”

“How should you like to be a dotard of twenty-seven?” Kendricks asked,
and she laughed at his joke.

“I don’t suppose I should mind it so much if I were a man.”

I had promised myself that if the talk became at all confidential I would
drop behind out of earshot; but though it was curiously intimate for me
to be put apart in the minds of these young people on account of my years
as not of the same race or fate as themselves, there was nothing in what
they said that I might not innocently overhear, as far as they were
concerned, and I listened on.

But they had apparently given me quite enough attention.  After some
mutual laughter at what she said last, they were silent a moment, and
then he said soberly, “There’s something fine in this isolation the dark
gives you, isn’t there?  You’re as remote in it from our own time and
place as if you were wandering in interplanetary space.”

“I suppose we are doing that all the time—on the earth,” she suggested.

“Yes; but how hard it is to realise that we are on the earth now.
Sometimes I have a sense of it, though, when the moon breaks from one
flying cloud to another.  Then it seems as if I were a passenger on some
vast, shapeless ship sailing through the air.  What,” he asked, with no
relevancy that I could perceive, “was the strangest feeling you ever
had?”  I remembered asking girls such questions when I was young, and
their not apparently thinking it at all odd.

“I don’t know,” she returned thoughtfully.  “There was one time when I
was little, and it had sleeted, and the sun came out just before it set,
and seemed to set all the woods on fire.  I thought the world was burning
up.”

“It must have been very weird,” said Kendricks; and I thought, “Oh, good
heavens!  Has he got to talking of weird things?”

“It’s strange,” he added, “how we all have that belief when we are
children that the world is going to burn up!  I don’t suppose any child
escapes it.  Do you remember that poem of Thompson’s—the City of
Dreadful Night man—where he describes the end of the world?”

“No, I never read it.”

“Well, merely, he says when the conflagration began the little flames
looked like crocuses breaking through the sod.  If it ever happened I
fancy it would be quite as simple as that.  But perhaps you don’t like
gloomy poetry?”

“Yes, yes, I do.  It’s the only kind that I care about.”

“Then you hate funny poetry?”

“I think it’s disgusting.  Papa is always cutting it out of the papers
and wanting to send it to me, and we have the greatest times!”

“I suppose,” said Kendricks, “it expresses some moods, though.”

“Oh yes; it expresses some moods; and sometimes it makes me laugh in
spite of myself, and ashamed of anything serious.”

“That’s always the effect of a farce with me.”

“But then I’m ashamed of being ashamed afterward,” said the girl.  “I
suppose you go to the theatre a great deal in New York.”

“It’s a school of life,” said Kendricks.  “I mean the audience.”

“I would like to go to the opera once.  I am going to make papa take me
in the winter.”  She laughed with a gay sense of power, and he said—

“You seem to be great friends with your father.”

“Yes, we’re always together.  I always went everywhere with him; this is
the first time I’ve been away without him.  But I thought I’d come with
Mrs. Deering and see what Saratoga was like; I had never been here.”

“And is it like what you thought?”

“No.  The first week we didn’t do anything.  Then we got acquainted with
Mr. and Mrs. March, and I began to really see something.  But I supposed
it was all balls and gaiety.”

“We must get up a few if you’re so fond of them,” Kendricks playfully
suggested.

“Oh, I don’t know as I am.  I never went much at home.  Papa didn’t care
to have me.”

“Ah, do you think it was right for him to keep you all to himself?”  The
girl did not answer, and they had both halted so abruptly that I almost
ran into them.  “I don’t quite make out where we are.”  Kendricks seemed
to be peering about.  I plunged across the street lest he should ask me.
I heard him add, “Oh yes; I know now,” and then they pressed forward.

We were quite near our hotel, but I thought it best to walk round the
square and let them arrive first.  On the way I amused myself thinking
how different the girl had shown herself to him from what she had ever
shown herself to my wife or me.  She had really, this plain-minded
goddess, a vein of poetic feeling, some inner beauty of soul answering to
the outer beauty of body.  She had a romantic attachment to her father,
and this shed a sort of light on both of them, though I knew that it was
not always a revelation of character.




XIII


WHEN I reached the hotel I found Miss Gage at the door, and Kendricks
coming out of the office toward her.

“Oh, here he is!” she called to him at sight of me.

“Where in the world have you been?” he demanded.  “I had just found out
from the clerk that you hadn’t come in yet, and I was going back for you
with a searchlight.”

“Oh, I wasn’t so badly lost as all that,” I returned.  “I missed you in
the crowd at the door, but I knew you’d get home somehow, and so I came
on without you.  But my aged steps are not so quick as yours.”

The words, mechanically uttered, suggested something, and I thought that
