to Mr. Mudge that her actual chance for a 
play of mind was worth, any week, the three 
shillings he desired to help her to save, she 
yet saw something happen in the course of 
the month that, in her heart of hearts at 
least, answered the subtle question. This 
was connected precisely with the appearance 
of the memorable lady. 



She pushed in three bescribbled forms 
which the girl 's hand was quick to appropriate, 
Mr. Buckton having so frequent a perverse instinct for catching first any eye that 
promised the sort of entertainment with 
which she had her peculiar affinity. The 
amusements of captives are full of a desperate 
contrivance, and one of our young 
friend 's ha penny worths had been the 
charming tale of Picciola. It was of course 
the law of the place that they were never to 
take no notice, as Mr. Buckton said, whom 
they served ; but this also never prevented, 
certainly on the same gentleman 's own part, 
what he was fond of describing as the under 
hand game. Both her companions, for that 
matter, made no secret of the number of 
favourites they had among the ladies ; sweet 
familiarities in spite of which she had 
repeatedly caught each of them in stupidities 
and mistakes, confusions of identity and lapses of observation that never failed to 
remind her how the cleverness of men ended 
where the cleverness of women began. 
"Marguerite, Regent Street. Try on at six. 
All Spanish lace. Pearls. The full length. 
That was the first; it had no signature. 
"Lady Agnes Orme, Hyde Park Place. 
Impossible to-night, dining Haddon. Opera 
to-morrow, promised Fritz, but could do play 
Wednesday. Will try Haddon for Savoy, 
and anything in the world you like, if you 
can get Gussy. Sunday, Montenero. Sit 
Mason Monday, Tuesday. Marguerite awful. 
Cissy." That was the second. The third, 
the girl noted when she took it, was on a 
foreign form: "Everard, Hotel Brighton, 
Paris. Only understand and believe. 22nd 
to 26th, and certainly 8th and 9th. Perhaps 
others. Come. Mary." 

Mary was very handsome, the handsomest 
woman, she felt in a moment, she had ever 
seen or perhaps it was only Cissy. Perhaps it was both, for she had seen stranger 
things than that ladies wiring to different 
persons under different names. She had 
seen all sorts of things and pieced together 
all sorts of mysteries. There had once been 
one not long before who, without winking, sent off five over five different signatures. Perhaps these represented five 
different friends who had asked her all 
women, just as perhaps now Mary and Cissy, 
or one or other of them, were wiring by 
deputy. Sometimes she put in too much 
too much of her own sense; sometimes 
she put in too little ; and in either case this 
often came round to her afterwards, for she 
had an extraordinary way of keeping clues. 
When she noticed, she noticed; that was 
what it came to. There were days and days, 
there were weeks sometimes, of vacancy. 
This arose often from Mr. Buckton 's devilish and successful subterfuges for keeping 
her at the sounder whenever it looked as if 
anything might amuse ; the sounder, which 
it was equally his business to mind, being 
the innermost cell of captivity, a cage within 
the cage, fenced off from the rest by a frame 
of ground glass. The counter-clerk would 
have played into her hands; but the counter- 
clerk was really reduced to idiocy by the 
effect of his passion for her. She flattered 
herself moreover, nobly, that with the un 
pleasant conspicuity of this passion she 
would never have consented to be obliged to 
him. The most she would ever do would 
be always to shove off on him whenever she 
could the registration of letters, a job she 
happened particularly to loathe. After the 
long stupors, at all events, there almost 
always suddenly would come a sharp taste 
of something; it was in her mouth before 
she knew it ; it was in her mouth now. 

To Cissy, to Mary, whichever it was, she 
found her curiosity going out with a rush, 
a mute effusion that floated back to her, like 
a returning tide, the living colour and splen 
dour of the beautiful head, the light of eyes 
that seemed to reflect such utterly other 
things than the mean things actually before 
them; and, above all, the high, curt 
consideration of a manner that, even at bad 
moments, was a magnificent habit and of 
the very essence of the innumerable things 
her beauty, her birth, her father and mother, 
her cousins and all her ancestors that its 
possessor couldn' t have got rid of if she had 
wished. How did our obscure little public 
servant know that, for the lady of the telegrams, this was a bad moment? How did 
she guess all sorts of impossible things, such 
as, almost on the Very spot, the presence of 
drama, at a critical stage, and the nature of 
the tie with the gentleman at the Hotel 
Brighton? More than ever before it floated 
to her through the bars of the cage that this 
at last was the high reality, the bristling 
truth that she had hitherto only patched up 
and eked out one of the creatures, in fine, 
in whom all the conditions for happiness 
actually met and who, in the air they made, 
bloomed with an unwitting insolence. What 
came home to the girl was the way the 
insolence was tempered by something that 
was equally a part of the distinguished life, 
the custom of a flower-like bend to the less 
fortunate a dropped fragrance, a mere 
quick breath, but which in fact pervaded and 
lingered. The apparition was very young, 
but certainly married, and our fatigued 
friend had a sufficient store of mythological 
comparison to recognise the port of Juno. 
Marguerite might be "awful," but she knew 
how to dress a goddess. 

Pearls and Spanish lace she herself, with 
assurance, could see them, and the "full 
length" too, and also red velvet bows, which, 
disposed on the lace in a particular manner 
(she could have placed them with the turn 
of a hand), were of course to adorn the front 
of a black brocade that would be like a dress 
in a picture. However, neither Marguerite, 
nor Lady Agnes, nor Haddon, nor Fritz, nor 
Gussy were what the wearer of this garment 
had really come in for. She had come in 
for Everard and that was doubtless not his 
true name either. If our young lady had 
never taken such jumps before, it was 
simply that she had never before been so 





affected. She went all the way. Mary and 
Cissy had been round together, in their 
single superb person, to see him he must 
live round the corner; they had found that, 
in consequence of something they had come, 
precisely, to make up for or to have another 
scene about, he had gone off gone off just 
on purpose to make them feel it; on which 
they had come together to Cocker 's as to 
the nearest place; where they had put in 
the three forms partly in order not to put in 
the one alone. The two others, in a manner, 
covered it, muffled it, passed it off. Oh yes, 
she went all the way, and this was a speci 
men of how she often went. She would 
know the hand again any time. It was as 
handsome and as everything else as the 
woman herself. The woman herself had, on 
learning his flight, pushed past Everard 's 
servant and into his room ; she had written 
her missive at his table and with his pen. 
All this, every inch of it, came in the waft 
that she blew through and left behind her, 
the influence that, as I have said, lingered. 

And among the things the girl was sure 
of, happily, was that she should see her 
again. 



IV 

She saw her in fact, and only ten days 
later; but this time she was not alone, and 
that was exactly a part of the luck of it. 
Being clever enough to know through what 
possibilities it could range, our young lady 
had ever since had in her mind a dozen con 
flicting theories about Everard 's type; as to 
which, the instant they came into the place, 
she felt the point settled with a thump that 
seemed somehow addressed straight to her 
heart. That organ literally beat faster at 
the approach of the gentleman who was this 
time with Cissy and who, as seen from 
within the cage, became on the spot the 
happiest of the happy circumstances with 
which her mind had invested the friend of 
Fritz and Gussy. He was a very happy cir 
cumstance indeed as, with his cigarette in 
his lips and his broken familiar talk caught 
by his companions, he put down the half- 





dozen telegrams which it would take them 
together some minutes to despatch. And 
here it occurred, oddly enough, that if, 
shortly before, the girl 's interest in his com 
panion had sharpened her sense for the 
messages then transmitted, her immediate 
vision of himself had the effect, while she 
counted his seventy words, of preventing 
intelligibility. His words were mere num 
bers, they told her nothing whatever; and 
after he had gone she was in possession of 
no name, of no address, of no meaning, of 
nothing but a vague, sweet sound and an 
immense impression. He had been there 
but five minutes, he had smoked in her face, 
and, busy with his telegrams, with the tap 
ping pencil and the conscious danger, the 
odious betrayal that would come from a mis 
take, she had had no wandering glances nor 
roundabout arts to spare. Yet she had taken 
him in ; she knew everything ; she had made 
up her mind. 

He had come back from Paris; everything 
was rearranged ; the pair were again shoulder 





to shoulder in their high encounter with life, 
their large and complicated game. The fine, 
soundless pulse of this game was in the air 
for our young woman while they remained 
in the shop. While they remained? They 
remained all day, their presence continued 
and abode with her, was in everything she 
did till nightfall, in the thousands of other 
words she counted, she transmitted, in all 
the stamps she detached and the letters she 
weighed and the change she gave, equally 
unconscious and unerring in each of these 
particulars, and not, as the run on the little 
office thickened with the afternoon hours, 
looking up at a single ugly face in the long 
sequence, nor really hearing the stupid 
questions that she patiently and perfectly 
answered. All patience was possible now, 
and all questions stupid after his all faces 
ugly. She had been sure she should see the 
lady again ; and even now she should per 
haps, she should probably, see her often. 
But for him it was totally different; she 
should never, never see him. She wanted 





it too much. There was a kind of wanting 
that helped she had arrived, with her rich 
exp rience, at that generalisation ; and there 
was another kind that was fatal. It was 
this time the fatal kind ; it would prevent. 

Well, she saw him the very next day, and 
on this second occasion it was quite differ 
ent; the sense of every syllable he de 
spatched was fiercely distinct; she indeed 
felt her progressive pencil, dabbing as if 
with a quick caress the marks of his own, 
put life into every stroke. He was there a 
long time had not brought his forms filled 
out, but worked them off in a nook on the 
counter; and there were other people as 
well a changing, pushing cluster, with 
every one to mind at once and endless right 
change to make and information to produce. 
But she kept hold of him throughout; she 
continued, for herself, in a relation with 
him as close as that in which, behind the 
hated ground glass, Mr. Buckton luckily con 
tinued with the sounder. This morning 
everything changed, but with a kind of 





dreariness too ; she had to swallow the rebuff 
to her theory about fatal desires, which she 
did without confusion and indeed with abso 
lute levity; yet if it was now flagrant that 
he did live close at hand at Park Cham 
bers and belonged supremely to the class 
that wired everything, even their expensive 
feelings (so that, as he never wrote, his 
correspondence cost him weekly pounds 
and pounds, and he might be in and out five 
times a day,) there was, all the same, 
involved in the prospect, and by reason of 
its positive excess of light, a perverse mel 
ancholy, almost a misery. This was rapidly 
to give it a place in an order of feelings on 
which I shall presently touch. 

Meanwhile, for a month, he was very con 
stant. Cissy, Mary, never reappeared with 
him ; he was always either alone or accom 
panied only by some gentleman who was 
lost in the blaze of his glory. There was 
another sense, however and indeed there 
was more than one in which she mostly 
found herself counting in the splendid 
creature with whom she had originally con 
nected him. He addressed this correspond 
ent neither as Mary nor as Cissy; but the 
girl was sure of whom it was, in Eaton 
Square, that he was perpetually wiring to 
and so irreproachably! as Lady Bradeen. 
Lady Bradeen was Cissy, Lady Bradeen was 
Mary, Lady Bradeen was the friend of Fritz 
and of Gussy, the customer of Marguerite 
and the close ally, in short (as was ideally 
right, only the girl had not yet found a 
descriptive term that was,) of the most mag 
nificent of men. Nothing could equal the 
frequency and variety of his communica 
tions to her ladyship but their extraordinary, 
their abysmal propriety. It was just the 
talk, so profuse sometimes that she wondered 
what was left for their real meetings, of the 
happiest people in the world. Their real 
meetings must have been constant, for half 
of it was appointments and allusions, all 
swimming in a sea of other allusions still, 
tangled in a complexity of questions that 
gave a wondrous image of their life. If 
Lady Bradeen was Juno, it was all certainly 
Olympian. If the girl, missing the answers, 
her ladyship 's own outpourings, sometimes 
wished that Cocker 's had only been one of 
the bigger offices where telegrams arrived 
as well as departed, there were yet ways in 
which, on the whole, she pressed the ro 
mance closer by reason of the very quantity 
of imagination that it demanded. The days 
and hours of this new friend, as she came to 
account him, were at all events unrolled, 
and however much more she might have 
known she would still have wished to go 
beyond. In fact she did go beyond; she 
went quite far enough. 

But she could none the less, even after a 
month, scarce have told if the gentlemen 
who came in with him recurred or changed ; 
and this in spite of the fact that they too 
were always posting and wiring, smoking in 
her face and signing or not signing. The 
gentlemen who came in with him were noth 
ing, at any rate, when he was there. They 
turned up alone at other times then only 





perhaps with a dim richness of reference. 
He himself, absent as well as present, was 
all. He was very tall, very fair, and had, 
in spite of his thick preoccupations, a good- 
humour that was exquisite, particularly as it 
so often had the effect of keeping him on. 
He could have reached over anybody, and 
anybody no matter who would have let 
him ; but he was so extraordinarily kind that 
he quite pathetically waited, never waggling 
things at her out of his turn or saying Here ! 
with horrid sharpness. He waited for pot 
tering old ladies, for gaping slaveys, for the 
perpetual Buttonsesfrom Thrupp s; and the 
thing in all this that she would have liked 
most unspeakably to put to the test was the 
possibility of her having for him a personal 
identity that might in a particular way 
appeal. There were moments when he 
actually struck her as on her side, arranging 
to help, to support, to spare her. 

But such was the singular spirit of our 
young friend that she could remind herself 
with a sort of rage that when people had 





awfully good manners people of that class 
you couldn't tell. These manners were for 
everybody, and it might be drearily unavail 
ing for any poor particular body to be over 
worked and unusual. What he did take for 
granted was all sorts of facility ; and his high 
pleasantness, his relighting of cigarettes 
while he waited, his unconscious bestowal 
of opportunities, of boons, of blessings, were 
all a part of his magnificent security, the 
instinct that told him there was nothing 
such an existence as his could ever lose by. 
He was, somehow, at once very bright and 
very grave, very young and immensely com 
plete ; and whatever he was at any moment, 
it was always as much as all the rest the 
mere bloom of his beatitude. He was some 
times Everard, as he had been at the Hotel 
Brighton, and he was sometimes Captain 
Everard. He was sometimes Philip with 
his surname and sometimes Philip without 
it. In some directions he was merely Phil, 
in others he was merely Captain. There 
were relations in which he was none of these 
things, but a quite different person the 
Count. There were several friends for 
whom he was William. There were several 
for whom, in allusion perhaps to his com 
plexion, he was the Pink Un. Once, 
once only by good luck, he had, coinciding 
comically, quite miraculously, with another 
person also near to her, been Mudge. Yes, 
whatever he was, it was a part of his hap 
piness whatever he was and probably what 
ever he wan' t. And his happiness was a 
part it became so little by little of some 
thing that, almost from the first of her being 
at Cocker's, had been deeply with the girl. 



This was neither more nor less than the 
queer extension of her experience, the double 
life that, in the cage, she grew at last to 
lead. As the weeks went on there she lived 
more and more into the world of whiffs and 
glimpses, and found her divinations work 
faster and stretch further. It was a pro 
digious view as the pressure heightened, a 
panorama fed with facts and figures, flushed 
with a torrent of color and accompanied with 
wondrous world-music. What it mainly 
came to at this period was a picture of how 
London could amuse itself; and that, with 
the running commentary of a witness so 
exclusively a witness, turned for the most 
part to a hardening of the heart. The nose 
of this observer was brushed by the bouquet, 
yet she could never really pluck even a daisy. 
What could still remain fresh in her daily 
grind was the immense disparity, the 
difference and contrast, from class to class, of 
every instant and every motion. There 
were times when all the wires in the country 
seemed to start from the little hole-and- 
corner where she plied for a livelihood, and 
where, in the shuffle of feet, the flutter of 
forms, the straying of stamps and the ring 
of change over the counter, the people she 
had fallen into the habit of remembering 
and fitting together with others, and of 
having her theories and interpretations of, 
kept up before her their long procession and 
rotation. What twisted the knife in her 
vitals was the way the profligate rich scat 
tered about them, in extravagant chatter 
over their extravagant pleasures and sins, 
an amount of money that would have held 
the stricken household of her frightened 
childhood, her poor pinched mother and tor 
mented father and lost brother and starved 
sister, together for a lifetime. During her 
first weeks she had often gasped at the 
sums people were willing to pay for the stuff 
they transmitted the much loves, the 





awful regrets, the compliments and won 
derments and vain, vague gestures that cost 
