
They came to an iron ladder, leading up to the floor above. Up that the
man went, the cadet following; that took them to another long stone
passage, dark as ever.

On they went, turning and winding about, but still not hesitating. And
then suddenly the man halted in front of a grated door.

The key was in the lock and the door opened promptly as he turned it.

"Enter," said he.

Clif went in, and he heard the door shut behind him. It flashed over him
then that he had only been taken to another cell.

But when he whirled about he saw that the stranger had entered, too. The
dark figure brushed past him and went across the room. A moment
afterward Clif heard him in the act of striking a match.

And then the light of a lamp lit up the little room. By it the eager
cadet could see his rescuer, and he stared anxiously.

Further secrecy seemed not intended. The stranger faced about and each
looked at the other steadfastly.

What the mysterious man saw was a tall, handsome American in a blue
uniform, his face rather pale.

Clif in turn saw also a man in a blue uniform; he had to take but one
glance to see that he was a lieutenant in the Spanish army.

He was a tall, finely proportioned man, rather young, and with a slight
dark mustache. He had the dark skin and the features of a Spaniard; but
Clif thought he had never seen a finer looking military man.

For a moment Clif gazed at him in silence. Then he stepped toward him.

"Tell me, sir," he said. "Why have you done this?"

The officer answered in a low, quiet voice:

"You will soon know," said he. "Do not be impatient."

"You have saved me from a horrible fate," said the cadet, his voice
choking. "I do not know how to thank you."

"Do not try," answered the other. "You have some one else to thank."

And then he became silent again, watching Clif. He seemed to be very
much interested in him, from the way he studied the American's face. And
once he gave a slight sigh.

Clif looked at him in surprise; but the man turned away, and he went
toward the door.

"I will return soon," said he, again in that quiet, firm voice. "Wait
here."

There was nothing for Clif to do but wait; for when the door shut he was
locked in the cell.

That man's action was a mysterious one indeed. It left the cadet plenty
to think of. He saw now where he got the keys. He was evidently one of
the officers in charge of the castle.

But why had he done it? Clif was utterly baffled before that question.

But it was not for very long; he soon learned, and in a startling and
unexpected way.

Clif had not noticed it, but there was another door to that cell. It was
behind him, leading to a small room in the rear.

While he stood there motionless and lost in thought waiting for the
Spaniard's return, that door was silently opened, and a figure stood
watching him.

And then suddenly it stepped out and came across the room.

The cadet heard it then, and whirled about. He took one glance.

And then he staggered back with a cry of consternation.

It was Bessie Stuart!

For one instant the two stood and stared at each other as if to make
sure that their eyes did not deceive them. And then, with a cry of
delight that came from his very soul, Clif sprang toward the girl.

Bessie Stuart looked as if she had been through some terrible ordeal,
for her face was pale; the emotion of meeting Clif almost overcame her,
and she burst into tears upon his shoulder.

Clif himself was so dazed that he hardly knew what to think. He caught
the girl in his arms to keep her from falling.

"Bessie," he cried, "how on earth did you get here?"

The cadet's brain was in a whirl at that moment. He began to see what
the Spaniard meant when he said it was for some other person's sake that
he had rescued Clif. It was for her sake!

And it must have been by some terrible sacrifice that she had saved him
from the torture.

"Bessie!" he cried. "Tell me--that officer. What----"

The girl looked up through her tears.

"S-sh!" she exclaimed. "It is all right. Wait."

And at that instant Clif heard a key turn in the door, and knew that it
was the man returning.

Clif gazed into the girl's face and he saw a look of joy upon it that
partially reassured him; then he looked up and saw that the Spanish
lieutenant had entered and was watching them.

In his quiet way he studied the faces of the two; he saw the look of
happiness on Bessie Stuart's face, and he must have known that it was
because she had met the cadet again.

Clif saw him press his lips together resolutely. The cadet was watching
him with the intensest anxiety, for he hoped in that man's actions to
read the meaning of this mystery.

But the Spaniard's handsome face showed little emotion, though his chest
heaved and fell as he stood there.

And then suddenly he stepped forward toward the two.

"I have brought it, Miss Stuart," he said, with a dignified bow.

He held out a heavy cloth cape, which the girl flung over her shoulders;
then, leaning on Clif's arm, she stepped toward the door.

"I am ready," she said.

And without another word the officer turned and led the way out of the
cell.

He shut the door and locked it behind him and then went on down the
corridor.

Clif was mystified beyond expression, but he asked no questions. The
three went on silently. Bessie Stuart was so weak that she had to be
half carried.

They had gone but a short way down the long passage before they met a
sentry with a gun upon his shoulder; he glanced at them inquiringly.

But the lieutenant was not one who could be asked for explanations, and
the soldier saluted and passed on.

They passed through two heavily grated doors, each guarded in a similar
way. But still not a word was spoken.

And then suddenly Clif saw the passage broaden out into a wide hall, and
a moment later he came to what he knew to be the great door by which he
had first entered.

There were two men standing on guard there, either sentries or jailers.
Clif could not see which. The party came to a halt.

"Garcia," said the lieutenant, "these are two prisoners, Americans, whom
I have been directed to take across the bay."

The man saluted and bowed respectfully.

"Have you the order?" he inquired.

"I have not. The commander had no time to give one to me. There is some
hurry in the matter, I believe."

"It is somewhat irregular, lieutenant."

"I will assume full responsibility," said the other, quietly.

The man scanned the two prisoners closely.

"They are not even bound," he objected.

"I will assume full responsibility," said the officer again.

He spoke rather sharply; and without another word the man hastened to
swing back the door.

And the three stepped out of that black prison into the open air and
under the broad sky of heaven.

And the lieutenant turned toward the two Americans.

"You are free," he said, quietly. "Fly for your lives!"




CHAPTER XVIII.

CLIF FARADAY'S SACRIFICE.


It is needless to say that Clif stared at the man in amazement. But an
instant before he had heard him state that he was willing to assume
responsibility for them as prisoners.

And now he was saying that they were free!

But there was no time to ask any questions. Bessie Stuart was clinging
to Clif's arm and urging him on.

"Have you got some place to hide us?" she inquired anxiously of the
officer.

"It is hardly likely that I would leave you here," was the other's quiet
answer. "Come."

He led them away from the prison. A short distance off there was
standing a small closed carriage.

"Here it is," said the Spaniard. "Step in."

Clif helped the girl inside; and then entered himself. He expected the
officer to follow, but he did not; he clambered up with the driver.

And the carriage rattled off down the road.

Clif saw his chance then. He turned eagerly toward the girl.

"Bessie!" he cried, "for Heaven's sake, tell me what this all means. Who
is this man? And why is he setting us at liberty?"

The girl sank back weakly in the seat.

"I will tell you the story, Clif," she said. "There is plenty of time,
for we have a long ways to go."

"He is ruining himself for us!" Clif exclaimed. "For you! Why he will be
court-martialed and shot if he lets us get away."

"I know it," groaned the girl, choking down a sob. "I know it. We talked
it all over beforehand. But it was a question of his life or mine."

"Are you sure he is not tricking us?" gasped Clif--"kidnapping us?"

The girl smiled sadly.

"You do not understand the circumstances," she said. "Wait, and let me
tell you."

Clif missed in his friend the old self-reliant manner that she had
always had; she was nervous and weak, and it was plain that she was not
well.

And Clif was trembling all over with anxiety as he watched her.

"Go on!" he cried. "Tell me. How did you get here, in the first place?"

"You left me with Gomez," began the girl, taking a deep breath. "I did
not stay very long, for he was marching about, and I could not stand the
strain. He wanted me to go to one of the Cuban villages in the interior
where his family was; but I was anxious to get back to the United
States. And so I came here to Havana----"

"To Havana!"

"Yes, for I thought no one would know me."

"And Ignacio saw you?"

"Yes, and recognized me. But that was only the other day."

"Where were you meanwhile?"

"I had a letter to the British consul, and I stayed at his home. There
was so much suffering in this city that I couldn't stay idle. I used to
go to the hospitals to take care of the poor people, the Cubans. And
that was how I met Lieutenant Hernandez."

"Who is he?"

"He is the man who has rescued us. He had been hurt in the Matanzas
bombardment, and one of his arms was terribly cut. I took care of
him--he was there because the military hospitals were crowded. And,
Clif, I--I--I guess he fell in love with me."

The girl flushed as she said that.

"I should not tell, perhaps," she went on, hastily. "But it is your
right to know this, and you would not understand if I didn't tell you.
Clif, he asked me to marry him."

Clif started and turned pale.

"Bessie!" he exclaimed in horror.

The thought of that girl's marrying the Spanish officer was terrible. It
flashed over him that that was the reason why the rescue had been
attempted.

"Oh, Bessie!" he cried again.

Clif had never breathed a word of love to her in his life. But all
through their trying journey through Cuba he had protected her, fairly
worshiped her. And he had thought she understood his feelings.

And now he thought that he had lost her--she had promised to be that
officer's wife! It was no wonder that he felt his hands grow icy.

His heart fairly stood still as he waited for the girl to go on.

"I will tell you," said Bessie. "You must know in the first place that
this man is a gentleman, a hero in fact. You will understand it when I
tell you what he has done."

"Go on."

"When he left the hospital, as I say, he begged me to marry
him--declared he would resign from the army if I would."

The girl was breathing hard as she continued; it was evident that the
subject pained her.

"I felt so sorry for him," she said, in a low, trembling voice. "For I
think it has nearly broken his heart. I refused him. I told him that I
liked him, but I did not, I could not marry him. I had been kind to him
because he was ill. He swore that he would die for me--and, Clif, I
think he has nearly carried out his promise."

Bessie Stuart choked down a sob.

"I refused him," she said again. "And then came the horrible Ignacio. He
saw me on the street. That was three days ago; and that same day I was
placed under arrest."

"What for?"

"Why, Ignacio knew that I had been fighting with Gomez; you know we had
a fight with some Spaniards when he was along. And so there was no
chance for me. The British consul did all he could for me, but there was
no hope. I could not deny the charges. And, oh, Clif, I have had a
frightful time. I was taken over to those horrible dungeons in Morro.
And I was sentenced to death. I was to be taken out and shot to-morrow."

The girl stopped for a few moments to recover her composure.

"And how did you find out about me?" asked Clif.

"I will tell you," said Bessie. "But first I must go on about this
Lieutenant Hernandez. I did not know it, but he was stationed over here.
And when he found out what had happened to me he managed to come in to
see me."

And then Clif felt able to complete that story.

"I suppose," said he, "that he offered to free you if you would marry
him."

Bessie Stuart smiled sadly.

"You do not know the man," said she. "I will tell you what he did say. I
can almost hear him saying it."

"What?"

"'Miss Stuart,' he said, 'you have said you do not love me. And I think
you love some one else--I do not know whom; but I will not make you
unhappy by urging you any more. I might take advantage of your present
position to get you to promise to marry me. But I will not. If you will
be ready to-night I will help you to escape, and prove what I said about
dying for you.'"

The girl stopped and sat silent, too much moved to speak. And Clif was
too astonished.

That was indeed the act of a noble nature. The cadet saw it all then,
why the man had freed them and why he and the girl were both so quiet
and sad. Lieutenant Hernandez had given his life for hers.

It was fully a minute before anything more was said. Then Bessie Stuart
began again, in a low voice:

"About you," she said. "It was the lieutenant who told me, quite by
accident. He said there were five Americans captured, one a cadet, and
that he was to be killed. When I asked the name and he told me, I
fainted dead away. And I think that hurt the lieutenant more than
anything."

"Why?"

"I told him the story, how you had twice rescued me from the Spaniards.
And he asked--he asked if you were his rival."

The girl stepped abruptly.

"And you said that I was, I hope," said Clif, quietly.

Most women would have been embarrassed by a question such as that. But
Bessie Stuart was not.

There was some of the old-time self-possession in her voice as she
responded. She turned and looked fairly into Clif's eyes.

"I know you well enough to speak my mind," she said. "Yes, I told him
that you were."

And then the two sat perfectly silent, looking at each other. It was a
very few words they had said, but they covered a lifetime of feeling.

In that quiet way and under those strange circumstances Clif had
unbosomed his heart; and Bessie Stuart had done the same.

It was the first word that Clif had ever said to indicate how he felt
toward her.

For the two sat in silence for a minute or so; and then Clif went on:

"You told this officer that I was his rival," said he; "that you loved
me and that I was the only barrier to his hopes?"

"I did," said the girl.

"And he still was willing to save my life?"

"You see what he has done," answered the other. "He said that he loved
me, that he would risk his life to make me happy. And here we are."

"But not happy," Clif added, half under his breath.

Then again there was a long silence. One cannot say much when one feels
as deeply as those two felt then.

Clif thought of the heroism of that quiet Spanish officer. And his heart
went out toward him. He fancied what the man's own feelings must be, the
loneliness and the desolation.

He had ruined himself, accepted voluntarily disgrace and a shameful
death. And all in order that a woman who had been kind to him might be
set free and made happy.

Of the death there could be no doubt. When that officer was caught he
would have it to face. And he would face it for the sake of Bessie
Stuart.

And moreover, he was aiding Clif, his rival, the one who was robbing him
of his heart's desire; he was helping him to freedom so that the cadet,
when his work in the war was done, might claim the woman he loved as his
reward.

That was heroism; not the noisy kind in the battle, which every one sees
and applauds, but the quiet kind that knows it is right and cares for
no one else.

Clif felt that he could worship such a man as that.

And it is needless to say that his conscience troubled him. What right
had he to accept such a sacrifice?

But the alternative was a terrible one. The lieutenant might flee with
them to the United States; and then----

Clif could not finish the thought; it made him shudder.

Just then Bessie Stuart spoke again.

"Clif," she said, "I have something to say to you. And I shall speak
plainly, for there is no time to hesitate. I have told you how I feel
toward you; I have told you that I loved you. Neither of us would have
declared our feelings, I suppose, if it had not been for this situation.
But I have been with you for months, and I have never known you to do
anything I could not admire. And mine is no childish fancy, Clif, for we
have been doing the work of men, you and I. Clif----"

The girl choked back a sob--and then went on:

"We must stop," she said, "stop where we are."

Clif knew what was coming, and he felt his blood surging. Bessie
Stuart's hand was in his and it was trembling.

For a moment she could not speak; the words would not come.

But then with that terrible self-command she sometimes displayed, she
mastered her emotion and turned to look into her companion's face.

"Clif," she said, "you know what I mean. You must let me marry this
officer."

Clif had known, and so he did not move when he heard those awful words.
He sat perfectly motionless, almost frozen; he felt the girl's hand turn
cold in his.

The carriage rolled on, and for at least one long, long minute there was
not a sound. The girl was listening, trembling again; and Clif, half
dazed was thinking to himself, thinking again and again of that death
knell, "You must let me marry this officer."

And it was true. Clif knew it. It was his duty; and the feeling lingered
in his mind that if he had half the heroism of that Spaniard he would
have said so long ago.
