so admirably that Trennahan, balancing beside her, wondered if he should
be able to manage her one half so well.

"What Helena Belmont needs," said Mrs. Montgomery, with some asperity,
"is six babies; and I hope for Mr. Trennahan's sake she'll have them.
Otherwise, I should like to know where the poor man is to get any rest;
she's a human cyclone."

"I never thought she'd marry so soon," replied Mrs. Brannan. "It looked
as if she were going to be a regular old-time belle; and it took them
years to get through."

"She's not married yet," remarked Mrs. Montgomery.

But these enormous energies, as Rose had predicted, reached their
meridian in something under two months, after which, much to Trennahan's
relief, Helena succumbed to Menlo Park, and manifested an increasing
desire for long hours alone with him under the trees on the lawn,
although she by no means allowed her neighbours to rest for more than
seventy-two hours at a time.




XXI


Don Roberto and Mr. Polk took no part in these festivities; Mrs. Yorba
and Magdaléna took less and less; the picture made by Don Roberto in his
shirt-sleeves, manipulating a hose as the char-à-banc drove off, finally
forbade his wife to riot while her husband toiled. She was angry and
resentful; but she was a woman of stern principles, and she had a
certain measure of that sort of love for her husband which duty prompts
in those who are without passion.

"I don't pretend to understand your father," she said to Magdaléna. "The
bees he gets in his bonnet are quite beyond me, but if he feels that
way, he does, and that's the end of it; and he makes me feel
uncomfortable all the time I am anywhere. I sha'n't go out again until
he gets over this. You can go with somebody else."

"I would a great deal rather stay home. I don't enjoy myself. People
work so hard to be amused. I'd much rather just sit still and do
nothing."

"You're lazy, like all the Spanish. Well, you'll have to do a good deal
of sitting still, I expect; and in a sick room, I'm afraid. Poor Hiram
looks thinner and greyer every day. Almost all our relations died of
consumption."

"I wrote to aunt how badly he was looking, but she has not answered."

"She won't, the heartless thing. She never loved him. But if he takes to
his bed with slow consumption, she'll have to come up and do her share
of the nursing. She ought to like it. Fat women always make good
nurses."

Magdaléna was more than glad to fall out of the gaieties. She was
beginning to feel that most demoralising of all sensations,--the
disintegration of will. Pride, a certain excitement, and novelty had
kept her armour locked for a time; but each time she met Trennahan, the
ordeal of facing him with platitudes, or, what was worse still, in
occasional friendly talks, and of witnessing Helena's little airs of
possession, suggested a future and signal failure. She came to have a
morbid terror that she should betray herself, and when in company with
him kept out of the very reach of his voice. She never went to the
woods, lest she meet him, with or without Helena. In those rustling
arbours of many memories, she knew that she should let fly the passion
within her. She was appalled that neither time nor will nor principle
had authority over her love. She had made up her mind that she would, if
not tear it up by the roots, at least level it to the soil from which it
had sprung, and she was quite ready to believe that love was not all;
that with her youth, intellect, and wealth there was much in life for
her. But the plant flourished and was heavy with bloom. Even while she
avoided him, she longed for the moment when he must of necessity speak
to her. She welcomed the excuse to secede from the ranks of pleasurers,
but even then she started up at every sound of wheels that might herald
his approach. She longed for the wedding to be over; but Helena would
not marry before December, that being her birth month and eminently
suitable, in her logical fancy, for her second launching. Colonel
Belmont, having satisfied himself that everyone in the little drama had
acted with honour, was well pleased with his son-in-law; but he was much
distressed at the attitude of the old friend who had hoped to fill a
similar relation to Trennahan. Don Roberto, taciturn with everybody,
refused to speak to Colonel Belmont, to return his courtly salutation.

"I suppose it is natural," said Colonel Belmont to Helena. "Don is not
only eccentric, but he would almost rather lose a hundred thousand
dollars than his own way. But I hope he'll come round in time, for it
makes me feel right lonesome in my old age. He and Hi were the only real
intimates I have had in California, and now Hi is going, poor old
fellow! and of course I can do little to cheer him up until Don thaws
out."

"Do you feel quite well yourself?" asked Helena, anxiously. "You often
look so terribly pale."

"I never was better, honey, I assure you. But remember that you must
expect to lose your old father some day. But I've been pretty good to
you, haven't I? You'll have nothing but pleasant things to remember?"

"You're the very best angel on earth. I don't even love Jack so much. I
thought I did, but I don't."

"Don't you love him?" asked her father, anxiously. He was eager for her
to marry; he knew that his blood was white.

"Of course! What a question!"




XXII


It was an intensely hot September night. Magdaléna, knowing that sleep
was impossible, had not gone to bed. She wandered restlessly about her
large room, striving to force a current of air. Not a vibration came
through the open windows, nor a sound. The very trees seemed to lean
forward with limp hanging arms. Across the stars was a dark veil, riven
at long intervals with the copper of sheet lightning. Her room, too, was
dark. A light would bring a pest of mosquitoes. The high remote falsetto
of several, as it was, proclaimed an impatient waiting for their ally,
sleep.

Last night, Tiny had given a party, and wrung from Magdaléna a promise
that she would go to it. Rose had called for her. At the last moment
Magdaléna's courage had shrunk to a final shuddering heap, and as she
heard the wheels of the Geary waggonette, she had run upstairs, and
flung herself between the bedclothes, sending down word that she had a
raging toothache. It was her first lie in many years, but it was better
than to dance with despair and agony written on her relaxed face behind
the windows of the garden in which Trennahan had asked her to marry him.

To-night she was seriously considering the proposition of going to her
aunt in Santa Barbara, with or without her father's consent. Her sense
of duty had not tumbled into the ruins of her will, but she argued that
in this most crucial period of her life, her duty was to herself. Helena
had not even asked her to be bridesmaid; she took her acquiescence for
granted. Magdaléna laughed aloud at the thought; but she could not leave
Helena in the lurch at the last moment. When she got to Santa Barbara,
she could plead her aunt's ill health as excuse for not returning in
time for the ceremony. She was in a mood to tell twenty lies if
necessary, but she would not stand at the altar with Trennahan and
Helena. Her passionate desire for change of associations was rising
rapidly to the dignity of a fixed idea. To-morrow there must be a change
of some sort, or her brain would be babbling its secrets. Already her
memory would not connect at times. She felt sure that the prolonged
strain had produced a certain congestion in her brain. And she was
beginning to wonder if she hated Helena. The fires in Magdaléna burned
slowly, but they burned exceeding hot.

She paused and thrust her head forward. For some seconds past her
sub-consciousness had grasped the sound of galloping hoofs. They were on
the estate, by the deer park; a horse was galloping furiously toward the
house.

She ran to the window and looked out. She could see nothing. Could it be
a runaway horse? Was somebody ill? The flying feet turned abruptly and
made for the rear of the house, then paused suddenly. There was a
furious knocking.

Magdaléna's knees shook with a swift presentiment. Something had
happened--was going to happen--to her. She stood holding her breath.
Someone ran softly but swiftly up the stair, and down the hall, to her
room. She knew then who it was, and ran forward and opened the door.

"Helena!" she exclaimed. "What is the matter? Something has--Mr.
Trennahan--"

Helena flung herself upon Magdaléna and burst into a passion of weeping.
Magdaléna stood rigid, ice in her veins. "Is he dead?" she managed to
ask.

"No! He isn't. I wish he were--No, I don't mean that--I'll tell you in a
minute--Let me get through first!"

Magdaléna dragged her shaking limbs across the room and felt for a
chair. Helena began pacing rapidly up and down, pushing the chairs out
of her way.

"Would you like a light?" asked Magdaléna.

"No, thanks; I don't want to be eaten alive with mosquitoes. Oh, how
shall I begin? I suppose you think we've had a commonplace quarrel. I
wish we had. I swear to you, 'Léna, that up to to-night I loved
him--yes, I know that I did! I was rather sorry I'd promised to marry so
soon, for I like being a girl, not really belonging to anyone but
myself, and I love being a great belle, and I think that I should have
begged for another year--but I loved him better than anyone, and I
really intended to marry him--"

"Aren't you going to marry him?"

"Don't be so stern, 'Léna! You don't know all yet. Lately I've been
alone with him a great deal, and you know how you talk about yourselves
in those circumstances. I had told him everything I had ever done and
thought--most; had turned myself inside out. Then I made him talk. Up to
a certain point he was fluent enough; then he shut up like a clam. I
never was very curious about men; but because he was all mine, or
perhaps because I didn't have anything else to think about, I made up my
mind he should come to confession. He fought me off, but you know I have
a way of getting what I want--if I don't there's trouble; and to-night I
pulled his past life out of him bit by bit. 'Léna! he's had liaisons
with married women; he's kept house with women; he's seen the worst life
of every city! For a few years--he confessed it in so many words--he was
one of the maddest men in Europe. The actual things he told me only in
part; but you know I have the instincts of the devil. 'Léna, he's a
human slum, and I hate him! I hate him! I hate him!"

"But that all belongs to his past. He loves you, and you can make him
better--make him forget--"

"I don't want to make any man better. I love everything to be clean and
new and bright,--not mildewed with a thousand vices that I would never
even discuss. Oh, he's a brute to ask me to marry him. I hate myself
that I've been engaged to him! I feel as if I'd tumbled off a pedestal!"

"Are you so much better and purer than I? I knew much of this; but it
did not horrify me. I knew too, what you may not know, that he came here
in a critical time in his--his--inner life, and I was glad to think
that--California had helped him to become quite another man." Her voice
was hoarse, almost inarticulate.

Helena flung herself at Magdaléna's feet. She was trembling with
excitement; but her feverish appeal for sympathy met with no response.

"That is another thing that nearly drove me wild,--that I had taken him
away from you for nothing. I know you don't care now; but you
did--perhaps you do now--sometimes I've suspected, only I wouldn't face
it--and to think that in my wretched selfishness I've separated you for
ever! For your pride wouldn't let you take him back now, and he's as
wild about me as ever: I never thought he could lose control over
himself as he did when I told him what I thought of him and beat him on
the shoulders with both my fists. He turned as white as a corpse and
shook like a leaf. Then he braced up and told me I was a little wild
cat, and that he should leave me and come back when I had come to my
senses, that he had no intention of giving me up. But he need not come
back. I'll never lay eyes on him again. While he was letting me get at
those things, I felt as if my love for him burst into a thousand pieces,
and that when they flew together again they made hate. He told me he was
used to girls of the world, who understood things; and that the girls of
California were so crude they either knew all there was to know by
experience, or else they were prudes--"

Helena paused abruptly and caught her breath. She had felt Magdaléna
extend her arm and stealthily open a drawer in the bureau beside her
chair. There was nothing remarkable in the fact, for in that drawer
Magdaléna kept her handkerchiefs. Nevertheless, Helena shook with the
palsy of terror; the cold sweat burst from her body. In the intense
darkness she could see nothing, only a vague patch where the face of
Magdaléna was. The silence was so strained that surely a shriek must
come tearing across it. The shriek came from her own throat. She leaped
to her feet like a panther, reached the door in a bound, fled down the
hall and the stair, her eyes glancing wildly over her shoulder, and so
out to her horse. It is many years since that night, but there are
silent moments when that ride through the woods flashes down her memory
and chills her skin,--that mad flight from an unimaginable horror,
through the black woods on a terrified horse, the shadow of her fear
racing just behind with outstretched arms and clutching fingers.

Helena's sudden flight left Magdaléna staring through the dark at the
Spanish dagger in her hand. Her arm was raised, her wrist curved; the
dagger pointed toward the space which Helena had filled a moment ago.

"I intended to kill her," she said aloud. "I intended to kill her."

The mental admission of the design and its frustration were almost
simultaneous. Her brain was still in a hideous tumult. Weakened by
suffering, the shock of Helena's fickleness and injustice, the sudden
perception that her sacrifice had been useless, if not absurd, had
disturbed her mental balance for a few seconds, and left her at the
mercy of passions hitherto in-existent to her consciousness. Her love
for her old friend, long trembling in the balance, had flashed into
hate. Upon hate had followed the murderous impulse for vengeance; not
for her own sake, but for that of the man whose weakness had ruined her
life and his own. In the very height of her sudden madness she was still
capable of a curious misdirected feminine unselfishness.

When she came to herself, chagrin that she had failed to accomplish her
purpose possessed her mind for the moment, although she had made no
attempt to follow Helena, beyond springing to her feet. Then her
conscience asserted itself, and reminded her that she should be
appalled, overcome with horror, at the awful possibilities of her
nature. The picture of Helena in the death struggle, bleeding and
gasping, rose before her. Her knees gave way with horror and fright, and
she fell upon her chair, dropping the dagger from her wet fingers,
staring at the grim spectre of her friend. Then once more the sound of
galloping hoofs came to her ears. Both Helena and herself were safe.

In a few moments her thoughts grouped themselves into a regret deeper
and bitterer still. She was capable of the highest passion, and
Circumstance had diverted it from its natural climax and impelled it
toward murder. She sat there and thought until morning on the part to
which she had been born; the ego dully attempting to understand, to
realise that its imperious demands receive little consideration from the
great Law of Circumstance, and are usually ignored.




XXIII


The next morning Magdaléna did as wise a thing as if inspired by reason
instead of blind instinct: she got on her horse and rode for six hours.
When she returned home she was exhausted of body and inert of brain. She
found a note from Helena awaiting her.

     DEAREST 'LÉNA,--What a tornado and an idiot you must think
     me! I cannot explain my extraordinary departure. I suppose I was in
     such a nervous state that I was obsessed in some mysterious manner
     and went off like a rocket. I can assure you I feel like a stick
     this morning. You will forgive me, won't you? for you know that
     although my affections do fluctuate for some people, they never do
     for you.

     Well! this morning I had a scene with papa. He was very angry,
     talked about honour and all that sort of thing, said that I was an
     unprincipled flirt, and that I expected too much of a man. But when
     I said I could not understand how so perfect a man as himself could
     wish his daughter to marry a rake, he never said another word, but
     went off and wound up with Mr. Trennahan. I don't know what they
     said to each other; I don't care. It's all too dreadful to think
     about, and I never want to hear the subject mentioned again.

     We're going to Monterey this afternoon to remain till the end of
     the season, and then we'll go to the Blue Lakes for a little before
     settling down for the winter. I'm tired of Menlo. Can't you come to
     Monterey for a week or two? Do think about it. I haven't a minute
     to go over to Fair Oaks to say good-bye, but perhaps you'll come to
     the train. HELENA.

Magdaléna got some luncheon from the pantry, then went to bed and slept
until six o'clock. At dinner Mr. Polk said to her,--

"I saw Trennahan this afternoon in a hack with a lot of luggage on
behind, and I stopped the driver and got in, and went to the ferry with
him. His engagement with Helena Belmont is broken, it seems, and he is
off for Samoa. Looked like the devil, but was as polite as ever, and
asked me to say good-bye to all of you."

Don Roberto looked up. "When he coming back?" he asked.

"You know as much about that as I do; or as he does, I guess. He told me
that he was going to explore the South Seas thoroughly, and that ought
to take as many years as he's got left, and more too."

It was two or three days before Magdaléna realised what a relief it was
to have Trennahan out of the country. It moved him back among the
memories, and struck from her imagination agitating possibilities. And
he belonged to no woman! He could never be hers, but at least she could
love him. Already she had begun to do so with a measure of calm. She
could hide him in her soul and count him wholly hers; and the prospect
seemed far sweeter and more satisfactory than she should have imagined
of such immaterial union. And some day, she believed, he would write to
her. He had spoken authoritatively of the permanence of their
friendship, and of its necessity to him. He had not loved her, as men
count love, but for a little she had been to him something more than
other women had been. The spiritual sympathy which had been rudely
interrupted, but had surely existed, taught her this. In time he would
become conscious again of the bond, and his letters alone would be
something to live for.

And she had much else. In the evenings when her father was weeding on
the lawn, she devoted herself to her uncle; and he seemed grateful for
her attentions, slight as was his response. He was visibly shrinking to
his skeleton, although he neither coughed nor complained, and went to
town every morning with the regularity of his youth. But his gaunt face
was less savagely determined, his eyes had lost the hard surface of
metal; and one evening when Magdaléna slipped her hand into his, he
clasped and held it until Don Roberto, gloomy and perspiring, came
panting across the drive.

And almost immediately Magdaléna began to write. She did not go to her
nook in the woods, but after her morning ride she wrote in her room
until luncheon. She told her mother of her literary plans and asked her
advice about making a similar announcement to her father. Between
astonishment and consternation Mrs. Yorba gasped audibly, and her
impassive countenance looked as if the hinges had fallen out of its
muscles.

"For God's sake don't tell your father!" she exclaimed; and she was not
given to strong language. "I don't believe you can write, anyhow, and we
should only have a terrible scene for nothing."

Magdaléna accepted the advice. Her father showed so little sense of his
duty as a parent that her own was growing adaptable to circumstances,
although she was still determined not to publish without his knowledge.
She had not returned to her English romance: that had been consigned to
the flames, and was now meditating in that limbo which receives the
wraiths of the lame, the halt, and the blind of abortive talent. She was
at work upon the simplest of the Old-Californian tales.

On the Saturday afternoon after Helena's departure for Monterey Rose
called and invited Magdaléna to drive with her to the train to meet Mr.
Geary. Tiny and Ila, who were with her, added their insistence, and
Magdaléna, having no reasonable excuse, joined them. As they drove
through the woods Ila confided her engagement to young Washington, and
was kissed and congratulated in due form.

"I'm going to live in Paris," she announced. "No more California for me.
You might as well be on Mars, in the first place, and everybody cackles
over your private affairs, in the second. For the matter of that, you
haven't any."

"I think it's disloyal of you to desert California," said Tiny. "I have
a feeling that we should all keep together, and to the country."

"That's a very fine sentiment, but though I love you none the less, I
want to live. I intend to be the best-dressed American in Paris. That's
a reputation worth having."

"I'm going East to find a husband," said Rose, shamelessly. "There's no
one to marry here. Alan Rush would not have been half bad, but he might
as well be in an urn on Helena's mantel-piece. I like Eastern men best,
anyhow."

"Why not go to Southern California?" asked Tiny. "It's not so far as New
York; and there are always plenty of them there."

"I should feel like a ghoul,--man-hunting in One-lungdom, as Mr. Bierce
calls it. Besides, I'd rather die an old maid than have a sick man on my
hands for five minutes. I'm not heartless, but--well, we've all had our
experiences with fathers and brothers. A sick man's an anomaly, somehow:
he doesn't fit into a woman's imagination."

"I'm not going to marry at all," said Tiny. "Fancy what a lot of bother.
It's so comfortable just to drift along like this."

"Tiny," said Rose, "you're a Menlo Park poppy."

They had arrived at the station, the pretty station under its great oak,
and flanked by its beds of bloom. Eight or ten other equipages were
there, waiting for the "Daisy train,"--the fast train from town which on
Saturday afternoons carried many San Franciscans to Monterey.

The women were in their bright summer attire and full of chatter; as the
train was not due for some moments, several got out of their carriages
and went to other carriages to gossip. It was a very lively and
agreeable scene: there being no outsiders, they were like one large
family. In the middle of the large open space beside the platform stood
several of the phaetons and waggonettes, whose horses stepped high at
sight of the engine. On the far side was a row of Chinese wash-houses,
in whose doors stood the Mongolians, no less picturesque than the
civilisation across the way. Behind them was the tiny village of Menlo
Park. On the opposite side of the track was a row of high closely knit
trees which shut the Folsom place from the passing eye. Caro, under a
big pink sunshade, had walked over to chat with her friends and escort
her visitors home.

The train rolled in and discharged its favoured few. The wait was short,
and Mr. Geary was still mounting the steps of his char-à-banc when
Magdaléna sat forward with a faint exclamation. The smoking-car was
slowly passing. Four hats at four consecutive windows were raised as
they drifted past. They were the hats of Alan Rush, Eugene Fort, Carter
Howard, and "Dolly" Webster.




XXIV


The Yorba house on Nob Hill was the gloomiest house in San Francisco in
any circumstances; upon the return of the family to town this year it
suggested a convent of perpetual silence. Mrs. Yorba, bereft of her full
corps of servants, herself shook the curtains free of their loops and
pinned them together. "Ah Kee can play the hose on the windows from the
outside once a month," she remarked to her daughter; "but Heaven only
knows when they will be washed inside again, or how often poor Ah Kee
will have time to sweep the rooms. I shall make an attempt to keep the
reception-room in some sort of order; and as it is comparatively small
and I can dust it myself, I may succeed, but I don't suppose anyone will
ever enter the parlours again. There seems no hope of your father coming
to his senses."

Magdaléna flung her own curtains wide, determined to have light if she
had to wash the windows herself. But the rest of the house chilled and
oppressed her. Even her mother's bedroom was half-lighted, and the halls
and rooms downstairs were echoing vaults. One was almost afraid to break
the silence; even the soft-footed Chinaman walked on his toes. Magdaléna
conceived the whimsical idea that her father's house had been closed to
receive all the family skeletons of San Francisco, of which many
whispers had come to her. Sometimes she fancied that she heard their
bones rattling at night, as they crowded together, muttering their
terrible secrets. But the idea only amused her; it did not make her
morbid, although there was little but her own will to keep her spirits
on a plane where there was more light than bog. It was a very grey and
rainy winter. She was forced to spend the afternoons after four o'clock
in idleness: Don Roberto himself turned off the gas every morning before
he went down town, and on again at seven in the evening. The meals in
the dining-room, naturally the darkest room in the house, were eaten in
absolute silence. In fact, it was seldom that anyone spoke except on
Mrs. Yorba's reception day. Herself wore the air of a stoic. Don
Roberto's keen eyes searched his wife and daughter now and again for any
sign of extravagance in attire, but he rarely addressed them except on
the first of the month, when he demanded their accounts. He peremptorily
forbade them to go out after dusk, as the night air was bad for the
horses. The evenings he spent in his study with his brother-in-law. Mrs.
