
“Thank you, but I would prefer to give it to Mrs. Granville----”

“Humph! Are you one of her relations?”

“No, but I come from Mrs. Holbrook, her niece.”

“Oh,” said the housekeeper, grimly. “Well, I don’t think you can see
Mrs. Granville; she’s got a headache, and can’t be disturbed.”




CHAPTER XXXI. A DEFEAT FOR THE HOUSEKEEPER.


The housekeeper held the door half way open, and evidently meant to
prevent Paul from entering. If he had been less determined, or more
easily abashed, he would have given up his purpose. But Number 91 had a
will of his own.

“I don’t accept a dismissal from you, madam,” he said, eying Mrs.
Mercer with a steady glance. “I demand to see Mrs. Granville.”

“Hoity toity! Who are you, I’d like to know?” demanded the housekeeper,
amazed and exasperated.

“A visitor to Mrs. Granville,” answered Paul; “you, I suppose, are a
servant.”

“Do you dare to call me a servant, you impudent boy?” answered Mrs.
Mercer, raising her voice.

“What are you, then?” asked Paul, calmly.

“I am Mrs. Mercer, the housekeeper, I’d have you to know.”

“So I suppose, and Mrs. Granville is your employer. By what right do
you dare to send away her visitors?”

Mrs. Mercer was quite unused to being defied so boldly, and she could
hardly express her indignation.

“Well, I never heard of such impudence!” she ejaculated.

In her anger she would have closed the door, but just at that moment a
voice was heard from the floor above--the voice of Mrs. Granville, who
had been attracted by the housekeeper’s loud tones.

“What is all this, Mrs. Mercer?” she asked, in a tone of authority.

“It’s a boy who wants to force his way in, ma’am,” said Mrs. Mercer, in
a sulky tone.

“What boy is it?” asked her mistress.

Paul answered this question himself.

“I come from New York with a letter from your niece, Mrs. Holbrook,” he
said.

“Then come in at once,” said the old lady, in an imperative tone. “Why
did you not admit him at once?”

“I didn’t know,” answered the housekeeper, confused.

“I beg your pardon,” said Paul, “I told you this, and you said Mrs.
Granville had a headache, and would not see me.”

“What do you mean by this misrepresentation, Mrs. Mercer?” demanded the
old lady, sternly.

“I offered to take the letter up to you,” said Mrs. Mercer, a little
alarmed at the evident anger of her mistress.

“When Mrs. Granville reads the letter she will understand why I
preferred to hand it to her myself.”

“Why did you say I had a headache? Why do you presume to send away my
visitors, Mrs. Mercer?” demanded the old lady, thoroughly aroused.

“I meant it for the best,” said the woman, sulkily.

“Never presume so far again. Now, young man, come up and let me see
you.”

Paul passed the discomfited housekeeper, and, going upstairs, followed
the old lady into a pleasant sitting room.

“I am sorry to have been the means of disturbing you,” said Paul,
politely. “Mrs. Holbrook sends you this letter, and wishes me to give
you her love.”

“You are a nice looking boy,” said the old lady, letting her glance
rest approvingly on Number 91. “I hope Louisa is well.”

“Very well, thank you.”

She put on her glasses, and read the letter.

“So you are Paul Parton,” she said, as she folded up the letter.

“Yes, madam.”

“A New York boy?”

“Yes, madam.”

“I am afraid you will find it dull here.”

“O no, Mrs. Granville, I am sure I shall like the country, for a while
at least.”

“Do you know how to drive?”

“Oh, yes; I am used to horses.”

“On the whole, I am glad Louisa sent you down here. Frost Mercer, who
usually drives me, has been getting lazy of late, and makes excuses
when I want to go out.”

“I won’t do that, Mrs. Granville. I shall be only too glad to go.”

“You are sure you won’t upset me?”

“I don’t believe I shall,” answered Paul, smiling. “I don’t care about
being upset myself.”

“I think, on the whole, I shall like to have a boy about,” said the old
lady, thoughtfully.

“I am afraid Mrs. Mercer might object to me.”

“I am the mistress of the house. Mrs. Mercer is only the housekeeper,”
said the old lady, with an unwonted assumption of dignity. “Please ring
the bell, Paul.”

Paul did so.

Presently the housekeeper entered in answer to the summons. She looked
askance at Paul.

“Mrs. Mercer,” said her mistress, “you will prepare a room for this
young gentleman. He will remain here, for the present.”

Mrs. Mercer looked disagreeably surprised.

“Perhaps you had better read this letter from my niece, Mrs. Holbrook,
as it will save explanations.”

The housekeeper read the letter, and her thin lips tightened with
displeasure.

“There is no need of your getting a boy to drive you around, ma’am,”
she said. “My son is perfectly able to do it.”

“Your son is very apt to be engaged when I want to drive out,” returned
the old lady, dryly.

“I will see that it don’t happen again,” said the housekeeper, anxious
to keep Paul out of the house.

“There is no occasion for that. Mind, I don’t blame your son. Paul here
will have nothing else to do, and can drive me as well as not. Besides,
he will read to me, and spare my eyes.”

“Frost would be willing to read to you.”

Mrs. Granville smiled.

“I don’t think reading aloud is one of your son’s accomplishments,” she
said. “His voice is not exactly musical.”

This was certainly true, for Frost Mercer had a voice deep and
croaking, like a frog’s.

“I am sorry you are so prejudiced against my poor boy,” said Mrs.
Mercer, mortified and displeased.

“You are a foolish woman, Mrs. Mercer. I am only going to make it
easier for Frost, and give this young gentleman something to do. Paul,
you may go with Mrs. Mercer, and take possession of your room. Go where
you please, till half past twelve, our dinner hour. After dinner, I may
take a drive.”

“You’d better get your life insured, then, ma’am,” muttered Mrs.
Mercer. “Boys ain’t to be trusted with horses.”

“Is your horse very lively or skittish?” asked Paul.

“No,” answered Mrs. Granville. “He is very gentle and tractable.”

“Then I don’t think there is any need of insuring your life, Mrs.
Granville.”

“I wouldn’t ride out with you,” said the housekeeper, spitefully.

“Perhaps you will think better of me after a while, Mrs. Mercer,” said
Paul, good naturedly.

The housekeeper closed her lips firmly and shook her head.

“I’ve made one enemy, that’s clear,” said Paul to himself--“probably
two, for the housekeeper’s son isn’t likely to be my friend.”

Mrs. Mercer led the way to a small room on the next floor.

“You can go in there,” she said, ungraciously.

“Thank you,” said Paul.

It occurred to him to wonder why so small a room should be assigned
him, while there seemed to be plenty of larger ones. In the arrangement
of the room, however, there was nothing to be desired. Everything was
neat and comfortable. To Paul, accustomed to a shabby tenement house,
it seemed luxurious, and he was disposed to enjoy it for the time, be
it long or short.




CHAPTER XXXII. FROST MERCER IS CONTRARY.


Mrs. Mercer, the housekeeper, was seriously annoyed by the appearance
of Paul upon the scene. For years she and her son had had charge of
Mrs. Granville’s affairs, and they had taken care to turn the charge to
profitable account. The wages which each received formed only a part
of this advantage. They bought everything for the house, and levied
tribute from every tradesman as a compensation for turning the trade in
his direction. The result was that Mrs. Granville, without being aware
of it, paid a larger price than any one else for what articles she
purchased, the storekeepers and others compensating themselves in this
way for the percentage they had to pay the housekeeper and her son.

It is for this reason that Mrs. Mercer never cared to have any visitor
in the house. She feared her dishonesty might be found out. She was
especially afraid of any one sent by Mrs. Holbrook, who during her stay
had been bold enough to interfere with the housekeeper.

When she had ushered Paul into his chamber, she went out to the barn,
where she found her son, not at work, but sitting on an old rocking
chair which he had carried out for his convenience, smoking.

“Well, mother, what’s up?” he asked, on Mrs. Mercer’s entrance.

“We have got a visitor,” answered his mother, abruptly.

“We?”

“Well, Mrs. Granville.”

“Who is it--the Holbrook woman?” queried Frost, taking his pipe from
his mouth.

“No, but it’s some one she sent.”

“Man, woman, or child?”

“It’s a boy--about sixteen, he looks.”

“What on earth should she send a boy for?” asked Frost, in surprise.

“To make mischief, I reckon.”

“What can a boy do?”

“I read the woman’s letter. She sends him to take your place.”

“What?” exclaimed Frost, in some alarm.

“Why, she hints that he can drive out the old lady, read to her, and
make himself generally useful.”

“That will make it lighter for me,” said Frost, who was lazy, “if he
does the driving.”

“Yes, but don’t you see what a chance he will have to work himself into
the confidence of the old woman?”

“What sort of a boy does he seem to be?”

“I’ve only seen him five minutes, but I’ve found out that he is
impudent. When I didn’t want to let him in, he actually defied
me--asked by what right I sent away Mrs. Granville’s visitors.”

“So he is inclined to make trouble, is he?”

“Yes.”

“Suppose I give him a thrashing?”

“It won’t do, Frost.”

“You think I am not a match for a boy of sixteen?”

“No, not that; but we must not be imprudent. Better get rid of him by
underhand means.”

“Such as what?”

“I don’t know yet; I will consider. Meantime I thought I would come
out and put you on your guard.”

“All right, mother. I guess we can checkmate the young meddler. Is he
in the house?”

“Yes; I’ve put him in the small room.”

“Next to mine?”

“Yes.”

“All right; I’ll look him over at dinner time.”

In this, however, Frost counted without his host. Mrs. Granville was
accustomed to have her meals brought up to her own room. Today she
expressed the wish that Paul should dine with her. This displeased the
housekeeper.

“I suppose Frost and I are not good enough company for the young man,”
she said, sulkily.

“My good Mercer, you are much mistaken,” said Mrs. Granville,
soothingly. “I thought he would be company for me; besides, it will
give me a chance to ask him some questions about Louisa.”

“Very well, ma’am,” said the housekeeper, but she didn’t look satisfied.

“What do you think, Frost?” she said, as she went downstairs. “Master
Paul--that’s his name--is to dine with the old woman upstairs. I
suppose he is too good to eat with us.”

“I don’t know as I care much, mother; I don’t want his company.”

“Nor I, for the matter of that, but it’s putting this young popinjay
over our heads. They’ll be getting thick together, and the boy will be
pulling our noses out of joint.”

“If he does, I’ll pull his out of joint,” muttered Frost.

“Bide your time, Frost. We’ll put our heads together and see if we
can’t send him packing.”

After dinner Mrs. Granville expressed a desire, as it was a fine day,
to go out for a drive.

“I shall be very happy to drive you,” said Paul, cheerfully.

“You are sure you can drive?” asked the old lady, anxiously.

“I should smile,” Paul was about to reply, when it occurred to him that
this form of expression did not sound exactly proper. “I am used to
driving, ma’am,” he said, instead.

“Then about two o’clock you may go out to the barn and ask Frost to
harness up.”

“O, I’ll do that, Mrs. Granville.”

When he went out to the barn, he found Frost Mercer sitting at his
ease, engaged at his favorite business of smoking a pipe.

“I suppose you are Frost,” he said, with a smile.

“I am Mr. Mercer,” answered Frost, in a forbidding tone.

“I beg your pardon. I will call you Mr. Mercer, if you prefer it. I am
Paul Parton.”

“I don’t know as that concerns me,” said Frost, staring at Paul in an
unfriendly manner.

“It is just as well you should know my name, as I am living in the
house,” said Paul, independently. “Mrs. Granville wishes me to drive
her out If you will show me what carriage she uses and so forth, I will
harness up.”

This was, on the whole, satisfactory to Frost, as he would not have the
trouble of harnessing.

“There’s the carriage,” he said, “and there’s the harness. You can find
the horses if you use your eyes.”

“Thank you; you are very obliging,” said Paul, with a little touch of
sarcasm.

“The old lady doesn’t seem to value her neck,” observed Frost.

“What makes you think so?”

“In letting you drive her.”

“O, that’s it. I think I shall bring her back safe.”

“I don’t know about that. You’re a city boy, ain’t you?”

“Yes.”

“What chance have you had to learn about horses?”

“I know a little about them.”

“Well, I wash my hands of it. If the team is upset, Mrs. Granville will
have herself to blame for it.”

“I don’t think you need to worry,” said Paul. “I’ll promise to bring
her back safe.”

He set to work to harness the horses. Frost surveyed him with critical
eyes, but he could see no evidence of ignorance on Paul’s part. He did
his work quickly and skillfully, and then, opening wide the barn doors,
led the horses out. Then he jumped into the carriage and was about to
drive to the house.

“Come back and shut the barn doors!” called out Frost from his rocking
chair.

Paul turned and looked back.

“I don’t think it will do you any harm to do that yourself,” he said,
“if you can spare the time from smoking.”

“Hey, what’s that?” demanded Frost, angrily.

“I don’t think it will be necessary to repeat it,” said Paul, coolly;
“you heard me.”

“None of yer sass, boy!” said Frost, wrathfully.

Paul did not deign to answer him. He saw that Frost did not intend to
be pleased with anything he did, and that there was no use in trying to
conciliate.

“I hate that boy!” reflected Frost, following Paul with a venomous
expression. “My mother is perfectly right. He’s a dangerous visitor. We
must get rid of him one way or another.”

Paul drove around to the front of the house and found Mrs. Granville
ready at the door--with the housekeeper at her side.

“I do hope you won’t meet with an accident,” said Mrs. Mercer with an
air of deep solicitude. “Frost is ready to drive you. It will be safer.”

“Thank you, my good Mercer, but Paul tells me he understands driving.”

“I shouldn’t mind if she broke her neck,” muttered the housekeeper,
following the carriage with her eyes, “if I only knew it was all right
now in her will.”




CHAPTER XXXIII. A STARTLING DISCOVERY.


Paul proved a satisfactory driver, and the old lady’s fears were soon
dissipated.

“You drive better than Frost Mercer,” she said in a tone of
satisfaction.

“I am glad to hear you say so, Mrs. Granville,” said Paul, well pleased.

“Frost nearly upset me one day. I don’t think he is generally
intemperate, but I suspect he had been drinking something that day.”

“He doesn’t seem to like me,” Paul ventured to say.

“What makes you think so?”

Hereupon Paul related his reception when he went to the barn to harness
the horses.

Mrs. Granville listened thoughtfully.

“He should not have acted so,” she said; “I presume he didn’t like the
idea of being superseded.”

“Has he been with you a long time?”

“He and his mother have been in my service for a long time. I think
Mrs. Mercer is of a jealous disposition. She never wishes me to have
any one here, but she is very faithful and loyal.”

“I wonder if that is the case,” thought Paul. The housekeeper did not
seem to him like one who would be unselfishly devoted to the service of
any one.

Several days passed. Every day Mrs. Granville rode out, sometimes
in the forenoon, sometimes in the afternoon, and the effect was
perceptible in her improved health and spirits.

“It is fortunate for me that you came here,” she said one day. “Before
you came I rode out only once or twice a week. It seems to do me great
good to drive every day.”

“Why did you not go out every day, Mrs. Granville?” asked Paul.

“Frost did not seem to like the trouble of going out with me,” she
