Agnes began. "And it will be such a pleasure to have 
you a whole month ! To think of the wonderful things 
you have seen ! And your letters were next best to see- 
ing it one's self, only I think I should feel frightened to 
go roaming round the world." 
' ' But when you are not alone, and everything goes so 
smoothly " 
"But it must cost a mint of money," said Mr. Row- 
don, filling the little pause she made, and her thought 
had been the money also. "There's no knowing what 
you may want for old age." 
Old age looked far off to the youthful side of twenty. 
She pressed the hand of Agnes that she was still hold- 
ing in her own. Her sister's welcome had gone to her 
heart. 
Mr. Rowdon took up his pipe again. Lu asked where 
Virgie was. 
" Her head ached and she went to bed. Your walk 
was too long, Lu. Virgie cannot stand so much. Don't 
you want to see the house, Gertie? " Agnes asked, with 
some pride. 
" O yes," was the interested reply. 
"The porch is so nice, isn't it? I sit out there half 
the time. And you never would know this room. It 
used to be the kitchen." 
It was kitchen and parlor and everything but sleeping- 
room in Miss Maria's time. Now the wall had been 
painted a light pinkish grey, the old sofa freshly covered, 
the rush bottomed chairs had a new coat of greenish yel- 
low, the big fireplace was full of feathery asparagus and 
looked like a fairy bower. There were two small tables 
with bowls of flowers on them, some hanging shelves with 
books, a wall pocket with papers and a dining-table with 
a red and white cloth. 
"But the kitchen is my pride," exclaimed house- 
wifely Agnes. "It is so new and nice, and closets 
everywhere, and only four steps down to the spring- 
house, the milk-room, where everything is so beautifully 
cool. And a shed for wood — look here ! " opening a 
door. " We use it nearly always, for I can keep it so 
tidy. O Gertie, it is such a delight to have a house of 
one's own ; and some one who is thinking about your 
comfort all the time." 
Lu had not followed them hither. Gertrude turned 
quickly and gave her sister a deep questioning glance. 
"You are happy?" she asked, with a curious huski- 
ness of tone. 
Agnes flushed, laughed and looked oddly pretty. 
"Why — yes," she replied. "Gertrude, you don't 
mind that he — that " 
"That he gave me up? O, no." 
"But you gave him up, he said. Though he thought 
he had made a mistake. You see he came a good deal 
the summer you were in Maine, but we used to talk 
about you. I was afraid you did not appreciate him. I 
can see now it never would have done. And I think he 
had a hard time with Miss Maria, which made him 
queerer. He is old fashioned to be sure " 
"lam sorry he is so much older than you." 
« Well — he grows younger, he really does," and there 
was a pleasant ring in the wife's voice. "Then you 
know I had grown so used to papa." 
They turned about. 
"I keep Miss Maria's room for the guest chamber. 
He had some cousins come from Farmington and they 
had such a nice visit. They had quarreled with Miss 
Maria, though they attended the funeral. I liked them 
ever so much. And we haven't changed any of the par- 
lor furniture, only to put up curtains and a few pictures, 
and here is a beautiful lamp husband gave me for my 
birthday, and father gave me this chair when I was mar- 
ried. Gertie, your gift was lovely. And you have been so 
generous. You must not pinch yourself." 
She had pinched herself more than once. 
Agnes had a hand-lamp in her hand. The parlor 
would have looked gloomy but for the drapery at the 
window. And it had the chill of unused rooms, even in 
the summer. 
" You had better save up a little I think if you can 
spare any," said the thoughtful younger sister. " You 
see you have been away from home so much, and you 
don't quite understand. Mamma has not the first idea 
of the value of money. And papa was behindhand. 
Mamma wanted a grand wedding, but I said it really 
wasn't suitable for Mr. Rowdon. We just had a little 
party, and quite an elaborate supper when we came home 
here. And now papa is pretty well out of debt. I made 
some of your gowns and your coat over for Lu, and they 
did real well all winter. I gave papa twenty-five dollars 
of your money and he was so delighted. Poor papa," 
and she sighed. 
" Why I would have sent it to him " 
"I know, dear, I asked you to send it to me. You 
see mamma or Lu would have spent it injudiciously. 
And now papa's expenses are smaller, with only three of 
them, and I want Lu to keep at school and graduate. 
Then she could teach." 
"Or marry," said Gertrude, with a laugh. 
"I hope she will be sensible about that. She ought 
to steady down. But we will have some good long talks. 
You must come over here and stay. You can't think 
how papa enjoys coming to Sunday night supper." 
"My room upstairs is all refurnished," Agnes added, 
" but I will save that to show you next time. O, there- 
are so many things to say." 
Mr. Rowdon was actually teasing his young sister-in- 
law, who was sitting on the porch step. 
" And you fell in with all those Maine people again," 
began Agnes. Gertrude was glad to talk about them. 
But Lu bounced up presently and declared they must go 
home. 
It was like being in a different world, Gertrude found 
in a few days. Sometimes she smiled to herself over the 
complacent narrowness. And yet most of these people 
were happy comparing notes about everything in their 
small round, exchanging recipes and sleeve and skirt 
patterns, and having their hats and bonnets trimmed with 
"just such a bow as Mrs. Golden had on hers." Miss 
Frear, the milliner, did not have to rack her brains for 
original ideas. The style was what every one adopted, 
and even last year's gown was not so utterly out of place. 
She settled to the assurance that Agnes was truly 
happy. And she learned one fact to which she had given 
little thought before, that Agnes took a very fervent de- 
light in making others happy. She put Mr. Rowdon at 
his best, and really there were some good points that Miss 
Maria had nipped off in her arbitrary fashion, because 
they neither saved nor made money. Hoarding up had 
been the poor woman's religion. 
The years between them were not so dreadfully in 
evidence. Agnes looked well, she had taken up the 
cares of life too soon to have any real girlhood. She 
had been her father's adviser the last three years, and she 
soon slipped into the same place with Mr. Rowdon. 
The alterations in the house, the garden with its thrifty 
vegetables, its clean paths, the pretty flower-beds, where 
she often weeded or transplanted with him, the neat table 
with its pretty porcelain and snowy cloth instead of the 
checked and chipped dishes soon became his pride. 
Was it not beauty and orderliness in the common ways 
of life? Was it not really the finer endeavor to make 
those around one happy ? Agnes had no ambition for 
the high places. There was no restless yearning, no 
thought of being wasted in the small round. She read 
the newspaper to her husband, and Gertrude found she 
had some very correct and sensible opinions. They 
went out driving, they called upon the neighbors, though 
this was rather a trial to him ; he enjoyed their coming 
in much more. And Agnes dressed better. She dis- 
carded the depressing greys for pretty ginghams, because 
Mr. Rowdon liked them. And little Virginia was a 
source of interest to them both. 
Every day she went over home and gave Nancy some 
suggestions and listened to her mother's complainings 
with a tender patience, as if she recognized that any at- 
tempt to alter the current of the weak, opinionated mind 
would be futile. Yet Mrs. Maurice had come to have a 
great respect for her married daughter, and treated her 
with a deference that astonished Gertrude. 
Luella's restlessness was a source of some disquiet. 
Agnes said much the same thing about her to Gertrude 
as Mrs. Maurice had, only in a different manner. But 
Lu seized the first opportunity to express her desires quite 
vigorously. 
" I'm just as tired of this place as you ever were, Ger- 
trude," she said, decisively. "And I wish you'd find 
me something to do in the city." 
" At what? " in rather amused inquiry. 
" ( >, I don't rare. I could tend in a store. I suppose 
I couldn't find a Mrs. Tovvnsend to take me up. Gert, 
you are lucky ! " 
''You couldn't fill the place; you could not at pres- 
ent take any position where responsibility and experience 
were demanded. You need training " 
" You get the experience by doing things," interrupted 
the younger. " And I just hate the little things over and 
over. I want something wider and different, where you 
can have some pleasure." 
"If you begin with the pleasures, you will be sadly 
disappointed." 
" I am sure you have had lots of them." 
" I have been fortunate, I think. But I was older than 
you, and had my school training. You couldn't do any- 
thing in such a place, Lu. And you would get tired of 
writing letters and seeing people who did not interest 
you, who were unreasonable and full of vanity and con- 
ceit, and who thought they could be put in the front 
ranks and make a future at once." 
"I'd send them flying " 
"But you couldn't. You must be polite, and as gra- 
cious as possible. You cannot understand, Luella. You 
have been so used to doing just what you like, or grum- 
bling about the things you don't like. And girls in stores 
and offices make long days and earn a poor living, many 
of them. They have a small room in a poor boarding- 
house, and no society to speak of. Everything costs so 
much in a city. Then if you are teaching, it is some 
years before you come up to a good salary." 
"But girls do have a good time somewhere. There 
are places to go, and — and theatres and parties " 
' ' When you are through school and have graduated, 
and have toned down a little, if I am in the city, I will 
promise you an outing, so you will see what the city is 
like, and whether a life of work looks so inviting. But 
you must try and be more ladylike and gentle in your 
ways, and refined." 
"You are a fussy old thing!" flung out Luella. 
"You'll just be an old maid, as mamma says." 
" There are plenty of them in the great cities. There 
are not so many chances to marry." 
"I should think there would be more. And I mean 
to marry," with emphasis. 
"Then you ought to fit yourself for home-making. 
You couldn't have a better pattern than Agnes." 
" Well, I'm not going to marry an old fellow like that, 
and never go to parties or dances, and just putter around 
about housework ! You'll see ! " and Luella tossed her 
head airly. " But it does seem as if you might do some- 
thing for me." 
Gertrude studied the unreasonable, ignorant child, and 
then she laughed at the foolishness of trying to argue 
with her. 
"You needn't laugh, either." Lu turned very red 
and her eyes sparkled. 
"I will do something, if you will fit yourself for it. 
This is a promise, Luella. If you will graduate fairly 
well, I will be on the watch for an opportunity. At 
least, you may come and try— if I keep my position." 
a Well— I can't graduate next year. I didn't get in 
the class," she said, disconsolately. 
" Two years. You will be young then." 
"I wish you'd send me some money," she began, 
presently. " Why should Agnes have it all? And I do 
want a silk gown so." 
"I'll give you a silk gown, if that will make you 
hap})y." 
"O, that will be great! Two of the girls are going 
to have birthday parties in the fall. And Gertrude, if I 
could have a real party — would it cost very much?" 
"We might all join and help you out," and Gertrude 
smiled. Had she ever been as silly as this? She had 
recognized the limitations of a small income, and Agnes 
had been sensible all her life. What could she do to 
improve this inconsequent, thoughtless girl, who seemed 
to have no idea but personal enjoyment of the flightiest 
kind, and not as sensible as little Virginia. And of all 
things in this world common sense was needed most. 
"Luella," she began again, gravely, "if you mean to 
be or do anything worth while, you will find education 
is a necessity. And pretty, refined manners ' ' 
"O gracious! don't lecture any more!" exclaimed 
the younger. 
For Lu was still a hoyden, and ran races and climbed 
trees and could take a fence equal to a boy. What a 
pity she had not been a boy ! 
"Events do go contrariwise in this world," she said to 
Agnes, with a sigh, after she had repeated the gist of this 
conversation. 
"And some go smoothly enough, or would, if we did 
not interfere," said the younger, with a smile. "I'm 
not sure but a boy like Lu would be the finish of us all. 
I sometimes wonder why all these children were given to 
mamma, who doesn't understand a thing about managing 
children, when there are so many people in the world 
longing for one or two. We can only hope Lu will tame 
down in a year or two." 
CHAPTER VI. 
IN A STRAIT BETWIXT TWO. 
THE greatest surprise of Gertrude's month at home 
was a note from Sherburne Beaumanoir, a pleas- 
ant, chatty, off-hand epistle, detailing some of their sum- 
mer pleasures, and wishing she could be there to share 
them, and announcing that he should run up from Bal- 
timore and make a call upon her. 
Gertrude was simply amazed. There was nothing to 
take exception at ; it was gentlemanly, friendly, as if 
they had been acquainted all their lives, and such a call 
was the most natural thing in the world. In a certain 
way it was gratifying, but quite impossible. It would fill 
her mother's head with foolish plans and hopes that would 
make no end of gossip in the town. Friendliness between 
young people Mrs. Maurice could not understand. With 
her, every attention pointed the way to matrimony. 
There was another vague aspect to Gertrude. She 
was beginning to realize the susceptible side to young 
men. And though this spurt of admiration might mean 
only a temporary interest, it was not wisdom to encourage 
it. Still with the other side of her nature she could see 
the half amusement, half vexation such a fancy would 
cause, even if it was evanescent. And now that they had 
taken her up so cordially, she would do nothing to annoy 
them. 
She had numerous engagements. The neighbors about 
made old-fashioned tea-parties for her. To have been in 
California, to say nothing of the nearer-by cities, was 
quite equal to going to Europe in their estimation. Mrs. 
Maurice was somewhat mollified with these attentions, 
though she took pains to explain for the hundredth time 
that Gertrude's going away was against her will, and that 
she never did or could approve of business women ; that 
home must always be the true centre of a woman's life. 
She wrote a dainty little note, pleading engagements 
and short absences from home, and the general dull 
aspect the town would have for a stranger who had seen 
so much, with a suggestion of inconvenience she knew 
his good breeding would lead him to respect. And yet 
she smiled a little to herself, in the thought that she 
might attract the nephew as well as the uncle. Mr. 
Murray's fancy had not been of the durable kind, evi- 
dently. 
When she fell into a fit of wonderment as to how 
Agnes could be happy with a man so much older than 
himself, she thought of Mr. Murray. In a certain fashion 
he seemed to have shaped her judgment of young men. 
They appeared so very youthful to her. And there had 
been Ward Garrison, who had recently married the girl 
selected for him and was very happy it seemed. Perhaps 
if she had met him quite alone with no stronger influence 
at hand, she might have drifted into the regard many 
girls think strong enough to marry upon, and are reason- 
ably satisfied. She knew Mr. Murray had made such a 
step impossible to her, and that during the past year 
other men had suffered by comparison with him. Why 
should she make him the arbiter of her destiny? This 
mysterious influence that she could not shake off, fretted 
her. And much as she really loved Princess Beaumanoir 
and admired her mother, it was Mr. Murray's disap- 
proval that stood out the most strongly against any ex- 
pressed admiration on the young man's part. 
She spent days with Agnes, helping with the family 
sewing, the burthen the young wife had taken cheerfully 
to her new home. 
"I sometimes wonder if time ever hangs heavy on 
mamma's hands," she said one day to Agnes. "There 
is a great deal said about the folly and frivolity of society 
women, and yet they keep very busy, if it is only pleas- 
ure. Some of them, many of them are in charitable or 
philanthropic work, and even society visiting makes de- 
mands on one. You are expected to add your mite to 
the general entertainment. Think of the time mamma 
spends just sitting on the porch looking at the same 
things she has looked at for thirty or forty years. She 
can darn lace exquisitely, and tablecloths and stockings. 
But it would be an excellent idea to now and then have 
the breath of strong new things. And those fifty or hun- 
dred-year-old novels she reads, with their exaggerated 
ideas and formal manners — yet one finds a great deal of 
roughness and coarseness in them as well. O, I do like 
the modern world. There must be a good many 
changes." 
" I suppose there have been since mamma's time. Yet 
she is not so very old either. But I think she must have 
been brought up on still farther back lines, when delicacy 
was considered one of the greatest virtues. And she was 
an only child." 
"And had a little money and didn't have to scramble 
as we always have," laughed Gertrude. " It is partly in 
the place, too. Cities adapt new ideas sooner than in- 
land towns. The world goes on with a rush. It is such 
a great, splendid world, Agnes." 
"But you see every one doesn't like the rush. So it is 
good that there are ways of satisfying different people." 
" And you are satisfied ? " 
Gertrude's tone was as much wonder as assertion. 
Agnes flushed and gave an irresolute little laugh. 
" Not satisfied to stop," she replied. " I want ever so 
many more things to happen, things I can help along." 
"As what ?" 
"I want Virgie to get well and strong. I think she 
has some rather curious traits, and she is fond of learning 
about people and what they have done. Perhaps by and 
by you can help her, Gertrude. And Elsie is a good deal 
like me ; she will make a housekeeper if she gets the right 
kind of training." 
" Who trained you?" There was a spice of mischief 
in Gertrude's tone. 
"I suppose I had the aptitude for it that you had for 
learning. I should have been miserable at school, and 
I couldn't go about as you have done. Yet I enjoy your 
letters better than any book I have ever read. They are 
so vivid, you can see the places and the people. I read 
them to Mr. Rowdon, and he used to look so for their 
coming." 
"Then if they do you so much good, I shall write 
oftener." 
" O, please do. Virgie was so delighted when you de- 
scribed people." 
And sometimes Gertrude had wondered what she should 
write about ! The effort had been irksome. She hardly 
thought her gossip, often put in to fill up, would prove 
so entertaining. Agnes had gone far beyond her in 
thoughtfulness for others. 
"We have settled everybody's fate but Luella's," she 
remarked, presently. "Agnes, tell me what I had better 
do. I have promised her a silk frock, and I shall not 
give her one of my old ones," laughingly. 
"So long as you don't encourage any of her wild 
vagaries and leave her just where she is, I think she will 
come to some common sense. There are not many 
chances in life like yours, but she has an idea that one 
has only to go and ask for a thing. I am sure you tried 
quite a long while." 
"And had a great many hours of discouragement. 
There are so many people for each place. But — you do 
not think — she may marry? " 
" O, that is mamma's nonsense. She sees with the 
eye of faith a possible lover in every young man. Lu 
isn't sentimental. None of us are." 
There was a great deal of nonsense masquerading un- 
der the name of sentiment, Gertrude knew. There 
were foolish girls who thought they could not live with- 
out the regard of some especial man. But still, there 
was a very sacred love. Was everybody capable of it ? 
Agnes deserved it for her unselfishness, her care for 
every one's welfare. 
" At least," thought Gertrude, " I can give her a truer 
appreciation than ever before." She was touched by a 
new humility, a tenderness she had not known in the 
past. 
Yet she was not sorry when the summons came for her 
to join Mrs. Townsend. Not that the days had been ab- 
solutely tiresome, and she had found many things to do 
for them all. But the round was small, the life narrow. 
"I shall miss you so much," Agnes said. "But the 
letters will begin again. Yes," with a sudden brightness, 
" I think it is a good thing that you should be out in the 
world, gathering up treasures for us. You know now 
they are not wasted." 
She would never feel so again. She began to see that 
there were duties beside sending money home now and 
then and thinking all the rest of life belonged to herself. 
There had been a curious little fear lest she should 
hear again from Sherburne Beaumanoir. He was im- 
pulsive and considered his own pleasures, and was quite 
used to taking the enjoyment even if he went a little out 
of his way to do it, and trenched on that of another. 
There had been a very joyous time at Sherburne over 
him, a kind of feast with the families gathered in as far 
as they could. But ah, how they had strayed off. 
Beaumanoir was a rather lonely place now with no young 
life gladdening, making merry, and sometimes bringing 
sorrow. Even the sorrows and anxieties were sweet re- 
membrances to the two old people who had a great deal 
of time to gather up the olden threads and weave anew 
the various patterns of life. 
Yet they felt they had been very happy in their chil- 
dren. Judge Beaumanoir coming to a ripe busy middle 
life, much more ambitious for honors than in early man- 
hood. Was it not true that children spurred one on ? 
Millicent and Violet in lovely homes of their own, Fanny 
and Doctor Underwood near by and a continual source 
of interest, Edward really renewing his youth in the ease 
and content of his second marriage, Cecil in Russia. 
And there was Lyndell Carew, as dear as any of them, 
and Doctor Carew like another son. 
After a brief glimpse at home and a warm welcome 
from their father, the Baltimore cousins had come to 
Sherburne. Princess was the envy of the girls about, 
she had so many cavaliers, but she was very generous 
with them. Sherburne was her choicest possession just 
now ; they had the arrears of two years to make up. But 
Bertram was shooting up into a tall boy and would go to 
college next year. 
Professor Kenneth had promised them a week. 
"Maybe you won't like him just at first," explained 
Bertram, "but he knows so much and is so interested in 
everything. We did have such a delightful time with 
him on the island." 
"Isn't he rather sweet on that Miss Ensign, Princess? 
And how charming Mrs. Kenneth is. Of course she 
would be very likely to chose her brother's wife " 
"He doesn't want any wife," interposed Bertram, 
eagerly. " He is just splendid as he is. There ought to 
be some men left for the boys. Ruth Ensign is well 
enough, but I liked Gertie Maurice ever so much 
better. She was lots of fun ! Did you like her just as 
well, Princess, or has traveling about the world spoiled 
her?" 
" No, she isn't spoiled. And she keeps a warm re- 
membrance of last summer. I think she has grown 
prettier." 
"Some girls really need to grow prettier," declared 
astute seventeen, "but she is so bright you never think 
whether she is pretty or not." 
"She has grown more dignified." 
"I wish you had asked her down here. I think she 
would have thrown dignity to the winds. She was al- 
ways so ready to do anything." 
"Is it too late now? " asked Sherburne. 
"It is too early," said Princess, with a little unwil- 
lingness she did not understand herself. " She is to go 
home as soon as Mrs. Townsend can spare her. And 
when she has not been home for almost a year she must 
be anxious to see her people. I suppose her vacation 
depends on Mrs. Townsend's need of her." 
"Anyhow, we want the professor first." 
Princess had found it delightful to be welcomed home 
by a wide circle. Grandmamma and everybody took it 
for granted that her school days were over. And she 
had resolved to go to college. There was so much she 
