
"He seems a fine, manly boy. He can stay here, too. I will find
something for him to do."

"Thank you, Uncle Ben, but I shall find him a place in New York. He
prefers the city, and it will afford him more opportunities of
advancement. Rupert is ambitious, and I predict that he will rise in
time to an excellent position."

"Just as you think best, Frank; but remember that if ever there is need,
or he becomes sick, there is room for him here."

To anticipate a little. Mr. Strathmore was not disappointed in Mrs.
Rollins. It came to be her custom to spend the evenings with her
employer. Sometimes she read aloud to him. At others, while she was
engaged in needlework, and Grace, now restored to health, was occupied
with her books, the old gentleman sat back in his easy chair, and with
calm content watched his companions. He no longer felt his former burden
of solitude.

"I have never been happier," he wrote later on to his nephew. "I
regretted the loss of Mrs. Martin, but now I feel that it was for my
happiness, since it has opened the way for such an acceptable
substitute."

Rupert went at first to the house of Mr. Sylvester, where their
acquaintance soon ripened into friendship.

They were walking down Broadway one day, when Frank Sylvester noticed a
sudden start on the part of his young companion.

"What is the matter, Rupert?" he asked.

"Do you see that stout man on the opposite side of the street, Mr.
Sylvester?" said Rupert.

"Yes. What of him?"

"He was the cause of my poor father's failure and death."

"How was that?"

"My father was a merchant in Buffalo, and that man was his partner.
During a three months' absence in California, where he went partly for
his health, the business was managed by Mr. Lorimer in such a way that
the firm became deeply involved and was brought to the brink of failure.

"My father was greatly astonished at the sudden change, for when he left
all was prosperous. He could not account for the disappearance of assets
and the accumulation of claims against the firm except on the theory
that large sums had been appropriated by his partner. He could prove
nothing, however, and the firm was dissolved. When the business was
closed there was barely enough money left to pay the creditors. My
father found himself with nothing, and soon died of grief and
mortification."

"What became of Lorimer?"

"I have not seen him till to-day. I heard that he had come to New York
and established himself on Third Avenue somewhere, in the same business.
If so, he must have had capital, and this must have been the sum of
which he defrauded my father."

"The story is a sad one, Rupert. You and your mother must have suffered
from the change in circumstances."

"We did. We did not care to stay in Buffalo, where we had been
accustomed to live in good style, so we came to New York, where we could
live according to our change in circumstances among those who had never
known us. I thought I might get employment that would enable me to
support my mother and sister in tolerable comfort. I did get a place
with Tenney & Rhodes, but I only earned five dollars a week. Just before
meeting you I lost that, and had you not come to our assistance I don't
know what would have become of us."

"I feel repaid for whatever I have done for you," said Frank Sylvester,
kindly. "Has this Mr. Lorimer a family?"

"He has a wife and one son."

"Were your families intimate?"

"Yes. We occupied adjoining houses. Julian Lorimer was about my age, and
attended the same school. I never liked him, however. He had a very
high opinion of himself, and put on airs which made him generally
unpopular."

"Did he put on airs with you?"

"Not till after the failure. My father moved out of his house, but Mr.
Lorimer remained in his, and appeared to live in about the same style as
before, while we moved into a few rooms in an unfashionable part of the
city. After this Julian took very little notice of me."

"You haven't met him since you came to New York?"

"No; I rather wonder I haven't, but I suppose I shall some day."

The time came sooner than he anticipated.

Rupert was crossing Eighth Avenue near Forty-second Street one day, when
he came near being run into by a bicycle. The rider gave a note of
warning, and then stopped short in surprise.

"Rupert Rollins!" he said, in a half tone of inquiry.

"Is it you, Julian?" asked Rupert, recognizing his former schoolmate.

"Yes. Are you living in New York?"

"Yes."

"Whereabouts?"

"At present I am staying in Harlem."

"I heard you and your mother were living in a tenement house down town."

"My mother is not living in the city," returned Rupert, coldly.

He did not care to give Julian any more information than was absolutely
necessary.

"Where is she, then?"

"In Rutherford, New Jersey."

"Why don't you live there, too?"

"Because I expect to be employed in New York."

"Then you are out of work now?"

"Yes."

"Why don't you live in the Newsboys' Lodge? That is cheap."

"Have you ever lived there?"

"Do you mean to insult me? I live in a nice house on One Hundred and
Sixteenth Street."

"So do I."

"You are bluffing."

"Why should I? What good would it do me?"

Further inquiry developed the fact that they lived in neighboring
blocks.

"I don't see how you can afford to live on such a street."

"I am at present visiting a friend--Mr. Sylvester."

"Is he rich?"

"Yes. I believe so."

"I suppose you know that my father has a nice new store on Third Avenue,
near Forty-second Street?"

"I heard something of the kind," said Rupert, briefly.

"He's doing a staving business--a good deal larger than he did in
Buffalo."

Rupert made no comment.

"You said you were out of employment, didn't you?"

"Yes."

"You might call round at the store. Perhaps pa can find a place for you
as a cash boy, though you would be rather large for that."

"How much does he pay his cash boys?"

"Two and a half a week."

"I hardly think I could live on that," said Rupert, smiling.

"It is better than being out of work."

"That is true, but I shouldn't like to be getting more and more
behindhand every week. Are you attending school?"

"Yes, but I think of going into business soon."

"Perhaps," suggested Rupert, "you will take one of the cash boys'
places."

"You must be crazy. When I go into business it won't be into a retail
store. I will get a place in some wholesale establishment. There's a
better chance to rise there."

"I didn't know but you would go to college."

"I am not very fond of study. Pa would send me to Columbia College or to
Harvard, if I wanted to go, but I prefer a life of business. I want to
become a merchant prince."

"It would certainly be agreeable. I shall be satisfied if I can be
successful enough to support my mother and sister in comfort. That is my
ambition."

"Oh, I dare say. You are a poor boy, you know."

"Look here, Julian, there's one thing I don't understand. Your father
and mine were partners, and I supposed in the same circumstances. Both
failed together. Yet your father now has a large store of his own, and
we are poor. Can you tell me why?"

"I'm not good at conundrums. I'll have to be going. If you want a place
as cash boy I'll ask pa to fit you out. Ta ta!" And Julian dashed off on
his wheel.

"I hope some time to be a successful and honorable man of business,"
thought Rupert, as he followed his former schoolfellow with his glance.
"My ambition would not be satisfied with anything short of this."




CHAPTER IX.

RUPERT BECOMES A BELL-BOY.


Rupert found a pleasant home at the house of Mr. Sylvester, but he was
anxious as soon as possible to secure employment. His friend was active
in his behalf, but the general depression in business was such that
there seemed to be no opening anywhere.

One evening at supper Mr. Sylvester said: "I have been hoping to find
you a place in a wholesale establishment in Pearl Street. I learned that
one of the younger clerks was about to leave, but he has decided to stay
six months longer, and, of course, we can't wait as long as that."

"No, Mr. Sylvester, it would seem like six years to me."

"Even if your wants were all provided for in that time?"

"I feel that I ought to be at work, and not depending on your
generosity. I would rather work for two dollars a week than remain
idle."

"That is the right spirit, Rupert. You will be glad, then, to hear that
I have at last found employment for you."

"But I thought you just said----"

"That I could not get you a place in Pearl Street. True, but this is a
different position--very different. It is that of bell-boy in a hotel."

"What are the duties, Mr. Sylvester?"

"You will be at the command of the clerk, and will have to run up and
downstairs, answering calls from the guests, or carrying messages from
the office. In fact, you will be a general utility clerk, and I have no
doubt will get terribly tired the first few days."

"Never mind. I can stand that. If I make enough to pay my way I shall be
satisfied."

"You will be better paid than if you were in a mercantile house. You
will receive five dollars a week and get your meals at the hotel."

Rupert's face brightened.

"Why, that is excellent," he said. "When I was at Tenney & Rhodes' I
only received five dollars weekly and had to furnish my own meals."

"True, but you were then in the line of promotion. Here you cannot
expect to rise any higher unless you qualify yourself to be a hotel
man."

"At any rate I am willing to try it. Where is the hotel?"

"It is the Somerset House, on lower Broadway. It is not a fashionable
hotel, but comfortable and of good reputation. I am somewhat acquainted
with the office clerk, who was an old schoolmate of mine, and at my
request he has given you this position."

"I hope I shall give satisfaction. I shall be a green hand."

"The duties are easily understood and learned. If you show that you are
desirous of succeeding you will make a good impression, and you will get
on well."

"When am I to commence work?" asked Rupert.

"I will take you down town with me to-morrow morning, and introduce you
to Mr. Malcolm, the clerk. I suppose you will be expected to go to work
directly."

"I should prefer that."

"One thing I must tell you. You will have to secure a room outside, as
the employees are not expected to sleep in the hotel. All the rooms are
reserved for guests."

"What will my hours be?"

"From seven in the morning till seven in the evening. By this
arrangement you will have your evenings to yourself."

Rupert went to bed in good spirits. He was of an active temperament, and
enjoyed occupation. It would be pleasant to him also to feel that he was
earning his own living.

In the morning Mr. Sylvester went down town with him.

The Somerset House was a hotel of moderate size, only five stories in
height, which is low for a city hotel. I may as well say here that I
have not given the correct name of the hotel for obvious reasons. So far
as our story is concerned, the name I have chosen will do as well as any
other.

"Those who frequent this hotel are not of the fashionable class,"
explained Mr. Sylvester, "but it is largely patronized by traveling
salesmen and people from the country. The rates are moderate, and those
come here who would not feel able to afford the Fifth Avenue or hotels
of that grade."

The entrance was neat, and Rupert was well pleased with the aspect of
his new place of employment.

At some distance from the doorway was the office, and behind the reading
room.

"Mr. Malcolm," said Sylvester to a pleasant-looking man of thirty-five,
who stood behind a counter, "this is the young man I mentioned to you.
He will be glad to fill the position of bell-boy, and from my
acquaintance with him I feel quite sure he will suit you. His name is
Rupert Rollins."

The clerk smiled pleasantly.

"We shall soon know each other better," he said. "I hope you are strong,
for you will have a good deal of exercise here."

"I think I can stand it," said Rupert. "I shall soon get used to it."

"I have a plan of the rooms here," went on the clerk. "Take it and go
upstairs and look about you on the different floors. It will be
necessary that you should learn the location of the rooms."

"I will leave you now, Rupert," said Mr. Sylvester. "You can come back
to my house to-night, and to-morrow you can look up a room near the
hotel."

For the first few days Rupert got very tired. He would have to go
upstairs perhaps thirty or forty times during the day, sometimes to the
fifth floor. There was an elevator in the Somerset Hotel, but the
bell-boys were not allowed to use it.

When a guest registered and was assigned to a room on one of the upper
floors he was conducted to the elevator, but the bell-boy, carrying his
valise, was obliged to walk upstairs, and meet him at the landing-place.
Often Rupert felt that there was an injustice in this, and that no harm
would be done if he were also allowed to use the elevator. However, he
was not foolish enough make any complaint, but by his pleasant manners
and cheerful alacrity won the good opinion of Mr. Malcolm, the clerk.

The Somerset Hotel was on the European and American systems combined. If
a guest preferred simply to lodge at the hotel he could do so, and take
his meals either at the hotel restaurant or in any other.

One day a guest registered who was assigned to No. 143, on the fifth
floor.

To Rupert was assigned the duty of carrying up the valise. He found it
unusually heavy, and more than once as he climbed the stairs he felt
that he would be glad to reach his destination. At the elevator landing
he met the owner of the valise, a middle-aged man with a brown,
sunburned face.

"You found it rather a heavy tug, didn't you?" he asked, with a smile.

"Your clothes seem to be heavy," returned Rupert.

"It isn't clothes merely," said the stranger. "I come from Colorado, and
I have some specimens of quartz inside. Here, give me the valise, and
lead the way to my room."

Rupert did so.

When they reached No. 143 the stranger drew a fifty cent piece from his
pocket and handed it to Rupert.

"Take it," he said. "You deserve something for carrying such a load."

"Thank you, sir," said Rupert. "I don't find many guests so liberal."

"Shall I tell you why I am so liberal? It is because when I was a boy,
rather older than you, I was for four months a bell-boy in a Chicago
hotel."

"Were you, indeed, sir?" said Rupert, with interest. "Did you retire on
a fortune?"

"No; fees were few and far between. However, I saved a little and
borrowed a little more, and made my way first to Nevada, and afterwards
to Colorado. I have been pretty well prospered, and now I come home to
see my old father and mother in Maine."

"I hope you will find them well."

"Thank you, my boy, I heartily hope so. It is seventeen years since I
have seen their dear old faces, and it will be a good day for me when we
meet again."

"Are your father and mother both living?"

"Both at last accounts."

"Then you are luckier than I am. My father is dead."

"That is unfortunate. You are young to have lost a parent."

"Can I do anything for you, sir? Have you all that you need?"

"Yes," answered the guest, with a look at the washstand. "What I want
first is water and towels, for I have just got in from a long railroad
journey. Those seem to be provided. If I want anything else I will
ring."

"Fifty cents!" repeated Rupert. "I wish I could be as well paid every
time I carry a valise up stairs. Then I should get rich fast."

During the second week a tall, thin man with long hair flowing down over
his coat collar registered at the Somerset.

"No. 119," said the clerk. "Front!"

Rupert answered the summons.

"Take this gentleman's valise to No. 119."

Rupert thought the stranger a very singular-looking man. His long,
unkempt locks were of yellowish hue, and his eyes were shifty and
evasive. But of course in a hotel frequented by all sorts of people, no
special attention was paid to any particular guest.

Rupert met him upstairs and conducted him to his room.

"Take the valise inside," said the guest.

Rupert did so, when he was startled by the guest locking the door,
making him a prisoner.

"Now, boy," he said, his eyes lighted with an insane gleam, "you must
prepare to die!"

"What?" exclaimed Rupert, startled. "What do you mean?"

"I am commanded by God to offer you up as a sacrifice, even as Abraham
offered up his son Isaac."

As he spoke he drew a knife from his breast and advanced toward the
hapless bell-boy.




CHAPTER X.

A BELL-BOY'S EXPERIENCES.


It was evident that the guest whom Rupert had conducted to his room was
a maniac of the most dangerous character. The man's face was terrible to
look upon. His small, ferret-like eyes seemed to dilate with ferocious
cunning. He was a man not perhaps robust or strong, but too strong for a
boy of sixteen. And Rupert was alone with him.

It was terrible to think that he was to become the victim of such a man.
Apart from the pain of death, it was made more terrible at the hands of
an insane man.

What should he do?

Rupert had read somewhere that to openly combat an insane person is
dangerous. It is advisable to humor his delusions. Fortunately he had
read a story recently in which a man had escaped death by this very
means. It was a desperate chance, but Rupert resolved to make use of
it. Instead of showing the fear he really felt, he forced himself to
appear calm.

"You are mistaken," he said; "the boy you are to sacrifice is under the
bed."

The maniac was just about to lunge with his knife, but Rupert's words
made him pause.

"Look under the bed and you will see him," continued the bell-boy.

The bed was at the other end of the room. The maniac went over to it,
and, getting on his knees, began to peer underneath.
