ple who are not compelled to observe it. Per- 
haps she thought she was really fond of rural 
life and country ways. As she herself said, " If 
you have a summer cottage at Newport or 
 
Lenox, it is necessary to go off somewhere and 
rest." And then it would be good for Evelyn to 
live out-of-doors and see the real country, and, as 
for herself, as she looked in the mirror, " I shall 
drink milk and go to bed early. Henderson used 
to say that a month in New Hampshire made 
another woman of me." 
Oh, to find a spot where we could be undis- 
turbed, alone and unknown. That was the pro- 
gramme. But Carmen simply could not be any- 
where content if she were unnoticed. It was not 
so easy to give up daily luxury, and habits of ease 
at the expense of attendants, or the ostentation 
which had become a second nature. Therefore the 
" establishment" went along with her to River- 
vale, and the shy, modest little woman, who had 
dropped down into the country simplicity that she 
so dearly loved, greatly enjoyed the sensation that 
her coming produced. It needed no effort on 
her part to produce the sensation. The carriage, 
and coachman and footman in livery, would have 
been sufficient ; and then the idea of one family 
being rich enough to take the whole hotel ! The 
liveries, the foreign cook in his queer cap and 
apron, and all the goings-on at the Peacock 
were the inexhaustible topic of talk in every 
farm-house for ten miles around. Kivervale 
was a self-respecting town, and principled 
against luxury and self-indulgence, and judged 
 
with a just and severe judgment the world of 
fashion and of the grasping, wicked millionaires. 
And now this world with all its vain show had 
plumped down in the midst of them. Those who 
had travelled and seen the ostentation of cities 
smiled a superior smile at the curiosity and won- 
der exhibited, but even those who had never seen 
the like were cautious about letting their surprise 
appear. Especially in the presence of fashion 
and wealth would the independent American 
citizen straighten his back-bone, reassuring him- 
self that he was as good as anybody. To be sure, 
people flew to windows when the elegant equi- 
page dashed by, and everybody found frequent 
occasion to drive or walk past the Peacock Inn. 
It was only the novelty of it, in a place that 
rather lacked novelties. 
And yet there prevailed in the community a 
vague sense that millions were there, and a curi- 
ous expectation of some individual benefit from 
them. All the young berry -pickers were un- 
usually active, and poured berries into the kitch- 
en door of the inn. There was not a housewife 
who was not a little more anxious about the prod- 
uct of her churning ; not a farmer who did not 
think that perhaps cord-wood would rise, that 
there would be a better demand for garden 
" sass," and more market for chickens, and who 
did not regard with more interest his promising 
 
colt. When he drove to the village his rig was 
less shabby and slovenly in appearance. The 
young fellows who prided themselves upon a 
neat buggy and a fast horse made their turn- 
outs shine, and dashed past the inn with a self- 
conscious air. Even the stores began to " slick 
up" and arrange their miscellaneous notions 
more attractively, and one of them boldly put in 
a window a placard, "Latest New York Style." 
When the family went to the Congregational 
church on Sunday not the slightest notice was 
taken of them — though ever}'^ woman could have 
told to the last detail what the ladies wore — but 
some of the worshippers were for the first time a 
little nervous about the performance of the choir, 
and the deacons heard the sermon chiefly with 
reference to what a city visitor would think of it. 
Mrs. Mavick was quite equal to the situation. 
In the church she was devout, in the village she 
was affable and friendly. She made acquaint- 
ances right and left, and took a simple inter- 
est in everybody and everything. She was on 
easy terms with the landlord, who declared, 
"There is a woman with no nonsense in her." 
She chatted with the farmers who stopped at the 
inn door, she bought things at the stores that 
she did not want, and she speedily discovered 
Aunt Hepsy, and loved to sit with her in the lit- 
tle shop and pick up the traditions and the gossip 
 
of the neighborhood. And she did not confine 
her angelic visits to the village. On one pretence 
and another she made her way into every farm- 
house that took her fancy, penetrated the kitch- 
ens and dairies, and got, as she told McDonald, 
into the inner life of the people. 
She must see the grave of Captain Moses Kice. 
And on this legitimate errand she one day car- 
ried her fluttering attractiveness and patchou- 
ly into the Maitland house. Mrs. Maitland was 
civil, but no more. Alice was civil but reserved 
— a great many people, she said, came to see the 
graves in the old orchard. But Mrs. Mavick was 
not a bit abashed. She expressed herself de- 
lighted with everything. It was such a rest, 
such a perfectly lovely country, and everybody 
was so hospitable ! And Aunt Hepsy had so in- 
terested her in the history of the region ! But it 
was difficult to get her talk responded to. 
However, when Miss Patience came in she 
made better headway. She had heard so much 
of Miss Maitland's apartments. She herself was 
mterested in decorations. She had tried to do 
something in her New York home. But there 
were so many ideas and theories, and it was so 
hard to be natural and artificial at the same time. 
She had no doubt she could get some new ideas 
from Miss Maitland. Would it be asking too 
much to see her apartments ? She really felt like 
 
a stranger nowhere in Eivervale. Patience was 
only too delighted, and took her into her museum 
of natural history, art, religion, and vegetation. 
" She might have gone to the grave-yard with- 
out coming into the house," Alice remarked. 
" Oh, well," said her mother, " I think she is 
very amusing. You shouldn't be so exclusive, 
Alice." 
" Mother, I do believe she paints." 
With Patience, Mrs. Mavick felt on surer 
ground. 
" How curious, how very curious and delight- 
ful it is ! Such knowledge of nature, such art in 
arrangement." 
" Oh, I just put them up," said Patience, " as I 
thought they ought hy rights to be put up." 
"That's it. And you have combined every- 
thing here. You have given me an idea. In our 
house we have a Japan room, and an Indian room, 
and a Chinese room, and an Otaheite, and I don't 
know what — Egyptian, Greek, and not one Amer- 
ican, not a really American. That is, according 
to American ideas, for you have everything in 
these two rooms. I shall write to Mr. Mavick." 
(Mr. Mavick never received the letter.) 
When she came away it was with a profusion 
of thanks, and repeated invitations to drop in at 
the inn. Alice accompanied her to the first stone 
that marked the threshold of the side door, and 
 
was bowing her away, when Mr. Philip swung 
over the fence by the wood-shed, with a shot-gun 
on his shoulder, and swinging in his left hand a 
gray squirrel by its bushy tail, and was immedi- 
ately in front of the group. 
" Ah !" involuntarily from Mrs. Mavick. An 
introduction was inevitable. 
" My cousin, Mr. Burnett, Mrs. Mavick." Philip 
raised his cap and bowed. 
" A hunter, I see." 
" Hardly, madam. In vacations I like to walk 
in the woods with a gun." 
" Then you are not — " 
" ISTo," said Philip, smiling, " unfortunately I 
cannot do this all the time." 
" Ton are of the city, then ?" 
" With the firm of Hunt, Sharp & Tweedle." 
" Ah, my husband knows them, I believe." 
" I have seen Mr. Mavick," and Philip bowed 
again. 
" How lucky !" 
Mrs. Mavick had an eye for a fine young fel- 
low — she never denied that — and Philip's manly 
figure and easy air were not lost on her. Pres- 
ently she said : 
" We are here for a good part of the summer. 
Mr. Mavick's business keeps him in the city and 
we have to poke about a good deal alone. Now, 
Miss Alice, I am so glad I have met your cousin. 
 
Perhaps he will show us some of the interesting 
places and the beauties of the country he knows 
so well." And she looked sideways at Philip. 
" Yes, he knows the country," said Alice, with- 
out committing herself. 
" I am sure I shall be delighted to do what I 
can for you whenever you need my services," 
said Philip, who had reasons for wishing to know 
the Mavicks which Alice did not share. 
" That's so good of you ! Excursions, picnics 
— oh, we will arrange. You must come and help 
me arrange. And I hope," with a smile to Alice, 
" you can persuade your cousin to join us some- 
times." 
Alice bowed, they all bowed, and Mrs Mavick 
said av, revoir, and went swinging her parasol 
down the driveway. Then she turned and called 
back, " This is the first long walk I have taken." 
And then she said to herself, " Rather stiff, except 
the young man and the queer old maid. But 
what a pretty girl the younger must have been 
ten years ago ! These country flowers !" 
CHAPTER XII 
Mes. Mavick thought herself fortunate in find- 
ing, in the social wilderness of Eivervale, such a 
presentable young gentleman as Philip. She had 
persuaded herself that she greatly enjoyed her 
simple intercourse with the inhabitants, and she 
would have said that she was in deep sympathy 
with their lives. No doubt in New York she 
would relate her summer adventures as some- 
thing very amusing, but for the moment this 
adaptable woman seemed to herself in a very in- 
genuous, receptive, and sympathetic state of mind. 
Still, there was a limit to the entertaining power 
of Aunt Hepsy, which was perceived when she 
began to repeat her annals of the neighborhood, 
and to bring forward again and again the little 
nuggets of wisdom which she had evolved in the 
small circle of her experience. And similarly 
Mrs. Mavick became aware that there was a 
monotony in the ideas brought forward by the 
farmers and the farmers' wives, whether in the 
kitchen or the best room, which she lighted up 
by her gracious presence, that it was possible to 
 
be tired of the most interesting "peculiarities" 
when once their novelty was exhausted, and that 
so-called " characters " in the country fail to sat- 
isfy the requirements of intimate or long com- 
panionship. Their world is too narrowly circum- 
scribed. 
The fact that Philip was a native of the 
place, and so belonged to a world that was 
remote from her own, made her free to seek 
his aid in making the summer pass agreeably 
without incurring any risk of social obligations. 
Besides, when she had seen more of him, she 
experienced a good deal of pleasure in his com- 
pany. His foreign travel, his reading, his life in 
the city, offered many points of mutual interest, 
and it was a relief to her to get out of the nar- 
row range of topics in the provincial thought, 
and to have her allusions understood. Philip, 
on his part, was not slow to see this, or to per- 
ceive that in the higher intellectual ranges, the 
serious topics which occupied the attention of 
the few cultivated people in the neighborhood, 
Mrs. Mavick had little interest or understanding, 
though there was nothing she did not profess an 
interest in when occasion required. Philip was 
not of a suspicious nature, and it may not have 
occurred to him that Mrs. Mavick was simply 
amusing herself, as she would do with any agree- 
able man, young or old, who fell in her way, and 
 
would continue to do so if she reached the age 
of ninety. 
On the contrary, it never seemed to occur to 
Mrs. Mavick, who was generally suspicious, that 
Philip was making himself agreeable to the 
mother of Evelyn. In her thought Evelyn was 
still a child, in leading-strings, and would be till 
she was formally launched, and the social gulf 
between the great heiress and the law clerk and 
poor writer was simply impassable. All of which 
goes to show that the most astute women are 
not always the wisest. 
To one person in Eivervale the coming of Mrs. 
Mavick and her train of worldliness was unwel- 
come. It disturbed the peaceful simplicity of the 
village, and it was likely to cloud her pleasure 
in Philip's visit. She felt that Mrs. Mavick was 
taking him away from the sweet serenity of 
their life, and that in everything she said or did 
there was an element of unrest and excitement. 
She was careful, however, not to show any of 
this apprehension to Philip ; she showed it only 
by an increased affectionate interest in him and 
his concerns, and in trying to make the old home 
more dear to him. Mrs. Mavick was loud in her 
praise of Alice to her cousin, and sought to win 
her confidence, but she was, after all, a little shy 
of her, and probably would have characterized her 
to a city friend as a sort of virgin in the Bible. 
 
It so happened that day after day went by 
without giving Philip anything more than pass- 
ing glimpses of Evelyn, when she was driving 
with her mother or her governess. Yet Eiver- 
vale never seemed so ravishingly beautiful to all 
his senses. Surely it was possessed by a spirit 
of romance and poetry, which he had never per- 
ceived before, and he wasted a good deal of time 
in gazing on the river, on the gracious meadows, 
on the graceful contours of the hills. "When he 
was a lad, in the tree-top, there had been some- 
thing stimulating and almost heroic in the scene, 
which awakened his ambition. Now it was the 
idyllic beauty that took possession of him, trans- 
formed as it was by the presence of a woman, 
that supreme interpreter of nature to a youth. 
And yet scarcely'' a woman — rather a vision of a 
girl, impressible still to all the influences of such 
a scene and to the most delicate suggestions of 
unfolding life. Probably he did not analyze this 
feeling, but it was Evelyn he was thinking of 
when he admired the landscape, breathed with 
exhilaration the fresh air, and watched the white 
clouds sail along the blue vault ; and he knew 
that if she were suddenly to leave the valley all 
the light would go out of it and the scene would 
be flat to his eyes and torturing to his memory. 
Mrs. Mavick he encountered continually in the 
village, lie had taken many little strolls with 
 
her to this or that pretty point of view, they had 
exchanged reminiscences of foreign travel, and 
had dipped a little into current popular books, so 
that they had come to be on easy, friendly terms. 
Philip's courtesy and deference, and a certain wit 
and humor of suggestion applied to ordinary 
things, put him more and more on a good foot- 
ing with her, so much so that she declared to 
McDonald that really young Burnett was a 
genuine " find " in the country. 
It seems a pity that the important events in 
our lives are so commonplace. Philip's meeting 
with Evelyn, so long thought of and dramatized 
in his mind, was not in the least as he had im- 
agined it. When one moi'ning he went to the 
Peacock Inn at the summons of Mrs. Mavick, in 
order to lay out a plan of campaign, he found 
Evelyn and her governess seated on the veran- 
da, with their books. It was Evelyn who rose 
first and came forward, without, so far as Philip 
could see, the least embarrassment of recos- 
nition. 
" Mr. Burnett ? Mamma will be here in a mo- 
ment. This is our friend. Miss McDonald." 
The girl's morning costume was very simple, 
and in her short walking - skirt she seemed 
younger even than in the city. She spoke and 
moved — Philip noticed that — without the least 
self-consciousness, and she had a way of looking 
 
her interlocutor frankly in the eyes, or, as Philip 
expressed it, " flashing" upon him. 
Philip bowed to the governess, and, still stand- 
ing and waving his hand towards the river, hoped 
they liked Eivervale, and then added : 
" I see you can read in the country." 
"We pretend to," said Evelyn, who had re- 
sumed her seat and indicated a chair for Philip, 
" but the singing of that river, and the bobolinks 
in the meadow, and the light on the hills are al- 
most too much for us. Don't you think, McDon- 
ald, it is like Scotland ?" 
"It would be," the governess replied, "if it 
rained when it didn't mist, and there were moors 
and heather, and — ^" 
"Oh, I didn't mean all that, but a feeling 
like that, sweet and retired and sort of lone- 
some?" 
" Perhaps Miss McDonald means," said Philip, 
" that there isn't much to feel here except what 
you see." 
Miss McDonald looked sharply around at 
Philip and remarked : " Yes, that's just it. It is 
very lovely, like almost any out-doors, if you will 
give yourself up to it. You remember, Evelyn, 
how fascinating the Arizona desert was? But 
there was a romantic addition to the colored des- 
olation because the Spaniards and the Jesuits 
had been there. Now this place lacks traditions, 
legends, romance. You have to bring your ro- 
mance with you." 
" And that is the reason you read here ?" 
"One reason. Especially romances. This 
charming scenery and the summer sounds of run- 
ning water and birds make a nice accompani- 
ment to the romance." 
"But mamma says," Evelyn interrupted, 
"there is plenty of legend here, and tradition 
and flavor, Indians and early settlers, and even 
Aunt Hepsy." 
"Well, I confess they don't appeal to me. 
And as for Indians, Parkman's descriptions of 
those savages made me squirm. And I don't 
believe there was much more romance about 
the early settlers than about their descendants. 
Isn't it true, Mr. Burnett, that you must have a 
human element to make any country interest- 
ing?" 
Philip glanced at Evelyn, whose bright face 
was kindled with interest in the discussion, and 
thought, " Good heavens ! if there is not human 
interest here, I don't know where to look for it," 
but he only said : 
" Doubtless." 
" And why don't you writers do something 
about it ? It is literature that does it, either in 
Scotland or Judea." 
" Well," said Philip, stoutly, " they are doing 
 
something. I could name half a dozen localities, 
even sections of country, that travellers visit with 
curiosity just because authors have thrown that 
glamour over them. But it is hard to create some- 
thing out of nothing. It needs time." 
" And genius," Miss McDonald interjected. 
" Of course, but it took time to transform a 
Highland sheep-stealer into a romantic person- 
age." 
Miss McDonald laughed. " That is true. Take 
a modern instance. Suppose Evangeline had 
lived in this valley ! Or some simple Gretchen 
about whose simple story all the world is in 
sympathy !" 
"Or," thought Philip, "some Evelyn." But 
he replied, looking at Evelyn, "I believe that 
any American community usually resents being 
made the scene of a romance, especially if it is 
localized by any approach to reality." 
" Isn't that the fault mostly of the writer, who 
vulgarizes his material ?" 
" The realists say no. They say that people 
dislike to see themselves as they are." 
" Very likely," said Miss McDonald ; " no one 
sees himself as others see him, and probably the 
poet who expressed the desire to do so was 
simply attitudinizing. By the way, Mr. Burnett, 
you know there is one place of sentiment, relig- 
ious to be sure, not far from here. I hope we 
 
can go some day to see the home of the ' Moun- 
tain Miller.' " 
" Yes, I know the place. It is beyond the 
river, up that steep road running into the sky, 
in the next adjoining hill town. I doubt if you 
find any one there who lays it much to heart. 
But you can see the mill." 
" What is the Mountain Miller?" asked Evelyn. 
"A tract that, when I was a girl," answered 
Miss McDonald, " used to be bound up with ' The 
Dairyman's Daughter' and 'The Shepherd of 
Salisbury Plain.' It was the first thing that in- 
terested me in New England." 
"Well," said Philip, "it isn't much. Just a 
tract. But it was written by Parson Halleck, a 
great minister and a sort of Pope in this region 
for fifty years. It is, so far as I know, the only 
thing of his that remains." 
This tractarian movement was interrupted by 
the arrival of Mrs. Mavick. 
" Good-morning, Mr. Burnett. I've been down 
to see Jenkins about his picnic wagon. Carries 
six, besides the driver and my man, and the ham- 
pers. So, you see, Miss Alice will have to go. 
We couldn't go rattling along half empty. I'll 
go up and see her this afternoon. So, that's set- 
tled. Now about the time and place. Tou are 
the director. Let's sit down and plan it out. It 
looks hke good weather for a week." 
 
"Miss McDonald says she wants to see the 
Mountain Miller," said Philip, with a smile. 
" What's that ? A monument like your Pulpit 
Eock?" 
" No, a tract about a miller." 
" Ah, something religious. I never heard of 
it. Well, perhaps we had better begin with 
something secular, and work round to that." 
So an excursion was arranged for the next 
day. And as Philip walked home, thinking how 
brilliant Evelyn had beea in their little talk, he 
began to dramatize the excursion. 
All excursions are much alike, exhilarating in 
the outset, rarely up to expectation in the object, 
wearisome in the return ; but, nevertheless, de- 
lightful in the memory, especially if attended 
with some hardship or slight disaster. To be 
free, in the open air, and for a day unconven- 
tional and irresponsible, is the suflBlcient justifi- 
cation of a country picnic; but its common at- 
traction is in the opportunity for bringing young 
persons of the opposite sex into natural and un- 
restrained relations. To Philip it was the first 
time in his life that a picnic had ever seemed a 
defensible means of getting rid of a day. 
The two persons to whom this excursion was 
most novel and exciting were Evelyn and the 
elder maiden, Alice, who sat together and speed- 
ily developed a sympathy with each other in the 
 
