steama? I been South a good many wintas, and I 
should feel kind of lonesome goin round to the places 
where I been with Mr. Landa. I felt it since I been 
here in this hotel, some, and I can 't seem to want to 
go over the same ground again, well, not right away." 
Clementina said, " Why, of cou se, Mrs. Landa." 
" Should you be willin ," asked Mrs. Lander, after 
another little pause, " if your folks was willin , to go 
ova the a, to some of them European countries, to 
spend the winta?" 
 
" Oh yes, indeed ! " said Clementina. 
They discussed the matter in one of the full talks 
they both liked. At the end Mrs. Lander said, 
" Well, I guess you betta write home, and ask your 
motha whetha you can go, so t if we take the notion 
we can go any time. Tell her to telegraph, if she 'll 
let you, and do write all the ifs and ands, so t she 'll 
know just how to answa, without havin to have you 
write again." 
That evening Mrs. Milray came to their table from 
where she had been dining alone, and asked in banter: 
" Well, have you made up your minds to go over with 
me " 
Mrs. Lander said bluntly, " We can 't ha dly believe 
you really want us to, Mrs. Milray." 
" I  don 't want you ? Who put such an idea into 
your head ! Oh, I  know ! " She threatened Clem 
entina with the door-key, which she was carrying in 
her hand. " It was you, was it ? What an artful, 
suspicious thing ! What 's got into you, child ? Do 
you hate me ? " She did not give Clementina time to 
protest. " Well, now, I can just tell you I do want 
you, and I 'll be quite heart-broken if you don 't come." 
" Well, she wrote to her friends this mohning," 
Mrs. Lander said, " but I guess she won 't git an answa 
in time for youa steamer, even if they do let her go." 
" Oh, yes she will," Mrs. Milray protested. " It 's 
all right, now ; you 've  got to go, and there 's no use 
trying to get out of it." 
She came to them whenever she could find them in 
the dining-room, and she knocked daily at their door 
 
till she knew that Clementina had heard from home. 
The girl 's mother wrote, without a punctuation mark 
in her letter, but with a great deal of sense, that such 
a thing as her going to Europe could not be settled 
by telegraph. She did not think it worth while to 
report all the facts. of a consultation with the rector 
which they had held upon getting Clementina 's 're 
quest, and which had renewed all the original question 
of her relations with Mrs. Lander in an intensified 
form. He had disposed of this upon much the same 
terms as before ; and they had yielded more readily 
because the experiment had so far succeeded. Clem 
entina had apparently no complaint to make of Mrs. 
Lander ; she was eager to go, and the rector and his 
wife, who had been invited to be of the council, were 
both of the opinion that a course of European travel 
would be of the greatest advantage to the girl, if she 
wished to fit herself for teaching. It was an oppor 
tunity that they must not think of throwing away. 
If Mrs. Lander went to Florence, as it seemed from 
Clementina 's letter she thought of doing, the girl 
would pass a delightful winter in study of one of the 
most interesting cities in the world, and she would 
learn things which would enable her to do better for 
herself when she came home than she could ever hope 
to do otherwise. She might never marry, Mr. Rich- 
ling suggested, and it was only right and fair that she 
should be equipped with as much culture as possible 
for the struggle of life ; Mrs. Richling agreed with 
this rather vague theory, but she was sure that Clem 
entina would get married to greater advantage in 
 
Florence than anywhere else. They neither of them 
really knew anything at first hand about Florence; 
the rector 's opinion was grounded on the thought of 
the joy that a sojourn in Italy would have been to 
him ; his wife derived hec hope of a Florentine marri 
age for Clementina from several romances in which 
love and travel had gone hand in hand, to the lasting 
credit of triumphant American girlhood. 
The Claxons were not able to enter into their view 
of the case, but if Mrs. Lander wanted to go to Flor 
ence instead of Florida they did not see why Clemen 
tina should not go with her to one place as well as the 
other. They were not without a sense of flattery from 
the fact that their daughter was going to Europe ; but 
they put that as far from them as they could, the 
mother severely and the father ironically, as some 
thing too silly, and they tried not to let it weigh with 
them in making up their mind, but to consider only 
Clementina 's best good, and not even to regard her 
pleasure. Her mother put before her the most crucial 
questions she could think of, in her letter, and then 
gave her full leave from her father as well as herself 
to go if she wished. 
Clementina had rather it had been too late to go 
with the Milrays, but she felt bound to own her de 
cision when she reached it; and Mrs. Milray, whatever 
her real wish was, made it a point of honor to help 
get Mrs. Lander berths on her steamer. It did not 
require much effort ; there are plenty of berths for the 
latest-comers on a winter passage, and Clementina 
found herself the fellow passenger of Mrs. Milray. 
XVI. 
As soon as Mrs. Lander could make her way to her 
state-room, she got into her berth, and began to take 
the different remedies for sea-sickness which she had 
brought with her. Mrs. Milray said that was nice, 
and that now she and Clementina could have a good 
time. But before it came to that she had taken pity 
on a number of lonely young men whom she found on 
board. She cheered them up by walking round the 
ship with them ; but if any of them continued dull in 
spite of this, she dropped him, and took another ; 
and before she had been two days out she had gone 
through with nearly all the lonely young men on the 
list of cabin passengers. She introduced some of 
them to Clementina, but at such times as she had 
them in charge ; and for the most part she left her to 
Milray. Once, as the girl sat beside him in her steam 
er-chair, Mrs. Milray shed a wrap on his knees in 
whirring by on the arm of one of her young men, 
with some laughed and shouted charge about it. 
" What did she say ? " he asked Clementina, slant 
ing the down-pulled brim of his soft hat purblindly 
toward her. 
 
She said she had not understood, and then Milray 
asked, " What sort of person is that Boston youth of 
Mrs. Milray 's ? Is he a donkey or a lamb ? " 
Clementina said ingenuously, " Oh, she 's walking 
with that English gentleman now that lo d." 
" Ah, yes," said Milray. " He 's not very much to 
look at, I hear." 
" Well, not very much," Clementina admitted ; she 
did not like to talk against people. 
" Lords are sometimes disappointing, Clementina," 
Milray said, " but then, so are other great men. I 've  
seen politicians on our side who were disappointing, 
and there are clergymen and gamblers who don 't look 
it." He laughed sadly. "That 's the way people talk 
who are a little disappointing themselves. I hope 
you don 't expect too much of yourself, Clementina ? " 
" I don 't know what you mean," she said, stiffening 
with a suspicion that he might be going to make fun 
of her. 
He laughed more gayly. " Well, I mean we must 
hold the other fellows up to their duty, or we can 't do 
our own. We need their example. Charity may begin 
at home, but duty certainly begins abroad." He 
went on, as if it were a branch of the same inquiry, 
" Did you ever meet my sisters ? They came to the 
hotel in New York to see Mrs. Milray." 
" Yes, I was in the room once when they came in." 
" Did you like them ? " 
" Yes I sca cely spoke to them I only stayed a 
moment." 
" Would you like to see any more of the family ? " 
 
" Why, of cou se ! " Clementina was amused at 
his asking, but he seemed in earnest. 
* " One of my sisters lives in Florence, and Mrs. Mil- 
ray says you think of going there, too." 
" Mrs. Land a thought it would be a good place to 
spend the winter. Is it a pleasant place ? " 
" Oh, delightful ! Do you know much about Italy ? " 
" Not very much, I don 't believe." 
" Well, my sister has lived a good while in Florence. 
I should like to give you a letter to her." 
" Oh, thank you ! " said Clementina. 
Milray smiled at her spare acknowledgment, but 
inquired gravely : " What do you expect to do in 
Florence ? " 
" Why, I presume, whateva Mrs. Landa wants to 
do." 
" Do you think Mrs. Lander will want to go into 
society ? " 
This question had not occurred to Clementina. " I 
don 't believe she will," she said, thoughtfully. 
" Shall you ? " 
Clementina laughed, "Why, do you think," she 
ventured, " that society would want me to ? " 
" Yes, I think it would, if you 're as charming as 
you 've  tried to make me believe. Oh, I don 't mean, 
to your own knowledge ; but some people have ways of 
being charming without knowing it. If Mrs. Lander 
isn 't going into society, and there should be a way 
found for you to go, don 't refuse, will you?" 
" I shall wait and see if I 'm asked, fust." 
"Yes, that will be best," said Milray. "But I 
 
shall give you a letter to my sister. She and I used 
to be famous cronies, and we went to a great many 
parties together when we were young people. We 
thought the world was a fine thing, then. But it 
changes." 
He fell into a muse, and they were both sitting 
quite silent when Mrs. Milray came round the corner 
of the music room in the course of her twentieth or 
thirtieth compass of the deck, and introduced her 
lord to her husband and to Clementina. He promptly 
ignored Milray, and devoted himself to the girl, lean 
ing over her with his hand against the bulkhead be 
hind her and talking down upon her. 
Lord Lioncourt must have been about thirty, but 
he had the heated and broken complexion of a man 
who has taken more than is good for him in twice 
that number of years. This was one of the wrongs 
nature had done him in apparent resentment of the 
social advantages he was born to, for he was rather 
abstemious, as Englishmen go. He looked a very 
shy person till he spoke, and then you found that he 
was not in the least shy. He looked so English that 
you would have expected a strong English accent of 
him, but his speech was more that of an American, 
without the nasality. This was not apparently because 
he had been much in America ; he was returning from 
his first visit to the States, which had been spent 
chiefly in the Territories ; after a brief interval of 
Newport he had preferred the West ; he liked rather 
to- hunt than to be hunted, though even in the West 
his main business had been to kill time, which he 
 
found more plentiful there than other game. The 
natives, everywhere, were much the same thing to 
him ; if he distinguished it was in favor of those who 
did not suppose themselves cultivated. If again he 
had a choice it was for the females ; they seemed to 
him more amusing than the males, who struck him as 
having an exaggerated reputation for humor. He 
did not care much for Clementina 's past, as he knew 
it from Mrs. Milray, and if it did not touch his fancy, 
it certainly did not offend his taste. A real artistoc- 
racy is above social prejudice, when it will ; he had 
known some of his order choose the mothers of their 
heirs from the music halls, and when it came to a 
question of distinctions among Americans, he could 
not feel them. They might be richer or poorer ; but 
they could not be more patrician or more plebeian. 
The passengers, he told Clementina, were getting 
up, at this point of the ship 's run, an entertainment 
for the benefit of the seaman 's hospital in Liverpool, 
that well-known convention of ocean-travel, which is 
sure at some time or other, to enlist all the talent on 
board every English steamer in some sort of public 
appeal. He was not very clear how he came to be on 
the committee for drumming up talent for the occa 
sion ; his distinction seemed to have been conferred 
by a popular vote in the smoking room, as nearly as 
he could make out; but here he was, and he was 
counting upon Miss Claxon to help him out. He said 
Mrs. Milray had told him about that charming affair 
they had got up in the mountains, and he was sure 
they could have something of the kind again. " Per- 
 
haps not a coaching party ; that mightn 't be so easy 
to manage at sea. But isn 't there something else 
some tableaux or something? If we couldn 't have 
the months of the year we might have the points of 
the compass, and you could take your choice." 
He tried to get something out of the notion, but 
nothing came of it that Mrs. Milray thought possible. 
She said, across her husband, on whose further side 
she had sunk into a chair, that they must have some 
thing very informal ; everybody must do what they 
could, separately. " I know you can do anything 
you like, Clementina. Can 't you play something, or 
sing?" At Clementina 's look of utter denial, she 
added, desperately, " Or dance something? " A light 
came into the girl 's face at which she caught. " I 
know you can dance something ! Why, of course ! 
Now, what is it ? " 
Clementina smiled at her vehemence. " Why, it 's 
nothing. And I don 't know whether I should like 
to." 
" Oh, yes," urged Lord Lioncourt. " Such a good 
cause, you know." 
" What is it ? " Mrs. Milray insisted. "Is it some 
thing you could do alone ? " 
" It 's just a dance that I learned at Woodlake. 
The teacha said that all the young ladies we e lea n- 
ing it. It 's a skut-dance " 
"The very thing!" Mrs. Milray shouted. "It 'll 
be the hit of the evening." 
" But I 've  never done it before any one," Clemen 
tina faltered. 
 
" They 'll all be doing their turns," the Englishman 
said. " Speaking, and singing, and playing." 
Clementina felt herself giving way, and she pleaded 
in final reluctance, " But I haven 't got a pleated skut 
in my steama trunk." 
" No matter ! We can manage that." Mrs. Milray 
jumped to her feet and took Lord Lioncourt 's arm. 
"Now we must go and drum up somebody else." 
He did not seem eager to go, but he started. " Then 
that 's all settled," she shouted over her shoulder to 
Clementina. 
" No, no, Mrs. Milray ! " Clementina called after 
her. " The ship tilts so " 
" Nonsense ! It 's the smoothest run she ever made 
in December. And I 'll engage to have the sea as 
steady as a rock for you. Remember, now, you 've  
promised." 
Mrs. Milray whirled her Englishman away, and left 
Clementina sitting beside her husband. 
"Did you want to dance for them, Clementina?" 
he asked. 
" I don 't know," she said, with the vague smile of 
one to whom a pleasant hope has occurred. 
" I thought perhaps you were letting Mrs. Milray 
bully you into it. She 's a frightful tyrant." 
" Oh, I guess I should like to do it, if you think 
it would be nice." 
u I dare say it will be the nicest thing at their ridic 
ulous show." Milray laughed as if her willingness to 
do the dance had defeated a sentimental sympathy in 
him. 
 
" I don 't believe it will be that," said Clementina, 
beaming joyously. " But I guess I sliall try it, if I 
can find the right kind of a dress." 
" Is a pleated skirt absolutely necessary," asked 
Milray, gravely. 
" I don 't see how I could get on without it," said 
Clementina. 
She was so serious still when she went down to her 
state-room that Mrs. Lander was distracted from her 
potential ailments to ask: " What is it, Clementina?" 
" Oh, nothing. Mrs. Milray has got me to say that 
I would do something at a concert they ah going to 
have on the ship." She explained, " It 's that skut 
dance I learnt at Woodlake of Miss Wilson." 
" Well, I guess if you 're worry in about that you 
needn 't to." 
" Oh, I 'm not worrying about the dance. I was 
just thinking what I should wear. If I could only 
get at the trunks ! " 
" It won 't make any matta what you wear," said 
Mrs. Lander. " It 'll be the greatest thiny ; and if t 
wain 't for this sea-sickness that I have to keep fightin 
off he a, night and day, I should come up and see you 
myself. You ah just lovely in that dance, Clemen 
tina." 
"Do you think so, Mrs. Landa?" asked the girl, 
gratefully. " Well, Mr. Milray didn 't seem to think 
that I need to have a pleated skut. Any rate, I 'm 
going to look over my things, and see if I can 't make 
something else do." 
XVII. 
THE entertainment was to be the second night after 
that, and Mrs. Milray at first took the whole affair 
into her own hands. She was willing to let the oth 
ers consult with her, but she made all the decisions, 
and she became so prepotent that she drove Lord 
Lioncourt to rebellion in the case of some theatrical 
people whom he wanted in the programme. He 
wished her to let them feel that they were favoring 
rather than favored, and she insisted that it should 
be quite the other way. She professed a scruple 
against having theatrical people in the programme at 
all, which she might not have felt if her own past had 
been different, and she spoke with an abhorrence of 
the stage which he could by no means tolerate in the 
case. She submitted with dignity when she could 
not help it. Perhaps she submitted with too much 
dignity. Her concession verged upon hauteur; and 
in her arrogant meekness she went back to another 
of her young men, whom she began to post again as 
the companion of her promenades. 
He had rather an anxious air in the enjoyment of 
the honor, but the Englishman seemed unconscious 
;&gt; x ^- 
 
of its loss, or else lie chose to ignore it. He frankly 
gave his leisure to Clementina, and she thought he 
was very pleasant. There was something different in 
his way from that of any of the other men she had 
met; something very natural and simple, a way of 
being easy in what he was, and not caring whether 
he was like others or not ; he was not ashamed of be 
ing ignorant of anything he did not know, and she 
was able to instruct him on some points. He took 
her quite seriously when she told him about Middle- 
mount, and how her family came to settle there, and 
then how she came to be going to Europe with Mrs. 
Lander. He said Mrs. Milray had spoken about it ; 
but he had not understood quite how it was before ; 
and he hoped Mrs. Lander was coming to the enter 
tainment. 
He did not seem aware that Mrs. Milray was leav 
ing the affair more and more to him. He went for 
ward with it and was as amiable with her as she would 
allow. He was so amiable with everybody that he 
reconciled many true Americans to his leadership, 
who felt that as nearly all the passengers were Amer 
icans, the chief patron of the entertainment ought to 
have been some distinguished American. The want 
of an American who was very distinguished did some 
thing to pacify them ; but the behavior of an English 
lord who put on no airs was the main agency. When 
the night came they filled the large music room of the 
Asia Minor, and stood about in front of the sofas and 
chairs so many deep that it was hard to see or hear 
through them. 
They each paid a shilling admittance ; they were 
prepared to give munificently besides when the hat 
came round ; and after the first burst of blundering 
from Lord Lioncourt, they led the magnanimous ap- 
plause. He said he never minded making a bad speech 
in a good cause, and he made as bad a one as very 
well could be. He closed it by telling Mark Twain 's 
whistling story so that those who knew it by heart 
missed the point ; but that might have been because 
he hurried it, to get himself out of the way of the 
others following. When he had done, one of the 
most ardent of the Americans proposed three cheers 
for him. 
The actress whom he had secured in spite of Mrs. 
Milray appeared in woman 's dress contrary to her 
inveterate professional habit, and followed him with 
great acceptance in her favorite variety-stage song; 
and then her husband gave imitations of Sir Henry 
Irving, and of Miss Maggie Kline in " T row him down, 
McCloskey," with a cockney accent. A frightened 
little girl, whose mother had volunteered her talent, 
gasped a ballad to her mother 's accompaniment, and 
two young girls played a duet on the mandolin and 
guitar. A gentleman of cosmopolitan military tradi 
tion, who sold the pools in the smoking-room, and was 
the friend of all the men present, and the acquaintance 
of several, gave selections of his autobiography pref 
atory to bellowing in a deep bass voice, " They 're 
hanging Danny Deaver," and then a lady interpolated 
herself into the programme with a kindness which 
Lord Lioncourt acknowledged, in saying " The more 
 
the merrier," and sang Bonnie Dundee, thumping the 
piano out of all proportion to her size and apparent 
strength. 
Some advances which Clementina had made for 
Mrs. Milray 's help about the dress she should wear in 
her dance met with bewildering indifference, and she 
had fallen back upon her own devices. She did not 
think of taking back her promise, and she had come 
to look forward to her part with a happiness which 
the good weather and the even sway of the ship en 
couraged. But her pulses fluttered, as she glided into 
the music room, and sank into a chair next Mrs. Mil- 
ray. She had on an accordion skirt which she had 
been able to get out of her trunk in the hold, and she 
felt that the glance of Mrs. Milray did not refuse it 
approval. 
" That will do nicely, Clementina," she said. She 
added, in careless acknowledgement of her own failure 
to direct her choice, " I see you didn 't need my help 
after all," and the thorny point which Clementina felt 
in her praise was rankling, when Lord Lioncourt be 
gan to introduce her. 
He made rather a mess of it, but as soon as he 
came to an end of his well-meant blunders, she stood 
up and began her poses and paces. It was all very 
innocent, with something courageous as well as appeal 
ing. She had a kind of tender dignity in her dance, 
and the delicate beauty of her face translated itself 
into the grace of her movements. It was not imper 
sonal ; there was her own quality of sylvan, of elegant 
in it ; but it w^as unconscious, and so far it was typi- 
 
cal, it was classic ; Mrs. Milray 's Bostonian achieved 
a snub from her by saying it was like a Botticelli ; and 
in fact it was merely the skirt-dance which society 
had borrowed from the stage at that period, leaving 
behind the footlights its more acrobatic phases, but 
keeping its pretty turns and bows and bends. Clemen 
tina did it not only with tender dignity, but when she 
was fairly launched in it, with a passion to which her 
sense of Mrs. Milray 's strange unkindness lent defi 
ance. The dance was still so new a thing then, that 
it had a surprise to which the girl 's gentleness lent a 
curious charm, and it had some adventitious fascina 
tions from the necessity she was in of weaving it in 
and out among the stationary armchairs and sofas 
which still further cramped the narrow space where 
she gave it. Her own delight in it shone from her 
smiling face, which was appealingly happy. Just be 
fore it should have ended, one of those wandering 
waves that roam the smoothest sea struck the ship, 
and Clementina caught herself skilfully from falling, 
and reeled to her seat, while the room rang with the 
applause and sympathetic laughter for the mischance 
she had baffled. There was a storm of encores, but 
Clementina called out, " The ship tilts so ! " and her 
naivete won her another burst of favor, which was at 
its height when Lord Lioncourt had an inspiration. 
He jumped up and said, " Miss Claxon is going to 
oblige us with a little bit of dramatics, now, and I 'm 
