
“Well, he could hardly be expected to do so.”

“Still the boy is no worse for his father’s crime.”

“Unless he inherits the same tendency,” said Wentworth significantly.

“I am sure he does not,” said Noel Brooke warmly.

“You can’t tell. I claim to be a sharp business man, but I have more
than once been deceived in a man that I thought I knew well. Warren
Lane seemed to my uncle and myself a thoroughly upright man, but——”
here he paused suggestively.

“What induced him to commit forgery?”

“Extravagant living,” answered Wentworth promptly. “His salary was only
moderate and did not come up to his desires.”

“You surprise me very much,” said Noel Brooke after a brief pause.

“I thought I should, but I felt it to be my duty to warn you against
Gerald. He is probably in confidential relations with you, and he might
play some dishonest trick on you. I advise you, as soon as practicable,
to discharge him and secure some one in his place on whom you can rely.
I need only call your attention to the individual he is talking with at
this moment. He looks like a confidence man.”

Samuel Standish had again joined Gerald, and to the boy’s disgust had
almost forced his company upon him.

“That is a man whom we met at a hotel in Davenport, and he appears
inclined to thrust himself upon us.”

Bradley Wentworth shrugged his shoulders and smiled in evident
incredulity.

“At any rate,” he said, “I have warned you, and have done my duty.”

Noel Brooke bowed slightly, but did not feel called upon to make any
other acknowledgment of Mr. Wentworth’s warning.

When Brooke had an opportunity he said to Gerald, “I have been talking
to a man who claims to know you.”

“A tall, well-built man?”

“Yes.”

“He recently paid us a visit in Colorado.”

“Do you consider him a friend?”

“No.”

“He says he knew your father in early days.”

“That is true.”

“And he charges your father with having committed forgery and thus lost
his position.”

“Was he really so base as that?” asked Gerald indignantly.

“Then it isn’t true?”

“No; a thousand times no!”

“I believe you, Gerald,” said the Englishman promptly.




CHAPTER XXIII.

MR. STANDISH RECEIVES A COMMISSION.


“THANK you for your confidence, Mr. Brooke,” said Gerald, “but I prefer
that you should have proofs of what I say.”

“It is not necessary, Gerald.”

“But I prefer that you should look over some papers that I have with
me, and for which, by the way, Mr. Wentworth is ready at any time to
pay me a thousand dollars.”

“But why should he be willing to pay so much?” asked the Englishman in
surprise.

“Because they prove that he, and not my father, committed the forgery.
My father agreed to have it charged upon him at Mr. Wentworth’s urgent
request, in order that Wentworth might not be disinherited by his
uncle.”

“But your father ought not to have made such a sacrifice. Why did he do
so?”

“Because Bradley Wentworth promised him twenty thousand dollars when he
came into his fortune.”

“Was the fortune so large, then?”

“Over three hundred thousand dollars.”

“And he came into his fortune?”

“Yes.”

“And refused to carry out his agreement?”

“Yes; he said it was absurd to expect such a liberal reward, though it
brought disgrace and loss to my poor father, and finally, as I think,
shortened his life.”

“It should have been considered a debt of honor.”

“So my father thought, but Mr. Wentworth only offered him a thousand
dollars, which, poor as he was, he indignantly refused. I don’t think
he would have offered anything, if he had not known that my father had
letters proving that he was innocent, and Wentworth himself the forger.”

“Who has these papers now?”

“I have.”

“And you say Mr. Wentworth has offered a thousand dollars for them?”

“He made me that offer this very morning.”

“And you declined to accept it?”

“Yes.”

“Gerald, the man seems to be unscrupulous. If he finds he cannot obtain
the papers in any other way he may plot to have them stolen from you.”

“I don’t know but you are right, Mr. Brooke,” said Gerald thoughtfully.

“Shall I advise you?”

“I wish you would.”

“When you get to St. Louis, deposit them with some safe deposit
company, and carry about with you merely copies of them. Then, if they
are stolen, there will be no harm done.”

“Your advice is good, Mr. Brooke, and I shall follow it.”

This conversation took place in their stateroom. Meanwhile, Bradley
Wentworth was engaged in reflection.

“That boy means mischief, I fully believe,” he said to himself. “He is
of a different nature from his father. He is firm and resolute, and
if I read him aright, he will never forego his purpose of demanding
from me the sum which I so foolishly promised his father. The worst of
it is, the papers he carries will, if shown, injure my reputation and
throw upon me the crime of which during all these years his father has
been held guilty. Those papers I must have! My security requires it.”

It was easy to come to this conclusion but not so easy to decide how
the papers could be obtained. He would gladly have paid a thousand
dollars, but that offer had more than once been made, and always
decidedly refused.

As Bradley Wentworth paced the deck with thoughtful brow, Samuel
Standish, who was always drawn towards men whom he suspected to be
wealthy, stepped up, and asked deferentially: “General, may I ask you
for a light?” for Wentworth chanced to be smoking.

Bradley Wentworth paused and scanned the man who accosted him closely.

“Why do you call me General?” he asked.

“I beg your pardon, but I took you for General Borden, member of
Congress from Kentucky.”

“I am not the man.”

“I really beg your pardon. Perhaps, however, you will oblige me with a
light all the same.”

“I will. What is your name?”

“Samuel Standish.”

“Humph! I suppose you are not a member of Congress?”

“No, indeed!” laughed Standish. “I wish I were.”

“Perhaps I could give a good guess as to who and what you are.”

Standish looked curious.

“Suppose you do!” he said.

Bradley Wentworth looked the man full in the face. It was a glance of
sharp scrutiny, so sharp that Samuel Standish, though not a sensitive
man, flushed and winced under it.

“I may be wrong,” said Wentworth, “but you look to me like an
adventurer.”

“Do you mean to insult me?” demanded Standish, starting angrily.

“No; in fact, I rather hope that you are the sort of character I take
you to be.”

“I don’t understand you,” and Standish looked and was really bewildered.

“Only because if you are as unscrupulous as I believe you to be, I may
be able to throw a job in your way.”

“You may assume then that you are correct.” Wentworth laughed slightly.

“I thought so,” he said.

“I am ready for a job,” went on Standish. “In fact I am hard up, and am
obliged to earn money in some way.”

“And are not very particular in what way.”

“Well, a man must live! If I had plenty of money it would be different.
Will you kindly tell me what you want done?”

“I believe I saw you talking with a boy half an hour ago.”

“Yes.”

“Are you acquainted with him?”

“I saw him first at the hotel in Davenport. He is in company with an
Englishman, who seems to have plenty of money.”

“I see. You feel more interested in the Englishman than in the boy.”

“Naturally. The boy is probably poor.”

“I want you to become interested in the boy.”

“If there is money in it, I shall certainly feel interested in him,”
said Mr. Standish briskly.

“There is money in it—if you carry out my wishes.”

“What are they?”

“Listen! This boy is possessed of papers—probably he carries them
about with him—which properly belong to me. I have offered to buy them
of him, but he refuses to let me have them.”

“Of what nature are they?”

“There is a letter, and also a memorandum signed by myself, and given
to his father many years ago. The father died and the boy came into
possession of them. Knowing that I wished them he holds them for a
large—a foolishly large sum.”

“I comprehend. How much did you say you had offered him for them?”

“I did not mention the sum, Mr. Standish.”

“Oh, I thought you did,” returned Standish, rather confused.

“In fact, that has nothing to do with you.”

“I thought it would give me an idea of the value of the papers.”

“It is quite unnecessary that you should know their value.”

“You wish me to get possession of them?”

“Yes.”

“How much will it be worth to me?”

“That’s another matter. That is something you do have a right to ask.
Well, I am ready to pay”—Mr. Wentworth paused to consider—“I am ready
to pay a hundred, yes, two hundred, dollars for them.”

Samuel Standish brightened up. To him in his present circumstances two
hundred dollars was a great deal of money.

“Do you think there will be any chance to get hold of the papers on the
boat?” he asked.

“I don’t know.”

“If not, I shall have to follow him.”

“Yes.”

“And I can’t do it without money.”

“I understand all that. Of course I would rather have you secure them
on the boat, if possible, but it may not be possible.”

“Have you anything to suggest then?”

“The boy and his companion will undoubtedly stop a few days in St.
Louis. You must go to the same hotel, and try to get a room near by. As
to the details I can’t advise you. It is out of my line. I suspect that
it may be in yours. Before you leave the boat, I shall give you some
money so that you may be able to pay your hotel expenses.”

“I ought to know your name, so that I may communicate with you.”

“Yes, that is needful. Of course I rely upon your keeping secret and
confidential all that has passed between us.”

“You can rely upon me. I am the soul of honor!” said Samuel Standish,
placing his hand on his heart.

“If you are,” said Wentworth dryly, “I am afraid you are hardly the man
for my purpose.”

“I mean that I shall be loyal to you. I am a gentleman.”

“I am glad to hear it. One thing more, you had better not be much in my
company. It might excite suspicion. In two minutes I can give you such
directions as you may require, and then we had better avoid each other.”

“I understand.”

As Gerald came out of his stateroom he saw the two walking together.
It struck him as rather singular, but it did not occur to him that it
boded harm to himself.




CHAPTER XXIV.

A FALSE ALARM.


BRADLEY WENTWORTH had some slight hope that the words he had spoken
would prejudice the English tourist against Gerald, but he was destined
to be disappointed. The two promenaded the deck together, and were
evidently on the most cordial terms.

“The boy is artful,” thought Wentworth, “and for that reason he is the
more dangerous. I wish he could happen to fall overboard. It would save
me a great deal of anxiety, as he is the only one who is acquainted
with the secret of my guilt.”

The voyage proceeded. There are many rivers that are more interesting
than the Mississippi. The shores are low and monotonous, and the river
itself in a large part of its course is turbid and narrow. There are
but few towns of much size or importance between Davenport and St.
Louis.

“I say, Gerald,” said Mr. Brooke, “we hear a good deal about American
scenery, but if this is a specimen I can only say that it is a good
deal overrated.”

Gerald laughed.

“I haven’t traveled a great deal myself, Mr. Brooke,” he said, “but I
think you must have seen something worthy of admiration since you have
been in this country. Have you been up the Hudson River?”

“Not yet.”

“Or seen Niagara?”

“Yes; I saw that. We haven’t anything like that at home.”

“I am told the Columbia River has some fine scenery.”

“I wasn’t in earnest, Gerald. It only occurred to me to joke you a
little. You must admit, however, that there is nothing worth seeing
here.”

“We don’t boast so much of our scenery as our men,” said Gerald.
“Samuel Standish, for instance.”

“And Jake Amsden?”

“Yes.”

“I think we can match them both in England. I wish we couldn’t.”

On the third evening, however, there was a genuine sensation.

Some one raised the cry of “Fire!” and for five minutes there was a
grand commotion. Those who were in their staterooms rushed out in
dismay, and there was much rushing to and fro and wild confusion.

Among those who ran out of their staterooms were Gerald and Noel
Brooke, but both of them were calm and collected. The Englishman looked
about him quickly, but could see no signs of fire.

“I believe it is a false alarm, Gerald.”

At this moment one of the officers of the steamer passed by.

“Is there any fire?” asked Gerald.

“No; I should like to get hold of the miscreant who raised the cry.
There is not the slightest indication of fire anywhere.”

Satisfied by this assurance the two friends returned to their
stateroom. As they reached the door which had been left open a man
darted out.

“Hallo, there!” exclaimed Noel Brooke, seizing him. “What brings you in
my stateroom?”

“Why, it’s Standish!” exclaimed Gerald.

“I beg your pardon,” said Samuel Standish apologetically. “I thought it
was my room.”

“That isn’t very probable!” rejoined Brooke sternly.

“I assure you, Mr. Brooke, that it is the truth. I was so alarmed that
I really did not know what I was about. I presumed the steamer was
doomed, and wished to secure my small baggage, for I am a poor man and
couldn’t afford to lose it. Of course when I looked around me I saw
that I was mistaken. I hope you will pardon me. Is the fire out? Excuse
my agitation.”

“There has never been any fire. Some scoundrel raised the alarm. If he
should be found he would probably be thrown overboard by the indignant
passengers.”

“And serves him right, too!” said the virtuous Standish. “You have
no idea what a shock he gave me. I am a victim of heart disease, and
liable to drop at a minute’s notice.”

“I suppose you are ready to go?” said Brooke ironically.

“Well, no, I can’t quite say that. Life is sweet, even if I am a poor
man.”

“Where is your stateroom?”

“On—on the opposite side of the steamer.”

“Then it seems rather strange that you should have mistaken ours for
yours.”

“So it is, so it is! I can’t understand it at all, I give you my word.
The sudden fright quite upset me. Didn’t it upset you?”

“No.”

“How I envy you! But it is no doubt the condition of my heart. Well, it
is fortunate that the alarm was a false one.”

Meanwhile the officers had been instituting an investigation as to the
person who had raised the cry.

A typical Yankee, who looked as if he had recently come from New
England, pointed to Standish and said, “I am positive that man raised
the alarm.”

There was an immediate commotion. Voices from the crowd of passengers
called out: “Throw him into the river! Lynch him!”

Standish turned ghastly pale as he saw the menacing glances of those
around him.

“I assure you, gentlemen,” he protested, “this is a base calumny.”

“Do you mean to tell me I lie?” demanded the Yankee fiercely.

“No, no, I beg your pardon. I only mean to say you are mistaken!”

“I don’t think I am.”

“Throw him into the river! There he will be safe from fire!” called out
one man.

“Yes, yes, throw him into the river!”

Samuel Standish was not a hero. Indeed, he was far from it. He seemed
overcome with fear, and his knees smote with terror as a brawny cowboy
seized him by the shoulder and hurried him towards the side.

“A ducking will do him no harm,” said the cowboy, and he evidently
voiced the sentiment of his fellow passengers.

“Gentlemen, friends!” exclaimed Standish, “I can’t swim a stroke. Would
you murder me?”

The position was critical. His appearance was against him, and had
Gerald or his English friend mentioned the intrusion of Standish into
their stateroom it would have been all up with him. But he found a
friend just when he needed one most. Bradley Wentworth pushed his way
through the crowd, and exclaimed angrily: “Let go that man! I won’t
permit this outrage.”

“He raised the alarm of fire.”

“He did not! I was standing six feet from him when the cry was raised,
and if it had been he I should have known it.”

“But I heard him,” insisted the Yankee.
