What should she see? But she went on. A candle 
burned in the room. Harriet sat on a chair in her 
nightgown, her black hair hanging about her. 

" I told him," she said, in a hollow but even voice. 



 

" I was drunk with religion, and I told him. I didn't.
come to my senses till I looked up I was on the 
floor and saw his face. He has gone away." 

"What did he say?" 

" Nothing. Not a word." 

She drew a long sigh. " I 'm so tired," she said. 
" I reckon I'll go to bed." 



XXIII 

FOR four days they had no word from Jack Emory. 
Harriet slept late on the first day. When she awoke 
she was an intelligent being again, and strove for the 
controlled demeanor which she always had seemed to 
feel was necessary to her self-respect. But more than 
once she let Betty see how nervous and terrified she 
was. 

" I am sure he will come back," she said, with the 
emphasis of unadmitted doubt. " Sure ! He adores 
me. Of course he would not have married me if he 
had known, but that is done and cannot be undone. 
When he realizes that, he will come back, for he loves 
me. We are bound together and he will return in 
time." 

Betty, who scarcely left her, gave her what encouragement she could. Men were contradictory 
beings. Jack had the fanatical pride and prejudices 
of his race, but he was in love. It was possible that 
after a few months of loneliness in his old house he 
would give way to an uncontrollable longing and send 



 

for his wife. She had made inquiries at the railroad 
station, and ascertained that he had taken a ticket 
for New York. Undoubtedly he had gone on to 
Washington. 

She reproached herself bitterly for having slept and 
allowed Harriet to escape; but Harriet, to whom 
she did not hesitate to express herself, shook her 
head. 

" You could not have stayed awake for twenty-four 
hours, and I should have found a chance sooner or 
later. The idea came to me up there while I was 
shouting and nearly crazy with excitement and the 
excitement of all those half-mad negroes in that wild 
forest, the idea came to me that I must tell him, 
and I believed that it came straight from the Lord. 
It seemed to me that He was there and told me that 
was my only hope, to tell him myself before he found 
it out from your mother or Miss Trumbull. The idea 
never left me for a minute ; it possessed me. I was 
so afraid you wouldn't.have waited when I found out 
I was late, that they would tell him before I got 
home. But I wanted to tell him alone. When you 
ordered me not to leave the room, I felt like I wanted 
to do anything you told me, but when I found you 'd 
gone to sleep, I felt like I couldn't.wait another minute. I crawled out of the window and went to him. 
And perhaps I did right. I can't think it wasn't.an 
inspiration to confess and be forgiven before he found 
out for himself." 

Betty was in the living-room with Senator North 
when a letter from Jack Emory was brought to her. 
With it, also bearing the Washington postmark, was 



 

another, directed in an unfamiliar and illiterate hand. 
Betty, cold with apprehension, tore open Emory's 
letter. It read : 

DEAR BETTY, You know, of course, that my wife 
confessed to me the terrible fact that she has negro blood 
in her veins. My one impulse when she told me was 
to get back to my home like a beaten dog to its kennel. 
I did little thinking on the train ; whether I talked to 
people or whether I was too stupefied to think, I cannot 
tell you. But here I have done thinking enough. At 
first I hated, I loathed, I abhorred her. I resolved merely 
never to see her again, to ask you to send her to Europe 
as quickly as possible, to threaten her with exposure and 
arrest if she ever returned. But, Betty, although I have not 
yet forgiven her, although the thought of her awful hidden 
birthmark still fills me with horror and disgust, I know the 
weakness of man. The marriage is void according to the 
laws of Virginia, and I know that if I returned to her she 
would insist upon remarriage in a Northern State and I 
might succumb. And rather than do that, rather than dishonor my blood, rather than do that monstrous wrong, 
not only to my family but to the South that has my 
heart's allegiance as passionate an allegiance as if I 
had fought and bled on her battlefields I am going to 
kill myself. 

Do not for a moment imagine, Betty, that I hold you to 
account. I can guess why you did not warn me in the 
beginning, why you did not tell me when it was too 
late. Would that I had gone on to the end faithful to my 
ideal of you! My lonely years in this old house were 
brightened and made endurable with the mere thought of 
you. But man was not made to live on shadows, and I 
loved again, so deeply that I dare not trust myself to live. 

I send her only one message she must drop my name. 
She has no legal title to it according to the laws of Virginia ; 
the marriage would be declared void were it known that 
she had black blood in her. I would spare her shame and 



 

exposure, but she shall not bear my name, and it is my 
dying request that you use any means to make her drop it. 
Good-bye. JACK EMORY. 

Betty thrust the letter into Senator North's hand. 
" Read it ! " she said. " Read it ! Oh, do you suppose he has " 

Her glance fell on the other letter and she opened 
it with heavy fingers. It read : 

Mis BETTY, Marse Jack done shot himself. He tole 
me not to telegraf. 

Yours truly, JIM. 

Betty stood staring at Senator North as he read 
Jack's letter. When he had finished it, she handed 
him the other. He read it, then took her cold hands 
in his. 

"You must tell her," he said. "It is a terrible 
trial for you, but you must do it." 

" Ah ! " she cried sharply. " I believe you are 
thinking of me only, not of that poor girl." 

"My dear," he said, "that poor creature was 
doomed the moment she entered the world. No 
amount of sympathy, no amount of help that you or 
I could give her would alter her fate one jot. For 
all the women of that accursed cross of black and 
white there is absolutely no hope so long as they 
live in this country, at all events. They almost invariably have intelligence. If they marry negroes, 
they are humiliated. If they pin their faith to the 
white man, they become outcasts among the respectable 
Blacks by their own act, as the act of others has made 
them outcasts among the Whites. Their one compensation is the inordinate conceit which most of them 
possess. Do not think I am heartless. I have thought 
long and deeply on the subject. But no legislation 
can reach them, and the American character will have 
to be born again before there is any change in the 
social law. It is one of those terrible facts of life that 
rise isolated above the so-called problems. If Harriet 
lives through this, she will fall upon other miseries 
incidental to her breed, as sure as there is life about 
us, for she has the seeds of many crops within her. 
So it is true that all my concern is for you. In 
a way I helped to bring this on you; but you did 
what was right, and I have no regrets. And you 
must think of me as always beside you, not only ready 
to help you, but thinking of you constantly." 

She forgot Harriet for the moment. " Oh, I do," 
she said, " I do ! I wonder what strength I would 
have had through this if you had not been behind me." 

" You are capable of a great deal, but no woman 
is sl:rong enough to stand alone long. Send for Harriet 
to come here. I don't wish you to be alone with 
her when she hears this news." 

Betty rang the bell, and sent a servant for Harriet. 
She put Emory's letter in her pocket. 

"I shall not give her that terrible message of his 
until she quite has got over the shock of his death," 
she said. " Let her be his widow for a little while. 
Then she can go to Europe and resume her own 
name. She soon will be forgotten here." 

Harriet came in a few moments. She barely had 
sat down since she had risen after a restless night. 
But she had refused to talk even to Betty. As she 
entered the room and was greeted by one of those 






silences with which the mind tells its worst news, she 
fell back against the door, her hands clutching at her 
gown. Betty handed her the servant's letter. 

She took it with twitching fingers, and read it as 
if it had been a letter of many pages. Then she 
extended her rigid arms until she looked like a cross. 
" Oh, " she articulated. " Oh ! Oh ! " 

But in a moment she laughed. " I don't feel surprised, somehow," she said sullenly. " I suppose 
I knew all along he 'd do it. Every day that I live 
I'll curse your unjust and murderous race while other 
people are saying their prayers. May the black race 
overrun the world and taint every vein of blood upon 
it. For me, I accept my destiny. I 'm a pariah, an 
outcast. I'll live to do evil, to square accounts with 
the race that has made me what I am. I'll go back 
to that camp, and leave it with whatever negro will 
have me, and when I 'm so degraded I don't care 
for anything, I'll go out and ruin every white man 
I can. I'll keep the money you gave me, so that I'll 
be able to do more harm " 

"You can go," said Betty, "but not yet. You 
shall go with me first and bury your husband. If you 
attempt to escape until I give you permission, I shall 
have you locked up. I shall take two menservants 
with us. Now come upstairs with me and pack your 
portmanteau." 

She slipped her hand into Senator North's. " Good- 
bye," she said hurriedly. " I shall return Friday night. 
Please come over Saturday morning." 

Harriet preceded Betty upstairs, and obeyed her 
orders sullenly. Betty locked her in her room, and 
went to break the news to her mother. Mrs. Madison 



 

received it without excitement, remarking among her 
tears that it was one of the denouements she had imagined, and that on the whole it was the best thing he 
could have done. She consented to go with her maid 
to the hotel till Friday, and the party left for Washington that evening. 



XXIV 

THEY returned late on Friday night. As Betty had 
anticipated, Harriet's exhausted body had not harbored 
a violent spirit for long. When they arrived in New 
York, she bought herself a crape veil reaching to her 
toes, and when she entered the dilapidated old house 
where her husband lay dead, she began to weep heavily. 
Her tears scarcely ceased to flow until she had started 
on her way to the mountains again, and, hot as it was, 
she never raised her veil during the nine hours' train 
journey from New York to the lake, except to eat the 
food that Betty forced upon her. 

Mrs. Madison had returned, and Betty, after telling 
her those details of the funeral which elderly people 
always wish to know, went to her room, for she was 
tired and longed for sleep. But Harriet entered almost 
immediately and sat down. She barely had spoken since 
Monday ; but it was evident that she was ready to talk 
at last, and Betty stifled a yawn and sat upon the edge 
of her bed. Harriet was a delicate subject and must 
be treated with vigilant consideration, except at those 
times where an almost brutal firmness was necessary. 
She looked sad and haggard, but very beautiful, and 



 

Betty reflected that with her voice she might begin life 
over again, and in a public career forget her brief 
attempt at happiness. If she failed, it would be be- 
cause there was so little grip in her ; Nature had been 
lavish only with the more brilliant endowments. 

" Betty," she began, " I want to tell you that I 'm 
sorry I said those dreadful words when I learned he 
was dead. But suspense and the doubt that had begun 
to work had nearly driven me crazy. I don't mind 
saying, though, that I wish I had kept on meaning 
them, that I could do what I said I 'd do, for I meant 
them then I reckon I did ! But I haven't.any back- 
bone, my will is a poor miserable weak thing that takes 
a spurt and then fizzles out. And I 'd rather be good 
than bad. I reckon that has something to do with it. 
I 'd have gone to the bad, I suppose, if you hadn't.
taken hold of me ; I 'd have just drifted that way, 
although I liked teaching Sunday-school, and I liked 
to feel I was good and respectable and could look 
down on people that were no better than they should 
be. And now that I 've been living with such respectable and high-toned people as you all are, I don't 
think I could stand niggers and poor white trash 
again " 

" I am sure you will be good," interrupted Betty, 
encouragingly. " And you owe him respect. Don't 
forget that, and make allowances for him." 

" Ah, yes ! " Her face convulsed, but she calmed 
herself and went on. "You will never know how I 
loved him. I was proud enough of the name, but I 
worshipped him ; and he killed himself to get rid of 
me ! Oh, yes, I'll make allowances, for I killed him 
as surely as if I had pulled that trigger " 



 

" Put the heavier blame on those that went before 
you," said Betty, with intent to soothe. "You did 
wrong in deceiving him, but helpless women should be 
forgiven much that they do, in their desperate battle 
with Circumstance. Think of it as a warning, but not 
as a crime. " Don't let anything make you morbid. 
Life is full of pleasure. Go and look for it, and put 
the past behind you." 

Harriet shook her head. " I am not you," she said. 
" I am /. And I feel as if there was a heavy hand on 
my neck pressing me down. If I should live to be a 
toothless old woman, I should never feel that I had 
any right to be happy again. Heaven knows what I 
might be tempted to do, but I should laugh at myself 
for a fool, all the same." 

The color rushed over her face, but she continued 
steadily : " There 's something else I must tell you 
before I can sleep to-night. I've read his letter to 
you. I knew he 'd written it, and down there while 
you were asleep I took it out of your pocket and read 
it. It was I who suggested going over to Virginia, for 
I was afraid some newspaper would get hold of it if we 
were married in Washington, where he was so well 
known. I didn't.know there was such a law in Virginia. So, you see, the Lord was on his side a little. 
I don't bear his name. I 'm as much of an outcast as 
the vengeance of a wronged man could wish " 

" I am sure he thought of you kindly at the last, 
and I never shall think of you in that that other 
way. You must go to Europe and begin life over 
again." 

Harriet rose and kissed Betty affectionately. " Good- 
night," she said. "You are just worn out, and I have 



 

kept you up. But I felt I wanted to tell you and 
that no matter how ungrateful I sometimes appear I 
always love you ; and I 'd rather be you than any one 
in the world, because you 're so unlike myself." 

Betty went with her to the door. " Go to sleep," 
she said. " Don't lie awake and think." 

"Oh, I'll sleep," she said. "Don't worry about 
that." 



XXV 

BETTY slept late on the following morning, but arose as 
soon as she awoke and dressed herself hurriedly. 
Senator North was an early visitor. Doubtless he was 
waiting for her on the verandah. 

She ran downstairs, feeling that she could hum a 
tune. The morning was radiant, and for the last five 
days it had seemed to her that the atmosphere was as 
black as Harriet's veil. She wanted the fresh air and 
the sunshine, the lake and the forest again . She wanted 
to talk for long hours with the one man who she was 
sure could never do a weak or cowardly act. She 
wanted to feel that her heavy responsibilities were 
pushed out of sight, and that she could live her own 
life for a little. 

She almost had reached the front door when a 
man sprang up the steps and through it, closing it 
behind him. It was John, the butler, and his face 
was white. 

" What is it ? " she managed to ask him. " What on 
earth has happened now?" 



 

"It's Miss Walker, Miss. They found her three 
hours ago on the lake. The coroner 's been here. 
They 're bringing her in. I told them to take her in 
the side door. I hoped we'd get her to her room 
before you come down. I'll attend to everything, 
Miss." 

Betty heard the slow tramp of feet on the side ve- 
randah. It was the most horrid sound she ever had 
heard, and she wondered if she should cease to hear it 
as long as she lived. She went into the living-room 
and covered her face with her hands. She had not 
cried for Jack Emory, but she cried passionately now. 
She felt utterly miserable, and crushed with a sense of 
failure ; as if all the wretchedness and tragedy of the past 
fortnight were her own making. Two lives had almost 
been given into her keeping, and in spite of her daring 
and will the unseen forces had conquered. And then 
she wondered if the water had been very cold, and 
shivered and drew herself together. And it must have 
been horribly dark. Harriet was afraid of the dark, 
and always had burned a taper at night. 

She heard Senator North come up the front steps 
and knock. As no one responded, he opened the door 
and came into the living-room. 

" I have just heard that she has drowned herself," 
he said ; and if there was a note of relief in his voice, 
Betty did not hear it. She ran to him and threw herself into his arms and clung to him. 

"You said you would," she sobbed. "And I never 
shall be in greater grief than this. I feel as if it were 
all my fault, as if I were a terrible failure, as if I had 
let two lives slip through my hands. Oh, poor poor 
Harriet ! Why are some women ever bom ? What 



 

terrible purpose was she made to live twenty-four 
wretched years for? You wanted me to become 
serious. I feel as if I never could smile again." 

He held her closely, and in that strong warm embrace she was comforted long before she would admit ; 
but he soothed her as if she were a child, and he did 
not kiss her. 






BETTY MADISON arrived in Washington two days before 
Christmas, with the sensation of having lived through 
several life-times since Lady Mary's car had left the 
Pennsylvania station on the fourteenth of March ; she 
half expected to see several new public buildings, and 
she found herself wondering if her old friends were 
much changed. 

People capable of the deepest and most enduring 
impressions often receive these impressions upon apparently shallow waters. They feel the blow, but it 
skims the surface at the moment, to choose its place 
and sink slowly, surely, into the thinking brain. 

Betty's immediate attitude toward the tragic fact of 
Harriet's death was almost spectacular. She felt herself the central figure in a thrilling and awful drama, 
its horror stifling for a moment the hope that the man 
whose footsteps followed closely upon that tramping of 
heavy feet would fulfil his promise and take her in his 
arms. And when he did her sense of personal responsibility left her, as well as her clearer comprehension of what had happened t bring about this 
climax so long and so ardently desired. 

But she had not seen Senator North since the day 
following the funeral. Mrs. Madison had announced 
with emphasis that she had had as much as she could 
stand and would not remain another day in the Adirondacks ; she wanted Narragansett and the light and 



 
