to produce, and Obert, quite agreeing that we had lost a treat, said
frankly, in reference to Long, but addressing himself more especially to
Mrs. Server: "He's perfectly amazing, you know--he's perfectly amazing!"

I observed that as a consequence of this Long looked neither at Mrs.
Server nor at Obert; he looked only at me, and with quite a penetrable
shade of shyness. Then again a strange thing happened, a stranger thing
even than my quick sense, the previous afternoon at the station, that he
was a changed man. It was as if he were still more changed--had altered
as much since the evening before as during the so much longer interval
of which I had originally to take account. He had altered almost like
Grace Brissenden--he looked fairly distinguished. I said to myself that,
without his stature and certain signs in his dress, I should probably
not have placed him. Engrossed an instant with this view and with not
losing touch of the uneasiness that I conceived I had fastened on him, I
became aware only after she had spoken that Mrs. Server had gaily and
gracefully asked of Obert why in the world so clever a man should not
have been clever. "Obert," I accordingly took upon myself to remark,
"had evidently laboured under some extraordinary delusion. He must
literally have doubted if Long was clever."

"Fancy!" Mrs. Server explained with a charming smile at Long, who, still
looking pleasantly competent and not too fatuous, amiably returned it.

"They're natural, they're natural," I privately reflected; "that is,
he's natural to her, but he's not so to me." And as if seeing depths
in this, and to try it, I appealed to him. "Do, my dear man, let us have
it again. It's the picture, of all pictures, that most needs an
interpreter. Don't we want," I asked of Mrs. Server, "to know what it
means?" The figure represented is a young man in black--a quaint, tight
black dress, fashioned in years long past; with a pale, lean, livid face
and a stare, from eyes without eyebrows, like that of some whitened
old-world clown. In his hand he holds an object that strikes the
spectator at first simply as some obscure, some ambiguous work of art,
but that on a second view becomes a representation of a human face,
modelled and coloured, in wax, in enamelled metal, in some substance not
human. The object thus appears a complete mask, such as might have been
fantastically fitted and worn.

"Yes, what in the world does it mean?" Mrs. Server replied. "One could
call it--though that doesn't get one much further--the Mask of Death."

"Why so?" I demanded while we all again looked at the picture. "Isn't it
much rather the Mask of Life? It's the man's own face that's Death. The
other one, blooming and beautiful----"

"Ah, but with an awful grimace!" Mrs. Server broke in.

"The other one, blooming and beautiful," I repeated, "is Life, and he's
going to put it on; unless indeed he has just taken it off."

"He's dreadful, he's awful--that's what I mean," said Mrs. Server. "But
what does Mr. Long think?"

"The artificial face, on the other hand," I went on, as Long now said
nothing, "is extremely studied and, when you carefully look at it,
charmingly pretty. I don't see the grimace."

"I don't see anything else!" Mrs. Server good-humouredly insisted. "And
what does Mr. Obert think?"

He kept his eyes on her a moment before replying. "He thinks it looks
like a lovely lady."

"That grinning mask? What lovely lady?"

"It does," I declared to him, really seeing what he meant--"it does look
remarkably like Mrs. Server."

She laughed, but forgivingly. "I'm immensely obliged. You deserve," she
continued to me, "that I should say the gentleman's own face is the
image of a certain other gentleman's."

"It isn't the image of yours," Obert said to me, fitting the cap, "but
it's a funny thing that it should really recall to one some face among
us here, on this occasion--I mean some face in our party--that I can't
think of." We had our eyes again on the ominous figure. "We've seen him
yesterday--we've seen him already this morning." Obert, oddly enough,
still couldn't catch it. "Who the deuce is it?"

"I know," I returned after a moment--our friend's reference having
again, in a flash, become illuminating. "But nothing would induce me to
tell."

"If I were the flattered individual," Long observed, speaking for the
first time, "I've an idea that you'd give me the benefit of the
compliment. Therefore it's probably not me."

"Oh, it's not you in the least," Mrs. Server blandly took upon herself
to observe. "This face is so bad----"

"And mine is so good?" our companion laughed. "Thank you for saving me!"

I watched them look at each other, for there had been as yet between
them no complete exchange. Yes, they were natural. I couldn't have made
it out that they were not. But there was something, all the same, that
I wanted to know, and I put it immediately to Long. "Why do you bring
against me such an accusation?"

He met the question--singularly enough--as if his readiness had suddenly
deserted him. "I don't know!"--and he turned off to another picture.

It left the three of us all the more confronted with the conundrum
launched by Obert, and Mrs. Server's curiosity remained. "Do name,"
she said to me, "the flattered individual."

"No, it's a responsibility I leave to Obert."

But he was clearly still at fault; he was like a man desiring, but
unable, to sneeze. "I see the fellow--yet I don't. Never mind." He
turned away too. "He'll come to me."

"The resemblance," said Long, on this, at a distance from us and not
turning, "the resemblance, which I shouldn't think would puzzle anyone,
is simply to 'poor Briss'!"

"Oh, of course!"--and Obert gave a jump round.

"Ah--I do see it," Mrs. Server conceded with her head on one side, but
as if speaking rather for harmony.

I didn't believe she saw it, but that only made her the more natural;
which was also the air she had on going to join Long, in his new
contemplation, after I had admitted that it was of Brissenden I myself
had thought. Obert and I remained together in the presence of the Man
with the Mask, and, the others being out of earshot, he reminded me that
I had promised him the night before in the smoking-room to give him
to-day the knowledge I had then withheld. If I had announced that I was
on the track of a discovery, pray had I made it yet, and what was it, at
any rate, that I proposed to discover? I felt now, in truth, more
uncomfortable than I had expected in being kept to my obligation, and I
beat about the bush a little till, instead of meeting it, I was able to
put the natural question: "What wonderful things was Long just saying to
you?"

"Oh, characteristic ones enough--whimsical, fanciful, funny. The things
he says, you know."

It was indeed a fresh view. "They strike you as characteristic?"

"Of the man himself and his type of mind? Surely. Don't you? He talks
to talk, but he's really amusing."

I was watching our companions. "Indeed he is--extraordinarily amusing."
It was highly interesting to me to hear at last of Long's "type of
mind." "See how amusing he is at the present moment to Mrs. Server."

Obert took this in; she was convulsed, in the extravagance always so
pretty as to be pardonable, with laughter, and she even looked over at
us as if to intimate with her shining, lingering eyes that we wouldn't
be surprised at her transports if we suspected what her entertainer,
whom she had never known for such a humourist, was saying. Instead of
going to find out, all the same, we remained another minute together. It
was for me, now, I could see, that Obert had his best attention. "What's
the matter with them?"

It startled me almost as much as if he had asked me what was the matter
with myself--for that something was, under this head, I was by this
time unable to ignore. Not twenty minutes had elapsed since our meeting
with Mrs. Server on the terrace had determined Grace Brissenden's
elation, but it was a fact that my nervousness had taken an
extraordinary stride. I had perhaps not till this instant been fully
aware of it--it was really brought out by the way Obert looked at me as
if he fancied he had heard me shake. Mrs. Server might be natural, and
Gilbert Long might be, but I should not preserve that calm unless I
pulled myself well together. I made the effort, facing my sharp
interlocutor; and I think it was at this point that I fully measured my
dismay. I had grown--that was what was the matter with me--precipitately,
preposterously anxious. Instead of dropping, the discomfort produced in
me by Mrs. Brissenden had deepened to agitation, and this in spite of
the fact that in the brief interval nothing worse, nothing but what was
right, had happened. Had I myself suddenly fallen so much in love with
Mrs. Server that the care for her reputation had become with me an
obsession? It was of no use saying I simply pitied her: what did I pity
her for if she wasn't in danger? She was in danger: that rushed over
me at present--rushed over me while I tried to look easy and delayed to
answer my friend. She was in danger--if only because she had caught
and held the search-light of Obert's attention. I took up his inquiry.
"The matter with them? I don't know anything but that they're young and
handsome and happy--children, as who should say, of the world; children
of leisure and pleasure and privilege."

Obert's eyes went back to them. "Do you remember what I said to you
about her yesterday afternoon? She darts from flower to flower, but she
clings, for the time, to each. You've been feeling, I judge, the force
of my remark."

"Oh, she didn't at all 'dart,'" I replied, "just now at me. I darted,
much rather, at her."

"Long didn't, then," Obert said, still with his eyes on them.

I had to wait a moment. "Do you mean he struck you as avoiding her?"

He in turn considered. "He struck me as having noticed with what
intensity, ever since we came down, she has kept alighting. She
inaugurated it, the instant she arrived, with me, and every man of us
has had his turn. I dare say it's only fair, certainly, that Long should
have."

"He's lucky to get it, the brute! She's as charming as she can possibly
be."

"That's it, precisely; and it's what no woman ought to be--as charming
as she possibly can!--more than once or twice in her life. This lady is
so every blessed minute, and to every blessed male. It's as if she were
too awfully afraid one wouldn't take it in. If she but knew how one
does! However," my friend continued, "you'll recollect that we differed
about her yesterday--and what does it signify? One should of course bear
lightly on anything so light. But I stick to it that she's different."

I pondered. "Different from whom?"

"Different from herself--as she was when I painted her. There's
something the matter with her."

"Ah, then, it's for me to ask you what. I don't myself, you see,
perceive it."

He made for a little no answer, and we were both indeed by this time
taken up with the withdrawal of the two other members of our group. They
moved away together across the shining floor, pausing, looking up at the
painted vault, saying the inevitable things--bringing off their retreat,
in short, in the best order. It struck me somehow as a retreat, and yet
I insisted to myself, once more, on its being perfectly natural. At the
high door, which stood open, they stopped a moment and looked back at
us--looked frankly, sociably, as if in consciousness of our sympathetic
attention. Mrs. Server waved, as in temporary farewell, a free
explanatory hand at me; she seemed to explain that she was now trying
somebody else. Obert moreover added his explanation. "That's the way
she collars us."

"Oh, Long doesn't mind," I said. "But what's the way she strikes you as
different?"

"From what she was when she sat to me? Well, a part of it is that she
can't keep still. She was as still then as if she had been paid for it.
Now she's all over the place." But he came back to something else. "I
like your talking, my dear man, of what you 'don't perceive.' I've yet
to find out what that remarkable quantity is. What you do perceive has
at all events given me so much to think about that it doubtless ought to
serve me for the present. I feel I ought to let you know that you've
made me also perceive the Brissendens." I of course remembered what I
had said to him, but it was just this that now touched my uneasiness,
and I only echoed the name, a little blankly, with the instinct of
gaining time. "You put me on them wonderfully," Obert continued, "though
of course I've kept your idea to myself. All the same it sheds a great
light."

I could again but feebly repeat it. "A great light?"

"As to what may go on even between others still. It's a jolly idea--a
torch in the darkness; and do you know what I've done with it? I've held
it up, I don't mind telling you, to just the question of the change,
since this interests you, in Mrs. Server. If you've got your mystery
I'll be hanged if I won't have mine. If you've got your Brissendens I
shall see what I can do with her. You've given me an analogy, and I
declare I find it dazzling. I don't see the end of what may be done with
it. If Brissenden's paying for his wife, for her amazing second bloom,
who's paying for Mrs. Server? Isn't that--what do the newspapers call
it?--the missing word? Isn't it perhaps in fact just what you told me
last night you were on the track of? But don't add now," he went on,
more and more amused with his divination, "don't add now that the man's
obviously Gilbert Long--for I won't be put off with anything of the
sort. She collared him much too markedly. The real man must be one she
doesn't markedly collar."

"But I thought that what you a moment ago made out was that she so
markedly collars all of us." This was my immediate reply to Obert's
blaze of ingenuity, but I none the less saw more things in it than I
could reply to. I saw, at any rate, and saw with relief, that if he
should look on the principle suggested to him by the case of the
Brissendens, there would be no danger at all of his finding it. If,
accordingly, I was nervous for Mrs. Server, all I had to do was to keep
him on this false scent. Since it was not she who was paid for, but she
who possibly paid, his fancy might harmlessly divert him till the party
should disperse. At the same time, in the midst of these reflections,
the question of the "change" in her, which he was in so much better a
position than I to measure, couldn't help having for me its portent, and
the sense of that was, no doubt, in my next words. "What makes you think
that what you speak of was what I had in my head?"

"Well, the way, simply, that the shoe fits. She's absolutely not the
same person I painted. It's exactly like Mrs. Brissenden's having been
for you yesterday not the same person you had last seen bearing her
name."

"Very good," I returned, "though I didn't in the least mean to set you
digging so hard. However, dig on your side, by all means, while I dig on
mine. All I ask of you is complete discretion."

"Ah, naturally!"

"We ought to remember," I pursued, even at the risk of showing as too
sententious, "that success in such an inquiry may perhaps be more
embarrassing than failure. To nose about for a relation that a lady has
her reasons for keeping secret----"

"Is made not only quite inoffensive, I hold"--he immediately took me
up--"but positively honourable, by being confined to psychologic
evidence."

I wondered a little. "Honourable to whom?"

"Why, to the investigator. Resting on the kind of signs that the game
takes account of when fairly played--resting on psychologic signs alone,
it's a high application of intelligence. What's ignoble is the detective
and the keyhole."

"I see," I after a moment admitted. "I did have, last night, my
scruples, but you warm me up. Yet I confess also," I still added, "that
if I do muster the courage of my curiosity, it's a little because I feel
even yet, as I think you also must, altogether destitute of a material
clue. If I had a material clue I should feel ashamed: the fact would be
deterrent. I start, for my part, at any rate, quite in the dark--or in a
darkness lighted, at best, by what you have called the torch of my
analogy. The analogy too," I wound up, "may very well be only half a
help. It was easy to find poor Briss, because poor Briss is here, and
it's always easy, moreover, to find a husband. But say Mrs. Server's
poor Briss--or his equivalent, whoever it may be--isn't here."

We had begun to walk away with this, but my companion pulled up at the
door of the room. "I'm sure he is. She tells me he's near."

"'Tells' you?" I challenged it, but I uncomfortably reflected that it
was just what I had myself told Mrs. Brissenden.

"She wouldn't be as she is if he weren't. Her being as she is is the
sign of it. He wasn't present--that is he wasn't present in her life at
all--when I painted her; and the difference we're impressed with is
exactly the proof that he is now."

My difficulty in profiting by the relief he had so unconsciously
afforded me resided of course in my not feeling free to show for quite
as impressed as he was. I hadn't really made out at all what he was
impressed with, and I should only have spoiled everything by inviting
him to be definite. This was a little of a worry, for I should have
liked to know; but on the other hand I felt my track at present
effectually covered. "Well, then, grant he's one of us. There are more
than a dozen of us--a dozen even with you and me and Brissenden counted
out. The hitch is that we're nowhere without a primary lead. As to
Brissenden there was the lead."

"You mean as afforded by his wife's bloated state, which was a
signal----?"

"Precisely: for the search for something or other that would help to
explain it. Given his wife's bloated state, his own shrunken one was
what was to have been predicated. I knew definitely, in other words,
what to look for."

"Whereas we don't know here?"

"Mrs. Server's state, unfortunately," I replied, "is not bloated."

He laughed at my "unfortunately," though recognising that I spoke merely
from the point of view of lucidity, and presently remarked that he had
his own idea. He didn't say what it was, and I didn't ask, intimating
thereby that I held it to be in this manner we were playing the game;
but I indulgently questioned it in the light of its not yet having
assisted him. He answered that the minutes we had just passed were what
had made the difference; it had sprung from the strong effect produced
on him after she came in with me. "It's but now I really see her. She
did and said nothing special, nothing striking or extraordinary; but
that didn't matter--it never does: one saw how she is. She's nothing
but that."

"Nothing but what?"

"She's all in it," he insisted. "Or it's all in her. It comes to the
same thing."

"Of course it's all in her," I said as impatiently as I could, though
his attestation--for I wholly trusted his perception--left me so much in
his debt. "That's what we start with, isn't it? It leaves us as far as
ever from what we must arrive at."

But he was too interested in his idea to heed my question. He was
wrapped in the "psychologic" glow. "I have her!"

"Ah, but it's a question of having him!"

He looked at me on this as if I had brought him back to a mere detail,
and after an instant the light went out of his face. "So it is. I leave
it to you. I don't care." His drop had the usual suddenness of the drops
of the artistic temperament. "Look for the last man," he nevertheless,
but with more detachment, added. "I daresay it would be he."

"The last? In what sense the last?"

"Well, the last sort of creature who could be believed of her."

"Oh," I rejoined as we went on, "the great bar to that is that such a
sort of creature as the last won't be here!"

He hesitated. "So much the better. I give him, at any rate, wherever he
is, up to you."

"Thank you," I returned, "for the beauty of the present! You do see,
then, that our psychologic glow doesn't, after all, prevent the
thing----"

"From being none of one's business? Yes. Poor little woman!" He seemed
somehow satisfied; he threw it all up. "It isn't any of one's business,
is it?"

"Why, that's what I was telling you," I impatiently exclaimed, "that I
feel!"




V


The first thing that happened to me after parting with him was to find
myself again engaged with Mrs. Brissenden, still full of the quick
conviction with which I had left her. "It is she--quite unmistakably,
you know. I don't see how I can have been so stupid as not to make it
out. I haven't your cleverness, of course, till my nose is rubbed into a
thing. But when it is--!" She celebrated her humility in a laugh that
was proud. "The two are off together."

"Off where?"

"I don't know where, but I saw them a few minutes ago most distinctly
'slope.' They've gone for a quiet, unwatched hour, poor dears, out into
the park or the gardens. When one knows it, it's all there. But what's
that vulgar song?--'You've got to know it first!' It strikes me, if you
don't mind my telling you so, that the way you get hold of things is
positively uncanny. I mean as regards what first marked her for you."

"But, my dear lady," I protested, "nothing at all first marked her for
me. She isn't marked for me, first or last. It was only you who so
jumped at her."

My interlocutress stared, and I had at this moment, I remember, an
almost intolerable sense of her fatuity and cruelty. They were all
unconscious, but they were, at that stage, none the less irritating. Her
fine bosom heaved, her blue eyes expanded with her successful, her
simplified egotism. I couldn't, in short, I found, bear her being so
keen about Mrs. Server while she was so stupid about poor Briss. She
seemed to recall to me nobly the fact that she hadn't a lover. No, she
was only eating poor Briss up inch by inch, but she hadn't a lover. "I
don't," I insisted, "see in Mrs. Server any of the right signs."

She looked almost indignant. "Even after your telling me that you see in
Lady John only the wrong ones?"

"Ah, but there are other women here than Mrs. Server and Lady John."

"Certainly. But didn't we, a moment ago, think of them all and dismiss
them? If Lady John's out of the question, how can Mrs. Server possibly
not be in it? We want a fool----"

"Ah, do we?" I interruptingly wailed.

"Why, exactly by your own theory, in which you've so much interested me!
It was you who struck off the idea."

"That we want a fool?" I felt myself turning gloomy enough. "Do we
really want anyone at all?"

She gave me, in momentary silence, a strange smile. "Ah, you want to
take it back now? You're sorry you spoke. My dear man, you may be----"
but that didn't hinder the fact, in short, that I had kindled near me a
fine, if modest and timid, intelligence. There did remain the truth of
our friend's striking development, to which I had called her attention.
Regretting my rashness didn't make the prodigy less. "You'll lead me to
believe, if you back out, that there's suddenly someone you want to
protect. Weak man," she exclaimed with an assurance from which, I
confess, I was to take alarm, "something has happened to you since we
separated! Weak man," she repeated with dreadful gaiety, "you've been
squared!"

I literally blushed for her. "Squared?"

"Does it inconveniently happen that you find you're in love with her
yourself?"

"Well," I replied on quick reflection, "do, if you like, call it that;
for you see what a motive it gives me for being, in such a matter as
this wonderful one that you and I happened to find ourselves for a
moment making so free with, absolutely sure about her. I am absolutely
sure. There! She won't do. And for your postulate that she's at the
present moment in some sequestered spot in Long's company, suffer me
without delay to correct it. It won't hold water. If you'll go into the
library, through which I have just passed, you'll find her there in the
company of the Comte de Dreuil."

Mrs. Briss stared again. "Already? She was, at any rate, with Mr.
Long, and she told me on my meeting them that they had just come from
the pastels."

"Exactly. They met there--she and I having gone together; and they
retired together under my eyes. They must have parted, clearly, the
moment after."

She took it all in, turned it all over. "Then what does that prove but
that they're afraid to be seen?"
