Zorzi saved it from your son, and then, in his rage, I suppose that
Giovanni accused him of stealing it. He may even have believed it, for I
can be just, too. But it is not true. The book is safe."

"Zorzi took it with him," said Beroviero.

"You are mistaken. Before he was arrested, he said that I ought to know
where it was, in case anything happened to him, in order to tell you."

Beroviero rose slowly, staring at her, and speaking with an effort.

"You know where it is? He told you? He has not taken it away?"

Marietta smiled, in perfect certainty of victory.

"I know where it is," she said.

"Where is it?" he asked in extreme anxiety, for he could hardly believe
what he heard.

"I will not tell you yet," was the unexpected answer Marietta gave him.
"And you cannot possibly find it unless I do."

The veins stood out on the old man's temples in an instant, and the old
angry fire came back to his eyes.

"Do you dare to tell me that you will not show me the place where the
book is, on the very instant?" he cried.

"Oh yes," answered Marietta. "I dare that, and much more. I am not a
coward like my brother, you know. I will not tell you the secret till
you promise me something."

"You are trying to sell me what is my own!" he answered angrily. "You
are in league with Zorzi against me, to break off your marriage. But I
will not do it--you shall tell me where the book is--if you refuse, you
shall repent it as long as you live--I will--"

He stopped short in his speech as he met her disdainful look.

"You never threatened me before," she said. "Why do you think that you
can frighten me?"

"Give me what is mine," said the old man angrily. "That is all I demand.
I am not threatening."

"Set me free from Messer Jacopo, and you shall have it," answered
Marietta.

"No. You shall marry him."

"I will not. But I will keep your book until you change your mind, or
else--but no! If I gave it to Zorzi, he is so honourable that he would
bring it back to you without so much as looking into it. I will keep it
for myself. Or I will burn it!"

She felt that if she had been a man, she could not have taken such an
unfair advantage of him; but she was a defenceless girl, fighting for
the liberty of her whole life. That might excuse much, she thought. By
this time Beroviero was very angry; he stalked up and down beside the
furnace, trailing his thin silk gown behind him, stroking his beard with
a quick, impatient movement, and easting fierce glances at Marietta from
time to time.

He was not used to being at the mercy of circumstances, still less to
having his mind made up for him by his son and his daughter. Giovanni
had made him believe that Zorzi had turned traitor and thief, after five
years of faithful service, and the conviction had cut him to the quick;
and now Marietta had demonstrated Zorzi's innocence almost beyond doubt,
but had made matters worse in other ways, and was taking the high hand
with him. He did not realise that from the moment when she had boldly
confessed what she had done and had declared her love for Zorzi, his
confidence in her had returned by quick degrees, and that the atrocious
crime of having come secretly at night to the laboratory had become in
his eyes, and perhaps against his will, a mere pardonable piece of
rashness; since if Zorzi was innocent, anything which could save him
from unjust imprisonment might well be forgiven. He had borne what
seemed to him very great misfortunes with fortitude and dignity; but his
greatest treasures were safe, his daughter and Paolo Godi's manuscript,
and he became furiously angry with Marietta, because she had him in her
power.

If a man is seated, a woman who intends to get the better of him
generally stands; but if he loses his temper and begins to walk about,
she immediately seats herself and assumes an exasperating calmness of
manner. Accordingly Marietta sat down on a small chair near the table
and watched her father in silence, persuaded that he would be obliged to
yield in the end.

"No one has ever dared to browbeat me in this way, in my whole life!"
cried the old man fiercely, and his voice shook with rage.

"Will you listen to me?" asked Marietta with sudden meekness.

"Listen to you?" he repeated instantly. "Have I not been listening to
you for hours?"

"I do not know how long it may have been," answered the girl, "but I
have much more to say. You are so angry that you will not hear me."

"Angry? I? Are you telling me that I am so beside myself with rage, that
I cannot understand reason?"

"I did not say that."

"You meant it, then! What did you say? You have forgotten what you said
already! Just like a girl! And you pretend to argue with me, with your
own father! It is beyond belief! Silence, I say! Do not answer me!"

Marietta sat quite still, and began to look at her nails, which were
very pink and well shaped. After a short silence Beroviero stopped
before her.

"Well!" he cried. "Why do you not speak?" His eyes blazed and he tapped
the pavement with his foot. She raised her eyebrows, smiled a little
wearily and sighed.

"I misunderstood you," she said, with exasperating patience. "I thought
you told me to be silent."

"You always misunderstand me," he answered angrily and walking off
again. "You always did, and you always will! I believe you do it on
purpose. But I will make you understand! You shall know what I mean!"

"I should be so glad," said Marietta. "Pray tell me what you mean."

This was too much. He turned sharply in his walk.

"I mean you to marry Contarini," he cried out, with a stamp of the foot.

"And you mean never to see Paolo Godi's manuscript again," suggested
Marietta quietly.

"Perdition take the accursed thing!" roared the old man. "If I only knew
where you have put it--"

"It is where you can never, never find it," Marietta answered. "So it is
of no use to be angry with me, is it? The more angry you are, the less
likely it is that I shall tell you. But I will tell you something else,
father--something you never understood before. My marriage was to have
been a bargain, a great name for a fortune, half your fortune for a
great name and an alliance with the Contarini. Perhaps one was worth the
other. I know very little of such things. But it chances that I can have
a word to say about the bargain, too. Would any one say that I was doing
very wrong if I gave that book to my brother, for instance? Giovanni
would not give it back to you, as Zorzi would, I am quite sure."

"What abominable scheme is this?" Beroviero fairly trembled in his fury.

"I offer you a simple bargain," Marietta answered, unmoved. "I will give
you your manuscript for my freedom. Will you take it, father? Or will
you insist upon trying to marry me by force, and let me give the book to
Giovanni? Yes, that is what I will do. Then I will marry Zorzi, and go
away."

"Silence, child! You! Marry a stranger, a Dalmatian--a servant!"

"But I love him. You may call him a servant, if you choose. It would
make no difference to me if it were true. He would not be less brave,
less loyal or less worthy if he were forced to clean your shoes in order
to live, instead of sharing your art with you. Did he ever lie to you?"

"No!" cried the old man. "I would have broken his bones!"

"Did he ever betray a secret, since you know that the book is safe?"

"No."

"Have you trusted him far more than your own sons, for many years?"

"Yes--of course--"

"Then call him your servant if you like, and call your sons what you
please," concluded Marietta, "but do not tell me that such a man is not
good enough to be the husband of a glass-blower's daughter, who does not
want a great name, nor a palace, nor a husband who sits in the Grand
Council. Do not say that, father, for it would not be true--and you
never told a lie in your life."

"I tell you that marriage has nothing to do with all this!" He began
walking again, to keep his temper hot, for he was dimly conscious that
he was getting the worst of the encounter, and that her arguments were
good.

"And I tell you that a marriage that has nothing to do with love, and
with honour, and with trust, is no marriage at all!" answered the girl.
"Say what you please of customs, and traditions, and of station, and all
that! God never meant that an innocent girl should be bought and sold
like a slave, or a horse, for a name, nor for money, nor for any
imaginary advantage to herself or to her father! I know what our
privilege is, that the patricians may marry us and not lose their rank.
I would rather keep my own, and marry a glass-worker, even if I were to
be sold! Do you know what your money would buy for me in Venice? The
privilege of being despised and slighted by patricians and great ladies.
You know as well as I that it would all end there, in spite of all you
may give. They want your money, you want their name, because you are
rich and you have always been taught to think that the chief use of
money is to rise in the world."

"Will you teach me what I am to think?" asked old Beroviero, amazed by
her sudden flow of words.

"Yes," she answered, before he could say more. "I will teach you what
you should think, what you should have always thought--a man as brave
and upright and honest in everything as you are! You should think, you
should know, that your daughter has a right to live, a right to be free,
and a right to love, like every living creature God ever made!"

"This is the most abominable rebellion!" retorted Beroviero. "I cannot
imagine where you learned--"

"Rebellion?" she cried, interrupting him in ringing tones. "Yes, it is
rank rebellion, sedition and revolt against slavery, for life and love
and freedom! You wonder where I have learned to turn and face this
oppression of the world, instead of yielding to it, one more unhappy
woman among the thousands that are bought and sold into wifehood every
year! I have learned nothing, my heart needed no teaching for that! It
is enough that I love an honest man truly--I know that it is wrong to
promise my faith to another, and that it is a worse wrong in you to try
to get that promise from me by force. A vow that could be nothing but a
solemn lie! Would the ring on my finger be a charm to make me forget?
Would the priest's words and blessing be a spell to root out of my heart
what is the best part of my life? Better go to a nunnery, and weep for
the truth, than to hope for peace in such a lie as that--better a
thousand, thousand times!"

She had risen now, and was almost eloquent, facing her father with
flashing eyes.

"Oh, you have always been kind to me, good to me, dear to me," she went
on quickly. "It is only in this that you will not understand. Would it
not hurt you a little to feel that you had sent me to a sort of living
death from which I could never come back to life? That I was imprisoned
for ever among people who looked down upon me and only tolerated me for
my fortune's sake? Yet that would be the very least part of it all! I
could bear all that, if it were for any good. But to become the
creature, the possession, the plaything of a man I do not love, when I
love another with all my heart--oh, no, no, no! You cannot ask me that!"

His anger had slowly subsided, and he was listening now, not because she
had him in her power, but because what she said was true. For he was a
just and honourable man.

"I wish that you might have loved any man but Zorzi," he said, almost as
if speaking to himself.

"And why another?" she asked, following up her advantage instantly. "You
would have had me marry a Trevisan, perhaps, or the son of any of the
other great glass-makers? Is there one of them who can compare with
Zorzi as an artist, let alone as a man? Look at those things he has
made, there, on the table! Is there a man living who could make one of
them? Not you, yourself; you know it better than I do!"

"No," answered Beroviero. "That is true. Nor is there any one who could
make the glass he used for them without the secrets that are in the
book--and more too, for it is better than my own."

Marietta looked at him in surprise. This was something she had not
known.

"Is it not your glass?" she asked.

"It is better. He must have added something to the composition set down
in the book."

"You believe that although the book itself is safe, he has made use of
it."

"Yes. I cannot see how it could be otherwise."

"Was the book sealed?"

"Yes, and looked in an iron box. Here is the key. I always wear it."

He drew out the small iron key, and showed it to her.

"If you find the box locked, and the seals untouched, will you believe
that Zorzi has not opened the manuscript?" asked Marietta.

"Yes," answered Beroviero after a moment's thought. "I showed him the
seal, and I remember that he said a man might make one like it. But I
should know by the wax. I am sure I could tell whether it had been
tampered with. Yes, I should believe he had not opened the book, if I
found it as I left it."

"Then you will be convinced that Zorzi is altogether innocent of all the
charges Giovanni made against him. Is that true?"

"Yes. If he has learnt the art in spite of the law, that is my fault,
not his. He was unwise in selling the beaker to Giovanni. But what is
that, after all?"

"Promise me then," said Marietta, laying her hand upon her father's arm,
"promise me that if Zorzi comes back, he shall be safe, and that you
will trust him as you always have."

"Though he dares to be in love with you?"

"Though I dare to love him--or apart from that. Say that if it were not
for that, you would treat him just as before you went away."

"Yes, I would," answered Beroviero thoughtfully.

"The book is there," said Marietta.

She pointed to the big earthen jar that contained the broken glass, and
her father's eyes followed her land.

"It is for Zorzi's sake that I tell you," she continued. "The book is
buried deep down amongst the broken bits. It will take a long time to
get it out. Shall I call Pasquale to help us?"

"No," answered her father.

He went to the other end of the room and brought back the crowbar. Then
he placed himself in a good position for striking, and raised the iron
high in air with both his hands.

"Stand back!" he cried as Marietta came nearer.

The first blow knocked a large piece of earthenware from the side of the
strong jar, and a quantity of broken red glass poured out, as red as
blood from a wound, and fell with little crashes upon the stone floor.
Beroviero raised the crowbar again and again and brought it down with
all his might. At the fourth stroke the whole jar went to pieces,
leaving nothing but a red heap of smashed glass, round about which lay
the big fragments of the jar. In the middle of the heap, the corner of
the iron box appeared, sticking up like a black stone.

"At last!" exclaimed the old man, flushed with satisfaction. "Giovanni
had not thought of this."

He cleared away the shivers and gently pushed the box out of its bed
with the crowbar. He soon got it out on the floor, and with some
precaution, lest any stray splinter should cut his fingers, he set it
upon the table. Then he took the key from his neck and opened it.

Marietta's belief in Zorzi had never wavered, from the first, but
Beroviero was more than half sure that the book had been opened. He took
it up with care, turned it over and over in his hands, scrutinised the
seal, the strings, the knots, and saw that they were all his own.

"It is impossible that this should have been undone and tied up again,"
he said confidently.

"Any one could see that at once," Marietta answered. "Do you believe
that Zorzi is innocent?"

"I cannot help believing. But I do not understand. There is the red
glass, made by dropping the piece of copper into it. That is in the
book, I am sure."

"It was an accident," said Marietta. "The copper ladle fell into the
glass. Zorzi told me about it."

"Are you sure? That is possible. The very same thing happened to Paolo
Godi, and that was how he discovered the colour. But there is the white
glass, which is so like mine, though it is better. That may have been an
accident too. Or the boy may have tried an experiment upon mine by
adding something to it."

"It is at least sure that the book has not been touched, and that is the
main thing. You admit that he is quite innocent, do you not? Quite,
quite innocent?"

"Yes, I do. It would be very unjust not to admit it."

Marietta drew a long breath of relief, for she had scarcely hoped to
accomplish so much in so short a time. The rest would follow, she felt
sure.

"I would give a great deal to see Zorzi at once," said her father, at
last, as he replaced the manuscript in the box and shut the lid.

"Not half as much as I would!" Marietta almost laughed, as she spoke.
"Father," she added gently, and resting one hand upon his shoulder, "I
have given you back your book, I have given you back the innocent man
you trusted, instead of the villain invented by my brother. What will
you give me?"

She smiled and rubbed her cheek against his shoulder. He shook his head
a little, and would not answer.

"Would it be so hard to say that you ask another year's time before the
marriage? And then, you know, you could ask it again, and they would
soon be tired of waiting and would break it off themselves."

"Do not suggest such woman's tricks to me," answered her father; but he
could not help smiling.

"Oh, you may find a better way," Marietta said. "But that would be so
easy, would it not? Your daughter is so young--her health is somewhat
delicate--"

She was interrupted by a knock at the door, and Pasquale entered.

"The Signor Giovanni is without, sir," said the porter. "He desires to
take leave of you, as he is returning to his own house to-day."

"Let him come in," said Beroviero, his face darkening all at once.




CHAPTER XXI


Giovanni entered the laboratory confidently, not even knowing that
Marietta was with her father, and not suspecting that he could have
anything to fear from her.

"I have come to take my leave of you, sir," he began, going towards his
father at once.

He did not see the broken jar, which was at some distance from the door.

"Before you go," said Beroviero coldly, "pray look at this."

Giovanni saw the box on the table, but did not understand, as he had
never seen it before. His father again took the key from his neck and
opened the casket.

"This is Paolo Godi's manuscript," he said, without changing his tone.
"You see, here is the book. The seal is unbroken. It is exactly as I
left it when Zorzi and I buried it together. You suspected him of having
opened it, and I confess that you made me suspect him, too. For the sake
of justice, convince yourself."

Giovanni's face was drawn with lines of vexation and anxiety.

"It was hidden in the jar of broken glass," Beroviero explained. "You
did not think of looking there."

"No--nor you, sir."

"I mean that you did not look there when you searched for it alone,
immediately after Zorzi was arrested."

Giovanni was pale now, but he raised both hands and turned up his eyes
as if calling upon heaven to witness his innocence.

"I swear to you," he began, "on the body of the blessed Saint Donatus--"

Beroviero interrupted him.

"I did not ask you to swear by anything," he said. "I know the truth.
The less you say of what has happened, the better it will be for you in
the end."

"I suppose my sister has been poisoning your mind against me as usual.
Can she explain how her mantle came here?"

"It does not concern you to know how it came here," answered Beroviero.
"By your wholly unjustifiable haste, to say nothing worse, you have
caused an innocent man to be arrested, and his rescue and disappearance
have made matters much worse. I do not care to ask what your object has
been. Keep it to yourself, pray, and do not remind me of this affair
when we meet, for after all, you are my son. You came to take your
leave, I think. Go home, then, by all means."

Without a word, Giovanni went out, biting his thin lip and reflecting
mournfully upon the change in his position since he had talked with his
father in the morning. While they had been speaking Marietta had gone to
a little distance, affecting to unfold the mantle and fold it again
according to feminine rules. As she heard the door shut again she
glanced at her father's face, and saw that he was looking at her.

"I told you that I was learning patience to-day," he said. "I longed to
lay my hands on him."

"You frightened him much more by what you said," answered Marietta.

"Perhaps. Never mind! He is gone. The question is how to find Zorzi.
That is the first thing, and then we must undo the mischief Giovanni has
done."

"I think Pasquale must have some clue by which we may find Zorzi,"
suggested Marietta.

Pasquale was called at once. He stood with his legs bowed, holding his
old cap in both hands, his small bloodshot eyes fixed on his master's
face with a look of inquiry. He was more than ever like a savage old
watch-dog.

"Yes, sir," he said in answer to Beroviero's question, "I can tell you
something. Two men were looking on last night when the Signor Giovanni
made me open the door to the Governor's soldiers. They wore hoods over
their eyes, but I am certain that one of them was that Greek captain who
came here one morning before you went away. When Zorzi came out, the
Greek walked off, up the footway and past the bridge. The other waited
till they were all gone and till Signor Giovanni had come in. He
whispered quickly in my ear, 'Zorzi is safe.' Then he went after the
others. I could see that he had a short staff hidden under his cloak,
and that he was a man with bones like an ox. But he was not so big a
man as the captain. Then I knew that two such men, who were seamen
accustomed to using their hands, quick on their feet and seeing well in
the dark, as we all do, could pitch the officer over the tower of San
Piero, if they chose, with all his sleazy crew of lubberly, dressed-up
boobies, armed with overgrown boat-hooks. This I thought, and so it
happened. That is what I know."
