it so, she was unable to take it lightly, or to make him take it
lightly. At some faint gleams which passed over her face he felt himself
invited to regard it less seriously; but he did not try, even
provisionally, and they fell into a silence that neither seemed to have
the power of breaking.
It must be broken, however; something must be done; they could not sit
there dumb forever. He looked at the sheet of music on the piano and
said, "I see you have been trying that song. Do you like it?"
"Yes, very much," and now for the first time she got her voice fairly
above a whisper. She took the sheet down from the music-rest and looked
at the picture of the lithographed title. It was of a tiled roof lifted
among cypresses and laurels with pigeons strutting on it and sailing
over it.
"It was that picture," said Langbourne, since he must say something,
"that I believe I got the song for; it made me think of the roof of an
old Spanish house I saw in Southern California."
"It must be nice, out there," said Miss Simpson, absently staring at the
picture. She gathered herself together to add, pointlessly, "Juliet says
she's going to Europe. Have you ever been?"
"Not to Europe, no. I always feel as if I wanted to see my own country
first. Is she going soon?"
"Who? Juliet? Oh, no! She was just saying so. I don't believe she's
engaged her passage yet."
There was invitation to greater ease in this, and her voice began to
have the tender, coaxing quality which had thrilled his heart when he
heard it first. But the space of her variance from his ideal was between
them, and the voice reached him faintly across it.
The situation grew more and more painful for her, he could see, as well
as for him. She too was feeling the anomaly of their having been
intimates without being acquaintances. They necessarily met as strangers
after the exchange of letters in which they had spoken with the
confidence of friends.
Langbourne cast about in his mind for some middle ground where they
could come together without that effect of chance encounter which had
reduced them to silence. He could not recur to any of the things they
had written about; so far from wishing to do this, he had almost a
terror of touching upon them by accident, and he felt that she shrank
from them too, as if they involved a painful misunderstanding which
could not be put straight.
He asked questions about Upper Ashton Falls, but these led up to what
she had said of it in her letters; he tried to speak of the winter in
New York, and he remembered that every week he had given her a full
account of his life there. They must go beyond their letters or they
must fall far back of them.
VIII.
In their attempts to talk he was aware that she was seconding all his
endeavors with intelligence, and with a humorous subtlety to which he
could not pretend. She was suffering from their anomalous position as
much as he, but she had the means of enjoying it while he had not. After
half an hour of these defeats Mrs. Simpson operated a diversion by
coming in with two glasses of lemonade on a tray and some slices of
sponge-cake. She offered this refreshment first to Langbourne and then
to her niece, and they both obediently took a glass, and put a slice of
cake in the saucer which supported the glass. She said to each in turn,
"Won't you take some lemonade? Won't you have a piece of cake?" and then
went out with her empty tray, and the air of having fulfilled the duties
of hospitality to her niece's company.
"I don't know," said Miss Simpson, "but it's rather early in the season
for cold lemonade," and Langbourne, instead of laughing, as her tone
invited him to do, said:
"It's very good, I'm sure." But this seemed too stiffly ungracious, and
he added: "What delicious sponge-cake! You never get this out of New
England."
"We have to do something to make up for our doughnuts," Miss Simpson
suggested.
"Oh, I like doughnuts too," said Langbourne. "But you can't get the
right kind of doughnuts, either, in New York."
They began to talk about cooking. He told her of the tamales which he
had first tasted in San Francisco, and afterward found superabundantly
in New York; they both made a great deal of the topic; Miss Simpson had
never heard of tamales. He became solemnly animated in their exegesis,
and she showed a resolute interest in them.
They were in the midst of the forced discussion, when they heard a quick
foot on the brick walk, but they had both fallen silent when Miss
Bingham flounced elastically in upon them. She seemed to take in with a
keen glance which swept them from her lively eyes that they had not been
getting on, and she had the air of taking them at once in hand.
"Well, it's all right about Jenny," she said to Miss Simpson. "She'd a
good deal rather go day after to-morrow, anyway. What have you been
talking about? I don't want to make you go over the same ground. Have
you got through with the weather? The moon's out, and it feels more like
the beginning of June than the last of April. I shut the front door
against dor-bugs; I couldn't help it, though they won't be here for six
weeks yet. Do you have dor-bugs in New York, Mr. Langbourne?"
"I don't know. There may be some in the Park," he answered.
"We think a great deal of our dor-bugs in Upper Ashton," said Miss
Simpson demurely, looking down. "We don't know what we should do without
them."
"Lemonade!" exclaimed Miss Bingham, catching sight of the glasses and
saucers on the corner of the piano, where Miss Simpson had allowed
Langbourne to put them. "Has Aunt Elmira been giving you lemonade while
I was gone? I will just see about that!" She whipped out of the room,
and was back in a minute with a glass in one hand and a bit of
sponge-cake between the fingers of the other. "She had kept some for me!
Have you sung Paloma for Mr. Langbourne, Barbara?"
"No," said Barbara, "we hadn't got round to it, quite."
"Oh, do!" Langbourne entreated, and he wondered that he had not asked
her before; it would have saved them from each ether.
"Wait a moment," cried Juliet Bingham, and she gulped the last draught
of her lemonade upon a final morsel of sponge-cake, and was down at the
piano while still dusting the crumbs from her fingers. She struck the
refractory sheet of music flat upon the rack with her palm, and then
tilted her head over her shoulder towards Langbourne, who had risen with
some vague notion of turning the sheets of the song. "Do you sing?"
"Oh, no. But I like--"
"Are you ready, Bab?" she asked, ignoring him; and she dashed into the
accompaniment.
He sat down in his chair behind the two girls, where they could not see
his face.
Barbara began rather weakly, but her voice gathered strength, and then
poured full volume to the end, where it weakened again. He knew that she
was taking refuge from him in the song, and in the magic of her voice he
escaped from the disappointment he had been suffering. He let his head
drop and his eyelids fall, and in the rapture of her singing he got back
what he had lost; or rather, he lost himself again to the illusion which
had grown so precious to him.
Juliet Bingham sounded the last note almost as she rose from the piano;
Barbara passed her handkerchief over her forehead, as if to wipe the
heat from it, but he believed that this was a ruse to dry her eyes in
it: they shone with a moist brightness in the glimpse he caught of them.
He had risen, and they all stood talking; or they all stood, and Juliet
talked. She did not offer to sit down again, and after stiffly thanking
them both, he said he must be going, and took leave of them. Juliet gave
his hand a nervous grip; Barbara's touch was lax and cold; the parting
with her was painful; he believed that she felt it so as much as he.
The girls' voices followed him down the walk,--Juliet's treble, and
Barbara's contralto,--and he believed that they were making talk
purposely against a pressure of silence, and did not know what they were
saying. It occurred to him that they had not asked how long he was
staying, or invited him to come again: he had not thought to ask if he
might; and in the intolerable inconclusiveness of this ending he
faltered at the gate till the lights in the windows of the parlor
disappeared, as if carried into the hall, and then they twinkled into
darkness. From an upper entry window, which reddened with a momentary
flush and was then darkened, a burst of mingled laughter came. The girls
must have thought him beyond hearing, and he fancied the laugh a burst
of hysterical feeling in them both.
IX.
Langbourne went to bed as soon as he reached his hotel because he found
himself spent with the experience of the evening; but as he rested from
his fatigue he grew wakeful, and he tried to get its whole measure and
meaning before him. He had a methodical nature, with a necessity for
order in his motions, and he now balanced one fact against another none
the less passionately because the process was a series of careful
recognitions. He perceived that the dream in which he had lived for the
year past was not wholly an illusion. One of the girls whom he had heard
but not seen was what he had divined her to be: a dominant influence, a
control to which the other was passively obedient. He had not erred
greatly as to the face or figure of the superior, but he had given all
the advantages to the wrong person. The voice, indeed, the spell which
had bound him, belonged with the one to whom he had attributed it, and
the qualities with which it was inextricably blended in his fancy were
hers; she was more like his ideal than the other, though he owned that
the other was a charming girl too, and that in the thin treble of her
voice lurked a potential fascination which might have made itself
ascendently felt if he had happened to feel it first.
There was a dangerous instant in which he had a perverse question of
changing his allegiance. This passed into another moment, almost as
perilous, of confusion through a primal instinct of the man's by which
he yields a double or a divided allegiance and simultaneously worships
at two shrines; in still another breath he was aware that this was
madness.
If he had been younger, he would have had no doubt as to his right in
the circumstances. He had simply corresponded all winter with Miss
Simpson; but though he had opened his heart freely and had invited her
to the same confidence with him, he had not committed himself, and he
had a right to drop the whole affair. She would have no right to
complain; she had not committed herself either: they could both come off
unscathed. But he was now thirty-five, and life had taught him something
concerning the rights of others which he could not ignore. By seeking
her confidence and by offering her his, he had given her a claim which
was none the less binding because it was wholly tacit. There had been a
time when he might have justified himself in dropping the affair; that
was when she had failed to answer his letter; but he had come to see her
in defiance of her silence, and now he could not withdraw, simply
because he was disappointed, without cruelty, without atrocity.
This was what the girl's wistful eyes said to him; this was the reproach
of her trembling lips; this was the accusation of her dejected figure,
as she drooped in vision before him on the piano-stool and passed her
hand soundlessly over the key-board. He tried to own to her that he was
disappointed, but he could not get the words out of his throat; and now
in her presence, as it were, he was not sure that he was disappointed.
X.
He woke late, with a longing to put his two senses of her to the proof
of day; and as early in the forenoon as he could hope to see her, he
walked out towards her aunt's house. It was a mild, dull morning, with a
misted sunshine; in the little crimson tassels of the budded maples
overhead the bees were droning.
The street was straight, and while he was yet a good way off he saw the
gate open before the house, and a girl whom he recognized as Miss
Bingham close it behind her. She then came down under the maples towards
him, at first swiftly, and then more and more slowly, until finally she
faltered to a stop. He quickened his own pace and came up to her with a
"Good-morning" called to her and a lift of his hat. She returned neither
salutation, and said, "I was coming to see you, Mr. Langbourne." Her
voice was still a silver bell, but it was not gay, and her face was
severely unsmiling.
"To see me?" he returned. "Has anything--"
"No, there's nothing the matter. But--I should like to talk with you."
She held a little packet, tied with blue ribbon, in her intertwined
hands, and she looked urgently at him.
"I shall be very glad," Langbourne began, but she interrupted,--
"Should you mind walking down to the Falls?"
He understood that for some reason she did not wish him to pass the
house, and he bowed. "Wherever you like. I hope Mrs. Simpson is well?
And Miss Simpson?"
"Oh, perfectly," said Miss Bingham, and they fenced with some questions
and answers of no interest till they had walked back through the village
to the Falls at the other end of it, where the saw in a mill was
whirring through a long pine log, and the water, streaked with sawdust,
was spreading over the rocks below and flowing away with a smooth
swiftness. The ground near the mill was piled with fresh-sawed, fragrant
lumber and strewn with logs.
Miss Bingham found a comfortable place on one of the logs, and began
abruptly:
"You may think it's pretty strange, Mr. Langbourne, but I want to talk
with you about Miss Simpson." She seemed to satisfy a duty to convention
by saying Miss Simpson at the outset, and after that she called her
friend Barbara. "I've brought you your letters to her," and she handed
him the packet she had been holding. "Have you got hers with you?"
"They are at the hotel," answered Langbourne.
"Well, that's right, then. I thought perhaps you had brought them. You
see," Miss Bingham continued, much more cold-bloodedly than Langbourne
thought she need, "we talked it over last night, and it's too silly.
That's the way Barbara feels herself. The fact is," she went on
confidingly, and with the air of saying something that he would
appreciate, "I always thought it was some young man, and so did
Barbara; or I don't believe she would ever have answered your first
letter."
Langbourne knew that he was not a young man in a young girl's sense; but
no man likes to have it said that he is old. Besides, Miss Bingham
herself was not apparently in her first quarter of a century, and
probably Miss Simpson would not see the earliest twenties again. He
thought none the worse of her for that; but he felt that he was not so
unequally matched in time with her that she need take the attitude with
regard to him which Miss Bingham indicated. He was not the least gray
nor the least bald, and his tall figure had kept its youthful lines.
Perhaps his face manifested something of his suppressed resentment. At
any rate, Miss Bingham said apologetically, "I mean that if we had known
it was a serious person we should have acted differently. I oughtn't
to have let her thank you for those seedsman's catalogues; but I thought
it couldn't do any harm. And then, after your letters began to come, we
didn't know just when to stop them. To tell you the truth, Mr.
Langbourne, we got so interested we couldn't bear to stop them. You
wrote so much about your life in New York, that it was like a visit
there every week; and it's pretty quiet at Upper Ashton in the winter
time."
She seemed to refer this fact to Langbourne for sympathetic
appreciation; he said mechanically, "Yes."
She resumed: "But when your picture came, I said it had got to stop;
and so we just sent back my picture,--or I don't know but what Barbara
did it without asking me,--and we did suppose that would be the last of
it; when you wrote back you were coming here, we didn't believe you
really would unless we said so. That's all there is about it; and if
there is anybody to blame, I am the one. Barbara would never have done
it in the world if I hadn't put her up to it."
In those words the implication that Miss Bingham had operated the whole
affair finally unfolded itself. But distasteful as the fact was to
Langbourne, and wounding as was the realization that he had been led on
by this witness of his infatuation for the sake of the entertainment
which his letters gave two girls in the dull winter of a mountain
village, there was still greater pain, with an additional embarrassment,
in the regret which the words conveyed. It appeared that it was not he
who had done the wrong; he had suffered it, and so far from having to
offer reparation to a young girl for having unwarrantably wrought her up
expect of him a step from which he afterwards recoiled, he had the duty
of forgiving her a trespass on his own invaded sensibilities. It was
humiliating to his vanity; it inflicted a hurt to something better than
his vanity. He began very uncomfortably: "It's all right, as far as I'm
concerned. I had no business to address Miss Simpson in the first
place--"
"Well," Miss Bingham interrupted, "that's what I told Barbara; but she
got to feeling badly about it; she thought if you had taken the trouble
to send back the circular that she dropped in the hotel, she couldn't do
less than acknowledge it, and she kept on so about it that I had to let
her. That was the first false step."
These words, while they showed Miss Simpson in a more amiable light, did
not enable Langbourne to see Miss Bingham's merit so clearly. In the
methodical and consecutive working of his emotions, he was aware that it
was no longer a question of divided allegiance, and that there could
never be any such question again. He perceived that Miss Bingham had not
such a good figure as he had fancied the night before, and that her eyes
were set rather too near together. While he dropped his own eyes, and
stood trying to think what he should say in answer to her last speech,
her high, sweet voice tinkled out in gay challenge, "How do, John?"
He looked up and saw a square-set, brown-faced young man advancing
towards them in his shirt-sleeves; he came deliberately, finding his way
in and out among the logs, till he stood smiling down, through a heavy
mustache and thick black lashes, into the face of the girl, as if she
were some sort of joke. The sun struck into her face as she looked up at
him, and made her frown with a knot between her brows that pulled her
eyes still closer together, and she asked, with no direct reference to
his shirt-sleeves,--"A'n't you forcing the season?"
"Don't want to let the summer get the start of you," the young man
generalized, and Miss Bingham said,--
"Mr. Langbourne, Mr. Dickery." The young man silently shook hands with
Langbourne, whom he took into the joke of Miss Bingham with another
smile; and she went on: "Say, John, I wish you'd tell Jenny I don't see
why we shouldn't go this afternoon, after all."
"All right," said the young man.
"I suppose you're coming too?" she suggested.
"Hadn't heard of it," he returned.
"Well, you have now. You've got to be ready at two o'clock."
"That so?" the young fellow inquired. Then he walked away among the
logs, as casually as he had arrived, and Miss Bingham rose and shook
some bits of bark from her skirt.
"Mr. Dickery is owner of the mills," she explained, and she explored
Langbourne's face for an intelligence which she did not seem to find
there. He thought, indifferently enough, that this young man had heard
the two girls speak of him, and had satisfied a natural curiosity in
coming to look him over; it did not occur to him that he had any
especial relation to Miss Bingham.
She walked up into the village with Langbourne, and he did not know
whether he was to accompany her home or not. But she gave him no sign of
dismissal till she put her hand upon her gate to pull it open without
asking him to come in. Then he said, "I will send Miss Simpson's letters
to her at once."
"Oh, any time will do, Mr. Langbourne," she returned sweetly. Then, as
if it had just occurred to her, she added, "We're going after
May-flowers this afternoon. Wouldn't you like to come too?"
"I don't know," he began, "whether I shall have the time--"
"Why, you're not going away to-day!"
"I expected--I--But if you don't think I shall be intruding--"
"Why, I should be delighted to have you. Mr. Dickery's going, and
Jenny Dickery, and Barbara. I don't believe it will rain."
"Then, if I may," said Langbourne.
"Why, certainly, Mr. Langbourne!" she cried, and he started away. But he
had gone only a few rods when he wheeled about and hurried back. The
girl was going up the walk to the house, looking over her shoulder after
him; at his hurried return she stopped and came down to the gate again.
"Miss Bingham, I think--I think I had better not go."
"Why, just as you feel about it, Mr. Langbourne," she assented.
"I will bring the letters this evening, if you will let me--if Miss
Simpson--if you will be at home."
"We shall be very happy to see you, Mr. Langbourne," said the girl
formally, and then he went back to his hotel.
XI.
Langbourne could not have told just why he had withdrawn his acceptance
of Miss Bingham's invitation. If at the moment it was the effect of a
quite reasonless panic, he decided later that it was because he wished
to think. It could not be said, however, that he did think, unless
thinking consists of a series of dramatic representations which the mind
makes to itself from a given impulse, and which it is quite powerless to
end. All the afternoon, which Langbourne spent in his room, his mind was
the theatre of scenes with Miss Simpson, in which he perpetually evolved
the motives governing him from the beginning, and triumphed out of his
difficulties and embarrassments. Her voice, as it acquiesced in all, no
longer related itself to that imaginary personality which had inhabited
his fancy. That was gone irrevocably; and the voice belonged to the
likeness of Barbara, and no other; from her similitude, little, quaint,
with her hair of cloudy red and her large, dim-sighted eyes, it played
upon the spiritual sense within him with the coaxing, drolling, mocking
charm which he had felt from the first. It blessed him with intelligent
and joyous forgiveness. But as he stood at her gate that evening this
unmerited felicity fell from him. He now really heard her voice, through
the open doorway, but perhaps because it was mixed with other
voices--the treble of Miss Bingham, and the bass of a man who must be
the Mr. Dickery he had seen at the saw mills--he turned and hurried back
to his hotel, where he wrote a short letter saying that he had decided
to take the express for New York that night. With an instinctive
recognition of her authority in the affair, or with a cowardly shrinking
from direct dealing with Barbara, he wrote to Juliet Bingham, and he
addressed to her the packet of letters which he sent for Barbara.
Superficially, he had done what he had no choice but to do. He had been
asked to return her letters, and he had returned them, and brought the
affair to an end.
In his long ride to the city he assured himself in vain that he was
doing right if he was not sure of his feelings towards the girl. It was
quite because he was not sure of his feeling that he could not be sure
he was not acting falsely and cruelly.
The fear grew upon him through the summer, which he spent in the heat
and stress of the town. In his work he could forget a little the despair
in which he lived; but in a double consciousness like that of the
hypochondriac, the girl whom it seemed to him he had deserted was
visibly and audibly present with him. Her voice was always in his inner
ear, and it visualized her looks and movements to his inner eye.
Now he saw and understood at last that what his heart had more than once
misgiven him might be the truth, and that though she had sent back his
letters, and asked her own in return, it was not necessarily her wish
that he should obey her request. It might very well have been an
experiment of his feeling towards her, a mute quest of the impression
she had made upon him, a test of his will and purpose, an overture to a
clearer and truer understanding between them. This misgiving became a
conviction from which he could not escape.
He believed too late that he had made a mistake, that he had thrown away
the supreme chance of his life. But was it too late? When he could bear
it no longer, he began to deny that it was too late. He denied it even
to the pathetic presence which haunted him, and in which the magic of
her voice itself was merged at last, so that he saw her more than he
heard her. He overbore her weak will with his stronger will, and set
himself strenuously to protest to her real presence what he now always
said to her phantom. When his partner came back from his vacation,
Langbourne told him that he was going to take a day or two off.
XII.
He arrived at Upper Ashton Falls long enough before the early autumnal
dusk to note that the crimson buds of the maples were now their crimson
leaves, but he kept as close to the past as he could by not going to
find Barbara before the hour of the evening when he had turned from her
gate without daring to see her. It was a soft October evening now, as it
was a soft May evening then; and there was a mystical hint of unity in
the like feel of the dull, mild air. Again voices were coming out of the
open doors and windows of the house, and they were the same voices that
he had last heard there.
He knocked, and after a moment of startled hush within Juliet Bingham
came to the door. "Why, Mr. Langbourne!" she screamed.
"I--I should like to come in, if you will let me," he gasped out.
"Why, certainly, Mr. Langbourne," she returned.
He had not dwelt so long and so intently on the meeting at hand without
considering how he should account for his coming, and he had formulated
a confession of his motives. But he had never meant to make it to Juliet
Bingham, and he now found himself unable to allege a word in explanation
of his presence. He followed her into the parlor. Barbara silently gave
him her hand and then remained passive in the background, where Dickery
held aloof, smiling in what seemed his perpetual enjoyment of the Juliet
Bingham joke. She at once put herself in authority over the situation;
she made Langbourne let her have his hat; she seated him when and where
she chose; she removed and put back the lampshades; she pulled up and
pulled down the window-blinds; she shut the outer door because of the
night air, and opened it because of the unseasonable warmth within. She
excused Mrs. Simpson's absence on account of a headache, and asked him
if he would not have a fan; when he refused it she made him take it, and
while he sat helplessly dangling it from his hand, she asked him about
the summer he had had, and whether he had passed it in New York. She was
very intelligent about the heat in New York, and tactful in keeping the
one-sided talk from falling. Barbara said nothing after a few faint
attempts to take part in it, and Langbourne made briefer and briefer
answers. His reticence seemed only to heighten Juliet Bingham's
satisfaction, and she said, with a final supremacy, that she had been
intending to go out with Mr. Dickery to a business meeting of the
book-club, but they would be back before Langbourne could get away; she
made him promise to wait for them. He did not know if Barbara looked any
protest,--at least she spoke none,--and Juliet went out with Dickery.
She turned at the door to bid Barbara say, if any one called, that she
was at the book-club meeting. Then she disappeared, but reappeared and
called, "See here, a minute, Bab!" and at the outer threshold she
detained Barbara in vivid whisper, ending aloud, "Now you be sure to do
both, Bab! Aunt Elmira will tell you where the things are." Again she
vanished, and was gone long enough to have reached the gate and come
back from it. She was renewing all her whispered and out-spoken charges
when Dickery showed himself at her side, put his hand under her elbow,
and wheeled her about, and while she called gayly over her shoulder to
the others, "Did you ever?" walked her definitively out of the house.
Langbourne did not suffer the silence which followed her going to
possess him. What he had to do he must do quickly, and he said, "Miss
Simpson, may I ask you one question?"
"Why, if you won't expect me to answer it," she suggested quaintly.
"You must do as you please about that. It has to come before I try to
excuse myself for being here; it's the only excuse I can offer. It's
this: Did you send Miss Bingham to get back your letters from me last
spring?"
"Why, of course!"
"I mean, was it your idea?"
"We thought it would be better."
The evasion satisfied Langbourne, but he asked, "Had I given you some
cause to distrust me at that time?"
"Oh, no," she protested. "We got to talking it over, and--and we thought
we had better."
"Because I had come here without being asked?"
"No, no; it wasn't that," the girl protested.
"I know I oughtn't to have come. I know I oughtn't to have written to
you in the beginning, but you had let me write, and I thought you would
let me come. I tried always to be sincere with you; to make you feel
that you could trust me. I believe that I am an honest man; I thought I
was a better man for having known you through your letters. I couldn't
tell you how much they had been to me. You seemed to think, because I
lived in a large place, that I had a great many friends; but I have very
few; I might say I hadn't any--such as I thought I had when I was
writing to you. Most of the men I know belong to some sort of clubs; but
I don't. I went to New York when I was feeling alone in the world,--it
was from something that had happened to me partly through my own
fault,--and I've never got over being alone there. I've never gone into
society; I don't know what society is, and I suppose that's why I am
acting differently from a society man now. The only change I ever had
from business was reading at night: I've got a pretty good library.
After I began to get your letters, I went out more--to the theatre, and
lectures, and concerts, and all sorts of things--so that I could have
something interesting to write about; I thought you'd get tired of
always hearing about me. And your letters filled up my life, so that I
didn't seem alone any more. I read them all hundreds of times; I should
have said that I knew them by heart, if they had not been as fresh at
last as they were at first. I seemed to hear you talking in them." He
stopped as if withholding himself from what he had nearly said without
intending, and resumed: "It's some comfort to know that you didn't want
them back because you doubted me, or my good faith."
"Oh, no, indeed, Mr. Langbourne," said Barbara compassionately.
"Then why did you?"
"I don't know. We--"
"No; not 'we.' You!"
She did not answer for so long that he believed she resented his
speaking so peremptorily and was not going to answer him at all. At last
she said, "I thought you would rather give them back." She turned and
looked at him, with the eyes which he knew saw his face dimly, but saw
his thought clearly.
"What made you think that?"
"Oh, I don't know. Didn't you want to?"
He knew that the fact which their words veiled was now the first thing
in their mutual consciousness. He spoke the truth in saying, "No, I
never wanted to," but this was only a mechanical truth, and he knew it.
He had an impulse to put the burden of the situation on her, and press
her to say why she thought he wished to do so; but his next emotion was
