little buff gauntlets. "There we will have tea a l'Anglaise, and
sunshine, and a long, long, satisfying talk; at least I will," she
added, laughing and coloring up; "for truly, Monsieur Scarlett, I do
not believe I have given you one second to open your lips."

Heaven knows I was perfectly content to watch her lips and listen to
the music of her happy, breathless voice without breaking the spell
with my own.

She led the way along a path under the apricots to a seat against a
sunny wall, a wall built of massive granite, deeply thatched with
fungus and lichens, where, palpitating in the hot sun, the tiny
lizards lay glittering, and the scarlet-banded nettle-butterflies
flitted and hovered and settled to sun themselves, wings a-droop.

Here in the sunshine the tea-rose perfume, mingling with the incense
of the sea, mounted to my head like the first flush of wine to a man
long fasting; or was it the enchantment of her youth and
loveliness--the subtle influence of physical vigor and spiritual
innocence on a tired, unstrung man?

"First of all," she said, impulsively, "I know your life--all of it
in minute particular. Are you astonished?"

"No, madame," I replied; "Mornac showed you my dossier."

"That is true," she said, with a troubled look of surprise.

I smiled. "As for Mornac," I began, but she interrupted me.

"Ah, Mornac! Do you suppose I believed him? Had I not proof on proof
of your loyalty, your honor, your courtesy, your chivalry--"

"Madame, your generosity--and, I fear, your pity--overpraises."

"No, it does not! I know what you are. Mornac cannot make white
black! I know what you have been. Mornac could not read you into
infamy, even with your dossier under my own eyes!"

"In my dossier you read a sorry history, madame."

"In your dossier I read the tragedy of a gentleman."

"Do you know," said I, "that I am now a performer in a third-rate
travelling circus?"

"I think that is very sad," she said, sweetly.

"Sad? Oh no. It is better than the disciplinary battalions of
Africa."

Which was simply acknowledging that I had served a term in prison.

The color faded in her face. "I thought you were pardoned."

"I was--from prison, not from the battalion of Biribi."

"I only know," she said, "that they say you were not guilty; that
they say you faced utter ruin, even the possibility of death, for the
sake of another man whose name even the police--even Monsieur de
Mornac--could never learn. Was there such a man?"

I hesitated. "Madame, there is such a man; I am the man who
was."

"With no hope?"

"Hope? With every hope," I said, smiling. "My name is not my own,
but it must serve me to my end, and I shall wear it threadbare and
leave it to no one."

"Is there no hope?" she asked, quietly.

"None for the man who was. Much for James Scarlett, tamer of lions
and general mountebank," I said, laughing down the rising tide of
bitterness. Why had she stirred those dark waters? I had drowned
myself in them long since. Under them lay the corpse of a man I had
forgotten--my dead self.

"No hope?" she repeated.

Suddenly the ghost of all I had lost rose before me with her
words--rose at last after all these years, towering, terrible, free
once more to fill the days with loathing and my nights with hell
eternal,... after all these years!

Overwhelmed, I fought down the spectre in silence. Kith and kin were
not all in the world; love of woman was not all; a chance for a home,
a wife, children, were not all; a name was not all. Raising my head, a
trifle faint with the struggle and the cost of the struggle, I saw the
distress in her eyes and strove to smile.

"There is every hope," I said, "save the hopes of youth--the hope of
a woman's love, and of that happiness which comes through love. I am a
man past thirty, madame--thirty-five, I believe my dossier makes it.
It has taken me fifteen years to bury my youth. Let us talk of
Mornac."

"Yes, we will talk of Mornac," she said, gently.

So with infinite pains I went back and traced for her the career of
Buckhurst, sparing her nothing; I led up to my own appearance on the
scene, reviewed briefly what we both knew, then disclosed to her in
its most trivial detail the conference between Buckhurst and myself in
which his cynical avowal was revealed in all its native hideousness.

She sat motionless, her face like cold marble, as I carefully gathered
the threads of the plot and gently twitched that one which galvanized
the mask of Mornac.

"Mornac!" she stammered, aghast.

I showed her why Buckhurst desired to come to Paradise; I showed her
why Mornac had initiated her into the mysteries of my dossier, taking
that infernal precaution, although he had every reason to believe he
had me practically in prison, with the keys in his own pocket.

"Had it not been for my comrade, Speed," I said, "I should be in one
of Mornac's fortress cells. He overshot the mark when he left us
together and stepped into his cabinet to spread my dossier before you.
He counted on an innocent man going through hell itself to prove his
innocence; he counted on me, and left Speed out of his calculations.
He had your testimony, he had my dossier, he had the order for my
arrest in his pocket.... And then I stepped out of sight! I, the
honest fool, with my knowledge of his infamy, of Buckhurst's
complicity and purposes--I was gone.

"And now mark the irony of the whole thing: he had, criminally,
destroyed the only bureau that could ever have caught me. But he did
his best during the few weeks that were left him before the battle of
Sedan. After that it was too late; it was too late when the first
Uhlan appeared before the gates of Paris. And now Mornac, shorn of
authority, is shut up in a city surrounded by a wall of German steel,
through which not one single living creature has penetrated for two
months."

I looked at her steadily. "Eliminate Mornac as a trapped rat; cancel
him as a dead rat since the ship of Empire went down at Sedan. I do
not know what has taken place in Paris--save what all now know that
the Empire is ended, the Republic proclaimed, and the Imperial police
a memory. Then let us strike out Mornac and turn to Buckhurst. Madame,
I am here to serve you."

The dazed horror in her face which had marked my revelations of
Buckhurst's villanies gave place to a mantling flush of pure anger.
Shame crimsoned her neck, too; shame for her credulous innocence, her
belief in this rogue who had betrayed her, only to receive pardon for
the purpose of baser and more murderous betrayal.

I said nothing for a long time, content to leave her to her own
thoughts. The bitter draught she was draining could not harm her,
could not but act as the most wholesome of tonics.

Hers was not a weak character to sink, embittered, under the weight of
knowledge--knowledge of evil, that all must learn to carry lightly
through life; I had once thought her weak, but I had revised that
opinion and substituted the words "pure in thought, inherently loyal,
essentially unsuspicious."

"Tell me about Buckhurst," I said, quietly. "I can help you, I
think."

The quick tears of humiliation glimmered for a second in her angry
eyes; then pride fell from her, like a stately mantle which a princess
puts aside, tired and content to rest.

This was a phase I had never before seen--a lovely, natural young
girl, perplexed, troubled, deeply wounded, ready to be guided, ready
for reproof, perhaps even for that sympathy without which reproof is
almost valueless.

She told me that Buckhurst came to her house here in Paradise early in
September; that while in Paris, pondering on what I had said, she had
determined to withdraw herself absolutely from all organized
socialistic associations during the war; that she believed she could
do the greatest good by living a natural and cheerful life, by
maintaining the position that birth and fortune had given her, and by
using that position and fortune for the benefit of those less
fortunate.

This she had told Buckhurst, and the rascal appeared to agree with her
so thoroughly that, when Dr. Delmont and Professor Tavernier arrived,
they also applauded the choice she made of Buckhurst as distributer of
money, food, and clothing to the provincial hospitals, now crowded to
suffocation with the wreck of battle.

Then a strange thing occurred. Dr. Delmont and Professor Tavernier
disappeared without any explanation. They had started for St. Nazaire
with a sum of money--twenty thousand francs, locked in the private
strong-box of the Countess--to be distributed among the soldiers of
Chanzy; and they had never returned.

In the light of what she had learned from me, she feared that
Buckhurst had won them over; perhaps not--she could not bear to
suspect evil of such men.

But she now believed that Buckhurst had used every penny he had
handled for his own purposes; that not one hospital had received what
she had sent.

"I am no longer wealthy," she said, anxiously, looking up at me. "I
did find time in Paris to have matters straightened; I sold La Trappe
and paid everything. It left me with this house in Paradise, and with
means to maintain it and still have a few thousand francs to give
every year. Now it is nearly gone--I don't know where. I am dreadfully
unhappy; I have such a horror of treachery that I cannot even
understand it, but this ignoble man, Buckhurst, is assuredly a
heartless rascal."

"But," I said, patiently, "you have not yet told me where he is."

"I don't know," she said. "A week ago a dreadful creature came here
to see Buckhurst; they went across the moor toward the semaphore and
stood for a long while looking at the cruiser which is anchored off
Groix. Then Buckhurst came back and prepared for a journey. He said
he was going to Tours to confer with the Red Cross. I don't know where
he went. He took all the money for the general Red Cross fund."

"When did he say he would return?"

"He said in two weeks. He has another week yet."

"Is he usually prompt?"

"Always so--to the minute."

"That is good news," I said, gayly. "But tell me one thing: do you
trust Mademoiselle Elven?"

"Yes, indeed!--indeed!" she cried, horrified.

"Very well," said I, smiling. "Only for the sake of caution--extra,
and even perhaps useless caution--say nothing of this matter to her,
nor to any living soul save me."

"I promise," she said, faintly.

"One thing more: this conspiracy against the state no longer concerns
me--officially. Both Speed and I did all we could to warn the Emperor
and the Empress; we sent letters through the police in London, we used
the English secret-service to get our letters into the Emperor's hand,
we tried every known method of denouncing Mornac. It was useless;
every letter must have gone through Mornac's hands before it reached
the throne. We did all we dared do; we were in disguise and in hiding
under assumed names; we could not do more.

"Now that Mornac is not even a pawn in the game--as, indeed, I begin
to believe he never really was, but has been from the first a dupe of
Buckhurst--it is the duty of every honest man to watch Buckhurst and
warn the authorities that he possibly has designs on the crown jewels
of France, which that cruiser yonder is all ready to bear away to
Saïgon.

"How he proposes to attempt such a robbery I can't imagine. I don't
want to denounce him to General Chanzy or Aurelles de Palladine,
because the conspiracy is too widely spread and too dangerous to be
defeated by the capture of one man, even though he be the head of it.

"What I want is to entrap the entire band; and that can only be done
by watching Buckhurst, not arresting him.

"Therefore, madame, I have written and despatched a telegram to
General Aurelles de Palladine, offering my services and the services
of Mr. Speed to the Republic without compensation. In the event of
acceptance, I shall send to London for two men who will do what is to
be done, leaving me free to amuse the public with my lions. Meanwhile,
as long as we stay in Paradise we both are your devoted servants, and
we beg the privilege of serving you."

During all this time the young Countess had never moved her eyes from
my face--perhaps I was flattered--perhaps for that reason I talked on
and on, pouring out wisdom from a somewhat attenuated supply.

And I now rose to take my leave, bowing my very best bow; but she sat
still, looking up quietly at me.

"You ask the privilege of serving me," she said. "You could serve me
best by giving me your friendship."

"You have my devotion, madame," I said.

"I did not ask it. I asked your friendship--in all frankness and
equality."

"Do you desire the friendship of a circus performer?" I asked,
smiling.

"I desire it, not only for what you are, but for what you have
been--have always been, let them say what they will!"

I was silent.

"Have you never given women your friendship?" she asked.

"Not in fifteen years--nor asked theirs."

"Will you not ask mine?"

I tried to speak steadily, but my voice was uncertain; I sat down,
crushed under a flood of memories, hopes accursed, ambitions damned
and consigned to oblivion.

"You are very kind," I said. "You are the Countess de Vassart. A man
is what he makes himself. I have made myself--with both eyes open; and
I am now an acrobat and a tamer of beasts. I understand your goodness,
your impulse to help those less fortunate than yourself. I also
understand that I have placed myself where I am, and that, having done
so deliberately, I cannot meet as friends and equals those who might
have been my equals if not friends. Besides that, I am a native of a
paradox--a Republic which, though caste-bound, knows no caste abroad.
I might, therefore, have been your friend if you had chosen to waive
the traditions of your continent and accept the traditions of mine.
But now, madame, I must beg permission to make my adieux."

She sprang up and caught both my hands in her ungloved hands. "Won't
you take my friendship--and give me yours--my friend?"

"Yes," I said, slowly. The blood beat in my temples, almost blinding
me; my heart hammered in my throat till I shivered.

As in a dream I bent forward; she abandoned her hands to me; and I
touched a woman's hands with my lips for the first time in fifteen
years.

"In all devotion and loyalty--and gratitude," I said.

"And in friendship--say it!"

"In friendship."

"Now you may go--if you desire to. When will you come again?"

"When may I?"

"When you will."




XIV

THE PATH OF THE LIZARD


About nine o'clock the next morning an incident occurred which might
have terminated my career in one way, and did, ultimately, end it in
another.

I had been exercising my lions and putting them through their paces,
and had noticed no unusual insubordination among them, when suddenly,
Timour Melek, a big Algerian lion, flew at me without the slightest
provocation or warning.

Fortunately I had a training-chair in my hand, on which Timour had
just been sitting, and I had time to thrust it into his face. Thrice
with incredible swiftness he struck the iron-chair, right, left, and
right, as a cat strikes, then seized it in his teeth. At the same
moment I brought my loaded whip heavily across his nose.

"Down, Timour Melek! Down! down! down!" I said, steadily,
accompanying each word with a blow of the whip across the nose.

The brute had only hurt himself when he struck the chair, and now,
under the blows raining on his sensitive nose, he doubtless remembered
similar episodes in his early training, and shrank back, nearly
deafening me with his roars. I followed, punishing him, and he fled
towards the low iron grating which separated the training-cage from
the night-quarters.

This I am now inclined to believe was a mistake of judgment on my
part. I should have driven him into a corner and thoroughly cowed him,
using the training-chair if necessary, and trusting to my two
assistants with their irons, who had already closed up on either side
of the cage.

I was not in perfect trim that morning. Not that I felt nervous in the
least, nor had I any lack of self-confidence, but I was not myself. I
had never in my life entered a lion-cage feeling as I did that
morning--an indifference which almost amounted to laziness, an apathy
which came close to melancholy.

The lions knew I was not myself--they had been aware of it as soon as
I set foot in their cage; and I knew it. But my strange apathy only
increased as I went about my business, perfectly aware all the time
that, with lions born in captivity, the unexpected is always to be
expected.

Timour Melek was now close to the low iron door between the
partitions; the other lions had become unusually excited, bounding at
a heavy gallop around the cage, or clinging to the bars like enormous
cats.

Then, as I faced Timour, ready to force him backward through the door
into the night-quarters, something in the blank glare of his eyes
seemed to fascinate me. I had an absurd sensation that he was slipping
away from me--escaping; that I no longer dominated him nor had
authority. It was not panic, nor even fear; it was a faint
paralysis--temporary, fortunately; for at that instant instinct saved
me; I struck the lion a terrific blow across the nose and whirled
around, chair uplifted, just in time to receive the charge of Empress
Khatoun, consort of Timour.

She struck the iron-bound chair, doubling it up like crumpled paper,
hurling me headlong, not to the floor of the cage, but straight
through the sliding-bars which Speed had just flung open with a shout.
As for me, I landed violently on my back in the sawdust, the breath
knocked clean out of me.

When I could catch my breath again I realized that there was no time
to waste. Speed looked at me angrily, but I jerked open the grating,
flung another chair into the cage, leaped in, and, singling out
Empress Khatoun, I sailed into her with passionless thoroughness,
punishing her to a stand-still, while the other lions, Aicha,
Marghouz, Timour, and Genghis Khan snarled and watched me steadily.

As I emerged from the cage Speed asked me whether I was hurt, and I
gasped out that I was not.

"What went wrong?" he persisted.

"Timour and that young lioness--no, I went wrong; the lions knew it
at once; something failed me, I don't know what; upon my soul, Speed,
I don't know what happened."

"You lost your nerve?"

"No, not that. Timour began looking at me in a peculiar way--he
certainly dominated me for an instant--for a tenth of a second; and
then Khatoun flew at me before I could control Timour--"

I hesitated.

"Speed, it was one of those seconds that come to us, when the
faintest shadow of indecision settles matters. Engineers are subject
to it at the throttle, pilots at the helm, captains in battle--"

"Men in love," added Speed.

I looked at him, not comprehending.

"By-the-way," said Speed, "Leo Grammont, the greatest lion-tamer who
ever lived, once told me that a man in love with a woman could not
control lions; that when a man falls in love he loses that intangible,
mysterious quality--call it mesmerism or whatever you like--the occult
force that dominates beasts. And he said that the lions knew it, that
they perceived it sometimes even before the man himself was aware
that he was in love."

I looked him over in astonishment.

"What's the matter with you?" he asked, amused.

"What's the matter with you?" I demanded. "If you mean to intimate
that I have fallen in love you are certainly an astonishing ass!"

"Don't talk that way," he said, good-humoredly. "I didn't dream of
such a thing, or of offending you, Scarlett."

It struck me at the same moment that my irritable and unwarranted
retort was utterly unlike me.

"I beg your pardon," I said. "I don't know exactly what is the
matter with me to-day. First I quarrel with poor old Timour Melek,
then I insult you. I've discovered that I have nerves; I never before
knew it."

"Cold flap-jacks and cider would have destroyed Hercules himself in
time," observed Speed, following with his eyes the movements of a
lithe young girl, who was busy with the hoisting apparatus of the
flying trapeze. The girl was Jacqueline, dressed in a mended gown of
Miss Delany's.

"At times," muttered Speed, partly to himself, "that little witch
frightens me. There is no risk she dares not take; even Horan gets
nervous; and when that bull-necked numbskull is scared there's reason
for it."

We walked out into the main tent, where simultaneous rehearsals were
everywhere in progress; and I picked up the ring-master's whip and
sent it curling after "Briza," a harmless, fat, white mare on which
pretty Mrs. Grigg was sitting expectantly. Round and round the ring
she cantered, now astride two horses, now guiding a "spike,"
practising assiduously her acrobatics. At intervals, far up in the
rigging overhead, I caught glimpses of Miss Crystal swinging on her
trapeze, watching the ring below.

Byram came in to rehearse the opening processional and to rebuke his
dearest foe, the unspeakable "camuel," bestridden by Mrs. Horan as
Fatima, Queen of the Desert. Speed followed, squatted on the head of
the elephant, ankus on thigh, shouting, "Hôut! Mäil! Djebé Noain!
Mäil the hezar! Mäil!" he thundered, triumphantly, saluting Byram with
lifted ankus as the elephant ambled past in a cloud of dust.

"Clear the ring!" cried Byram.

Miss Delany, who was outlining Jacqueline with juggler's knives, began
to pull her stock of cutlery from the soft pine backing; elephant,
camel, horses trampled out; Miss Crystal caught a dangling rope and
slid earthward, and I turned and walked towards the outer door with
Byram.
