believe he should ever be rich. His conviction on this head was in
truth quite positive and a thing by itself; he failed, after analysis,
to understand it, though he had naturally more lights on it than any
one else. He knew how it subsisted in spite of an equal consciousness
of his being neither mentally nor physically quite helpless, neither a
dunce nor a cripple; he knew it to be absolute, though secret, and
also, strange to say, about common undertakings, not discouraging, not
prohibitive. Only now was he having to think if it were prohibitive in
respect to marriage; only now, for the first time, had he to weigh his
case in scales. The scales, as he sat with Kate, often dangled in the
line of his vision; he saw them, large and black, while he talked or
listened, take, in the bright air, singular positions. Sometimes the
right was down and sometimes the left; never a happy equipoise--one or
the other always kicking the beam. Thus was kept before him the
question of whether it were more ignoble to ask a woman to take her
chance with you, or to accept it from one's conscience that her chance
could be at the best but one of the degrees of privation; whether, too,
otherwise, marrying for money mightn't after all be a smaller cause of
shame than the mere dread of marrying without. Through these variations
of mood and view, all the same, the mark on his forehead stood clear;
he saw himself remain without whether he married or not. It was a line
on which his fancy could be admirably active; the innumerable ways of
making money were beautifully present to him; he could have handled
them, for his newspaper, as easily as he handled everything. He was
quite aware how he handled everything; it was another mark on his
forehead; the pair of smudges from the thumb of fortune, the brand on
the passive fleece, dated from the primal hour and kept each other
company. He wrote, as for print, with deplorable ease; since there had
been nothing to stop him even at the age of ten, so there was as little
at twenty; it was part of his fate in the first place and part of the
wretched public's in the second. The innumerable ways of making money
were, no doubt, at all events, what his imagination often was busy with
after he had tilted his chair and thrown back his head with his hands
clasped behind it. What would most have prolonged that attitude,
moreover, was the reflection that the ways were ways only for others.
Within the minute, now--however this might be--he was aware of a nearer
view than he had yet quite had of those circumstances on his
companion's part that made least for simplicity of relation. He saw
above all how she saw them herself, for she spoke of them at present
with the last frankness, telling him of her visit to her father and
giving him, in an account of her subsequent scene with her sister, an
instance of how she was perpetually reduced to patching up, in one way
or another, that unfortunate woman's hopes.

"The tune," she exclaimed, "to which we're a failure as a family!" With
which he had it again all from her--and this time, as it seemed to him,
more than all: the dishonour her father had brought them, his folly and
cruelty and wickedness; the wounded state of her mother, abandoned,
despoiled and helpless, yet, for the management of such a home as
remained to them, dreadfully unreasonable too; the extinction of her
two young brothers--one, at nineteen, the eldest of the house, by
typhoid fever, contracted at a poisonous little place, as they had
afterwards found out, that they had taken for a summer; the other, the
flower of the flock, a middy on the Britannia, dreadfully drowned,
and not even by an accident at sea, but by cramp, unrescued, while
bathing, too late in the autumn, in a wretched little river during a
holiday visit to the home of a shipmate. Then Marian's unnatural
marriage, in itself a kind of spiritless turning of the other cheek to
fortune: her actual wretchedness and plaintiveness, her greasy
children, her impossible claims, her odious visitors--these things
completed the proof of the heaviness, for them all, of the hand of
fate. Kate confessedly described them with an excess of impatience; it
was much of her charm for Densher that she gave in general that turn to
her descriptions, partly as if to amuse him by free and humorous
colour, partly--and that charm was the greatest--as if to work off, for
her own relief, her constant perception of the incongruity of things.
She had seen the general show too early and too sharply, and she was so
intelligent that she knew it and allowed for that misfortune; therefore
when, in talk with him, she was violent and almost unfeminine, it was
almost as if they had settled, for intercourse, on the short cut of the
fantastic and the happy language of exaggeration. It had come to be
definite between them at a primary stage that, if they could have no
other straight way, the realm of thought at least was open to them.
They could think whatever they liked about whatever they would--or, in
other words, they could say it. Saying it for each other, for each
other alone, only of course added to the taste. The implication was
thereby constant that what they said when not together had no taste for
them at all, and nothing could have served more to launch them, at
special hours, on their small floating island than such an assumption
that they were only making believe everywhere else. Our young man, it
must be added, was conscious enough that it was Kate who profited most
by this particular play of the fact of intimacy. It always seemed to
him that she had more life than he to react from, and when she
recounted the dark disasters of her house and glanced at the hard, odd
offset of her present exaltation--since as exaltation it was apparently
to be considered--he felt his own grey domestic annals to make little
show. It was naturally, in all such reference, the question of her
father's character that engaged him most, but her picture of her
adventure in Chirk Street gave him a sense of how little as yet that
character was clear to him. What was it, to speak plainly, that Mr.
Croy had originally done?

"I don't know--and I don't want to. I only know that years and years
ago--when I was about fifteen--something or other happened that made
him impossible. I mean impossible for the world at large first, and
then, little by little, for mother. We of course didn't know it at the
time," Kate explained, "but we knew it later; and it was, oddly enough,
my sister who first made out that he had done something. I can hear her
now--the way, one cold, black Sunday morning when, on account of an
extraordinary fog, we had not gone to church, she broke it to me by the
school-room fire. I was reading a history-book by the lamp--when we
didn't go to church we had to read history-books--and I suddenly heard
her say, out of the fog, which was in the room, and apropos of
nothing: 'Papa has done something wicked.' And the curious thing was
that I believed it on the spot and have believed it ever since, though
she could tell me nothing more--neither what was the wickedness, nor
how she knew, nor what would happen to him, nor anything else about it.
We had our sense, always, that all sorts of things had happened, were
all the while happening, to him; so that when Marian only said she was
sure, tremendously sure, that she had made it out for herself, but that
that was enough, I took her word for it--it seemed somehow so natural.
We were not, however, to ask mother--which made it more natural still,
and I said never a word. But mother, strangely enough, spoke of it to
me, in time, of her own accord very much later on. He hadn't been with
us for ever so long, but we were used to that. She must have had some
fear, some conviction that I had an idea, some idea of her own that it
was the best thing to do. She came out as abruptly as Marian had done:
'If you hear anything against your father--anything I mean, except that
he's odious and vile--remember it's perfectly false.' That was the way
I knew--it was true, though I recall that I said to her then that I of
course knew it wasn't. She might have told me it was true, and yet have
trusted me to contradict fiercely enough any accusation of him that I
should meet--to contradict it much more fiercely and effectively, I
think, than she would have done herself. As it happens, however," the
girl went on, "I've never had occasion, and I've been conscious of it
with a sort of surprise. It has made the world, at times, seem more
decent. No one has so much as breathed to me. That has been a part of
the silence, the silence that surrounds him, the silence that, for the
world, has washed him out. He doesn't exist for people. And yet I'm as
sure as ever. In fact, though I know no more than I did then, I'm more
sure. And that," she wound up, "is what I sit here and tell you about
my own father. If you don't call it a proof of confidence I don't know
what will satisfy you."

"It satisfies me beautifully," Densher declared, "but it doesn't, my
dear child, very greatly enlighten me. You don't, you know, really tell
me anything. It's so vague that what am I to think but that you may
very well be mistaken? What has he done, if no one can name it?"

"He has done everything."

"Oh--everything! Everything's nothing."

"Well then," said Kate, "he has done some particular thing. It's
known--only, thank God, not to us. But it has been the end of him. You
could doubtless find out with a little trouble. You can ask about."

Densher for a moment said nothing; but the next moment he made it up.
"I wouldn't find out for the world, and I'd rather lose my tongue than
put a question."

"And yet it's a part of me," said Kate.

"A part of you?"

"My father's dishonour." Then she sounded for him, but more deeply than
ever yet, her note of proud, still pessimism. "How can such a thing as
that not be the great thing in one's life?"

She had to take from him again, on this, one of his long looks, and she
took it to its deepest, its headiest dregs. "I shall ask you, for the
great thing in your life," he said, "to depend on me a little more."
After which, just hesitating, "Doesn't he belong to some club?" he
inquired.

She had a grave headshake. "He used to--to many."

"But he has dropped them?"

"They've dropped him. Of that I'm sure. It ought to do for you. I
offered him," the girl immediately continued--"and it was for that I
went to him--to come and be with him, make a home for him so far as is
possible. But he won't hear of it."

Densher took this in with visible, but generous, wonder. "You offered
him--'impossible' as you describe him to me--to live with him and share
his disadvantages?" The young man saw for the moment but the high
beauty of it. "You are gallant!"

"Because it strikes you as being brave for him?" She wouldn't in the
least have this. "It wasn't courage--it was the opposite. I did it to
save myself--to escape."

He had his air, so constant at this stage, as of her giving him finer
things than any one to think about. "Escape from what?"

"From everything."

"Do you by any chance mean from me?"

"No; I spoke to him of you, told him--or what amounted to it--that I
would bring you, if he would allow it, with me."

"But he won't allow it," said Densher.

"Won't hear of it on any terms. He won't help me, won't save me, won't
hold out a finger to me," Kate went on; "he simply wriggles away, in
his inimitable manner, and throws me back."

"Back then, after all, thank goodness," Densher concurred, "on me."

But she spoke again as with the sole vision of the whole scene she had
evoked. "It's a pity, because you'd like him. He's wonderful--he's
charming." Her companion gave one of the laughs that marked in him,
again, his feeling in her tone, inveterately, something that banished
the talk of other women, so far as he knew other women, to the dull
desert of the conventional, and she had already continued. "He would
make himself delightful to you."

"Even while objecting to me?"

"Well, he likes to please," the girl explained--"personally. He would
appreciate you and be clever with you. It's to me he objects--that is
as to my liking you."

"Heaven be praised then," Densher exclaimed, "that you like me enough
for the objection!"

But she met it after an instant with some inconsequence. "I don't. I
offered to give you up, if necessary, to go to him. But it made no
difference, and that's what I mean," she pursued, "by his declining me
on any terms. The point is, you see, that I don't escape."

Densher wondered. "But if you didn't wish to escape me?"

"I wished to escape Aunt Maud. But he insists that it's through her and
through her only that I may help him; just as Marian insists that it's
through her, and through her only, that I can help her. That's what I
mean," she again explained, "by their turning me back."

The young man thought. "Your sister turns you back too?"

"Oh, with a push!"

"But have you offered to live with your sister?"

"I would in a moment if she'd have me. That's all my virtue--a narrow
little family feeling. I've a small stupid piety--I don't know what to
call it." Kate bravely sustained it; she made it out. "Sometimes,
alone, I've to smother my shrieks when I think of my poor mother. She
went through things--they pulled her down; I know what they were now--I
didn't then, for I was a pig; and my position, compared with hers, is
an insolence of success. That's what Marian keeps before me; that's
what papa himself, as I say, so inimitably does. My position's a value,
a great value, for them both"--she followed and followed. Lucid and
ironic, she knew no merciful muddle. "It's the value--the only one
they have."

Everything between our young couple moved today, in spite of their
pauses, their margin, to a quicker measure--the quickness and anxiety
playing lightning-like in the sultriness. Densher watched, decidedly,
as he had never done before. "And the fact you speak of holds you!"

"Of course, it holds me. It's a perpetual sound in my ears. It makes me
ask myself if I've any right to personal happiness, any right to
anything but to be as rich and overflowing, as smart and shining, as I
can be made."

Densher had a pause. "Oh, you might, with good luck, have the personal
happiness too."

Her immediate answer to this was a silence like his own; after which
she gave him straight in the face, but quite simply and quietly:
"Darling!"

It took him another moment; then he was also quiet and simple. "Will
you settle it by our being married to-morrow--as we can, with perfect
ease, civilly?"

"Let us wait to arrange it," Kate presently replied, "till after you've
seen her."

"Do you call that adoring me?" Densher demanded.

They were talking, for the time, with the strangest mixture of
deliberation and directness, and nothing could have been more in the
tone of it than the way she at last said: "You're afraid of her
yourself."

He gave a smile a trifle glassy. "For young persons of a great
distinction and a very high spirit, we're a caution!"

"Yes," she took it straight up; "we're hideously intelligent. But
there's fun in it too. We must get our fun where we can. I think," she
added, and for that matter, not without courage, "our relation's
beautiful. It's not a bit vulgar. I cling to some saving romance in
things."

It made him break into a laugh which had more freedom than his smile.
"How you must be afraid you'll chuck me!"

"No, no, that would be vulgar. But, of course, I do see my danger,"
she admitted, "of doing something base."

"Then what can be so base as sacrificing me?"

"I shan't sacrifice you; don't cry out till you're hurt. I shall
sacrifice nobody and nothing, and that's just my situation, that I want
and that I shall try for everything. That," she wound up, "is how I see
myself, and how I see you quite as much, acting for them."

"For 'them'?" and the young man strongly, extravagantly marked his
coldness. "Thank you!"

"Don't you care for them?"

"Why should I? What are they to me but a serious nuisance?"

As soon as he had permitted himself this qualification of the
unfortunate persons she so perversely cherished, he repented of his
roughness--and partly because he expected a flash from her. But it was
one of her finest sides that she sometimes flashed with a mere mild
glow. "I don't see why you don't make out a little more that if we
avoid stupidity we may do all. We may keep her."

He stared. "Make her pension us?"

"Well, wait at least till we have seen."

He thought. "Seen what can be got out of her?"

Kate for a moment said nothing. "After all I never asked her; never,
when our troubles were at the worst, appealed to her nor went near her.
She fixed upon me herself, settled on me with her wonderful gilded
claws."

"You speak," Densher observed, "as if she were a vulture."

"Call it an eagle--with a gilded beak as well, and with wings for great
flights. If she's a thing of the air, in short--say at once a
balloon--I never myself got into her car. I was her choice."

It had really, her sketch of the affair, a high colour and a great
style; at all of which he gazed a minute as at a picture by a master.
"What she must see in you!"

"Wonders!" And, speaking it loud, she stood straight up. "Everything.
There it is."

Yes, there it was, and as she remained before him he continued to face
it. "So that what you mean is that I'm to do my part in somehow
squaring her?"

"See her, see her," Kate said with impatience.

"And grovel to her?"

"Ah, do what you like!" And she walked in her impatience away.


IV

His eyes had followed her at this time quite long enough, before he
overtook her, to make out more than ever, in the poise of her head, the
pride of her step--he didn't know what best to call it--a part, at
least, of Mrs. Lowder's reasons. He consciously winced while he figured
his presenting himself as a reason opposed to these; though, at the
same moment, with the source of Aunt Maud's inspiration thus before
him, he was prepared to conform, by almost any abject attitude or
profitable compromise, to his companion's easy injunction. He would do
as she liked--his own liking might come off as it would. He would
help her to the utmost of his power; for, all the rest of that day and
the next, her easy injunction, tossed off that way as she turned her
beautiful back, was like the crack of a great whip in the blue air, the
high element in which Mrs. Lowder hung. He wouldn't grovel perhaps--he
wasn't quite ready for that; but he would be patient, ridiculous,
reasonable, unreasonable, and above all deeply diplomatic. He would be
clever, with all his cleverness--which he now shook hard, as he
sometimes shook his poor, dear, shabby, old watch, to start it up
again. It wasn't, thank goodness, as if there weren't plenty of that,
and with what they could muster between them it would be little to the
credit of their star, however pale, that defeat and
surrender--surrender so early, so immediate--should have to ensue. It
was not indeed that he thought of that disaster as, at the worst, a
direct sacrifice of their possibilities: he imaged--it which was enough
as some proved vanity, some exposed fatuity, in the idea of bringing
Mrs. Lowder round. When, shortly afterwards, in this lady's vast
drawing-room--the apartments at Lancaster Gate had struck him from the
first as of prodigious extent--he awaited her, at her request, conveyed
in a "reply-paid" telegram, his theory was that of their still clinging
to their idea, though with a sense of the difficulty of it really
enlarged to the scale of the place.

He had the place for a long time--it seemed to him a quarter of an
hour--to himself; and while Aunt Maud kept him and kept him, while
observation and reflection crowded on him, he asked himself what was to
be expected of a person who could treat one like that. The visit, the
hour were of her own proposing, so that her delay, no doubt, was but
part of a general plan of putting him to inconvenience. As he walked to
and fro, however, taking in the message of her massive, florid
furniture, the immense expression of her signs and symbols, he had as
little doubt of the inconvenience he was prepared to suffer. He found
himself even facing the thought that he had nothing to fall back on,
and that that was as great a humiliation in a good cause as a proud man
could desire. It had not yet been so distinct to him that he made no
show--literally not the smallest; so complete a show seemed made there
all about him; so almost abnormally affirmative, so aggressively erect,
were the huge, heavy objects that syllabled his hostess story. "When
all's said and done, you know, she's colossally vulgar"--he had once
all but said that of Mrs. Lowder to her niece; only just keeping it
back at the last, keeping it to himself with all its danger about it.
It mattered because it bore so directly, and he at all events quite
felt it a thing that Kate herself would some day bring out to him. It
bore directly at present, and really all the more that somehow,
strangely, it didn't in the least imply that Aunt Maud was dull or
stale. She was vulgar with freshness, almost with beauty, since there
was beauty, to a degree, in the play of so big and bold a temperament.
She was in fine quite the largest possible quantity to deal with; and
he was in the cage of the lioness without his whip--the whip, in a
word, of a supply of proper retorts. He had no retort but that he loved
the girl--which in such a house as that was painfully cheap. Kate had
mentioned to him more than once that her aunt was Passionate, speaking
of it as a kind of offset and uttering it as with a capital P, marking
it as something that he might, that he in fact ought to, turn about in
some way to their advantage. He wondered at this hour to what advantage
he could turn it; but the case grew less simple the longer he waited.
Decidedly there was something he hadn't enough of. He stood as one fast.

His slow march to and fro seemed to give him the very measure; as he
paced and paced the distance it became the desert of his poverty; at
the sight of which expanse moreover he could pretend to himself as
little as before that the desert looked redeemable. Lancaster Gate
looked rich--that was all the effect; which it was unthinkable that any
state of his own should ever remotely resemble. He read more vividly,
more critically, as has been hinted, the appearances about him; and
they did nothing so much as make him wonder at his aesthetic reaction.
He hadn't known--and in spite of Kate's repeated reference to her own
rebellions of taste--that he should "mind" so much how an independent
lady might decorate her house. It was the language of the house itself
that spoke to him, writing out for him, with surpassing breadth and
freedom, the associations and conceptions, the ideals and possibilities
of the mistress. Never, he flattered himself, had he seen anything so
gregariously ugly--operatively, ominously so cruel. He was glad to have
found this last name for the whole character; "cruel" somehow played
into the subject for an article--that his impression put straight into
his mind. He would write about the heavy horrors that could still
flourish, that lifted their undiminished heads, in an age so proud of
its short way with false gods; and it would be funny if what he should
have got from Mrs. Lowder were to prove, after all, but a small amount
of copy. Yet the great thing, really the dark thing, was that, even
while he thought of the quick column he might add up, he felt it less
easy to laugh at the heavy horrors than to quail before them. He
couldn't describe and dismiss them collectively, call them either
Mid-Victorian or Early; not being at all sure they were rangeable under
one rubric. It was only manifest they were splendid and were
furthermore conclusively British. They constituted an order and they
abounded in rare material--precious woods, metals, stuffs, stones. He
had never dreamed of anything so fringed and scalloped, so buttoned and
corded, drawn everywhere so tight, and curled everywhere so thick. He
had never dreamed of so much gilt and glass, so much satin and plush,
so much rosewood and marble and malachite. But it was, above all, the
solid forms, the wasted finish, the misguided cost, the general
attestation of morality and money, a good conscience and a big balance.
These things finally represented for him a portentous negation of his
own world of thought--of which, for that matter, in the presence of
them, he became as for the first time hopelessly aware. They revealed
it to him by their merciless difference. His interview with Aunt Maud,
none the less, took by no means the turn he had expected. Passionate
though her nature, no doubt Mrs. Lowder, on this occasion, neither
threatened nor appealed. Her arms of aggression, her weapons of
defence, were presumably close at hand, but she left them untouched and
unmentioned, and was in fact so bland that he properly perceived only
afterwards how adroit she had been. He properly perceived something
else as well, which complicated his case; he shouldn't have known what
to call it if he hadn't called it her really imprudent good-nature. Her
blandness, in other words, was not mere policy--he wasn't dangerous
enough for policy; it was the result, he could see, of her fairly
liking him a little. From the moment she did that she herself became
more interesting; and who knew what might happen should he take to
liking her? Well, it was a risk he naturally must face. She fought
him, at any rate, but with one hand, with a few loose grains of stray
powder. He recognised at the end of ten minutes, and even without her
explaining it, that if she had made him wait it had not been to wound
him; they had by that time almost directly met on the fact of her
intention. She had wanted him to think for himself of what she proposed
to say to him--not having otherwise announced it; wanted to let it come
home to him on the spot, as she had shrewdly believed it would. Her
first question, on appearing, had practically been as to whether he
hadn't taken her hint, and this inquiry assumed so many things that it
made discussion, immediately, frank and large. He knew, with the
question put, that the hint was just what he had taken; knew that she
had made him quickly forgive her the display of her power; knew that if
he didn't take care he should understand her, and the strength of her
purpose, to say nothing of that of her imagination, nothing of the
length of her purse, only too well. Yet he pulled himself up with the
thought, too, that he was not going to be afraid of understanding her;
he was just going to understand and understand without detriment to the
feeblest, even, of his passions. The play of one's mind let one in, at
the best, dreadfully, in action, in the need of action, where
simplicity was all; but when one couldn't prevent it the thing was to
make it complete. There would never be mistakes but for the original
fun of mistakes. What he must use his fatal intelligence for was to
resist. Mrs. Lowder, meanwhile, might use it for whatever she liked.

It was after she had begun her statement of her own idea about Kate
that he began, on his side, to reflect that--with her manner of
offering it as really sufficient if he would take the trouble to
embrace--it she couldn't half hate him. That was all, positively, she
seemed to show herself for the time as attempting; clearly, if she did
her intention justice, she would have nothing more disagreeable to do.
