satisfaction, and in proposing to himself never to marry, but to grow old
gradually and gracefully as a bachelor of adequate income, he saw no
difficulties in his way for the future, until this affair of the
apparition. If now he incurred the chances of an open change in his way
of living--the end was simply a question of very little time. He must not
only declass, he must depatriate himself, for he would not have the means
of living even much more economically than he now lived in New York, if
he did what a sense of honor, of just responsibility urged him to do with
regard to St. John.
He would have been glad of any interposition of Providence that would
have availed him against his obvious duty. He would have liked to recall
the words saying that there was only one thing for him to do, but he
could not recall them and he was forced to go on. “Will you sell me your
place?” he said to St. John, colorlessly.
“Sell you my place? What do you mean?”
“Simply that if you will, I shall be glad to buy it at your own
valuation.”
“Oh, look here, now, Hewson! I can’t let you do this,” St. John began,
trying to feel a magnanimity which proved impossible to him. “What do you
want with my place? You couldn’t get anybody to live there with you.”
“I couldn’t afford to live there in any case,” said Hewson; “but I am
entirely willing to risk the purchase.”
Was it possible that Hewson knew something of the neighborhood or its
future, which encouraged him to take the chances of the property
appreciating in value? This thought passed through St. John’s mind, and
he was not the man to let himself be overreached in a deal. “The place
ought to be worth thirty thousand,” he said, for a bluff.
It was a relief for Hewson to feel ashamed of St. John instead of
himself, for a moment. “Very well, I’ll give you thirty thousand.”
St. John examined himself for a responsive generosity. The most he could
say was, “You’re doing this because of what I’d said.”
“What does it matter? I make you a bonafide offer. I will give you thirty
thousand dollars for St. Johnswort,” said Hewson, haughtily. “I ask you
to sell me that place. I cannot see that it will ever be any good to me,
but I can assure you that it would be a far worse burden for me to carry
round the sense of having injured you, however unwillingly--God knows I
never meant you harm!--than to shoulder the chance of your place
remaining worthless on my hands.”
St. John caught at the hope which the form of words suggested. “If
anything can bring it up, it will be the fact that you have bought it.
Such a thing would give the lie to that ridiculous story, as nothing else
could. Every one will see that a house can’t be very badly haunted, if
the man that the ghost appeared to is willing to buy it.”
“Perhaps,” said Hewson sadly.
“No perhaps about it,” St. John retorted, all the more cheerfully because
he would have been glad before this incident to take twenty thousand for
his place. “It’s just on the borders of Lenox, and it’s bound to come up
when this blows over.” He talked on for a time in an encouraging strain,
while Hewson, standing with his back against the mantel, looked absently
down upon him. St. John was inwardly struggling through all to say that
Hewson might have the property for twenty-eight thousand, but he could
not. Possibly he made himself believe that he was letting it go a great
bargain at thirty; at any rate he ended by saying, “Well, it’s yours--if
you really mean it.”
“I mean it,” said Hewson.
St. John floundered up out of his chair with seal-like struggles. “Do you
want the furniture?” he panted.
“The furniture? Yes, why not?” said Hewson. He did not seem to know what
he was saying, or to care.
“I will put that in for a mere nominal consideration--the rugs alone are
worth the money--say a thousand more.”
Hewson’s man came in with a note. “The messenger is waiting, sir,” he
said.
Hewson was aware of wondering that he had not heard any ring. “Will you
excuse me?” he said, toward St. John.
“By all means,” said St. John.
Hewson opened the note, and read it with an expression which can only be
described as a radiant frown. He sat down at his desk, and wrote an
answer to the note, and gave it to his man, who was still waiting. Then
he said to St. John, “What did you say the rugs were worth?”
“A thousand.”
“I’ll take them. And what do you want for the rest of the furniture?”
Clearly he had not understood that the furniture, rugs, and all, had been
offered to him for a thousand dollars. But what was a man in St. John’s
place to do? As it was he was turning himself out of house and home for
Hewson, and that was sacrifice enough. He hesitated, sighed deeply, and
then said, “Well, I will throw all that in for a couple of thousand
more.”
“All right,” said Hewson, “I will give it. Have the papers made out and
I will have the money ready at once.”
“Oh, there’s no hurry about that, my dear fellow,” said St. John,
handsomely.
XI.
Hewson’s note was from Mrs. Rock, asking him to breakfast with her at the
Walholland the next morning. She said that they were just off the
steamer, which had got in late, and they had started so suddenly from
London that she had not had time to write and have her apartment opened.
She came to business in the last sentence where she said that Miss
Hernshaw joined her in kind remembrances, and wished her to say that he
must not fail them, or if he could not come to breakfast, to let them
know at what hour during the day he would be kind enough to call; it was
very important they should see him at the earliest possible moment.
Hewson instantly decided that this summons was related to the affair of
his apparition, without imagining how or why, and when Miss Hernshaw met
him, and almost before she could say that Mrs. Rock would be down in a
moment, began with it, he made no feint of having come for anything else.
[Illustration: “‘WHY, THERE ISN’T ANY PUNISHMENT SEVERE ENOUGH FOR A
CRIME LIKE THAT’”]
As he entered the door of Mrs. Rock’s parlor, where the breakfast table
was laid, the girl came swiftly toward him, with the air of having turned
from watching for him at the window. “Well, what do you think of me?” she
demanded as soon as she had got over Mrs. Rock’s excuses for having her
receive him. He had of course to repeat, “What do I think of you?” but he
knew perfectly what she meant.
She disdained to help him pretend that he did not know. “It was I who
told that horrible woman about your experience at St. Johnswort. I
didn’t dream that she was an interviewer, but that doesn’t excuse me,
and I am willing to take any punishment for my--I don’t know what to call
it--mischief.”
She was so intensely ready, so magnificently prepared for the stake, if
that should be her sentence, that Hewson could not help laughing. “Why
there isn’t any punishment severe enough for a crime like that,” he
began, but she would not allow him to trifle with the matter.
“Oh, I didn’t think you would be so uncandid! The instant I read that
interview I made Mrs. Rock get ready to come. And we started the first
steamer. It seemed to me that I could not eat or sleep, till I had seen
you and told you what I had done and taken the consequences. And now do
you think it right to turn it off as a joke?”
“I don’t wish to make a joke of it,” said Hewson, gravely, in compliance
with her mood. “But I don’t understand, quite, how you could have got the
story over there in time for you--”
“It was cabled to their London edition--that’s what it said in the paper;
and by this time they must have it in Australia,” said Miss Hernshaw,
with unrelieved severity.
“Oh!” said Hewson, giving himself time to realize that he was the
psychical hero of two hemispheres. “Well,” he resumed “what do you expect
me to say?”
“I don’t know what I expect. I expected you to say something without my
prompting you. You know that it was outrageous for me to talk about your
apparition without your leave, and to be the means of its getting into
the newspapers.”
“I’m not sure you were the means. I have told the story a hundred
times, myself.”
“But that doesn’t excuse me. You knew the kind of people to tell it to,
and I didn’t.”
“Oh, I am afraid I was willing to tell it to all kinds of people--to any
kind that would listen.”
“You are trying to evade me, Mr. Hewson,” she said, with a severity he
found charming. “I didn’t expect that of you.”
The appeal was not lost upon Hewson. “What do you want me to say?”
“I want you,” said Miss Hernshaw, with an effect of giving him another
trial, “to say--to acknowledge that you were terribly annoyed by that
interview.”
“If you will excuse me from attaching the slightest blame to you for it,
I will acknowledge that I was annoyed.”
Miss Hernshaw drew a deep breath as of relief. “I will arrange about
the blame,” she said loftily. “And now I wish to tell you how I
never supposed that girl was an interviewer. We were all together
at an artist’s house in Rome, and after dinner, we got to telling
ghost-stories, the way people do, around the fire, and I told mine--yours
I mean. And before we broke up, this girl came to me--it was while we
were putting on our wraps--and introduced herself, and said how much she
had been impressed by my story--of course, I mean your story--and she
said she supposed it was made up. I said I should not dream of making up
a thing of that kind, and that it was every word true, and I had heard
the person it happened to tell it himself. I don’t know! I was vain of
having heard it, so, at first hand.”
“I can understand,” said Hewson, sadly.
“And then I told her who the person was, and where it happened--and about
the burglary. You can’t imagine how silly people get when they begin
going in that direction.”
“I am afraid I can,” said Hewson.
“She seemed very grateful somehow; I couldn’t see why, but I didn’t ask;
and then I didn’t think about it again till I saw it in that awful
newspaper. She sent it to me herself; she was such a simpleton; she
thought I would actually like to see it. She must have written it down,
and sent it to the paper, and they printed it when they got ready to; she
needed the money, I suppose. Then I began to wonder what you would say,
when you remembered how I blamed you for telling the same story--only not
half so bad--at that dinner.”
“I always felt you were quite right,” said Hewson. “I have always thanked
you in my own mind for being so frank with me.”
“Well, and what do you think now, when you know that I was ten times as
bad as you--ten times as foolish and vulgar!”
“I haven’t had time to formulate my ideas yet,” Hewson urged.
“You know perfectly well that you despise me. Can you say that I had any
right to give your name?”
“It must have got out sooner or later. I never asked any one not to
mention my name when I told the story--”
“I see that you think I took a liberty, and I did. But that’s nothing.
That isn’t the point. How I do keep beating about the bush! Mrs. Rock
says it was a great deal worse to tell where it happened, for that would
give the place the reputation of being haunted and nobody could ever live
there afterwards, for they couldn’t keep servants, even if they didn’t
have the creeps themselves, and it would ruin the property.”
Hewson had not been able, when she touched upon this point, to elude the
keen eye with which she read his silent thought.
“Is that true?” she demanded.
“Oh, no; oh, no,” he began, but he could not frame in plausible terms the
lies he would have uttered. He only succeeded in saying, “Those things
soon blow over.”
“Then how,” she said, sternly, “does it happen that in every town and
village, almost, there are houses that you can hardly hire anybody to
live in, because people say they are haunted? No, Mr. Hewson, it’s very
kind of you, and I appreciate it, but you can’t make me believe that it
will ever blow over, about St. Johnswort. Have you heard from Mr. St.
John since?”
“Yes,” Hewson was obliged to own.
“And was he very much troubled about it? I should think he was a man that
would be, from the way he behaved about the burglary. Was he?” she
persisted, seeing that Hewson hesitated.
“Yes, I must say he was.”
There was a sound of walking to and fro in the adjoining room, a quick
shutting as of trunk-lids, a noise as of a skirt shaken out, and steps
advanced to the door. Miss Hernshaw ran to it and turned the key in the
lock. “Not yet, Mrs. Rock,” she called to the unseen presence within, and
she explained to Hewson, as she faced him again, “She promised that I
should have it all out with you myself, and now I’m not going to have her
in here, interrupting. Well, did he write to you?”
“Yes, he wrote to me. He wanted me to deny the story.”
“And did you?”
“Of course not!” said Hewson, with a note of indignation. “It was true.
Besides it wouldn’t have been of any use.”
“No, it would have been wicked and it would have been useless. And then
what did he say?”
“Nothing.”
“Nothing? And you have never heard another word from him?”
“Yes, he came to see me last night.”
“Here in New York? Is he here yet?”
“I suppose so.”
“Where?”
“I believe at the Overpark.”
Miss Hernshaw caught her breath, as if she were going to speak, but she
did not say anything.
“Why do you insist upon all this, Miss Hernshaw?” he entreated. “It can
do you no good to follow the matter up!”
“Do you think I want to do myself good?” she returned. “I want to do
myself harm! What did he say when he came to see you?”
“Well, you can imagine,” said Hewson, not able to keep out of his tone
the lingering disgust he felt for St. John.
“He complained?”
“He all but shed tears,” said Hewson, recalled to a humorous sense of St.
John’s behavior. “I felt sorry for him; though,” he added, darkly, “I
can’t say that I do now.”
Miss Hernshaw didn’t seek to fathom the mystery of his closing words.
“Had he been actually inconvenienced by that thing in the paper?”
“Yes--somewhat.”
“How much?”
“Oh,” Hewson groaned. “If you must know--”
“I must! The worst!”
“It had fairly turned him out of house and home. His servants had all
left him, and he had been reduced to taking his meals at the inn. He
showed me a handful of letters from people whom he had asked to visit
him, withdrawing their acceptances, or making excuses for not accepting.”
“Ah!” said Miss Hernshaw, with a deep, inward breath, as if this now were
indeed something like the punishment she had expected. “And will it--did
he think--did he say anything about the pecuniary effect--the--whether it
would hurt the property?”
“He seemed to think it would,” answered Hewson, reluctantly, and he
added, unfortunately for his generous purpose, “I really can’t enter upon
that part.”
She arched her eyebrows in grieved surprise. “But that is the very part
that I want you to enter upon Mr. Hewson. You must tell me, now! Did he
say that it had injured the property very much?”
“He did, but--”
“But what?”
“I think St. John is a man to put the worst face on that matter.”
“You are saying that to keep me from feeling badly. But I ought to feel
badly--I wish to feel badly. I suppose he said that it wasn’t worth
anything now.”
“Something of that sort,” Hewson helplessly admitted.
“Very well, then, I will buy it for whatever he chooses to ask!” With the
precipitation which characterized all her actions, Miss Hernshaw rose
from the chair in which she had been provisionally sitting, pushed an
electric button in the wall, swirled away to the other side of the room,
unlocked the door behind which those sounds had subsided, and flinging it
open, said, “You can come out, Mrs. Hock; I’ve rung for breakfast.”
Mrs. Rock came smoothly forth, with her vague eyes wandering over every
other object in the room, till they rested upon Hewson, directly before
her. Then she gave him her hand, and asked, with a smile, as if taking
him into the joke. “Well, has Rosalie had it out with you?”
“I have had it out with him, Mrs. Rock,” Miss Hernshaw answered, “and I
will tell you all about it later. Now I want my breakfast.”
XII.
Hewson ate the meal before him, and it was a very good one, as from time
to time he noted, in a daze which was as strange a confusion of the two
consciousnesses as he had ever experienced. Whatever the convention was
between Miss Hernshaw and Mrs. Rock with regard to the matter in hand, or
lately in hand, it dropped, after a few uninterested inquiries from Mrs.
Rock, who was satisfied, or seemed so, to know that Miss Hernshaw had got
at the worst. She led the talk to other things, like the comparative
comforts and discomforts of the line to Genoa and the line to Liverpool;
and Hewson met her upon these polite topics with an apparent fulness of
interest that would have deceived a much more attentive listener.
All the time he was arguing with Miss Hernshaw in his nether
consciousness, pleading with her to keep her away from the fact that he
had himself bought St. Johnswort, until he could frame some fitting
form in which to tell her that he had bought it. With his outward eyes,
he saw her drooping on the opposite side of the table, and in spite of
her declaration that she wanted her breakfast, making nothing of it,
after the preliminary melon, while to his inward vision she was
passionately refusing, by every charming perversity, to be tempted
away from the subject.
As the Cunard boats always get in on Saturday, this morrow of their
arrival was naturally Sunday; and after a while Hewson fancied symptoms
of going to church in Mrs. Rock. She could not have become more vague
than she ordinarily was, but her wanderings were of a kind of devotional
character. She spoke of the American church in Rome, and asked Hewson if
he knew the rector. Then, when he said he was afraid he was keeping her
from going to church, she said she did not know whether Rosalie intended
going. At the same time she rose from the table, and Hewson found that he
should not be allowed to sit down again, unless by violence. He had to go
away, and he went, as little at ease in his mind as he very well could
be.
He was no sooner out of the house than he felt the necessity of
returning. He did not know how or when Miss Hernshaw would write to St.
John, but that she would do so, he did not at all doubt, and then, when
the truth came out, what would she think of him? He did not think her a
very wise person; she seemed to him rather a wild and whirling person in
her ideals of conduct, an unbridled and undisciplined person; and yet he
was aware of profoundly and tenderly respecting her as a creature of the
most inexpugnable innocence and final goodness. He could not bear to have
her feel that he had trifled with her. There had not been many meetings
between them, but each meeting had been of such event that it had
advanced their acquaintance far beyond the point that it could have
reached through weeks of ordinary association. From the first there had
been that sort of intimacy which exists between spirits which encounter
in the region of absolute sincerity. She had never used the least of
those arts which women use in concealing the candor of their natures from
men unworthy of it; she had not only practiced her rule of instant and
constant veracity, but had avowed it, and as it were, invited his
judgment of it. Hitherto, he had met her half-way at least, but now he
was in the coil of a disingenuousness which must more and more trammel
him from her, unless he found some way to declare the fact to her.
This ought to have been an easy matter, but it was not easy; upon
reflection it grew rather more difficult. Hewson did not see how he could
avow the fact, which he wished to avow, without intolerable awkwardness;
without the effect of boasting, without putting upon her a burden which
he had no right to put. To be sure, she had got herself in for it all by
her divine imprudence, but she had owned her error in that as promptly as
if it had been the blame of some one else. Still Hewson doubted whether
her magnanimity was large enough to go round in the case of a man who
tried to let his magnanimity come upon her with any sort of dramatic
surprise. This was what he must seem to be doing if he now left her to
learn from another how he had kept St. John from loss by himself assuming
the chance of depreciation in his property. But if he went and told her
that he had done it, how much better for him would that be?
He took a long, unhappy walk up into the Park, and then he walked back to
the Walholland. By this time he thought Mrs. Rock and Miss Hernshaw must
have been to church, but he had not the courage to send up his name to
them. He waited about in the region of the dining-room, in the senseless
hope that it would be better for him to surprise them on their way to
luncheon, and trust to some chance for introducing his confession, than
to seek a direct interview with Miss Hernshaw. But they did not come to
luncheon, and then Hewson had the clerk send up his card. Word came back
that the ladies would see him, and he followed the messenger to Mrs.
Rock’s apartment, where if he was surprised, he was not disappointed to
be received by Miss Hernshaw alone.
“Mrs. Rock is lying down,” she explained, “but I thought that it might be
something important, and you would not mind seeing me.”
“Not at all,” said Hewson, with what seemed to him afterwards superfluous
politeness, and then they both waited until he could formulate his
business, Miss Hernshaw drooping forward, and looking down in a way that
he had found was most characteristic of her. “It is something
important--at least it is important to me. Miss Hernshaw, may I ask
whether you have done anything--it seems a very unwarrantable
question--about St. Johnswort?”
“About buying it?”
“Yes. It will be useless to make any offer for it.”
“Why will it be useless to do that?”
“Because--because I have bought it myself.”
“You have bought it?”
“Yes; when he came to me last night, and made those
representations--Well, in short, I have bought the place.”
“To save him from losing money by that--story?”
“Well--yes. I ought to have told you the fact this morning, as soon as
you said you would buy the place. I know that you like people to be
perfectly truthful. But--I couldn’t--without seeming to--brag.”
“I understand,” said Miss Hernshaw.
“I took the risk of your writing to St. John; but then I realized that if
he answered and told you what I ought to have told you myself, it would
make it worse, and I came back.”
“I don’t know whether it would have made it worse; but you have come too
late,” said Miss Hernshaw. “I’ve just written to Mr. St. John.”
They were both silent for what Hewson thought a long time. At the end of
it, he asked, “Did you--you must excuse me--refer to me at all?”
“No, certainly not. Why should I?”
“I don’t know. I don’t know that it would have mattered.” He was silent
again, with bowed head; when he looked up he saw tears in the girl’s
eyes.
“I suppose you know where this leaves me?” she said gently.
“I can’t pretend that I don’t,” answered Hewson. “What can I do?”
“You can sell me the place for what it cost you.”
“Oh, no, I can’t do that,” said Hewson.
“Why do you say that? It isn’t as if I were poor; but even then you
wouldn’t have the right to refuse me if I insisted. It was my fault that
it ever came out about St. Johnswort. It might have come out about you,
but the harm to Mr. St. John--I did that, and why should you take it upon
yourself?”
“Because I was really to blame from the beginning to the end. If it had
not been for my pitiful wish to shine as the confidant of mystery,
nothing would have been known of the affair. Even when you asked me that
night if it had not happened at St. Johnswort, I know now that I had a
wretched triumph in saying that it had, and I was so full of this that I
did not think to caution you against repeating what I had owned.”
“Yes,” said the girl, with her unsparing honesty, “if you had given
me any hint, I would not have told for the world. Of course I did not
think--a girl wouldn’t--of the effect it would have on the property.”
“No, you wouldn’t think of that,” said Hewson. Though he agreed with
her, he would have preferred that she should continue to blame herself;
but he took himself severely in hand again. “So, you see, the fault was
altogether mine, and if there is to be any penalty it ought to fall upon
me.”
“Yes,” said Miss Hernshaw, “and if there has been a fault there ought to
be a penalty, don’t you think? It would have been no penalty for me to
buy St. Johnswort. My father wouldn’t have minded it.” She blushed
suddenly, and added, “I don’t mean that--You may be so rich that--I think
I had better stop.”
“No, no!” said Hewson, amused, and glad of the relief. “Go on. I will
tell you anything you wish to know.”
“I don’t wish, to know anything,” said Miss Hernshaw, haughtily.
Her words seemed to put an end to an interview for which there was no
longer any excuse.
Hewson rose. “Good-by,” he said, and he was rather surprised at her
putting out her hand, but he took it gratefully. “Will you make my adieux
to Mrs. Rock? And excuse my coming a second time to trouble you!”
“I don’t see how you could have helped coming,” said Miss Hernshaw, “when
you thought I might write to Mr. St. John at once.”
Whether this implied excuse or greater blame, Hewson had to go away with
it as her final response, and he went away certainly in as great
discomfort as he had come. He did not feel quite well used; it seemed to
him that hard measure had been dealt him on all sides, but especially by
Miss Hernshaw. After her futile effort at reparation to St. John she had
apparently withdrawn from all responsibility in the matter. He did not
know when he was to see her again, if ever, and he did not know what he
was to wait for, if anything.
Still he had the sense of waiting for something, or for some one, and he
went home to wait. There he perceived that it was for St. John, who did
not keep him waiting long. His nervous ring roused Hewson half an hour
after his return, and St. John came in with a look in his greedy eyes
which Hewson rightly interpreted at the first glance.
“See here, Hewson,” St. John said, with his habitual lack of manners. “I
don’t want to get you in for this thing at St. Johnswort. I know why you
offered to buy the place, and though of course you are the original cause
of the trouble, I don’t feel that it’s quite fair to let you shoulder the
consequences altogether.”
“Have I been complaining?” Hewson asked, dryly.
“No, and that’s just it. You’ve behaved like a little man through it all,
and I don’t like to take advantage of you. If you want to rue your
bargain, I’ll call it off. I’ve had some fresh light on the matter, and I
believe I can let you off without loss to myself. So that if it’s me
you’re considering--”
“What’s your fresh light?” asked Hewson.
“Well,” said St. John, and he swallowed rather hard, as if it were a
pill, “the fact is, I’ve had another offer for the place.”
“A better one?”
“Well, I don’t know that I can say that it is,” answered St. John, saving
his conscience in the form of the words.
Hewson knew that he was lying, and he had no mercy on him. “Then I
believe I’ll stick to my bargain. You say that the other party hasn’t
bettered my offer, and so I needn’t withdraw on your account. I’m not
bound to withdraw for any other reason.”
“No, of course not.” St. John rubbed his chin, as if hesitating to eat
his words, however unpalatable; but in the end he seemed not to find it
possible. “Well,” he said, disgustedly, as he floundered up to take his
leave, “I thought I ought to come and give you the chance.”
“It’s very nice of you,” said Hewson, with a smile that made itself a
derisive grin in spite of him, and a laugh of triumph when the door had
closed upon St. John.
XIII.
After the first flush of Hewson’s triumph had passed he began to enjoy it
less, and by-and-by he did not enjoy it at all. He had done right not
only in keeping St. John from plundering Miss Hernshaw, but in standing
firm and taking the punishment which ought to fall upon him and not on
her. But the sense of having done right sufficed him no more than the
sense of having got the better of St. John. What was lacking to him? In
the casuistry of the moment, which was perhaps rather emotional than
rational, it appeared to Hewson that he had again a duty toward Miss
Hernshaw, and that his feeling of dissatisfaction was the first effect of
its non-fulfilment. But it was clearly impossible that he should go again
to see her, and tell her what had passed between him and St. John, and it
was clearly impossible that he should write and tell her what it was
quite as clearly her right to know from him. If he went to her, or wrote
to her, he felt himself in danger of wanting to shine in the affair, as
her protector against the rapacity of St. John, and as the man of
superior quality who had outwitted a greedy fellow. The fear that she
might not admire his splendor in either sort caused him to fall somewhat
nervelessly back upon Providence; but if the moral government of the
universe finally favored him it was not by traversing any of its own
laws. By the time he had determined to achieve both the impossibilities
which formed his dilemma--had decided to write to Miss Hernshaw and call
upon her, and leave his letter in the event of failing to find her--his
problem was as far solved as it might be, by the arrival of a note from
Miss Hernshaw herself, hoping that he would come to see her on business
of pressing importance.
She received him without any pretence of Mrs. Rock’s intermediary
presence, and put before him a letter which she had received, before
writing him, from St. John, and which she could not answer without first
submitting it to him. It was a sufficiently straightforward expression of
his regret that he could not accept her very generous offer for St.
Johnswort because the place was already sold. He had the taste to forbear
any allusion to the motives which (she told Hewson) she had said prompted
her offer; but then he became very darkling and sinuous in a suggestion
that if Miss Hernshaw wished to have her offer known as hers to the
purchaser of St. Johnswort he would be happy to notify him of it.
“You see,” she eagerly commented to Hewson, “he does not give your name;
but I know who it is, though I did not know when I made him my offer. I
must answer his letter now, and what shall I say? Shall I tell him I know
who it is? I should like to; I hate all concealments! Will it do any harm
to tell him I know?”
