supply of drink had given out. Bernard resolved to get better acquainted
with him.

“Professor Puffer,” he said, after breakfast, “I am ready to begin work
whenever you please.”

“All right! Have you been seasick?”

“No, sir.”

“I thought perhaps for the first three or four days you might be
affected.”

“I thought so, too, as I am not used to the sea, but I haven’t had any
trouble yet, so that I can go to work any time you desire.”

“I shan’t undertake to do any work on the ship, Mr.---- what is your
name?”

“Brooks--Bernard Brooks.”

“Just so. I shall remember after a while.”

“I am very much obliged to you for giving me a situation when you don’t
know any more of me.”

“Oh, Mr. McCracken spoke for you. A sharp man is Mr. McCracken.”

“I dare say he is, but I don’t know much about him.”

“Don’t you?” asked the professor, showing some interest. “Isn’t he your
guardian?”

“Yes, sir, but I have never spent much time with him.”

“Has he charge of much property of yours?”

“He says I have no property.”

“Ha, indeed! As a rule, guardians are not appointed unless there is
property.”

“He was a friend--that is, an acquaintance of my father.”

“How long has your father been dead?”

“Ever since I was five years old.”

Now it occurred to Bernard to ask some questions. “Mr. McCracken told me
you were interested in antiquities.”

“Yes--antiquities.”

“Have you written any works on the subject?”

“Yes, several,” answered the professor, with some hesitation.

“Have you any of them with you?”

“No.”

“I thought I should like to look them over if you had, and it might help
qualify me for my duties.”

“I have no doubt you will answer my purpose,” said the professor,
yawning, as if he did not feel much interest in the subject.

Bernard was rather disappointed. He wished the professor would talk to
him on his specialty, as it would be interesting and instructive.

“Are we going to stay abroad long?” he asked.

“My plans are not fully formed,” said the professor. He gave the
impression of not caring to talk on the subject, and Bernard took the
hint, and ceased to question him. He found time hanging heavily on his
hands, as he appeared to have no duties and thought it might be
interesting to make some acquaintances on board the ship.

There were ten passengers besides Professor Puffer and himself. The
first he became acquainted with was a thin, sallow-faced man who wore
green glasses. What he was Bernard could not conjecture, but soon
learned.

He was standing forward looking out at the white capped waves when a
voice accosted him. “Young man, are you bilious?”

Opening his eyes in surprise, Bernard recognized the sallow-faced
passenger.

“I don’t think I am,” he answered.

“I am Dr. Felix Hampton,” said his new acquaintance. “I have discovered
a medicine which will effectually cure biliousness.”

“Indeed, sir! You will be a public benefactor, in that case.”

“True, young man. I feel that my work is a great one. Thousands will
bless my name. I am going abroad to introduce my medicine in Europe.
There must be thousands of bilious cases in London alone.”

“I presume you are right. Shall you establish yourself in London?”

“I cannot give myself to any one country. I shall endeavor to sell an
interest in my medicine to some responsible party who will push it in
Great Britain. Who is the red-faced man you are traveling with?”

“Professor Ezra Puffer.”

“What is he professor of?”

“I don’t know, sir. I believe he is interested in antiquities.”

“Is he bilious?”

“I haven’t known him long enough to tell.”

“Would you mind recommending my medicine to him?”

“I think you had better do so yourself. I don’t know anything about the
medicine, you know.”

“Is he your father?”

“No, sir.”

The idea of being the son of Professor Puffer was quite repugnant to
Bernard, and he answered promptly.

“You may be bilious without knowing it. If you will, come to my
stateroom I will give you a teaspoonful of the medicine without charge.”

“Thank you, sir. I don’t care for it. If I were sick I would make up my
mind to buy medicine, but I feel perfectly healthy. Do you use it
yourself?”

“I did, but now I am entirely cured of the insidious disease.”

It struck Bernard that Dr. Hampton was singularly unhealthy in
appearance, but this he kept to himself.

As he walked to another part of the deck he was accosted by a bright,
healthy looking man of perhaps thirty-five, with a rosy face and a
quick, alert manner.

“I see you have been talking with Dr. Hampton,” he said.

“I didn’t know that was his name.”

“Did he ask you if you were bilious?”

“Yes, and offered me a dose of his medicine without charge.”

The other laughed. “He made me the same liberal offer. Neither you nor I
look like bilious cases.”

“I should think not,”

“The doctor himself looks like a victim of liver complaint. Are you
traveling alone?”

“No, sir. I am traveling with Professor Puffer.”

“A short man with a red face?”

“Yes.”

“A friend of your family?”

“I never saw him until I met him on the ship.”

“You called him Professor Puffer. What is he professor of?”

“I believe he is interested in antiquities.”

“He seems to me more interested in liquor. But I must apologize. I
should not speak so of your friend.”

Bernard laughed.

“I am not sensitive on the subject of my friend, or rather my employer,”
 he said.

“Your employer?”

“Yes; I am his secretary, and I believe I am to assist him in his
literary labors.”

“Then I suppose you will become a professor of antiquities also.”

“Perhaps so,”  assented Bernard, with a smile.

“For my part, I don’t care much for antiquities. I am more interested in
the present than in the past. I am buyer for a Boston house, and my name
is Nelson Sturgis. How may I call you?”

“Bernard Brooks.”

“Professor Brooks?” asked Sturgis.

“Not yet,” laughed Bernard.

“Suppose we take a little promenade. I make a practice of walking two
hours daily on shipboard in order to get my customary exercise.”

“I shall be glad to join you, Mr. Sturgis.”

As they were walking they had an opportunity to witness an amusing
meeting between Professor Puffer and Dr. Hampton.

As Professor Puffer emerged from the cabin the sallow-faced man
approached him with the stereotyped question, “Pardon me, sir, but are
you bilious?”

“What the--dickens do you mean?” demanded Professor Puffer, glaring at
the doctor.

“No offense, sir, but I think most persons are bilious.”

“You look a good deal more bilious than I.”

“No, sir, you are mistaken. I have cured myself of liver complaint by
Dr. Hampton’s celebrated liver tonic. I am Dr. Hampton.”

“Are you? Well, your appearance doesn’t speak very well for your remedy.
My liver is perfectly regular.”

“I am glad to hear it, sir. I was speaking to your secretary a short
time since, but he doesn’t think he is bilious. A boy of his age
wouldn’t be apt to know. I will make you the same offer that I did him.
I will give you a dose of the tonic free gratis, and you may find that
it will benefit you.”

“Is there any whisky or brandy in the tonic?” asked Professor Puffer,
with sudden interest.

“No, sir, not a drop. You may rest assured that it is a strict
temperance medicine.”

“Then I don’t want any of it, sir. Temperance is a humbug. Are you a
temperance man?”

“Yes, sir.”

“I am not. Good morning.”

Dr. Hampton’s next interview was more satisfactory. Among the passengers
was a thin maiden lady of uncertain age. She was beginning to suffer
seasickness when Dr. Hampton approached her.

“Pardon me,” he said, “but you look bilious.”

“I fear I am,” she answered, in a hollow tone. “I feel dreadfully.”

“I thought I could not be mistaken. Shall I relieve you?”

“Oh, sir, if you only could.”

“I can. A bottle of my celebrated liver tonic will make a new man--I
mean woman--of you.”

“Bring me some, please, for indeed I feel very sick.”

Dr. Hampton produced a small bottle from his pocket. “This is it,” he
said. “A dollar, please.”

The maiden lady drew a dollar bill from her pocket, and the doctor,
producing a spoon, administered a dose. The result was magical! The lady
rushed hastily to the side of the vessel, and was relieved of her
breakfast.

“I feel better,” she gasped.

“I knew you would,” said the doctor, and he put the bill into his pocket
with a smile of satisfaction.




CHAPTER XV.  JACK STAPLES.

|Professor Puffer had a grievance. He had sent on board a good supply of
whisky--sufficient to last him through the voyage--but the greater part
of this had mysteriously disappeared. Whether it had been carried to the
wrong vessel or not could not be ascertained. At any rate, he had to do
without it, and this to a man of the professor’s tastes was a great
deprivation.

He was quite ready to buy some, and applied to the captain, but Captain
Smith had no more than he desired for his own use. He occasionally
invited the professor to take a glass, in his own cabin, but this by no
means satisfied Mr. Puffer. The enforced abstinence made him irritable,
and he vented this irritation on Bernard, with the result of making the
boy shun his company.

“Where do you keep yourself all the time?” asked Professor Puffer, one
afternoon. “I haven’t seen you for hours.”

“Have you any work for me to do?” asked Bernard hopefully.

“No. I shall do no work on board ship.”

“Would you like to have me read to you?”

“You may read the morning paper if you can find one,” sneered the
professor.

But it appeared that Professor Puffer had nothing for him to do, and had
only complained of his absence because he was irritable, and wanted
something to find fault with.

Bernard made the acquaintance of one of the sailors, Jack Staples, who
was a stout, good-humored man of thirty. He possessed a shrewd
intelligence that interested Bernard, and he often chatted with him
about his Vermont home.

“How came you to go to sea?” asked Bernard one day.

“Well, you see, my father died and my mother married again. You never
had a stepfather, I take it.”

“No; my mother died when I was a baby, and my father when I was five
years old.”

“That was bad luck.”

“Yes,” answered Bernard gravely.

“I think,” said Jack, shifting his quid of tobacco from one cheek to the
other, “that I was about fifteen when my mother told me that she had
decided to marry Mr. Stubbs. Stubbs kept a grocery store in the village,
and passed for a man well to do. My mother had about two thousand
dollars, left by my father, and she did some dressmaking, while I did
chores for the neighbors, and sometimes worked on a farm, so that
between us we made a comfortable living, and always had enough to eat.
When mother told me that, I felt very much upset, for I didn’t like Mr.
Stubbs, who was a mean, grasping man, and I tried to get her off the
notion of marrying him. But it was of no use. She said she had given her
word.

“‘Besides,’ she added, ‘we haven’t got much money, Jack, and Mr. Stubbs
says he will support, us both in comfort.’

“‘Are you going to give him your money, mother?’ I asked.

“‘Well, yes, Jack. Mr. Stubbs says he can use it in his business, and he
will allow me interest on it at the rate of six per cent. You know I
only get five per cent in the savings bank.’

“‘It is safe in the savings bank,’ I said.

“‘And so it will be with Mr. Stubbs. He is a good, honorable man.’

“‘I don’t know about that. All the boys in town dislike him.’

“‘He says they tease him, and steal apples and other things from the
store,’ she replied.

“‘I don’t like the idea of having such a man as that for my father.’

“‘He is going to put you into his store, and teach you business, and
make a man of you,’ she said.

“I made a wry face, for I knew of one or two boys who had worked for
Stubbs, and complained that he had treated them like niggers. However, I
soon found that it was no use talking to mother, for she had made up her
mind and I couldn’t alter it. In a month she changed her name to Stubbs,
and we went to live at the house of my stepfather.

“I soon found that he lived very meanly. We didn’t live half so well as
mother and I had before she married, although our means were small. I
went into the store, and I never worked so hard in my life. I went to
bed tired, and I got up at five o’clock in the morning, feeling more
tired than when I went to bed. Presently I needed some new clothes, so I
went to mother, and asked for some. She applied to Stubbs, but he
refused to get them for me..

“‘The boy is proud,’ he said. ‘He wants to look like a dude. I won’t
encourage him in such foolishness.’

“‘He really needs some new clothes,’ pleaded mother.

“‘Then he can buy them himself,’ he returned.

“‘I will buy some out of my interest money,’ said mother.

“‘Your interest isn’t due,’ he said shortly.

“‘You might advance me a little,’ she returned ‘Say, ten dollars.’

“But he wouldn’t do it, and while I am on the subject I may as well say
that he never did pay her the interest he promised. Of course he had to
give her a few dollars now and then, but I don’t think it amounted to
more than thirty or forty dollars a year, while she was entitled to a
hundred and twenty.”

“He must have been a mean man,” said Bernard, in a tone of sympathy.

“Mean was no name for it. I tried to get him to pay me wages, no matter
how small, so that I could have something to spend for myself, but it
was of no use. He wouldn’t agree to it. Finally I told mother I couldn’t
stand it any longer; I must run away and earn my own living. She felt
bad about having me go, but she saw how I was treated, and she cried a
little, but didn’t say much. So I ran away, and when I reached Boston I
tried to get a place. This I couldn’t do, as I had no friends and no one
to recommend me; and finally, not knowing what else to do, I shipped as
a sailor.”

“Have you ever been home since?”

“Yes, I went two or three times, and I always carried some money to
mother, who needed it enough, poor woman! Finally I went home two years
since and I found that my mother was dead;” and Jack wiped away a tear
from his eye. “I don’t think I shall ever go there again.”

“And did Mr. Stubbs keep your mother’s money?” asked Bernard.

“You may be sure he did. But it didn’t do him much good.”

“How is that?”

“His store burned down. Some say it was set on fire by an enemy, and he
had plenty. It wasn’t insured, for the insurance company had increased
its rates, and Mr. Stubbs was too mean to pay them. Then in trying to
put out the fire--it was a cold winter night--he caught a bad cold which
brought on consumption, and finally made him helpless. Would you like to
know where he is now?”

“Yes.”

“He is in the poorhouse, for all his means had melted away. The man in
charge is about as amiable as Stubbs himself, and I have no doubt he has
a pretty hard time of it. I don’t pity him, for my part, for he made my
mother unhappy, and drove me to sea.”

“I am sorry for you, Jack. Your luck has been worse than mine. My father
and mother are both dead, but as long as they lived they fared well.”

“No one ever tried to rob them of money, as my mother was robbed of her
small fortune?”

“I don’t feel sure of that,” said Bernard thoughtfully.

“What do you mean?”

Then Bernard told Jack what he had heard from Alvin Franklin about his
father’s having had money, and of his suspicion that Mr. McCracken had
appropriated it.

The story made an impression on Jack Staples.

“I shouldn’t wonder if you were right, Bernard,” he said. “He seems to
have treated you in a queer way. What sort of a man is this Professor
Puffer?”

“I don’t know much about him.”

“Do you like him?”

“No.”

“I’ll tell you what--he looks to me like my stepfather.”

“I am puzzled about him,” said Bernard. “He doesn’t look in the least
like a literary man, or a professor.”

“That’s so.”

“Then I find he is intemperate. I haven’t been able to learn anything
about his business, or studies, but he is fond of whisky. Do you know,
Jack, I don’t believe I shall be content to stay with him very long.”

“Is he a friend of your guardian?”

“I suppose so.”

“Are you to get any pay?”

“Twenty-five dollars a month and my expenses.”

“That is good--if you get it.”

“Don’t you think I will?”

“I don’t think you’ll get it any more than my mother got her interest.”

“Then I certainly shall not stay with him.”

“But what can you do? You will be in Europe.”

“I don’t know, Jack, but I think I shall get along somehow.”

“To my mind your guardian had some object in putting you with such a
man.”

“Perhaps so, but I may be doing Mr. McCracken an injustice.”

“If ever you get into trouble, Bernard, don’t forget that Jack Staples
is your friend. I have got a few dollars stowed away in a bank at home,
and they are yours if you need them.”

