can't in honour not see me through," she wound up, " because you can't in honour not see me!' 

Strange and beautiful to him was her quiet, soft acuteness. The thing that most moved him was really that she 
was so deeply serious. She had none of the portentous 
forms of it, but he had never come in contact, it struck 
him, with a spirit whose lightest throbs were so full. Mrs. 
Newsome, goodness knew, was serious ; but it was nothing 
to this. He took it all in, he saw it all together. " No," 
he mused, " I can't in honour not see him." 

Her face affected him as with an exquisite light. " You 
will then ? " 

" I will." 

At this she pushed back her chair and was the next 
moment on her feet. " Thank you ! " she said with her 
hand held out to him across the table and with no less a 
meaning in the words than her lips had so particularly 
given them after Chad's dinner. The golden nail she had 
then driven in pierced a good inch deeper. Yet he 
reflected that he himself had only meanwhile done what 
he had made up his mind to on the same occasion. So 
far as the essence of the matter went, he had simply stood 
fast on the spot on which he had then planted his feet. 



XVII 

He received three days after this a communication from 
America, in the form of a scrap of blue paper folded and 
gummed, not reaching him through his bankers, but 
delivered at his hotel by a small boy in uniform, who, 
under instructions from the concierge, approached him as 
he slowly paced the little court. It was the evening hour, 
but daylight was long now and Paris more than ever 
penetrating. The scent of flowers was in the streets ; he 
had the whiff of violets perpetually in his nose ; and he 
had attached himself to sounds and suggestions, vibrations 
of the air, human and dramatic, he imagined, as they were 
not in other places, that came out for him more and more 
as the mild afternoons deepened — a far-off hum, a sharp, 
near click on the asphalt, a voice calling, replying, some- 
where, and as full of tone as an actor's in a play. He was 
to dine at home, as usual, with Waymarsh — they had 
settled to that for thrift and simplicity ; and he now hung 
about before his friend came down. 

He read his telegram in the court, standing still a long 
time where he had opened it and giving five minutes, 
afterwards, to the renewed study of it. At last, quickly, 
he crumpled it up as if to get it out of the way ; in spite 
of which, however, he kept it there — still kept it when, at 
the end of another turn, he had dropped into a chair 
placed near a small table. Here, with his scrap oT paper 
compressed in his fist and further concealed by his folding 
his arms tight, he sat for some time in thought, gazed 
before him so straight that Waymarsh appeared and 
approached him without catching his eye. The latter, in 
fact, struck with his appearance, looked at him hard for a 
single instant and then, as if determined to that course by 
some special vividness in it, dropped back into the salon de 
lecture without addressing him. But the pilgrim from 







Milrose permitted himself still to observe the scene from 
behind the clear glass plate of that retreat Strether 
ended, as he sat, by a fresh scrutiny of his compressed 
missive, which he smoothed out carefully again as he 
placed it on his table. There it remained for some minutes, 
until, at last looking up, he saw Waymarsh watching him 
from within. It was on this that their eyes met — met for 
a moment during which neither moved. But Strether then 
got up, folding his telegram more carefully and putting it 
into his waistcoat pocket. 

A few minutes later the friends were seated together at 
dinner ; but Strether had meanwhile said nothing about it, 
and they eventually parted, after coffee in the court, with 
nothing said on either side. Our friend had moreover the 
consciousness that even less than usual was said on this 
occasion between them, so that it was almost as if each 
had been waiting for something from the other. Way- 
marsh had always more or less the air of sitting at the 
door of his tent, and silence, after so many weeks, had 
come to play its part in their concert. This note indeed, 
to Strether's sense, had lately taken a fuller tone, and it 
was his fancy to-night that they had never quite so drawn 
it out. Yet it befell, none the less, that he closed the door 
to confidence when his companion finally asked him if 
there were anything particular the matter with him. 
" Nothing," he replied, " more than usual." 

On the morrow, at an early hour, however, he found 
occasion to give an answer more in consonance with the 
facts. What was the matter had continued to be so all 
the previous evening, the first hours of which, after dinner, 
in his room, he had devoted to the copious composition of 
a letter. He had quitted Waymarsh for this purpose, 
leaving him to his own resources with less ceremony than 
their wont, but finally coming down again with his letter 
unconcluded and going forth into the streets without 
inquiry for his comrade. He had taken a long, vague 
walk, and one o'clock had struck before his return and his 
reascent to his room by the aid of the glimmering candle- 
end left for him on the shelf outside the porter's lodge. 
He had possessed himself, on closing his door, of the 
numerous loose sheets of his unfinished composition, and 





then, without reading them over, had torn them into small 
pieces. He had thereupon slept — as if it had been in 
some measure thanks to that sacrifice — the sleep of the 
just, and had prolonged his rest considerably beyond his 
custom. Thus it was that when, between nine and ten, 
the tap of the knob of a walking-stick sounded on his 
door, he had not yet made himself altogether presentable. 
Chad Newsome's bright, deep voice determined quickly 
enough, none the less, the admission of the visitor. The 
little blue paper of the evening before, plainly an object 
the more precious for its escape from premature destruc- 
tion, now lay on the sill of the open window, smoothed 
out afresh and kept from blowing away by the superin- 
cumbent weight of his watch. Chad, looking about with 
careless and competent criticism, as he looked wherever he 
went, immediately espied it and permitted himself to fix it 
for a moment rather hard. After which he turned his eyes 
to his host. " It has come then at last?" 

Strether paused in the act of pinning his necktie. 
"Then you know ? You have had one too?" 

" No, I've had nothing, and I only know what I see. 
I see that thing and I guess. Well," he added, " it comes 
as pat as in a play, for I've precisely turned up this 
morning — as I would have done yesterday, but it was 
impossible — to take you." 

" To take me ? " Strether had faced again to his glass. 

"Back, at last, as I promised. I'm ready — I've really 
been ready this month. I've only been waiting for you — 
as was perfectly right. But you're better now ;  -ou're 
safe — I see that for myself; you've got all your good. 
You're looking, this morning, as fit as a flea." 

Strether, at his glass, finished dressing, consulting that 
witness moreover on this last opinion. JVas he looking 
preternaturally fit? There was something in it perhaps 
for Chad's wonderful eye, but he had felt himself, for hours, 
rather in pieces. Such a judgment, however, was after all 
but a contribution to his resolve ; it testified unwittingly 
to his wisdom. He was still firmer, apparently — since if 
shone in him as a light — than he had flattered himself. 
His firmness, indeed, was slightly compromised, as he 
faced about to his friend, by the way this very personage 





looked — though the case would of course have been worse 
had not the secret of personal magnificence been at every 
hour Chad's unfailing possession. There he was in all the 
pleasant morning freshness of it — strong and sleek and 
gay, easy and fragrant and fathomless, with happy health 
in his colour, and pleasant silver in his thick young hair, 
and the right word for everything on the lips that his clear 
brownness caused to show as red. He had never struck 
Strether as personalh  such a success ; it was as if now, 
for his definite surrender, he had gathered himself vividly 
together. This, sharply and rather strangely, was the form 
in which he was to be presented to Woollett. Our friend 
took him in again — he was always taking him in and yet 
finding that parts of him still remained out, though even 
thus his image showed through a mist of other things. 
" I've had a cable," Strether said, " from your mother." 

" I dare say, my dear man. I hope she's well." 

Strether hesitated. " No — she's not well, I'm sorry to 
have to tell you." 

" Ah," said Chad, " I must have had the instinct of it. 
All the more reason then that we should start straight off." 

Strether had now got together hat, gloves and stick, 
but Chad had dropped on the sofa as if to show where he 
wished to make his point. He kept observing his com- 
panion's things ; he might have been judging how quickly 
they could be packed. He might even have wished to 
hint that he would send his own servant to assist. " What 
do you mean," Strether inquired, "by 'straight off'?" 

" Oh, by one of next week's boats. Everything at this 
season goes out so light that berths will be easy anywhere." 

Strether had in his hand his telegram, which he had 
kept there after attaching his watch, and he now offered 
it to Chad, who, however, with an odd movement, declined 
to take it. " Thanks, I had rather not. Your correspond- 
ence with mother is your own affair. I'm only with you 
both on it, whatever it is." Strether, at this, while their 
eyes met, slowly folded the missive and put it in his 
packet, after which, before he had spoken again, Chad 
broke fresh ground. "Has Miss Gostrey come back?" 

But when Strether presently spoke, it was not in answer, 
" It's not, I gather, that your mother is physically ill ; her 



health, on the whole, this spring, seems to have been 

better than usual. But she's worried, she's anxious, and '' 

it appears to have risen within the last few days to a 

climax. We've tired out, between us, her patience."   

" Oh, it isn't you" Chad generously protested. 

" I beg your pardon — it is me." Strether was mild and 

melancholy, but firm. He saw it far away and over his 

companion's head. " It's very particularly me." 

" Well, then, all the more reason. Marc/tons, marchons !"  

said the young man gaily. His host, however, at this, 

but continued to stand agaze ; and he had the next thing 

repeated his question of a moment before. " Has Miss 
Gostrey come back ? " 

" Yes, two days ago." 

" Then you've seen her ? " 

" No — I'm to see her to-day." But Strether wouldn't ;. 

linger now on Miss Gostrey. " Your mother sends me an   

ultimatum. If I can't bring you I'm to leave you; I'ra to 

come at any rate myself."  

" Ah, but you can bring me now," Chad, from his sofa, 

reassuringly replied. 

Strether hesitated. " I don't thixik I understand you. 

Why was it that, more than a month ago, you put it 

to me so urgently to let Mme. de Vionnet speak for 

you ? "  

" ' Why ' ? " Chad considered, but he had it at his fingers' 
ends. " Why, but because I knew how well she'd do it ? 
It was the way to keep you quiet and, to that extent, do 
you good. Besides," he happily and comfortably ex- 
plained, " I wanted you really to know her and to get  
the impression of her — and you see the good that was 
done you." 

" Well," said Strether, " the way she has spoken for you, , 

all the same — so far as I have given her a chance — has 

only made me feel how much she wishes to keep you. If 

you make nothing of that I don't see why you wanted me 

to listen to her." ' 

" Why, my dear man," Chad exclaimed, " I make every-  

thing of it ! How can you doubt ? " 

" I doubt only because you come to me this morning ' 
with your signal to start." 





Chad stared, then gave a laugh. " And isn't my signal 
to start just what you've been waiting for?" 

Strether debated; he took another turn. "This last 
month I've been awaiting, I think, more than anything 
else, the message I have here." 

" You mean you've been afraid of it ? " 

" Well, I was doing my business in my own way. And 
I suppose your present announcement," Strether went on, 
" isn't merely the result of your sense of what I've expected. 

Otherwise you wouldn't have put me in relation " But 

he paused, pulling up. 

At this Chad rose. " Ah, her wanting me not to go has 
nothing to do with it ! It's only because she's afraid — afraid 
of the way that, over there, I may get caught. But her 
fear's groundless." 

He had met again his companion's sufficiently searching 
look. " Are you tired of her ? " 

Chad gave him in reply to this, with a movement of the 
head, the strangest slow smile he had ever had from him. 
" Never." 

It had immediately, on Strether's imagination, so deep 
and soft an effect that our friend could only, for the 
moment, keep it before him. " Never ? " 

" Never," Chad obligingly and serenely repeated. 

It made his companion take several more steps. " Then 
you're not afraid ? " 

"Afraid to go?" 

Strether pulled up again. " Afraid to stay." 

The young man looked brightly amazed. " You want 
me now to ' stay ' ? " 

" If I don't immediately sail, the Pococks will immediately 
come out. That's what I mean," said Strether, " by your 
mother's ultimatum." 

Chad showed a still livelier but not an alarmed interest. 
"She has turned on Sarah and Jim?" 

Strether joined him for an instant in the vision. " Oh, 
and you may be sure, Mamie. That's whom she's turning 
on." 

This also Chad saw — he laughed out. " Mamie — to 
corrupt me? " 

" Oh," said Strether, " she's very charming." 




" So you've already more than once told me. I should 
certainly like to see her." 

Something happy and easy, something above all unconscious, in the way he said this, brought home again 
to his companion the facility of his attitude and the enviability of his state. " See her then by all means. And 
consider, too," Strether went on, " that you really give your 
sister a lift in letting her come to you. You give her 
a couple of months of Paris, which she hasn't seen, if I'm 
not mistaken, since just after she was married, and which
I'm sure she wants but the pretext to visit." 

Chad listened, but with all his own knowledge of the 
world. " She has had it — the pretext — these several years, 
yet she has never taken it." ,; 

" Do you mean you ? " Strether after an instant inquired,  

" Certainly — the lone exile. And whom do you mean ? '' 
said Chad. 

"Oh, I mean me. I'm her pretext. That is— for it 
comes to the same thing — I'm your mother's." f 

" Then why," Chad asked, " doesn't mother come her- 
self.?" 

His friend gave him a long look. " Should you like her 
to ? " And then, as he for the moment said nothing : " It's 
perfectly open to you to cable for her." I 

Chad continued to think. " Will she come if I do? " 

" Quite possibly. But try, and you'll see." ! 

" Why don't ou try ? " Chad after a moment asked. . 

" Because I don't want to." 

Chad hesitated. " Don't desire her presence here ? " 

Strether faced the question, and his answer was the  
more emphatic. " Don't put it off, my dear boy, on  
me." 

" Well — I see what you mean. I'm sure you'd behave 
beautifully, but you don'  want to see her. So I won't ! 
play you that trick." 

" Ah," Strether declared, " I shouldn't call it a trick, 
You've a perfect right, and it would be perfectly straight 
of you." Then he added in a different tone, "You'd have,   
moreover, in the person of Mme. de Vionnet, a very interesting relation prepared for her." 

Their eyes, on this proposition, continued to meet, but 





Chad's, pleasant and bold, never flinched for a moment. 
He got up at last, and he said something with which 
Strether was struck. " She wouldn't understand her, but 
that makes no difference. Mme. de Vionnet would like to 
see her. She'd like to be charming to her. She believes 
she could work it." 

Strether thought a moment, affected by this, but finally 
turning away. " She couldn't ! " 

" You're quite sure ? " Chad asked. 

" Well, risk it if you like ! " 

Strether, who uttered this with serenity, had urged 
a plea for their now getting into the air, but the young 
man still waited. " Have you sent your answer?" 

" No, I've done nothing yet." 

" Were you waiting to see me ? " 

" No, not that." 

" Only waiting " — and Chad, with this, had a smile for 
him — " to see Miss Gostrey ? " 

" No — not even Miss Gostrey. I wasn't waiting to see 
anyone. I had only waited till now to make up my mind 
— in complete solitude ; and, since I of course absolutely 
owe you the information, was on the point of going out 
with it quite made up. Have therefore a little more 
patience with me. Remember," Strether went on, " that 
that is what, originally, you asked me to have. I've had 
it, you see, and you see what has come of it. Stay on 
with me." 

Chad looked grave. " How much longer?" 

"Well, till I make you a sign. I can't myself, you 
know, at the best, or at the worst, stay for ever. Let the 
Pococks come," Strether repeated. 

" Because it gains you time ? " 

"Yes — it gains me time." 

Chad, as if it still puzzled him, waited a minute. "You 
don't want to get back to mother?" 

" Not just yet. I'm not quite ready." 
 " You feel," Chad asked in a tone of his own, " the 
diarm of life here?" 

"Immensely." Strether faced it. "You've helped me 
SO to feel it that that surely needn't surprise you." 

"No, it doesn't surprise me, and I'm delighted. But 





what, my dear man," Chad went on with conscious queerness, " does it all lead to for you ? " 

The change of position and of relation, for each, was so
oddly betrayed in the question that Chad laughed out as
soon as he had uttered it — which made Strether also! 
laugh. "Well, to my having a certitude that has beer,! 
tested — that has passed through the fire. But, oh," he
couldn't help breaking out, " if within my first month here
you had been willing to move with me ! " 

" Well ? " said Chad while he paused as for weight o!   
thought. s 

" Well, we should have been over there by now." 

