experience gives when one has been learning to rule his fellow-men and
to depend upon himself.

She was silent and a warm color played about her face. He took both
hands, drew her nearer to him, and suddenly she was afraid of the
intense personality. Her rosy lips quivered, her eyes drooped, her
breath came rapidly.

“Haven’t you a word of welcome for André?” asked Uncle Gaspard,
surprised.

“I was confused by the light, and—you are quite sure it is Monsieur
Valbonais?” turning to her uncle. “For he seems to have changed
mysteriously.”

“And you have not changed at all. Nothing has changed. M. Denys, light
your pipe and sit in the corner, and I will take this one. Ma’m’selle
Renée, sit here in the middle.” He pushed the chair and placed her
gently in it. “Now we can almost believe that I have not been away at
all, only there is the great gladness of coming back.”

“Has the time passed so quickly, monsieur?”

There was the faintest suggestion of mischief in her tone.

“Mademoiselle, you have not outgrown all your naughtiness, I perceive.
You find a second meaning in my simple words. No, there have been days
that seemed like months—last summer, when I hoped to return, when I was
homesick and heartsick. But what are you to do when the kindest employer
in the world begs you to stay and there is no one to take your place,
unless matters go at a great loss?”

“But New Orleans is gay and bright. And Madame Gardepier says the women
are lovely, and there is music and light-heartedness everywhere.”

“When you are in a close and dark office or out on the muddy, crowded,
vile-smelling levees with men of every nation shouting and hustling and
swearing all about you, and you have almost to fight to get your bidding
done, you have no thought for pretty women. But a man cannot always
choose. And my greatest grief is that I must go back or disappoint my
very good friends.”

“Oh!” with a toss of the head and a curve of the swelling lip that he
longed to kiss.

“Ma’m’selle, let us not talk about that now. There are pleasanter
subjects—all our old friends—for through the day it has been business,
business, until my head seemed in a whirl with it. M. Denys will tell
you. And we had to go to supper to finish, as if there would not be
another day. But it is so lovely here. And the pretty Madame Marchand is
well, and the Renaud girls, and the Aubrys with their husbands, and
Madame Gardepier with her little one! Ah, I shall have a fine time
presently, when I get a little leisure!”

What a new sound his voice had! A strength and resolution that swayed
one curiously, a definite manner of stating opinions that somehow
impressed one not only with a sense of security, but a sense of power
that she was minded to rebel against.

They talked late. Why could she not slyly disappear, as she often did,
and leave him with Uncle Denys, since he would remain all night?

But she shook off the mysterious chain with an effort and rose and
wished them good-night in a timid sort of way, though she stood up very
straight.

He caught her hand. “I am tempted to wish there could be no nights for a
long while,” he said. “They are not good nights.”

“Think how sleepy we should get. And mine are always good,” laughing
lightly. But she did not go across and kiss Uncle Denys.

There were several busy days, and friends that proffered André a warm
welcome. The Valbonais cousins were wedded long ago, but they claimed
him quite as cordially, and the old people were proud enough of him. The
Marchands offered him their home, and were delighted to have him drop
in. Then he was being asked to dine or sup with the Chouteaus, and he
was at the Government House, for his intelligent understanding of other
subjects besides commercial matters made him a desirable guest.

Renée experienced a curious sensation, as if she was being neglected.
She had lost her old power over him, which was mortifying. He teased her
a little, then he let her trifle with him and say saucy things. But it
was like a bird with a chain; he brought her back, he let her see it was
only playing. Then she grew indignant and flounced away, met him coldly
the next time, or was proud and silent.

Uncle Gaspard never raised a finger in the matter.

“I do not like him. I almost hate him!” she cried vehemently one day.
“Of course, I know he saved me in that dreadful peril, but he has been
thanked a hundred times over. And we do not owe him anything.”

“Oh, yes,” Uncle Gaspard said tenderly, as he pressed her to his heart.
“I owe him a great deal. For if I had lost you——”

“And you could never give me to any one else?”

“Well, whoever wanted one would have to take both.”

Presently the trafficking was about over. The Indians had gone to their
respective lodges, the voyageurs sailed up the river, and now only
occasional boats and canoes came in. André was not so busy. He joined
the parties on their rambles when he was certain Renée would be among
them. He did not hesitate to make himself agreeable to other
demoiselles. She could not help drawing contrasts. He had certain ways
of the better class, though social lines were not strongly marked and
few people knew what culture meant. He talked Spanish fluently; he was
quite an adept in English, though he had acquired a little of that
before. But the difference was largely one of manner, the small,
delicate attentions that went to her heart and understanding. Uncle
Gaspard always had some of them, M. Marchand also, and a few of the
others. The rather rough good nature had much honesty, but it was not so
flattering to a girl of Renée’s cast.

There were times when she was quite as jealous as she had ever been of
Uncle Gaspard. Yet it was strange to be so shaken by his coming when she
told herself she did not care for him, to have the touch of his hand
thrill through every nerve, to have the steady glance of his eye conquer
the spirit of rebellion until there was nothing left except the thin
outside crust, that would surely fall at the next assault if she did not
run away. This was cowardly, too, and she despised herself for it, but
she was not the first who had escaped in this fashion.

He was amused. In the earlier days he had experienced a great terror at
the thought of losing her. It might be the elder man’s wisdom had helped
open his eyes. He liked her piquant independence, and he learned, too,
there was a mood of most fascinating dependence as well. But she never
wholly gave up.

“Is it true you are going back to New Orleans?” Renée asked one day in
her charming, but imperious fashion.

“Yes, ma’m’selle. And I must start in another month.”

He looked so brave and dignified, his clear eyes shining, his shoulders
thrown back, his head securely poised, as if he could lead an army.
There was not his match in all St. Louis. Oh, yes, Uncle Gaspard and M.
Marchand, and Madame Chouteau’s splendid sons, who had risked various
dangers! And M. Marchand had carried off the pretty Wawataysee when he
knew if they should be captured he would be put to cruel tortures and
death. Well, had not André escaped with them both when a like fate would
have awaited him in being taken?

“You care nothing for us now, André,” in her most plaintive tone, a
hundred times more dangerous than her pride tinctured with sweetness.
And the sorrow that flooded her beautiful brown eyes almost swept him
from his standing-ground.

“Yes, ma’m’selle, I care a great deal. I love M. Denys as an elder
brother. And you—” hesitatingly.

She blushed scarlet and her eyes drooped.

“No, you want the gayety and the excitement and the crowds of pretty
women and the theatres. We are dull and simple here, yet I think we are
good and happy and honest and true. And, then, you are all absorbed in
money-making. Uncle Gaspard said you would be a rich man before you
died. But they do dreadful things in New Orleans, and drink and carouse.
You may be murdered some day, and then what will all the money be
worth?”

She looked so aggrieved, so bewitching in her regret that, after all,
was half assumed, though she would not confess it to herself even, that
he had much ado to keep tranquil.

“Ma’m’selle, I go because I see it is quite necessary. A man who hopes
for advancement must study the interest of those who have his welfare at
heart and can favor him in many ways. Then I hold the key to much of the
business at that end of the line, and I do not see who there is to put
in my place. It is true the life here is simple and delightful. There
one has a good deal of sharp dealing to fight against, since he must
meet men of all governments and all sorts of schemes. If M’sieu Chouteau
could go—but he cannot. Do not for a moment think it is the gayety and
the pretty women.”

“Then you will go. There is no use in arguing.”

She turned away. How distractingly pretty she was this morning in the
old garden, herself a part of its bloom! Over the gate she had given him
a rose, and renewed friendship after a dispute.

“I must go. I have passed my word. Renée—” in a beseeching tone.

She half turned, like a bird who wonders whether he will fly or not, but
her lowered eyes had a laugh in them.

“Renée, you know I love you——”

“No, I do not.” He could see the swelling of her bosom that sent a throb
up to her throat. “You do nothing for me now. You are off with the men.
You are—oh, so very charming to the girls!” with a cutting little
emphasis. “And you are always talking to Uncle Gaspard about business——”

“And last night you ran away to bed without even a good-night!” with
upbraiding in his voice.

“Oh, did you miss me? I never supposed you would. I was tired sitting
there, thinking my own thoughts.”

“Now we have plenty of time; tell them to me,” and his persuasive tone
penetrated her inmost being. What foolish things could she repeat? Her
face was scarlet.

“You know now I love you. I have told you so in words. I have told it in
many other ways. I confessed it to M. Denys before I went away and he
bade me wait patiently. For two years I have carried you in my heart,
yes, longer than that. You had your fling about other women; no one has
ever moved me. Every night I said, ‘One more day has gone, and at the
last I shall go back to the little girl in old St. Louis that I carried
in my arms all one night when she was worn out with fatigue and hunger
and cold. Renée——”

“I cannot leave Uncle Denys. I have said hundreds of times I never
would,” and her voice was sweet with pathos that penetrated his inmost
soul.

“But you need not. We have planned that. I will be a son to him in all
his declining years. No, you need never be separated.”

“Then you will stay!” exultingly. If she could once conquer she would be
generous and consent afterward. Did not love yield everything?

“I must go. We three will go.” His breath came in a gasp, his eyes
deepened with fervor, he caught both her hands; he could have clasped
her in his arms in a transport of rapture. Only—she stood up so straight
and resolute.

“So you have planned all this!” she cried in a passion that had a pang
for her as well as him. “And I am not anywhere. It makes no difference
what I want. I am like any bale of merchandise tossed from one to the
other. That is all a woman is worth! But you will find I am not to be
bandied about.”

She had lashed her emotion into tears, and pulled away her hands with an
impatient gesture.

“Heaven above knows what you are worth to both of us. No one will ever
love you more truly, more devotedly.”

Renée de Longueville fled swiftly away.




CHAPTER XX

WHEN A WOMAN WILL


“What ails the child?” inquired Mère Lunde. “She has not been like
herself the last fortnight. And now she is in there, crying as if her
heart would break. It is all that André Valbonais, I know. Why does he
not marry her and be done with it?”

“But if she will not?” Gaspard Denys shrugged his shoulders and drew his
brow into a frown.

“In my time a man knew how to make a woman say yes. And a woman knew
when she was going to get a good husband, which is of the Lord. Gaspard
Denys, you have spoiled her!”

Yes, he had spoiled her. A man did not know how to bring up a girl. But
she was so sweet in all her wilfulness, so loving in spite of little
tempers and authoritative ways, so dear to him, that if she had wanted
to walk over his body with her dainty feet he could hardly have refused
her. He went into her room and took her in his arms.

“You are too good to me!” she cried presently. “And I am a miserable,
hateful, quarrelsome, selfish little thing, wanting my own way and then
not happy or satisfied with it. Oh, how will you endure me years and
years, getting queerer as I grow old! For now we will have to live here
together always. I have sent André away. Oh, will you care?”

There was no use arguing. She had cried herself into an unreasonable
passion. She had had her way. How much of it was regret? None of it was
satisfaction.

“Well, dear, then we must get along,” and his tone had a tranquillizing
cheerfulness in it. “There is no one I would like as well for a son——”

“But you do not want to go to that wretched New Orleans?” in a tone of
incredulity.

She raised her head from his shoulder. Her swollen eyes and tear-stained
face melted his heart.

“You know we were going some time. It is well worth seeing. But we do
not need to take André.”

“Yet you like him so,” with her old waywardness.

“Yes. And I am sorry you do not.”

She hid her face again. She did like him. She felt it in the hot color
that stained her cheek.

“He will be gone a year—that is not long,” she said in a rather hopeful
tone.

“Or, he might decide to stay longer. If he has nothing to call him
back——”

They would be lonely without him. She would be lonely. After all, there
were few young men to compare with him. And some time—if he was quite
sure she did not care for him, he might marry. She never could marry any
one else, but, then—men were different. Oh, here was one who had never
put a woman in his first love’s place! And André was all alone in the
world. Yes, he would need a wife——

“Oh, Uncle Gaspard, I am not worth all this love!” she cried
remorsefully.

“You will always be worth it to two men,” he said in so gentle a tone
that it pierced her heart. “I am much older than you, dear, and some day
I shall be called upon to take the journey from which one never returns.
Then you will be left quite alone.”

What made her think of the little girl in the old château to whom the
days were so long and lonesome? Yet, it would be very sad to be left
alone. And—after all——

There are so many “after alls” in life. And so many things seem
insurmountable when looked at in a moment of passion. Uncle Denys could
never give her wholly away, had never planned to do that. Fathers and
mothers were happy to have their children married, and here she would
not do this for the best friend she had, nor for the man who loved her
sincerely—that she loved—a little.

“You ought to shut me up in the loft and keep me on—on pemican, which
you know I hate, and declare you would never let me out until—until——”

“A woman’s love must always be a free gift, Renée, darling. And if you
do not love André it would be sinning against him to marry him.”

She knew down deep in her heart that she did love him, that she had
waited these two years because there was no one like him to her. Of
course, she had not really meant that he should throw up his fine
prospects, but be willing to for her sake. And she knew now it was all
very foolish and wicked, and that she deserved to be left alone for
years and years and have them all full of sorrowful regret.

“I am going to turn over a new leaf, indeed I am,” and she slipped out
of Uncle Gaspard’s arms. “See what a fright I have made of myself with
red eyes and swollen face, and my hair frousled. Dinner must be nearly
ready. Oh, what a long morning! And I have made you unhappy, when I love
you so much,” in accents of tenderest regret.

He kissed her and went away.

They were very silent at dinner. Mère Lunde grumbled because they ate so
little. Then Uncle Gaspard went out. The boats were loading up with
lead, as well as other materials, and he was interested in that, and
needed as well.

No one came during the evening. She heard the violins and singing up the
street, the fiddles and dancing down below. The fire was all out; no one
wanted it after the cooking was done. There were some black charred ends
and piles of ashes. It had a melancholy appearance. And then she fancied
herself as old as Mère Lunde, sitting by the chimney corner, only Mère
Lunde had married the man of her choice—it seemed now to Renée that
every one must have done so—and though her two sons were dead, she had
had them once; and everybody must die some time. But to die without
having been very happy, that made her shudder. And, then, to know that
one had cast it away rather than give up a whim of will.

So the next day passed and the next. Sunday she and Uncle Gaspard went
to church. There would only be one Sunday more for André—ten days. For
her—how many?

Coming down the path they glanced at each other. What wonderful
languages live in the depths of the eyes! André came to her side, and
then she colored and the hand he took trembled, but she did not withdraw
it. They walked on homeward. She never knew whether any one spoke or
not. Uncle Gaspard was lingering behind, giving thanks that he was
likely to get his heart’s desire.

They paused at the garden gate. He opened it for her to pass. There was
midsummer richness and bloom in it, the homely every-day herbs giving
out a sweetness in their plain flowering that was reviving. He followed
her, but she made a little pause at the vine-clad arbor.

“I am wilful and delight in my own way,” she began, and the words
trembled on the fragrant air. “I am like a briar that pricks you when
you would gather the rose——”

“But the rose is sweet for all that. And—I will take the rose.”

Then he kissed her throbbing red lips, her fluttering eyelids, just as
he had dreamed of doing many a time. And the bliss was sweeter than any
dream.

There was not much time to waste. Mère Lunde protested at first at being
left alone, but there would be Chloe, and the Marchands to look after
her, and neighbors were kindly.

Not much fuss was made in those days over wedding trousseaus. Often one
dress went through families, was even borrowed. But Renée had no need of
that.

So they went to church on Sunday and heard the banns called, and every
one nodded to his next neighbor with the confident air of having known
it all along. The next day Gaspard Denys gave his darling away, and the
priest joined their hands and blessed them. Madame Chouteau gave them
the wedding feast, which was a mid-day dinner in the grand old house,
much the finest residence in St. Louis. It had not the boisterousness of
most weddings, for only the better part of the community were invited.
Madame Chouteau could do that.

They drank the bride’s health and gave her all good wishes. The men
considered André very lucky and he thought himself so, but Renée’s
fortune scarcely counted, since he would make one for himself.
Everything seemed sweet and solemn to Renée, and she was awed in a
sacred sort of way as this new life unfolded before her.

They walked in quite a procession afterward. Gaspard Denys had Madame
Gardepier. They talked a little about the bridegroom, then she said:

“Monsieur Denys, you have done a faithful duty toward the child. You
will miss her much. One can never be quite the same again. Is it true
you are going to New Orleans also?”

“Yes, madame. I have not been there for years.”

She had hoped it was not so. If he were lonely, he might turn to others
for consolation. And if the child went out of his life——

“But will her husband agree to share her love? Husbands are jealous
sometimes,” she commented rather gayly.

“He is like a son to me, and he knows it. You see, I am old enough to be
his father also.”

“Ah, M’sieu Denys, you should have had children of your very own, and a
woman to love in your home. You have such a noble and tender heart you
could have made some one so happy.”

Her heart beat as she said it. Why could he not be roused to the hope
even now?

“I think you know that I loved the child’s mother, and that we were
unfairly separated. If she had lived—but she died. And when I heard the
little one was sent across the sea by her father, who had small regard
for her, it was as if her mother, leaning over the wall of heaven,
called to me, and I did what I knew would set her heart at rest.”

“But she had heaven and all the saints. And in that land of the blest
one cannot long for human loves. It is to those left on earth to whom
they are precious,” she returned, with a little longing in her tone. She
had been waiting for Renée’s marriage to take her out of his life. Why
should the child have so much?

“I think they know, those blessed ones. Ah, madame, if you had been
dying, instead of your husband, and leaving the little one, would you
not have pleaded with the very angels that some one might be raised up
to care for her? And if that had been one to whom she would be doubly
dear! So the child in one sense has been like my own.”

And always her rival, Barbe Gardepier felt. Her last hope seemed to drop
as one lets fall a withered flower that has been sweet and is still
freighted with some dear remembrances.

They paused at her sister’s house.

“You will come in and say good-by to-morrow?”

“Yes,” and he bowed.

Why should things go so wrong in the world? Renée Freneau defrauded of a
lifelong happiness, of life itself, and she who had seen such a blissful
possibility twice in her short life shut out from what would have been
her brightest happiness.

He went his way thoughtfully. He had been so long used to a man’s
liberty that he did not care to enchain himself with matrimony. And
surely he would give Renée no rival to her children.

It was a gorgeous day and the fleet of boats glided out with music and
many a “Bon voyage!” The little girl had vanished, but Renée
remembered the first night she came, when in the bend of the river they
passed the old ruined heap, and the old French post-house going to
decay. Was it in some other life? She still had Uncle Denys, and she was
glad. What a wonderful thing it was to love a woman’s memory all these
years!

It was a pleasant journey, with only a few storms, one severe enough to
make them run into an inlet to get out of the fierce sweep of the river.
There was Cahokia, whose ruins were still visible. Kaskaskia, despoiled
of much of its valuable front, the town high now above the river.
Strange and curious sights to one who had been no farther than St.
Charles.

How would St. Louis look when they went back to it? Renée wondered. For
this to her was a marvellous city, more brilliant than any dream ever
made it. It seemed as if the whole world must have been gathered in it
when one heard the confusion of tongues.

They did not return the next summer, for still the business could not
spare André. But Monsieur Chouteau came down, and there were journeys
about to places of such bloom and beauty and mystery that one almost had
