
CHAPTER X 

"Moving," said Mrs. Percy B. Jeffries, "is 
a phenomenon, but like other phenomena is 
amenable to the laws of nature." She said 
this with the gratification of a conventional 
mind that has chanced to originate an idea. 
" But I flatter myself that I move my house- 
hold with system, energy, and good spirits." 

It was a part of Aunt Cornelia's system 
and energy to accomplish her flitting from 
shore to town by relays, and she began by 
sending the horses a week ahead. 

Miriam, who, under ordinary circumstances, 
found her aunt's system, energy, and good 
spirits sufficiently trying, on the late Septem- 
ber morning of which we speak woke to a 
consciousness that these domestic virtues were 
intolerable. She suddenly announced her in- 
tention of driving into town with Matthew 
and the chestnut pair. She could not have 
said whether her restlessness arose from a wish 
to see Steele or to escape him, or whether, in- 
deed, it had any relation to Steele at all. 



 

She had waked, while it was still dark, from 
a troubled sleep, and had aroused to a sense 
of oppression amounting almost to superstition. 
For no reason that she could have explained, 
it seemed to her that she must start. To no 
end that she could foresee, she felt herself 
driven. Emotions long held in abeyance, asso- 
ciations resolutely expelled from her memory 
crowded upon her. In fact, she had been 
dreaming half the night — an agitated dream 
in which pain and joy alternately depressed 
and elated her. Curiously, in this dream Olin 
Steele bore no part whatever. It was as if 
he had never existed, or for her existed no 
longer. She hurried away, still wearing the 
white serge dress that she had on the evening 
before ; she covered this with a long Scotch 
tweed coat, that came to the hem of her gown. 
She tossed on a straw hat, and veil, ran out to 
the stables, and jumped into the victoria just 
as Matthew was starting away. It was scarcely 
more than seven o'clock, and the cool morn- 
ing air calmed her mysterious disturbance. 
The horses were in good spirits, and the drive 
took scarcely two hours. 

As Miriam neared the city her mind re- 



 

bounded from her perplexities, and, accord- 
ing to her sweet habit, the troubles of others 
came uppermost. Matthew, who had sat in 
well-trained silence, now shrewdly perceiving 
her change of mood, suddenly inquired : 

" Hain't the gossoon found poor Trixy yet?" 

" We 'll ask," said Miss Lauriat, arousing 
herself eagerly. " Drive around to Mr. Sur- 
bridge's office, and I 'll go in." 

But Philip Surbridge was not in his office, 
and, moreover, had left word that he was not 
to be expected for some hours. Miriam's face 
sank a little, and she came down and out to 
the carriage slowly. She seemed to be hesi- 
tating as to her next step, and somewhat 
dejectedly gave the order to drive home. 

Matthew left her standing upon the side- 
walk at her own door ; she had a weary and 
irresolute expression, not at all characteristic 
of her ; she mounted the steps slowly, with 
eyes cast down. Near the top she paused for 
a minute to unbutton her long coat and untie 
her veil. While thus occupied she fancied 
that she heard a strange low sound — stopped 
to listen, but decided that she was mistaken ; 
and languidly folding her white veil, came up 



 

the remaining steps — these were but two or 
three. 

The outer door was open ; the inner one 
locked. Miriam had forgotten her latch key, 
and delayed to ring the bell. As she did 
this, the sound that she heard, or thought 
she heard, was plainly repeated. It was a 
sad sound, plaintive and low. She went at 
once into the vestibule, and at its threshold 
stood, staring. Every fleck of color left her 
face. Her heart beat so in her throat that it 
seemed to her she should never draw breath 
again. 

On the black and white mosaic of the mar- 
ble floor, crouched in the corner of the vesti- 
bule, lay a little huddling dog. It was a black 
cocker spaniel with a white shirt-frill, and a 
white part in its wounded head. 

" Caro ! " cried Miriam, in a piercing voice. 

The poor creature tried to crawl towards 
her, but plainly had lost whatever remnant of 
strength had brought it there. When she 
stooped to lift him, the spaniel uttered such a 
cry as would have rent the heart of any man 
who had not been born a brute, or become 
one. Only a lost dog can cry like that ; per- 



 

haps only one that has been deeply loved, and 
exquisitely cherished. 

" Caro, Caro ! " repeated Miriam. 

At first, no other word came to her dry 
lips ; she reiterated it wildly ; her recognition 
was hardly less piteous than the dog's. She 
took the heavy little creature in her arms — 
its face against her own, its paws around her 
neck — and, when she saw the dog's condi- 
tion, she began to cry outright, and aloud like 
a little girl. She pushed by Maggie at the 
door, and on into the library, where she sank 
into the first chair with her sad burden in her 
lap. There she sat, and stared upon it. The 
dog continued to wail on in a shrill voice. 
The old seamstress came in and said : 

" Why, it 's Caro ! It 's our Caro ! " 

And Maggie wept with her mistress, and 
crossed herself as if she had been in the pre- 
sence of a miracle. 

But Matthew, when he came back, and one 
of the women called him upstairs, stood still, 
and said nothing but " The devil ! " 

Nor did he apologize to Miss Lauriat for 
the word. It seemed to Matthew a weak word, 
fit for women ; a man should say something 



 

adequate to the occasion, but nothing else 
occurred to Matthew. 

Miriam sat among her old servants and 
sobbed helplessly. It was they who thought 
and acted ; she was bereft of herself. She 
clung to the dog, caressing it pitiably, and 
her tears rained on the wounded thing. Her 
first definite thought was that she wanted 
Philip, but she remembered that he was not 
at his office. 

Confusedly she heard Matthew say that 
there 'd sure better be a doctor, and that re- 
called her. 

" Why, yes ! " she said, " send for Dr. 
Steele ! " 

When Matthew reported that the professor 
was not at the medical school, Miriam, with 
the short, sharpened voice of unsharable and 
all but unbearable suffering, directed that a 
message be sent at once to Dr. Steele's club 
(where he was likely to lunch), that it be 
urgently expressed, and given in her own 
name. 

She seemed immediately to forget that she 
had set this order in motion, and herself 
began to bathe and bandage the wounded 



 

dog. Now the spaniel feebly lifted his poor 
head and kissed her — it was the first time — 
and when he did so Miriam began to sob 
asrain. She was so shaken that the household 
was at its wit's end with her. She had eaten 
little breakfast and that very early, and now 
would take no food ; she was absorbed in a 
series of efforts to induce the dog to swallow 
some milk. It was not until she had succeeded 
in these attempts, and Caro had fallen asleep, 
that she recovered in some degree her com- 
posure. 

When Olin Steele, who had passed a dis- 
turbed and fretful morning, worse than wasted 
in the fruitless search for his lost material, at 
noon received Miss Lauriat's message, his face 
went white with an emotion so deep that the 
man found himself astonished before it. He 
had always thought that joy was an integer, or 
an element, as simple as it was supreme ; this 
which he experienced was a compound feeling 
— from very excess of bliss dashed through 
and through with awe, or with a fear that 
was almost pain. Now, after all, his victory 
lay in his iron hand. The battle was to the 



 

strong as it always was, and would be, world 
without end. Oh, now at last, her beautiful 
reluctance had yielded ; right womanly as she 
was, she had surrendered royally. Crossing 
the little space between them, she had stepped 
half of the misty way to meet his outstretched 
arms. 

With ringing feet he hurried to her. With 
lifted head and shining eyes, he disregarded 
the shadows of men. But they in the sub- 
stance looked upon him with the attention 
that the crowd gives to the superior, to the 
happy, or to the successful ; most people who 
noticed Steele that day thought him to be all 
these thing's. 

He ran up the steps like an impatient boy. 
Already the hunger of his arms was fed, the 
thirst of his lips was quenched. Already she 
had lifted her beautiful willing face to his — 

As he stepped upon the threshold, the door 
opened and he dashed in. The library por- 
tieres were parted, and he entered ecstatically. 
There in the middle of the room, in the dark 
chair, which she had not left since she first 
sank into it, in her white dress, with her 
white face — and the wounded dog in her 



 

arms — she sat, awaiting her lover. She had 
covered the spaniel with one end of her tweed 
coat ; her hat and white veil still lay on the 
floor at her feet. At first, Steele did not see 
the dog. He strode across the thick carpet and 
stood over her, bending for his betrothal kiss. 

He stopped. Her appearance startled him. 
She looked like a woman who has been 
shocked from youth into middle life. She 
gave him one wan smile. Impetuous inquiries, 
passionate protestations surged to his lips ; 
but these never crossed them. 

For now he looked down. He saw the 
sleeping dog, whose marred head was not cov- 
ered. He recognized his own work. Spurred 
by one of the fatuous impulses which drag 
out into the open the one thing that above 
all others a man wishes to conceal, Olin Steele 
uttered these extraordinary words : 

" Why, that 's my dog ! Where did you get 
it ? I 've been all the morning hunting for it." 

" I do not understand you," said Miriam, 
with ominous distinctness. " The dog is mine. 
This is Caro. I lost him two years ago. I 
thought he was dead. I never cared for any 
other dog." 




Her eyes widened slowly. She raised them 
to his face ; it was as ashen as her own. She 
read — what did she not read in his tortured 
countenance ? 

Horror and despair confronted each other. 
The man threw up a hand as if to fend off 
the shock that paralyzed every thought, every 
explanation. As he did so, he took a step 
backwards ; he could not speak ; his lips 
refused to open. A power greater than any 
that he had ever acknowledged compelled 
him. Her stricken eyes pursued him — nay, 
they forced him out of the room. She had 
not spoken another word ; but he went. He 
had come like a god ; he went like a cur. 

Philip Surbridge approached Miss Lauriat's 
house, happily humming a tune ; he found it 
was the pretty air that Dan used to sing with 
Trixy. Miriam heard it before he rang, and 
her whirling brain seemed to stop spinning. 
He was shown directly into the room, and 
found her as Steele had left her. Her white 
dress, with its black finish of velvet at the 
throat, had a dark stain over the heart. 

One glance at the burden on her lap ex- 



 

plained everything to Philip, and it was like 
him to ask no unnecessary questions. His 
own color changed, but the man seemed to 
fortify himself for a position in which his 
heart and his head must race together. 

" Philip," began Miriam brokenly. " Oh, 
Philip " — 

" You need not try to explain anything," 
said Philip gently. " I understand. I under- 
stand it all." 

" But Dr. Steele says — what does Dr. 
Steele mean ? " 

" So Steele has been here, has he ? " 

" Yes — he came — yes ; he did not — did 
not stay." 

" Then it is all out. I suppose in that case 
I may as well speak, now. Shall I? Do you 
wish me to ? — Or not ? It is for you to 
say what I shall do in these difficult circum- 
stances." 

" You must ! " cried Miriam. " I must 
know the worst." In her vehemence she 
aroused the dog, who stirred and looked at 
her drowsily. Philip drew his chair close to 
hers, and for the first time in his life tenderly 
patted her hand. 



 

He spoke a few encouraging words ; what, 
he hardly knew ; what, she scarcely heard. 
He tried to convince her that the worst was 
over ; and nothing more to fear. But Miriam 
interrupted impatiently. 

" Nothing but the whole truth will help 
me now. And there is nobody but you to 
give it to me." 

" Very well," said Philip in a changed tone. 
" You shall have it then. Here it is." He 
drew out from his pocket a beautiful silver 
collar, tarnished and bent. The plate had not 
been removed, and it bore this inscription : 



Cako. Licensed. No. 2001. 
Miriam Lauriat. 



The town, and the street and number were 
added, but these were less easy to decipher. 

" I was in the Galen Laboratory this morn- 
ing," said Philip, with cold, legal precision. 
"I was there upon a professional errand. I 
will tell you about that, later. In the course 
of my investigations, I picked up this. It had 
been pulled out from among some rubbish in 
a closet — but recently disturbed, I am sure 
— and fortunately no one had noticed it." 



 

He laid the collar in Miriam's trembling hand. 
Her fingers closed over it spasmodically. She 
uttered an inarticulate sound. 

" Shall I go on ? " asked Philip, choking. 

He did so at command of her streaming 
eyes. His voice had now become stern and 
solemn ; it had something of the note which 
it struck when he was pleading a grave 
case. 

" Galen College prides itself upon its physi- 
ological department. The basis of modern 
physiology is animal experimentation. This 
means the dissection of living animals. Caro 
has been in that " — Philip caught his breath 
— " in that laboratory. What happened to 
him the first year, I cannot tell you ; there 
may be some scars that will. He is a special 
case ; he is their most valuable subject. For 
the last twelve months he has been reserved 
for a series of experiments upon the brain. 
These have probably — you must be prepared 
for that — affected his intelligence. He es- 
caped from there this morning ; how I do 
not know, but I have my guess. The pro- 
fessor who has charge of that department is 
writing a prize essay along the line of this 



 

particular research. The prize was offered by 
the medical society of which he is an officer. 
It would have made him famous. He is con- 
sidered the leading physiologist in the state, 
if not in the country, and this kind of thing 
has made him so." 

Surbridge paused, and looked at Miriam 
with a pity which she could not have borne 
from any other human being. 

" His name," concluded her old friend 
beneath his breath — " I do not think I need 
to tell you what it is." 

Miriam, with the collar in her hand, had 
laid her head back against the tall chair. She 
had grown very pale, and gasped. Philip 
sprang for the bell. 

" Don't be afraid," she said feebly. " I 
shan't faint. You know I never do." 

" Now look here." Philip spoke in a com- 
fortable, matter-of-fact tone. " Just listen to 
me. You 've got Caro back, and that 's the 
main thing. Let me look at him." He bent 
over her and tenderly examined the dog. She 
heard his cheerful voice go briskly on. " It 
seems worse than it is because the bandage 
was evidently torn off. You 'll feel better to 



 

have him looked after, however. I 'll send a 
nice fellow I know around to fix him up. He 
has a good, big heart and loves dogs. — 
Maggie " — he turned with the smile that 
made servants respect themselves, and affec- 
tionately obey him — " Miss Lauriat has had a 
great shock and strain on account of this poor 
little fellow." 

Miriam's grateful eyes thanked him for 
the delicate elision by which he ignored 
the fact that she was doubly smitten. But 
her lips said nothing. Surbridge did all the 
talking, and in his quiet way he covered 
