

 

to Marquette on Lake Superior, where there was a 
great deal of business to straighten out and claims to 
adjust. The world was wonderful and splendid. One 
hardly had any idea of it in Chicago, and Mr. Le 
Moyne was proving one of the most generous and 
charming of friends. Norman was learning French. 
It was almost universally used up there, and Mr. Le 
Moyne was a great reader of French literature and 
knew pages of it by heart. "I wish you could study 
it, too," he wrote, and then he gave me places to trace 
out on the map where they had been; and there was 
the great Lake Superior and the Indian countries, the 
most elegant furs one could imagine, and a variety 
of strange and beautiful animals. The trad 
ing stations and the small towns were so picturesque, 
the people curious indeed. Altogether it sometimes 
seemed like a dream to him, and he could not put half 
the wonderful things in a letter. They were to return 
to Detroit and I was to send a letter there and tell him 
all about myself, and if I missed him very much, if 
I took the old walks and read the old poems over, and 
what I was learning. 

At that period mails were slow and uncertain, and 
letters were often sent by friends. An appeal had been 
made to the general government, and Mr. Hogan was 
postmaster, combining it with some other businesses. 
The little old place was quite a rendezvous on mail day, 
though no one was ever certain of that even. A row 
of old boots nailed up for mail boxes created much 
amusement. But mere friendship letters were a rarity. 
Indeed, writing a letter was considered a great feat. If 



one heard from friends once a year it brought 
content. Postage was very high, and in new countries 
money was scarce. 

I labored over my letter, writing it first on various 
scraps of paper, as I could think of things I wanted to 
say. Books are written nowadays with more ease. 



CHAPTER VIII 

WITHOUT NORMAN 

IT seemed suddenly as if Chicago took a great leap. 
Perhaps the whole country was more prosperous. But 
everybody was full of business, and immigrants were 
pouring in at the rate of ten a day, the newspaper 
announced. They were of all kinds. Some from 
Virginia, many from the two States south of us, hardy 
people with an uncouth dialect and new ways that were 
more or less picturesque. The men had been great 
hunters and could hardly adapt themselves to any em 
ployment at first. The women were used to all kinds 
of household work. They hetcheled flax and it was 
very entertaining to me to see the mass swept across 
the sharp wires and the person drawing her body back 
with a monotonous croon, then starting forward again. 
The soft silvery stuff was laid in a pile by itself, and 
how beautiful it looked. The rough and coarse strands 
were for common uses. 

I could spin quite well now, but I used to love to 
watch these other spinners with their deft motions. 
The big wheel fairly fascinated me, and the nimble 


running back and forth. The great dye tubs, too, 
with their yellows and browns, blues, and reds and the 
long hanks of yarn hung out in the sun, dipped over 
and over to darken them until they made some really 
handsome shades. 

Besides these people there came quite a colony of 
French in our neighborhood. I was glad of this, 
though it seemed as if their "jabber" was too intricate 
to be taken up by any native tongue. Their attire was 
much more picturesque than that of the Kentucky 
women, and they disported themselves in brighter 
colors. A short skirt, a bodice laced up both front and 
back, and above this a white body with sleeves, the neck 
drawn in with a ruffle and tied with a bright ribbon. 
White stockings and low shoes with a great buckle, 
though some of the older people had these laid by as 
mementoes of their younger days. The church was at 
quite a distance and a priest came over and held ser 
vice in the morning for them in a little log house. I 
used to love to watch them going to and fro with 
prayer book and rosary and happy, smiling faces, 
always chattering. 

There were Germans, too. We seemed fair to be a 
conglomerate town. All along the lake, houses were 
stretching up north and down to the southern end. 
The shipyard was a scene of activity; indeed, most 
people were very busy. Wheat fields and cornfields 
increased and cattle were multiplying. Everything 
rushed through the summer; indeed, it seemed as 
though one could see the corn grow; and was there 
ever a prettier sight than when it tasselled out and 



blossomed in the soft yellow. It was like a great army. 
I used to look at it sometimes until I could believe it 
was a giant host advancing, and I would shrink back 
in fright. 

We had a school on our side that summer, and what 
with that and Mrs. Chadwick, I did not go to the 
Haynes' as often as before. Ben and Homer came 
over frequently. Homer was a big fellow, almost as 
tall as Dan, and quite a favorite with the girls as well. 
There were many pleasure parties for the grown-up 
ones rowing, when the lake was not too rough, and 
sailing parties. Some of the more venturesome ones 
took an excursion over to Black Rock. 

Our nearest French neighbors were the Piagets, and 
the two girls, Sophie and Nanette, soon became very 
friendly. Nanette was a little younger than I, Sophie, 
nearly two years older, bright, vivacious girls, who 
had some accomplishments beyond our ken. We 
sewed patchwork, but it was difficult to get pieces, 
though now and then a quilt was made of blue and 
white. But Sophie could make fringe with an ingen 
ious knot in it, and she could knit edging. That set all 
us girls crazy to learn. 

They talked rather broken English and were very 
eager to perfect themselves. And after screwing my 
courage up many degrees I confessed I would like 
to learn French. What work we made of it, and how 
we laughed at the German tongue ! You began to hear 
it quite often in the street. 

M'liss had taken up her abode with us. Jed Hatch 
had gone lumbering up the lake, above where Mil- 




waukee now stands, where there was some fine timber 
that could be rafted down in auspicious weather. 
They had what we should now call a logging camp. 
Father wondered how they had ever persuaded Jed to 
join them, but I think M'liss had a strong hand in it. 
So she brought little Joe, who was now quite a 
respectable baby. Mrs. Chadwick had more than once 
said to father some woman ought to come in and take 
charge, and M'liss thought she made a good bargain 
hiring out her house for a certain amount of repairs. 

M'liss brought her big wheel, the little one I had 
already, but when I would have spun she turned me 
away with a gentle push and 

"Oh, you jest g'lang. Ther' be time er nough nex' 
winter, when you can't run out en play en skip round. 
En ther's so little work to do I'm main afeared I'll git 
rickets by so much sittin' still." 

Then M'liss was in her element cooking, and father 
enjoyed that. 

Sophie was very eager to see Chicago. They had 
lived inland many miles from Kaskaskia, and as I came 
to know afterward, had a hard struggle with poverty. 

"I think everybody has come from somewhere else," 
she said one day, when I had been telling about the 
Haynes, the Wrights, and ourselves. 

"Why, of course," I said, "people don't grow in new 
countries like trees. They have to come from some 
where else," and she laughed. 

It was true enough. When we arrived at a time 
when we would have liked a Mayflower or a Holland 
Mynheer, Virginia Cavaliers, or Spanish Dons, behold 



 

we had no ancestry that had risen out of the foam or 
been transplanted by fabled Deity. Only sturdy, 
courageous, hard-working pioneers who had seen an 
objective point and seized it and dreamed of being a 
connecting link between the East and the West 
and then worked mightily to make the dream come 
true. 

We rambled about the old places. The Ouilmette 
cabin had fallen into ruins, but the memory of the 
trader and his Indian wife still hung about it. We 
went over to the fort, that began to show signs of 
neglect. Here were the unmarked graves of those who 
had perished and we trod softly. Grass and a few wild 
flowers were springing up over them. Mrs. Heald and 
her beautiful horse stirred Sophie as it had me. 

"If you came out here and stayed until midnight, 
don't you suppose you could see her go riding down 
to escape the Indians?" 

I shuddered. "I don't believe I should want to be 
here at midnight," I said, rather awestricken. 

"Wouldn't you try a charm to see your future hus 
band?" she queried. 

"I don't imagine I shall ever have a husband," I 
said, with a curious kind of assurance about the future. 
I seemed to belong altogether to father. 

"Oh, I wouldn't stay single for anything," she cried, 
"and here, where you don't need to have a dot, it must 
be easy to get a husband." 

"A dot?" I repeated in perplexity. 

"Why, yes. In France, Ma mtre had to have some 
money beside a string of gold beads and two rings and 




some bed and table linen. Papa's mother would hardly 
consent then. You have to get the permission of the 
parents on both sides, and then you have two mar 
riages." 

"How queer! Why, it is almost like buying your 
wife," I said, and I felt my eyes open wide. 

"And now we are poor enough," and she sighed. "I 
don't know whether Nanette and I could have any 
dot. Then you generally go in a convent and become 
a sister, but I shouldn't like to be shut up and only 
visit poor people and those in trouble. There is a con 
vent in New Orleans and in Canada." 

I did not think I should like convent life either. The 
Piaget girls went to the Catholic Church in state, and 
the priest was Father Shoffer. It was moved to the 
rear of St. Mary's Cathedral afterward and used as a 
school-room, but children of all denominations went to 
school together. The Methodist Church had been 
moved across the river two years before on scows, the 
first building of any account to be moved intact. 
Everybody had thronged to see the wonderful achieve 
ment. 

We used to wander by the edge of the great lake, 
often picking up shells in the sand. I had quite a col 
lection, some beautiful ones Norman had given me. 
Homer had made me a box that I covered with them, 
arranging the choicest ones on the top in a figure as 
near to a rose as I could get it. 

Ben used to walk with us sometimes. The magnifi 
cence of the lake down here, where there was no busi 
ness and nothing but the swelling waves to ruffle its 



 

bosom, always filled me with a kind of reverent awe. 
The great space ending where ? To my childish mind 
it was like the ocean that I had never seen. I could 
not truly believe there were villages and wide stretches 
of ground on the other side. I liked its immensity. 
Several times we had been here on a moonlight even 
ing, when it was silvered over and set with tiny gems. 
All at the west and south stretched the dusky, blurring 
expanse, but to the eastward one could imagine that 
one could sail into the heaven that touched the farther 
boundary of the great inland sea. That wonderful 
angelic blue with its myriad stars ! Were they worlds 
in which the souls of the redeemed lived again? I 
wanted to talk all my new thoughts over with Nor 
man. I seemed to have acquired so many in this brief 
while. 

There was another great excitement about this time. 
Was it really four years since the last Presidential elec 
tion ? The town was all astir again. The same candi 
dates were put up. Dan Hayne did a good deal of 
electioneering, though it was not in such a very eager 
manner. I believe most of the people felt very sore 
about the canal that was to open the Mississippi to us, 
which dragged along to little purpose. Then the pos 
tal regulations were so inefficient, and there was a 
complaint about many things, confusing State and 
general government. The Kentucky people were all 
for General Jackson, and some of the old men declared 
they'd vote for him as long as they lived whether he 
was alive or not. The two papers indulged in sharp 
rejoinders, and occasionally stretched the point of 




truth, at least each accused the other of doing it. 
Father pinned his faith upon the American. 

People were very busy, too, with the abundant har 
vests. Such splendid yield of wheat as there had 
been! And to think of all this labor done by hand! 
One would have been smartly ridiculed if he had pre 
dicted the day of mowers and reapers and great grain 
elevators run by steam. Many a moonlight night men 
turned out and worked until they almost dropped, some 
did stop in their tracks and take a brief nap on a 
fragrant bed, with the stars for watchers. For the 
winter was coming, when Nature took her rest and 
locked our little world with her icy chains. 

There was beef and pork packed to send away, 
piles of hides, bushels of grain, and the prominent busi 
ness men left politics to care for itself awhile. The river 
and the docks were thronged and piled high, we 
thought then. Ben was much interested in this, and 
now had gone in Norman's place, though Mr. Hub- 
bard's business was growing larger every year, and 
new warehouses were pushing in. 

But we children went to school, and at home fol 
lowed the useful arts spinning, sewing, knitting and 
cooking. We had little time for the fripperies of life. 
They were to come later. 

I did not forget my reading with Mrs. Chadwick, 
though I was growing very fond of the girls and girls' 
play. Jed Hatch had not come back, so M'liss re 
mained with us. There was a great stir about the 
copper mines in northern Michigan, and the lead at 
Galena. Then coal was being discovered here and 



 

there, and men's wits were put to work in inventing 
labor-saving and money-saving machines. 

We did not care much about these, though the 
neighbors who stopped at the garden gate or sat 
awhile on the stoop talking to father wondered a little 
if this or that could not be done, and sometimes laughed 
at father when he predicted great things for the future 
of Chicago. We did not look much like it in those 
days, though people were beginning to build brick 
houses and replace their old log structures with frame. 
Many of the streets were simply staked out. And 
when the Wrights built their really pretty mansion 
down near what was the end of Madison Street, they 
were laughed at as going out on the prairie. 

Good water seemed a serious question. There were 
so few springs good for anything. We caught rain 
water in the wet season and filtered it, putting it in 
bottles for time of need, when after a good shaking up 
it answered very well. The water from the lake was 
fine if taken from a little distance out or farther up. 
The river was simply dreadful. 

One of the best springs had an odd story. The 
children used often to congregate about it and drink 
their fill. I used to wonder if it tasted as good to the 
stag at Monan's rill as to the thirsty children. It was 
called Colonel Baubein's punch bowl. Half a dozen 
years or so before, the State ordered that the militia 
of Cook County should be duly organized, and officers' 
elected. There was quite a rivalry, but Mr. John Bau- 
bein was elected over all opposition, and it was re 
solved to have a fine celebration. At the base of a 





small bluff the spring made a natural basin. This was 
dammed up across the outlet and a keg of brandy 
poured in. Six dozen lemons, four packages of loaf 
sugar were added, and the whole stirred with a new 
clean stick. Most of the town turned out, and sitting 
around swapped stories and drank punch until they 
absolutely lowered the novel punch bowl and went 
home in a high state of hilarity. For days after one 
and another stole down, happy even in getting a taste 
of the weaker stimulant. 

It was delightful water long after that, and the 
two Baubein brothers were famous men in old 
Chicago. 

Champaign squibs and songs had a new impulse just 
then. Even the children who could made rhymes to 
the glory of Tippecanoe. And then there was a sud 
den and well-nigh unexpected rejoicing William 
Henry Harrison gained the day by a handsome 
majority. 

Father was deeply delighted, though he did not ex 
actly crow over his opponents. 

"You'll see now," he said, "this will be the begin 
ning of good times. Four years from now you will 
hardly know yourselves." No one could have im 
agined then his reign would be so brief. 

"If there could be more money, more money," cried 
everybody. The canal was given up for better times, 
but the lake was left. And when one looked over the 
list of enterprising citizens and found the hides and 
wheat, the corn and pork and beef, the beans, salt, 
the furs, and the lead, there was no need of feeling 



 

really discouraged. "Rome wasn't built in a day," 
was a favorite saying of father's. 

Mrs. Hayne and I had good long letters from Nor 
man. Mine were written at intervals and finished at 
Detroit, that, like some of the other towns, had a 
rather romantic history. It had been French and Eng 
lish, it had been a great trading place in the pioneer 
days ; it had been turned over to the United States by 
treaty, then given up to the English by General Hull 
at the same time the order had been sent for the evacu 
ation of Fort Dearborn. It had been destroyed by fire 
and rebuilt on a more generous plan, and bid fair to be 
a fine city. 

But with all these interesting matters Norman's 
heart did not waver, and he was looking steadily for 
ward. One year was almost gone. He had been very 
busy and happy, had proved of great service to Mr. 
Le Moyne, and had acquired much knowledge. He 
could talk French quite well, and was learning to read 
correctly. It seemed as if most of the northern world 
was French. Now they were to go to Montreal and 
Quebec. Would I find some histories or books and 
read up about those famous cities and the heroes who 
had fought and died for them ? And would I tell him 
all about myself? Was I growing tall? And did my 
hair keep its beautiful light tint, and he hoped I would 
care for my complexion. He had seen some such 
beautiful girls, some splendid Indian maidens, so lovely 
he did not wonder white men married them. Did Ben 
come often, and did I like him very much? But I 
must not put any one in his place. 



He could write ever so much more and there were 
pages and pages in the letter, but there were so many 
things to do, and this letter would go by private hands, 
with some other matters consigned to Newberry & 
Dole. For postage was very high and increased with 
additional miles. 

I read it to father, and he was very much pleased, 
but he made one little growl. There are some voices 
that express disapprobation that way, and it is really 
more amusing than unkind. 

"Like Ben Hayne! Why, he's nothing but a big, 
soft-headed boy. Homer's smarter in his little finger 
than Ben's whole body." 

"Ben is very nice and kind," I said honestly, "but 
Norman is the best of all." 

He gave a chuckle at that. "You mark my words, 
Homer will be a rich man some day. I don't know 
about the rolling stones, though it did seem an excel 
lent thing for Norman. But he will never come back 
here and settle in Chicago." 

Long afterward that sentence recurred to me. 

I took my letter over to Mrs. Hayne. Her's 
was a good deal on the same lines, only there were 
more to ask about. She made a different com 
