intimately concerned in a part of the tragedy, and whose name was
everywhere associated with his own.

He would have taken her away from Rome at once, if he could have done
so. But he knew that they would both be called upon during the next few
days to repeat in court the evidence they had already given in their
first deposition. There was sure to be the most frightful publicity
about the whole affair, of which reports would be published not only in
Rome but throughout Italy, and all over the world. In real life the
consequences of events generally have the importance which fiction is
obliged to give the events themselves; which is the reason why the
things that happen to real people rarely come to any precise conclusion,
like those reached by a play or a novel. The "conclusion" lies in the
lives of the people, after the tragedy, or the drama, or the comedy has
violently upset their existences.

"You cannot stay here," Marcello repeated with conviction.

"You will go on living at your villa," Regina answered. "Why should I
not go on living in this house? For a few days I will not go out, that
is all. Is it the end of the world because a person has been killed who
ought to have died in the galleys? Or because the man who tried to kill
you was caught in a place that belongs to you? Tell me that."

"You cannot stay here," Marcello repeated a third time.

For a while Regina was silent. They were both very white and heavy-eyed
in the cold daylight, though they could not have slept. At last she
looked at him thoughtfully.

"If we were married, we should go on living in our own house," she said.
"Is it true, or not? It is because there will be talking that you are
ashamed to let me stay where I am, and would like to get me away. This
is the truth. I know it."

Marcello knew it too and did not answer at once, for it was not easy to
decide what he ought to do. The problem that had seemed so hard to solve
a few hours earlier was fast getting altogether beyond solution. There
was only one thing to be done in the first present difficulty; he must
take Regina to some other place at once. No doubt this was easy enough.
He would take an apartment for her elsewhere, as far as possible from
the scene of the tragedy, and in a few hours she could be installed
there out of the way of annoyance. He could buy a house for her if he
chose, for he was very rich. Possibly some house already belonging to
him was vacant; his lawyer would know.

But after that, what was to come? If Corbario lived, there would be a
sensational trial in which he and Regina would be witnesses together,
and Kalmon too, and very surely Aurora and her mother. For Aurora would
be called upon to tell what she knew of Marcello's movements on the
morning when he had been knocked down near the gap.

Every moment of his past life would be publicly examined, to prove
Corbario's guilt. Worse than that, there would be a long inquiry to show
that Corbario had murdered his mother. Skilled surgeons were tending the
man's wounds and reviving him by every means that science could suggest.
Kalmon said that he might live. He was being kept alive in order to be
condemned to the expiation of his crimes in penal servitude, since
Italian law could not make him pay for them with his life. The man would
be watched by day and night, lest he should try to commit suicide, for
he was to suffer, if he lived. He was to suffer horribly, without doubt,
and it was right and just that he should. But Marcello would suffer too.
That was not just. The name of his saintly mother would be in the mouths
of all kinds of witnesses, in the columns of all sorts of newspapers.
Lawyers would make speeches about her to excite the pity of the jury and
to turn the whole tide of feeling against Corbario. Marcello would
himself be held up to public commiseration, as one of Corbario's
victims. There would be allusions covert and open to Regina and to the
position in which she stood to Marcello. There would be talk about
Aurora. People would suddenly remember her mother's sad story and
gossip about her; people would certainly say that there had been talk
about marrying Aurora to Marcello, and that Regina had come between
them. Yes, there would be much talk about Aurora; that was certain.

All this was coming, and was not far off, if Corbario lived; and even if
he died there would be a vast amount said and written about all the
people concerned.

And Regina was there, beside him, telling him that if they were married
they could go on living in the little house, just as if nothing had
happened. It was not true, but he could not find heart to tell her so.
It was the first time that any suggestion of marriage had come from her,
who had always told him that marriage was impossible. If she wished it
now, could he refuse?

Suddenly he knew that he had reached one of the great cross-roads in his
life, and that fate had dragged him violently to it within the last few
hours, to make him choose his way. The full-grown character of the man
rebelled against being forced to a decision in spite of himself, but
revolted at the thought of fearing to do what was right and honourable.
He was not hesitating as he sat still in silence after Regina had
spoken. He was thinking, with the firm determination to act as soon as
he had reached a decision. When a man can do that, his weakness is past.

Regina did not interrupt the current of his thoughts, and as she watched
him she forgot all about the present; and they were just together, where
they had so often been happy, and she loved him with all her heart. That
was her strength. It had nothing to do with right or wrong, honour or
dishonour, credit or discredit, or any choice of ways. She had no
choice. She loved. It was a very simple thing.

He looked up at last. She was still wearing the loose dressing-gown she
had worn all night.

"Could you sleep now?" he asked.

"No."

"Then you must dress," he said. "While you are dressing I will walk up
to the villa and give some orders. Then I will come and get you in a
closed carriage. Put together what you may need for the day, and I will
have all your things moved before night."

"Are you really going to take me away from here?" Regina asked,
regretfully.

"Yes. I must. It will be easy to find a place that will please you
better. Will you do as I have said?"

"Why do you ask? I go."

She rose and stood beside him a moment while he sat still, and her hand
caressed his short fair hair. She bent down and kissed the close waves
of it, near his forehead.

"We have been very happy here," she said quietly.

She slipped away as he rose to his feet, with the sudden conviction that
something had happened.

"What is it?" he asked quickly, and making a step after her.

"I am going to dress," she answered.

She turned her head and smiled, but there was a touch of sadness in the
look, as if she was saying good-bye. He partly understood, and her
expression was reflected in his own face. They had been so happy in the
little house in Trastevere.

When the door had closed Marcello went to find Kalmon. He met him at the
foot of the stairs.

"The fellow is alive, and will probably recover," said the Professor, in
answer to the unasked question in Marcello's eyes.

"It would simplify matters if he died," said Marcello. "Will you walk up
to the villa with me and have coffee? We cannot get a cab at this hour
on this side of the Tiber."

"Thank you," Kalmon answered, "but I must go home. The house is in
charge of the police, and there is nothing more to be done here. They
have already taken the woman's body to San Spirito, and they will move
Corbario in a few hours. He is badly mauled, but no big arteries are
torn. I must go home and write a letter. The Contessa must not hear what
has happened through the newspapers."

"No. Certainly not. As for me, I am going to take Regina away at once. I
shall bring my own carriage down from the villa."

"By the bye," Kalmon said, "I had thought of that. The house in which I
live is divided into many small apartments. There is a very good one to
let, decently furnished. I thought of taking it myself, and I looked at
it yesterday. You might put the young lady there until you can find what
you may prefer. She can move in at once."

"Nothing could be better. If you are going home, will you say that I
take the place and will be there in an hour? No. 16, Via Sicilia, is it
not?"

"Yes. I'll see to it. Shall I take the lease in your name?"

"No. Any name will do better. The reporters would find her at once under
mine."

"I'll use my own," said the Professor. "I'll say that she is a lady who
has arrived to consult me--I daresay she will--and that I'm responsible
for her."

"Thank you," answered Marcello gratefully. "And thank you for all that
you have done to help me."

"My dear Marcello," Kalmon said, smiling cheerfully, "in the first
place, I have done nothing to help you, and secondly, through excess of
zeal, I have got you into a very unpleasant situation, by indirectly
causing a woman to be murdered in your house, and the murderer almost
mauled to death by that very singular wild beast which your man calls a
dog, and which I had often noticed in old times at the cottage. So there
is nothing at all to thank me for, though I am most heartily at your
service."

The Professor was positively in high spirits just then, and Marcello
envied him as they parted and took opposite directions.

Though the Via Sicilia was a long way from the Janiculum, Marcello had
been only too glad to accept Kalmon's suggestion at such a moment.
Regina would feel that she was protected by Marcello's friend, and
though she might rarely see him, it would be better for her than to be
lodged in a house where she knew no one. Kalmon was a bachelor and a
man of assured position, and it had cost him nothing to undertake to
give Regina his protection; but Marcello was deeply grateful. He had
already made up his mind as to what he would do next.

It had stopped raining at last, and the wind had fallen to a soft breeze
that bore the morning mist gently away towards the sea, and hardly
stirred the wet leaves that strewed the road all the way up to San
Pietro in Montorio. Marcello found the gate of the villa already open,
for it was nearly eight o'clock by the time he got there.

He summoned the servants to the library, told them briefly what had
happened, and warned them that they might be summoned as witnesses at
the coming trial, as most of them had been in his mother's service. In
the days before Corbario had lost his head, and when he had controlled
the household, it had been a part of his policy to have really
respectable servants about him, and though some of them had never quite
trusted him, they had all been devoted to the Signora and to Marcello.
They listened in respectful silence now, and waited till he was out of
the house before meeting to discuss the tragedy and to decide that
Corbario had got his deserts at last.

In a few hours Regina was installed in her new lodging with such
belongings as she needed immediately. Kalmon, having finished writing
his letter to the Contessa, left nothing undone which could contribute
to the comfort of the "lady who had arrived to consult him." He had a
respectable old woman servant, who had been with him for years, and who
came from his native town. He took her into his confidence to some
extent, and placed her in charge of Regina. As she thought that
everything he did must be right, she accepted his statement that the
young gentleman who would often come to see the young lady was deeply
interested in the latter's welfare, and that, as the poor young lady had
no relations, he, the Professor, had taken her under his protection
while she remained in Rome.

The old servant's name was Teresa, and she belonged to a certain type of
elderly old maids who take a very kindly interest in the love affairs of
the young. She smiled, shook her head in a very mild disapprobation, and
did much more than Kalmon had asked of her; for she took the very first
opportunity of informing Regina that the Professor was the greatest,
wisest, best, and kindest of mankind; and Regina recognised in her a
loyal soul, and forthwith liked her very much.

It was late in the November afternoon when Marcello ascended the stairs
and stopped before the door of the little apartment. He realised that he
had no key to it, and that he must ring the bell as if he were a mere
visitor. It was strange that such a little thing should affect him at
all, but he was conscious of a sort of chill, as he pulled the metal
handle and heard the tinkling of one of those cheap little bells that
feebly imitate their electric betters by means of a rachet and a small
weighted wheel. It was all so different from the little house in
Trastevere with its bright varnished doors, its patent locks, its smart
windows, and its lovely old garden. He wished he had not brought Regina
to Via Sicilia, though Kalmon's advice had seemed so good. To Kalmon,
who was used to no great luxury in his own life, the place doubtless
seemed very well suited for a young person like Regina, who had been
brought up a poor child in the hills. But the mere anticipation of the
dark and narrow entry, and the sordid little sitting-room beyond, awoke
in Marcello a sense of shame, whether for himself or for the woman who
loved him he hardly knew.

Old Teresa had gone out for something, and Regina opened the door
herself.




CHAPTER XX


"I have come to see if you need anything," Marcello said, when they were
in the sitting-room. "I am sorry to have been obliged to bring you to
such a wretched place, but it seemed a good thing that you should be so
near Kalmon."

"It is not a wretched place," Regina answered. "It is clean, and the
things are new, and the curtains have been washed. It is not wretched.
We have been in worse lodgings when we have travelled and stopped in
small towns. Professor Kalmon has been very kind. It was wise to bring
me here."

He wished she had seemed discontented.

"Have you rested a little?" he asked.

"I have slept two or three hours. And you? You look tired."

"I have had no time to sleep. I shall sleep to-night."

He leaned back in the small green arm-chair and rested his head against
a coarse netted antimacassar. His eyes caught Regina's, but she was
looking down thoughtfully at her hands, which lay in her lap together
but not clasped. Peasant women often do that; their hands are resting
then, after hard work, and they are thinking of nothing.

"Look at me," Marcello said after a long time.

Her glance was sad and almost dull, and there was no light in her face.
She had made up her mind that something dreadful was going to happen to
her, and that the end was coming soon. She could not have told why she
felt it, and that made it worse. Her eyes had the indescribable look
that one sees in those of a beautiful sick animal, the painful
expression of an unintelligent suffering which the creature cannot
understand. Regina, roused to act and face to face with danger, was
brave, clever, and quick, but under the mysterious oppression of her
forebodings she was the Roman hill woman, apathetic, hopeless,
unconsciously fatalistic and sleepily miserable.

"What is the matter?" Marcello asked. "What has happened?"

"I shall know when you have told me," Regina answered, slowly shaking
her head; and again she looked down at her hands.

"What I have come to tell you will not make you sad," Marcello replied.

"Speak, heart of my heart. I listen."

Marcello leaned forward and laid his hand upon hers. She looked up
quietly, for it was a familiar action of his.

"I am going to marry you," he said, watching her, and speaking
earnestly.

She kept her eyes on his, but she shook her head again, slowly, from
side to side, and her lips were pressed together.

"Yes, I am," said Marcello, with a little pressure of his hand to
emphasise the words.

But she withdrew hers, and leaned far back from him.

"Never," she said. "I have told you so, many times."

"Not if I tell you that nothing else will make me happy?" he asked.

"If I still made you happy, you would not talk of marriage," Regina
answered.

For the first time since she had loved him he heard a ring of bitterness
in her voice. They had reached that first node of misunderstanding in
the love relations of men and women, which lies where the one begins to
think and act upon a principle while the other still feels and acts from
the heart.

"That is not reasonable," Marcello said.

"It is truth," she answered.

"But how?"

"How! I feel it, here!"

Her hands sprang to life and pressed her bosom, her voice rang deep and
her eyes flashed, as if she were impatient of his misunderstanding.

He tried to laugh gently.

"But if I want to marry you, it is because I mean never to part from
you," he said.

"No!" she cried. "It is because you are afraid that you will leave me,
unless you are bound to me."

"Regina!" Marcello protested, by his tone.

"It is as I say. It is because you are honourable. It is because you
wish to be faithful. It is because you want to be true. But what do I
care for honour, or faith, or truth, if I can only have them of you
because you are tied to me? I only want love. That is everything. I want
it, but I have never asked it of you, and never shall. Is love money,
that you can take it out of your purse and give it? Is love a string,
that the priest and the mayor can tie the ends so that they can never
come undone? I do not know what it is, but it is not that!"

She laughed scornfully, as if she were angry at the thought. But
Marcello had made up his mind, and was obstinate.

"We must be married at once," he said quietly, and fully believing that
he could impose his will upon hers. "If I had not been weak and foolish,
we should have been married long ago. But for a long time after my
illness I had no will of my own. I am sorry. It was my fault."

"It was not your fault, it was the illness, and it was my will. If I had
said, any day in those first two years, 'Make me your wife, for I wish
to be a real signora,' would you not have done it?"

"You know I would."

"But I would not, and I will not now. I am not a real signora. I am
beautiful--yes, I see that. Am I blind when I look into my glass? I am
very beautiful. We have not often met any woman in our travels as
beautiful as I am. Am I blind? I have black hair, like the common
people, but my hair is not coarse, like a mule's tail. It is as fine as
silk. My eyes are black, and that is common too; but my eyes are not
like those of the buffaloes in the Campagna, as the other women's are
where I was born. And I am not dark-skinned; I am as white as the snow
on Monte Cavo, as white as the milk in the pan. Also I have been told
that I have beautiful feet, though I cannot tell why. They are small,
this is the truth, and my hands are like those of a signora. But I am
not a real signora, though I have all this. How can you marry me? None
of your friends would speak to me, because I have not even been an
honest girl. That was for you, but they do not count love. Your servants
at the villa would laugh at you behind your back, and say, 'The master
has married one of us!' Do you think I could bear that? Tell me what you
think! Am I of stone, to bear that people should laugh at you?"

She took breath at last and leaned back again, folding her arms and
fixing her splendid eyes on his face, and challenging him to answer her.

"We will go and live in Calabria, at San Domenico, for a while," he
said. "We need not live in Rome at all, unless we please, for we have
the whole world before us."

"We saw the world together without being married," Regina answered
obstinately. "What difference would there be, if we were husband and
wife? Do you wish to know what difference there would be? I will tell
you. There would be this difference. One day I should see no light in
your eyes, and your lips would be like stone. Then I should say, 'Heart
of my heart, you are tired of me, and I go.' But you would answer, 'You
cannot go, for you are my wife.' What would that be? That would be the
difference. Do you understand, or do you not understand? If you do not
understand, I can do nothing. But I will not marry you. Have you ever
seen a mule go down to the ford in spring, too heavily laden, when there
is freshet? He drowns, if he is driven in, because the burden is too
heavy. I will not be the burden; but I should be, if I were your wife,
because I am not a real signora. Now you know what I think."

"Yes," Marcello answered, "but I do not think in the same way."

He was not sure how to answer her arguments, and he lit a cigarette to
gain time. He was quietly determined to have his own way, but in order
to succeed he knew that he must persuade her till she agreed with him.
He could not drag her to the altar against her will.

Before he had thrown away the match, Regina had risen from her chair.
She leaned against the little marble mantelpiece, looking down at him.

"There are things that you do not know," she said. "If you knew them you
would not want to marry me. In all the time we have been together, you
have hardly ever spoken to me of your mother."

Marcello started a little and looked up, unconsciously showing that he
was displeased.

"No," he answered. "Why should I?"

"You were right. Your mother is now one of the saints in Paradise. How
do I know it? Even Settimia knew it. I am not going to talk of her now.
I am not fit to speak her name in your hearing. Very well. Do you know
what my mother was?"

"She is dead," Marcello replied, meaning that Regina should let her
memory alone.

"Or my father?" she asked, going on. "They were bad people. I come of a
bad race. Perhaps that is why I do wrong easily, for you. My father
killed a man and left us, though he was allowed to go free, and I never
saw him again. He had reason to kill the man. I was a little girl, but I
remember. My mother took other men. They came and went; sometimes they
were drunk and they beat us. When I was twelve years old one of them
looked upon me with bad eyes. Then my mother cursed him, and he took up
a stone and struck her on the head, and she died. They sent him to the
galleys, and me to work at the inn, because I had no friends. This is
the family of Regina. It is a race of assassins and wicked women. If I
were your wife, that would be the family of your wife. If God sent
children, that would be the blood they would have of me, to mix with
that of your mother, who is one of the saints in heaven. This is the
truth. If you think I am telling you one thing for another, let us go to
the inn on the Frascati road. Paoluccio and Nanna know. They would laugh
if they could see me dressed like a real signora, and they would say,
'This girl is her mother's daughter!' And so I am."

She ceased speaking, and again waited for his answer, but he had none
ready, and there was silence. She had put the ugly truth too plainly
before him, and he could not shut up his understanding against it; he
could not deny what she said, he could never teach himself to believe
that it did not matter. And yet, he did not mean to draw back, or give
up his purpose, even then. Men of good birth had married peasant women
before now. They had given up the society of their old friends, they had
lived in remote places, they had become half peasants themselves, their
sons had grown up to be rough farmers, and had done obligatory military
service in the ranks for years, because they could not pass an easy
examination. But was all that so very terrible after all, in the light
of the duty that faced him?

The woman had saved his life, had carried him in her arms, had tended
him like a child, had stolen food to keep him alive, had faced
starvation for him when she had got him to the hospital, had nursed
him--had loved him, had given him all she had, and she would have died
for him, if there had been need. Now, she was giving him something more,
for she was refusing to be his wife because she was sure that sooner or
later she must be a burden to him, and that her birth would be a
reproach to his children. No woman could do more for a man than she had
done. She had been his salvation and his good angel; when she had found
out that the life in Paris that amused her was killing him, she had
brought him back to himself, she had made him at last fit and able to
face those who would have destroyed him. She had loved him like a
woman, she had obeyed him and served him like a devoted servant, she had
watched over him like a faithful dog; and he had given her nothing in
return for all that, not one thing that deserved to be counted. Perhaps
he had not even really loved her; most surely his love had been far less
large and true and devoted than hers, and he felt that it was so. The
reparation he was determined to make was not really for her honesty's
