folly, I did my best to prevent it.  It's a scatter-brained idea, and
no good will come of it, mark me."
"I can take care of myself,"--truculently.
"So I have often been forced to observe,"--dryly.
(I wondered what it was all about.)
"But, uncle dear, I am becoming so dreadfully bored!"
"That sounds final," sighed the old man, helping himself to the
haricots verts.  (The girl ate positively nothing.)  "But it seems
odd that you can't go about your affairs after my own reasonable
manner."
"I am only twenty."
The old man's shoulders rose and fell resignedly.
"No man has an answer for that."
"I promise to tell you everything that happens; by telegraph."
"That's small comfort.  Imagine receiving a telegram early in the
morning, when a man's brain is without invention or coherency of
thought!  I would that you were back home with your father.  I might
sleep o' nights, then."
"I have so little amusement!"
"You work three hours a day and earn more in a week than your father
and I do in a month.  Yours is a very unhappy lot."
"I hate the smell of paints; I hate the studio."
"And I suppose you hate your fame?" acridly.
"Bah! that is my card to a living.  The people I meet bore me."
"Not satisfied with common folks, eh?  Must have kings and queens to
talk to?"
"I only want to live abroad, and you and father will not let
me,"--petulantly.
The music started up, and I heard no more.  Occasionally the girl
glanced at me and smiled in a friendly fashion.  She was evidently an
artist's model; and when they have hair and color like this girl's, the
pay is good.  I found myself wondering why she was bored and why Carmen
had so suddenly lost its charms.
It was seven o'clock when I pushed aside my plate and paid my check.  I
calculated that by hustling I could reach Blankshire either at ten or
ten-thirty.  That would be early enough for my needs.  And now to route
out a costumer.  All I needed was a grey mask.  I had in my apartments
a Capuchin's robe and cowl.  I rose, lighting a cigarette.
The girl looked up from her coffee.
"Back to the dime-museum?"--banteringly.
"I have a few minutes to spare," said I.
"By the way, I forgot to ask you what card you drew."
"It was the ten of hearts."
"The ten of hearts?"  Her amazement was not understandable.
"Yes, the ten of hearts; Cupid and all that."
She recovered her composure quickly.
"Then you will not blow up the post-office to-night?"
"No," I replied, "not to-night."
"You have really and truly aroused my curiosity.  Tell me, what does
the ten of hearts mean to you?"
I gazed thoughtfully down at her.  Had I truly mystified her?  There
was some doubt in my mind.
"Frankly, I wish I might tell you.  All I am at liberty to say is that
I am about to set forth upon a desperate adventure, and I shall be very
fortunate if I do not spend the night in the lock-up."
"You do not look desperate."
"Oh, I am not desperate; it is only the adventure that is desperate."
"Some princess in durance vile?  Some villain to smite?  Citadels to
storm?"  Her smile was enchantment itself.
I hesitated a moment.  "What would you say if I told you that this
adventure was merely to prove to myself what a consummate ass the
average man can be upon occasions?"
"Why go to the trouble of proving it?"--drolly.
"I am conceited enough to have some doubts as to the degree."
"Consider it positive."
I laughed.  "I am in hopes that I am neither a positive ass nor a
superlative one, only comparative."
"But the adventure; that is the thing that mainly interests me."
"Oh, that is a secret which I should hesitate to tell even to the
Sphinx."
"I see you are determined not to illuminate the darkness,"--and she
turned carelessly toward her uncle, who was serenely contemplating the
glowing end of a fat perfecto.
I bowed and passed out in Sixth Avenue, rather regretting that I had
not the pleasure of the charming young person's acquaintance.
The ten-spot of hearts seemed to have startled her for some reason.  I
wondered why.
The snow blew about me, whirled, and swirled, and stung.  Oddly enough
I recalled the paragraph relative to Mrs. Hyphen-Bonds.  By this time
she was being very well tossed about in mid-ocean.  As the old order of
yarn-spinners used to say, little did I dream what was in store for me,
or the influence the magic name of Hyphen-Bonds was to have upon my
destiny.
Bismillah!  (Whatever that means!)
II
After half an hour's wandering about I stumbled across a curio-shop, a
weird, dim and dusty, musty old curio-shop, with stuffed peacocks
hanging from the ceiling, and skulls, and bronzes and marbles,
paintings, tarnished jewelry and ancient armor, rare books in vellum,
small arms, tapestry, pastimes, plaster masks, and musical instruments.
I recalled to mind the shop of the dealer in antiquities in Balzac's
La Peau de Chagrin, and glanced about (not without a shiver) for the
fatal ass's skin.  (I forgot that I was wearing it myself that night!)
I was something of a collector of antiquities, of the inanimate kind,
and for a time I became lost in speculation,--speculation rather
agreeable of its kind, I liked to conjure up in fancy the various
scenes through which these curiosities had drifted in their descent to
this demi-pawnshop; the brave men and beautiful women, the clangor of
tocsins, the haze of battles, the glitter of ball-rooms, epochs and
ages.  What romance lay behind yon satin slipper?  What grande dame
had smiled behind that ivory fan?  What meant that tarnished silver
mask?
The old French proprietor was evidently all things from a pawnbroker to
an art collector; for most of the jewelry was in excellent order and
the pictures possessed value far beyond the intrinsic.  He was waiting
upon a customer, and the dingy light that shone down on his bald bumpy
head made it look for all the world like an ill-used billiard-ball.  He
was exhibiting revolvers.
From the shining metal of the small arms, my glance traveled to the
face of the prospective buyer.  It was an interesting face, clean-cut,
beardless, energetic, but the mouth impressed me as being rather hard.
Doubtless he felt the magnetism of my scrutiny, for he suddenly looked
around.  The expression on his face was not one to induce me to throw
my arms around his neck and declare I should be glad to make his
acquaintance.  It was a scowl.  He was in evening dress, and I could
see that he knew very well how to wear it.  All this was but momentary.
He took up a revolver and balanced it on his palm.
By and by the proprietor came sidling along behind the cases, the
slip-slip fashion of his approach informing me that he wore slippers.
"Do you keep costumes?" I asked.
"Anything you like, sir, from a crusader to a modern gentleman,"--with
grim and appropriate irony.  "What is it you are in search of--a
masquerade costume?'"
"Only a grey mask," I answered.  "I am going to a masked ball to-night
as a Grey Capuchin, and I want a mask that will match my robe."
"Your wants are simple."
From a shelf he brought down a box, took off the cover, and left me to
make my selection.  Soon I found what I desired and laid it aside,
waiting for Monsieur Friard to return.  Again I observed the other
customer.  There is always a mystery to be solved and a story to be
told, when a man makes the purchase of a pistol in a pawnshop.  A man
who buys a pistol for the sake of protection does so in the light of
day, and in the proper place, a gun-shop.  He does not haunt the
pawnbroker in the dusk of evening.  Well, it was none of my business;
doubtless he knew what he was doing.  I coughed suggestively, and
Friard came slipping in my direction again.
"This is what I want.  How much?" I inquired.
"Fifty cents; it has never been worn."
I drew out my wallet.  I had arrived in town too late to go to the
bank, and I was carrying an uncomfortably large sum in gold-bills.  As
I opened the wallet to extract a small bill, I saw the stranger eying
me quietly.  Well, well, the dullest being brightens at the sight of
money and its representatives.  I drew out a small bill and handed it
to the proprietor.  He took it, together with the mask, and sidled over
to the cash-register.  The bell gave forth a muffled sound, not unlike
that of a fire-bell in a snow-storm.  As he was in the act of wrapping
up my purchase, I observed the silent customer's approach.  When he
reached my side he stooped and picked up something from the floor.
With a bow he presented it to me.
"I saw it drop from your pocket," he said; and then when he saw what it
was, his jaw fell, and he sent me a hot, penetrating glance.
"The ten of hearts!" he exclaimed in amazement.
I laughed easily.
"The ten of hearts!" he repeated.
"Yes; four hearts on one side and four on the other, and two in the
middle, which make ten in all,"--raillery in my tones.  What the deuce
was the matter with everybody to-night?  "Marvelous card, isn't it?"
"Very strange!" he murmured, pulling at his lips.
"And in what way is it strange?" I asked, rather curious to learn the
cause of his agitation.
"There are several reasons,"--briefly.
"Ah!"
"I have seen a man's hand pinned to that card; therefore it is
gruesome."
"Some card-sharper?"
He nodded.  "Then again, I lost a small fortune because of that
card,"--diffidently.
"Poker?"
"Yes.  Why will a man try to fill a royal flush?  The man next to me
drew the ten of hearts, the very card I needed.  The sight of it always
unnerves me.  I beg your pardon."
"Oh, that's all right," said I, wondering how many more lies he had up
his sleeve.
"And there's still another reason.  I saw a man put six bullets into
the two central spots, and an hour later the seventh bullet snuffed the
candle of a friend of mine.  I am from the West."
"I can sympathize with you," I returned.  "After all that trouble, the
sight of the card must have given you a shock."
Then I stowed away the fatal card and took up my bundle and change.  I
have in my own time tried to fill royal flushes, and the disappointment
still lingers with a bitter taste.
"The element of chance is the most fascinating thing there is," the
stranger from the West volunteered.
"So it is," I replied, suddenly recalling that I was soon to put my
trust in the hands of that very fickle goddess.
He nodded and returned to his revolvers, while I went out of the shop,
hailed a cab, and drove up-town to my apartments in Riverside.  It was
eight o'clock by my watch.  I leaned back against the cushions,
ruminating.  There seemed to be something going on that night; the ten
of hearts was acquiring a mystifying, not to say sinister, aspect.
First it had alarmed the girl in Mouquin's, and now this stranger in
the curio-shop.  I was confident that the latter had lied in regard to
his explanations.  The card had startled him, but his reasons were
altogether of transparent thinness.  A man never likes to confess that
he is unlucky at cards; there is a certain pride in lying about the
enormous stakes you have won and the wonderful draws you have made.  I
frowned.  It was not possible for me to figure out what his interest in
the card was.  If he was a Westerner, his buying a pistol in a pawnshop
was at once disrobed of its mystery; but the inconsistent elegance of
his evening clothes doubled my suspicions.  Bah!  What was the use of
troubling myself with this stranger's affairs?  He would never cross my
path again.
In reasonable time the cab drew up in front of my apartments.  I
dressed, donned my Capuchin's robe and took a look at myself in the
pier-glass.  Then I unwrapped the package and put on the mask.  The
whole made a capital outfit, and I was vastly pleased with myself.
This was going to be such an adventure as one reads about in the
ancient numbers of Blackwood's.  I slipped the robe and mask into my
suit-case and lighted my pipe.  During great moments like this, a man
gathers courage and confidence from a pipeful of tobacco.  I dropped
into a comfortable Morris, touched the gas-logs, and fell into a
pleasant dream.  It was not necessary for me to start for the
Twenty-third Street ferry till nine; so I had something like
three-quarters of an hour to idle away. . . .  What beautiful hair that
girl had!  It was like sunshine, the silk of corn, the yield of the
harvest.  And the marvelous abundance of it!  It was true that she was
an artist's model; it was equally true that she had committed a mild
impropriety in addressing me as she had; but, for all I could see, she
was a girl of delicate breeding, doubtless one of the many whose family
fortunes, or misfortunes, force them to earn a living.  And it is no
disgrace these days to pose as an artist's model.  The classic oils,
nowadays, call only for exquisite creations in gowns and hats;
mythology was exhausted by the old masters.  Rome, Paris, London;
possibly a bohemian existence in these cities accounted for her ease in
striking up a conversation, harmless enough, with a total stranger.  In
Paris and Rome it was all very well; but it is a risky thing to do in
unromantic New York and London.  However, her uncle had been with her;
a veritable fortress, had I over-stepped the bounds of politeness.
The smoke wavered and rolled about me.  I took out the ten of hearts
and studied it musingly.  After all, should I go?  Would it be wise?  I
confess I saw goblins' heads peering from the spots, and old Poe
stories returned to me!  Pshaw!  It was only a frolic, no serious harm
could possibly come of it.  I would certainly go, now I had gone thus
far.  What fool idea the girl was bent on I hadn't the least idea; but
I easily recognized the folly upon which I was about to set sail.
Heigh-ho!  What was a lonely young bachelor to do?  At the most, they
could only ask me to vacate the premises, should I be so unfortunate as
to be discovered.  In that event, Teddy Hamilton would come to my
assistance. . . .  She was really beautiful!  And then I awoke to the
alarming fact that the girl in Mouquin's was interesting me more than I
liked to confess.
Presently, through the haze of smoke, I saw a patch of white paper on
the rug in front of the pier-glass.  I rose and picked it up.
  NAME:  Hawthorne
  COSTUME:  Blue Domino
  TIME:  5:30 P. M.
  RETURNED:
  ADDRESS:  West 87th Street
         FRIARD'S
I stared at the bit of pasteboard, fascinated.  How the deuce had this
got into my apartments?  A Blue Domino?  Ha!  I had it!  Old Friard had
accidentally done up the ticket with my mask.  A Blue Domino; evidently
I wasn't the only person who was going to a masquerade.  Without doubt
this fair demoiselle was about to join the festivities of some
shop-girls' masquerade, where money and pedigree are inconsequent
things, and where everybody is either a "loidy" or a "gent."  Persons
who went to my kind of masquerade did not rent their costumes; they
laid out extravagant sums to the fashionable modiste and tailor, and
had them made to order.  A Blue Domino: humph!
It was too late to take the ticket back to Friard's; so I determined to
mail it to him in the morning.
It was now high time for me to be off.  I got into my coat and took
down my opera hat.  Outside the storm was still active; but the snow
had a promising softness, and there were patches of stars to be seen
here and there in the sky.  By midnight there would be a full moon.  I
got to Jersey City without mishap; and when I took my seat in the
smoker, I found I had ten minutes to spare.  I bought a newspaper and
settled down to read the day's news.  It was fully half an hour between
Jersey City and Blankshire; in that time I could begin and finish the
paper.
There never was a newspaper those days that hadn't a war-map in some
one of its columns; and when I had digested the latest phases of the
war in the far East, I quite naturally turned to the sporting-page to
learn what was going on among the other professional fighters.  (Have I
mentioned to you the fact that I was all through the Spanish War, the
mix-up in China, and that I had resigned my commission to accept the
post of traveling salesman for a famous motor-car company?  If I have
not, pardon me.  You will now readily accept my recklessness of spirit
as a matter of course.)  I turned over another page; from this I
learned that the fair sex was going back to puff-sleeves again.  Many
an old sleeve was going to be turned upside down.
Fudge!  The train was rattling through the yards.  Another page
crackled.  Ha!  Here was that unknown gentleman-thief again, up to his
old tricks.  It is remarkable how difficult it is to catch a thief who
has good looks and shrewd brains.  I had already written him down as a
quasi-swell.  For months the police had been finding clues, but they
had never laid eyes on the rascal.  The famous Haggerty of the New York
detective force,--a man whom not a dozen New York policemen knew by
sight and no criminals save those behind bars, earthly and
eternal,--was now giving his whole attention to the affair.  Some
gaily-dressed lady at a ball would suddenly find she had lost some
valuable gems; and that would be the end of the affair, for none ever
recovered her gems.
The gentleman-thief was still at large, and had gathered to his account
a comfortable fortune; that is, if he were not already rich and simply
a kleptomaniac.  No doubt he owned one of my racing-cars, and was clear
of the delinquent lists at his clubs.  I dismissed all thought of him,
threw aside the paper, and mentally figured out my commissions on sales
during the past month.  It was a handsome figure, large enough for two.
This pastime, too, soon failed to interest me.  I gazed out of the
window and watched the dark shapes as they sped past.
I saw the girl's face from time to time.  What a fool I had been not to
ask her name!  She could easily have refused, and yet as easily have
granted the request.  At any rate, I had permitted the chance to slip
out of my reach, which was exceedingly careless on my part.  Perhaps
they--she and her uncle--frequently dined at Mouquin's; I determined to
haunt the place and learn.  It would be easy enough to address her the
next time we met.  Besides, she would be curious to know all about the
ten of hearts and the desperate adventure upon which I told her I was
about to embark.  Many a fine friendship has grown out of smaller
things.
Next, turning from the window, I fell to examining my fellow
passengers, in the hope of seeing some one I knew.  Conversation on
trains makes short journeys. . . .  I sat up stiffly in my seat.
Diagonally across the aisle sat the very chap I had met in the
curio-shop!  He was quietly reading a popular magazine, and
occasionally a smile lightened his sardonic mouth.  Funny that I should
run across him twice in the same evening!  Men who are contemplating
suicide never smile in that fashion.  He was smoking a small,
well-colored meerschaum pipe with evident relish.  Somehow, when a man
clenches his teeth upon the mouth-piece of a respectable pipe, it seems
impossible to associate that man with crime.  But the fact that I had
seen him selecting a pistol in a pawnshop rather neutralized the good
opinion I was willing to form.  I have already expressed my views upon
the subject.  The sight of him rather worried me, though I could not
reason why.  Whither was he bound?  Had he finally taken one of
Friard's pistols?  For a moment I was on the point of speaking to him,
if only to hear him tell more lies about the ten of hearts, but I
wisely put aside the temptation.  Besides, it might be possible that he
would not be glad to see me.  I always avoid the chance acquaintance,
unless, of course, the said chance acquaintance is met under favorable
circumstances--like the girl in Mouquin's, for instance!  After all, it
was only an incident; and, but for his picking up that card, I never
should have remembered him.
Behind him sat a fellow with a countenance as red and round and
complacent as an English butler's,--red hair and small twinkling eyes.
Once he leaned over and spoke to my chance acquaintance, who, without
turning his head, thrust a match over his shoulder.  The man with the
face of a butler lighted the most villainous pipe I ever beheld.  I
wondered if they knew each other.  But, closely as I watched, I saw no
sign from either.  I turned my collar up and snuggled down.  There was
no need of his seeing me.
Then my thoughts reverted to the ten of hearts again.  My ten of
hearts!  The wrinkle of a chill ran up and down my spine!  My ten of
hearts!
Hastily I took out the card and examined the back of it.  It was an
uncommonly handsome back, representing Diana, the moon, and the
midnight sky.  A horrible supposition came to me: supposing they looked
at the back as well as at the face of the card?  And again, supposing I
was miles away from the requisite color and design?  I was staggered.
Here was a pretty fix!  I had never even dreamed of such a contingency.
Hang it!  I now wished I had stuck to my original plan, and gone to the
theater.  Decidedly I was in for it; there was no backing down at this
late hour, unless I took the return train for Jersey City; and I
possessed too much stubbornness to surrender to any such weakness.
Either I should pass the door-committee, or I shouldn't; of one thing I
was certain--
"Blankshire!" bawled the trainman; then the train slowed down and
finally came to a stop.
No turning back for me now.  I picked up my suit-case and got out.  On
the platform I saw the curio-shop fellow again.  Tramping on ahead, the
smell from his villainous pipe assailing my nostrils, was the man who
had asked for a match.  The former stood undecided for a moment, and
during this space of time he caught sight of me.  He became erect, gave
me a sudden sardonic laugh, and swiftly disappeared into the dark.  All
this was uncommonly disquieting; in vain I stared into the blackness
that had swallowed him.  What could he be doing here at Blankshire?  I
didn't like his laugh at all; there was at once a menace and a
challenge in it.
"Any baggage, sir?" asked one of the station hands.
"No."  But I asked him to direct me to a hotel.  He did so.
I made my way down the street.  The wind had veered around and was
coming in from the sea, pure and cold.  The storm-clouds were broken
and scudding like dark ships, and at times there were flashes of
radiant moonshine.
The fashionable hotel was full.  So I plodded through the drifts to the
unfashionable hotel.  Here I found accommodation.  I dressed, sometimes
laughing, sometimes whistling, sometimes standing motionless in doubt.
Bah!  It was only a lark. . . .  I thought of the girl in Mouquin's;
how much better it would have been to spend the evening with her,
exchanging badinage, and looking into each other's eyes!  Pshaw!  I
covered my face with the grey mask and descended to the street.
The trolley ran within two miles of the Hunt Club.  The car was crowded
with masqueraders, and for the first time since I started out I felt
comfortable.  Everybody laughed and talked, though nobody knew who his
neighbor was.  I sat in a corner, silent and motionless as a sphinx.
Once a pair of blue slippers attracted my eye, and again the flash of a
lovely arm.  At the end of the trolley line was a carryall which was to
convey us to the club.  We got into the conveyance, noisily and
good-humoredly.  The exclamations of the women were amusing.
"Good gracious!"
"Isn't it fun!"
"Lovely!"  And all that.  It must have been a novelty for some of these
to act naturally for once.  Nothing lasts so long as the natural
instinct for play; and we always find ourselves coming back to it.
Standing some hundred yards back from the road was the famous Hollywood
Inn, run by the genial Moriarty.  Sometimes the members of the Hunt
Club put up there for the night when there was to be a run the
following morning.  It was open all the year round.
We made the club at exactly ten-thirty.  Fortune went with me;
doubtless it was the crowd going in that saved me from close scrutiny.
My spirits rose as I espied Teddy Hamilton at the door.  He was on the
committee, and was in plain evening clothes.  It was good to see a
familiar face.  I shouldered toward him and passed out my ten dollars.
"Hello, Teddy, my son!" I cried out jovially.
"Hello!"--grinning.  Teddy thought it was some one he knew; well, so it
was.  "What's your card?" he cried, as I pressed by him.
"The ten of hearts."
"The ten of hearts," repeated Teddy to a man who was keeping tally on a
big cardboard.
This sight did not reassure me.  If they were keeping tally of all the
cards presented at the door, they would soon find out that there were
too many tens of hearts, too many by one!  Well, at any rate, I had for
the time being escaped detection; now for the fun.  It would be
sport-royal while it lasted.  What a tale to give out at the club of a
Sunday night!  I chuckled on the way to the ball-room: I had dispensed
with going up to the dressing-room.  My robe was a genuine one, heavy
and warm; so I had no overcoat to check.
"Grave monk, your blessing!"
Turning, I beheld an exquisite Columbine.
"Pax vobiscum!" I replied solemnly.
"Pax . . .  What does that mean?"
"It means, do not believe all you see in the newspapers."
Columbine laughed gaily.  "I did not know that you were a Latin
scholar; and besides, you gave me to understand you were coming as a
Jesuit, Billy."
Billy?  Here was one who thought she knew me.  I hastened to
disillusion her.
"My dear Columbine, you do not know me, not the least bit.  My name is
not Billy, it is Dicky."
"Oh, you can not fool me," she returned.  "I heard you call out to
Teddy Hamilton that your card was the ten of hearts; and you wrote me,
saying that would be your card."
Complications already, and I hadn't yet put a foot inside the ball-room!
"I am sorry," I said, "but you have made a mistake.  Your Jesuit
probably told you his card would be the nine, not the ten."
"I will wager--"
"Hush!  This is a charity dance; no one makes wagers at such affairs."
"But--Why, my goodness! there's my Jesuit now!"  And to my intense
relief she dashed away.
I carefully observed the Jesuit, and made up my mind to keep an eye
upon him.  If he really possessed the ten of hearts, the man who kept
tally on the cardboard was doing some tall thinking about this time.  I
glided away, into the gorgeous ball-room.
What a vision greeted my eye!  The decorations were in red and yellow,
and it seemed as though perpetual autumnal sunset lay over everything.
At the far end of the room was a small stage hidden behind palms and
giant ferns.  The band was just striking up A Summer Night in Munich,
and a wonderful kaleidoscope revolved around me.  I saw Cavaliers and
Roundheads, Puritans and Beelzebubs, Musketeers, fools, cowboys,
Indians, kings and princes; queens and empresses, fairies and Quaker
maids, white and black and red and green dominoes.  Tom Fool's night,
indeed!
Presently I saw the noble Doge of Venice coming my way.  From his
portly carriage I reasoned that if he wasn't in the gold-book of Venice
he stood very well up in the gold-book of New York, He stopped at my
side and struck an attitude.
"Pax vobiscum!" said I, bowing.
"Be at the Inquisition Chamber, directly the clock strikes the midnight
hour," he said mysteriously.
"I shall be there to deliver the supreme interrogation," I replied.
"It is well."  He drifted away like a stately ship.
Delightful foolery!  I saw the Jesuit, and moved toward him.
"Disciple of Loyola, hast thou the ten of hearts?"
"My hearts number nine, for I have lost one to the gay Columbine."
"I breathe!  Thou art not he whom I seek."
We separated.  I was mortally glad that Columbine had made a mistake.
The women always seek the monk at a masquerade; they want absolution
for the follies they are about to commit.  A demure Quakeress touched
my sleeve in passing.
"Tell me, grave monk, why did you seek the monastery?"
"My wife fell in love with me,"--gloomily.
"Then you have a skeleton in the clothes-press?"
"Do I look like a man who owned such a thing as a clothes-press, much
less so fashionable a thing as a family skeleton?"
"Then what do you here?"
"I am mingling with fools as a penance."
A fool caught me by the sleeve and batted me gaily over the head with a
bladder.
"Merry come up, why am I a fool?"
"It is the fashion," was my answer.  This was like to gain me the
reputation of being a wit.  I must walk carefully, or these thoughtless
ones would begin to suspect there was an impostor among them.
"Aha!"  There was mine ancient friend Julius.  "Hail Caesar!"
He stopped.
"Shall I beware the Ides of March?" I asked jovially.
"Nay, my good Cassius; rather beware of the ten of hearts," said Caesar
in hollow tones, and he was gone.
The ten of hearts again!  Hang the card!  And then with a sigh of
relief I recollected that in all probability he, like Columbine, had
heard me call out the card to Hamilton.  Still, the popularity of the
card was very disquieting.  I wished it had been seven or five; there's
luck in odd numbers. . . .  A Blue Domino!  My heart leaped, and I
thought of the little ticket in my waistcoat pocket.  A Blue Domino!
If, by chance, there should be a connection between her and the ticket!
She was sitting all alone in a corner near-by, partly screened by a pot
of orange-trees.  I crossed over and sat down by her side.  This might
prove an adventure worth while.
"What a beautiful night it is!" I said.
She turned, and I caught sight of a wisp of golden hair.
