clapped their hands.  You never realize how beautiful your flag is till
you see it in a foreign land.  I apologized for Max's absence,
explaining the cause, and ordered dinner to be served.  We hadn't much
time, as Ellis's train departed at ten.  It was now a quarter to nine.

We had come to the relishes when a party of four officers took the
table nearest us.  They hung up their sabers on the wall-pegs, and sat
down, ordering a bottle of light wine.  Usually there were five chairs
to the table, but even if only two were being used no one had the right
to withdraw one of the vacant chairs without the most elaborate
apologies.  This is the law of courtesy in Barscheit.  In America it is
different; if you see anything you want, take it.

Presently one of the officers--I knew none of them save by sight--rose
and approached.  He touched the flag insolently and inquired what right
it had in a public restaurant in Barscheit.  Ordinarily his question
would not have been put without some justification.  But he knew very
well who I was and what my rights were in this instance.

"Herr Lieutenant," said I coldly, though my cheeks were warm enough, "I
represent that flag in this country, and I am accredited with certain
privileges, as doubtless you are aware.  You will do me the courtesy of
returning to your own table."  I bowed.

He glared at me for a brief period, then turned on his heel.  This was
the first act in the play.  At the fellow's table sat Lieutenant von
Störer, Doppelkinn's nephew and heir-presumptive.  He was, to speak
plainly, a rake, a spendthrift and wholly untrustworthy.  He was not
ill-looking, however.

My spirits floated between anger and the fear that the officers might
ruin the dinner--which they eventually did.

Things went on smoothly for a time.  The orchestra was pom-pomming the
popular airs from Faust.  (Where the deuce was that tow-headed
Dutchman?)  Laughter rose and fell; the clinkle of glass was heard;
voices called.  And then Max came in, looking as cool as you please,
though I could read by his heaving chest that he had been sprinting up
back streets.  The boys crowded around him, and there was much ado over
the laggard.

Unfortunately the waiter had forgotten to bring a chair for his plate.
With a genial smile on his face, Max innocently stepped over to the
officers' table and plucked forth the vacant chair.  For a wonder the
officers appeared to give this action no heed, and I was secretly
gratified.  It was something to be a consul, after all.  But I counted
my chickens too early.

"Where are the cigars?" I asked as Max sat down complacently.

"Cigars?"--blankly.  "Hang me, I've clean forgotten them!"  And then,
oblivious of the probable storm that was at that moment gathering for a
downpour over his luckless head, he told us the reason of his delay.

"There was a crowd around the palace," he began.  "It seems that the
Princess Hildegarde has run away, and they believe that she has ridden
toward the Pass in a closed carriage.  The police are at this very
moment scouring the country in that direction.  She has eloped."

"Eloped?" we all cried, being more or less familiar with the state of
affairs at the palace.

"Good-by to Doppelkinn's Frau!"

"Good girl!"

"She has been missing since seven o'clock, when she drove away on the
pretense of visiting her father's old steward, who is ill," went on
Max, feeling the importance of his news.  "They traced her there.  From
the steward's the carriage was driven south, and that's the last seen
of her.  There won't be any wedding at the cathedral next
Tuesday,"--laughing.

Queries and answers were going crisscross over the table, when I
observed with dread that Lieutenant von Störer had risen and was coming
our way.  He stopped at Max's side.  Max looked up to receive Von
Störer's glove full on the cheek.  It was no gentle stroke.  Von Störer
at once returned to his table and sat down.

For a moment we were all absolutely without power of motion or of
speech, Max's face grew as white as the table-cloth, and the print of
the glove glowed red against the white.  I was horrified, for I knew
his tremendous strength.  If he showed fight, Von Störer would calmly
saber him.  It was the custom.  But Max surprised me.  He was the
coolest among us, but of that quality of coolness which did not
reassure me.  He took up his story where he had left off and finished
it.  For his remarkable control I could have taken him in my arms and
hugged him.

The officers scowled, while Von Störer bit his mustache nervously.  The
American had ignored his insult.  Presently he rose again and
approached.  He thrust a card under Max's nose.

"Can you understand that?" he asked contemptuously.

Max took the card, ripped it into quarters and dropped these to the
floor.  Then, to my terror and the terror of those with me, he
tranquilly pulled out a murderous-looking Colt and laid it beside his
plate.  He went on talking, but none of us heard a word he said.  We
were fearfully waiting to see him kill some one or be killed.

No one was killed.  The officers hurriedly took down their sabers and
made a bee-line for the door of which I have spoken.

Max returned the revolver to his hip-pocket and gave vent to an Homeric
laugh.

"You tow-headed Dutchman!" I cried, when I found voice for my words,
"what have you done?"

"Done?  Why, it looks as if we had all the downs this half," he replied
smartly.  "Oh, the gun isn't loaded,"--confidentially.

Ellis fumbled in his pockets and produced his passports and tickets.
These he shoved over to Max.

"What's this for?" Max asked curiously.

"Ellis," said I, "it is very good of you.  Max, take those.  Mr. Ellis
wishes to save your hide.  Take them and get to the station as quickly
as you can.  And for the love of mercy, do not turn around till you're
over in Doppelkinn's vineyards."

"Well, I'm hanged if I understand!" he cried.  "I'm a peaceful man.  A
beggar walks up to me and slaps me in the face for nothing at all, and
now I must hike, eh?  What the devil have I done now?"

Then, as briefly as I could, I explained the enormity of his offenses.
To take a chair from a table, as he had done, was a gross insult; to
receive a slap in the face and not to resent it, was another insult; to
tear up an opponent's visiting-card, still another; to take out a
revolver in Barscheit, unless you were an officer or had a permit, was
worse than an insult; it was a crime, punishable by long imprisonment.
They could accuse him of being either an anarchist or a socialist-red,
coming to Barscheit with the intent to kill the grand duke.  The fact
that he was ignorant of the laws, or that he, was an alien, would remit
not one particle of his punishment and fine; and weeks would pass ere
the matter could be arranged between the United States and Barscheit.

"Good Lord!" he gasped; "why didn't you tell me?"

"Why didn't you tell me that you carried a cannon in your pocket?  Take
Ellis' papers, otherwise you stand pat for a heap of trouble, and I
can't help you.  Go straight to Dresden, telegraph me, and I'll forward
your luggage."

"But I came here to study!" Max argued.

"It will be geology in the form of prison walls," said Ellis quietly.
"Don't be foolish, Mr. Scharfenstein; it is not a matter of a man's
courage, but of his common sense.  Take the tickets and light out.  I
have lived here for three years, and have seen men killed outright for
less than you have done."

"But you don't expect me to leave this place without punching that
beggar's head?"--indignantly.  "What do you think I'm made of?"

"You'll never get the chance to punch his head," said I.  "We are
wasting valuable time.  Those officers have gone for the police.  You
have about twenty minutes to make the train.  Come, for heaven's sake,
come!"

He finally got it into his head that we knew what we were talking
about.  How we got him to the station I do not remember, but somehow we
got him there.  He sputtered and fumed and swore, as all brave men will
who feel that they are running away in a cowardly fashion.  He wasn't
convinced, but he thanked Ellis for his kindness and hoped that he
wouldn't get into trouble on his (Max's) account.

"Go straight to Dresden; say you've been studying medicine in Barscheit
for three years; refer to me by telegraph if there is any question as
to your new identity," said I.  "You're the only man in the world, Max,
that I'd lie for."

He stumbled through the gates, and we saw him open the door of a
carriage just as the train began to pull out.  A guard tried to stop
him, but he was not quite quick enough.  We watched the train till it
melted away into the blackness beyond the terminus covering; then we, I
and my fellow diners, went soberly into the street.   Here was a
howdy-do!  Suddenly Ellis let out a sounding laugh, and, scarcely
knowing why, we joined him.  It was funny, very funny, for every one
but poor old Max!  The American spirit is based on the sense of humor,
and even in tragic moments is irrepressible.

We did not return to Müller's; each of us stole quietly home to await
the advent of the police, for they would rout out every American in
town in their search for the man with the gun.  They would first visit
the consulate and ascertain what I knew of the affair; when they got
through with the rest of the boys Max would be in Doppelkinn.  The
police were going to be very busy that night: a princess on one hand
and an anarchist on the other.

There were terrible times, too, in the palace.  Long before we watched
Max's train and the vanishing green and red lights at the end of it the
grand duke was having troubles of his own.  He was pacing wildly up and
down in his dressing-room.  Clutched in his fist was a crumpled sheet
of paper.  From time to time he smoothed it out and re-read the
contents.  Each time he swore like the celebrated man in Flanders.


You forced me and I warned you that I would do something desperate.
Do not send for me, for you will never find me till you come to your
senses.  I have eloped.

Hildegarde.




VIII

Shortly before six o'clock--dinner in the palace was rarely served
until half-after eight--the Honorable Betty sat down to her
writing-desk in her boudoir, which opened directly into that belonging
to the princess, to write a few letters home.  A dinner was to be given
to the state officials that night, and she knew from experience that
after that solemn event was concluded it would be too late for the
departing mails.  She seemed to have no difficulty in composing her
thoughts and transferring them to paper.  There were times when she
would lean back, nibble the end of her pen and smile in a dreamy,
retrospective fashion.  No doubt her thoughts were pleasant and
agreeable.

She had completed addressing three envelopes, when she heard the door
leading into the princess' boudoir open and close.  She turned to
behold the princess herself.

"Why, Gretchen, where are you going?"--noting the grey walking-dress,
the grey hat, the sensible square-toed shoes.

"I am going to visit a sick nurse," replied her Highness, avoiding the
other's eye.

"But shall you have time to dress for dinner?"

"That depends.  Besides, the official dinners are a great bore."  Her
Highness came forward, caught the dark head of the English girl between
her gloved hands, pressed it against her heart, bent and kissed it.
"What a lovely girl you are, Betty! always unruffled, always
even-tempered.  You will grow old very gracefully."

"I hope so; but I do not want to grow old at all.  Can't I go with
you?"--eagerly.

"Impossible; etiquette demands your presence here to-night.  If I am
late my rank and my errand will be my excuse.  What jolly times we used
to have in that quaint old boarding-school in St. John's Wood!  Do you
remember how we went to your noble father's country place one
Christmas?  I went incognita.  There was a children's party, and two
boys had a fisticuff over you.  Nobody noticed me those days.  I was
happy then."  The princess frowned.  It might have been the sign of
repression of tears.  Betty, with her head against the other's bosom,
could not see.  "I shall be lonely without you; for you can not stay on
here for ever.  If you could, it would be different.  I shall miss you.
Somehow you possess the faculty of calming me.  I am so easily stirred
into a passion; my temper is so surface-wise.  Some day, however, I
shall come to England and spend a whole month with you.  Will not that
be fine?"

"How melancholy your voice is!" cried Betty, trying without avail to
remove her Highness' hands.

"No, no; I want to hold you just so.  Perhaps I am sentimental
to-night.  I have all the moods, agreeable and disagreeable. . . .  Do
you love anybody?"

"Love anybody?  What do you mean?"--rising in spite of the protesting
hands.  "Do I look as if I were in love with anybody?"

They searched each other's eyes.

"Oh, you islanders!  Nobody can fathom what is going on in your hearts.
You never make any mistakes; you always seem to know which paths to
pursue; you are always right, always, always.  I'd like to see you
commit a folly, Betty; it's a wicked wish, I know, but I honestly wish
it.  There is certainly more Spanish blood in my veins than German.  I
am always making mistakes; I never know which path is the right one; I
am always wrong.  Do you believe it possible for a woman of birth and
breeding to fall in love with a man whom she has known only three days?"

"Three days!  Are you crazy, Hildegarde?"

"Call me Gretchen!"--imperiously.

"Gretchen, what has come over you?"

"I asked you a question."

"Well,"---a bit of color stealing into her cheeks,--"it is possible,
but very foolish.  One ought to know something of a man's character,"
went on Betty, "before permitting sentiment to enter into one's
thoughts."

"That is my own opinion, wise little white owl."  Her Highness took her
friend in her arms and kissed her, held her at arm's length, drew her
to her heart and again kissed her.  It was like a farewell.  Then she
let her go.  "If there is anything you need, make yourself at home with
my cases."  And her Highness was gone.

Betty gazed at the door through which dear Gretchen had passed, gazed
thoughtfully and anxiously.

"How oddly she acted!  I wonder--"  She made as though to run to the
door, but stopped, as if ashamed of the doubt which flashed into her
mind and out again.

The little clock on the mantel chimed forth the seventh hour, and she
rang for her maid.  It was time that she began dressing.

(Thus, for the present, I shall leave her.  There are several reasons
why my imagination should take this step; for, what should I know of a
woman's toilet, save in the general mysterious results?  However, I
feel at liberty to steal into the duke's dressing-room.  Here, while I
am not positive what happened, at least I can easily bring my
imagination to bear upon the picture.)

The duke was rather pleased with himself.  He liked to put on his state
uniform, with its blue-grey frock, the white doeskin trousers which
strapped under the patent-leather boots, the gold braid, the silver
saber and the little rope of medals strung across his full, broad
breast.  It was thus he created awe; it was thus he became truly the
sovereign, urbane and majestic.

His valet was buckling on the saber belt, when there came a respectful
tap on the door.

"Enter," said the duke, frowning.  One can not assert any particular
degree of dignity with a valet at one's side.

But it was only a corridor attendant who entered.  He approached the
duke's valet and presented a letter.

"For his serene Highness."  He bowed and backed out, closing the door
gently.

At once the valet bowed also and extended the letter to his master.
Formality is a fine thing in a palace.

"Ah, a letter," mused the duke, profoundly innocent of the viper which
was about to sting him.  "My glasses, Gustav; my eye-glasses!"

The valet hurried to the dresser and returned with the duke's state
eye-glasses.  These the duke perched deliberately upon the end of his
noble nose.  He opened the letter and read its contents.  The valet,
watching him slyly, saw him grow pale, then red, and finally
purple,--wrath has its rainbow.  His hands shook, the glasses slipped
from his palpitating nose.  And I grieve to relate that his serene
Highness swore something marvelous to hear.

"Damnation!" he said, or some such word.  "The little fool!"  Then,
suddenly remembering his dignity and the phrase that no man is a hero
to his valet, he pointed to his glasses, at the same time returning the
letter to its envelope, this letter which had caused this momentary
perturbation.  "Call the minister of police.  You will find him in the
smoking-room off the conservatory.  Make all haste!"

The valet flew out of the door, while the duke began pacing up and down
the room, muttering and growling, and balling his fists, and jingling
his shining medals.  He kicked over an inoffensive hassock and his
favorite hound, and I don't know how many long-winded German oaths he
let go.  (It's a mighty hard language to swear in, especially when a
man's under high pressure.)

"The silly little fool!  And on a night like this!  Curse it!  This is
what comes of mixing Spanish blood with German, of letting her aunt's
wishes overrule mine in the matter of education.  But she shall be
brought back, even if I have to ask the assistance of every sovereign
in Europe.  This is the end.  And I had planned such a pleasant evening
at cards!"  The duke was not wholly unselfish.

In less than ten minutes' time the valet returned with the minister of
police.  The duke immediately dismissed the valet.

"Your serene Highness sent for me?" asked the minister, shaking in his
boots.  There had been four ministers of police in three years.

"Yes.  Read this."

The minister took the letter.  He read it with bulging eyes.  "Good
heavens, it must be one of her Highness' jokes!"

"It will be a sorry joke for you if she crosses any of the frontiers."

"But--"

"But!" roared the duke.  "Don't you dare bring up that word scandal!
Seek her.  Turn everybody out,--the army, the police, everybody.  When
you locate her, telegraph, and have a special engine awaiting me at the
station.  And if you play a poor game of cards to-night I'll take away
your portfolio.  Remember, if she passes the frontier, off goes your
official head!"

"And the fellow, who is he?"

"The good Lord only knows!  That girl! . . .  Witness these grey hairs.
Put the rascal in irons; I'll attend to his case when I arrive. . . .
Where is Steinbock?"

"He was arrested this morning in Berlin; I have already applied for his
extradition."

"Good!  Now, be off with you!  Leave no stone unturned.  The expense is
nothing; I will gladly pay it out of my private purse."

"I'll find her," said the minister grimly.  His portfolio hung in the
balance.

All at once the duke struck his hands together jubilantly.

"What is it?" asked the minister.  "A clue?"

"Nothing, nothing!  Be gone; you are wasting time."

The minister of police dashed out of the room as if pursued by a
thousand devils.  He knew the duke's mood; it was not one to cross or
irritate.  No sooner was he gone than the duke left his apartments and
sought those of his niece.  It might be a joke; it would do no harm to
find out positively.  But the beautiful suite was empty; even her
Highness' maid was gone.  He then knocked on the door which led into
Betty's boudoir, not very gently either.

"Open!" he bellowed.

"Who is it?" demanded a maid's frightened voice.

"The duke!  Open instantly!"

"It is quite impossible," said another voice from within.  It was calm
and firm.  "I am dressing."

"I must see you this instant.  Open or I shall force the door!"

"Is your serene Highness mad?"

"Will you open this door?"

"You command it?"

"A hundred times, yes!"

"Since you command it."  The voice was no longer calm; it was sharp and
angry.

The wait seemed an hour to his serene Highness, serene no longer.  At
length the bolt slipped, and the irate duke shouldered his way in.  The
tableau which met his gaze embarrassed him for a space.  He was even
ashamed.  The Honorable Betty stood behind a tall-backed chair, an
opera cloak thrown hastily over her bare shoulders.  Her hair was
partly down.  A beautiful woman in a rage is a fascinating sight.  The
duke stared at her irresolutely.

"Will your Highness explain this extraordinary intrusion?" she
demanded.  "You have literally forced your way into my room while I am
dressing.  It is utterly outside my understanding."

"I am old enough to be your father."

"That is the weakest excuse you could give me.  At your age one's blood
ought to be cooled to a certain discretion.  My father, if he had had
anything important to say, would have remained on the other side of the
door.  I am not deaf.  Your explanation is in order."

The duke had never been talked to so plainly in all his life.  For a
while he was without voice, but had plenty of color.  "It is easily
explained," he finally bawled out to her.  "Her Highness has eloped!"

The girl stared at him with wide eyes.  "Eloped?" she breathed faintly.

"Yes, eloped."

Betty wondered if she heard aright, or if the duke were out of his
mind; and then she recollected her conversation with the princess.  Her
mouth opened as if to speak, but instead she closed her lips tightly.
That wilful girl; whatever would become of her!

"Give this letter to your mistress," said the duke to the maid.  "I
will station myself in the window while she reads it."

He strode over to the window and drew the curtains about him.  Below,
the night crowds were wandering about the streets; the band was playing
in the Volksgarten; carriages were rolling to and from the opera; the
fountain in the center of the square sparkled merrily in the glare of
the arc lights.  But the duke saw none of these things.  Rather he saw
the telegraphic despatches flying to the four ends of the globe,
telling the peoples that he, the Grand Duke of Barscheit, had been
outwitted by a girl; that the Princess Hildegarde had eloped with a man
who was not the chosen one.  In other words, he saw himself laughed at
from one end of the continent to the other.  (There is something very
funny in domestic troubles when they occur in another man's family!)
No, the duke saw not the beauty of the night; instead of stars he saw
asterisks, that abominable astronomy of the lampoonists.   He had never
doubted the girl's courage; but to elope! . . .  And who the devil
had eloped with her?  He knew the girl's natural pride; whoever the
fellow might be, he could be no less than a gentleman.  But who, who?

"Your Highness?" called a quiet (I might say deceptive) voice.

The duke came forth.

"Your Highness will do me the honor to make out my passports to-night.
