Randy had been to Deep Haven several times in years gone by, but,
strange as it may seem, had never gone near his uncle's residence. But
he knew where the house was located--a fine brick affair, with a swell
front--and leaning his bicycle against a tree, he mounted the stone
steps and rang the bell.

"What's wanted?" demanded the servant who answered the summons, and she
looked Randy over in a supercilious manner, not at all impressed by the
modest manner in which he was attired.

"Is Uncle Peter at home?" asked Randy, politely.

"Who's Uncle Peter?"

"Mr. Peter Thompson?"

"No, he isn't."

"Where is he?"

"At his store, I expect."

"Is Mrs. Thompson at home?"

"I don't know. I'll see. Who shall I say wants to see her?"

"Randy Thompson."

Randy was left standing in the elegantly furnished hallway while the
servant departed. He could not help but contrast such elegance with his
own modest home.

"Come into the drawing room," said the servant, briefly, on returning,
and ushered him into the finest apartment he had ever entered.

Here he was kept waiting for fully quarter of an hour. Then a showily
dressed woman swept into the room with a majestic air and fixed a cold
stare upon our hero.

"Are you my aunt?" he asked, somewhat disconcerted by his chilling
reception.

"Really, I couldn't say--not having seen you before," she answered.

"My name is Randy Thompson. I am the son of Louis Thompson, of
Riverport."

"Ah, I see."

The woman said no more, but seemed to await developments. Randy was
greatly embarrassed. His aunt's coldness repelled him, and he easily
saw that he was not a welcome visitor. A touch of pride came to him and
he resolved that he would be as unsociable as his relative.

"What can he want of me?" thought the woman.

As Randy said nothing more she grew tired of the stillness and drew
herself up once more.

"You must excuse me this morning," she said. "I am particularly
engaged. I suppose you know where your uncle's store is. You will
probably find him there." And then she rang for the servant to show our
hero to the door. He was glad to get out into the open air once more.

"So that is Aunt Grace," he mused. "Well, I don't know as I shall ever
wish to call upon her again. She is as bad as an iceberg for freezing a
fellow. No wonder she and mother have never become friends."




CHAPTER VIII

RANDY AND HIS UNCLE PETER


From his uncle's home Randy rode on his bicycle to Peter Thompson's
store--a fairly large concern, the largest, in fact, in Deep Haven. He
found his uncle behind a desk in the rear, busy over some accounts. For
several minutes he paid no attention to his visitor. Then he stuck his
pen behind his ear and gave Randy a sharp look.

"How do you do, Uncle Peter?" said the youth.

"Why--er--who is this?" stammered Peter Thompson. "I don't seem to
quite know you."

"I am Randy Thompson, your nephew."

"Oh, yes, my younger brother Louis' son, I believe."

"Yes, sir."

"I remember you now." Peter Thompson held out a flabby and cold hand.
"Come to town on business, I suppose."

"In a way, yes, sir. Father is down with rheumatism."

"Hum! Didn't take proper care of himself, I suppose."

"He had to work in a cellar and that put him in bed."

"And you have come to ask help, I suppose." Peter Thompson's face
dropped quickly. "I am sorry, but my family expenses are very large,
and trade is dull. If I were able----"

"You are mistaken," said Randy, a flush mounting to his brow. "I do not
come for assistance. I am old enough to work, if I only knew what to
do. Mother told me to come to you for advice."

Peter Thompson looked relieved when he understood that Randy's visit
meant no demand upon his purse, and he regarded the youth more
favorably than he had done.

"Ah, that's well," he said, rubbing his flabby hands together. "I like
your independence. Now, let me see." He scratched his head. "Do you
know anything about horses?"

"No, sir; but perhaps I could learn."

"The livery-stable keeper wants a boy, but he must know all about
horses."

"How much would he pay a week?"

"Two dollars at the start."

"That would not be enough for me."

"I might get you in some store in the city," continued Peter Thompson.
"Would you like that?"

"If it paid, yes."

"It would pay but little the first year. But you would gain a valuable
experience."

"I cannot afford that, Uncle Peter. I must earn something at once, to
support our family."

"Then I don't know what can be done," said the storekeeper, with a
shrug of his shoulders. "There are very few things that boys of your
age can do, and it is so easy to obtain boys that people are not
willing to pay much in wages."

Randy looked crestfallen and his uncle embarrassed. The merchant feared
that he might be compelled by the world's opinion to aid his brother
and his family. But suddenly an idea struck him.

"Do you know anything about farming?" he inquired.

"Yes, sir," said Randy; "a little."

"I ask for this reason," pursued Mr. Thompson. "When your grandfather
died he left to me a small farm in Riverport. It is not very good and
has been used mostly as a pasture. I have been so occupied with other
things that I could not look after it. Perhaps you may know something
of it."

"Yes, sir, I do. It is about half a mile from our house, and is called
the twelve-acre lot. But I didn't know it belonged to you."

"It does. What I was going to say is that, although I am unable to give
you such assistance as I should like, I will, if you wish it, give you
the use of that lot, and the little cottage on it, rent-free so long as
you care to use it. Perhaps you can put it to some use. Anyway, you can
use the cottage."

Randy's face lighted up, much to his uncle's satisfaction. The land was
not extra good and the cottage all but tumbled down, yet it was better
than nothing. They could move out of the cottage in which they were now
located, and thus save the monthly rent, which was eight dollars.
Besides that, Randy felt that he could do something with the garden,
even though it was rather late in the season. Where they now lived
there was little room to grow vegetables.

"You are sure you don't want to use the place, Uncle Peter?" he asked.

"Not at all. You can use it as long as you please."

"Maybe you would like to sell it."

"Ahem! If you wish to buy it you can make an offer after you are on the
place. I once offered it to a man for two hundred dollars, but he would
not take me up."

"Then you will sell it for two hundred dollars?"

"I will sell it to you, or rather your father, for a hundred and fifty
dollars."

"I'll remember that, sir. It may be that we will like the place so much
we shall want to buy--if we can raise the money."

"You can pay off the amount at the rate of fifty dollars per year if
you wish."

"Thank you. You are kind and I appreciate it," and Randy meant what he
said.

Peter Thompson looked at the clock.

"I must go to dinner now. Will you dine with me?"

Had his uncle been alone Randy might have accepted the offer, but he
remembered the reception his aunt had given him and so declined.

"I think I had better get back to Riverport," he said. "I will tell
mother and father about the twelve-acre lot and see what they have to
say about it."

"Very well."

"Would you mind giving me a slip of paper so that we can prove we have
a right to occupy the place?" pursued Randy. "Some folks may try to
dispute our right. I know one man who pastures cows there."

"He has no right to do so. Here, I will give you a paper in due form."

Whatever his other shortcomings, Peter Thompson was not a slipshod
business man. He drew up a paper in due form, stating that his brother
could occupy the little farm for five years, rent-free, and if he
wished to do so could at any time in said five years buy the little
farm for one hundred and fifty dollars, payable at the rate of fifty
dollars per year, without interest.

"And now good-by and good luck to you," said he as he handed the paper
to Randy. "Some day, if I can get the time, I may call upon you. But I
rarely go away from home."

Randy shook hands and left, and in a minute more was riding home on the
bicycle.

"Well, I think I've gained something," he thought, as he sped along.
"Anyway, we will have a roof over our heads and that is something. To
be sure, the cottage is a poor one, but poor folks can't have
everything as they want it."

When the boy arrived home he found his father had had another bad turn
but was now resting easier. Without delay he told of what had happened
at Deep Haven.

"Your aunt is a Tartar," said Louis Thompson. "I never liked her, and
that is why I and your Uncle Peter have drifted apart. I thought he had
sold the twelve-acre lot to Jerry Borden, who pastures his cows there."

"Jerry Borden will have to get out--that is, if we take possession,"
said Randy. "Mother, what do you think of it?"

"Is the cottage usable? I have not seen it for a year or more."

"It will have to be fixed up some. But I am sure I can do the work,
with father's tools."

"It will save the rent money."

"And I can plant a garden, even if it is late. And we can keep some
chickens, and then, after everything is in shape, I can again look for
outside work."

"Randy's idea is a good one," answered the boy's father. "Our month
will be up here next week. I'll notify the owner at once about
leaving."

The next morning Randy went over to the twelve-acre farm, a corner of
which sloped down to the river. He had passed it a hundred times
before, but it was with an entirely different feeling that he surveyed
it now.

It was pasture land, naturally good, but much neglected. A great many
stones needed to be removed and the fences wanted propping up and here
and there a new rail. The house, which faced a little side road, was a
story and a half in height, with two rooms below and two chambers
above. There was a well that needed fixing and also a cistern. Around
the cottage the weeds grew high, and one of the windows was out and a
door was missing.

"I can fix this place up, I am sure of it," said the boy to himself.

He was making a mental note of what was to be done when he heard a
noise on the road and saw a farmer approaching, driving a dozen cows
before him. It was Jerry Borden, the man who had been using the pasture
lot without paying for it.

"Hullo! What air you a-doin' here?" asked Jerry Borden, looking at
Randy in some surprise.

"We are going to move over here, Mr. Borden," answered Randy, calmly.

"Move over here!" ejaculated the farmer.

"Yes."

"In this air tumble-down cottage?"

"I am going to fix it up some."

"Well, I vow! It ain't fit to live in!"

"It will be."

"An' the land ain't wuth shucks."

"It seems to be good enough for the cows."

At this Jerry Borden's face fell a little.

"If you air a-goin' to move in, I guess thet means I'm to move out," he
ventured.

"It does, unless----" Randy paused, struck by a sudden idea.

"Unless what?" asked the farmer, eagerly. He wanted to use the lot very
much, for he was short of pasturing on his own farm.

"Unless we can come to some sort of an agreement for milk and butter.
Of course I can't let you use the whole lot, but you might use part of
it."

"Did the owner say you could use the place?"

"Yes, we have it down in writing. We are to use it for five years and
then we can buy it if we wish."

"I see." The farmer scratched his head. "Well, I dunno. Maybe we could
let ye have butter an' milk. One thing is certain, I've got to have
pasturin'."

"We could fence off part of the lot in some way and you could use
that."

"Thet's so."

"Besides that, I'll want some plowing done. I may have to hire you for
that," pursued Randy.

"I must say I like your spunk, Randy. I shan't charge ye a cent fer
plowin'."

After that the farmer and our hero talked matters over for half an
hour, and the farmer told the youth what might be planted to advantage
even so late in the season. Then Randy went home, feeling that the
family was going to make a good move.




CHAPTER IX

THE NEW HOME


The next few days were busy ones for Mrs. Thompson and for Randy. The
landlord of the cottage in which they lived was notified that they were
going to move, and then the woman set to work to get ready to vacate,
while Randy went over to the other place to put the house in condition
for occupancy.

While Randy was at work Jack came to see him, and insisted upon lending
a helping hand. Randy had brought over some of his father's tools and
also some nails, and he purchased at the lumber yard a few boards and
other pieces he thought he needed.

When he once got at it, it was astonishing how well our hero used the
tools, making several repairs that would have done credit to a regular
carpenter. The broken window was replaced, and the missing door found
and rehung, and several clapboards nailed fast. Then Randy mended the
porch, and put a score of shingles on the roof. This done, the chimney
was cleaned out and also the cistern, and the well was also overhauled.
In the meantime Jack pulled out a lot of weeds and trained a wild
honeysuckle over the porch. At the end of four days the place looked
quite well.

"It's a hundred per cent. better than it was," declared Jack. "It
didn't look like anything before."

"I'll get a can of paint to-morrow and paint the door and the window
frames," said Randy, and this was done. He also whitewashed the
kitchen, and kalsomined the other rooms, so that the interior of the
cottage was sweet and clean.

When Mrs. Thompson saw the change which had been wrought she was
delighted.

"I declare, it looks as well, if not better, than the cottage we are
in," she cried. "And the outlook toward the river is ever so much
nicer."

"Just wait until I have the garden in shape," said Randy. "You won't
know the spot."

"What a pity we did not know of this place before."

"Mother, I think we ought to buy it if we can."

"Perhaps we shall, Randy, before the five years are up."

At length came the day to move. A local truckman who knew Mr. Thompson
well moved them for nothing.

"You can do some odd jobs for me some time," said the truckman to Louis
Thompson.

"Thank you, I will--when I am able," answered the sufferer.

A good deal of the pain had left Mr. Thompson, but he was weak, and to
start to regular work was out of the question. Another friend took him
to his new cottage in a carriage. He gazed at the old place in wonder.

"Well, it certainly is improved!" he ejaculated. "We shall get along
here very well."

The moving was done early in the morning and by nightfall Randy and his
mother had the cottage in tolerable order. The stove was set up and
found to draw good, and the water from the well tasted fine.

"Now there is one thing certain," said Randy, "Mother, come what may,
we shall have a roof over our heads."

"Yes, my son, and I am grateful for it," answered Mrs. Thompson.

"Uncle Peter may be a hard man to get along with, but he has certainly
helped us."

The next two weeks were busy ones for Randy. Jerry Borden was true to
his promise and not only did some plowing for the Thompsons but also
helped Randy to put up a new fence, partly of stone and partly of
rails. It was agreed that Borden should have the use of part of the
little farm for pasturing, and in return was to give the Thompsons two
quarts of milk a day and two pounds of butter per week, and also a
dozen fresh eggs a week while the hens were laying.

"That will certainly help us out wonderfully," said Mrs. Thompson.
"Butter, eggs, and milk are quite an item of expense."

"And that is not all," said Randy. "I am going to help Mr. Borden with
his haying soon and he is going to pay us in early vegetables."

The haying time was already at hand, and Randy soon pitched in with a
will, much to his neighbor's satisfaction.

One day Jack came to bring good news. His father had secured a position
with an iron works at Albany, on the Hudson River.

"It will pay him a fair salary," said Jack.

"I am glad to hear it," answered Randy. "What will your family do,
remain here or move to Albany?"

"We are going to remain here for the present, but, if the place suits
father after he has been there a while, then we'll move."

"Have you learned anything more about the Bangses?"

"Mrs. Bangs and Bob are on a summer vacation."

"Yes, I know that. I meant Mr. Bangs."

"He is in full charge at the iron works here and drawing a salary of
eight thousand dollars a year. Father says he will run the works into
the ground so that the stock won't be worth a cent."

"Can't your father do anything?"

"Not yet. But he is going to watch things. There was some trouble over
a contract and he is trying to get to the bottom of that," continued
Jack.

When Randy went to work for Farmer Borden he came into contact with the
farmer's son Sammy, a tall, overgrown lad of fourteen, with a freckled
face and a shock of red hair. Sammy hated to work, and his father and
mother had to fairly drive him to get anything out of him.

"City folks don't work like farmers," remarked Sammy to Randy. "They
jest lay off an' take it easy."

"How do you know that?" asked our hero, in quiet amusement.

"'Cos I once read a paper of the sports in the city."

"Some rich folks don't work, Sammy. But all the others work as hard as
we do."

"I don't believe it," said Sammy, stoutly. "Wish I was a city lad. Oh,
wouldn't I jest have the bang-up time, though!"

"Sammy Borden!" cried his mother, shrilly. "You get to work, an' be
quick about it."

"I'm tired," answered the freckled-faced lad.

"Tired? Lazy, you mean! Git to work, or I'll have your paw give you a
dressin' down!"

"Drat the luck!" muttered Sammy, as he took up his pitchfork. "I wish I
was born in the city!"

"Come on, Sammy," said Randy. "The work has got to be done, so don't
think about it, but do it."

