
“ ‘And something else,* says I. ‘Santa 
Claus.’ 

“ ‘Why, Ben !* says Mammy. ‘Where did 
you pick up this poor thing?* 

“ ‘O don’t send me to the station-house nor 
the Island,* cries he, looking frightened out of 
his great eyes. ‘I never stole anything, nor 
sweared, and I *m so cold. O, is it nice and 
warm in heaven? Betty said it was.* 

“ ‘Come to the fire, poor creetur,* says 
Mammy. 

“I told her ’bout Betty Arno and her peanut- 
stand, and how that I had n’t seen her for as 
much as a month, and Jemmy said she was 
dead. And then how I had found him this bit- 



ter cold night, and I wanted to keep him, just 
as if it had been the great Lord. 

“ *And we ’ll have some Christmas after all,’ 
says Kitty, ‘only not like rich folks.’ 

“Mammy was afraid he was froze, so I 
brought in some snow and rubbed his ears, 
and nose, and his hands. Then Mammy 
washed him and set him by the stove to warm 
and dry, and give him a little broth first. My 
eyes! was n’t the kid hungry! If he ’d staid 
out in the cold all night I guess he ’d found a 
short road to heaven sure. 

“ ‘Maybe ’t would a’ been better,’ said 
Mammy. ‘Poor little lambs! I like to think 
God is glad to have them. But we ’ll do the 
best we can, now. Y ou must run out and buy 
us a little dinner for to-morrow, Ben. A bit 
of beef to stew, I guess, and a few potatoes.’ 

“I went down to the butcher’s. He was hard 
run just then, and asked me to take out a 
basket to a customer, and afterward another. 
I picked out what I wanted and he weighed it. 




‘Thirty-five cents/ says he, ‘but if you ’d like 
to change, Ben, I ’ll let you have this chicken. 
The skin ’s broken and it does n’t look quite so 
fair; but it ’s fresh, and a nice plump fellow. 
Call it square for the errands.’ 

“ ‘Thank ’ee,’ says I, ‘and a merry Christ- 
mas in the bargain.’ 

“ ‘Lots of ’em to you, Ben.’ 

“I run off home glad enough, I tell you, 
feeling like a morning star. 

“ ‘Hooray,’ says I, opening the door. ‘Christ- 
mas is begun and no mistake. What do you 
think of that.’ 

“The gov’ner was as pleased as a baby, and 
Mammy laughed with tears in her eyes. Then 
Kitty and I sung some rousing carols. The 
little chap was sound asleep. 

“The baker sent Kitty a cake next day ; and 
altogether it was n’t so bad a Christmas, only 
the little kid, he grew sicker ’n sicker. Gov- 
’ner said we ought to send him to the hospital ; 
but somehow Kitty she took a wonderful fancy 






to him, and Mammy was a master hand at 
nursing. Then, too, during the next week I 
had a streak of luck, and made five dollars, and 
Mammy had a pile of sewing to do for a 
neighbor. 

‘‘ ‘Seems as though the little thing had 
brought us good fortune,’ Kitty said, with a 
bright smile. ‘O, Ben, you ought to hear the 
wonderful things he talks of when the fever ’s 
on him. Gardens, and flowers, and birds, and 
a beautiful house and a papa. Was Betty Amo 
his grandmother, really?’ 

“ T s’pose so,’ I said. ‘He was always a nice 
little chap and did n’t play much with the 
street cubs. P’raps he will tell us all about it 
when he gets well.’ 

“Mammy managed to get the fever broke in 
about two weeks, but he was as weak as a 
baby. He ’d lie there on two chairs, listening to 
Kitty as she sung, and begging her to tell him 
stories. Gov’ner took a queer liking to him as 
well. We did n’t call him anything but Santa 




Claus. One day Kitty told him what he talked 
about when he was sick. 

‘‘ ‘It ’s all true," he said. ‘I used to live in 
the house, my Mammy and I, and she had 
pretty light curls like Kitty, and oh, such beau- 



tiful blue eyes. She used to wear silk dresses 
and had a gold watch and rings, and papa used 
to come and give her heaps of money. But one 
day Mammy took me and went away, and we 
never went back to the splendid house, and 

 


papa did not come any more. She just grew 
whiter and whiter, and when old Betty come 
she went to heaven and left me with granny. 
And that ’s a long, long while ago, when I was 
a little boy.’ 

‘‘Mammy shook her head. ‘I dare say 
there ’s been some sorry work about it. 
There ’s a many sad things in this world.’ 

“ ‘Don’t you believe it ’s true?’ 

“ ‘It ’s true enough,’ said Mammy, with a 
sigh. 

“Times began to get pretty hard with us 
again. Feb’uary was cornin’ on and no rent. 
’T was always paid in advance, you see, or 
else you had to march. Old McCann came in 
and made a row. ‘If you don’t have it to-mor- 
row at twelve, out you go,’ says he. ‘Y ou can 
borrow it of some friend, I know.’ 

“We had a little bread and ’lasses for sup- 
per that night. I made believe I was n’t a bit 
hungry, and kept feeding the little kid, ’cause 
I did n’t know what would happen to him or 




any of us to-morrow. You see, not being 
brought up in the city, I was n’t used to all 
the dodges and ways of getting along. 

‘‘ ‘Well, you took him in and give him a 
good Christmas,’ says Kitty, ‘and we won’t be 
sorry, for he did bring us a little luck. Only 
I can’t bear to think of turning him out again.’ 

“Just then there was a knock at the door. 
I opened it, and two men stood there. 

“‘Is little Jemmy Arno here?’ says one of 
’em. 

“With that he run and hid his head in 
Mammy’s lap. 

“ ‘Oh,’ he screamed, ‘it ’s a peeler; don’t let 
him take me! I won’t go to the Island; I ’ll 
run away and drown.’ 

“ ‘We don’t want anybody to go to the 
Island,’ said the p’liceman. ‘Tell the truth, for 
it ’s all good news, little cove. You ’re about 
the luckiest chap I ever heard tell of.’ 

“ ‘Is this the boy?’ and the other man picked 
Jem up in his arms and turned him to the light. 




‘Oh,’ he says in a kind o’ cryin’ tone, ‘I should 
know them eyes anywhere. My good woman, 
I never can repay you for shelterin’ this little 
boy. He ’s my grandson.’ 

“With that the gov’ner came out and 
dropped in a chair. 

“ ‘Somehow,’ says he, ‘he never seemed like 
a common child. But we must know the truth 
and your claim before you take him away from 
here.’ 

“I declare I was so proud of the gov’ner for 
that speech that I could have cheered. 

“They sat down and talked. I don’t know ’s 
I 've got that story straight in my head to this 
day, but ’t was something like this: The old 
gent’s son married a pretty actress, who was 
Betty Arno’s daughter, but he kept mighty 
still about it to his folks. Somehow after 
awhile they quarrelled, and he told her she 
was n’t his wife. With that she run away, 
taking her little kid, and when she was ’most a 
dying she sent for her mother, old Betty, and 




told her the story, and gave Jem to her, and a 
box of papers. That was more ’n two years 
before. And now Jem’s father was dead, and 
there ’d come a great fortune for him and his 
heirs, which was little Jem here. They ’d 
found where Betty died, and they ’d taken the 
box from the woman who turned Jem out of 
doors, and found letters and a ’stificate which 
proved all about him. And now for a month 
they ’d been hunting up Jem. Mammy ’d told 
a neighbor about my bringing of him home 
a’most starved and frozen, and how sick he ’d 
been, and she happened to see the stir about it 
in a paper, with a reward offered, so she went 
and told the old gent the news. 

“ ‘Jem,’ says he, T ’m your grandfather. 
Your poor papa died a loving you, and sorry 
enough that he ’d ever been so cruel. And 
now you must come home with me, and I ’ll 
try to bring you up to be a good man, and you 
must love me in my old days.’ 

‘‘ ‘Ah,’ says the gov’ner, ‘they don’t always 

do that, unless they ’re like Ben here. I 've 
three likely sons that I have n’t heard from in 
ten years, or more.’ 

‘‘So the old gent thanked Mammy again and 
again, and said so much to me that I was red 
as a beet in the face. But, would you believe, 
the little kid would n’t stir a step with them 
without Kitty, and . Mammy begged ’em to 
wait until to-morrow. 

“Well, they went away after awhile, and we 
talked and cried, even to the gov’ner, who was 
quite knocked up about it. Jem seemed to 
care the least of any one, but then he did n’t 
understand all ’t was goin’ to be to him. 

“But was n’t there a jolly lark the next 
morning ! Old McCann was there ordering us 
out of the house, just as the carriage stopped. 
You should a’ seen his face then. It was as 
good as a picture by Nast. He cooled down 
quicker ’n ’lasses candy in a heap of snow. The 
old gent paid the rent, and told him we did n’t 
want the place any more; and, sure enough, 



before twelve that day we went out, bag and 
baggage, which was n’t saying much, after all. 

“Well, the upshot of it all is I ’ve got about 
as nice a paper stand as you ’d want to see. 
We keep pens, and writing-paper, and notions, 
and I ’ve a morning route. I ’m first president 
and the gov’ner ’s cashier, an’ you never saw 
a prouder man. We have three rooms back of 
the store, and Mammy keeps house there like 
a queen. 

“Kitty is living with Mr. Walsingham and 
Jemmy, ’though his real name is Eugene. 
They would n’t give her up. You see the old 
gent felt as if we had saved Jemmy’s life, and I 
do suppose the little kid would a’ froze to 
death that night if I had n’t taken him home. 
So he felt as if he could n’t do enough for us, 
but the gov’ner and I — we ’ve got our pride, 
too. 

“Kitty lives like a princess in a palace. She 
takes care of Jem’s clothes, and dusts up the 
parlors, and is studying music, for they all 

 


think she has a stunning voice. She conies to 
see us in a carriage, and though the gov’ner 
laughs, I see him wipe his eyes with his coat- 
sleeve, as though there was a little something 
besides fun in it. 

‘‘You better believe that I put faith in Santa 
Claus and Christmas ! Why, the year could n’t 
keep house without them. The gov’ner and I 
hang up our stockings, and get ’em full, too. 
It ’s curi’s, but always on Christmas Eve I 
take a little run round just after dark, and look 
on store steps, and in dry goods boxes, and 
sometimes I find a little chap cold and hungry, 
and I make believe for a moment that I ’m 
Santa Claus. It ’s just jolly, I tell you! And 
when the stars shine out I think of the plain of 
Judee, and the shepherds hearing the great 
song that all the world goes on singing, so that 
it can never be quite forgotten. And so Merry 
Christmas to everybody from Ben Hewes.” 



A SPLENDID long holiday!” Grace 
Howard exclaimed, rushing across 
the porch, fairly out of breath. 
‘‘Some important business calls Miss 
Johnson away to-morrow, and we girls have 
been planning such a nice time. Jennie Carl- 
ton has asked us to her house to dinner, and 
then we are going to the woods on a picnic.’’ 

“I thought you did n’t like Jennie Carlton 
very well,” Mrs. Howard rejoined. 

Grace colored. There was a sort of chronic 
difference between the two. 

“I don’t like her as well as some of the girls, 
but we have made up good friends. And when 
she asked me — it ’s to be quite a select party,” 
and Grace put a peculiar emphasis upon the 
word. 

“That is what I object to the most. If all 

 


the school-girls were going to the woods, I 
should expect you to have a pleasant time. 
But choosing some six or eight because their 
parents are wealthy seems too exclusive for 
such an occasion. I do not feel at all compli- 
mented by having you invited.” 

‘‘But I do want to go. My holiday will be 
just spoiled if I have to stay at home;” and 
Grace’s pretty face looked ready for tears. 

“Perhaps you might decide upon some bet- 
ter way of spending it,” replied her mother. 
“I am going to drive to Aunt Ellen’s in the 
afternoon, and had thought of taking you. 
Mrs. Dean was over here this morning, and 
said that Alice was wishing very much to see 
you. She seems to be failing, her mother 
fancies. Half a day would finish your book, 
would n’t it?” 

“I ’ll do that positively on Saturday,” Grace 
said; “or I might go a little while on Friday 
afternoon. O dear! I shall be glad when it is 
through.” 


“ ‘ I thought you did n’t like Jennie Carlton ’ ” 

‘‘You know it was your own desire,” Mrs. 
Howard rejoined. “And it has been such a 
pleasure to Alice.” 

Grace twisted the fringe of the table-cover 


with a misgiving that she was not in a very 



amiable frame of mind. A day or two surely 
would n’t make any difference to Alice Dean, 
but to give up a whole day’s pleasure for that ! 

Grace Howard had a good many generous 
impulses, but, one way and another, her under- 
takings often failed before reaching comple- 
tion. She had received for her birthday pres- 
ent a handsome set of story-books, in which 
she had been wonderfully interested, and pro- 
posed to read them aloud to blind Alice Dean, 
who was an invalid besides. Mrs. Dean had to 
work hard to support herself and child, and 
'-found but little time to devote to her amuse- 
ment. Grace’s clear, sweet voice gave them a 
keener charm to the sensitive child. At first 
she had done very well, it must be confessed, 
but the last book dragged along, when Grace 
began to think it almost a burthen. 

‘‘Can’t I go?” she asked presently. “I shall 
be so disappointed.” 

“I believe your days with Jennie Carlton 
have always been failures ; still I will not com- 
pel you to give up this one. Think it over 
before you decide.” 

Grace’s face brightened immediately, which 
showed that there was to be very little consid- 
eration. Just now she was intent upon her 
own pleasure. Jennie had urged her strongly, 
and somehow Grace always felt flattered by 
Jennie Carlton’s notice. They lived in a grand 
house, and Jennie held herself above most of 
the school-girls. Mr. Carlton and Mr. Howard 
being very warm personal friends, Mrs. How- 
ard had found it impossible to regulate the 
intercourse of the children without giving 
offence, and Mr. Howard indulged his little 
girl in almost every whim. But it frequently 
happened that Grace was hardly upon speak- 
ing terms with Jennie, for the latter gave her 
an occasional rebuff that was not easy to bear. 

Grace thought of nothing but the pleasure 
now. She was all impatience for the hour to 
come, and set off to Jennie’s in high spirits. 

 


The woods were on Mr. Carlton’s place, about 
half a mile from the house, and there could be 
no possible danger to the party. 

‘T hope you will have a nice day,” Mrs. 
Howard said, kissing her. “And when 
you return from the woods, come home 
immediately.” 

Grace promised. As she walked across the 
lawn to Mr. Carlton’s, she saw two strange 
figures in the little group — a girl, taller than 
Jennie, and a boy older still. And then she 
looked at her printed cambric in dismay. Jen- 
nie wore her braided pique and an elegant 
sash, while she had on an ordinary school- 
dress. The young lady stared at her supercil- 
iously; and when Jennie introduced her as her 
cousin, Grace remembered having seen her at 
church once. They had just arrived an hour 
or so ago. For a moment Grace felt half 
inclined to excuse herself and return home. 
The drive with her mother would be pleasant, 
and it was always nice at Aunt Ellen’s. But 




she felt a little ashamed to confess her mistake 
so soon. 

The rest of the girls came presently. They 
all laughed and talked, went to Jennie’s play- 
room, and looked over the dolls and books and 
curious toys, and then Mrs. Carlton summoned 
them to lunch. After that began the prepara- 
tion for going to the woods. Mrs. Carlton 
told them she thought they had better stay 
around the house and amuse themselves by 
playing croquet and other games ; but Jennie’s 
cousin Horace whispered to her that he 
thought it a bore. 

They started off presently, with a servant 
to carry some luggage for them. It was a 
warm walk to the woods, but, once there, they 
found it cool and shady. They amused them- 
selves awhile with play, and then Horace won- 
