me.'' Love cannot. Common decency and courage cannot. Fear of your unhappiness and mine cannot. No, 
even the certitude of your contempt, some day, is powerless to halt me now. I could not love ; I am utterly incapable of loving you enough to balance the sacrifice. 
And that is final." 

Grace Ferrall came into the room and found a duel 
of silence in progress under the dull fire-glow tinting 
the ceiling. ' 

"Another quarrel," she commented, turning on the 
current of the drop-light above the desk from which Si- 
ward had risen at her entrance. " You quarrel enough 
to marry. Why don't you ? " 

" I wish we could," said Sylvia simpl}-. 

Grace laughed. " What a little fool you are ! " she 
said tenderl}, seating herself in Siward's chair and drop- 
ping one hand over his where it rested on the arm. 
" Stephen, can't you make her — a big, strong fellow like 
you .'' Oh, well ; on your heads be it ! My conscience is 
now clear for the first time, and I'll never meddle again." 
She gave Siward's hand a perfunctory pat and released 
him with a discreetly stifled yawn. " I'm disgracefully 
sleepy ; the wind blew like fury along the coast. Sylvia, 









have you had a good time at Shotover — the time of your 
life? " 

Sylvia raised her eyes and encountered Siward's. 

" I certainly have," she said faintly. 

" Cest bien, cherie. Can you be as civil, Stephen — 
conscientiously? Oh, that is very nice of you! But 
there's one thing : mhi on earth didn't you make eyes at 
Marion? Life might be one long, blissful carnival of 
horse and dog for you both. Oh, dear! there, I'm meddling again ! Pinch me, Sylvia, if I ever begin to meddle 
again! How did you come out at Bridge, Stephen? 
What — bad as that? Gracious! this is disgraceful — 
this gambling the way people do ! I'm shocked and I'm 
going up to dress. Are you coming, Sylvia? " 

The dinner was very gay. The ceremony of christ- 
ening the Shotover Cup, which Quarrier had won, pro- 
ceeded with presentation speech and a speech of accept- 
ance faultlessly commonplace, during which Quarrier 
wore his smile — which was the only humorous thing he 
contributed. 

The cup was full. Siward eyed it, perplexed, deadly 
afraid, yet seeing no avenue of escape from what must 
appear a public exhibition of contempt for Quarrier if 
he refused to taste its contents. That meant a bad 
night for him ; yet he shrank more from the certain mis- 
interpretation of a refusal to drink from the huge lov- 
ing-cup with its heavy wreath of scented orchids, now 
already on its way toward him, than he feared the wak- 
ing struggle so sure to follow. 

Marion received the cup, lifted it in both hands, and 
said distinctly, " Good Hunting ! " as she drank to Quar- 
rier. Her brother Gordon took it, and drank entirely 
too much. Then Sylvia lifted it, her white hands half 





 

buried among the orchids : " To you ! " she murmured 
for Siward's ear alone ; then drank gaily, mischievously, 
" To the best shot at Shotover ! " And Siward took the 
cup: " I salute victory," he said, smiling, " always, and 
everywhere ! To him who takes the fighting chance and 
wins out ! To the best man ! Health ! " And he drank 
as a gentleman drinks, with a gay bow to Quarrier, and 
with death in his heart. 

Later, the irony of it struck him so grimly that he 
laughed ; and Sj'lvia, beside him, looked up, dismayed to 
see the gray change in his face. 

" What is it ? " she faltered, catching his eye ; " why 
do you — why are you so white.'' " 

But he only smiled, as though he had misunderstood, 
saying : 

" The survival of the fittest ; that is the only test, 
after all. The man who makes good doesn't whine for 
justice. There's enough of it in the world to go round, 
and he who misses it gets all that's due him just the 
same." 

Later, at cards, the aromatic odour from Alderdene's 
decanter roused him to fierce desire, but he fought it 
down until only the deadened, tearing ache remained to 
shake and loosen every nerve. And when Ferrall, finish- 
ing his usual batch of business letters, arrived to cut in if 
needed, Siward dropped his cards with a shudder, and 
rose so utterly unnerved that Captain Voucher, noticing 
his drawn face, asked him if he were not ill. 

He was leaving on an earlier train than the others, 
having decided to pass through Boston and Deptford, at 
which latter place he meant to leave Sagamore for the 
wanter in care of the manager of his mother's farm. So 
he took a quiet leave of those to whom the civility might 
not prove an interruption — a word to Alderdene and 









Voucher as he passed out, a quick clasp for Ferrall and 
for Grace, a carefully and cordially formal parting 
from the Page boys, which pleased them ineffably. 

Eileen and Rena, who had never had half a chance 
at him, took it now, delighted to discipline their faithful 
Pages; and he submitted in his own engagingly agree- 
able way, and so skilfully that both Eileen and Rena felt 
sorry that they had not earlier understood how civilly 
anxious he had been to devote himself to them alone. 
And they looked at the Pages, exasperated. 

In the big hall he passed Marion, and stopped to 
take his leave. 

No, he would do no hunting this season either at 
Carysford or with the two trial packs at Eastwood. 
Possibly at Warrenton later, but probably not ; business 
threatened to detain him in town more or less. ... Of 
course he'd come to see her when she returned to town. 
. . . And it had been a jolly party, and it was a shame 
to sound " lights out " so soon ! Good-bye. , . . Good 
night. And that was all. 

And that was all, unless he disturbed Sylvia, seated 
at cards with Quarrier and Major Belwether and Leila 
Mortimer — and very intent on the dummy, very still, and 
a trifle pallid with the pallor of concentration. 

So — that was all, then. 

Ascending the stairs, a servant handed him a letter 
bearing the crest of the Lenox Club. He pocketed it 
unopened and continued his way. 

In the darkness of his own room he sat down, the 
devil's own clutch on his shrinking nerves, a deathly de- 
sire tearing at his very vitals, and every vein a tiny trail 
of fire run riot. He had been too long without it, too 
long to endure the craving aroused by that gay draught 
from Quarrier's loving-cup. 





 

The awakened fury of his desire appalled him, and 
for a while that occupied him, enabling him to endure. 
But fear and dismay soon passed in the purely physical 
distress ; he walked the floor, haggard, the sweat starting 
on his face; he lay with clenched hands, stiffened out 
across the bed, deafened by the riotous clamour of his 
pulses, conscious that he was holding out, unconscious 
how long he could hold out. 

Crisis after crisis swept him ; sometimes he found his 
feet and moved blindly about the room. 

Strange periods of calm intervened ; sensation seemed 
deadened ; and he stood as a man who listens, scarce- 
ly daring to breathe lest the enemy awake and seize 
him. 

He turned on the light, later, to look for his pipe, 
and he caught a glimpse of himself in the mirror. It 
was a sick man who stared back at him out of hollow eyes, 
and the physical revulsion shocked him into something 
resembling self-command. 

" Damn you ! " he said fiercely, setting his teeth and 
staring back at his reflected face, " I'll kill you yet be- 
fore I've finished with you ! " 

Then he filled his pipe, and opening his bedroom 
window, sat down, resting his arm on the sill. A 
splendid moon silvered the sea ; through the intense stillness he heard the surf, magnificently dissonant among the 
reefs, and he listened, fascinated, loathing the tides as he 
feared and loathed the inexorable tides that surged and 
ebbed with his accursed desire. 

Once he said to himself, weakly — for he was deadly 
tired — " What am I making the fight for, anyway ? " 
And " Who are you making the fight for? " echoed his 
heavy pulses. 

He had asked that question and received that answer 








before. After all, it had been for his mother's sake 
alone. And now — and now ? — his heart beat out another 
answer; and before his eyes two other eyes seemed to 
open, fearlessly, sweetly, divinely tender. But they were 
no longer his mother's grave, gray eyes. 

After the second pipe he remembered his letter. It 
gave him something to do, so he opened it and tried to 
read it, but for a long while, in his confused physical and 
mental condition, he could make no sense of it. 

Little by little he began to comprehend its purport", 
that his resignation was regretfully requested by the 
governors of the Lenox Club for reasons unassigned. 

The shock of the thing came to him after a while, 
like a distant, dull report long after the flash of the explosion. Well, the affair, bad enough at first, was turn- 
ing worse, that was all. How much of that sort of discredit could a man stand and keep his balance? . . . 
And what would his mother say  

Confused from his own physical suffering, the blow 
had fallen with a deadened force on nerves already 
numbed ; but his half-stupefied acquiescence had suddenly 
become a painful recoil when he remembered where the 
brunt of the disgrace would fall — where the centre of 
suffering must always be, and the keenest grief concentrated. Roused, appalled, almost totally unnerved, he 
stood staring at the letter, beginning to realise what it 
would mean to his mother. A passion of remorse and resentment swept him. She mut be spared that ! There 
must be some way — some punishment for his offence that 
could not strike her through him ! It was wicked, it 
was contemptible, insane, to strike her ! Wliat were the 
governors of the Lenox about — a lot of snivelling hypocrites, pandering to the horrified snobbery at the Patroons! Who were they, anyway, to discipline him! 





 

Scarce one in fifty among the members of the two clubs 
was qualified to sit in judgment on a Siward ! 

But that tempest of passion and mortification passed, 
too, leaving him standing there, dumb, desperate, staring 
at the letter crushed in his shaking hand. 

He must see somebody, some member of the Lenox, 
and do something — something! Ferrall! Was that 
Ferrall's step on the landing? 

He sprang to the door and opened it. Quarrier, 
passing the corridor, turned an expressionless visage 
toward him, and passed on with a nod almost imper- 
ceptible. 

" Quarrier ! " he called, swept by a sudden impulse. 

Quarrier halted and turned. 

" Could you give me a moment — here in my room.'' 
I won't detain you." 

The faint trace of surprise faded from Quarrier's 
face; he quietly retraced his steps, and, entering Si- 
ward's room, stood silently confronting its pallid tenant. 

" Will you sit down a moment? " 

Quarrier seated himself in the arm-chair by the win- 
dow, and Siward found a chair opposite. 

" Quarrier," said the younger man, turning a 
tensely miserable face on his visitor, " I want to ask you 
something. I'll not mince matters. You know that the 
Patroons have dropped me, and you know what for." 

" Yes, I know." 

" When I was called before the Board of Governors 
to explain the matter, if I could, you were sitting on that 
Board." 

" Yes." 

" I denied the charge, but refused to explain. . . . 
You remember? " 

Quarrier nodded coldly. 









" And I was dropped by the club ! " 

A slight inclination of Quarrier's symmetrical head 
corroborated him. 

" Now," said Siward, slowly and very distinctly, " I 
shall tell pou unofficially what I refused to tell the other 
governors officially." And, as he began speaking, Quar- 
rier's face flushed, then the features became immobile, set, 
and inert, and his eyes grew duller and duller, as though, 
under a smooth surface the soul inside of him was shrink- 
ing back into some dark comer, silent, watchful, sus- 
picious, and perhaps defiant. 

" Mr. Quarrier," said Siward quietly, " I did not 
take that girl to the Patroons Club — and you know it." 

Quarrier was all surface now ; he had drawn away 
internally so far that even his eyes seemed to recede 
until they scarcely glimmered through the slits in his 
colourless mask. And Siward went on : 

" I knew perfectly well what sort of women I was to 
meet at that fool supper Billy Fleetwood gave ; and you 
must have, too, for the girl you took in was no stranger 
to you. ... Her name is Lydia Vyse, I believe." 

The slightest possible glimmer in the elder man's eyes 
was all the answer he granted. 

" What happened," said Siward calmly, " was this : 
She bet me she could so disguise herself that I could safely 
take her into any club in New York. I bet her she 
couldn't. I never dreamed of trying. Besides, she was 
your — dinner partner," he added with a shrug. 

His concentrated gaze seemed at length to pierce the 
expressionless surface of the other man, who moved 
slightly in his chair and moistened his thin lips under the 
glossy beard. 

" Quarrier," said Siward earnestly, " What hap- 
pened in the club lobby I don't exactly know, because I 





 

was not in a condition to know. I admit it; that was 
the trouble with mc. When I left Fleetwood's rooms I 
left with a half dozen men. I remember crossing Fifth 
Avenue with them ; and the next thing I remember dis- 
tinctly was loud talking in the club lobby, and a number 
of men there, and a slim young fellow in Inverness and 
top hat in the centre of a crowd, whose face was the face 
of that girl, Lydia Vyse. And that is absolutely all. 
But I couldn't do more than deny that I took her there 
unless I told what I Jcnezc; and of course that was not 
possible, even in self-defence. But it was for iou to admit that I was right. And you did not. You dared 
not ! You let another man blunder into your private af- 
fairs and fall a victim to circumstantial evidence which 
you could have refuted; and it was up to you to say 
something! And you did not! . . . And now — what 
are you going to do.'' The Lenox Club has taken this 
thing up. A man can't stand too much of that sort of 
thing. What am I to do.'' I can't defend myself by 
betraying my accidental knowledge of your petty, private affairs. So I leave it to you. I ask you what are 
you going to do.'' " 

" Do you mean " — Quarrier's voice was not his own, 
and he brought it harshly under command — " do you 
mean that you think it necessary for me to say I knew 
her.? What object would be attained by that.'' I did 
not take her to the Patroons'." 

" Nor did I. Ask her how she got there. Learn 
the truth from her, man ! " 

" What proof is there that I ever met her before I 
took her into supper at Fleetwood's.'' " 

" Proof! Are you mad.'' All I ask of you is to say 
to the governors what I cannot say without using your 
name." 









" You wish me," asked Quarrier icily, " to deny that 
you made that wager? I can do that." 

" You can't do it ! I did make that bet." 

" Oh ! Then, what is it you wish me to say  " 

" Tell them the truth. Tell them you know I did 
not take her to the club. You need not tell them why you 
know it. You need not tell them how much you know 
about her, whose brougham she drove home in. I can't 
defend myself at your expense — intrench myself behind 
your dirty little romance. What could I say.'' I de- 
nied taking her to the club. Then Major Belwether 
confronted me with my wager. Then I shut up. And 
so did you, Quarrier — so did you, seated there among 
the governors, between Leroy Mortimer and Belwether. 
It was up to you, and you did not stir ! " 

" Stir ! " echoed the other man, exasperated. " Of 
course I did not stir. What did I know about if? Do 
you think I care to give a man like Mortim.er a hold on 
me by admitting I knew anything.'' — or Belwether — do 
you think I care to have that man know anything about 
my private and personal business .f' Did you expect me 
to say that I was in a position to prove anything one 
way or another.? And," he added with increasing harsh- 
ness, " how do you know what I might or might not 
prove? If she went to the Patroons Club, I did not go 
with her; I did not see her; I don't know whether or not 
you took her." 

" I have already told you that I did not take her," 
said Siward, turning whiter. 

" You told that to the governors, too. Tell them 
again, if you like. I decline to discuss this matter with 
you. I decline to countenance your unwarranted intru- 
sion into what you pretend to beheve are my private af- 
fairs. I decline to confer with Belwether or Mortimer. 





 

It's enough that you are indined to meddle — " His 
cold anger was stirring. He rose to his full, muscular 
height, slow, menacing, his long, pale fingers twisting 
his silky beard. " It's enough that you meddle ! " he 
repeated. " As for the matter in question, a dozen men, 
including myself, heard you make a wager; and later I 
myself was a witness that the terms of that wager had 
been carried out to the letter. I know absolutely noth- 
ing except that, Mr. Siward; nor, it appears, do you, 
for you were drunk at the time, and you have admitted 
it to me." 

" I have asked you," said Siward, rising, and very 
grave, " I have asked you to do the right thing. Are 
you going to do it.? " 

" Is that a threat.'' " inquired Quarrier, showing the 
edges of his well-kept teeth. " Is this intimidation, Mr. 
Siward.'' Do I understand that you are proposing to 
bespatter others with scandal unless I am frightened into 
going to the governors with the flimsy excuse you attempt to offer me .'' In other words, Mr. Siward, are you 
bent on making me pay for what you believe you know 
of my private life ? Is it really intimidation ? " 

And still Siward stared into his half-veiled, sneering 
eyes, speechless. 

" There is only one name used for this kind of thing," 
added Quarrier, taking a quick involuntary step backward to the door as the blaze of fury broke out in Si- 
ward's eyes. 

" Good God ! Quarrier," whispered Siward with dry 
lips, " what a cur you are ! What a cur ! " 

And long after Quarrier had passed the door and 
disappeared in the corridor, Siward stood there, frozen 
motionless under the icy waves of rage that swept him. 

