intense ecstasy the wonderful colors gathering around the setting sun,
for which she had no name, but that always seemed as if set to some
wondrous music. Every pulse stirred within her, making life itself
sweet.

She stepped down on the lower limb. It would be rather rough to slide
down the tree trunk, but she had not minded it in her childhood. The
other way she had often tried as well. She held on to the limb above,
and walked out on hers, until it began to sway so that she could hardly
balance herself. Then she gave one spring, and almost came down in the
young man's arms.

She righted herself in a moment, and stared at him. There was something
familiar in the soft eyes, in the general contour of the face.

"You do not remember me!"

"Let me think," she said, with a calmness that amused him. "Yes, it
comes to me. I saw you on the boat that conveyed Madame de Champlain.
You are her brother."

"Eustache Boullé, at your service," and he bowed gracefully. "But I did
not know you, Mam'selle. You were such a child four years ago. Even then
you made an impression upon me."

She was so little used to compliments that it did not stir her in the
slightest. She was wondering, and at length she said--

"How did you find me?"

"By hard searching, Mam'selle. I saw your foster-mother--I believe she
is that--and she gave me a graphic description of your wanderings. I
paused here because the beauty of the place attracted me. And I heard a
voice I knew must be human, emulating the birds, so I drew nearer. Will
you forgive me when I confess I rifled your store? What plums these are!
I did not know that Canada could produce anything so utterly delicious.
We have some wild sour ones that get dried and made eatable in the
winter, when other things are scarce. And the Indians make a
queer-tasting drink out of them."

"I found this tree quite by accident. I never saw it before, and if you
will look, there are only two branches that have any fruit. The other
side of the tree is barren. And that high branch will give the birds a
feast. I do not think I could venture up there," laughing.

"I wondered how you ventured at all. And how you dared come down that
way."

His eyes expressed the utmost admiration.

"Oh," she answered carelessly, "that was an old trick of mine, my
childhood's delight. I used to try how far I could walk out before the
limb would give me warning."

"But if it had broken?"

"Why, I should have jumped, all the same. You did not go with your
sister and M. de Champlain."

"I had half a mind to, then I reconsidered."

She met his gaze calmly, as if she was wondering a little what had
prevented him.

"And I came to Quebec. It begins to grow. But we want something beside
Indians. M. Destournier has settled quite a plantation of them, and my
sister has believed in their conversion. But when one knows them
well--he has not so much faith in them. They are apt to revert to the
original belief, crude superstitions."

"It is hard to believe," the girl said slowly.

"That depends. Some beliefs are very pleasant and appeal to the heart."

"But is it of real service to God that one rolls in a bed of thorns, or
walks barefoot over sharp stones, or kneels all night on a hard, cold
floor? There are so many beautiful things in the world, and God has made
them----"

"As a snare, the priest will tell you. Mam'selle, thou hast not been
made for a devotee. It would be a great loss to one man if thou shouldst
bury all these charms in a convent."

"I do not know any man who would grieve," she made answer indifferently.

"But you might," and a peculiar smile settled about his lips.

"I am going to take home as many of these plums as I can carry. Madame
Destournier is not well, and has a great longing for different things. I
found some splendid berries yesterday which she ate with a relish.
Sickness gives one many desires. I am glad I am always well. At least I
was never ill but once, and that was long ago."

She sprang up and began to look about her. "If I could find some large
leaves----"

"I will fill my pockets."

She looked helplessly at her own garments, and then colored vividly,
thinking if this young man were not here she would gather a lapful. Why
should she have this strange consciousness?

Nothing of service met her gaze, and she drew her brow into a little
frown. It gave her a curious piquancy, and interested him. She had
spirit.

"Oh, I know! What a dullard I was. Those great flaring dockweeds do not
grow about here. But something else will answer."

She ran over to an old birch tree and tore off great pieces of bark,
then gathering some half-dried grasses, began to fashion a sort of pail,
bending up the edges to make the bottom. She was so quick and deft, it
was a pleasure to watch her. Then she filled it with the choicest of the
fruit. There was still some left.

"We might have another feast," he suggested.

"I have feasted sufficiently. Let us make another basket. It can be
smaller than this."

It was very pleasant to dally there in the woods. He was unnecessarily
awkward, that the slim fingers might touch his, and her little laugh was
charming.

"Allow me to carry the larger one," and he reached for it.

"No, no. You are weighted in the pockets. And these are choice. I will
have no one take part in them."

She drew herself aside and began to march with a graceful, vigorous
step, her head proudly poised on the arching neck that, bared to summer
suns and wind, yet was always white. The delicious little hollow, where
the collar bones met, was formed to lay kisses in, and be filled with
warm, throbbing lips. Yes, he was right in coming back to Quebec, she
was more enchanting than the glimpse of her had been.

"Why do you look at me so?" she cried, with a kind of quick repulsion
she did not understand, but it angered her.

"It is the homage we pay to beauty, Mam'selle."

"Your sister is beautiful," she said, with an abruptness that was almost
anger.

"So thought the Sieur de Champlain, and I believe she was not offended
at it."

"I am not like that," she declared decisively. "She was fair as a lily,
and Father Jamay said she had the face of a saint."

"I am not so partial to saints myself. And my brother-in-law would have
been better satisfied, I do believe, if she had been less saintly."

She looked a trifle puzzled.

"It is long since you left France," she commented irrelevantly.

"I was not seventeen. It is six years ago."

"Do you mean to go back?"

"Sometime, Mam'selle. Would you like to go?"

"No," she said decidedly.

"But why not?" amused.

"Because I like Quebec."

"It is a wretched wilderness of a place."

"Madame Destournier talks about France. Why, if Paris is all gayety and
pleasure, are people put in dungeons, and then to death? And there seem
so many rulers. They are not always good to the Sieur, either."

"They do not understand. But these are too weighty matters for a young
head."

"Why do they not want a great, beautiful town here! All they care about
is the furs, and the rough men and Indians spoil the summer. I like to
hear the Sieur tell what might be, houses and castles, and streets,
instead of these crooked, winding paths, and--there are fine shops,
where you buy beautiful things," glancing vaguely at him.

"Why should you not like to go thither then, if you can dream of these
delights?"

"I want the Sieur to have his way, and do some of the things he has set
his heart upon. Miladi would like it too. But I am well enough
satisfied."

She tossed her head in her superb strength. He had not known many women,
and they were older. There was something in her fresh sweetness that
touched him to the soul.

"This way, M'sieu." He was plunging ahead, keeping pace with some
tumultuous thoughts.

"Ah----!"

"And see--you have been careless. You are sowing plums along the way.
This is no place for them to take root."

She gave a little laugh as well, though she had begun in a sharp tone.

He had pressed the side of his slight receptacle and made a yawning
crack in it.

"Well, now you must gather that great leaf and patch it. Here are some
pine needles. I sew with them sometimes. You do not need a thread."

Was she laughing at him?

He managed to repair the damages, and picked up the plums he had not
trodden upon, that were yielding their wine-like fragrance to the air.

"Which way do you go, M'sieu?" she asked, with unconscious hauteur.

"Why--to M. Destournier's. I called on miladi, and she sent me to find
you in some wood, she hardly knew where. And I have brought you safely
back."

"M'sieu, I have come back many a time in safety without you."

Her voice had a suggestion of dismissal in it.

"I must present my spoils to Madame. No, I believe they are yours, you
were the discoverer, you made the purple shower that I only helped
gather."

She skipped up the steps lightly. How dainty her moccasined feet were!
The short skirt showed the small ankles and the swell of the beautiful
leg. Her figure was not a whit behind his sister's convent-trained one,
but she was fearless as a deer.

Miladi sat out on the gallery in her chair, that could be moved about
with ease by a small lever at the side. Looking down at the youthful
figures, the thought beset her that haunts all women, that here was
material for a very fortunate match. He was much superior to Pierre
Gaudrion.

"The trophies of the hunt," Boullé exclaimed gayly. "The huntress and
the most delicious harvest. I have seen nothing like it."

"I found some plums, a tree quite by itself, and only two branches of
fruit. We must send some of the best pits to M. Hébert. And I shall
plant a row in the Sieur's garden."

She brought out a dish and took them carefully from the birch-bark
receptacle. The exquisite bloom had not been disturbed.

"I will get a dish for yours," she said to the young man.

"Mine were the gleanings," he laughed.

Miladi's eyes glowed at the sight of the feast. Rose had not emptied all
of hers out, and now she laid three beauties in the corner of the
cupboard, looking around until she espied a pan. Wooden platters were
mostly used, even the Indian women were handy in fashioning them.

The young man had taken a seat and a plum, and was regaling his hostess
with the adventure.

"Curious that I should find the place so easily," and he smiled most
beguilingly. "Sometimes one seems led in just the right way."

For several reasons he preferred not to say he had heard the singing.

"Yes," and now she gave a soft, answering smile, as if there might be a
mysterious understanding between them. Miladi was often ennuied, now
that she was never really well, and the sight and voice of a young man
cheered her inexplicably.

"Every one knows her. She is the most fearless thing."

"I remember her when she was very little. How tall she has grown. A very
pretty girl."

"Youth always has a prettiness. It is the roundness and coloring. I
often long to go back and have it all over again. I should remain in
France. I do not see what there is in this bleak country to charm one."

"There was some talk of your going with my sister, was there not?"

"Yes. But I was too ill. And M. Destournier thought he could not leave.
He has many interests here."

Rose re-entered the room.

"I never tasted such delicious plums," the elder commented, in a pleased
tone. "I want some saved as long as they will keep."

"There is a quantity of them. I should have had to make another journey
but for M. Boullé," and she dropped a charming little courtesy.

"We might see if we could not find another tree."

"I doubt it."

"Will you stay some time?" asked miladi.

"They can do without me a while. Business is mostly over."

She raised her eyes, and they said she was pleased with the plan. Rose
busied herself about the room, then suddenly disappeared. She had seen
M. Destournier coming up the crooked pathway, and with a parcel in her
hand, went out to meet him.

"I thought of you. Miladi was delighted with hers. Some seagull must
have brought the pit across the ocean. It is so much finer than any we
have around here."

He broke it open, but the golden purple juice ran over his hand.

"It is the wine of sunshine. Here is to thy health, Rose of Quebec."

"M. Boullé is in there," nodding. "He came out in the wood and found me
up the tree," and she laughed gayly.

"Found thee----" Something sharp went to the heart of the man, and he
looked down into the fearless eyes, with their gay, unsuspecting
innocence.

"As if I could be lost in dear old Quebec!"

"Is it dear to thee?"

"Why, I have never known any other place, any other home."

There were many knowledges beside that of childhood. And among them one
might be all-engrossing.




CHAPTER XII

A LOVER IN EARNEST


Eustache Boullé seemed in no hurry to return to Tadoussac. He was
wonderfully interested in the new fort, in the different improvements,
in miladi, who, somehow, seemed to improve and render herself very
agreeable. She had a queer feeling about him. If one could be young
again--ah, that would be back in France. She had a happy time with
Laurent. She had exulted in winning her second husband, but somehow the
real flavor and zest of love had not been there.

When Eustache was with Rose she experienced a keen, hungering jealousy,
and it was then she wanted to be young. The girl was strangely obtuse.
She never colored when he came, or evinced any half-bashful joy, she
left him with miladi, and went off with the utmost unconcern. She was
much in the settlement, showing the Indian women nice ways of keeping
their homes and children tidy, so that when the beautiful wife of the
Governor returned they would have great improvement to show her. True,
they went out canoeing, and the sweet breath of the river washing the
sedgy grass on the small islands, gave a faint tang of salt, or where it
dashed and fretted against the rocks made iridescent spray. There were
so many beautiful places. And though she had seen the falls more than
once, she went again to please him, after making several excuses. Pani
was her bodyguard. He was still small, and lithe as an eel, and the
mixture of races showed in him. Wanamee was sometimes peremptorily
ordered to accompany him.

The wooing of looks and smiles had little effect on her. Sometimes he
reached for her hand, but it cunningly evaded him. She seemed so
sufficient for herself that the matter was reduced to good-comrade-ship.
Yet there were times when he was wild to kiss the rosy, dimpling mouth,
to press the soft cheek, to hold the pliant figure in his arms.

It was but right that he should ask M. Destournier for his
foster-daughter.

To lose her! Ah, how could he give her up?

"Would you come to Quebec?"

"My interests are at Tadoussac. And there are the fisheries at the
islands growing more profitable. But I might come often if she grew
homesick, and pined for this rough, rocky place."

"It will be as she pleases," the man said, with a heavy heart.

"I must tell you that I think Madame favors my suit."

M. Destournier merely bowed.

The husband and wife had never touched upon the subject. She could not
decide. The girl was very useful to her since she had fallen into
invalid ways. M. Destournier had to be journeying about a good deal. She
could read so delightfully when the nights were long, tiresome, and
sleepless. Even Wanamee could not arrange her hair with such deft
touches, and it really appeared as if she could take off the burthen of
years by some delicate manipulations. Yes, she would miss her very much.
But it would be a grand match for a foundling. And if they went to
France, she would rouse herself and go. M. Destournier was so occupied
with the matters of the town that he had grown indifferent, and seldom
played the lover.

But how was Eustache to propose to a girl who could not, or would not
understand, who never allowed any endearments or softened to sentiment.
Why, here had been a whole fortnight since he had won the Sieur's tardy
consent. Now and then he had found some soft-eyed Indian girl not averse
to modestly-caressing ways, but his religion kept him from any absolute
wrong, and meaning to marry some time, he had not played at love.

So he came to miladi with his anxieties. Was there ever a woman's soul
formed with no longing, no understanding of the divine passion, that
could kneel at the marriage altar in singleness of heart?

Miladi studied the young man. Had the girl no warm blood coursing
through her veins, no throb of pleased vanity, at the preference of this
patient lover? Perhaps he was too patient.

"Yes," she made answer, "I will see. You are quite sure your family will
not be displeased? We know nothing of her birth, you are aware."

"Her beauty will make amends for that."

One could not deny her beauty. Such a dower had never been miladi's,
though she had been pretty in youth.

"Beg her to listen to me."

"A man should be able to compel a woman to listen," she made answer a
little sharply.

Glancing out over the space between, she caught sight of Rose and her
husband coming down from the fort. She was gay enough now, talking with
no restraint.

"I am almost jealous of M. Destournier," Eustache said, with a sigh.

Miladi was suddenly jealous as well, and this swept away the last shred
of reluctance.

"You give her great honor by this marriage proposal. She shall be
compelled to consider it."

"A thousand thanks. If Madame will excuse, I will go out to them."

M. Destournier left her with the young lover. Would she not go out on
the river? No. Then let them take a forest ramble. There were some fine
grapes back of the settlement. Pani had brought in a great basket full.
What would she do?

"Sit here on this ledge and watch the river. Pierre Cadotte is at the
fort. They came through the rapids at Lachine. It was very exciting. He
has been at the trading post up to the strait and tells marvellous
stories of hardships and heroism. And the good priest up there has made
converts already."

She was always so interested in some far-off thing.

"I wish a priest might make a convert here. There is much need."

She was off her guard. Canoes and boats were going up and down the
river. Some men were hauling in a catch of fish; just below, an Indian
woman sat weaving reed baskets, while a group of children played around.
Not an ideal spot for love-making, but Eustache was desperate.

"Thee"--leaning over until his black curls touched hers. "I would have
thee converted to love and matrimony. I have been a coward, and kept my
heartaches and desires to myself. I can do it no longer."

"But I am not for matrimony." She raised her clear eyes that would have
disheartened almost any man. "I do not want any husband. I like my own
fancies, and I suppose they are strange. There is only one person I ever
talk to about them. No one else understands. I think sometimes I do not
belong here, but to another country; no, the country is well enough. I
am suited to that. I do not want to go away."

"You would like old France, Paris. My mother would be glad to welcome
you, I know. And, oh, you would like Paris. Or, if you would rather stay
here----"

"I do not want to be married in a long time yet. Women change so much
when they have husbands, and it seems as if they made themselves unhappy
over many things their husbands do."

"But my sister was very happy. She would not have come all the way to
New France if she had not loved her husband dearly."

"You see that is so different. I do not love any one in that manner.
And, oh, M'sieu, she was like an angel, and prayed so much. It is a good
thing, but I would not like to stay in a darkened room and pray. I like
better to be roaming in the woods, and singing with the birds, and
gathering flowers. I believe I am not old enough to accept these
things."

"But my sister was only twelve when she was betrothed to the Sieur de
Champlain."

"You see something makes the difference." Her brow knit in perplexity.
"If it is a thing you want, it would be very easy to reach out your hand
and take it----"

"But I want it!" He reached out his hand and caught hers. "I love you,
strange, bewitching as you are in your innocence. And I would teach you
what love was. No young girl loves much before marriage. But when she is
