He was rich and well-born, but shy and very 



 

modest. Concha Argiiello, La Favorita of California, was for some such dashing caballero 
as Don Antonio Castro of Monterey or 
Ignacio Sal, the most adventurous rider of the 
north. Meanwhile he could look at her and adore 
her in secret, and Dona Eafaella Sal was very 
kind and danced as well as himself. He never 
dreamed that he was being used as a stalking 
horse to keep alive in the best match in the Californias the jealous desire for exclusive possession 
that had animated him in 1800 when he had applied through the Viceroy of Mexico for royal 
consent to his marriage with the Favorita of 
her year. That was six years ago and never a 
word had come from Madrid. Luis was faithful, but men were men, and girls grew older every 
day. So the wise Eafaella was alternately indifferent and alluring, the object of more admiration than a maid could always repel, yet with 
wells of sentiment that only one man could discover. And the American was patient, and even 
had he known, would not in the least have minded 
the use she made of him. He still could look at 
Concha Argiiello. 

William Sturgis had sailed in one of his 
father's ships, now six years ago, from Boston 



 

in search of health. The ship in a dense fog had 
gone on the rocks in the straits between the 
Farallones and the Bay of San Francisco. He 
alone, and after long hours of struggle with the 
wicked currents, not even knowing in what direction land might be, was flung, senseless, on the 
shore below the Fort. For the next month he was 
an invalid in the house of the Comandante. 
Fortunately, his papers and money were sewn in 
an oilskin belt and his father's name was well 
known in California. Moreover, there never was a 
more likable youth. His illness interested all the 
matrons and maids of the Presidio in his fate; 
when he recovered, his good dancing and unselfishness gave him permanent place in the regard 
of the women, while his entire absence of beauty, 
and his ability to hold his own in the mess room, 
established his position with the men. 

In due course word of his plight reached Boston, and a ship was immediately despatched, not 
only to bring the castaway home, but with the 
fine wardrobe necessary to a young gentleman 
of his station. But the same ship brought word 
of his father's death — his mother had gone long 
since — and as there were brothers enamored- of 
the business he hated, he decided to remain in 



 

the country that had won his heart and given 
him health. For some time there was demur on 
the part of the authorities; Spain welcomed no 
foreigners in her colonies. But Sturgis swore 
a mighty oath that he would never despatch a 
letter uninspected by the Comandante, that he 
would make no excursions into the heart of the 
country, that he would neither engage in traffic 
nor interfere in politics. Then having already 
won the atfections of the Governor, he was permitted to remain, even to rent an acre of land 
from the Church in the sheltered Mission valley, 
and build himself a house. Here he raised fruit 
and vegetables for his own hospitable table, 
chickens and game cocks. Books and other luxuries came by every ship from Boston; until for 
a long interval ships came no more. One of these 
days, when the power of the priests had abated, 
and the jealousy which would keep all Californians landless but themselves was counterbalanced 
by a great increase in population, he meant to 
have a ranch down in the south where the sun 
shone all the year round and he could ride half 
the day with his vaqueros after the finest cattle 
in the country. He never should marry because 
he could not marry Concha Argiiello, but he could 



 

think of her, see her sometimes; and in a land 
where a man was neither frozen in winter nor 
grilled in summer, where life could be led in the 
open, and the tendency was to idle and dream, 
domestic happiness called in a feebler note than 
in less equable climes. In his heart he was desperately jealous of Concha's favored cavahers, 
but it was a jealousy without hatred, and his kind 
earnest often humorous eyes were always assuring his lady of an imperishable desire to serve 
her without reward. Of course Concha treated 
him with as little consideration as so humble a 
swain deserved; but in her heart she liked him 
better than either Castro or Sal, for he talked 
to her of something besides rodeos and balls, 
racing and cock-fights ; he had taught her English 
and lent her many books. Moreover, he neither 
sighed nor languished, nor ever had sung at her 
grating. But she regarded him merely as an 
intelligence, a well of refreshment in her stagnant 
life, never as a man. 

" Eosa,'' she said as she caught her hair into 
a high golden comb that had been worn in Spain 
by many a beauty of the house of Moraga, and 
spiked the knot with two long pins globed at the 
end with gold, while the maid fastened her slippers and smoothed the pink silk stockings over 
the arched thin instep above; " what is a lover 
like? Is it like meeting one of the saints of 
heaven? " 

" No, seniorita." 

'' Like what, then I '' 

" Like — like nothing but himself, sehorita. 
You would not have him otherwise."

" Oh, stupid one! Hast thou no imagination? 
Fancy any man being well enough as he is ! For 
instance, there is Don Antonio, who is so handsome and fiery, and Don Ignacio, who can sing 
and dance and ride as no one else in all the Californias, and Don Weeliam Sturgis, who is very 
clever and true. If I could roll them into one — 
a tamale of corn and chicken and peppers — there 
would be a man almost to my liking. But even 
then — not quite. And one man — what nonsense! 
I have too much color to-night, Eosa. ' ' 

" No, senorita, you have never been so beautiful. When the lover comes and you love him, 
sehorita, you will think him greater than our natural king and lord, and all other men poor Indians. ' ' 

'' But how shall I know? '' 

" Your heart win tell you, senorita." 



 

" My heart! My father and my mother will 
choose for me a husband whom I shall love as all 
other women love their husbands — just enough 
and no more. Then — I suppose — I shall never 
know? '' 

'' Would you marry at your parents' bidding, 
like a child, sehorita I I do not think you would. ' ' 

Concha looked at the girl in astonishment, but 
with a greater astonishment she suddenly 
realized that she would not. Even her little fingers stiffened in a rush of personality, of passionate resentment against the shackles bound by the 
ages about the feminine ego. Her individuality, 
long budding, burst into flower; her eyes gazed 
far beyond her radiant image in the mirror with 
a look of terrified but dauntless insight; then 
moved slowly to the girl that sat weeping on the 
floor. 

'' I know not what thy sin was,'' she said 
musingly. " But I have heard it said thou didst 
obey no law but thine own will — and his. Why 
should the punishment have been so terrible! 
Thou hast sworn to me thou didst not help to 
murder the woman." 

" I cannot tell you, seniorita. You will never 
know anything of sin; but of love — yes, I think 
you will know that, and before very long." 



 

" Before long? " Concha's lips parted and the 
nervous color she had deprecated left her cheeks. 
" What meanest thou, Rosa! '' Her voice rose 
hoarsely. 

And the Indian, with the insight of her own 
tragedy, replied: " The Eussian has come for 
you, senorita. You will go with him, far away to 
the north and the snow. These others never could 
win your heart; but this man who looks like a 
king, and as if many women had loved him, and 
he had cared little — Oh, senorita, Carlos was only 
a poor Indian, but the men that women love all 
have something that makes them brothers — the 
great Russian and the poor man who goes mad 
for a moment and kills one woman that he may 
live with another for ever. The great Russian is 
free, but he is the same, senorita — he too could 
kill for love, and such are the men we women die 
for! '' 

Concha, ambitious and romantic, eager for the 
brilliant life the advent of this Russian nobleman 
seemed to herald, had assured Santiago that he 
would love her; but they had been the empty 
words of the Favorita of many conquests; 
of love and passion she had known, suspected, 
nothing. As she watched Rosa, huddled and con- 




Tulsed, little pointed arrows flew into her brain. 
Girls in those old Spanish days went to the altar 
with a serene faith in miracles, and it was a 
matter of honor among those that preceded their 
friends to abet the parents in a custom which 
assuredly did not err on the side of ugliness. 
Concha had a larger vocabulary than other Cali- 
fornians of her sex, for she had read many books, 
and if never a novel, she knew something of 
poetry. Sturgis had filled the sala with the sonorous roll of his favorite masters and it had 
pleased her ear; but the language of passion had 
been so many beautiful words, neither vibrating 
nor lingering in her consciousness. But the rude 
expression of the miserable woman at her feet, 
whose sobs grew more uncontrollable every moment, made it for ever impossible that she should 
prattle again as she had to Santiago and Eezanov 
in the last day and night; and although she felt 
as if. straining her eyes in the dark, her cheeks 
burned once more, and she rose uneasily and 
ivalked to the window. 

She returned in a moment and stood over Eosa, 
but her voice when she spoke had lost its hoarseness and was cold and irritated. 

" Control thyself," she said. " And go and 




bathe thine eyes. Wouldst look like a tomato when 
it is time to pass the dulces and wines I And 
think no more of thy lover until he can come out 
of prison and marry thee,' She drew herself 
away as the woman attempted to clutch her skirts. 
" Go,' she said. " The musicians are tuning." 



IX 

" The sash, Excellency! '' Jon longed to see 
his master in full regalia once more, and after 
all, was not this an embassy of a sort? But 
Eezanov, who already regarded his reflection 
with some humor, shook his head. 

" I'll go as far as decency permits, for no one 
is so impressed by external magnificence as the 
Spaniard. But full dress uniform and orders are 
enough; an ambassador's sash and they might 
suspect I took them for the children they are. 
Children are not always fools. My stock is too 
tight. Eemember that I am to dance, and am too 
tall for most women's pretty little ears. And I 
doubt if an ear is less thirsty for being so provocatively screened." 

Jon, a '' prince '' whose family had fallen upon 
evil days long since, but whose thin clever fingers 
were no mean inheritance, unwound and read- 
justed the folds of soft batiste, that most becoming neck vesture man has ever worn. He 
would fain have pressed the matter of the 
sash, but Eezanov, most indulgent of masters 



 

to this devoted servant, was never patient of insistence. Jon also regretted the powdered wig 
and qneue, which he privately thought more befitting a fine gentleman than his own hair, even 
though the latter were thick and bright. He said 
tentatively : 

" I notice these Calif ornians still wear the hair 
long; and with their gay ribbons and showy hats 
look much better no doubt than if they followed 
a fashion of which it would seem they had not 
heard — and perhaps do not admire. I ventured 
to pack two of your excellency's wigs when we 
were leaving St. Petersburg '' 

" Good heavens, no ! " cried Eezanov, rising to 
his feet and casting a last impatient glance at the 
mirror. '' When a man has escaped from a furnace does he run back of his own accord? My 
brain would cook under a wig in this climate, and 
I need all my wits — for more reasons than one." 
And he went up on deck. 

There, while awaiting his horses and escort 
he had another glimpse of the happy Arcadian 
life of the Californians. Over the sand hills 
through which he had floundered twice that day 
rode young men in gala attire, a maiden, as colorous as the sunset along the western summits, on 




the saddle before them. These saddles were heavy 
with silver, the blanket beneath was embroidered 
with both silver and gold. Gay light laughter 
floated out on the cool evening breeze to the little 
ship in the harbor. 

" It has been a good day," thought Rezanov, 
lowering his glass. " It is like her to arrange so 
charming a finale." 

"When he arrived at the Presidio the guitars 
were tinkling and the sala was full of eager and 
sombre faces. The Californians had come early, 
determined to witness the arrival of the Eussians. 
Very pretty most of the girls were, and by no 
means a bevy of brunettes. There was hair of 
every shade of brown, looped over the ears, drawn 
high and confined by the high comb and the long 
pins; and Eafaella Sal, with her red hair and 
gray eyes, was still celebrated as a beauty, although no longer in her first youth — she was 
twenty-two, and should have been a matron and 
mother long since! But she looked very handsome and coquettish in her daring yellow frock 
that no other red head would have dared to wear, 
and she displayed three ropes of Baja California 
pearls, one strand being the common possession. 
The matrons, young and old, wore heavy satins 




or brocades, either red or yellow, but the maids 
were in flowered silks, sometimes with coquettish 
little jacket, generally with long pointed bodice 
and full flowing skirt. Concha's frock was made 
in this fashion, but quite different otherwise; 
an aunt in the City of Mexico being mindful at 
whiles of the cravings of relatives in exile. It 
was of a soft shimmering white stuff covered 
with gold spangles and cut to reveal her young 
neck and arms. She stood at the head of the 
room with her mother as Rezanov entered, and he 
noticed for the first time how tall she was. She 
held herself proudly; mischievous twinkle, nor 
child-like trust, nor flashing coquetry possessed 
her eyes; which, even more star-like than usual, 
nevertheless looked out upon her guests with a 
dignified composure. Her lips, her skin, were 
luminous. In this well cut evening gown he saw 
that her figure was superb; and that she could 
command stateliness as well as vivacity moved 
her toward a pedestal in his regard that had been 
occupied by few and never long. 

Rezanov, in his splendid uniform and blazing 
orders, filled the sala with his presence as he 
walked past the rows of bright critical eyes toward his hostesses. The young lips of the maids 




parted with delight and the men frowned. For 
the first time William Sturgis felt the sickness 
of jealousy instead of its not unagreeable pain. 
Davidov and Khostov, both handsome and well- 
bred young men, were also in full naval uniform, 
and by no means ignored; while Langsdorff, in 
the severe black of the scholar, was an admirable 
foil. 

Eezanov, wondering at the subtle change in 
Concha, bowed ceremoniously and murmured: 
" You will give me the first dance, senorita? " 

" Certainly, Excellency. Are you not the guest 
of honor? " 

She motioned to the Indian musicians, fiddles 
and guitars fairly leapt to position, and in a 
moment Eezanov enjoyed the novel delusion of 
encircling a girPs floating wraith. 

" We can waltz, you see? Are you not sur- 
prised? '' 

" It is but one accomplishment the more. I 
feared a preference for your native dances, but 
ventured to hope you would teach me. ' ' 

'' They are easy to learn. You will watch us 
dance the contra-danza after this." 

" With whom do you dance it? " 

Her black eyelashes were very thick ; he barely 
caught the glance she shot him. 




" The Eussian bear growls," slie said lightly. 
" Did you expect to dance every dance with me? " 

" I came for no other purpose." 

" You would have several duels to fight to- 
morrow. ' ' 

" I have no objection." 

" You have fought others, then*? " Her voice 
was the softer with the effort to turn its edge. 

" No more than most men, I suppose. May I 
ask how many have been fought for you! " 

" My memory is no better than yours. "Why 
should I burden it with trifles? " 

" True. It doubtless is charged with matters 
far more serious than the desires of mere men. 
Tell me, senorita, what is your dearest wish! " 
He had bent his head and fixed his powerful gaze 
on her stubborn lashes. As he hoped, she raised 
startled eyes in which an angry glitter dawned. 

" My dearest wish? If I had one should I tell 
you? Why do you ask me such a question? " 

" Because I lit a candle at the Mission to-day 
that you might realize it," he answered smiling. 

To his surprise he saw a flash of terror in her 
eyes before she dropped them, and felt her shiver. 
But she answered coldly: 

" You have wasted a candle, sehor. I have 



 

never had a wish that was not instantly gratified. 
But I thank you for the kind thought. Will you 
finish this waltz with my friend, and the fiancee 
of Luis, Eafaella Sal? She has quarrelled with 
Luis, I see; Don Weeliam is dancing with Caro- 
lina Ximeno, and she cares to waltz with no one 
else. Pardon me if I say that no one has ever 
waltzed as well as your excellency, and I must 
not be selfish." 

" I will release you if you are tired, but otherwise I shall do myself the honor to waltz with 
your friend later.'' 

" I must look after my other guests,'' she said 
coldly; and he was led with what grace he could 
summon to the fair but sulky Eafaella. 

" How am I to help flirting with that girl? " he 
thought as he mechanically guided another light 
and graceful partner through the crowded room. 
" If she were one girl I might resist. But since 
eleven o'clock yesterday morning she has been 
three. And if she was twenty yesterday, twelve 
this morning, she is twenty-eight to-night, and 
this might be a court ball in Madrid. I shall leave 
the day after I bring the Governor to terms." 

He sat beside Dona Ignacia during the contra- 
danza and found the scene remarkably brilliant 




and animated considering the primitive conditions. In addition to the bright flags on the wall 
and the vivid colors of the women, the officers of 
the Presidio and forts wore full dress uniform, 
either white coats with red velvet vest, red pantaloons and sash, or white trousers and scarlet 
coat and waistcoat faced with green. The young 
men from the Mission wore small clothes of a 
dove-colored cloth, fastened at the knee with silver 
buckles, and white silk stockings; two gentlemen 
from Monterey wore the evening costume of the 
capital, black silk small clothes, with white silk 
waistcoat and stockings, and much fine lawn and 
lace. The room was well lighted by many wicks 
stuck in lumps of tallow. The Indian musicians, 
soldiers recruited from a superior tribe in the 
Santa Clara valley, were clad almost entirely in 
scarlet, and danced sometimes as they played; 
and Indian girls, in short red skirts and snow- 
white smocks open at the throat, their long hair 
decorated with flowers and ribbons, already 
