
locked on Clyde's collar. Frost took himself away, 
and passed the portiere of clematis and wood- 
bine, which he brushed and bruised as he went 
through. 

A man, head and shoulders above any other in 
the company, stood gazing perplexedly at the 
scene. He was of imposing physique, well 
proportioned, and cast in every respect on a larger 
mould than ordinary men. He wore no beard or 
mustache, and there was something Roman in his 
features and in the shape of his head. His eyes 
were dark and strikingly fearless, his mouth 
strenuous and grave, although it melted into a beautiful 
and sometimes a peculiarly happy smile. He had a 
commanding mien, and something of the peculiar 
self-possession of one accustomed to appear before 
masses of people. He was not a very young man, 
seeming something past forty, and his hair was 
slightly strewn with gray. 

"Why, Cousin Carolyn!" he said, in an 
authoritative tone. "What does this mean?" 

"Oh, Cousin Sterling!" cried the girl. " I can't 
have you scolding Clyde. He isn't in your 
diocese." 



CHAPTER III 

The two in the dog-cart drove home more rapidly 
than they came. The dog with the shirt frill 
was not allowed to follow this time. Clyde sat at 
their feet, his head on the girl's knee, and her 
hand on his collar. Miss Sterling seemed very 
tired. Dr. Dane watched her with a professional 
eye, not always so alert to the occasion. He was 
not a particularly observant physician; he dis- 
liked his profession, and objected to himself for 
being in it, but tried to make the best of his
blunder, as thousands of young men do in the 
acceptance of mistaken careers. 

They had got away from the Country Club as 
quickly and as quietly as possible. Cara had said, 
" Come here, Cousin Sterling, and I 'll confess all 
about it." And that eminent clergyman, in whose 
big arm she had linked her own while she whis- 
pered a few words in his bending ear, had 
protected her departure and the offending collie's. 
Sterling Hart's wide shoulders towered over Mrs. 
Marriot, the champion, Tracie Benton, and the 
rest, while the excited and exhausted girl slipped 
away. As he stood on the outer edge of the 

 

portiere of vines watching her off, with lifted hat, 
the Reverend Sterling Hart had so grave an 
expression that his cousin would have noticed it if 
she had been less absorbed ; for his warm smile 
was always hers without asking, and outside of his 
pulpit he was counted the best of good company. 
Socially he never preached or prayed. 

The physiologist had not reappeared; he was 
reported by the gentleman who sent for pistols to 
be in the dressing-room bathing bruises, consoling 
scratches, pinning tatters, and generally occupied 
in the line of repairs. The Reverend Mr. Hart 
made an inquiry for him when he returned to the 
club piazza ; and the popular version of the recent 
scene was promptly offered him. 

" I haven't seen anything better since I was in 
the Theatre Francais last January," observed Mrs. 
Marriot, critically. " It was legitimate drama, Mr. 
Hart; suitable even for the clergy. Pity you 
missed it ! " 

Sterling Hart regarded Douce Marriot without 
reply. She felt that she hated him when he looked 
at her like that. His eyes passed from her to the 
talkative girl at her side ; to the champion,
swinging her feet from the rail; to the young ladies and 
gentlemen in the dining-room, with the tall 
tumblers in their hands. Most of these people knew 
him well , many of them were his parishioners in 

 

town, and had long since learned when to let him 
alone. It was quite plain now that he had one of 
his attacks when he would not talk. He turned 
away thoughtfully, and went to his locker for the 
broken lofter whose surgical needs he had come 
to attend. 

The young people in the dog-cart were almost 
as silent as he. They had ridden as far as Solomon 
Hops's house before either spoke. When they 
came in sight of the chocolate eclair, the doctor 
looked the other way; he was afraid that some 
patients would waylay him (it being, in fact, his 
office hours), and he had no visible intention of 
blotting out this shining moment for any of the 
physical woes of his limited clientele. The young 
lady spoke now, not with any obvious interest in 
what she said : — 

" How did you manage it ? I should as soon have 
thought of asking them to take me to board at 
Westminster, or proposing to our late Minister to 
England to have me for a * mealer.' Solomon would 
see the whole summer population starve before he 
would take in any of us" 

" Oh, rheumatism was my friend at court," 
replied Dane, lightly. " He has developed a species 
that he holds at a high figure, like his marsh lots. 
He told me that he thought it might be handy to 




have me around, in case he had spells. I believe 
the old Balsam doctor got tired of the case. I 
realize that I am in luck, — while it lasts. He may 
turn me into the street, you know, any day, if I 
don't cure him." 

" Nannie is such a pretty girl, don't you think 
so?" asked Miss Sterling, abruptly enough. 

"Who? Oh, she? Yes, quite pretty," replied 
Dr. Dane, without enthusiasm. 

"She is studying art," pursued Miss Sterling, 
with a little smile. "A good many of them do, 
you know; I can't see why, can you? She comes 
up to see my portfolios. I felt as if I 'd conquered 
a battalion the first day she did it. Most of the 
village girls hate us so. I can't help wondering 
why." 

" It would be wonderful," bungled the young 
man, " if they hated you." The trite and fatuous 
words were not off his lips before he crimsoned 
with mortification at their escape. Miss Sterling 
had given him a swift, and, for so gentle a lady, 
somewhat imperious glance ; but when she per- 
ceived his embarrassment she laughed outright. 

" Oh, it will do ! " she cried. " Anything will do, 
after what we have been through this afternoon." 
Now, again, as once over there in the clubhouse, 
he felt his head grow light. But he answered 
steadily enough : — 

 

" I am glad you are able to speak of it. I thought 
I 'd wait till you could. It was a tremendous scene. 
You went through it like — " He broke off. 

" I can't understand why Clyde has taken such 
a dislike to Dr. Frost," she proceeded, speaking 
slowly and with some difficulty. " He never liked 
him — never. But the last few months I 've had to 
keep the two apart whenever he has called. And 
he and his family are old friends of ours. Father 
thinks a great deal of him." 

She said " Keep the two apart " precisely as if 
she referred to two gladiators, or other picked 
specimens of the human race distinguished for 
their belligerent qualities. It seldom occurred to 
Cara that her dog was classified among the inferior 
species. An eminent scientist at dinner one 
day had quite hurt her feelings by speaking of 
Clyde as a beautiful and sagacious animal. 

" If it had been that golf girl," suggested Dr. 
Dane, with a brush of non-athletic scorn, " she 
could have stood it. Their sensibilities must be 
developed like their arms, I fancy, — all biceps and 
deltoid. But you — " he ventured again. 

He was young, and his fancy set an aureola 
about this girl, — modest, finely finished, very 
woman of very woman, a beautiful anachronism, 
he thought, a fair, illuminated window which let 
in the light of another and a less rude day than 

 

ours. His profession, which (if we may be permitted 
the word) deidealizes women earlier in life 
and more roughly than any other, had not spoiled 
for the Balsam Groves doctor the glamour natural 
to his sex and his years, perhaps because he experienced 
so little interest in the profession. He 
thought of Carolyn Sterling in poetic phrases and 
in aesthetic phases; as violets breathe, as white 
roses bud, as blush clouds float, as fawns flee, as 
all shy and lovely things exist. He thought of her 
as a beino: to be sheltered all her life from the 
prick of a thorn or the approach of a draft ; a girl 
not to be caused a tear nor to endure a pang ; a 
girl never to hear bad news or a sharp word. He 
had been thinking of her in this way, and for some 
time ; ever since her father's case fell into his hands 
in April. This unexpected drive was " a vision and 
a glory in the earth " to Chanceford Dane. 

He had dwelt upon what he should say in taking 
her home, and how she would look, and act, and 
to what sacred economy he could best put that 
precious span of time. A rainbow like this, — 
which might never arch his life again, — by what 
fine color laws could its splendid hues be detached 
from the prism, hanging heaven high and held to 
light his heart ? 

Now the ride was almost over, and they had 
scarcely exchanged twenty words; these of the 

 



most indifferent and evasive sort. A dog and a 
physiologist (confusion be on Thomas Frost !) had 
smitten the rainbow out of the sky. The village 
doctor drove like a man under a blackening cloud, 
hurrying to get to her father's house ; cutting short 
his own prismatic moment, and driving the faster 
because he perceived that Miss Sterling was more 
exhausted than she knew. She was such a healthy 
girl — more well than strong, as women free from 
every disorder but that of their own sensitive- 
ness are — that it did not occur to Cara that she 
had experienced anything which would justify the 
sensations of collapse so new to her that they 
seemed nothing less than abnormal. Her words 
came with more and more difficulty; and she 
leaned back weakly against the tan leather
cushions of the dog-cart. 

Clyde, with his face on her knee, whined, stirred, 
and watched her as anxiously as the physician did. 
The dog perfectly understood that he was in 
disgrace; but, for his own private reasons, could not 
understand why. The ethics of the universe were 
overturned that day for Clyde. Justice was a 
blasphemy, and the human race a darkened riddle, of 
which his own adored and adorable mistress was 
the chief element of perplexity in a problem that 
was too much for collies. 

" I feel — very strangely," said Cara, putting her 
 

hand to her head. Her white sunshade drooped, 
and fell. Dr. Dane caught it, slipped the reins 
into his right hand, and quietly laid his left arm 
across the back of the seat. He did not touch her, 
but, if she swayed, he could catch her at an 
instant's width. 

" Lean towards me," he commanded, in his 
professional tone, " not the other way, not towards 
the edge. We are almost home." 

" I never faint ! " gasped Cara, defiantly. 

" No," he returned, " you are not going to faint. 
I shall not let you. We are almost home," he 
repeated in a matter-of-fact tone, as if it had been 
an every-day affair for them to be driving together, 
or even as if — But he drove fast ; and the dog- 
cart whirled up the long avenue, to her father's 
door, at a spinning pace. He tried to divert her 
thoughts from her sensations, as the merest 
apprentice in his profession seeks to divert a patient. 
" I wish I had one of those long drinks for you ! " 
he began. 

Cara, looking at him blindly, through the purple 
mist that had settled across her eyes, thought: 
" Why, he has a charming smile ! " 

But she did not think anything more. She had 
been sitting up very straight and stiff, when she 
gave way altogether, and suddenly, like a broken 
shaft, toppled toward him, 

 

Mr. Rollinstall Sterling was sitting in his large, 
cool drawing-room, — a plainly furnished room, 
with that sumptuous touch of indifference to other 
people's parlors which one sees only in the homes 
of the well-born rich. The absence of bric-a-brac 
and upholstery in this house was as marked and 
as severe as the figure of its master; a gray and 
stately gentleman, of a presence whose dignity 
was reduced a little by an invalid air. At the sound 
of the dog-cart, racing up the avenue faster than 
he thought necessary, he came out to the piazza, 
and sheltered himself in his wind chair. He had 
no sooner done this than he uttered a sharp though 
decorous exclamation, and got himself down the 
steps more quickly than the sick man had moved 
for many a day. He had never seen his daughter 
in a young man's arms, and his fancy flew 
to meet an unknown disaster, which took the 
form of a cross between an accident and an
elopement. 

" Get me some brandy ! " called the village 
doctor, imperiously. Then, more gently: "She is 
not hurt, Mr. Sterling. I don't think she has even 
fainted — exactly. Let her alone, Clyde, — let her 
alone. Here, Tibbs, help me lift her out — No — 
so. She has been through a trying scene, that 's 
all." 

He put his arms powerfully about the girl, who, 
 

though quite conscious, found herself too weak to 
protest. In fact, it struck him that it was all one 
to her — whether the coachman or the doctor, it 
did not matter. Between them the two men carried 
her into the drawing-room and laid her on a 
broad sofa, by a window. The wind blew in salt 
from the sea, and dashed against her face. It was 
painfully white. The sparkling decanter shook in 
her father's hands, and the little Irish maid, 
Kathleen, began to cry. The young physician himself 
put the stimulant to her lips, though somewhat 
sparingly or cautiously. His ringers remained on 
her pulse. Once he put his ear to her heart. He 
made no comment, except to say, "You need not 
have a particle of anxiety, Mr. Sterling." Indeed, 
his chief concern seemed to be for his chronic 
patient 

" I never faint," repeated Cara, distinctly. " I 
can't — seem to see what ails me ? " she complained. 
She tried to lift her head, which fell back heavily 
on the pink and white roses of the cretonne-cov- 
ered sofa. 

" Miss Sterling," said Dane, bringing his lips
together, " you have had a shock. This is nothing 
but the reaction. You will be all right in a little 
while. You are not seriously ill. But you are worse 
because you are not used to being ill at all, and 
you don't know what it means." 

 

" Then I am ashamed of myself! " she tried to 
say. But the words came like wraiths of words, 
and an expression of distress and mortification 
passed over her blanched face. 

" Everybody else is proud of you ! " cried the 
doctor, fervently. " Trust me," he added, " if you 
can. I am telling you the truth in every respect." 

She had always been so well, and so proud of 
her good health and superb young vigor, it seemed 
to her as if a moral blight had suddenly fallen upon 
her. She disliked Dane just then for being witness 
to this humiliation. And she made him no answer 
at all. 

He got himself away from her as soon as he 
conscientiously could. He was not accustomed to 
young ladies who desired his professional visits 
shortened. 

Mr. Rollinstall Sterling followed the doctor to 
the piazza, and laid a trembling hand upon his 
arm. 

" Is it possible," he asked unsteadily, " that my 
daughter has inherited my difficulties ? Is there 
— do you see — any signs of an affection of the 
heart ? " 

" The organ is as sound as mine," returned the 
young physician, with some unnecessary sharpness. 
" I tell you, sir, this is nothing but shock. 
Some men would call it a nervous sinking turn. I 

 

prefer the term shock. It covers the case. If she 
had a disease of the heart, Mr. Sterling, your 
daughter might have dropped, under what she has 
been through. It is an unusual physique — highly 
organized, sensitive to timidity, yet she has pluck 
enough and nerve enough to — I never saw 
anything like it, that 's all ! " concluded Chanceford 
Dane. With brilliant eyes he told the old man the 
story. 

Before Dane had finished his late supper, which 
Nannie (it being her cook's day out) was somewhat 
slow in serving, his telephone called imperiously, 
and he was summoned back to Rollinstall 
Sterling's house; but the call came from the 
chronic patient. Mr. Sterling was suffering one 
of the habitual miseries known as his attacks; 
and his daughter, pale as a pear blossom, and 
slender, in a loose, misty gown, was in close 
attendance upon her father. The door into her 
own room was opened from his (she had not 
allowed herself, as the doctor knew, to sleep out of 
reach of the sick man's call for many months), 
and once or twice she passed in and out on some 
errand. 

It was an arched door, and gave something of 
the effect of a vista to a dim perspective in which 
everything seemed to be white, with a possible 

 

blush as faint as the beginnings of dawn upon 
the walls. The girl stood on the threshold,
austere and sweet; her dress looked vague, like the 
pearl-white fog that was sweeping in with the 
easterly from the open sea. The young man 
dared not raise his eyes to her. The physician 
busied himself assiduously with her father. He 
and Cara Sterling did not talk. Once he had 
said, " Where is Clyde ? " and Cara had replied, 
"Shut up in the sewing-room. I told him," she 
added very sadly, "that I should have to punish 
him." 

Dr. Dane did not ask the young lady how she 
felt this evening. It occurred to him that she 
was not without gratitude for the omission. She 
had never been his patient. It also occurred to 
him that she never meant to be. 

When he came out through the dim drawing- 
room a powerful figure rose from one of the 
wicker chairs beside the cretonne sofa. It was the 
Reverend Sterling Hart, who had come to inquire 
for his cousin. 

"After such a shock," he said, "I thought she 
must feel it. When I learned that you were in the 
house, I stayed to ask you." 

There was a slight constraint in the clergyman's 
manner. Dane was somehow reminded that he was 
the village doctor. He replied with some dignity 



in his own demeanor, under which the attitude of 
the other became more cordial. 

"Can I do anything, do you think, if I remain?" 
asked Hart, with a boy-like timidity which was at 
times characteristic of the man. 

" They are both quite comfortable now," replied 
Dane. "Miss Sterling meant to retire, I think. 
She ought not to have been up and about at all." 
He passed out without further words. His feet rang 
on the gravel, and he held his handsome head well 
up. In spite of himself his heart sang in an 
undertone. It was full moonlight, and the world seemed 
to be listening for something. At the end of the 
long, wooded avenue he met the surgeon, walking 
eagerly in the warm light. 

"You, too, Thomas?" said Chanceford Dane, 
stopping short. 

" Et tu Brute?" replied Frost, smiling steadily. 

"You won't see her," added the physician over 
his shoulder. "She isn't fit for it — to-night." 

He could not quite keep the note of privilege 
out of his voice. He hurried on, and out into 
the road; it ran like a river of light through the 
