
"No, no! Let them go," cried the rector. "Cathewe, take me out, please;
take me home." His hands shook as he put on his hat. He was very white.
The knuckles of his left hand were raw and bleeding.

The police finally opened a pathway in the cheering crowd, and through
this Cathewe and the rector disappeared. Outside, Cathewe hailed a
carriage.

"Cathewe, I have absolutely and positively ruined my career."

The rector sank back among the cushions, overwhelmed. His voice was
uneven and choked.

"Nonsense!" cried Cathewe. "What else could you do?"

"I could have passed by the man who struck me."

"Oh, pshaw! A man can not help being human simply because he wears the
cloth. It was the bulliest fight I ever saw. It was magnificent! They
weren't in it at any time. And you walloped four of 'em, and one was an
ex-pugilist. It was great."

"Don't!"

"They'll call you the fighting parson."

"I shall resign to-morrow. I must begin life all over again. It will be
very hard."

"Resign nothing! By the way, I saw General Boderick in the crowd."

"Boderick? Oh, I must hurry. He must have my resignation before he has a
chance to demand it."

"Don't you worry about him. I saw him waving his cane like mad when you
got up from the floor and smashed that second-ward ruffian. He won't
dare to say anything. His daughter thinks that he went up to the club."

"I shall resign. I am determined upon that."

"We'll all have something to say regarding that."

"But the newspapers to-morrow! It will be frightful."

"My dear fellow, I am about to visit each in turn, and you can remain in
the carriage. I'll take upon myself to fix it up so that it will receive
scarcely any mention at all."

"My eternal gratitude is yours if you can accomplish that." There was a
note of hope in the rector's voice.

It was after eleven o'clock when Cathewe deposited the rector before the
parsonage. Cathewe was a great favorite with the newspaper men, and he
had had no trouble at all in suppressing the sensational part of the
affair.

As for the rector, he sank wearily into his study chair and buried his
face in his hands. He had won one fight, but he had lost another of far
more importance. Somehow, he had always just reached the promised land
to feel the earth slip from under his feet. He was a failure. The only
thing he had to be thankful for was that he stood alone in his disgrace.
His father and mother were dead. Where should he go from here? He hadn't
the slightest idea. He certainly would never don the cloth again, for
this disgrace would follow him wherever he went. He was unfitted for
mercantile life; he loved outdoors too well. If only he possessed the
talent of Cathewe, who could go anywhere and live anywhere, without
altering his condition! Well, he would go to the far West; he would put
his geological learning into action; and by the time the little money he
had saved was gone, he would have something to do.

Ah, but these things did not comprise the real bitterness in his heart.
He had stepped outside the circle, stepped down below the horizon of her
affairs. True, his wildest dreams had never linked his life with hers;
but the nearness to her was as life to him. And now all that was over.

He reached for his writing-pad and wrote his resignation. It was a frank
letter, straightforward and manly. He sealed it and stole out and
deposited it in the letter-box just in time for the night collector to
take it up. He had burned his bridges. They would be only too glad to
get rid of him. He was absently straightening the papers on his table,
when a small blue envelope attracted his attention. A faintness seized
him as he recognized the delicate handwriting. It was an invitation,
couched in the most friendly terms, to dine with General and Miss
Boderick the following evening. If only he had seen this note earlier!
He bent his head on his arms, and there was no sound save the wind in
the chimney.

"The rector, sir," announced the general's valet.

"Show him in here, James, and light up," said the general.

When the rector entered, the general greeted him cheerfully.

"Sit down, sit down, and let us talk it all over," the general began. "I
have not yet turned over your resignation to the trustees; and yet, in
my opinion, this resignation is the best thing possible under the
circumstances. You were not exactly cut out for a minister, though you
have done more good to the poor than a dozen of your predecessors. I
wish to apologize to you for some thoughts I have harbored against you.
Wait a minute, wait a minute," as the rector raised a protesting hand.
"I have called you a milksop because you always accepted the trustees'
rebuffs with a meek and lowly spirit. But when I saw you lick half a
dozen ruffians last night (yes, I was there; and while I'm a churchman,
I am a man and a soldier besides), I knew that I had done you an
injustice. By the way, are you related to the late Chaplain Allen of the
----st Regiment?"

"He was my father," wonderingly.

"Humph!"

"It was out of regard for him that I became a divinity student."

"Parsons sons are all alike. I never saw a parson's son who wasn't a
limb of the Old Scratch. You became a divinity student after you left
Harvard?"

The rector sent his host a startled glance.

"Oh, I have heard all about that episode; and I like you all the better
for it. You should have been a soldier. We used to call your father the
'fighting parson.' Now, I've a proposition to make to you. Do you know
anything about mining? anything about metals and geology?"

"Yes, sir; I have had a large reading upon those subjects." The rector's
heart was thumping.

"A practical knowledge?"

"As practical as it is possible for a man in my position to acquire."

"Very good. It is a sorry thing to see a young man with misdirected
energies. I'll undertake to direct yours. In January I want you to go to
Mexico for me."

"Mexico?"

"Mexico. I have large mining interests there which need the presence of
a man who can fight, both mentally and physically. I will pay you a good
salary, and if you win, some stock shall go with the victory. Now don't
think that I'm doing this out of sympathy for you. I am looking at you
from a purely commercial point of view. Will you accept?"

"With all my heart," with a burst of enthusiasm.

"That's the way to talk. We'll arrange about the salary after dinner.
Now, go down to the music-room. You will find Miss Boderick there. She
will manage to entertain you till dinner time; and while you are about
it, you may thank her instead of me. I shouldn't have thought of you but
for her. Don't worry over what the newspapers have said. In six months
this affair will have blown over, and you will have settled the mining
dispute one way or the other. You will excuse me now, as I have some
important letters to write. And, mind you, if you breathe a word that I
was at the fight last night ..."

So the Reverend Richard Allen stole quietly down to the music-room. It
was dark; and he entered softly and sat down in a corner at the farther
end of the room, so as not to disturb the musician. In all the years of
his life, the life which numbered thirty variegated years, he had never
known such happiness.

In the study above the general chuckled as he wrote, and murmured from
time to time the word: "Milksop!"




                         THE GIRL AND THE POET


                                   I


WILLIARD sat down to his evening meal. He was later than usual. The
dining-room of the boarding-house was deserted, save for the presence of
the maid servant, who was sweeping the crumbs from the tablecloth. His
entrance was acknowledged by a sour smile. Williard was a sort of pariah
to the narrow minds of that household, who could not associate greatness
of soul with failure and poverty.

"You won't get much," said the maid. "We are too busy with to-morrow's
Christmas dinner."

To-morrow's Christmas dinner! Williard drew the bread-dish toward him
rather mechanically. To-morrow's Christmas dinner! It was Christmas Eve
to-night, and he had forgotten! All that day he had wondered why every
face looked so eager and bright in the office, why the jostling crowds
in the streets were so merry and good-humored. To-morrow was Christmas,
and he had forgotten!

The maid grumblingly fetched what remained of the supper. The hanging
lamp sputtered for lack of oil to feed upon; and all the food tasted
vaguely of kerosene. But Williard made no complaint; he was hungry.
To-morrow's Christmas dinner!

He was tired. Great names had danced before his eyes that day: names
resounding the fickle world's applause and the jingle of her
inconsiderate largess. Not that he envied them, no; rather that they
taught him to despair. In the daytime he read proof in the attic of a
large publishing house; this was existence, it was bread and butter. But
at night, in his little hall bedroom, where the clamors of the city
streets sounded murmurous and indistinct, he still clung to the
fragments of early dreams. His verses and stories, lofty and proud,
lacked something, for they found no entrance to the garden of fame,
which is at best full of false flowers and spurious scents.

For ten years he had striven to attain; and he had failed. He had come
to New York, as thousands of others had come, with hope and her thousand
stars, to see them fade away one by one from the firmament of his
dreams. The world has no patience with failure, no treasures for the
obscure defeat. Ah, to see one's own people, dressed in clear, beautiful
type, move across the white pages, from margin to margin, thinking,
acting, speaking! To unravel the scheme of life, with its loves,
ambitions and revenges--was there any rapture, any pleasure, half so
fine?

The harsh voice of the maid brought him out of his idle dream: for to be
a poet is to dream and to suffer.

"There's a letter under your door," said the girl. "Didn't know you were
coming home to supper, so I didn't put it under your plate."

"Thank you."

"I guess you've struck an heiress; that letter smells of sachet powder,"
she added, sailing through the swinging door to the kitchen.

Williard folded his napkin and rose. Christmas Eve! Where were the old
days in the little white village, the straw rides, the candy pulls, the
great logs in the fireplace? Where had youth gone so suddenly? He
climbed the two flights of stairs to his room, struck a match, and knelt
before the door. Yes, there was a letter. He held it to his nose and
inhaled the delicate odor of violets. A thrill passed through him, a
thrill that was a mixture of joy, sorrow, love, bitterness and regret.

He unlocked the door, entered the room and lighted the gas. How well he
knew the stroke of each letter! How many times in the old days had that
feathery tracing brought cheer and comfort to him! And now she was gone;
out of his meager circle she had passed for ever. Riches! What a
fortress! What a parapet to scale! What a barrier! The mighty dollar now
bastioned and sentineled her as the drab granite and men-at-arms had
surrounded the unhappy princesses of feudal times.

From time to time he had read of her; this duke or that prince was
following her about, from resort to resort. She had written once, but he
had not had the courage to answer that letter. Paris, London, Berlin!
Her beauty and her wealth had conquered each city in its turn. Heigh-ho!
He held the letter as a lover holds a woman's hand: dreamily, dim-eyed,
motionless. Finally he broke the seal.

    DEAR JOHN:

    Home again! Near to Mother Earth again, to the old habits, old
    longings, old friends. I am never going away again. Now, John, I
    am giving a little Christmas Eve dinner to-night, informally, to
    five literary celebrities (four who are known and one who will
    be), and I want you more than any one else. Why? Well, you are a
    staff of oak to lean upon--sound and sturdy and impervious to
    the storms. I want visions of the old days, and somehow they
    will not come back vividly unless you help me to conjure them.
    Do you remember souviens-toi?... But never mind. I'll ask the
    question of you when we meet. No excuses, John, no previous
    engagements. If you have an excuse, destroy it; an engagement,
    break it. This is a command. If you do not come I shall never
    forgive you. What do you care if the celebrities have never
    heard of you? I am sure that not one of them is your peer at
    heart and mind. I am tired, John, tired of false praises and
    flattery, tired of worldly things; and somehow your voice is
    going to rest me. Come at half after eight.             NELL.

Home again! She was home! A dizziness fell upon him for a space, and all
things grew blurred and indistinct. When the vapor passed he returned
the letter to its envelope, opened a drawer in his bureau, and brought
forth an old handkerchief case. In it there were withered flowers,
scraps of ribbon, a broken fan, and packets of old letters. He took out
one of the packets, raised the ribbon (torn from some gown of hers), and
slid under this latest letter, which would probably be the last.

Yes, he would go. And if the celebrities loosed their covert and fatuous
smiles when his back was turned, so be it. His poverty was clean and
honorable. He dressed slowly, and once he gazed into the mirror. The
face he saw there was not inspiring, lined and hollowed as it was; but
its pallor lent a refinement to it, that tender, proud refinement which
describes a lofty soul, full of gentleness and nobility.

From time to time he approached the window. How the snow whirled,
eddied, sank, and whirled again! The arc lamps became luminous clouds.
He looked at his shoes. Could he afford a cab? And yet, could he afford
to appear before her, his shoes wet, his clothes damp with snow? He
decided in favor of the cab. It was Christmas Eve; a little luxury would
not be wrong.

By-and-by he stepped out of the boarding-house into the storm. Clouds of
moist feathery particles surged over him, and crept inside his rusty
velvet collar. Suddenly he discovered a handsome coupé standing in
front. The footman was walking up and down while the driver beat his
hands across his breast. Williard did not understand what this elegant
equipage was doing in such a street. Even as he cogitated, the footman
descried him and approached.

"Beg pardon, sir; Mr. Williard?" he inquired.

"Yes, I am Mr. Williard," was the wondering answer.

"Then we are just in time, sir!" The footman ran to the coupé and opened
the door respectfully.

"You have made a mistake, my man," said Williard. "I did not order--"

"We are from Miss Wycklift's," said the footman.

Her carriage! And she had sent it to his boarding-house for fear he
might slip past!

"Are you certain?" he asked, still in doubt.

"If you are Mr. Williard there isn't a particle of doubt, sir." The tone
was perfectly respectful, and did more to determine Williard than
anything else.

"Very well," he said.

He entered the luxurious carriage and the door slammed behind him.
Presently he was on the way to see the one woman in all the world. Her
carriage! What a delicate bit of charity it was, savoring of a
thoughtful mind and a warm heart! She knew, then, of his continued
poverty and wished to save him the embarrassment of going to a dinner in
a surface car. There was not the least hint of patronage in the act; it
was simply one of those fine and thoughtful impulses of which only a
noble woman is capable. He recalled the first night he had taken her to
the opera. There had been no other woman half so lovely--he had thought
only of her. Fool that he was to surrender to this idle dream: but oh!
it had been so sweet.

There was a jar, and the carriage and Williard's reverie came to a
sudden pause. The door opened and the footman's head appeared.

"Here we are, sir!"

Williard, still dazed, alighted. He mounted the steps to the door, and
with no little timidity he pushed the electric button. Riches! How the
hateful word buzzed in his ears!




                                   II


A PRIM little maid opened the door. She took his hat and coat, and
directed him to the warm and cozy library. As he saw no one about he
believed that he had committed the unpardonable offense of coming too
early. It was so long since he had been "out." He wandered among the
bookcases and soon forgot where he was, for he possessed the poet's
enthusiasm for rare books. The atmosphere seemed spirituous of Balzac,
Thackeray, Dumas, Dickens, Scott, Hugo and all the tender poets he loved
so well. And here, right under his hand, was a rare copy of Tristram
Shandy. Dear, guileless old Uncle Toby! And then he became conscious of
a Presence.

He turned, and beheld her standing in the doorway. Beautiful, beautiful!
The ivory pallor of her complexion, the shadowy wine of her hair, her
brilliant eyes, the glistening whiteness of her neck and arms! He stood
like stone, incapable of animation. Then he took in a deep breath: he
wished to possess absolute control over himself before he touched her
hand. Oh, he needed no fire to warm his veins, the blood of which gushed
into his brain like the floods of spring torrents!

"John!" she cried.

She floated toward him, her hands outstretched, a smile of welcome on
her lips. He touched her hands with some uncertainty. It was all so like
a dream.

"So you are home again?" he said, finding only this commonplace question
among all the beautiful phrases he had invented for her benefit.

"And I am glad to be home, John; glad. I knew you would come."

"How in the world could I help it?" smiling. "It was very kind of you to
send your carriage. A carriage is a luxury in which I do not often
indulge. I couldn't invent any excuse; I had no engagement. Besides, I
would have come anyway."

She laughed, and drew two chairs to the blazing grate and motioned him
to be seated.

"Do you know," he began, "but for your note I might have forgotten all
about its being Christmas Eve? To what terrible depths a man falls to be
able to confess such a sacrilege! But a lonely man forgets the customs
of his youth. There is no Christmas spirit where there are no children,
no family ties. I'm a hermit."

"Tell me all about yourself, John," she urged, cleverly seating herself
so that she might see him easily, while he, to see her, would have to
turn his head.

"There isn't much to say. I've just gone right on making a failure."

"There is no such thing as failure, John. Failure means effort, and
effort is never failure."

"That is a pretty way of putting it. Well, then, let me say that I am
still unsuccessful. Fame has knocked on my door with soft gloves, and I
have not heard her; and Fortune never had me on her visiting list." He
stared into the fire.

He was quite unconscious of her minute examination. How changed he was,
poor boy! He was not growing old; he was aging. What had wrought this
change? Work? A long series of defeats? Unrewarded toil? She leaned back
in her chair, and the light in her eyes would have blinded Williard had
he turned just then.

"What have you been doing this long year?" he asked presently.

"Wanderlust. I have flitted from place to place, always dissatisfied."

"Dissatisfied--you?"

"Yes, John. To be truly unhappy is to be rich and unhappy. It is the
hope of some time being rich that dulls the unhappiness of the poor.
Money buys only inanimate things."

"I have heard of you sometimes."

"What have you heard?"

"There was a prince or duke, I forget which."

"He wanted to marry me," lightly.

"And you?"

"It was amusing. Some busybody would always manage to introduce me as
the rich Miss Wycklift; and then the comedy would begin. Perhaps I was
spiteful; but I knew that it was only my money."

"Have you ever looked in your mirror?" Williard asked naively.

"I spend a part of the day before it," she confessed.

"But money is not everything. It is quite possible that these men loved
you for your own sake."

"Loved for one's own sake," mused the girl. "Yes, that is how I would
have it. But how in the world is a rich girl going to tell? I am
superstitious. For three or four years I have been carrying this little
amulet," she said, holding out for his inspection a silver, thimble-like
trinket. "It represents St. Joseph, the patron saint of spinsters. An
old French nurse gave it to me, and said that if I offered prayers to
St. Joseph I should some day find the man I loved and who loved me. I do
not want to be a spinster."

"That is a graceful sentiment."

"Not wanting to be a spinster?"

"Oh, that is not only graceful but commendable," smiling. Then he added
gravely: "Have your prayers been answered?"

"Yes."

Silence.

"Well?" he said, with the slightest tremor.

"Only he hasn't said anything yet."

He moved restlessly. It was all so sad. Yet it was best so. Once he knew
her to be beyond his reach he could bring to an end his foolish dream.

"I wonder how I shall begin to tell you my romance," she resumed.
"Society has done so many evil things in the name of formality. It has
laid down impossible and inhuman rules, destroying freedom of thought
and action. To these rules we must conform or be ostracized. Might a
woman tell a man she loves him, John?"

"That depends wholly upon her knowledge that he loves her."

"So if a woman knows that a man loves her she may, in the pursuit of
happiness, tell that man?"

"I see no reason why not. To love is natural. Love is stronger than
logic, stronger than formality. But this should always be borne in mind:
for a woman to propose to a man, the man must be her equal in all
things--wealth of mind and wealth of purse."

"Oh, now you are going back to the conventionality of things," she
protested. "How I hate conventional mediocrity! I have hated it ever
since I came to this horrid city. Don't you sometimes long for the old
days, John: the sermons in stones, the good in everything?"

"Yes, sometimes."

"Well, I am going back to the old village in the spring. John," softly,
"why didn't you answer my letter?"

"The little orbit around which I take my flight could scarce interest
you," lamely. "There were princes and dukes in your train, and great
