Suetonius said that nature in her parturitions was elaborating a
king.[44] Afterward he added that such was Asia's archaic belief.[45]
Recent discoveries have verified the assertion. In the Akkadian Epic
of Dibbara a messiah was foretold.[46] That epic, anterior to a cognate
Egyptian prophecy,[47] anterior also to the Sibylline Books, was
anterior too to the Hebrew prophets and necessarily to those of Rome.

[Footnote 42: Censorinus: De die nat. 17.]

[Footnote 43: De rerum nat., v. 105.]

[Footnote 44: In Augusto, 74.]

[Footnote 45: In Vesp. 4.]

[Footnote 46: Jastrow: op. cit.]

[Footnote 47: See back, Chapter III.]

Among these was Vergil. In the fourth Eclogue he beheld an age of
gold, preceded by the advent on earth of a son of Jove, under whose
auspices the last traces of sin and sorrow were to disappear and a new
race descend from heaven. "The serpent shall die," he declared,
adding: "The time is at hand."

The Eclogue was written 40 B.C., during the consulate of Pallio, whom
the poet wished perhaps to flatter. Then presently Ovid sang the
deathless soul and Tibullus gave rendezvous hereafter. The atmosphere
dripped with wonders. The air became charged with the miraculous. At
stated intervals the doors of temples opened of themselves. Statues
perspired visibly. There was a book that explained the mechanism of
these marvels. It interested nobody. Prodigies were matters of course.

The people had a heaven, also a hell, both of them Greek, a purgatory
that may have been Asiatic, and, pending the advent of the son of
Jove, in Mithra they could have had a redeemer. Had it been desired,
Buddhism could have supplied gospels, India the trinity, Persia the
resurrection, Egypt the life. From Iran could have been obtained an
Intelligence, sovereign, unimaged, and just. That was unnecessary.
Long since Socrates had displayed it. In addition, Epicurus had told
of an ascension of heavens, skies beyond the sky, worlds without
number, the many mansions of a later faith.

Meanwhile, austerity was an appanage of the stoics, in whose faultless
code the dominant note was contempt for whatever is base, respect for
all that is noble. A doctrine of great beauty, purely Greek, as was
everything else in Rome that was beautiful, its heights were too lofty
for the vulgar. It appealed only to the lettered, that is to the few,
to the infrequent disciples of Zeno and of Cicero, his prophet, who,
Erasmus said, was inspired by God.

It may be that Cicero inspired a few of God's preachers. The latter
were not yet in Rome. Christ had not come. At that period, unique in
history, man alone existed. The temples were thronged, but the skies
were bare. Cicero knew that. Elysium and Hades were as chimerical to
him as the Epicurean heavens. "People," he said, "talk of these places
as though they had been there." But that which was superstition to him
he regarded as beneficial for others, who had to have something and
who got it, in temples where a sin was a prayer.

There was once a play of which there has survived but the title: The
Last Will and Testament of Defunct Jupiter. It appeared in the days
of Diocletian, but it might have appealed when Cicero taught. Faith
then had fainted. Fright had ceased to build. Worship remained, but
religion had gone. The gods themselves were departing. The epoch
itself was apoplectic. The tramp of legions was continuous. Not alone
the skies but the world was in a ferment. It was not until a diadem,
falling from Cleopatra's golden bed, rolled to the feet of Augustus,
that the gods were stayed and faith revived.

In the interim, prisoners had been deported from Judea. At first they
were slaves. Subsequently manumitted, they formed a colony that in the
high-viced city resembled Esther in the seraglio of Ahasuerus. Rome,
amateur of cults, always curious of foreign faiths, might have been
interested in Judaism. It had many analogies with local beliefs. Its
adherents awaited, as Rome did, a messiah. They awaited too a golden
age. For those who were weary of philosophy, they had a religion in
which there was none. For those to whom the marvellous appealed, they
had a history in which miracles were a string of pearls. For those who
were sceptic concerning the post-mortem, they offered blankness. In
addition, their god, the enemy of all others, was adapted to an empire
that recognized no sovereignty but its own. Readily might Rome have
become Hebrew. But then, with equal ease, she might have become
Egyptian.

For those who were perhaps afraid of going to hell and yet may have
been equally afraid of not going anywhere, Egypt held passports to a
land of light. Then too, the gods of Egypt were friendly and
accessible. They mingled familiarly with those of Rome, complaisantly
with the deified Cæsars, as already they had with the pharaohs, a
condescension, parenthetically, that did not protect them from
Tiberius, who, for reasons with which religion had nothing whatever to
do, persecuted the Egyptians, as he persecuted also the Jews. None the
less, Rome, weary of local fictions, might have become converted to
foreign ideas. In default of Syrian or Copt, she might have become
Persian as already she was Greek.

Augustus had other views. Divinities, made not merely after the image
of man but in symbols of sin, he saluted. With a hand usually small,
but in this instance tolerably large, he re-established them on their
pedestals. A relapse to spiritual infancy resulted. It was what he
sought. He wanted to be a god himself and he became one. His power
and, after him, that of his successors, had no earthly limit, no
restraint human or divine. It was the same omnipotence here that
elsewhere Jupiter wielded.

Jupiter had flamens who told him the time of day. He had others that
read to him. For his amusement there were mimes. For his delectation,
matrons established themselves in the Capitol and affected to be his
loves. But then he was superb. Made of ivory, painted vermillion,
seated colossally on a colossal throne, a sceptre in one hand, a
thunderbolt in the other, a radiating gold crown on his august head,
and, about his limbs, a shawl of Tyrian purple, he looked every inch
the god.

The Cæsars, if less imposing, were more potent. Their hands, in which
there was nothing symbolic, held life and death, absolute dominion
over everything, over every one. Jupiter was but a statue. They alone
were real, alone divine. To them incense ascended. At their feet
libations poured. The nectar fumes confused. Rome, mad as they, built
them temples, raised them shrines, creating for them a worship that
they accepted, as only their due perhaps, but in which their reason
fled. In accounts of the epoch there is much mention of citizens,
senators, patricians. Nominally there were such people. Actually there
were but slaves. The slaves had a succession of masters. Among them
was a lunatic, Caligula, and an imbecile, Claud. There were others.
There was Terror, there was Hatred, there was Crime. These last,
though several, were yet but one. Collectively, they were Nero.

If philosophy ever were needed it was in his monstrous day. To anyone,
at any moment, there might be brought the laconic message: Die. In
republican Rome, philosophy separated man from sin. At that period it
was perhaps a luxury. In the imperial epoch it was a necessity. It
separated man from life. The philosophy of the republic Cicero
expounded. That of the empire Seneca produced.

The neo-stoicism of the latter sustained the weak, consoled the just.
It was a support and a guide. It preached poverty. It condemned
wealth. It deprecated honours and pleasure. It inculcated chastity,
humility, and resignation. It detached man from earth. It inspired, or
attempted to inspire, a desire for the ideal which it represented as
the goal of the sage, who, true child of God,[48] prepared for any
torture, even for the cross,[49] yet, essentially meek,[50] sorrowed for
mankind,[51] happy if he might die for it.[52]

[Footnote 48: De Provid. i.]

[Footnote 49: Cf. Lactantius vi. 17.]

[Footnote 50: Epit. cxx. 13.]

[Footnote 51: Lucanus ii. 378.]

[Footnote 52: Ibidem.]

In iambics that caressed the ear like flutes, poets had told of
Jupiter clothed in purple and glory. They had told of his celestial
amours, of his human and of his inhuman vices. Seneca believed in
Jupiter. But not in the Jove of the poets. That god dwelled in ivory
and anapests. Seneca's deity, nowhere visible, was everywhere
present.[53] Creator of heaven and earth,[54] without whom there is
nothing,[55] from whom nothing is hidden,[56] and to whom all
belongs,[57] our Father,[58] whose will shall be done.[59]

[Footnote 53: Nemo novit Deum. Epit. xxxi. Ubique Deus. Epit. xli.]

[Footnote 54: Mundum hujus operis dominum et artificem. Quæst. nat. i.]

[Footnote 55: Sine quo nihil est. Quæst. nat. vii. 31.]

[Footnote 56: Nil Deo Clausam. Ep. lxxxx.]

[Footnote 57: Omnia habentem. Ep. xcv.]

[Footnote 58: Parens noster. Ep. cx.]

[Footnote 59: Placeat homini quidquid Deo placuit. Ep. lxxv.]

"Life," said Seneca, "is a tribulation, death a release. In order not
to fear death," he added, "think of it always. The day on which it
comes judges all others."[60] Meanwhile comfort those that sorrow.[61]
Share your bread with them that hunger.[62] Wherever there is a human
being there is place for a good deed.[63] Sin is an ulcer. Deliverance
from it is the beginning of health--salvation, salutem."[64]

[Footnote 60: Ep. xxvi. 4.]

[Footnote 61: De Clem. ii. 6.]

[Footnote 62: Ep. xcv. 51.]

[Footnote 63: De Vita Beata, 14.]

[Footnote 64: Ep. xxviii. 9.]

Words such as these suggest others. They are anterior to those which
they recall. The latter are more beautiful, they are more ample, there
is in them a poetry and a profundity that has rarely been excelled.
Yet, it may be, that a germ of them is in Seneca, or, more exactly, in
theories which, beginning in India, prophets, seers, and stoics
variously interpreted and recalled.

However since they have charmed the world, their effect on Nero was
curious. Seneca was his preceptor. But so too was Art. The lessons of
these teachers, fusing in the demented mind of the monster, produced
transcendental depravity, the apogee of the abnormal and the
epileptically obscene. What is more important, they produced
Christianity.

Christianity already existed in Rome, but obscurely, subterraneanly,
among a class of poor people generally detested, particularly by the
Jews. Christianity was not as yet a religion, it was but the belief of
a sect that announced that the world was to be consumed. Presently
Rome was. The conflagration, which was due to Nero, swept everything
sacred away.

Even for a prince that, perhaps, was excessive. Nero may have felt
that he had gone too far. An emperor was omnipotent, he was not
inviolable. Tiberius was suffocated, Caligula was stabbed, Claud was
poisoned. Nero, it may be, in feeling that he had gone too far, felt
also that he needed a scapegoat. Christian pyromania suggested itself.
But probably it suggested itself first to the Jews, who, Renan has
intimated, denounced the Christians accordingly. Such may have been
the case. In any event, then it was that Christianity received its
baptism of blood.

All antiquity was cruel, but, barring perhaps the immense Asiatic
butcheries, Nero contrived then to surpass anything that had been
done. Bloated and hideous, his hair done up in a chignon, a concave
emerald for monocle, in the crowded arena he assisted at the rape of
Christian girls. Their lovers, their brothers and fathers were either
eaten alive by beasts or, that night, dressed in tunics that had been
soaked in oil, were fastened to posts and set on fire, in order that,
as human torches, they might illuminate palace gardens, through which,
costumed as a jockey, Nero raced.

The spectacle in the amphitheatre, which fifty thousand people beheld;
the succeeding festival at which all Rome assembled, were two acts in
the birthday of a faith.

Then, to the cradle, presently, Wise Men came with gifts--the gold,
the frankincense, the myrrh, of creeds anterior though less divine.




VIII

THE NEC PLUS ULTRA


It was after fastidious rites, the heart entirely devout and on his
knees, that Angelico di Fiesole drew a picture of the Christ. The
attitude is emulative. It is with brushes dipped in holy water that
Jesus should be displayed, though more reverent still is the absence
of any delineation.

Reverence of that high character history formerly observed. There is
no mention of the Saviour in the chronicles of those who were blessed
in being his contemporaries. One indiscreet remark of Josephus has
been recognized as the interpolation of a later hand, well-intentioned
perhaps, but misguided. Jesus glows in the Gospels. Yet they that
awaited the day when, in a great aurora borealis, the Son of man
should appear, had passed from earth before one of the evangels was
written.

It was a hundred years later before the texts that comprise the New
Testament were complete. It was nearly two hundred before they were
definitive. In the interim many gospels appeared. Attributed
indifferently to each of the Twelve, one was ascribed to Judas. There
was a Gospel to the Hebrews, a Gospel to the Egyptians. There were
evangels of Childhood, of Perfection and of Mary.

These primitive memoirs were based on oral accounts of occurrences
long anterior. Into them entered extraneous beauties, felicities of
phrase and detail, which, with naïf effrontery, were put into the
mouth of one apostle or another, even into that of Jesus. The
ascription was regarded as highly commendable. It was but a way of
glorifying the Lord. Besides, the scenarii of these pious evocations
the prophets had traced in advance.

"Rejoice, daughter of Zion; shout, daughter of Jerusalem, behold thy
King cometh unto thee; he is just and having salvation, lowly and
riding upon an ass."

That king of the poor whom Zachariah had foreseen, the stumbling block
of Israel that Isaiah had foretold, the Son, mentioned by Hosea, whom
Jahveh had called out of Egypt, was the Saviour, ascending in glory as
Elijah had done. A passage incorrectly rendered by the Septuagint
indicated a virginal birth. That also was suggestive.

The little biographies in which these developments appeared were
intended for circulation only among an author's narrow circle of
immediate friends, at most to be read aloud in devout reunions. If,
ultimately, of the entire collection, four only were retained, it is
probably because these best expressed existing convictions. Though,
irrespective of their beauties, Irenæus said that there had to be four
and could be but four, for the reason that there are four seasons,
four winds, four corners of the earth, and the four revelations of
Adam, Noah, Moses, and Jesus.

It is not on that perhaps arbitrary deduction that their validity
resides, but rather because the parables and miracles which they
recite became the spiritual nourishment of a world. To their title of
eternal verities they have other and stronger claims. They have
consoled and they have ennobled. Elder creeds may have done likewise,
but these lacked that of which Christianity was the unique possessor,
the marvel of a crucified god.

Saviours there had been. Mithra was a redeemer. Zoroaster was born of
a virgin. Persephone descended into hell. Osiris rose from the dead.
Gotama was tempted by the devil. Moses was transfigured. Elijah
ascended into heaven. But in no belief is there a parallel for the
crucifixion, although in Hindu legend, Krishna, a divinity whose
mythical infancy a mythical prototype of Herod troubled, died, nailed
by arrows to a tree.

In Oriental lore Krishna is held to have been the eighth avatar of
Vishnu, of whom Gotama was the ninth. Krishna was therefore anterior
to the Buddha, at least in myth. But it would be a grave impropriety
to infer that with the legend concerning him the narrative of the
crucifixion has any other connection than the possible one of having
suggested it. The Bhagavad-Purana, in which the legend occurs, is
relatively modern, though the legend itself may, like the Tripitaka,
have existed orally, for centuries, before it was finally committed to
writing.

There can, however, be no impropriety in recalling analogies that
exist between the Saviour and one whom the Orient holds also divine.
These analogies, set forth in the first chapter of the present volume,
are, it may be, wholly fortuitous, though Pliny stated that, centuries
before his day, disciples of Gotama were established on the Dead Sea
and, from a passage in Josephus, it seems probable that the Essenes
were Buddhists, in the same degree perhaps that the Pharisees were
Parsis. But the point is also obscure. It is immaterial as well. The
Gospels were not written in Jerusalem but mainly in Rome, where
crucifixions were common, as they were, for that matter, throughout
the East, but where, too, all religions were acclimated and the
supernatural was at home.

Rome had witnessed the tours de force of Apollonios of Tyana. Those
of Simon the Magician had also been beheld. Rome had seen, or, it may
be, thought she believed she had seen, Vespasian cure the halt and the
blind with a touch. The atmosphere then was charged with the
marvellous. The temples were filled with prodigies, with strange gods,
beckoning chimeras, credulous crowds.

There was something superior. Rome was the depository of the legends
and lore of the world. A haunt of the Muses, the sensual city was a
hermitage of philosophy as well. These things collectively represented
a great literary feast, of which not all the courses have descended to
us, though, as is not impossible, a lost dish or two, transmuted, by
the alchemy of faith, from dross into gold, the Gospels may perhaps
contain.

In that case there is cause for great thankfulness. Moreover, assuming
the transmutation, no impiety can be implied. It was as usual and as
indicated as were papyrus and the stylus. It is common to-day for a
poet, before spreading his own wings, to contemplate those of another.
Inspiration is infectious.

A page of verse, whether Hindu, Persian, Egyptian, Greek, or Latin,
was as useful then. Dante fed on the troubadours. They are lost and
forgot. He divinely stands greater than the tallest of them all. In a
measure the same may be true of those from whom the Gospels came. Yet
with a very notable difference. The Divina Commedia was written for
all time. So too were the Gospels. But not intentionally. They were
written to prepare man for the immediate termination of the world.
With the most perfect propriety, therefore, anything serviceable could
have been utilized and probably was. The devout had but to lift their
eyes. In the words of Isaiah, there, before them, were the treasures
of nations; there were the camels and dromedaries bearing from every
side incense and gold; there were the sons of strangers to build up
their walls.

The sons were many, the treasures as great. Even otherwise there was
the Law, there too were the Prophets. Moses fasted for forty days.
Elisha performed a miracle of the loaves, if he did not that of the
fishes. Job saw the Lord walking upon the sea. Jeremiah said: "Seek
and ye shall find." Isaiah bid those that sorrowed come and be
consoled. In the poem of that poet the servant of the Lord had vinegar
when he thirsted, he was spat upon and for his garments lots were
cast.

In an effort to fill in a picture of which the central figure had
passed from the real to the ideal, these things may have been
suggestive. So also, perhaps, was the Talmud. The redaction of that
chaos began in the second century. But the Vedas, the Homeric poems,
the Tripitaka as well, existed in memory long before they were
committed to writing. The same is true of the Talmud. Orally it
existed prior to the Christ. Considered as literature, if it may be so
considered, it is the reverse of endearing. But of the many maxims
that it contains there are some of singular charm. Among others is the
Lay not up for yourselves treasures on earth.[65] The origin of that,
as already indicated, is traceable to the Tripitaka, which,
parenthetically, were so well known in Babylon that Gotama was there
regarded as a Chaldean seer. That abridgement of the Law which is
called the Golden Rule is also in the Talmud,[66] as also, before the
Talmud was, it was in the Tripitaka. The injunction to love one's
enemies is equally in both. So is the very excellent suggestion that
one should consider one's own faults before admonishing a brother
concerning his defects. But the perhaps subtle intimation that the
desire to commit adultery is as reprehensible as the act, and the
rather extravagant statement that it is easier for a camel to pass
through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom
of heaven, these, originally, were perhaps uniquely Talmudic.
Currently cited with multiple others they were all so many common
sayings, which, strung together in the Gospels, became a rosary of
most perfect pearls.

[Footnote 65: Talmud Babli: Baba bathra, 11 a.]

[Footnote 66: Schabbath, 37 a.]

In a passage of Irenæus it is stated that the Gospel according to St.
Matthew was arranged by the Church for the benefit of the Jews who
awaited a Messiah descended from David. A Syro-Chaldaic evangel, known
as the Gospel to the Hebrews, had then appeared. So also had the
Gospel according to St. Mark. But these offered no evidence that
Jesus was the one they sought. Another was then prepared. Written in
Greek and bearing the authoritative name of Matthew, it traced from
David, Joseph's descent.

The narrative continued: "Now the birth of Jesus Christ was in this
wise. When as his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph, before they came
together, she was found with child by the Holy Ghost. Then Joseph her
husband being a just man and not willing to make her a publick
example, was minded to put her away privily. But while he thought on
these things, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a
dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take unto thee
Mary thy wife: for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy
Ghost."

The genealogy completed, though perhaps inadequately, since Jesus, not
being a son of Joseph, could not have descended from David, the Church
continued: "Now all this was done that it might be fulfilled which was
spoken of the Lord by the prophet saying, Behold a virgin shall be
with child and shall bring forth a son and call his name Emmanuel."

The prophecy mentioned occurs in Isaiah vii, 14. In the King James
version it is as follows: "Behold a virgin shall conceive and bear a
son and shall call his name Immanuel." But the Aramaic reading is:
"Behold an 'almâ shall conceive." 'Almâ means young woman. The
Septuagint, in translating it, employed the term [Greek: parthenos],
or maiden. In Matthew the term was retained.

Matthew, at the time, had long been dead. Even had he been living it
is improbable that he could write in Greek. Unfortunately there were
others who could not only write Greek but read Hebrew. In particular,
there was a rabbi Aquila who retranslated Isaiah with no other purpose
than the malign object of definitely re-establishing the exact
expression which the old poet had used.[67]

[Footnote 67: Renan: Les Evangiles.]

It was presumably in these circumstances that the Evangel of Mary
was advanced. Among other elucidations, the work contained
professional testimony of the immaculacy that was claimed.
Additionally, in reparation of the earlier oversight, the Virgin was
genealogically descended from the royal line.

That, however, is apocryphal, and if, regarding the other genealogy,
exegesis has since obscured the luminousness of the method adapted by
the Church, the latter's intention was none the less irreproachable,
and that alone imports. Before it, before the miracle of the nativity
and the divine episodes of the transfiguration, crucifixion,
resurrection, and ascension, reverently the Occident has knelt. They
are indeed divine. If they did not occur in Judea, they have occurred
ever since. Continuously, in the hearts of the devout, they are
repeated.

Unhappily there were heretics then as now. To the Gnostics, Jesus was
an æon that had never been. To the Docetists, he was a phantasm. There
are always brutes that can believe but in the reality of things. There
are others to whom the symbolic is dumb. In the Gospels there is much
that is figurative, there is more that is ineffable, there are
suggestions sheerly ideal.

"In my Father's house are many mansions," the Saviour declared. In his
own ministry there are as many lights. He was a vagrant and he created
pure sentiment. He was a nihilist and he inspired a new conception of
life. He said he had not come to destroy and he changed the face of
the earth. He remitted the sins of a harlot and condemned both
marriage and love. There are other antitheses, deeper contradictions.
These perhaps are more apparent than real. Behind them there may have
been the co-ordination of a central thought. Of many gospels but few
remain. Among the lost evangels was one that Valentinian said was
imparted only to the more spiritual of the disciples. It may be that
in it a main idea was elucidated and, perhaps, as a consequence, the
meaning of the esoteric proclamation: "Before Abraham was I am."

Yet though now the authoritative explanation be lacking, its
significance seems to run beneath the texts. At the first apparition
of Jesus, the chief preoccupation of those that stood about was what
prophet of the old days had returned in the new. Some thought him
Elijah. Others Jeremiah. Antipas feared that he was the Baptist
revived. Jesus himself asked the disciples whom he was said to be.
Later he assured them that the awaited return of Elijah had been
accomplished in John. That assurance, together with the perplexities
regarding him and the esoteric announcement which he made concerning
