“ Oh, yes ! ” assented Helen with a bright 
smile. 
“ We have interviewed Miss Castle, and we 
can have the gymnasium. Dan will take down 
the apparatus and put it up again. Polly Mun- 
son will look after the eatables. Oh, we 
have it all down to a fine point, if we can get 
enough girls to chip in for expenses! ” 
“ But to feed such a crowd ! ” 
“ Oh, they will have had their dinners ! 
And it will be the fun, and not the feeding. 
Come, Miss Denman and Miss Grant.” 
Miss Holmes, next door, had out her card, 
“ Engaged,” but they knocked boldly. 
“ Yes, I’ll be glad to come if some one will 
help me through this trig afterward. It’s 
tougher than a hemlock knot.” 
“ I will,” assented Helen. 
“ I wanted to come and ask you, but I 
hadn't the courage. What a well-regulated 
brain you have, while mine is of the sieve 
order,’ and she squeezed Helen’s hand as they 
went to make the rounds. 
CHAPTER III 
THE FUN OF IT ALL 
It was really better that the time was lim- 
ited, and they adhered to the simplest plans. 
It was to be a truly country affair, rather 
backwoodsy. The gymnasium was trimmed 
with oak branches, interspersed with ever- 
green. Some one had unearthed great trails 
of “ bread and butter,” with its shining leaves 
hardly touched by frost. Paper flowers lent 
color and looked very natural, especially the 
great chrysanthemums. 
There had been a little demur among some 
of the sophomores who had planned to play 
numerous tricks on the younger class. But 
dances always were delightful. 
At one end of the gymnasium, planks were 
spread on trestles for the refreshments, and 
covered with pretty Japanese paper table- 
cloths. Eight was the hour to begin, but before 
that a motley crowd began to gather, the gro- 
tesque costumes being nearly as puzzling as a 
masquerade. Hair was arranged in all sorts of 
ways, from the tight little knob to the ornate 
pile surmounted by a grandmother’s comb. 
Sunbonnets were not wanting, and a few very 
old-fashioned scoop bonnets, two or three 
with long green veils hanging far down the 
back, were also seen. Prim bunches of gray 
curls peeped out of marvellous caps, short 
frocks with baby waists and great puffed 
sleeves, pointed waists with a high ruff about 
the neck, and some skirts distended about the 
hips by a hoop and falling in straight, full 
lines, were worn. 
“ My great-grandmother’s wedding-gown 
was made just this way. It was of pink and 
white brocade. My grandmother wore it as 
well. Mother has it packed away in a trunk, 
and I dare say it will come around in style 
again,” explained the wearer. 
There were farmer lads, with hair rolled 
under suspiciously, and smooth faces betoken- 
ing their youth, in rough blue jeans or more 
sober brown. One comparatively tall youth 
 
sported a blue cloth dress coat with gilt but- 
tons and a ruffled shirt-front, hair tied in a 
queue, and dancing-pumps with immense silver 
buckles. 
“ That’s Carol Saybrook,” whispered a girl. 
“ My ! doesn't she make a splendid young 
fellow! Everybody will be crazy to dance 
with her.” 
The colored band struck up some old-fash- 
ioned tune, for the first quadrille. They had 
ransacked all the old music-books to make out 
their programme. One of their number called 
off, waving a baton vigorously. The merri- 
ment was infectious. Cheeks grew rosy, neck- 
ties seemed to lose their serene adjustment, 
and they were of many garish hues. Mascu- 
lines looked sheepishly at sweethearts and 
held fair hands in mimic adoration, stole off in 
a corner and shelled peanuts for the fair one, 
or took her to the lemonade-can and treated 
her, making a pretense of hunting up change 
in a great leathern wallet. What jigs were 
danced ! Sailors’ hornpipe ! Highland fling ! 
and a merry crew they were. 
Miss Saybrook was certainly the beau of 
the evening. Girls were brave enough to 
besiege her just for “ two or three turns,” and 
more than one was vexed at being refused. 
She drifted around to Helen, who was in 
a faded blue gown and pigtails, and who had 
insisted on some wallflowers being rescued. 
“ I'm trying to get around,” she said in a 
rather drawling tone, though it always had 
a broad, soft accent. “ But what is one among 
so many? Well, — we were freshmen once, 
but it seems as if every year they need being 
salted down more than once.” 
“ And we grow wiser with the experience, 
I suppose,” Helen returned, smilingly. 
“ But they consider themselves quite supe- 
rior at first. I’m glad I had no adoring fam- 
ily to set me up on a pinnacle and believe the 
very sun rose just on purpose to light my 
superior brain. And so I wasn’t much disap- 
pointed; I aimed at no wonderful heights.” 
“ I suppose girls come to college from a 
great variety of motives,” Helen ventured. 
Miss Saybrook appeared rather cynical. 
“ Well, it seems to me most of them have 
an idea that they will soon distinguish them- 
 
selves. Very few do. Women, for the most 
part, are about on an average. The conceit 
gets rubbed out after a while, and they find the 
level of the hundred and one. But I forgot — 
you were not the average girl. You were very 
modest over your last year’s triumphs.” 
“ They surprised me as much as any one. 
I really had no thought of either,” and Helen 
flushed warmly. 
“ Did you come with a well-defined motive ? 
Oh, let us walk about and skip that quadrille! 
It is one I don’t like, the basket part, perhaps 
because I am so tall. I hate to be thumped on 
the head.” 
“ But you wouldn’t be.” 
“ Oh, I forgot my part! ” laughing. 
“ You take it admirably.” With very hon- 
est appreciation. 
“ I’ve done it so many times. I’m cast for 
the men’s parts always. I suppose I should 
have been one. But I should hate business, 
and I fancy every woman does, whether she is 
willing to admit it or not. What are you go- 
ing in for, a Ph. D. and a professorship? ” 
“ Not immediately.” 
“ I suppose your people were very proud of 
you,” Miss Saybrook said with a peculiar ac- 
cent that somehow touched Helen. It seemed 
to have a longing in it. 
k ‘ I haven’t any near folks. I have only a 
few relatives and some friends.” 
“ Perhaps you are just as well off. And I 
suppose you have income enough to follow 
your own sweet will.” 
“ When my will doesn’t desire too much.” 
“ Oh ! Wasn’t your father some sort of 
high light? But they never get rich. Very 
few people earn a fortune. It seems to come 
by pure blind luck, or you marry for it.” 
“ I must earn mine,” Helen announced with 
a touch of pride. She would not sail under 
false colors. There was a general impression 
that Miss Carol Saybrook had about every- 
thing she wanted. Certainly, her attire was 
of the expensive kind. 
“ Perhaps it isn’t wise to come to college 
when you have to marry for it, though five of 
the last year’s seniors married almost at once.” 
The music stopped with a quick, sharp 
bang, as if the instruments had exploded. The 
 
long table was uncovered. Girls with caps and 
aprons began to run up and down. There was 
pushing and crowding and laughing. The 
refreshments were not all beans and pumpkin 
pie; some of the delicacies dear to the heart 
of girls had been smuggled in. Even the 
psuedo-masculines forgot their sweethearts in 
their eagerness not to lose a share of the 
feast. The appetites of all were amazing, and 
before everything had been demolished, the 
clock struck twelve. 
“O dear! O dear!” was heard with pro- 
longed wails, for though they might continue 
orgies to the wee sma’ hours in the sanctity 
of their own rooms, midnight quenched public 
entertainments. There was a scrambling for 
the last of the olives, the nuts and grapes and 
doughnuts. The lights began to glimmer and 
dropped out. 
“ It’s lucky we planned to have some one 
come early in the morning and look after the 
debris, for we have had fun up to the last 
minute. I never had a better time in my life, 
and you couldn’t guess who the beaux were at 
first. I never mistrusted Addie North, she 
gave her voice such a masculine sound. O 
dear, I should have liked it to go on until 
morning! I’m not a bit sleepy.” 
“ The lights are fled, the garlands dead, 
The dancing-hall deserted,” 
travestied another as they scurried through the 
dimly lighted corridors, but there were half- 
smothered laughs coming through the tran- 
soms. 
“ It wasn’t so bad as last year! ” declared 
one of a group of girls, who were the next 
day disporting themselves on the dry turf 
bordering the tennis court, “ Why! nearly all 
the F’s and S’s were in disgrace. I studied the 
evening before and ran over things in the 
morning ; I knew we'd be full of our fine togs 
all the afternoon. And the horrid ghost-sto- 
ries last year ! Ugh ! it makes me shiver now ! 
And Carrie Dane’s fright ! Isn’t it funny that 
we do the same things year in and year out, 
and we do not believe in them, either? ” 
“ Why are we so eager to look into the 
future? If it is good, we hardly dare believe 
it; if it isn’t good, we do not believe it at all. 
And it is better fun just living along to see 
what will turn up next. Anyway, you can’t 
help, nor hinder.” 
“ But if you knew of an unfortunate thing, 
you would avoid it.” 
“Oh, we don’t always!” laughed some 
one. “ We do know certain consequences.” 
“ Well, I want some fun sandwiched in with 
my weighty knowledge, and we did have it 
last evening. But I just escaped by the skin 
of my teeth, or by sheer good luck, as a ques- 
tion came to me that I did know. Well, a 
miss is as good as a mile in some cases. 
“ Girls, what’s next on the carpet? There’s 
Thanksgiving, and the seniors are to give a 
farce, strictly original, the work of three mas- 
ter minds. And nothing between ! How shall 
we exist ! ” 
“Nothing! Why, there’s chestnutting and 
two or three ball games and the races! Noth- 
ing indeed! ” Scornfully. 
“ Well, those have been talked over and 
over. A right spandy new thing that will 
excite us all and have just enough uncertainty 
to keep us wondering — ” 
“ There’s enough uncertainty as to how you 
are going to stand at the close of the semester. 
I don’t want any more; we’re crowded full 
now. Some day our minds will burst with the 
striving after the unattainable, or the un- 
knowable, or the unrememberable.” 
There was a general laugh at that. Sadie 
Connor was always dipping into queer things 
and finding out reasons, and then combating 
them. They suddenly dropped into silence, as 
a great flock of belated birds were winging 
their way across the sky of peerless blue. The 
lawn and oval were full of drifting shadows, 
as the tall trees waved their branches and 
shook down yellow leaves that were like dainty 
birds running over the green turf. Far away 
fields and hills bathed in softened sunlight; a 
road wound round in the distance; there was 
a stillness that could be felt. 
“If I had my camera — ” began Gertie 
Hamilton, advancing toward them. “ You are 
posed like the nymphs in some Grecian grove. 
What a waste of good material ! I envy you 
the peaceful mood. I’ve just been having a 
tearing discussion with Jane Ferris on our 
future President.” 
 
“Of college or class or club?" asked a 
voice in a lazy tone. “ None of them is 
worth tearing to tatters, for you do not know 
who they will be next year.” 
“ The President of the whole country, child. 
College women should take an interest in poli- 
tics since suffrage is making some advance. 
We may be called upon to vote." 
“ Our convictions will be settled by our 
fathers and brothers and lovers. Why should 
we worry about that? ” 
“ Then it is time we cultivated minds of 
our own. We may not have husbands to en- 
lighten us, poor single sisteren.” 
“ A woman is supposed to be incapable of 
understanding the broad questions of political 
life — ” 
“ She isn’t.” A tall girl, with a great 
crown of bronze hair and shining hazel eyes 
that when she was moved deeply radiated 
golden lights, sprang up with alertness, her 
voice ringing. “ We have an interest. We 
have been studying some of the points in polit- 
ical economy, taxation, the tariff — ” 
“And the Monroe Doctrine; whether we 
shall keep the Philippines and allow the Sul- 
tan of Sulu — is Sulu a country, or only an 
operetta ? — to have as many wives as he 
pleases," interrupted another. 
“ Certainly, you would hardly be able to 
take an intelligent view of politics,” declared 
the first speaker, bitingly. 
“What did Miss Ferris say? She has 
opinions," and a girl laughed merrily. 
“ And she is a radical, a Democrat, without 
endorsing her party. She believes in intellec- 
tual independence, if there is such a thing." 
“ But don’t you think the independence a 
really noble thing? Our party, right or 
wrong, seems very partisan to me." 
“ I should want to vote for the best man, 
irrespective of party.” 
“ But a good man might have some very 
erroneous ideas.” 
“ Query : Could a thoroughly good man 
espouse a bad cause, act on a wrong prin- 
ciple?” 
“ History is full of such incidents. They 
may have thought themselves right. ‘ And to 
him that thinketh, so it is.’ I know that isn’t 
just right. I like Beatrice's reason better — 
‘ I think it so because I think it so.’ There 
you have a woman’s philosophy in a nutshell." 
“ We might make that an excuse for every- 
thing we want to do without regard for our 
neighbor’s rights.” 
“ Girls, the dew is beginning to fall, and 
some of you have no wraps. I think we had 
better have a run about, and meet again this 
evening to form a club that is evenly balanced. 
Both sides shall be heard in argument, and we 
can discuss the chief points of both parties. 
We’ll put Miss Ferris at the head of the Demo- 
cratic side, but how will we make a choice 
among the bright and shining Republican 
lights ? ” 
“ Applause!” shouted some one, and there 
was a general clapping of hands. 
“ Three cheers for the best man, — no, — 
I mean woman ! ” 
The air rang with a merry hurrah; then 
they indulged in the college yell. The sun had 
dropped down behind the range of hills that 
were now purple-black with a glowing aureola 
on their summits. There was a slight chill in 
the air, and several of the group began to 
run. 
“What do you think of the plan?” Lor- 
raine asked Miss Brooks. “ Have you any 
politics?” 
“ Yes. Republican. And I feel quite certain 
the election will go that way. But it will be 
a very good thing if we can keep our tem- 
pers. And you know we have been going over 
some financial problems. Women really ought 
to take more interest in these things. And you, 
Miss Grant? ” 
Helen gave a short laugh. “ I think Hope 
Township was generally Republican and 
strong on the tariff question. Are politics a 
matter of inheritance? ” 
“ I do believe they are mostly. I follow in 
the footsteps of my family, I confess.” 
“ I haven’t any politics,” Lorraine admitted 
rather ruefully. 
“ Then you will do for an umpire. And on 
our side we will elect Gertie Hamilton. She 
is humorous and can keep her temper. Her 
father has had two terms as a representative.” 
“ And Lois Taylor. There ought to be 
at least six on a side. Oh, look at the win- 
dows ! ” 
The lights flashed in long rows like a small 
city illuminated. Girls were huddling in the 
doorways, and quite a procession wound round 
the oval. 
“Oh, the warmth feels good, doesn't it!” 
and Lorraine shivered out the cold with a 
bright laugh. “ Let us run to the parlor until 
we hear the welcome sound of the dinner- 
bell.” 
“ I'm going to hunt up some girls and ex- 
ploit the idea of a discussion. I want to see 
how many are interested. And we can meet 
in the Gym.” 
Leslie Brooks hurried away. She was very 
fond of the junior girls, and Miss Hamilton 
was, as she expressed it, quite eager for the 
fray. She mentioned several others that she 
called strong and level-headed girls. 
Lorraine and Helen dropped on a divan that 
some one had rolled up to get the benefit of 
the cheery blaze, although it was warm enough 
anywhere about the large room. Some of the 
girls were reading, and small groups were 
having animated discussions. Miss Ferris, a 
good student, although she had some peculiar- 
ities, sat quite by herself. She disliked to echo 
commonly received opinions, and always found 
a loophole of dissent ; a sort of protest against 
what she called arbitrary rules that were not 
needed out of childhood, since self-government 
was the order of the college. Before entering 
any contest, she went over all the arguments 
pro and con that she might not be caught nap- 
ping. Her face showed rather severe lines, 
as if it had always been turned to the serious 
side of life and despised frivolity. 
Lorraine had been studying her. She was 
not analytical and believed strongly in intui- 
tion, though she had no fancy for weak char- 
acters. She mentally decided that Gertie 
Hamilton would win in the argument. 
Helen’s thoughts went back to Uncle Jason, 
who seldom talked politics, but labored under 
the impression that every Democratic admin- 
istration had nearly ruined the country. And 
then the latest letter from Willard Bell flashed 
across her mind. The excitement of the com- 
ing election pervading New York had roused 
 
him, and as he was to put in his first vote he 
was all eager interest. She had really enjoyed 
it, since it was not filled with appeals to her. 
Willard and his father were to come to New 
York for the winter. Mrs. Bell was to go to 
Bermuda to Daisy, who somehow did not get 
as strong as they had hoped. For a while she 
had enjoyed her companion very much, and 
written one glowing note that Helen had 
smiled over, that would have wounded her if 
she had loved Daisy deeply. She was glad 
for Willard to have a new interest, even if 
it was only temporary. There could be no 
Christmas invitation to the Bells', and that re- 
lieved her. 
Just as the summons to dinner came, one of 
the seniors approached Miss Ferris and walked 
out with her through the corridor. 
“ Yes,” she said, “ yes, I will be there. 
Nine o'clock, sharp.” 
A matter like this was soon buzzed about. 
Most of the girls took it in the sense of 
amusement, but a few fell into arguments. It 
was history night after chapel, but the gym- 
nasium began to fill up promptly. It presented 
quite a different aspect from the previous eve- 
ning; the bars and trestles and rowing- 
machines were in place, and the end was 
shrouded in duskiness. Several girls were 
seated at a long table; the others crowded 
about, eager to learn what was to be done. 
After the preliminaries were through, the 
chairman announced the purpose of the meet- 
ing. Six girls were to be appointed on the 
Democratic side, six on the Republican, and 
each was to bring forward the most cogent 
arguments for her side. The leaders were to 
be Miss Hamilton and Miss Ferris. The de- 
bate would occupy two evenings, six speakers 
each night. Everybody in favor of this was 
requested to vote. The ayes were uproarious ; 
not a dissenting voice. They were to consider 
the remaining speakers, and vote on them 
Saturday afternoon. Each side was to select 
its strongest girl, and each girl to take up one 
of the most prominent points of her party. 
The meeting on Saturday was wildly en- 
thusiastic. There had been much electioneer- 
ing during the three days, though on the first 
ballot there was considerable scattering. 
 
Professor Bowne, who was a pronounced 
suffragist, and several of the other teachers 
were present. 
“ I really must congratulate you upon the 
order of your meeting,” Miss Bowne said, 
graciously. “ College training is beginning to 
show in several ways. It would be possible 
to educate women politically, in spite of the 
sneers and slurs that are often flung out. They 
need a good groundwork to know where they 
stand and why this foundation is more secure 
than any other.” 
There was a sudden interest in congressional 
reports, in the books on finance, trade, taxa- 
tion. 
“ There's such a little time that all you 
girls must send in whatever fact you find; 
anything from Carey and Porter and Calhoun 
and Mr. Gladstone and John Mill and some 
of our own senators, whatever makes for my 
side, which is free trade and lower taxation, 
and whatever interferes with freedom of in- 
dustry and the best markets. Let us get our 
first debate in order, before we go at the sec- 
ond. That will be on the night the question 
is settled,” and the speaker laughed. “ We 
