the power which proceeded from her people’s recognition of her as
a supernatural personage, conveyer of the Latest Word, and divinely
commissioned to deliver it to the world. The form which such a
recognition takes, consciously or unconsciously, is worship; and worship
does not question nor criticize, it obeys. The object of it does not
need to coddle it, bribe it, beguile it, reason with it, convince
it--it commands it; that is sufficient; the obedience rendered is not
reluctant, but prompt and whole-hearted. Admiration for a Napoleon,
confidence in him, pride in him, affection for him, can lift him high
and carry him far; and these are forms of worship, and are strong
forces, but they are worship of a mere human being, after all, and are
infinitely feeble, as compared with those that are generated by that
other worship, the worship of a divine personage. Mrs. Eddy has this
efficient worship, this massed and centralized force, this force which
is indifferent to opposition, untroubled by fear, and goes to battle
singing, like Cromwell’s soldiers; and while she has it she can command
and it will obey, and maintain her on her throne, and extend her empire.
She will have it until she dies; and then we shall see a curious and
interesting further development of her revolutionary work begin.
CHAPTER XIV
The President and Board of Directors will succeed her, and the
government will go on without a hitch. The By-laws will bear that
interpretation. All the Mother-Church’s vast powers are concentrated in
that Board. Mrs. Eddy’s unlimited personal reservations make the Board’s
ostensible supremacy, during her life, a sham, and the Board itself a
shadow. But Mrs. Eddy has not made those reservations for any one but
herself--they are distinctly personal, they bear her name, they are not
usable by another individual. When she dies her reservations die, and
the Board’s shadow-powers become real powers, without the change of
any important By-law, and the Board sits in her place as absolute and
irresponsible a sovereign as she was.
It consists of but five persons, a much more manageable Cardinalate than
the Roman Pope’s. I think it will elect its Pope from its own body, and
that it will fill its own vacancies. An elective Papacy is a safe and
wise system, and a long-liver.
CHAPTER XV
We may take that up now.
It is not a single if, but a several-jointed one; not an oyster, but a
vertebrate.
1. Did Mrs. Eddy borrow from Quimby the Great Idea, or only the little
one, the old-timer, the ordinary mental-healing-healing by “mortal”
 mind?
2. If she borrowed the Great Idea, did she carry it away in her head, or
in manuscript?
3. Did she hit upon the Great Idea herself? By the Great Idea I mean, of
course, the conviction that the Force involved was still existent, and
could be applied now just as it was applied by Christ’s Disciples and
their converts, and as successfully.
4. Did she philosophize it, systematize it, and write it down in a book?
5. Was it she, and not another, that built a new Religion upon the book
and organized it?
I think No. 5 can be answered with a Yes, and dismissed from the
controversy. And I think that the Great Idea, great as it was, would
have enjoyed but a brief activity, and would then have gone to sleep
again for some more centuries, but for the perpetuating impulse it got
from that organized and tremendous force.
As for Nos. 1, 2, and 4, the hostiles contend that Mrs. Eddy got the
Great Idea from Quimby and carried it off in manuscript. But their
testimony, while of consequence, lacks the most important detail; so far
as my information goes, the Quimby manuscript has not been produced. I
think we cannot discuss No. 1 and No. 2 profitably. Let them go.
For me, No. 3 has a mild interest, and No. 4 a violent one.
As regards No. 3, Mrs. Eddy was brought up, from the cradle, an
old-time, boiler-iron, Westminster-Catechism Christian, and knew
her Bible as well as Captain Kydd knew his, “when he sailed, when he
sailed,” and perhaps as sympathetically. The Great Idea had struck a
million Bible-readers before her as being possible of resurrection and
application--it must have struck as many as that, and been cogitated,
indolently, doubtingly, then dropped and forgotten--and it could have
struck her, in due course. But how it could interest her, how it
could appeal to her--with her make this a thing that is difficult to
understand.
For the thing back of it is wholly gracious and beautiful: the power,
through loving mercifulness and compassion, to heal fleshly ills and
pains and grief--all--with a word, with a touch of the hand! This power
was given by the Saviour to the Disciples, and to all the converted.
All--every one. It was exercised for generations afterwards.
Any Christian who was in earnest and not a make-believe, not a
policy--Christian, not a Christian for revenue only, had that healing
power, and could cure with it any disease or any hurt or damage possible
to human flesh and bone. These things are true, or they are not. If they
were true seventeen and eighteen and nineteen centuries ago it would be
difficult to satisfactorily explain why or how or by what argument that
power should be nonexistent in Christians now.
To wish to exercise it could occur to Mrs. Eddy--but would it?
Grasping, sordid, penurious, famishing for everything she sees--money,
power, glory--vain, untruthful, jealous, despotic, arrogant, insolent,
pitiless where thinkers and hypnotists are concerned, illiterate,
shallow, incapable of reasoning outside of commercial lines,
immeasurably selfish--
Of course the Great Idea could strike her, we have to grant that, but
why it should interest her is a question which can easily overstrain the
imagination and bring on nervous prostration, or something like that,
and is better left alone by the judicious, it seems to me--
Unless we call to our help the alleged other side of Mrs. Eddy’s
make and character the side which her multitude of followers see, and
sincerely believe in. Fairness requires that their view be stated
here. It is the opposite of the one which I have drawn from Mrs. Eddy’s
history and from her By-laws. To her followers she is this:
Patient, gentle, loving, compassionate, noble hearted, unselfish,
sinless, widely cultured, splendidly equipped mentally, a profound
thinker, an able writer, a divine personage, an inspired messenger whose
acts are dictated from the Throne, and whose every utterance is the
Voice of God.
She has delivered to them a religion which has revolutionized their
lives, banished the glooms that shadowed them, and filled them and
flooded them with sunshine and gladness and peace; a religion which has
no hell; a religion whose heaven is not put off to another time, with
a break and a gulf between, but begins here and now, and melts into
eternity as fancies of the waking day melt into the dreams of sleep.
They believe it is a Christianity that is in the New Testament; that
it has always been there, that in the drift of ages it was lost through
disuse and neglect, and that this benefactor has found it and given it
back to men, turning the night of life into day, its terrors into myths,
its lamentations into songs of emancipation and rejoicing.
There we have Mrs. Eddy as her followers see her. She has lifted
them out of grief and care and doubt and fear, and made their lives
beautiful; she found them wandering forlorn in a wintry wilderness, and
has led them to a tropic paradise like that of which the poet sings:
     “O, islands there are on the face of the deep
     Where the leaves never fade and the skies never weep.”
To ask them to examine with a microscope the character of such a
benefactor; to ask them to examine it at all; to ask them to look at a
blemish which another person believes he has found in it--well, in their
place could you do it? Would you do it? Wouldn’t you be ashamed to do
it? If a tramp had rescued your child from fire and death, and saved its
mother’s heart from breaking, could you see his rags? Could you smell
his breath? Mrs. Eddy has done more than that for these people.
They are prejudiced witnesses. To the credit of human nature it is not
possible that they should be otherwise. They sincerely believe that
Mrs. Eddy’s character is pure and perfect and beautiful, and her history
without stain or blot or blemish. But that does not settle it. They
sincerely believe she did not borrow the Great Idea from Quimby, but hit
upon it herself. It may be so, and it could be so. Let it go--there
is no way to settle it. They believe she carried away no Quimby
manuscripts. Let that go, too--there is no way to settle it. They
believe that she, and not another, built the Religion upon the book, and
organized it. I believe it, too.
Finally, they believe that she philosophized Christian Science,
explained it, systematized it, and wrote it all out with her own hand in
the book Science and Health.
I am not able to believe that. Let us draw the line there. The known
and undisputed products of her pen are a formidable witness against
her. They do seem to me to prove, quite clearly and conclusively, that
writing, upon even simple subjects, is a difficult labor for her: that
she has never been able to write anything above third-rate English; that
she is weak in the matter of grammar; that she has but a rude and
dull sense of the values of words; that she so lacks in the matter of
literary precision that she can seldom put a thought into words that
express it lucidly to the reader and leave no doubts in his mind as to
whether he has rightly understood or not; that she cannot even draught a
Preface that a person can fully comprehend, nor one which can by any
art be translated into a fully understandable form; that she can
seldom inject into a Preface even single sentences whose meaning is
uncompromisingly clear--yet Prefaces are her specialty, if she has one.
Mrs. Eddy’s known and undisputed writings are very limited in bulk;
they exhibit no depth, no analytical quality, no thought above school
composition size, and but juvenile ability in handling thoughts of even
that modest magnitude. She has a fine commercial ability, and could
govern a vast railway system in great style; she could draught a set
of rules that Satan himself would say could not be improved on--for
devilish effectiveness--by his staff; but we know, by our excursions
among the Mother-Church’s By-laws, that their English would discredit
the deputy baggage-smasher. I am quite sure that Mrs. Eddy cannot write
well upon any subject, even a commercial one.
In the very first revision of Science and Health (1883), Mrs. Eddy wrote
a Preface which is an unimpeachable witness that the rest of the book
was written by somebody else. I have put it in the Appendix along with a
page or two taken from the body of the book, and will ask the reader to
compare the labored and lumbering and confused gropings of this Preface
with the easy and flowing and direct English of the other exhibit, and
see if he can believe that the one hand and brain produced both.
And let him take the Preface apart, sentence by sentence, and
searchingly examine each sentence word by word, and see if he can find
half a dozen sentences whose meanings he is so sure of that he can
rephrase them--in words of his own--and reproduce what he takes to be
those meanings. Money can be lost on this game. I know, for I am the one
that lost it.
Now let the reader turn to the excerpt which I have made from the
chapter on “Prayer” (last year’s edition of Science and Health), and
compare that wise and sane and elevated and lucid and compact piece of
work with the aforesaid Preface, and with Mrs. Eddy’s poetry concerning
the gymnastic trees, and Minerva’s not yet effete sandals, and the
wreaths imported from Erudition’s bower for the decoration of Plymouth
Rock, and the Plague-spot and Bacilli, and my other exhibits (turn back
to my Chapters I. and II.) from the Autobiography, and finally with
the late Communication concerning me, and see if he thinks anybody’s
affirmation, or anybody’s sworn testimony, or any other testimony of
any imaginable kind would ever be likely to convince him that Mrs. Eddy
wrote that chapter on Prayer.
I do not wish to impose my opinion on any one who will not permit
it, but such as it is I offer it here for what it is worth. I cannot
believe, and I do not believe, that Mrs. Eddy originated any of the
thoughts and reasonings out of which the book Science and Health is
constructed; and I cannot believe, and do not believe that she ever
wrote any part of that book.
I think that if anything in the world stands proven, and well and
solidly proven, by unimpeachable testimony--the treacherous testimony of
her own pen in her known and undisputed literary productions--it is that
Mrs. Eddy is not capable of thinking upon high planes, nor of reasoning
clearly nor writing intelligently upon low ones.
Inasmuch as--in my belief--the very first editions of the book Science
and Health were far above the reach of Mrs. Eddy’s mental and literary
abilities, I think she has from the very beginning been claiming as
her own another person’s book, and wearing as her own property laurels
rightfully belonging to that person--the real author of Science and
Health. And I think the reason--and the only reason--that he has not
protested is because his work was not exposed to print until after he
was safely dead.
That with an eye to business, and by grace of her business talent,
she has restored to the world neglected and abandoned features of the
Christian religion which her thousands of followers find gracious and
blessed and contenting, I recognize and confess; but I am convinced that
every single detail of the work except just that one--the delivery of
the Product to the world--was conceived and performed by another.
APPENDIX A
ORIGINAL FIRST PREFACE TO SCIENCE AND HEALTH
There seems a Christian necessity of learning God’s power and purpose to
heal both mind and body. This thought grew out of our early seeking
Him in all our ways, and a hopeless as singular invalidism that drugs
increased instead of diminished, and hygiene benefited only for a
season. By degrees we have drifted into more spiritual latitudes of
thought, and experimented as we advanced until demonstrating fully the
power of mind over the body. About the year 1862, having heard of a
mesmerist in Portland who was treating the sick by manipulation, we
visited him; he helped us for a time, then we relapsed somewhat. After
his decease, and a severe casualty deemed fatal by skilful physicians,
we discovered that the Principle of all healing and the law that governs
it is God, a divine Principle, and a spiritual not material law, and
regained health.
It was not an individual or mortal mind acting upon another so-called
mind that healed us. It was the glorious truths of Christian Science
that we discovered as we neared that verge of so-called material life
named death; yea, it was the great Shekinah, the spirit of Life, Truth,
and Love illuminating our understanding of the action and might of
Omnipotence! The old gentleman to whom we have referred had some very
advanced views on healing, but he was not avowedly religious neither
scholarly. We interchanged thoughts on the subject of healing the sick.
I restored some patients of his that he failed to heal, and left in
his possession some manuscripts of mine containing corrections of his
desultory pennings, which I am informed at his decease passed into the
hands of a patient of his, now residing in Scotland. He died in 1865 and
left no published works. The only manuscript that we ever held of his,
longer than to correct it, was one of perhaps a dozen pages, most of
which we had composed. He manipulated the sick; hence his ostensible
method of healing was physical instead of mental.
We helped him in the esteem of the public by our writings, but never
knew of his stating orally or in writing that he treated his patients
mentally; never heard him give any directions to that effect; and have
it from one of his patients, who now asserts that he was the founder of
mental healing, that he never revealed to anyone his method. We refer
to these facts simply to refute the calumnies and false claims of our
enemies, that we are preferring dishonest claims to the discovery and
founding at this period of Metaphysical Healing or Christian Science.
The Science and laws of a purely mental healing and their method of
application through spiritual power alone, else a mental argument
against disease, are our own discovery at this date. True, the Principle
is divine and eternal, but the application of it to heal the sick had
been lost sight of, and required to be again spiritually discerned
and its science discovered, that man might retain it through the
understanding. Since our discovery in 1866 of the divine science of
Christian Healing, we have labored with tongue and pen to found this
system. In this endeavor every obstacle has been thrown in our path that
the envy and revenge of a few disaffected students could devise. The
superstition and ignorance of even this period have not failed to
contribute their mite towards misjudging us, while its Christian
advancement and scientific research have helped sustain our feeble
efforts.
Since our first Edition of Science and Health, published in 1875, two
of the aforesaid students have plagiarized and pirated our works. In the
issues of E. J. A., almost exclusively ours, were thirteen paragraphs,
without credit, taken verbatim from our books.
Not one of our printed works was ever copied or abstracted from the
published or from the unpublished writings of anyone. Throughout our
publications of Metaphysical Healing or Christian Science, when writing
or dictating them, we have given ourselves to contemplation wholly apart
from the observation of the material senses: to look upon a copy would
have distracted our thoughts from the subject before us. We were seldom
able to copy our own compositions, and have employed an amanuensis
for the last six years. Every work that we have had published has been
extemporaneously written; and out of fifty lectures and sermons that we
have delivered the last year, forty-four have been extemporaneous. We
have distributed many of our unpublished manuscripts; loaned to one of
our youngest students, R. K--------y, between three and four hundred
pages, of which we were sole author--giving him liberty to copy but not
to publish them.
Leaning on the sustaining Infinite with loving trust, the trials of
to-day grow brief, and to-morrow is big with blessings.
The wakeful shepherd, tending his flocks, beholds from the mountain’s
top the first faint morning beam ere cometh the risen day. So from
Soul’s loftier summits shines the pale star to prophet-shepherd, and
it traverses night, over to where the young child lies, in cradled
obscurity, that shall waken a world. Over the night of error dawn the
morning beams and guiding star of Truth, and “the wise men” are led by
it to Science, which repeats the eternal harmony that it reproduced, in
proof of immortality. The time for thinkers has come; and the time for
revolutions, ecclesiastical and civil, must come. Truth, independent of
doctrines or time-honored systems, stands at the threshold of history.
Contentment with the past, or the cold conventionality of custom, may no
longer shut the door on science; though empires fall, “He whose right it
is shall reign.” Ignorance of God should no longer be the stepping-stone
to faith; understanding Him, “whom to know aright is Life eternal,” is
the only guaranty of obedience.
This volume may not open a new thought, and make it at once familiar. It
has the sturdy task of a pioneer, to hack away at the tall oaks and cut
the rough granite, leaving future ages to declare what it has done.
We made our first discovery of the adaptation of metaphysics to the
treatment of disease in the winter of 1866; since then we have tested
the Principle on ourselves and others, and never found it to fail to
prove the statements herein made of it. We must learn the science of
Life, to reach the perfection of man. To understand God as the Principle
of all being, and to live in accordance with this Principle, is the
Science of Life. But to reproduce this harmony of being, the error
of personal sense must yield to science, even as the science of music
corrects tones caught from the ear, and gives the sweet concord of
sound. There are many theories of physic and theology, and many calls in
each of their directions for the right way; but we propose to settle the
question of “What is Truth?” on the ground of proof, and let that method
of healing the sick and establishing Christianity be adopted that is
found to give the most health and to make the best Christians; science
will then have a fair field, in which case we are assured of its triumph
over all opinions and beliefs. Sickness and sin have ever had their
doctors; but the question is, Have they become less because of them? The
longevity of our antediluvians would say, No! and the criminal records
of today utter their voices little in favor of such a conclusion. Not
that we would deny to Caesar the things that are his, but that we
ask for the things that belong to Truth; and safely affirm, from the
demonstrations we have been able to make, that the science of man
understood would have eradicated sin, sickness, and death, in a less
period than six thousand years. We find great difficulties in starting
this work right. Some shockingly false claims are already made to a
metaphysical practice; mesmerism, its very antipodes, is one of them.
Hitherto we have never, in a single instance of our discovery, found
the slightest resemblance between mesmerism and metaphysics. No especial
idiosyncrasy is requisite to acquire a knowledge of metaphysical
healing; spiritual sense is more important to its discernment than the
intellect; and those who would learn this science without a high moral
standard of thought and action, will fail to understand it until they
go up higher. Owing to our explanations constantly vibrating between the
same points, an irksome repetition of words must occur; also the use of
capital letters, genders, and technicalities peculiar to the science.
Variety of language, or beauty of diction, must give place to close
analysis and unembellished thought. “Hoping all things, enduring all
things,” to do good to our enemies, to bless them that curse us, and to
bear to the sorrowing and the sick consolation and healing, we commit
these pages to posterity.
MARY BAKER G. EDDY.
APPENDIX B
The Gospel narratives bear brief testimony even to the life of our great
Master. His spiritual noumenon and phenomenon, silenced portraiture.
Writers, less wise than the Apostles, essayed in the Apocryphal New
Testament, a legendary and traditional history of the early life of
Jesus. But Saint Paul summarized the character of Jesus as the model
of Christianity, in these words: “Consider Him who endured such
contradictions of sinners against Himself. Who for the joy that was set
before Him, endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at
the right hand of the throne of God.”
It may be that the mortal life battle still wages, and must continue
till its involved errors are vanquished by victory-bringing Science; but
this triumph will come! God is over all. He alone is our origin, aim,
and Being. The real man is not of the dust, nor is he ever created
through the flesh; for his father and mother are the one Spirit, and his
brethren are all the children of one parent, the eternal Good.
Any kind of literary composition was excessively difficult for Mrs.
Eddy. She found it grinding hard work to dig out anything to say. She
realized, at the above stage in her life, that with all her trouble she
had not been able to scratch together even material enough for a child’s
Autobiography, and also that what she had secured was in the main not
valuable, not important, considering the age and the fame of the person
she was writing about; and so it occurred to her to attempt, in that
paragraph, to excuse the meagreness and poor quality of the feast she
was spreading, by letting on that she could do ever so much better if
she wanted to, but was under constraint of Divine etiquette. To feed
with more than a few indifferent crumbs a plebeian appetite for personal
details about Personages in her class was not the correct thing, and she
blandly points out that there is Precedent for this reserve. When Mrs.
Eddy tries to be artful--in literature--it is generally after the manner
of the ostrich; and with the ostrich’s luck. Please try to find the
connection between the two paragraphs.--M. T.
APPENDIX C
The following is the spiritual signification of the Lord’s Prayer:
Principle, eternal and harmonious, Nameless and adorable Intelligence,
Thou art ever present and supreme. And when this supremacy of
Spirit shall appear, the dream of matter will disappear. Give us the
understanding of Truth and Love. And loving we shall learn God, and
Truth will destroy all error. And lead us unto the Life that is Soul,
and deliver us from the errors of sense, sin, sickness, and death, For
God is Life, Truth, and Love for ever.--Science and Health, edition of
1881.
It seems to me that this one is distinctly superior to the one that was
inspired for last year’s edition. It is strange, but to my mind plain,
that inspiring is an art which does not improve with practice.--M. T.
APPENDIX D
“For verily I say unto you, That whosoever shall say unto this mountain,
Be thou removed, and be thou cast into the sea; and shall not doubt in
his heart, but shall believe that those things which he saith shall come
to pass; he shall have whatsoever he saith. Therefore I say unto you,
What things soever ye desire when ye pray, believe that ye receive them,
and ye shall have them.
“Your Father knoweth what things ye have need of, before ye ask
Him.”--CHRIST JESUS.
The prayer that reclaims the sinner and heals the sick, is an absolute
faith that all things are possible to God--a spiritual understanding of
Him--an unselfed love. Regardless of what another may say or think
on this subject, I speak from experience. This prayer, combined with
self-sacrifice and toil, is the means whereby God has enabled me to do
what I have done for the religion and health of mankind.
Thoughts unspoken are not unknown to the divine Mind. Desire is prayer;
and no less can occur from trusting God with our desires, that they may
be moulded and exalted before they take form in audible word, and in
deeds.
What are the motives for prayer? Do we pray to make ourselves better, or
to benefit those that hear us; to enlighten the Infinite, or to be heard
of men? Are we benefited by praying? Yes, the desire which goes forth
hungering after righteousness is blessed of our Father, and it does not
return unto us void.
God is not moved by the breath of praise to do more than He has already
done; nor can the Infinite do less than bestow all good, since He is
unchanging Wisdom and Love. We can do more for ourselves by humble
fervent petitions; but the All-loving does not grant them simply on the
ground of lip-service, for He already knows all.
Prayer cannot change the Science of Being, but it does bring us into
harmony with it. Goodness reaches the demonstration of Truth. A request
that another may work for us never does our work. The habit of pleading
with the divine Mind, as one pleads with a human being, perpetuates the
belief in God as humanly circumscribed--an error which impedes spiritual
growth.
God is Love. Can we ask Him to be more? God is Intelligence. Can we
inform the infinite Mind, or tell Him anything He does not already
comprehend? Do we hope to change perfection? Shall we plead for more
at the open fount, which always pours forth more than we receive? The
unspoken prayer does bring us nearer the Source of all existence and
blessedness.
Asking God to be God is a “vain repetition.” God is “the same yesterday,
and to-day, and forever”; and He who is immutably right will do right,
without being reminded of His province. The wisdom of man is not
sufficient to warrant him in advising God.
Who would stand before a blackboard, and pray the principle of
mathematics to work out the problem? The rule is already established,
and it is our task to work out the solution. Shall we ask the divine
Principle of all goodness to do His own work? His work is done; and
we have only to avail ourselves of God’s rule, in order to receive the
blessing thereof.
The divine Being must be reflected by man--else man is not the image and
likeness of the patient, tender, and true, the one “altogether lovely”;
but to understand God is the work of eternity, and demands absolute
concentration of thought and energy.
How empty are our conceptions of Deity! We admit theoretically that
God is good, omnipotent, omnipresent, infinite, and then we try to give
information to this infinite Mind; and plead for unmerited pardon, and a
liberal outpouring of benefactions. Are we really grateful for the good
already received? Then we shall avail ourselves of the blessings we
have, and thus be fitted to receive more. Gratitude is much more than a
verbal expression of thanks. Action expresses more gratitude than speech.
If we are ungrateful for Life, Truth, and Love, and yet return thanks to
God for all blessings, we are insincere; and incur the sharp censure
our Master pronounces on hypocrites. In such a case the only acceptable
prayer is to put the finger on the lips and remember our blessings.
While the heart is far from divine Truth and Love, we cannot conceal the
ingratitude of barren lives, for God knoweth all things.
What we most need is the prayer of fervent desire for growth in grace,
expressed in patience, meekness, love, and good deeds. To keep the
commandments of our Master and follow his example, is our proper debt to
Him, and the only worthy evidence of our gratitude for all He has
done. Outward worship is not of itself sufficient to express loyal
and heartfelt gratitude, since He has said: “If ye love Me, keep My
Commandments.”
The habitual struggle to be always good, is unceasing prayer. Its
motives are made manifest in the blessings they bring--which, if
not acknowledged in audible words, attest our worthiness to be made
partakers of Love.
Simply asking that we may love God will never make us love Him; but the
longing to be better and holier--expressed in daily watchfulness, and in
striving to assimilate more of the divine character--this will mould and
fashion us anew, until we awake in His likeness. We reach the Science
of Christianity through demonstration of the divine nature; but in this
wicked world goodness will “be evil spoken of,” and patience must work
experience.
Audible prayer can never do the works of spiritual understanding, which
regenerates; but silent prayer, watchfulness, and devout obedience,
enable us to follow Jesus’ example. Long prayers, ecclesiasticism, and
creeds, have clipped the divine pinions of Love, and clad religion in
human robes. They materialize worship, hinder the Spirit, and keep man
from demonstrating his power over error.
Sorrow for wrong-doing is but one step towards reform, and the very
easiest step. The next and great step required by Wisdom is the test of
our sincerity--namely, reformation. To this end we are placed under the
stress of circumstances. Temptation bids us repeat the offence, and woe
comes in return for what is done. So it will ever be, till we learn that
there is no discount in the law of justice, and that we must pay “the
uttermost farthing.” The measure ye mete “shall be measured to you
again,” and it will be full “and running over.”
Saints and sinners get their full award, but not always in this world.
The followers of Christ drank His cup. Ingratitude and persecution
filled it to the brim; but God pours the riches of His love into the
understanding and affections, giving us strength according to our day.
Sinners flourish “like a green bay-tree”; but, looking farther, the
Psalmist could see their end--namely, the destruction of sin through
suffering.
Prayer is sometimes used, as a confessional to cancel sin. This error
