to expect this, refer him to us and we will answer him according to his
folly.
     TO PAY RENT
when you might own a home in Beautiful Siowitha Park, is not wise. We
expect to furnish plans, or build after your own plans.
     All City Improvements
     Are Contemplated!
     Map and Plans of
     Beautiful Siowitha Park
     Will probably be ready
     In the Near Future.
     Julius Neergard & Co.
     Long Island Real Estate."
Selwyn reddened with anger and beckoned to a clerk:
"Is Mr. Neergard in his office?"
"Yes, sir, with Mr. Erroll."
"Please say that I wish to see him."
He went into his own office, pocketed his mail, and still wearing hat
and gloves came out again just as Gerald was leaving Neergard's office.
"Hello, Gerald!" he said pleasantly; "have you anything on for
to-night?"
"Y-es," said the hoy, embarrassed--"but if there is anything I can do
for you--"
"Not unless you are free for the evening," returned the other; "are
you?"
"I'm awfully sorry--"
"Oh, all right. Let me know when you expect to be free--telephone me at
my rooms--"
"I'll let you know when I see you here to-morrow," said the boy; but
Selwyn shook his head: "I'm not coming here to-morrow, Gerald"; and he
walked leisurely into Neergard's office and seated himself.
"So you have committed the firm to the Siowitha deal?" he inquired
coolly.
Neergard looked up--and then past him: "No, not the firm. You did not
seem to be interested in the scheme, so I went on without you. I'm
swinging it for my personal account."
"Is Mr. Erroll in it?"
"I said that it was a private matter," replied Neergard, but his manner
was affable.
"I thought so; it appears to me like a matter quite personal to you and
characteristic of you, Mr. Neergard. And that being established, I am
now ready to dissolve whatever very loose ties have ever bound me in any
association with this company and yourself."
Neergard's close-set black eyes shifted a point nearer to Selwyn's; the
sweat on his nose glistened.
"Why do you do this?" he asked slowly. "Has anybody offended you?"
"Do you really wish to know?"
"Yes, I certainly do, Captain Selwyn."
"Very well; it's because I don't like your business methods, I don't
like--several other things that are happening in this office. It's
purely a difference of views; and that is enough explanation, Mr.
Neergard."
"I think our views may very easily coincide--"
"You are wrong; they could not. I ought to have known that when I came
back here. And now I have only to thank you for receiving me, at my own
request, for a six months' trial, and to admit that I am not qualified
to co-operate with this kind of a firm."
"That," said Neergard angrily, "amounts to an indictment of the firm. If
you express yourself in that manner outside, the firm will certainly
resent it!"
"My personal taste will continue to govern my expressions, Mr. Neergard;
and I believe will prevent any further business relations between us.
And, as we never had any other kind of relations, I have merely to
arrange the details through an attorney."
Neergard looked after him in silence; the tiny beads of sweat on his
nose united and rolled down in a big shining drop, and the sneer etched
on his broad and brightly mottled features deepened to a snarl when
Selwyn had disappeared.
For the social prestige which Selwyn's name had brought the firm, he had
patiently endured his personal dislike and contempt for the man after he
found he could do nothing with him in any way.
He had accepted Selwyn purely in the hope of social advantage, and with
the knowledge that Selwyn could have done much for him after business
hours; if not from friendship, at least from interest, or a lively sense
of benefits to come. For that reason he had invited him to participate
in the valuable Siowitha deal, supposing a man as comparatively poor as
Selwyn would not only jump at the opportunity, but also prove
sufficiently grateful later. And he had been amazed and disgusted at
Selwyn's attitude. But he had not supposed the man would sever his
connection with the firm if he, Neergard, went ahead on his own
responsibility. It astonished and irritated him; it meant, instead of
selfish or snobbish indifference to his own social ambitions, an enemy
to block his entrance into what he desired--the society of those made
notorious in the columns of the daily press.
For Neergard cared only for the notorious in the social scheme; nothing
else appealed to him. He had, all his life, read with avidity of the
extravagances, the ostentation, the luxurious effrontery, the thinly
veiled viciousness of what he believed to be society, and he craved it
from the first, working his thick hands to the bone in dogged
determination to one day participate in and satiate himself with the
easy morality of what he read about in his penny morning paper--in the
days when even a penny was to be carefully considered.
That was what he wanted from society--the best to be had in vice. That
was why he had denied himself in better days. It was for that he hoarded
every cent while actual want sharpened his wits and his thin nose; it
was in that hope that he received Selwyn so cordially as a possible
means of entrance into regions he could not attain unaided; it was for
that reason he was now binding Gerald to him through remission of
penalties for slackness, through loans and advances, through a
companionship which had already landed him in the Ruthven's card-room,
and promised even more from Mr. Fane, who had won his money very easily.
For Neergard did not care how he got in, front door or back door,
through kitchen or card-room, as long as he got in somehow. All he
desired was the chance to use opportunity in his own fashion, and wring
from the forbidden circle all and more than they had unconsciously wrung
from him in the squalid days of a poverty for which no equality he might
now enjoy, no liberty of license, no fraternity in dissipation, could
wholly compensate.
He was fairly on the outer boundary now, though still very far outside.
But a needy gentleman inside was already compromised and practically
pledged to support him; for his meeting with Jack Ruthven through Gerald
had proven of greatest importance. He had lost gracefully to Ruthven;
and in doing it had taken that gentleman's measure. And though Ruthven
himself was a member of the Siowitha, Neergard had made no error in
taking him secretly into the deal where together they were now in a
position to exploit the club, from which Ruthven, of course, would
resign in time to escape any assessment himself.
Neergard's progress had now reached this stage; his programme was
simple--to wallow among the wealthy until satiated, then to marry into
that agreeable community and found the house of Neergard. And to that
end he had already bought a building site on Fifth Avenue, but held it
in the name of the firm as though it had been acquired for purposes
purely speculative.
       
About that time Boots Lansing very quietly bought a house on Manhattan
Island. It was a small, narrow, three-storied house of brick, rather
shabby on the outside, and situated on a modest block between Lexington
and Park avenues, where the newly married of the younger set were
arriving in increasing numbers, prepared to pay the penalty for all love
matches.
It was an unexpected move to Selwyn; he had not been aware of Lansing's
contemplated desertion; and that morning, returning from his final
interview with Neergard, he was astonished to find his comrade's room
bare of furniture, and a hasty and exclamatory note on his own table:
"Phil! I've bought a house! Come and see it! You'll find me in it!
Carpetless floors and unpapered walls! It's the happiest day of my life!
     "Boots!!!! House-owner!!!"
And Selwyn, horribly depressed, went down after a solitary luncheon and
found Lansing sitting on a pile of dusty rugs, ecstatically inspecting
the cracked ceiling.
"So this is the House that Boots built!" he said.
"Phil! It's a dream!"
"Yes--a bad one. What the devil do you mean by clearing out? What do you
want with a house, anyhow?--you infernal idiot!"
"A house? Man, I've always wanted one! I've dreamed of a dinky little
house like this--dreamed and ached for it there in Manila--on blistering
hikes, on wibbly-wabbly gunboats--knee-deep in sprouting rice--I've
dreamed of a house in New York like this! slopping through the steaming
paddy-fields, sweating up the heights, floundering through smelly hemp,
squatting by green fires at night! always, always I've longed for a
home of my own. Now I've got it, and I'm the happiest man on Manhattan
Island!"
"O Lord!" said Selwyn, staring, "if you feel that way! You never said
anything about it--"
"Neither did you, Phil; but I bet you want one, too. Come now; don't
you?"
"Yes, I do," nodded Selwyn; "but I can't afford one yet"--his face
darkened--"not for a while; but," and his features cleared, "I'm
delighted, old fellow, that you have one. This certainly is a jolly
little kennel--you can fix it up in splendid shape--rugs and mahogany
and what-nots and ding-dongs--and a couple of tabby cats and a good
dog--"
"Isn't it fascinating!" cried Boots. "Phil, all this real estate is
mine! And the idea makes me silly-headed. I've been sitting on this pile
of rugs pretending that I'm in the midst of vast and expensive
improvements and alterations; and estimating the cost of them has
frightened me half to death. I tell you I never had such fun, Phil. Come
on; we'll start at the cellar--there is some coal and wood and some
wonderful cobwebs down there--and then we'll take in the back yard; I
mean to have no end of a garden out there, and real clothes-dryers and
some wistaria and sparrows--just like real back yards. I want to hear
cats make harrowing music on my own back fence; I want to see a tidy
laundress pinning up intimate and indescribable garments on my own
clothes-lines; I want to have maddening trouble with plumbers and
roofers; I want to--"
"Come on, then, for Heaven's sake!" said Selwyn, laughing; and the two
men, arm in arm, began a minute tour of the house.
"Isn't it a corker! Isn't it fine!" repeated Lansing every few minutes.
"I wouldn't exchange it for any mansion on Fifth Avenue!"
"You'd be a fool to," agreed Selwyn gravely.
"Certainly I would. Anyway, prices are going up like rockets in this
section--not that I'd think of selling out at any price--but it's
comfortable to know it. Why, a real-estate man told me--Hello! What was
that? Something fell somewhere!"
"A section of the bath-room ceiling, I think," said Selwyn; "we mustn't
step too heavily on the floors at first, you know."
"Oh, I'm going to have the entire thing done over--room by room--when I
can afford it. Meanwhile j'y suis, j'y reste. . . . Look there, Phil!
That's to be your room."
"Thanks, old fellow--not now."
"Why, yes! I expected you'd have your room here, Phil--"
"It's very good of you, Boots, but I can't do it."
Lansing faced him: "Won't you?"
Selwyn, smiling, shook his head; and the other knew it was final.
"Well, the room will be there--furnished the way you and I like it. When
you want it, make smoke signals or wig-wag."
"I will; thank you, Boots."
Lansing said unaffectedly, "How soon do you think you can afford a house
like this?"
"I don't know; you see, I've only my income now--"
"Plus what you make at the office--"
"I've left Neergard."
"What!"
"This morning; for good."
"The deuce!" he murmured, looking at Selwyn; but the latter volunteered
no further information, and Lansing, having given him the chance,
cheerfully switched to the other track:
"Shall I see whether the Air Line has anything in your line, Phil? No?
Well, what are you going to do?"
"I don't exactly know what I shall do. . . . If I had capital--enough--I
think I'd start in making bulk and dense powders--all sorts; gun-cotton,
nitro-powders--"
"You mean you'd like to go on with your own invention--Chaosite?"
"I'd like to keep on experimenting with it if I could afford to. Perhaps
I will. But it's not yet a commercial possibility--if it ever is to be.
I wish I could control it; the ignition is simultaneous and absolutely
complete, and there is not a trace of ash, not an unburned or partly
burned particle. But it's not to be trusted, and I don't know what
happens to it after a year's storage."
For a while they discussed the commercial possibilities of Chaosite, and
how capital might be raised for a stock company; but Selwyn was not
sanguine, and something of his mental depression returned as he sat
there by the curtainless window, his head on his closed hand, looking
out into the sunny street.
"Anyway," said Lansing, "you've nothing to worry over."
"No, nothing," assented Selwyn listlessly.
After a silence Lansing added: "But you do a lot of worrying all the
same, Phil."
Selwyn flushed up and denied it.
"Yes, you do! I don't believe you realise how much of the time you are
out of spirits."
"Does it impress you that way?" asked Selwyn, mortified; "because I'm
really all right."
"Of course you are, Phil; I know it, but you don't seem to realise it.
You're morbid, I'm afraid."
"You've been talking to my sister!"
"What of it? Besides, I knew there was something the matter--"
"You know what it is, too. And isn't it enough to subdue a man's spirits
occasionally?"
"No," said Lansing--"if you mean your--mistake--two years ago. That
isn't enough to spoil life for a man. I've wanted to tell you so for a
long time."
And, as Selwyn said nothing: "For Heaven's sake make up your mind to
enjoy your life! You are fitted to enjoy it. Get that absurd notion out
of your head that you're done for--that you've no home life in prospect,
no family life, no children--"
Selwyn turned sharply, but the other went on: "You can swear at me if
you like, but you've no business to go through the world cuddling your
own troubles closer and closer and squinting at everybody out of
disenchanted eyes. It's selfish, for one thing; you're thinking
altogether too much about yourself."
Selwyn, too annoyed to answer, glared at his friend.
"Oh, I know you don't like it, Phil, but what I'm saying may do you
good. It's fine physic, to learn what others think about you; as for me,
you can't mistake my friendship--or your sister's--or Miss Erroll's, or
Mr. Gerard's. And one and all are of one opinion, that you have
everything before you, including domestic happiness, which you care for
more than anything. And there is no reason why you should not have
it--no reason why you should not feel perfectly free to marry, and have
a bunch of corking kids. It's not only your right, it's your business;
and you're selfish if you don't!"
"Boots! I--I--"
"Go on!"
"I'm not going to swear; I'm only hurt, Boots--"
"Sure you are! Medicine's working, that's all. We strive to please, we
kill to cure. Of course it hurts, man! But you know it will do you good;
you know what I say is true. You've no right to club the natural and
healthy inclinations out of yourself. The day for fanatics and dippy,
dotty flagellants is past. Fox's martyrs are out of date. The man who
grabs life in both fists and twists the essence out of it, counts. He is
living as he ought to, he is doing the square thing by his country and
his community--by every man, woman, and child in it! He's giving
everybody, including himself, a square deal. But the man who has been
upper-cut and floored, and who takes the count, and then goes and squats
in a corner to brood over the fancy licks that Fate handed him--he
isn't dealing fairly and squarely by his principles or by a decent and
generous world that stands to back him for the next round. Is he, Phil?"
"Do you mean to say, Boots, that you think a man who has made the
ghastly mess of his life that I have, ought to feel free to marry?"
"Think it! Man, I know it. Certainly you ought to marry if you
wish--but, above all, you ought to feel free to marry. That is the
essential equipment of a man; he isn't a man if he feels that he isn't
free to marry. He may not want to do it, he may not be in love. That's
neither here nor there; the main thing is that he is as free as a man
should be to take any good opportunity--and marriage is included in the
list of good opportunities. If you become a slave to morbid notions, no
wonder you are depressed. Slaves usually are. Do you want to slink
through life? Then shake yourself, I tell you; learn to understand that
you're free to do what any decent man may do. That will take the
morbidness out of you. That will colour life for you. I don't say go
hunting for some one to love; I do say, don't avoid her when you meet
her."
"You preach a very gay sermon, Boots," he said, folding his arms. "I've
heard something similar from my sister. As a matter of fact I think you
are partly right, too; but if the inclination for the freedom you insist
I take is wanting, then what? I don't wish to marry, Boots; I am not in
love, therefore the prospect of home and kids is premature and vague,
isn't it?"
"As long as it's a prospect or a possibility I don't care how vague it
is," said the other cordially. "Will you admit it's a possibility?
That's all I ask."
"If it will please you, yes, I will admit it. I have altered certain
ideas, Boots; I cannot, just now, conceive of any circumstances under
which I should feel justified in marrying, but such circumstances might
arise; I'll say that much."
Yet until that moment he had not dreamed of admitting as much to
anybody, even to himself; but Lansing's logic, his own loneliness, his
disappointment in Gerald, had combined to make him doubt his own
methods of procedure. Too, the interview with Alixe Ruthven had not only
knocked all complacency and conceit out of him, but had made him so
self-distrustful that he was in a mood to listen respectfully to his
peers on any question.
He was wondering now whether Boots had recognised Alixe when he had
blundered into the room that night. He had never asked the question; he
was very much inclined to, now. However, Boots's reply could be only the
negative answer that any decent man must give.
Sitting there in the carpetless room piled high with dusty,
linen-shrouded furniture, he looked around, an involuntary smile
twitching his mouth. Somehow he had not felt so light-hearted for a
long, long while--and whether it came from his comrade's sermon, or his
own unexpected acknowledgment of its truth, or whether it was pure
amusement at Boots in the rôle of householder and taxpayer, he could not
decide. But he was curiously happy of a sudden; and he smiled broadly
upon Mr. Lansing:
"What about your marrying," he said--"after all this talk about mine!
What about it, Boots? Is this new house the first modest step toward the
matrimony you laud so loudly?"
"Sure," said that gentleman airily; "that's what I'm here for."
"Really?"
"Well, of course, idiot. I've always been in love."
"You mean you actually have somebody in view--?"
"No, son. I've always been in love with--love. I'm a sentimental sentry
on the ramparts of reason. I'm properly armed for trouble, now, so if
I'm challenged I won't let my chance slip by me. Do you see? There are
two kinds of sentimental warriors in this amorous world: the man and the
nincompoop. The one brings in his prisoner, the other merely howls for
her. So I'm all ready for the only girl in the world; and if she ever
gets away from me I'll give you my house, cellar, and back yard,
including the wistaria and both cats--"
"You have neither wistaria nor cats--yet."
"Neither am I specifically in love--yet. So that's all right--Philip.
Come on; let's take another look at that fascinating cellar of mine!"
But Selwyn laughingly declined, and after a little while he went away,
first to look up a book which he was having bound for Eileen, then to
call on his sister who, with Eileen, had just returned from a week at
Silverside with the children, preliminary to moving the entire
establishment there for the coming summer; for the horses and dogs had
already gone; also Kit-Ki, a pessimistic parrot, and the children's two
Norwegian ponies.
"Silverside is too lovely for words!" exclaimed Nina as Selwyn entered
the library. "The children almost went mad. You should have seen the
dogs, too--tearing round and round the lawn in circles--poor things!
They were crazy for the fresh, new turf. And Kit-Ki! she lay in the sun
and rolled and rolled until her fur was perfectly filthy. Nobody wanted
to come away; Eileen made straight for the surf; but it was an arctic
sea, and as soon as I found out what she was doing I made her come out."
"I should think you would," he said; "nobody can do that and thrive."
"She seems to," said Nina; "she was simply glorious after the swim, and
I hated to put a stop to it. And you should see her drying her hair and
helping Plunket to roll the tennis-courts--that hair of hers blowing
like gold flames, and her sleeves rolled to her arm-pits!--and you
should see her down in the dirt playing marbles with Billy and
Drina--shooting away excitedly and exclaiming 'fen-dubs!' and
'knuckle-down, Billy!'--like any gamin you ever heard of. Totally
unspoiled, Phil!--in spite of all the success of her first winter!--and
do you know that she had no end of men seriously entangled? I don't mind
your knowing--but Sudbury Gray came to me, and I told him he'd better
wait, but in he blundered and--he's done for, now; and so are my plans.
He's an imbecile! And then, who on earth do you think came waddling into
the arena? Percy Draymore! Phil, it was an anxious problem for me--and
although I didn't really want Eileen to marry into that set--still--with
the Draymores' position and tremendous influence--But she merely stared
at him in cold astonishment. And there were others, too, callow for the
most part. . . . Phil?"
"What?" he said, laughing.
His sister regarded him smilingly, then partly turned around and perched
herself on the padded arm of a great chair.
"Phil, am I garrulous?"
"No, dear; you are far too reticent."
"Pooh! Suppose I do talk a great deal. I like to. Besides, I always have
something interesting to say, don't I?"
"Always!"
"Well, then, why do you look at me so humorously out of those nice gray
eyes? . . . Phil, you are growing handsome! Do you know it?"
"For Heaven's sake!" he protested, red and uncomfortable, "what utter
nonsense you--"
"Of course it bores you to be told so; and you look so delightfully
ashamed--like a reproved setter-puppy! Well, then, don't laugh at my
loquacity again!--because I'm going to say something else. . . . Come
over here, Phil; no--close to me. I wish to put my hands on your
shoulders; like that. Now look at me! Do you really love me?"
"Sure thing, Ninette."
"And you know I adore you; don't you?"
"Madly, dear, but I forgive you."
"No; I want you to be serious. Because I'm pretty serious. See, I'm not
smiling now; I don't feel like it. Because it is a very, very important
matter, Phil--this thing that has--has--almost happened. . . . It's
about Eileen. . . . And it really has happened."
"What has she done?" he asked curiously.
His sister's eyes were searching his very diligently, as though in quest
of something elusive; and he gazed serenely back, the most unsuspicious
of smiles touching his mouth.
"Phil, dear, a young girl--a very young girl--is a vapid and
uninteresting proposition to a man of thirty-five; isn't she?"
"Rather--in some ways."
"In what way is she not?"
"Well--to me, for example--she is acceptable as children are
acceptable--a blessed, sweet, clean relief from the women of the Fanes'
set, for example?"
"Like Rosamund?"
"Yes. And, Ninette, you and Austin seem to be drifting out of the old
circles--the sort that you and I were accustomed to. You don't mind my
saying it, do you?--but there were so many people in this town who had
something besides millions--amusing, well-bred, jolly people who had no
end of good times, but who didn't gamble and guzzle and stuff themselves
and their friends--who were not eternally hanging around other people's
wives. Where are they, dear?"
"If you are indicting all of my friends, Phil--"
"I don't mean all of your friends--only a small proportion--which,
however, connects your circle with that deadly, idle, brainless
bunch--the insolent chatterers at the opera, the gorged dowagers, the
worn-out, passionless men, the enervated matrons of the summer capital,
the chlorotic squatters on huge yachts, the speed-mad fugitives from the
furies of ennui, the neurotic victims of mental cirrhosis, the jewelled
animals whose moral code is the code of the barnyard--!"
"Philip!"
"Oh, I don't mean that they are any more vicious than the idle and
mentally incompetent in any walk of life. East Side, West Side, Harlem,
Hell's Kitchen, Fifth Avenue, Avenue A, and Abingdon Square--the
denizens are only locally different, not specifically--the species
remains unchanged. But everywhere, in every quarter and class and set
and circle there is always the depraved; and the logical links that
connect them are unbroken from Fifth Avenue to Chinatown, from the
half-crazed extravagances of the Orchils' Louis XIV ball to a New Year's
reception at the Haymarket where Troy Lil's diamonds outshine the phony
pearls of Hoboken Fanny, and Hatpin Molly leads the spiel with Clarence
the Pig."
"Phil, you are too disgusting!"
"I'm sorry--it isn't very nice of me, I suppose. But, dear, I'm dead
tired of moral squalor. I do like the brightness of things, too, but I
don't care for the phosphorescence of social decay."
"What in the world is the matter?" she exclaimed in dismay. "You are
talking like the wildest socialist."
He laughed. "We have become a nation of what you call
'socialists'--though there are other names for us which mean more. I am
not discontented, if that is what you mean; I am only impatient; and
there is a difference. . . . And you have just asked me whether a young
girl is interesting to me. I answer, yes, thank God!--for the cleaner,
saner, happier hours I have spent this winter among my own kind have
been spent where the younger set dominated.
"They are good for us, Nina; they are the hope of our own
kind--well-taught, well-drilled, wholesome even when negative in mind;
and they come into our world so diffident yet so charmingly eager, so
finished yet so unspoiled, that--how can they fail to touch a man and
key him to his best? How can they fail to arouse in us the best of
sympathy, of chivalry, of anxious solicitude lest they become some day
as we are and stare at life out of the faded eyes of knowledge!"
He laid his hands in hers, smiling a little at his own earnestness.
"Alarmist? No! The younger set are better than those who bred them; and
if, in time, they, too, fall short, they will not fall as far as their
parents. And, in their turn, when they look around them at the younger
set whom they have taught in the light and wisdom of their own
shortcomings, they will see fresher, sweeter, lovelier young people than
we see now. And it will continue so, dear, through the jolly
generations. Life is all right, only, like art, it is very, very long
sometimes."
"Good out of evil, Phil?" asked his sister, smiling; "innocence from the
hotbeds of profligacy? purity out of vulgarity? sanity from hideous
ostentation? Is that what you come preaching?"
"Yes; and isn't it curious! Look at that old harridan, Mrs. Sanxon
Orchil! There are no more innocent and charming girls in Manhattan than
her daughters. She knew enough to make them different; so does the
majority of that sort. Look at the Cardwell girl and the Innis girl and
the Craig girl! Look at Mrs. Delmour-Carnes's children! And, Nina--even
Molly Hatpin's wastrel waif shall never learn what her mother knows if
Destiny will help Madame Molly ever so little. And I think that Destiny
is often very kind--even to the Hatpin offspring."
Nina sat silent on the padded arm of her chair, looking up at her
brother.
"Mad preacher! Mad Mullah!--dear, dear fellow!" she said tenderly; "all
ills of the world canst thou discount, but not thine own."
"Those, too," he insisted, laughing; "I had a talk with Boots--but,
anyway, I'd already arrived at my own conclusion that--that--I'm rather
overdoing this blighted business--"
"Phil!"--in quick delight.
"Yes," he said, reddening nicely; "between you and Boots and myself I've
decided that I'm going in for--for whatever any man is going in
for--life! Ninette, life to the full and up to the hilt for mine!--not
side-stepping anything. . . . Because I--because, Nina, it's shameful
for a man to admit to himself that he cannot make good, no matter how
thoroughly he's been hammered to the ropes. And so I'm starting out
again--not hunting trouble like him of La Mancha--but, like him in this,
that I shall not avoid it. . . . Is that plain to you, little sister?"
"Yes, oh, yes, it is!" she murmured; "I am so happy, so proud--but I
knew it was in your blood, Phil; I knew that you were merely hurt and
stunned--badly hurt, but not fatally!--you could not be; no weaklings
come from our race."
"But still our race has always been law-abiding--observant of civil and
religious law. If I make myself free again, I take some laws into my own
hands.".
