soon as I spoke. Oh, I'm so glad to see you; I want 
so much to have you know my mother — Mr. Verrian," 
she said, presenting him. 

" And I you mine," Verrian responded, in a violent 
ellipse, and introduced his own mother, who took in 
the fact of Miss Andrews's tall thinness, topped with 
a wide, white hat and waving white plumes, and her 
little face, irregular and somewhat gaunt, but with a 
charm in the lips and eyes which took the elder woman's 
heart with pathos. She made talk with Mrs. Andrews, 
who affected one as having the materials of social 
severity in her costume and manner. 

" Oh, I didn't believe I should ever see you again," 
the girl broke out impulsively upon Verrian. " Oh, I 
wanted to ask you so about Miss Shirley. Have you 
seen her since you got back ?" 

" No," Verrian said, " I haven't seen her." 

" Oh, I thought perhaps you had. I've been to the 
»  

address that Mrs. Westangle gave me, but she isn't there 
any more; she's gone up into Harlem somewhere, and 
I haven't been able to call again. Oh, I do feel so 
anxious about her. Oh, I do hope she isn't ill. Do 
you think she is ?" 

" I don't believe so," Verrian began. But she swept 
over his prostrate remark. 

" Oh, Mr. Verrian, don't you think she's wonderful ? 
I've been telling mother about it, and I don't feel at 
all the way she does. Do you ?" 

"How does she feel? I must know that before I 
say." 

" Why, of course ! I hadn't told you ! She thinks 
it was a make-up between Miss Shirley and that Mr. 
Bushwick. But I say it couldn't have been. Do you 
think it could?" 

Verrian found the suggestion so distasteful, for a 
reason which he did not quite seize himself, that he 
answered, resentfully, " It could have been, but I don't 
think it was." 

" I will tell her what you say. Oh, may I tell her 
what you say?" 

" I don't see why you shouldn't. It isn't very im- 
portant, either way, is it ?" 

" Oh, don't you think so ? Not if it involved pre- 
tending what wasn't true ?" 

She bent towards him in such anxious demand that 
he could not help smiling. 

" The whole thing was a pretence, wasn't it ?" he 
suggested. 

" Yes, but that would have been a pretence that we 
didn't know of." 

" It would be incriminating to that extent, certainly," 
Verrian owned, ironically. He found the question of 
Miss Shirley's blame for the collusion as distasteful as 

 

the supposition of the collusion, but there was a fascina- 
tion in the innocence before him, and he could not help 
playing with it. 

Sometimes Miss Andrews apparently knew that he 
was playing with her innocence, and sometimes she did 
not. But in either case she seemed to like being his 
jest, from which she snatched a fearful joy. She was 
willing to prolong the experience, and she drifted with 
him from picture to picture, and kept the talk recur- 
rently to Miss Shirley and the phenomena of Seeing 
Ghosts. 

Her mother and Mrs. Verrian evidently got on to- 
gether better than either of them at first expected. 
When it came to their parting, through Mrs. Andrews's 
saying that she must be going, she shook hands with 
Mrs. Verrian and said to Philip, " I am so glad to have 
met you, Mr. Verrian. Will you come and see us ?" 

" Yes, thank you," he answered, taking the hand she 
now offered him, and then taking Miss Andrews's hand, 
while the girl's eyes glowed with pleasure. " I shall 
be very glad." 

" Oh, shall you ?" she said, with her transparent sin- 
cerity. " And you won't forget Thursdays ! But any 
day at five we have tea." 

" Thank you," Verrian said. I might forget the 
Thursdays, but I couldn't forget all the days of the 
week." 

Miss Andrews laughed and blushed at once. " Then 
we shall expect you every day." 

" Well, every day but Thursday," he promised. 

When the mother and daughter had gone Mrs. Ver- 
rian said, " She is a great admirer of yours, Philip. 
She's read your story, and I suspect she wants an op- 
portunity to talk with you about it." 

" You mean Mrs. Andrews ?" 
 

" Yes. I suppose the daughter hasn't waited for an 
opportunity. The mother had read that publisher's 
paragraph about your invalid, and wanted to know if 
you had ever heard from her again. Women are per- 
sonal in their literary interests." 

Philip asked, in dismay, " You didn't give it away 
did you, mother ?" 

" Certainly not, my dear. You have brought me up 
too carefully." 

" Of course. I didn't imagine you had." 

Then, as they could not pretend to look at the pict- 
ures any longer, they went away, too. Their issue into 
the open air seemed fraught with novel emotion for 
Mrs. Verrian. " Well, now," she said, " I have seen 
the woman I would be willing my son should marry." 

" Child, you mean," Philip said, not pretending that 
he did not know she meant Miss Andrews. 

" That girl," his mother returned, " is innocence it- 
self. Oh, Philip, dear, do marry her !" 

" Well, I don't know. If her mother is behaving as 
sagely with her as you are with me the chances are that 
she won't let me. Besides, I don't know that I want 
to marry quite so much innocence." 

" She is conscience incarnate," his mother uttered, 
perfervidly. " You could put your very soul in her 
keeping." 

" Then you would be out of a job, mother." 

" Oh, I am not worthy of the job, my dear. I have 
always felt that. I am too complex, and sometimes I 
can't see the right alone, as she could." 

Philip was silent a moment while he lost the personal 
point of view. " I suspect we don't see the right when 
we see it alone. We ought to see the wrong, too." 

" Ah, Philip, don't let your fancy go after that girl !" 

" Miss Andrews ? I thought — " 
 

" Don't you be complex, my dear. You know I mean 
Miss Shirley. What has become of her, I wonder. I 
heard Miss Andrews asking you." 

" I wasn't able to tell her. Do you want me to try 
telling you ?" 

" I would rather you never could." 

Philip laughed sardonically. " Now, I shall forget 
Thursdays and all the other days, too. You are a very 
unwise parent, mother." 

They laughed with each other at each other, and 
treated her enthusiasm for Miss Andrews as the joke 
it partly was. Mrs. Verrian did not follow him up 
about her idol, and a week or so later she was able to 
affect a decent surprise when he came in at the end of 
an afternoon and declined the cup of tea she proposed 
on the ground that he had been taking a cup of tea with 
the Andrewses. " You have really been there ?" 

" Didn't you expect me to keep my promise ?" 

" But I was afraid I had put a stumbling-block in the 
way." 

" Oh, I found I could turn the consciousness you 
created in me into literary material, and so I was rather 
eager to go. I have got a point for my new story out 
of it. I shall have my fellow suffer all I didn't suffer 
in meeting the girl he knows his mother wants him to 
marry. I got on very well with those ladies. Mrs. 
Andrews is the mother of innocence, but she isn't in- 
nocence. She managed to talk of my story without 
asking about the person who wanted to anticipate the 
conclusion. That was what you call complex. She was 
insincere; it was the only thing she wanted to talk 
about." 

" I don't believe it, Philip. But what did Miss 
Andrews talk about ?" 

" Well, she is rather an optimistic conscience. She 
 

talked about books and plays that some people do not 
think are quite proper. I have a notion that, where the 
point involved isn't a fact of her own experience, she 
is not very severe about it. You think that would be 
quite safe for me ?" 

" Philip, I don't like your making fun of her !" 

" Oh, she wasn't insipid ; she was only limpid. I 
really like her, and, as for reverencing her, of course I 
feel that in a way she is sacred." He added, after a 
breath, " Too sacred. We none of us can expect to 
marry Eve before the Tall now; perhaps we have got 
over wanting to." 

" You are very perverse, my dear. But you will get 
over that." 

" Don't take away my last defence, mother." 

Verrian began to go rather regularly to the Andrews 
house, or, at least, he was accused of doing it by Miss 
Macroyd when, very irregularly, he went one day to 
see her. " How did you know it ?" he asked. 

" I didn't say I knew it. I only wished to know it. 
Now I am satisfied. I met another friend of yours 
on Sunday." She paused for him to ask who; but 
he did not ask. " I see you are dying to know what 
friend : Mr. Bushwick." 

" Oh, he's a good-fellow. I wonder I don't run across 
him." 

" Perhaps that's because you never call on Miss Shir- 
ley." Miss Macroyd waited for this to take effect, but 
he kept a glacial surface towards her, and she went on : 
" They were walking together in the park at noon. I 
suppose they had been to church together." 

Verrian manifested no more than a polite interest in 
the fact. He managed so well that he confirmed Miss 
Macroyd in a tacit conjecture. She went on : " Miss 
Shirley was looking quite blooming — for her. But so 



was he, for that matter. Why don't you ask if they in- 
quired for you?" 

" I thought you would tell me without." 

" I will tell you if he did. He was very cordial in 
his inquiries ; and I had to pretend, to gratify him, that 
you were very well. I implied that you came here every 
Tuesday, hut your Thursdays were dedicated to Miss 
Andrews." 

" You are a clever woman, Miss Macroyd. I should 
never have thought of so much to say on such an un- 
interesting subject. And Miss Shirley showed no curi- 
osity?" 

" Ah, she is a clever woman, too. She showed the 
prettiest kind of curiosity — so perfectly managed. She 
has a studio — I don't know just how she puts it to use 
— with a painter girl in one of those studio apartment 
houses on the West Side : The Veronese, I believe. You 
must go and see her; I'll let you have next Tuesday 
off ; Tuesday's her day, too." 

" You are generosity itself, Miss Macroyd." 

" Yes, there's nothing mean about me," she returned, 
in slang rather older than she ordinarily used. " If 
you're not here next Tuesday I shall know where you 
are." 

" Then I must take a good many Tuesdays off, un- 
less I want to give myself away." 

" Oh, don't do that, Mr. Verrian ! Please ! Or else 
I can't let you have any Tuesday off." 



XXI 

Upon the whole, Verrian thought he would go to see 
Miss Shirley the next Tuesday, but he did not say so 
to Miss Macroyd. Now that he knew where the girl 
was, all the peculiar interest she had inspired in him 
renewed itself. It was so vivid that he could not pay 
his usual Thursday call at Miss Andrews's, and it filled 
his mind to the exclusion of the new story he had begun 
to write. He loafed his mornings away at his club, and 
he lunched there, leaving his mother to lunch alone, 
and was dreamily preoccupied in the evenings which 
he spent at home, sitting at his desk, with the paper 
before him, unable to coax the thoughts from his brain 
to its alluring blank, but restive under any attempts of 
hers to talk with him. 

In his desperation he would have gone to the theatre, 
but the fact that the ass who rightfully called him- 
self Yerrian was playing at one of them blocked his 
way, through his indignation, to all of them. By Sat- 
urday afternoon the tedious time had to be done some- 
thing with, and he decided to go and see what the ass 
was like. 

He went early, and found himself in the end seat of 
a long row of many rows of women, who were prolong- 
ing the time of keeping their hats on till custom obliged 
them to take them off. He gave so much notice to the 
woman next him as to see that she was deeply veiled as 
well as widely hatted, and then he lapsed into a dreary 
muse, which was broken by the first strains of the over- 

 

ture. Then he diverted himself by looking round at 
all those ranks of women lifting their arms to take out 
their hat-pins and dropping them to pin their hats to 
the seat-hacks in front of them, or to secure them some- 
how in their laps. Upon the whole, he thought the 
manoeuvre graceful and pleasing; he imagined a con- 
solation in it for the women, who, if they were forced 
by public opinion to put off their charming hats, would 
know how charmingly they did it. Each turned a lit- 
tle, either her body or her head, and looked in any case 
out of the corner of her eyes; and he was phrasing it 
all for a scene in his story, when he looked round at 
his neighbor to see how she had managed, or was 
managing, with her veil. At the same moment she 
looked at him, and their eyes met. 

" Mr. Verrian !" 

"Miss Shirley!" 

The stress of their voices fell upon different parts 
of the sentences they uttered, but did not commit either 
of them to a special role. 

" How very strange we should meet here !" she said, 
with pleasure in her voice. " Do you know, I have been 
wanting to come all winter to see this man, on account 
of his name ? And to think that I should meet the other 
Mr. Verrian as soon as I yielded to the temptation." 

" I have just yielded myself," Verrian said. " I 
hope you don't feel punished for yielding." 

" Oh, dear, no ! It seems a reward." 

She did not say why it seemed so, and he suggested, 
" The privilege of comparing the histrionic and the lit- 
erary Verrian?" 

" Could there be any comparison ?" she came back, 

gayiy. 

" I don't know. I haven't seen the histrionic Verrian 

yet." 

 

They were laughing when the curtain rose, and the 
histrionic Verrian had his innings for a long, long first 
act. When the curtain fell she turned to the literary 
Verrian and said, " Well ?" 

" He lasted a good while," Verrian returned. 

" Yes. Didn't he ?" She looked at the little watch 
in her wristlet. " A whole hour ! Do you know, Mr. 
Verrian, I am going to seem very rude. I am going 
to leave you to settle this question of superiority; I 
know you'll be impartial. I have an appointment — 
with the dressmaker, to be specific — at half-past four, 
and it's half-past three now, and I couldn't well leave 
in the middle of the next act. So I will say good-bye 
now — " 

" Don't !" he entreated. " I couldn't bear to be left 
alone with this dreadful double of mine. Let me go 
out with you." 

" Can I accept such self-sacrifice ? Well !" 

She had put on her hat and risen, and he now stepped 
out of his place to let her pass and then followed her. 
At the street entrance he suggested, " A hansom, or a 
simple trolley ?" 

" I don't know," she murmured, meditatively, looking 
up the street as if that would settle it. " If it's only 
half-past three now, I should have time to get home 
more naturally." 

" Oh ! And will you let me walk with you ?" 

" Why, if you're going that way." 

" I will say when I know which way it is." 

They started on their walk so blithely that they did 
not sadden in the retrospect of their joint experiences at 
Mrs. Westangle's. By the time they reached the park 
gate at Columbus Circle they had come so dictinctly 
to the end of their retrospect that she made an offer of 
letting him leave her, a very tacit offer, but unmistaka- 

 

ble, if he chose to take it. He interpreted her hesita- 
tion as he chose. " No," he said, " it won't be any 
longer if we go up through the park." 

She drew in her breath softly, smoothing down her 
muff with her right hand while she kept her left in it. 
" And it will certainly be pleasanter." When they 
were well up the path, in that part of it where it de- 
flects from the drive without approaching the street too 
closely, and achieves something of seclusion, she said: 
" Your speaking of him just now makes me want to 
tell you something, Mr. Verrian. You would hear 
of it very soon, anyway, and I feel that it is always best 
to be very frank with you; but you'll regard it as a 
secret, till it comes out." 

The currents that had been playing so warmly in 
and out of Verrian's heart turned suddenly cold. He 
said, with joyless mocking, " You know, I'm used to 
keeping your secrets. I shall feel honored, I'm sure, 
if you trust me with another." 

" Yes," she returned, pathetically, " you have always 
been faithful — even in your wounds." It was their joint 
tribute to the painful past, and tbey had paid no other. 
She was looking away from him, but he knew she was 
aware of his hanging his head. " That's all over now," 
she uttered, passionately. " What I wanted to say — to 
tell you — is that I am engaged to Mr. Bushwick." 

He could have answered that she had no need to tell 
him. The cold currents in and out of his heart stiffened 
frozenly and ceased to flow; his heart itself stood still 
for an eternal instant. It was in this instant that he 
said, " He is a fine fellow." Afterwards, amid the 
wild bounding of his recovered pulse, he could add, 
" I congratulate him ; I congratulate you both." 

" Thank you," she said. " No one knows as I do 
how good he is — has been, all through." Probably she 



had not meant to convey any reproach to Verrian by 
Bushwick's praise, but he felt reproach in it. " It — 
only happened last week. You do wish me happy, don't 
you ? No one knows what a winter I have had till now. 
Everything seeming to fail — " 

She choked, and did not say more. He said, aimless- 
ly, " I am sorry — " 

" Let me sit down a moment," she begged. And she 
dropped upon the bench at which she faltered, and 
rested there, as if from the exhaustion of running. 
When she could get her breath she began again : " There 
is something else I want to tell you." 

She stopped. And he asked, to prompt her, " Yes ?" 

" Thank you," she answered, piteously. And she 
added, with superficial inconsequence, " I shall always 
think you were very cruel." 

He did not pretend not to know what she meant, and 
he said, " I shall always think so, too. I tried to re- 
