his letter in an absent way. The last time Anthony wrote he vaguely
suggested changes and chances and the uncertainty of life, rather
despondent for a brisk business man who was always seeing opportunities
at money-making. Had he been unfortunate in some of his ventures? And it
was odd in him to write so soon again. Not that they were ever frequent
correspondents.
He opened the letter slowly. It was tied about with a thread of waxed
silk and sealed, so he cut about the seal deliberately; he had a
delicate carefulness in all his ways that was rather womanly. Then
unfolding it, he began to read.
Was this what the previous letter had meant? Was Anthony Leverett
nearing the end, counting his days, finishing up his earthly work, and
delegating it to other hands? There was something pathetic in it, and
the trust in the uprightness and honor that Anthony Leverett reposed in
him touched him keenly. But this part surprised and, at first, annoyed
him. He drew his fine brows in a repellent sort of frown.
          "Do you remember, Chilian, when you were a lad of
          eighteen, in your second year at Harvard, you came
          to Salem to recruit after a period of rather
          severe study? And you met Alletta Orne, who was
          four-and-twenty and engaged to me. In some sort of
          fashion we were all related. Your father had been
          like a father to me in my later boyhood. And, with
          a young man's fervor, you fell in love with her. I
          was sorry then for any pain you suffered, I am
          glad now; for there is no one else in the wide
          world I would as soon trust her child and mine to.
          "We had been away nearly three years, when we came
          back, and the baby was born in the house endeared
          to me by many tender recollections. You were away
          then, but on our second visit we were the most
          congenial friends again. I did not think then it
          would be our last meeting. I had meant, after
          making my fortune, to return and end my days in my
          birthplace. My greatest interest was in the
          commercial house I had established. My first mate,
          John Corwin, took my place and sailed the vessel.
          Then my dear wife died, and I had only my little
          girl left.
          "I could hardly believe six months ago that I must
          die. Should I return, or remain here and sleep
          beside the one who had filled my soul with her
          serene and lovely life and her blessed memory? I
          could not endure the thought of leaving her
          precious body here alone. So I chose to remain.
          And now I send my little girl to your care and
          guardianship without even consulting you. She is
          amply provided for, though the business this side
          of the world cannot be settled in some time. I
          send her with a trusty maid and Captain Corwin,
          because I do not want her to remember the end.
          Some day you can tell her I am sleeping beside her
          dear mother and that we are together in the Better
          Land. She has been separated considerably from me
          of late,--I have had to be journeying about on
          business,--therefore it will not come so hard to
          her, and though children do not forget, the sorrow
          softens and has a tender vagueness from the hand
          of time.
          "So I give my little girl to you. If so be you
          should marry and have children of your own, she
          will not be crowded out, I know. In the course of
          years,--for girls grow rapidly up to
          womanhood,--she may love and marry. Direct her a
          little here and see that no one takes her for the
          mere money. I want her to know the sweetness and
          richness of a true satisfying love."
All important papers, and a sort of diary Anthony Leverett had kept,
were to come in the vessel that would bring the little girl in the
charge of Captain Corwin.
Chilian Leverett sat for a long while with the letter in his hand, until
the log broke in the middle and one end fell over the andiron. Then he
started suddenly.
Had he been dreaming of the sweetness of the woman who had so captivated
his youthful fancy, almost a dozen years agone? He never thought she had
led him astray, and had no blame for her. Perhaps the love for her
betrothed had so permeated her whole being that she shed an exquisitely
fascinating sweetness all about. He was to her as if he had been her
betrothed's younger brother. And when the engagement was confessed he
allowed himself no reprehensible longing for the woman so soon to be
another's. All his instincts were pure and high, perhaps rather too
idealized, though there was much strength and heroism in the old Puritan
blood. Right was right in those days. Lines were sharply drawn among
those of the old stock.
But there had been years of what one might call living for self,
indulgence in studious habits and tastes and the higher intellectual
life, much solitary dreaming, although he was by no means a recluse. And
to have a little girl come into his life! He would have liked a boy
better, he thought. The boy would be out of doors, playing with mates.
And now he bethought himself how few small children there were in his
branch of the Leverett line. Some of the men and women had not married.
His brother and one sister had died in childhood. The first cousins were
nearly all older than he, many of them had dropped out of life. A little
girl! No chance to decline the trust--well, he would hardly have done
that. He knew Anthony Leverett had counted on a serene old age in his
native town. And he was not much past middle life. What had befallen
him?
Well, there was nothing to be done. He read the letter over again. Then
he turned to some papers to compose his mind. There was a stir in the
next room, his sleeping-chamber. He always opened the windows and closed
the door between. After the dishes were washed and the dining-room and
hall brushed up, Elizabeth came upstairs and made the two beds. When he
had gone to Cambridge she opened the door between. So she did not
disturb him now, but crossed the hall and inspected the two
guest-chambers. She had swept them a week or so ago and had settled in
her mind that they would do until house-cleaning time. To be sure, if
she cleaned them now they would need it when the guests were gone. And
Chilian had a man's objection to house-cleaning. It was hardly time to
put away blankets. She wished she knew how many guests there would be.
The rooms were full of old Colonial furniture that had been in the
family for generations. Every spring Elizabeth polished the mahogany
until it shone. She dusted now, though there was hardly a speck visible.
The snow through the winter had laid it, and the spring rains had not
allowed it to rear its head.
Chilian put on his coat presently and sallied out for his morning
exercise. The family had been connected with shipbuilding to a certain
extent, and there was the old warehouse where vessels came in with their
precious cargoes from civilized and barbaric lands. For at the close of
the Revolutionary War the men of note, many of whom had not disdained
privateering, found themselves in possession of idle fleets, that with
their able seamen could outsail almost anything afloat. So they struck
out for new ventures in unknown seas and new channels of trade.
Calcutta, Bombay, Zanzibar, Madagascar, Batavia, and other ports came to
know the American flag and the busy enterprising traders.
But the old Salem that was once the capital of the state, the Salem of
John Endicott and Roger Williams, of stern Puritanism, of terrible
witchcraft horrors, and then of the sturdy and vigorous stand in her
differences with the mother country, her patriotism through the darkest
days, was fast fading away, just as this grand commercial epoch was
destined to merge into science and educational fame later on, and give
to the world some master spirits. But as he wended his way hither and
thither in a desultory fashion, one thought almost like spoken words
kept running through his mind--"A little girl--a little girl in Old
Salem"--for the almost two hundred years gave her the right to that
eminence, and a little girl from a foreign land seemed incongruous. Not
but that there were little girls in Salem, but their life-lines did not
touch his. And this one came so near, for the sake of both parents he
had loved.
When he came in to dinner, he had made up his mind to say nothing of his
letter until the guests had come and gone. He did not wish to be deluged
with questions.
He hunted up Cousin Giles the next day, who was quite a real-estate
dealer, investing his own and other people's money in sound mortgages,
who had been a widower so long that he had quite gone back to
bachelorhood.
And he found three Thatcher cousins--a widow, a married one, and a
single one, the youngest of the family, but past girlhood. He was asked
to take luncheon with them and they proved quite agreeable and
intelligent, and much pleased at the prospect of seeing Elizabeth and
Eunice Leverett.
"We have been hunting up several of the Boston relatives," said Miss
Thatcher, with a kind of winsome smile. "Cousin Giles has been a good
directory. We've kept in with so few of them. Father hunted up some of
them while he was in the Legislature, but they are so scattered about
and many of them dead. Mother was your father's cousin, I believe."
Chilian gave a graceful inclination of the head.
"Elizabeth and Eunice visited us years ago, along after the war when I
was first left a widow," explained Mrs. Brent. "Henry went all through
it, but was worn out, and died in '88. But I've two nice sons, who are a
great comfort. Father was very good to them and me. And they're both
promising farmers."
"I tell her that's a good deal to be thankful for," remarked Cousin
Giles.
"It is indeed," commented Chilian.
"And I have a lad who is all for study and wants to come in to Harvard.
He has been teaching school this winter. His father's quite set against
it, and I don't know how it will end. He will be only nineteen in
August, and his father thinks he has a hold on him two years longer."
Mrs. Drayton looked up rather appealingly.
"If his mind is made up to that, he will work his way through," said
Chilian, and he thought he should like to know the boy.
"You see the next two are girls and they can't help much about a farm.
Father really needs him. And I seem to stand between two fires. His
teaching term will end in May, but he has planned to take the school
next winter. He has made quite a bit of money."
Chilian thought he would be a lad fully worth helping, and made a mental
note of it. He liked the mother.
It was settled that they would reach Salem about noon in the stage, the
only mode of conveyance, and they parted with a pleased friendliness.
Chilian rehearsed the interview at home to the great delight of the
household. Indeed, he had been very well pleased with the prospective
visitors and he felt rather thankful for the respite from the shadow the
coming event was casting. A little girl! It did annoy him.
He did not allow it to interfere with his duties as host, however. The
three ladies had a most delightful visit at Salem, looking up points of
interest and hearing old history concerning the Leveretts. Chilian's
father had jotted down many facts. There were seafaring uncles, who had
brought home trophies; there were men in the family, who had died for
their country if they had not filled eminent positions; others who had.
How this branch of the family seemed to have dwindled away!
Serena Thatcher was more than pleased with her cousin, though she felt
somewhat awed by his attainments and his rather punctilious ways. Mrs.
Brent set him down as a good deal of a Miss Nancy. But the ladies had a
delightful time going over family histories and getting relationships
disentangled.
When the eventful day of parting came it brought a very real sorrow.
They made promises that they would renew their meetings and keep each
other in mind.
It was Saturday evening when the Leverett household sat around the
cheerful fire in the cozy room where the small family gathered on this
evening of the week with their work all done, after the fashion of the
past, still strictly observed by many of the older Puritan families. The
industrious ladies sat with folded hands. Sometimes Chilian read aloud
from a volume of the divines who had finished their good fight.
This night he was gazing idly in the fire, the lines in his face
deepening now and then.
"I suppose he is tired with all the talk, and rambles, and confusion
of the week," Elizabeth thought, stealing furtive glances at him.
He straightened himself presently and made a pretence of clearing his
throat, as an embarrassed person often does.
"I have something to tell you," he began. "I thought I would not disturb
you while our relatives were here. We found enough to talk about;" with
a short half-laugh.
"And it tired you out, I know. We live so quietly that such an event
quite upsets us," Eunice said in a gentle, deprecating tone.
"It was very pleasant," he added. "I was a good deal interested in
Anthony Drayton. But this is something quite different. Can you recall
that I had a letter from the East Indies the morning the word came from
Cousin Giles?"
"Why, yes!" Elizabeth started in surprise. "I had really forgotten about
it. Business, I suppose, with Anthony Leverett. Why, I think it is high
time he came home."
Chilian sighed. "I am afraid--though I cannot see why we should fear so
much to enter the other portal, since it is the destiny of all, and we
believe in a better world. He was hopelessly ill when he wrote and was
winding up some business matters. He is a brave man to meet death so
composedly. The only pang is parting from his child."
"Oh, his little girl! Let me see--she must be eight or nine years old.
What will become of her?"
"He makes me executor and guardian of the child. She was to start three
weeks after his letter with Captain Corwin in the Flying Star. That
will be due, if it meets with no mishap, from the middle to the last of
April."
"But she doesn't come alone!" ejaculated Elizabeth in surprise.
"Yes. He wishes to be buried there beside his wife. And he does not
want her to have the remembrance of his death. So he sends her with the
woman who has been her nurse and maid the last three years, an
Englishwoman."
"Of all things! I wonder what will come next! We seem in the line of
surprises. And it's queer they should happen together. A little girl!
Chilian, do you like it? Why, it will fairly turn the house upside
down!"
There was an accent of protest in Elizabeth's tone, showing plainly her
unwillingness to accept the situation.
"One little girl can't move much furniture about;" with a sound of humor
in his voice.
"Oh, you know what I mean--not actually dragging sofas and tables about,
but she will chairs, as you'll see. And lots of other things. Look at
the Rendall children. The house always looks as if it had been stirred
up with the pudding-stick, and Sally Rendall spends good half her time
looking for things they have carted off. Tom and Anstice were digging up
the path the day we called, and what do you suppose they had! The
tablespoons. And I'll venture to say they were left out of doors."
"There are so many of them," Chilian said, as if in apology.
"And I don't see how we can keep this child away from them. It isn't as
if they were low-down people. Sally's father having been a major in the
war, and the Rendalls are good stock. Let me see--what's her name? Her
mother was called Letty."
"Cynthia. She was named for my mother." Chilian's voice had a reverent
softness in it.
"I always thought it a pretty name," said Eunice.
"And I've heard people call it 'Cyn.' I do abominate nicknames."
Elizabeth uttered this with a good deal of vigor. Then she remembered
she quite liked Bessy.
No one spoke for some moments. Chilian thought of the sister, whose
brief married life had ended in her pretty home at Providence, and how
she looked in her coffin with her baby sheltered by one arm. The picture
came before him vividly.
Elizabeth liked cleanliness and order. It was natural after a long
practice in it. Chilian's particular ways suited her. Year after year
had settled them--perhaps she had settled him more definitely, as he
liked the way. Eunice was thinking of the little girl who had neither
father or mother. She had some unfulfilled dreams. In her youth there
had been a lover, and a wedding planned when he came home from his
voyage. She had begun to "lay by" for housekeeping. And there were some
pretty garments in the trunk upstairs, packed away with other articles.
The lover was lost at sea, as befell many another New England coast
woman.
She had hoped against hope for several years--men were sometimes
restored as by a miracle--but he never came. So she sometimes dreamed
of what might have been, of home and children, and it kept her heart
tender. Anthony's little girl would make a sight of trouble, she could
see that, but a little girl about would be a great pleasure--to her at
least. She glanced furtively at Elizabeth, then at Chilian. She could
not comfort either of them with this sudden glow and warmth that
thrilled through her veins.
"Well, we will be through with house-cleaning before she comes," said
the practical and particular housewife. Chilian simply sighed. It was
the usual spring ordeal, and did end. But who could predict the ending
of the other?
CHAPTER II
THE LITTLE GIRL
Down at the wharf there was much bustle and stir. Vessels were lading
for various home ports, fishing craft were going out on their ventures,
even a whaler had just fitted up for a long cruise, and the young as
well as middle-aged sailors were shouting out farewells. White and black
men were running to and fro, laughing, chaffing, and swearing at each
other.
There lay the East Indiaman, with her foreign flag as well as that of
her country. She had come in about midnight and at early dawn
preliminaries had begun. Captain Corwin had been ashore a time or two,
looking up and down amid the motley throng, and now he touched his hat
and nodded to Chilian Leverett, who picked his way over to him.
"We are somewhat late," he began apologetically. "A little due to rough
weather, but one can never fix an exact date."
"All is well, I hope;" in an anxious tone.
"Yes; the child proved a good sailor and was much interested in
everything. I was afraid she would take it hard. But she is counting on
her father's coming. I don't know how you will ever console her when she
learns the truth."
"And he----" Chilian looked intently into the captain's eyes.
"I suppose the end has come before this. They thought he might last a
month when we left. It's sad enough. He should have lived to be ninety.
But matters went well with him, and he has been an honest, kindly,
upright man with a large heart. I've lost my best friend and adviser."
The captain drew his rough coat-sleeve across his face and looked past
Chilian, winking hard.
"There's a sight of business when we come to that, Mr. Leverett, but
now--will you go on board? The maid is a most excellent and sensible
person. They are in the cabin."
"Yes," he answered and followed with a curious throb at his heart--pity
for the orphaned child and a sense of responsibility he was conscious
that he accepted unwillingly, yet he would do his duty to the uttermost.
Already some officials were on hand, for at this period Salem was really
a notable port. Chilian passed them with a bow, followed the captain
down the gangplank, stared a little at the foreign deck-hands in their
odd habiliments, stepped over boxes and bales in canvas and matting full
of Oriental fragrance that from the closeness was almost stifling,
coming from the clear air. Then he was ushered into the cabin, that was
replete with Orientalism as well.
A rather tall woman rose to meet him.
"This is Mistress Rachel Winn, who has mothered the little girl for
several years, Mr. Leverett, her relative and guardian,
and--Cynthia----"
The child threw herself down on the couch.
"I want to go back home. I want to see my father, and Aymeer, and Babo,
and Nalla. I can't stay here."
"But perhaps your father will bring them when he comes. Don't you
remember he told you he lived here when he was a little boy, and what
nice times he had with the cousin he loved? And the cousin is here to
bid you welcome. Come and speak to him. We cannot go back at once, the
ship has to unload her cargo and take in ever so many other things. See,
here is Cousin Leverett."
She sat up, made a forward movement as if she would rise, but simply
stared.
"Yes, I am Cousin Leverett." He began advancing and held out his hand.
"And very glad to see such an excellent traveller as you have been,"
said the captain. "And such a nice little girl. You are an American
girl; you know your father told you that. And this is your native town.
Cousin Leverett remembers you when you were very little."
"But I don't remember you;" taking no notice of the proffered hand.
"Then you must get acquainted with me. And you must tell me about your
life and your father, whom I have not seen in a long, long time. Let us
shake hands."
She held out hers then and raised herself to her feet.
"Oh, how soft your hands are," she cried, "just like Nalla's. But they
are very white. Nalla's were brown."
"And who was Nalla?"
"She used to come and play with me and make chains out of shells, and
make bracelets and anklets, and dance. And she used to go to the Sahibs'
house and dance with snakes. I'm afraid of them. Are you?"
"Indeed I am, of the large ones," he said at a venture.
He fancied that he felt a gentle pressure of sympathetic approval. She
glanced up for an instant and her eyes transfixed him. They were a deep
wonderful blue, almost black at the pupil, then raying off a little
lighter. It made him think of a star in the winter midnight sky with a
halo around it. The lashes were long and nearly black. Otherwise she had
little claim to beauty just then. Her complexion had a tawny hue made by
sun and wind, her hair was light, but it had a peculiar sunburned tint,
though it was fine and abundant and hung in loose curls about her
shoulders. Her nose was the only Leverett feature--it was straight,
rather small, and had the flexibility that betrayed passing emotions.
The Leverett lips were thin, hers were full in the middle, giving a
certain roundness to the mouth.
"Are there any where you live?" hesitatingly.
"Any?" Then he recalled the subject they had touched upon. "Oh, no; you
seldom see them, and they are mostly harmless."
"Have you any little girls in your house?"
"No, I am sorry to say."
"There were two little English girls on shipboard at first. They went on
board another vessel after a while. I liked them very much. They knew a
great many things about countries. I can read, but I don't a great deal.
Sometimes father would tell me about America. There are a great many
countries in it, and once they had a big war. They had wars, too, in
India. Why must people kill each other?"
"There seem to be reasons. A little girl could not understand them all,
I think;" and how could he explain them?
"Oh, there is Captain Corwin!" She flew across the cabin with
outstretched arms, which she clasped about him.
"Well, have you been getting acquainted with--he will be your uncle, I
suppose. What title are you going to take with the child, Mr. Leverett?"
Chilian Leverett colored, without a cause he thought, and it annoyed
him.
"Are you going back to India to-day?" She was not interested in Chilian
Leverett's answer.
Captain Corwin laughed heartily and patted her shoulder.
"Not to-day, nor even next week. The cargo will have to be taken off,
little missy, and a new one stowed away. And I fancy there must be some
repairs. I shall stay in town and run down to Marblehead. So you will
see me quite often."
"And you are coming back again from India?"
"Oh, I hope so. More than once."
"You will bring father then. It is such a long while to wait;" and she
sighed.
The men exchanged glances.
"I want to see him so much. Couldn't I go back with you?"
"Don't you remember I told you the other evening he might start before I
reached India again? Don't you want to go ashore and see Salem? Ask Miss
Rachel to get you ready."
Rachel was beckoning to her. "Let us go up on deck," she said. "It's a
strange country to me as well as to you. And I fancy the men want to
talk."
She crossed the cabin slowly, not quite certain what she did desire
most, except to see her father.
"You will have a rather sorry task. But Captain Ant'ny would have it so.
He wanted to feel that she would be among friends. He had the fullest
confidence that you could manage wisely. There is a great box of
papers, instructions, etc. You are appointed her guardian and trustee.
I've brought boxes of stuff that the officers will have to go through.
But the legal matters you may take with you. He tried to make it as easy
as he could. She will have considerable of a fortune, and more to come
when matters get settled on the other side. A cousin of the Bannings
came out,--English are great hands to keep things in the family. But it
is one of the biggest importing houses out there and it owes its success
to the long and wise head of Captain Anthony. They want young Banning in
it and the matter was about settled when we came away, but the payments
will run over several years. All these papers will be sent to you. The
Bannings are upright business men, and I think you need have no fear.
But the child's fortune is to be invested on this side of the water. Oh,
you cannot realize what a trial it was to give up all thoughts of ending
his days here."
Captain Corwin brushed some tears from his honest, weather-beaten face.
"But if he had started earlier----"
"He would not believe the trouble would prove fatal. And when it was
declared there was so much to put in order. Then he could not bear to
think of leaving his wife alone there, though it's only the shell after
all, and, if we believe the Good Book, we shall see the real part over
there that was so much to us. But he could not explain the parting to
the child, though death is such a common thing out there. Yet it is
hard to believe our own can die. We are never ready for that. How you
will manage----"
The customs officers had come. Captain Corwin went out to meet them.
Chilian Leverett dropped into the well-worn leather-covered chair that
had been fine in its day. A heavy burthen had been laid upon him. He was
not fond of business. Cousin Giles might be of some assistance; he
grasped at the thought as if he had been a drowning man and this the
straw. And the child, somehow, was different from the average child, he
felt; though he was not certain what the average child would unfold day
after day. What would Elizabeth think? Eunice he could count on. Though
she yielded on many points in that tacit sort of way, she was by no
means an echo of her sister.
The three men entered the cabin. Chilian was no stranger to the
officials, who greeted him cordially and who sympathized with Captain
Anthony Leverett's untimely ending, as he was hardly past middle life.
"Why, it will be quite a change to have a child in your household," said
Josiah Ward. "But if she is like mine, I advise you not to give her the
run of your study. But there are two ladies to look after her;" and he
smiled.
It was surmised that Mr. Ward, a widower of two years' standing, had
glanced more than once in the direction of Miss Eunice Leverett.
Rachel came back at this juncture. The little girl had an accession of
shyness and would only nod to the strangers. Then they made ready to
leave the vessel. Chilian took his japanned case of important papers;
the rest of the luggage would be sent after inspection.
A primitive street it was in those days, and the fine wharves of the
present were rather rude if busy places. Over beyond they could see the
river,--South River,--and that was alive with various small craft.
"It seems almost like home," said Rachel Winn, pausing to take a survey.
"You do not find this rural aspect in India."
"How long were you there?" asked Chilian.
"Seven years. I went out with my brother, who had just married my
dearest friend. He died the third year, and she soon after married a
military man. Then I took charge of a little lame boy and was mostly up
in the mountains until he was sent to England, when Captain Leverett's
hospitable doors opened to me. Believe me, I was sorry to leave him at
this crisis. Yet it was his wish;" and she glanced at Cynthia.
"Why did we come away?" demanded the child passionately. "Oh, Rachel,
are you sure father will come? It takes so long, so long;" and there
were tears in her voice.
"Here we are!" exclaimed Chilian.
There was a white picket fence across the sort of courtyard that had a
broad paved path leading up to the front door, bordered by shrubs that
would presently be in bloom, and spaces between for smaller plants.
This was the delight of Eunice's heart. A square but rather ornate
porch, with fluted columns, supporting the outer edge of the roof, and
an elaborately carved hall-door with a fanlight overhead. The stoop
stood up some five steps, and at the sides there were benches for
out-of-doors comfort on summer nights. A brass knocker, with a lion's
head, announced visitors. Chilian, however, let himself in with his
latchkey. But both sisters met the party in the hall.
"And this is Anthony's little girl!" said Elizabeth. "Child, let me look
at you----"
But the child had a perverse fit at that moment and turned away her
head, to the elder's surprise and almost displeasure.
"This is Miss Winn," interrupted Chilian. "My household guardians and
cousins, Miss Elizabeth and Miss Eunice Leverett. I dare say our guests
feel strange to be on land, after such a long journey."
"It seems almost incredible that one can stand it, but we see them
starting every few days for distant ports. My farthest journey has been
to Providence; but, land alive! you don't know where that is, and it's
