eating the door at which, a moment before, 
Sally had stood. 
It led to a smaller room, delicately fitted, 
where, however, they were not alone. Other 
people, Parisians with whom they were unacquainted, were seated or standing about. 
But, near the entrance, was an unoccupied 
sofa, on which Maud sank and Welden 
dropped. 
The girl unfurled a fan. "Dearest, do 
you know, Malakoff talks really rather 
well." 
Welden nodded. "He isn't such a bad 
sort. I won a pot of money of him to 
night. By the way, I am in for a race. It 
is to be on the sixth " 
Further confidences were interrupted. In 
the doorway Cantire appeared, looking 
eagerly about. 
"Oh, Miss Barhyte," he cried, as he spotted the girl. "Won't you give me this dance, 
or at least, what's left of it?" 
 
Maud, rising, took the boy's arm, and 
Welden, who had also risen, dropped back. 
The pot of money which he had won, 
while inconsequential, was an assistance. 
There had been a very inconveniencing 
crash in Wall street. That morning 
he had meditated wiring there and 
having the proceeds of July coupons 
and dividends cabled to his Paris account. But now, meanwhile, the pot, 
however relatively small, was a help. 
Mechanically he felt of the pocket in which 
he had placed it. 
As he did so, Maud reappeared. Other 
confidences ensued, which, as before, were 
interrupted. A new aspirant for a turn came 
to the girl. After the second, there was a 
third, then there were more. For in the 
minds of men, however obtuse, her beauty 
put a restlessness, a trouble, sometimes a 
hope. Those who were free coveted the 
possibilities it evoked; those who were not 
ruminated the savourousness of those possibilities. 
"Dearest," she said at last. "Shall we 
go?" 
"Yes, a 1 Anglaise," Welden answered, 
expressing in the language of the land its 
neat equivalent for the English "French 
leave." 
"Dearest," she remonstrated, "I at least 
must say a word." 
In search of Sally, on through the ball 
room she passed, surrounded by homages, 
enveloped by the glances of men. 
Presently, after the word had been said, 
and her cloak had been put about her, she 
went down through a double hedge of lackeys 
to the perron below, where her lover waited 
and a footman bawled: 
"The people of Madame la princesse de 
Solferino!" 
Very gorgeous, very smiling, the princess, 
formerly Fanny Murray of New York, interrupted her luminous exit to remark to 
them: "Hasn't it been jolly?" 
When she, her glitter and her platitudes 
had gone, the footman bawled again, this 
time for Welden's carriage. 
About the entrance was a group of 
grooms, idlers, birds of the night. Down 
the avenue glowed the lamps of waiting cars 
and broughams. Before these a sergent-de- 
ville, his head bent, his hands behind his 
back, promenaded Napoleonically. Above, 
the moon hung, a round of butter in the sky. 
In the air was a sweetness, and from the 
open windows sank the swooning measures 
of a waltz. 
Welden, after putting Maud into the 
carriage, drew from a pocket of his white 
waistcoat a chainless watch, from the stem 
of which her token, the sapphire, dangled. 
"You have had no supper. Suppose we 
go somewhere and take a private room?" 
With a quick intake of the breath, the 
girl answered: "Dearest, yes, and let us 
hurry." 
"The Cafe de la Paix," Welden threw at 
the coachman's back. "Et vivement!" 
Then, in a moment, when he was beside 
her, the girl withdrew a glove, put her hand 
in his and whispered : 
"Dearest, I am so happy that it frightens 
me." 
"Yes," Welden replied. "I know. I, 
too, am afraid." 
"You!" 
"In any love affair there are always three. 
The third is the unknown. It is that which 
frightens." 
What he meant he could not have told. 
The remark, passably oracular, had but 
sprung into the sudden utterance, which, occasionally, prophecies take. Dismissed at 
the time in immediate embraces, afterward 
it was shudderingly recalled. 
To the cosmopolite, Deauville is delightful. The days fall by in an atmosphere dripping with ammonia and desire, scented with 
caprices and brine, shuttled too by that general deviltry, which those consorts of society, 
wealth and idleness, inevitably produce. 
The house there which the Malakoffs had 
taken was known as the Villa Portugaise. 
The reason of that was inscrutable. Instead 
of the patio, loggia, fountains and blooms 
which the name implied, there was a trim 
lawn fronting a thoroughly English dwell 
ing that looked obliquely at the sea. 
In spite of the Britannic reserve of its ap 
pearance, there was in it an ease, an entire 
liberty, a complete sans-gene that harmonised very perfectly with the Deauvillian 
air. 
On the ground floor were the living rooms, 
spacious, cool, perhaps a trifle severe. These 
gave on the ocean. On the lawn side was a 
wide hall that extended from one end of the 
house to the other. In the centre was the entrance. At the right of the doorway was a 
table on which were reviews, papers, periodicals. Above it was a rack in which letters 
were put. To the left of the entrance, at the 
extreme end, a flight of steps started, continued for a few steps, then halting, turned 
abruptly and directly up to a galleried floor 
above where the bedrooms were, which for 
general convenience had been numbered. 
When, on the evening of the third of July, 
Maud and Welden arrived, they were met in 
the hall by Sally, by Malakoff, the Cerisys, 
the Solferinos and a dozen others, among 
whom was Cantire. 
The boy, attired in beautifully cut evening 
clothes, looked hot, or rather red. Mme. de 
Cerisy, taking advantage of his youth, had 
put to him questions which even at Deau- 
 
ville were perhaps indiscreet. Mrs. Cawtree, 
who had come over from her own very neigh 
bourly villa, had overheard and was laugh 
ing. 
"Hasten, my children," Sally, after the 
first greetings, called in French. "We dine 
and at once." 
Maud was then taken to No. 10, a room at 
the head of the stairs. Opposite was No. 12. 
It was there Welden was shown. The ar 
rangement was so convenient that he con 
gratulated himself on its idyllic simplicity. 
A little later when he and Maud had 
dressed and both were about to descend the 
stair, they could hear Sally exclaiming. 
In her hand was a blue rag of a telegram 
on which a string of typewritten words had 
been gummed. 
"What is it?" Malakoff asked. 
"Giselle Oppensheim who wires that she 
comes to-morrow. But where shall I put 
her? Where?" 
"Bah!" answered Malakoff. "It will ar 
range itself. On's avisera." 
Mrs. Cawtree, who knew everything, 
everything fashionably knowahle that is, 
looked admiringly at Sally. It was not 
every bride and particularly it was not 
every American bride, who was capable of 
being so indulgently sans-fa9on. Mrs. Cawtree's esteem for Sally mounted. But at 
once an attenuation followed. Probably 
she does not know, the lady reflected. 
"Do you fancy that the duchess knows 
about Mme. Oppensheim?" she asked of 
Cantire when presently she found him next 
to her at dinner. 
"Knows what?" the boy inquired, choking down as he spoke, the velvet of a 
bisque. 
"I remind myself," Mrs. Cawtree inconse 
quentially resumed, "of the woman who 
asked Dumas whether there was anything 
between him and the Princess Belgioso. 
 
Madam, he replied, "sometimes nothing 
whatever. 
It was a moment before Cantire got it. 
When he did he laughed in a fashion so disorderly that to steady him, Mrs. Cawtree 
asked him to a frisk at her house the next 
night. 
The effort succeeding, she turned with a 
similar invitation to Aquaviva who was opposite, after which she asked Prince Saraguine who sat between her and Sally. 
Kara Saraguine had an air of having 
lived extensively and of fully intending to 
continue such living. At the moment he was 
eating mussels from the sauce of a sole Nor- 
mande and while listening to Sally's chatter, had an eye on Maud, who sat a little be 
yond, on the other side of the table. 
"That youthfulness is ravishing," he remarked and wiped his mouth. "A compatriot, Duchess? One could devour her." 
Cantire's eyes were now on the girl, so 
were Malakoff's and Solferino's, and Maud, 
knowing of old the ideality of men's 
thoughts, blushed suddenly and divinely. 
But at once, for countenance sake, leaning forward, she called, in English, to Sally. 
"What sort of a place is Etretat? While 
I was dressing they brought me a telegram 
from my father. He is to motor there from 
Frascati's to-morrow. Is it nice?" 
"Charming!" Saraguine volunteered in 
French. "The downs, the cliffs, the view, 
whatever you will, is charming, except the 
world there. No, frankly, Mademoiselle, 
that is everything there is of most grocer." 
"Etretat!" Solferino, also in French, ex 
claimed. "I promenaded myself once that 
way. Once, that is permissible, twice would 
be a sin. And I, I am not exacting. I " 
Solferino ran on. Presently everybody 
seemed to be talking at once. Momentarily 
Maud's too alluring looks were forgotten. 
But when the dinner was over, several men 
 
gathered in the hall about her and there remained until drawn into the fumoir, where 
Welden was the last to follow and where, 
afterward, with the hopelessness of a regret 
that is to be eternal, he wished he had never 
gone. 
There, a footman was trundling a chest 
on wheels. In it were cigars of different 
shades and sizes, cigarettes of various brands. 
As Welden entered, the man steered it up to 
him. He took a londres and surveyed the 
room. 
Near by was a buffet, hospitably inviting. 
On it were decanters of chartreuse and 
maraschino ; flagons of brandy and gin ; bottles of Vichy and Eau de Vals. These latter 
had obviously been attacked. But with that 
abstemiousness which is a characteristic of 
the way we live now, the liquors and liqueurs 
were untouched. 
Contiguously was a billiard table on which 
Cantire, a cigar between his teeth, was knocking balls about. Opposite on a sofa, raised 
by a dais, Solferino sprawled. He looked 
precisely like a fat old woman. 
Idly Welden wondered why his wife had 
accepted him. She was a Murray. The 
Murrays were not brilliant. But in point 
of birth and, for that matter, of breeding, 
her family, like Maud's and like his own, 
were superior, in every way, to any imperial 
spawn. 
He passed on. Beyond was the green 
baize of a baccarat table, about which now 
other men were grouped. Saraguine was 
dealing. The cards which he gave to the 
right, Aquaviva received; those to the left 
went to Malakoff. Behind these the others 
stood and punted. 
Presently, Malakoff, to whom Saraguine 
had furnished an almost uninterrupted 
series of picture cards, got up, and Welden, 
after a circular look of inquiry, took the vacated chair. 
 
The ill luck that had visited that side 
of the table continued. Across the way 
Aquaviva and his backers were winning. 
Meanwhile Welden and those behind him 
lost. Then, as is usual in such circumstances, the losers abandoning their positions, deserted to the favoured side 
and shortly, from the chair which Malakoff had relinquished, Welden was betting 
alone. 
He had begun with hundred franc wagers. 
As these vanished, his stake increased. 
From a silk card case he drew blue and white 
notes, one after another, until all which it 
held were gone. Barring some loose gold in 
his waistcoat he had nothing. 
"Je suis ratiboise," he remarked. "I am 
cleaned out." 
He was getting up, as Malakoff had done, 
when Saraguine, seeing his predicament and 
perhaps conscious that if he desisted, the 
game might cease, said to him: 
"If you will, I beg of you, stake on pa 
role." 
"Thanks," Welden answered and resumed 
his seat. "A hundred louis." 
The game proceeded. Cantire had left 
the billiard table. Solferino approached. 
Aquaviva, relinquishing his chair to de 
Cerisy, went to the buffet, drank largely of 
Vichy and walked away. 
"Nine!" said Welden, exposing his cards, 
"Eight!" said Saraguine, exposing his own. 
"Nothing," said de Cerisy, pushing his 
cards aside. 
Saraguine, after gathering in the money 
from that quarter, paid Welden and redealt. 
For a while thereafter, fortune changed. 
The players that had deserted Welden returned. He recovered what he had lost and 
ten thousand francs in addition. Then luck 
veered. He staked the ten thousand, lost 
them and, a quarter of an hour later, had 
lost fifty thousand more. 
 
Tranquilly, but this time definitely, he 
got from his seat, drank of the Vichy and 
went out in search of Maud. 
In the hall women were grouped, talking 
modes and morals, the cosmopolitan gossip 
of London, Paris and Rome. Maud, a little 
removed from the others, was in a rocking 
chair, a slipper just visible beneath the hem 
of her skirt, her bare arms upraised behind 
her head. 
Before her, Malakoff balanced himself on 
the arm of another chair. As Welden approached, he stood up. 
"You won, I hope," he threw out, and 
sauntered away. 
"As it happened I lost," Welden exclaimed, not to him, but to the girl. "I shall 
have to go to Paris to-morrow." 
"Dearest, I have money, eight or nine 
hundred francs I think," Maud slowly, in 
her low, caressing voice, replied. 
Welden laughed. "I could not take it and 
even if I could, it would not be anywhere 
near enough. As it is I shall have to cable." 
"Dearest, to-morrow is the Fourth, it is 
particularly for to-morrow we are here and 
in the evening Mrs. Cawtree wants us to 
come to her. Could you not put it off?" 
"Not very comfortably. The money has 
to be paid at once, within the legal delays 
that is, and they amount to twenty-four 
hours. But I will be back in time for Mrs. 
Cawtree's. At the latest I can take a train 
which gets here at nine and to-night " 
"Dearest, be careful," the girl interrupted. Slowly she looked around. But they 
were quite alone. "Be sure first, won't you," 
she added, "that no one is about." 
Welden ran his long thin fingers through 
his bright thick hair. Not for this world 
certainly and probably not either for the 
next, would he by so much as a gesture have 
compromised the girl. 
Much later, after he had waited longly 
 
and listened vainly and made two abortive 
attempts, when at last the villa seemed 
entirely hushed, he crossed the little space 
that lay between his room and hers. 
The door was unlocked. As he opened it 
the disposition of the room was such that he 
could see of the girl only the rich orange of 
her hair, the outline of her pillowed head. 
At the noise, ever so slight, which he 
made on entering, she turned. Immediately 
he heard, or thought he heard, a footfall in 
the corridor without. Quickly he closed the 
door and bolted it. It was, he noticed, massively made, of solid oak. 
In the momentary uneasiness which, in 
circumstances such as these, even a problematic footfall may and does properly excite, 
he reflected that no one could get in and 
then immediately he told himself that no 
one would try. 
The next evening Welden left Paris for 
Deauville. Ordinarily, as he had told Maud, 
he would have arrived at nine. But the derailment of another train interfered. It was 
eleven when he reached the villa. 
A gale was blowing. From within, 
through the windows and the open door, 
lights fell on the driveway, chequering the 
pebbles with yellow spots. From beyond, 
in a lull of the wind, came the sound of violins and voices. The villa itself was silent. 
As Welden entered, a footman came running. No one else was about. Turning, he 
passed on to the stairs and up them. 
During the delay that had supervened he 
told himself that because of it, Maud, ceasing to expect him, would have gone on to 
Mrs. Cawtree's, and it was with the idea of 
dressing and of joining her that he made 
for his room. But, while on the stair, it occurred to him to look in hers. 
On reaching it, he turned the knob. The 
door was unlocked, it opened at his touch, 
and, precisely as on the night before, he saw 
the rich orange of her pillowed head, but saw 
too, beside her, Malakoff. 
For a second only. Enveloped momentarily, yet, for the moment, enveloped absolutely by the catastrophic emotions of a 
whirlwind of nightmares, before he could 
move, the door, slammed in his face, was 
bolted. 
In the instant concussion, the anchylosis 
of the anterior shock fell by, replaced immediately by blood madness. 
Behind that door a man and a woman 
were occupied in continuing to be. Of that 
alone he was conscious. Over all the cells of 
his brain a somnolence had fallen, over all, 
save one, and that one cell, vehemently active, was inciting him to tear with bare hands 
life from the man, that done, to tear it again 
from the woman. 
But for the door he could and would have. 
Violently he flung himself against it. Violently yet vainly, and before perhaps it were 
possible for him to have realised the futility 
of the effort, he did realise that some one 
was near him, somebody who had a hand on 
his arm and who was offensively interfering. 
Savagely he turned. Before him, in ball 
dress, a fichu of lace about her head, was 
Sally. 
"Don't," she was saying. "Don t." 
Welden, maniacal still, could have struck 
her. She saw it. But she did not flinch. 
Though naturally agitated, she did not seem 
frightened, surprised merely and also un 
certain. 
Welden raised his hand with a movement 
 
that threatened her, threatened the occupants of that room, menaced the house, 
Deauville itself, a gesture wide, insane, elemental and human. 
"Don't," she repeated. 
In the constant reiteration of that one 
word there must have been something of the 
effect of a spray. The irritability of the 
one active cell subsided, that of other cells 
was aroused. 
Welden's arm fell at his side. He stared 
at Sally. Then, for the first time, one of his 
two selves recognised her. 
Sally, discovering not that, but the al 
tered attitude, faced him. 
"He would not be there unless she 
wished." 
The words fell over him plentifully like 
water thrown from a bucket. In the full 
douche and splatter of them, their meaning 
insinuated itself into the arteries of thought. 
The man's two selves, the objective and the 
subconscious, rejoined each other; mania 
subsided, somnambulism ceased. Abruptly 
his entire brain awoke. The potential troglodyte that was in him, as potentially he is 
in us all, dematerialised. At once a man of 
the world in flannels and a straw hat found 
himself in the presence of a lady. That hat 
he removed. 
In the eyes and about the mouth of the 
lady was an expression which some ladies 
have when they are occupied less with what 
they say than with other things which they 
do not propose to mention. 
It was quite the same to Welden. That 
which occupied him was the ineluctable truth 
of her statement. Malakoff would not be 
there if Maud had not consented. 
It was in a shrill whisper that Sally had 
produced it. Now, in the same tone, looking him still in the face, she said: 
"Come below with me." 
As she spoke she stooped, gathered the 
 
train of her dress and together they descended the stair. 
In the hall a footman stood. Sally left 
Welden and went to the table. Above it in 
a rack was a letter which she avidly took 
and put in her corsage. Then, turning, she 
spoke to the servant. 
Welden, meanwhile, was still absorbed by 
her statement. But happiness was yet so 
recent that the ineluctable truth had not fully permeated all the cerebral convolu 
tions, and the fact that it had not, manifested 
itself in the melodramatic phrase which all 
have uttered, all at least whom the unfore 
seen has felled. 
"It is impossible; I am dreaming!" 
At that, instantly, there surged before 
him the vision of the pillowed head, but now, 
through some miracle of hell, he could see 
the body, the fair ivory of it blotched with 
postules. 
Again hgematomania would have claimed 
him. For a moment it was not only the vision that he saw but zigzags of black and 
scarlet. Determinedly he reacted. Almost 
immediately the natural poise of the man returned, with it as quickly came the realisa 
tion that since already he had done nothing, 
there was nothing that he or any other civilised being could do, except indeed to leave 
the house. 
At the sure cognition of that he looked 
about for Sally. She was speaking to a 
maid. 
"I am going," he told her. 
Sally, from over her shoulder, nodded at 
him. 
"So am I," she answered and went on with 
her orders. 
"Perkins," she was saying, "M. de Malakoff is in number ten. Tell Harris to have 
two of the men remain near by until they 
see him leave it." 
Welden wondered absently at her reply. 
 
It was odd, he thought, that she also should 
be going. Then, as absently, he remembered 
that she was Malakoff's wife and he contemplated the fact gravely, without pity, It 
seemed to him just that besides himself some 
one else should suffer. 
"And Perkins," Sally called at the now 
retreating woman. "Bring my jewel case 
