a kind of supplementary experience of life. Veronese and Titian are
content with a much looser specification, as their treatment of any
subject that the author of the Crucifixion at San Cassano has also
treated abundantly proves. There are few more suggestive contrasts than
that between the absence of a total character at all commensurate with
its scattered variety and brilliancy in Veronese’s “Marriage of Cana,”
 at the Louvre, and the poignant, almost startling, completeness of
Tintoret’s illustration of the theme at the Salute church. To compare
his “Presentation of the Virgin,” at the Madonna dell’ Orto, with
Titian’s at the Academy, or his “Annunciation” with Titian’s close at
hand, is to measure the essential difference between observation and
imagination. One has certainly not said all that there is to say for
Titian when one has called him an observer. Il y mettait du sien,
and I use the term to designate roughly the artist whose apprehension,
infinitely deep and strong when applied to the single figure or
to easily balanced groups, spends itself vainly on great dramatic
combinations--or rather leaves them ungauged. It was the whole scene
that Tintoret seemed to have beheld in a flash of inspiration intense
enough to stamp it ineffaceably on his perception; and it was the whole
scene, complete, peculiar, individual, unprecedented, that he committed
to canvas with all the vehemence of his talent. Compare his “Last
Supper,” at San Giorgio--its long, diagonally placed table, its dusky
spaciousness, its scattered lamp-light and halo-light, its startled,
gesticulating figures, its richly realistic foreground--with the
customary formal, almost mathematical rendering of the subject, in which
impressiveness seems to have been sought in elimination rather than
comprehension. You get from Tintoret’s work the impression that he
felt, pictorially, the great, beautiful, terrible spectacle of human
life very much as Shakespeare felt it poetically--with a heart that
never ceased to beat a passionate accompaniment to every stroke of
his brush. Thanks to this fact his works are signally grave, and their
almost universal and rapidly increasing decay doesn’t relieve their
gloom. Nothing indeed can well be sadder than the great collection of
Tintorets at San Rocco. Incurable blackness is settling fast upon all of
them, and they frown at you across the sombre splendour of their great
chambers like gaunt twilight phantoms of pictures. To our children’s
children Tintoret, as things are going, can be hardly more than a name;
and such of them as shall miss the tragic beauty, already so dimmed
and stained, of the great “Bearing of the Cross” in that temple of his
spirit will live and die without knowing the largest eloquence of art.
If you wish to add the last touch of solemnity to the place recall
as vividly as possible while you linger at San Rocco the painter’s
singularly interesting portrait of himself, at the Louvre. The old
man looks out of the canvas from beneath a brow as sad as a sunless
twilight, with just such a stoical hopelessness as you might fancy him
to wear if he stood at your side gazing at his rotting canvases. It
isn’t whimsical to read it as the face of a man who felt that he had
given the world more than the world was likely to repay. Indeed before
every picture of Tintoret you may remember this tremendous portrait with
profit. On one side the power, the passion, the illusion of his art; on
the other the mortal fatigue of his spirit. The world’s knowledge of
him is so small that the portrait throws a doubly precious light on his
personality; and when we wonder vainly what manner of man he was, and
what were his purpose, his faith and his method, we may find forcible
assurance there that they were at any rate his life--one of the most
intellectually passionate ever led.

Verona, which was my last Italian stopping-place, is in any conditions
a delightfully interesting city; but the kindness of my own memory of it
is deepened by a subsequent ten days’ experience of Germany. I rose one
morning at Verona, and went to bed at night at Botzen! The statement
needs no comment, and the two places, though but fifty miles apart, are
as painfully dissimilar as their names. I had prepared myself for your
delectation with a copious tirade on German manners, German scenery,
German art and the German stage--on the lights and shadows of Innsbrück,
Munich, Nüremberg and Heidelberg; but just as I was about to put pen
to paper I glanced into a little volume on these very topics lately
published by that famous novelist and moralist, M. Ernest Feydeau,
the fruit of a summer’s observation at Homburg. This work produced a
reaction; and if I chose to follow M. Feydeau’s own example when he
wishes to qualify his approbation I might call his treatise by any vile
name known to the speech of man. But I content myself with pronouncing
it superficial. I then reflect that my own opportunities for seeing and
judging were extremely limited, and I suppress my tirade, lest some more
enlightened critic should come and hang me with the same rope. Its sum
and substance was to have been that--superficially--Germany is ugly;
that Munich is a nightmare, Heidelberg a disappointment (in spite of its
charming castle) and even Nüremberg not a joy for ever. But comparisons
are odious, and if Munich is ugly Verona is beautiful enough. You may
laugh at my logic, but will probably assent to my meaning. I carried
away from Verona a precious mental picture upon which I cast an
introspective glance whenever between Botzen and Strassburg the
oppression of external circumstance became painful. It was a lovely
August afternoon in the Roman arena--a ruin in which repair and
restoration have been so watchfully and plausibly practised that it
seems all of one harmonious antiquity. The vast stony oval rose high
against the sky in a single clear, continuous line, broken here and
there only by strolling and reclining loungers. The massive tiers
inclined in solid monotony to the central circle, in which a small
open-air theatre was in active operation. A small quarter of the great
slope of masonry facing the stage was roped off into an auditorium, in
which the narrow level space between the foot-lights and the lowest
step figured as the pit. Foot-lights are a figure of speech, for the
performance was going on in the broad glow of the afternoon, with
a delightful and apparently by no means misplaced confidence in the
good-will of the spectators. What the piece was that was deemed so
superbly able to shift for itself I know not--very possibly the same
drama that I remember seeing advertised during my former visit to
Verona; nothing less than La Tremenda Giustizia di Dio. If titles
are worth anything this product of the melodramatist’s art might surely
stand upon its own legs. Along the tiers above the little group of
regular spectators was gathered a free-list of unauthorised observers,
who, although beyond ear-shot, must have been enabled by the generous
breadth of Italian gesture to follow the tangled thread of the piece.
It was all deliciously Italian--the mixture of old life and new, the
mountebank’s booth (it was hardly more) grafted on the antique circus,
the dominant presence of a mighty architecture, the loungers and idlers
beneath the kindly sky and upon the sun-warmed stones. I never felt more
keenly the difference between the background to life in very old and
very new civilisations. There are other things in Verona to make it
a liberal education to be born there, though that it is one for
the contemporary Veronese I don’t pretend to say. The Tombs of the
Scaligers, with their soaring pinnacles, their high-poised canopies,
their exquisite refinement and concentration of the Gothic idea, I can’t
profess, even after much worshipful gazing, to have fully comprehended
and enjoyed. They seemed to me full of deep architectural meanings, such
as must drop gently into the mind one by one, after infinite tranquil
contemplation. But even to the hurried and preoccupied traveller the
solemn little chapel-yard in the city’s heart, in which they stand
girdled by their great swaying curtain of linked and twisted iron, is
one of the most impressive spots in Italy. Nowhere else is such a wealth
of artistic achievement crowded into so narrow a space; nowhere else are
the daily comings and goings of men blessed by the presence of manlier
art. Verona is rich furthermore in beautiful churches--several with
beautiful names: San Fermo, Santa Anastasia, San Zenone. This last is a
structure of high antiquity and of the most impressive loveliness. The
nave terminates in a double choir, that is a sub-choir or crypt into
which you descend and where you wander among primitive columns whose
variously grotesque capitals rise hardly higher than your head, and an
upper choral plane reached by broad stairways of the bravest effect. I
shall never forget the impression of majestic chastity that I received
from the great nave of the building on my former visit. I then decided
to my satisfaction that every church is from the devotional point of
view a solecism that has not something of a similar absolute felicity
of proportion; for strictly formal beauty seems best to express our
conception of spiritual beauty. The nobly serious character of San
Zenone is deepened by its single picture--a masterpiece of the most
serious of painters, the severe and exquisite Mantegna.

{Illustration: THE AMPHITHEATRE, VERONA}

1872





TWO OLD HOUSES AND THREE YOUNG WOMEN


There are times and places that come back yet again, but that, when the
brooding tourist puts out his hand to them, meet it a little slowly, or
even seem to recede a step, as if in slight fear of some liberty he may
take. Surely they should know by this time that he is capable of taking
none. He has his own way--he makes it all right. It now becomes just
a part of the charming solicitation that it presents precisely a
problem--that of giving the particular thing as much as possible without
at the same time giving it, as we say, away. There are considerations,
proprieties, a necessary indirectness--he must use, in short, a little
art. No necessity, however, more than this, makes him warm to his work,
and thus it is that, after all, he hangs his three pictures.


I

The evening that was to give me the first of them was by no means the
first occasion of my asking myself if that inveterate “style” of which
we talk so much be absolutely conditioned--in dear old Venice and
elsewhere--on decrepitude. Is it the style that has brought about the
decrepitude, or the decrepitude that has, as it were, intensified
and consecrated the style? There is an ambiguity about it all that
constantly haunts and beguiles. Dear old Venice has lost her complexion,
her figure, her reputation, her self-respect; and yet, with it all, has
so puzzlingly not lost a shred of her distinction. Perhaps indeed the
case is simpler than it seems, for the poetry of misfortune is familiar
to us all, whereas, in spite of a stroke here and there of some happy
justice that charms, we scarce find ourselves anywhere arrested by the
poetry of a run of luck. The misfortune of Venice being, accordingly, at
every point, what we most touch, feel and see, we end by assuming it to
be of the essence of her dignity; a consequence, we become aware, by the
way, sufficiently discouraging to the general application or pretension
of style, and all the more that, to make the final felicity deep, the
original greatness must have been something tremendous. If it be the
ruins that are noble we have known plenty that were not, and moreover
there are degrees and varieties: certain monuments, solid survivals,
hold up their heads and decline to ask for a grain of your pity. Well,
one knows of course when to keep one’s pity to oneself; yet one clings,
even in the face of the colder stare, to one’s prized Venetian privilege
of making the sense of doom and decay a part of every impression.
Cheerful work, it may be said of course; and it is doubtless only in
Venice that you gain more by such a trick than you lose. What was most
beautiful is gone; what was next most beautiful is, thank goodness,
going--that, I think, is the monstrous description of the better part
of your thought. Is it really your fault if the place makes you want so
desperately to read history into everything?

You do that wherever you turn and wherever you look, and you do it,
I should say, most of all at night. It comes to you there with longer
knowledge, and with all deference to what flushes and shimmers, that the
night is the real time. It perhaps even wouldn’t take much to make you
award the palm to the nights of winter. This is certainly true for the
form of progression that is most characteristic, for every question
of departure and arrival by gondola. The little closed cabin of
this perfect vehicle, the movement, the darkness and the plash, the
indistinguishable swerves and twists, all the things you don’t see and
all the things you do feel--each dim recognition and obscure arrest is
a possible throb of your sense of being floated to your doom, even when
the truth is simply and sociably that you are going out to tea. Nowhere
else is anything as innocent so mysterious, nor anything as mysterious
so pleasantly deterrent to protest. These are the moments when you are
most daringly Venetian, most content to leave cheap trippers and other
aliens the high light of the mid-lagoon and the pursuit of pink and
gold. The splendid day is good enough for them; what is best for you
is to stop at last, as you are now stopping, among clustered pali and
softly-shifting poops and prows, at a great flight of water-steps that
play their admirable part in the general effect of a great entrance.
The high doors stand open from them to the paved chamber of a basement
tremendously tall and not vulgarly lighted, from which, in turn, mounts
the slow stone staircase that draws you further on. The great point is,
that if you are worthy of this impression at all, there isn’t a single
item of it of which the association isn’t noble. Hold to it fast that
there is no other such dignity of arrival as arrival by water. Hold to
it that to float and slacken and gently bump, to creep out of the low,
dark felze and make the few guided movements and find the strong
crooked and offered arm, and then, beneath lighted palace-windows, pass
up the few damp steps on the precautionary carpet--hold to it that these
things constitute a preparation of which the only defect is that it may
sometimes perhaps really prepare too much. It’s so stately that what
can come after?--it’s so good in itself that what, upstairs, as we
comparative vulgarians say, can be better? Hold to it, at any rate, that
if a lady, in especial, scrambles out of a carriage, tumbles out of a
cab, flops out of a tram-car, and hurtles, projectile-like, out of
a “lightning-elevator,” she alights from the Venetian conveyance as
Cleopatra may have stepped from her barge. Upstairs--whatever may be
yet in store for her--her entrance shall still advantageously enjoy
the support most opposed to the “momentum” acquired. The beauty of
the matter has been in the absence of all momentum--elsewhere so
scientifically applied to us, from behind, by the terrible life of our
day--and in the fact that, as the elements of slowness, the felicities
of deliberation, doubtless thus all hang together, the last of
calculable dangers is to enter a great Venetian room with a rush.

Not the least happy note, therefore, of the picture I am trying to frame
is that there was absolutely no rushing; not only in the sense of a
scramble over marble floors, but, by reason of something dissuasive and
distributive in the very air of the place, a suggestion, under the
fine old ceilings and among types of face and figure abounding in the
unexpected, that here were many things to consider. Perhaps the simplest
rendering of a scene into the depths of which there are good grounds of
discretion for not sinking would be just this emphasis on the value of
the unexpected for such occasions--with due qualification, naturally, of
its degree. Unexpectedness pure and simple, it is needless to say, may
easily endanger any social gathering, and I hasten to add moreover
that the figures and faces I speak of were probably not in the least
unexpected to each other. The stage they occupied was a stage of
variety--Venice has ever been a garden of strange social flowers. It
is only as reflected in the consciousness of the visitor from
afar--brooding tourist even call him, or sharp-eyed bird on the
branch--that I attempt to give you the little drama; beginning with the
felicity that most appealed to him, the visible, unmistakable fact that
he was the only representative of his class. The whole of the rest of
the business was but what he saw and felt and fancied--what he was
to remember and what he was to forget. Through it all, I may say
distinctly, he clung to his great Venetian clue--the explanation of
everything by the historic idea. It was a high historic house, with such
a quantity of recorded past twinkling in the multitudinous candles that
one grasped at the idea of something waning and displaced, and might
even fondly and secretly nurse the conceit that what one was having was
just the very last. Wasn’t it certainly, for instance, no mere illusion
that there is no appreciable future left for such manners--an urbanity
so comprehensive, a form so transmitted, as those of such a hostess and
such a host? The future is for a different conception of the graceful
altogether--so far as it’s for a conception of the graceful at all. Into
that computation I shall not attempt to enter; but these representative
products of an antique culture, at least, and one of which the secret
seems more likely than not to be lost, were not common, nor indeed
was any one else--in the circle to which the picture most insisted on
restricting itself.

Neither, on the other hand, was anyone either very beautiful or very
fresh: which was again, exactly, a precious “value” on an occasion
that was to shine most, to the imagination, by the complexity of its
references. Such old, old women with such old, old jewels; such ugly,
ugly ones with such handsome, becoming names; such battered, fatigued
gentlemen with such inscrutable decorations; such an absence of youth,
for the most part, in either sex--of the pink and white, the “bud” of
new worlds; such a general personal air, in fine, of being the worse for
a good deal of wear in various old ones. It was not a society--that was
clear--in which little girls and boys set the tune; and there was that
about it all that might well have cast a shadow on the path of even the
most successful little girl. Yet also--let me not be rudely inexact--it
was in honour of youth and freshness that we had all been convened. The
fiançailles of the last--unless it were the last but one--unmarried
daughter of the house had just been brought to a proper climax; the
contract had been signed, the betrothal rounded off--I’m not sure that
the civil marriage hadn’t, that day, taken place. The occasion then had
in fact the most charming of heroines and the most ingenuous of heroes,
a young man, the latter, all happily suffused with a fair Austrian
blush. The young lady had had, besides other more or less shining recent
ancestors, a very famous paternal grandmother, who had played a great
part in the political history of her time and whose portrait, in the
taste and dress of 1830, was conspicuous in one of the rooms. The
grand-daughter of this celebrity, of royal race, was strikingly like her
and, by a fortunate stroke, had been habited, combed, curled in a
manner exactly to reproduce the portrait. These things were charming and
amusing, as indeed were several other things besides. The great Venetian
beauty of our period was there, and nature had equipped the great
Venetian beauty for her part with the properest sense of the suitable,
or in any case with a splendid generosity--since on the ideally suitable
character of so brave a human symbol who shall have the last word?
This responsible agent was at all events the beauty in the world about
whom probably, most, the absence of question (an absence never wholly
propitious) would a little smugly and monotonously flourish: the one
thing wanting to the interest she inspired was thus the possibility
of ever discussing it. There were plenty of suggestive subjects round
about, on the other hand, as to which the exchange of ideas would by no
means necessarily have dropped. You profit to the full at such times by
all the old voices, echoes, images--by that element of the history of
Venice which represents all Europe as having at one time and another
revelled or rested, asked for pleasure or for patience there; which
gives you the place supremely as the refuge of endless strange secrets,
broken fortunes and wounded hearts.


II

There had been, on lines of further or different speculation, a
young Englishman to luncheon, and the young Englishman had proved
“sympathetic”; so that when it was a question afterwards of some of the
more hidden treasures, the browner depths of the old churches, the case
became one for mutual guidance and gratitude--for a small afternoon tour
and the wait of a pair of friends in the warm little campi, at locked
doors for which the nearest urchin had scurried off to fetch the keeper
of the key. There are few brown depths to-day into which the light of
the hotels doesn’t shine, and few hidden treasures about which
pages enough, doubtless, haven’t already been printed: my business,
accordingly, let me hasten to say, is not now with the fond renewal of
any discovery--at least in the order of impressions most usual.
Your discovery may be, for that matter, renewed every week; the only
essential is the good luck--which a fair amount of practice has taught
you to count upon-of not finding, for the particular occasion, other
discoverers in the field. Then, in the quiet corner, with the closed
door--then in the presence of the picture and of your companion’s
sensible emotion--not only the original happy moment, but everything
else, is renewed. Yet once again it can all come back. The old custode,
shuffling about in the dimness, jerks away, to make sure of his tip, the
old curtain that isn’t much more modern than the wonderful work itself.
He does his best to create light where light can never be; but you have
your practised groping gaze, and in guiding the young eyes of your less
confident associate, moreover, you feel you possess the treasure. These
are the refined pleasures that Venice has still to give, these odd happy
passages of communication and response.


But the point of my reminiscence is that there were other communications
that day, as there were certainly other responses. I have forgotten
exactly what it was we were looking for--without much success--when we
met the three Sisters. Nothing requires more care, as a long knowledge
of Venice works in, than not to lose the useful faculty of getting lost.
I had so successfully done my best to preserve it that I could at that
moment conscientiously profess an absence of any suspicion of where we
might be. It proved enough that, wherever we were, we were where the
three sisters found us. This was on a little bridge near a big campo,
and a part of the charm of the matter was the theory that it was very
much out of the way. They took us promptly in hand--they were
only walking over to San Marco to match some coloured wool for the
manufacture of such belated cushions as still bloom with purple and
green in the long leisures of old palaces; and that mild errand could
easily open a parenthesis. The obscure church we had feebly imagined
we were looking for proved, if I am not mistaken, that of the sisters’
parish; as to which I have but a confused recollection of a large grey
void and of admiring for the first time a fine work of art of which I
have now quite lost the identity. This was the effect of the charming
beneficence of the three sisters, who presently were to give our
adventure a turn in the emotion of which everything that had preceded
seemed as nothing. It actually strikes me even as a little dim to have
been told by them, as we all fared together, that a certain low, wide
house, in a small square as to which I found myself without particular
association, had been in the far-off time the residence of George Sand.
And yet this was a fact that, though I could then only feel it must
be for another day, would in a different connection have set me richly
reconstructing.

Madame Sand’s famous Venetian year has been of late immensely in the
air--a tub of soiled linen which the muse of history, rolling her
sleeves well up, has not even yet quite ceased energetically and
publicly to wash. The house in question must have been the house
to which the wonderful lady betook herself when, in 1834, after the
dramatic exit of Alfred de Musset, she enjoyed that remarkable period
of rest and refreshment with the so long silent, the but recently
rediscovered, reported, extinguished, Doctor Pagello. As an old
Sandist--not exactly indeed of the première heure, but of the fine
high noon and golden afternoon of the great career--I had been, though I
confess too inactively, curious as to a few points in the topography of
the eminent adventure to which I here allude; but had never got beyond
the little public fact, in itself always a bit of a thrill to the
Sandist, that the present Hotel Danieli had been the scene of its first
remarkable stages. I am not sure indeed that the curiosity I speak
of has not at last, in my breast, yielded to another form of
wonderment--truly to the rather rueful question of why we have so
continued to concern ourselves, and why the fond observer of the
footprints of genius is likely so to continue, with a body of
discussion, neither in itself and in its day, nor in its preserved and
attested records, at all positively edifying. The answer to such an
inquiry would doubtless reward patience, but I fear we can now glance at
its possibilities only long enough to say that interesting persons--so
they be of a sufficiently approved and established interest--render
in some degree interesting whatever happens to them, and give it an
importance even when very little else (as in the case I refer to) may
have operated to give it a dignity. Which is where I leave the issue of
further identifications.

For the three sisters, in the kindest way in the world, had asked us if
we already knew their sequestered home and whether, in case we didn’t,
we should be at all amused to see it. My own acquaintance with them,
though not of recent origin, had hitherto lacked this enhancement, at
which we both now grasped with the full instinct, indescribable enough,
of what it was likely to give. But how, for that matter, either, can I
find the right expression of what was to remain with us of this episode?
It is the fault of the sad-eyed old witch of Venice that she so easily
puts more into things that can pass under the common names that do for
them elsewhere. Too much for a rough sketch was to be seen and felt
in the home of the three sisters, and in the delightful and slightly
pathetic deviation of their doing us so simply and freely the honours
of it. What was most immediately marked was their resigned cosmopolite
state, the effacement of old conventional lines by foreign contact and
example; by the action, too, of causes full of a special interest,
but not to be emphasised perhaps--granted indeed they be named at
all--without a certain sadness of sympathy. If “style,” in Venice, sits
among ruins, let us always lighten our tread when we pay her a visit.

Our steps were in fact, I am happy to think, almost soft enough for a
death-chamber as we stood in the big, vague sala of the three sisters,
spectators of their simplified state and their beautiful blighted rooms,
the memories, the portraits, the shrunken relics of nine Doges. If I
wanted a first chapter it was here made to my hand; the painter of life
and manners, as he glanced about, could only sigh--as he so frequently
has to--over the vision of so much more truth than he can use. What on
earth is the need to “invent,” in the midst of tragedy and comedy that
never cease? Why, with the subject itself, all round, so inimitable,
condemn the picture to the silliness of trying not to be aware of it?
The charming lonely girls, carrying so simply their great name and
fallen fortunes, the despoiled decaduta house, the unfailing Italian
grace, the space so out of scale with actual needs, the absence of
books, the presence of ennui, the sense of the length of the hours and
the shortness of everything else--all this was a matter not only for a
second chapter and a third, but for a whole volume, a dénoûment and a
sequel.

This time, unmistakably, it was the last--Wordsworth’s stately
“shade of that which once was great”; and it was almost as if our
distinguished young friends had consented to pass away slowly in order
to treat us to the vision. Ends are only ends in truth, for the painter
of pictures, when they are more or less conscious and prolonged. One
of the sisters had been to London, whence she had brought back the
impression of having seen at the British Museum a room exclusively
filled with books and documents devoted to the commemoration of her
family. She must also then have encountered at the National Gallery
the exquisite specimen of an early Venetian master in which one of her
ancestors, then head of the State, kneels with so sweet a dignity before
the Virgin and Child. She was perhaps old enough, none the less, to have
seen this precious work taken down from the wall of the room in which
we sat and--on terms so far too easy--carried away for ever; and not
too young, at all events, to have been present, now and then, when her
candid elders, enlightened too late as to what their sacrifice might
really have done for them, looked at each other with the pale hush of
the irreparable. We let ourselves note that these were matters to put a
great deal of old, old history into sweet young Venetian faces.


III

In Italy, if we come to that, this particular appearance is far from
being only in the streets, where we are apt most to observe it--in
countenances caught as we pass and in the objects marked by the
guide-books with their respective stellar allowances. It is behind
the walls of the houses that old, old history is thick and that the
multiplied stars of Baedeker might often best find their application.
The feast of St. John the Baptist is the feast of the year in Florence,
and it seemed to me on that night that I could have scattered about me a
handful of these signs. I had the pleasure of spending a couple of hours
on a signal high terrace that overlooks the Arno, as well as in the
galleries that open out to it, where I met more than ever the pleasant
curious question of the disparity between the old conditions and the new
manners. Make our manners, we moderns, as good as we can, there is still
no getting over it that they are not good enough for many of the great
places. This was one of those scenes, and its greatness came out to the
full into the hot Florentine evening, in which the pink and golden
fires of the pyrotechnics arranged on Ponte Carraja--the occasion of our
assembly--lighted up the large issue. The “good people” beneath were a
huge, hot, gentle, happy family; the fireworks on the bridge, kindling
river as well as sky, were delicate and charming; the terrace connected
the two wings that give bravery to the front of the palace, and the
close-hung pictures in the rooms, open in a long series, offered to a
lover of quiet perambulation an alternative hard to resist.

Wherever he stood--on the broad loggia, in the cluster of company, among
bland ejaculations and liquefied ices, or in the presence of the mixed
masters that led him from wall to wall--such a seeker for the spirit of
each occasion could only turn it over that in the first place this was
