I’ve never cared much about it.” 
“ We are going to take up some of the poets 
as a study. And you ought to learn to read 
them well, you have a good voice.” 
It still rained the next morning. Martin 
came over. Mr. Hildreth wanted to know if 
he, Martin, could not take the ferns down for 
Miss Grant. 
“ Why, that would be most kind of you. 
Yes, whenever you are at liberty. Thank you 
very much.” 
OCTOBER AND HALLOWE'EN iyi 
There was a pretty fair attendance in spite 
of the rain. At recess, as they could not go 
out, they gathered about Miss Grant, and the 
girls who had taken the ride talked it over in 
an eager fashion. 
“ Suppose you write it for an exercise this 
afternoon,” she said. “ One girl can describe 
the ride there and back, another the river with 
the almost island, then gathering the ferns. 
At noon we will set them out and that will 
make another. Miss Jaynes must think up 
the last.” 
“ One girl ought to write a letter of thanks 
to Mr. Hildreth,” she replied. 
“ That is excellent,” declared Helen. 
They ate their lunch at noon and then 
proceeded to place the ferns in their new 
home. 
“ Oh, who has some scissors ? ” cried Edna 
March. “ See this long — is it a root ? I 
can’t break it. And look what is growing on 
the end ! ” 
Helen turned. “ Oh, don’t cut it ! Why, 
that is quite a prize. This little sort of sprout 
on the end is a new fern, a baby, though it has 
gone a long way from its mother. It is called 
a traveling fern. It sends out this wiry sort 
of shoot that presently touches the ground and 
takes root and a new fern grows.” 
“ Can we make it grow here ? ” 
“ I think so. We will try.” 
“ And here is an old root,” — doubtfully, 
holding it up in her hand. 
“We are going to bury that and see if the 
warmth will not make it think it is spring, 
and it may poke up its gray, fuzzy head. 
Perhaps we can't deceive it, though,” and she 
laughed. 
“ Well, we will try. Oh, won’t it be 
funny ! ” 
“ Florists are doing this all the time. They 
make lilies of the valley blossom at Christmas, 
and many other summer flowers.” 
They had more than enough to fill their box, 
and Mr. Underwood sent them a large flat pot 
that had come last year with some Easter 
tulips. 
The compositions on their outing were so 
well done that Miss Grant sent them in to Mr. 
Underwood, who commended them warmly. 
And Mr. Hildreth came in to see the fern bed 
and express his pleasure that they had enjoyed 
it so much. 
The next grand adventure was chestnutting. 
Most of the school turned out for that, except 
some of the older girls who did not want to be 
in such a rabble. Mr. Underwood went to 
thrash the trees, he said, since he was not al- 
lowed to thrash any boys. 
They had a grand time and a great deal of 
fun. Early autumn, and warm weather was 
over. The gardens were despoiled of all 
blooms except the chrysanthemums. The 
trees were well-nigh leafless, only here and 
there an oak or a copper beech stood out de- 
fiantly. How beautiful the slim white birches 
looked ! There were still a few field asters 
and here and there a belated daisy. Great 
clumps of golden-rod were growing fuzzy. 
They gathered a good supply of chestnuts. 
There had been no tramps to despoil the 
woods. They sang songs and then ran races, 
the boys against the girls. 
“ Did you ever run races when you were 
little?” inquired Allen Millard wistfully, 
 
watching the flying children. He had come 
to be a very warm admirer of Miss Grant. 
“ Oh, yes. And when I was big, too, at col- 
lege. We had a course and there was a 
prize for that and other athletic feats,” and 
Helen laughed at the thought of the old 
times. 
“ Did you ever win a prize ? ” 
Helen flushed. “ The freshmen run against 
the sophomores, then they against the juniors, 
and so on. There is a great time. Yes, I 
won twice.’ 
“Oh, I wish I could have seen you!” and 
he drew a long breath. “ I want to go to col- 
lege, Miss Grant, but I shall never be able to 
do any of those things, and you can’t 
think ” His voice broke. 
“Yes, I can, for I have been in it myself. 
There is so much friendly rivalry, so much 
that stirs the blood and the very soul. I am 
sorry to have you handicapped, but I should 
go all the same.” 
“ I like you so much,” in a low tone. 
“ Won’t you come to tea some night and tell 
us all about it ? ” 
Helen promised. 
There was a great deal of fun in the racing. 
The boys beat, of course, but Helen said the 
girls had no regular training and did not know 
how to manage their strength. It was a very 
good-natured contest. 
“ I’ve been almost made over into a boy,” 
Mr. Underwood declared. “ I don’t know 
when I have enjoyed such a frolic. I wish my 
wife had come, Miss Grant, you rouse one’s 
enthusiasm. And to-day you look just six- 
teen. But you manage admirably. The boys 
have improved in their studies. May be by the 
end of the year we may be not quite dis- 
couraged,” laughingly. 
In certain ways they had improved; recita- 
tions and exercises were better, but there was 
still a sort of covert insolence on the part of 
Eastman and occasionally the others. Helen 
did not notice it. Miss Jaynes said, “ It is such 
a pleasure to teach with you ! Oh, I hope noth- 
ing will take you away for years ! ” 
Helen’s eyes were bright with pleasure. 
“ Oh, Miss Grant ! ” one of the girls said 
Friday afternoon when school had closed, 
 
“ do you know any Hallowe'en tricks ? The 
boys are going to have a procession, and it will 
be queer enough! I have been making some 
cotton doughnuts and some salt caramels. I 
wanted to have a real party but mother said 
they would be too uproarious, and I could have 
it later on.” 
They talked over various charms and Helen 
told of some that were simple, yet amusing. 
Mr. Underwood cautioned the boys about com- 
mitting willful mischief, as that would be 
punished. 
Mrs. Stirling closed her old-fashioned board 
shutters. “ I do not suppose they will come up 
as far as here,” she said, “ but it is well enough 
to be prepared.” 
They heard the horns and the clang of tin 
pans now and then, and for a long while all 
was silent. Then there seemed stealthy steps, 
but they died away. 
After a little while, a light ring at the door- 
bell. Jane was going to bed, and with a 
candlestick in her hand she paused to open the 
door and give the intruder a piece of her mind. 
But her little space was pushed so rudely open 
that the door struck her, and something fell 
heavily to the floor. 
Jane screamed with affright. Mrs. Stirling 
came out in the hall. There lay a figure of 
a boy or man, with blood spattered here and 
there on his clothing. A hand lay by itself, 
frightfully white. 
“ Oh, Jane! are you hurt? What is it? 
What dreadful thing ” 
“ My face has had a pretty bad bang.” She 
kicked the form viciously. “ Why, it’s — 
it’s — ” with another and harder kick — “ a 
log — dressed up. And that’s no real hand. 
Drat them boys! I’d like to horsewhip 
them ! ” 
The girls had come out. It was a log hav- 
ing a false face and a long coat wrapped 
around it, with small patches of red flannel 
pinned here and there to simulate blood. The 
hand was made of cotton cloth and stuffed, 
and a red gash on that. 
“ Let us drag it in,” said Mrs. Stirling. 
“ The police must be notified. Why, Jane, if 
it had struck you it would have knocked you 
down. As it is your cheek begins to swell and 
 
your eye also. Why, if it had been your tem- 
ple it might have killed you! ” 
They shut the door and barred it. Then 
they went back to the kitchen and bathed Jane’s 
face with hot water and witch hazel. 
“ The door came so suddenly against me. I 
had meant to open it just a little crack. It 
was such a sort of lady-like ring I didn’t 
suspect, and I thought it might be some one 
from the Cooks’.” 
Helen drew a long breath. “ It was a cruel 
and dastardly thing, and the perpetrators ought 
to be severely punished.” Was it meant as an 
insult or fright to her? 
“ I only hope we can discover them,” said 
Mrs. Stirling. “ And now let us all go to bed. 
The door will not be opened again to-night.” 
True to her word she sallied out early the 
next morning. An officer came to view the 
figure, which was as much as he could lift. 
He took off the wrappings and the mask and 
rolled them up, and dragged the log out of 
doors with instructions to let it lie there for 
a while. 
Soon after there came a reporter for the 
evening paper, and Mrs. Stirling in her indig- 
nation withheld no particulars. Jane’s face 
was still swollen and her eye inflamed. 
Mr. Hildreth came in presently. 
“If there were a crowd of young people 
having a merry party here, one might under- 
stand the cowardly trick. But a small house- 
hold of women! And such a dangerous thing! 
I shall make every effort to find the perpetra- 
tors, for there were several, no doubt.” 
The Stirling house was quite besieged 
through the day. The gates and signs that 
had been exchanged, the steps and fences 
marked up with red and blue chalk were quite 
thrown into the shade by this piece of mischief 
that might have had a fatal result. The whole 
town was indignant over the account in the 
evening paper. Mr. and Mrs. Underwood 
came up to offer their condolence. 
“ If any of the school boys are concerned in 
this they shall be made to suffer, Miss Grant.” 
In a lower tone just for her ear, “ Do you 
suspect any one ? ” 
Helen colored. “ Will not the coat betray 
the perpetrator?” she asked rather confusedly. 
 
“ The coat — I had not thought of that. All 
the things are at the precinct. I can’t quite un- 
derstand ” He knit his brows and looked 
sharply at Helen. “No one can have a grudge 
against Mrs. Stirling. And her niece is a very 
quiet person. If she were a boy, now! ” 
Helen tried to keep down the rising color 
that she felt flooded her face, and leaned over 
to straighten the table-cover that had been 
pushed away. 
“ It was a dastardly act. I should be sorry 
to be the mother of a boy capable of such a* 
thing.” 
“ I do not suppose he really meant serious 
harm. Boys are so thoughtless.” 
“ What is the good of all our training if we 
cannot make them think of the injury to their 
neighbors ? And the churches, the Sunday 
schools? ” 
How fine and spirited her face looked in its 
indignation! Was it the training that had 
made her strong and clear-eyed, reticent, too? 
Any other person having suffered insolence 
from the speech of Dick Eastman would have 
accused him at a venture. 
CHAPTER VIII 
KEEPING A SECRET 
Mrs. Stirling was quite exhausted on Sun- 
day, from the talk and the excitement, and did 
not go to church. There were callers all the 
afternoon. Jane’s discolored eye attested the 
extent of the injury, though it had been from 
the force with which the heavy door had been 
thrown open. She had come down to dinner 
and was now ensconced in the Morris chair 
with the cushions about her. Habitually pale, 
she had a wan and startled look. 
One and another was relating grievances 
and defacements. 
“ Though it’s not as bad as real paint. 
There was a grotesque figure on my nice 
newly-painted front door — with horns and a 
tail, and even if it was too new to touch I had 
it scrubbed off,” complained a neighbor. 
“ Now it will have to be done over. Mr. Kent 
has been driving the boys out of the apple 
orchard, — we have a few very fine trees and 
we count on what they bring in to us. It is a 
shame to have your property destroyed and 
your crops ruined or stolen.’ 
“ Some stringent measures must be taken to 
stop these depredations,” said Mr. Hildreth. 
“ I don’t know that I am altogether in favor 
of the high school,” continued the indignant 
Mrs. Kent. “ We have had some rest from 
mischief these two years, while the large boys 
have been away, and now it has begun again.” 
“ What about the high school? ” asked Mr. 
Underwood, who had just entered with his 
wife. “ That is the apple of Mr. Hildreth’s 
eye, the idol of his heart,” and he laughed over 
to him. “ Mrs. Stirling, I hope you are not 
suffering from the shock too severely. Noth- 
ing can exceed my regret that you should have 
been made the victim of such a cruel trick.” 
“ I had rather have the high school closed 
than turn out such miscreants,” Mr. Hildreth 
exclaimed indignantly. 
“ But why the high school ? There are boys 
down in the paper mill, in the cloth mill as 
well. Some of them frequent the saloons, 
and many of these mischiefs seem like half- 
drunken capers. I can’t have our boys blamed 
for everything.” 
“ But you see we had comparative peace 
last fall, and the mill boys were there. Most 
of them have been in the public school. You 
should have trained them better, Mr. Under- 
wood.” 
That gentleman flushed with a spasm of 
anger, as he replied: 
“ You seem to forget that boys will be boys 
and that for a few years they are the very 
embodiment of mischief. But they turn out 
very fair men afterward.” 
“Well, I’m thankful I never had a boy!” 
declared Mrs. Kent. 
“ If all the mothers felt that way what would 
we do for husbands,” laughed Mrs. Under- 
wood. 
“ Why, I thought matters were going on 
very nicely with us. Miss Grant has noticed 
the improvement. It isn’t fair to put all the 
blame on us. Miss Grant, take up the cudgels 
for us,” and Mr. Underwood gave her a mean- 
ing look. 
I 
“ I should be sorry to have any boy in the 
school connected with such a positively wicked 
scheme as this and several other pieces of mis- 
chief. But much of it comes back to the utter 
indifference to other people’s belongings. I call 
it dishonesty to mar and destroy what it will 
cost the owner considerable money to replace. 
They had better steal his money; he would 
escape the trouble of repairing.” 
“ Oh, Miss Grant ! that’s pretty hard ! 
They do not really mean ” 
“ Why do they do it, then? They are not so 
ignorant of the consequences. Don’t you sup- 
pose they all knew Mrs. Kent’s hall door must 
be scrubbed off and painted over? And 
marking up fences and steps! We are teach- 
ing civics, interest in homes and grounds and 
towns. Why, then, excuse the marring and 
destruction of them? We see the wrong and 
crime in a tramp and send him to prison. It 
is just as wrong in any one’s son and we ought 
to have the courage to say so.” 
Helen Grant looked lovely as she stood there 
in her brave spirit and fine, fearless honor. 
“ Miss Grant is right,” said Mr. Hildreth. 
“ I do not think we emphasize the justice to 
our neighbor sufficiently. When our fore- 
fathers subscribed to ‘ the pursuit of happi- 
ness ’ they certainly did not mean we should 
wrong our neighbor to get it. And surely 
malicious mischief cannot make any one happy. 
It must be done in secret and kept secret. It 
is a thing to be ashamed of, to be regretted 
later on, if the boy has any manliness in him. 
I wish the perpetrators of this ferreted out.” 
“ You may rest assured I shall do my best,” 
said Mr. Underwood rather sharply. 
Mrs. Underwood had seated herself beside 
Mrs. Stirling. “ I do not believe I should 
have opened the door,” she said. 
“ But Jane would have opened it in the 
morning and the log would have fallen in, per- 
haps knocked her down, as she would not have 
been so cautious. And it did look dreadful in 
the dim light, with those patches of red as if 
some one had been murdered.” 
Mrs. Stirling shuddered even now. 
“ I can’t think who would have done it to 
you,” was the indignant comment. 
“ The boys have never molested me before. 
 
Now I have two young women and I fancy the 
trick was for them. But they had annoyed 
no one, nor made themselves obnoxious. ” 
Had it been meant for Miss Grant? The 
two men had a rather warm discussion, sup- 
plemented by a certain straightforwardness in 
Mrs. Kent, who kept strictly to right and 
wrong. 
“ We are tiring out Mrs. Stirling,’ Mrs. 
Underwood said at length. “ No words can 
adequately express our regret that you and 
Jane should have been such sufferers. And I 
am sure the whole town will be eager to 
punish the perpetrators.” 
Helen was quite certain she could guess at 
two of them, for one could not have done it 
alone. But she made no special reply to 
Lilian’s wondering. 
Monday morning the larger boys and those 
who had taken part in the procession were 
called into Mr. Underwood’s office, when he 
dwelt upon the heinousness of the trick that 
might have done very serious injury. 
“ The procession and the real fun we can 
excuse, but it ought to be confined to you boys. 
You have no right to injure and deface the 
property of grown people, and I give warning 
now that any boy guilty of the crime of a 
tramp will be handed over to the law to be 
dealt with. As for the other I cannot think 
any boy in this school could be so lost to honor, 
and a sense of what is due to every human 
being, as to willfully do so despicable an act. 
The authorities will use their utmost endeavors 
to ferret out the perpetrators, and if any are 
found in this school they will be ignominiously 
expelled. Now you may go to your classes.” 
Helen stood so that she could face the boys 
as they came in. All of them had rather 
flushed countenances. Dinsmore and East- 
man evaded her glance. She wondered if she 
were quite right in concealing her suspicions. 
But the punishment would be very severe and 
the stigma remain for years. 
Mr. Underwood tried to draw some sug- 
gestive remark from her, but she was on her 
guard. If she meant to keep the secret she 
must beware even of herself. 
All that week the big boys seemed to have a 
dispensation of grace. Their recitations were 
wonderful, they propounded no foolish ques- 
tions, they were uniformly polite to her. But 
with her keen sense she felt there was a cer- 
tain knowledge between her and Eastman. 
He flushed at any sudden glance instead of 
boldly staring. 
There was a great stir about discovering the 
culprits. They had covered their tracks 
securely. They found that the coat belonged 
to a colored man who lived by himself and did 
odd jobs about. It had been given to him the 
winter before by the Methodist minister, and 
stolen early in the week. No possible sus- 
picion could attach to him. So the matter re- 
mained a mystery. 
“ I should think it a drunken prank,” said 
Judge Ford, “ only I can’t see any reason for 
playing it on a quiet, inoffensive woman.” 
Helen wondered about Thanksgiving. Shir- 
ley and Willard insisted she should come to 
them. There would be three visiting days, 
and she might make it four by an early return 
on Monday morning. And if Juliet would 
come down on Friday! She was hungry for 
a sight of the dear faces of the past life. 
Mr. Hildreth always gave a Thanksgiving 
dinner to some of his neighbors who had no' 
close family ties to claim them on that day. 
“ Oh, must you go? ” he said to Helen with 
a wistful inflection. “ I had quite counted on 
you. You see I am a selfish old fellow, liking 
my own pleasure. But you have been so long 
away from your friends. Will Miss Craven 
meet you? I should like to see her again.” 
“ She will come down on Friday. We plan 
to go to some nice entertainment — she will 
have the tickets. But I am to visit my charm- 
ing little protegee, Mrs. Bell.” 
“ You might invite me to make their ac- 
quaintance and it would enlarge our repertory 
of mutual friends; then we could talk them 
over. And we might find something for 
Saturday.” 
“ Oh ! Would you like it? ” Her face was 
eager, smiling. “ And Miss Craven would be 
delighted to see you. Then I should like you 
to meet the Bells, though you know so many 
grand people, and they are kind of everyday 
folk, — well, not that exactly, either. They are 
charming.” 
“ I can believe that easily,” smiling in his 
turn. 
“ And I would like to come to your dinner, 
too. O dear! How many times I’ve wished 
I were two people ! Isn’t it queer that at 
times you would like to have a dual body? 
Would they both enjoy, I wonder?” 
“ The other parties would, I am quite sure,” 
he returned gravely. 
“ About the visit, now,” he began after a 
pause. “ If I should come down on Friday 
