on Wednesday. It was not until I noted the grave wonder in her blue
eyes, as I congratulated her and him that they would have the evening
to themselves and home-talk, that it dawned upon me how unconventional
was the proceeding altogether. North of Mason and Dixon’s line it would
have been downright impropriety for an engaged girl to walk off coolly,
in the escort of another man, within a few hours after the coming of
the betrothed whom she had not seen for a month.
The person who would be supposed to suffer most discomfort from the
outrage to conventionality was, fortunately, more au fait to
Virginia manners and social usages than his relative. When I took an
opportunity to express misgivings lest I might lose ground in her good
graces if I kept the engagement to hear the famous ballad-singer, I was
bidden not to “waste a thought on that matter, but to enjoy the concert
with all my heart. For his part, he was delighted that I had the chance
to go.”
So, when our escorts appeared, I carried off a light heart, and was
obedient to the injunction to get all the enjoyment that Dempster, then
evidently in the decadence of his powers, could give a music-lover.
I heard him but that once. I do not regret that I went then, although
sadness mingled with pleasure while we listened. Dempster’s rendition
of English ballads, without other accompaniment than the piano played
by himself, with no effort after brilliancy of execution, had moved two
continents to smiles and tears. One searches vainly for his name in
cyclopædias and dictionary lists of the famous dead. He was now a gray
and flabby oldish man. His voice was broken in the high register, and
thickened on the lower; his breath was irregular and short. Yet certain
passages—notably in the Irish Emigrant’s Lament—had sympathetic
sweetness that helped one to credit the stories of his former
successes. He sang Tennyson’s May Queen all through, not skipping
a stanza of the three parts. It was a dreary performance, that grew
absolutely painful before the consumptive was finally relegated to the
bourne
    “Where the wicked cease from troubling,
      And the weary are at rest.”
“Thank Heaven!” sighed Mr. Rhodes as the last word quavered forth; and
Mea—“She ought to apologize for being such an unconscionably long time
in dying.”
XXXI
WEDDING BELLS—A BRIDAL TOUR—A DISCOVERED RELATIVE—A NOBLE LIFE
                              “RICHMOND, August 16th, 1856.
    “MY VERY DEAR EFFIE,—My long silence has seemed strange
    and may have appeared unkind to you, but there have been a
    thousand hindrances to my writing.
    “A sudden fit of illness interrupted the health that had
    remained firm throughout the warm spring weather, and
    obliged me to make my visit to Goochland earlier than I
    intended. For a week or more after my arrival there I was
    worse than I had been at home. When I began to recover, the
    amendment was rapid.
    “To cut short these details, I am most unromantically
    well and robust, am gaining flesh daily, and boast an
    appetite that would throw a sentimental young woman into
    convulsions were she to witness my gastronomic exploits. Yet
    I have delayed writing to you because I wished to arrange
    everything relating to the final ‘performances’ before
    notifying you of the same.
    “There have been sundry alterations in the programme since
    you and I last consulted over these things, the principal
    of which is the change of the day and hour. We expect,
    now, to leave home on Tuesday fortnight (September 2d) in
    the morning, instead of (as was first spoken of) on the
    afternoon of Wednesday, the 3d. This will allow us two days
    in Philadelphia, and, being the plan most approved of by
    father and Mr. Terhune, of course I am submissive.
    “The bridal party will spend both Monday and Tuesday
    evenings, besides breakfasting here on Tuesday morning. So
    you girls may bring evening dresses.
    “The bridesmaids are to wear blue muslin or lawn skirts,
    with white muslin basques—a neat breakfast costume that
    will look pretty as a uniform, and be becoming to all of
    you, without throwing my quiet travelling attire too much
    into the shade. You know that at a morning wedding it is
    customary for each to dress as she pleases. This never
    pleased my fancy. The company wears a motley look. Full
    bridal robes would be equally out of place. Therefore, we
    have selected this medium.
    “Now, ma chère! cannot you keep your intention of the
    Richmond trip as profound a secret as you have other matters
    we wot of? Your father and mother must be apprized of it,
    and Colonel and Mrs. Graves; but, for a few days, cannot the
    story be kept within the two families? I trust you to do
    this for me.
    “The Charlotte party will come down on Monday, the 1st.
    We shall expect you and Virginia some days in advance of
    that date. I hope to have everything in readiness, even to
    packing my trunks, by the middle of the preceding week, and
    to have time to enjoy your society. Write as soon as your
    plans are formed, and let that time be very soon. As to my
    trousseau—thanks to nimble and kind fingers, the work is
    nearly done. Next week my time is to be divided between the
    dressmaker and a gentleman who writes that he has ‘business
    to attend to in Richmond,’ and who, it is fair to presume,
    may call occasionally. The latest gossip is that there is to
    be a double wedding here next month; that both sisters are
    to be dressed precisely alike and be married in the evening.
    Therefore, come prepared for the worst—or the best, as the
    case may seem.
    “To drop business and jesting together—it is very hard to
    realize that, if Providence permit, one little fortnight
    will bring such a change into my life. Here, in the home
    of my girlhood, where all else is unaltered, and I seem to
    be welded, as it were, into the household chain, I cannot
    believe that my place is so soon to be vacant. Brain and
    heart are so full of crowding thoughts and emotions that I
    marvel how I preserve a composed demeanor. The past, with
    its tender and hallowed memories; the present, with a
    wealth of calm, real happiness; the bright, although vague
    future, alike strive to enchain my mind.
    “I long to see you; to have a good, old-fashioned chat, a
    familiar interchange of our plans and our hopes. There is a
    sentence in your last that promises much—a promise I shall
    surely call upon you to redeem when we meet. I would have
    you feel that by this union you gain, not lose a friend....
    “My love to your mother and to ‘Cousin Mag.’ May I not ask
    from them a sincere ‘God-speed’?
    “You will not disappoint me, now, dear one? Write at once
    that you are all coming. You and Virginia G. will require
    little preparation—besides the blue skirt and the thin
    muslin spencer (which you are sure to have!), a pair of
    white gloves will be all you need.
    “This is a hasty and, I fear, an incoherent letter, but a
    full freight of love goes with it. As I began, I end with
    ‘COME!’”
As may be gathered from this letter, the wedding was to be a simple
affair—so quiet that it could not be called a social function.
We were of one mind on that point. To secure the presence of our most
intimate friends, we went through the form of selecting bridesmaids
and groomsmen. It was the custom to have a long train of attendants at
large wedding-parties, and we took advantage of the fashion to limit
the company to be assembled on that early September morning to “the
bridal party” and the family. The exceptions to the limit were dear old
Doctor Haxall (whose wife was out of town) and three friends of the
bridegroom. Two were from New Jersey and family connections, although
not related by blood. The other was Mr. Word, of Charlotte, the
gentlest-hearted of old bachelors—known affectionately by his intimates
as “Cousin Jimmy.”
Genial old saint! My heart swells now at the flashlight picture
fastened upon memory of my first sight of, and speech with him. He was
more closely shaven than I ever saw him afterward—and he was ever the
pink of neatness. An expanse of white vest and shirt-bosom covered a
broad chest that palpitated visibly, as, enfolding my hand in both of
his, he said, in the best manner of the gentleman of the old school
(and there are no finer gentlemen anywhere):
“My dear madam, let me entreat you to regard me from this moment as a
BROTHER!”
No capitals can endow the word with the meaning he put into it. He
fulfilled his part of the compact nobly.
To go back to the preparation for the quiet bridal: A Richmond fashion
I have never known elsewhere, and which outlasted the war by some
years, was that the bride-elect and two or three of her bridesmaids
drove from house to house a day, or two or three, before the marriage,
and left cards upon acquaintances who were not bidden to the ceremony.
This was done in cases where, as with me, it was to be a house-wedding,
and the attendants were confined to a few family friends. If there were
to be a church-wedding, followed by a reception, or if the ceremony
at home were to be witnessed by a large party of guests, the drive
and delivery of cards preceded the “occasion” by a week or ten days.
To send an invitation to any social gathering by post would be a
transgression of decorum and precedent—a cheap trick unworthy of any
one tolerably well versed in social forms. The delivery by the bride
and her suite was delicately complimentary to those she wished to honor.
In furtherance of our design of keeping even the date of the marriage
secret up to the last possible hour, we had delayed the delivery of my
“P. P. C.” cards until Monday.
At the very bottom of the box of time-discolored letters preserved by
the friend of my childhood and intimate of my girlhood, I found one
of these cards. Time’s thumbmarks have not spared the bit of glazed
pasteboard. My maiden name is there, and, in the left-hand lower
corner, “P. P. C.” That was all the information it deigned to give the
curious and the friendly. I was going away—somewhere. Just when and
where was nobody’s business.
It will hardly be believed that we kept our own counsel so well that
our own servants, while they might have their suspicions, were only
certain that I was going North on Tuesday, as I had often gone on other
summers, and that the girls who had been visiting me for a week were to
remain to a party my sister would give on Tuesday evening. Not until
Monday morning were any of them, except “Mammy Rachel,” informed what
was on foot.
The day dawned—if dawn it could be called—through steady sheets of
rain. No delusive adage of “Rain before seven, clear before eleven”
ever gained currency in Richmond. It was as clear to our dismayed souls
that this was an all-day rain, as that the drive and cards could not
be postponed until to-morrow. Sampson, the carriage-driver, whom we
did not dub “coachman” until after the war, was notified by the mouth
of Tom, the young dining-room servant, that he must have the carriage
at the door at ten o’clock, and prepare for a long expedition. We were
at the breakfast-table when word came back that “it warn’t a fittin’
day for no young ladies to go out. Nor for his carriage an’ horses. De
ladies will have to put off their shoppin’ for another time.”
Mea turned upon the respectful emissary with the snap of the eyes and
incisive accent he knew full well:
“Say to Sampson that Miss Virginia is to be married to-morrow, and that
we have to take out cards. He will be here on time!”
We had an answer before we left our chairs.
“Yes, ma’am! He says he’d go if it killed him and the horses!”
We set forth at the appointed hour. Mea, Effie, Virginia Graves, and
myself, wrapped up as for a winter journey, but in as high spirits as
if the sun had shone and birds sung blithely in trees that shivered
and shrank and streamed under the weight of the bitter rain. Poor
Tom—for the nonce, the footman whose duty it was to jump down from
his perch at every door before which we signalled Sampson to stop, to
receive the enveloped card upon a silver tray, and to scamper up a
walk or up a flight of steps, his umbrella held low over the precious
consignment—had the worst of it all. He was soaked to the skin by the
time the route was finished and we turned homeward. We were out four
hours. And in all the four hours the rain never intermitted one drop,
and the wind only changed from the east to blow from all quarters of
the heavens at once. If coachman and patient footman were drenched, we
were more than moist, and so chilled that we rejoiced with exceeding
great joy at the sight of blazing fires in chambers and dining-room on
our return.
The home atmosphere was all that it should be on the eve of the first
wedding in a household where the happiness of one was the joy of all.
Maybe I took it too much as a matter of course, then. I value the
recollection with something akin to jealous fondness. How, all day
long, while the skies streamed without and the wind dashed the water
by pailfuls against the windows, mirth and frolic within went on like
a peal of joy-bells, and every look, gesture, and word carried to my
heart the sweet persuasion that I was not absent from the thoughts of
one of them for a moment.
So certain were we that nothing could “gang agley”—and this in the
teeth of the storm that had abated naught of its fury by nightfall—that
when Herbert, who had gone to the station to meet the Charlotte party
(including Doctor Hoge, who was returning from his vacation), brought
back a rueful countenance and the news that “the flood had washed away
a bridge on the Danville Railway and made it impracticable for trains
to run for twenty-four hours,” we fell upon him with a hail-storm of
laughing reproaches that swept away the pretence of sorrowful sympathy.
How could anything go wrong? Not one of us was hoaxed for the fraction
of a second.
We took for granted, with the like gay confidence, that the tempest
would rage itself faint by morning. It was no surprise that the day
was so brilliantly clear, so fresh and fragrant, that Doctor Hoge was
reminded of
    “The rose that was newly washed by the shower”—
and, after the ceremony, strayed from one to another of the thirty
present, asking if any one could tell him who was the author of the
line.
Which quest, when comparison of notes elicited the fact that ten
persons had been catechised, took a place among our family jests.
One incident of the journey to Washington stands out in my mind among
the thousand and one “coincidences,” falsely so-called, that star or
mar every human life, if we will but heed them and their consequences.
Mr. Terhune, and Mr. Cardwell, one of the groomsmen, who went as far as
Baltimore with us, on his way to speak at a political meeting, had gone
to look to the luggage after settling me in the car in Richmond. The
air was close, and I tried to raise the window by me.
“Allow me!” said a pleasant voice in my ear, and a strong hand reached
forward to perform the trifling service.
I said, over my shoulder, “Thank you!” catching sight of a fine, manly
face, lighted by a pair of kind, gray eyes. I saw the shadow of the
hand that went up to his hat, as he uttered some conventional phrase
in acknowledgment, and thought no more of him until we had taken the
Potomac boat at Acquia Creek. I recognized my neighbor of the train
then, in the tall man who tramped the deck to stretch long limbs
cramped by sitting in the car, and checked his walk to pick up and
comfort a child that fell headlong in running away from its nurse. I
was struck by the gentleness of the handsome giant in handling the
baby, and the tact he displayed in taking the weeper in his arms, and
directing his attention to a passing steamer. The little fellow stopped
crying at once, and, when the frightened nurse found the runaway, he
clung to the stranger’s neck, much to the amusement of the latter. He
carried him to the far end of the boat, talking cheerily with him, and
finally handed him over to the woman, with a kiss upon the baby-lips
held up to him.
The call to dinner diverted my mind from the little scene, and it was
not until we were in our hotel in Washington that I alluded to it, and
told Mr. Terhune of the courtesy the stranger had rendered me on the
train.
“I wish you had mentioned it before,” he said. “I should have thanked
him. I saw him at the hotel last night. His name is Brookes, I think.
He is a cousin of Doctor Hoge. By-the-way, he must be related to your
mother. And”—laughingly—“naturally, to yourself.”
“Of course!” I broke in, excitedly. “I wish I had guessed who he was.
It must be the Rev. James Brookes, my mother’s cousin. You needn’t
laugh! and you must not say ‘Another?’ He is a splendid fellow. His
mother was Judith Lacy, and named for my grandmother!”
As the genealogist of the family, I reckoned up the “handsome giant”
forthwith. I even knew incidents of his family history he never heard
until I rehearsed them to him in his St. Louis home, thirty years
afterward. He was, by then, to me the best-belovéd of all my clerical
kinsmen. I upbraided him, when we were made known to one another, for
not letting me know who he was at our first encounter.
“My dear cousin! On your wedding-day!” was his exclamation. “Even the
tie of kindred blood would not have justified the intermeddling of a
stranger at that time.”
We made up for the delay of a quarter-century by full and glad
recognition of the blood-claim. He was a master in Israel; eloquent
in the pulpit; as a writer, strong and convincing; in parish
ministrations, as tender as a woman and helpful as a brother. He
adorned his profession; as a citizen he fought evil with a lion’s
strength, and succored the erring with the wisdom of Paul, the
gentleness of John.
What strength and comfort I drew from intimate association with this
wise, tender, and leal kinsman, may not be told here. I can never
acknowledge it aright until I speak with the tongue of angels.
More than a dozen years have passed since the Easter noon, when the
lightning leaped along a thousand miles of telegraph lines, to bring me
this message from his son-in-law:
    “James H. Brookes fell asleep at sunrise on Easter
    morning.”
Since that glorious awakening he has dwelt forever with the Lord.
XXXII
    PARSONAGE LIFE—WILLIAM WIRT HENRY—HISTORIC SOIL—JOHN
    RANDOLPH—THE LAST OF THE RANDOLPHS
THE village of Charlotte Court-House was a rambling hamlet in 1856.
The plank-road from the nearest railway station (“Drake’s Branch”)
entered the village at one side, and cut abruptly into the main street.
This thoroughfare meandered leisurely from a country road at each end,
through the entire length of the shiretown. It was lined irregularly
with public and private buildings. The Court House, three or four
stores, a couple of hotels, and perhaps half a dozen residences, made
up the nucleus of the place. Beyond, and on either side, dwellings—some
of brick, some of wood—were surrounded by spacious grounds embracing
shrubbery, plantations, groves, and gardens. The “Village Church,”
a brick edifice hoary with years, and redolent of ecclesiastical
traditions, stood at the left of the plank turnpike as one approached
the village from the station. A porticoed manor-house, that had a
history almost as old, faced it across lawn and shrubbery on the
opposite side of the way. When one had left the turnpike for the main
street, and driven a quarter of a mile or so toward the “real country,”
one passed the Parsonage. It stood well away from the street, from
which it was screened by a grove of native oaks. Behind it lay a large
yard, at one side of which were the kitchen and other domestic offices.
A picket fence divided the yard from a garden, and at the left of this
were the stables and pasture. Back of the garden a field lost itself
in a wood of virgin growth.
The house was a white cottage, a story-and-a-half high, fronted and
backed by wide porches. A hall cut the lower floor in half, and ran
from the entrance to the back door. On the left of the hall was a
parlor of fair dimensions, with windows at the front and rear. “The
chamber,” of like shape and proportions, was on the other side. The
dining-room was one wing, and “the study” another. Both connected
directly with a deep portico which filled the intermediate space. Two
bedrooms above stairs, and a store-room adjoining the dining-room,
completed the tale of rooms.
A modest establishment in very truth, but not contemptible from the Old
Virginia standpoint. Small as it was, we did not have it to ourselves
until after Christmas. I esteemed this a fortunate circumstance from
the first, considering how much I had to learn of housekeeping and
parish work. Subsequently, I knew it for one of the signal blessings of
a life that has been affluent in goodness and mercy.
For the occupants of the Parsonage, pending the completion of a house
of their own in building at the other end of the village, were Mr. and
Mrs. Wirt Henry, a young married couple with one child. They had rented
the cottage for the year ending January 1st, and kindly consented to
receive us as boarders until the term had expired.
From the moment that Wirt Henry came out to assist me to alight from
the carriage that had brought us from the station, one mid-October day,
to the end of his honored and useful life, his friendship for us knew
no variableness nor shadow of turning. He was already my husband’s
staunch right hand in church and community. He took me upon trust for
the time. I learned to love husband and wife long before we became
separate households. To this day, his widow is to me as a sister.
In the care-free three months of our happy companionship, Mrs. Henry
helped me tactfully through the initial stages of acquaintanceship with
parish and neighborhood. To the manor born, and connected by blood with
two-thirds of the best families in the county, her gentle “coaching”
was an inestimable benefit to the stranger within her gates.
Her husband was a grandson of Patrick Henry, and a lawyer of note,
although not yet thirty years of age. He attained eminence in his
native county as time went on, and in Richmond, to which city he
removed after the War. His Life and Letters of Patrick Henry is
a standard biographical and historical classic; he filled with
distinction several public offices, among them that of President of the
American Historical Society, and Delegate to the Historical Congress at
The Hague, in 1897.
In private life he was the best of husbands and fathers, sweet-hearted
to the core, a thorough gentleman always and everywhere, and a genial
and delightful comrade. When I turned study and pen in the direction
of Colonial historical research, he was an invaluable auxiliary. I
told him, over and over, that he was to me an exhaustless reservoir of
information. I had only to open a sluiceway, to draw in copious measure
in my hour of need. As a faint expression of my sense of overwhelming
obligation to him, I dedicated to him my first volume on Colonial
Homesteads and Their Stories, published in 1896.
I cannot say that my thirst for Colonial traditions and histories
was created by my residence in Charlotte. From childhood I had been
indefatigable in the pursuit of genealogical details and the tales of
real life and happenings collected from the converse of my elders of
the “former days,” which they rated as better than these in defiance
of Solomon’s admonition. But it was not possible to live for three
years, as I did, in a region where the very earth was soaked in
historical associations; where every other name mentioned in my hearing
was interwoven with recitals of deeds of valor and of statesmanship
performed by the fathers of American history, and not be kindled into
zealous prosecution of my favorite studies.
The Court House, built in 1823, was designed by Thomas Jefferson. A
more interesting building was a shabby, tumbledown house, not far from
the site of the newer and better edifice. It was the “Court House”
in the stirring days when the paternal Government would not squander
money upon Colonial seats of justice. From the porch of this, Patrick
Henry delivered his last speech to his adoring constituents. He was
tottering upon the verge of the grave, into which he sank gently a few
weeks later. A crisis of national and state importance had called him
from his home at Red Hill, a dozen miles away. Keyed up by a sense of
the imminence of the peril to the country he had saved, his magnificent
will-power responded to the call; the dying fire leaped high. He had
never reasoned more cogently, never pleaded with more power than on
that day. But as the last word fell from his lips, he sank fainting
into the arms of his attendants. Dr. John Holt Rice stood on the
outskirts of the crowd. As the dying lion fell in his tracks, the
clergyman cried out: “The sun has set in all his glory!”
From the same homely rostrum John Randolph (whose homestead of
“Roanoke” is but a few miles from the county-seat) made his maiden
speech, and addressed for the last time those of whom he declared—“No
other man ever had such constituents.” In this address he recounted
the history of that relation, from the hour when the beardless boy
had raised his reedy voice to confute the arguments of the people’s
idol—Patrick Henry—to the date of this, his resignation of his office.
“Men of Charlotte!” The piercing voice that carried further in his
weakness than more stentorian tones, sent the farewell to the outskirts
of the breathless throng—“Forty years ago you confided this sacred
trust to me. Take it back! Take it back!”
The gesture, as of rolling a ponderous weight from heart and arms, was
never forgotten by those who saw it. With it he left the platform,
mounted his horse without another word, and rode off to Roanoke.
Mr. Jacob Michaux, of Powhatan County, was at that time a student in
Hampden-Sidney College, and came over to Charlotte for the express
purpose of hearing the famous orator. I had from his lips the
description of the scene. John Randolph, as is well known, never used
notes in speaking. It sent a sort of shudder, therefore, through the
audience, when he took a folded paper from his pocket and opened it,
saying:
“The infirmities of advancing age, and the consequent failure of
memory, have made it expedient that I should bring with me to-day a few
notes to remind me of what I would say to you.”
He held the paper in his hand while speaking, and referred to it
twice in the exordium. Warming to his work, he waved it aloft in his
impassioned gesticulation, evidently forgetful of it and what was
written on it. At last, it escaped from his fingers and fluttered down
to Mr. Michaux’s feet. The crowd, engrossed in the fervid oratory, did
not notice what had happened. The student put his foot upon the bit
of paper, without change of place or position. “It flashed across my
mind that I would secure it when the speech was over, and keep it as a
souvenir,” he said. “The next moment I forgot it, and everything else
except what the man before me was saying. It was a Vesuvian tide of
eloquence, and carried thought, feeling, imagination along with it. One
hears nothing like it in these degenerate days. I did not recollect the
paper until I was a mile away from the Court House, and the orator’s
voice began to die out of my ears.”
What a souvenir that would have been! I do not know that this anecdote
has ever been published before. I had it, as I have said, directly from
Mr. Michaux’s lips, and vouch for the authenticity.
Many of the stories that clung to the Parsonage had to do with the
Orator of Roanoke. The house was at one time the home of Captain “Jack”
Marshall, the father of the late Judge Hunter Marshall. The latter
was, during our residence in Charlotte, a near neighbor and charming
acquaintance. His father, “Captain Jack,” was one of the cronies
whom John Randolph’s eccentricities and fits of violent rage had not
estranged. Politically, his constituents adored Randolph. Personally,
they found him intolerable. Mrs. Eggleston, of whom I shall have more
to say by-and-by, told me of visiting a playfellow in the Marshall home
while John Randolph was staying with Captain Marshall. The two little
girls were busy with their dolls in the lower hall, when a hand-bell
was rung furiously above stairs.
Little Lucy looked wonderingly at her companion.
“Who is that? And what does it mean?”
“Oh, it’s Mr. Randolph trying to frighten away the devil. He has just
got up, you see, and he says the devil creeps from under his bed as
soon as he wakes up.”
The ringing continued at intervals for some minutes, and Lucy,
terrified by the fancy that the fleeing demon might appear on the
stairs, ran off home with the tale.
“My mother had heard it often, before,” said my friend, laughing at my
horrified incredulity. “It was but one of his crazy antics. No-o-o!”
doubtfully, as I put a question. “I don’t believe it was delirium
tremens. He took opium at times. I don’t know that he drank heavily.
Everybody took his toddy in those days, you know. John Randolph was
queer, through and through, from the cradle to the grave, and like no
other man that ever lived! We children were terribly afraid of him.”
One of the numerous stories Mr. Henry told of the eccentric was of his
asking a neighboring planter who was dining at Roanoke, if “he would
not take a slice of cold meat upon a hot plate?”
As “Juba,” Mr. Randolph’s body-servant, was at the guest’s elbow with
the hot plate, the gentleman thought he was expected to say “Yes,”
and fearing to anger the choleric host, took the plate, accepting the
offered cold meat. Whereupon, Randolph swore savagely at him for a
“lickspittle,” and a “coward.”
“You dare not speak up to me like a man!” he snarled. “I asked the
question to see what you would say.”
He was as brutal to members of his own family. A clergyman, who studied
divinity under Doctor Rice in Richmond, told me of a conversation
between John Randolph and his sister-in-law, the widow of Richard
Randolph. She was very fond of the Rices, spending weeks together
at their home, and at last, dying while on one of these visits.
Some months prior to her death, she joined the Presbyterian Church,
and shortly after taking this step, had a call from her terrible
brother-in-law. Regardless of the fact that two of the students were in
the next room, and that what he shrieked in his piercing falsetto must
be heard from the top of the house to the bottom, the irate Congressman
berated Mrs. Judith Randolph in the coarsest terms for the disgrace she
had brought upon an honorable name in uniting with “the Dissenters.”
He stayed not for any law, written or tacit, of respect due to host or
hostess, reviling both as scheming hypocrites and wolves in sheep’s
clothing, who had decoyed her into their “conventicle” in the hope of
securing her fortune for themselves.
Yet, there is extant a letter which I have read, from John Randolph to
Doctor Rice, written after his sister-in-law’s death, extolling her
piety, thanking her late host for his great goodness to the sainted
