
"Yes!" his courage coming back full and strong.  "I want you to tell me
you love me, and while my arms are round you like this!  May I kiss
you?"

"No other man save my father shall."

"Ah, I haven't done anything to deserve this!"

"No?"

"I'm not even a third-rate hero."

"No?" with gentle raillery.

"Say you love me!"

"Amo, ama, amiamo . . ."

"In English; I have never heard it in English."

"So," pushing back from him, "you have heard it in Italian?"

"Laura, I didn't mean that!  There was never any one else.  Say it!"

So she said it softly; she repeated it, as though the utterance was as
sweet to her lips as it was to his ears.  And then, for the first time,
she became supine in his arms.  With his cheek touching the hair on her
brow, they together watched but did not see the final conquest of the
day.

"And I have had the courage to ask you to be my wife?"  It was
wonderful.

Napoleon, his hunted great-grandson, the treasure, all these had ceased
to exist.

"John, when you lay in the corridor the other night, and I thought you
were dying, I kissed you."  Her arm tightened as did his.  "Will you
promise never to tell if I confess a secret?"

"I promise."

"You never would have had the courage to propose if I hadn't
deliberately brought you here for that purpose.  It was I who proposed
to you."

"I'm afraid I don't quite get that," doubtfully.

"Then we'll let the subject rest where it is.  You might bring it up in
after years."  Her laughter was happy.

He raised his eyes reverently toward heaven.  She would never know that
she had stood in danger.

"But your father!" with a note of sudden alarm.  And all the worldly
sides to the dream burst upon him.

"Father is only the 'company,' John."

And so the admiral himself admitted when, an hour later, Fitzgerald put
the affair before him, briefly and frankly.

"It is all her concern, my son, and only part of mine.  My part is to
see that you keep in order.  I don't know; I rather expected it.  Of
course," said the admiral, shifting his cigar, "there's a business end
to it.  I'm a rich man, but Laura isn't worth a cent, in money.  Young
men generally get the wrong idea, that daughters of wealthy parents
must also be wealthy."  He was glad to hear the young man laugh.  It
was a good sign.

"My earnings and my income amount to about seven-thousand a year; and
with an object in view I can earn more.  She says that will be plenty."

"She's a sensible girl; that ought to do to start on.  But let there be
no nonsense about money.  Laura's happiness; that's the only thing
worth considering.  I used to be afraid that she might bring a duke
home."  It was too dark for Fitzgerald to see the twinkle in the eyes
of his future father-in-law.  "If worst comes to worst, why, you can be
my private secretary.  The job is open at present," dryly.  "I've been
watching you; and I'm not afraid of your father's son.  Where's it to
be?"

"We haven't talked that over yet."

The admiral drew him down to the space beside him on the parapet and
offered the second greatest gift in his possession: one of his selected
perfectos.

The course of true love does not always run so smoothly.  A short
distance up the road Cathewe was grimly fighting for his happiness.

"Hildegarde, forget him.  Must he spoil both our lives?  Come with me,
be my wife.  I will make any and all sacrifices toward your
contentment."

"Have we not threshed this all out before, my friend?" sadly.  "Do not
ask me to forget him rather let me ask you to forget me."

"He will never be loyal to any one but himself.  He is selfish to the
core.  Has he not proved it?"  Where were the words he needed for this
last defense?  Where his arguments to convince her?  He was losing; in
his soul he knew it.  If his love for her was strong, hers for this
outcast was no less.  "I have never wished the death of any man, but if
he should die . . . !"

She interrupted him, her hands extended as in pleading.  Never had he
seen a woman's face so sad, "Arthur, I have more faith in you than in
any other man, and I prize your friendship above all other things.  But
who can say must to the heart?  Not you, not I!  Have I not fought
it?  Have I not striven to forget, to trample out this fire?  Have you
yourself not tried to banish me from your heart?  Have you succeeded?
Do you remember that night in Munich?  My voice broke, miserably, and
my public career was ruined.  What caused it?  A note from him, saying
that he had tired of the role and was leaving.  It was not my love he
wanted after all; a slip of paper, which at any time would have been
his for the asking.  Arthur, my friend, when you go from me presently
it will be with loathing.  That night you went to his room . . . he
lied to you."

"About what?"

"I mean, if I can not be his wife, I can not in honor be any man's.
God pity me, but must I make it plainer?"

Here, he believed, was his last throw.  "Have I not told you that
nothing mattered, nothing at all save that I love you?"

"I can not argue more," wearily.

"He will tire of you again," desperately.

"I know it.  But in my heart something speaks that he will need me; and
when he does I shall go to him."

"God in heaven! to be loved like that!"

Scarcely realizing the violence of his action, he crushed her to his
heart, roughly, and kissed her face, her eyes, her hair.  She did not
struggle.  It was all over in a moment.  Then he released her and
turned away toward the dusty road.  She was not angry.  She understood.
It was the farewell of the one man who had loved her in honor.
Presently he seemed to dissolve into the shadows, and she knew that out
of her life he had gone for ever.




CHAPTER XXV

THE DUPE

The next morning Fitzgerald found Cathewe's note under his plate.  He
opened it with a sense of disaster.


"MY DEAR OLD JACK:

I'm off.  Found a pony and shall jog to Ajaccio by the route we came.
Please take my luggage back to the Grand Hotel, and I'll pick it up.
And have my trunk sent ashore, too.  I shan't go back to America with
the admiral, bless his kindly old heart!  I'm off to Mombassa.  Always
keep a shooting-kit there for emergencies.  I suppose you'll
understand.  Be kind to her, and help her in any way you can.  I hope I
shan't run into Breitmann.  I should kill him out of hand.  Happiness
to you, my boy.  And maybe I'll ship you a trophy for the wedding.
Explain my departure in any way you please.

            "CATHEWE."


The reader folded the note and stowed it away.  Somehow, the bloom was
gone from things.  He was very fond of Cathewe, kindly, gentle, brave,
and chivalrous.  What was the matter with the woman, anyhow?  How to
explain?  The simplest way would be to state that Cathewe had gone back
to Ajaccio.  The why and wherefore should be left to the imagination.
But, oddly enough, no one asked a second question.  They accepted
Cathewe's defection without verbal comment.  What they thought was of
no immediate consequence.  Fitzgerald was gloomy till that moment when
Laura joined him.  To her, of course, he explained the situation.

Neither she nor Hildegarde cared to go up to the forest.  They would
find nothing but a hole.  And indeed, when the men returned from the
pines, weary, dusty, and dissatisfied, they declared that they had
gone, not with the expectation of finding anything, but to certify a
fact.

M. Ferraud was now in a great hurry.  Forty miles to Corte; night or
not, they must make the town.  There was no dissention; the spell of
the little man was upon them all.

Hildegarde rode alone, in the middle carriage.  Such had been her
desire.  She did not touch her supper.  And when, late at night, they
entered the gates of Corte and stepped down before the hotel lights,
Laura observed that Hildegarde's face was streaked by the passage of
many burning tears.  She longed to comfort her, but the older woman
held aloof.

Men rarely note these things, and when they do it has to be forced upon
them.  Fitzgerald, genuine in his regret for Cathewe, was otherwise at
peace with the world.  He alone of them all had found a treasure, the
incomparable treasure of a woman's love.


Racing his horses all through the night, scouring for fresh ones at
dawn and finding them, and away again, climbing, turning, climbing
round this pass, over that bridge, through this cut, thus flew
Breitmann, the passion of haste upon him.  By this tremendous pace he
succeeded in arriving at Evisa before the admiral had covered half the
distance to Carghese.

How clear and keen his mind was as on he rolled!  A thousand places
wove themselves to the parent-stem.  He even laughed aloud, sending a
shiver up the spine of the driver, who was certain his old padrone
was mad.  The face of Laura drifted past him as in a dream, and then
again, that of the other woman.  No, no; he regretted nothing,
absolutely nothing.  But he had been a fool there; he had wasted time
and lent himself to a despicable intrigue.  For all that he outcried
it, there was a touch of shame on his cheeks when he remembered that,
had he asked, she would have given him that scrap of paper the first
hour of their meeting.  Somewhere in Hildegarde von Mitter lay dormant
the spirit of heroes.  He had made a mistake.

Two millions of shining money, gold, silver, and English notes!  And he
laughed again as he recalled M. Ferraud, caught in a trap.  He was
clever, but not clever enough.  What a stroke!  To make prisoners of
the party on their return, to carry the girl away into the mountains!
Would any of them think of treasures, of conspiracies, with her as a
hostage?  He thought not.  In the hue and cry for her, these elements
in the game would fall to a minor place.  Well he knew M. Ferraud: he
would call to heaven for the safety of Laura.  Love her?  Yes!  She was
the one woman.  But men did not make captives of women and obtain their
love.  He knew the futility of such coercion.  He had committed two or
three scoundrelly acts, but never would he or could he sink to such a
level.  No.  He meant no harm at all.  Frighten her, perhaps, and
terrorize the others; and mayhap take a kiss as he left her to the
coming of her friends.  Nothing more serious than that.

Two millions in gold and silver and English notes!  He would have his
revenge, for all these years of struggle and failure; for the cold and
callous policies of state which had driven him to this piece of
roguery, on their heads be it.  Two thousand in Marseilles, ready at
his beck and call, a thousand more in Avignon, in Lyons, in Dijon, and
so on up to Paris, the Paris he had cursed one night from under his
mansard.  In a week he would have them shaking in their boots.  The
unemployed, the idlers, thieves, his to a man.  If he saw his own death
at the end, little he cared.  He would have one great moment, pay off
the score, France as well as Germany.  He would at least live to see
them harrying each other's throats.  To declare to France that he was
only Germany's tool, put forward for the sole purpose of destroying
peace in the midst of a great military crisis.  He had other papers,
and the prying little Frenchman had never seen those; clever forgeries,
bearing the signature of certain great German personages.  These should
they find at the selected moment.  Let them rip one another's throats,
the dogs!  Two million of francs, enough to purchase a hundred thousand
men.

"Ah, my great-grandsire, if spirits have eyes, yours will see something
presently.  And that poor little devil of a secret agent thinks I want
a crown on my head!  There was a time . . . Curse these infernal
headaches!"

On, on; hurry, hurry.  The driver was faithful, a sometime brigand and
later a harbor boatman; and of all his confederates this one was the
only man he dared trust on an errand of this kind.

Evisa.  They did not pause.  They ate their supper on the way.  With
three Sardinian donkeys, strong and patient little brutes, with
lanterns and shovels and sacks, the two fared into the pines.  Aïtone
was all familiar ground to the Corsican who, in younger days, had taken
his illegal tithe from these hills.  They found the range soon enough,
but made a dozen mistakes in measurements; and it was long toward
midnight, when the oil of the lanterns ran low, that their shovels bore
down into the precious pocket.  The earth flew.  They worked like
madmen, with nervous energy and power of will; and when the chest
finally came into sight, rotten with age and the soak of earth, they
fell back against a tree, on the verge of collapse.  The hair was damp
on their foreheads, their breath came harshly, almost in sobs.

Suddenly Breitmann fell upon his knees and laughed hysterically,
plunged his blistered hands into the shining heap.  It played through
his fingers in little musical cascades.  He rose.

"Pietro, you have been faithful to me.  Put your two hands in there."

"I, padrone?" stupefied.

"Go on!  Go on!  As much as your two hands can hold is yours.  Dig them
in deep, man, dig them in deep!"

With a cry Pietro dropped and burrowed into the gold and silver.  A
dozen times he started to withdraw his hands, but they trembled so that
some of the coins would slip and fall.  At last, with one desperate
plunge, the money running down toward his elbows, he turned aside and
let fall his burden on the new earth outside the shallow pit.  He
rolled beside it, done for, in a fainting state.  Breitmann laughed
wildly.

"Come, come; we have no time.  Put it into your pockets."

"But, padrone, I have not counted it!" naively.

"To-morrow, when we make camp for breakfast.  Let us hurry."

Quickly Pietro stuffed his pockets.  Jabbering in his patois, swearing
so many candles to the Virgin for this night's work.  Then began the
loading of the sacks, and these were finally dumped into the
donkey-panniers.

"Now, Pietro, the shortest cut to Ajaccio.  First, your hand on your
amulet, and oath never to reveal what has happened."

Pietro swore solemnly.  "I am ready now, padrone!"

"Lead on, then," replied Breitmann.  Impulsively he raised his hands
high above his head.  "Mine, all mine!"

He wiped his face and hands, pulled his cap down firmly, lighted a
cigarette, struck the rear donkey, and the hazardous journey began.


Seven men, more or less young, with a genial air of dissipation about
their eyes and a varied degree of recklessness lurking at the corners of
their mouths; seven men sat round a table in a house in the Rue St.
Charles.  They had been eating and drinking rather luxuriously for
Ajaccio.  The Rue St. Charles is neither spacious nor elegant as a
thoroughfare, but at that point where it turns into the Place Letitia
it is quiet and unfrequented at night.  A film of tobacco smoke wavered
in and out among the guttering candles and streamed round the empty and
part empty champagne bottles.  At the head of the table sat Breitmann,
still pale and weary from his Herculean labors.  His face was immobile,
but his eyes were lively.

"To-morrow," said Breitmann, "we leave for France.  On board the moneys
will be equally divided.  Then, for the work."  His voice was cold,
authoritative.

"Two millions!" mused Picard, from behind a fresh cloud of smoke.  He
picked up a bottle and gravely filled his glass, beckoning to the
others to follow his example.  At another sign all rose to their feet,
Breitmann alone remaining seated, "To the Day!"

Breitmann's lips grew thinner; that was the only sign.

Outside, glancing obliquely through the grilled window, stood M.
Ferraud.  He had not seen these worthies together before.  He knew all
of them.  There was not a shoulder among them that he could not lay a
hand upon and voice with surety the order of the law.  Courage of a
kind they all had, names once written gloriously in history but now
merely passports into dubious traffics.  Heroes of boulevard exploits,
duelists, card-players; could it be possible that any sane man should
be their dupe?  After the strange toast he heard many things, some he
had known, some he had guessed at, and some which surprised him.  Only
loyalty was lacking to make them feared indeed.  Presently he saw
Breitmann rise.  He was tired; he needed sleep.  On the morrow, then;
and in a week the first blow of the new terror.  They all bowed
respectfully as he passed out.

The secret agent followed him till he reached the Place des Palmiers.
He put a hand on Breitmann's arm.  The latter, highly keyed, swung
quickly.  And seeing who it was (the man he believed to be at that
moment a prisoner in the middle country!), he made a sinister move
toward his hip.  M. Ferraud was in peril, and he realized it.

"Wait a moment, Monsieur; there is no need of that.  I repeat, I wish
you well, and this night I will prove it.  What? do you not know that I
could have put my hand on you at any moment?  Attend.  Return with me
to the little house in Rue St. Charles."

Breitmann's hand again stole toward his hip.

"You were listening?"

"Yes.  Be careful.  My death would not change anything.  I wish to
disillusion you; I wish to prove to you how deeply you are the dupe of
those men.  All your plans have been remarkable, but not one of them
has remained unknown to me.  You clasp the hand of this duke who plays
the sailor under the name of Picard, who hails you as a future emperor,
and stabs you behind your back?  How?  Double-face that he is, have I
not proof that he has written detail after detail of this conspiracy to
the Quai d'Orsay, and that he has clung to you only to gain his share
of what is yours?  Zut!  Come back with me and let your own ears
testify.  The fact that I am not in the mountains should convince you
how strong I am."

Breitmann hesitated, wondering whether he had best shoot this meddler
then and there and cut for it, or follow him.

"I will go with you.  But I give you this warning: if what I hear is
not what you expect me to hear, I promise to put a bullet into your
meddling head."

"I agree to that," replied the other.  He did not underestimate his
danger; neither did he undervalue his intimate knowledge of human
nature.

With what emotions Breitmann returned to the scene of his triumph, his
self-appointed companion could only surmise.  He had determined to save
this young fool in spite of his madness, and never had he failed to
bring his enterprises to their fore-arranged end.  And there was
sentiment between all this, sentiment he would not have been ashamed to
avow.  Upon chance, then, fickle inconstant chance, depended the
success of the seven years' labor.  If by this time the wine had not
loosened their tongues, or if they had disappeared!

But fortune favors the persistent no less than the brave.  The
profligates were still at the table, and there were fresh bottles of
wine.  They were laughing and talking.  In all, not more than fifteen
minutes had elapsed since Breitmann's departure.  M. Ferraud stationed
him by the window and kept a hand lightly upon his arm, as one might
place a finger on a pulse.

Of what were they talking?  Ostend.  The ballet-dancers.  The races in
May.  The shooting at Monte Carlo.  Gaming-tables, empty purses.  And
again ballet-dancers.

"To divide two millions!" cried one.  "That will clear my debts, with a
little for Dieppe."

"Two hundred and fifty thousand francs!  Princely!"

And then the voice of the master-spirit, pitiless, ironical; Picard's.
"Was there ever such a dupe?  And not to laugh in his face is penance
for my sins.  A Dutchman, a bullet-headed clod from Bavaria, the land
of sausage, beer, and daschunds; and this shall be written Napoleon IV!
Ye gods, what farce, comedy, vaudeville!  But, there was always that
hope: if he found the money he would divide it.  So, kowtow, kowtow!
Opera bouffe!"

Breitmann shuddered.  M. Ferraud, feeling that shudder under his hand,
relaxed his shoulders.  He had won!

"An empire!  Will you believe it?"

"I suggest the eagle rampant on a sausage!"

"No, no; the lily on the beer-pot!"

The scene went on.  The butt of it heard jest and ridicule.  They were
pillorying him with the light and matchless cruelty of wits.  And he,
poor fool, had believed them to be his dupes, whereas he was
theirs!  Gently he disengaged himself from M. Ferraud's grasp.

"What are you going to do?" whispered the hunter of butterflies.

"Watch and see."

Breitmann walked noiselessly round to the entrance, and M. Ferraud lost
sight of him for a few moments.  Picard was on his feet, mimicking his
dupe by assuming a Napoleonic pose.  The door opened and Breitmann
stood quietly on the threshold.  A hush fell on the revelers.  There
was something kingly in the contempt with which Breitmann swept the
startled faces.  He stepped up to the table, took up a full glass of
wine and threw it into Picard's face.

"Only one of us shall leave Corsica," said the dupe.

"Certainly it will not be your majesty," replied Picard, wiping his
face with a serviette.  "His majesty will waive his rights to meet me.
To-morrow morning I shall have the pleasure of writing finis to this
Napoleonic phase.  You fool, you shall die for that!"

"That," returned Breitmann, still unruffled as he went to the door,
"remains to be seen.  Gentlemen, I regret to say that your monetary
difficulties must continue unchanged."

"Oh, for fifty years ago!" murmured the little scene-shifter from the
dark of his shelter.




CHAPTER XXVI

THE END OF THE DREAM

It took place on the road which runs from Ajaccio to the Cap de la
Parata, not far from Iles Sanguinaires; not a main-traveled road.
The sun had not yet crossed the mountains, but a crisp gray light lay
over land and sea.  They fired at the same time.  The duke lowered his
pistol, and through the smoke he saw Breitmann pitch headforemost into
the thick white dust.  Presently, nay almost instantly, the dust at the
left side of the stricken man became a creeping blackness.  The surgeon
sprang forward.

"Dead?" asked Picard.

"No! through the shoulder.  He has a fighting chance."

"The wine last night; my hand wasn't steady enough.  Some day the fool
will curse me as a poor shot.  The devil take the business!  Not a sou
for my pocket, out of all the trouble I have had.  But for the want of
a clear head I should be a rich man to-day.  Who thought he would come
back?"

"I did," answered M. Ferraud.

"You?"

"With pleasure!  I brought him back; thank me for your empty pockets,
