"Dear me," she said in her humble little voice, "I—I’m afraid—afraid
I’m going out!"

"What!" thundered his honor.  "Nobody ever goes out first hand, madam!"

But she timidly did that very thing to the suppressed fury of his honor,
who had cherished a long sequence, according to rule, and was further
nursing the other joker and three kings.

"It’s too bad," she ventured, looking around at Edgerton, whose entire
hand was being minutely counted by Mrs. Lorrimore.

"I don’t mind!" said the young fellow, laughing; and he leaned a
trifle nearer and added under his breath: "But suppose I had played
for stakes!"

Into her timid and faded eyes came the ghost of a glimmer—the momentary
sparkle of fun, and went out very quickly.

But it had been there for a second; and thereafter Edgerton found a
curious pleasure in making it come back at intervals.  She even
laughed—even ventured to provoke his laughter—rather scared at trying
until his quick mirth set her at momentary ease again.

Luck bedeviled his honor; the fair Mrs. Lorrimore won steadily without
the least respect for the law and no consideration at all for the
sanctity of the bench; and the judge became peevish.  He was a very rich
man.

Presently he had enough of it—letters to write for the morning mail—and
got himself out and upstairs with the dignity of a fly-pestered ox.

"Horrid old screw," observed Mrs. Lorrimore in Edgerton’s ear, and
laughed her peculiarly sweet and captivating laugh as a servant returned
with his honor’s check in an angrily scrawled envelope.

Mrs. Rivett had passed into a farther room, where the high gilded pipes
of an organ glimmered in the subdued light.  Edgerton saw her seated
there—a thin, bejeweled little figure beneath the tall gothic majesty of
the pipes.

After a while the low harmony of an old-time hymn stole into the card
room.

Those at the bridge tables remained silent and absorbed, except Mr.
Rivett, who cautiously turned his sphinxlike countenance toward the
farther dusk where his wife was seated.

Edgerton stood behind Diana’s chair, watching.  Presently he went over
to Silvette, lingered for a while, then came back to Diana again.

An hour later Mr. Rivett said abruptly: "Does anybody care to dance?"

The effect was like a pistol shot on lotus eaters.  Slowly the players
came out of their absorption; color returned faintly to white, tense
faces.

"I suppose I may ask it?" added Mr. Rivett dryly.  "I’m a heavy loser."

"Sure thing, dad," said Jack with a laugh. "I’m about even, and I
venture to ask it, too. Does anybody here want to dance?  You surely
won’t object," he added mischievously to Silvette.

"I have no right to say anything at all," she laughed.

"Every right—the right of the conqueror! Accept my bow and spear—and
speak! ... How is it with your sister?"

"I’m afraid I haven’t any voice in the matter, either," said Diana
serenely.  "It is for the losers to decide."

They decided to dance.  Mrs. Rivett came from the dim music room and
stood watching them with her little worn hands folded, while servants
lighted and cleared the larger drawing-room, designed for a ballroom,
with its little gilded balcony aloft and the great concert grand in its
carved and gilded foliations sprawling like a bedizened elephant in the
corner.

A servant was sent for "mademoiselle"—evidently somebody who lived
somewhere in the house whose duties included dance music. Meanwhile
Edgerton sat down at the piano, and began a fascinating Spanish waltz.

"Traitor," whispered a fresh, young voice at his elbow, and he looked up
into the winning eyes of Diana.

"Hello," he said; "how went the battle?"

"The cards?"

"Yes."

"As usual, thank you."

"Oh!  And how do they usually go with you, fair cousin?"

"Well enough," she said briefly.

She stood leaning on the piano.

"You play cleverly," she observed.

"Oh, yes—cleverly.  There’s nothing else to anything I do."

"Isn’t that enough?"

"Is it, Diana?"

"Enough as far as music is concerned," she said impatiently.  "Did you
ever see a musical virtuoso whom a real man didn’t want to kick?  And as
for you," she added, "you are a traitor.  You said you would ask me to
dance.  Now, if you ask me, I won’t!"

Still playing, he continued to look up at her smilingly.

"What do you really care about me anyway?" he said.  "I wish you’d tell
me, Diana."

"Honestly, or flippantly?"

"Honestly."

"Masks off, you mean?"

"Yes—as far off as they’ll come."

"I care a lot about you."

"You say it too frankly," he laughed.

"What I say, I say....  Did you find Christine Rivett agreeable at
dinner?"

"She’s interesting."

"Is that all!" evidently disappointed.

"Well, she’s very fetching."

"That is far more serious."

"Indeed, it is.  I’ve qualified as an aspirant for her hand and fortune
already."

"I don’t doubt it," she returned calmly. "That’s one reason her father
decided to employ us."

She said it unsmiling, and after he had looked up at her once or twice
he said: "Of course you are joking."

"Ob, yes; it’s one kind of a jest.  Meanwhile here comes a young person
in black—doubtless mademoiselle....  I’m not going to dance with you;
don’t compose your features in that smug fashion.  You’re a traitor, and
I won’t."

She turned on her heel and advanced leisurely toward Colonel Curmew, who
immediately began to twirl his mustache and shoot his cuffs, when,
without warning, she sheered off into the receptive arms of Jack Rivett,
and was presently drifting across the room in a Viennese waltz.

Others were dancing now; Edgerton went over and asked his hostess—an old
New York custom now obsolete—who colored and smiled at him, explaining
that she had renounced that art with the advent of rheumatism.  So,
after a while, he took out her daughter Christine—also an obsolete
custom—who soon, however, had enough of him as a dancer, and took him
into the conservatory.

The others danced until supper time; midnight found them separating on
the stairs. Edgerton and Christine Rivett had rather a prolonged
leave-taking, then shook hands cordially in plain view of everybody.

Diana, passing with Silvette, said a careless good night to him.
Silvette, retaining her sister’s arm, detained him for a moment in
conversation; then they went away together, Diana dismissing him with an
inattentive nod.

But, as he was prepared for his pillow, a servant brought an envelope to
his door and tucked it under the sill.

Inside was a single line:

"Good night, Jim."

The handwriting was now familiar to him.




                              *CHAPTER VI*

                            *PACTA CONVENTA*


Guests arrived and guests departed from Adriutha, but the original
gathering remained.

The people who came and went were about the kind that Edgerton had
expected to encounter—people identified with nothing in particular
except money, and not always with that.

For, into the social mess at Adriutha an author or two was occasionally
stirred as seasoning; sometimes an artist became temporarily
englutenized over a week-end, emerging on Monday well fed and satiated
with hope of material results from cohabitation with wealth—which never
materialized.

Edgerton was inclined to take them all as cheerfully as he found them—at
their face value; and they were not always pretty.

Loyalty to obligation was inherent in his race, perhaps the strongest
trait in him; and all his inclinations toward what was easiest, his
content with the superficial, his tendency to drift, had not yet
radically altered this trait, nor perhaps other qualities latent under
the froth.

For a few days in the beginning, humorous curiosity, the novelty of his
anomalous position, the very rawness of the experience, amused him; but
the veneer of everything soon wore thin, revealing the duller surface
underneath.  Then came uneasiness and impatience; but loyalty to his
bargain and to his kindred were matters of course, and he determined to
find in these people something to interest him and render his sojourn
among them at least endurable.

After that first stormy night in June, the splendor of a limpid,
rain-washed morning had revealed to him the gross outward impossibility
of this place of millions—the vast, new "villa," red-tiled and
yellow-walled, hideous in its multiplicity of roofs, angles, terraces
and bays, with outlying works of rubble, concrete, and railroad-station
floral embellishment.

Scarring the green crypt of nature, staining the glass of the stream
with painted reflections of its architectural deformities, Adriutha
Lodge sprawled monsterlike and naked in the summer sunshine.

Garage, hothouses, stables, barns, a farm, a model dairy, like grewsome
spawn of a common architectural dam, affronted the woods and meadows of
this little valley set among the remote Berkshires.

There was no reticence left in that desecrated valley all vibrant with
the scream of discordant color, texture, and design.  Motor cars, too,
were noisy along the road; all day the silver-mounted trappings of
horses flashed in the sun.  Staccato echoes from power boats on the
artificial lake offended.  The House of Rivett challenged the Eternal
patience with a hundred lightning rods.

Edgerton, walking his horse beside Diana’s, suddenly drew bridle with an
uncontrollable gesture of disgust.

"Listen to me," he said; "where man’s despoiling labor pollutes nature,
sadness and resignation make heavy the hearts of her true lovers, but
where man’s abominable ignorance desecrates, reigns a more shocking
desolation which no modest heart ever forgives!"

Diana, surprised by the sudden and unexpected outburst, drew bridle
beside his standing horse.

A moment previous they had been amiably exchanging idle gossip from
their saddles, gradually falling back behind the others—Silvette,
Christine, Jack, and Colonel Curmew—who had cantered on forward; and
now, suddenly out of a clear sky, not apropos of anything, Edgerton had
flashed out the bolt of his contempt for the House of Rivett—for his ox,
his ass, his servants, and all that was Rivett’s.

"Jim," she remarked, "isn’t it rather bad taste of you to say that?"

"Why?  I am paid for being here."  But he realized that she was right,
and it made him sullen.

"His roof shelters you none the less," she said quietly.

"Yours is rather a fine-drawn sense of hospitality, it seems to me," he
retorted.

"I can’t snap at the hand that feeds me."

"Good Lord!  May a man not have his own ideas?"

"Under lock and key, yes."

"All right," he said, reddening; "only I supposed I could be frank with
you."

"Are we actually on any such footing?" she asked quietly.

"I thought so—even a footing on which I permit myself to accept such a
rebuke from you."

She turned in her saddle.

"Permit yourself?" she repeated.  "Do you mean condescend?"

"I mean what I say," he retorted sulkily, still smarting under her
rebuke.

Her cheeks were bright with anger, her lips compressed as though silence
had become an effort.  Presently, however, she looked across at him with
perfect sweetness and composure.

"No, you don’t mean what you say, Jim. If you did, you would be at a
disadvantage with me, and you don’t want to be that; nor do I wish to
be, ever."

He said obstinately: "I’m getting sick of this Adriutha business."

"I predicted you would."

"Well, I am....  It isn’t false pride; I don’t care what they think
about me.  If I chose to be a waiter in a Broadway café, their opinion
wouldn’t concern me....  I’m simply weary of the place, the majority of
the people—what they think and do, their private life, their mere coming
in and going out.... It isn’t the pitiable absurdity of their offensive
environment alone, the horror of the architecture, the gilded entrails
of their abode—it’s the whole bally combination! ... I’m sick—sick! And
that’s the truth, Diana."

"I think," she said, smiling, "that you are also a little bit bored with
us."

He looked up at her, perplexed, already beginning to be very much
ashamed of his outburst, already conscious of a painful reaction from
his unrestraint.

"Diana," he said impulsively, "I’m just a plain brute, and rather a
vulgar one; but, do you know, there isn’t anybody else in the world I’d
have permitted to hear that outburst—whether you take it as a compliment
or not."

"You mean you don’t care what I think of you?"

He thought for a moment.  "I can’t mean that, of course."

"You might, very easily."

"I couldn’t; I do care what you think of me.  Probably what I meant was
that I—dare say things to you; that I’ve a sort of instinct that I can
come to you in an emergency——"

"In other words, that I’ll stand anything from you?" she said, smiling.
"I don’t know about that, my friend."

He looked at her curiously.  "I believe you’ll stand a good deal from
me—and still like me.  I, somehow, count on it."

She met his gaze directly, unsmiling now.

"A hair divides my sentiments concerning you," she said.  "Extremes lie
on either side."

"Extremes?"

"I think so.  It would take very little to fix definitely my opinion of
you."

Sobered, but still curious, he sat his saddle more firmly while the
horses paced forward, shoulder against shoulder, along the forest road.

"I didn’t suppose you had any very violent opinions concerning me one
way or another," he said lightly.

"I haven’t—yet."

"Or would ever develop them, either," he added, laughing.

"I probably never shall."

He said, after another silence: "What was it about a hair dividing your
sentiments, and that extremes lay on either side?"

"I said that, Jim."

"Extremes of what?"

"Dislike—friendship—I suppose....  I’m a person addicted to extremes."

"Hatred is one extreme.  Did you mean that, Japonette?"

"It is conceivable, fair sir."

"And—the other extreme?"

"Which?"

"The opposite extreme to hate....  Is that conceivable, too?"

"Do you mean love?" she asked coolly.

"Yes, love, for example."

"Well, for example, ask yourself how likely I am to entertain that
sentimental extreme in your regard."

"Oh," he said; "then all you threaten me with is hatred!"

"Absolutely all, cousin James."

"Hobson’s choice for mine.  No matter how agreeable I may be, placid
friendship is my only reward; and if I’m not agreeable, hatred.  Is that
it?"

"Are you not satisfied?" she asked, lifting her prettily shaped eyes.

He made no reply.

Yet, he had been satisfied, except at intervals during the first flush
of their unconventional friendship, when she was still a fascinating
novelty to him, when the charming memory of the surprise was still
vivid.

But since then, recently in fact, other matters, somehow, had
intervened—the dawning distaste for his own position, the apparent
absence of any future prospect, the gradual conviction that he had no
real capacity for decently earning a living, no ability—perhaps no
character.


His silence seemed to be her answer now; she spurred forward, accepting
it.  He put his horse to a canter, to a gallop, and they raced away
through the woods until they came in sight of the others.  Colonel
Curmew joined her; Edgerton rode forward with Christine Rivett.


That afternoon there was some tennis played; a number of commonplace and
very rich people departed, leaving as residue the original house party
which Edgerton and his cousins had found there on their arrival, and who
now knew one another well enough to separate into sympathetic groups.

Thus, Judge Wicklow, Mrs. Rivett, and Mrs. Lorrimore played Chinese Kahn
under the terrace awning; Colonel Follis Curmew, who had been rash
enough to discard his coat and reveal an unlooked-for excess of abdomen,
played tennis with Silvette against Jack Rivett and Mrs. Wemyss; Mr.
Rivett and Mr. Snaith indulged in laborious clock golf and talked of
oil; and Christine and Edgerton, down by the river’s edge, continued a
conversation begun the evening previous, and which was near enough to
meaning something to stimulate their attention.

From his clock golf on the lawn above, Mr. Rivett turned his convex
glasses on them occasionally; from one card table on the terrace, her
mother, drawing the white wool shawl closer around her slight shoulders,
watched her daughter from moment to moment.

Later, the game ended, Mrs. Lorrimore victorious, and his honor
unusually peevish. Mrs. Rivett rose and, advancing to the terrace edge,
gazed down at the river bank, where her daughter and Edgerton still sat
in the floating canoe, holding it inshore by grasping willow branches
overhead.

For a few moments the little old lady watched them, one hand gathering
the fleece shawl over the magnificent sapphire at her breast; then she
turned quietly away into the house, wandering through it from one
gorgeous room to another, until at last she came to the high organ.

Here her husband found her in the semi-dusk, sitting motionless and
silent under the tall pipes, hands folded in her lap.

"Well, mother?" he said in a voice which nobody else ever had the
privilege of listening to.

She lifted her head, smiled, and laid one hand over his as he seated
himself beside her in the demi-twilight.

"Are you happy?" he asked, patting the worn fingers.

"Yes, Jacob—when you and the children are."

"Does that damn Sims bother you?"

No, the housekeeper did not bother her; neither did Noonan, general
superintendent.

"Are you sure you are feeling perfectly well?"

"Yes, dear."

"And you are enjoying the people?"

"Yes....  The Tennant girls are so kind to me."

"Why the devil shouldn’t they be?" he said harshly.  "They never met a
better woman!"

"Jacob, dear, don’t speak that way."

"Well, then—don’t be so eternally surprised if people are nice to you,
mother. They’d better be!"

She smiled.  "I am a rather plain and unattractive old woman to young
people—to most people.  I have little to say, but Diana Tennant and her
sister are very sweet to me. Poor, motherless girls!  I wonder—it
troubles me—sometimes—a great deal——"

"What?" he asked grimly.

"Their being so entirely alone, and so unusually attractive....  And
they’re good girls, Jacob."

"I assume that they are," he said dryly.

"They are; a woman knows at once.... They’ve made everybody—all our
guests—enjoy their visits so much.  Don’t you think so?"

"They’ve earned their salaries....  People seem to like ’em....  I’m
