
"Yes, I do."

He laid aside his palette, rang up the kitchen, gave his order, and
slowly returned to where Rita was seated.

Dinner was rather a silent affair. They touched briefly and formally on
Querida and his ripening talent prematurely annihilated; they spoke of
men they knew who were to come after him--a long, long way after him.

"I don't know who is to take his place," mused Neville over his claret.

"You."

"Not his place, Rita. He thought so; but that place must remain his."

"Perhaps. But you are carving out your own niche in a higher tier. You
are already beginning to do it; and yesterday his niche was the
higher.... Yet, after all--after all--"

[Illustration: "Then Rita came silently on sandalled feet to stand
behind him and look at what he had done."]

He nodded. "Yes," he said, "what does it matter to him, now? A man
carves out his resting place as you say, but he carves it out in vain.
Those who come after him will either place him in his proper sepulchre
... or utterly neglect him.... And neglect or transfer will cause him
neither happiness nor pain.... Both are ended for Querida;--let men
exalt him above all, or bury him and his work out of sight--what does he
care about it now? He has had all that life held for him, and what
another life may promise him no man can know. All reward for labour is
here, Rita; and the reward lasts only while the pleasure in labour
lasts. Creative work--even if well done--loses its savour when it is
finished. Happiness in it ends with the final touch. It is like a dead
thing to him who created it; men's praise or blame makes little
impression; and the aftertaste of both is either bitter or flat and
lasts but a moment."

"Are you a little morbid, Kelly?"

"Am I?"

"It seems to me so."

"And you, Rita?"

She shook her pretty head in silence.

After a while Gladys jumped up into her lap, and she lay back in her
arm-chair smoothing the creature's fur, and gazing absently into space.

"Kelly," she said, "how many, many years ago it seems when you came up
to Delaware County to see us."

"It seems very long ago to me, too."

She lifted her blue eyes:

"May I speak plainly? I have known you a long while. There is only one
man I like better. But there is no woman in the world whom I love as I
love Valerie West.... May I speak plainly?"

"Yes."

"Then--be fair to her, Kelly. Will you?"

"I will try."

"Try very hard. For after all it is a man's world, and she doesn't
understand it. Try to be fair to her, Kelly. For--whether or not the
laws that govern the world are man-made and unjust--they are,
nevertheless, the only laws. Few men can successfully fight them; no
woman can--yet.... I am not angering you, am I?"

"No. Go on."

"I have so little to say--I who feel so deeply--deeply.... And the laws
are always there, Kelly, always there--fair or unfair, just or
unjust--they are always there to govern the world that framed them. And
a woman disobeys them at her peril."

She moved slightly in her chair and sat supporting her head on one
pretty ringless hand.

"Yet," she said, "although a woman disobeys any law at her peril--laws
which a man may often ignore with impunity--there is one law to which no
woman should dare subscribe. And it is sometimes known as 'The Common
Law of Marriage.'"

She sat silent for a while, her gaze never leaving his shadowy face.

"That is the only law--if it is truly a law--that a woman must ignore.
All others it is best for her to observe. And if the laws of marriage
are merely man-made or divine, I do not know. There is a din in the
world to-day which drowns the voices preaching old beliefs.... And a
girl is deafened by the clamour.... And I don't know.

"But, it seems to me, that back of the laws men have made--if there be
nothing divine in their inspiration--there is another foundation solid
enough to carry them. Because it seems to me that the world's laws--even
when unjust--are built on natural laws. And how can a girl say that
these natural laws are unjust because they have fashioned her to bear
children and feed them from her own body?

"And another thing, Kelly; if a man breaks a man-made law--founded, we
believe, on a divine commandment--he suffers only in a spiritual and
moral sense.... And with us it may be more than that. For women, at
least, hell is on earth."

He stirred in his chair, and his sombre gaze rested on the floor at her
feet.

"What are we to do?" he said dully.

Rita shook her head:

"I don't know. I am not instructing you, Kelly, only recalling to your
mind what you already know; what all men know, and find so convenient to
forget. Love is not excuse enough; the peril is unequally divided. The
chances are uneven; the odds are unfair. If a man really loves a woman,
how can he hazard her in a game of chance that is not square? How can he
let her offer more than he has at stake--even if she is willing? How can
he permit her to risk more than he is even able to risk? How can he
accept a magnanimity which leaves him her hopeless debtor? But men have
done it, men will continue to do it; God alone knows how they reconcile
it with their manhood or find it in their hearts to deal so unfairly by
us. But they do.... And still we stake all; and proudly overlook the
chances against us; and face the contemptible odds with a smile,
dauntless and--damned!"

He leaned forward in the dusk; she could see his bloodless features now
only as a pale blot in the twilight.

"All this I knew, Rita. But it is just as well, perhaps, that you remind
me."

"I thought it might be as well. The world has grown very clever; but
after all there is no steadier anchor for a soul than a platitude."

Ogilvy and Annan came mincing in about nine o'clock, disposed for
flippancy and gossip; but neither Neville nor Rita encouraged them; so
after a while they took their unimpaired cheerfulness and horse-play
elsewhere, leaving the two occupants of the studio to their own silent
devices.

It was nearly midnight when he walked back with Rita to her rooms.

And now day followed day in a sequence of limpid dawns and cloudless
sunsets. Summer began with a clear, hot week in June, followed by three
days' steady downpour which freshened and cooled the city and unfolded,
in square and park, everything green into magnificent maturity.

Every day Neville and Rita worked together in the studio; and every
evening they walked together in the park or sat in the cool, dusky
studio, companionably conversational or permitting silence to act as
their interpreter.

Then John Burleson came back from Dartford after remaining there ten
days under Dr. Ogilvy's observation; and Rita arrived at the studio next
day almost smiling.

"We're' going to Arizona," she said. "What do you think of that,
Kelly?"

"You poor child!" exclaimed Neville, taking her hands into his and
holding them closely.

"Why, Kelly," she said gently, "I knew he had to go. This has not taken
me unawares."

"I hoped there might be some doubt," he said.

"There was none in my mind. I foresaw it. Listen to me: twice in a
woman's life a woman becomes a prophetess. That fatal clairvoyance is
permitted to a woman twice in her life--and the second time it is
neither for herself that she foresees the future, nor for him whom she
loves...."

"I wish--I wish--" he hesitated; and she flushed brightly.

"I know what you wish, Kelly dear. I don't think it will ever happen.
But it is so much for me to be permitted to remain near him--so
much!--Ah, you don't know, Kelly! You don't know!"

"Would you marry him?"

Her honest blue eyes met his:

"If he asked me; and if he still wished it--after he knew."

"Could you ever be less to him--and perhaps more, Rita?"

"Do you mean--"

He nodded deliberately.

She hung her head.

"Yes," she said, "if I could be no more I would be what I could."

"And you tell me that, after all that you have said?"

"I did not pretend to speak for men, Kelly. I told you that women had,
and women still would overlook the chances menacing them and face the
odds dauntlessly.... Because, whatever a man is--if a woman loves him
enough--he is worth to her what she gives."

"Rita! Rita! Is it you who content yourself with such sorry
philosophy?"

"Yes, it is I. You asked me and I answer you. Whatever I said--I know
only one thing now. And you know what that is."

"And where am I to look for sympathy and support in my own decision?
What can I think now about all that you have said to me?"

"You will never forget it, Kelly--whatever becomes of the girl who said
it. Because it's the truth, no matter whose lips uttered it."

He released her hands and she went away to dress herself for the pose.
When she returned and seated herself he picked up his palette and
brushes and began in silence.

       *       *       *       *       *

That evening he went to see John Buries on and found him smoking
tranquilly in the midst of disorder. Packing cases, trunks, bundles,
boxes were scattered and piled up in every direction, and the master of
the establishment, apparently in excellent health, reclined on a lounge
in the centre of chaos, the long clay stem of a church-warden pipe
between his lips, puffing rings at the ceiling.

"Hello, Kelly!" he exclaimed, sitting up; "I've got to move out of this
place. Rita told you all about it, didn't she? Isn't it rotten hard
luck?"

"Not a bit of it. What did Billy Ogilvy say?"

"Oh, I've got it all right. Not seriously yet. What's Arizona like,
anyway?"

"Half hell, half paradise, they say."

"Then me for the celestial section. Ogilvy gave me the name of a
place"--he fumbled about--"Rita has it, I believe.... Isn't she a corker
to go? My conscience, Kelly, what a Godsend it will be to have a
Massachusetts girl out there to talk to!"

"Isn't she going as your model?"

"My Lord, man! Don't you talk to a model? Is a nice girl who poses for
a fellow anything extra-human or superhuman or--or unhuman or
inhuman--so that intelligent conversation becomes impossible?"

"No," began Neville, laughing, but Burleson interrupted excitedly:

"A girl can be anything she chooses if she's all right, can't she? And
Rita comes from Massachusetts, doesn't she?"

"Certainly."

"Not only from Massachusetts, but from Hitherford!" added Burleson
triumphantly. "I came from Hitherford. My grandfather knew hers. Why,
man alive, Rita Tevis is entitled to do anything she chooses to do."

"That's one way of looking at it, anyway," admitted Neville gravely.

"I look at it that way. You can't; you're not from Massachusetts; but
you have a sort of a New England name, too. It's Yankee, isn't it?"

"Southern."

"Oh," said Burleson, honestly depressed; "I am sorry. There were
Nevilles in Hitherford Lower Falls two hundred years ago. I've always
liked to think of you as originating, somehow or other, in Massachusetts
Bay."

"No, John: unlike McGinty, I am unfamiliar with the cod-thronged ocean
deeps.... When are you going?"

"Day after to-morrow. Rita says you don't need her any longer on that
picture--"

"Lord, man! If I did I wouldn't hold you up. But don't worry, John; she
wouldn't let me.... She's a fine specimen of girl," he added casually.

[Illustration: "'You'd better understand, Kelly, that Rita Tevis is as
well born as I am.'"]

"Do you suppose that is news to me?"

"Oh, no; I'm sure you find her amusing--"

"What!"

"Amusing," repeated Neville innocently. "Don't you?"

"That is scarcely the word I would have chosen, Kelly. I have a very
warm admiration and a very sincere respect for Rita Tevis--"

"John! You sound like a Puritan making love!"

Burleson was intensely annoyed:

"You'd better understand, Kelly, that Rita Tevis is as well born as I
am, and that there would be nothing at all incongruous in any
declaration that any decent man might make her!"

"Why, I know that."

"I'm glad you do. And I'm gratified that what you said has given me the
opportunity to make myself very plain on the subject of Rita Tevis. It
may amaze you to know that her great grandsire carried a flintlock with
the Hitherford Minute Men, and fell most respectably at Boston Neck."

"Certainly, John. I knew she was all right. But I wasn't sure you knew
it--"

"Confound it! Of course I did. I've always known it. Do you think I'd
care for her so much if she wasn't all right?"

Neville smiled at him gravely, then held out his hand:

"Give my love to her, John. I'll see you both again before you go."

For nearly two weeks he had not heard a word from Valerie West. Rita and
John Burleson had departed, cheerful, sure of early convalescence and a
complete and radical cure.

Neville went with them to the train, but his mind was full of his own
troubles and he could scarcely keep his attention on the ponderous
conversation of Burleson, who was admonishing him and Ogilvy impartially
concerning the true interpretation of creative art.

He turned aside to Rita when opportunity offered and said in a low
voice:

"Before you go, tell me where Valerie is."

"I can't, Kelly."

"Did you promise her not to?"

"Yes."

He said, slowly: "I haven't had one word from her in nearly two weeks.
Is she well?"

"Yes. She came into town this morning to say good-bye to me."

"I didn't know she was out of town," he said, troubled.

"She has been, and is now. That's all I can tell you, Kelly dear."

"She is coming back, isn't she?"

"I hope so."

"Don't you know?"

She looked into his anxious and miserable face and gently shook her
head:

"I don't know, Kelly."

"Didn't she say--intimate anything--"

"No.... I don't think she knows--yet."

He said, very quietly: "If she ever comes to any conclusion that it is
better for us both never to meet again--I might be as dead as Querida
for any work I should ever again set hand to.

"If she will not marry me, but will let things remain as they are, at
least I can go on caring for her and working out this miserable problem
of life. But if she goes out of my life, life will go out of me. I know
that now."

Rita looked at him pitifully:

"Valerie's mind is her own, Kelly. It is the most honest mind I have
ever known; and nothing on earth--no pain that her decision might
inflict upon her--would swerve it a hair's breath from what she
concludes is the right thing to do."

"I know it," he said, swallowing a sudden throb of fear.

"Then what can I say to you?"

"Nothing. I must wait."

"Kelly, if you loved her enough you would not even wait."

"What!"

"Because her return to you will mean only one thing. Are you going to
accept it of her?"

"What can I do? I can't live without her!"

"Her problem is nobler, Kelly. She is asking herself not whether she
can live life through without you--but whether you can live life well,
and to the full, without her?"

Neville flushed painfully.

"Yes," he said, "that is Valerie. I'm not worth the anxiety, the
sorrow that I have brought her. I'm not worth marrying; and I'm not
worth a heavier sacrifice.... I'm trying to think less of myself, Rita,
and more of her.... Perhaps, if I knew she were happy, I could
stand--losing her.... If she could be--without me--" He checked himself,
for the struggle was unnerving him; then he set his face firmly and
looked straight at Rita.

"Do you believe she could forget me and be contented and tranquil--if I
gave her the chance?"

"Are you talking of self-sacrifice for her sake?"

He drew a deep, uneven breath:

"I--suppose it's--that."

"You mean that you're willing to eliminate yourself and give her an
opportunity to see a little of the world--a little of its order and
tranquillity and quieter happiness?--a chance to meet interesting women
and attractive men of her own age--as she is certain to do through her
intimacy with the Countess d'Enver?"

"Yes," he said, "that is what must be done.... I've been blind--and
rottenly selfish. I did not mean to be.... I've tried to force her--I
have done nothing else since I fell in love with her, but force her
toward people whom she has a perfect right not to care for--even if they
happen to be my own people. She has felt nothing but a steady and stupid
pressure from me;--heard from me nothing except importunities--the
merciless, obstinate urging of my own views--which, God forgive me, I
thought were the only views because they were respectable!"

He stood, head lowered, nervously clenching and unclenching his hands.

"It was not for her own sake--that's the worst of it! It was for my
sake--because I've had respectability inculcated until I can't conceive
of my doing anything not respectable.... Once, something else got away
with me--and I gave it rein for a moment--until checked.... I'm really
no different from other men."

"I think you are beginning to be, Kelly."

"Am I? I don't know. But the worst of it was my selfishness--my fixed
idea that her marrying me was the only salvation for her.... I never
thought of giving her a chance of seeing other people--other men--better
men--of seeing a tranquil, well-ordered world--of being in it and of it.
I behaved as though my world--the fragment inhabited by my friends and
family--was the only alternative to this one. I've been a fool, Rita;
and a cruel one."

"No, only an average man, Kelly.... If I give you Valerie's address,
would you write and give her her freedom--for her own sake?--the freedom
to try life in that well-ordered world we speak of?... Because she is
very young. Life is all before her. Who can foretell what friends she
may be destined to make; what opportunities she may have. I care a great
deal for you, Kelly; but I love Valerie.... And, there are other men
in the world after all;--but there is only one Valerie.... And--how
truly do you love her?"

"Enough," he said under his breath.

"Enough to--leave her alone?"

"Yes."

"Then write and tell her so. Here is the address."

She slipped a small bit of folded paper into Neville's land.

"We must join the others, now," she said calmly.

Annan had come up, and he and Ogilvy were noisily baiting Burleson amid
shouts of laughter and a protesting roar from John.

"Stop it, you wretches," said Rita amiably, entering the little group.
"John, are you never going to earn not to pay any attention to this pair
of infants?"

"Are you going to kiss me good-bye, Rita, when the train departs?"
inquired Sam, anxiously.

"Certainly; I kissed Gladys good-bye--"

"Before all this waiting room full of people?" persisted Sam. "Are
you?"

"Why I'll do it now if you like, Sammy dear."

"They'll take you for my sister," said Sam, disgusted.

"Or your nurse; John, what is that man bellowing through the
megaphone?"

"Our train," said Burleson, picking up the satchels. He dropped them
