looked around with reproachful eyes. The road 
had been a rather lonely one except for the beautiful
old trees standing at the roadside, tall Lom- 
bardy poplars and graceful willows that had been 
growing for years in nature’s own fashion. This 
had once been just a lane to cut off a rather long 
point in the road, but it had grown into a recog- 
nized thoroughfare at this period. The man had 
not been through it before, and now a curious 
sound startled him, the sound of a wailing chorus, 
and he espied a small cottage ahead of him, a little 
old house that had once been painted red, but was 
now weather-beaten and dingy. 

It was a story-and-a-half house, with the gable- 
end to the street. There was a door in the middle, 
with a window on either side, and one in the 
gable above. There was a large flat stone for a 
stoop, just a step down from the door-sill, and it 
left not much more than a comfortable sidewalk. 
A grand old cherry-tree shaded it, and there was 
a bed of bright yellow marigolds. 

But what made the man halt so suddenly was 
a group of children huddled together, crying and 
wailing and rocking to and fro, and from the 
noise you would have said there were at least a 
dozen. 

He jumped from his light wagon, just said. 

Whoa, Bonnie, old girl,” and walked up to them 
with a face of sympathy. 

‘'Children, what is the matter?” 

They huddled closer until their heads looked like 
a cushion. 

“ What is the matter? ” and now the expression 
was anxiety. 

They were a tousled group and not over clean, 
and they looked up in a rather wild fashion. Then 
with one voice in a most heartrending tone : 

“ Oh, our mother’s gone away and left us all 
alone ! ” 

“ All alone ! ” He gave a mirthful laugh. 


 

‘‘ Why, there must be at least half a dozen of 
you ! ” 

“ There ain’t only four. Prim an’ Goldie’s pick- 
ing beans, an’ Linn’s down to the Briggs’s, an’ 
Rilla’s gone to the store.” 

‘‘ Great Scott ! How many in all ? ” 

“ There’s eight and mother. But she’s gone 

away, an’ if she shouldn’t ever come back ” 

There was another wail. 

He laughed, it seemed so very funny. He was 
a rather stout, fresh-looking man with a decidedly 
jolly face, clean-shaven, and what seemed to make 
it merrier was a big dimple in one cheek. His 
eyes had a laugh in them, too, and were a sort 
of grayish-green. 

Whew ! How many — Seven in all, she 

said,’ ” quoting from Wordsworth. 

I said eight, and I ain’t a she — I’m a boy. 
And my name’s Tip; ” indignantly. 

He raised himself from a pile of heads. The 
tears had made rivulets down a dirty face, but the 
eyes were still lustrous with them. 

And where has your mother gone ? ” 

‘‘ She went to a fun’ral. Somebody died — they 
always do at a fun’ral. She was cornin’ home at 
noon and here it’s ’most night. An’ what if she 
should die an’ never come back ! ” 

The howl burst forth again equal to any Irish 
banshee. 

“ Children,” with an air of authority in his 
tone, you’re too young to be borrowing trouble 
that way.” 

But she never went away so far before. An’ 
there’s accildents ” 

‘‘ Did you have any dinner? ” thinking to change 
the tone of apprehension. 

Oh, yes. Rilla often gets dinner. Now she’s 
gone down to the store and she took the eggs. 
She’ll get mother when she comes in the train. 
An’ Goldie’s going to make a johnny-cake an’ cook 
some corn.” 

‘‘ I just don’t want any supper if mother doesn’t 
come ! There, now ! ” — bringing his little fist 
down on his knee — “ I’m not going to eat a mouth- 
ful till she does, if it’s clear to Christmas! ” 

“ My lad, there’d be nothing left of you,” and 
the man gave his merry laugh again. Hello ! 
Here’s another.” 

An odd little girl had appeared, with a mop of 
red curly hair, considerably sunburned and 
freckled, with a plump body, and looking as if she 
were not much given to trouble, if that was what 
made Tip thin. She stopped in amazement and 
looked from the children to the man. 


 

We’ve been tellin’ him about mother. An’ we 
cried ” 

“Oh, Tip, you must have been born crying!. 
You’re good for a drouthy time! And what a 
dirty lot ! Oh, do go and get washed ! I’m 
ashamed of you! ” 

“ Where did your mother go — to what place, I 
mean?” he asked of the newcomer. 

“Well, the train goes to Bridgeville, then you 
have to walk to Tory Corner. A great lot of 
Tories lived there in war times. She’s a queer 
old lady — was grandmother’s sister. Mother 
wouldn’t have gone only they sent particular word. 
She thought she’d be home by noon.” 

“An’ she isn’t!” Tip dug his knuckles into 
his eyes and sniffed. “ An’ if she was your 
mother and didn’t come home I guess you’d cry 
too, when she’s the most beauti fullest mother in 
the world ! ” 

This was addressed to the man, who smiled hu- 
morously. 

“ Please don’t mind them, Mr. Man. You’re 
very good to — to ask about her. Oh, children, 
do go in and wash up! You are a disgrace to 
the country. It’s lucky we live on the back road. 
People don’t often come this way. Mother’s all 
right, I know.” 




The voice was very cheerful and he thought the 
face quite pretty. 

Well, I don’t see that I can be of any use to 
you, so I’ll drive round by the store. I’d like to 
see your mother.” 

“ Thank you.” She made a droll little curtsy, 
and he sprang into the wagon. 

A funny lot! ” he said to himself. Eight of 
them, and one little mother to feed them. I don’t 
know how many ravens there are that the Lord 
feeds, but the robins have only four or five in a 
nest. Gid-dap, Bonnie.” 

Isn’t he just splendid ! ” Marigold’s eyes dis- 
tended in admiration. ‘‘ Oh, I’ll tell you, he’s 
playing he was our father and he’s going to bring 
mother to us. I’d like just such a father who had 
a face full of smiles. They don’t often. And 
we’d go and live in a nice house and have some 
clothes the neighbors didn’t send in and mother 
wouldn’t have to patch, and spandy new shoes 
that fitted you. And I’d choose one of them 
pretty woolly caps that keep your ears so nice and 
warm in winter. And Linn could have a blue suit 
like Charley Deane’s. And we’d have real sweet- 
cake every night for supper and we wouldn’t have 
to sell our turkeys at Thanksgiving.” 


 

Marigold had talked herself out of breath. The 
children listened in wide-eyed wonder. 

“ But it ain’t real,” declared Chan. “ There 
ain’t no fairies nowadays and Santa Claus is a 
fraud.” 

“No, he ain’t, either!” declared Tip angrily. 
“ S’pose it is your mother if your stocking’s full 
and you didn’t see it put in ” 

“ Chan, go and pick me up a lot of chips. I’ll 
boil some corn and make a johnny-cake and have 
it all nice and hot when mother comes. And, 
Prim, get the children washed up.” 

The wagon was out of sight and the children 
went out to the back shed where the washing 
paraphernalia stood. 

As for the man, he drove along slowly, 
chuckling now and then, the episode had been so 
funny. Yet he could not laugh heartily alone. 
What did a mother do with eight children ? “ The 

beautifullest mother.” He had never known any- 
thing about a mother. For his had died before he 
could remember, and his childhood had been spent 
with a careless, rather easy-going stepmother 
much given to neighborly gossip. When he was 
ten, a neighbor had taken him to wait on an 
invalid son, to read to and amuse him. This had 
given him a fondness for books. Then on the 


death of the son he had been bound out to a 
farmer and had run away from the harsh treat- 
ment, begged, worked his way to the city, sold 
papers, carried parcels, swept out stores and side- 
walks until the owner of a factory was attracted 
by his pluck and earnestness and gave him a 
chance to learn a trade. He proved trusty, in- 
genious, honest. It was a factory of small metal 
articles often patented until superseded by some 
newer method. He lived prudently. He went to 
night school and improved himself in many ways. 
And when he was twenty-four his employer died, 
leaving him quite a business interest, as neither 
of his sons wanted it. He boarded simply, he 
fitted up a part of his office, where he kept books 
and papers, worked out models, read, and pushed 
himself along to success. 

He was twenty-eight when he married. He had 
begun to dream of home, wife, and children. He 
could afford them now. He chose an industrious 
girl, an orphan like himself. She had saved up a 
little money and wanted a house of her own even 
if it left them quite in debt. They found the 
house, rented out part of it until they had it clear. 
He was charmed with her prudence. She did 
dressmaking and went on with her business. 

After a little he found it was not the sort of 


 

home he had in his mind. She lived in the 
kitchen. The little dining-room was a workroom 
where two girls came to sew. She made him take 
his lunch, and often a poor lunch it was. He went 
out for a cup of coffee and sometimes a good bit 
of steak. Occasionally he proposed to read to 
her in the evening. She was nowise intellectual. 
And after awhile she said rather fretfully : “ I 
wish you would read to yourself, Ad. You dis- 
turb me when I am planning what I shall do.” 

He fell into the habit of going back to his office, 
reading or writing and sometimes dreaming. It 
would be better by and by. So he made a great 
effort and cleared the house and proposed they 
should live a broader life, have in pleasant friends, 
go out now and then to a play, or take a journey. 

Why should they waste their time and money on 
such foolish things? There was old age to pro- 
vide for. She didn’t mean to end her days in the 
poorhouse ! 

He had some lonely, disappointed hours. Then 
he began to take an interest in the hands. His 
foreman had three attractive children and he en- 
couraged them to come to the office. He was so 
fond of children. 

He gained courage enough to propose that they 
adopt a child. Mrs. Mann was aghast ! 



Well, I should think, Ad, you must be crazy ! 
The idea of bothering with other folks’ children 
when we’re so fortunate as to have none of our 
own. I couldn’t be such an idiot ! ” 

So he dropped into a sort of double life, had a 
dream house and dream children as sweet and dear 
as the little Ross children. He took them out sail- 
ing on Saturday afternoons, to pretty shows and 
harmless plays. He bought them toys and clothes, 
they sat on his knee and put their fond warm arms 
about his neck, actually kissed him with the sweet- 
est lips. When Christmas-tide came how merry 
they were, and noisy, too! 

He used to stray about the streets occasionally 
at night and unearth some newsboy, or perhaps 
homeless waif, and give him a good supper or buy 
him some shoes or a warm coat. It helped keep 
the fire of love alight in his heart. The Ross 
children gained courage enough to climb up in his 
lap. They had such a cozy home, though it was 
plain, and the furniture well worn. And oh, what 
a welcome he always had! 

And almost without any warning Mrs. Mann 
was called to lay down her work and rest from 
her labor. Only a few days in which she was 
mostly unconscious, and it was a great shock to 
him, for she had always been so well and stirring. 




Had she really enjoyed her life? She could have 
had it very different. 

He gave away most of the furniture and of- 
fered the house for sale. It had never been a 
home to him. There were no tender recollections 
about it. 

Some months later a pretty country house had 
to be sold, on which he held a mortgage for nearly 
its value. There were two acres of ground. 
Grafton was one of the home settlements, that 
spring up so around the country, near railroad 
stations. After some consideration he determined 
to start a new life. He was tired of these years of 
toil and unsatisfactory living. He would take 
John Ross for a partner; he could not have a 
more upright man. And he recalled something 
the man had once said : 

“ Fve a life insurance if anything should hap- 
pen, and I am putting a little in a building loan. 
But I shall not have a house in the city. I shall 
go out in the suburbs where I can have a little 
garden plot and some flowers to cheer my old 
age. 

Adonijah Mann kept thinking of this as he in- 
spected the really pretty village. There were two 
straight, long streets and several crossways. It 
was not laid out in city lots; some plots had four 



or five acres; others, not more than two. All 
along the street young trees had been set out — 
there was a plank sidewalk. At the end of one 
street there was a small park with a chapel at 
one side. Several magnificent trees were in this 
plot. Indeed, there were numbers of fine trees 
about, which took off the crudeness of a new place. 

This particular house stood back about a hun- 
dred feet from the street. The lawn was in a 
circle with a wide drive around it that also went 
to the rear, where was a barn and carriage house. 
A capacious hennery, and a long strip of land 
with fruit trees and garden spot. Farther back 
on a rise of ground was a space of forest trees 
with great clumps of rhododendrons. 

Even in late March it looked enchanting to him. 
The trees really were budding, there were tufts of 
green grass, and birds were flying about, calling 
to each other. The man’s heart was filled with 
wonder and such a throb of gratitude that he 
hardly knew himself. To have all this — to begin 
a new life in a clean, beautiful, wholesome place! 
Why, it was like his ideas of heaven! 

And the upshot of it was that he bought the 
place, installed John Ross in his new position, took 
Mrs. Ross and the children up to Grafton for their 
May holiday week, for he wanted a woman’s opin- 


 

ion of things in general. And Mrs. Ross could 
give a home such a cozy, livable look, which his 
former home never had. The former owner had 
taken what household goods he wanted and sold 
the rest. Mrs. Ross brought some comfortable 
things out of the garret and discarded some of the 
stiff articles that had been considered high art; 
and straightened, the place looked really inviting. 

‘‘ I wish it was so you could come here and 
live,’’ he said longingly. ‘‘ I think we could all 
get on so nicely. And I am so fond of the chil- 
dren. You must bring them up in the real vaca- 
tion.’’ 

“ Thank you,” and she smiled. Then, with a 
sudden accession of courage, “ Mr. Mann, you 
ought to marry again. Some nice woman — yes, 
there ought to be children, too.” What a pity all 
his younger years should have been wasted! 

There was a general factotum about the place. 
Dan, whose home was at Denby, where his 
mother and his paralyzed wife lived. He went 
over nearly every day to see them, but the Ged- 
neys had wanted him to stay about nights. There 
were Bonnie, and Jim, the great watchdog, who 
was only let loose at night to frighten away the 
marauders, and Bitsy, the funny, ugly little Scotch 
terrier, and Pilot, the beautiful collie, to say noth- 


ing of the chickens and the doves and the mag- 
nificent peacock and his plain little hen. So Mr. 
Mann was busy at first getting acquainted with 
everything in his wonderful new world. 

He thought now and then of Mrs. Ross’s re- 
mark about a wife. If she had a sister! And 
he thought of the children, too, but he would like 
them quite large so they could be companionable. 

He was very happy with the spring work, the 
wonderful bloom and fragrance of everything. 
Why, he had no idea the world was so beautiful ! 
He spent hours just looking at it, and could never 
have put his joy into words. He almost hated 
the two days he spent in the city. Mrs. Ross 
had found him a nice housekeeper. Her two sons 
were married and settled, but she insisted that 
while she was well and able she would be happier 
earning her own living. She was a fine cook and 
neat without being fussy. 

Nearly every afternoon he took a drive around 
country ways, finding new delights everywhere. 
The Rosses came up and spent a fortnight. Oh, 
what a good time they had! But the children 
went every summer to their grandmother’s, a little 
seaside place where they bathed and played in the 
sand, and came home brown and rosy, ready for 
another year’s schooling. 


 

But he was more lonesome than ever. He went 
driving round, he called on his neighbors, he even 
strayed down into the little town of Denby, that 
seemed very slow and primitive. And this after- 
noon he found his way through this little old lane 
and saw the crying children. 


CHAPTER II 


AMARYLLIS 

So Mr. Adonijah Mann jogged along, thinking 
of the eight children. He wondered if the mother 
wouldn’t like to give away two, one would be so 
lonesome. Now and then he chuckled as he 
thought of their wailing. And then he smiled as 
he recalled the beauti fullest mother.” What 
would she be like ? Mrs. Ross was rather tall and 
slim. There were some nice-looking mothers who 
sat out on the porches at Grafton, or swung in the 
hammocks, or held a baby. The mother of eight 
wouldn’t have any time for such indulgences. 
What a lot of stockings there would be to mend ! 
He had seen Mrs. Ross darning them in her dainty 
fashion. 
