
Desboro motioned her husband to a chair, but the man stood looking at
his wife through his goggles, with a silly, fixed grin stamped on his
features. Then he drew off the goggles and one fur gauntlet, fumbled in
his overcoat, produced the crumpled note which she had left for him,
laid it on the table between them, and sat down heavily, filling the
leather armchair with his bulk. His bare red hand steamed. After a
moment's silence, he pointed at the note.

"Well," she said, with an effort, "what of it! It's true--what this
letter says."

"It isn't true yet, is it?" asked Clydesdale simply.

"What do you mean?"

But Desboro understood him, and answered for her with a calm shake of
his head. Then the wife understood, too, and the deep colour dyed her
skin from throat to brow.

"Why do you come here--after reading that?" She pointed at the letter.
"Didn't you read it?"

Clydesdale passed his hand slowly over his perplexed eyes.

"I came to take you home. The car is here."

"Didn't you understand what I wrote? Isn't it plain enough?" she
demanded excitedly.

"No. You'd better get ready, Elena."

"Is that as much of a man as you are--when I tell you I'd rather be Mr.
Desboro's----"

Something behind the fixed grin on her husband's face made her hesitate
and falter. Then he swung heavily around and looked at Desboro.

"How much are you in this, anyway?" he asked, still grinning.

"Do you expect an answer?"

"I think I'll get one."

"I think you won't get one out of me."

"Oh. So you're at the bottom of it all, are you?"

"No doubt. A woman doesn't do such a thing unpersuaded. If you don't
know enough to look after your own wife, there are plenty of men who'll
apply for the job--as I did."

"You're a very rotten scoundrel, aren't you?" said Clydesdale, grinning.

"Oh, so-so."

Clydesdale sat very still, his grin unchanged, and Desboro looked him
over coolly.

"Now, what do you want to do? You and Mrs. Clydesdale can remain here
to-night if you wish. There are plenty of bedrooms----"

Clydesdale rose, bulking huge and menacing in his furs; but Desboro,
sitting on the edge of the table, continued to swing one foot gently,
smiling at danger.

And Clydesdale hesitated, then veered around toward his wife, with the
heavy movement of a perplexed and tortured bear.

"Get your furs on," he said, in a dull voice.

"Do you wish me to go home?"

"Get your furs on!"

"Do you wish me to go home, Cary?"

"Yes. Good God! What do you suppose I came here for?"

She walked over to Desboro and held out her hand:

"No wonder women like you. Good-bye--and if I come again--may I remain?"

"Don't come," he said, smiling, and holding her coat for her.

Clydesdale strode forward, took the fur garment from Desboro's hands,
and held it open. His wife looked up at him, shrugged her shoulders, and
suffered him to invest her with the coat.

After a moment Desboro said:

"Clydesdale, I am not your enemy. I wish you good luck."

"You go to hell," said Clydesdale thickly.

Mrs. Clydesdale moved toward the door, her husband on one side, Desboro
on the other, and so, along the hall in silence, and out to the porch,
where the glare of the acetylenes lighted up the frozen drive.

"It feels like rain," observed Desboro. "Not a very gay outlook for
Christmas. All the same, I wish you a happy one, Elena. And, really, I
believe you could have it if you cared to."

"Thank you, Jim. You have been mistakenly kind to me. I am afraid you
will have to be crueller some day. Good-bye--till then."

Clydesdale had descended to the drive and was conferring with the
chauffeur. Now he turned and looked up at his wife. She went down the
steps beside Desboro, and he nodded good-night. Clydesdale put her into
the limousine and then got in after her.

A few moments later the red tail-lamp of the motor disappeared among the
trees bordering the drive, and Desboro turned and walked back into the
house.

"That," he said aloud to himself, "settles the damned species for me!
Let the next one look out for herself!"

He sauntered back into the library. The letter that she had left for her
husband still lay on the table, apparently forgotten.

"A fine specimen of logic," he said. "She doesn't get on with him, so
she decides to use Jim to jimmy the lock of wedlock! A white man can
understand the Orientals better."

He glanced at the clock, and decided that there was no sense in going to
bed, so he composed himself on the haircloth sofa once more, lighted a
cigarette, and began to read, coolly using the note she had left, as a
bookmark.

It was dawn before he closed the book and went away to bathe and change
his attire.

While breakfasting he glanced out and saw that it had begun to rain. A
green Christmas for day after to-morrow! And, thinking of Christmas, he
thought of a girl he knew who usually wore blue, and what sort of a gift
he had better send her when he went to the city that morning.

But he didn't go. He called up a jeweler and gave directions what to
send and where to send it.

Then, listless, depressed, he idled about the great house, putting off
instinctively the paramount issue--the necessary investigation of his
finances. But he had evaded it too long to attempt it lightly now. It
was only a question of days before he'd have to take up in deadly
earnest the question of how to pay his debts. He knew it; and it made
him yawn with disgust.

After luncheon he wrote a letter to one Jean Louis Nevers, a New York
dealer in antiques, saying that he would drop in some day after
Christmas to consult Mr. Nevers on a matter of private business.

And that is as far as he got with his very vague plan for paying off an
accumulation of debts which, at last, were seriously annoying him.

The remainder of the day he spent tramping about the woods of
Westchester with a pack of nondescript dogs belonging to him. He liked
to walk in the rain; he liked his mongrels.

In the evening he resumed his attitude of unstudied elegance on the
sofa, also his book, using Mrs. Clydesdale's note again to mark his
place.

Mrs. Quant ventured to knock, bringing some "magic drops," which he
smilingly refused. Farris announced dinner, and he dined as usual,
surrounded by dogs and cats, all very cordial toward the master of
Silverwood, who was unvaryingly so just and so kind to them.

After dinner he lighted a pipe, thought idly of the girl in blue, hoped
she'd like his gift of aquamarines, and picked up his book again,
yawning.

He had had about enough of Silverwood, and he was realising it. He had
had more than enough of women, too.

The next day, riding one of his weedy hunters over Silverwood estate, he
encountered the daughter of a neighbor, an old playmate of his when
summer days were half a year long, and yesterdays immediately became
embedded in the middle of the middle ages.

She was riding a fretful, handsome Kentucky three-year-old, and sitting
nonchalantly to his exasperating and jiggling gait.

The girl was one Daisy Hammerton--the sort men call "square" and
"white," and a "good fellow"; but she was softly rounded and dark, and
very feminine.

She bade him good morning in a friendly voice; and her voice and manner
might well have been different, for Desboro had not behaved very civilly
toward her or toward her family, or to any of his Westchester neighbors
for that matter; and the rumours of his behaviour in New York were
anything but pleasant to a young girl's ears. So her cordiality was the
more to her credit.

He made rather shame-faced inquiries about her and her parents, but she
lightly put him at his ease, and they turned into the woods together on
the old and unembarrassed terms of comradeship.

"Captain Herrendene is back. Did you know it?" she asked.

"Nice old bird," commented Desboro. "I must look him up. Where did he
come from--Luzon?"

"Yes. He wrote us. Why don't you ask him up for the skating, Jim?"

"What skating?" said Desboro, with a laugh. "It will be a green
Christmas, Daisy--it's going to rain again. Besides," he added, "I
shan't be here much longer."

"Oh, I'm sorry."

He reddened. "You always were the sweetest thing in Westchester. Fancy
your being sorry that I'm going back to town when I've never once ridden
over to see you as long as I've been here!"

She laughed. "We've known each other too long to let such things make
any real difference. But you have been a trifle negligent."

"Daisy, dear, I'm that way in everything. If anybody asked me to name
the one person I would not neglect, I'd name you. But you see what
happens--even to you! I don't know--I don't seem to have any character.
I don't know what's the matter with me----"

"I'm afraid that you have no beliefs, Jim."

"How can I have any when the world is so rotten after nineteen hundred
years of Christianity?"

"I have not found it rotten."

"No, because you live in a clean and wholesome circle."

"Why don't you, too? You can live where you please, can't you?"

He laughed and waved his hand toward the horizon.

"You know what the Desboros have always been. You needn't pretend you
don't. All Westchester has it in for us. But relief is in sight," he
added, with mock seriousness. "I'm the last of 'em, and your children,
Daisy, won't have to endure the morally painful necessity of tolerating
anybody of my name in the county."

She smiled: "Jim, you could be so nice if you only would."

"What! With no beliefs?"

"They're so easily acquired."

"Not in New York town, Daisy."

"Perhaps not among the people you affect. But such people really count
for so little--they are only a small but noisy section of a vast and
quiet and wholesome community. And the noise and cynicism are both based
on idleness, Jim. Nobody who is busy is destitute of beliefs. Nobody who
is responsible can avoid ideals."

"Quite right," he said. "I am idle and irresponsible. But, Daisy, it's
as much part of me as are my legs and arms, and head and body. I am not
stupid; I have plenty of mental resources; I am never bored; I enjoy my
drift through life in an empty tub as much as the man who pulls
furiously through it in a rowboat loaded with ambitions, ballasted with
brightly moral resolves, and buffeted by the cross seas of duty and
conscience. That's rather neat, isn't it?"

"You can't drift safely very long without ballast," said the girl,
smiling.

"Watch me."

She did not answer that she had been watching him for the last few
years, or tell him how it had hurt her to hear his name linked with the
gossip of fashionably vapid doings among idle and vapid people. For his
had been an inheritance of ability and culture, and the leisure to
develop both. Out of idleness and easy virtue had at last emerged three
generations of Desboros full of energy and almost ruthless ability--his
great-grandfather, grandfather and father--but he, the fourth
generation, was throwing back into the melting pot all that his father
and grandfathers had carried from it--even the material part of it. Land
and fortune, were beginning to disappear, together with the sturdy
mental and moral qualities of a race that had almost overcome its
vicious origin under the vicious Stuarts. Only the physical stamina as
yet seemed to remain intact; for Desboro was good to look upon.

"An odd thing happened the other night--or, rather, early in the
morning," she said. "We were awakened by a hammering at the door and a
horn blowing--and guess who it was?"

"Not Gabriel--though you look immortally angelic to-day----"

"Thank you, Jim. No; it was Cary and Elena Clydesdale, saying that their
car had broken down. What a ridiculous hour to be motoring! Elena was
half dead with the cold, too. It seems they'd been to a party somewhere
and were foolish enough to try to motor back to town. They stopped with
us and took the noon train to town. Elena told me to give you her love;
that's what reminded me."

"Give her mine when you see her," he said pleasantly.

       *       *       *       *       *

When he returned to his house he sat down with a notion of trying to
bring order out of the chaos into which his affairs had tumbled. But the
mere sight of his desk, choked with unanswered letters and unpaid bills,
sickened him, and he threw himself on the sofa and picked up his book,
determined to rid himself of Silverwood House and all its curious,
astonishing and costly contents.

"Tell Riley to be on hand Monday," he said to Mrs. Quant that evening.
"I want the cases in the wing rooms and the stuff in the armoury cleaned
up, because I expect a Mr. Nevers to come here and recatalogue the
entire collection next week."

"Will you be at home, Mr. James?" she asked anxiously.

"No. I'm going South, duck-shooting. See that Mr. Nevers is comfortable
if he chooses to remain here; for it will take him a week or two to do
his work in the armoury, I suppose. So you'll have to start both
furnaces to-morrow, and keep open fires going, or the man will freeze
solid. You understand, don't you?"

"Yes, sir. And if you are going away, Mr. James, I could pack a little
bottle of 'magic drops'----"

"By all means," he said, with good-humoured resignation.

He spent the evening fussing over his guns and ammunition, determined to
go to New York in the morning. But he didn't; indecision had become a
habit; he knew it, wondered a little at himself for his lack of
decision.

He was deadly weary of Silverwood, but too lazy to leave; and it made
him think of the laziest dog on record, who yelped all day because he
had sat down on a tack and was too lazy to get up.

So it was not until the middle of Christmas week that Desboro summoned
up sufficient energy to start for New York. And when at last he was on
the train, he made up his mind that he wouldn't return to Silverwood in
a hurry.

But that plan was one of the mice-like plans men make so confidently
under the eternal skies.




CHAPTER II


Desboro arrived in town on a late train. It was raining, so he drove to
his rooms, exchanged his overcoat for a raincoat, and went out into the
downpour again, undisturbed, disdaining an umbrella.

In a quarter of an hour's vigorous walking he came to the celebrated
antique shop of Louis Nevers, and entered, letting in a gust of wind and
rain at his heels.

Everywhere in the semi-gloom of the place objects loomed mysteriously,
their outlines lost in shadow except where, here and there, a gleam of
wintry daylight touched a jewel or fell across some gilded god,
lotus-throned, brooding alone.

When Desboro's eyes became accustomed to the obscurity, he saw that
there was armour there, complete suits, Spanish and Milanese, and an odd
Morion or two; and there were jewels in old-time settings, tapestries,
silver, ivories, Hispano-Moresque lustre, jades, crystals.

The subdued splendour of Chinese and Japanese armour, lacquered in
turquoise, and scarlet and gold, glimmered on lay figures masked by
grotesque helmets; an Ispahan rug, softly luminous, trailed across a
table beside him, and on it lay a dead Sultan's scimitar, curved like
the new moon, its slim blade inset with magic characters, the hilt
wrought as delicately as the folded frond of a fern, graceful,
exquisite, gem-incrusted.

There were a few people about the shop, customers and clerks, moving
shapes in the dull light. Presently a little old salesman wearing a
skull cap approached him.

"Rainy weather for Christmas week, sir. Can I be of service?"

"Thanks," said Desboro. "I came here by appointment on a matter of
private business."

"Certainly, sir. I think Miss Nevers is not engaged. Kindly give me your
card and I will find out."

"But I wish to see Mr. Nevers himself."

"Mr. Nevers is dead, sir."

"Oh! I didn't know----"

"Yes, sir. Mr. Nevers died two years ago." And, as Desboro remained
silent and thoughtful: "Perhaps you might wish to see Miss Nevers? She
has charge of everything now, including all our confidential affairs."

"No doubt," said Desboro pleasantly, "but this is an affair requiring
personal judgment and expert advice----"

"I understand, sir. The gentlemen who came to see Mr. Nevers about
matters requiring expert opinions now consult Miss Nevers personally."

"Who is Miss Nevers?"

"His daughter, sir." He added, with quaint pride: "The great jewelers of
Fifth Avenue consult her; experts in our business often seek her advice.
The Museum authorities have been pleased to speak highly of her
monograph on Hurtado de Mendoza."

Desboro hesitated for a moment, then gave his card to the old salesman,
who trotted away with it down the unlighted vista of the shop.

The young man's pleasantly indifferent glance rested on one object after
another, not unintelligently, but without particular interest. Yet
there were some very wonderful and very rare and beautiful things to be
seen in the celebrated shop of the late Jean Louis Nevers.

So he stood, leaning on his walking stick, the upturned collar of his
raincoat framing a face which was too colourless and worn for a man of
his age; and presently the little old salesman came trotting back, the
tassel on his neat silk cap bobbing with every step.

"Miss Nevers will be very glad to see you in her private office. This
way, if you please, sir."

Desboro followed to the rear of the long, dusky shop, turned to the left
through two more rooms full of shadowy objects dimly discerned, then
traversed a tiled passage to where electric lights burned over a
doorway.

The old man opened the door; Desboro entered and found himself in a
square picture gallery, lighted from above, and hung all around with
dark velvet curtains to protect the pictures on sale. As he closed the
door behind him a woman at a distant desk turned her head, but remained
seated, pen poised, looking across the room at him as he advanced. Her
black gown blended so deceptively with the hangings that at first he
could distinguish only the white face and throat and hands against the
shadows behind her.

"Will you kindly announce me to Miss Nevers?" he said, looking around
for a chair.

"I am Miss Nevers."

She closed the ledger in which she had been writing, laid aside her pen
and rose. As she came forward he found himself looking at a tall girl,
slim to thinness, except for the rounded oval of her face under a loose
crown of yellow hair, from which a stray lock sagged untidily, curling
across her cheek.

He thought: "A blue-stocking prodigy of learning, with her hair in a
mess, and painted at that." But he said politely, yet with that hint of
idle amusement in his voice which often sounded through his speech with
women:

"Are you the Miss Nevers who has taken over this antique business, and
who writes monographs on Hurtado de Mendoza?"

"Yes."

"You appear to be very young to succeed such a distinguished authority
as your father, Miss Nevers."

His observation did not seem to disturb her, nor did the faintest hint
of mockery in his pleasant voice. She waited quietly for him to state
his business.

He said: "I came here to ask somebody's advice about engaging an expert
to appraise and catalogue my collection."

And even while he was speaking he was conscious that never before had he
seen such a white skin and such red lips--if they were natural. And he
began to think that they might be.

He said, noticing the bright lock astray on her cheek once more:

"I suppose that I may speak to you in confidence--just as I would have
spoken to your father."

She was still looking at him with the charm of youthful inquiry in her
eyes.

"Certainly," she said.

She glanced down at his card which still lay on her blotter, stood a
moment with her hand resting on the desk, then indicated a chair at her
elbow and seated herself.

He took the chair.

"I wrote you that I'd drop in sometime this week. The note was directed
to your father. I did not know he was not living."

"You are the Mr. Desboro who owns the collection of armour?" she asked.

"I am that James Philip Desboro who lives at Silverwood," he said.
"Evidently you have heard of the Desboro collection of arms and armour."

"Everybody has, I think."

