
The girl — 'TherSse was her name — 'had a 
Httle package under her arm, as if she had 
been shopping. She was not well dressed, 
as when George had met her before, and 
doubtless she thought that was the reason 
for his lack of cordiahty. This made him 
rather ashamed, and so, only half reahzing 
what he was doing, he began to stroll along 
with her. 

"Why did you never come to see me 
again?" she asked. 



 

George hesitated. ''I — 'I — " he stam- 
mered — ''I've been married since then." 

She laughed. "Oh! So that's it!" 
And then, as they came to a bench under 
some trees, "Won't you sit down a while?" 
There was allurement in her glance, but it 
made George shudder. It was incredible 
to him that he had ever been attracted 
by this crude girl. The spell was now 
broken completely. 

She quickly saw that something was 
wrong. "You don't seem very cheerful," 
she said. "What's the matter?" 

And the man, staring at her, suddenly 
blurted out, "Don't you know what you 
did to me?" 

"What I did to you?" Ther'se repeated 
wonderingly. 

"You must know!" he insisted. 

And then she tried to meet his gaze and 
could not. "Why — " she stammered. 

There was silence between them. When 
George spoke again his voice was low and 
trembling. "You ruined my whole life," 
he said — "not only mine, but my family's. 
How could you do it?" 



 

She strove to laugh it off. ''A cheerful 
topic for an afternoon stroll!" 

For a long while George did not answer. 
Then, almost in a whisper, he repeated, 
''How could you do it?" 

''Some one did it to me first," was the 
response. "A man!" 

"Yes," said George, "but he didn't 
know." 

"How can you tell whether he knew or 
not?" 

"You knew?" he inquired, wonderingly. 

Th'rese hesitated. "Yes, I knew," she 
said at last, defiantly. "I have known for 
years." 

"And I'm not the only man." 

She laughed. "I guess not!" 

There followed a long pause. At last 
he resumed, "I don't want to blame you; 
there's nothing to be gained by that; it's 
done, and can't be undone. But sometimes 
I wonder about it. I should like to under- 
stand — 'why did you do it?" 

"Why? That's easy enough. I did it 
because I have to live." 

"You five that way?" he exclaimed. 



 

''Why of course. What did you think?" 

''I thought you were a — a. — " He 
hesitated. 

''You thought I was respectable' laughed 
Therese. "Well, that's just a little game 
I was playing on you." 

"But I didn't give you any money!" 
he argued. 

"Not that time," she said, "but I thought 
you would come back." 

He sat gazing at her. "And you earn 
your living that way still?" he asked. 
"When you know what's the matter with 
you! When you know — " 

"What can I do? I have to Hve, don't 
I?" 

"But don't you even take care of your- 
self? Surely there must be some way, 
some place — " 

"The reformatory, perhaps," she sneered. 
"No, thanks! I'll go there when the police 
catch me, not before. I know some girls 
that have tried that." 

"But aren't you afraid?" cried the man. 
''And the things that will happen to you! 
Have you ever talked to a doctor — or 
read a book?" 



 

''I know," she said. ''IVe seen it all. 
If it comes to me, I'll go over the side of 
one of the bridges some dark night." 

George sat lost in thought. A strange 
adventure it seemed to him — to meet this 
girl under such different circumstances! 
It was as if he were watching a play from 
behind the scenes instead of in front. If 
only he had had this new view in time — 'how 
different would have been his life! And 
how terrible it was to think of the others 
who didn't know — 'the audience who were 
still sitting out jn front, watching the 
spectacle, interested in it! 

His thoughts came back to Therese. He 
was curious about her and the life she lived. 
''Tell me a little about it," he said. ''How 
you came to be doing this." And he 
added, '' Don't think I want to preach; 
I'd really like to understand." 

''Oh, it's a common story," she said — 
'' nothing especially romantic. I came to 
Paris when I was a girl. My parents had 
died, and I had no friends, and I didn't 
know what to do. I got a place as a nurse- 
maid. I was seventeen years old then. 



 

and I didn't know anything. I believed 
what I was told, and I believed my 
employer. His wife was ill in a hospital, 
and he said he wanted to marry me when she 
died. Well, I liked him, and I was sorry 
for him — and then the first thing I knew I 
had a baby. And then the wife came back, 
and I was turned off. I had been a fool, 
of course. If I had been in her place I 
should have done just what she did.'' 

The girl was speaking in a cold, matter-of- 
fact voice, as of things about which she was 
no longer able to suffer. '' So there I was — 
on the street," she went on. "You have 
always had money, a comfortable home, 
education, friends to help you — all that. 
You can't imagine how it is to be in the 
world without any of these things. I lived 
on my savings as long as I could; then I 
had to leave my baby in a foundling's 
home, and I went out to do my five hours 
on the boulevards. You know the game, 
I've no doubt." 

Yes, George knew the game. Somehow 
or other he no longer felt bitter towards 
this poor creature. She was part of the 



 

system of which he was a victim also. 
There was nothing to be gained by hating 
each other. Just as the doctor said, what 
was needed was enlightenment. " Listen' 
he said, ''why don't you try to get cured?" 

''I haven't got the price," was the 
answer. 

''Well," he said, hesitatingly, ''I know 
a doctor — one of the really good men. He 
has a free clinic, and I've no doubt he 
would take you in if I asked him to." 

'' You ask him?" echoed the other, looking 
at George in surprise. 

The young man felt somewhat uncom- 
fortable. He was not used to playing the 
role of the good Samaritan. ''I — I need 
not tell him about us," he stammered. 
''I could just say that I met you. I have 
had such a wretched time myseK, I feel 
sorry for anybody that's in the same plight. 
I should Hke to help you if I could." 

The girl sat staring before her, lost in 
thought. ''I have treated you badly, I 
guess," she said. '' I'm sorry. I'm ashamed 
of myself." 

George took a pencil and paper from his 

 



 

pocket and wrote the doctor's address. 
''Here it is' he said, in a business-Hke 
way, because he felt that otherwise he could 
become sentimental. He was half tempted 
to tell the woman what had happened to 
him, and all about Henriette and the sick 
child; but he realized that that would not 
do. So he rose and shook hands with her 
and left. 

The next time he saw the doctor he 
told him about this girl. He decided to 
tell him the truth — Shaving already made 
so many mistakes trying to conceal things. 
The doctor agreed to treat the woman, 
making the condition that George promise 
not to see her again. 

The young man was rather shocked at 
this. "Doctor," he exclaimed, ''I assure 
you you are mistaken. The thing you have 
in mind would be utterly impossible.'' 

"I know," said the other, "you think so. 
But I think, young man, that I know more 
about life than you do. When a man and a 
woman have once committed such a sin, 
it is easy for them to slip back. The less 
time they spend talking about their mis- 



 

fortunes, and being generous and for- 
bearing to each other, the better for them 
both." 

''But, Doctor," cried George. ''I love 
Henriette! I could not possibly love any- 
one else. It would be horrible to me!" 

"Yes," said the doctor. "But you are 
not living with Henriette. You are wander- 
ing round, not knowing what to do with 
yourseK next." 

There was no need for anybody to tell 
George that. "What do you think?" he 
asked abruptly. "Is there any hope for 
me?" 

"I think there is," said the other, who, 
in spite of his resolution, had become a 
sort of ambassador for the unhappy hus- 
band. He had to go to the Loches house 
to attend the child, and so he could not 
help seeing Henriette, and talking to her 
about the child's health and her own 
future. He considered that George had 
had his lesson, and urged upon the young 
wife that he would be wiser in future, and 
safe to trust. 

George had indeed learned much. He 



 

got new lessons every time he went to call 
at the physician's office — 'he could read 
them in the faces of the people he saw there. 
One day when he was alone in the waiting- 
room, the doctor came out of his inner 
office, talking to an elderly gentleman, 
whom George recognized as the father of 
one of his classmates at college. The 
father was a little shopkeeper, and the 
young man remembered how pathetically 
proud he had been of his son. Could it be, 
thought George, that this old man was a 
victim of syphilis? 

But it was the son, and not the father, 
who was the subject of the consultation. 
The old man was speaking in a deeply 
moved voice, and he stood so that George 
could not help hearing what he said. 
'Terhaps you can't understand,'' he said, 
''just what it means to us — the hopes we 
had of that boy! Such a fine fellow he was, 
and a good fellow, too, sir! We were so 
proud of him; we had bled our veins to 
keep him in college — and now just see!" 

'' Don't despair, sir," said the doctor, 
"we'll try to cure him." And he added, 



 

with that same note of sorrow in his voice 
which George had heard, ''Why did you 
wait so long before you brought the boy 
to me?'' 

''How was I to know what he had?'' 
cried the other. ''He didn't dare tell me, 
sir — 'he was afraid of my scolding him. 
And in the meantime the disease was 
running its course. WTien he realized that 
he had it, he went secretly to one of the 
quacks, who robbed him, and didn't cure 
him. You know how it is, sir." 

''Yes, I know," said the doctor. 

"Such things ought not to be permitted," 
cried the old man. "What is our govern- 
ment about that it allows such things to go 
on? Take the conditions there at the college 
where my poor boy was ruined. At the 
very gates of the building these women are 
watching for the lads! Ought they to be 
permitted to debauch young boys only 
fifteen years old? Haven't we got pohce 
enough to prevent a thing like that? Tell 
me, sir!" 

"One would think so," said the doctor, 
patiently. 



 

''But is it that the poHce don't want 
to?'' 

"No doubt they have the same excuse 
as all the rest — 'they don't know. Take 
courage, sir; we have cured worse cases 
than your son's. And some day, perhaps, 
we shall be able to change these conditions." 

So he went on with the man, leaving 
George with something to think about. 
How much he could have told them about 
what had happened to that young fellow 
when only fifteen years old! It had not 
been altogether the fault of the women who 
were lurking outside of the college gates; 
it was a fact that the boy's classmates 
had teased him and ridiculed him, had 
literally made his Hfe a torment, until he 
had yielded to temptation. 

It was the old, old story of ignorant and 
unguided schoolboys all over the world! 
They thought that to be chaste was to be 
weak and foolish; that a fellow was not a 
man unless he led a life of debauchery hke 
the rest. And what did they know about 
these dreadful diseases? They had the 
most horrible superstitions — 'ideas of cures 



 

so loathsome that they could not be set 
down in print; ideas as ignorant and de- 
structive as those of savages in the heart 
of Africa. And you might hear them 
laughing and jesting about one another's 
condition. They might be afflicted with 
diseases which would have the most terrible 
after-effects upon their whole lives and 
upon their families — diseases which cause 
tens of thousands of surgical operations 
upon women, and a large percentage of 
blindness and idiocy in children — and you 
might hear them confidently express the 
opinion that these diseases were no worse 
than a bad cold! 

And all this mass of misery and ignorance 
covered over and clamped down by a 
taboo of silence, imposed by the horrible 
superstition of sex-prudery! George went 
out from the doctor's office trembluig with 
excitement over this situation. Oh, why 
had not some one warned him in time? 
Why didn't the doctors and the teachers 
lift up their voices and tell young men 
about these frightful dangers? He wanted 
to go out in the highways and preach it 



 



himself — except that he dared not, because 
he could not explain to the world his own 
sudden interest in this forbidden topic. 

There was only one person he dared to 
talk to: that was his mother — to whom he 
ought to have talked many, many years 
before. He was moved to mention to her 
the interview he had overheard in the 
doctor's office. In a sudden burst of grief 
he told her of his struggles and temptations; 
he pleaded with her to go to Henriette once 
more — 'to tell her these things, and try to 
make her realize that he alone was not to 
blame for them, that they were a condition 
which prevailed everywhere, that the only 
difference between her husband and other 
men was that he had had the misfortune 
to be caught. 

There was pressure being applied to 
Henriette from several sides. After all, 
what could she do? She was comfortable 
in her father's home, so far as the physical 
side of things went; but she knew that all 
her friends were gossiping and speculating 
about her separation from her husband, 
and sooner or later she would have to make 



 

up her mind, either to separate permanently 
from George or to return to him. There 
was not much happiness for her in the 
thought of getting a divorce from a man 
whom deep in her heart she loved. She 
would be practically a widow the rest of 
her life, and the home in which poor little 
Gervaise would be brought up would not 
be a cheerful one. 

George was ready to offer any terms, if 
only she would come back to his home. 
They might live separate lives for as long 
as Henriette wished. They would have no 
more children until the doctor declared 
it was quite safe; and in the meantime he 
