She did not speak, nor did I, conscious that her eyes had never left my
face and must have read my startled mind with perfect ease.

Presently I turned the portrait over. There was a lock of hair there
under the glass--bright, curly hair exactly like her own. And at first
I saw nothing else. Then, as the glass-backed locket glanced in the
lantern-light, I saw that on the glass something had been inscribed
with a diamond. This is what I read, written across the glass:

"Jean Coeur a son coeur cheri."

I looked up at her.

"Jean Coeur," I repeated. "That is no name for a man----" Suddenly I
remembered, years ago--years and years since--hearing Guy Johnson
cursing some such man. Then in an instant all came back to me; and she
seemed to divine it, for her small hand clutched my arm and her eyes
were widening as I turned to meet them.

"Lois," I said unsteadily, "there was a man called Jean Coeur, deputy
to the adventurer, Joncaire. Joncaire was the great captain who all but
saved this Western Continent to France. Captain Joncaire was feared,
detested, but respected by Sir William Johnson because he held all
Canada and the Hurons and Algonquins in the hollow of his hand, and had
even gained part of the Long House--the Senecas. His clever deputy was
called Jean Coeur. Never did two men know the Indians as these two did."

I thought a moment, then: "Somewhere I heard that Captain Joncaire had
a daughter. But she married another man--one Louis de Contrecoeur----"
I hesitated, glanced again at the name scratched on the glass over the
lock of hair, and shook my head.

"Jean Coeur--Louis de Contrecoeur. The names scarce hang
together--yet----"

"Look at this!" she whispered in a low, tense voice, and laid a bit of
printing in my hand.

It was a stained and engraved sheet of paper--a fly-leaf detached from
a book of Voltaire. And above the scroll-encompassed title was written
in faded ink: "Le Capitaine Vicomte Louis Jean de Contrecoeur du
Regiment de la Reine." And under that, in a woman's fine handwriting:
"Mon coeur, malgre; mon coeur, se rendre a Contrecoeur, dit Jean Coeur;
coeur contre coeur."

"That," she said, "is the same writing that the birch bark bears, sewed
in my moccasins."

"Then," I said excitedly, "your mother was born Mademoiselle Joncaire,
and you are Lois de Contrecoeur!"

She sat with eyes lowered, fingering the stained and faded page. After
a moment she said:

"I wrote to France--to the Headquarters of the Regiment de la
Reine--asking about my--father."

"You had an answer?"

"Aye, the answer came.... Merely a word or two.... The Vicomte Louis
Jean de Contrecoeur fell at Lake George in '55----" She lifted her
clear eyes to mine. "And died--unmarried."

A chill passed through me, then the reaction came, taking me by the
throat, setting my veins afire.

"Then--by God!" I stammered. "If de Contrecoeur died unmarried, his
child shall not!"

"Euan! I do not credit what they wrote. If my father married here
perhaps they had not heard."

"Lois! Dearest of maids--whichever is the truth I wish to marry you!"

But she stopped her ears with both palms, giving me a frightened look;
and checked, but burning still, I stared at her.

"Is that then all you are?" she asked. "A wisp of tow to catch the
first spark that flies? A brand ever smouldering, which the first
breath o' woman stirs to flame?"

"Never have I loved before----"

"Love! Euan, are you mad?"

We both were breathing fast and brokenly.

"What is it then, if it be not love!" I asked angrily.

"What is it?" she repeated slowly. Yet I seemed to feel in her very
voice a faint, cool current of contempt. "Why, it is what always urges
men to speak, I fancy--their natural fire--their easily provoked
emotions.... I had believed you different."

"Did you not desire my friendship?" I asked in hot chagrin.

"Not if it be of this kind, Euan."

"You would not have me love you?"

"Love!" And the fine edge of her contempt cut clean. "Love!" she
repeated coolly. "And we scarcely know each other; have never passed a
day together; have never broken bread; know nothing, nothing of each
other's minds and finer qualities; have awakened nothing in each other
yet except emotions. Friendships have their deeps and shallows, but are
deathless only while they endure. Love hath no shallows, Euan, and
endures often when friendship dies.... I speak, having no knowledge.
But I believe it. And, believing nobly of true love--in ignorance of
it, but still in awe--and having been assailed by clamours of a
shameful passion calling itself love--and having builded in my heart
and mind a very lofty altar for the truth, how can I feel otherwise
than sorry that you spoke--hotly, unthinkingly, as you did to me?"

I was silent.

She rose, lifted the lantern, laid open the trap-door.

"Come," she whispered, beckoning.

I followed her as she descended, took the lantern from her hand,
glanced at the shadowy heap, asleep perhaps, on the corner settle, then
walked to the door and opened it. A thousand, thousand stars were
sparkling overhead.

On the sill she whispered:

"When will you come again?"

"Do you want me?" I said sullenly.

She made no answer for a moment; suddenly she caught my hand and
pressed it, crushing it between both of hers; and turning I saw her
almost helpless with her laughter.

"Oh, what an infant have I found in this tall gentleman of Morgan's
corps!" said she. "A boy one moment and a man the next--silly and wise
in the same breath--headlong, headstrong, tender, and generous, petty
and childish, grave and kind--the sacred and wondrous being, in point
of fact, known to the world as man! And now he asks, with solemn mien
and sadly ruffled and reproachful dignity whether a poor, friendless,
homeless, nameless girl desires his company again!"

She dropped my hand, caught at her skirt's edge, and made me a mocking
reverence.

"Dear sir," she said, "I pray you come again to visit me tomorrow,
while I am mending regimental shirts at tuppence each----"

"Lois!" I said sadly. "How can you use me so!"

She began to laugh again.

"Oh, Euan, I can not endure it if you're solemn and sorry for
yourself----"

"That is too much!" I exclaimed, furious, and marched out, boiling,
under the high stars. And every star o' them, I think, was laughing at
the sorriest ass who ever fell in love.

Nevertheless, that night I wrote her name in my letter to Mr. Hake; and
the ink on it was scarce sanded when an Oneida runner had it and was
driving his canoe down the Mohawk River at a speed that promised to win
for him the bonus in hard money which I had promised for a swift
journey and a swift return.

And far into the July morning I talked with the Sagamore of Amochol and
of Catharines-town; and he listened while he sat tirelessly polishing
his scalping-knife and hatchet.



CHAPTER VIII

OLD FRIENDS

The sunrise gun awoke me. I rolled out of my blanket, saw the white
cannon-smoke floating above the trees, ran down to the river, and
plunged in.

When I returned, the Sagamore had already broken his fast, and once
more was engaged in painting himself--this time in a most ghastly
combination of black and white, the startling parti-coloured
decorations splitting his visage into two equal sections, so that his
eyes gleamed from a black and sticky mask, and his mouth and chin and
jaw were like the features of a weather-bleached skull.

"More war, O Mayaro, my brother?" I asked in a bantering voice. "Every
day you prepare for battle with a confidence forever new; every night
the army snores in peace. Yet, at dawn, when you have greeted the sun,
you renew your war-paint. Such praiseworthy perseverance ought to be
rewarded."

"It has already been rewarded," remarked the Indian, with quiet humour.

"In what manner?" I asked, puzzled.

"In the manner that all warriors desire to be rewarded," he replied,
secretly amused.

"I thought," said I, "that the reward all warriors desire is a scalp
taken in battle."

He cast a sly glance at me and went on painting.

"Mayaro," said I, disturbed, "is it possible that you have been out
forest-running while I've slept?"

He shot a quick look at me, full of delighted malice.

And "Ho!" said he. "My brother sleeps sounder than a winter bear. Three
Erie scalps hang stretched, hooped, and curing in the morning sun,
behind the bush-hut. Little brother, has the Sagamore done well?"

Straightway I whirled on my heel and walked out and around the hut.
Strung like drying fish on a willow wand three scalps hung in the
sunshine, the soft July breeze stirring the dead hair. And as soon as I
saw them I knew they were indeed Erie scalps.

Repressing my resentment and disgust, I lingered a moment to examine
them, then returned to the hut, where the Siwanois, grave as a
catamount at his toilet, squatted in a patch of sunshine, polishing his
features.

"So you've done this business every night as soon as I slept," said I.
"You've crept beyond our outer pickets, risking your life, imperilling
the success of this army, merely to satisfy your vanity. This is not
well, Mayaro."

He said proudly: "Mayaro is safe. What warrior of the Cat-People need a
Sagamore of the Siwanois dread?"

"Do you count them warriors then, or wizards?"

"Demons have teeth and claws. Look upon their scalp-locks, Loskiel!"

I strove to subdue my rising anger.

"You are the only reliable guide in the army today who can take us
straight to Catharines-town," I said. "If we lose you we must trust to
Hanierri and his praying Oneidas, who do not know the way even to
Wyalusing as well as you do. Is this just to the army? Is it just to
me, O Sagamore? My formal orders are that you shall rest and run no
risk until this army starts from Lake Otsego. My brother Mayaro knew
this. I trusted him and set no sentry at the hut door. Is this well,
brother?"

The Sagamore looked at me with eyes utterly void of expression.

"Is Mayaro a prisoner, then?" he asked quietly.

Instantly I knew that he was not to be dealt with that way. The
slightest suspicion of any personal restraint or of any military
pressure brought to bear on him might alienate him from our cause, if
not, perhaps, from me personally.

I said: "The Siwanois are free people. No lodge door is locked on them,
not even in the Long House. They are at liberty to come and go as the
eight winds rise and wane--to sleep when they choose, to wake when it
pleases them, to go forth by day or night, to follow the war-trail, to
strike their enemies where they find them.

"But now, to one of them--to the Mohican Mayaro, Sagamore of the
Siwanois, Sachem of the Enchanted Clan, is given the greatest mission
ever offered to any Delaware since Tamenund put on his snowy panoply of
feathers and flew through the forest and upward into the air-ocean of
eternal light.

"A great army of his embattled brothers trusts in him to guide them so
that the Iroquois Confederacy shall be pierced from Gate to Gate, and
the Long House go roaring up in flames.

"There are many valiant deeds to be accomplished on this coming
march--deeds worthy of a war-chief of the Lenni-Lenape--deeds fitted to
do honour to a Sagamore of the Magic Wolf.

"I only ask of my friend and blood-brother that he reserve himself for
these great deeds and not risk a chance bullet in ambush for the sake
of an Erie scalp or two--for the sake of a patch of mangy fur which
grows on these Devil-Cats of Amochol."

At first his countenance was smooth and blank; as I proceeded, he
became gravely attentive; then, as I ended, he gave me a quick,
unembarrassed, and merry look.

"Loskiel," he said laughingly, "Mayaro plays with the Cat-People. A
child's skill only is needed to take their half-shed fur and dash them
squalling and spitting and kicking into Biskoonah!"

He resumed his painting with a shrug of contempt, adding:

"Amochol rages in vain. Upon this wizard a Mohican spits! One by one
his scalped acolytes tumble and thump among the dead and bloody forest
leaves. The Siwanois laugh at them. Let the red sorcerer of the Senecas
make strong magic so that his cats return to life, and the vile fur
grows once more where a Mohican has ripped it out!"

"Each night you go forth and scalp. Each morning you paint. Is this to
continue, Sagamore?"

"My brother sees," he said proudly. "Cats were made for skinning."

There was nothing to do about it; no more to be said. I now
comprehended this, as I stood lacing my rifle-shirt and watching him at
his weird self-embellishment.

"The war-paint you have worn each day has seemed to me somewhat
unusual," I said curiously.

He glanced sharply up at me, scowled, then said gravely:

"When a Sagamore of the Mohicans paints for a war against warriors, the
paint is different. But," he added, and his eyes blazed, and the very
scalp-lock seemed to bristle on his shaven head, "when a Lenape Sachem
of the Enchanted Clan paints for war with Seneca sorcerers, he wears
also the clean symbols of his sacred priesthood, so that he may fight
bad magic with good magic, sorcery with sorcery, and defy this scarlet
priest--this vile, sly Warlock Amochol!"

Truly there was no more for me to say. I dared not let him believe that
his movements were either watched or under the slightest shadow of
restraint. I knew it was useless to urge on him the desirability of
inaction until the army moved. He might perhaps have understood me and
listened to me, were the warfare he was now engaged in only the red
knight-errantry of an Indian seeking glory. But he had long since won
his spurs.

And this feud with Amochol was something far more deadly than mere
warfare; it was the clash of a Mohican Sagamore of the Sacred Clan with
the dreadful and abhorred priesthood of the Senecas--the hatred and
infuriated contempt of a noble and ordained priest for the black-magic
of a sorcerer--orthodoxy, militant and terrible, scourging blasphemy
and crushing its perverted acolytes at the very feet of their
Antichrist.

I began to understand this strange, stealthy slaughter in the dark,
which only the eyes of the midnight sky looked down on, while I lay
soundly sleeping. I knew that nothing I could say would now keep this
Siwanois at my side at night. Yet, he had been given me to guard. What
should I do? Major Parr might not understand--might even order the
Sagamore confined to barracks under guard. The slightest mistake in
dealing with the Siwanois might prove fatal to all our hopes of him.

All the responsibility, therefore, must rest on me; and I must use my
judgment and abide by the consequences.

Had it been, as I have said, any other nation but the Senecas, I am
certain that I could have restrained the Indian. But the combination of
Seneca, Erie, and Amochol prowling around our picket-line was too much
for the outraged Sagamore of the Spirit Wolf. And I now comprehended it
thoroughly.

As I sat thinking at our bush-hut door, the endless lines of wagons
were still passing toward Otsego Lake, piled high with stores, and I
saw Schott's riflemen filing along in escort, their tow-cloth
rifle-frocks wide open to their sweating chests.

Almost all the troops had already marched to the lake and had pitched
tents there, while Alden's chastened regiment was damming the waters so
that when our boats were ready the dam might be broken and the high
water carry our batteaux over miles of shallow water to Tioga Point,
where our main army now was concentrating.

When were the Rifles to march? I did not know. Sitting there in the
sun, moodily stripping a daisy of its petals, I thought of Lois,
troubled, wondering how her security and well-being might be
established.

The hour could not be very distant now before our corps marched to the
lake. What would she do? What would become of her if she still refused
to be advised by me?

As for her silly desire to go to Catharines-town, the more I thought
about it the less serious consideration did I give it. The thing was,
of course, impossible. No soldiers' wives were to be permitted to go as
far as Wyalusing or Wyoming. Even here, at this encampment, the
officers' ladies had left, although perhaps many of them might have
remained longer with their husbands had it been known that the
departure of the troops for Otsego Lake was to be delayed by the slow
arrival of cattle and provisions.

In the meantime, the two companies of my regiment attached to this
brigade were still out on scout with Major Parr; and when they returned
I made no doubt that we would shoulder packs, harness our wagons, and
take the lake road next morning.

And what would become of Lois? Perplexed and dejected, I wandered about
the willow-run, pondering the situation; sat for a while on the
river-bank to watch the batteaux and the Oneida canoes; then, ever
restless with my deepening solicitude for Lois, I walked over to the
fort. And the first man I laid eyes on was Lieutenant Boyd, conversing
with some ladies on the parade.

He did not see me. He had evidently returned from the main body with a
small scout the night before, and now was up and dressed in his best,
spick and span and gay, fairly shining in the sunlight as he stood
leaning against a log prop, talking with these ladies where they were
seated on one of the rustic settles lately made by Alden's men.

Venturing nearer, I found that I knew all of the ladies, for one was
the handsome wife of Captain Bleecker, of the 3rd New York, and another
proved to be Angelina Lansing, wife of Gerrit Lansing, Ensign in the
same regiment.

The third lady was a complete surprise to me, she being that pretty and
vivacious Magdalene Helmer--called Lana--the confidante of Clarissa
Putnam--a bright-eyed, laughing beauty from Tribes Hill, whom I had
known very well at Guy Park, where she often stayed with her friend,
Miss Putnam, when Sir John Johnson was there.

As I recognised them, Boyd chanced to glance around, and saw me. He
smiled and spoke to the ladies; all lifted their heads and looked in my
direction; and Lana Helmer waved her handkerchief and coolly blew me a
kiss from her finger-tips.

So, cap in hand, I crossed the parade, made my best bow and respects to
each in turn, replaced my cap, and saluted Lieutenant Boyd, who
returned my salute with pretended hauteur, then grinned and offered his
hand.

"See what a bower of beauty is blossomed over night in these dreary
barracks, Loskiel. There seems to be some happiness left in the world
for the poor rifleman."

"Do you remain?" I asked of Mrs. Bleecker.

"Indeed we do," she said, laughing, "provided that my husband's
regiment remains. As soon as we understood that they had not been
ordered into the Indian country we packed our boxes and came up by
batteau last night. The news about my husband's regiment is true, is it
not?"

"Colonel Gansevoort's regiment is not to join General Sullivan, but is
to be held to guard the Valley. I had the news yesterday for certain."

"What luck!" said Boyd, his handsome eyes fixed on Lana Helmer, who
shot at him a glance as daring. And it made me uneasy to see she meant
to play coquette with such a man as Boyd; and I remembered her high
spirits and bright daring at the somewhat loose gatherings at Guy Park,
where every evening too much wine was drunk, and Sir John and Clarissa
made no secret of the flame that burned between them.

Yet, of Lana Helmer never a suspicious word had been breathed that ever
I had heard--for it seemed she could dare where others dared not; say
and do and be what another woman might not, as though her wit and
beauty licensed what had utterly damned another. Nor did her devotion
and close companionship with Clarissa ever seem to raise a question as
to her own personal behaviour. And well I remember a gay company being
at cards and wine one day in the summer house on the river hew she
answered a disrespect of Sir John with a contemptuous rebuke which sent
the muddy blood into his face and left him ashamed--the only time I
ever saw him so.

Ensign Chambers came a-mincing up, was presented to the ladies,
languidly made preparations for taking Mrs. Lansing by storm; and the
first deadly grace he pictured for her was his macaroni manner of
taking snuff--with which fascinating ceremony he had turned many a
silly head in New York ere we marched out and the British marched in.

I talked for a while with Mrs. Bleecker of this and that, striving the
while to catch Lana Helmer's eye. For not only did her coquetry with
Boyd make me uneasy, knowing them both as I did, but on my own account
I desired to speak to her in private when opportunity afforded. Alone
and singly either of these people stood in no danger from the outer
world. Pitted against each other, what their recklessness might lead to
I did not know. For since Boyd's attempted gallantries toward Lois--he
believing her to be as youthful and depraved as seemed the case--a deep
and growing distrust for this man which I had never before felt had
steadily invaded my friendship for him. Also, he had already an affair
with a handsome wench at the Middle Fort, one Dolly Glenn, and the poor
young thing was plainly mad about him.

I heard Mrs. Lansing propose a stroll to the river before dinner, on
the chance of meeting her husband's regiment returning, which
suggestion seemed to suit all; and in the confusion of chatter and
laughter and the tying of a sun-mask by Mrs. Bleecker, aided by Boyd
and by the exquisite courtier, I cleverly contrived to supplant Boyd
with Lana Helmer, and not only stuck to her side, but managed to secure
the rear of the strolling column.

All this manoeuvre did not escape her, and as we fell a few paces
behind, she looked up at me with a most deadly challenge in her violet
eyes.

"Now," she said, "that you have driven off your rival, I am resigned to
be courted.... Heaven knows you wasted opportunities enough at Guy
Park."

I laughed.

"How strange it is, Lana," I said, "to be here with you; I in rifle
dress and thrums, hatchet, and knife at my Mohawk girdle; you in chip
hat and ribbons and dainty gown, lifting your French petticoat over the
muddy ruts cut on the King's Highway by rebel artillery!"

"Who would have dreamed it three years ago?" she said, her face now
sober enough.

"I thought your people were Tory," said I.

"Not mine, Euan; Clarissa's."
