“Don’t stir, keep as still as you can. You’ve 
no strength to throw away on make believes. 
See here, babies,” and he disgorged a paper of 
peppermints that at once soothed broken 
hearts. 



"When will Mrs. Borden return?’ 

‘Well, shell be home to dinner/’ and Brid- 
get grinned. “Things were all well enough 
when she went out. You see there’s some 
weddin’ fixings goin’ on, and sure Miss Borden 
deserves a good husband when she’s waited 
five years. How’s the old lady?” 

“It’s pretty bad with her, though there’s 
no immediate signs of her dying. But it’s 
paralysis. Her limbs are cold and useless and 
I think it is creeping up her left side. She’ll 
be another baby added to the family, unless 
she will go to a hospital which would be far 
better for her. She must have a steady nurse. 
I’ve been rather afraid of this.” 

“I must go and see to my dinner. Miss Ar- 
mitage won’t you stay until the ladies come 
home?” 

Miss Armitage signified her willingness and 
laid aside her hat. 

The babies were fairly gorging themselves. 

“I’ll be in again presently. I’ll leave this 
for the child, to be given every half hour and 
she is to lie perfectly still.” 

Miss Armitage smiled down in the pallid 
face. It had grown quite thin again, but it 




seemed to hold an ethical sweetness. Marilla 
put out one slim hand. 

"It seems too bad the old lady should be 
taken ill at this juncture/’ said Mrs. Seymour. 
"And Manila’s been such a faithful child. 
She’s been growing tall this summer and au- 
tumn and I suppose has run ahead of her 
strength. Then with the two children to look 
after — well a little nurse girl has rather hard 
lines — they seldom have more than one, or if 
they do the others are older. My two boys 
are in boarding school. I’ve wished one was a 
girl, they are so much more company for the 
mother. But I’d wanted her to be pretty,” 
she cast a sidelong glance at the twins. 'It's 
a pity Jack should have taken all the beauty.” 

The twins felt so comfortable over the candy 
that they went to playing with their blocks. 
Miss Armitage gave her patient the second 
dose of her medicine and she closed her eyes. 

There was almost a shriek as Bridget opened 
the hall door with — "the merciful saints 
preserve us! Has Jack been run over by one 
of them fury things?” 

Jack was crying and the blood was stream- 
ing from his nose all over his blouse. 



"He's been fighting, the bad boy, with a 
nasty, dirty tramp 

Bridget in her inmost heart hoped he had 
the worst of it. Whist!’’ she exclaimed, 
''there’s two sick folks in the house, the doc- 
tor’s been an’ he’s coming again!” 

"Sick! Oh, what has happened?” 

'"Well, the old lady’s had a stroke, an’ 
Marilla had a bad faint again. I thought sure 
she was dead.” 

Mrs. Borden dropped into the hall chair and 
began to cry hysterically. 

"Jack, go straight up to the bath room” said 
his aunt. 

"And the neighbors came in, Mrs. Seymour 
to talk through that funnel, and then Miss 
Armitage and the doctor,” went on Bridget. 

"It’s a pity one can’t stir out of the house 
without something happening,” sobbed the 
mistress. "And we’re both so tired.” 

' There dear, come up stairs.” Florence 
took Mrs. Borden by the arm, and they as- 
cended together. Now I’ll go and look after 
Jack.” 

She put a big apron over her dress. Jack 
sat on the bath room floor crying. 


 

"Get up and take off those dirty things. 
Come, your father will soon be home and I 
don't know what hedl do to you,'’ said his 
aunt. 

"He may strap me if he likes, but I ain't 
going to be called a snotnosed scabby sneak of 
a devil — 

"Hush! hush! I won’t listen to such a 
talk—” 

— 'And he slapped me in the face, and I 
kicked his shins good, and then we fit and I 
give him a punch in the belly and a good 
bunk in the eye — ” 

"Stop Jack, I won’t hear another word. 
Let me get you washed up. There comes your 
father.” 

Jack’s nose had stopped bleeding and he was 
washed and put in some clean clothes. Mrs. 
Borden laid aside her wrap and hat and went 
through to the nursery. The peppermint must 
have been a sedative to nerves and stomach 
for the twins looked up with an angelic smile 
and went on house building. Mrs. Seymour 
made the explanations. 

"What could Marilla have been doing? 
She was well enough when we went out.” 



Miss Armitage gave the hand she held a 
gentle squeeze and she saw the eyelids quiver. 

sure I am very much obliged to you 
both. I was sorry to miss you that day you 
called, Miss Armitage. Oh dear, how you 
must have been frightened! And poor Aunt 
Hetty! Is it really true — 

‘The doctor couldn't tell the absolute 
danger so soon — 

‘Oh, I think it has been coming on some 
time. She's dragged her feet and she had a 
quick, almost spiteful way of walking, if one 
may call it that. She protested against 
people slouching round without animation 
enough to lift their feet. And some days she 
wouldn’t come down to any meal. Well, 
she’s a pretty old lady; we’ve always let her 
have her way.” 

Jack came into the room rather meek but 
a handsome little fellow in spite of a lump on 
his forehead. He had run out of doors without 
waiting to hear the result of Manila’s fall. 

'‘Well, Captain!” said his father, holding out 
his hand. 

Mrs. Seymour went home after proffering 
her services if she should be needed through 





the night. The dinner bell rang and Miss 
Borden insisted the guest must go down to 
dinner and she would stay with the children. 

 We're having our dinner a little late this 
evening on account of a guest; otherwise I 
would accept. I can stay half an hour longer. 
Then if you won't mind my coming around 
about nine to hear the doctor’s verdict.” 

"Oh, you are very sympathetic. Thank 
you. I only hope Marilla won’t have a bad 
time as she did last summer. Why she’s 
never fainted since.” 

Jack behaved beautifully at the table. No 
one spoke of the fight. But he kept up a 
shivery thought of wondering if the ball he had 
thrown at Marilla had really hurt her. It 
wasn’t a hard ball, at least not as hard as they 
had sometimes in the street. 

No one appeared very hungr" Mrs. Bor- 
den went up to look after Aunt Hetty who 
seemed disinclined to talk and only wanted a 
cup of tea. Mr. Borden looked at Marilla 
who had fallen asleep. Then he went through 
to the other room and took Jack on his knee. 

“Now let’s hear about the fight,” he said, 
but his voice didn’t seem very stem. 


Jack really wanted to cry. He felt sort of 
bruised and beaten though he had knocked 
down his adversary and would have stamped 
on him if his mother had not appeared at that 
moment and carried him off. 

"Well, you see" — and the boy winked very 
hard. 

"Who begun it?" 

"Why, that Patsy's a regular bum! He's 
called me names — he plays hookey too, and 
he tried to trip me up and I give him a left- 
hander, and he called me a stinking pup and 
ever so many nasty names and then we went 
at it. Papa, you may strap me if you want 
to, but if I hadn't fit the boys would have 
made fun of me and called me sissy, and we 
went at it like fury. He made my nose bleed, 
and I guess I gave him a black eye; and I 
kicked his shins — he's got fat legs. He's just 
a bounder and teacher said he'd wind up in 
the reform school. I just wish he would!" with 
an angry zest. 

"How do boys learn such shocking talk?" 
asked Aunt Florence, "When they never hear 
it at home, and as for fighting — " 

"It is in the outside air and perhaps like 





measles runs through boyhood. Jack, I want 
you to stand up for yourseK though I don’t 
admire street fights.” 

"But I won’t be called nasty names, and he 
said I was a sneak of a devil — ” 

"Try and keep out of the way of such boys. 
But if you must fight stand up to it boldly. 
I think you didn’t get the worst of it, but I 
guess it’s good your mother came along just 
then, and now little boy you had better go to 
bed.” 

Jack was very glad nothing had been asked 
him about Marilla. He was tired and drowsy. 
But Aunt Florence said, "Jack I think you 
were a very bad boy.” 

Dr. Baker came in and took another look at 
Marilla whose pulse was still very fluttering. 

"What do you suppose it is?” asked Mrs. 
Borden, anxiously. 

"The child has a weak heart. Perhaps no 
organic disease at present, and if she gets 
through the next two or three years safely all 
may go well with her. But she ought not 
have any severe strain. Do you know any- 
thing about her family?” 

"She hasn’t any, I took her from that 



Bethany Home. She’s a nice, willing, pleas- 
ant girl and a splendid hand with babies. But 
she was with Miss Armitage all through that 
awful time we had with the children teething, 
and the babies are good. I resolved I’d never 
make children so troublesome as Jack was, 
waiting on them hand and foot. I’ve had a 
different system with them.” 

"The system seems to have worked well, 
but I think you need a stronger nursemaid.” 

"I’ve never let her lift them, I knew it was 
not safe for them,” laughing. Though think 
how poor children carry babies about ; but now 
tell me about Aunt Hetty.” 

think it is the beginning of the end. You 
can’t quite tell, but she’s pretty well worn out 
with the years, and she must have a steady 
nurse. A hospital would be best.” 

"Yes, we will talk that over.” 

"Have you any one for tonight?” 

"No. Is it as bad as that?” and Mrs. Bor- 
den turned pale. 

should advise an emergency nurse for a 
week or so; by that time you can make some 
plans.” 



Mrs. Vanderveer was comfortable, but she 
did not want to be left alone. 

"Oh, isn't it dreadful, Florence, that this 
should happen just now. If it only could have 
waited until Christmas, Mrs. Borden said 
with tears in her eyes. I meant you should 
have such a happy wedding. You've always 
been like an own sister to me.” 

"Well, we won't worry tonight. Only — ” 

Miss Armitage came in and heard the story 
through. 

'Let me telephone at once to the nurses' 
home, then you will feel relieved. And per- 
haps it would be a good thing to send Marilla 
to me for a little while again.” 

cannot do without a nurse girl.” 

"But a week or two may restore Marilla.” 

The nurse came, a wholesome middle aged 
body who had been for weeks with a helpless 
paralytic. And so the midnight found them 
all comfortable. Marilla was left on the 
lounge. Miss Armitage sat a long while in her 
soft wrapper planning about the child she felt 
she must rescue. Oh, she did want her. She 
did not try to give any reason for the love that 
had stolen almost unaware in her heart, or the 


faith that this child would not disappoint her. 
Every year she was growing older, every year 
she longed more for some one of her very own. 
WTiy should she not play fairy godmother in 
earnest? She must have Dr. Richard's ver- 
dict. 

For Mrs. Borden with many kindly qualities 
looked at matters only as they applied to 
herself. WTien Marilla was eighteen she would 
come to the freedom of a bound-out girl, too 
old to begin another life, settled in a rut — if she 
lived. Was she not one of the little ones that 
might be rescued and live out a higher life? 
There were many who could not, but she felt 
she must go carefully. 

Mrs. Holmes proved an admirable nurse and 
Aunt Hetty took to her in an astonishing man- 
ner. She was attractive to the children, as well, 
who greeted her with a smile. 

On the next day Dr. Baker admitted the 
paralysis was gaining rapidly and thought she 
could not last long. That evening she said to 
the nurse, "Send Mr. Borden up here, and you 
stay down with the ladies.'’ 

He came up and greeted her cordially, hop- 
ing for better things, as friends are wont to 
say. 


"No, John, there will not be anybetter, so 
we won’t indulge in make believes. Carry and 
James were quite sure this way of living wasn’t 
good for me. They wanted me to buy a house 
and make it over to them and they would care 
for me the rest of my life. I’ve lived with 
Carry, paid her good board, too, sol knew what 
that would be. I couldn’t live quite alone, 
you see — I always wanted some one round that 
I could see if I wanted to. Old people do get 
queer. So when I had to forclose here I made 
you this offer. You’re the only one of them 
all who has not asked me outright for money, 
and I honor you for it. Your mortgage here is 
twenty-three hundred.” 

"Yes,” he said with a vague sort of hope that 
she wasn’t going to ask him to settle it. 

‘I want you to get it cancelled; I’ll give you 
the order. I’ve meant to do this the last 
year. Carry worried so at me that I went 
away with her and felt none the better for it. 
I’d rather staid at home with Bridget. So you 
see to that at once. And I want to make a 
new will.” 

"Aunt Hetty! Well, I don’t know what to 
say,” and his tone showed his surprise. "Don’t 



say anything/’ She gave her little cackle of a 
laugh that always had a sound of derision in 
it. "You know I can’t take any of it with me, 
and I’d like to know it will make few people 
pleased and happy. I’m going to make you 
executor, so get some one else to write out the 
will. I fixed it to my liking today. You’ve 
all been very good to put up with my whims an 
and queernesses. Old people don’t like too 
much advice, especially where money is con- 
cerned. Look in the second drawer there — 
in a long envelope.” 

' Thank you for this expression of your sat- 
isfaction. The babies and Jack may have 
been a nuisance at times.” 

"But that little girl’s been good enough to 
make up for any annoyance — not that there’s 
been much. Jack’s a smart, funny little fel- 
low. You know they’re all more or less bad, 
but they grow up pretty fair. There now, I’m 
tired.” 

Mr. Borden wished her a kindly good-night 
and went down stairs to recount the wonderful 
interview. 

"Oh, John!” Mrs. Borden leaned her head 
down on her husband’s shoulder. What a 



streak of good fortune! Now we really do 
own the house free and clear, I thought our 
summering would be quite moderate but it 
wasn't. Still it did the babies an immense deal 
of good after they got over their awful time. 
And they're so nice and well now, and are 
growing better looking ail the time. If Ma- 
nila only could make their hair curl! It's so 
stringy, and we haven 't worried at Aunt 
Hetty for what she did or what she didn't do, 
and weren’t snappy when she found fault. I 
used to think she needn’t have rung for Ma- 
rilla quite so much, but the child never minded 
running up and down.” 

"How has she been today?” 

"Well, I don’t just know; Dr. Baker said 
she must keep pretty still, so she’s laid on the 
old lounge, but the babies would crawl over 
her. It does seem as if we must have someone 
else — an older person, though some of them 
object to taking out children. But if we want 
to get much sewing done — ” 

"I think I’ll have a seamstress for a week or 
so,” said Aunt Florence, "time goes on so 
fast.” 

Marilla had gone up stairs to her own bed. 


On the Border of Tragedy 209 

where Bridget had crooned ove

"And I'm sore afraid them babies ’ll be the 
death of you, poor lamb! They drag on you 
