greeted Mrs. Keen cordially. “ Are you pretty 
well ? ” she asked. 
“No, I jest ain’t. I’ve had colds and rheumatiz 
all winter. And Pine’s old wagon hain’t any 
springs to speak of an’ jounces turrible. I feel as 
if my hips and my spine was unjinted. But beg- 
gars can’t be choosers. He stopped to see Joe and 
mentioned that he was cornin’ over to Ridgewood, 
so I jest begged a chance. I wanted to see with 
my own eyes if ’twas true what they said. Bessy 
Firth, you’ve struck ile this time, if ther’s enough 
to last. You can’t alwers tell ’bout a man. Some 
are awful brags. An’ sometimes another wife 
comes to hand and there’s a big row. Don’t you 
feel afraid? ” 
She dropped her shawl and was taking off her 
coat, and now sank breathless into a chair. 
Bessy flushed and said with dignity, “ He is a 
well-known business man in New York, and has 
lived there all his life.” 
“ And you didn’t have to put the twins in some 
of them charity homes! I guess some of the 
women were awful riled to think it wasn’t their 
chance. Queer now, wasn’t it? Is he reel good 
to the children?” 
“ He is an excellent husband and father,” was 
the dignified reply. 
“ Well, I ain’t one to be eat up with envy over 
other folks’s good fortune. But the way of Provi- 
dence is mysterious, and when onlikely things hap- 
pen you can’t find ’em out. One of them Terry 
gals was in, an’ she said Cap was livin’ here an’ 
thought she was in clover. An’ she said that there 
was a sort of overseer, besides. It does beat all ! ” 
“ Yes, we like Cap very much.” 
Old man Terry used to growl ’bout havin’ so 
many gals, an’ now he’s kinder mad that they’re 
goin’ off. The one at the creamery is goin’ to be 
married an’ savin’ up her money for herself. An’ 
Cap’s got a beau. Then there’s some of the Denby 
women with money that never seem to catch one. 
An’ here you are young an’ well an’ have servants 
to wait on you, an’ I’m a poor old lady all alone, 
as you may say, for Joe’s wife wouldn’t do a 
hand’s turn unless I was sick in bed. I haven’t 
struck that queer place where your bones never 
return, though I’ve been mighty near it.” 
‘‘ I wonder if you wouldn’t like to look about 
the house ? ” asked Bessy. She was not so in- 
hospitable, but she thought it best to satisfy the 
old lady’s curiosity before Mr. Pine’s return. 
“ I jest would,” returned the guest delightedly. 
I slipped on an extry pair of stockings, but I 
won’t take ’em off, seeing as old Pine is cornin’ 
back this way, an’ if I don’t go with him the Lord 
only knows how I’ll get back.” 
Mrs. Mann rose. This is our library and gen- 
eral sitting-room, and this is the children’s play- 
room to keep their books and toys.” 
‘‘Massy me! Well, if you ain’t fixed! An’ 
what’s all this ? ” 
“ The dining-room, and here’s the kitchen and 
laundry.” 
Cap greeted her from the washtub. 
“Was it all fixed this way before? Did his 
other wife live here? ” 
“ No, it was the Gedney place. It was mort- 
gaged to him, and he had to take it. That was 
some time ago.” 
“Then he had to look up a wife!” The old 
lady gave a cackle. 
Bessy smiled a little. “ He was very fond of 
the children,” she said. 
“Well, if there ain’t everything here! Do you 
reely use that sparkly glass and them queer dishes ? 
Don’t you feel afraid of their getting broke? 
What a lot of handsome things ! ” 
It was Denby fashion to take a visitor all 
through the house if there was anything new in it, 
so now they walked upstairs. Rilla came out and 
greeted her. 
“ I shouldn’t think you’d hardly know yourself, 
Rilla ! Las’ time I see you, you was flyin’ round 
like a bee in a bottle makin’ jam. Grape time. 
Don’t you take any hand in housekeepin’ ? ” 
Rilla is going to school again. She has had to 
stay at home so much the last year.” 
The old lady was full of astonishment as she 
went through the rooms. 
Well, this is a change for you. Ain’t you 
afraid the children’ll get vain and haughty and 
won’t think they ought to work? Rich people’s 
children so often go to the bad, and there’s so many 
of yourn ’tain’t in reason that they’ll all turn out 
well. There’s many temptations before you can 
go through the eye of a needle. An’ your room’s 
fine enough for the President’s wife. Jest to think 
of that little old red house! ” 
Then they went downstairs. 
Perhaps you’d like a cup of tea after your 
jaunting about,” remarked Mrs. Mann. 
Well, I jest would. ’Tain’t summer, though it 
feels so here with them queer renovator things that 
look something like a Chinese temple.” 
Rilla made some tea and brought in biscuits and 
cold chicken. 
“ My I but this is good tea ! I can’t afford to 
make a good cup of tea but once a day, an’ then 
I heat it over. But you was poor yourself, an’ I 
dare say you had to scrimp, so you know how ’tis.” 
Granny Keen was hungry, but she spiced her 
meal with queer comments. 
“ I ain’t had such a feast in a dog’s age. They 
did ask me in to a Christmas dinner, but their old 
hen was tough and Joe’s wife’s a mighty poor 
cook; an’ Joe says the short’nin’ in the pie-crust 
gets in lengthways. Takes plenty of good things 
to make first-class cookin’, but when you ain’t got, 
you can’t use. You don’t let all the children come 
in to this fine table, do you? ” 
Oh, yes. Mr. Mann wants them all here.” 
But don’t you think you ought to have left 
that oldest boy in Beers’s store ? There’s so many 
of them, an’ stepfathers get tired of it, after a 
while.” 
“ Mr. Mann wanted him to go to school.” 
“ Well, well, I don’t see how all this happened to 
you.” 
There was a stir out-of-doors, and Prim rushed 
in. 
Mr. Pine’s come,” she announced. 
“ Pm sure it ain’t been an hour ! And I ain’t 
seen the garden. An’ I jest want to talk to Cap a 
minnit.” 
They went through the kitchen, and Mr. Pine 
was taking a survey of the grounds. 
Well, I swow!” he ejaculated. ‘‘Folks said 
'twas a miracle, your goin’ from that little old 
house an’ cornin’ here. Shouldn’t think you’d 
know yourself. Keep a man to work all the time, 
I s’pose? Why, you’ve got ’most a farm, an’ nice 
lot of fruit trees, if they pesky catterpillers don’t 
chew up everything. I s’pose the children of Isrul 
must have brought ’em out of Egypt, but I sh’d ’a’ 
thought they’d been mighty careful, seein’ they 
was sent to plague the ’Gyptians. But you can’t 
tell what the crops are goin’ to be, even if you do 
pray an’ trust the Lord.” 
“ Oh, we had a good deal of fruit on the old 
place,” returned Mrs. Mann. 
Then Mr. Pine must see the horses and the 
carriage-house, and have a talk with Dan, while 
Granny went on with her rather grudging surprise. 
Some of it made the little mother wince. 
“ Come, Granny,” he said presently, “ we must 
be gettin’ on. It’s a’most twelve. Wife’ll 
be waitin’ dinner and think I’ve ’loped with 
you.” 
Granny gave a cackle at the idea. 
“ Why, it don’t seem an hour,” in an aggrieved 
tone. I ain’t had half a visit. I must come 
again when I’m not hurried off so. I s’pose you 
have lots of fine clo’es that I ain’t seen. Mrs. 
Burnham said you had a reel weddin’-dress, an’ 
the children were all in white. Why, you ain’t told 
me half. 
“ Well, it’s a sort of gettin’ in the land of 
Canaan, though ther’ wa’n’t any fightin’ in your 
wilderness. I hope you’ll live to enjoy it, and 
that the man will make you a good husband.” 
“ Come, Granny; get on your togs.” 
Granny grumbled. While her mother was help- 
ing the old lady, Rilla packed a basket of goodies 
that really surprised her into gratitude. Mr. Pine 
assisted the mummy-like figure into the wagon and 
drove off. 
And she never asked her old question. 
Mother,” laughed Rilla. 
I’m glad she isn’t any relation to us,” said 
Primrose. Oh, suppose she was our very own 
grandmother, grudging us everything. Why, we’d 
run away.” 
And leave me to bear it alone?” said their 
mother with a funny expression flitting across her 
face. 
‘‘ If she was our grandmother, she’d be differ- 
ent,” Rilla commented thoughtfully. 
“ Yes,” returned Mrs. Mann. If your grand- 
mother had lived, she would have been a sweet old 
lady, glad for you to have everything. It is hard 
for you to live alongside of people who do not 
care for you, and Joe’s wife is not very ami- 
able.” 
I mean to snap that question on father,” said 
Prim. I had almost forgotten it.” 
They were summoned to luncheon, and Prim 
tried her query on Mrs. Alden, who really was 
puzzled to decide. Then they had a little talk 
about poor Granny. 
“ You see, she used to come over quite often 
when we lived in the lane,” said Rilla. And she 
was always wanting a little of something. We 
felt sorry for her.” 
She has a lonely life,” said Mrs. Mann. 
‘‘ Mother, I think people ought to be sweet and 
nice as they grow old,” interposed Prim. “ I mean 
to be the loveliest old lady. But I want a lot of 
grandchildren and Pll be just as good as pie to 
them.” 
Mrs. Alden hoped she would. She had been 
hearing about Granny Keen and Denby folks gen- 
erally. 
They’re just green with envy because Mrs. 
Mann’s got such a prize,” said Cap. Them old 
maids would have jumped at the chance, an’ said 
thank’ee, too. An’ I’m glad he took her, for she’s 
as sweet as June roses. An’ I’m glad for my share 
of her, cornin’ here to live. Even Pop seems to 
have a kind of gredge about the children, and 
thinks some of ’em ought to be put out. They’re 
the nicest children I know, and I’m glad they have 
such a splendid father. Granny Keen will have 
enough to talk about for a good month.” 
Father,” began Prim, as they walked down 
the street to meet him, “ here is a weighty ques- 
tion. Would you rather be wrecked on the land or 
on the sea? ” 
There’s a catch in that. Come to consider. I’d 
rather not be wrecked at all,” and there was a 
merry twinkle in his eyes. 
“ If you’re wrecked on the land, there you stand. 
If you’re wrecked on the sea, there you be.” 
Prim made a pause, laughter playing about her 
lips. 
Please’m, if the price is just the same. I’ll be 
wrecked on the land. I have an accident insur- 
ance policy. What about your old lady ? ” 
Why, she has never been able to make up her 
mind and was always asking mother. The funny 
thing is she has never been in a steam-car, nor in a 
boat. To be sure, you might be wrecked in a 
wagon,” and Prim laughed. There was so much 
to surprise her here, and she was so full of com- 
plaints and forebodings lest we should turn out 
bad, or you turn us out. Oh, Father, dear,” and 
she clasped his arm, “ do you suppose you ever 
will get tired of us? There are so many of 
us.” 
“ Child,” he stooped and kissed her, “ don’t let 
such an idea find lodgment in your brain. You 
will get tired of me first. Some nice young man 
will come along with new charms and graces, and 
you’ll turn your back on the old fellow. But I 
shall have your mother left to comfort me.” 
“ Poor old Granny Keen has had a rather hard 
life,” interposed their mother gently. “ You see,” 
glancing at her husband, she was left with two 
rooms in the ell part, and her living from the farm; 
that went to the son. The son’s wife does seem 
to grudge it to her and gives her as little as pos- 
sible.” 
“ Then she grudges every one else any good for- 
tune,” said Amaryllis. Don’t you suppose' that 
if she were a little sweeter and better and more 
thankful ” 
The girl stopped and flushed. 
Yes, my dear, I think she would have won 
more from Joe’s wife in the beginning.” 
And, you see, she really envied Mrs. Bachman 
so much of our old stuff. And think what a lot 
she has piled up in her bedroom ! Why, she can 
hardly squeeze in herself. She doesn’t need half 
of that.” 
The boys had to hear the story over again, and 
farmer Pine’s comments were added to it. 
The girls were to start for school the next 
week. Linn felt quite delighted about it. Mrs. 
Read came to call with her two daughters, and 
several of the neighbors had turned very friendly. 
Mrs. Chedister was amazed to see Mrs. Brenner 
step out of her elegant coupe to make a call. 
Though she drops people as easily as she takes 
them up,” she said. “ Her favor doesn’t last.” 
There had been some discussion about Laurel. 
Mr. Mann was opposed to her being sent to school, 
since she did not want to go. 
There was a neighbor a little farther down the 
street, a Mrs. Boyse, a gentle, unassuming woman, 
who had taken a great fancy to Mrs. Mann. She 
had one son in a technical school, and Amy, of 
seven, a rather delicate child. Two between had 
died of scarlet fever, and they were very choice, 
indeed, of their little daughter. 
I don’t care for card-playing nor the Club,” she 
explained to Mrs. Mann. “ And though I love 
music, I don’t make any pretension to being mu- 
sical. I find so much to do in housekeeping and 
sewing. I teach my little girl ; Mr. Boyse doesn’t 
want her to go to school yet this year. I am 
so glad for her to have a playmate near by. She 
often gets lonesome. I envy you about half of 
your children.” 
“ I don’t know which half I could spare,” said 
Mrs. Mann, in a tone of amusement. 
“ And their father is so delightful with them.” 
He is extravagantly fond of children,” was the 
reply. I think if there had been ten he would 
not have been willing to give up one.” 
You certainly have an admirable husband,” 
was the comment. 
So the little girls became great friends. They 
rode their dolls up and down the sidewalk, they 
visited each other, and played tea, and Cap thought 
they should have been twins, they were so alike. 
Mr. Mann took his three daughters over to 
school with an air of proprietorship that was quite 
impressive. Amaryllis was diffident, but Linn had 
been coaching her and imbuing her with courage, 
and she passed very well. Linn and Goldie were 
put in the same class. Prim had a fashion of 
bringing all her knowledge to the fore, and caught 
at any point by a sort of intuition rather than real 
study. In a week she was a great favorite, and 
there was something infectious about her fun. 
They had all been to tea at the Rectory, and Miss 
Evans enjoyed them very much. The Bradley 
boys were asked to Mrs. Mann’s, and had a delight- 
ful time indoors and out. Mr. Mann had a 
swing set in the shade of a big apple-tree, and they 
went to foreign lands in it. 
Gladys Chedister looked on with longing eyes. 
Miss Hunt came every morning and gave her two 
hours’ teaching, but she thought if she could only 
make one in the gay swinging-party, or the great 
carriage load Dan took out in the late afternoon ! 
CHAPTER XVIII 
CHILDREN AND CHILDREN 
Then their mother was whisked off again, this 
time to Boston and some other towns. 
“ You’ll see, Rilla, that the girls don’t get quite 
wild at school, and that they behave in the trolley. 
I do wish school was near enough for them to walk. 
You will find other passengers commenting on rude 
schoolgirls.” 
“ But we often do walk home. Of, course. 
Mother, Prim can’t help saying funny things, and 
everybody thinks her great yellow braids are so 
wonderful. Will her hair always stay yellow?” 
“ Oh, I hope it will grow darker. And do try 
to be well-behaved.” 
They did not feel so lonesome this time, there 
were so many new interests, and the walks after 
school were delightful. Nature study was inter- 
esting them. Sometimes they really did loiter. 
“ Does any one want to go over to Fairfield 
with me this afternoon? ” asked Dan one morning. 
Oh, wait until to-morrow, and we’ll all go,” 
said Goldie. “ We are to gather sunflowers and 
press them.” 
“ We can all go then. But I have to see a man 
for your father. And they will be home in the 
evening, but not until eight.” 
Tip and Rhoda came home to luncheon. Tip 
was very much interested in a hen that had four 
little chickens hatched out, and some eggs that 
were being pecked at. I do want to see one 
come out,” he said. I can go to ride any time.” 
“ Couldn’t I go ? ” asked Rhoda. Laurel was 
to stay to tea at Mrs. Boyse’s. 
** Why, yes — glad to have you.” 
And could I ask a little girl ? She is my best 
friend, and she’s real sweet.” 
‘"Yes,” returned Dan. “Only one?” 
“ Just one. And it will make the others jealous.” 
“ Oho ! ” laughed Dan. “ What’s her name? ” 
“ Mamie Scott. And she has the loveliest blue 
eyes.” 
So just as school was being dismissed, Dan made 
a halt, and Rhoda came forward, leading her best 
friend, who, until this moment, had not been quite 
sure that Rhoda had a carriage at her command. 
Dan thought he would like to take half a dozen 
eager-eyed little girls. 
“ This is Mamie,” announced Rhoda with great 
dignity. “ And this horse is Bonnie, the other is 
Lady Betty. I s’pose you couldn't take both, 
Dan?” 
They might get frisky and run away with such 
a light load.” 
“But you won’t let this one?” said Mamie 
wide-eyed. 
“ Oh, Bonnie never runs away. I feed her 
lumps of sugar, and you can pat her. I am not a 
bit afraid.” 
Mamie was much elated. The two chattered 
and laughed, and when they reached Fairfield Dan 
asked them if they would rather get out. He 
would tie Bonnie, but there was no danger. 
Rhoda elected to stay in. The little girls felt 
quite fine, sitting there in state. Dan came out 
once and nodded to them. The business had a 
hitch and took some time. 
“You were not afraid?” he asked as he 
sprang in. 
“ Why, I knew Bonnie couldn’t run away,” said 
Rhoda loftily. “It was fine, wasn’t it, Mamie? 
And two men looked at us as if they were s’prised.” 
“ There was some one watching at the window. 
You are fine little girls.” 
“ Don’t you suppose Laurel would have cried ? ” 
“ Oh, I guess not,” said Dan. “ Now, Bonnie, 
hurry along. There’s a cloud I don’t quite like.” 
Bonnie trotted a while, then went slower and 
tossed up her head, going a little lame. 
“ Go on, old girl. You’re on the homestretch. 
Don’t put on airs. Why, I do believe something 
is wrong,” and Dan sprang out. “ She must have 
a stone in her foot.” 
He raised up one foreleg, then the other. 
‘‘Whew! Why, she’s cast a shoe. Now, in 
the name of goodness, where is it? ” 
“ Will it hurt her? ” asked Rhoda. 
“ No, but I’ll have to look it up. Now you sit 
still. I’m going to lead her, and just watch out 
along the road. Then we must go to the smith’s. 
I thought I looked all round before we started.” 
The children looked as well, leaning out of the 
surrey, but Dan admonished them to “ hold on 
tight.” They did not have very far to go. Some 
nails had come out, two were broken. 
But it was quite a drive to the smith’s. Then 
he was finishing a job for a man who had to catch 
a train, and his helper was gone. Dan lifted the 
children out to limber up a little, he said, and they 
looked around at everything. The big bellows 
seemed wonderful. 
“ Mother’s got a teenty-tonty one at home. It’s 
painted green, and has flowers,” said Mamie. 
But it hasn’t any chain, and you must work it 
yourself.” 
What do you do with it ? ” asked Rhoda. 
'' Oh, nothing. It just hangs up.” 
Don’t the man hurt the horse driving in the 
nails ? ” asked Rhoda presently. 
Oh, no. That’s the hoof, and it is hard, like 
horn.” 
“ Isn’t it queer? ” said Mamie. 
Wouldn’t it be funny if we had to have our 
shoes nailed on our feet? ” and Rhoda laughed. 
Oh, that would hurt.” 
“ Well, we couldn’t lose them.” 
“ But we wouldn’t want to go to bed in them.” 
Both children laughed at that, and were amazed 
to think the horse slept standing up. 
Presently the work was finished, and Dan started 
off with his load. It was almost dark, mostly 
owing to the cloudiness. 
“Where does Mamie live?” asked Dan. “I 
had better take her home first.” 
“ In Cedar Street, by Jackson.” 
“ That’s right on the way.” 
Bonnie needed no urging, but she rather pro- 
tested at Cedar Street. Mamie’s mother stood on 
the porch. 
“ I was afraid you’d be caught in the rain,” she 
said. “ I sent up to school to see what had be- 
come of you, but Miss Raynor said Dan had taken 
you to drive with Rhoda Firth, so I knew it was 
all right. And you’ve had a nice time ? ” 
Oh, splendid ! ” cried the child. 
You must thank Dan. It was very kind of 
you.” 
We should have been back earlier, but Bonnie 
cast a shoe. We’re just in time, for it begins to 
rain. Good-night.” 
They soon reached home, but now it was raining 
in earnest. 
You’re lucky,” began Marigold. “ But what 
did possess you to take off Mamie Scott without 
saying a word to her mother? ” 
‘‘How do you know?” Rhoda was a little 
startled. 
“ Tip went back after a book. One of the boys 
had come up to see what was the matter. She was 
worried.” 
Rhoda recovered her composure. “ Her mother 
didn’t scold a bit. She was glad we took her. 
Mamie had a splendid time.” 
“ But you should have asked her mother,” said 
Rilla. 
“Well, how could I?” indignantly. “I didn’t 
know myself until lunch. And Dan stopped for 
us, and — and her mother wasn’t mad at all. She 
said she knew we were safe with Dan.” 
But if there had been an accident? ” 
“ There wasn’t any accident. How you do talk, 
Rilla Firth! And I want some dinner.” 
“ Don’t go away a whole afternoon without 
asking permission. I think mother would shut 
you up for a week.” 
