see thousands of duck and geese and deer.  Yet a single gunshot when
the season opened and you never could get within a mile of them."
"That is true.  I have fished and hunted with father."
"Surely!  I keep forgetting that it's ten to one you know more about
game than I do."
Silence fell upon them again.  On, on, without pausing.  Bruce was
getting sleepy himself, so he began munching biscuits.  Lighter and
lighter grew the east; the moon dimmed, and by and by everything grew
gray and the chill in the air seemed sharpest yet.
They were both awake.
Sunup they stopped by a stream.  Bruce dismounted without having the
elephant kneel and went to the water to fill his canteen.  The hunter
in him became interested in the tracks along the banks.  A tiger, a
leopard, some apes, and a herd of antelopes had been down to drink
during the night.  Even as he looked a huge gray ape came bounding out,
head-on toward Rajah, who despised these foolish beasts.  Perhaps the
old elephant missed Ali, perhaps he was still somewhat upset by his
failure to join his wild brothers the night before; at any rate,
without warning, he set off with that shuffling gait which sometimes
carried him as swiftly as a horse.  An elephant never trots nor really
runs according to our conception of the terms; he shuffles, scarcely
lifting his feet off the ground.
The mahout yelled and belabored the elephant on the skull.  Rajah did
not mind this beating at all.  Whatever his idea was, he evidently
proposed to see it fulfilled.
Cunningly he dashed under some branches, sweeping the mahout off his
neck.  The branches, with a crash as of musketry, struck the howdah,
but it held, thanks to the stoutness of the belly bands and the care
with which they had been adjusted round the huge barrel.
Bruce stood up, appalled.  For a time he was incapable of movement.
Short as the time was, it was enough to give Rajah such headway as he
needed.  He disappeared from sight.  Bruce saw the futility of shooting
at the beast.  The only thing he could do was to mount up beside
Ramabai and Pundita and give chase; and this he did in short order,
dragging up the bruised and shaken mahout with him.  The pursuing
elephant, with this extra handicap, never brought Rajah into sight.
But the trail was clear, and they followed.
Surely that poor girl was marked for misfortune.  In all the six years
Bruce had possessed Rajah he had never exhibited anything but docility.
The elephant was not running amuck, though he might eventually work
himself into that blind ungovernable rage.  Off like that, without the
slightest warning!  If Kathlyn could only keep him clear of the trees,
for the old rogue would do his best to scrape off the irksome howdah.
Kathlyn heard the shouts from behind, but she could not understand
whether these were warnings or advice.  Could they overtake her before
she was flung off?  She tried to recall the "elephant talk" Ahmed had
taught her in the old days at the farm, but just now she was too dazed.
At the end of an hour all sounds from the rear ceased; no more pistol
shots to encourage her with the knowledge that friends were near.
Rajah must have outstripped them two or three miles.
At length she came into a small clearing amid the tall jungle grass, a
dead and brittle last year's growth.  She saw two natives in the act of
kicking out a dung fire.  Rajah headed directly toward them, the fire
evidently being in the line of path he had chosen.  This rare and
unexpected freedom, this opportunity to go whither he listed, was as
the giant fern he used to eat in the days when he was free and wild in
Ceylon.
Kathlyn called out to the men, but they turned and fled in terror.  To
them Rajah was amuck.  The elephant passed the fire so closely that the
wind of his passing stirred the fire into life again; and this time it
crept toward the highly inflammable grass.  A few hundred yards beyond
Kathlyn turned to see the flames leaping along the grass.  Rajah,
getting a whiff of the acrid smoke, quickened his stride.  The fire
followed with amazing rapidity and stopped only when it reached the bed
of a trickling stream, no doubt a torrent during the big rains.  A
great pall of smoke blotted out everything in the rear; blotted out
hope, for Bruce could never pick up the trail now.
Kathlyn's eyes were feverishly dry and bright.  It was only a matter of
time when the howdah would slip down the brute's side.  She prayed that
she might die instantly.  Strange fancies flitted through her mind,
disordered by all these days of suspense and terror. . . .
And suddenly the jungle came to an end, and a long plowed field opened
into view.  Beyond this field rose a ruined wall, broken by a crumbling
gate, and lounging in the gateway were soldiers.  Near by were two
elephants employed in piling logs.
Rajah, perforce, slackened his gait.  The soldiers became animated.
Immediately the two mahouts charged their brutes toward Rajah, who
stopped.  He had had his sport.  He swayed to and fro.  One of the
mahouts reached forward and clouted Rajah on the knee.  He slowly
kneeled.  The soldiers ran forward to help Kathlyn out of the howdah.
At the sight of her skin their astonishment was great.
She was very weak and faint, and the increasing babel of tongues was
like little triphammers beating upon her aching head.  One of the
soldiers gave her a drink of water.  He held his canteen high, so that
the water trickled into her mouth; no lips but his own must touch the
nozzle, otherwise, being a Brahmin, he would be denied.  Natives
instantly flocked about, jabbering in wonder.  Some of the bolder
touched her bare arms.  The soldiers drove them back angrily.  Through
the press a horseman pushed forward.  The rider stared at the strange
captive, started and uttered an astonished cry.
"The white queen of Allaha, whom mine own eyes saw crowned at the
durbar there!" he murmured.  "By the shroud of the prophet what can
this mean?  Stop!" he called to the soldiers.  Kathlyn looked up dully.
"Convey her to his highness the Kumor!"  The prince should decide what
should be done with her.
The Kumor was big and lazy and sensual.  He gazed upon Kathlyn with
eyes which sparkled evilly, like a cat's.
"Who is this woman?" he demanded.
"Highness, she is the white queen of Allaha, but who may say that she
is here?" with a smile as evil as his master's.
"But how came she here?"
The horseman briefly recounted the events as he had seen them in the
capital of Allaha.
"Who are you, maiden?" the Kumor asked in English, for, like all
potentates, little or great, in India, he spoke English.  It presented
the delectable pastime of conspiring in two languages; for, from Bombay
to Calcutta, from Peshawar to Madras, India seethes, conspires and
takes an occasional pot shot at some poor devil of a commissioner whose
only desire is to have them combine religion and sanitation.
"I am an American.  Please take me to the English commissioner."
Somehow instinct told her that she might not expect succor from this
man with the pearls about his gross neck.
"I regret that his excellency the commissioner has gone to Bombay.
Besides, I do not know that you tell the truth.  Still, I can offer you
what pearls and emeralds you may find to your liking."
"Your Highness, there are those whose coming shortly will cause you
much annoyance if you refuse to give me proper aid.  There is no
possible way for you to cover up my appearance here.  Send me to the
commissioner's bungalow, where I may await the coming of my friends."
"Indeed!"  The Kumor saw here a conflict not altogether to his liking.
He was lazy, and there was the damnable, unrelenting hand of the
British Raj looming in the distance.  He shrugged.  "Achmet, call the
captain of the guard and have him convey this runaway queen to Allaha.
Surely, I may not meddle with the affairs of a friendly state."  With a
wave of his fat bejeweled hand he appeared to dismiss the matter from
his mind.
Kathlyn was led away.  The human mind can stand only so many shocks.
Outside the palace courtyard stood Rajah, the howdah securely attached
once more, Kathlyn was bidden to mount.  A water bottle and some cakes
were placed in the howdah beside her.  Then a drunken mahout mounted
behind Rajah's ears.  The elephant did not like the feel of the man's
legs, and he began to sway ominously.  Nevertheless, he permitted the
mahout to direct him to one of the city gates, the soldiers trooping
alongside.
It appeared that there was a much shorter route to Allaha.  Time being
essential, Bruce had had to make for the frontier blindly, as it were.
The regular highway was a moderately decent road which led along the
banks of one of those streams which eventually join the sacred Jumna.
This, of course, was also sacred.  Many Hindus were bathing in the
ghats.  They passed by these and presently came upon a funeral pyre.
Sometimes one sleeps with one's eyes open, and thus it was with
Kathlyn.  Out of that funeral pyre her feverish thoughts builded a
frightful dream.
      *      *      *      *      *      *
The drunken mahout slid off Rajah; the soldiers turned aside.  Hired
female mourners were kneeling about, wailing and beating their breasts,
while behind them stood the high caste widow, her face as tragic as
Dido's at the pyre of Aeneas.  Suddenly she threw her arms high over
her head.
"I am suttee!"
Suttee!  It was against the law of the British Raj.  The soldiers began
arguing with the widow, but only half heartedly.  It was a pious rite,
worthy of the high caste Hindu's wife.  Better death on the pyre than a
future like that of a pariah dog.  For a wife who preferred to live
after her husband was gone was a social outcast, permitted not to wed
again, to exist only as a drudge, a menial, the scum and contempt of
all who had known her in her days of prosperity.
The widow, having drunk from a cup which contained opium, climbed to
the top of the pyre where her husband lay, swathed in white.  She gazed
about wildly, and her courage and resolve took wings.  She stumbled
down.  A low hissing ran about.
"Make the white woman suttee in her place!" cried the drunken mahout.
The cry was taken up by the spectators.  Kathlyn felt herself dragged
from the elephant, bound and finally laid beside the swathed figure.
There could be no horror in the wide world like it.  Smoke began to
curl up from the underbrush.  It choked and stifled her.  Sparks rose
and dropped upon her arms and face.  And through the smoke and flame
came Rajah.  He lifted her with his powerful trunk and carried her off,
for hours and hours, back into the trackless jungle. . . .
Kathlyn found herself, all at once, sitting against the roots of an
aged banyan tree.  A few yards away an ape sat on his haunches and eyed
her curiously.  A little farther off Rajah browsed in a clump of weeds,
the howdah at a rakish angle, like the cocked hat of a bully.  Kathlyn
stared at her hands.  There were no burns there; she passed a hand over
her face; there was no smart or sting.  A dream; she had dreamed it; a
fantasy due to her light-headed state of mind.  A dream!  She cried and
laughed, and the ape jibbered at her uneasily.
In reality, Rajah, freed of his unwelcome mahout, had legged it down
the road without so much as trumpeting his farewell, and the soldiers
had not been able to stop him.
How she had managed to get down would always remain a mystery to her.
Food and water, food and water; in her present state she must have both
or die.  Let them send her back to Allaha; she was beaten; she was
without the will to resist further.  All she wanted was food and water
and sleep, sleep.  After that they might do what they pleased with her.
For the first time since the extraordinary flight from Allaha Kathlyn
recollected the "elephant talk" which Ahmed had taught her.  She rose
wearily and walked toward Rajah, who cocked his ears at the sound of
her approach.  She talked to him for a space in monotone.  She held out
her hands; the dry raspy trunk curled out toward them.  Rajah was
evidently willing to meet her half-way.  She ordered him to kneel.
Without even pausing to think it over Rajah bent his calloused knees,
and gratefully Kathlyn crawled back into the howdah.  Food and water:
these appeared at hand as if by magic.  So she ate and drank.  If she
could hold Rajah to a walk the howdah would last at least till she came
to some village.
Later, in the moonshine, she espied the ruined portico of a temple.
CHAPTER VI
THE TEMPLE
In the blue of night the temple looked as though it had been sculptured
out of mist.  Here and there the heavy dews, touched by the moon
lances, flung back flames of sapphire, cold and sharp.  To Kathlyn the
temple was of marvelous beauty.  She urged Rajah toward the crumbling
portico.
It was a temple in ruins, like many in Hind.  Broken pillars,
exquisitely carved, lay about, and some of the tall windows of marble
lace were punctured, as if the fist of some angry god had beaten
through.  Under the decayed portico stood an iron brazier.  Near this
reposed a cracked stone sarcophagus: an unusual sight in this part of
the world.  It was without its lid.  But one god now brooded
hereabouts--Silence.  Not a sound anywhere, not even from the near-by
trees.  She saw a noiseless lizard slide jerkily across a patch of
moonshine and dissolve into the purple shadow beyond.
What was this temple?  What gods had been worshiped here?  And why was
it deserted?  She had heard her father tell of the ruined city of
Chitor.  Plague? . . .  Kathlyn shuddered.  Sometimes villages, to the
last soul in them, were brushed from existence and known no more to
man.  And this might be one of them.  Yet indications of a village were
nowhere to be seen.  It was merely a temple, perhaps miles from the
nearest village, deserted save by prowling wild beasts, the winds, the
sunshine and the moonshine.  She looked far and wide for any signs of
human habitation.
She commanded Rajah to kneel.  So held by the enchanting picture was
Kathlyn that the elephant's renewed restlessness (and he had reason, as
will be seen) passed unobserved by her.  He came to his knees, however,
and she got out of the howdah.  Her legs trembled for a space, for her
nerves were in a pitiable condition.  Suddenly Rajah's ears went
forward, he rose, and his trunk curled angrily.  With a whuff he
wheeled and shuffled off toward the jungle out of which he had so
recently emerged.
"Halt!" cried Kathlyn.  What had he heard?  What had he seen?  "Halt!"
But even as she called the tall grass closed in behind the elephant.
What water and food she had disappeared with him.
She paused by the brazier, catching hold of it for support.  She
laughed hysterically: it was so funny; it was all so out of joint with
real things, with every-day life as she had known it.  Weird laughter
returned to mock her astonished ears, a sinister echo.  And then she
laughed at the echo, being in the grip of a species of madness.  In the
purple caverns of the temple she suddenly became conscious of another
presence.  A flash as of moonlight striking two chrysoberyls took the
madness out of her mind.  This forsaken temple was the haunt of a
leopard or a tiger.
She was lost.  That magnetism which ordinarily was hers was at its
nadir.  She hesitated for a second, then climbed into the empty
sarcophagus, crouching low.  Strangely enough, as she did so a calm
fell upon her; all the terrors of her position dropped away from her as
mists from the mountain peaks.  She had, however, got into the
hiding-place none too soon.
She heard the familiar pad-pad, the whiff-whiff of a big cat.
Immediately into the moonlight came an African lion, as out of place
here as Kathlyn herself; his tail slashed, there was a long black
streak from his mane to his tail where the hair had risen.  Kathlyn
crouched even lower.  The lion trotted round the sarcophagus, sniffing.
Presently he lifted his head and roared.  The echoes played battledore
and shuttlecock with the sound.  The lion roared again, this time at
the insulting echoes.  For a few minutes the noise was deafening.  A
rumble as of distant thunder, and the storm died away.
By and by she peered out cautiously.  She saw the lion crossing the
open space between the temple and the jungle.  She saw him pause, bend
his head, then lope away in the direction taken by Rajah.
To Kathlyn it seemed that she had no longer anything to do with the
body of Kathlyn Hare.  The soul of another had stepped into this
wearied flesh of hers and now directed its physical manifestations,
while her own spirit stood gratefully and passively aloof.  Nothing
could happen now; the world had grown still and calm.  The spirit drew
the sleeves of the robe snugly about her arms and laid Kathlyn's head
upon them and drew her down into a profound slumber.
Half a mile to the north of the ruined temple there lay, all
unsuspected by Kathlyn, a village--a village belonging solely to the
poor, mostly ryots or tillers of the soil.  The poor in Asia know but
two periods of time--for rarely do they possess such a thing as a watch
or a clock--sunset and sunrise.  Perhaps the man of the family may sit
a while at dusk on his mud door-sill, with his bubbling water pipe (if
he has one), and watch the stars slowly swing across the arch.  A pinch
of very bad tobacco is slowly consumed; then he enters the hunt
[Transcriber's note: hut?], flings himself upon his matting (perhaps a
cotton rug, more likely a bundle of woven water reeds) and sleeps.  No
one wakes him; habit rouses him at dawn.  He scrubs his teeth with a
fibrous stick.  It is a part of his religious belief to keep his teeth
clean.  The East Indian (Hindu or Mohammedan) has the whitest, soundest
teeth in the world if the betel-nut is but temperately used.
Beyond this village lay a ruined city, now inhabited by cobras and
slinking jackals.
Dawn.  A few dung fires smoldered.  From the doorway of one of the mud
huts came a lean man, his naked torso streaked with wet ashes, his
matted hair hanging in knots and tangles on his emaciated shoulders.
His aspect was exceedingly filthy; he was a holy man, which in this mad
country signifies physical debasement, patience and fortitude such as
would have adorned any other use.  A human lamprey, sticking himself
always at the thin and meager board of the poor, a vile parasite, but
holy!
The holy man directed his steps to the narrow beaten pathway which led
to the temple, where, every morning, he performed certain rites which
the poor benighted ryots believed would some day restore the ruined
city and the prosperity which attends fat harvests.  The holy man had
solemnly declared that it would take no less than ten years to bring
about this miracle.  And the villagers fell down with their foreheads
in the dust.  He was a Brahmin; the caste string hung about his neck;
he was indeed holy, he who could have dwelt on the fat of the land, in
maharajahs' courts.  The least that can be said is that he performed
his duties scrupulously.
So, then, the red rim of the March sun shouldered up above the rolling
jungle as he came into the beaten clay court which fronted the temple.
The lion stalked only at night, rarely appearing in the daytime.  Once
a month he was given a bullock, for he kept tiger and leopard away, and
the villagers dwelt in peace.  The lion had escaped from Allaha, where
the species were kept as an additional sport.  Since he had taken up
his abode in the temple there had been fewer thefts from the cattle
sheds.
The holy man was about to assume his squatting posture in the center of
the court, as usual, when from out of the sarcophagus rose languidly a
form, shrouded in white.  The form stretched its lovely arms, white as
alabaster, and presently the hands rubbed a pair of sleepy eyes.  Then
the form sat down within the sarcophagus, laid its arms on the rim, and
wearily hid its face in them.
The watcher was the most dumfounded holy man in all India.  For the
first time in his hypocritical life he found faith in himself, in his
puerile rites.  He had conjured up yonder spirit, unaided, alone.  He
rose, turned, and never a holy man ran faster.  When he arrived,
panting and voiceless, at the village well, where natives were coming
and going with water in goatskins and jars and copper vessels, he fell
upon his face, rose to his knees, and poured hands full of dust upon
his head.
"Ai, ai!" he called.  "It is almost done, my children.  The first sign
has come from the gods.  I have brought you in human form the ancient
priestess!"  And he really believed he had.  "O my children, my little
ones, my kids!  I have brought her who will now attend to the sacred
fires; for these alone will restore the city as of old, the fat corn,
the plentitude of fruit.  Since the coming of the lion two rains ago
the leopard and the striped one have forsaken their lairs.  One bullock
a month is better than fire, together with the kids and the children.
Ai!"  More dust.
Naturally the villagers set down their water skins and jars and copper
vessels and flocked about this exceptional holy man.  They wanted to
believe him, but for years nothing had happened but the advent of the
lion, whence no one exactly knew, though the holy man had not been
backward in claiming it was due to his nearness to the god Vishnu.
They followed him eagerly to the temple.  What they beheld transfixed
them.  A woman with skin like the petals of the lotus and hair like
corn sat in the sacred sarcophagus and braided her hair, gazing the
while toward the bright sun.
The intake of many breaths produced a sound.  Kathlyn turned instantly
toward this sound, for a moment expecting the return of the lion.
Immediately holy man and villagers threw themselves upon the ground,
striking their foreheads against the damp clay.  The alien spirit still
ruled the substance; Kathlyn eyed them in mild astonishment, not at all
alarmed.
"Ai!" shrilled the holy man, springing to his feet.  "Ai!  She is our
ancient priestess, rising from her tomb of centuries!  Ai, ai!  O thou
unholy children, to doubt my word!  Behold!  Henceforth she shall share
the temple with the lion, and later she will give us prosperity, and my
name shall ever be in your households."
Having secured a priestess, he was now determined that he should not
lose her.  The future was roseate indeed, and when he took his next
pilgrimage to holy Benares they would bestrew his pathway with lotus
flowers.
"Wood to start the sacred fires!" he commanded.
The villagers flew to obey his orders.  He was indeed a holy man.  Not
in the memory of the oldest had a miracle such as this happened.  Upon
their return with wood and embers the holy man built the fire, handing
a lighted torch to Kathlyn and signifying for her to touch the tinder.
The spirit in Kathlyn told her that these people meant her no immediate
harm, so she stepped out of the sarcophagus and applied the torch.  The
moment the flames began to crackle the villagers prostrated themselves
again and the holy man besmeared his bony chest with more ashes.
A second holy man appeared upon the scene, wanting in breath.  His jaw
dropped and his eyes started to leave their sockets.  Knowing his ilk
so thoroughly well, he flung himself down before the brazier and beat
his forehead upon the ground; not in any chastened spirit, but because
he had overslept that morning.  This glory might have been his!  Ai, ai!
Later the two conferred.  During the day they should guard the
priestess, because, having taken human form, she might some day tire of
this particular temple.  At night she would be well guarded by the lion.
Several awestricken women came forward with bowls of cooked rice and
fruits and a new copper drinking vessel.  These they reverently placed
at Kathlyn's feet.
Gradually the spirit which had comforted Kathlyn withdrew, and at
length Kathlyn became keenly alive.  It entered her mind clearly that
these poor foolish people really believed her a celestial being, and so
long as they laid no hand upon her she was not alarmed.  She had
recently passed through too many terrors to be disturbed by a bit of
kindness, even if stirred into being by a religious fanaticism.
Kathlyn ate.
By pairs the villagers departed, and soon none remained save her
self-appointed guardians, the two holy men.  Kathlyn felt a desire to
explore this wonderful temple.  She discovered what must have been the
inner shrine.  The chamber was filled with idols; here and there a bit
of gold leaf, centuries old, glistened upon the bronze, the clay, the
wood.  The caste mark on the largest idol's head was a polished ruby,
overlooked doubtless during the loot.  She swept the dust from the
jewel with the tip of her finger, and the dull fire sent a shiver of
delight over her.  She was still a woman.
As she wandered farther in her foot touched something and she looked
down.  It was a bone; in fact, the floor was strewn with bones.  She
quickly discerned, much to her relief, that none of these bones was
human.  This was, or had been, the den of the lion.  There was an acrid
unpleasant odor, so she hurried back to the brazier.  Vaguely she
comprehended that she must keep the fire replenished from time to time
in order to pacify the two holy men.  At night it would fend off any
approach of the lion.
Where was Bruce?  Would he ever find her?  That philosophy which she
had inherited from her father, that quiet acceptance of the inevitable,
was the one thing which carried her through her trials sanely.  An
ordinary woman would have died from mere exhaustion.
Bruce, indeed!  At that very moment he was rushing out of the Kumor's
presence, wild to be off toward the road to Allaha, since Kathlyn had
not been seen upon it.  He found where Rajah had veered off into the
jungle again, and followed the trail tirelessly.  But it was to be his
misfortune always to arrive too late.
To Kathlyn the day passed with nothing more than the curiosity of the
natives to disturb her.  They brought her cotton blankets which she
arranged in the sarcophagus.  There were worse beds in the world than
this; at least it shielded her from the bitter night wind.
She ate again at sundown and builded high the sacred fire and tried to
plan some manner of escape; for she did not propose to be a
demi-goddess any longer than was necessary.  From Pundita she had
learned many words and a few phrases in Hindustani, and she ventured to
speak them to the holy men, who seemed quite delighted.  They could
understand her, but she on her part could make little or nothing of
their jabbering.  Nevertheless, she pretended.
Finally the holy men departed, after having indicated the sacred fire
and the wood beside it.  This fire pleased Kathlyn mightily.  While it
burned brightly the lion would not prowl in her immediate vicinity.
She wondered where this huge cat had come from, since she knew her
natural history well enough to know that African lions did not inhabit
this part of the globe.  Doubtless it had escaped from some private
menagerie.
The fire, then, giving her confidence, she did not get into the
sarcophagus, but wandered about, building in her fancy the temple as it
had stood in its prime.  The ceilings had been magnificently carved, no
two subjects alike; and the walls were of marble and jasper and
porphyry.  A magic continent this Asia in its heyday.  When her
forefathers had been rude barbarians, sailing the north seas or
sacrificing in Druidical rites, there had been art and culture here
such as has never been surpassed.  India, of splendid pageants, of
brave warriors and gallant kings!  Alas, how the mighty had fallen!
About her, penury, meanness, hypocrisy, uncleanliness, thievery and
unbridled passions. . . .  What was that?  Her heart missed a beat.
That pad-pad; that sniffling noise!
She whirled about, knocking over an idol.  It came down with a crash
and, being of clay, lay in shards at her feet.  (Unfortunately it was
the holy of holies in this temple.)  How she gained the shelter of the
sarcophagus she never knew, but gain it she did, and cowered down
within.  She could hear the beast trotting round and round, sniffling
and rumbling in his throat.  Then the roaring of the preceding night
was repeated.  The old fellow evidently could not find those other
lions who roared back at him so valiantly.  Evidently fire had no
terrors for him.  For an hour or more he patrolled the portico, and all
this time Kathlyn did not stir, hardly daring to breathe for fear he
might undertake to peer into the sarcophagus.
Silence.  A low roar from the inner shrine told her that for the
present she was safe.  To-morrow she must fly, whither did not matter.
Toward four o'clock she fell into a doze and was finally awakened by
the sound of voices raised in anger.
Poor sheep!  They had discovered the shattered idol.  It did not matter
at all that the return of their ancient goddess was to bring back
prosperity.  She had broken their favorite idol.  Damnation would come
in a devil's wind that night.
The holy man who had missed the chance of claiming the miraculous
appearance of Kathlyn as a work of his own now saw an opportunity to
rehabilitate himself in the eyes of those who had made his holiness a
comfortable existence.  With a piece of the idol in his hand, he roused
Kathlyn and shook the clay before her face, jabbering violently.
Kathlyn understood readily enough.  She had unwittingly committed a
sacrilege.
The natives gathered about and menaced her.  Kathlyn rose, standing in
the sarcophagus, and extended her hands for silence.  She was
frightened, but it would never do to let them see it.  What Hindustani
she knew would in this case be of no manner of use.  But we human
beings can, by facial expression and gesture, make known our messages
with understandable clearness.  From her gestures, then, the holy men
gathered that she could recreate the god.  She pointed toward the sun
and counted on her fingers.
The premier holy man, satisfied that he understood Kathlyn's gestures,
turned to the justly angered villagers and explained that with his aid
their priestess would, in five suns, recreate Vishnu in all his beauty.
Instantly the villagers prostrated themselves.
"Poor things!" murmured Kathlyn.
The holy men sent the natives away, for it was not meet that they
should witness magic in the making.  They then squatted in the clay
court and curiously waited for her to begin.  There was a well in the
inner shrine.  To this she went with caution.  The lion was evidently
foraging in the jungle.  Kathlyn filled the copper vessel with water
and returned.  Next, she gathered up what pieces of the idol she could
find and pieced them together.  Here was her model.  She then
approached one of the fakirs and signified that she had need of his
knife.  He demurred at first, but at length consented to part with it.
She dug up a square piece of clay.  In fine, she felt more like the
Kathlyn of old than she had since completing the leopard in her outdoor
studio.  It occupied her thoughts, at least part of them, for she
realized that mayhap her life depended upon her skill in reproducing
the hideous idol.
As the two old hypocrites saw the clay take form and shape and the
mocking face gradually appear, they were assured that Kathlyn was
indeed the ancient priestess; and deep down in their souls they
experienced something of the awe they had often inspired in the poor
trusting ryot.
Kathlyn had talent bordering on genius.  The idol was an exact replica
of the original one; more, there was a subtle beauty now where before
there had been a frank repulsiveness.  It satisfied the holy men, and
