


What a woman wears, cheap moralists to the contrary, is always
important. It is especially important in business relations because
the impression she creates is, to a considerable degree, dependent
upon it. The self-supporting woman, when about her work, should not
dress elaborately or conspicuously. Bright colors, jewels, extreme
hats should be rigidly barred from her wardrobe. She should be dressed
quietly but becomingly, with exquisite neatness and, to a reasonable
extent, in the prevailing mode. A quiet elegance in style, care in the
manner of putting on her clothes,—these go a long way toward creating
the proper appearance for the woman in business. Human nature being as
it is, the properly gowned woman of business has a far better chance
than the one who is dowdily dressed.

      

The habit of many young girls in the business world of wearing sleeves
that do not come to the elbow and displaying an amount of chest that
would be proper only at an evening party, is a serious mistake. Another
mistake is the marked preference for wearing, even in winter time,
white shirt-waists. If these waists are to be really fresh and fit
for wear, a new one must be put on every day, and that is an expense
that the wearers clearly can not afford. Dark dresses, with touches
of white at neck and wrists, are a much wiser choice when one must
economize.

      



It is very commonly said that men have larger interests than women,
and that one reason for this lies in the fact that, in their every-day
work, they form, naturally and easily, relations with many people;
whereas a woman’s relations with the world too often come through the
more artificial channels of pleasure. A woman in business has the same
opportunity for meeting people on real ground that a man has. She
should take advantage of these openings to healthful communication
with her kind. We have all come in contact with women who have been
thus broadened and have realized in them a kind of attraction not to
be found in women leading more secluded lives. It is well in summing
up the pros and cons of the business woman’s life to lay stress on her
advantages, and the one just named is one of which she should make the
most.

Women, as a class, are sometimes accused of a lack of method in the
performance of their tasks. This is owing to the fact that the duties
of domestic life may often be performed at any hour the housekeeper
chooses, and that attention to them is not rigidly fixed as to time.
A business career is often an effectual remedy for desultory habits.
And this is the reason that many women who have served a time as
wage-earners come back to housekeeping with renewed energy and ability.
The best housekeepers the writer has ever known were retired women
of business. They put into the tasks of the home the method, the
promptness they learned in a more exacting field.

      



However, women who are engaged the greater part of the day in offices,
libraries, in shops, should not be expected to engage to any large
degree in household duties. It sometimes happens that the members of
a family circle, in which one woman goes out to earn her bread and
butter, have little consideration for her tired state of mind and body
when she leaves her work and returns to her home. They expect of her a
double duty, and this is manifestly unfair. It is most important that
a business woman have rest or diversion in her spare time, so that she
will not get into a rut, so that she may do justice to her work.



Her family should not forget that her money-making powers will be
crippled by forced attention to other duties. Men are treated far
more considerately in this regard than women. Nothing is allowed to
interfere with the average business man’s arrangements. To facilitate
these, everything possible is done by his family. This may be because
men are more insistent, because they have a way of demanding their
rights. It would be well for women in business, well also for their
families, that they should “look sharp” and pursue the same policy.




CHAPTER XL

A FINANCIAL STUDY FOR OUR YOUNG MARRIED COUPLE


THIRTY years ago I held a heart-to-heart talk with reasonable,
well-meaning husbands on the vital subject of the monetary relations
between man and wife.

I quote a paragraph, the force of which has been confirmed to my mind
by the additional experience and observation of three more decades than
were set to my credit upon the age-roll when I penned the words:

“I have studied this matter long and seriously, and I offer you, as
the result of my observation in various walks of life, and careful
calculation of labor and expense, the bold assertion that every
wife who performs her part, even tolerably well, in whatsoever rank
of society, more than earns her living, and that this should be an
acknowledged fact with both parties to the marriage contract. The
idea of her dependence upon her husband is essentially false and
mischievous, and should be done away with, at once and forever. It
has crushed self-respect out of thousands of women; it has scourged
thousands from the marriage-altar to the tomb, with a whip of
scorpions; it has driven many to desperation and crime.”

I have headed this chapter “A Financial Study for Our Young Married
Couple,” because I have little hope of changing the opinions and custom
of the mature benedict. Our youthful wedded pair should come to a
rational mutual understanding in the first week of housekeeping as to
an equitable division of the income on which they are to live together.

If you—our generic “John”—shrink from coming down to “cold business”
before the echoes of the wedding-bells have died in ear and in heart,
call the discussion a “matter of marriage etiquette,” and approach
it confidently. And do you, Mrs. John, meet his overtures in a
straightforward, sensible way, with no foolish shrinking from the idea
of even apparent independence of him to whom you have entrusted your
person and your happiness?



It is, of course, your part to harken quietly to whatever proposition
your more businesslike spouse may make as to the just partition,
not of his means, which are likewise yours, but of the sums you are
respectively to handle and to spend. Do not accept what he apportions
for your use as a benefaction. He has endowed you with all his worldly
goods, and the law confirms the endowment to a certain extent. You are
a co-proprietor—not a pensioner. If, while the glamour of Love’s Young
Dream envelops and dazes you, you are chilled by what seems sordid and
commonplace, take the word of an old campaigner for it that the time
will come when your “allowance” will be a factor in happiness as well
as in comfort.

May I quote to John another and a longer extract from the
thirty-year-old “Talk concerning Allowances”?



“Set aside from your income what you adjudge to be a reasonable and
liberal sum for the maintenance of your household in the style suitable
for people of your means and position. Determine what purchases you
will yourself make, and what shall be entrusted to your wife, and put
the money needed for her proportion into her care as frankly as you
take charge of your share. Try the experiment of talking to her as if
she were a business partner. Let her understand what you can afford
to do, and what you can not. If in this explanation you can say ‘we’
and ‘ours,’ you will gain a decided moral advantage, although it may
be at the cost of masculine prejudice and pride of power. Impress upon
her mind that a certain sum, made over to her apart from the rest, is
hers absolutely, not a present from you, but her honest earnings, and
that you would not be honest were you to withhold it. And do not ask
her ‘if that will do?’ any more than you would address the question to
any other woman. With what cordial detestation wives regard that brief
query which drops, like a sentence of the Creed, from husbandly lips, I
leave your spouse to tell you. Also, if she ever heard of a woman who
answered anything but ‘Yes!’”

Carrying out the idea of co-partnership, should your wife exceed her
allowance, running herself, and consequently you, into debt, meet the
exigency as you would a similar indiscretion on the part of a young and
inexperienced member of your firm. Treat the extravagance as a mistake,
not a fault. Not one girl-wife in one hundred, who has not been a
wage-earner, has had any experience in the management of finances. The
father gives the daughter money when she (or her mother) tells him that
she needs it, or would like to have it. When it is gone he is applied
to for more. She has been a beneficiary all her life, usually an
irresponsible, thoughtless recipient of what is lavished or doled out
to her, according to the parental whim and means.



Teach her business methods, tactfully, yet decidedly.

One young wife I wot of began keeping the expense-book, presented to
her by her husband, with these entries:

“January fourth. Received $75.00 (Seventy-five dollars).

“January sixth. Spent $70.25 shopping, etc.

“Balance—$4.75 set down to Profit and Loss.”

After fifteen years of married life her husband died, bequeathing the
whole of a large estate to her, and making her sole guardian of their
three children,—a confidence fully justified by her conduct of the
affairs thus committed to her.

“My husband trained me patiently and thoroughly,” she said to one who
complimented her financial sagacity. “I was an ignoramus when we were
married.”

Then, laughingly, she related the “profit and loss” incident.

It is the fashion to sneer at women’s business methods. Who are to
blame for their blunders?



Should your wife play with her allowance, as a child with a new toy,
let censure fall upon those who have kept her in leading-strings. Teach
her gradually to comprehend her responsibilities. The sense of them
will steady her unless she be exceptionally feather-brained. Be she
wasteful or frugal, the allowance you have made to her is as honestly
hers to have, to hold or to spend, as the third of your estate which
the law will give her in the event of your death.

      



“Settlements,” according to the English sense of the word, are not yet
common in the United States. One American father, whose daughter was
on the eve of marriage with an Englishman, ordered the prospective
bridegroom out of the house when the foreigner queried innocently as to
the “settlements” the future father-in-law intended to make upon his
child.

A man with a reputation for fortune-hunting had nearly rid himself
of the slur by insisting that his fiancée’s large estate should be
settled absolutely upon herself. Her quondam guardian put a different
complexion on the generous act by divulging the circumstance that the
husband, by the same “settlement,” had made himself sole trustee of his
wife’s property of every description.

While there are, perhaps, fewer purely mercenary marriages in our
country than in any other, it can not be denied that a large proportion
of enterprising young men act, consciously, or unwittingly, on the
advice of the Scotchman who warned his son not to marry for money, but
in seeking a wife, “to gae where money is.”

“Is he marrying her fortune, or herself?” asked one gossip of another
when an approaching bridal was spoken of.

“They say he is very much in love with her!” was the answer, uttered
dubiously. “I fancy, however, that he would have repressed his passion,
if she were a poor girl.”

Which brings us to a much more delicate matter than the division of the
income earned, or inherited, by the bridegroom.

It is a fact that may have much significance—or none—that the bride
makes no mention of endowing her husband with all, or any portion,
of her worldly goods. It is likewise significant that laws (of man’s
devising) take it for granted that her property goes with her, so that
in most of our states it is his without other act of gift than the
marriage ceremony.



The man who marries for money has no scruples as to the acceptance and
the use of it. Sometimes it is squandered; sometimes, but not often, it
is hoarded; most frequently “it goes into the husband’s business” and
is invested by him for the benefit of himself and his family.

      



The nicer issue with which we have to do is how our conscientious John,
who would have married his best girl if she had not possessed one penny
in her own right, is to comport himself with regard to the fortune,
modest or considerable, which she brings to him as dowry.

Briefly and clearly—as a trust not to be committed to the chances
and changes of his individual ventures. No investment should be made
of his wife’s money without her knowledge and full consent. In all
that he does, where her funds are involved, he should be her actuary,
and what profits result from “operations” with her funds should be
settled on herself and children. By this course alone can he retain
his self-respect, his reputation as an honorable man, and certainly
disabuse his wife’s mind of any possible suspicion that his affection
was not wholly for her.




CHAPTER XLI

MORE ABOUT ALLOWANCES


THE arrangement between husband and wife concerning money matters
should be no more definite and businesslike than that subsisting
between father and children. To be taught early the real value of money
is a distinct assistance to financial integrity in later life. To have
in one’s possession, even as a child, a sum wholly one’s own, conduces
to a feeling of self-respect and independence. As soon as a child is
old enough to know what money is and that, for money, things are bought
and sold, he should have an allowance, be it only a penny a week.
Suggestions, but not commands, as to its expenditure should accompany
the gift. Gradually the weekly or monthly amount should be increased,
and instructions should be given as to its possible use.

A child may be advised properly to divide his small funds between
pleasure and charity, or between the things bought solely for his
own benefit and those for the benefit of others, the value of the
expenditure, in each case, being dependent on the freedom of his
choice. As he grows older he should be taught to expend money for
necessities. He should be trained to buy his own clothes and other
personal belongings. This sort of training, often disastrously
neglected, is of far more practical value than many things taught in
the schools. The feeling of responsibility engendered in children or
young people by trusting them with a definite amount of money for
certain general purposes, can scarcely fail of a happy result. It binds
them to a performance of duty while it confers, at the same time, a
delicious sense of freedom. An allowance for necessities gives its
recipient liberty of choice in expenditure, but the choice must be
judicious or the recipient suffers. This it does not take him long to
find out.

      



Many a man who refuses his sons and daughters allowances, permits them
to run up large bills at the various shops where they trade. Exactly
what the amount of these bills will be he never knows, except that
it is sure to be larger than he wishes. The children of such a man
never have any ready money. They do not know what to count on and, in
consequence, not being trusted, they exercise all their ingenuity to
outwit the head of the family and to trick from him exactly as much
money as possible. A young woman with somewhat extravagant tendencies,
who belonged to the class of the unallowanced, begged her father for
a new gown. She pleaded and pleaded in vain. Finally, he said if she
had anything that could be made over, he would stand for the bill.
This word to the wise was sufficient. She took the waist-band of an
old gown to her modiste who built upon it a beautiful frock for which
she likewise sent in a beautiful bill. Fortunately, this daughter had
a father who was a connoisseur in wit, and who could appreciate a
joke even at his own expense. But the example will serve, as well as
another, to illustrate the lengths to which a woman may resort when not
treated as a reasonable and reasoning creature about money matters.



“I would rather have one-half the amount of money of which I might
otherwise have the use, and have it in the form of an allowance,” said
a young woman who was discussing, with other young women, the subject
of expenditures. “If I know what I am to have, I can spend it to
much better advantage. I can exercise some method in my purchases. If
I don’t know, I am likely to spend a large sum on some two or three
articles with the hope that more is coming. Suddenly and unexpectedly
father sets his foot down on further bills, and there I am with a dream
of a hat but no shoes, or with a ball gown and not a coat to my back.”



Money plays some part in the life of every human being belonging to a
civilized nation. The question of successful and skilful expenditure
is a vital question for the majority of people. It is not a question
that can be solved without training. Yet we educate children in various
unimportant matters, and, for the most part, leave this of money
untouched. In no way can a child or a young person be taught so readily
and so quickly the proper use of money as by limiting his expenses to a
certain sum, which sum he nevertheless controls.




CHAPTER XLII

A FEW OF THE LITTLE THINGS THAT ARE BIG THINGS


SEEING the prevalence of rudeness in human intercourse, one is forced
to believe that the natural man is a cross-grained brute. That breeding
and culture often convert him into a creature of gentleness and
refinement speaks volumes for the powers of such influence. The average
man seems to take a savage delight in occasionally giving vent to
brutal or cutting speech. To yield thus to a primal and savage instinct
is to prove that breeding and refinement are lacking.

There are certain business men who, during business hours, meet one
with a brusk manner that would not be pardoned in a petty tradesman. If
we visit them on their own business,—not as intruders,—it is the same.
They seem to feel that a certain disagreeable humor is an indispensable
accompaniment to the occasion. Such insolence is usually taken as a
matter of course by the recipient, who immediately feels penitent at
the thought of his intrusion.

Too often the physician who is not a gentleman at heart trades on
the fact that his patients regard him as a necessity, and is as
disagreeable as his temper at the moment demands that he shall be. He
intimates that he is so busy that he has scarcely time to give his
advice; that the person he attends had no business to get ill, and, in
fact, makes himself generally so disagreeable it is to be wondered at
that the sufferer ever calls in this man again. Yet in a drawing-room,
and talking to a well person, this man’s manner would be charming. One
sometimes feels that sick people and physicians might well be classed
as “patients” and “impatients.”

It is but fair to remark that, to the credit of physicians, it is
not always those who have had the largest experience, or who stand
at the head of their profession who deserve to come under the above
condemnation. The men to whom the world looks for advice in the matters
of which they have made a study, and who are sure of their standing,
are often the gentlest, the most courteous.

      



Our busy men have need to remember that the man who is gentle at
heart shows that gentleness in counting-room and office as well as in
drawing-room and dining-room, and the fact that the person calling on
him for business purposes or advice is a woman, should compel him to
show the politeness which

            —“is to do and say
    The kindest thing in the kindest way.”

On the other hand, common courtesy and consideration for another demand
that the person who intrudes on a man when he is busy should state his
business briefly, and then take his departure. Only the busy man or
woman knows the agony that comes with the knowledge that the precious
moments of the working hours are being frittered away on that which
is unnecessary, when necessary work is standing by, begging for the
attention it deserves and should receive. Let him who would be careful
on points of etiquette remember that there is an etiquette of working
hours as well as of the hours of leisure and sociability.

      



Perhaps the lapse from good breeding most common in general society is
the asking of questions. One is aghast at the evidence of impertinent
curiosity that parades under the guise of friendly interest.
Interrogations as to the amount of one’s income, occupation, and even
as to one’s age and general condition, are legion and inexcusable.
Every one who writes—be he a well-known author or a penny-a-liner—knows
only too well the query, “What are you writing now?” and knows, too,
the feeling of impotent rage awakened by this query. Yet, unless one
would be as rude as one’s questioner, one must smile inanely and make
an evasive answer.

To ask no question does not, of necessity, mean a lack of interest
in the person with whom one is conversing. A polite and sympathetic
attention will show a more genuine and appreciative interest than much
inquisitiveness.

      

A lack of interest in what is being told one is a breach of courtesy
that is all too common. Often one sees a man or woman deliberately pick
up a book or paper, open it and glance over it while his interlocutor
is in the midst of a story he means to make interesting. If the
conversation is interesting, it deserves the undivided attention
of both persons; if what is being said is not worth attention, the
listener should at least respect the speaker’s intention to please.
There is nothing more dampening to conversational enthusiasm, or more
“squelching” to eloquence, than to find the eyes of the person with
whom one is talking fixed on a book or magazine, which he declares he
is simply “looking over,” or at whose pictures he is “only glancing.”



A good listener is in himself an inspiration. Even if one is not
attracted by the person to whom one is talking, one should assume
interest. This rule also holds good with regard to the attention given
to a public speaker. In listening to a preacher or to a lecturer, one
should look at him steadily,—not allowing the eyes to wander about the
building and along the ceiling and walls. This habit of a seemingly
fixed attention is easily cultivated. If one is really interested in
the address, it aids in the enjoyment and comprehension of it to watch
the speaker’s facial play and gestures. If one is bored, one may yet
fix the eyes upon the face of the person to whom one is supposed to be
listening, and continue to think one’s own thoughts and to plan one’s
own plans. And certainly the person who is exerting himself for the
entertainment of his audience will speak better and be more comfortable
for the knowledge that eyes belonging to some one who is apparently
absorbed in his address are fixed upon him.

      



One of the difficult things to do is to pass a criticism or make a
suggestion as to the speech or manner of another person. Yet there are
times when to refrain is to do the greatest unkindness to a person
sincerely eager to learn. A happy solution is to include one’s self
if possible in the censure given. “I’m afraid we were all a little
boisterous to-night,” said a tactful woman of the world to a young
girl who really had been boisterous. She caught the criticism
intended and yet felt no hurt at the speaker.

      



Conditions under which otherwise polite persons feel that they can be
rude are those attendant on a telephone conversation. With the first
word many a man drops his courtesy as if it were a garment that did not
fit him. And women do the same. If “Central” were to record all that
she (it seems to be usually a “she”) hears, and all that is said to
