When Warner and the girl Philippa arrived at the Golden Peach, they
found that Madame Arlon, profiting by the prospective temporary absence
of the Harem, had gone to visit relatives near Nancy for a day or two.
But Linette smilingly took charge of Philippa and her luggage.

Warner, entering the southern end of the walled garden, discovered
Halkett at the other extremity, still seated under the latticed arbor.
A letter lay spread upon the table beside his elbow.  Over this letter,
with pencil and paper, he pored as though he were working out a problem
in hieroglyphics.

But when Warner appeared, the Englishman leisurely folded and pocketed
the papers on which he had been working, nodded pleasantly, and handed
to Warner a copy of the Petit Journal d’Ausone.

"It came after you left," he said.  "There’s nothing really new in
it—Germany’s ultimatum to Russia, that’s about all....  I am feeling
rather anxious about a friend of mine, Reginald Gray.  He was to have
arrived here last night or early this morning on his motor cycle.  No
word has come from him personally, and it is now nearly night again."

Warner seated himself, glanced over the inky little provincial
newspaper, then laid it aside.  There was in its columns nothing
definite concerning the threatened rupture of the peace of Europe.

"Halkett," he said almost solemnly, "this crime with which they say our
civilization is menaced can never be consummated.  There will be no
World War, because the world dares not acquiesce in such an outrage.
The eleventh hour has struck, I know; but salvation exists only because
there is a twelfth hour on the dial; otherwise the preordained end of
everything would be hell."

Halkett smiled slightly.

"I’ve just had another letter," he said.  "I’m likely to remain here for
a few days more....  Which means only one thing."

"What does it mean?"

"War."

Warner smiled incredulously.

"Anyway, there will be one compensation for the general smash if you
remain here," he said gayly.

"You’re very good to take it that way....  You and I—and to hell with
the Deluge!"  But his face sobered while the jest was spoken; he leaned
rather wearily on the iron table and rested his forehead in one hand.
"I wish I knew what has happened to Reginald Gray," he repeated.

"What is it that worries you about your friend Gray?"

"His cap was picked up on the highway five miles southeast of Saïs."

"How could you know that?"

"I have just learned it by telephone, through a certain source of
information."

"Did you learn anything more?"

"There was a little blood on the road."

Warner remained silent.

"Also," continued Halkett thoughtfully, "a motor cycle had skidded up
the bank.... But no signs of a serious accident could be
discovered—merely the ragged swathe cut through soft earth and rank
vegetation....  If Gray met with an accident, he must have mended his
machine, remounted, and continued his course—wherever he was
going—unless somebody picked up him and his wheel and took them away....
I can’t understand this affair.  It bothers me."

"The chances are that your friend Gray had a rather bad spill,"
suggested Warner, "and no doubt you’ll hear from him, or about him,
before morning."

"I ought to, certainly."  He filled and lighted his pipe; Warner rose
and began to pace the garden path rather nervously.  Presently he came
back to where the Englishman sat brooding over his pipe and nursing
Ariadne.

"Halkett," he said abruptly, "you remember that girl Philippa in the
Café Biribi?"

The Englishman looked up inquiringly.

"Well, she is here."

"At the inn?"

"Yes.  I met her down in the big river meadow this afternoon, and she
calmly informed me that she had left home for good."

"Run away?"

"Run away.  Taken the key of the fields.  Beat it for keeps.  How does
that strike you?"

"Any particular reason?" inquired Halkett indifferently.

"Why, yes.  The child has been used by the secret police to spy on
people in the Café Biribi."

Halkett’s eyes opened at that.

Warner went on:

"That old rascal, Wildresse, it seems, is nothing but a paid informer.
He forced this girl Philippa to engage in the same filthy business.  She
even admitted that old Wildresse had set her on me!  No doubt he had
decided to watch you himself.  And do you know what I think?"

Halkett was very wide-awake now.  He said:

"I believe I do know what you are thinking.  And I believe you are
pretty nearly right."

"That the assault on you was merely a local matter instigated by
Wildresse?"

"It wouldn’t surprise me."

"I think it was, too.  Some of his thugs did it.  He had made up his
mind about you.  But somebody must have tipped him off to watch you."

"Probably."

"I am sure of it.  The three German-appearing men who tried to pick a
quarrel with you over the Archduke’s murder were not the men who tried
to frisk you for your papers.  They were ’provocative agents’ in the pay
of a foreign government—hired opportunists who were expected to pick
something of value out of any confusion attending a general row fomented
by themselves."

"Who told you that?"

"Philippa."

Halkett, now thoroughly interested, looked keenly at Warner through the
thin haze of his pipe.

"These three agents," continued Warner, "were certainly in close
communication with the men who have been following you.  And at least
one of those men was seated at the table directly behind you when
Wildresse’s thugs tried to frisk you for documents.  So you see that
Wildresse, prodded by the French secret police, and these provocative
agents, prodded by the people who are following you, who, in turn, are
spurred by the German Government, were all playing at cross purposes,
but with you as a common objective.  A fine nest of intrigue I led you
into when I took you to the Cabaret de Biribi!  I’m terribly sorry,
Halkett. But I believe that some good has come out of that mess—a
fragment of a letter, written in German, which Philippa gave me in the
meadow this afternoon.

"She found it under the wrecked table behind you. Nobody has seen it
except myself and Philippa; and the child cannot read much German.  But,
studying it and seeing your name in the letter, she was clever enough to
bring it to me.  Here it is."  He laid it on the table under the
Englishman’s eyes.

While Halkett remained absorbed in his translation, Warner paced the
garden, deeply occupied with his own uneasy cogitations.  After a little
while Halkett spoke to him in an altered voice, and he turned and came
swiftly back to the arbor.

The Englishman, looking up, said gravely:

"Concerning myself, there seems to remain now nothing worth concealing
from you....  Perhaps you had better know the truth.  I happen to be an
officer temporarily serving with the Intelligence Department; I had just
been assigned to duty in New York when the Harkness shell was stolen.
The general alarm went out.  Gray, a brother officer, and I chanced to
stumble on evidence which sent us aboard an Antwerp steamer. Our birds
were aboard.  We pulled every string available, and, passing over the
details of the affair, he and I managed to recover the drawings,
specifications, and formula which had been stolen.  Some of these papers
are in that envelope.

"Every German agent in Europe knows we have them.  My Government, for
some reason or other, instructs me to remain here for the present.  As
Gray and I are known, doubtless somebody will appear and take the
drawings out of our hands, because the chances are that I’d be murdered
before I reached Calais.  That is the situation, Warner."

"Has Gray any of the drawings?"

"He has."

"I understand."

"And that is why I am worrying about Gray.  They’d not hesitate to kill
him if they thought there was a chance that he had any of the papers."

Warner said:

"They couldn’t have killed him.  A crime on the public highway cannot
remain undiscovered very long."

Halkett sat thoughtfully stroking Ariadne.  Presently he looked up with
a slight smile.

"Well, what are you going to do with the girl Philippa?" he inquired.

"Now, what do you think of a situation like this?" demanded Warner, half
laughing, half vexed.  "I told her to go home.  She positively refuses.
You can’t blame the child.  The dirty business there has disgusted her.
This seems to be a final revolt. But—what would you do if a young girl
wished herself on you?"

"I haven’t the faintest idea," said Halkett, intensely amused.

Warner reddened.

"I haven’t either," he said.  "All I can think of is to use her as a
model—give her a small salary until she finds something to do."

"Are you going to use her for a model?"

"I suppose so, until somebody comes after her to take her back."

"Suppose nobody comes?" suggested Halkett mischievously.

"Well, I’m not going to adopt her, that’s certain," insisted the other.
"Poor little thing!" he added. "—Her instincts seem to be decent.  Who
could blame a young girl for sickening of such a life and cutting away
on her own hook?  That’s a rotten joint, that Cabaret de Biribi.  And as
for that old villain, Wildresse, it wouldn’t surprise me at all if he
were playing the dirty game from both ends—German and French.  Informers
are often traitors."

"Very frequently."

"Spies also have that reputation, I believe—except in romantic fiction,"
said Warner.

"They usually deserve it," returned Halkett.  "Generally speaking, they
are a scum recruited from low pubs and brothels.  Rarely does any
reputable person enter that profession except in line of military duty
or in time of war.

"Servants, waiters, chauffeurs, those are the most respectable classes
of secret agents.  But the demi-monde and their hangers-on furnish the
majority of those popularly supposed to represent people of position who
play the rôle of international spy.  They are a rummy lot, Warner.

"It is very, very seldom in Occidental drawing-rooms that such practices
prevail.  A woman of position very rarely becomes a paid agent of that
sort.  Diplomats and attachés who are pumped and victimized are usually
the dupes of socially disreputable people. Society in England and in
Western Europe rarely entertains such a favorite of fiction as a paid
Government spy; nor are such people very often recruited from its ranks.
East of the Danube it is different."

They sat for a while smoking, Halkett lavishing endearments upon Ariadne
who never failed to respond, Warner musing on what Halkett had said and
wondering exactly what duties the Military Intelligence Department of
any Government might include.

No doubt, like the Government, it employs spies, and, like the
Government, never admits the fact.

For among all outcasts so vitally necessary to autocracy and militarism,
the spy is the most pitiable: in time of peace no authority admits
employing him; in time of war, his fate, if taken, is as certain as that
his own Government will disown him.  Eternally repudiated, whether of
respectable or disreputable antecedents, honest or otherwise, patriotic
or mercenary, the world has only one opinion to express concerning
spies, although it often cackles over their adventures and snivels over
their fate.

Perhaps Halkett was musing on these things, for presently he took his
pipe from his mouth and said:

"To my knowledge, we British never employ spies in America.  Your
Government, I know, never employs them anywhere in time of peace.  All
other Governments do.  Europe swarms with them.  If I were in Germany
today, I’d be considered a spy.  They’d follow me about and lock me up
on the first excuse—or without any excuse at all.  And if we chanced to
be at war with Germany, and I were caught, they’d certainly shoot me
because I have recovered stolen property."

"They’d execute you because you are not in uniform?"

"Certainly.  I’d not stand a ghost of a chance.  So I shall be rather
glad that I’m in France when war comes."

"You are so certain it is coming?"

"Absolutely, my dear fellow.  Probably it will be declared tomorrow."

"I cannot believe it, Halkett."

"I can scarcely believe it myself.  But—I know it is coming.  And it is
coming from the north."

"Through Belgium?"

"Exactly."

"And the treaty?"

"I have already told you how Germany regards such agreements.  She’ll
kill that treaty with just as much emotion as she’d experience in
assassinating a fly.  It’s a rotten outlook, Warner.  The eleventh hour
has passed."

They smoked for a while in silence, then:

"Where is your little protégée?" asked Halkett, making an effort to
shake off his depression.

"Linette is making her comfortable.  When Madame Arlon returns from
Nancy I shall tell her to look out for the child.  She’s in her room,
unpacking, I suppose."

"Did she even bring her boxes?" asked the Englishman, greatly amused.

"Yes, she did.  And I don’t know what on earth she intends to do for a
living when I go back to Paris. I’m sorry for her, but she can’t expect
me to travel about France with her——"

He checked himself abruptly; Halkett also looked up.

The girl Philippa had entered the further end of the garden.

She came slowly forward through the rosy evening light, straight and
slim in her girlish gown of white, unrelieved except by a touch or two
of black, and by the coppery splendor of her hair.

She halted in the path a little way from the arbor, evidently aware that
somebody was within.

"Are you there, Monsieur Warner?" she asked in her sweet, childish
voice.

He got up with a glance of resignation at Halkett, and went to meet her.
Halkett, from the arbor, noticed the expression of her face when Warner
appeared, and he continued to observe the girl with curious attention.

She had instinctively laid her hands in Warner’s, detaining him naïvely,
and looking up into his face with an honesty too transparent to mistake.

"I miss you very much," she said, "even for a few minutes.  I hastened
my toilet to rejoin you."

"That is very sweet of you, Philippa——"  He didn’t know what else to
say; felt the embarrassment warm on his face—chagrin, shyness, something
of both, perhaps—and a rather helpless feeling that he was acquiescing
in an understanding which already was making him very uneasy.

"Come in to the arbor," he said.  "Mr. Halkett is there."

She slipped her arm through his.  Halkett saw both their faces as they
approached, and, watching Warner for a moment, he felt inclined to
laugh.  But in this young girl’s eyes there was something that checked
his amusement.  A man does not laugh at the happy and serious eyes of
childhood.

So he rose and paid his respects to Philippa with pleasant formality;
she seated herself between the two men.

The last pink rays of the sun fell across the little iron table,
flooding the garden with an enchanted light: already the evening perfume
of clove pinks had become exquisitely apparent; a belated bumblebee
blundered out of the reseda and, rising high in the calm air, steered
his bullet flight into the west.  Ariadne, on the table, stretched
herself, yawned, and looked about her, now thoroughly awake for the rest
of the night.

"Minette!" murmured Philippa, caressing her and laying her cheek
against the soft fur.

"You are sunburned," remarked Halkett.

"And badly freckled, Monsieur——"  She looked mischievously at Warner,
laughed at their secret agreement concerning cosmetics, then turned
again to Halkett:

"You have heard, I suppose, of the happy understanding between Mr.
Warner and me?"

"I think so," said Halkett, subduing an inclination to laugh.

"The future, for me, is entirely secure," continued Philippa happily.
"I am permitted to assist Mr. Warner in his art.  It is a very wonderful
future, Mr. Halkett, destined for me without doubt by God."  She added,
half to herself: "And a lifetime on my knees would be too short a time
to thank Him in."

Both men became silent and constrained, Warner feeling more helpless
than ever in the face of such tranquil confidence; Halkett remembering
what Warner had once said about the soul of Philippa—but still
pleasantly and gently inclined to skepticism concerning this fille de
cabaret.

Philippa, leaning forward on the table between them, joined her slender
hands and looked at Warner.

"It is pleasant to be accepted as a friend by such men as you are," she
said thoughtfully....  "I have met other gentlemen of your station in
life, now and then.  But their attitude toward me has been different
from yours....  I once supposed that, in a cabaret, all men resembled
each other where women were concerned.  I have been very happily
mistaken."

Warner said:

"A man scarcely expects to see more than one sort of woman in a
cabaret."

"Yet, you were not astonished to see me, were you?"

"Yes," he said, "I was astonished."

"You did not seem to be."

Warner glanced at Halkett:

"Do you remember what I once said about Philippa’s soul?"

The Englishman smiled at Philippa:

"As soon as Mr. Warner saw you he said to me that your soul was as clean
as a flame....  I was slower to understand you."

The girl turned swiftly to Warner:

"What a heavenly thing for a man to say about a woman!  And my lips
painted scarlet—and I a caissière de cabaret——"  Her voice broke
childishly; she sprang to her feet and stood looking through the
starting tears at the last level rays of the sun.

Standing so, unstirring till the tears dried, she presently turned and
resumed her chair; and, after a few moments’ silence, she dropped her
elbows on the table again and clasped her hands under her chin.

She said, not looking at either of the men:

"I have thought of becoming a nun.  But it is too late.  Cloisters make
awkward inquiries and search records; no Sisterhood of any order I ever
heard of would admit to a novitiate any girl who has served five years
where I have served....  And so—until I saw you—I did not know what was
to become of me——"

She lifted her grey eyes to Warner.  They were starry with recent tears.
Her chin rested on her clasped hands, her enchanted gaze on him.

Halkett was first to move and make an effort:

"Yes, it was perhaps time to cut away," he muttered. "Anything we can
do—very glad, I’m sure."

"Certainly," said Warner.  "There are a lot of agreeable young women in
my class who will be interested to know you when they return from Ausone
day after tomorrow——"

Philippa turned swiftly toward him:

"I do not wish any woman to know what I have been!  You wouldn’t tell
them, would you?"

"No, of course not—if you feel that way," he said. "Only I—it occurred
to me—some protection—some countenance—understanding—from other women——"

"I desire none.  I want only your friendship."

"But how am I going to explain you——"

"You are a painter.  I am your model.  Is not that sufficient
explanation?"

"Yes—if you desire to be so regarded—permanently——"

"I do.  My privacy will then remain my own.  I permit nobody to invade
it—excepting you."

"Very well, if you feel that way....  Only, you are—attractive,
Philippa—and I am rather afraid you might not be understood——"

She shrugged her shoulders:

"For five years I have not been understood.  Do you know that men have
even thrown dice for me, so certain were they that they understood me?
I am accustomed to it.  But I am not accustomed to women—I mean to your
kind.  I distrust them; possibly I am afraid of them.  Anyway, their
interest in me would be unwelcome.  It is your friendship I want.
Nothing else matters."

"You are wrong, Philippa.  Other things do matter. No woman can go it
alone, disdainful of other women’s opinions."

"I have always been alone."

Warner said patiently:

"I should not do anything without first consulting you."

"I feel very sure that you would not."  She smiled at him trustfully,
