"Or the great beyond, my lad," took up Braine, his voice crisp and cold.
Norton could not repress a shiver.  Where had he heard this voice
before? ... Braine!  He stiffened.
"Murder in cold blood?" he managed to say.
"Indefinite imprisonment.  Choose."
"I have chosen."
"H'm!"  Braine rose and went over to the sideboard for the brandy.
"I'm going to offer you a drink to show you that personally there are
no hard feelings.  You are in the way.  After you, our friend, Jones.
This brandy is not poisoned, neither are the glasses.  Choose either
and I'll drink first.  We are all desperate men, Norton; and we stop at
nothing.  Your life hangs by a hair.  Do you know where Hargreave is?"
Norton eyed his liquor thoughtfully.
"Do you know where the money is?"
Norton smelt of the brandy.
"I am sorry," said Braine.  "I should have liked to win over a head
like yours."
Norton nonchalantly took out his watch, and that bit of bravado perhaps
saved his life.  In the case of his watch he saw a brutal face behind
him.  Without a tremor, Norton took up his glass.
"I am sorry to disappoint you," he said, "but I shall neither join you
nor go to by-by."
Quick as a bird shadow above grass, he flung his brandy over his
shoulder into the face of the man behind.  Samson yelled with pain.
Almost at the same instant Norton pushed over the table, upsetting
Braine with it.  Next he dashed through the curtains, slammed the door,
and fled to the street, very shaky about the knees, if the truth is to
be told.
General Henderson's views upon the latest Balkan muddle were missing
from the Blade the following morning.  Norton, instead of returning
to the general's and fulfilling his assignment like a dutiful reporter,
hurried out to Riverside to acquaint Jones with what had happened.
Jones was glad to see him safe and sound.
"That new reporter started the game," he said.  "I overheard a word or
two while he was talking in the booth.  All your telephone booths are
ramshackle affairs, you use them so constantly.  I tried to find you,
but you were out of sight.  Now, tell me what happened."
"Sh!" warned Norton as he spied Florence coming down the stairs.
"I thought you couldn't come!" she cried.  "But ten o'clock!"
"I changed my mind," he replied, laughing.
He caught her arm in his and drew her toward the library.  Jones smiled
after them with that enigmatical smile of his, which might have
signified irony or affection.  After half an hour's chat, Florence,
quite unaware that the two men wished to talk, retired.
At the door Norton told Jones what had taken place at 49 Elm Street.
"Ah! we must not forget that number," mused Jones.  "My advice is, keep
an eye on this Gregg chap.  We may get somewhere by watching him."
"Do you know where Hargreave is?"
Jones scratched his chin reflectively.
Norton laughed.  "I can't get anything out of you."
"Much less any one else.  I'm growing fond of you, my boy.  You're a
man."
"Thanks; and good night."
When Olga Perigoff called the next day Jones divested himself of his
livery, donned a plain coat and hat, and left the house stealthily.
To-day he was determined to learn something definite in regard to this
suave, handsome Russian.  When she left the house Jones rose from his
hiding place and proceeded to follow her.  The result of this espionage
on the part of Jones will be seen presently.
Meantime Jim went down to the office and lied cheerfully about his
missing the general.  Whether the city editor believed him or not is of
no matter.  Jim went over to his desk.  From the corner of his eye he
could see Gregg scribbling away.  He never raised his head as Jim sat
down to read his mail.  After a while Gregg rose and left the office;
and, of course, Jim left shortly afterward.  When the newcomer saw that
he was being followed, he smiled and continued on his way.  This Norton
chap was suspicious.  All the better; his suspicions should be made the
hook to land him with.  By and by the man turned into a drug store and
Jim loitered about till he reappeared.  Gregg walked with brisker steps
now.  It was his intention to lead Norton on a wild goose chase for an
hour or so, long enough to give Braine time to arrange a welcome at
another house.
Norton kept perhaps half a block in the rear of his man all the while.
But for this caution he would have witnessed a little pantomime that
would have put him wholly upon his guard.  Turning a corner, Gregg all
but bumped into the countess.  He was quick enough to place a finger on
his lips and motion his head toward a taxicab.  Olga hadn't the least
idea who was coming around the corner, but she hailed the cab and was
off in it before Jim swung around the corner.
Jones, who had followed the countess for something over an hour and a
half, hugged a doorway.  What now? he wondered.  The countess knew the
man.  That was evidence enough for the astute butler.  But what meant
the pantomime and the subsequent hurry?  He soon learned.  The man
Gregg went his way, and then Jim turned the corner.  Jones cast a
wistful glance at the vanishing cab of the Russian, and decided to
shadow the shadower--in other words, to follow the reporter, to see
that nothing serious befell him.
The lurer finally paused at a door, opened it with a key and swung it
behind him, very careful, however, not to spring the latch.  Naturally
Jim was mightily pleased when he found the door could be opened.  When
Jones, not far behind, saw him open the door, he started to call out a
warning, but thought the better of it.  If Norton was walking into a
trap it was far better that he, Jones, should remain outside of it.  If
Jim did not appear after a certain length of time, he would start an
investigation on his own account.
No sooner was Jim in the hallway than he was set upon and overpowered.
They had in this house what was known as "the punishment room."  Here
traitors paid the reckoning and were never more heard of.  Into this
room Jim was unceremoniously dropped when Braine found that he could
get no information from the resolute reporter.
The room did not look sinister, but for all that it possessed the
faculty of growing smaller and smaller, slowly or swiftly, as the man
above at the lever willed.  When Jim was apprised of this fact, he ran
madly about in search of some mode of escape, knowing full well in his
heart that he should not find one.
Presently the machinery began to work, and Norton's tongue grew dry
with terror.  They had him this time; there was not the least doubt of
it.  And they had led him there by the nose into the bargain.
Twenty minutes passed, and Jones concluded it was time for him to act.
He went forward to try the door, but this time it was locked.  Jones,
however, was not without resource.  The house next door was vacant, and
he found a way into this, finally reaching the roof.  From this he
jumped to the other roof, found the scuttle open, and crept down the
stairs, flight after flight, till the whir of a motor arrested him.
Conspirators are often overeager, too.  So intent were the rascals upon
the business at hand that they did not notice the door open slowly.  It
did not take the butler more than a moment to realize that his friend
and ally was near certain death.  With an oath he sprang into the room,
gave Braine a push which sent him down to join the victim, and pitched
into the other two.  It was a battle royal while it lasted.  Jones
knocked down one of them, yelled to Norton, and kicked the rope he saw
down into the pit.  One end of this rope was attached to a ring in the
wall.  And up this rope Norton swarmed after he had disposed of Braine.
The tide of battle then swung about in favor of the butler, and shortly
the fake reporter and his companion were made to join their chief.
Jones stopped the machinery.  He could not bring himself to let his
enemies die so horribly.  Later he knew he would regret this sentiment.
When the people came, summoned by some outsider who had heard the
racket of the conflict, there was no one to be found in the pit.  Nor
was there any visible sign of an exit.
There was one, however, built against such an hour and known only to
the chiefs of the Black Hundred.
And still the golden-tinted banknotes reposed tranquilly in their
hiding place!
CHAPTER XVIII
About this time--that is to say, about the time the Black Hundred was
stretching out its powerful secret arms toward Norton--there arrived in
New York city a personage.  This personage was the Princess Parlova, a
fabulously rich Polish Russian.  She leased a fine house near Central
Park and set about to conquer social New York.  This was not very
difficult, for her title was perfectly genuine and she moved in the
most exclusive diplomatic circle in Europe, which, as everybody knows,
is the most brilliant in the world.  When the new home was completely
decorated she gave an elaborate dinner, and that attracted the
newspapers.  They began to talk about her highness, printed portraits
of her, and devoted a page occasionally in the Sunday editions.  She
became something of a rage.  One morning it was announced that the
Princess Parlova would give a masked ball formally to open her home to
society; and it was this notice that first brought the Princess Parlova
under Braine's eyes.  He was at the Perigoff apartment at the time.
"Well, well," he mused aloud.
"What is it?" asked Olga, turning away from the piano and ending one of
Chopin's mazurkas brokenly.
"Here is the Princess Parlova in town."
"And who is she?"
"She is the real thing, Olga; a real princess with vast estates in
Poland with which the greedy Slav next door has been very gentle."
"I haven't paid much attention to the social news lately.  What about
her?"
"She is giving a masked ball formally to open her house on the West
Side.  And it's going to cost a pretty penny."
"Well, you're not telling me this to make me want to know the
princess," said Olga, petulantly.
"No.  But I'm going to give you a letter of introduction to her
highness."
"Oh!"
"And you are going to ask her to invite two particular friends of yours
to this wonderful ball of hers."
"Indeed," ironically.  "That sounds all very easy."
"Easier than you think, my child."
"I will not have you call me child."
"Well, then, Olga."
"That's better.  Now, how will it be easier than I think?"
"Simply this; the Princess Parlova is an oath-bound member, but has not
been active for years."
"Oho!"  Olga was all animation now.  "Go on!"
"You will go to her with a letter of introduction--no!  Better than
that, you will make a formal call and show her this ring.  You know the
ring," he said, passing the talisman to the countess.  "Show this to
her and she will obey you in everything.  She will have no alternative."
"Very good," replied Olga.  "And then the program is to insist that she
invite Florence and that fool of a reporter to this ball.  Then what?"
"You can leave that to me."
"Haven't all these failures been a warning?"
"No, my dear.  I was born optimistic; but there's a jinx somewhere in
one of my pockets.  Time after time I've had everything just where I
wanted it, and then--poof!  It's pure bald luck on their side, but
sooner or later the wheel will turn.  And any chance that offers I am
bound to accept.  Somehow or other we may be able to trap Florence and
Norton.  I want both of them.  If I can get them, Jones will be forced
to draw in Hargreave."
"Is there such a man?"
"You saw him that night at the restaurant."
"I have often thought that perhaps I just dreamed it."  She turned
again to the piano and began humming idly.
"Stop that and listen to me," said Braine, not in quite the best of
tempers.  "I'm in no mood for whims."
"Music does not soothe your soul, then?" cynically.
"If I had one it might.  You will call on the Princess Parlova
to-morrow afternoon.  It depends upon you what my plans will be.  I
think you'll have little trouble in getting into the presence of her
highness, and once there she will not be able to resist you."
"I'll go."
And go she did.  The footman in green livery hesitated for a moment,
but the title on the visiting card was quite sufficient.  He bowed the
countess into the reception room and went in search of his
distinguished mistress.
The Princess Parlova was a handsome woman verging upon middle age.  She
was a patrician; Olga's keen eye discerned that instantly.  She came
into the reception room with that dignified serenity which would have
impressed any one as genuine.  She held the card in her fingers and
smiled inquiringly toward her guest.
"I confess," she began, "that I recall neither your face nor your name.
I am sorry.  Where have I had the honor of meeting you before?"
"You have never met me before, your highness," answered Olga sweetly.
"You came on a charity errand, then?"
"That depends, your highness.  Will you be so good as to glance at
this?" Olga asked, holding out her palm upon which the talisman lay.
The princess shrank back, paling.
"Where did you get that?" she panted.
"From the head," was the answer.
"And you have followed me from Russia?" whispered the princess, her
terror growing.
"Oh, no.  The Black Hundred is as strongly organized here as in St.
Petersburg.  But we always keep track of old members, especially when
they stand so high in the world as yourself."
"But I was deceived and betrayed!" exclaimed the princess.  "They urged
me to join on the ground that the organization was to attempt to bring
about the freedom of Poland."
Olga shrugged.  "You were rich, highness.  The Black Hundred needed
money!"
"And you need it now?" eagerly, believing that she saw a loophole.
"How much?  Oh, I will give a hundred thousand rubles on your promise
to leave me alone.  Tell me!"
"I am sorry, your highness, but I have no authority to accept such an
offer.  Indeed, my errand is far from being expensive.  All the Black
Hundred desires is four invitations to this ball which you are soon to
give.  That should mot cause you any alarm.  We shall not interfere
with your sojourn in America in any way whatsoever, provided these
invitations are issued."
"You would rob my guests?" horrified.
"Positively no!  Here is a list of four names.  Invite them; that is
all you have to do.  Not so much as a silver spoon will be found
missing.  This is on my word of honor, and I never break that word, if
you please."
"Give me the list," said the princess wearily.  "Who gave you that
ring?"
"The head."
"In Russia?"
"No; here in America."  Olga dipped into her handbag and produced a
slip of paper.  This she handed to the princess.  "Here is the list,
highness."
"Who is Florence Hargreave?"
"A friend of mine," evasively.
"Does she belong to the organization?"
"No."
"Then you have some ulterior purpose in having me invite her?"
"I have," answered Olga sharply; "but that does not concern your
highness in the least."
The princess bit her lips.  "I see your name here also; a man named
Braine, and another, Norton."
"Say at once that you do not care to execute the wishes--the
commands--of the order," said Olga coldly.
"I will do as you wish.  And I beg you now to excuse me.  But if
anything happens to any of my personal friends--"
"Well?" haughtily from Olga.
"Well, I will put the matter in the hands of the police."
"But so long as your personal friends are not concerned?"
"I shall then of necessity remain deaf and blind.  It is one of the
penalties I must pay for my folly.  I wish you good day."
"And also good riddance," murmured Olga under her breath, as she arose
and started for the hallway.
Thus it was that when Norton went to the office the next afternoon he
found a broad white envelope on his desk.  Indifferently he opened the
same and his eyes bulged.  "Princess Parlova requests" and so forth and
so on.  Then he shrugged.  The chief had probably asked for the
invitation and he would have to write up the doings, a phase of
reportorial work eminently distasteful to him.  He went up to the city
desk.
"Can't you find some one else to do this stuff?" he growled to the city
editor.
The city editor glanced at the card and crested envelope.  "Good lord,
man!  Nobody in this office had anything to do with that.  What luck!
Our Miss Hayes tried all manner of schemes, but was rebuffed on all
sides.  How the deuce did you chance to get one?"
"Search me," said the bewildered Norton.
"If I were you I'd sit tight and take it all in," advised the editor.
"It's going to be the biggest splurge of its kind we've had in years.
We've been working every wire we know to get Miss Hayes inside, but it
was no go.  This princess is not on to the game yet.  In this country
you get into society or you don't through the Sundays."
"Hanged if I know who wished this thing on me."
"Take it philosophically," said the editor sarcastically.  "The
princess won't bite you.  She may even have seen your picture--"
"Get out!" grumbled Norton, turning away.
He would go out and see Florence.  On the way out to Riverdale he came
to the conclusion that the list of the princess fell short and some
friend of his who was helping the woman out suggested his name.  It was
the only way he could account for it.
But when he learned that Florence had an invitation exactly like his
own and that she received it that morning he became suspicious.
"Jones, what do you think of it?" he questioned.
"I think it was very kind of the Countess Perigoff suggesting your name
and that of Florence," said the butler urbanely.
"Olga?" cried Florence disappointedly.
"It is the only logical deduction I can make," declared Jones.  "They
are both practically Russians."
"And what would you advise?" asked Norton.
"Why, go and enjoy yourselves.  Forewarned is forearmed.  The thing is,
be very careful not to acquaint any one with the character of your
disguise, least of all the Countess Perigoff.  Besides," Jones added
smiling, "perhaps I may go myself."
"Goody!  I've read about masked balls and have always been crazy to go
to one," said Florence with eagerness.
"Suppose we go at once and pick out some costumes?" suggested Norton.
"Just as soon as I can get my hat on," replied Florence, happy as a
lark.
"But mind," warned Jones; "be sure that you see the costumer alone and
that no one else is about."
"I'll take particular care," agreed Norton.  "We've got to do some
hustling to find something suitable.  For a big affair like this the
town will be ransacked.  All aboard!  There's room for two in that car
of mine; and we can have a spin besides.  Hang work!"
Florence laughed, and even Jones permitted a smile (which was not grim
this time) to stir his lips.
A happy person is generally unobservant.  Two happy persons together
are totally unobservant of what passes around them.  In plainer terms
this lack is called love.  And being frankly in love with each other,
neither Norton nor Florence observed that a taxicab followed them into
town.  Jones, not being in love, was keenly observant; but the taxicab
took up the trail two blocks away, so the matter wholly escaped Jones'
eye.
The two went into several costumers', but eventually discovered a shop
on a side street that had been overlooked by those invited to the
masquerade.  They had a merry time rummaging among the
camphory-smelling boxes.  There were dominoes of all colors, and at
length they agreed upon two modest ones that were evenly matched in
color and design.  Florence ordered them to be sent home.  Then the two
of them sallied up to the Ritz-Carleton and had tea.
The man from the taxicab entered the costumer's, displayed a
detective's shield and demanded that the proprietor show him the
costumes selected by the two young people who had just left.  The man
obeyed wonderingly.
"I want a pair exactly like these," said the detective.  "How much?"
"Two dollars each, rental; seven apiece if you wish to buy them."
"I'll buy them."
The detective paid the bill, nodded curtly, and returned to his taxicab.
"Now, I wonder," mused the costumer, "what the dickens those
innocent-looking young people are up to?"  He never found out.
On the night of the ball Norton dined with Florence for the first time;
and for once in his life he experienced that petty disturbance of
collective thought called embarrassment.  To talk over war plans with
Jones was one thing, but to have Jones serve soup was altogether
another.  All through dinner Jones replied to questions with no more
and no less than "Yes, sir," and "No, sir."  Norton was beginning to
learn that this strange man could put on a dozen kinds of armor and
always retain his individuality.  And to-night there seemed something
vaguely familiar about the impassive face of the butler, as if he had
seen it somewhere in the past, but could not tell when or where.  As he
and Florence were leaving for the automobile which was to take them to
the princess', the truth came home to him with the shock of a douche of
ice-cold water.  Under his breath he murmured: "You're a wonderful man,
Jones; and I take my hat off to you with the deepest admiration.  Hang
me!"
"What are you mumbling about?" asked the happy girl.
"Was I mumbling?  Perhaps I was going over my catechism.  I haven't
been out in society in so long that I've forgotten how to act."
"I believe that.  We've been in here for five minutes and you haven't
told me that you love me."
"Good heavens!"  And his arms went around her so tightly that she
begged for quarter.
"How strong you are!"
The splendor of the rooms, the dazzling array of jewels, the
kaleidoscopic colors, the perfume of the banked flowers and the music
all combined to put Florence into a pleasurable kind of trance.  And it
was only when the first waltz began that she became herself and
surrendered to the arms of the man she loved.
And they were waltzing over a volcano.  She knew and he knew it.  From
what direction would the blow come?  Well, they were prepared for all
manner of tricks.
In an alcove off the ballroom sat Braine and Olga, both dressed exactly
like Norton and Florence.  Another man and woman entered presently, and
Braine spoke to them for a moment, as if giving instructions, which was
indeed the case.
The band crashed into another dance, and the masqueraders began
swirling hither and thither and yon.  A gay cavalier suddenly stopped
in front of Florence.
"Enchantress, may I have the pleasure of this dance?"
Jim touched Florence's hand.  But she turned laughingly toward the
stranger.  What difference did it make?  The man would never know who
she was nor would she know him.  It was a lark, that was all; and
despite Jim's warning touch she was up and away like the mischievous
sprite that she was.  Jim remained in his chair, twisting his fingers
and wondering whether to laugh or grow angry.  After all, he could not
blame her.  To him an affair like this was an ancient story; to her it
was the door of fairyland swung open.  Let her enjoy herself.
Florence was having a splendid time.  Her partner was asking her all
sorts of questions and she was replying in kind, when out of the crowd
came Norton (as she supposed), who touched her arm.  The cavalier
stopped, bowed and made off.
Norton whispered: "I have made an important discovery.  We must be off
at once.  Come with me."
Florence, without the least suspicion in the world, followed him up the
broad staircase.  What with the many sounds it was not to be wondered
at that the difference in the quality of voices did not strike
Florence's ear as odd.  The result of her confidence was that upon
reaching the upper halls, opposite the dressing rooms, she was suddenly
thrust into a room and made prisoner.  When the light was turned up she
recognized with horror the woman who had helped to kidnap her and take
her away on the George Washington weeks ago.  She could not have
cried out for help if she had tried.
Meantime Jim got up and began to wander about in search of Florence.
Braine played a clever game that night.  He and the Russian, still
dominoed like Norton and Florence, ordered the Hargreave auto, by
number, entered it and were driven up to the porte-cochère of the
Hargreave house.  The two alighted, the chauffeur sent the car toward
the garage, and Braine and his companion ran lightly down the path to
the street where the cab which had followed picked them up.
It grew more and more evident to Jim that something untoward had taken
place.  He could not find Florence anywhere, in the alcoves, in the
side rooms, the supper or card room.  Later, to his utter amazement, he
was informed that the Hargreave auto had some time since been called
and its owner taken home.  Some one had taken his place.
His first sensation was impotent fury against Jones, who had permitted
them to play with fire.  He flung out of the mansion unceremoniously,
commandeered a cab, and flew out to Riverdale.  And when Jones came to
the door he was staggering with sleep.
"What's the matter with you?" demanded Jim roughly.  "Where's Florence?"
"Isn't she with you?" cried Jones, making an effort to dispel the
drowsiness.  "What time is it?" suddenly.
"Midnight!  Where is she?"
"Midnight?  I've been drugged!"
Without a word Jones staggered off to the kitchens, Jim at his heels.
There was always hot water, and within five minutes Jones had drunk two
cups of raw strong coffee.
"Drugged!" he murmured.  "Some one in the house!  I'll attend to that
later.  Now, the chauffeur."
But the chauffeur swore on his oath that he had left Jim and Florence
on the steps of the porte-cochère.
"Get in!" said Jones to Norton, now fully alive.  He could not get it
out of his head that some one in the house had drugged him.
The events which followed were to both Jones and Norton something like
a series of nightmares.  In the new home of the Princess Parlova a bomb
had exploded and fire followed the explosion.  From pleasure to terror
is only a step.  The wildest confusion imaginable ensued.  Most of the
guests were of the opinion that some anarchist had attempted to blow up
the house of the rich Pole.  Jones and Norton arrived just as the smoke
began to pour out from the windows.  A crowd had already collected.
Then Jim overheard a woman masquerader say: "The fool made the bomb too
strong.  She is in the room on the second floor.  The game is up if she
suffocates----"  The voice trailed off and the woman became lost in the
crowd.  But it was enough for the reporter, who pushed his way roughly
through the excited masqueraders and entered the house.  The rescue was
one of the most exciting to be found in the newspaper files of the day.
So Braine in his effort to scare everybody from the house had
overreached himself once more.
CHAPTER XIX
Florence was a fortnight in recovering from the shock of her experience
at the masked ball of the Princess Parlova, who, by the way,
disappeared from New York shortly after the fire, no doubt because of
her fear of the Black Hundred.  The fire did not destroy the house, but
most of the furnishings were so thoroughly drenched by water that they
were practically ruined.  Her coming and going were a nine-days'
wonder, and then the public found something else to talk about.
Norton was a constant visitor at the Hargreave place.  There was to him
a new interest in that mysterious house, with its hidden panels, its
false floors, its secret tunnels; but he treated Jones upon the same
basis as hitherto.  One thing, however: He felt a sense of security in
regard to Florence such as he had not felt before.  So, between
assignments, he ran out to Riverdale and did what he could to amuse his
sweetheart.  Later they took short rides in the runabout, and at length
she became as lively as she had ever been.
But often she would catch Norton brooding.
"What makes you frown like that?"
"Was I frowning?" innocently enough.
"I find you this way a dozen times in an afternoon.  What is the
matter?  Are they after you again?"
"Heavens, no!  I'm only a vague issue.  They will not bother me so long
as I do not bother them.  It has dwindled into a game of truce."
"Do you think so?" eying him curiously.
"Why, yes."
"What's the use of trying to fool me, Jim?  If they haven't been after
you, you are sensing a presage of evil.  I'm not a child any longer.
Haven't I been through enough to make me a woman?  Sometimes I feel
very old."
"To me you are the most charming in all this wide world.  No, you're
not a child any longer.  You are a woman, brave and patient; and I know
that I could trust you with any secret I have or own.  But sometimes a
person may have a secret which is not his and which he hasn't any right
to disclose."
She became silent for a while.  "I hate money," she said.  "I hate it,
hate it!"
"It's mighty comfortable to have it around sometimes," he countered.
"As in my case, for instance.  If I were poor and had to work no one
would bother me."
"I would!" he declared, laughing.  "Come; let's throw off moods and go
into town for tea at the Rose Garden; and if you feel strong enough
we'll trip the light fantastic."
They had been gone from the house less than an hour when a man ran up
the steps of the veranda and rang the bell.  Jones being busy at the
