The girl, kneeling there in the clover, 
flashed a smile at him over her shoulder. 
The quick colour reddened his face and pow 
erful neck. The girl had been right; her 
smile had been an answer that he was not 
going to ignore. 

"What a pretty spot for a lavoir" he said, 
stepping to the edge of the pool; "and what 
a pretty girl to adorn it!" 

Maryette tossed her head: 

"Be pleased to pass your way, monsieur. 
Do you not perceive that I am busy?" 

"It is not impossible to exchange a polite 
word or two when people are busy, is it, 
mademoiselle?" he asked, laughing and show 
ing a white and perfect set of teeth under a 
short, dark mustache. 

She continued to wring out her wash; but 
there was now a slight smile on her lips. 

"May I not say who I am?" he asked per 
suasively. "May I not venture to speak?" 

"Mon dieu, monsieur, there is liberty of 









speech for all in France. That blackbird 
might be glad to know your name if you 
choose to tell him." 

"But I ask your permission to speak to 
you!" There seemed to be no sense of hu 
mour in this young man. 

She laughed: 

"I am not curious to hear who you are! 
. . . But if it affords you any relief to ex 
plain to the west wind what your name may 
be " She ended with a disdainful shrug. 
After a moment she lifted her pretty eyes 
to his lovely, provocative, tormenting eyes. 
But they were studying the stranger closely. 

He was a powerfully built, dark-skinned 
young man in the familiar khaki of the Ameri 
can muleteers, wearing their insignia, their 
cap, their holster and belt, and an extra 
pouch or wallet, loaded evidently with some 
thing heavy. 

She said, coolly: 

"You must be one of the new Yankee mule 
teers who came with that beautiful new herd 
of mules." 

He laughed: 

S



 



"Yes, I'm an American muleteer. My name 
is Charles Braun. I came over in the last 
transport." 

"Yon know Steek?" 

"Who?" 

"Steek! Monsieur Steekee Smeete?" 

"Sticky Smith!" 

"Mais oui?" 

"I've met him/ he replied curtly. 

"And Monsieur Keed Glenn f 

"I've met Kid Glenn, too. Why?" 

"They are friends of mine very intimate 
friends. Of course," she added, nose up- 
tilted, "if they are not also your friends, any 
acquaintance with me will be very difficult 
for you, Monsieur Braun." 

He laughed easily and seated himself on 
the grass beside her; and, as he sat down, a 
metallic clinking sounded in his wallet. 

"Tenez" she remarked, "you carry old iron 
and bottles about with you, I notice." 

"Snaffles, curbs and stirrup irons," he replied carelessly. And in the girl's heart there 
leaped the swift, fierce flame of certainty in 
suspicion. 





"Why do you bring all that ironmongery 
down here?" she inquired, with frankly child 
ish curiosity, leisurely wringing out her linen. 

"A mule got away from the corral. I've 
been wandering around in the bushes trying 
to find him," he explained, so naturally and 
in such a friendly voice that she raised her 
eyes to look again at this young gallant who 
lingered here at the lavoir for the sake of her 
beaux yeux. 

Could this dark-eyed, smiling youth be a 
Hun spy? His smooth, boyish features, his 
crisp short hair and tiny mustache shading 
lips a trifle too red and overfull did not dis 
please her. In his way he was handsome. 

His voice, too, was attractive, gaily per 
suasive, but it was his pronunciation of the 
letters c and'd which had instantly set her 
on her guard. 

Seated on the bank near her, his roving 
eyes full of bold curiosity bent on her from 
time to time, his idle fingers plaiting a little 
wreath out of long-stemmed clover and bou- 
tons'd or, he appeared merely an intrusive, 
irresponsible young fellow willing to amuse 





himself with a few moments rustic courtship 
here before he continued on his way. 

"You are exceedingly pretty," he said. 
"Will you tell me your name in exchange for 
mine ?" 

"Maryette Courtray." 

"Oh," he exclaimed in quick recognition; 
"you are bell-mistress in Sainte Lesse, then! 
You are the celebrated carillonnette ! I have 
heard about you. I suspected that you might 
be the little mistress of Sainte Lesse bells, be 
cause you wear the Legion " He nodded his 
handsome head toward the decoration on her 
blouse. 

"And to think," he added effusively, "that 
it is just a mere slip of a girl who was deco 
rated for bravery by France!" 

She smiled at him with all the beguilingly 
bete innocence of the young when flattered: 

"You are too amiable, monsieur. I really 
do not understand why they gave me the 
Legion. To encourage all French children, 
perhaps because I really am a dreadful cow 
ard." She tapped the holster on her thigh 
and gazed at him quite guilelessly out of wide 









and trustful eyes. "You see? I dare not 
even come here to wash my clothes unless I 
carry this in case some Boche comes prowl 
ing." 

"Whose pistol is it?" he asked. 

"The weapon belongs to Monsieur Steek. 
"When I come to wash here I borrow it." 

"Are you the sweetheart of Monsieur 
Steek?" he inquired, mimicking her pronun 
ciation of "Stick," and at the same time fixing 
his dark eyes boldly and expressively on hers. 

"Does a young girl of my age have sweet 
hearts?" she demanded scornfully. 

"If she hasn't had one, it's time," he returned, staring hard at her with a persistent 
and fixed smile that had become almost 
offensive. 

"Oh, la!" she exclaimed with a shrug of her 
youthful shoulders. "Perhaps you think I 
have time for such foolishness what with 
housework to do and washing, and caring for 
my father, and my duties in the belfry every 
day!" 

"Youth passes swiftly, belle Maryette." 





 



"Imitate him, beau monsieur, and swiftly 
pass your way!" 

"L amour est doux, petite Marie!" 

"Je m en moquel" 

He rose, smiling confidently, dropped on his 
knees beside her, and rolled back his cuffs. 

"Come," he said, "I'll help you wash. We 
two should finish quickly." 

"I am in no haste." 

"But it will give you an hour's leisure, belle 
Maryette." 

"Why should I wish for leisure, beau mon 
sieur?" 

"I shall try to instruct you why, when we 
have our hour together." 

"Do you mean to pay court to me?" 

"I am doing that now. My ardent court 
ship will already be accomplished, so that we 
need not waste our hour together!" He be 
gan to laugh and wring out the linen. 

"Monsieur," she expostulated smilingly, 
"your apropos disturbs me. Have you the 
assurance to believe that you already appeal 
to my heart!" 









"Have I not appealed to it a little, Mary- 
ette?" 

The girl averted her head coquettishly. 
For a few minutes they scrubbed away there 
together, side by side on their knees above 
the rim of the pool. Then, without warning, 
his hot, red lips burned her neck. Her 
swift recoil was also a shudder; her face 
flushed. 

"Don't do that!" she said sharply, straight 
ening up in the grass where she was kneeling. 

"You are so adorable !" he pleaded in a low, 
tense voice. 

There was a long silence. She had moved 
aside and away from him on her knees; her 
head remained turned, too, and her features 
were set as though carven out of rosy marble. 

She was summoning every atom of resolu 
tion, every particle of courage to do what she 
must do. Every fibre in her revolted with 
the effort; but she steeled herself, and at last 
the forced smile was stamped on her lips, and 
she dared turn her head and meet his burn 
ing gaze. 

"You frighten me," she said and her un- 





 



steady voice was convincing. "A young girl 
is not courted so abruptly." 

"Forgive me," lie murmured. "I could not 
help myself your neck is so fragrant, so 
childlike " 

"Then you should treat me as you would a 
child!" she retorted pettishly. "Amuse me, 
if you aspire to any comradeship with me. 
Your behaviour does not amuse me at all." 

"We shall become comrades," he said confi 
dently, "and you shall be sufficiently amused." 

"It requires time for two people to become 
comrades." 

"Will you give me an hour this evening?" 

"What? A rendezvous?" she exclaimed, 
laughing. 

"Yes." 

"You mean somewhere alone with you?" 

"Will you, Maryette?" 

"But why? I am not yet old enough for 
such foolishness. It would not amuse me at 
all to be alone with you for an hour." She 
pouted and shrugged and absently plucked a 
hollow stem from the sedge. 

"It would amuse me much more to sit here 









and blow bubbles," she added, clearing the 
stem with a quick breath and soaping the 
end of it. 

Then, with tormenting malice, she let her 
eyes rest sideways on him while she plunged 
the hollow stem into the water, withdrew it, 
dripping, and deliberately blew an enormous 
golden bubble from the end. 

"Look!" she cried, detaching the bubble, ap 
parently enchanted to see it float upward. "Is 
it not beautiful, my fairy balloon?" 

On her knees there beside the basin she 
blew bubble after bubble, detaching each with 
a slight movement of her wrist, and laughing 
delightedly to see them mount into the sun 
shine. 

"You are a child," he said, worrying his red 
underlip with his teeth. "You're a baby, after 
all." 

She said: 

"Very well, then, children require toys to 
amuse them, not sighs and kisses and bold, 
brown eyes to frighten and perplex them. 
Have you any toys to amuse me if I give you 
an hour with me?" 





 



"Maryette, I can easily teach you " 

"No! Will you bring me a toy to amuse 
me? a clay pipe to blow bubbles? I adore 
bubbles." 

"If I promise to amuse you, will you give 
me an hour?" he asked. 

"How can I?" she demanded with sudden 
caprice. "I have my wash to finish; then I 
have to see that my father has his soup ; then 
I must attend to customers at the inn, go up 
to the belfry, oil the machinery, play the 
carillon later, wind the drum for the 
night " 

"I shall come to you in the tower after the 
angelus," he said eagerly. 

"I shall be too busy " 

"After the carillon, then! Promise, Mary 
ette!" 

"And sit up there alone with you in the 
dark for an hour? Ma foi! How amusing!" 
She laughed in pretty derision. "I shall not 
even be able to blow bubbles !" 

Watching her pouting face intently, he said : 

"Suppose I bring some toy balloons for you 









to fly from the clock tower? Would that 

&gt; 

amuse you you beautiful, perverse child?" 

"Little toy balloons 1" she echoed, enchanted. 
"What pleasure to set them afloat from the 
belfry I Do you really promise to bring me 
some little toy balloons to fly?" 

"Yes. But you must promise not to speak 
about it to anybody." 

"Wliy?" 

"Because the gendarmes wouldn't let us fly 
any balloons." 

"You mean that they might think me a 
spy?" she inquired naively. 

"Or me," he rejoined with a light laugh. 
"So we shall have to be very discreet and go 
cautiously about our sport. And it ought to 
be great fun, Maryette, to sail balloons out 
over the German trenches. We'll tie a mes 
sage to every one! Shall we, little comrade?" 

She clapped her hands. 

"That will enrage the Boches!" she cried. 
"You won't forget to bring the balloons?" 

"After the carillon," he nodded, staring at 
her intently. 

"Half past ten," she said; "not one minute 




earlier. I cannot be disturbed when playing. 
Do you understand! Do you promise?" 

"Yes," he said, "I promise not to bother 
you before half past ten." 

"Very well. Now let me do my washing 
here in peace." 

She was still scrubbing her linen when he 
went reluctantly away across the meadow 
toward Sainte Lesse. And when she finally 
stood up, swung the basket to her head, and 
left the meadow, the sun hung low behind 
