"After that," he said, "we lay very still, watching. And in a little
while an Uhlan crossed the hill pasture walking his horse slowly against
the stars. Then there were others moving across the sky up there, and we
also heard others on the road. So we have been quietly falling back into
the forest where, if they follow, they shall not go back, please God!"
"Where is Michaud?"
"He was very angry, but, since the affair has really begun, he is with
us, of course."
"Where is he?"
"He went to the house to find you an hour ago."
Guild bit his lip in silence. The stupidity of what had been done, the
utter hopelessness of the situation sickened him.
The slow, groping peasant mind, occupied always with the moment's
problem only, solving it by impulse and instinct alone--what could be
done with such a mind--what could be hoped from it except under
patiently inculcated military discipline.
Loosened from that, and defending its property from actual or threatened
aggression, it became a furtive, fierce and quickened mind, alternately
cunning and patiently ferocious. But of reason, or of logic, it reckons
nothing, knows nothing.
Trouble had begun--trouble was abroad already in the star-light--moving,
menacing.
"What is your word?" he asked bluntly.
"Yslemont."
He turned to Karen, who stood quietly beside him: "The ladies must leave
this house tonight. There is no time at all to waste. There is going to
be real trouble here by morning. And I am going to ask you if you will
give these American ladies shelter tonight at Quellenheim. Will you,
Karen?"
"Of course."
"From there they can go to the city of Luxembourg tomorrow, and so into
Holland. But they ought to go now."
"And you, Kervyn?"
"I shall be very busy," he said. "Come back to the house, now."
They walked away together, moving quickly along the beech-woods; she
with that youthful, buoyant step as lithe as a young boy's; he beside
her with grave, preoccupied face and ears alert for the slightest sound.
"Kervyn?"
"Yes."
"Will you come back to Quellenheim, too?"
"I can't do that, dearest."
"May I ask you what you are going to do?"
"Dear, I don't know yet. I haven't formed any plan at all."
"Is it not very dangerous for you to remain here?"
"No, I think not.... That is--I shall see how this matter threatens to
develop."
He felt her hand lightly on his arm, looked around, halted. She came to
him, laid her cheek against his breast in silence.
"You must not be afraid for me, Karen."
"I shall try--to remember."
He lifted one of her hands. It was cold and delicately fragrant. He
kissed it.
"The Bank at Diekirch is my address. I shall try to write you. I shall
come back some day and marry you. Do you love me, Karen?"
"With all--all my--soul."
"And you will marry me?"
"Yes, Kervyn."
She looked up, her eyes brilliant as wet stars. And very gently, almost
timidly, they exchanged their betrothal, lip to lip.
He drew her to him a little closer--held her so a moment, scarcely in
contact. Then they turned again to the grassy ride and moved swiftly
forward toward the drive.
Every light in the house had been lit, apparently. The automobile stood
before the door; three forest waggons with their big fine horses were in
line behind; and servants were loading them with American trunks,
suitcases, and luggage of every description, under the active direction
of Darrel.
When he saw Guild and Karen coming he called out: "Your luggage is
packed! Mrs. Courland and Valentine and their two maids are filling
hampers with bed linen and knick-knacks. You've heard what's happened,
of course?"
"Yes," said Guild. "I don't think you had better waste any more time
packing. Let the ladies get into the car and start. Michaud and I can
gather up what's left of their effects and send it after them in the
last waggon! Where is Michaud?"
"Talking to Mrs. Courland inside. Here he comes, now!----"
The white-haired forester came out behind Mrs. Courland, caught sight of
Guild, and made a slight gesture expressing infinite despair.
"I know," said Guild. "I'll talk it over with you after the household
leaves." And to Mrs. Courland, who appeared calm but a trifle dazed:
"Miss Girard offers you Quellenheim for the night, and for longer if you
desire."
"Please," said Karen, coming forward--"it would be very gracious of you
to come. Will you, Mrs. Courland?"
"Thank you, dear--yes--it will be the greatest convenience. I don't know
when we should arrive at Luxembourg if we started now." She took one of
Karen's hands and turned to Guild: "What a terrible thing our people
have done! Michaud came to tell us; Harry started everybody packing up.
You will come with us, of course?"
"Perhaps later, thank you." He turned to Valentine who was coming out in
hat and coat, followed by a pale-faced maid carrying both arms full of
wraps.
"Please don't lose any time," said Guild, selecting wraps for Mrs.
Courland and for Karen. "Are your servants ready?"
"Nobody is ready," said Valentine, "but everybody is here or in the
hall, I think."
Guild gave his arm to Mrs. Courland and helped that active young matron
spring into the touring car. Karen went next. Valentine and two maids
followed; Guild slammed the door.
"All right!" he said curtly to the chauffeur, then, hat in hand, he said
gaily: "Au revoir! A happy reunion for us all!"
As the car rolled out into the shining path of its own lamps Karen
turned and looked back at him. And as long as he could see her she was
looking back.
After the car followed two of the forest waggons, one filled with
servants, the other loaded with luggage. Darrel came out of the house
with the last odds and ends of property belonging to the Courlands and
flung it pell-mell into the last waggon.
"Come on," he said briskly to Guild.
"No, go ahead, Harry. I'm stopping to talk with Michaud----"
"Well how are you going to get to Quellenheim?"
"When I'm ready to go I'll get there."
"You're not coming?"
"Not now."
Darrel came over and said, dropping his voice: "After this murdering
business it won't do for you to be caught here."
"I don't mean to be caught here. Don't worry--and get a move on!"
"What are you intending to do?"
"I don't know yet. Come, Harry, start that waggon!"
Darrel shrugged his shoulders, mounted the seat beside the driver, and
the forest waggon rolled away into the darkness.
Guild was still looking after it, listening to Michaud's report of the
sniping affair near Trois Fontaines, when he saw the figure of a man
walking back from the direction the waggon had taken. The man walked
with a visible limp.
"You idiot!" said Guild sharply as Darrel strolled up, his features
blandly defiant.
"Go on with what you were saying to Michaud," insisted Darrel, unruffled
by his reception.
"Come, Harry--this is downright damn foolishness. If you've let the
waggon go on, you'll have to foot it to Quellenheim. You can't stay
here!"
"Why?"
"Because, you infernal butter-in, you'll get mixed up in a particularly
nasty mess. And it doesn't concern Yankees, this mess we're in, Michaud
and I."
"Oh hell!" said Darrel; "go on and talk, Michaud!"
"Are you going to poke your nose into this?" demanded Guild.
"It's in now."
"See here, Harry! Your sticking by me is gratuitously silly and it
annoys me. You don't have to. This isn't any of your business, this
mess."
Darrel lighted a cigarette and sat down on the terrace steps. Guild
glared at him.
"Will you go to the devil!" he snapped out.
"No, I won't."
Michaud, perplexed, had remained silent.
"If things go wrong they'll make a clean sweep of us all, I tell you,"
said Guild. "Once more, Harry, will you mind your own business?"
"No," said Darrel, blandly.
Guild turned to Michaud: "What were you saying?"
The forester, controlling his anger and emotion, continued the story of
the sniper near Trois Fontaines. Then he outlined the miserable affair
of the hill pasture.
"There remains for us now only two courses," he ended. "Either we turn
franc-tireur and make our bivouac yonder in the forest, or we gather our
people at The Pulpit, lie there tonight, and at daylight strike out for
the Dutch frontier."
Guild nodded.
"There is a little hole in the rocks at The Pulpit--scarce large enough
to be called a cave. Since the war came upon us, foreseeing necessity,
my men have carried arms and provisions to The Pulpit--well hidden,
Monsieur. I think, now, that it is a better refuge than this house."
The three men looked up at the house. Michaud made a hopeless gesture:
"I suppose they will destroy it, now. God knows. But if Monsieur
Paillard be truly dead as we now believe, and his poor body lies rotting
under the ruins of Wiltz-la-Vallée, then there is nobody to mourn this
house excepting the old forester, Michaud.... And I think he has lived
on earth too long."
He went slowly toward the house, entered it. One by one all the lighted
windows grew dark. Presently he reappeared drawing the door-key from his
pocket. Very deliberately he locked the door from the outside, looked in
silence at the darkened house, and, facing it, quietly removed his hat.
The silent salute lasted but a moment; he put on his grey hat with the
pheasant's feather sticking up behind, picked up his fowling-piece and
hung it over one shoulder, his big, weather-browned hand resting on the
sling.
"Eh bien, Messieurs?" he inquired calmly.
"Bring in your men, Michaud," said Guild. "I know where The Pulpit is,
but I couldn't find it at night. I'll wait at the carrefour for you."
And, to Darrel: "What did you do with my luggage?"
"Sent it to Quellenheim."
"That rücksack, too?"
"Yes."
"Damnation," said Guild very calmly; "it had papers in it which are
enough to hang anybody!"
"You'd better go and get it, then."
"I'll have to, that's all."
They walked across the lawn and out along the dark drive in silence.
Where the ride crossed at the carrefour they halted. There was a
dilapidated shrine there to Our Lady of Lesse. They seated themselves on
the stone base.
"Harry," said Guild, "how long do you intend to follow me about in this
absurd way?"
"I'd like to see you safe across the Dutch frontier."
"Thanks," said Guild drily.
"Don't mention it. I really can reconcile myself to your having your
bally head knocked off in uniform, but this sort of thing seems rather
ghastly."
"It is. Won't you go on to Quellenheim to oblige me?"
"I'll wait till tomorrow morning," replied Darrel pleasantly.
Guild was silent. They sat there for an hour or more scarcely exchanging
a word. Then somebody whistled, cautiously, very near them, and another
carefully modulated whistle answered.
"Who goes there!" came a challenging voice.
"Yslemont!"
"Our men," said Guild, rising.
Michaud came up in the darkness. "The shepherd, Jean Pascal, and
Schultz, and the men of Yslemont are out there yet. Nothing I say
affects them. They say that they need another Uhlan to bleed.
Imbeciles!"
"Won't they obey you?"
"No, by God! The two sheep dogs of Jean are there, grave and wise as two
big-eared devils squatting. And the half-crazed lad is teaching them to
track Uhlans--making them sniff the bloody schapskas like a hunter who
trains pups with a dead hare!"
He looked around at the dozen shadowy figures gathering in the
carrefour; the star-light sparkled on guns and belts and slings, and
here and there on the vizor of a casquette-de-chasse.
"The Grey Wolves," said Michaud, "can never find us in The Pulpit. If
Monsieur is ready?"
"Quite ready," said Guild. And the shadowy file, led by Michaud, moved
straight into the woods.
                              CHAPTER XXII
                              DRIVEN GAME
The stars had faded; a watery grey light glimmered through the forest.
Deer crossed the grassy carrefour by the shrine, picking a dainty way
toward forest depths; rabbits hopped homeward through dew-drenched ferns
and bracken; a cock-pheasant saluted the dawn; the last wild boar still
lingered amid the beech mast, rooting, coughing, following the furrows
that his bristly snout was making while his furry bat-like ears, cocked
forward, remained on duty, and his tail wriggled pleasurably.
The silent watchers aloft behind the rocky escarpement of The Pulpit,
looking down through leafy branches to the carrefour, saw the last
little roedeer trot past on his fastidious way; saw the last rabbit
vanish in the warren; saw the lone boar lift his huge and shaggy head to
listen with piggish suspicion, then turn and go, silent as some
monstrous spectre.
From under hazel bushes pheasants stepped out to ruffle and preen and
peck pensively among the fallen leaves, awaiting the promise of the sun,
their white collars gleamed below their gorgeous heads; the sombre
splendour of their plumage made brilliant spots along the ride. Here and
there a hen-pheasant crept modestly about the business of breakfast. A
blue and rosy jay alighted near, sign that the forest peace promised to
endure.
After a long while far in the west the grey was touched with rose.
Darrel, lying beside Guild, chin on his folded arms, stirred slightly.
"Sunrise," he said.
Michaud, on the other side, reared himself on his hands and lay watching
the west.
"It is too early for the sun," he said. "That is a fire."
Pinker, ruddier, redder grew the western sky. Silent, intent, forester,
garde-de-chasse, charcoal burner, strained their keen eyes.
Then a heavy sigh like a groan escaped Michaud.
"The Lodge," he said, hoarsely, under his breath. "Oh God, my master's
home."
All around among the rocks men were drawing deep breaths, muttering,
restless; their eyes were fixed like the eyes of caged wild things.
"The Grey Wolves," growled an old garde--"Ah, the cowards--the dirty
Prussian whelps! Ah! Look at that; my God! Marie adored, Virgin of
Lesse; stand by us now!"
Against the sky specks like tinsel twinkled; smoke became visible.
"House, stables, granneries, quarters, garage, all are on fire," said
Michaud in a mechanical voice. His face was grey and without expression,
his words accentless.
The smoke appeared further north.
"The cattle-barns and the hay-stacks," he went on monotonously....
Beyond are the green-houses, runs, dove-cotes, and our little shop....
They are now afire... Everything is on fire. Lesse is burning,
burning.... The stubble beyond is burning.... And beyond that the
nursery acres--the seedlings and the--Marie adored, Virgin of Lesse,
have pity on my little trees--my nurslings--my darlings----"
"Hark!" whispered Guild. Far away up the ride horses were coming at a
heavy trot; and now the noise of wheels became audible. And now below
them two German dragoons cantered into view, carbines poised; a waggon
passed--a strange grey vehicle driven by a grey-clad soldier wearing a
vizorless forage cap. It was piled with dead pigeons and chickens.
Behind that another waggon followed, all splashed with blood, and in it
swayed and jolted the carcasses of dead pigs freshly killed, lurching
and slipping over the crimsoned straw. Behind galloped six Uhlans, their
lances perpendicular in the buckets, the cords from their cloth-covered
schapskas bellying behind.
"Not a shot!" said Michaud in a perfectly distinct voice, pushing up the
rifle of the old garde-de-chasse. "There is nothing to do now, nom de
Dieu!--for the necks of our fowls are already wrung and the dead hogs
are tasting their own boudin. Our affair is with the living pigs."
After a few moments more dragoons came, trotting their superb horses
along the ride, alertly scanning the woods to right and left as they
passed, their carbines at a ready.
Waggons followed--hay waggons, carts loaded with potato sacks, straw,
apples, bags of flour, even firewood and bundles of faggots--a dozen
vehicles or more of every description.
"Ours," said Michaud in his emotionless tones. "What they could not take
is burning yonder."
More grey dragoons closed the file of waggons, then a dozen Uhlans, who
turned frequently in their saddles and kept looking back.
"Scoundrels!" muttered the garde-de-chasse, laying his rifle level; but
Michaud turned on him and struck up the weapon.
"Thou!" he said coldly--"do thy duty when I tell thee, or I become
angry."
Somebody said: "There are no more. We have not bled one single wolf!"
"Look yonder," whispered Guild.
Out into the carrefour stepped briskly eight or ten German officers,
smart and elegant and trim in their sea-grey uniforms and their spiked
helmets shrouded with grey so that there was not a glitter from point to
spur.
A dozen non-commissioned officers followed, carrying two military rifles
apiece.
The officers looked curiously at the shrine of Our Lady of Lesse, and
the sad-faced Virgin looked back at them out of her carven and sightless
eyes.
One by one the officers took posts at the four corners of the grassy
clearing or on the steps of the shrine. They were laughing and
conversing; some smoked; some inspected the rifles brought up by their
non-com gun-bearers. The sun had not yet risen; the silvery smoke of the
Silverwiltz marked its high waterfall below the gorge of the glen; fern
fronds drooped wet to the wet dead leaves beneath, matted grasses
glistened powdered with dew.
In the still grey air of morning the smoke from the German officers'
pipes and cigars rose upward in straight thin bands; a jeweled bracelet
on the wrist of an infantry major reflected light like a frost crystal.
The officers ceased their careless conversation; one by one they became
quiet, almost motionless where they had taken their several positions.
Behind them, stiff and erect, the non-coms stood with the spare guns,
rifles or fowling-pieces.
An air of silent expectancy settled over the carrefour; officer and
non-com were waiting for something.
Michaud had already divined; Guild knew; so did Darrel. Every woodsman
in The Pulpit knew. Some of them were trembling like leashed dogs.
Then in the forest a sound became audible like a far halloo. Distant
answers came through the woodland silence, from north, from south--then
from west and east.
Guild whispered to Darrel: "They are driving the forest! They have a
regiment out to beat it!"
The German officers at their stands no longer moved as much as a finger.
Against the grey trees they were all but invisible.
Suddenly out into the carrefour stepped a superb red stag, ears alert,
beautiful head half turned at gaze. Instantly a rifle spoke; and the
magnificent creature was down in the ride, scuffling, scrambling, only
to fall and lie panting with its long neck lifted a little.
Crack! The antlered head fell.
Then out of the wood trotted three bewildered pigs--an old boar, a
yearling on which the stripes were still visible, and a huge fierce sow.
A ripple of rifle shots checked them; the old boar stood swinging his
great furry head right and left; the yearling was down, twitching; the
sow ran, screaming horribly. Two shots followed; the old boar kneeled
down very quietly like a trick-horse in a circus, still facing his
enemies. He did not look as though he were dead.
The yearling had ceased its twitching; the sow was down, too, a great
lump of coarse black fur in the ditch.
Then the rifles began again; a company of little roe deer whirled into
the ride and went down or stumbled with delicate limbs dangling broken,
or leaped to a height incredible in the agony of a death wound.
Pell-mell after them galloped a whole herd of red deer; the German
rifles rattled steadily. Now and then blasts from fowling-pieces dropped
running or incoming pheasants, cock and hen alike; or crumpled up some
twisting rabbit or knocked a great hare head over heels.
Faster and faster came the terrified wild things, stag, roe, boar, and
hare; steadily the German rifles cracked and rattled out death; thicker
and swifter pelted the meteor flight of pheasants; birds of all sorts
came driving headlong in their flight; big drab-tinted wood-pigeons, a
wild duck or two, widgeon and mallard; now and then a woodcock fluttered
past like some soft brown bat beating the air; now and then a
coq-de-la-bruyere, planing on huge bowed wings above collapsed and fell
heavily to the loose roar of the fowling-pieces.
Crippled, mutilated creatures were heaped along the ride; over them
leaped their panic-stricken comrades only to stumble in the rifle-fire
and lie struggling or inert.
A veil of smoky haze made the carrefour greyer now, through which at
intervals a dying stag lifted its long neck from the shambles about him
or some strong feathered thing beat its broken wings impotently upon the
grass.
Once a great boar charged, and was shot to pieces, spattering the steps
of the shrine with blood. Once a wounded hare dragged its tortured body
to the shrine, as though for sanctuary. A non-com swung it crashing
against the granite cross.
And now a more sinister thing occurred. Out from the forest, amid the
stampeding game, reeled a man! His blue smock hung in ribbons; one
bleeding fist grasped a rifle; the cartridges en bandoulière glittered.
For a second he stood there, swaying, panting, bewildered in the smoke
haze; then three non-coms fired at him at once.
At that he straightened up, stood so for a second as though listening,
then he took one uncertain step and pitched into a patch of briers on
his face.
Presently some German foot-soldiers appeared in the ride, moving
cautiously, scanning every ditch, every hollow, every thicket, their
rifles poised for a snap-shot. A roebuck floundered up and went off
before them like the wind, unnoticed. Then one of the soldiers fired,
and a boy jumped out from behind a hazel bush and started to run along
the edge of the woods. He was followed by two sheep dogs.
"Jean Pascal!" said Michaud calmly. "May God pardon him now."
As the little shepherd ran, the soldiers stood and fired at him, aiming
carefully. They broke his leg as he passed the carrefour. The lad raised
himself from the ground to a sitting position and was sobbing bitterly,
when they shot him again. That time he fell over on his side, his hands
still covering his dead and tear-wet face. His dogs trotted around him,
nuzzling him and licking his hands. An officer shot them both.
Schultz broke cover in a few moments, his rifle at his cheek; and,
dropping to one knee in the ride, he coolly opened fire on the officers
by the shrine. But he had time only for a single shot which jerked a
spiked helmet from a cavalry major's clipped head. Then they knocked him
flat.
As the herdsman lay gasping in the roadway with a bullet in his stomach,
looking with dull and glazing eyes at the rifle flashes, three men from
Yslemont--blackened, haggard, ragged creatures--burst out, fighting like
wildcats with the beaters behind them.
Two were bayoneted and clubbed to death in the briers; the last man ran
like a crazed hare, doubling, dodging, twisting among the trees where
the rifle hail filled the air with twigs and splinters and tattered
leaves.
After him lumbered a dozen foot-soldiers, clumping along in their
hob-nailed ammunition boots. Then, high above on The Pulpit, Guild spoke
sharply to Michaud, who gave a jerk to his white head and made a little
gesture to the others behind him.
"Now," added Guild in a low voice.
"Fire," said Michaud calmly.
The rocky glen roared with the volley. The foot-soldiers below halted in
astonishment and looked up. One fell sideways against a tree; another
dropped to his knees and remained motionless, the spike of his helmet
buried deep in the soft earth.
They were shouting down by the carrefour now; clear, mellow whistle
signals sounded persistently. Horses were coming, too; the ride
reverberated with their galloping. And all the while The Pulpit
resounded with the rifle-fire of its little garrison, and soldiers were
dropping along the carrefour and the ride.
[Illustration: "The Pulpit resounded with the rifle-fire of its little
garrison"]
"Pigs of Prussians!" shouted the old garde-de-chasse; "does a Belgian
game-drive suit you now! Ah, scoundrels, bandits, sound the Mort on
your imbecile whistles. For the swine of the North are dying fast!"
"Be silent," said Michaud coldly. "You tarnish your own courage!"
Guild and Darrel had taken rifles; they stood firing down at the
carrefour where the horses of the Uhlan advanced guard were plunging
about in disorder under a confusion of lances and fluttering pennons.
But the confusion lasted only a few moments; horsemen whirled their
mounts and cleared out at full speed; the carrefour was empty of
officers now; not a German was visible in the early sunshine, only the
steady clatter of their rifle-fire continued to pelt the heights where
bullets cracked and smacked on the rocks.
"Enough," said Michaud quietly. "It is time to leave. André, bring thou
a bar to me."
A charcoal burner ran to the hole in the rocks and drew out a crowbar.
Michaud took it, shoved it under the edge of the ledge, found a fulcrum,
motioned the men back.
Two other men threw their weight on the bar; the ledge lifted easily.
Suddenly the entire parapet gave way, crashing like an avalanche into
the glen below.
"They shall need wings who follow us," said the old man grimly.
"Monsieur," turning calmly to Guild, "if we cross the Dutch border
unarmed, will they interne us?"
"No, I think not."
"And from there we may be free to find our way to the colours?"
"Yes."
"By sea?"
"By land and sea to Dunkirk. I know of no easier or quicker way."
"Monsieur goes with us?"
"First I must stop at Quellenheim." He added, in a low voice: "By
mistake my papers were sent there last night. Our King must see those
papers."
"Bien," said Michaud. "We bivouac near Quellenheim tonight--time for a
crust, Monsieur, while you go to the house and return. Is it agreeable
to Monsieur?"
"Perfectly." And, to Darrel: "Take your chance while it remains and join
the Courlands when they leave Quellenheim. Will you promise?"
"I'll see," said Darrel, carelessly tossing his rifle across his
shoulder and stepping into the silent file of men which was already
starting across the ridge.
                             CHAPTER XXIII
                              CANDLE LIGHT
It was nearly eleven o'clock at night before they bivouacked without
fires in the woods behind the Lodge at Quellenheim.
The circuitous forest route had wearied the men; they threw themselves
on the dead leaves and moss; some slept where they lay, others groped in
sacks with toil-stiffened fingers searching for crusts, which they
munched slowly, half asleep.
Guild drew Darrel and Michaud aside.
"To go by Luxembourg and Holland is too long and too uncertain," he
said. "If we could cross the railway beyond Trois Fontaines before
daylight we should have a clear country before us to Antwerp."
It had been days since the household at Lesse had heard any war news,
but Darrel recollected that there had been rumours of a German drive
toward Antwerp.
Michaud nodded. "It is possible," he said. "Brussels they may have
taken; I don't know; but Antwerp, never! I know, Monsieur; I served my
time with the artillery in the Scheldt forts. No German army could pass
the outer ring of fortresses; the country can be flooded. Also our King
is there with his Guides and Lancers and Chasseurs-à-cheval; the entire
army is there. No, Monsieur, Antwerp is open to us if you desire to take
us there."
"I do," said Guild. "It is the better way for all of us if the country
still remains clear. It is better for us than to engage in a Chasse aux
Uhlans. If I could lead a dozen sturdy recruits into Antwerp it would be
worth while. And, except for the post at Trois Fontaines and the troops
patrolling the railway, I can not see why the country is not open to us
north of Liège."
"I know this country. It is my country," said Michaud, "and troops or no
troops I can take you across the railroad before daylight." He shrugged
his massive shoulders: "What is a Prussian patrol to a head forester?"
"You believe you can do it?"
"I pledge my honour, Monsieur."
