our senses. There was nothing tragical in the affair, but it had a
surpassing dignity. It was as if the figure was saying something to
the life in each of us which none of us would have words to interpret,
speaking some last message from the hither side of that bourne from
which there is no returning.

There was a clutch upon my heart which tightened with the slower and
slower succession of those awful breaths. Then one was drawn and
expelled and then another was not drawn. I waited for the breathing to
begin again, and it did not begin. The doctor rose from kneeling over
the figure that had been a man, and uttered, with a kind of
soundlessness, "Gone," and mechanically dusted his fingers with the
thumbs of each hand from their contact with what had now become all
dust forever.

That helpfulest one among us laid a cloth over the face, and the rest
of us went away. It was finished. The man was done with the sorrow
which, in our sad human order, must now begin for those he loved and
who loved him. I tried vaguely to imagine their grief for not having
been uselessly with him at the last, and I could not. The incident
remained with me like an experience, something I had known rather than
seen. I could not alienate it by my pity and make it another's. They
whom it must bereave seemed for the time immeasurably removed from the
fact.




                                 VIII

                             THE BOARDERS


The boarder who had eloped was a student at the theological seminary,
and he had really gone to visit his family, so that he had a fairly
good conscience in giving this color to the fact that he was leaving
the place permanently because he could not bear it any longer. It was
a shade of deceit to connive with his room-mate for the custody of his
carpet-bag and the few socks and collars and the one shirt and summer
coat which did not visibly affect its lankness when gathered into it
from his share of the bureau-drawers; but he did not know what else to
do, and he trusted to a final forgiveness when all the facts were
considered by a merciful providence. His board was fully paid, and he
had suffered long. He argued with his room-mate that he could do no
good by remaining, and that he would have stayed if he could have
believed there was any use. Besides, the food was undermining his
health, and the room with that broken window had given him a cold
already. He had a right to go, and it was his duty to himself and the
friends who were helping him through the seminary not to get sick.

He did not feel that he had convinced his room-mate, who took charge
of his carpet-bag and now sat with it between his feet waiting the
signal of the fugitive's surreptitious return for it. He was a
vague-looking young man, presently in charge of the "Local and
Literary" column of the one daily paper of the place, and he had just
explained to the two other boarders who were watching with him for the
event that he was not certain whether it was the supper, or the
anxiety of the situation, or just what it was that was now affecting
his digestion.

The fellow-boarders, who sat on the edge of the bed, in default of the
one unbroken chair which their host kept for himself, as easier than a
mattress to get up from suddenly, did not take sides for or against
him in his theories of his discomfort. One of them glanced at the
broken window.

"How do you glaze that in the daytime? You can't use the bolster
then?"

"I'm not in, much, in the daytime."

It was a medical student who had spoken, but he was now silent, and
the other said, after they had listened to the twitter of a piano in
the parlor under the room, "That girl's playing will be the death of
me."

"Not if her mother's cooking isn't," the medical student, whose name
was Wallace, observed with a professional effect.

"Why don't you prescribe something for it?" the law student suggested.

"Which?" Wallace returned.

"I don't believe anything could cure the playing. I must have meant
the cooking."

"You're a promising young jurist, Blakeley. What makes you think I
could cure the cooking?"

"Oh, I just wondered. The sick one gets paler every day. I wonder what
ails her."

"She's not my patient."

"Oh! Hippocratic oath. Rather fine of you, Wallace. But if she's not
your patient--"

"Listen!" their host interrupted, sharply. After a joint silence he
added: "No. It must have been the sleet."

"Well, Briggs," the law student said, "if it must have been the sleet,
what mustn't it have been?"

"Oh!" Briggs explained, "I thought it was Phillips. He was to throw a
handful of gravel at the window."

"And then you were to run down with his bag and help him to make his
escape from a friendless widow. Well, I don't know that I blame him.
If I didn't owe two weeks' board, I'd leave myself--though I hope I
shouldn't sneak away. And if Mrs. Betterson didn't owe Wallace, here,
two weeks' board, we'd walk off together arm-in-arm at high noon. I
can't understand how he ever came to advance her the money."

Wallace rose from the bed, and kicked each leg out to dislodge the
tight trousers of the middle eighteen-fifties which had caught on the
tops of his high boots. "You're a tonguey fellow, Blakeley. But you'll
find, as you live long, that there are several things you can't
explain."

"I'll tell you what," Blakeley said. "We'll get Mrs. Betterson to take
your loan for my debt, and we'll go at once."

"You can propose something like that before the justice of the peace
in your first pettifogging case."

"I believe Wallace likes to stay. And yet he must know from his
anatomical studies, better than the animals themselves, what cuts of
meat the old lady gives us. I shouldn't be so fastidious about the
cuts, if she didn't treat them all with pork gravy. Well, I mustn't be
too hard on a lone widow that I owe board to. I don't suppose his diet
had anything to do with the deep damnation of the late Betterson's
taking off. Does that stove of yours smoke, Briggs?"

"Not when there isn't a fire in it."

"I just asked. Wallace's stove smokes, fire or no fire. It takes
advantage of the old lady's indebtedness to him. There seem," he
added, philosophically, "to be just two occupations open to widows who
have to support themselves: millinery business for young ones,
boarding-housing for old ones. It is rather restricted. What do you
suppose she puts into the mince-pies? Mince-pies are rather a mystery
at the best."

Wallace was walking up and down the room still in some difficulty with
his trousers-legs, and kicking out from time to time to dislodge them.
"How long should you say Blakeley had been going on?" he asked Briggs.

"You never can tell," Briggs responded. "I think he doesn't know
himself."

"Well said, youthful scribe! With such listeners as you two, I could
go on forever. Consider yourselves clapped jovially on the back, my
gentle Briggs; I can't get up to do it from the hollow of your bed
here. As you were saying, the wonder about these elderly widows who
keep boarding-houses is the domestic dilapidation they fall into. If
they've ever known how to cook a meal or sweep a room or make a bed,
these arts desert them in the presence of their boarders. Their only
aim in life seems to be preventing the escape of their victims, and
they either let them get into debt for their board or borrow money
from them. But why do they always have daughters, and just two of
them: one beautiful, fashionable, and devoted to the piano; the other
willing to work, but pale, pathetic, and incapable of the smallest
achievement with the gridiron or the wash-board? It's a thing to make
a person want to pay up and leave, even if he's reading law. If
Wallace, here, had the spirit of a man, he would collect the money
owing him, and--"

"Oh, stop it, Blakeley!" Wallace stormed. "I should think you'd get
tired of your talk yourself."

"Well, as you insist--"

Blakeley began again, but Briggs jumped to his feet and caught up
Phillips's carpet-bag, and looked wildly around. "It's gravel, this
time."

"Well, take your hat, Briggs. It may be a prolonged struggle. But
remember that Phillips's cause is just. He's paid his board, and he
has a perfect right to leave. She has no right to prevent him. Think
of that when the fray is at its worst. But try to get him off quietly,
if you can. Deal gently with the erring, while you stand firm for
boarders' rights. Remember that Phillips is sneaking off in order to
spare her feelings and has come pretty near prevarication in the
effort. Have you got your shoes off? No; it's your rubbers on. That's
better."

Briggs faltered with the carpet-bag in his hand. "Boys, I don't like
this. It feels--clandestine."

"It looks that way, too," Blakeley admitted. "It has an air of
conspiracy."

"I've got half a mind to let Phillips come in and get his bag
himself."

"It would serve him right, though I don't know why, exactly. He has a
right to spare his own feelings if he's sparing hers at the same time.
Of course he's afraid she'll plead with him to stay, and he'll have to
be inexorable with her; and if I understand the yielding nature of
Phillips he doesn't like to be inexorable."

There came another sharp rattle of small pebbles at the window.

"Oh, confound him!" Briggs cried under his breath, and he shuffled out
of the room and crept noiselessly down the stairs to the front door.
The door creaked a little in opening, and he left it ajar. The current
of cold air that swept up to the companions he had left behind at his
room door brought them the noise of his rush down the gravel walk to
the gate and a noise there as of fugitive steps on the pavement
outside.

A weak female tread made itself heard in the hallway, followed by a
sharp voice from a door in the rear. "Was it the cat, Jenny?"

"No; the door just seems to have blown open. The catch is broken."

Swift, strong steps advanced with an effect of angry suspicion. "I
don't believe it blew open. More likely the cat clawed it open."

The steps which the voice preceded seemed to halt at the open door, as
if falling back from it, and Wallace and Blakeley, looking down, saw
by the dim flare of the hall lamp the face of Briggs confronting the
face of Mrs. Betterson from the outer darkness. They saw the sick
girl, whose pallor they could not see, supporting herself by the
stairs-post with one hand and pressing the other to her side.

"Oh! It's you, Mr. Briggs," the landlady said, with a note of
inculpation. "What made you leave the door open?"

The spectators could not see the swift change in Briggs's face from
terror to savage desperation, but they noted it in his voice.
"Yes--yes! It's me. I just--I was just-- No I won't, either! You'd
better know the truth. I was taking Phillips's bag out to him. He was
afraid to come in for it, because he didn't want to see you, the
confounded coward! He's left."

"Left? And he said he would stay till spring! Didn't he, Jenny?"

"I don't remember--" the girl weakly gasped, but her mother did not
heed her in her mounting wrath.

"A great preacher he'll make. What'd he say he left for?"

"He didn't say. Will you let me up-stairs?"

"No, I won't, till you tell me. You know well enough, between you."

"Yes, I do know," Briggs answered, savagely. "He left because he was
tired of eating sole-leather for steak, and fire-salt pork, and tar
for molasses, and butter strong enough to make your nose curl, and
drinking burnt-rye slops for coffee and tea-grounds for tea. And so am
I, and so are all of us, and--and-- Will you let me go up-stairs now,
Mrs. Betterson?"

His voice had risen, not so high but that another voice from the
parlor could prevail over it: a false, silly, girl voice, with the
twitter of piano-keys as from hands swept over the whole board to help
drown the noise of the quarrel in the hall. "Oh yes, I'll sing it
again, Mr. Saunders, if you sa-a-a-y."

Then this voice lifted itself in a silly song, and a silence followed
the voices in the hall, except for the landlady's saying, brokenly:
"Well, all right, Mr. Briggs. You can go up to your room for all me.
I've tried to be a mother to you boys, but if this is what I get for
it!"

The two at the threshold of Briggs's room retreated within, as he
bounded furiously upon them and slammed the door after him. It started
open again, from the chronic defect of the catch, but he did not care.

"Well, Briggs, I hope you feel better now," Blakeley began. "You
certainly told her the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the
truth. But I wonder you had the heart to do it before that sick girl."

"I didn't have the heart," Briggs shouted. "But I had the courage,
and if you say one word more, Blakeley, I'll throw you out of the
room. I'm going to leave! My board's paid if yours isn't."

He went wildly about, catching things down here and there from nails
and out of drawers. The tears stood in his eyes. But suddenly he
stopped and listened to the sounds from below--the sound of the silly
singing in the parlor, and the sound of sobbing in the dining-room,
and the sound of vain entreating between the sobs.

"Oh, I don't suppose I'm fit to keep a boarding-house. I never was a
good manager; and everybody imposes on me, and everything is so dear,
and I don't know what's good from what's bad. Your poor father used
to look after all that."

"Well, don't you cry, now, mother! It'll all come right, you'll see.
I'm getting so I can go and do the marketing now; and if Minervy would
only help a little--"

"No, no!" the mother's voice came anxiously up. "We can get along
without her; we always have. I know he likes her, and I want to give
her every chance. We can get along. If she was on'y married, once,
we could all live--" A note of self-comforting gradually stole into
the mother's voice, and the sound of a nose violently blown seemed to
note a period in her suffering.

"Oh, mother, I wish I was well!" The girl's voice came with a burst of
wild lamenting.

"'Sh, 'sh, deary!" her mother entreated. "He'll hear you, and
then--"

"'Hazel Dell'?" the silly voice came from the parlor, with a sound of
fright in it. "I can sing it without the music." The piano keys
twittered the prelude and the voice sang:

          "In the Hazel Dell my Nelly's sleeping,
            Nelly loved so long!"

Wallace went forward and shut the door. "It's a shame to overhear
them! What are you going to do, you fellows?"

"I'm going to stay," Briggs said, "if it kills me. At least I will
till Minervy's married. I don't care what the grub's like. I can
always get a bite at the restaurant."

"If anybody will pay up my back board, I'll stay, too," Blakeley
followed. "I should like to make a virtue of it, and, as things stand,
I can't."

"All right," Wallace said, and he went out and down the stairs. Then
from the dining-room below his heavy voice offering encouragement came
up, in terms which the others could not make out.

"I'll bet he's making her another advance," Blakeley whispered, as if
he might be overheard by Wallace.

"I wish I could have made to do it," Briggs whispered back. "I feel
as mean as pursley. Would you like to kick me?"

"I don't see how that would do any good. I may want to borrow money of
you, and you can't ask a loan from a man you've kicked. Besides, I
think what you said may do her good."




                                  IX

                      BREAKFAST IS MY BEST MEAL


                                  I

  Breakfast is my best meal, and I reckon it's always been
  Ever since I was old enough to know what breakfast could mean.
  I mind when we lived in the cabin out on the Illinoy,
  Where father had took up a quarter-section when I was a boy,
  I used to go for the cows as soon as it was light;
  And when I started back home, before I come in sight,
  I come in smell of the cabin, where mother was frying the ham,
  And boiling the coffee, that reached through the air like a mile o' ba'm,
  'N' I bet you I didn't wait to see what it was that the dog
  Thought he'd got under the stump or inside o' the hollow log!
  But I made the old cows canter till their hoof-joints cracked--you know
  That dry, funny kind of a noise that the cows make when they go--
  And I never stopped to wash when I got to the cabin door;
  I pulled up my chair and e't like I never had e't before.
  And mother she set there and watched me eat, and eat, and eat,
  Like as if she couldn't give her old eyes enough of the treat;
  And she split the shortened biscuit, and spread the butter between,
  And let it lay there and melt, and soak and soak itself in;
  And she piled up my plate with potato and ham and eggs,
  Till I couldn't hold any more, or hardly stand on my legs;
  And she filled me up with coffee that would float an iron wedge,
  And never give way a mite, or spill a drop at the edge.


                                  II

  What? Well, yes, this is good coffee, too. If they don't know much,
  They do know how to make coffee, I will say that for these Dutch.
  But my--oh, my! It ain't the kind of coffee my mother made,
  And the coffee my wife used to make would throw it clear in the shade;
  And the brand of sugar-cured, canvased ham that she always used--
  Well, this Westphalia stuff would simply have made her amused!
  That so, heigh? I saw that you was United States as soon
  As ever I heard you talk; I reckon I know the tune!
  Pick it out anywhere; and you understand how I feel
  About these here foreign breakfasts: breakfast is my best meal.


                                 III

  My! but my wife was a cook; and the breakfasts she used to get
  The first years we was married, I can smell 'em and taste 'em yet:
  Corn cake light as a feather, and buckwheat thin as lace
  And crisp as cracklin'; and steak that you couldn't have the face
  To compare any steak over here to; and chicken fried
  Maryland style--I couldn't get through the bill if I tried.
  And then, her waffles! My! She'd kind of slip in a few
  Between the ham and the chicken--you know how women'll do--
  For a sort of little surprise, and, if I was running light,
  To take my fancy and give an edge to my appetite.
  Done it all herself as long as we was poor, and I tell you
  She liked to see me eat as well as mother used to do;
  I reckon she went ahead of mother some, if the truth was known,
  And everything she touched she give a taste of her own.


                                  IV

  She was a cook, I can tell you! And after we got ahead,
  And she could 'a' had a girl to do the cookin' instead,
  I had the greatest time to get Momma to leave the work;
  She said it made her feel like a mis'able sneak and shirk.
  She didn't want daughter, though, when we did begin to keep girls,
  To come in the kitchen and cook, and smell up her clo'es and curls;
  But you couldn't have stopped the child, whatever you tried to do--
  I reckon the gift of the cookin' was born in Girly, too.
  Cook she would from the first, and we just had to let her alone;
  And after she got married, and had a house of her own,
  She tried to make me feel, when I come to live with her,
  Like it was my house, too; and I tell you she done it, sir!
  She remembered that breakfast was my best meal, and she tried
  To have all I used to have, and a good deal more beside;
  Grape-fruit to begin with, or melons or peaches, at least--
  Husband's business took him there, and they had went to live East--
  Then a Spanish macker'l, or a soft-shell crab on toast,
  Or a broiled live lobster! Well, sir, I don't want to seem to boast,
  But I don't believe you could have got in the whole of New York
  Any such an oyster fry or sausage of country pork.


                                  V

  Well, I don't know what-all it means; I always lived just so--
  Never drinked or smoked, and yet, here about two years ago,
  I begun to run down; I ain't as young as I used to be;
  And the doctors all said Carlsbad, and I reckon this is me.
  But it's more like some one I've dreamt of, with all three of 'em gone!
  Believe in ghosts? Well, I do. I know there are ghosts. I'm one.
  Maybe I mayn't look it--I was always inclined to fat;
  The doctors say that's the trouble, and very likely it's that.
  This is my little grandson, and this is the oldest one
  Of Girly's girls; and for all that the whole of us said and done,
  She must come with grandpa when the doctors sent me off here,
  To see that they didn't starve him. Ain't that about so, my dear?
  She can cook, I tell you; and when we get home again
  We're goin' to have something to eat; I'm just a-livin' till then.
  But when I set here of a morning, and think of them that's gone--
  Mother and Momma and Girly--well, I wouldn't like to let on
  Before the children, but I can almost seem to see
  All of 'em lookin' down, like as if they pitied me,
  After the breakfasts they give me, to have me have to put up
  With nothing but bread and butter, and a little mis'able cup
  Of this here weak-kneed coffee! I can't tell how you feel,
  But it fairly makes me sick! Breakfast is my best meal.




                                  X

                           THE MOTHER-BIRD


She wore around the turned-up brim of her bolero-like toque a band of
violets not so much in keeping with the gray of the austere November
day as with the blue of her faded autumnal eyes. Her eyes were
autumnal, but it was not from this, or from the lines of maturity
graven on the passing prettiness of her little face, that the notion
and the name of Mother-Bird suggested itself. She became known as the
Mother-Bird to the tender ironic fancy of the earliest, if not the
latest, of her friends, because she was slight and small, and like a
bird in her eager movements, and because she spoke so instantly and so
constantly of her children in Dresden: before you knew anything else
of her you knew that she was going out to them.

She was quite alone, and she gave the sense of claiming their
protection, and sheltering herself in the fact of them. When she
mentioned her daughters she had the effect of feeling herself
chaperoned by them. You could not go behind them and find her wanting
in the social guarantees which women on steamers, if not men, exact of
lonely birds of passage who are not mother-birds. One must respect the
convention by which she safeguarded herself and tried to make good her
standing; yet it did not lastingly avail her with other birds of
passage, so far as they were themselves mother-birds, or sometimes
only maiden-birds. The day had not ended before they began to hold her
off by slight liftings of their wings and rufflings of their feathers,
by quick, evasive flutterings, by subtle ignorances of her approach,
which convinced no one but themselves that they had not seen her. She
sailed with the sort of acquaintance-in-common which every one shares
on a ship leaving port, when people are confused by the kindness of
friends coming to see them off after sending baskets of fruit and
sheaves of flowers, and scarcely know what they are doing or saying.
But when the ship was abreast of Fire Island, and the pilot had gone
over the side, these provisional intimacies of the parting hour began
to restrict themselves. Then the Mother-Bird did not know half the
women she had known at the pier, or quite all the men.

It was not that she did anything obvious to forfeit this knowledge.
Her behavior was if anything too exemplary; it might be thought to
form a reproach to others. Perhaps it was the unseasonable band of
violets around her hat-brim; perhaps it was the vernal gaiety of her
dress; perhaps it was the uncertainty of her anxious eyes, which
