"Fine sapphires.  A chance that they may come int' this port.  They
haven't yet."

"Your customs inspectors ought to be able to help you," observed the
captain, hiding a smile.  "Nothing but motes can slip through their
fingers."

"Sometimes they're tripped up," replied Haggerty.  "A case like this is
due t' slip through.  I'll take a look."

Thomas heard no more.  A detective.  Unobserved, he went down to his
stuffy cabin, took off the chamois bag and locked it in his trunk.  So
long as it remained on board, it was in British territory.

The following day he went into the great city of man-made cliffs.  He
walked miles and miles.  Naturally he sought the haberdashers along
Broadway.  No employment was offered him: for the reason that he failed
to state his accomplishments.  But he was in nowise discouraged.  He
would go back to Liverpool.  The ship would sail with full cabin
strength, and this trip there would be tips, three sovereigns at least,
and maybe more, if his charges happened to be generous.

He tied the chamois bag round his neck again, and turned in.  He was
terribly tired and footsore.  He slept fitfully.  At half after nine he
sat up, fully awake.  His cabin-mate (whom he rather disliked) was not
in his bunk.  Indeed, the bunk had not been touched.  Suddenly Thomas'
hand flew to his breast.  The chamois bag was gone!




CHAPTER IV

Iambic and hexameter, farewell!  In that moment the poet died in
Thomas; I mean, the poet who had to dig his expressions of life out of
ink-pots.  Things boil up quickly and unexpectedly in the soul;
century-old impulses, undreamed of by the inheritor; and when these
bubble and spill over the kettle's lip, watch out.  There is an island
in the South Seas where small mud-geysers burst forth under the
pressure of the foot.  Fate had stepped on Thomas.

As he sprang out of his bunk he was a reversion: the outlaw in
Lincoln-green, the Yeoman of the Guard, the bandannaed smuggler of the
southeast coast.  Quickly he got into his uniform.  He went about this
affair the right way, with foresight and prudence; for he realized that
he must act instantly.  He sought the purser, who was cordial.

"I'm not feeling well," began Thomas; "and the doctor is ashore.
Where's there an apothecary's shop?"

"Two blocks straight out from the pier entrance.  You'll see red and
blue lights in the windows.  Tummy?"

"I'm subject to dizzy spells.  Where's Jameson?"  Jameson was the surly
cabin-mate.

"Quit.  Gone over to the Cunard.  Fool.  Like a little money advanced?
Here's a bill, five dollars."

"Thank you, sir."  Twenty shillings, ten pence.  "Doesn't Jameson take
his peg a little too often, sir?"

"He's a blighter.  Glad to get rid of him.  Hurry back.  And don't stop
at Mike's or Johnny's,"--smiling.

"I never touch anything heavier than ale, sir."  Mike's or Johnny's; it
saved him the trouble of asking.  Tippling pubs where stewards
foregathered.

His uniform was his passport.  Nobody questioned him as he passed the
barrier at a dog-trot.  Outside the smelly pier (sugar, coffee and
spices, shipments from Killigrew and Company) he paused to send a short
prayer to heaven.  Then he approached a snoozing stevedore.

"Where's Mike's?"

"Lead y' there, ol' scout!"

"No; tell me where it is.  Here's a shilling."

Explicit directions followed; and away went Thomas at a dog-trot again:
the lust to punish, maim or kill in his heart.  He was not a university
man; he had not played cricket at Lord's or stroked the crew from
Leander; but he was island-born, a chap for cold tubbings, calisthenics
and long tramps into the country on pleasant Sundays.  Thomas was
slender, but sound and hard.

Jameson was not at Mike's nor at Johnny's; but there were dozens of
other saloons.  He did not ask questions.  He went in, searched, and
strode out.  In the lowest kind of a drinking dive he found his man.  A
great wave of dizziness swept over Thomas.  When it passed, only the
bandannaed smuggler remained, cautious, cunning, patient.

The quarry was alone in a side-room, drinking gin and smiling to
himself.  For an hour Thomas waited.  His palms became damp with cold
sweat and his knees wabbled, but not in fear.  Four glasses of ale,
sipped slowly, tasting of wormwood.  In the bar-mirror he could watch
every move made by Jameson.  No one went in.  He had evidently paid in
advance for the bottle of gin.  Thomas ordered his fifth glass of ale,
and saw Jameson's head sink forward a little.  Thomas' sigh almost
split his heart in twain.  Jameson's head went up suddenly, and with a
drunken smile he reached for the bottle and poured out a stiff potion.
He drank it neat.

Thomas wiped his palms on his sleeves and ordered a cigar.

"Lonesome?" asked the swart bartender.  This good-looking chap was
rather a puzzle to him.  He wasn't waiting for anybody, and he wasn't
trying to get drunk.  Five ales in an hour and not a dozen words; just
an ordinary Britisher who didn't know how to amuse himself in Gawd's
own country.

Jameson's head fell upon his arms.  With assured step Thomas walked
toward the corridor which divided the so-called wine-rooms.  At the end
of the corridor was a door.  He did not care where it led so long as it
led outside this evil-smelling den.  He found the room empty opposite
Jameson's.  He went in quietly.  The shabby waiter followed him,
soft-footed as a cat.

"A bottle of Old Tom," said Thomas.

The waiter nodded and slipped out.  He saw the sleeper in the other
room, and gently closed the door.

"Gink in number two wants a bottle o' gin.  He's th' kind.  Layer o'
ale an' then his quart.  Th' real souse."

"So that's his game, huh?" said the bartender.  "How's th' gink in
number four?"

"Dead t' th' world."

"Tip th' Sneak.  There may be a chancet t' roll 'em both.  Here y' are.
Soak 'im two-fifty."

Half an hour longer Thomas waited.  Then he rose and tiptoed to the
door, drawing it back without the least sound.  Jameson's had not
latched.  Taking a deep long breath (strange, how one may control the
heart by this process!) Thomas crossed the corridor and entered the
other room; entered prepared for any emergency.  If Jameson awoke, so
much the worse for him.  The gods owe it to the mortals they keep in
bondage to bestow a grain of luck here and there along the way to
Elysium or Hades.  His cabin-mate's stentorian breathing convinced the
trespasser that it was the stupidest, heaviest kind of sleep.

For a moment he looked down at the man contemptuously.  To have
befuddled his brain at such a time!  Or was it because the wretch knew
that he, Thomas, would not dare cry out over his loss?  He stepped
behind the sleeping man.  He wanted to fall upon him, beat him with his
fists.  Ah, if he had not found him!

The night, fortunately, was warm and thick.  Jameson had carelessly
thrown open his coat and vest.  Underneath he wore the usual
sailor-jersey.  Thomas steeled his arms.  With one hand he pulled the
roll collar away from the man's neck and with the other sought for the
string: sought in vain.  The light, the four drab walls, the haze of
tobacco smoke, all turned red.

"Where is it, you dog?  Quick!"  Thomas shook the man.  "Where is it?
Quick, or I'll throttle you!"

"Lemme 'lone!"  Jameson sagged toward the table again.

Thomas bent him back ruthlessly and plunged a hand into the inside
pocket of the man's coat.  The touch of the chamois-bag burned like
fire.  He pulled it out and transferred it to his own pocket and made
for the door.  He did not care now what happened.  Found!  Woe to any
one who had the ill-luck to stand between him and the exit.

Outside the door stood the shabby waiter, grinning cheerfully.  He was
accompanied by a hulking, shifty-eyed creature.

"Roll 'im, ol' sport?  Caught in th' act, huh?" gibed the waiter.

Thomas had the right idea.  He struck first.  The waiter crashed
against the wall.  The hulking, shifty-eyed one fared worse.  He went
down with his face to the cracks in the floor.  Thomas dashed for the
exit.




CHAPTER V

Outside he found himself in a kind of court.  He ran about wildly, like
a rat in a trap.  He plumped into the alley, accidentally.  Down this
he fled, into the street.  A voice called out peremptorily to him to
stop, but he went on all the faster, swift as a hare.  He doubled and
circled through this street and that until at last he came out into a
broad, brilliant thoroughfare.  An iron-pillared railway reared itself
skyward and trains clamored past.  Bloomsbury: millions of years and
miles away!  He would wake up presently, with the sunlight (when it
shone) pouring into his room, and the bright geraniums on the outside
window-sill bidding him good morning.

He was on the point of rushing up the station stairway, when he espied
a cab at the far corner.  A replica of a London cab, something which
smacked of home; he could have hugged for sheer joy the bleary-eyed
cabby who touched his rusty high hat.

"Free?"

"Free 's th' air, bo.  Where to?"

"Pier 60, White Star Line.  How much?"--quite his old-time self again.

"Two dollars,"--promptly.

"All right.  And hurry!"  Thomas climbed in.  He was safe.

As the crow flies it was less than a ten-minutes' jog from that corner
to Pier 60.  Thomas had not gone far; he had merely covered a good deal
of ground.  Cabby drove about for three-quarters of an hour and then
drew up before the pier.

Back to his cabin once more, weak as a swimmer who had breasted a
strong tide.  He opened his trunk and rammed the chamois-bag into the
toe of one of his patent-leather boots.  In the daytime he would wear
it about his neck, but each night back into the shoe it must go.  He
flung himself on the bunk, not to sleep, but to think and wonder.

Meantime there was great excitement in the dive.  The waiter was
rocking his body, wailing and holding his jaw.  His companion was
sitting on the floor.  In the wine-room two policemen and a thick-set,
black-mustached man in a derby hat were asking questions.

"Robbed!" moaned Jameson.

The man in the derby hat shook him roughly.  "Robbed o' what, y' soak?"

"Robbed!"

"Mike," said the man in the derby, "put th' darbies on th' Sneak.
We'll get something for our trouble, anyhow.  An' tell that waiter t'
put th' brakes on his yawp.  Bring him in here.  Now, you, what's
happened?"

"Why, the gink in uniform comes in . . ."

The bartender interrupted.  "A gink dressed like a ship-steward comes
in an' orders ale.  Drinks five glasses.  Goes out int' th' wine-room
'cross th' hall an' orders a bottle o' gin.  An' next I hears Johnny
howlin' murder.  Frame-up, Mr. Haggerty.  Nothin' t' do with it, hones'
t' Gawd!  Th' boss ain't here."

Jameson lurched toward the bartender.  "Young lookin'?  Red cheeks?
'Old himself like a sojer?"

"That's 'im," agreed the bartender.

"What were y' robbed of?" demanded Haggerty.

Jameson looked into a pair of chilling blue eyes.  His own wavered
drunkenly.  "Money."

"Y' lie!  What was it?"  Haggerty seized Jameson by the collar and
swung him about.  "Hurry up!"

"I tell you, my money.  Paid off t'dy.  'E knew it.  Sly."  Jameson had
become almost sober.  Out of the muddle one thing loomed clearly: he
could not be revenged upon his cabin-mate without getting himself into
deep trouble.  Money; he'd stick to that.

"Who is he?"

"Name's Webb; firs'-class steward on th' Celtic.  Damn 'im!"

"Lock this fool up till morning," said Haggerty.  "I'll find out what
he's been robbed of."

"British subject!" roared Jameson.

"Not t'night.  Take 'im away.  Think I saw th' fellow running as I came
by.  Yelled at him, but he could run some.  Take 'im away.  Something
fishy about this.  I'll call on my friend Webb in th' morning.  There
might be something in this."

And Haggerty paid his call promptly; only, Thomas saw him first.  The
morning sun lighted up the rugged Irish face.  Thomas not only saw him
but knew who he was, and in this he had the advantage of the encounter.
One of the first things a detective has to do is to surprise his man,
and then immediately begin to bullyrag and overbear him; pretend that
all is known, that the game is up.  Nine times out of ten it serves,
for in the same ratio there is always a doubtful confederate who may
"peach" in order to save himself.

Thomas never stirred from his place against the rail.  He drew on his
pipe and pretended to be stolidly interested in the sweating
stevedores, the hoist-booms and the brown coffee-bags.

A hand fell lightly on his shoulder.  Haggerty had a keen eye for a
face; he saw weak spots, where a hundred other men would have seen
nothing out of the ordinary.  The detective always planned his campaign
upon his interpretation of the face of the intended victim.

"Webb?"

Thomas lowered his pipe and turned.  "Yes, sir."

"Where were you between 'leven an' twelve last night?"

"What is that to you, sir?"  (Yeoman of the Guard style.)

"What did Jameson take away from you?"

"Who are you, and what's your business with me?"  The pipe-stem
returned with a click to its ivory vise.

"My name is Haggerty, of th' New York detective force; American
Scotland Yard, 'f that'll sound better.  Better tell me all about it."

"I'm a British subject, on board a British ship."

"Nothing doing in m' lord style.  When y' put your foot on that pier
you become amenable t' th' laws o' th' United States, especially 'f
you've committed a crime."

"A crime?"

"Listen here.  You went int' Lumpy Joe's, waited till Jameson got
drunk, an' then you rolled him."

"Rolled?"--genuinely bewildered.

"Picked his pockets, if you want it blunt.  Th' question is, did he
take it from you 'r you from him?  I can arrest you, Mr. Webb, British
subject 'r not.  'S up t' you t' tell me th' story.  Don't be afraid of
me; I don't eat up men.  All y' got t' do is t' treat me on th' level.
You won't lose anything 'f you're honest."

"Come with me, sir."  (The smuggler was, in his day, a match in cunning
for any or all of His Majesty's coast-guards.)

Haggerty followed the young man down the various companionways.
Instinctively he knew what was coming, the pith of the matter if not
the details.  Thomas pulled out his trunk, unlocked it, threw back the
lid, and picked up an old leather box.

"Look at this, sir.  It was my mother's.  And I'd be a fine chap, would
I not, to let a drunken scoundrel steal it and get away with it."

It was a Neapolitan brooch, of pink coral, surrounded by small pearls.
Haggerty balanced it on his palm and appraised it at three or found
hundred dollars.  He glanced casually into the leather box.  Some faded
tin-types, some letters, a very old Bible, and odds and ends of a young
man's fancy: Haggerty shrugged.  It looked as if he had stumbled into a
mare's-nest.

"He said you took money."

"He lied,"--tersely.

"Do y' want t' appear against him?"

"No.  We sail at seven to-morrow.  So long as he missed his shot, let
him go."

"Why didn't y' lodge a complaint against him?"

"I'm not familiar with your laws, Mr. Haggerty.  So I took the matter
in my own hands."

"Don't do it again.  Sorry t' trouble you.  But duty's duty.  An'
listen.  Always play your game above board; it pays."

"Thanks."

Haggerty started to offer his hand, but the look in the gray eyes
caused him to misdoubt and reconsider the impulse.  So Thomas made his
first mistake, which, later on, was to cost him dear.  Coconnas shook
hands with Caboche the headsman, and escaped the "question
extraordinary."  Truth is, Thomas was not an accomplished liar.  He
could lie to the detective, but he could not bring himself to shake
hands on it.

On the way down the plank Haggerty mused: "An' I thought I had a hunch!"

Thomas sighed.  "Play your game above board; it pays."  Into what a
labyrinth of lies he was wayfaring!

That same night, on the other side of the Atlantic, the ninth Baron of
Dimbledon sailed for America to rehabilitate his fortunes.  He did and
he didn't.




CHAPTER VI

Thomas was a busy man up to and long after the hour of sailing.  His
cabins were filled with about all the variant species of the race: two
nervous married women with their noisy mismanaged children, three young
men on a lark, and an actress who was paying her husband's expenses and
gladly announced the fact over and through the partitions.  Three bells
tingled all day long, and the only thing that saved Thomas from the
"sickbay" was the fact that the bar closed at eleven.  And a rough
passage added to his labors.  No Henley this voyage, no comfy loafing
about the main-deck in the sunshine.  A busy, miserable, dejected young
man, who cursed his folly and yet clung to it with that tenacity which
makes prejudice England's first-born.

Night after night, stretched out wearily on his bunk, the sordid
picture of Lumpy Joe's returned to him.  By a hair's breadth!  It was
always a source of amazement to recall how quickly and shrewdly his
escape had been managed.  He felt reasonably safe.  Jameson would never
dare tell what he knew, to incriminate himself for the sake of revenge.
To have got the best of him and to have pulled the wool over the eyes
of a keen American detective!

In Liverpool he deliberately threw away a full sovereign in
motion-pictures and music-halls.  But he drank nothing, not even his
customary ale.  Not so long ago he had tasted his first champagne; very
expensive, something more than two hundred pounds.  Stupid ass!  And
yet . . .  The very life he had always been longing for, dreaming of,
behind his counters: to be free, to rove at will, to seek adventure.

"Then," said Sir Tristram, "I will fight with you unto the uttermost."
"I grant," said Sir Palomides, "for in a better quarrel keep I never to
fight, for and I die of your hands, of a better knight's hands may I
not be slain." . . .

Off for America again; and the Book of Marvelous Adventures, to be
opened wide by a pair of Irish blue eyes, deep as the sea, glancing as
the sunlight on its crests.

"You are my steward, I believe?"

In his soul of souls Thomas hoped so.  "Yes, miss--indeed, yes, if you
occupy this cabin."

"Here are the tickets"; and the young lady signed the slip of paper he
gave her: Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Killigrew, Miss Killigrew and maid.  "I
shall probably keep you very busy."  There was a twinkle in her eyes,
but he was English and did not see it.

"That is what I am here for, miss."  He smiled reassuringly.

"Never ask my father if he wishes tea and toast"--gravely.

"Yes, miss"--with honest gravity.  Thomas knew nothing of women, young
or old.  With the habits and tastes of the male biped he was tolerably
familiar.  He was to learn.

"Hot water-bottles for my mother every night, and a pot of chocolate
for myself.  I shall always have my breakfast early in the saloon.  I'm
a first-rate sailor."

A rush, a whir.

"Kitty, you darling!  They have put us on the other side of the ship."

Thomas was genuinely glad of it.  With a goddess and a nymph to wait
upon, heaven knew how many broken dishes he'd have to account for.
Never in the park, never after the matinees, never in all wide London,
had he seen two such lovely types: Titian and Greuse.

"No!" said the Greuse.

"Stupid mistake at the booking-office," replied the Titian.  "Come up
on deck.  They are putting off."

"Just a moment.  Put the small luggage, Mr. . . ."

"Webb."

"Mr. Webb.  Put the small luggage on the lounge.  Never mind the
straps.  That is all."

"Yes, miss."

The two young women hurried off.  Thomas stared after them, his brows
bent in a mixture of perplexity, dazzlement and diffidence.

"A very good-looking steward."

"Kitty, you little wretch!"

"Why, he is good-looking."

"Princes, dukes, waiters, cabbies, stewards; all you do is look at
them, and they become slaves.  You've more mischief in you than a dozen
kittens."

"I have met cabbies whom I much prefer to certain dukes."

"But I've a young man picked out for you.  He's an artist."

"Good night!" murmured Kitty.  "If there is one kind of person in the
world dad considers wholly useless and incompetent, it's an artist or a
poet."

"But this artist makes fifteen thousand and sometimes twenty thousand
the year."

"Then he's no artist.  What is his name?"

"Forbes, J. Mortimer Forbes."

"Oh.  The pretty-cover man."

