how to express what she wanted to tell him. So she waited. Since her
talk with Ally she had felt sure that Harney was engaged to Annabel
Balch, and that the process of “settling things” would involve the
breaking of this tie. Her first rage of jealousy over, she felt no fear
on this score. She was still sure that Harney would come back, and she
was equally sure that, for the moment at least, it was she whom he loved
and not Miss Balch. Yet the girl, no less, remained a rival, since she
represented all the things that Charity felt herself most incapable of
understanding or achieving. Annabel Balch was, if not the girl Harney
ought to marry, at least the kind of girl it would be natural for him to
marry. Charity had never been able to picture herself as his wife; had
never been able to arrest the vision and follow it out in its daily
consequences; but she could perfectly imagine Annabel Balch in that
relation to him.

The more she thought of these things the more the sense of fatality
weighed on her: she felt the uselessness of struggling against the
circumstances. She had never known how to adapt herself; she could only
break and tear and destroy. The scene with Ally had left her stricken
with shame at her own childish savagery. What would Harney have thought
if he had witnessed it? But when she turned the incident over in her
puzzled mind she could not imagine what a civilized person would have
done in her place. She felt herself too unequally pitted against unknown
forces....

At length this feeling moved her to sudden action. She took a sheet of
letter paper from Mr. Royall’s office, and sitting by the kitchen
lamp, one night after Verena had gone to bed, began her first letter to
Harney. It was very short:


I want you should marry Annabel Balch if you promised to. I think maybe
you were afraid I’d feel too bad about it. I feel I’d rather you acted
right. Your loving CHARITY.


She posted the letter early the next morning, and for a few days her
heart felt strangely light. Then she began to wonder why she received no
answer.

One day as she sat alone in the library pondering these things the walls
of books began to spin around her, and the rosewood desk to rock under
her elbows. The dizziness was followed by a wave of nausea like that she
had felt on the day of the exercises in the Town Hall. But the Town Hall
had been crowded and stiflingly hot, and the library was empty, and so
chilly that she had kept on her jacket. Five minutes before she had felt
perfectly well; and now it seemed as if she were going to die. The bit
of lace at which she still languidly worked dropped from her fingers,
and the steel crochet hook clattered to the floor. She pressed her
temples hard between her damp hands, steadying herself against the desk
while the wave of sickness swept over her. Little by little it subsided,
and after a few minutes she stood up, shaken and terrified, groped for
her hat, and stumbled out into the air. But the whole sunlit autumn
whirled, reeled and roared around her as she dragged herself along the
interminable length of the road home.

As she approached the red house she saw a buggy standing at the door,
and her heart gave a leap. But it was only Mr. Royall who got out, his
travelling-bag in hand. He saw her coming, and waited in the porch.
She was conscious that he was looking at her intently, as if there was
something strange in her appearance, and she threw back her head with a
desperate effort at ease. Their eyes met, and she said: “You back?” as
if nothing had happened, and he answered: “Yes, I’m back,” and walked
in ahead of her, pushing open the door of his office. She climbed to
her room, every step of the stairs holding her fast as if her feet were
lined with glue.

Two days later, she descended from the train at Nettleton, and walked
out of the station into the dusty square. The brief interval of cold
weather was over, and the day was as soft, and almost as hot, as when
she and Harney had emerged on the same scene on the Fourth of July. In
the square the same broken-down hacks and carry-alls stood drawn up in
a despondent line, and the lank horses with fly-nets over their withers
swayed their heads drearily to and fro. She recognized the staring signs
over the eating-houses and billiard saloons, and the long lines of wires
on lofty poles tapering down the main street to the park at its other
end. Taking the way the wires pointed, she went on hastily, with bent
head, till she reached a wide transverse street with a brick building
at the corner. She crossed this street and glanced furtively up at
the front of the brick building; then she returned, and entered a door
opening on a flight of steep brass-rimmed stairs. On the second landing
she rang a bell, and a mulatto girl with a bushy head and a frilled
apron let her into a hall where a stuffed fox on his hind legs proffered
a brass card-tray to visitors. At the back of the hall was a glazed door
marked: “Office.” After waiting a few minutes in a handsomely furnished
room, with plush sofas surmounted by large gold-framed photographs of
showy young women, Charity was shown into the office....

When she came out of the glazed door Dr. Merkle followed, and led her
into another room, smaller, and still more crowded with plush and gold
frames. Dr. Merkle was a plump woman with small bright eyes, an immense
mass of black hair coming down low on her forehead, and unnaturally
white and even teeth. She wore a rich black dress, with gold chains
and charms hanging from her bosom. Her hands were large and smooth, and
quick in all their movements; and she smelt of musk and carbolic acid.

She smiled on Charity with all her faultless teeth. “Sit down, my
dear. Wouldn’t you like a little drop of something to pick you
up?... No.... Well, just lay back a minute then.... There’s nothing to
be done just yet; but in about a month, if you’ll step round again... I
could take you right into my own house for two or three days, and there
wouldn’t be a mite of trouble. Mercy me! The next time you’ll know
better’n to fret like this....”

Charity gazed at her with widening eyes. This woman with the false hair,
the false teeth, the false murderous smile--what was she offering her
but immunity from some unthinkable crime? Charity, till then, had
been conscious only of a vague self-disgust and a frightening physical
distress; now, of a sudden, there came to her the grave surprise of
motherhood. She had come to this dreadful place because she knew of no
other way of making sure that she was not mistaken about her state;
and the woman had taken her for a miserable creature like Julia.... The
thought was so horrible that she sprang up, white and shaking, one of
her great rushes of anger sweeping over her.

Dr. Merkle, still smiling, also rose. “Why do you run off in such a
hurry? You can stretch out right here on my sofa....” She paused, and
her smile grew more motherly. “Afterwards--if there’s been any talk at
home, and you want to get away for a while... I have a lady friend in
Boston who’s looking for a companion... you’re the very one to suit her,
my dear....”

Charity had reached the door. “I don’t want to stay. I don’t want to
come back here,” she stammered, her hand on the knob; but with a swift
movement, Dr. Merkle edged her from the threshold.

“Oh, very well. Five dollars, please.”

Charity looked helplessly at the doctor’s tight lips and rigid face.
Her last savings had gone in repaying Ally for the cost of Miss Balch’s
ruined blouse, and she had had to borrow four dollars from her friend
to pay for her railway ticket and cover the doctor’s fee. It had never
occurred to her that medical advice could cost more than two dollars.

“I didn’t know... I haven’t got that much...” she faltered, bursting into
tears.

Dr. Merkle gave a short laugh which did not show her teeth, and inquired
with concision if Charity supposed she ran the establishment for her own
amusement? She leaned her firm shoulders against the door as she spoke,
like a grim gaoler making terms with her captive.

“You say you’ll come round and settle later? I’ve heard that pretty
often too. Give me your address, and if you can’t pay me I’ll send the
bill to your folks.... What? I can’t understand what you say.... That
don’t suit you either? My, you’re pretty particular for a girl that
ain’t got enough to settle her own bills....” She paused, and fixed
her eyes on the brooch with a blue stone that Charity had pinned to her
blouse.

“Ain’t you ashamed to talk that way to a lady that’s got to earn her
living, when you go about with jewellery like that on you?... It ain’t
in my line, and I do it only as a favour... but if you’re a mind to leave
that brooch as a pledge, I don’t say no.... Yes, of course, you can get
it back when you bring me my money....”

On the way home, she felt an immense and unexpected quietude. It had
been horrible to have to leave Harney’s gift in the woman’s hands, but
even at that price the news she brought away had not been too dearly
bought. She sat with half-closed eyes as the train rushed through the
familiar landscape; and now the memories of her former journey, instead
of flying before her like dead leaves, seemed to be ripening in her
blood like sleeping grain. She would never again know what it was to
feel herself alone. Everything seemed to have grown suddenly clear
and simple. She no longer had any difficulty in picturing herself as
Harney’s wife now that she was the mother of his child; and compared to
her sovereign right Annabel Balch’s claim seemed no more than a girl’s
sentimental fancy.

That evening, at the gate of the red house, she found Ally waiting in
the dusk. “I was down at the post-office just as they were closing up,
and Will Targatt said there was a letter for you, so I brought it.”

Ally held out the letter, looking at Charity with piercing sympathy.
Since the scene of the torn blouse there had been a new and fearful
admiration in the eyes she bent on her friend.

Charity snatched the letter with a laugh. “Oh, thank you--good-night,”
 she called out over her shoulder as she ran up the path. If she had
lingered a moment she knew she would have had Ally at her heels.

She hurried upstairs and felt her way into her dark room. Her hands
trembled as she groped for the matches and lit her candle, and the flap
of the envelope was so closely stuck that she had to find her scissors
and slit it open. At length she read:


DEAR CHARITY:

I have your letter, and it touches me more than I can say. Won’t you
trust me, in return, to do my best? There are things it is hard to
explain, much less to justify; but your generosity makes everything
easier. All I can do now is to thank you from my soul for understanding.
Your telling me that you wanted me to do right has helped me beyond
expression. If ever there is a hope of realizing what we dreamed of you
will see me back on the instant; and I haven’t yet lost that hope.


She read the letter with a rush; then she went over and over it, each
time more slowly and painstakingly. It was so beautifully expressed
that she found it almost as difficult to understand as the gentleman’s
explanation of the Bible pictures at Nettleton; but gradually she became
aware that the gist of its meaning lay in the last few words. “If ever
there is a hope of realizing what we dreamed of...”

But then he wasn’t even sure of that? She understood now that every word
and every reticence was an avowal of Annabel Balch’s prior claim. It was
true that he was engaged to her, and that he had not yet found a way of
breaking his engagement.

As she read the letter over Charity understood what it must have cost
him to write it. He was not trying to evade an importunate claim; he was
honestly and contritely struggling between opposing duties. She did not
even reproach him in her thoughts for having concealed from her that
he was not free: she could not see anything more reprehensible in his
conduct than in her own. From the first she had needed him more than he
had wanted her, and the power that had swept them together had been
as far beyond resistance as a great gale loosening the leaves of the
forest.... Only, there stood between them, fixed and upright in the
general upheaval, the indestructible figure of Annabel Balch....

Face to face with his admission of the fact, she sat staring at the
letter. A cold tremor ran over her, and the hard sobs struggled up into
her throat and shook her from head to foot. For a while she was caught
and tossed on great waves of anguish that left her hardly conscious of
anything but the blind struggle against their assaults. Then, little by
little, she began to relive, with a dreadful poignancy, each separate
stage of her poor romance. Foolish things she had said came back to her,
gay answers Harney had made, his first kiss in the darkness between
the fireworks, their choosing the blue brooch together, the way he had
teased her about the letters she had dropped in her flight from the
evangelist. All these memories, and a thousand others, hummed through
her brain till his nearness grew so vivid that she felt his fingers in
her hair, and his warm breath on her cheek as he bent her head back like
a flower. These things were hers; they had passed into her blood, and
become a part of her, they were building the child in her womb; it was
impossible to tear asunder strands of life so interwoven.

The conviction gradually strengthened her, and she began to form in her
mind the first words of the letter she meant to write to Harney. She
wanted to write it at once, and with feverish hands she began to rummage
in her drawer for a sheet of letter paper. But there was none left; she
must go downstairs to get it. She had a superstitious feeling that the
letter must be written on the instant, that setting down her secret in
words would bring her reassurance and safety; and taking up her candle
she went down to Mr. Royall’s office.

At that hour she was not likely to find him there: he had probably had
his supper and walked over to Carrick Fry’s. She pushed open the door of
the unlit room, and the light of her lifted candle fell on his figure,
seated in the darkness in his high-backed chair. His arms lay along
the arms of the chair, and his head was bent a little; but he lifted
it quickly as Charity entered. She started back as their eyes met,
remembering that her own were red with weeping, and that her face was
livid with the fatigue and emotion of her journey. But it was too late
to escape, and she stood and looked at him in silence.

He had risen from his chair, and came toward her with outstretched
hands. The gesture was so unexpected that she let him take her hands in
his and they stood thus, without speaking, till Mr. Royall said gravely:
“Charity--was you looking for me?”

She freed herself abruptly and fell back. “Me? No----” She set down the
candle on his desk. “I wanted some letter-paper, that’s all.” His face
contracted, and the bushy brows jutted forward over his eyes. Without
answering he opened the drawer of the desk, took out a sheet of paper
and an envelope, and pushed them toward her. “Do you want a stamp too?”
 he asked.

She nodded, and he gave her the stamp. As he did so she felt that he was
looking at her intently, and she knew that the candle light flickering
up on her white face must be distorting her swollen features and
exaggerating the dark rings about her eyes. She snatched up the paper,
her reassurance dissolving under his pitiless gaze, in which she seemed
to read the grim perception of her state, and the ironic recollection
of the day when, in that very room, he had offered to compel Harney to
marry her. His look seemed to say that he knew she had taken the paper
to write to her lover, who had left her as he had warned her she would
be left. She remembered the scorn with which she had turned from him
that day, and knew, if he guessed the truth, what a list of old scores
it must settle. She turned and fled upstairs; but when she got back to
her room all the words that had been waiting had vanished....

If she could have gone to Harney it would have been different; she would
only have had to show herself to let his memories speak for her. But
she had no money left, and there was no one from whom she could have
borrowed enough for such a journey. There was nothing to do but to
write, and await his reply. For a long time she sat bent above the blank
page; but she found nothing to say that really expressed what she was
feeling....

Harney had written that she had made it easier for him, and she was glad
it was so; she did not want to make things hard. She knew she had it in
her power to do that; she held his fate in her hands. All she had to
do was to tell him the truth; but that was the very fact that held her
back.... Her five minutes face to face with Mr. Royall had stripped her
of her last illusion, and brought her back to North Dormer’s point of
view. Distinctly and pitilessly there rose before her the fate of the
girl who was married “to make things right.” She had seen too many
village love-stories end in that way. Poor Rose Coles’s miserable
marriage was of the number; and what good had come of it for her or
for Halston Skeff? They had hated each other from the day the minister
married them; and whenever old Mrs. Skeff had a fancy to humiliate her
daughter-in-law she had only to say: “Who’d ever think the baby’s only
two? And for a seven months’ child--ain’t it a wonder what a size he
is?” North Dormer had treasures of indulgence for brands in the burning,
but only derision for those who succeeded in getting snatched from
it; and Charity had always understood Julia Hawes’s refusal to be
snatched....

Only--was there no alternative but Julia’s? Her soul recoiled from the
vision of the white-faced woman among the plush sofas and gilt frames.
In the established order of things as she knew them she saw no place for
her individual adventure....

She sat in her chair without undressing till faint grey streaks began
to divide the black slats of the shutters. Then she stood up and pushed
them open, letting in the light. The coming of a new day brought a
sharper consciousness of ineluctable reality, and with it a sense of the
need of action. She looked at herself in the glass, and saw her face,
white in the autumn dawn, with pinched cheeks and dark-ringed eyes, and
all the marks of her state that she herself would never have noticed,
but that Dr. Merkle’s diagnosis had made plain to her. She could not
hope that those signs would escape the watchful village; even before her
figure lost its shape she knew her face would betray her.

Leaning from her window she looked out on the dark and empty scene; the
ashen houses with shuttered windows, the grey road climbing the slope to
the hemlock belt above the cemetery, and the heavy mass of the Mountain
black against a rainy sky. To the east a space of light was broadening
above the forest; but over that also the clouds hung. Slowly her gaze
travelled across the fields to the rugged curve of the hills. She had
looked out so often on that lifeless circle, and wondered if anything
could ever happen to anyone who was enclosed in it....

Almost without conscious thought her decision had been reached; as her
eyes had followed the circle of the hills her mind had also travelled
the old round. She supposed it was something in her blood that made the
Mountain the only answer to her questioning, the inevitable escape
from all that hemmed her in and beset her. At any rate it began to loom
against the rainy dawn; and the longer she looked at it the more clearly
she understood that now at last she was really going there.




XVI


THE rain held off, and an hour later, when she started, wild gleams of
sunlight were blowing across the fields.

After Harney’s departure she had returned her bicycle to its owner at
Creston, and she was not sure of being able to walk all the way to the
Mountain. The deserted house was on the road; but the idea of spending
the night there was unendurable, and she meant to try to push on to
Hamblin, where she could sleep under a wood-shed if her strength should
fail her. Her preparations had been made with quiet forethought. Before
starting she had forced herself to swallow a glass of milk and eat a
piece of bread; and she had put in her canvas satchel a little packet of
the chocolate that Harney always carried in his bicycle bag. She wanted
above all to keep up her strength, and reach her destination without
attracting notice....

Mile by mile she retraced the road over which she had so often flown to
her lover. When she reached the turn where the wood-road branched off
from the Creston highway she remembered the Gospel tent--long since
folded up and transplanted--and her start of involuntary terror when
the fat evangelist had said: “Your Saviour knows everything. Come and
confess your guilt.” There was no sense of guilt in her now, but only
a desperate desire to defend her secret from irreverent eyes, and
begin life again among people to whom the harsh code of the village was
unknown. The impulse did not shape itself in thought: she only knew
she must save her baby, and hide herself with it somewhere where no one
would ever come to trouble them.

She walked on and on, growing more heavy-footed as the day advanced. It
seemed a cruel chance that compelled her to retrace every step of the
way to the deserted house; and when she came in sight of the orchard,
and the silver-gray roof slanting crookedly through the laden branches,
her strength failed her and she sat down by the road-side. She sat there
a long time, trying to gather the courage to start again, and walk past
the broken gate and the untrimmed rose-bushes strung with scarlet hips.
A few drops of rain were falling, and she thought of the warm evenings
when she and Harney had sat embraced in the shadowy room, and the noise
of summer showers on the roof had rustled through their kisses. At
length she understood that if she stayed any longer the rain might
compel her to take shelter in the house overnight, and she got up and
walked on, averting her eyes as she came abreast of the white gate and
the tangled garden.

The hours wore on, and she walked more and more slowly, pausing now and
then to rest, and to eat a little bread and an apple picked up from the
roadside. Her body seemed to grow heavier with every yard of the way,
and she wondered how she would be able to carry her child later, if
already he laid such a burden on her.... A fresh wind had sprung up,
scattering the rain and blowing down keenly from the mountain. Presently
the clouds lowered again, and a few white darts struck her in the face:
it was the first snow falling over Hamblin. The roofs of the lonely
village were only half a mile ahead, and she was resolved to push beyond
it, and try to reach the Mountain that night. She had no clear plan of
action, except that, once in the settlement, she meant to look for Liff
Hyatt, and get him to take her to her mother. She herself had been
born as her own baby was going to be born; and whatever her mother’s
subsequent life had been, she could hardly help remembering the past,
and receiving a daughter who was facing the trouble she had known.

Suddenly the deadly faintness came over her once more and she sat down
on the bank and leaned her head against a tree-trunk. The long road and
the cloudy landscape vanished from her eyes, and for a time she seemed
to be circling about in some terrible wheeling darkness. Then that too
faded.

She opened her eyes, and saw a buggy drawn up beside her, and a man
who had jumped down from it and was gazing at her with a puzzled face.
Slowly consciousness came back, and she saw that the man was Liff Hyatt.

She was dimly aware that he was asking her something, and she looked at
him in silence, trying to find strength to speak. At length her voice
stirred in her throat, and she said in a whisper: “I’m going up the
Mountain.”

“Up the Mountain?” he repeated, drawing aside a little; and as he
moved she saw behind him, in the buggy, a heavily coated figure with a
familiar pink face and gold spectacles on the bridge of a Grecian nose.

“Charity! What on earth are you doing here?” Mr. Miles exclaimed,
throwing the reins on the horse’s back and scrambling down from the
buggy.

She lifted her heavy eyes to his. “I’m going to see my mother.”

The two men glanced at each other, and for a moment neither of them
spoke.

Then Mr. Miles said: “You look ill, my dear, and it’s a long way. Do you
think it’s wise?”

Charity stood up. “I’ve got to go to her.”

A vague mirthless grin contracted Liff Hyatt’s face, and Mr. Miles again
spoke uncertainly. “You know, then--you’d been told?”

She stared at him. “I don’t know what you mean. I want to go to her.”

Mr. Miles was examining her thoughtfully. She fancied she saw a change
in his expression, and the blood rushed to her forehead. “I just want to
go to her,” she repeated.

He laid his hand on her arm. “My child, your mother is dying. Liff Hyatt
came down to fetch me.... Get in and come with us.”

He helped her up to the seat at his side, Liff Hyatt clambered in at
the back, and they drove off toward Hamblin. At first Charity had
hardly grasped what Mr. Miles was saying; the physical relief of finding
herself seated in the buggy, and securely on her road to the Mountain,
effaced the impression of his words. But as her head cleared she
began to understand. She knew the Mountain had but the most infrequent
intercourse with the valleys; she had often enough heard it said that no
one ever went up there except the minister, when someone was dying. And
now it was her mother who was dying... and she would find herself as
much alone on the Mountain as anywhere else in the world. The sense of
unescapable isolation was all she could feel for the moment; then
she began to wonder at the strangeness of its being Mr. Miles who had
undertaken to perform this grim errand. He did not seem in the least
like the kind of man who would care to go up the Mountain. But here he
was at her side, guiding the horse with a firm hand, and bending on her
the kindly gleam of his spectacles, as if there were nothing unusual in
their being together in such circumstances.

For a while she found it impossible to speak, and he seemed to
understand this, and made no attempt to question her. But presently she
felt her tears rise and flow down over her drawn cheeks; and he must
have seen them too, for he laid his hand on hers, and said in a low
voice: “Won’t you tell me what is troubling you?”

She shook her head, and he did not insist: but after a while he said, in
the same low tone, so that they should not be overheard: “Charity, what
do you know of your childhood, before you came down to North Dormer?”

She controlled herself, and answered: “Nothing only what I heard Mr.
Royall say one day. He said he brought me down because my father went to
prison.”

“And you’ve never been up there since?”

“Never.”

Mr. Miles was silent again, then he said: “I’m glad you’re coming with
me now. Perhaps we may find your mother alive, and she may know that you
have come.”

They had reached Hamblin, where the snow-flurry had left white patches
in the rough grass on the roadside, and in the angles of the roofs
facing north. It was a poor bleak village under the granite flank of the
Mountain, and as soon as they left it they began to climb. The road was
steep and full of ruts, and the horse settled down to a walk while they
mounted and mounted, the world dropping away below them in great mottled
stretches of forest and field, and stormy dark blue distances.

