
" I gave it to him," said Hugh instantly. " I told you, 
mum." 

You're standing up for him," said Mary. " I want 
him to tell me himself. Ben, you didnH take your father's 
money? " 

Ben did not answer. He was as resentful at being ac- 
cused of the one offense as if he had committed none. 

" Truly," said Hugh. " It was some of Aunt Tab's." 

Mary looked from one son to the other. She believed it 
now, but they could not interpret her face. 

" Your money," she said, " the money you were going 
away with ! " There was no reproach in the words, but 
they had an edge. " Ben, you must forgive me for what 
I said." 

He did not know what it was, — the murderous speech 
she uttered in her heart — but he was ashamed at her 
humility. He went to her and would have put his arm 
impetuously about her; but in spite of her remorse she 
drew away from him. 

" No," she said, " no ! " Then her sorrow over him 
broke out and she ended : " But don't lie to me." 

Ben, repulsed, half turned from her. Again he had his 
feeling of being the criminal at the bar where everybody 
else was impeccable. 

" I don't expect to lie," he said, " any more than any- 
body else. We all lie when we've got to." Then an im- 
pulse he hated himself for put the words into his mouth. 
" Anyway so I s'posed that time when you did — when 
you told father — " But there he stopped and, at a lit- 
tle muttered sound from Hugh, walked out of the room. 

" Well," said Mary, smiling a little at Hugh, in a way 
that made him turn his eyes from her, not to see the 
piteousness of her face, " I deserved that. It's my punish- 
ment." 



xxxn 

That afternoon Mary Neale had perhaps the strangest 
half-hour of her life. Out of the wreck of circumstance, 
she knew one thing must be saved. That was Gris- 
sie. Hugh and Aunt Tab and she had their noon din- 
ner together. Ben had vanished, where she did not 
know at the time, though it afterward appeared he had 
gone ofF with Trueman and came home late and asked 
Hannah to give him a bite in the kitchen. At dinner 
Mary could not eat for looking at Hugh, sitting there 
opposite her, bronzed, erect, hard as iron, the marks of 
thought and action on his face, though it was so young, 
but in his eyes the ecstatic light Ellen had called there 
and that had not for a moment gone away. All through 
the meal they talked about the things he had seen, and 
both women tremulously accepted his curt fiat that he was 
going back. Aunt Tab, who also left her plate untasted, 
sat with brilliant, staring eyes fixed upon him, and once or 
twice she opened her lips and did not speak. Mary did 
not ask about the fiddle. She was afraid it would recall 
the anguish of his giving it up, when he had been drawn 
into this splendor of willing death. But Hugh would have 
laughed and told her, as he told Aunt Tab, there was nQ 
anguish. He had tried to make it his voice while he 
was still inarticulate; but now he knew what his word 
was going to be. He and Payson, in their time of pro- 
bation and training, had gone mad together over the 
written line that called louder to them than the roar 
of guns, and Hugh had in his pocket at that moment 

some verse that he might possibly show Larry. Payson 

 



 

had said he " loved " it. Hugh felt superbly open- 
minded about it : only he had learned that the world is, in 
ways unexplored as yet, so large and rich a place that, 
if you don't get a chance to speak in one way, you very 
likely will in another. But when they rose from the 
table, Mary had a word to say to him. 

" Hugh," said she, after Aunt Tab had gone into the 
kitchen to see if Hannah did not think it " the crowner " 
to have Hugh back again, " I don't want you to go over 
to Ellen's till I've found time to go with you." 

Hugh looked at her in an immovable gayety of stubborn 
resolution : 

" Do you mean I'm not to see Ellen alone? " he asked. 
" Why, mum, of course I shall. I'm going over there 
straight off." 

" No," said Mary. " I'm going myself, to carry her a 
plate of dinner. And if she's there, and not down 
to Larry Greene's, I want you to go to Larry's yourself 
and stay the rest of this afternoon. And by that time I 
shall know what to do. But I don't want you to see 
Ellen." 

" Mother," said Hugh, " I've got about a week to see 
Ellen in. After that, it's a toss-up. I mightn't come 
back. Don't look like that. I believe I shall. But I 
mightn't, you know. And I'm going to see Ellen every 
minute she'll let me. I §hould be a fool if I didn't. I've 
got to make up — " 

There he stopped and shut his lips hard, and Mary saw 
she had a man to deal with, one who had, too, the suffer- 
ing of a boy to remember, and that suffering, her jealous 
heart told her, she had never known. But she insisted. 

" Wait," said she, " just this one afternoon. I don't 
know what can be done — " 

" I do," said Hugh. " Ellen is going with me." 



 

" Hugh," said Mary faintly, " that's against the law." 

" Law or no law," said Hugh grimly. 

" But," said Mary, " I'm sure of one thing. If she 
won't live with your brother, she can't live with you. And 
somehow, Hugh, whatever happens afterwards, we've got 
to do the right thing now. You can do that. Even if 
it's foolish, you'll do it. It's for her, you see. Peo- 
ple are going to make a great handle of all this some- 
time. And they mustn't blame Ellen. If you love her, 
you'll be the first to say so." 

In the end, after a good deal of obstinate demur, he 
promised, and then Mary filled a tray with food and set 
out with it for the little house, and Hugh followed her 
and took it from her and carried it across the orchard. 
At Ellen's door he gave it to her and then, without a 
word, turned back home again. Mary set down her tray 
and tried the door. It was locked, and before she could 
call, Ellen's voice within asked who was there. Mary 
had never heard her speak in such a voice. It was 
full and in a strange way exultant, as if something rich 
brinmied up in her. Whatever complications there were 
before them all, it was evident Ellen wasn't dwelling on 
them. Then she undid the door and Mary saw that the 
radiance of her look had lasted as Hugh's had done, and 
instantly, from the quick inquiry and fall of the brows 
that Ellen had expected Hugh to be with her. But she 
took the tray, with remorseful thanks, and Mary followed 
her in. 

" I locked the door," said Ellen, flushing as she made 
this which seemed to her a silly plea. " I didn't know — " 

There she stopped and Mary said: 

" You were afraid it would be Ben. I think you'd bet- 
ter not see either of my sons, Ellen, at present." 

Her voice sounded so proud that Ellen was suddenly 



 

aghast and seemed to know what she had done. She 
turned cold, and stood looking at Mary forlornly. Mary 
was instantly compassionate; but she was tried with her, 
too. It seemed so unnecessarily stupid and loose-at-ends 
to marry a man to find out you couldn't live with him. 
But she was not going to console her at present. It was 
healthy, she thought, to suffer for a moment. 

" I have asked Hugh," said she, " not to see you alone. 
I think he'll remember. But if he doesn't, I tell you the 
same. If he comes here, you're not to let him in." 

Ellen, like Hugh, straightway looked obstinate, and 
Mary inwardly lost patience. What was the matter with 
them, she wondered, man and woman grown, seeing no 
further than their own wild wishes? And as Ellen con- 
tinued to gaze at her in this heart-broken, imploring 
fashion, she had to speak, because they seemed to be slip- 
ping desperately off the rim of common-sense. " Ellen," 
said she, " you can't act that way. You're married to 
Ben. Don't you know you are? " 

" But I told him," said Ellen, " I never'd live with him 
in all the world. And I never will. And now Hugh's 
come home, I see — I know — " 

The strange exasperating look of radiance flew back 
into her face. 

" Ellen ! " said Mary Neale. She spoke patiently, as 
if she wanted to get her attention and keep it in this dif- 
ficult matter of common-sense. " It isn't as if Hugh was 
a stranger to you. You've known him all your life. You 
must be carried away by his being in the war and all." 

" Oh," said Ellen, " I'm not carried away. Yes, I am, 
but not the way you mean. Mrs. Neale, I've dreamed of 
him." 

Mary was impressed, in spite of herself, there was such 
conviction, even awe, in the girl's voice. 



 

" Well," said she, " what if you have? There's nothing 
more natural than dreaming about anybody you used to 
see every day or two, as you did Hugh." 

" Oh, but that wasn't it," said Ellen eagerly. " It was 
different. It was somebody that came from 'way off, and 
he loved me and was beautiful. I dreamed of him when 
Hugh was here, too. Though then I thought Hugh was 
nothing but a boy. And when Ben began to be so nice to 
me, the dream stopped coming. And when Hugh came in 
to-day, I knew. He was the one. I'd called him the 
stranger, but he wasn't the stranger. He was Hugh." 

She was so white, so passionately moved and sure of her 
ground, that Mary instantly believed as she did. It threw 
her back to that old time when the earth itself was smaller 
to her than the significance of one man, when she did not 
question or look beyond the circlet of the bond containing 
them. And, unconfessed, she capitulated. Mother jecd- 
ousy went down before the force of passion unashamed, 
and she rejoiced that there was such a fire in the world, 
and warmed her hands at it. 

" Well," said she, " I don't know what's going to come 
of it all. But your dinner's cold." 
I don't care," said Ellen. 

No, I s'pose you don't. I'm going home now, and you 
can lock the door behind me. And 'long the last of the 
afternoon some of us'll come over." 

She got to the door, and saw that Ellen was watching 
her, a wary yet longing look, ready to fly to her if Mary 
held out a hand. But Mary perversely would not do it. 
She had lost that gritty ingredient of mother jealousy out 
of the pure water of life, but she couldn't quite take to her 
heart the bride she had kissed last night in the bridal 
chamber. Then she went home across the orchard and 



found Hugh waiting to see her and say he was going 
down to Larry Greene's for an hour. But he hoped — 
he said it impressively — when he came home his mother 
would realize he must go over to Ellen's. Mary said 
nothing. She watched him away, the tall upright figure 
that had never looked like this a year ago, and felt she 
would have some ado to keep it from marching along 
wherever it wished. And then she took her parasol from 
the hall and went down the path and into the road. She 
dared not go into her husband's room lest he should, in 
some form, insist on her staying, and she knew Hannah 
and Trueman were at hand. She walked thoughtfully 
down to Grissie's, past Deacon Mendell's, where a flock of 
little Gleasons were digging dandelions; and Grissie, sit- 
ting on the front steps, her elbows on her knees, her chin 
in her hands, taking an interval of peace with the little 
Gleasons away, saw her and, in a sudden alarm, ran to 
meet her. Something, Grissie thought, must have hap- 
pened to bring Mary Neale that way. Mary was tre- 
mendously relieved. She could not talk before the other 
Gleasons, and she had foreseen no means of getting rid of 
them. Grissie looked to her much like the little girl 
Grissie she used to know, only that she was irreproach- 
ably tidy. She had taken off her delicate dress and put 
on a short-sleeved apron that covered her from shoulder 
to heel, and her bare arms were milk-white and her thin 
neck a loveliness. How could they, she and Ellen, Mary 
thought impatiently, be so much their childish selves and 
yet create such havoc of accepted rules? 

"I'll turn round," she said, "and you walk a piece 
with me." 

So they went back along the road by which she had 
come, and when they reached the bars to what was known 


 

as the " old sullar," on the Gleason land, she added! 
" What if we should poke in here a minute and sit down? 
We can talk better outdoors." 

Grissie let down the bars for her and they walked in and 
then went round to what had been the back door of the 
house and sat down on the great door-stone. The rasp- 
berry bushes had grown up in the cellar and, with birch 
and wild cherries, made a screen. Mary furled her para- 
sol and laid it on the grass. 

" Grissie," said she, " I want you to tell me over again 
just how it was." 

Grissie instantly began and told it quite eagerly though
in an anxious way, and to Mary, listening, it was like an 
incredible dream that what seemed the child Grissie should 
have such a tale to telL And that it concerned one of her 
sons whom it was easy to see as a little boy, just as Grissie 
was a little girl, was more incredible yet. 

" He said he'd got a big bill, and he didn't know how to 
get it changed in Beckenham," began Grissie. " He 
thought they'd wonder where he got it and it would be all 
over town. So he was going to a hotel and pay his bill 
with it." 

" But he was going to a hotel anyway," said Mary, 
" the one Larry goes to." 

" No, he didn't," said Grissie. " He came to the house 
where I was. And next day we were out walking and look- 
ing in windows and we saw trips advertised and one was 
down south and I was crazy to go. So he said, " Let's 
go.' And I said I would." 

Mary looked at her, the little eager thing who seemed 
quite untouched by the defacing enemies of life, and won- 
dered at her. 

" But, Grissie," said she, " how could you say you 



 

iTirould? Didn't you know how strange it was, how — why, 
Grissie, didn't you know you couldn't? " 

That was the only way Mary found to put it. She 
/couldn't ask this bright-colored butterfly if she didn't 
Know it was wicked. That would be absurd — to a but- 
terfly. She couldn't accuse her of doing a vulgar or dis- 
graceful thing. Grissie, even in the days when her skirt 
and waist didn't meet, was never vulgar. The Gleasons, 
out of pocket and out at heel, were, Mary knew, of the 
best blood in the county, and somehow she couldn't affront 
this soulless Grissie. 

" But," said Grissie, " Ben didn't know anybody in 
Boston, and I didn't either, except the people in the board- 
ing-house. And they didn't know. We didn't mean any 
harm, Mrs. Neale. Truly we didn't." 

"Well!" said Mary. "And so you went? But you 
didn't keep your own names." 

"No," said Grissie. "Ben said we couldn't. I saw 
that, too. 'Course we couldn't. And when we were think- 
ing what we'd do, it came to us all at once — I don't know 
which of us thought of it first — and we laughed so we 
could hardly walk along. And we stopped and looked into 
a shop window till we got over it, people stared at us so. 
And they laughed, too." 

" Yes," said Mary drily. " You called yourselves Mr. 
and Mrs. Peleg Simpson. That was what you laughed 
at." 

Grissie had picked a raspberry leaf from the bush near 
her, and she was rolling it carefully in her little hand. 
And suddenly her absorbed face creased up and she began 
to laugh, and so delightfully, with a shrill abandon, that 
even Mary Neale, who was not given to irresponsible 
mirth, felt the relaxing of her own mouth and was sur- 



 

prised beyond all understanding to think she might easily 
laugh, too. But this Grissie happily did not know. 

" It was funny," she went on. She threw away the 
bruised raspberry leaf and began rolling another, with 
the same absorption. " You know, every time we said it 
or wrote it — we had to write it at the hotel — we could 
see just how they'd look, Peleg and Ardelia, if they were 
on their trip; and sometimes, when we were going sig-ht- 
seeing and nobody *d notice us, we'd pretend and act just 
like 'em. And Ben's awful funny." 

Mary's mouth had lost all mirthful tendency. This 
was her son, indignant pride told her, a man who, at a 
time of tragic choice, considered it funny to act the part 
of Peleg Simpson. She hardly knew how to put Grissie 
to the last tests of all. Had the child been what Mary 
in her soul named wicked, and was she afraid of the outward 
disgrace that lay in what the country voice called 
being "in trouble"? But she could see no way to ask 
her. Grissie looked so untouched in her maiden delicacy, 
that it seemed polluting to suggest a further tragedy 
than she unrolled. 

" Grissie," said Mary Neale, " what made you come to 
me? the other day, too. What made you come? " 

Grissie turned on her a look of hurt surprise. 

" Why, Mrs. Neale," she said, " Ben wouldn't answer 
me. I felt dreadfully about it. Don't you see how any- 
body would? " 

" But if you'd been off with him and done a foolish 
thing," said Mary, trying her way, for still she did not 
dare call it a wicked thing, " you didn't deserve to have 
him answer you. I don't mean he wasn't to blame. Only, 
if girls make themselves cheap, they can't be surprised 
whatever happens to them." 



 

" But Mrs. Neale ! '' said Grissie. She, too, found it 
difficult to go on. Yet she was laboring in no shame or 
confusion. She was simply finding there were other 
points of view, and it puzzled her. " Ben and I — why, 
we'd gone on the trip together and we played it was our 
wedding trip, and of course he couldn't go and marry 
another girL That's why I've been working to pay off 
Mr. Luce. I found he liked me, and 'course I couldn't 
have it : for there was Ben." 

" Grissie," said Mary Neale, " did Ben persuade you 
to do the thing you did? " 

"Why, no," said Grissie, "nor I him. We just went, 
that was all." 

" And when did you begin to think it was wrong? " 

" I didn't think it was wrong," said Grissie, with spirit. 
" I didn't think anything about it till he wouldn't write 
to me." 

" But you think now it was wrong," said Mary. If she 
once had that confession, it seemed to her she could make 
a theory of Grissie and find out what to do for her. Gris- 
sie was answering, patiently, as we instruct those whom 
we have answered many times before. 

" Why, no, Mrs. Neale, I don't. Only I know it's 
wrong for him to marry Ellen. And I don't see how he 
can live with her. I don't believe the lawyers would let 
him, if they knew. For there's me." 

She was looking at Mary, trouble in her eyes and her 
delicate brows drawn together, and as Mary returned the 
look, she thought she had never seen anything more jewel- 
like than the limpidity of Grissie's eyes. They were dif- 
ferent from what they used to be. They had changed, all 
in a little time, to a softer brilliance, a truly appealing 
wonder. 



 

" Grisisie," said she, leaving moralities and leaping to 
the main issue of nature, which Grissie might understand, 
" you love him, don't you? You love Ben? " 

For a moment Grissie's eyes did not falter. They 
seemed to be putting questions of their own. Then the 
blood ran up into her face and flushed it exquisitely. 

"I never thought. I don't know," she said breath- 
lessly. " I didn't have to think, we had such a good time. 
But now-:— it's different now. Why, he can't marry 
Ellen. For there's me." 

And as the flush had come, tears followed, in a sudden 
flood, and seemed to surprise her as much as they did 
