will not permit a propagandist of social justice to do his work 
in peace of soul ! 

Jimmie tried to hide what was going on; and of course 
poor, naive soul he had never learned to hide anything in his 
life, and now was too late to begin. The next time the local 
met, the women were saying that they were disappointed in 
Comrade Higgins; they had thought he was really devoted to 
the cause, but they saw now he was like all the rest of the men 
his head had been turned by one smile on a pretty face. Instead 
of attending to his work, he was following that Baskerville 
creature about, gazing at her yearningly, like a moon-calf, mak- 
ing a ninny of himself before the whole room. And he with a 
wife and three babies at home, waiting for him and thinking he 
was hustling for the cause. When the meeting adjourned, and 
the Baskerville creature accepted the invitation of Comrade 
Gerrity to escort her home, the dismay of Comrade Higgins 
was so evident as to be ludicrous to the whole room. 



In the interest of common decency it was necessary for the 
women of the local to take action on this matter. At least, a 
couple of them thought so, and quite independently and without 
prearrangement they called on Lizzie next day and told her that 
she should come more frequently to meetings, and keep herself 
acquainted with the new ideas of advanced feminism. And so 
when Jimmie came home that night, he found his wife dissolved 
in tears, and there was a most harrowing scene. 

For poor Elizabeth Huszar, pronounced Eleeza Betooser, had 
had no chance whatever to familiarise herself with the new ideas 
of advanced feminism. Her notions of "free unions" had been 
derived from a quite different world, whose ideas were not new, 
but on the contrary very, very old, and were "advanced" only 
on the road to perdition. She judged Jimmie's behaviour ac- 
cording to thoroughly old standards, and she was broken-hearted, 
overwhelmed with grief and shame. He was like all the rest 
of men and when she had fondly thought he was different! 
He despised her and spit upon her a woman he had picked up in 
a brothel. 





Poor Jimmie was stunned. He was conscious of no disre- 
spect for Lizzie, it had not occurred to him to think that she 
might take the matter that way. But so she had taken it, 
beyond doubt, and with intensity that frightened him. He 
would not have believed that so many tears could stream from 
one woman's eyes nor that his good, broad-faced, honest wife 
could be so abject in her misery. "Oh, I knowed it, I knowed 
it all along it would be that way! I hadn't never ought to 
married you you know I told you so !" 

"But, Lizzie!" pleaded the husband. "You're mistaken. 
That hadn't nothin' to do with it." 

She turned upon him wildly, her fingers stuck out as if she 
would claw him. "You mean to tell me if you hadn't 'a married 
a woman off the street, you'd 'a gone chasin' a fluffy-haired girl ? 
If you'd 'a, had a decent wife, that you knowed had some 
rights " 

"Lizzie !" he protested, in consternation. "'Listen here " 

But she was not to be stopped. "Everybody said I was a 
fool; but I went an' done it, 'cause you swore you'd never hold 
it up to me ! An' I went an' had them children" Lizzie swept 
her arm at the children, as if to wipe them off the earth, to which 
they had come by a cruel mistake. Jimmie Junior, who was 
old enough to know that something serious was happening, and 
whose instinct was all against being wiped off the earth, began 
to howl wildly; and that set off the little ones soon they were 
all three of them going at the top of their lungs. "Boo-hoo- 
hoo !" 

It was truly a terrible climax to a romance. Jimmie, 
almost distracted, seized the hand of his injured spouse. "It'b 
all nonsense!" he cried. "What they been tellin' you? I ain't 
done a thing, Lizzie ! I only walked home with her one night.' 

But Lizzie answered that one night was plenty enough v 
she knew that from intimate and hateful experience. "And I 
know them fluffy-headed kind that frizzes their hair. What doea 
she want to walk home at night with married men fer? And 
talkin' about the things she does " 

"She don't mean no harm, Lizzie she's tryin' to help 
workin' women. It's what's called birth control she wants 
to teach women " 

"If she wants to teach women, why don't she talk to the 
women? What's she all the time talkin' to men fer? You 



 

think you can tell me tales like that me, that's been what I 
have?" And Lizzie went off into another fit, worse than ever. 



VI 

Jimmie found that it was with romance as with martyrdom 
there was a lot of trouble about it which the romancers did 
not mention. He really felt quite dreadful, for he had a deep 
regard for this mother of his little ones, and he would not 
have made her suffer for anything. And she was right, too, 
he had to admit her shots went deep home. "How'd you feel, 
if you was to find out I'd been walkin' home with some man ?" 
When it was put to him that way, he realised that he would 
have felt very badly indeed. 

A flood of old emotions came back to him. He went in 
memory with his group of roystering friends to the house of 
evil where he had first met Elizabeth Huszar, pronounced 
Eleeza Betooser. She had taken him to her room, and instead 
of making herself agreeable in the usual way, had burst into 
tears. She had been ill-treated, and was wretchedly lonely 
and unhappy. Jimmie asked why she did not quit the life, 
and she answered that she had tried more than once, but she 
could not earn a living wage; and anyhow, because she was 
big and handsome, the bosses would never let her alone, and 
what was the difference, if you couldn't keep away from the 
men? 

They sat on the bed and talked, and Jimmie told her a 
little about his life, and she tolcf about hers a pitiful and 
moving story. She had been brought to America as an infant; 
her father had been killed in an accident, and her mother 
had supported several children by scrub-work. Lizzie had 
grown up in a slum of the far east side of New York, and she 
could not remember a time when she had not been sexually 
preyed upon; lewd little boys had taught her tricks, and men 
would buy her with candy or food. And yet there had been 
something in her struggling for decency; of her own volition 
she had tried to go to school, in spite of her rags; and then, 
when she was thirteen, she had answered an advertisement for 
work as a nurse-maid. That story had made an especial im- 
pression upon Jimmie it was truly a most pitiful episode. 

Her place of employment had been a "swell" apartment, 





with a hall-boy and an elevator the most wonderful place 
that Lizzie had ever beheld; it was like living in heaven, and 
she had tried so hard to do what she was told, and be worthy 
of her beautiful mistress and the lovely baby. But she had 
been there only two days when the mistress had discovered 
vermin on the baby, and had come to Lizzie and insisted 
on examining her head. And of course she had found some- 
thing. "Them's only nits " Lizzie had said ; she had never 
heard of anybody who did not have "nits" in their hair. But 
the beautiful lady had called her a vile creature, and ordered 
her to pack up her things and get out of the house at once. 
And so Lizzie had had to wait until she became an inmate of a 
brothel before anybody took the trouble to teach her how to get 
the "nits" out of her hair, and how to bathe, and to clean her 
finger-nails and otherwise be physically decent. 

Jimmie recalled all that, and he fell on his knees before 
his wife, and caught her two hands by main force, and swore 
to her that he had not done any wrong; he went on to tell 
her exactly what wrong he had done, which was the best way to 
convince her that he had not done any worse. He vowed again 
and again that he would never, never dally with Cupid again 
he would see Comrade Baskerville at once and tell her it was 
"all off." 

And so Lizzie looked up through her tears. "No," she 
said, "you don't need to see her at all !" 

"What shall I do, then?" 

"Just let her alone don't tell her nothin'. She'll know 
it's off all right." 

VII 

But when you have a dead romance, you cannot leave it to 
rot on the highway; you are driven irresistibly to bury it 
decently. In spite of his solemn promises, Jimmie found 
himself thinking all the time about Comrade Baskerville, and 
how he would act when he met her next time all the noble 
and dignified speeches he would make to her. He must manage 
to be alone with her; for of course he could not say such 
things with the jealous old hags of the local staring at him. 
The best thing, he decided, would be to tell her the frank and 
honest truth ; to tell her about Lizzie, and how good and worthy 



 

she had been, and how deeply he realised his duty to her. 
And then tears would come into Comrade Baskerville's lovely 
eyes, and she would tell him that she honoured his high sense 
of marital responsibility. They must renounce; but of course 
they would be dear and true friends always, always. Jimmie 
was holding her hands, in his fancy, as he said these affecting 
words : Always ! Always ! He knew that he would have to let go 
of the hands, but he was reluctant to do so, and he had not 
quite got to the point of doing it when, walking down Jeffer- 
son Street on his way home from work behold, in front of him 
a trim, eager little figure, tripping gaily, with a jaunty hat 
with a turkey-feather stuck on one side ! Jimmie knew the 
figure a block away, and as he saw it coming nearer, his heart 
leaped up and hit him in the bottom part of his neck, and all 
his beautiful speeches flew helter-skelter out of his head. 

She saw him, and the vivid, welcoming smile came upon her 
face. She came up to him, and their hands clasped. "Why!" 
she cried. "What a pleasant meeting!" 

Jimmie gulped twice, and then began, "Comrade Basker- 

ville " And then he gulped again, and began, "Comrade 

Baskerville " 

She stopped him. "I'm not Comrade Baskerville," she de- 
clared. 

He could not get the meaning of these unexpected words. 
"What?" he asked. 

"Haven't you heard the news?" she said, and beamed on 
him. "I'm Comrade Mrs. Gerrity." 

He stared at her, utterly bewildered. "I've been that for 
twenty-four whole hours! Congratulate me!" 

Little by little the meaning of the words began to dawn 
in Jimmie's stupid head. "Comrade Mrs. Gerrity !" he echoed. 
"But but I thought you didn't believe in marriage." 

There came the most bewitching smile, a smile decorated 
with two rows of pearly white teeth. "Don't you understand, 
Comrade Higgins? No woman believes in marriage until she 
meets the right man." 

This was much too subtle. Jimmie was still gaping open- 
mouthed. "But then, I thought I thought " he stopped 

again; for in truth, he had not known quite what he thought, 
and anyway, it seemed futile to try to formulate it now. 

But of course, she knew, without his telling her; she knew 





the meaning of his look of dismay, and of his stammering words. 
Being a kind little creature, she laid her hand on his arm. 
"Comrade Higgins," she said, "don't think I'm too mean!" 

"Mean?" he cried. "Why, no! What? How " 

"Try to imagine you were a girl, Comrade Higgins. You 
can't propose to a man, can you?" 

"Why, no that is " 

"That is, not if you want him to accept! You have to 
make him do it. And maybe he's shy, and don't do it, and 
you have to put the idea in his head for him. Or maybe he's 
not sure he wants you, and you have to make him realise 
how very desirable you are! Maybe you have to scare him, 
making him think you're going to run off with somebody else ! 
Don't you see how it is with a girl ?" 

Jimmie was still badly dazed, but he saw enough to enable 
him to stammer, "Yes." And Comrade Baskerville that is, 
Comrade Mrs. Gerrity gave him her hand again. "Comrade 
Higgins," she said, "you're a dear, sweet fellow, and you won't 
be too angry with me, will you? We'll be friends, won't we, 
Comrade Higgins?" 

And Jimmie clasped the soft, warm hand, and gazed into the 
shining brown eyes, and he made a part of the wonderful speech 
which he had been planning as he walked. He said : "Always ! 
Always!" 



THE world struggle continued with constantly increasing 
ferocity. All summer long the Germans hammered at the 
French and British lines; while the British hammered at the 
gates of Constantinople, and the Italians at the gates of Trieste. 
The Germans sent their giant airships to drop loads of bombs 
on London, and their submarines to sink passenger-steamers 
and hospital-ships. Each fresh outrage against international 
law became the occasion of more letters of protest from the 
United States, and of more controversies in the newspapers, and 
in Congress, and in Kumme's bicycle-shop on Jefferson Street, 
Leesville. 

In this last place, to be sure, the discussions were rather 
one-sided. Practically all who came there regarded the muni- 
tions industry as an accursed thing, and made no secret of their 
glee at the misfortunes which befell it; at shipyards which 
caught fire and burned up, at railroad-bridges and ships at sea 
destroyed by mysterious explosions. Kumme, a wizened-up, 
grizzle-haired old fellow with a stubby nose and a bullet-head, 
would fall to cursing in a mingling of English and German 
when any one so much as mentioned the fleets of ships that 
went across the water, loaded with shells to kill German sol- 
diers; he would point a skinny finger at whoever would listen 
to him, declaring that the Germans in this country were not 
slaves, and would protect their Fatherland from the perfidious 
British and their Wall Street hirelings. Kumme took a news- 
paper printed in German, and a couple of weeklies published in 
English for the promotion of the German cause; he would 
mark passages in these papers and read them aloud every- 
thing that the mind of man could recall or invent that was 




discreditable to Britain, to France and Italy, to Wall street, 
and to the nation which allowed Wall Street to bamboozle and 
exploit it. There were many Americans who had "muck- 
raked" their own country in the interests of social reform, 
and had praised the social system of Germany. These argu- 
ments the German propagandists now found useful, and Jim- 
mie would take them to the Socialist local and pass them about. 
From the meeting of the local he and Meissner would go to the 
saloon where they had rendezvous with Jerry Coleman, who 
would distribute more ten dollar bills to be used in the printing 
of anti-war literature. 

Old Kumme had a nephew by the name of Heinrich, who 
paid him a visit now and then. He was a tall, fine-looking 
fellow, who spoke much better English than his uncle, and 
wore better clothes. Finally he came to stay, and Kumme 
announced that he was to help in the shop. They didn't need 
any help that Jimmie could see, and certainly not from a 
fellow like Heinrich, who couldn't tell a spoke from a handle- 
bar; but it was none of Jimmie's business, so Heinrich put on 
working clothes, and spent a couple of weeks sitting behind 
the counter conversing in low tones with men who came to see 
him. After a while he took to going out again, and finally 
announced that he had secured a job in the Empire. 

II 

And then to the hangers-on in ihe shop there was another 
addition an Irish workingman named Keilly. The Irishman 
was a peculiar problem in the war the thorn in the Allied 
conscience, the weak spot in their armour, the broken link 
in their chain of arguments; and so every German was happy 
when an Irishman entered the room. This fellow Eeilly came 
to have a punctured tire mended, and stopped to tell what he 
thought about the world-situation. Old man Kumme slapped 
him over the back, and shook him by the hand, and told him 
he was the right sort, and to come again. So Eeilly took to 
hanging about; he would pull from his pocket a paper called 
"Hibernia," and Kumme would produce from under the 
counter a paper called "Germania," and the two would de- 
nounce "perfidious Albion" by the hour. Jimmie, bending 
over the straightening of a sprocket, would look up and grin, 
and exclaim, "You bet!" 




It was winter-time, and darkness came early, and Jimmie 
was doing his work by electric light in the back of the shop, 
when Keilly came and mysteriously drew him into a corner. 
Did he really mean what he said about hatred of war, and will- 
ingness to fight against it ? The Empire Shops were now turn- 
ing out thousands of shell-casings every day, to be used in 
the murder of men. It was useless to try to start a strike, 
there were so many spies at work, and they fired every man 
who opened his mouth; if an outsider tried it they would send 
him to jail for of course old Granitch had the city government 
in his vest-pocket. 

All this was an old story to Jimmie ; but now the Irishman 
went on to a new proposition. There was a way to stop the 
work of the Empire, a way that had been tried in other places, 
and had worked. Reilly knew where to get some T.NYT. an 
explosive many times more powerful than dynamite. They 
could make bombs out of the steel tubing of bicycles, and 
Jimmie, knowing the Empire Shops as he did, could find a 
way to get in and arrange matters. There was big money in 
it the fellows who did that job might live on Easy Street 
the rest of their lives. 

Jimmie was stunned. He had been perfectly sincere in 
classifying German spies with sea-serpents; and here was a 
sea-serpent right before his eyes, raising his head through the 
floor of Kumme's bicycle-shop ! 

Jimmie answered that he had never had anything to do with 
that sort of thing. That wasn't the way to stop war; that was 
only making more war. The other began to argue with him, 
showing that it wouldn't hurt anybody; the explosion would 
take place at night, and all that would be damaged would be 
Abel Granitch's purse. But Jimmie was obdurate ; fortunately 
one thing that had been incessantly pounded into his head at 
the local was that the movement could not use conspiracy, 
it must work by open propaganda, winning the minds and 
consciences of men. 

First the Irishman became angry, and called him a coward 
and a molly-coddle. Then he became suspicious, and wanted 
to know if Jimmie would sell him out to the Empire. Jimmie 
laughed at this ; he had no love for Abel Granitch the damned 
old skunk might do his own spying. Jimmie would simply 
have nothing to do with the matter, one way or the other. 




And so the project was dropped; but the little machinist was 
moved to keep his eyes open after that, and he made note of 
how many Germans, all strangers, were making the shop a 
meeting place; also the quick intimacy which had developed 
between the Irishman and Heinrich, Kumme's nephew who 
held himself so straight and had no back to his head. 

Matters came to a climax with startling suddenness the 
explosion of a bomb, though not the kind which Jimmie was 
expecting. It was an evening in February, just as he was 
about to close up, when he saw the door of the shop open, and 
four men walk in. They came with a peculiar, business-like 
air, two of them to the puzzled Jimmie, and the other two to 
Kumme. One turned back the lapel of his coat, showing a large 
gold star, and announcing, "I am an agent of the government, 
and you are under arrest' And at the same time the other seized 
Jimmie's arms and slipped a pair of handcuffs over his wrists. 
He passed his hands over his prisoner, a ceremony known as 
"frisking"; and at the same time the other men had seized 
Kumme. Jimmie saw two more men enter at the rear door of 
the shop, but they had nothing to do, for both Jimmie and 
Kumme had been too much startled to make any move to 
escape. 

They were led out to an automobile, shoved in and whirled 
away. No questions were answered, so after a bit they stopped 
asking questions and sat still, reflecting upon all the sins they 
had ever committed in their lives, and upon the chances of 
these sins being known to the police. 




Jimmie thought he was going to jail, of course ; but instead 
they took him to the Post Office building, to an upstairs room. 
Kumme was taken to another room, and Jimmie did not see 
him again ; all that Jimmie had time to know or to think about 
was a stern-faced young man who sat at a desk and put him on 
a griddle. "It is my duty to inform you that everything you 
state may be used against you' said this young man ; and then, 
without giving Jimmie a chance to grasp the meaning of these 
words, he began firing questions at him. All through the 
ordeal the two detectives stood by his side, and in a corner 
of the room, at another desk, a stenographer was busily recording 



 

what he said. Jimmie knew there were such things as stenog- 
raphers for had he not come near falling in love with one 
only a short time before? 

"Your name?" said the stern-faced young man; and then, 
"Where do you live ?" And then, "Tell me all you know about 
this bomb-conspiracy." 

"But I don't know nothin' I" cried Jimmie. 

"You are in the hands of the Federal government," replied 
the young man, "and your only chance will be to make a clean 
breast. If you will help us, you may get off." 

"But I don't know nothinM" cried Jimmie, again. 

"You have heard talk about dynamiting the Empire Shops ?" 

"Y-yes, sir." 

"Who?" 

"A man " Jimmie got that far, and then he recollected 

the promise he had given. "I I can't tell !" he said. 

"Why not?" 

