After another silence:
"You go to the imperial family?" demanded Ilse abruptly.
"Yes."
"I wish to see you again. I shall try."
The battalion marched a few moments later.
It was rather a bad business. They went over the top with a cheer.
Fifty answered roll call that night.
However, the hun had learned one thing--that women soldiers were
inferior to none.
Russia learned it, too. Everywhere battalions were raised, uniformed,
armed, equipped, drilled. In the streets of cities the girl-soldiers
became familiar sights: nobody any longer turned to stare at them.
There were several dozen girls in the officers' school, trying for
commissions. In all the larger cities there were infantry battalions
of girls, Cossack troops, machine gun units, signallers; they had a
medical corps and transport service.
But never but once again did they go into action. And their last stand
was made facing their own people, the brain-crazed Reds.
And after that the Battalion of Death became only a name; and the
girl-soldiers bewildered fugitives, hunted down by the traitors who
had sold out to the Germans at Brest-Litovsk.
PREFACE
A door opened; the rush of foggy air set the flames of the altar
candles blowing wildly. There came the clank of armed men.
Then, in the dim light of the chapel, a novice sprang to her feet,
brushing the white veil from her pallid young face.
At that the ex-Empress, still kneeling, lifted her head from her
devotions and calmly turned it, looking around over her right
shoulder.
The file of Red infantry advanced, shuffling slowly forward as though
feeling their way through the candle-lit dusk across the stone floor.
Their accoutrements clattered and clinked in the intense stillness. A
slovenly officer, switching a thin, naked sword in his ungloved fist,
led them. Another officer, carrying a sabre and marching in the rear,
halted to slam and lock the heavy chapel door; then he ran forward to
rejoin his men, while the chapel still reverberated with the echoes of
the clanging door.
A chair or two fell, pushed aside by the leading soldiers and hastily
kicked out of the way as the others advanced more swiftly now. For
there seemed to be some haste. These men were plainly in a hurry,
whatever their business there might be.
The Tzesarevitch, kneeling beside his mother, got up from his knees
with visible difficulty. The Empress also rose, leisurely, supporting
herself by one hand resting on the prie-dieu.
Then several young girls, who had been kneeling behind her at their
devotions, stood up and turned to stare at the oncoming armed men, now
surrounding them.
The officer carrying the naked sword, and reeking with fumes of
brandy, counted these women in a loud, thick voice.
"That's right," he said. "You're all present--one! two! three! four!
five! six!--the whole accursed brood!" pointing waveringly with his
sword from one to another.
Then he laughed stupidly, leering out of his inflamed eyes at the five
women who all wore the garbs of the Sisters of Mercy, their white
coiffes and tabliers contrasting sharply with the sombre habits of the
Russian nuns who had gathered in the candle-lit dusk behind them.
"What do you wish?" demanded the ex-Empress in a fairly steady voice.
"Answer to your names!" retorted the officer brutally. The other
officer came up and began to fumble for a note book in the breast of
his dirty tunic. When he found it he licked the lead of his pencil and
squinted at the ex-Empress out of drunken eyes.
"Alexandra Feodorovna!" he barked in her face. "If you're here, say
so!"
She remained calm, mute, cold as ice.
A soldier behind her suddenly began to shout:
"That's the German woman. That's the friend of the Staretz Novykh!
That's Sascha! Now we've got her, the thing to do is to shoot
her----"
"Mark her present," interrupted the officer in command. "No
ceremony, now. Mark the cub Romanoff present. Mark 'em all--Olga,
Tatyana, Marie, Anastasia!--no matter which is which--they're all
Romanoffs----"
But the same soldier who had interrupted before bawled out again:
"They're not Romanoffs! There are no German Romanoffs. There are no
Romanoffs in Russia since a hundred and fifty years----"
The little Tzesarevitch, Alexis, red with anger, stepped forward to
confront the man, his frail hands fiercely clenched. The officer in
command struck him brutally across the breast with the flat of his
sword, shoved him aside, strode toward the low door of the chapel
crypt and jerked it open.
"Line them up!" he bawled. "We'll settle this Romanoff dispute once
for all! Shove them into line! Hurry up, there!"
But there seemed to be some confusion between the nuns and the
soldiers, as the latter attempted to separate the ex-Empress and the
young Grand Duchesses from the sisters.
"What's all that trouble about!" cried the officer commanding. "Drive
back those nuns, I tell you! They're Germans, too! They're Sascha's
new Deaconesses! Kick 'em out of the way!"
Then the novice, who had cried out in fear when the Red infantry first
entered the chapel, forced her way out into the file formed by the
Empress and her daughters.
"There's a frightful mistake!" she cried, laying one hand on the arm
of a young girl dressed, like the others, as a Sister of Mercy. "This
woman is Miss Dumont, my American companion! Release her! =I= am the
Grand Duchess Marie!"
The girl, whose arm had been seized, looked at the young novice over
her shoulder in a dazed way; then, suddenly her lovely face flushed
scarlet; tears sprang to her eyes; and she said to the infuriated
officer:
"It is not true, Captain! I am the Grand Duchess Marie. She is trying
to save me!"
"What the devil is all this row!" roared the officer, who now came
tramping and storming among the prisoners, switching his sword to and
fro with ferocious impatience.
The little Sister of Mercy, frightened but resolute, pointed at the
novice, who still clutched her by the arm: "It is not true what she
tells you," she repeated. "I am the Grand Duchess Marie, and this
novice is my American companion, Miss Dumont, who loves me devotedly
and who now attempts to sacrifice herself in my place----"
"I am the Grand Duchess Marie!" interrupted the novice excitedly.
"This young girl dressed like a Sister of Mercy is only my American
companion----"
"Damnation!" yelled the officer. "I'll take you both, then!" But the
girl in the Sister of Mercy's garb turned and violently pushed the
novice from her so that she stumbled and fell on her knees among the
nuns.
Then, confronting the officer: "You Bolshevik dog," she said
contemptuously, "don't you even know the daughter of your dead Emperor
when you see her!" And she struck him across the face with her prayer
book.
As he recoiled from the blow a soldier shouted: "There's your proof!
There's your insolent Romanoff for you! To hell with the whole litter!
Shoot them!" Instantly a savage roar from the Reds filled that dim
place; a soldier violently pushed the young Tzesarevitch into the file
behind the Empress and held him there; the Grand Duchess Olga was
flung bodily after him; the other children, in their hospital dresses,
were shoved brutally toward their places, menaced by butt and
bayonet.
"March!" bawled the officer in command.
But now, among the dark-garbed nuns, a slender white figure was
struggling frantically to free herself:
"You red dogs!" she cried in an agonised voice. "Let that English
woman go! It is I you want! Do you hear! I mock at you! I mock at your
resolution! Boje Tzaria Khrani! Down with the Bolsheviki!"
A soldier turned and fired at her; the bullet smashed an ikon above
her head.
"I am the Grand Duchess Marie!" she sobbed. "I demand my place! I
demand my fate! Let that American girl go! Do you hear what I say? Red
beasts! Red beasts! I am the Grand Duchess!----"
The officer who closed the file turned savagely and shook his heavy
cavalry sabre at her: "I'll come back in a moment and cut your throat
for you!" he yelled.
Then, in the file, and just as the last bayonets were vanishing
through the crypt door, one of the young girls turned and kissed her
hand to the sobbing novice--a pretty gesture, tender, gay, not tragic,
even almost mischievously triumphant.
It was the adieu of the Grand Duchess Tatyana to the living world--her
last glimpse of it through the flames of the altar candles gilding the
dead Christ on his jewelled cross--the image of that Christ she was so
soon to gaze upon when those lovely, mischievous young eyes of hers
unclosed in Paradise....
The door of the crypt slammed. A terrible silence reigned in the
chapel.
Then the novice uttered a cry, caught the foot of the cross with
desperate hands, hung there convulsively.
To her the Mother Superior turned, weeping. But at her touch the girl,
crazed with grief, lifted both hands and tore from her own face the
veil of her novitiate just begun;--tore her white garments from her
shoulders, crying out in a strangled voice that if a Christian God let
such things happen then He was no God of hers--that she would never
enter His service--that the Lord Christ was no bridegroom for her;
and, her novitiate was ended--ended together with every vow of
chastity, of humility, of poverty, of even common humanity which she
had ever hoped to take.
The girl was now utterly beside herself; at one moment flaming and
storming with fury among the terrified, huddling nuns; the next
instant weeping, stamping her felt-shod foot in ungovernable revolt at
this horror which any God in any heaven could permit.
And again and again she called out on Christ to stop this thing and
prove Himself a real God to a pagan world that mocked Him.
Dishevelled, her rent veil in tatters on her naked shoulders, she
sprang across the chapel to the crypt door, shook it, tore at it,
seized chair after chair and shattered them to splinters against the
solid panels of oak and iron.
Then, suddenly motionless, she crouched and listened.
"Oh, Mother of God!" she panted, "intervene now--now!--or never!"
The muffled rattle of a rather ragged volley answered her prayer.
Outside the convent a sentry--a Kronstadt sailor--stood. He also heard
the underground racket. He nodded contentedly to himself. Other shots
followed--pistol shots--singly.
After a few moments a wisp of smoke from the crypt crept lazily out of
the low oubliettes. The day was grey and misty; rain threatened; and
the rifle smoke clung low to the withered grass, scarcely lifting.
The sentry lighted a third cigarette, one eye on the barred
oubliettes, from which the smoke crawled and spread out over the
grass.
After a while a sweating face appeared behind the bars and a
half-stifled voice demanded why there was any delay about fetching
quick-lime. And, still clinging to the bars with bloody fingers, he
added:
"There's a damned novice in the chapel. I promised to cut her throat
for her. Go in and get her and bring her down here."
                  *       *       *       *       *
The novice was nowhere to be found.
                  *       *       *       *       *
They searched the convent thoroughly; they went out into the garden
and beat the shrubbery, kicking through bushes and saplings, their
cocked rifles poised for a snap shot.
Peasants, gathering there more thickly now, watched them stupidly; the
throng increased in the convent grounds. Some Bolshevik soldiers
pushed through the rapidly growing crowd and ran toward a birch wood
east of the convent. Beyond the silvery fringe of birches, larger
trees of a heavy, hard-wood forest loomed. Among these splendid trees
a number of beeches were being felled on both sides of the road.
"Did you see a White Nun run this way?" demanded the soldiers of the
wood-cutters. The latter shook their heads:
"Nothing has passed," they said seriously, "except some Ural Cossacks
riding north like lost souls in a hurricane."
An officer of the Red battalion, who had now hastened up with pistol
swinging, flew into a frightful rage:
"Cossacks!" he bellowed. "You cowardly dogs, what do you mean by
letting Kaledines' horsemen gallop over you like that--you with your
saws and axes--twenty lusty comrades to block the road and pull the
Imperialists off their horses! Shame! For all I know you've let a
Romanoff escape alive into the world! That's probably what you've
done, you greasy louts!"
The wood-cutters gaped stupidly; the Bolshevik officer cursed them
again and gesticulated with his pistol. Other soldiers of the Red
battalion ran up. One nudged the officer's elbow without saluting:
"That other prisoner can't be found----"
"What! That Swedish girl!" yelled the officer.
Several soldiers began speaking excitedly:
"While we were in the cellar, they say she ran away----"
"Yes, Captain, while we were about that business in the crypt,
Kaledines' horsemen rode up outside----"
"Who saw them?" demanded the officer hoarsely. "God curse you, who saw
them?"
Some peasants had now come up. One of them began:
"Your honour, I saw Prince Kaledines' riders----"
"Whose!"
"The Hetman's----"
"Your honour! Prince Kaledines! The Hetman! Damnation! Who do you
think you are! Who do you think I am!" burst out the Red officer in a
fury. "Get out of my way!----" He pushed the peasants right and left
and strode away toward the convent. His soldiers began to straggle
after him. One of them winked at the wood-cutters with his tongue in
his cheek, and slung the rifle he carried over his right shoulder en
bandoulière, muzzle downward.
"The Tavarish is in a temper," he said with a jerk of his thumb
toward the officer. "We arrested that Swedish girl in the uniform
of the woman's battalion. One shoots that breed on sight, you know.
But we were in such a hurry to finish with the Romanoffs----" He
shrugged: "You see, comrades, we should have taken her into the crypt
and shot her along with the Romanoffs. That's how one loses these
birds--they're off if you turn your back to light a cigarette in
the wind."
One of the wood-cutters said: "Among Kaledines' horsemen were two
women. One was crop-headed like a boy, and half naked."
"A White Nun?"
"God knows. She had some white rags hanging to her body, and dark hair
clipped like a boy's."
"That--was--she!" said the soldier with slow conviction. He turned and
looked down the long perspective of the forest road. Only a raven
stalked there all alone over the fallen leaves.
"Certainly," he said, "that was our White Nun. The Cossacks took her
with them. They must have ridden fast, the horsemen of Kaledines."
"Like a swift storm. Like the souls of the damned," replied a
peasant.
The soldier shrugged: "If there's still a Romanoff loose in the
world, God save the world!... And that big heifer of a Swedish
wench!--she was a bad one, I tell you!--Took six of us to catch her
and ten to hold her by her ten fingers and toes! Hey! God bless me,
but she stands six feet and is made of steel cased in silk--all white,
smooth and iron-hard--the blond young snow-tiger that she is!--the
yellow-haired, six-foot, slippery beastess! God bless me--God bless
me!" he muttered, staring down the wood-road to its vanishing point
against the grey horizon.
Then he hitched his slung rifle to a more comfortable position,
turned, gazed at the convent across the fields, which his distant
comrades were now approaching.
"A German nest," he said aloud to himself, "full of their damned
Deaconesses! Hey! I'll be going along to see what's to be done with
them, also!"
He nodded to the wood-cutters:
"Vermin-killing time," he remarked cheerily. "After the dirty work is
done, peace, land enough for everybody, ease and plenty and a full
glass always at one's elbows--eh, comrades?"
He strode away across the fields.
It had begun to snow.
ARGUMENT
The Cossacks sang as they rode:
                                   I
                     "Life is against us
                     We are born crying:
                     Life that commenced us
                     Leaves us all dying.
                            We were born crying;
                            We shall die sighing.
                     "Shall we sit idle?
                     Follow Death's dance!
                     Pick up your bridle,
                     Saddle and lance!
                     Cossacks, advance!"
They were from the Urals: they sat their shaggy little grey horses,
lance in hand, stirrup deep in saddle paraphernalia--kit-bags, tents,
blankets, trusses of straw, a dead fowl or two or a quarter of beef.
And from every saddle dangled a balalaika and the terrible Cossack
whip.
The steel of their lances flashed red in the setting sun; snow whirled
before the wind in blinding pinkish clouds, powdering horse and rider
from head to heel.
Again one rider unslung his balalaika, struck it, looking skyward as
he rode:
                    "Stars in your courses,
                    This is our answer;
                    Women and horses,
                    Singer and dancer
                             Fall to the lancer!
                             That is your answer!
                    "Though the Dark Raider
                    Rob us of joy----
                    Death, the Invader,
                    Come to destroy----
                    Nichevo! Stoi!"
They rode into a forest, slowly, filing among the silver birches, then
trotting out amid the pines.
The Swedish girl towered in her saddle, dwarfing the shaggy pony. She
wore her grey wool cap, overcoat, and boots. Pistols bulged in the
saddle holsters; sacks of grain and a bag of camp tins lay across
pommel and cantle.
Beside her rode the novice, swathed to the eyes in a sheepskin
greatcoat, and a fur cap sheltering her shorn head.
Her lethargy--a week's reaction from the horrors of the convent--had
vanished; and a feverish, restless alertness had taken its place.
Nothing of the still, white novice was visible now in her brilliant
eyes and flushed cheeks.
Her tragic silence had given place to an unnatural loquacity; her
grief to easily aroused mirth; and the dark sorrow in her haunted eyes
was gone, and they grew brown and sunny and vivacious.
She talked freely with her comrade, Ilse Westgard; she exchanged
gossip and banter with the Cossacks, argued with them, laughed with
them, sang with them.
At night she slept in her sheepskin in Ilse Westgard's vigorous arms;
morning, noon and evening she filled the samovar with snow beside
Cossack fires, or in the rare cantonments afforded in wretched
villages, where whiskered and filthy mujiks cringed to the Cossacks,
whispering to one another: "There is no end to death; there is no end
to the fighting and the dying, God bless us all. There is no end."
In the glare of great fires in muddy streets she stood, swathed in her
greatcoat, her cap pushed back, looking like some beautiful, impudent
boy, while the Cossacks sang "Lada oy Lada!"--and let their slanting
eyes wander sideways toward her, till her frank laughter set the
singers grinning and the gusli was laid aside.
And once, after a swift gallop to cross a railroad and an exchange of
shots with the Red guards at long range, the sotnia of the Wild
Division rode at evening into a little hamlet of one short, miserable
street, and shouted for a fire that could be seen as far as Moscow.
That night they discovered vodka--not much--enough to set them
singing first, then dancing. The troopers danced together in the
fire-glare--clumsily, in their boots, with interims of the pas
seul savouring of the capers of those ancient Mongol horsemen in
the Hezars of Genghis Khan.
But no dancing, no singing, no clumsy capers were enough to satisfy
these riders of the Wild Division, now made boisterous by vodka and
horse-meat. Gossip crackled in every group; jests flew; they shouted
at the peasants; they roared at their own jokes.
"Comrade novice!--Pretty boy with a shorn head!" they bawled.
"Harangue us once more on law and love."
She stood with legs apart and thumbs hooked in her belt, laughing at
them across the fire. And all around crowded the wretched mujiks,
peering at her through shaggy hair, out of little wolfish eyes.
A Cossack shouted: "My law first! Land for all! That is what we have,
we Cossacks! Land for the people, one and all--land for the mujik;
land for the bourgeois; land for the aristocrat! That law solves all,
clears all questions, satisfies all. It is the Law of Peace!"
A Cossack shoved a soldier-deserter forward into the firelight. He
wore a patch of red on his sleeve.
"Answer, comrade! Is that the true law? Or have you and your comrades
made a better one in Petrograd?"
The deserter, a little frightened, tried to grin: "A good law is, kill
all generals," he said huskily. "Afterward we shall have peace."
A roar of laughter greeted him; these dark, thickset Cossacks with
slanting eyes were from the Urals. What did they care how many
generals were killed? Besides, their hetman had already killed
himself.
Their officer moved out into the firelight--a reckless rider but a
dull brain--and stood lashing at his snow-crusted boots with the
silver-mounted quirt.
"Like gendarmes," he said, "we Cossacks are forever doing the dirty
work of other people. Why? It begins to sicken me. Why are we forever
executing the law! What law? Who made it? The Tzar. And he is dead,
and what is the good of the law he made?
"Why should free Cossacks be policemen any more when there is no law?
"We played gendarme for the Monarchists. We answered the distress call
of the Cadets and the bourgeoisie! Where are they? Where is the law
they made?"
He stood switching his dirty boots and swinging his heavy head right
and left with the stupid, lowering menace of a bull.
"Then came the Mensheviki with their law," he bellowed suddenly.
"Again we became policemen, galloping to their whistle. Where are
they? Where is their law?"
He spat on the snow, twirled his quirt.
"There is only one law to govern the land," he roared. "It is the law
of hands off and mind your business! It's a good law."
"A good law for those who already have something," cried a high, thin
voice from the throng of peasants.
The Cossacks, who all possessed their portion of land, yelled with
laughter. One of them called out to the Swedish girl for her opinion,
and the fair young giantess strode gracefully out into the fire-ring,
her cap in her hand and the thick blond ringlets shining like gold on
her beautiful head.
"Listen! Listen to this soldier of the Death Battalion!" shouted the
Cossacks in great glee. "She will tell us what the law should be!"
She laughed: "We fought for it--we women soldiers," she said. "And the
law we fought for was made when the first tyrant fell.
"This is the law: Freedom of mind; liberty of choice; an equal chance
for all; no violence; only orderly debate to determine the will of the
land."
A Cossack said loudly: "Da volna! Those who have nothing would take,
then, from those who have!"
"I think not!" cried another,"--not in the Urals!"
Thunderous laughter from their comrades and cries of, "Palla! Let us
hear our pretty boy, who has made for the whole world a law."
Palla Dumont, her slender hands thrust deep in her great coat sleeves,
and standing like a nun lost in mystic revery, looked up with gay
audacity--not like a nun at all, now, save for the virginal allure
that seemed a part of the girl.
"There is only one law, Tavarishi," she said, turning slightly from
her hips as she spoke, to include those behind her in the circle: "and
that law was not made by man. That law was born, already made, when
the first man was born. It has never changed. It comprehends
everything; includes everything and everybody; it solves all
perplexity, clears all doubts, decides all questions.
"It is a living law; it exists; it is the key to every problem; and it
is all ready for you."
The girl's face had altered; the half mischievous audacity in defiance
of her situation--the gay, impudent confidence in herself and in these
wild comrades of hers, had given place to something more serious, more
ardent--the youthful intensity that smiles through the flaming
enchantment of suddenly discovered knowledge.
"It is the oldest of all laws," she said. "It was born perfect. It is
yours if you accept it. And this law is the Law of Love."
A peasant muttered: "One gives where one loves."
The girl turned swiftly: "That is the soul of the Law!" she cried, "to
give! Is there any other happiness, Tavarishi? Is there any other
peace? Is there need of any other law?
"I tell you that the Law of Love slays greed! And when greed dies, war
dies. And hunger, and misery die, too!
"Of what use is any government and its lesser laws and customs, unless
it is itself governed by that paramount Law?
"Of what avail are your religions, your churches, your priests, your
saints, relics, ikons--all your candles and observances--unless
dominated by that Law?
"Of what use is your God unless that Law of Love also governs Him?"
She stood gazing at the firelit faces, the virginal half-smile on her
lips.
A peasant broke the silence: "Is she a new saint, then?" he said
distinctly.
A Cossack nodded to her, grinning respectfully:
"We always like your sermons, little novice," he said. And, to the
others: "Nobody wishes to deny what she says is quite true"--he
scratched his head, still grinning--"only--while there are Kurds in
the world----"
"And Bolsheviki!" shouted another.
"True! And Turks! God bless us, Tavarishi," he added with a wry face,
"it takes a stronger stomach to love these beasts than is mine----"
In the sudden shout of laughter the girl, Palla, looked around at her
comrade, Ilse.
"Until each accepts the Law of Love," said the Swedish girl-soldier,
laughing, "it can not be a law."
"I have accepted it," said Palla gaily; but her childishly lovely
mouth was working, and she clenched her hands in her sleeves to
control the tremor.
Silent, the smile still stamped on her tremulous lips, she stood for a
few moments, fighting back the deep emotions enveloping her in surging
fire--the same ardent and mystic emotions which once had consumed her
at the altar's foot, where she had knelt, a novice, dreaming of
beatitudes ineffable.
If that vision, for her, was ended--its substance but the shadow of a
dream--the passion that created it, the fire that purified it, the
ardent heart that needed love--love sacred, love unalloyed--needed
love still, burned for it, yearning to give.
                  *       *       *       *       *
As she lifted her head and looked around her with dark eyes still a
little dazed, there was a sudden commotion among the mujiks; a
Cossack called out something in a sharp voice; their officer walked
hastily out into the darkness; a shadowy rider spurred ahead of him.
Suddenly a far voice shouted: "Who goes there! Stoi!"
Then red flashes came out of the night; Cossacks ran for their horses;
Ilse appeared with Palla's pony as well as her own, and halted to
listen, the fearless smile playing over her face.
"Mount!" cried many voices at once. "The Reds!"
Palla flung herself astride her saddle; Ilse galloped beside her,
freeing her pistols; everywhere in the starlight the riders of the
Wild Division came galloping, loosening their long lances as they
checked their horses in close formation.
Then, with scarcely a sound in the unbroken snow, they filed away
eastward at a gentle trot, under the pale lustre of the stars.
THE CRIMSON TIDE
CHAPTER I
On the 7th of November, 1917, the Premier of the Russian Revolutionary
Government was a hunted fugitive, his ministers in prison, his troops
scattered or dead. Three weeks later, the irresponsible Reds had begun
their shameful career of treachery, counselled by a pallid, black-eyed
man with a muzzle like a mouse--one L. D. Bronstein, called Trotzky;
and by two others--one a bald, smooth-shaven, rotund little man with
an expression that made men hesitate, and features not trusted by
animals and children.
The Red Parliament called him Vladimir Ulianov, and that's what he
called himself. He had proved to be reticent, secretive, deceitful,
