death, had nevertheless locked and sealed and cellared 
her ivory tower, those depths of her nature where, she 
suspected, her true ego dwelt. It was an ego she had 
forfeited the right to indulge, nor had she at this time 
any desire to know more of herself than she did. Life 
after all was very pleasant; she managed to fill it with 
many little and even a few absorbing interests ; and once 
she spent a month at Santa Barbara chaperoning Janet 
Maynard, where her duties sat lightly upon her and she 
would have responded naturally if addressed as Miss 
 
Groome, so completely did Mortimer fade into the background. In the summer of nineteen-thirteen Judge 
Lawton and Aileen overcame all protests and took her 
with them to Europe, where, after a month in Paris, she 
visited Olive de Morsigny in her renaissance chateau on 
the Loire. The memory of Gathbroke revisited her and 
she half-wished the Judge would go to England, but the 
climate did not agree with him, and after a few more 
enchanted weeks, in Italy and Spain, she returned to 
Mortimer, who was distinctly duller than ever. 
But she had reconciled herself long since to the dullness of her life-partner; he could not help it and she 
had willfully married him in the face of as imposing a 
phalanx of family and friendly opposition as ever attempted to stand between a girl and her fate. 
Nevertheless, immediately after her return from Santa 
Barbara in the late autumn of nineteen-eleven, and 
wholly without analysis or pondering, she made a significant change in the order of her life. Mortimer, who 
had, during her absence, occupied a large room at the 
back of the house visited by the afternoon sun, found 
himself invited to retain it. . , . They must avoid the 
least possibility of a family until they were better off. 
. . . She had been hearing the subject discussed . . . 
the most economical baby cost fifty dollars a month. 
With a permanent trained nurse, and of course they 
would have one, the cost would easily be doubled . . . 
thousands were required for the proper education of a 
child . . . even if she had girls she should wish them to 
go to college ; she was not half educated herself . . . and 
boys, with their extravagances, their debts, they cost a 
mint; it was better for children to be born outright in 
the humbler classes than to be born into a rich set without riches themselves ... it all put her in a panic every 
time she thought of it. . . . Morty was so sensible and 
had such a high sense of responsibility, of course he understood . . . children, even when small, would hamper 
him fearfully, especially as he had not even begun to 
make his million. ... As for herself she would be more 
economical than ever and help him like the good pal she 
was. 
Mortimer had the sensation of being trussed up with 
invisible but inflexible silken thongs. His thoughts need 
not be recorded. 
Alexina refurnished her bedroom in her favorite periwinkle blue ; a low graceful day-bed with a screen before 
the stationary washstand helped to create the atmosphere of a boudoir. It had an intensely personal atmosphere in which man, more particularly a lawful husband, had no place. 
When Alexina stood on the threshold and surveyed 
this room, chaste, cool, proud, and exquisitely lovely, she 
lifted her hand and blew off a kiss, out of the window, 
wafting away the memory of the room as it had been. 
She had remarkable powers of obliteration, a sort of 
Eiver of Lethe among the backwaters of her mind, where 
she held below the surface all she wished to forget until 
it ceased to struggle. She never again gave a thought 
to her early relationship with her husband; not even to 
the indifference or distaste which had followed so quickly 
upon her curiosity and her determination to feel romantic at all costs. 
 
Subtly she felt she was happier than she had ever been 
even in those first weeks, when she had barred the gates 
of her fool's paradise behind her; she felt as free and 
happy as the birds skimming over the beds of periwinkle 
below her window, and (miraculously finding her second youth quite as productive as her first) took no pains 
to conceive of anything better. She looked neither forward nor back, and all was well. 
She even flirted a little, that being the fashion, and, 
having had enough of business men, encouraged the devotions of Bascom Luning and Jimmie Thome. She saw 
them when they chose to call in the daytime, and regaled 
the glowering Mortimer at the dinner table with scraps of 
their sapience. 
Mortimer had resigned himself long since to the sacrifice of several of his bourgeois ambitions, among them to 
 
be master in his own house ; but not an iota of his convictions. Although it would not have occurred to him 
to distrust his wife if she had chosen to sit up all night 
with a man, he made frozeri comments upon the impropriety of a woman having men in the house when her 
husband was not there, sitting out dances with men, taking long tramps through Marin County with three men 
and no one for chaperon but Alice Thorndyke and Janet 
Maynard — shocking flirts — whole Sundays — with lunch 
heaven knew where, and himself, who hated tramping, 
not included. 
But these grim remonstrances were met in so gay a 
spirit of badinage that he felt ridiculous, particularly as 
no powers of badinage or of repartee had been included 
in his own mental equipment; and he usually relapsed 
into a polite and bored silence. 
He never had hadmuch to say at the dinner table when 
they were alone, and, as time went on, his comments on 
the day were exhausted before the soup had given place 
to the entree, and Alexina fell into the habit of bringing 
her Italian text-book to the table — the study of Italian 
just then being the rage in her set — and later whatever 
interesting book she had on hand. Mortimer made no 
protest. His brain was fagged at night. It was a relief not to be expected to talk when they dined alone; 
those long silences had been oppressive even to him ; he 
rather welcomed the books. 
HIS complete new freedom, and personal privacy, 
entailed in time a result which Alexina would have 
been the last to anticipate even if she had disposed of 
her husband by death or divorce. 
Owing to the thoroughness of her mental methods she 
was psychologically free, the legal tie mattered as little 
as if Mortimer had been transposed by some beneficent 
 
law to the status of a brother. The will when it is strong 
enough can control acts, and, when favored by bias, 
thought ; but it has no command whatever over the subconsciousness, and in that mysterious region are the 
subtle inheritances of mind and character, the springs 
and the direction of all functional life; a fate with a 
thousand threads on her wheel, filaments from the souls 
and the bodies, the minds and the acts, of every ancestor 
straight back to that vast impersonal ocean where, unthinkable millions of years ago proemial life awaited the 
call of the worlds. 
This aged untiring fate at the wheel battles unceas- 
ingly with the conscious mind above, for age is prone 
to live by law and rote. These fates, the oldest daugh- 
ters of the Earth-Mother, Nature, know nothing of 
morals or manners, assume that men and women are as 
naive in their normality as the denizens of forest and 
field. And so they are while children. 
The eternal pull between civilizing Mind (Oh, centuries yet from being civilized!) and the memoried but 
obstinate old lady at the wheel (who laughs when a man 
of powerful will and too active mind "wills" sleep ; forcing him finally to choose between the horrors of insomnia, 
the insidious tyranny of drugs, and the doubtful and 
wearisome alternative of psychotherapeutics) — this pull, 
automatic in people of low estate, becomes bitter and 
often appalling where the mind is highly developed and 
attuned besides to the codes and customs of the best that 
civilisation has so far accomplished. 
The most vital of all these functions, for without it 
Mother Earth would be like an ant hill without ants, and 
all these ancient norms of daughters as homeless as the 
rest of the fates, is what man in a spirit of social compromise has labeled an instinct — the sex-instinct. It is 
no more an instinct than recurring sleep, lymphatic action, hunger, thirst, alimentation. It is a primal function for which Mind, wisely foreseeing the consequences 
of too much Nature, long since created laws both civil 
 
and social to curb. There are many impulses, inherited 
from ten thousand ancestors and constantly jogged by 
Earth's busy agent, human nature, that may logically be 
called instincts (their roots lying in the ancient social 
groups and their struggle to exist) but not a function 
that governs the law of reproduction, as appetite governs 
the law of renewing the vital necessities of the body. 
In the Latin races the conscious war between the brain 
above smd the sub-ego below, with the latter 's constant 
reminders that mind is a mere excrescence, often warped 
or ill-directed, at the apex of the perfect body, is almost 
negligible. Even when moral their lack of reticence, 
their practical logic, their habit of facing every fact pertaining to life, psychical and physical, as squarely as 
they face a simple question of hunger and thirst, above 
all their almost complete lack of that modern development called romance, which has given birth to a peculiar 
form of personal imagination, too often without foundation or logic — all these preclude that most active of all 
mental aids to the matter of fact needs of the body — 
glamour. , 
But it is far otherwise with the English-speaking races 
— loosely called Anglo-Saxon. They are powerfully 
sexed; their feelings and sentiments go deeper than is 
possible to those of more ebullient temperament but fatal 
clarity of vision; refinement of mind and habit and 
manner is perhaps the most precious of their achievements, and they have established a code which not only 
demands rectitude of act but suppression of thought and 
desire where there is no lawful outlet. 
Nothing, possibly, has more infuriated the old lady at 
the methodically performing wheel than this. She takes 
her revenge and squirts poison into the physical structure of the brain, obscures the soul with dark and brooding clouds, and subtly reduces the blood system to such a 
state that any germ is welcome. 
 
IV 
Once more Mind uses its highest faculties and outwits 
her, having no intention that civilization shall drop below the plane to which it has been raised through long 
laborious centuries of time. Life becomes more diverse, 
more complex. The middle classes work harder to live ; 
they have little leisure for thoughts, for introspection. 
Punishment is dire. . . . Those that have leisure and yet 
not enough to command the more brilliant and special 
forms of distraction are supplied -with public libraries, 
gymnasiums, free medical advice regarding the laws of 
hygiene in places where they cannot fail to see it, new 
forms of cheap amusement; they are subtly encouraged 
to take up useful work or study ; or there are increasing 
pressures which may force even this semi-leisure class 
to work for luxuries if not for bread. Tens of thousands 
of women are led into the passionate diversions of 
club life. For them, too, polities with its fierce championships and hatreds and frictions; the necessity of 
concentration of thought on the impersonal plane if 
only in the matter of getting the best of rivals within 
the fold ; and if hair flies souls are saved. 
Over the Oldest Profession Mind still scratches its head 
in vain. It is ever hopeful, and hamstrings a sovereign 
patron, like alcohol, now and again ; but the lady at the 
wheel smiles, for here, in addition to the unquenchable 
maternal instinct, the ignorance of the poor, and the 
glamour that the men of certain races have learned to 
give to love, she has her clearest field. 
Aside from the women of commerce there are, of 
course, many secret rebels — now and then only does one 
make her exit from society through the courts. The vast 
majority of Anglo-Saxons in whatever clime or capital, 
suppress their "unrefined" appetites or vagrant fancies 
— which are vibrations from the wheel ; sometimes hard 
jerks when the presiding genius is more than commonly 
put of patience — and rise to serene heights or grow morbid and irritable according to the strength or the meagerness of their equipment ; or the nature of their resources. 
A cultivated resource is a persistent fiction that life is 
 
as it ought to be, not as it is, and it is no plan of theirs 
to read books or witness plays that might carve and 
populate a new groove in their brains. 
Let no one imagine that this class will become more 
"enlightened," "broader," as time goes on. Not for a 
century at least. Mind has made too great a success of 
this product ; she has practically achieved a complete triumph over the lady at the wheel. It is this class that 
has made civilization, progress, the solid thing it is to 
date. The excrescences, the deserters from the normal, 
scintillating or subtle, may be tolerated for the spice they 
give to life but they will never rule. 
Possibly they do not mind. Life is made up of compromises and compensations. 
American women in youth, of the visibly reputable 
world, may be freely divided into two classes, the over
-sexed and those that seem cold to themselves and others 
 until they are well into the period of their second youth 
— between twenty -four and thirty ; and a not inconsiderable number are so and permanently. In the first ease 
they either precipitate themselves into matrimony or 
have one or more intrigues until they find the man they 
wish to marry, when they settle down and make excellent wives. The others, if they are imaginative and high- 
minded, fall in love romantically and marry far too 
soon ; or they capitalize their youth or beauty and marry 
to the best advantage ; or they elect to live a life of serene 
spinsterhood like Alexina's Aunt Clara, and bring up the 
family children. A not inconsiderable number take their 
fling late. 
When the American girl of the super-refined class, and 
whose baleful norm in the crypt was asleep at the wheel 
in her first blind youth, finds herself disappointed in the 
most intimate partnership that exists, the complaisance, 
voluntary at the beginning, drifts into habit, more and 
more grimly endured. Some have the moral courage to 
put an end to it as they would to any false situation, 
/but if individuals were not rare in this world we should 
 
have chaos, not a civilization of sorts which is a pleasant 
place to plant the feet, however high into the clouds the 
head may poke its investigating nose. 
It is natural that with such women during the period 
of endurance all love should seem distasteful, and the 
mind dwell upon any other subject. But remove the 
cause of sex-inertia and there is likely to be the stir and 
awakening of spring after a long monotonous winter of 
hard frost and blanketing snow. Or a homelier simile: 
remove the cause of chronic indigestion and the appetite 
becomes fresh and normal. 
Thus Alexitia. 
CHAPTER "VI 
CAN FRANCISCO, commencing in September, has 
 three or four months of perfect weather. The cold 
fogs and winds cease to pay their daily visits, the rainy 
season awaits the new year. The skies are a deep and 
cloudless blue, the air is warm and soft and alluring, 
never too hot, although the overcoats of summer are discarded. 
The city lies bathed in golden sunlight or the sharp 
jeweled light of stars, when the moon is not blazing like 
a crystal bonfire. Then Mount Tamalpais and other 
mountains across the Bay and behind the city take on 
a chiseled outline that, particularly at night, makes them 
look curiously new, as if but yesterday heaved from the 
deep, and Nature too busy to provide them with a back- 
ground and the soft blurs of time for centuries to come. 
This primeval look of bare California mountains on clear 
nights has something sinister and menacing in its aspect 
as if at any moment they might once more brood alone 
over the earth. 
Alexina returned from abroad early in November and 
stood one morning outside her eucalyptus grove, revolving slowly on one heel, schoolgirl fashion, as she gazed 
up at the steep densely populated hUl that rose from 
the street below her own private little hill, and cut off 
her view of the hills of Berkeley and the mountains beyond; at the broad crowded valleys on the south; the 
range of hills that hid the Pacific Ocean, and included 
Mount Calvary with its cross and the symmetrical mass 
of Twin Peaks; the bare brown mountains of the north 
piling above the green sparkling bay with its wooded 
and military islands. 
Like a good and valiant Californian she was assuring 
herself that she had seen nothing like this in Europe, 
and that she really preferred it to art galleries and dilapidated old ruins. But as a matter of fact she had 
returned to California with dragging feet and was 
merely staving off the disheartening moment when her 
ruthless candor would force her to admit it. 
San Praneiseo was all very weU, and in this dazzling 
light that compact mass of houses swarming over the 
city's hills and valleys, with sudden palms in high gardens and a tree here and there, produced the impression 
that all were white with red roofs, and looked not unlike 
Genoa. But it seemed quite unromantie and uninspir- 
ing to a girl who had just paid her first brief visit to 
the old world, an interval, moreover, that had been without a responsibility, cut her off so completely from her 
general life that when variously addressed "Mademoi- 
selle," "Signorina," "Seiiorita," she ceased almost at 
once to feel either surprised or flattered. If she had not 
forbidden herself to dream she would stni have been 
Alexina Groome with a future to sketch with her own 
adventurous pencil ; and to fill in at her pleasure. 
But although she was free in a sense she was not free 
to live in Europe. She was a partner with a partner's 
obligations. To desert Mortimer would not only be to 
banish him from Ballinger House to dreary bachelor 
quarters, with none of the comforts and little luxuries 
he intensely loved, but it would also deprive him of his 
surest social prop. People had accepted him and liked 
him as well as they liked the totally uninteresting of 
the good old stock ; but many would drift into the habit 
 
of not inviting him to anything but large dances, if his 
wife were absent. Alexina knew that her invitations to 
all important and many small dinners, not avowedly 
bridge or poker parties, were as inevitable as crab in 
season ; but there were too many young men whom girls 
would infinitely prefer to enliven the monotony of crab 
a la poulette, to any married man, particularly one who 
had as little to say as poor Morty. She had known 
debutantes who flatly refused to dance with married men 
or even to be introduced to them. 
California was her fate. No doubt of that. She might 
never see Europe again, for while it was all very well to 
be a guest once it would be quite impossible another time. 
She certainly could not afford it herself and keep Ballinger House open, even for brief summer visits ; as she 
might if her home were in New York. 
Of course Mortimer might make his million, but then 
cigaii; he might not. Certainly there were no present 
signs of it and she had never seen him so depressed, not 
even during the panic of nineteen-seven. His eyes were 
as lifeless as slate, his voice was flat, although for that 
matter he was almost dumb. When at home he sat 
brooding heavily by the open western windows of the 
drawing-room, or moved restlessly about. To all her 
questions he replied shortly that the times were 
bad again, worse than ever; that he was holding 
his own, but was tired, tired, out. As she had 
not been there he had not cared to take a cottage 
by himself, and had paid few week-end visits. He had 
nothing to talk to women about and the men talked of 
nothing but the business depression. . . . Alexina had 
shrugged her shoulders and concluded that his attitude 
was a subtle reproach for leaving him to the dull cares 
of business while she enjoyed herself in Europe. 
She was not in the least sorry for Mortimer. He had 
been perfectly comfortable ; he had had his friends ; she 
had left him a sum of money which with the monthly 
rents from the flats would pay her share in the household 
expenses ; he could spend his free afternoons at the golf 
club by the ocean, and his evenings, when not invited 
out, at the temple of his idolatry on Nob Hill. James 
was a better housekeeper than she was and it was now 
two years that Mortimer had been living the life of a 
luxurious bachelor at the back of the house with an always amiable companion at breakfast and dinner. 
Alexina, as she stood shading her eyes from the brilliant sunlight and watching a great liner drift through 
the Golden Gate, wondered if Morty had consoled hisself, and if his Puritanical conscience were flaying him. 
She hoped that he had, for she was quite willing that he 
should be happy in his own way, poor thing, so long as 
he secluded his divagations from the world — and she 
could trust him to do that ! Now that she had ceased to be 
the complaisant bored wife with dull nerves and torpid 
imagination she would be the last to condemn him. Hu- 
man Nature was an ever opening book to her these days, 
and she wondered what would happen to herself if any 
of several men she liked were capable of making her love 
him, whipping up a personal storm in those emotional 
gulfs which had slowly and inflexibly intruded themselves upon her consciousness. 
She had pondered long and deeply on this subject, particularly in the old world where bonds seem looser to 
the mere observer whether they are or not, and where 
life looks to the American the quintessence of romance. 
. . . She had concluded that the most satisfactory experience that could come to her would be a mad love affair 
"in the air" with a man who possessed all the requirements to induce it, but who would either be the unsuspecting object, or, reciprocating, would continue to love 
her with the world between them. 
For she shrank from the disillusionments of secret 
libertinage; she did not, indeed, believe that love could 
survive it, although passion might for a time. Passion 
was unthinkable to her without love, and when she recalled the mean and sordid devices to which two of her 
friends were put to to meet their lovers she felt nothing 
but disgust for the whole drama of man and woman. 
Alexina had been reared on the soundest moral principles of church and society, to say nothing of the law, 
but the norm at the wheel has often laughed in her amiable way at church and society and law when circumstances have conspired to help her. But against fastidiousness even the blind urge of the race seldom has 
availed her ; she can only go on sullenly feeding the fires, 
heaping on the fuel, hoping grimly for the astrological 
moment. 
IV 
Alexina shrugged her shoulders impatiently and went 
into the house. She would go down to the bank and 
clip her coupons. She cultivated assiduously the practical side of life, making the most of it, delighted when 
repairs were needed on her flats, regretting that the 
greater part of her income came from ground rents, collected, as ever, by Tom Abbott, and bonds, from which 
she still experienced a childish pleasure in cutting the 
coupons. Her flats, which were in a humbler part of the 
western division of the city, she had never visited, 
but she received a call every month from the agent, who 
brought her the rents and complaints. 
She had made a heroic effort to turn herself into a 
business woman but the material had been too slender; 
and she sometimes wished for a large independent fortune that would tax her powers to the utmost. But she 
never even had any surplus to invest. Her wardrobe 
was no inconsiderable item; living prices rose steadily; 
there were repairs both on her own house and the flats 
to be anticipated every year, to say nothing of the flendish sum that must be set aside for taxes. But she managed to save the necessary amount; and if they lived 
somewhat extravagantly, at least she had never disturbed her capital. 
On the whole she knew they had managed very well for 
young people who lived so much in the world, and she 
had no intention of economizing further. They had no 
children. Her husband was young and energetic and 
healthy. Her own little fortune was secure. She purposed to enjoy life as best she could; and as she could 
not have done this quite selfishly and been happy, she ineluded among her yearly expenditures a certain admirable charity presided over by her equally admirable sister, 
and even visited it occasionally with her friends when a 
serious mood descended abruptly upon them. . . . She 
was now on the threshold of her second beautiful youth, 
and found herself and life far more interesting than 
when, a silly girl of eighteen, she had believed that all 
life and romance must be crowded into that callow period. She had no idea of sacrificing this new era vibrating with unknown possibilities (it was on the cards that 
she might resurrect Gathbroke from his ivory tomb; he 
would do admirably for her present needs, and when she 
found it difficult to visualize him after so long a period, 
she could pay Gora a sisterly visit) to a penurious attempt to increase her capital. At the same time she had 
no intention of diminishing it. To quote Tom Abbott 
(when Maria was elsewhere) : She might be a fool, or 
even a fool, but she was not a fool. 
She dressed herself in a black velvet suit made by her 
NeW York tailors. She had spent a fortnight with her 
brother Ballinger on her way home, and he had given her 
a set of silver fox: a large muff and two of those priceless animals head to head to keep a small section of her 
anatomy at blood heat in a climate never cold enough for 
furs. 
The day was hot. It was the sort of weather which 
on the opposite side of the continent arrives when spring 
is melting into summer and fortunate woman arrays herself in thin and dainty fabrics. But women everywhere 
with a proper regard for fashion rush the season, and 
autumn is the time to display the first smart habiliments 
of winter. No San Francisco woman of fashion would 
be guilty of comfortable garments in the glorious spring 
weather of November if she perished in her furs. 
The coat, bound with silk braid, was lined with periwinkle blue, and there was a touch of the same color in 
her large black velvet hat. Nothing could make the 
great irises of her black-gray eyes look blue, but they 
 
shone out, dazzling, under the drooping brim; and if 
she was, perchance, too warm above, her scant skirt, her 
thin silk stockings and low patent leather shoes struck 
the balance like a brilliant paradox. 
Alexina nodded approvingly at her image in the pier 
glass, found the key of her safe deposit box in the cabinet 
where she had left it, and went down to the smart little 
electric car which the gardener had brought to the door. 
CHAPTER VI 
ALEXINA stood alone in the strong room of the 
 bank leaning heavily against the wall with its endless rows of compartments from one of which she had 
taken the dispatch box in which she had kept her bonds. 
The box had fallen to the floor. If there had been 
any one in the room with her he would have started and 
turned as the box clanged with a hollow echo on the 
steel surface. 
The box was empty. 
It was a large box. It had contained forty thousand 
dollars' worth of bonds, nearly a third of her fortune. 
The securities were among the soundest the country 
afforded, for Alexander Groome, wild as he may have 
been when relieving the monotony of life with too many 
diversions, not the least of which was speculation, never 
made a mistake in his permanent investments ; and others 
had been bought with equal prudence by Judge Lawton 
or Tom Abbott. 
But the bonds had been negotiable. She recalled Tom 
Abbott's warning to keep them always in her safe deposit box and the key hidden. They might be traced if 
stolen, but State's Prison for the thief would be cold 
comfort if the bonds had been cashed and the money 
spent. 
She had always had one of the lighter Italian pieces 
in her bedroom, a beautiful cabinet of carved and gilded 
 
oak nearly black with age. Like all such it had a secret 
drawer and here she had kept her keys, and her jewels 
during the winter. 
Who knew of this secret drawer, which opened by 
pressing a certain little gilded face on the panel? . . . 
All her friends, of course: Aileen, Sibyl, Alice, Olive, 
Janet, Helene. . . . Unthinkable to have a secret drawer 
in an old Italian cabinet which had belonged to some 
Borgia or other, and not exhibit it to one's chosen friends. 
She had even shown it to Gora, but to no one else but 
Mortimer. She had kept his love letters in it for a time, 
written while the family was applying the polite methods 
of the modern inquisition at Kincona. They had remained there, forgotten, until her mother's death, when 
she had remembered the secret drawer as a safe hiding 
place for her keys and jewels ; which, with her mother's, 
had formerly reposed in the safe under the stairs. 
It was a deep drawer and when she was in town held 
the few valuable stones, reset, that she had inherited 
from her mother, besides the tine pieces she had received 
as wedding-gifts ; when all the old friends of the family 
out-did themselves, and not a few of the less distinguished but more opulent, whose tloora Alexina had 
graced while her mother slept. Her pearl necklace had 
been the present of her more intimate group of friends. 
Alexina was not a little proud of her collection of 
jewels, although she seldom wore anything but her 
