"I ain't. You're a crook; you won't talk. You're a gentleman, too.
They don't sell out a pal. Say, Hal, there's only one fella I don't
want to meet."

"Who's that, Mike?"

"Lemme tell you," continued Clinch, resting more heavily on the shelf
while Smith, looking out through the pantry shutter at the dancing,
listened intently.

"When I was in France in a Forestry Rig'ment," went on Clinch, lowering
his always pleasant voice, "I was to Paris on leave a few days before
they sent us home.

"I was in the washroom of a caffy--a-cleanin' up for supper, when
dod-bang! into the place comes a-tumblin' a man with two cops pushing
and kickin' him.

"They didn't see me in there for they locked the door on the man. He was
a swell gent, too, in full dress and silk hat and all like that, and a
opry cloak and white kid gloves, and mustache and French beard.

"When they locked him up he stood stock still and lit a cigarette, as
cool as ice. Then he begun walkin' around looking for a way to get out;
but there wasn't no way.

"Then he seen me and over he comes and talks English right away: 'Want
to make a thousand francs, soldier?' sez he in a quick whisper. 'You're
on,' sez I; 'show your dough.' 'Them Flics has went to get the
Commissaire for to frisk me,' sez he. 'If they find this parcel on me I
do twenty years in Noumea. Five years kills anybody out there.' 'What do
you want I should do?' sez I, havin' no love for no cops, French or
other. 'Take this packet and stick it in your overcoat,' sez he. 'Go to
13 roo Quinze Octobre and give it to the concierge for José Quintana.'
And he shoves the packet on me and a thousand-franc note.

"Then he grabs me sudden and pulls open my collar. God, he was strong.

"'What's the matter with you?' says I. 'Lemme go or I'll mash your mug
flat.' 'Lemme see your identification disc,' he barks.

"Bein' in Paris for a bat, I had exchanged with my bunkie, Bill Hanson.
'Let him look,' thinks I; and he reads Bill's check.

"'If you fool me,' says he, 'I'll folly ye and I'll do you in if it
takes the rest of my life. You understand?' 'Sure,' says I, me tongue in
me cheek. 'Bong! Allez vous en!' says he.

"'How the hell,' sez I, 'do I get out of here?' 'You're a Yankee
soldier. The Flics don't know you were in here. You go and kick on that
door and make a holler.'

"So I done it good; and a cop opens and swears at me, but when he sees a
Yankee soldier was locked in the wash-room by mistake, he lets me out,
you bet."

Clinch smiled a thin smile, poured out three fingers of hooch.

"What else?" asked Smith quietly.

"Nothing much. I didn't go to no roo Quinze Octobre. But I don't never
want to see that fella Quintana. I've been waiting till it's safe to
sell--what was in that packet."

"Sell what?"

"What was in that packet," replied Clinch thickly.

"What was in it?"

"Sparklers--since you're so nosey."

"Diamonds?"

"And then some. I dunno what they're called. All I know is I'll croak
Quintana if he even turns up askin' for 'em. He frisked somebody. I
frisked him. I'll kill anybody who tries to frisk me."

"Where do you keep them?" enquired Smith naïvely.

Clinch looked at him, very drunk: "None o' your dinged business," he
said very softly.

The dancing had become boisterous but not unseemly, although all the men
had been drinking too freely.

Smith closed the pantry bar at midnight, by direction of Eve. Now he
came out into the ballroom and mixed affably with the company, even
dancing with Harvey Chase's sister once--a slender hoyden, all flushed
and dishevelled, with a tireless mania for dancing which seemed to
intoxicate her.

She danced, danced, danced, accepting any partner offered. But Smith's
skill enraptured her and she refused to let him go when her beau, a late
arrival, one Charlie Berry, slouched up to claim her.

Smith, always trying to keep Clinch and Quintana's men in view, took no
part in the discussion; but Berry thought he was detaining Lily Chase
and pushed him aside.

"Hold on, young man!" exclaimed Smith sharply. "Keep your hands to
yourself. If your girl don't want to dance with you she doesn't have
to."

Some of Quintana's gang came up to listen. Berry glared at Smith.

"Say," he said, "I seen you before somewhere. Wasn't you in Russia?"

"What are you talking about?"

"Yes, you was. You was an officer! What you doing at Clinch's?"

"What's that?" growled Clinch, shoving his way forward and shouldering
the crowd aside.

"Who's this man, Mike?" demanded Berry.

"Well, who do you think he is?" asked Clinch thickly.

"I think he's gettin' the goods on you, that's what I think," yelled
Berry.

"G'wan home, Charlie," returned Clinch. "G'wan, all o' you. The dance is
over. Go peaceable, every one. Stop that fiddle!"

The music ceased. The dance was ended; they all understood that; but
there was grumbling and demands for drinks.

Clinch, drunk but impassive, herded them through the door out into the
starlight. There was scuffling, horse-play, but no fighting.

The big Englishman, Harry Beck, asked for accommodations for his party
over night.

"Naw," said Clinch, "g'wan back to the Inn. I can't bother with you
folks to-night." And as the others, Salzar, Georgiades, Picquet and
Sanchez gathered about to insist, Clinch pushed them all out of doors in
a mass.

"Get the hell out o' here!" he growled; and slammed the door.

He stood for a moment with head lowered, drunk, but apparently capable
of reflection. Eve came from the melodeon and laid one slim hand on his
arm.

"Go to bed, girlie," he said, not looking at her.

"You also, dad."

"No.... I got business with Hal Smith."

Passing Smith, the girl whispered: "You look out for him and undress
him."

Smith nodded, gravely preoccupied with coming events, and nerving
himself to meet them.

He had no gun. Clinch's big automatic bulged under his armpit.

When the girl had ascended the creaking stairs and her door, above,
closed, Clinch walked unsteadily to the door, opened it, fished out his
pistol.

"Come on out," he said without turning.

"Where?" enquired Smith.

Clinched turned, lifted his square head; and the deadly glare in his
eyes left Smith silent.

"You comin'?"

"Sure," said Smith quietly.

But Clinch gave him no chance to close in: it was death even to swerve.
Smith walked slowly out into the starlight, ahead of Clinch--slowly
forward in the luminous darkness.

"Keep going," came Clinch's quiet voice behind him. And, after they had
entered the woods,--"Bear to the right."

Smith knew now. The low woods were full of sink-holes. They were headed
for the nearest one.

       

On the edge of the thing they halted. Smith turned and faced Clinch.

"What's the idea?" he asked without a quaver.

"Was you in Roosia?"

"Yes."

"Was you an officer?"

"I was."

"Then you're spyin'. You're a cop."

"You're mistaken."

"Ah, don't hand me none like that! You're a State Trooper or a Secret
Service guy, or a plain, dirty cop. And I'm a-going to croak you."

"I'm not in any service, now."

"Wasn't you an army officer?"

"Yes. Can't an officer go wrong?"

"Soft stuff. Don't feed it to me. I told you too much anyway. I was
babblin' drunk. I'm drunk now, but I got sense. D'you think I'll run
chances of sittin' in State's Prison for the next ten years and leave
Eve out here alone? No. I gotta shoot you, Smith. And I'm a-going to do
it. G'wan and say what you want ... if you think there's some kind o'
god you can square before you croak."

"If you go to the chair for murder, what good will it do Eve?" asked
Smith. His lips were crackling dry; he moistened them.

"Sink holes don't talk," said Clinch. "G'wan and square yourself, if
you're the church kind."

"Clinch," said Smith unsteadily, "if you kill me now you're as good as
dead yourself. Quintana is here."

"Say, don't hand me that," retorted Clinch. "Do you square yourself or
no?"

"I tell you Quintana's gang were at the dance to-night--Picquet, Salzar,
Georgiades, Sard, Beck, José Sanchez--the one who looks like a French
priest. Maybe he had a beard when you saw him in that café
wash-room----"

"What!" shouted Clinch in sudden fury. "What yeh talkin' about, you poor
dumb dingo! Yeh fixin' to scare me? What do you know about Quintana?
Are you one of Quintana's gang, too? Is that what you're up to, hidin'
out at Star Pond. Come on, now, out with it! I'll have it all out of you
now, Hal Smith, before I plug you----"

He came lurching forward, swinging his heavy pistol as though he meant
to brain his victim, but he halted after the first step or two and stood
there, a shadowy bulk, growling, enraged, undecided.

And, as Smith looked at him, two shadows detached themselves from the
trees behind Clinch--silently--silently glided behind--struck in utter
silence.

Down crashed Clinch, black-jacked, his face in the ooze. His pistol flew
from his hand, struck Smith's leg; and Smith had it at the same instant
and turned it like lightning on the murderous shadows.

"Hands up! Quick!" he cried, at bay now, and his back to the sink-hole.

Pistol levelled, he bent one knee, pushed Clinch over on his back, lest
the ooze suffocate him.

"Now," he said coolly, "what do you bums want of Mike Clinch?"

"Who are you?" came a sullen voice. "This is none o' your bloody
business. We want Clinch, not you."

"What do you want of Clinch?"

"Take your gun off us!"

"Answer, or I'll let go at you. What do you want of Clinch?"

"Money. What do you think?"

"You're here to stick up Clinch?" enquired Smith.

"Yes. What's that to you?"

"What has Clinch done to you?"

"He stuck us up, that's what! Now, are you going to keep out of this?"

"No."

"We ain't going to hurt Clinch."

"You bet you're not. Where's the rest of your gang?"

"What gang?"

"Quintana's," said Smith, laughing. A wild exhilaration possessed him.
His flanks and rear were protected by the sink-hole. He had Quintana's
gang--two of them--over his pistol.

"Turn your backs and sit down," he said. As the shadowy forms hesitated,
he picked up a stick and hurled it at them. They sat down hastily, hands
up, backs toward him.

"You'll both die where you sit," remarked Smith, "if you yell for help."

Clinch sighed heavily, stirred, groped on the damp leaves with his
hands.

"I say," began the voice which Smith identified as Harry Beck's, "if
you'll come in with us on this it will pay you, young man."

"No," drawled Smith, "I'll go it alone."

"It can't be done, old dear. You'll see if you try it on."

"Who'll stop me? Quintana?"

"Come," urged Beck, "and be a good pal. You can't manage it alone. We've
got all night to make Clinch talk. We know how, too. You'll get your
share----"

"Oh, stow it," said Smith, watching Clinch, who was reviving. He sat up
presently, and put both hands over his head. Smith touched him silently
on the shoulder and he turned his heavy, square head in a dazed way.
Blood striped his visage. He gazed dully at Smith for a little while,
then, seeming to recollect, the old glare began to light his pale eyes.

The next instant, however, Beck spoke again, and Clinch turned in
astonishment and saw the two figures sitting there with backs toward
Smith and hands up.

Clinch stared at the squatting forms, then slowly moved his head and
looked at Smith and his levelled pistol.

"We know how to make a man squeal," said Harry Beck suddenly. "He'll
talk. We can make Clinch talk, no fear! Leave it to us, old pal. Are you
with us?" He started to look around over his shoulder and Smith hurled
another stick and hit him in the face.

"Quiet there, Harry," he said. "What's my share if I go in with you?"

"One sixth, same's we all get."

"What's it worth?" asked Smith, with a motion of caution toward Clinch.

"If I say a million you'll tell me I lie. But it's nearer three--or you
can have my share. Is it a go?"

"You'll not hurt Clinch when he comes to?"

"We'll make him talk, that's all. It may hurt him some."

"You won't kill him?"

"I swear by God----"

"Wait! Isn't it better to shoot him after he squeals? Here's a lovely
sink-hole handy."

"Right-o! We'll make him talk first and then shove him in. Are you with
us?"

"If you turn your head I'll blow the face off you, Harry," said Smith,
cautioning Clinch to silence with a gesture.

"All right. Only you better make up your mind. That cove is likely to
wake up now at any time," grumbled Beck.

Clinch looked at Smith. The latter smiled, leaned over, and whispered:

"Can you walk all right?"

Clinch nodded.

"Well, we'd better beat it. Quintana's whole gang is in these woods,
somewhere, hunting for you, and they might stumble on us here, at any
moment." And, to the two men in front: "Lie down flat on your faces.
Don't stir; don't speak; or it's you for the sink-hole.... Lie down, I
tell you! That's it. Don't move till I tell you to."

Clinch got up from where he was sitting, cast one murderous glance at
the prostrate forms, then followed Smith, noiselessly, over the stretch
of sphagnum moss.

       

When they reached the house they saw Eve standing on the steps in her
night-dress and bare feet, holding a lantern.

"Daddy," she whimpered, "I was frightened. I didn't know where you had
gone----"

Clinch put his arm around her, turned his bloody face and looked at
Smith.

"It's this," he said, "that I ain't forgetting, young fella. What you
done for me you done for her.

"I gotta live to make a lady of her. That's why," he added thickly, "I'm
much obliged to you, Hal Smith.... Go to bed, girlie----"

"You're bleeding, dad?"

"Aw, a twig scratched me. I been in the woods with Hal. G'wan to bed."

He went to the sink and washed his face, dried it, kissed the girl, and
gave her a gentle shove toward the stairs.

"Hal and I is sittin' up talkin' business," he remarked, bolting the
door and all the shutters.

       

When the girl had gone, Clinch went to a closet and brought back two
Winchester rifles, two shot guns, and a box of ammunition.

"Goin' to see it out with me, Hal?"

"Sure," smiled Smith.

"Aw' right. Have a drink?"

"No."

"Aw' right. Where'll you set?"

"Anywhere."

"Aw' right. Set over there. They may try the back porch. I'll jest set
here a spell, n'then I'll kind er mosey 'round.... Plug the first fella
that tries a shutter, Hal."

"You bet."

Clinch came over and held out his hand.

"You said a face-full that time when you says to me, 'Clinch,' you says,
'Eve is a lady.' ... I gotta fix her up. I gotta be alive to do it....
That's why I'm greatly obliged to yeh, Hal."

He took his rifle and walked slowly toward the pantry.

"You bet," he muttered, "she is a lady, so help me God."




EPISODE THREE

ON STAR PEAK


I

Mike Clinch regarded the jewels taken from José Quintana as legitimate
loot acquired in war.

He was prepared to kill anybody who attempted to take the gems from him.

At the very possibility his ruling passion blazed--his mania to make of
Eve Strayer a grand lady.

But now, what he had feared for years had happened. Quintana had found
him,--Quintana, after all these years, had discovered the identity and
dwelling place of the obscure American soldier who had robbed him in the
wash-room of a Paris café. And Quintana was now in America, here in this
very wilderness, tracking the man who had despoiled him.

       

Clinch, in his shirt-sleeves, carrying a rifle, came out on the log
veranda and sat down to think it over.

He began to realise that he was likely to have trouble with a man as
cold-blooded and as dogged as himself.

Nor did he doubt that those with Quintana were desperate men.

On whom could he count? On nobody unless he paid their hire. None among
the lawless men who haunted his backwoods "hotel" at Star Pond would
lift a finger to help him. Almost any among them would have robbed
him,--murdered him, probably,--if it were known that jewels were hidden
in the house.

He could not trust Jake Kloon; Leverett was as treacherous as only a
born coward can be; Sid Hone, Harvey Chase, Blommers, Byron
Hastings,--he knew them all too well to trust them,--a sullen,
unscrupulous pack, partly cowardly, always fierce,--as are any creatures
that live furtively, feed only by their wits, and slink through life
just outside the frontiers of law.

And yet, one of this gang had stood by him--Hal Smith--the man he
himself had been about to slay.

Clinch got up from the bench where he had been sitting and walked down
to the pond where Hal Smith sat cleaning trout.

"Hal," he said, "I been figuring some. Quintana don't dare call in the
constables. I can't afford to. Quintana and I've got to settle this on
our own."

Smith slit open a ten-inch trout, stripped it, flung the entrails out
into the pond, soused the fish in water, and threw it into a milk pan.

"Whose jewels were they in the beginning?" he enquired carelessly.

"How do I know?"

