hear of a little girl who went to take a walk once upon a 
time, and had an unlucky fall into a brook ? — and then went 
to a kind old lady's house where she was dried and put to 
bed and went to sleep." 

" yes," said Ellen. " Did you see me there ma'am, and 
when I was asleep ?" 

" I saw you there when you were asleep ; and Mrs. Van 
Brunt told me who you were and where you lived ; and when 
I came here a little while ago I knew you again very soon. 
And I knew what the matter was too, pretty well ; but nevertheless tell me all about it Ellen ; perhaps I can help you." 

Ellen shook her head dejectedly. " Nobody in this world 
can help me," she said. 

" Then there's one in heaven that can," said the lady 
steadily. " Nothing is too bad for him to mend. Have you 
asked his help, Ellen ?" 

Ellen began to weep again. " Oh, if I could I would tell 
you all about it, ma'am," she said ; " but there are so many 
things, I don't know where to begin, I don't know when I 
should ever get through." 

" So many tilings that trouble you, Ellen ?" 

" Yes, ma'am." 

"I am sorry for that indeed. But never mind, dear, tell 
me what they are. Begin with the worst, and if I haven't 
time to hear them all now I'll find time another day. Begin 
with the worst." 

But she waited in vain for an answer, and became distressed herself at Ellen's distress, which was extreme. 

" Don't cry so, my child, — don't cry so," she said, pressing her in her arms. " What is the matter ? hardly anything 
in this world is so bad it can't be mended. I think I know 
what troubles you so — it is that your dear mother is away 
from you, isn't it?" 

" Oh no, ma'am !" — Ellen could scarcely articulate. But 







struggling with herself for a minute or two, she then spoke 
again and more clearly. 

" The worst is, — oh the worst is — that I meant — I meant — 
to be a good child, and I have been worse than ever I was 
in my life before." 

Her tears gushed forth. 

" But how, Ellen V said her surprised friend after a pause. 
" I don't quite understand you. When did you ' mean to be 
a good child ?' Didn't you always mean so ? and what have 
you been doing ?" 

Ellen made a great effort and ceased crying ; straightened 
herself ; dashed away her tears as if determined to shed no 
more ; and presently spoke calmly, though a choking sob 
every now and then threatened to interrupt her. 

" I will tell you, ma'am. That first day I left mamma — 
when I was on board the steamboat and feeling as badly as I 
could feel, a kind, kind gentleman, I don't know who he was, 
came to me and spoke to me, and took care of me the whole 
day. 0, if I could see him again ! He talked to me a great 
deal ; he wanted me to be a Christian ; he wanted me to 
make up my mind to begin that day to be one ; and ma'am, 
I did. I did resolve with my whole heart, and I thought I 
should be different from that time from what I had ever 
been before. But I think I have never been so bad in my 
life as I have been since then. Instead of feeling right I 
have felt wrong all the time, almost, — and I can't help it. 
I have been passionate and cross, and bad feelings keep com- 
ing, and I know it's wrong, and it makes me miserable. 
And yet, oh ! ma'am, I haven't changed my mind a bit, — 
I think just the same as I did that day ; I want to be a 
Christian more than anything else in the world, but I am 
not, — and what shall I do !" 

Her face sank in her hands again. 

" And this is your great trouble ?" said her friend. 

" Yes." 

" Do you remember who said, ' Come unto me all ye that 
labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest ?' " 
Ellen looked up inquiringly. 

" You are grieved to find yourself so unlike what you 
would be. You wish to be a child of the dear Savior and 
to have your heart filled with his love, and to do what will 







please him. Do you ? — Have you gone to him day by day, 
and night by night, and told him so ? — have you begged him 
to give you strength to get the better of your wrong feelings, 
and asked him to change you and make you his child ?" 

" At first I did, ma'am," — said Ellen in a low voice. 

" Not lately ?' 

" No, ma'am ;" in a low tone still and looking down. 
'« Then you have neglected your Bible and prayer for 
some time past ?" 

Ellen hardly uttered, " Yes." 
<< Why, my child ?" 

" I don't know, ma'am," said Ellen weeping, — " that is one 
of the things that made me think myself so very wicked. I 
couldn't like to read my Bible or pray either, though I always 
used to before. My Bible lay down quite at the bottom of 
my trunk, and I even didn't like to raise my things enough 
to see the cover of it. I was so full of bad feelings I didn't 
feel fit to pray or read either." 

" Ah ! that is the way with the wisest of us," said her 
companion ; " how apt we are to shrink most from our Physician just when we are in most need of him. But Ellen, 
dear, that isn't right. No hand but his can touch that sickness you are complaining of. Seek it, love, seek it. He will 
hear and help you, no doubt of it, in every trouble you cany 
simply and humbly to his feet ; — he has promised, you 
know." 

Ellen was weeping very much, but less bitterly than 
before ; the clouds were breaking and light beginning to 
shine through. 

" Shall we pra}^ together now ?" said her companion after 
a few minutes' pause. 

" Oh, if you please, ma'am, do !" Ellen answered through 
her tears. 

And they knelt together there on the moss beside the 
stone, where Ellen's head rested and her friend's folded 
hands were laid. It might have been two children speaking to 
their father, for the simplicity of that prayer ; difference of 
age seemed to be forgotten, and what suited one suited the 
other. It was not without difficulty that the speaker carried 
it calmly through, for Ellen's sobs went nigh to check her 
more than once. When they rose Ellen silently sought her 







friend's arms again, and laying her face on her shoulder and 
putting both arms round her neck, she wept still, — but 
what different tears ! It was like the gentle rain falling 
through sunshine, after the dark cloud and the thunder 
and the hurricane have passed by. And they kissed each 
other before either of them spoke. 

" You will not forget your Bible and prayer again, Ellen ?" 

" Oh no, ma'am." 

" Then I am sure you will find your causes of trouble 
grow less. I will not hear the rest of them now. In a day 
or two I hope you will be able to give me a very different 
account from what you would have done an hour ago ; but 
besides that it is getting late, and it will not do for us to stay 
too long up here ; you have a good way to go to reach 
home. Will you come and see me to-morrow afternoon ?" 

" Oh yes ma'am, indeed I will ! — if I can ; — and if you 
will tell me where." 

" Instead of turning up this little rocky path you must 
keep straight on in the road, — that's all ; and it's the first 
house you come to. It isn't very far from here. "Where 
were you going on the mountain ?" 

" Nowhere ma'am." 

" Have you been any higher up than this ?"
" No ma'am." 

" Then before we go away I want to show you something. 
I'll take you over the Bridge of the Nose ; it isn't but a step 
or two more ; a little rough to be sure, but you mustn't mind 
that." 

" What is the ' Bridge of the Nose,' ma'am ?" said Ellen, as 
they left her resting-place, and began to toil up the path which 
grew more steep and rocky than ever. 

" You know this mountain is called the Nose. Just here 
it runs out to a very thin sharp edge. We shall come to a 
place presently where you turn a very sharp corner to get 
from one side of the hill to the other ; and my brother named 
it jokingly the Bridge of the Nose." 

" Why do they give the mountain such a queer name ?" 
said Ellen. 

" I don't know, I am sure. The people say that from one 
point of view this side of it looks very like a man's nose ; but 
I never could find it out, and have some doubt about the fact. 







But now here we are ! Just come round this great rock, — 
mind how you step, Ellen, — now look there !" 

The rock they had just turned was at their backs, and they 
looked towards the west. Both exclaimed at the beauty be- 
fore them. The view was not so extended as the one they 
had left. On the north and south the broken wavy outline 
of mountains closed in the horizon ; but far to the west 
stretched an opening between the hills through which the 
setting sun sent his long beams, even to their feet. In the 
distance all was a golden haze ; nearer, on the right and left 
the hills were lit up singularly, and there was a most beautiful mingling of deep hazy shadow and bright glowing moun- 
tain sides and ridges. A glory was upon the valley. Far 
down below at their feet lay a large lake gleaming in the sun- 
light ; and at the upper end of it a village of some size 
showed like a cluster of white dots. 

" How beautiful !" said the lady again. " Ellen dear, — he 
whose hand raised up those mountains and has painted them 
so gloriously is the very same One who has said, to you and 
to me, ' Ask and it shall be given you.' " 

Ellen looked up ; their eyes met; her answer was in that 
grateful glance. 

The lady sat down and drew Ellen close to her. " Do you 
see that little white village yonder, down at the far end of 
the lake ? that is the village of Carra-carra ; and that is 
Carra-carra lake ; that is where I go to church ; you cannot 
see the little church from here. My father preaches there 
every Sunday morning." 

" You must have a long way to go," said Ellen. 

" Yes — a pretty long way, but it's very pleasant though. 
I mount my little gray pony, and he carries me there in quick 
time, when I will let him. I never wish the way shorter. I 
go in all sorts of weathers too, Ellen ; Sharp and I don't mind 
frost and snow." 

« Who is Sharp ?" said Ellen. 

" My pony. An odd name, isn't it. It wasn't of my 
choosing, Ellen, but he deserves it if ever pony did. He's a 
very cunning little fellow. Where do you go, Ellen ? to 
Thirlwall?" 

" To church, ma'am ? — I do'nt go anywhere." 

" Doesn't your aunt go to church ?" 
9* 







" She hasn't since I have been here." 

" What do you do with yourself on Sunday ?" 

" Nothing ma'am ; I don't know what to do with myself 
all the day long. I get tired of being in the house, and 
I go out of doors, and then I get tired of being out of 
doors and come in again. I wanted a kitten dreadfully, 
but Mr. Van Brunt said aunt Fortune would not let me keep 
one. 

" Did you want a kitten to help you keep Sunday, Ellen ?" 
said her friend smiling. 

" Yes I did ma'am," said Ellen, smiling again ; — " I thought 
it would be a great deal of company for me. I got very 
tired of reading all day long, and I had nothing to read but 
the Bible ; and you know ma'am I told you I have been all 
wrong ever since I came here, and I didn't like to read that 
much." 

" My poor child !" said the lady, — " you have been hardly 
bestead I think. What if you were to come and spend next 
Sunday with me ? Don't you think I should do instead of a 
kitten ?"

" yes ma'am, I am sure of it," said Ellen clinging to 
her. " I'll come gladly if you will let me, — and if aunt 
Fortune will let me ; and I hope she will, for she said last 
Sunday I was the plague of her life." 

" What did you do to make her say so ? ' said her friend 
gravely. 

" Only asked her for some books ma'am." 

"'Well my dear, I see I am getting upon another of your 
troubles, and we haven't time for that now. By your own 
account you have been much in fault yourself; and I trust 
you will find all things mend with your own mending. But 
now there goes the sun ! — and you and I must follow his 
example." 

The lake ceased to gleam, and the houses of the village 
were less plainly to be seen ; still the mountain heads were 
as bright as ever. Gradually the shadows crept up their 
sides while the gray of evening settled deeper and deeper 
upon the valley. 

" There," said Ellen, — " that's just what I was wondering 
at the other morning ; only then the light shone upon the 
top of the mountains first and walked down, and now it leaves 







the bottom first and walks up. I asked Mr. Van Brunt 
about it and he could not tell me. That's another of my 
troubles, — there's nobody that can tell me anything." 

" Put me in mind of it to-morrow, and I'll try to make you 
understand it," said the lady, "but we must not tarry now. 
I see you are likely to find me work enough Ellen." 

" I'll not ask you a question ma'am, if you don't like it," 
said Ellen earnestly. 

" I do like, I do like," said the other. " I spoke laugh- 
ingly, for I see you will be apt to ask me a good many. As 
many as you please, my dear." 

" Thank you ma'am," said Ellen, as they ran down the 
hill ; " they keep coming into my head all the while." 

It was easier going down than coming up. They soon arrived at the place where Ellen had left the road to take the 
wood -path." . 

" Here we part," said the lady. " Good night!" 

" Good night, ma'am." 

There was a kiss and a squeeze of the hand, but when 
Ellen would have turned away the lady still held her fast. 

" You are an odd little girl," said she. " I gave you 
liberty to ask me questions." 

" Yes ma'am," said Ellen doubtfully. 

" There is a question you have not asked me that I have 
been expecting. Do you know who I am ?" 

" No ma'am." 

" Don't you want to know ?" 

"Yes ma'am, very much," said Ellen, laughing at her 
friend's look, " but mamma told me never to try to find out 
anything about other people that they didn't wish me to 
know, or that wasn't my business." 

" Well I think this is your business decidedly. Who are 
you going to ask for when you come to see me to-morrow ? 
Will you ask for ' the young lady that lives in this house ?' 
or will you give a description of my nose and eyes and 
inches ?" 

Ellen laughed. 

" My dear Ellen," said the lady changing her tone, " do 
you know you please me very much ? For one person that 
shows herself well-bred in this matter there are a thousand I 
think that ask impertinent questions. I am very glad you are 







an exception to the common rule. But dear Ellen I am quite 
willing you should know my name — it is Alice Humphreys. 
Now kiss me again and run home ; it is quite, quite time ; 
I have kept you too late. Good night, my dear ! Tell your 
aunt I beg she will allow you to take tea with me to-morrow." 

They parted ; and Ellen hastened homewards, urged by 
the rapidly growing dusk of the evening. She trode the 
green turf with a step lighter and quicker than it had been a 
few hours before, and she regained her home in much less 
time than it had taken her to come from thence to the mountain. Lights were in the kitchen, and the table set ; but 
though weary and faint she was willing to forego her supper 
rather than meet her aunt just then ; so she stole quietly up 
to her room. She did not forget her friend's advice. She 
had no light ; she could not read ; but Ellen did pray. She 
did carry all her heart-sickness, her w r ants, and her woes, to 
that friend whose ear is always open to hear the cry of those 
who call upon him in truth ; and then, relieved, refreshed, 
almost healed, she went to bed and slept sweetly. 



CHAPTER XVI. 



After long storms and tempests overblowne, 
The sunne at length his ioyous face doth cleare ; 
So whenas fortune all her spight hath showne, 
Some blissfull houres at last must needs appeare ; 
Else should afflicted wights oft-times despeire. 

Faerie Queene. 

Early next morning Ellen awoke with a sense that something pleasant had happened. Then the joyful reality darted 
into her mind, and jnmping out of bed she set about her 
morning work with a better heart than she had been able to 
bring to it for many a long day. When she had finished she 
went to the window. She had found out how to keep it 
open now, by means of a big nail stuck in a hole under the 
sash. It was very early, and in the perfect stillness the soft 
gurgle of the little brook came distinctly to her ear. Ellen 
leaned her arms on the window-sill, and tasted the morning 
air ; almost wondering at its sweetness and at the loveliness 
of field and sky and the bright eastern horizon. For days 
and days all had looked dark and sad. 

There were two reasons for the change. In the first place 
Ellen had made up her mind to go straight on in the path of 
duty ; in the second place, she had found a friend. Her 
little heart bounded with delight and swelled with thankfulness at the thought of Alice Humphreys. She was once 
more at peace with herself, and had even some notion of 
being by and by at peace with her aunt; though a sad 
twinge came over her whenever she thought of her mother's 
letter. 

"But there is only one way for me," she thought; "I'll 
do as that dear Miss Humphreys told me — it's good and early, 
and I shall have a fine time before breakfast yet to myself. 







And I'll get up so every morning and have it ! — that'll be 
the very best plan I can hit upon." 

As she thought this she drew forth her Bible from its place 
at the bottom of her trunk ; and opening it at hazard she 
began to read the 18th chapter of Matthew. Some of it she 
did not quite understand ; but she paused with pleasure at 
the 14th verse. "That means me," she thought. The 21st 
and 22nd verses struck her a good deal, but when she came 
to the last she was almost startled. 

" There it is again !" she said. " That is exactly what 
that gentleman said to me. I thought I was forgiven, but 
how can I be, for I feel I have not forgiven aunt Fortune." 

Laying aside her book, Ellen kneeled down ; but this one 
thought so pressed upon her mind that she could think of 
scarce anything else ; and her prayer this morning was an 
urgent and repeated petition that she might be enabled " from 
her heart " to forgive her aunt Fortune ** all her trespasses." 
Poor Ellen ! she felt it was very hard work. At the very 
minute she was striving to feel at peace with her aunt, one 
grievance after another would start up to remembrance, and 
she knew the feelings that met them were far enough from 
the spirit of forgiveness. In the midst of this she was called 
down. She rose with tears in her eyes, and " what shall I 
do?" in her heart. Bowing her head once more she earnestly prayed that if she could not yet feel right towards her 
aunt, she might be kept at least from acting or speaking 
wrong. Poor Ellen ! In the heart is the spring of action ; 
and she found it so this morning. 

Her aunt and Mr. Van Brunt were already at the table. 
Ellen took her place in silence, for one look at her aunt's 
face told her that no " good morning " would be accepted. 
Miss Fortune was in a particularly bad humour, owing among 
other things to Mr. Van Brunt's having refused to eat his 
breakfast unless Ellen were called. An unlucky piece of 
kindness. She neither spoke to Ellen nor looked at her ; Mr. 
Van Brunt did what in him lay to make amends. He helped 
her very carefully to the cold pork and potatoes, and handed 
her the well-piled platter of griddle-cakes. 

" Here's the first buckwheats of the season," said he, — 
" and I told Miss Fortune I warn't a going to eat one on 'em 
if you didn't come down to enjoy 'em along with us. 





Take two — take two ! — you want 'em to keep each other 
hot." 

Ellen's look and smile thanked him, as following his advice 
she covered one generous " buckwheat " with another as 
ample. 

" That's the thing ! Now here's some prime Maple. You 
like 'em I guess, don't you?" 

" I don't know yet — I have never seen any," said Ellen. 

" Never seen buckwheats ! why they're 'most as good as 
my mother's splitters. Buckwheat cakes and maple molasses, 
— that's food fit for a king, I think — when they're good ; 
and Miss Fortune's is always first-rate." 

Miss Fortune did not relent at all at this compliment. 

" What makes you so white this morning ?" Mr. Van 
Brunt presently went on ; — " you aint well, be you ?" 

" Yes," — said Ellen doubtfully, — I'm well — 

" She's as well as I am, Mr. Van Brunt, if you don't go 
and put her up to any notions !" Miss Fortune said in a kind 
of choked voice. 

Mr. Van Brunt hemmed, and said no more to the end of 
breakfast-time. 

Ellen rather dreaded what was to come next, for her aunt's 
look was ominous. In dead silence the things were put 
away, and put up, and in course of washing and drying, 
when Miss Fortune suddenly broke forth. 

" What did you do with yourself yesterday afternoon?" 

" I was up on the mountain," said Ellen. 

" What mountain ?" 

" I believe they call it the * Nose.' " 

" What business had you up there ?" 

" I hadn't any business there." 

" What did you go there for?'' 

" Nothing." 

" Nothing ! — you expect me to believe that ? you call 
yourself a truth-teller, I suppose ?" 

" Mamma used to say I was," said poor Ellen, striving to 
swallow her feelings. 

" Your mother ! — I dare say — mothers always are blind. 
I dare say she took everything you said for gospel !" 

Ellen was silent, from sheer want of words that were pointed 
enough to suit her. 







" I wish Morgan could have had the gumption to marry 
in his own country ; but he must go running after a Scotch- 
woman ! A Yankee would have brought up his child to be 
worth something. Give me Yankees ! 

Ellen set down the cup she was wiping. 

" You don't know anything about my mother," she said. 
" You oughtn't to speak so — it's not right." 

"Why aint it right, I should like to know?" said Miss 
Fortune ; — " this is a free country, I guess. Our tongues aint 
tied — we're all free here." 

" I wish we were," muttered Ellen;—" I know what I'd 
do." 

" What would you do ?" said Miss Fortune. 
Ellen was silent. Her aunt repeated the question in a 
sharper tone. 

" I oughtn't to say what I was going to," said Ellen ; — 
" I'd rather not. ' 

" I don't care," said Miss Fortune, " you began, and you 
shall finish it. I will hear what it was." 

" I was going to say, if we were all free I would run 
away." 

" Well that is a beautiful, well-behaved speech ! I am 
glad to have heard it. I admire it very much. Now what 
were you doing yesterday up on the Nose ? Please to go on 
wiping. There's a pile ready for you. What were you 
doing yesterday afternoon ?" 

Ellen hesitated. 

" Were you alone or with somebody ?" 

" I was alone part of the time." 

" And who were you with the rest of the time ?" 

" Miss Humphreys." 

" Miss Humphreys ! — what were you doing with her ?" 
"Talking." 

" Did you ever see her before ?" 
" No ma'am." 

" Where did you find her ?" 
" She found me, up on the hill." 
" What were you talking about ?" 
Ellen was silent. 

" What were you taking about ?" repeated Miss Fortune. 
" I had rather not tell." 







" And I had rather you should tell — so out with it." 

" I was alone with Miss Humphreys," said Ellen ; " and 
it is no matter what we were talking about — it doesn't concern anybody but her and me." 

" Yes it does, it concerns me," said her aunt, " and I 
choose to know ; — what were you talking about ?" 

Ellen was silent. 

" Will you tell me ?" 

"No," said Ellen, low but resolutely. 

" I vow you're enough to try the patience of Job ! Look 
here," said Miss Fortune, setting down what she had in her 
hands, — " I will know ! I don't care what it was, but you 
shall tell me or I'll find a way to make you. I'll give you 
such a " 

''Stop ! stop !" said Ellen wildly, — "you must not speak 
to me so ! Mamma never did, and you have no right to ! If 
mamma or papa were here you would not dare talk to me 
so." 

The answer to this was a sharp box on the ear from Miss 
Fortune's wet hand. Half stunned, less by the blow than 
the tumult of feeling it roused, Ellen stood a moment, and 
then throwing down her towel she ran out of the room, 
shivering with passion, and brushing off the soapy water left 
on her face as if it had been her aunt's very hand. Violent 
tears burst forth as soon as she reached her own room, — 
tears at first of anger and mortification only ; but conscience 
presently began to whisper, " You are wrong ! you are 
wrong !" — and tears of sorrow mingled with the others. 

" Oh," said Ellen, "why couldn't I keep still! — when I 
had resolved so this morning, why couldn't I be quiet ! — 
But she ought not to have provoked me so dreadfully, — I 
couldn't help it." " You are wrong," said conscience again, 
and her tears flowed faster. And then came back her morn- 
ing trouble — the duty and the difficulty of forgiving. Forgive 
her aunt Fortune ! — with her whole heart in a passion of 
displeasure against her. Alas ! Ellen began to feel and acknowledge that indeed all was wrong. But what to do? 
There was just one comfort, the visit to Miss Humphreys in 
the afternoon. " She will tell me," thought Ellen ; " she 
will help me. But in the mean while ?" 

Ellen had not much time to think ; her aunt called her 







down and set her to work. She was very busy till dinner 
time, and very unhappy ; but twenty times in the course of 
the morning did Ellen pause for a moment, and covering her 
face with her hands pray that a heart to forgive might be 
given her. 

As soon as possible after dinner she made her escape to 
her room that she might prepare for her walk. Conscience 
was not quite easy that she was going without the knowledge 
of her aunt. She had debated the question with herself, and 
could not make up her mind to hazard losing her visit. 

So she dressed herself very carefully. One of her dark 
merinos was affectionately put on ; her single pair of white 
stockings ; shoes, ruffle, cape, — Ellen saw that all was faultlessly neat, just as her mother used to have it ; and the nice 
blue hood lay upon the bed ready to be put on the last 
thing, when she heard her aunt's voice calling. 

" Ellen ! — come down and do your ironing — right away, 
now ! the irons are hot." 

For one moment Ellen stood still in dismay ; then slowly 
undressed, dressed again, and went down stairs. 

" Come ! you've been an age," said Miss Fortune ; " now 
make haste ; there aint but a handful ; and I want to mop up." 

Ellen took courage again ; ironed away with right good 
will ; and as there was really but a handful of things she had 
soon done, even to taking off the ironing blanket and putting 
up the irons. In the meantime she had changed her mind as to 
stealing off without leave ; conscience was too strong for her ; 
and though with a beating heart, she told of Miss Humphreys' 
desire and her half engagement. 

" You may go where you like — I am sure I do not care 
what you do with yourself," was Miss Fortune's reply. 

Full of delight at this ungracious permission, Ellen fled up 
stairs, and dressing much quicker than before, was soon on 
her way. 

But at first she went rather sadly. In spite of all her 
good resolves and wishes, everything that day had gone 
wrong ; and Ellen felt that the root of the evil was in her 
own heart. Some tears fell as she walked. Further from 
her aunt's house, however, her spirits began to rise ; her foot 
fell lighter on the greensward. Hope and expectation quickened her steps ; and when at length she passed the little 







wood-path it was almost on a run. Not very far beyond 
that her glad eyes saw the house she was in quest of. 

It was a large white house ; not very white either, for its 
last dress of paint had grown old long ago. It stood close 
by the road, and the trees of the wood seemed to throng it 
round on every side. Ellen mounted the few steps that led 
to the front door and knocked ; but as she could only just 
reach the high knocker, she was not likely to alarm anybody 
with the noise she made. After a great many little faint 
raps, which if anybody heard them might easily have been 
mistaken for the attacks of some rat's teeth upon the wain- 
scot, Ellen grew weary of her fruitless toil and of standing on 
tiptoe, and resolved, though doubtfully, to go round the house 
and see if there was any other way of getting in. Turning 
the far corner, she saw a long low out-building or shed, jutting out from the side of the house. On the further side of 
this Ellen found an elderly woman, standing in front of the 
shed, which was there open and paved, and wringing some 
clothes out of a tub of water. She was a pleasant woman to 
look at, very trim and tidy, and a good-humored eye and 
smile when she saw Ellen. Ellen made up to her and asked 
for Miss Humphreys. 

4< Why where in the world did you come from ?" said 
the woman. " I don't receive company at the back of the 
house." 

" I knocked at the front door till I was tired," said Ellen, 
smiling in return. 

"Miss Alice must ha' been asleep. Now honey, you have 
come so far round to find me, will you go a little further and 
find Miss Alice ? Just go round this corner and keep straight 
along till you come to the glass door — there you'll find her. 
Stop ! — maybe she's asleep ; I may as well go along with 
you myself." 

She wrung the water from her hands and led the way. 

A little space of green grass stretched in front of the shed, 
and Ellen found it extended all along that side of the house 
like a very narrow law T n ; at the edge of it shot up the high 
forest trees ; nothing between them and the house but the 
smooth grass and a narrow worn footpath. The woods were 
now all brown stems, except here and there a superb hemlock and some scattered silvery birches. But the grass was 




still green, and the last day of the Indian summer hung its 
soft veil over all ; the foliage of the forest was hardly missed. 
They passed another hall door, opposite the one where Ellen 
had tried her strength and patience upon the knocker; a 
little further on they paused at the glass door. One step led 
to it. Ellen's conductress looked in first through one of the 
panes, and then opening the door motioned her to enter. 

" Here you are, my new acquaintance," said Alice smiling 
and kissing her. " I began to think something was the matter, you tarried so late. We don't keep fashionable hours in 
the country, you know. But I'm very glad to see you. 
Take off your things and lay them on that settee by the door. 
You see I've a settee for summer and a sofa for winter ; for 
here I am, in this room, at all times of the year ; and a very 
pleasant room I think it, don't you ?" 

" Yes, indeed I do ma'am," said Ellen, pulling off her last 
glove. 

" Ah, but wait till you have taken tea with me half a 
dozen times, and then see if you don't say it is pleasant. 
Nothing can be so pleasant that is quite new. But now come 
here and look out of this window, or door, whichever you 
choose to call it. Do you see what a beautiful view I have 
here ? The wood was just as thick all along as it is on the 
right and left ; I felt half smothered to be so shut in ; so I 
got my brother and Thomas to take axes and go to work 
there ; and many a large tree they cut down for me, till you 
see they opened a way through the woods for the view of that 
beautiful stretch of country. I should grow melancholy if I 
had that wall of trees pressing on my vision all the time ; it 
always comforts me to look off, far away, to those distant 
blue hills." 

" Aren't those the hills I was looking at yesterday ?" said 
Ellen. 

" From up on the mountain ? — the very same ; this is part 
of the very same view, and a noble view it is. Every 
morning, Ellen, the sun rising behind those hills shines in 
through this door and lights up my room ; and in winter he 
looks in at that south window, so I have him all the time. 
To be sure if I want to see him set I must take a walk for it, 
but that isn't unpleasant ; and you know we cannot have 
everything at once." 







It was a very beautiful extent of woodland, meadow, and 
hill, that was seen picture-fashion through the gap cut in the 
forest ; — the wall of trees on each side serving as a frame to 
shut it in, and the descent of the mountain, from almost the 
edge of the lawn, being very rapid. The opening had been 
skillfully cut ; the effect was remarkable and very fine ; the 
light on the picture being often quite different from that on 
the frame or on the hither side of the frame. 

" Now Ellen," said Alice turning from the window, " take 
a good look at my room. I want you to know it and feel at 
home in it ; for whenever you can run away from your aunt's 
this is your home, — do you understand ?" 

A smile was on each face. Ellen felt that she was understanding it very fast. 

" Here, next the door, you see, is my summer settee ; and 
in summer it very often walks out of doors to accommodate 
people on the grass-plat. I have a great fancy for taking tea 
out of doors Ellen, in warm weather ; and if you do not 
mind a mosquito or two I shall be always happy to have your 
company. That door opens into the hall ; look out and see, 
for I want you to get the geography of the house. — That 
odd-looking, lumbering, painted concern, is my cabinet of 
curiosities. I tried my best to make the carpenter man at 
Thirlwall understand what sort of a thing I wanted, and did 
all but show him how to make it ; but as the southerners say, 
* he hasn't made it right no how !' There I keep my dried 
flowers, my minerals, and a very odd collection of curious 
things of all sorts that I am constantly picking up. I'll show 
you them some day Ellen. Have you a fancy for curiosi- 
ties ?" 

" Yes ma'am, I believe so." 

" Believe so ! — not more sure than that ? Are you a lover 
of dead moths, and empty beetle-skins, and butterflies' wings, 
and dry tufts of moss, and curious stones, and pieces of ribbon-grass, and strange bird's nests ? These are some of the 
things I used to delight in when I was about as old as you." 

" I don't know ma'am,'' said Ellen. "I never was where 
I could get them." 

" Weren't you ! Poor child ! Then you have been shut 
up to brick walls and paving stones all your life ?" 

" Yes ma'am, all my life." 




" But now you have seen a little of the country, — don't 
you think you shall like it better ?" 
"Oa great deal better !" 

" Ah that's right. I am sure you will. On that other 
side, you see, is my winter sofa. It's a very comfortable 
resting-place I can tell you Ellen, as I have proved by many 
a sweet nap ; and its old chintz covers are very pleasant to 
me, for I remember them as far back as I remember anything." 

There was a sigh here ; but Alice passed on and opened a 
door near the end of the sofa. 

" Look in here, Ellen ; this is my bed-room." 
" how lovely !" Ellen exclaimed. 

The carpet covered only the middle of the floor ; the rest 
was painted white. The furniture was common but neat as 
wax. Ample curtains of white dimity clothed the three windows, and lightly draped the bed. The toilet-table was 
covered with snow-white muslin, and by the toilet-cushion 
stood, late as it was, a glass of flowers. Ellen thought it 
must be a pleasure to sleep there. 

" This," said Alice when they came out, — " between my 
door and the fire-place, is a cupboard. Here be cups and 
saucers, and so forth. In that other corner beyond the fire- 
place you see my flower-stand. Do you love flowers, 
Ellen ?" 

" I love them dearly, Miss Alice." 

" I have some pretty ones out yet, and shall have one or 
two in the winter ; but I can't keep a great many here ; I 
haven't room for them. I have hard work to save these from 
frost. There's a beautiful daphne that will be out by-and-by, 
and make the whole house sweet. But here, Ellen, on this 
side between the windows, is my greatest treasure — my pre- 
cious books. All these are mine. — Now my dear it is time to 
introduce you to my most excellent of easy chairs — the best 
things in the room, aren't they ? Put yourself in that — now 
do you feel at home ?" 

" Very much indeed, ma'am," said Ellen laughing, as Alice 
placed her in the deep easy chair. 

There were two things in the room that Alice had not 
mentioned, and while she mended the fire Ellen looked at 
them. One was the portrait of a gentleman, grave and good- 





looking ; this had very little of her attention. The other was 
the counter-portrait of a lady ; a fine dignified countenance 
that had a charm for Ellen. It hung over the fireplace in an 
excellent light ; and the mild eye and somewhat of a peculiar 
expression about the mouth bore such likeness to Alice, 
though older, that Ellen had no doubt whose it was. 

Alice presently drew a chair close to Ellen's side, and kissed her. 

" I trust my child," she said, " that you feel better to- 
day than you did yesterday ?" 

"I do, ma'am, — a great deal better," Ellen answered. 

" Then I hope the reason is that you have returned to your 
duty, and are resolved, not to be a Christian by-and-by, but 
to lead a Christian's life now ?" 

" I have resolved so ma'am, — I did resolve so last night 
and this morning, — but yet I have been doing nothing but 
wrong all to-day." 

Alice was silent. Ellen's lips quivered for a moment, and 
then she went on, 

" ma'am, how I have wanted to see you to-day to tell 
me what I should do ! I resolved and resolved this morning, 
and then as soon as I got down stairs I began to have bad 
