the better of difficulties, beginning to see a little through the 







mists of ignorance, making some sensible progress on the 
long road of learning. Study grew delightful ; her lessons 
with Alice one of her greatest enjoyments. And as they 
were a labor of love to both teacher and scholar, and as it 
was the aim of each to see quite to the bottom of every matter, where it was possible, and to leave no difficulties behind 
them on the road which they had not cleared away, no wonder Ellen went forward steadily and rapidly Reading also 
became a wonderful pleasure. Weems' Life of Washington 
was read, and read, and read over again, till she almost knew 
it by heart ; and from that she went to Alice's library, and 
ransacked it for what would suit her. Happily it was a well 
picked one, and Ellen could not light upon many books that 
would do her mischief. For those, Alice's wish was enough ; 
— she never opened them. Furthermore Alice insisted that 
when Ellen had once fairly begun a book she should go 
through with it ; not capriciously leave it for another, nor 
have half-a-dozen about at a time. But when Ellen had read 
it once she commonly wanted to go over it again, and seldom 
laid it aside until she had sucked the sweetness all out of it. 

As for drawing, it could not go on very fast while the cold 
weather lasted. Ellen had no place at home where she could 
spread out her paper and copies without danger of being disturbed. Her only chance was at the parsonage. John had 
put all her pencils in order before he went, and had left her 
an abundance of copies, marked as she was to take them. 
They, or some of them, were bestowed in Alice's desk ; and 
whenever Ellen had a spare hour or two, of a fine morning 
or afternoon, she made the best of her way to the mountain ; 
it made no difterence whether Alice were at home or not ; 
she went in, coaxed up the fire, and began her work. It 
happened many a time that Alice, coming home from a walk or 
a run in the woods, saw the little hood and cloak on the 
settee before she opened the glass door, and knew very well 
how she should find Ellen, bending intently over her desk. 
These runs to the mountain were very frequent ; sometimes 
to draw, sometimes to recite, always to see Alice and be 
happy. Ellen grew rosy and hardy, and in spite of her separation from her mother, she was very happy too. Her extreme and varied occupation made this possible. She had 
no time to indulge useless sorrow ; on the contrary, her 







thoughts were taken up with agreeable matters, either doing 
or to be done ; and at night she was far too tired and sleepy 
to lie awake musing. And besides, she hoped that her 
mother would come back in the spring, or the summer at 
farthest. It is true Ellen had no liking for the kind of business her aunt gave her ; it was oftentimes a trial of temper 
and patience. Miss Fortune was not the pleasantest work- 
mistress in the world, and Ellen was apt to wish to be doing 
somethinof else : but after all this was not amiss. Besides 
the discipline of character, these trials made the pleasant 
things with which they were mixed up seem doubly pleasant ; 
the disagreeable parts of her life relished the agreeable wonderfully. After spending the whole morning with Miss 
Fortune in the depths of housework, how delightful it was 
to forget all in drawing some nice little cottage with a bit of 
stone wall and a barrel in front ; or to go with Alice, in 
thought, to the south of France, and learn how the peasants 
manage their vines and make the wine from them ; or run over 
the Rock of Gibraltar with the monkeys ; or at another time, 
seated on a little bench in the chimney corner, when the fire 
blazed up well, before the candles were lighted, to forget the 
kitchen and the supper and her bustling aunt, and sail round 
the world with Captain Cook. Yes — these things were all the 
sweeter for being tasted by snatches. 

Spring brought new occupation ; household labors began 
to increase in number and measure ; her leisure times were 
shortened. But pleasures were increased too. When the 
snow went off, and spring-like days began to come, and birds' 
notes were heard again, and the trees put out their young 
leaves, and the brown mountains were looking soft and green, 
Ellen's heart bounded at the sight. The springing grass was 
lovely to see ; dandelions were marvels of beauty ; to her 
each wild wood-flower was a never to be enough admired 
and loved wonder. She used to take long rambles with Mr. 
Van Brunt when business led him to the woods, sometimes 
riding part of the way on the ox-sled. Always a basket for 
flowers wt.nt along ; and when the sled stopped, she would 
wander all around seeking among the piled-up dead leaves 
for the white wind-flower, and pretty little hang- head 
Uvularia, and dehcate blood-root, and the wild geranium and 
columbine ; and many others the names of which she did not 

 







know. They were like friends to Ellen ; she gathered them 
affectionately as well as admiringly into her little basket, and 
seemed to purify herself in their pure companionship. Even 
Mr. Van Brunt came to have an indistinct notion that Ellen 
and flowers were made to be together. After he found what 
a pleasure it was-to her to go on these expeditions, he made 
it a point, whenever he was bound to the woods of a fine 
day, to come to the house for her. Miss Fortune might 
object as she pleased ; he always found an answer ; and at 
last Ellen to her great joy would be told, " Well ! go get 
your bonnet and be off with yourself." Once under the 
shadow of the big trees, the dried leaves crackling beneath 
her feet, and alone with her kind conductor, — and Miss 
Fortune and all in the world that was disagreeable was forgotten — forgotten no more to be remembered till the walk 
should come to an end. And it would have surprised anybody to hear the long conversations she and Mr. Van Brunt 
kept up, — he, the silentest man in Thirl wall ! Their talk 
often ran upon trees, among which Mr, Van Brunt was at 
home, Ellen wanted to become acqujiinted with them, as 
well as with the little flowers that grew at their feet ; and 
he tried to teach her how to know each separate kind by the 
bark and leaf and manner of growth. The pine and hemlock and fir were easily learnt ; the white birch too; beyond 
those at first she was perpetually confounding one with another. Mr. Van Brunt had to go over and over his instruc- 
tions ; never weary, always vastly amused. Pleasant lessons 
these were ! Ellen thought so, and Mr. Van Brunt thought 
so too. 

Then there were walks with Alice, pleasanter still, if that 
could be. And even in the house Ellen managed to keep a 
token of spring-time. On her toilet-table, the three uncouth 
legs of which were now hidden by a neat dimity cover, there 
always stood a broken tumbler with a supply of flowers. 
The supply was very varied, it is true ; sometimes only a 
handful of dandelions, sometimes a huge bunch of lilac flowers, which could not be persuaded to stay in the glass without 
the help of the wail, against which it leaned in very undignified style ; sometimes the bouquet was of really dehcate and 
beautiful wild flowers. All were charming in Ellen's eyes. 
As the days grew long and the weather warm, Alice and 







she began to make frequent trips to the Cat's back, and 
French eame very much into fashion. They generally took 
Sharp to ease the long way, and rested themselves with a 
good stay on the mountain. Their coming was always a joy 
to the old lady. She was dearly fond of them both, and delighted to hear from their lips the language she loved best. 
After a time they spoke nothing else when with her. She 
was well qualified to teach them ; and indeed her general 
education had been far from contemptible, though nature had 
done more for her. As the language grew familiar to them, 
she loved to tell and they to hear long stories of her youth 
and native country, — scenes and people so very different from 
all Ellen had ever seen or heard of ; and told in a lively simple style which she could not have given in English, and with 
a sweet coloring of Christian thought and feeling. Many 
things made these visits good and pleasant. It was not the 
least of Alice's and Ellen's joy to carry their old friend something that might be for her comfort in her lonely way of life. 
For even Miss Fortune now and then told Ellen "she might 
take a piece of that cheese along with her;" or "she wondered if the old lady would like a little fresh meat? — she 
guessed she'd cut her a bit of that nice lamb ; she wouldn't 
want but a little piece." A singluar testimony this was to 
the respect and esteem Mrs. Vawse had from everybody. 
Miss Fortune very, very seldom was known to take a bit from 
her own comforts to add to those of another. The ruling 
passion of this lady was thrift ; her next, good housewifery. 
First, to gather to herself and heap up of what the world 
most esteems ; after that, to be known as the most thorough 
house-keeper and the smartest woman in Thirlwall, 

Ellen made other visits she did not like so well. In the 
course of the winter and summer she became acquainted with 
m#st of the neighborhood. She sometimes went with her 
aunt to a formal tea-drinking, one, two, three, or four miles 
off, as the case might be. They were not very pleasant. To 
some places she was asked by herself ; and though the peo- 
ple invariably showed themselves very kind, and did their best 
to please her, Ellen seldom cared to go a seco'id time ; liked 
even home and Miss Fortune better. There were a few exceptions ; Jenny Hitchcock was one of her favorites, and 
Jane Huff was another ; and all of their respective families 




came in, with good reason, for a share of her regard, Mr. 
Juniper indeed excepted. Once they went to a quilting at 
Squire Dennison's ; the house was spotlessly neat and well 
ordered ; the people all kind ; but Ellen thought they did not 
seem to know how to be pleasant. Dan Dennison alone had 
no stiffness about him. Miss Fortune remarked with pride 
that even in this family of pretension, as she thought it, the 
refreshments could bear no comparison with hers. Once they 
were invited to tea at the Lawsons' ; but Ellen told Alice, 
with much apparent disgust, that she never wanted to go 
again. Mrs. Van Brunt she saw often. To Thirlwall Miss 
Fortune never went. 

Twice in the course of the summer Ellen had a very great 
pleasure in the company of little Ellen Chauncey. Once 
Miss Sophia brought her, and once her mother ; and the last 
time they made a visit of two weeks. On both occasions 
Ellen was sent for to the parsonage and kept while they stayed ; 
and the pleasure that she and her little friend had together 
cannot be told. It was unmixed now. Rambling about 
through the woods and over the fields, no matter where, it 
was all enchanting ; helping Alice garden ; helping Thomas 
make hay, and the mischief they did his haycocks by tum- 
bling upon them, and the patience with which he bore it ; the 
looking for eggs ; the helping Margery churn, and the helping each other set tables ; the pleasant mornings and pleasant 
evenings and pleasant mid-days, — it cannot be told. Long 
to be remembered, sweet and pure, was the pleasure of tliose 
summer days, unclouded by a shade of discontent or disa- 
greement on either brow. Ellen loved the whole Marshman 
family now, for the sake of one, the one she had first known ; 
and little Ellen Chauncey repeatedly told her mother in private that Ellen Montgomery was the very nicest girl she had 
ever seen. They met W'ith joy and parted with sorrow, entreating and promising, if possible, a speedy meeting again. 

Amidst all the improvement and enjoyment of these summer months, and they had a great deal of both for Ellen, there 
was one cause of sorrow she could not help feeling, and it began 
to press more and more. Letters, — they came slowly, — and 
when they came they were not at all satisfactory. Those in 
her mother's hand dwindled and dwindled, till at last there 
came only mere scraps of letters from her ; and sometimes 







after a long interval one from Captain Montgomery would 
come alone. Ellen's heart sickened with long-deferred hope. 
She wondered what could make her mother neglect a matter 
so necessary for her happiness ; sometimes she fancied they 
were traveling about, and it might be inconvenient to wi-ite ; 
sometimes she thought, perhaps they were coming home with- 
out letting her know, and would suddenly surprise her some 
day and make her half lose her wits with joy.- But they did not 
come, nor write ; and whatever was the reason, Ellen felt it 
was very sad, and sadder and sadder as the summer went on. 
Her own letters became pitiful in their supplications for letters ; they had been very cheerful and filled with encouraging matter, and in part they were still. 
For a while her mind was diverted from this sad subject, 
and her brow cleared up, when John came home in August. 
As before, Alice gained Miss Fortune's leave to keep her at 
the parsonage the whole time of his stay, which was several 
weeks. Ellen wondered that it was so easily granted, but she 
was much too happy to spend time in thinking about it. Miss 
Fortune had several reasons. She was unwilhng to displease 
Miss Humphreys, and conscious that it would be a shame to 
her to stand openly in the way of Ellen's good. Besides, 
though Ellen's services were lost for a time, yet she said she 
got tired of setting her to work ; she liked to dash round the 
house alone, without thinking what somebody else was doing 
or ought to be doing. In short she liked to have her out of 
the way for a while. Furthermore, it did not please her that 
Mr. Van Brunt and her little handmaid were, as she expressed it, "so thick." His first thought and his last thought, she 
said, she believed were for Ellen, whether he came in or went 
out ; and Miss Fortune was accustomed to be chief, not only 
in her own house, but in the regards of all who came to it. 
At any rate the leave was granted and Ellen went. 

And now was repeated the pleasure of the first week in January. It would have been increased, but that increase was not 
possible. There was only the difference between lovely winter 
and lovely summer weather ; it was seldom very hot in Thirl wall. 
The fields and hills were covered with green instead of white; 
fluttering leaves had taken the place of snow-covered sprays 
and sparkling icicles ; and for the keen north and brisk north- 
wester, soft summer airs were blowing. Ellen saw no othej 







difference, — except that perhaps, if it could be, there was 
something more of tenderness in the manner of Alice and her 
brother towards her. No little sister could have been more 
cherished and cared for. If there was a change, Mr. Hum- 
phrej^s shared it. It is true he seldom took much part in 
the conversation, and seldomer was with them in an}' of their 
pursuits or pleasures. He generally kept by himself in his 
study. But whenever he did speak to Ellen his tone was 
particularly gentle and his look kind. He sometimes called 
her " My little daughter," which always gave Ellen great 
pleasure ; she would jump at such times with double zeal to 
do anything he asked her. 

Now drawing went on with new vigor under the eye of her 
master. A  many things beside. John took a great deal 
of pains wili, her in various ways. He made her read to him ; 
he helped her and Alice with their French ; he went with 
them to Mrs. Vawse's ; and even Mr. Humphreys went there 
too one afternoon to tea. How much Ellen enjoyed that 
afternoon ! They took with them a great basket of provisions, for Mrs. Vawse could not be expected to entertain so. 
large a party ; and borrowed Jenny Hitchcock's pony which 
with old John and Sharp mounted three of the company ; 
they took turns in walking. Nobody minded that. The fine 
weather, the beautiful mountain-top, the general pleasure, 
Mr. Humphreys' uncommon spirits and talkableness, the 
oddity of their way of traveling, and of a tea-party up on the 
" Cat's back," and furthermore, the fact that Nancy stayed at 
home and behaved very well the whole time, all together filled 
Ellen's cup of happiness, for the time, as full as it could 
hold. She never foigot that afternoon. And the ride home 
was the best of all. I'he sun was low by the time they 
reached the plain ; long shadows lay across their road ; the 
soft air just stirred the leaves on the branches ; stillness and 
loveliness were over all things ; and down the mountain and 
along the roads through the open country, the whole way, 
John walked at her bridle ; so kind in his care of her, so 
pleasant in his talk to her, teaching her how to sit in the saddle and hold the reins and whip, and much more important 
things too, that Ellen thought a pleasanter thing could not 
be than to ride so. After that they took a great many rides, 
borrowing Jenny's pony or some other, and explored the 







beautiful country far and near. And almost daily John had 
up Sharp and gave Ellen a regular lesson. She often thought, 
and sometimes looked, what she had once said to him, " I 
wish I could do something for you, Mr. John ;" — but he smiled 
at her and said nothing. 

At last he was gone. And in all the weeks he had been 
at home, and in many weeks before, no letter had come for 
Ellen. The thought had been kept from weighing upon her 
by the thousand pleasures that filled up every moment of his 
stay ; she could not be sad then, or only for a minute ; hope 
threw off the sorrow as soon as it was felt ; and slie forgot 
how time flew. But when his visit was over, and she went 
back to her old place and her old life at her aunt's, the old 
feeling came back in greater strength. She began again to 
count the days and the weeks ; to feel the bitter unsatisfied 
longing. Tears would drop down upon her Bible ; tears 
streamed from her eyes when she prayed that God would make 
her mother well and bring her home to her quickly, — oh 
quickly ! — and little Ellen's face began to wear once more 
something of its old look. 



CHAPTER XXXIV. 





One day in the early part of September, she was standing 
in front of the house at the little wicket that opened on the 
road. With her back against the open gate she was gently 
moving it to and fro, half enjoying the weather and the scene, 
half indulging the melancholy mood which drove her from 
the presence of her bustling aunt. The gurgling sound of the 
brook a few steps off was a great deal more soothing to her 
ear than Miss Fortune's sharp tones. By and by a horseman 
came in sight at the far end of the road, and the brook was 
forgotten. What made Ellen look at him so sharply ? Poor 
child, she was always expecting news. At first she could 
only see that the man rode a white horse ; then, as he came 
nearer, an odd looped-up hat showed itself, — and something 
queer in his hand, — what was it ? who is it ? — The old news- 
man ! Ellen was sure. Yes — she could now see his saddle- 
bags, and the white horse-tail set in a handle with which he 
was brushing away the flies from his horse ; the tin trumpet 
was in his other hand, to blow withal. He was a venerable 
old figure, with all his oddities ; clad in a suit of snuff brown, 
with a neat quiet look about him, he and the saddlebags and 
the white horse jogged on together as if they belonged to 
nothing else in the world but eacli other. In an ecstasy of 
fear and hope Ellen watched the pace of the old hoi se to see if 
it gave any sign of slackening near the gate. Her breath 
came short, she hardlv breathed at all, she was trembling: 
from head to foot. Would he stop, or was he going on ! 
Oh the long agony of two minutes ! — He stopped. Ellen 
went towards him. 







" What little gal is this ?" said he. 

" I am Ellen Montgomery, sir," said Ellen eagerly ; — " Misa 
Fortune's niece — I live here." 

Stop a bit," said the old man, taking up his saddlebags, — 
" Miss Fortune's niece, eh ? Well — I believe — as I've got 
somethin' for her — somethin' here — aunt well, eh ?" 

" Yes sir." 

" That's more than you be, aint it ?" said he, glancing 
sideways at Ellen's face. How do you know but I've got a 
letter for you here, eh ?" 

The color rushed to that face, and she clasped her hands. 

" No, dear, no," said he, — " I ha'n't got Hny for you — it's 
for the old lady — there, run in with it, dear." 

But Ellen knew before she touched it that it was a foreign 
letter, and dashed into the house with it. Miss Fortune 
coolly sent her back to pay the postage. 

" When she came in again her aunt was still reading the 
letter. But her look, Ellen felt, was unpromising. She did 
not venture to speak ; expectation was chilled. She stood 
till Miss Fortune began to fold up the paper. 

" Is there nothing for me ?" she said then timidly. 

-No." 

" why don't she write to me !" cried Ellen, bursting into 
tears. 

Miss Fortune stalked about the room without any particu- 
lar purpose, as far as could be seen. 

" It is very strange !" said Ellen sorrowfully, — " I am 
afraid she is worse — does papa say she is worse ?" 

-No." 

- if she had only sent me a message ! I should think 
she might ; I wish she had ! — three words ! — does papa 
say why she don't write?" 

- No." 

- It is very strange !" repeated poor Ellen. 

" Your father talks of coming home," said Miss Fortune, 
after a few minutes, during which Ellen had been silently 
weeping. 

" Home ! — Then she must be better !" said Ellen with new 
lifd ; "does papa say she is better?" 
" No." 

" But what does he mean ?" said Ellen uneasily ; — " I don't 






see what he means ; he doesn't say she is worse, and he 
doesn't say she is better, — what does he say ?" 

" He don't say much about anything." 
Does he say when they are coming home ?" 

Miss Fortune mumbled something about " Spring," and 
whisked oft" to the buttery ; Ellen thought no more was to 
be got out of her. She felt miserable. Her father and her 
aunt both seemed to act sti angely ; and where to find comfort she scarcely knew. She had one day been telling her 
doubts and sorrows to John. He did not try to raise her 
hopes, but said, " Troubles will come in this woi-ld, Ellie ; the 
best is to trust them and ourselves to our dear Saviour, and 
let trials drive us to him. Seek to love him more and to be 
patient under his will ; the good Shepherd means nothing but 
kindness to any lamb in his flock, — you may be sure of that, 
Ellie." 

Ellen remembered his words and tried to follow them now, 
but she could not be " patient under his will " yet, — not 
quite. It was very hard to be patient in such uncertainty. 
With swimming eyes she turned over her Bible in search of 
comfort, and found it. Her eye lit upon words she knew 
very well, but that were like the fresh sight of a friend's face 
for all that, — " Let not your heart be troubled ; ye believe in 
God, believe also in me. In my Father's house are many 
mansions." There is no parting there, thought little Ellen. 
She cried a long time ; but she was comforted nevertheless. 
The heart that rests on the blessed One who said those words 
can never be quite desolate. 

For several days things went on in the old train, only her 
aunt, she thought, was sometimes rather queer, — not quite as 
usual in her manner towards her. Wr. Van Brunt was not 
rather but very queer ; he scarce spoke or looked at Ellen ; 
bolted down his food and was off without a word ; and even 
stayed away entirely from two or three meals. She saw nobody else. Weather and other circumstances prevented her 
going to the mountain. 

One afternoon she was giving her best attention to a 
French lesson, when she heard herself called. Miss Fortune was in the lower kitchen dipping candles. Ellen ran 
down. 

" I don't know what's got into these candles," said Miss 







Fortune, — " I can't make 'em hang together ; the tallow aint 
good, I guess. Where's the nearest place they keep bees ?" 

" They have got bees at Mrs. Hitchcock's," said Ellen. 

" So they have in Egypt, for anything I know," said her 
aunt ; — " one would be about as much good now as t'other. 
Mrs. Lowndes ! — that aint far off. Put on your bonnet, 
El!en, and run over there, and ask her to let me have a little 
bees-wax. I'll pay her in something she hkes best." 

" Does Mrs. Lowndes keep bee-hives ?" said Ellen doubtfully. 

" No — she makes the bees- wax herself," said Miss Fortune, 
in the tone she always took when anybody presumed to suppose she might be mistaken in anything. 

" How much shall I ask her for ?" said Ellen. 
O I don't know — a pretty good piece." 

Ellen was not very clear what quantity this might mean. 
However she wisely asked no more questions, and set out 
upon her walk. It was hot and disagreeable ; just the time 
of day when the sun had most power, and Mrs. Lowndes' 
house was about half way on the road to Alice's. It was not 
a place where Ellen liked to go, though the people always 
made much of her ; she did not fancy them, and regularly 
kept out of their way when she could. Miss Mary Lawson 
was sitting with Mrs. Lowndes and her daughter when Ellen 
came in and briefly gave her aunt's message. 

" Bees-wax," said Mrs, Lowndes, — " well, I don't know — 
How much does she want ?" 

" I don't know, ma'am, exactly ; she said a pretty good 
piece." 

" What's it for ? do you know, honey ?" 

" I believe it's to put in some tallow for candles," said 
Ellen ; — " the tallow was too soft she said." 

" I didn't know ^liss Fortune's tallow was ever anything 
but the hardest," said Sarah Lowndes. 

" You had better not let your aunt know you've told on 
her, Ellen," remarked Mary Lawson ; " she won't thank you." 

"Had she a good lot of taller to make up ?" inquired the 
mother, preparing to cut her bees-wax. 

" I don't know ma'am ; she had a big kettle, but I don't 
know how full it was." 

You may as well send a good piece, ma, while you are 







about it," said the daughter ; — " and ask her to let us 
have a piece of her sage cheese, will you ?" 

" Is it worth while to weigh it ?" whispered Mrs. Lowndes. 

Her daughter answered in the same tone, and Miss Mary 
joining them, a conversation of some length went on over the 
bees-wax which Ellen could not hear. The tones of the 
speakers became lower and lower ; till at lengtli her own 
name and an incautious sentence were spoken more distinctly 
and reached her. 

" Shouldn't you think Miss Fortune might put a black ribband at least on her bonnet ?" 
Anybody but her would." 

" Hush ! " They whispered again under breath. 

The words entered Ellen's heart like cold iron. She did 
not move, hand or foot ; she sat motionless with pain and 
fear, yet what she feared she dared not think. When the 
bees-wax was given her she rose up from her chair and stood 
gazing into Mrs. Lowndes' face as if she had lost her senses. 

"My goodness, child, how you look!" said that lady. 
"What ails you, honey ?" 

Ma'am," said Ellen, — " what was that you said, about — " 

" About what, dear ?" said Mrs. Lowndes, with a startled 
look at the others. 

About — a riband — " said Ellen, struggling to get the 
words out of white lips. 

''My goodness!" said the other; — "did you ever hear 
anything like that? — I didn't say nothing about a riband, 
dear." 

"Do you suppose her aunt ha'n't told her?" said Miss 
Mary in an under tone. 

" Told me what ?" cried Ellen ;— " Oh what ?— what ?" 

"I wish I was a thousand miles off!" said Mrs. Lowndes ; 
— " I don't know, dear — I don't know what it is — Miss Alice 
knows." 

" Yes, ask Miss Alice," said Mary Lawson ; — " she knows 
better than we do," 

Ellen looked doubtfully from one to the other ; then as 
" Go ask Miss Alice," was repeated on all sides, she caught 
up her bonnet and flinging the bees-wax from her hand dart- 
ed out of the house. Those she had left looked at each other 
a minute in silence. 







" Aint that too bad now !" exclaimed Mrs. Lowndes, cross- 
ing the room to shut the door. But what could I say ?" 
" Which way did she go ?" 

" I don't know I am sure — I had no head to look, or any- 
thing else, I wonder if I had ought to ha' told her. — But I 
couldn't ha' done it." 

"Just look at her bees- wax !" said Sarah Lowndes. 

" She will kill herself if she runs up the mountain at that 
rate," said Mary Lawson. 

They all made a rush to the door to look after her. 

" She aint in sight," said Mrs. Lowndes ; — " if she's gone 
the way to the Nose she's got as far as them big poplars 
already, or she'd be somewhere this side of 'em where we 
could see her." 

" You hadn't ought to ha' let her go, 'ma, in all this sun," 
said Miss Lowndes. 

" I declare," said Mrs. Lowndes, she scared me so I 
hadn't three idees left in my head. I wish I knew where she 
was, though, poor little soul !" 

Ellen was far on her way to the mountain, pressed forward 
by a fear that knew no stay of heat or fatigue ; they were 
little to her that day. She saw nothing on her way ; all 
within and without was swallowed up in that one feeling ; yet 
she dared not think what it was she feared. She put that 
by. Alice knew, AYicq would tell ; on that goal her 
heart fixed, to that she pressed oiS^i but oh, the while, 
what a cloud was gathering over her spirit, and growing- 
darker and darker. Her hurry of mind and hurry of body 
made each other worse ; it must be so; and when she at last 
ran round the corner of the house and burst in at the glass 
door she was in a frightful state. 

Alice started up and faced her as she came in, but with a 
look that stopped Ellen short. She stood still ; the color in 
her cheeks, as her eyes read Alice's, faded quite away ; words 
and the power to speak them were gone together. Alas ! 
the need to utter them was gone too. Alice burst into teai s 
and held out her arms, saying only, " My poor child !" Ellen 
reached her arms, and strength and spirit seemed to fail 
there. Alice thought she had fainted ; she laid her on the 
sofa, called Margery, and tried the usual things, weeping bitterly herself as she did so. It was not fainting however ; 




Ellen's senses soon came back ; but she seemed like a person 
stunned with a great blow, and Alice wished grief had had 
any other effect upon her. It lasted for days. A kind of 
stupor hung over her; tears did not come ; the violent stain 
of every nerve and feeling seemed to have left her benumbed. 
She would sleep long heavy sleeps the greater part of the 
time, and seemed to have no power to do anything else. 

Her adopted sister watched her constantly, and for those 
days lived but to watch her. She had heard all Ellen's story 
from Mary Lawson and Mr. Van Brunt; who had both been 
to the parsonage, one on Mrs. Lowndes' part, the other on 
his own, to ask about her ; and she dreaded that a violent fit 
of illness might be brought on by all Ellen had undergone. 
She was mistaken, however. Ellen was not ill ; but her 
whole mind and body bowed under the weight of the blow 
that had come upon her. A.s the first stupor wore off there 
were indeed more lively signs of grief ; she would weep till 
she wept her eyes out, and that often, but it was very quietly ; no passionate sobbing, no noisy crying ; sorrow had taken 
too strong^ hold to be struooled with, and Ellen meekly bowed 
her head to it. Alice saw this with the greatest alarm. She 
had refused to let her go back to her aunt's ; it was impossible to do otherwise ; yet it may be that Ellen would have 
been better there. The busy industry to which she would 
have been forced at home might have roused her ; as it was, 
nothing drew her, and nothing could be found to draw her, 
from her own thoughts. Her interest in everything seemed 
to be gone. Books had lot their charm. Walks and drives 
and staying at home were all one, except indeed that she rather 
liked best the latter. Appetite failed ; her cheek grew colorless ; 
and Alice began to fear that if a stop were not soon put to 
this madual sinkinjr it would at last end with her life. But 
all her eflbrts wei e without fruit ; and the winter was a sorrowful one not to Ellen alone. 

As it wore on, there came to be one thing in which Ellen 
again took pleasute, and that was her Bible. She used to 
get alone or into a corner with it, and turn the leaves over 
and over ; looking out its gentle promises and sweet comforting words to the weak and the sorrowing. She loved to read 
about Christ, — all he said and did ; all his kindness to his 
people and tender care of them ; the love shown them here 




and the joys prepared for them hereafter. She began to 
ding more to that one unchangeable- friend from whose love 
neither life nor death can sever those that believe in him ; and 
her heart, tossed and shaken as it had been, began to take 
rest again in that happy resting-place with stronger affection 
and even with greater joy than ever before. Yet for all that, 
this joy often kept company with bitter weeping ; the stirring 
of anything like pleasure roused sorrow up afresh ; and 
though Ellen's look of sadness grew less dark, Alice could 
not see that her face was at all less white and thin. She 
never spoke of her mother, after once hearing when and where 
she had died ; she never hinted at her loss, except exclaiming in an agony, " I shall get no more letters !" and Alice 
dared not touch upon what the child seemed to avoid so carefully ; though Ellen sometimes wept on her bosom, and often 
sat for hours still and silent with her head in her lap. 

The time drew nigh when John was expected home for the 
holidays. In the mean while they had had many visits from 
other friends. Mr. Van Brunt had come several times, enough 
to set the whole neigliborhood a wondering if they had only 
known it ; his good old mother oftener still. Mrs. Vawse as 
often as possible. Miss Fortune once ; and that because, as 
she said to herself, " ever\ body would be talking about what 
was none of their business if she didn't.' As neither she nor 
Ellen knew in the least what to say to each other, the visit 
was rather a dull one, spite of all Alice could do. Jenny 
Hitchcock and the Huff's and the Dennisons, and others, came 
now and then ; but Ellen did not like to see any of them all 
but Mrs. Vawse. Alice longed for her brother. 

He came at last, just before New Year's. It was the middle of a fine afternoon, and Alice and her father had gone in 
the sleigh to Carra-carra. Ellen had chosen to stay behind, 
but Margery did not know this, and of course did not tell 
John. After paying a visit to her in the kitchen he had 
come back to the empty sitting-room, and was thoughtfully 
walking up and down the floor, when the door of Alice's 
room slowly opened and Ellen appeared. It was never her 
way, when she could help it, to show violent feeling before 
ether people ; so she had been trying to steel herself to meet 
John without crying, and now came in with her little grave 







face prepared not to give way. His first look had like to 
overset it all. 

" Ellie !" said he ; — I thought everybody was gone. My 
dear Ellie ! 

Ellen could hardly stand the tone of these three words, and 
she bore with the greatest difficulty the kiss that followed 
them ; it took but a word or two more, and a glance at the 
old look and smile, to break down entirely all her guard. 
According to her usual fashion she was rushing away ; but 
John held her fast, and though gently drew her close to him. 

" I will not let you forget that I am your brother, Ellie," 
said he. 

Ellen hid her face on his shoulder and cried as if she had 
never cried before. 

" Ellie," said he after a while, speaking low and tenderly, 
" the Bible says, * We have known and believed the love that 
God hath toward us — have you remembered and believed 
this lately ?" 

Ellen did not answer. 

" Have you remembered that God loves every sinner that 
has believed in his dear Son ? — and loves them so well that 
he will let nothing come near them to harm them ? — and 
loves them never better than when he sends bitter trouble on 
them ? It is wonderful ! but it is true. Have you thought 
of this, Ellie ?" 

She shook her head. 

" It is not in anger he does it ; — it is not that he has forgotten you ; — it is not that he is careless of your trembling 
little heart, — never, never ! If you are his child, all is done 
in love and shall work good for you ; and if we often cannot 
see how, it is because we are weak and foolish, and can see 
but a very little way." 

Ellen listened, with her face hid on his shoulder. 

" Do you love Christ, Ellen ?" 

She nodded, weeping afresh. 

" Do you love him less since he has brought you into this 
great sorrow ?" 

" No," sobbed Ellen ; — " more.'" 

He drew her closer to his breast, and was silent a little 
while. 







" I am very glad to hear you say that ! — then all wili be 
well. And haven't you the best reason to think that all is 
well with your dear mother ?" 

Ellen almost shrieked. Her mother's name had not been 
spoken before her in a great while, and she could hardly 
bear to hear it now. Her whole frame quivered with hysterical sobs. 

Hush, Ellie !" said John, in a tone that, low as it was, 
somehow found its way through all her agitation, and calmed 
her like a spell ; — " have you not good reason to beheve that 
all is well with her ?" 

" yes ! — oh yes !" 
She loved and trusted him too ; and now she is with him —
she has reached that bright home where there is no more sin, 
nor sorrow, nor death." 

" Nor parting either," sobbed Ellen, whose agitation was 
excessive. 

" ISTor parting ! — and though we are parted from them, it 
is but for a little ; let us watch and keep our garments clean, 
and soon we shall be all together, and have done with tears 
for ever. She has done with them now. — Did you hear from 
her again ?" 

Oh no ! — not a word !" 

" That is a hard trial. — But in it all, believe, dear 'Ellie, 
the love that God hath toward us ; — remember that our dear 
Saviour is near us, and feels for us, and is the same at all 
times. — And don't cry so, Ellie." 

He kissed her once or twice, and begged her to calm herself. For it seemed as if Ellen's very heart was flowing away 
in her tears ; yet they were gentler and softer far than at the 
beginning. The conversation had been a great relief. The 
silence between her and Alice on the thing always in her 
mind, a silence neither of them dared to break, had grown 
painful. The spell was taken off ; and though at first Ellen's 
tears knew no measure, she was easier even then ; as John 
soothed her and went on with his kind talk, gradually leading 
it away from their first subject to other things, she grew 
not only calm but more peaceful at heart than months had 
Been hei'. She was quite herself again before Alice came home. 
You have done her good already," exclaimed Alice, as 







soon as Ellen was out of the room ; — " I knew you would ; I 
saw it in her face as soon as I came in." 

" It is time," said her brother. " She is a dear little thing !" 

The next day, in the middle of the morning, Ellen, to her 
great surprise, saw Sharp brought before the door with the 
side-saddle on, and Mr. John carefully looking to the girtli 
and shortening the stirrup. 

" Why Alice," she exclaimed, — ''what is Mr. John going 
to do?"' 

" I don't know, Ellie, I am sure ; he does queer things 
sometimes. What makes you ask ?" 

Before she could answer he opened the door. 

" Come Ellen — go and get ready. Bundle up well, for it 
is rather frosty. Alice, has she a pair of gloves that are 
warm enough ? Lend her yours, and I'll see if I can find 
some at Thirlwall." 

Ellen thought she would rather not go ; to anybody else 
she would have said so. Half a minute she stood still — then 
went to put on her things. 

" Alice, you will be ready by the time we get back ? — in 
half an hour." 

Ellen had an excellent lesson, and her master took care 
it should not be an easy one. She came back looking as she 
had not done all winter. Alice was not quite ready ; while 
waiting for her John went to the bookcase and took down 
the first volume of " Rollin's Ancient History ;" and giving it 
to Ellen, said he would talk with her to-morrow about the first 
twenty pages. The consequence was, the hour and a half of 
their absence instead of being moped away was spent in hard 
study. A pair of gloves was bought at Thirlwall ; Jenny 
Hitchcock's pony was sent for ; and after that, every day 
when the weather would at all do they took a long ride. 
By degrees reading and drawing and all her studies were 
added to the history, till Ellen's time was well filled with 
business again, Alice had endeavored to bring this about 
before, but fruitlessly. What she asked of her Ellen indeed 
tried to do ; what John told her ivas done. She grew a 
different creature. Appetite came back ; the color sprang 
again to her cheek ; hope, — meek and sober as it was, — 
relighted her eye. In her eagerness to please and satisfy 







her teacher her whole soul was given to the performance of 
whatever he wished her to do. The effect was all that he 
looked for. 

The second evening after he came John called Ellen to his 
side, saying he had something he wanted to read to her. It 
was before candles were brought, but the room was full of 
light from the blazing wood fire. Ellen glanced at his book 
as she came to the sofa ; i" was a largish volume in a black 
leather cover a good deal worn ; it did not look at all in- 
teresting. 

" What is it ?" she asked. 
It is called," said John, " ' The Pilgrim's Progress from 
this world to^a better.' " 

Ellen thouo;ht it did not sound at all interesting-. She had 
never been more mistaken in her life, and that she found 
almost as soon as he begun. Her attention was nailed ; the 
listless careless mood in which she sat down was changed for 
one of rapt delight ; she devoured every word that fell from 
the reader's lips ; indeed they were given their fullest effect 
by a very fine voice and singularly fine reading. Whenever 
anything might not be quite clear to Ellen, John stopped to 
make it so ; and with his help, and without it, many a lesson 
went home. Next day she looked a long time for the book ; 
it could not be found ; she was forced to wait until evening. 
Then to her great joy, it was brought out again, and John 
asked if she wished to hear some more of it. After that, every 
evening while he was at home they spent an hour with the 

Pilgrim." Alice would leave her work and come to the 
sofa too ; and with her head on her brother's shoulder, her 
hand in his, and Ellen's face leanino- against his other arm, 
that was the common way they placed themselves to read and 
hear. No words can tell Ellen's enjoyment of those readings. They made her sometimes laugh and sometimes cry ; 
they had much to do in carrying on the cure which John's 
wisdom and kindness had begun. 

They came to the place where Christian loses his burden 
at the cross ; and as he stood looking and weeping, three 
shining ones came to him. The first said to him, " Thy sins be 
forgiven thee ; the second stripped him of his rags and clothed 
him with a change of raiment ; the third also set a mark on 
his forehead." 







John explained what was meant by the rags and the change 
of raiment. 

" And the mark in his forehead ?" said Ellen, 
" That is the mark of God's children — the change wrought 
in them by the Holy Spirit, — the change that makes them 
different from others, and different from their old selves." 
