The girl turned and went quickly away. As she walked along hurriedly,
her slender form bent forward, and there was an unsteadiness in her
steps, as if from weakness. She did not linger a moment, nor heed any
thing that was passing in the street.

A back room in the third story of an old house in Cherry street was the
home of the poor sewing girl. As she entered, she said, in a cheerful
voice, to a person who was lying upon a bed which the room contained--

"I have got work, sister. It is a vest, and it must be done by
to-morrow evening."

"Can you finish it in time?" inquired the invalid in a faint voice.

"Oh, yes, easily;" and as she spoke, she laid off her bonnet and shawl
hurriedly and sat down to unroll the work she had obtained.

The vest proved to be of white Marseilles. As soon as the invalid
sister saw this, she said--

"I'm afraid you won't be able to get that done in time, Ellen; it is
very particular work. To stitch the edges well will alone take you many
hours."

"I will sit up late, and get a fair start to-night, Mary. Then I can
easily finish it in time. You know a vest is only a day's work for a
good sewer, and I have nearly a day and a half before me."

"Yes; but you must remember, Ellen, that you are not very fast with
your needle, and are, besides, far from being well. The work, too, is
of the most particular kind, and cannot be hurried."

"Don't fear for me in the least, Mary. I will do all I have engaged to
do," and the young woman, who had already arranged the cut-out garment,
took a portion of it in her lap and commenced her task.

The two sisters, here introduced, were poor, in bad health, and without
friends. Mary, the older, had declined rapidly within a few months, and
become so much exhausted as to be obliged to keep her bed most of the
time. The task of providing for the wants of both fell, consequently,
upon Ellen. Increased exertion was more than her delicate frame could
well endure. Daily were the vital energies of her system becoming more
and more exhausted, a fact of which she was painfully conscious, and
which she, with studious care, sought to conceal from Mary.

When, through loss of friends and change of circumstances, the two
sisters were thrown entirely dependent upon their own exertions for a
livelihood, they, with prudent forethought, immediately applied
themselves to the learning of a trade in order to have the means of
support. Confinement for twelve or fourteen hours a day, sitting in one
position--a great change for them--could not long be endured without
producing ill effects on frail young creatures at best. Mary, the
older, failed first; and, at the time of which we are writing, had so
far declined as to be little more than the shadow of any thing earthly.

With her own unaided hands, Ellen found it impossible to earn enough
for even their most simple need. Often Mary was without medicine,
because there was no money left after food and fuel were bought. More
and more earnestly did Ellen apply herself as want came in more varied
shapes; but the returns of her labour became daily less and less
adequate to meet the demands of nature.

The busy season had passed, and trade was dull. Ellen worked for only
two merchant tailors, and with them she was considered an extra hand.
When business fell off, as the season approached towards mid-summer,
she was the first to receive notice that no more work could be given
out for the present. With a disheartened feeling she returned home on
receiving this intelligence. Mary saw that something was wrong the
moment she entered, and tenderly inquired the cause of her trouble. On
learning what it was, she endeavoured to comfort and assure her, but to
little purpose.

As soon as Ellen could regain sufficient composure of mind, she went
forth in search of work at other shops. To one of her peculiar, timid,
and shrinking disposition this was a severe trial. But there was no
passing it by. Three days elapsed, during which every effort to get
work proved unsuccessful. Even the clothing stores had nothing to give
out to extra hands.

Reduced to their last penny, Ellen was almost in despair, when she
called upon Mr. Lawson. The garment he gave her to make seemed to her
like help sent from heaven. Cheerfully did she work upon it until a
late hour at night, and she was ready to resume her labour with the
rising sun. But, as Mary had feared, the work did not progress
altogether to her satisfaction. She had never made over one or two
white Marseilles vests, and found that she was not so well skilled in
the art of neat and accurate stitching as was required to give the
garment a beautiful and workmanlike appearance. The stitches did not
impress themselves along the edges with the accuracy that her eye told
her was required, and she was troubled to find that, be as careful as
she would, the pure white fabric grew soiled beneath her fingers. Mary,
to whom she frequently submitted the work, tried to encourage her; but
her eyes were not deceived.

It was after dark when Ellen finished the garment. She was weary and
faint; for she had taken no food since morning, and had been bending
over her work, with very little intermission, the whole day; and she
had no hope of receiving any thing more to do, for Mr. Lawson, she was
sure, would not be pleased with the way the vest was made. But, want of
every thing, and particularly food for herself and sister, made the sum
of seventy-five cents, to be received for the garment, a little
treasure in her eyes; and she hurried off with the vest the moment it
was finished.

"I will bring home a little tea, sister," she said, as she was about
leaving; "I am sure a cup of tea will do you good; and I feel as if it
would revive and strengthen me."

Mary looked at Ellen with a tender, pitying expression, while her large
bright eyes shone glassy in the dim rays sent forth by a poor lamp; but
she did not reply. She had a gnawing in her stomach, that made her feel
faint, and a most earnest craving for nourishing and even stimulating
food, the consequence of long abstinence as well as from the
peculiarity of her disease. But she did not breathe a word of this to
Ellen, who would, she knew, expend for her every cent of the money she
was about to receive, if she was aware of the morbid appetite from
which she was suffering.

"I will be back soon," added Ellen, as she retired from the room.

Mary sighed deeply when alone. She raised her eyes upwards for a few
moments, then closing them and clasping her hands tightly together, she
lay with her white face turned towards the light, more the image of
death than of life.

"Here it is past eight o'clock, and that vest is not yet in," said Mr.
Lawson, in a fretful tone. "I had my doubts about the girl when I gave
it to her. But she looked so poor, and seemed so earnest about work,
that I was weak enough to intrust her with the garment. But I will take
care, another time, how I let my feeling get the better of my judgment."

Before the individual had time to reply, Ellen came in with the vest,
and laid it on the counter, at which the tailor was standing. She said
nothing, neither did the tailor make any remark; but the latter
unfolded the vest in the way that plainly showed him not to be in a
very placid frame of mind.

"Goodness!" he ejaculated, after glancing hurriedly at the garment.

The girl shrunk back from the counter, and looked frightened.

"Well, this is a pretty job for one to bring in!" said the tailor, in
an excited tone of voice. "A pretty job, indeed! It looks as if it had
been dragged through a duck puddle. And such work!"

He tossed the garment from him in angry contempt, and walked away to
the back part of the shop, leaving Ellen standing almost as still as a
statue.

"That vest was to have been home to-night," he said, as he threw
himself into a chair. "Of course, the customer will be disappointed and
angry, and I shall lose him. But I don't care half so much for that, as
I do for not being able to keep my word with him. It is too much!"

Ellen would have instantly retired, but the thought of her sick sister
forced her to remain. She felt that she could not go until she had
received the price of making the vest, for their money was all gone,
and they had no food in the house. She had lingered for a little while,
when the tailor called out to her, and said--

"You needn't stand there, Miss! thinking that I am going to pay you for
ruining the job. It's bad enough to lose my material, and customer into
the bargain. In justice you should be made to pay for the vest. But
there is no hope for that. So take yourself away as quickly as
possible, and never let me set eyes on you again."

Ellen did not reply, but turned away slowly, and, with her eyes upon
the floor and her form drooping, retired from the shop. After she had
gone, Mr. Lawson returned to the front part of the store, and taking up
the vest, brought it back to where an elderly man was sitting, and
holding it towards him, said, by way of apology for the part he had
taken in the little scene:

"That's a beautiful article for a gentleman to wear--isn't it?"

The man made no reply, and the tailor, after a pause, added--

"I refused to pay her, as a matter of principle. She knew she couldn't
make the garment when she took it away. She will be more careful how
she tries again to impose herself upon customer tailors as a good vest
maker."

"Perhaps," said the old gentleman, in a mild way, "necessity drove her
to you for work, and tempted her to undertake a job that required
greater skill than she possessed. She certainly looked very poor."

"It was because she appeared so poor and miserable that I was weak
enough to place the vest in her hands," replied Mr. Lawson, in a less
severe tone of voice. "But it was an imposition in her to ask for work
that she did not know how to make."

"Brother Lawson," said the old gentleman, who was a fellow member of
the church, "we should not blame, with too much severity, the person
who, in extreme want, undertakes to perform work for which he does not
possess the requisite skill. The fact that a young girl, like the one
who was just here, is willing, in her extreme poverty, to labour,
instead of sinking into vice and idleness, shows her to possess both
virtue and integrity of character, and these we should be willing to
encourage, even at some sacrifice. Work is slack now, as you are aware,
and there is but little doubt that she had been to many places seeking
employment before she came to you. It may be--and this is a very
probable suggestion--that she did not come to you for work until she,
and those who may be dependent upon the meagre returns of her labour,
were reduced to the utmost extremity. And, it may be, that even their
next meal was dependent upon the receipt of the money that was expected
to be paid for making the vest you hold in your hand. The expression of
her face as she turned away, and her slow, lingering step and drooping
form, as she left the shop, had in them a language which told me of all
this, and even more."

A great change came over the tailor's countenance.

"I didn't think of that," fell in a low tone from his lips.

"I didn't suppose you did, brother Lawson," said his monitor. "We are
all more apt to think of ourselves than of others. The girl promised
you the vest this evening?"

"Yes."

"And, so far as that was concerned, performed her contract. Is the vest
made so very badly?"

Mr. Lawson took up the garment, and examined it more carefully.

"Well, I can't say that the work is so very badly done. But it is
dreadfully soiled and rumpled, and is not as neat a job as it should
be, nor at all such as I wished it. The customer for whom it is
intended is very particular, and I was anxious to please him."

"All this is very annoying, of course; but still we should always be
ready to make some excuse for the short-comings of others. There is no
telling under how many disadvantages the poor girl may have laboured in
making this vest. She may have had a sick mother, or a father, or
sister to attend to, which constantly interfered with and interrupted
her. She may have been compelled, from this cause, to work through a
greater part of the night, in order to keep her promise to you. Under
such circumstances, even you could hardly wonder if the garment were
not made well, or if it came soiled from her hands. And even you could
hardly find it in your heart to speak unkindly to the poor creature,
much less turn her away angrily, and without the money she had toiled
for so earnestly."

"I didn't think of that," was murmured in a low abstracted voice.

"Who could wonder," continued the old man, "if that unhappy girl,
deprived of the reward of honest labour, and driven angrily away as you
drove her just now, should in despair step aside into ruin, thus
sacrificing herself, body and soul, in order to save from want and
deprivation those she could not sustain by virtuous toil?"

"I didn't think of that," fell quick and in an agitated voice from the
tailor's lips, as, dropping the garment he held in his hand, he hurried
around his counter and left the shop.

Ellen was not tempted as the friend of Mr. Lawson had supposed; but
there are hundreds who, under like circumstances, would have turned
aside. From the shop of the tailor she went slowly homeward; at her
heart was a feeling of utter despondency. She had struggled long, in
weariness and pain, with her lot; but now she felt that the struggle
was over. The hope of the hour had failed, and it seemed to her the
last hope.

When Ellen entered the room where her sister lay, the sight of her
expectant face (for the desire for nourishing, refreshing food had been
stronger than usual with Mary, and her fancy had been dwelling upon the
pleasant repast that was soon to be spread before her) made the task of
communicating the cruel repulse she had received tenfold more painful.
Without uttering a word, she threw herself upon the bed beside her
sister, and, burying her face in a pillow, endeavoured to smother the
sobs that came up convulsively from her bosom. Mary asked no question.
She understood the meaning of Ellen's agitation well; it told her that
she had been disappointed in the expectation of receiving the money for
her work.

Deep silence followed. Mary clasped her hands together and raised her
eyes upward, while Ellen lay motionless with her face hidden where she
had first concealed it. There was a knock at the door, but no voice
bade the applicant for admission enter. It was repeated; but, if heard,
it met no response. Then the latch was lifted, the door swung open, and
the tailor stepped into the room. The sound of his feet aroused the
passive sisters. The white face of Mary was to him, at first, a
startling image of death; but her large bright eyes opened and turned
upon him with an assurance that life still lingered in its earthly
tenement.

"Ellen, Ellen," said the sick girl, faintly.

Ellen, too, had heard the sound of footsteps on the floor, and she now
raised up slowly, and presented to Lawson her sad, tearful countenance.

"I was wrong to speak to you as I did," said the tailor without
preface, advancing towards the bed and holding out to Ellen the money
she had earned. "There is the price of the vest; it is better made than
I at first thought it was. To-morrow I will send you more work. Try and
cheer up. Are you so very poor?"

The last two sentences were uttered in a voice of encouragement and
sympathy. Ellen looked her thankfulness, but did not venture a reply.
Her heart was too full to trust her lips with utterance.

Feeling that his presence, under all circumstances, could not but be
embarrassing, Mr. Lawson, after taking two or three dollars from his
pocket and placing them on the table with the remark--"Take this in
advance for work," retired and left the poor sisters in a different
frame of mind from what they were in when he entered. Shortly after
they received a basket, in which was a supply of nourishing food.
Though no one's name was sent with it, they were not in doubt as to
whence it came.

Mr. Lawson was not an unfeeling man, but, like too many others in the
world, he did not always "think."




TAKING BOARDERS.


CHAPTER I.

A LADY, past the prime of life, sat thoughtful, as twilight fell
duskily around her, in a room furnished with great elegance. That her
thoughts were far from being pleasant, the sober, even sad expression
of her countenance too clearly testified. She was dressed in deep
mourning. A faint sigh parted her lips as she looked up, on hearing the
door of the apartment in which she was sitting open. The person who
entered, a tall and beautiful girl, also in mourning, came and sat down
by her side, and leaned her head, with a pensive, troubled air, down
upon her shoulder.

"We must decide upon something, Edith, and that with as little delay as
possible," said the elder of the two ladies, soon after the younger one
entered. This was said in a tone of great despondency.

"Upon what shall we decide, mother?" and the young lady raised her head
from its reclining position, and looked earnestly into the eyes of her
parent.

"We must decide to do something by which the family can be sustained.
Your father's death has left us, unfortunately and unexpectedly, as you
already know, with scarcely a thousand dollars beyond the furniture of
this house, instead of an independence which we supposed him to
possess. His death was sad and afflictive enough--more than it seemed I
could bear. But to have this added!"

The voice of the speaker sank into a low moan, and was lost in a
stifled sob.

"But what can we do, mother?" asked Edith, in an earnest tone, after
pausing long enough for her mother to regain the control of her
feelings.

"I have thought of but one thing that is at all respectable," replied
the mother.

"What is that?"

"Taking boarders."

"Why, mother!" ejaculated Edith, evincing great surprise, "how can you
think of such a thing?"

"Because driven to do so by the force of circumstances."

"Taking boarders! Keeping a boarding-house! Surely we have not come to
this!"

An expression of distress blended with the look of astonishment in
Edith's face.

"There is nothing disgraceful in keeping a boarding-house," returned
the mother. "A great many very respectable ladies have been compelled
to resort to it as a means of supporting their families."

"But to think of it, mother! To think of your keeping a
boarding-house! I cannot bear it."

"Is there any thing else that can be done, Edith?"

"Don't ask me such a question."

"If, then, you cannot think for me, you must try and think with me, my
child. Something will have to be done to create an income. In less than
twelve months, every dollar I have will be expended; and then what are
we to do? Now, Edith, is the time for us to look at the matter
earnestly, and to determine the course we will take. There is no use to
look away from it. A good house in a central situation, large enough
for the purpose, can no doubt be obtained; and I think there will be no
difficulty about our getting boarders enough to fill it. The income or
profit from these will enable us still to live comfortably, and keep
Edward and Ellen at school."

"It is hard," was the only remark Edith made to this.

"It is hard, my daughter; very hard! I have thought and thought about
it until my whole mind has been thrown into confusion. But it will not
do to think for ever; there must be action. Can I see want stealing in
upon my children, and sit and fold my hands supinely? No! And to you,
Edith, my oldest child, I look for aid and for counsel. Stand up
bravely by my side."

"And you are in earnest in all this?" said Edith, whose mind seemed
hardly able to realize the truth of their position. From her earliest
days, all the blessings that money could procure had been freely
scattered around her feet. As she grew up and advanced towards
womanhood, she had moved in the most fashionable circles, and there
acquired the habit of estimating people according to their wealth and
social standing, rather than by qualities of mind. In her view, it
appeared degrading in a woman to enter upon any kind of employment for
money; and with the keeper of a boarding-house, particularly, she had
always associated something low, vulgar, and ungenteel. At the thought
of her mother's engaging in such an occupation, when the suggestion was
made her mind instantly revolted. It appeared to her as if disgrace
would be the inevitable consequence.

"And you are in earnest in all this?" was an expression mingling her
clear conviction of the truth of what at first appeared so strange a
proposition, and her astonishment that the necessities of their
situation were such as to drive them to so humiliating a resource.

"Deeply in earnest," was the mother's reply.

"We are left alone in the world. He who cared for us and provided for
us so liberally has been taken away, and we have nowhere to look for
aid but to the resources that are in ourselves. These well applied,
will give us, I feel strongly assured, all that we need. The thing to
decide is, what we ought to do. If we choose aright, all will doubtless
come out right. To choose aright is, therefore, of the first
importance; and to do this, we must not suffer distorting suggestions
nor the appeals of a false pride to influence our minds in the least.
You are my oldest child, Edith; and, as such, I cannot but look upon
you as, to some extent, jointly with me, the guardian of your younger
brothers and sisters. True, Miriam is of age, and Henry nearly so; but
still you are the eldest--your mind is more matured, and in your
judgment I have the most confidence. Try and forget, Edith, all but the
fact that, unless we make an exertion, one home for all cannot be
retained. Are you willing that we should be scattered like leaves in
the autumn wind? No! you would consider that one of the greatest
calamities that could befall us--an evil to prevent which we should use
every effort in our power. Do you, not see this clearly?"

"I do, mother," was replied by Edith in a more rational tone of voice
than that in which she had yet spoken.

"To open a store of any kind would involve five times the exposure of a
boarding-house; and, moreover, I know nothing of business."

"Keeping a store? Oh, no! we couldn't do that. Think of the dreadful
exposure!"

"But in taking boarders we only increase our family, and all goes on as
usual. To my mind, it is the most genteel thing that we can do. Our
style of living will be the same; our waiter and all our servants will
be retained. In fact, to the eye there will be little change, and the
world need never know how greatly reduced our circumstances have
become."

This mode of argument tended to reconcile Edith to taking boarders.
Something, she saw, had to be done. Opening a store was felt to be out
of the question; and as to commencing a school, the thought was
repulsed at the very first suggestion.

A few friends were consulted on the subject, and all agreed that the
best thing for the widow to do was to take boarders. Each one could
point to some lady who had commenced the business with far less ability
to make boarders comfortable, and who had yet got along very well. It
was conceded on all hands that it was a very genteel business, and that
some of the first ladies had been compelled to resort to it, without
being any the less respected. Almost every one to whom the matter was
referred spoke in favour of the thing, and but a single individual
suggested difficulty; but what he said was not permitted to have much
weight. This individual was a brother of the widow, who had always been
looked upon as rather eccentric. He was a bachelor and without fortune,
merely enjoying a moderate income as book-keeper in the office of an
insurance company. But more of him hereafter.



CHAPTER II.

MRS. DARLINGTON, the widow we have just introduced to the reader, had
five children. Edith, the oldest daughter, was twenty-two years of age
at the time of her father's death; and Henry, the oldest son, just
twenty. Next to Henry was Miriam, eighteen years old. The ages of the
two youngest children, Ellen and Edward, were ten and eight.

Mr. Darlington, while living, was a lawyer of distinguished ability,
and his talents and reputation at the Philadelphia bar enabled him to
accumulate a handsome fortune. Upon this he had lived for some years in
a style of great elegance. About a year before his death, he had been
induced to enter into some speculation that promised great results; but
he found, when too late to retreat, that he had been greatly deceived.
Heavy losses soon followed. In a struggle to recover himself, he became
still further involved; and, ere the expiration of a twelvemonth, saw
every thing falling from under him. The trouble brought on by this was
the real cause of his death, which was sudden, and resulted from
inflammation and congestion of the brain.

Henry Darlington, the oldest son, was a young man of promising talents.
He remained at college until a few months before his father's death,
when he returned home and commenced the study of law, in which he felt
ambitious to distinguish himself.

Edith, the oldest daughter, possessed a fine mind, which had been well
educated. She had some false views of life, natural to her position;
but, apart from this, was a girl of sound sense and great force of
character. Thus far in life she had not encountered circumstances of a
nature calculated to develop what was in her. The time for that,
however, was approaching. Miriam, her sister, was a quiet, gentle,
retiring, almost timid girl. She went into company with reluctance, and
then always shrunk as far from observation as it was possible to get;
but, like most quiet, retiring persons, there were deep places in her
mind and heart. She thought and felt more than was supposed. All who
knew Miriam loved her. Of the younger children we need not here speak.

Mrs. Darlington knew comparatively nothing of the world beyond her own
social circle. She was, perhaps, as little calculated for doing what
she proposed to do as a woman could well be. She had no habits of
economy, and had never in her life been called upon to make
calculations of expense in household matters. There was a tendency to
generosity rather than selfishness in her character, and she rarely
thought evil of any one. But all that she was need not here be set
forth, for it will appear as our narrative progresses.

Mr. Hiram Ellis, the brother of Mrs. Darlington to whom brief allusion
has been made, was not a great favourite in the family--although Mr.
Darlington understood his good qualities, and very highly respected
him--because he had not much that was prepossessing in his external
appearance, and was thought to be a little eccentric. Moreover, he was
not rich--merely holding the place of book-keeper in an insurance
office, at a moderate salary. But as he had never married, and had only
himself to support, his income supplied amply all his wants, and left
him a small annual surplus.

After the death of Mr. Darlington, he visited his sister much more
frequently than before. Of the exact condition of her affairs, he was
much better acquainted than she supposed. The anxiety which she felt,
some months after her husband's death, when the result of the
settlement of his estate became known, led her to be rather more
communicative. After determining to open a boarding-house, she said to
him, on the occasion of his visiting her one evening--

"As it is necessary for me to do something, Hiram, I have concluded to
move to a better location, and take a few boarders."

"Don't do any such thing, Margaret," her brother made answer. "Taking
boarders! It's the last thing of which a woman should think."

"Why do you say that, Hiram?" asked Mrs. Darlington, evincing no little
surprise at this unexpected reply.

"Because I think that a woman who has a living to make can hardly try a
more doubtful experiment. Not one in ten ever succeeds in doing any
thing."

"But why, Hiram? Why? I'm sure a great many ladies get a living in that
way."

"What you will never do, Margaret, mark my words for it. It takes a
woman of shrewdness, caution, and knowledge of the world, and one
thoroughly versed in household economy, to get along in this pursuit.
Even if you possessed all these prerequisites to success, you have just
the family that ought not to come in contact with anybody and everybody
that find their way into boarding-houses."

"I must do something, Hiram," said Mrs. Darlington, evincing impatience
at the opposition of her brother.

"I perfectly agree with you in that, Margaret," replied Mr. Ellis. "The
only doubt is as to your choice of occupation. You think that your best
plan will be to take boarders; while I think you could not fall upon a
worse expedient."

"Why do you think so?"

"Have I not just said?"

"What?"

"Why, that, in the first place, it takes a woman of great shrewdness,
caution, and knowledge of the world, and one thoroughly versed in
household economy, to succeed in the business."

"I'm not a fool, Hiram!" exclaimed Mrs. Darlington, losing her
self-command.

"Perhaps you may alter your opinion on that head some time within the
next twelve months," coolly returned Mr. Ellis, rising and beginning to
button up his coat.

"Such language to me, at this time, is cruel!" said Mrs. Darlington,
putting her handkerchief to her eyes.

"No," calmly replied her brother, "not cruel, but kind. I wish to save
you from trouble."

"What else can I do?" asked the widow, removing the handkerchief from
her face.

"Many things, I was going to say," returned Mr. Ellis. "But, in truth,
the choice of employment is not very great. Still, something with a
fairer promise than taking boarders may be found."

"If you can point me to some better way, brother," said Mrs.
Darlington, "I shall feel greatly indebted to you."

"Almost any thing is better. Suppose you and Edith were to open a
school. Both of you are well--"

"Open a school!" exclaimed Mrs. Darlington, interrupting her brother,
and exhibiting most profound astonishment. "I open a school! I didn't
think you would take advantage of my grief and misfortune to offer me
an insult."

Mr. Ellis buttoned the top button of his coat nervously, as his sister
said this, and, partly turning himself towards the door, said--

"Teaching school is a far more useful, and, if you will, more
respectable employment, than keeping a boarding-house. This you ought
to see at a glance. As a teacher, you would be a minister of truth to
the mind, and have it in your power to bend from evil and lead to good
the young immortals committed to your care; while, as a boarding-house
keeper, you would merely furnish food for the natural body--a use below
what you are capable of rendering to society."

But Mrs. Darlington was in no state of mind to feel the force of such
an argument. From the thought of a school she shrunk as from something
degrading, and turned from it with displeasure.

"Don't mention such a thing to me," said she fretfully, "I will not
listen to the proposition."

"Oh, well, Margaret, as you please," replied her brother, now moving
towards the door. "When you ask my advice, I will give it according to
my best judgment, and with a sincere desire for your good. If, however,
it conflicts with your views, reject it; but, in simple justice to me,
do so in a better spirit than you manifest on the present occasion.
Good evening!"

Mrs. Darlington was too much disturbed in mind to make a reply, and Mr.
Hiram Ellis left the room without any attempt on the part of his sister
to detain him. On both sides there had been the indulgence of rather
more impatience and intolerance than was commendable.



CHAPTER III.

IN due time, Mrs. Darlington removed to a house in Arch Street, the
annual rent of which was six hundred dollars, and there began her
experiment. The expense of a removal, and the cost of the additional
chamber furniture required, exhausted about two hundred dollars of the
widow's slender stock of money, and caused her, to feel a little
troubled when she noticed the diminution.

She began her new business with two boarders, a gentleman and his wife
by the name of Grimes, who had entered her house on the recommendation
of a friend. They were to pay her the sum of eight dollars a week. A
young man named Barling, clerk in a wholesale Market Street house, came
next; and he introduced, soon after, a friend of his, a clerk in the
same store, named Mason. They were room-mates, and paid three dollars
and a half each. Three or four weeks elapsed before any further
additions were made; then an advertisement brought several
applications. One was from a gentleman who wanted two rooms for himself
and wife, a nurse and four children. He wanted the second story front
and back chambers, furnished, and was not willing to pay over sixteen
dollars, although his oldest child was twelve and his youngest four
years of age--seven good eaters and two of the best rooms in the house
for sixteen dollars!

Mrs. Darlington demurred. The man said--

"Very well, ma'am," in a tone of indifference. "I can find plenty of
accommodations quite as good as yours for the price I offer. It's all I
pay now." Poor Mrs. Darlington sighed. She had but fifteen dollars yet
in the house--that is, boarders who paid this amount weekly--and the
rent alone amounted to twelve dollars. Sixteen dollars, she argued with
herself, as she sat with her eyes upon the floor, would make a great
difference in her income; would, in fact, meet all the expenses of the
house. Two good rooms would still remain, and all that she received for
these would be so much clear profit. Such was the hurried conclusion of
Mrs. Darlington's mind.

"I suppose I will have to take you," said she, lifting her eyes to the
man's hard features. "But those rooms ought to bring me twenty-four
dollars."

"Sixteen is the utmost I will pay," replied the man. In fact, I did
think of offering only fourteen dollars. "But the rooms are fine, and I
like them. Sixteen is a liberal price. Your terms are considerably
above the ordinary range."

The widow sighed again.

If the man heard this sound, it did not touch a single chord of feeling.

"Then it is understood that I am to have your rooms at sixteen
dollars?" said he.

"Yes, sir. I will take you for that."

"Very well. My name is Scragg. We will be ready to come in on Monday
next. You can have all prepared for us?"

"Yes, sir."

Scarcely had Mr. Scragg departed, when a gentleman called to know if
Mrs. Darlington had a vacant front room in the second story.

"I had this morning; but it is taken," replied the widow.

"Ah! I'm sorry for that."

"Will not a third story front room suit you?" "No. My wife is not in
very good health, and wishes a second story room. We pay twelve dollars
a week, and would even give more, if necessary, to obtain just the
accommodations we like. The situation of your house pleases me. I'm
sorry that I happen to be too late."

"Will you look at the room?" said Mrs. Darlington, into whose mind came
the desire to break the bad bargain she had just made.

"If you please," returned the man.

And both went up to the large and beautifully furnished chambers.

"Just the thing!" said the man, as he looked around, much pleased with
the appearance of every thing. "But I understood you to say that it was
taken."

"Why, yes," replied Mrs. Darlington, "I did partly engage it this
morning; but, no doubt, I can arrange with the family to take the two
rooms above, which will suit them just as well."

"If you can"--

"There'll be no difficulty, I presume. You'll pay twelve dollars a
week?"

"Yes."

"Only yourself and lady?"

"That's all."

"Very well, sir; you can have the room."

"It's a bargain, then. My name is Ring. Our week is up to-day where we
are; and, if it is agreeable, we will become your guests to-morrow."

"Perfectly agreeable, Mr. Ring."

The gentleman bowed politely and retired.

Now Mrs. Darlington did not feel very comfortable when she reflected on
what she had done. The rooms in the second story were positively
engaged to Mr. Scragg, and now one of them was as positively engaged to
Mr. Ring. The face of Mr. Scragg she remembered very well. It was a
hard, sinister face, just such a one as we rarely forget because of the
disagreeable impression it makes. As it came up distinctly before the
eyes of her mind, she was oppressed with a sense of coming trouble. Nor
did she feel altogether satisfied with what she had done--satisfied in
her own conscience.

On the next morning, Mr. and Mrs. Ring came and took possession of the
room previously engaged to Mr. Scragg. They were pleasant people, and
made a good first impression.

As day after day glided past, Mrs. Darlington felt more and more uneasy
about Mr. Scragg, with whom, she had a decided presentiment, there
would be trouble. Had she known where to find him, she would have sent
him a note, saying that she had changed her mind about the rooms, and
could not let him have them. But she was ignorant of his address; and
the only thing left for her was to wait until he came on Monday, and
then get over the difficulty in the best way possible. She and Edith
had talked over the matter frequently, and had come to the
determination to offer Mr. Scragg the two chambers in the third story
for fourteen dollars.

On Monday morning, Mrs. Darlington was nervous. This was the day on
which Mr. Scragg and family were to arrive, and she felt that there
would be trouble.

Mr. Ring, and the other gentlemen boarders, left soon after breakfast.
About ten o'clock, the door-bell rang. Mrs. Darlington was in her room
at the time changing her dress. Thinking that this might be the
announcement of Mr. Scragg's arrival, she hurried through her dressing
in order to get down to the parlour as quickly as possible to meet him
and the difficulty that was to be encountered; but before she was in a
condition to be seen, she heard a man's voice on the stairs, saying--

"Walk up, my dear. The rooms on the second floor are ours."

Then came the noise of many feet in the passage, and the din of
children's voices. Mr. Scragg and his family had arrived.

Mrs. Ring was sitting with the morning paper in her hand, when her door
was flung widely open, and a strange man stepped boldly in, saying, as
he did so, to the lady who followed him--

"This is one of the chambers."

Mrs. Ring arose, bowed, and looked at the intruders with surprise and
embarrassment. Just then, four rude children bounded into the room,
spreading themselves around it, and making themselves perfectly at home.

"There is some mistake, I presume," said Mrs. Scragg, on perceiving a
lady in the room, whose manner said plainly enough that they were out
of their place.

"Oh no! no mistake at all," replied Scragg.

"These are the two rooms I engaged."

Just then Mrs. Darlington entered, in manifest excitement.

"Walk down into the parlour, if you please," said she.

"These are our rooms," said Scragg, showing no inclination to vacate
the premises.

"Be kind enough to walk down into the parlour," repeated Mrs.
Darlington, whose sense of propriety was outraged by the man's conduct,
and who felt a corresponding degree of indignation.

With some show of reluctance, this invitation was acceded to, and Mr.
Scragg went muttering down stairs, followed by his brood. The moment he
left the chamber, the door was shut and locked by Mrs. Ring, who was a
good deal frightened by so unexpected an intrusion.

"What am I to understand by this, madam?" said Mr. Scragg, fiercely, as
soon as they had all reached the parlour, planting his hands upon his
hips as he spoke, drawing himself up, and looking at Mrs. Darlington
with a lowering countenance.

"Take a seat, madam," said Mrs. Darlington, addressing the man's wife
in a tone of forced composure. She was struggling for self-possession.

The lady sat down.

"Will you be good enough to explain the meaning of all this, madam?"
repeated Mr. Scragg.

"The meaning is simply," replied Mrs. Darlington, "that I have let the
front room in the second story to a gentleman and his wife for twelve
dollars a week."

"The deuse you have!" said Mr. Scragg, with a particular exhibition of
gentlemanly indignation.

"And pray, madam, didn't you let both the rooms in the second story to
me for sixteen dollars?"

"I did; but"--

"Oh, very well. That's all I wish to know about it. The rooms were
rented to me, and from that day became mine. Please to inform the lady
and her husband that I am here with my family, and desire them to
vacate the chambers as quickly as possible. I'm a man that knows his
rights, and, knowing, always maintains them."

"You cannot have the rooms, sir. That is out of the question," said
Mrs. Darlington, looking both distressed and indignant.

"And I tell you that I will have them!" replied Scragg, angrily.

"Peter! Peter! Don't act so," now interposed Mrs. Scragg. "There's no
use in it."

"Ain't there, indeed? We'll see. Madam"--he addressed Mrs.
Darlington--"will you be kind enough to inform the lady and gentleman
who now occupy one of our rooms"--

"Mr. Scragg!" said Mrs. Darlington, in whose fainting heart his
outrageous conduct had awakened something of the right spirit--"Mr.
Scragg, I wish you to understand, once for all, that the front room is
taken and now occupied, and that you cannot have it."

"Madam!"

"It's no use for you to waste words, sir! What I say I mean. I have
other rooms in the house very nearly as good, and am willing to take
you for something less in consideration of this disappointment. If that
will meet your views, well; if not, let us have no more words on the
subject."

There was a certain something in Mrs. Darlington's tone of voice that
Scragg understood to mean a fixed purpose. Moreover, his mind caught at
the idea of getting boarded for something less than sixteen dollars a
week.

"Where are the rooms?" he asked gruffly.

"The third story chambers."

"Front?"

"Yes."

"I don't want to go to the third story."

"Very well. Then you can have the back chamber down stairs, and the
front chamber above."

"What will be your charge?"

"Fourteen dollars."

"That will do, Peter," said Mrs. Scragg. "Two dollars a week is
considerable abatement."

"It's something, of course. But I don't like this off and on kind of
business. When I make an agreement, I'm up to the mark, and expect the
same from everybody else. Will you let my wife see the rooms, madam?"

"Certainly," replied Mrs. Darlington, and moved towards the door. Mrs.
Scragg followed, and so did all the juvenile Scraggs--the latter
springing up the stairs with the agility of apes and the noise of a
dozen rude schoolboys just freed from the terror of rod and ferule.

The rooms suited Mrs. Scragg very well--at least such was her report to
her husband--and, after some further rudeness on the part of Mr.
Scragg, and an effort to beat Mrs. Darlington down to twelve dollars a
week, were taken, and forthwith occupied.



CHAPTER IV.

MRS. DARLINGTON was a woman of refinement herself, and had been used to
the society of refined persons. She was, naturally enough, shocked at
the coarseness and brutality of Mr. Scragg, and, ere an hour went by,
in despair at the unmannerly rudeness of the children, the oldest a
stout, vulgar-looking boy, who went racing and rummaging about the
house from the garret to the cellar. For a long time after her exciting
interview with Mr. Scragg, she sat weeping and trembling in her own
room, with Edith by her side, who sought earnestly to comfort and
encourage her.

"Oh, Edith!" she sobbed, "to think that we should be humbled to this!"

"Necessity has forced us into our present unhappy position, mother,"
replied Edith. "Let us meet its difficulties with as brave hearts as
possible."

"I shall never be able to treat that dreadful man with even common
civility," said Mrs. Darlington.

"We have accepted him as our guest, mother, and it will be our duty to
make all as pleasant and comfortable as possible. We will have to bear
much, I see--much beyond what I had anticipated."

Mrs. Darlington sighed deeply as she replied--

"Yes, yes, Edith. Ah, the thought makes me miserable!"

"No more of that sweet drawing together in our own dear home circle,"
remarked Edith, sadly.

"Henceforth we are to bear the constant presence and intrusion of
strangers, with whom we have few or no sentiments in common. We open
our house and take in the ignorant, the selfish, the vulgar, and feed
them for a certain price! Does not the thought bring a feeling of
painful humiliation? What can pay for all this? Ah me! The anticipation
had in it not a glimpse of what we have found in our brief experience.
Except Mr. and Mrs. Ring, there isn't a lady nor gentleman in the
house. That Mason is so rudely familiar that I cannot bear to come near
him. He's making himself quite intimate with Henry already, and I don't
like to see it."

"Nor do I," replied Mrs. Darlington. "Henry's been out with him twice
to the theatre already."

"I'm afraid of his influence over Henry. He's not the kind of a
companion he ought to choose," said Edith. "And then Mr. Barling is
with Miriam in the parlour almost every evening. He asks her to sing,
and she says she doesn't like to refuse."

The mother sighed deeply. While they were conversing, a servant came to
their room to say that Mr. Ring was in the parlour, and wished to speak
with Mrs. Darlington. It was late in the afternoon of the day on which
the Scraggs had made their appearance.

With a presentiment of trouble, Mrs. Darlington went down to the
parlour.

"Madam," said Mr. Ring, as soon as she entered, speaking in a firm
voice, "I find that my wife has been grossly insulted by a fellow whose
family you have taken into your house. Now they must leave here, or we
will, and that forthwith."

"I regret extremely," replied Mrs. Darlington, "the unpleasant
occurrence to which you allude; but I do not see how it is possible for
me to turn these people out of the house."

"Very well, ma'am. Suit yourself about that. You can choose between us.
Both can't remain."

"If I were to tell this Mr. Scragg to seek another boarding-house, he
