
"There must be a cause for this," said Wilkinson.

"Of course. There is no effect without a cause."

"Do you know what it is?"

"Yes."

"A knowledge of our disease is said to be half the cure."

"It has not proved so in my case."

"What is the difficulty?"

"My expenses are too high."

"Your store expenses?"

"No, my family expenses."

"Then you ought to reduce them."

"That is easily said; but, in my case, not so easily done. I cannot
make my wife comprehend the necessity of retrenchment."

"If you were to explain the whole matter to her, calmly and clearly, I
am certain you would not find her unreasonable. Her stake in this
matter is equal to yours."

"Oh, dear! Haven't I tried, over and over again?"

"If Cara will not hear reason, and join with you in prudent reforms,
then it is your duty to make them yourself. What are your annual
expenses?"

"I am ashamed to say."

"Fifteen hundred dollars?"

"They have never fallen below that since we were married, and, for the
last three years, have reached the sum of two thousand dollars. This
year they will even exceed that."

Wilkinson shook his head.

"Too much! too much!"

"I know it is. A man in my circumstances has no right to expend even
half that sum. Why, five hundred dollars a year less in our expenses
since we were married would have left me a capital of five thousand
dollars in my business."

"And placed you now on the sure road to fortune."

"Undoubtedly."

"Take my advice, and give to Cara a full statement of your affairs. Do
it at once--this very day. It has been put off too long already. Let
there be no reserve--no holding back--no concealment. Do it calmly,
mildly, yet earnestly, and my word for it, she will join you, heart and
hand, in any measure of reform and safety that you may propose. She
were less than a woman, a wife, and a mother, not to do so. You wrong
her by doubt."

"Perhaps I do," said Ellis in reply. "Perhaps I have never managed her
rightly. I know that I am quick to get out of patience with her, if she
oppose my wishes too strongly. But I will try and overcome this. There
is too much at stake just now."

The two men parted. Henry Ellis pondered all day over the present state
of his affairs, and the absolute necessity there was for a reduction of
his expenses. The house in which he lived cost four hundred and fifty
dollars a year. Two hundred dollars could easily be saved, he thought,
by taking a smaller house, where, if they were only willing to think
so, they might be just as comfortable as they now were. Beyond this
reduction in rent, Ellis did not see clearly how to proceed. The rest
would have mainly to depend upon his wife, who had almost the entire
charge of the home department, including the expenditures made on
account thereof.

The earnestness with which Ellis pondered these things lifted his
thoughts so much above the sensual plane where they too often rested,
that he felt not the desire for stimulating drink returning at certain
hours, but passed through the whole of the afternoon without either
thinking of or tasting his usual glass of brandy and water. On coming
home to his family in the evening, his mind was as clear as a bell.
This, unhappily, was not always the case.

And now for the task of making Cara comprehend the real state of his
affairs; and to produce in her a cheerful, loving, earnest co-operation
in the work of salutary reform. But how to begin? What first to say?
How to disarm her opposition in the outset? These were the questions
over which Ellis pondered. And the difficulty loomed up larger and
larger the nearer he approached it. He felt too serious; and was
conscious of this.

Unhappily, Cara's brow was somewhat clouded. Ellis approached her with
attempts at cheerful conversation; but she was not in the mood to feel
interested in any of the topics he introduced. The tea hour passed with
little of favourable promise. The toast was badly made, and the
chocolate not half boiled. Mrs. Ellis was annoyed, and scolded the
cook, in the presence of her husband, soundly; thus depriving him of
the little appetite with which he had come to the table. Gradually the
unhappy man felt his patience and forbearance leaving him; and more
than once he said to himself--

"It will be worse than useless to talk to her. She will throw back my
words upon me, in the beginning, as she has so often done before."

Tea over, Mr. and Mrs. Ellis returned with their children to the
sitting-room. The former felt an almost irrepressible desire for the
cigar, which habit had rendered so nearly indispensable; but he denied
himself the indulgence, lest Cara should make it the occasion of some
annoying remark. So he took up a newspaper, and occupied himself
therewith, until his wife had undressed and put their two oldest
children to bed. As she returned from the adjoining room, where they
slept, Ellis looked earnestly into her face, to see what hope there was
for him in its expression. Her lips were drawn closely together, her
brows slightly contracted, and her countenance had a fretful,
discontented expression. He sighed inwardly, and resumed the perusal of
his newspaper; or, rather, affected to resume it, for the words that
met his eyes conveyed to his mind no intelligible ideas.

Mrs. Ellis took her work-basket, and commenced sewing, while her
husband continued to hold the newspaper before his face. After some ten
minutes of silence, the latter made a remark, as a kind of feeler. This
was replied to with what sounded more like a grunt than a vocal
expression.

"Cara," at length said Ellis, forcing himself to the unpleasant work on
hand, "I would like to have a little plain talk with you about my
affairs." He tried, in saying this, to seem not to be very serious; but
his feelings, which had for some time been on the rack, were too
painfully excited to admit of this. He both looked and expressed, in
the tones of his voice, the trouble he felt.

Now, just at the moment Ellis said this, his wife was on the eve of
making the announcement, in rather a peremptory and dogmatic way, that
if he didn't give her the money to buy new parlour carpets, for which
she had been asking as much as a year past, she would go and order
them, and have the bill sent in to him. All day this subject had been
in her mind, and she had argued herself into the belief that her
husband was perfectly able, not only to afford her new carpets, but
also new parlour furniture; and that his unwillingness to do so arose
from a penurious spirit. Such being her state of mind, she was not
prepared to see in the words, voice, and look of her husband the real
truth that it was so important for her to know. From the beginning of
their married life, she had been disposed to spend freely, and he to
restrain her. In consequence, there was a kind of feud between them;
and now she regarded his words as coming from a desire on his part to
make her believe that he was poorer, in the matter of this world's
goods, than was really the case. Her reply, therefore, rather pettishly
uttered, was--

"Oh! I've heard enough about your affairs. No doubt you are on the
verge of bankruptcy. A man who indulges his family to the extent that
you do must expect shipwreck with every coming gale."

The change of countenance and exclamation with which this heartless
retort was made startled even Cara. Rising quickly to his feet, and
flinging upon his wife a look of reproach, Ellis left the room. A
moment or two afterwards, the street-door shut after him with a heavy
jar.

It was past midnight when he came home, and then he was stupid from
drink.




CHAPTER XI.


HOW different was it with Wilkinson, when he returned to his wife on
the same evening, in a most gloomy, troubled, and desponding state of
mind! A review of his affairs had brought little, if any thing, to
encourage him. This dead loss of two thousand dollars was more, he
felt, than he could bear. Ere this came upon him, there was often great
difficulty in making his payments. How should he be able to make them
now, with such an extra weight to carry? The thought completely
disheartened him.

"I, too, ought to retrench," said he, mentally, his thoughts recurring
to the interview which had taken place between him and Ellis. "In fact,
I don't see what else is to save me. But how can I ask Mary to give up
her present style of living? How can I ask her to move into a smaller
house? to relinquish one of her domestics, and in other respects to
deny herself, when the necessity for so doing is wholly chargeable to
my folly? It is no use; I can't do it. Every change--every step
downwards, would rebuke me. No--no. Upon Mary must not rest the evil
consequences of my insane conduct. Let me, alone, suffer."

But how, alone, was he to bear, without sinking beneath the weight, the
pressure that was upon him?

With the usual glad smile and heart-warm kiss Wilkinson was greeted on
his return home.

"God bless you, Mary!" said he, with much feeling, as he returned his
wife's salutation.

Mrs. Wilkinson saw that her husband was inwardly moved to a degree that
was unusual. She did not remark thereon, but her manner was gentle, and
her tones lower and tenderer than usual, when she spoke to him. But few
words passed between them, until the bell rang for tea. While sitting
at the table, the voice of Ella was heard, crying.

"Agnes!" called Mrs. Wilkinson, going to the head of the stairs that
led down into the kitchen--"I wish you would go up to Ella, she is
awake."

The girl answered that she would do as desired, and Mrs. Wilkinson
returned to her place at the table.

"Where is Anna?" asked Mr. Wilkinson.

Mrs. Wilkinson smiled cheerfully, as she replied,

"Her month was up to-day, and I concluded to let her go."

"What!" Wilkinson spoke in a quick surprised voice.

"She was little more than a fifth wheel to our coach," was replied;
"and fifth wheels can easily be dispensed with."

"But who is to take care of Ella? Who is to do the chamber work? Not
you!"

"Don't be troubled about that, my good husband!" was answered with a
smile. "Leave all to me. I am the housekeeper."

"You are not strong enough, Mary. You will injure your health."

"My health is more likely to suffer from lack, than from excess of
effort. The truth is, I want more exercise than I have been in the
habit of taking."

"But the confinement, Mary. Don't you see that the arrangement you
propose will tie you down to the house? Indeed, I can't think of it."

"I shall not be confined in-doors any more than I am now. Agnes will
take care of the baby whenever I wish to go out."

"There is too much work in this house, Mary'" said Mr. Wilkinson, in a
decided way. "You cannot get along with but a single domestic."

"There are only you, and Ella, and I!" Mrs. Wilkinson leaned towards
her husband, and looked earnestly into his face. There was an
expression on her countenance that was full of meaning; yet its import
he did not understand.

"Only you, and Ella, and I?" said he.

"Yes; only we three. Now, I have been wondering all day, John, whether
there was any real necessity for just we three having so large a house
to live in. I don't think there is. It is an expense for nothing, and
makes work for nothing."

"How you talk, Mary!"

"Don't I talk like a sensible woman?" said the young wife, smiling.

"We can't go into a smaller house, dear."

"And why not, pray?"

"Our position in society"--

Mr. Wilkinson did not finish the sentence; for he knew that argument
would be lost on his wife.

"We are not rich," said Mrs. Wilkinson.

"No one knows that better than myself," replied the husband, with more
feeling than he meant to exhibit.

"And, if the truth were known, are living at an expense beyond what we
can afford. Speak out plainly, dear, and say if this is not the case."

"I shouldn't just like to say that," returned Wilkinson; yet his tone
of voice belied his words.

"It is just as I supposed," said Mrs. Wilkinson, growing more serious.
"Why have you not confided in me? Why have you not spoken freely to me
on this subject, John? Am I not your wife? And am I not ready to bear
all things and to suffer all things for your sake?"

"You are too serious Mary,--too serious by far. I have not said that
there was any thing wrong in my circumstances. I have not said that it
was necessary to reduce our expenses."

"No matter, dear. We are, by living in our present style, expending
several hundred dollars a year more than is necessary. This is useless.
Do you not say so yourself?"

"It is certainly useless to spend more than is necessary to secure
comfort."

"And wrong to spend more than we can afford?"

"Undoubtedly."

"Then let us take a smaller house, John, by all means. I shall feel so
much better contented."

It was some time before Wilkinson replied. When he did so, he spoke
with unusual emotion.

"Ah, my dear wife!" said he, leaning towards her and grasping her hand;
"you know not how great a load you have taken from my heart. The change
you suggest is necessary; yet I never could have urged it; never could
have asked you to give up this for an humbler dwelling. How much rather
would I elevate you to a palace!"

"My husband! Why, why have you concealed this from me? It was not true
kindness," said Mrs. Wilkinson, in a slightly chiding voice. "It is my
province to stand, sustainingly, by your side; not to hang upon you, a
dead weight."

But we will not repeat all that was said. Enough that, ere the evening,
spent in earnest conversation, closed, all the preliminaries of an
early removal and reduction of expenses were settled, and, when
Wilkinson retired for the night, it was in a hopeful spirit. Light had
broken through a rift in the dark cloud which had so suddenly loomed
up; and he saw, clearly, the way of escape from the evil that
threatened to overwhelm him.




CHAPTER XII.


TWELVE o'clock of the day on which Ellis was to return the two hundred
dollars borrowed of Wilkinson came, and yet he did not appear at the
store of the latter, who had several payments to make, and depended on
receiving the amount due from his friend.

"Has Mr. Ellis been here?" asked Wilkinson of his clerk, coming in
about noon from a rather fruitless effort to obtain money.

The clerk replied in the negative.

"Nor sent over his check for two hundred dollars?"

"No, sir."

"Step down to his store, then, if you please, and say to him from me
that he mustn't forget the sum to be returned to-day, as I have two
notes yet in bank. Say also, that if he has any thing over, I shall be
glad to have the use of it."

The clerk departed on his errand. In due time he returned, but with no
money in his possession.

"Did you see Mr. Ellis?" asked Wilkinson.

"No, sir," was replied. "He hasn't been at the store to-day."

"Not to-day!"

"No, sir."

"What's the matter? Is he sick?"

"His clerk didn't say."

Taking up his hat, Wilkinson left his store hurriedly. In a few minutes
he entered that of his friend.

"Where is Mr. Ellis?" he inquired.

"I don't know, sir," was answered by the clerk.

"Has he been here this morning?"

"No, sir."

"He must be sick. Have you sent to his house to make inquiry?"

"Not yet. I have expected him all the morning."

"He was here yesterday?"

"Not until late in the afternoon."

"Indeed! Did he complain of not being well?"

"No, sir. But he didn't look very well."

There was something in the manner of the clerk which Wilkinson did not
understand clearly at first. But all at once it flashed upon his mind
that Ellis might, in consequence of some trouble with his wife, have
suddenly abandoned himself to drink. With this thought came the
remembrance of what had passed between them two days before; and this
but confirmed his first impression.

"If Mr. Ellis comes in," said he, after some moments of hurried
thought, "tell him that I would like to see him."

The clerk promised to do so.

"Hadn't you better send to his house?" suggested Wilkinson, as he
turned to leave the store. "He may be sick."

"I will do so," replied the clerk, and Wilkinson retired, feeling by no
means comfortable. By this time it was nearly one o'clock, and six or
seven hundred dollars were yet required to make him safe for that day's
payments. The failure of Ellis to keep his promise laid upon him an
additional burden, and gradually caused a feeling of despondency to
creep in upon him. Instead of making a new and more earnest effort to
raise the money, he went back to his store, and remained there for
nearly half an hour, in a brooding, disheartened state of mind. A
glance at the clock, with the minute-hand alarmingly near the figure 2,
startled him at length from his dreaming inactivity; and he went forth
again to raise, if possible, the money needed to keep his name from
commercial dishonour. He was successful; but there were only fifteen
minutes in his favour when the exact sum he needed was made up, and his
notes taken out of bank.

Two o'clock was Mr. Wilkinson's dinner hour, and he had always, before,
so arranged his bank business as to have his notes taken up long enough
before that time to be ready to leave promptly for home. But for the
failure of Ellis to keep his promise, it would have been so on this day.

"It's hardly worth while to go home now," said he, as he closed his
cash and bill books, after making some required entries therein. "Mary
has given me over long ago. And, besides, I don't feel in the mood of
mind to see her just now. I can't look cheerful, to save me; and I have
already called too many shadows to her face to darken it with any more.
By evening I will recover myself, and then can meet her with a brighter
countenance. No, I won't go home now. I'll stop around to Elder's, and
get a cut of roast beef."

Wilkinson had taken up his hat, and was moving down the store, when a
suggestion that came to his mind made him pause. It was this:

"But is not Mary waiting for me, and will not my absence for the whole
day cause her intense anxiety and alarm? I ought to go home."

And now began an argument in his thoughts. The fact was, a sense of
exhaustion of body and depression of spirits had followed the effort
and trouble of the day, and Wilkinson felt a much stronger desire for
something stimulating to drink than he did for food. Elder's was a
drinking as well as an eating-house; and in deciding to go there,
instead of returning home, the real influence, although he did not
perceive it to be so, was the craving felt for a glass of brandy. And
now came the conflict between appetite and an instinctive sense of what
was due both to himself and his wife.

"It will only put her to trouble if I go home now." Thus he sought to
justify himself in doing what his better sense clearly condemned as
wrong.

"It will rather relieve her from trouble," was quickly answered to this.

For a little while Wilkinson stood undecided, then slowly retired to a
remote part of the store, took off his hat, and sat down to debate the
point at issue in his mind more coolly.

"I will go home early," said he to himself.

"Why not go home now?" was instantly replied.

"It is too late; Mary has given me up long ago."

"She will be extremely anxious."

"I can explain all."

"Better do it now than two or three hours later: poor Mary has suffered
enough already."

This last suggestion caused the image of his wife to come up before the
mind of Wilkinson very distinctly. He saw, now, her smile of winning
love; now, the sad drooping of her countenance, as he turned to leave
her alone for an evening; now, the glance of anxiety and fear with
which she so often greeted his return; and now, her pale,
grief-stricken face, after some one of his too many lapses from the
right way. And, in imagination, his thoughts went to his home in the
present moment. What did he see? A waiting, anxious, troubled wife, now
sitting with fixed and dreamy eyes; now moving about with restless
steps; and now standing at the street-door, eagerly straining her eyes
to see in the distance his approaching form. With such images of his
wife came no repulsive thought to the mind of Wilkinson. Ever loving,
tender, patient, forbearing, and true-hearted had Mary been. Not once
in the whole of their married life had she jarred the chord that bound
them together, with a touch of discord. He could only think of her,
therefore, with love, and a feeling of attraction; and this it was that
saved him in the present hour. Starting up suddenly, he said, "I will
go home: why have I hesitated an instant? My poor Mary! Heaven knows
you have already suffered enough through my short-comings and
wanderings from the way of right and duty. I am walking a narrow path,
with destruction on either hand: if I get over safely, it will be
through you as my sustaining angel."

A skilful limner, at least in this instance, was the imagination of
Wilkinson. Much as it had been pictured to his thoughts was the scene
at home. Poor Mary! with what trembling anxiety did she wait and hope
for her husband's coming, after the usual hour for his return had
passed. Now she sat motionless, gazing on some painful image that was
presented to her mind; now she moved about the room from an unquietness
of spirit that would not let her be still; and now she bent her ear
towards the street, and listened almost breathlessly for the sound of
her husband's footsteps. Thus the time passed from two until three
o'clock, the dinner yet unserved.

"Oh, what can keep him away so long?"

How many, many times was this spoken audibly! Now her heart beat with a
quick, panting motion, as the thought of some accident to her husband
flitted through the mind of Mrs. Wilkinson; now its irregular motion
subsided, and it lay almost still, with a heavy pressure; for the fear
lest he had again been tempted from the path of sobriety came with its
deep and oppressive shadow.

And thus the lingering moments passed. Three o'clock came, and yet Mr.
Wilkinson was absent.

"I can bear this suspense no longer," said the unhappy wife. "Something
has happened."

And as she said this, she went quickly into her chamber to put into
execution some suddenly-formed resolution. Opening a wardrobe, she took
therefrom her bonnet and a shawl. But, ere she had thrown the latter
around her shoulders, she paused, with the words on her lips--

"If business should have detained him at his store, how will my
appearance there affect him? I must think of that. I do not want him to
feel that I have lost confidence in him."

While Mrs. Wilkinson stood, thus musing, her ear caught the sound of
her husband's key in the lock of the street-door. How quickly were her
bonnet and shawl returned to their places! How instant and eager were
her efforts to suppress all signs of anxiety at the prolonged absence!

"He must not see that I have been over-anxious," she murmured.

The street-door closed; Mr. Wilkinson's well-known tread sounded along
the passage and up the stairway. With what an eager discrimination was
the ear of his wife bent towards him for a sign that would indicate the
condition in which he returned to her! How breathless was her suspense!
A few moments, and the door of her room opened.

"Why, John!" said she, with a pleasant smile, and a tone so well
disguised that it betrayed little of the sea of agitation below--"what
has kept you so late? I was really afraid something had happened. Have
you been sick; or did business detain you?"

"It was business, dear," replied Mr. Wilkinson, as he took the hand
which Mary placed within his. The low, nervous tremour of that hand he
instantly perceived, and as instantly comprehended its meaning. She had
been deeply anxious, but was now seeking to conceal this from him. He
understood it all, and was touched by the fact.

"I ought to have sent you word," said he, as he kissed her with more
than usual tenderness of manner. "It was wrong in me. But I've been
very hard put to it to take up my notes, and didn't succeed until near
the closing of bank hours. I loaned Ellis some money, which he was to
return to me to-day; but his failing to do so put me to a good deal of
inconvenience."

"Oh, I'm sorry," was the sympathizing response. "But how came Mr. Ellis
to disappoint you?"

"I don't exactly know. He hasn't been at his store to-day."

"Is he sick?"

"Worse, I'm afraid."

"How, worse?"

"His habits have not been very good of late."

"Oh! how sad! His poor wife!"

This was an almost involuntary utterance on the part of Mrs. Wilkinson.

"Her poor husband, rather say," was the reply. "The fact is, if Ellis
goes to ruin, it will be his wife's fault. She has no sympathy with
him, no affectionate consideration for him. A thoroughly selfish woman,
she merely regards the gratification of her own desires, and is ever
making home repulsive, instead of attractive."

"You must be mistaken."

"No. Ellis often complains to me of her conduct."

"Why, John! I can scarcely credit such a thing."

"Doubtless it is hard for you to imagine any woman guilty of such
unwifelike conduct. Yet such is the case. Many a night has Ellis spent
at a tavern, which, but for Cara's unamiable temper, would have been
spent at home."

"Ah! she will have her reward," sighed Mrs. Wilkinson.

"And you yours," was the involuntary but silent ejaculation of
Wilkinson.

Ere further remark was made, the dinner-bell rang, and Mr. Wilkinson
and his wife repaired to the dining-room.

It was not possible for the former to endure the pressure that was on
his feelings without letting the fact of its existence betray itself in
his countenance; and Mary, whose eyes were scarcely a moment from her
husband's face, soon saw that his mind was ill at ease.

"How much did Mr. Ellis borrow of you?" she asked, soon after they had
taken their places at the table.

"Two hundred dollars," was replied.

"No more?" The mind of Mrs. Wilkinson was evidently relieved, at
knowing the smallness of the sum.

"True, it isn't much," said Wilkinson. "But even a small sum is of
great importance when we have a good deal to pay, and just lack that
amount, after gathering in all our available resources. And that was
just my position to-day." "Why didn't you call on me?" Mary smiled,
with evident meaning as she said this.

"On you!" Wilkinson looked at her with a slight air of surprise.

"Yes, on me. I think I could have made you up that sum."

"You!"

A bright gleam went over the face of Mrs. Wilkinson, as she saw the
surprise of her husband.

"Yes, me. Why not? You have always been liberal in your supplies of
money, and it is by no means wonderful that I should have saved a
little. The fact is, John, I've never spent my entire income; I always
made it a point of conscience to keep as far below it as possible."

"Mary!" Beyond this simple ejaculation, Wilkinson could not go, but
sat, with his eyes fixed wonderingly on the face of his wife.

"It is true, dear," she answered, in her loving gentle way. "I haven't
counted up lately; but, if I do not err, I have twice the sum you
needed to-day; and, what is more, the whole is at your service. So
don't let this matter of Ellis's failure to return you the sum
borrowed, trouble you in the least. If it never comes back to you, the
loss will be made up in another quarter."

It was some moments before Wilkinson could make any answer. At last,
dropping the knife and fork which he held in his hands, he started from
his place, and coming round to where his wife sat, drew his arms around
her, and as he pressed his lips to hers, said with an unsteady voice--

"God bless you, Mary! You are an angel!"

Had she not her reward in that happy moment? Who will say nay?




CHAPTER XIII.


ON the morning that followed the fruitless attempt of Henry Ellis to
make his wife comprehend the necessity that existed for an immediate
reduction in their household expenditures, he did not get up until
nearly ten o'clock. For at least an hour before rising, he was awake,
suffering in both body and mind; for the night's debauch had left him,
as was usually the case, with a most violent headache. During all the
time he heard, at intervals, the voice of Cara in the adjoining,
talking to or scolding at the children; but not once during the time
did she come into the chamber where he lay. He felt it as a total want
of interest or affection on her part. He had done wrong; he felt that;
yet, at the same time, he also felt that Cara had her share of the
blame to bear. If she had only manifested some feeling for him, some
interest in him, he would have been softened; but, as she did not, by
keeping entirely away, show that she thought or cared for him, the pure
waters of right feeling, that were gushing up in his mind, were touched
with the gall of bitterness.

Rising at length, Ellis began dressing himself, purposely making
sufficient noise to reach the ears of his wife. But she did not make
her appearance.

Two doors led from the chamber in which he was. One communicated with
the adjoining room, used as a nursery, and the other with the passage.
After Ellis had dressed and shaved himself, he was, for a short time,
undecided whether to enter the nursery, in which were his wife and
children, or to pass through the other door, and leave the house
without seeing them.

"I shall only get my feelings hurt," said he, as he stood debating the
point. "It's a poor compensation for trouble and the lack of domestic
harmony, to get drunk, I know; and I ought to be, and am, ashamed of my
own folly. Oh dear! what is to become of me? Why will not Cara see the
evil consequences of the way she acts upon her husband? If I go to
destruction, and the chances are against me, the sin will mainly rest
upon her. Yet why should I say this? Am I not man enough to keep sober?
Yes"--thus he went on talking to himself--"but if she will not act in
some sort of unity with me, I shall be ruined in my business. It will
never do to maintain our present expensive mode of living; and she will
never hear to a change."

Just at this moment an angry exclamation from the lips of Mrs. Ellis
came sharply on the ears of her husband, followed by the whipping and
crying of one of the children, who had, as far as Ellis could gather,
from what was said, overset his mother's work-basket.

"No use for me to go in there," muttered the unhappy man. "I shall only
increase the storm; and I've had storms enough!"

So he went from the chamber by way of the passage, descended to the
entry below, and, taking up his hat, left the house.

Now, of all things in the world, in the peculiar state of body and mind
in which Ellis then was, did he want a good strong cup of coffee at his
own table, and a kind, forbearing, loving wife to set it before him.
These would have given to his body and to his mind just what both
needed, for the trials and temptations of the day; and they would have
saved him, at least for the day, perhaps for life; for the pivot upon
which the whole of a man's future destiny turns is often small, and
scarcely noticed.

As Ellis stepped from his door, and received the fresh air upon his
face and in his lungs, he was instantly conscious of a want in his
system, and a craving for something to supply that want. Having taken
no breakfast, the feeling was not to be wondered at. Ellis understood
its meaning, in part, and took the nearest way to an eating-house where
he ordered something to eat. For him, it was the most natural thing in
the world, under the circumstances, to call for something at the bar
while his breakfast was preparing. He felt better after taking a glass
of brandy.

Ellis had finished his breakfast, and was standing at the bar with a
second glass of liquor in his hand, when he was accosted in a familiar
manner by the same individual who had lured Wilkinson to the
gaming-table.

"Ah, my boy! how are you?" said Carlton, grasping the hand of Ellis and
shaking it heartily.

"Glad to see you, 'pon my word! Where do you keep yourself?"

"You'll generally find me at my store during business hours," replied
Ellis.

"What do you call business hours?" was asked by Carlton.

"From eight or nine in the morning until six or seven in the evening."

"Yes--yes--yes! With you as with every other 'business' man I know.
Business every thing--living nothing. You'll get rich, I suppose; but,
by the time your sixty or a hundred thousand dollars are safely
invested in real estate or good securities, health will have departed,
never to return."

"Not so bad as that, I presume," returned Ellis.

"How can it be otherwise? The human body is not made of iron and steel;
and, if it were, it would never stand the usage it receives from some
men, you among the number. For what are the pure air and bright
sunshine made? To be enjoyed only by the birds and beasts? Man is
surely entitled to his share; and if he neglects to take it, he does so
to his own injury. You don't look well. In fact, I never saw you look
worse; and I noticed, when I took your hand, that it was hot. Now, my
good fellow! this is little better than suicide on your part; and if I
do not mistake, you are too good a Christian to be guilty of
self-murder. Why don't you ride out and take the air? You ought to do
this daily."

"Too expensive a pleasure for me," said Ellis. "In the first place,
with me time is money, and, in the second place, I have no golden
mint-drops to exchange for fast horses."

"I have a fine animal at your service," replied the tempter. "Happy to
let you use him at any time."

"Much obliged for the offer; and when I can run away from business for
a few hours, will avail myself of it."

"What do you say to a ride this morning? I'm going a few miles over
into Jersey, and should like your company above all things."

"I hardly think I can leave the store to-day," replied Ellis. "Let me
see: have I any thing in the way of a note to take up? I believe not."

"You say yes, then?"

"I don't know about that. It doesn't just seem right."

"Nonsense! It is wonderful how this business atmosphere does affect a
man's perceptions! He can see nothing but the dollar. Every thing is
brought down to a money valuation."

We will not trace the argument further. Enough that the tempter was
successful, and that Ellis, instead of going to his store, rode out
with Carlton.

He was not, of course, home at his usual dinner-hour. It was between
three and four o'clock when he appeared at his place of business, the
worse for his absence, in almost every sense of the word. He had been
drinking, until he was half stupid, and was a loser at the gaming-table
of nearly six hundred dollars. A feeble effort was made by him to go
into an examination of the business of the day; but he found it
impossible to fix his mind thereon, and so gave up the attempt. He
remained at his store until ready to close up for the day, and then
turned his steps homeward.

By this time he was a good deal sobered, and sadder for his sobriety;
for, as his mind became clearer, he remembered, with more vividness,
the events of the day, and particularly the fact of having lost several
hundred dollars to his pretended friend, Carlton.

"Whither am I going? Where is this to end?" was his shuddering
ejaculation, as the imminent peril of his position most vividly
presented itself.

How hopelessly he wended his reluctant way homeward! There was nothing
to lean upon there. No strength of ever-enduring love, to be, as it
were, a second self to him in his weakness. No outstretched arm to drag
him, with something of super-human power, out of the miry pit into
which he had fallen; but, instead, an indignant hand to thrust him
farther in.

"God help me!" he sighed, in the very bitterness of a hopeless spirit;
"for there is no aid in man."

Ah! if, in his weakness, he had only leaned, in true dependence, on Him
he thus asked to help him; if he had but resisted the motions of evil
in himself, as sins against his Maker, and resisted them in a
determined spirit, he need not have fallen; strength would, assuredly,
have been given.

The nearer Ellis drew to his home, the more unhappy he felt at the
thought of meeting his wife. After having left the house without seeing
her in the morning, and then remaining from home all day, he had no
hope of a kind reception.

"It's no use!" he muttered to himself, stopping suddenly, when within a
square of his house. "I can't meet Cara; she will look coldly at me, or
frown, or speak cutting words; and I'm in no state of mind to bear any
thing patiently just now. I've done wrong, I know--very wrong; but I
don't want it thrown into my face. Oh, dear! I am beset within and
without, behind and before and there is little hope for me."

Overcoming this state of indecision, Ellis forced himself to go home.
On entering the presence of his wife, he made a strong effort to
compose himself, and, when he met Cara, he spoke to her in a cheerful
tone of voice. How great an effort it cost him to do this, considering
all the circumstances by which he was surrounded, the reader may easily
imagine. And what was his reception?

"Found your way home at last!"

These were the words with which Cara received her husband; and they
were spoken in a sharp, deriding tone of voice. The day's doubt,
suspense, and suffering, had not quieted the evil spirit in her heart.
She was angry with her husband, and could not restrain its expression.

A bitter retort trembled on the tongue of Ellis; but he checked its
utterance, and, turning from his wife, took one of his children in his
arms. The sphere of innocence that surrounded the spirit of that child
penetrated his heart, and touched his feelings with an emotion of
tenderness.

"Oh, wretched man that I am!" he sighed, in the bitterness of a
repentant and self-upbraiding spirit. "So much dependent on me, and yet
as weak as a reed swaying in the wind."

How much that weak, tempted, suffering man, just trembling on the brink
of destruction, needed a true-hearted, forbearing, long-suffering wife!
Such a one might--yes, would--have saved him. By the strong cords of
love she would have held him to her side.

Several times Ellis tried to interest Cara in conversation; but to
every remark she replied only in monosyllables. In fact she was angry
with him, and, not feeling kindly, she would not speak kindly. All day
she had suffered deeply on his account. A thousand fears had harassed
her mind. She had even repented of her unkindness towards him, and
resolved to be more forbearing in the future. For more than an hour she
kept the table waiting at dinner time, and was so troubled at his
absence, that she felt no inclination to touch food.

"I'm afraid I am not patient enough with him," she sighed, as better
feelings warmed in her heart. "I was always a little irritable. But I
will try to do better. If he were not so close about money, I could be
more patient."

While such thoughts were passing through the mind of Mrs. Ellis, a
particular friend, named Mrs. Claxton, called to see her.

"Why, bless me, Cara! what's the matter?" exclaimed this lady, as she
took the hand of Mrs. Ellis. "You look dreadful. Haven't been sick, I
hope?"

"No, not sick in body," was replied.

"Sick in mind. The worst kind of sickness. No serious trouble, I hope?"

There was a free, off-hand, yet insinuating manner about Mrs. Claxton,
that, while it won the confidence of a certain class of minds, repulsed
others. Mrs. Ellis, who had no great skill in reading character,
belonged to the former class; and Mrs. Claxton was, therefore as just
said, a particular friend, and in a certain sense a confidante.

"The old trouble," replied Mrs. Ellis to the closing question of her
friend.

"With your husband?"

"Yes. He pinches me in money matters so closely, and grumbles so
eternally at what he calls my extravagance, that I'm out of all
patience. Last evening, just as I was about telling him that he must
give me new parlour carpets, he, divining, I verily believe, my
thoughts, cut off every thing, by saying, in a voice as solemn as the
grave--'Cara, I would like to have a little plain talk with you about
my affairs.' I flared right up. I couldn't have helped it, if I'd died
for it the next minute."

"Well; what then?"

"Oh! the old story. Of course he got angry, and went off like a streak
of lightning. I cried half the evening, and then went to bed. I don't
know how late it was when he came home. This morning, when I got up, he
was sleeping as heavy as a log. It was near ten o'clock when I heard
him moving about in our chamber, but I did not go in. He had got
himself into a huff, and I was determined to let him get himself out of
it. Just as I supposed he would come into the nursery, where I was
sitting with the children, awaiting his lordship's pleasure to appear
for breakfast, he opens the door into the passage, and walks himself
off."

"Without his breakfast?"

"Yes, indeed. And I've seen nothing of him since."

"That's bad," said the friend. "A little tiff now and then is all well
enough in its place. But this is too serious."

"So I feel it. Yet what am I to do?"

"You will have to manage better than this."

"Manage?"

"Yes. I never have scenes of this kind with my husband."

"He's not so close with you as Henry is with me. He isn't so mean, if I
must speak plainly, in money matters."

"Well, I don't know about that. He isn't perfect by many degrees. One
of his faults, from the beginning, has been a disposition to dole out
my allowance of money with a very sparing hand. I bore this for some
years, but it fretted me; and was the source of occasional
misunderstandings that were very unpleasant."

Mrs. Claxton paused.

"Well; what remedy did you apply?" asked Mrs. Ellis.

"A very simple one. I took what he was pleased to give me, and if it
didn't hold out, I bought what I needed, and had the bills sent in to
the store."

"Capital!" exclaimed Mrs. Ellis. "Just what I have been thinking of.
And it worked well?"

"To a charm."

"What did Mr. Claxton say when the bills came in?"

"He looked grave, and said I would ruin him; but, of course, paid them."

"Is that the way you got your new carpets?"

"Yes."

"And your new blinds?"

"Yes."

"Well, I declare! But doesn't Mr. Claxton diminish your allowances of
money?"

"Yes, but his credit is as good as his money. I never pay for dry
goods, shoes, or groceries. The bills are all sent in to him."

"And he never grumbles?"

"I can't just say that. It isn't a week since he assured me, with the
most solemn face in the world, that if I didn't manage to keep the
family on less than I did, he would certainly be ruined in his
business."

"The old story."

"Yes. I've heard it so often, that it goes in at one ear and out at the
other."

"So have I. But I like your plan amazingly, and mean to adopt it. In
