look, and surprised ejaculation, but seated himself in a chair, and
burying his face in his hands, remained silent, until, unable to
endure the suspense, Ellen went to him, and taking his hand, asked,
so earnestly, and so tenderly, what it was that troubled him, that
he could not resist her appeal.
"I am discharged!" said he, with bitter emphasis. "And there is no
other establishment in the town, nor within fifty miles!"
"O, Henry! how did that happen?"
"I hardly know myself, Ellen, for it all seems like a dream. When I
left home this morning, I did not go directly to the shop; I wanted
to see a man at the upper end of the town, and when I got back it
was an hour later than usual. Old Ballard took me to task before all
the shop, and intimated that I was not disposed to act honestly
towards him. This I cannot bear from any one; I answered him in
anger, and was discharged on the spot. And now, what we are to do,
heaven only knows! Winter is almost upon us, and we have not five
dollars in the world."
"But something will turn up for us, Henry, I know it will," said
Ellen, trying to smile encouragingly, although her heart was heavy
in her bosom.
Her husband shook his head, doubtingly, and then all was gloomy and
oppressive silence. For nearly an hour, no word was spoken by
either. Each mind was busy with painful thoughts, and one with
fearful forebodings of evil. At the end of that time, the husband
took up his hat and went out. For a long, long time after, Ellen sat
in dreamy, sad abstraction, holding her babe to her breast. From
this state, a sense of duty roused her, and laying her infant on the
bed,--for they had not yet been able to spare money for a
cradle,--she began to busy herself in her domestic duties. This
brought some little relief.
About eleven o'clock Jane came in with her usual cheerful, almost
happy face, bringing in her hand a stout bundle. Her countenance
changed in its expression to one of concern, the moment her eyes
rested upon her sister's face, and she laid her bundle on a chair
quickly, as if she half desired to keep it out of Ellen's sight.
"What is the matter, Ellen?" she asked, with tender concern, the
moment she had closed the door.
Ellen could not reply; her heart was too full. But she leaned her
head upon her sister's shoulder, and, for the first time since she
had heard the sad news of the morning, burst into tears. Jane was
surprised, and filled with anxious concern. She waited until this
ebullition of feeling in some degree abated, and then said, in a
tone still more tender than that in which she had first spoken,--
"Ellen, dear sister! tell me what has happened?"
"I am foolish, sister," at length, said Ellen, looking up, and
endeavoring to dry her tears. "But I cannot help it. Henry was
discharged from the shop this morning; and now, what are we to do?
We have nothing ahead, and I am afraid he will not be able to get
anything to do here, or within many miles of the village."
"That is bad, Ellen," replied Jane, while a shadow fell upon her
face, but a few moments before so glowing and happy. And that was
nearly all she could say; for she did not wish to offer false
consolation, and she could think of no genuine words of comfort.
After a while, each grew more composed and less reserved; and then
the whole matter was talked over, and all that Jane could say, that
seemed likely to soothe and give hope to Ellen's mind, was said with
earnestness and affection.
"What have you there?" at length asked Ellen, glancing towards the
chair upon which Jane had laid her bundle.
Jane paused a moment, as if in self-communion, and then said--
"Only a pair of blankets, and a couple of calico dresses that I have
been out buying."
"Let me look at them," said Ellen, in as cheerful a voice as she
could assume.
A large heavy pair of blankets, for which Jane had paid five
dollars, were now unrolled, and a couple of handsome chintz dresses,
of dark rich colors, suitable for the winter season, displayed. It
was with difficulty that Ellen could restrain a sigh, as she looked
at these comfortable things, and thought of how much she needed, and
of how little she had to hope for. Jane felt that such thoughts must
pass through her sister's mind, and she also felt much pained that
she had undesignedly thus added, by contrast, to Ellen's unhappy
feelings. When she returned home, she put away her new dresses and
her blankets. She had no heart to look at them, no heart to enjoy
her own good things, while the sister she so much loved was denied
like present comforts, and, worse than all, weighed down with a
heart-sickening dread of the future.
We will not linger to contrast, in a series of domestic pictures,
the effects of industry and idleness on the two married sisters and
their families,--effects, the causes of which, neither aided
materially in producing. Such contrasts, though useful, cannot but
be painful to the mind, and we would, a thousand times, rather give
pleasure than pain. But one more striking contrast we will give, as
requisite to show the tendency of good or bad principles, united
with good or bad habits.
Unable to get any employment in the village, Thorne, hearing that
steady work could be obtained in Charleston, South Carolina, sold
off a portion of his scanty effects, by which he received money
enough to remove there with his wife and child. Thus were the
sisters separated; and in that separation, gradually estranged from
the tender and lively affection that presence and constant
intercourse had kept burning with undiminished brightness. Each
became more and more absorbed, every day, in increasing cares and
duties; yet to one those cares and duties were painful, and to the
other full of delight.
Ten years from the day on which they parted in tears, Ellen sat,
near the close of day, in a meanly furnished room, in one of the
southern cities, watching, with a troubled countenance, the restless
slumber of her husband. Her face was very thin and pale, and it had
a fixed and strongly marked expression of suffering. Two children, a
boy and a girl, the one about six, and the other a little over ten
years of age, were seated listlessly on the floor, which was
uncarpeted. They seemed to have no heart to play. Even the
elasticity of childhood had departed from them. From the appearance
of Thorne, it was plain that he was very sick; and from all the
indications the room in which he lay, afforded, it was plain that
want and suffering were its inmates. The habit of idleness he had
suffered to creep at a slow but steady pace upon him. Idleness
brought intemperance, and intemperance, reacting upon idleness,
completed his ruin, and reduced his family to poverty in its most
appalling form. Now he was sick with a southern fever, and his
miserable dwelling afforded him no cordial, nor his wife and
children the healthy food that nature required.
"Mother!" said the little boy, getting up from the floor, where he
had been sitting for half an hour, as still as if he were sleeping,
and coming to Ellen's side, he looked up earnestly and imploringly
in her face.
"What, my child?" the mother said, stooping down and kissing his
forehead, while she parted with her fingers the golden hair that
fell in tangled masses over it.
"Can't I have a piece of bread, mother?"
Ellen did not reply, but rose slowly and went to the closet, from
which she took part of a loaf, and cutting a slice from it, handed
it to her hungry boy. It was her last loaf, and all their money was
gone. The little fellow took it, and breaking a piece off for his
sister, gave it to her; the two children then sat down side by side,
and ate in silence the morsel that was sweet to them.
With an instinctive feeling, that from nowhere but above could she
look for aid and comfort, did Ellen lift her heart, and pray that
she might not be forsaken in her extremity. And then she thought of
her sister Jane, from whom she had not heard for a long, long time,
and her heart yearned towards her with an eager and yearning desire
to see her face once more.
And now let us look in upon Jane and her family. Her husband, by
saving where Thorne spent in foolish trifles, and working when
Thorne was idle, gradually laid by enough to purchase a little farm,
upon which he had removed, and there industry and frugality brought
its sure rewards. They had three children: little Ellen had grown to
a lively, rosy-cheeked, merry-faced girl of eleven years; and
George, who had followed Ellen, was in his seventh year, and after
him came the baby, now just completing the twelfth month of its
innocent, happy life. It was in the season when the farmers' toil is
rewarded, and William Moreland was among those whose labor had met
an ample return.
How different was the scene, in his well established cottage, full
to the brim of plenty and comfort, to that which was passing at the
same hour of the day, a few weeks before, in the sad abode of Ellen,
herself its saddest inmate.
The table was spread for the evening meal, always eaten before the
sun hid his bright face, and George and Ellen, although the supper
was not yet brought in, had taken their places; and Moreland, too,
had drawn up with the baby on his knee, which he was amusing with an
apple from a well filled basket, the product of his own orchard.
A hesitating rap drew the attention of the tidy maiden who assisted
Mrs. Moreland in her duties.
"It is the poor old blind man," she said, in a tone of compassion,
as she opened the door.
"Here is a shilling for him, Sally," said Moreland, handing her a
piece of money. "The Lord has blessed us with plenty, and something
to spare for his needy children."
The liberal meal upon the table, the mother sat down with the rest,
and as she looked around upon each happy face, her heart blessed the
hour that she had given her hand to William Moreland. Just as the
meal was finished, a neighbor stopped at the door and said:
"Here's a letter for Mrs. Moreland; I saw it in the post-office, and
brought it over for her, as I was coming this way."
"Come in, come in," said Moreland, with a hearty welcome in his
voice.
"No, I thank you, I can't stop now. Good evening," replied the
neighbor.
"Good evening," responded Moreland, turning from the door, and
handing the letter to Jane.
"It must be from Ellen," Mrs. Moreland remarked, as she broke the
seal. "It is a long time since we heard from then; I wonder how they
are doing."
She soon knew; for on opening the letter she read thus:--
SAVANNAH, September, 18--.
MY DEAR SISTER JANE:--Henry has just died. I am left here without a
dollar, and know not where to get bread for myself and two children.
I dare not tell you all I have suffered since I parted from you.
I----
My heart is too full; I cannot write. Heaven only knows what I shall
do! Forgive me, sister, for troubling you; I have not done so
before, because I did not wish to give you pain, and I only do so
now, from an impulse that I cannot resist.
ELLEN.
Jane handed the letter to her husband, and sat down in a chair, her
senses bewildered, and her heart sick.
"We have enough for Ellen, and her children, too, Jane," said
Moreland, folding the letter after he had read it. "We must send for
them at once. Poor Ellen! I fear she has suffered much."
"You are good, kind and noble-hearted, William!" exclaimed Jane,
bursting into tears.
"I don't know that I am any better than anybody else, Jane. But I
can't bear to see others suffering, and never will, if I can afford
relief. And surely, if industry brought no other reward, the power
it gives us to benefit and relieve others, is enough to make us ever
active."
In one month from the time Ellen's letter was received, she, with
her children, were inmates of Moreland's cottage. Gradually the
light returned to her eye, and something of the former glow of
health and contentment to her cheek. Her children in a few weeks,
were as gay and happy as any. The delight that glowed in the heart
of William Moreland, as he saw this pleasing change, was a double
reward for the little he had sacrificed in making them happy. Nor
did Ellen fall, with her children, an entire burden upon her sister
and her husband;--her activity and willingness found enough to do
that needed doing. Jane often used to say to her husband--
"I don't know which is the gainer over the other, I or Ellen; for I
am sure I can't see how we could do without her."
GOOD-HEARTED PEOPLE.
THERE are two classes in the world: one acts from impulse, and the
other from reason; one consults the heart, and the other the head.
Persons belonging to the former class are very much liked by the
majority of those who come in contact with them: while those of the
latter class make many enemies in their course through life. Still,
the world owes as much to the latter as to the former--perhaps a
great deal more.
Mr. Archibald May belonged to the former class; he was known as a
good-hearted man. He uttered the word "no" with great difficulty;
and was never known to have deliberately said that to another which
he knew would hurt his feelings. If any one about him acted wrong,
he could not find it in his heart to wound him by calling his
attention to the fact. On one occasion, a clerk was detected in
purloining money; but it was all hushed up, and when Mr. May
dismissed him, he gave him a certificate of good character.
"How could you do so?" asked a neighbor, to whom he mentioned the
fact.
"How could I help doing it? The young man had a chance of getting a
good place. It would have been cruel in me to have refused to aid
him. A character was required, and I could do no less than give it.
Poor, silly fellow! I am sure I wish him well. I always liked him."
"Suppose he robs his present employer?"
"He won't do that, I'm certain. He is too much ashamed of his
conduct while in my store. It is a lesson to him. And, at any rate,
I do not think a man should be hunted down for a single fault."
"No: of course not. But, when you endorse a man's character, you
lead others to place confidence in him; a confidence that may be
betrayed under very aggravated circumstances."
"Better that many suffer, than that one innocent man should be
condemned and cast off."
"But there is no question about guilt or innocence. It was fully
proved that this young man robbed you."
"Suppose it was. No doubt the temptation was very strong. I don't
believe he will ever be guilty of such a thing again."
"You have the best evidence in the world that he will, in the fact
that he has taken your money."
"O no, not at all. It doesn't follow, by any means, that a fault
like this will be repeated. He was terribly mortified about it. That
has cured him, I am certain."
"I wouldn't trust to it."
"You are too uncharitable," replied Mr. May. "For my part, I always
look upon the best side of a man's character. There is good in every
one. Some have their weaknesses--some are even led astray at times;
but none are altogether bad. If a man falls, help him up, and start
him once more fair in the world--who can say that he will again
trip? Not I. The fact is, we are too hard with each other. If you
brand your fellow with infamy for one little act of indiscretion,
or, say crime, what hope is there for him."
"You go rather too far, Mr. May," the neighbor said, "in your
condemnation of the world. No doubt there are many who are really
uncharitable in their denunciations of their fellow man for a single
fault. But, on the other side, I am inclined to think, that there
are just as many who are equally uncharitable, in loosely passing
by, out of spurious kindness, what should mark a man with just
suspicion, and cause a withholding of confidence. Look at the case
now before us. You feel unwilling to keep a young man about you,
because he has betrayed your trust, and yet, out of kind feelings,
you give him a good character, and enable him to get a situation
where he may seriously wrong an unsuspecting man."
"But I am sure he will not do so."
"But what is your guarantee?"
"The impression that my act has evidently made upon him. If I had,
besides hushing up the whole matter, kept him still in my store, he
might again have been tempted. But the comparatively light
punishment of dismissing him with a good character, will prove a
salutary check upon him."
"Don't you believe it."
"I will believe it, until I see evidence to the contrary. You are
too suspicious--too uncharitable, my good friend. I am always
inclined to think the best of every one. Give the poor fellow
another chance for his life, say I."
"I hope it may all turn out right."
"I am sure it will," returned Mr. May. "Many and many a young man is
driven to ruin by having all confidence withdrawn from him, after
his first error. Depend upon it, such a course is not right."
"I perfectly agree with you, Mr. May, that we should not utterly
condemn and cast off a man for a single fault. But, it is one thing
to bear with a fault, and encourage a failing brother man to better
courses, and another to give an individual whom we know to be
dishonest, a certificate of good character."
"Yes, but I am not so sure the young man we are speaking about is
dishonest."
"Didn't he rob you?"
"Don't say rob. That is too hard a word. He did take a little from
me; but it wasn't much, and there were peculiar circumstances."
"Are you sure that under other peculiar circumstances, he would not
have taken much more from you?"
"I don't believe he would."
"I wouldn't trust him."
"You are too suspicious--too uncharitable, as I have already said. I
can't be so. I always try to think the best of every one."
Finding that it was no use to talk, the neighbor said but little
more on the subject.
About a year afterwards the young man's new employer, who, on the
faith of Mr. May's recommendation, had placed great confidence in
him, discovered that he had been robbed of several thousand dollars.
The robbery was clearly traced to this clerk, who was arrested,
tried, and sentenced to three years imprisonment in the
Penitentiary.
"It seems that all your charity was lost on that young scoundrel,
Blake," said the individual whose conversation with Mr. May has just
been given.
"Poor fellow!" was the pitying reply. "I am most grievously
disappointed in him. I never believed that he would turn out so
badly."
"You might have known it after he had swindled you. A man who will
steal a sheep, needs only to be assured of impunity, to rob the
mail. The principle is the same. A rogue is a rogue, whether it be
for a pin or a pound."
"Well, well--people differ in these matters. I never look at the
worst side only. How could Dayton find it in his heart to send that
poor fellow to the State Prison! I wouldn't have done it, if he had
taken all I possess. It was downright vindictiveness in him."
"It was simple justice. He could not have done otherwise. Blake had
not only wronged him, but he had violated the laws and to the laws
he was bound to give him up."
"Give up a poor, erring young man, to the stern, unbending,
unfeeling laws! No one is bound to do that. It is cruel, and no one
is under the necessity of being cruel."
"It is simply just, Mr. May, as I view it. And, further, really more
just to give up the culprit to the law he has knowingly and wilfully
violated, than to let him escape its penalties."
Mr. May shook his head.
"I certainly cannot see the charity of locking up a young man for
three or four years in prison, and utterly and forever disgracing
him."
"It is great evil to steal?" said the neighbor.
"O, certainly--a great sin."
"And the law made for its punishment is just?"
"Yes, I suppose so."
"Do you think that it really injuries a thief to lock him up in
prison, and prevent him from trespassing on the property of his
neighbors?"
"That I suppose depends upon circumstances. If----"
"No, but my friend, we must fix the principle yea or nay. The law
that punishes theft is a good law--you admit that--very well. If the
law is good, it must be because its effect is good. A thief, will,
under such law, he really more benefitted by feeling its force than
in escaping the penalty annexed to its infringement. No distinction
can or ought to be made. The man who, in, a sane mind, deliberately
takes the property of another, should be punished by the law which
forbids stealing. It will have at least one good effect, if none
others and that will be to make him less willing to run similar
risk, and thus leave to his neighbor the peaceable possession of his
goods."
"Punishment, if ever administered, should look to the good of the
offender. But, what good disgracing and imprisoning a young man who
has all along borne a fair character, is going to have, is more than
I can tell. Blake won't be able to hold up his head among
respectable people when his term has expired."
"And will, in consequence, lose his power of injuring the honest and
unsuspecting. He will be viewed in his own true light, and be cast
off as unworthy by a community whose confidence he has most
shamefully abused."
"And so you will give an erring brother no chance for his life?"
"O yes. Every chance. But it would not be kindness to wink at his
errors and leave him free to continue in the practice of them, to
his own and others' injury. Having forfeited his right to the
confidence of this community by trespassing upon it, let him pay the
penalty of that trespass. It will be to him, doubtless, a salutary
lesson. A few years of confinement in a prison will give him time
for reflection and repentance; whereas, impunity in an evil course
could only have strengthened his evil purposes. When he has paid the
just penalty of his crime, let him go into another part of the
country, and among strangers live a virtuous life, the sure reward
of which is peace."
Mr. May shook his head negatively, at these remarks.
"No one errs on the side of kindness," he said, "while too many, by
an opposite course, drive to ruin those whom leniency might have
saved."
A short time after the occurrence of this little interview, Mr. May,
on returning home one evening, found his wife in much apparent
trouble.
"Has anything gone wrong, Ella?" he asked.
"Would you have believed it?" was Mrs. May's quick and excited
answer. "I caught Jane in my drawer to-day, with a ten dollar bill
in her hand which she had just taken out of my pocket book, that was
still open."
"Why, Ella!"
"It is too true! I charged it at once upon her, and she burst into
tears, and owned that she was going to take the money and keep it."
"That accounts, then, for the frequency with which you have missed
small sums of money for several months past."
"Yes. That is all plain enough now. But what shall we do? I cannot
think of keeping Jane any longer."
"Perhaps she will never attempt such a thing again, now that she has
been discovered."
"I cannot trust her. I should never feel safe a moment. To have a
thief about the house! Oh, no, That would never answer. She will
have to go."
"Well, Ella, you will have to do what you think best; but you
mustn't be too hard on the poor creature. You mustn't think of
exposing her, and thus blasting her character. It might drive her to
ruin."
"But, is it right for me, knowing what she is, to let her go quietly
into another family? It is a serious matter, husband."
"I don't know that you have anything to do with that. The safest
thing, in my opinion, is for you to talk seriously to Jane, and warn
her of the consequences of acts such as she has been guilty of. And
then let her go, trusting that she will reform."
"But there is another fault that I have discovered within a week or
two past. A fault that I suspected, but was not sure about. It is a
very bad one."
"What is that, Ella?"
"I do not think she is kind to the baby."
"What?"
"I have good reason for believing that she is not kind to our dear
little babe. I partly suspected this for some time. More than once I
have came suddenly upon her, and found our sweet pet sobbing as if
his heart would break. The expression in Jane's face I could not
exactly understand. Light has gradually broken in upon me, and now I
am satisfied that she has abused him shamefully."
"Ella?"
"It is too true. Since my suspicions were fully aroused, I have
asked Hannah about it, and she, unwillingly, has confirmed my own
impressions."
"Unwillingly! It was her duty to have let you know this voluntarily.
Treat my little angel Charley unkindly! The wretch! She doesn't
remain in this house a day longer."
"So I have fully determined. I am afraid that Jane has a wretched
disposition. It is bad enough to steal, but to ill-treat a helpless,
innocent babe, is fiend-like."
Jane was accordingly dismissed.
"Poor creature!" said Mrs. May, after Jane had left the house; "I
feel sorry for her. She is, after all, the worst enemy to herself. I
don't know what will become of her."
"She'll get a place somewhere."
"Yes, I suppose so. But, I hope she won't refer to me for her
character. I don't know what I should say, if she did."
"If I couldn't say any good, I wouldn't say any harm, Ella. It's
rather a serious matter to break down the character of a poor girl."
"I know it is; for that is all they have to depend upon. I shall
have to smooth it over some how, I suppose."
"Yes: put the best face you can upon it. I have no doubt but she
will do better in another place."
On the next day, sure enough, a lady called to ask about the
character of Jane.
"How long has she been with you?" was one of the first questions
asked.
"About six months," replied Mrs. May.
"In the capacity of nurse, I think she told me?"
"Yes. She was my nurse."
"Was she faithful?"
This was a trying question. But it had to be answered promptly, and
it was so answered.
"Yes, I think I may call her quite a faithful nurse. She never
refused to carry my little boy out; and always kept him very clean."
"She kept him nice, did she? Well, that is a recommendation. And I
want somebody who will not be above taking my baby into the street.
But how is her temper?"
"A little warm sometimes. But then, you know, perfection is not to
be attained any where."
"No, that is very true. You think her a very good nurse?"
"Yes, quite equal to the general run."
"I thank you very kindly," said the lady rising. "I hope I shall
find, in Jane, a nurse to my liking."
"I certainly hope so," replied Mrs. May, as she attended her to the
door.
"What do you think?" said Mrs. May to her husband, when he returned
in the evening.--"That Jane had the assurance to send a lady here to
inquire about her character."
"She is a pretty cool piece of goods, I should say. But, I suppose
she trusted to your known kind feelings, not to expose her."
"No doubt that was the reason. But, I can tell her that I was
strongly tempted to speak out the plain truth. Indeed, I could
hardly contain myself when the lady told me that she wanted her to
nurse a little infant. I thought of dear Charley, and how she had
neglected and abused him--the wretched creature! But I restrained
myself, and gave her as good a character as I could."
"That was right. We should not let our indignant feelings govern us
in matters of this kind. We can never err on the side of kindness."
"No, I am sure we cannot."
Mrs. Campbell, the lady who had called upon Mrs. May, felt quite
certain that, in obtaining Jane for a nurse, she had been fortunate.
She gave, confidently, to her care, a babe seven months old. At
first, from a mother's natural instinct, she kept her eye upon Jane;
but every thing going on right, she soon ceased to observe her
closely. This was noted by the nurse, who began to breathe with more
freedom. Up to this time, the child placed in her charge had
received the kindest attentions. Now, however, her natural
indifference led her to neglect him in various little ways,
unnoticed by the mother, but felt by the infant. Temptations were
also thrown in her way by the thoughtless exposure of money and
jewelry. Mrs. Campbell supposed, of course, that she was honest, or
she would have been notified of the fact by Mrs. May, of whom she
had inquired Jane's character; and, therefore, never thought of
being on her guard in this respect. Occasionally he could not help
thinking that there ought to be more money in her purse than there
was. But she did not suffer this thought to rise into a suspicion of
unfair dealing against any one. The loss of a costly breast pin, the
gift of a mother long since passed into the invisible world, next
worried her mind; but, even this did not cause her to suspect that
any thing was wrong with her nurse.
This the time passed on, many little losses of money and valued
articles disturbing and troubling the mind of Mrs. Campbell, until
it became necessary to wean her babe. This duty was assigned to
Jane, who took the infant to sleep with her. On the first night, it
cried for several hours--in fact, did not permit Jane to get more
than a few minutes sleep at a time all night. Her patience was tried
severely. Sometimes she would hold the distressed child with angry
violence to her bosom, while it screamed with renewed energy; and
then, finding that it still continued to cry, toss it from her upon
the bed, and let it lie, still screaming, until fear lest its mother
should be tempted to come to her distressed babe, would cause her
again to take it to her arms. A hard time had that poor child of it
on that first night of its most painful experience in the world. It
was scolded, shaken, and even whipped by the unfeeling nurse, until,
at last, worn out nature yielded, and sleep threw its protecting
mantle over the wearied babe.
"How did you get along with Henry?" was the mother's eager question,
as she entered Jane's room soon after daylight.
"O very well, ma'am," returned Jane.
"I heard him cry dreadfully in the night. Several times I thought I
would come in and take him."
"Yes, ma'am, he did scream once or twice very hard; but he soon gave
up, and has long slept as soundly as you now see him."
"Dear little fellow!" murmured the mother in a trembling voice. She
stooped down and kissed him tenderly--tears were in her eyes.
On the next night, Henry screamed again for several hours. Jane, had
she felt an affection for the child, and, from that affection been
led to soothe it with tenderness, might easily have lulled it into
quiet; but her ill-nature disturbed the child. After worrying with
it a long time, she threw it from her with violence, exclaiming as
she did so--
"I'll fix you to-morrow night! There'll be no more of this. They
needn't think I'm going to worry out my life for their cross-grained
brat."
She stopped. For the babe had suddenly ceased crying. Lifting it up,
quickly, she perceived, by the light of the lamp, that its face was
very white, and its lips blue. In alarm, she picked it up and sprang
from the bed. A little water thrown into its face, soon revived it.
But the child did not cry again, and soon fell away into sleep. For
a long time Jane sat partly up in bed, leaning over on her arm, and
looking into little Henry's face. He breathed freely, and seemed to
be as well as ever. She did not wake until morning. When she did,
she found the mother bending over her, and gazing earnestly down
into the face of her sleeping babe. The incident that had occurred
in the night glanced through her mind, and caused her to rise up and
look anxiously at the child. Its sweet, placid face, at once
reassured her.
"He slept better last night," remarked Mrs. Campbell.
"O, yes. He didn't cry any at all, hardly."
"Heaven bless him!" murmured the mother, bending over and kissing
him softly.
On the next morning, when she awoke, Mrs. Campbell felt a strange
uneasiness about her child. Without waiting to dress herself, she
went softly over to the room where Jane slept. It was only a little
after day-light. She found both the child and nurse asleep. There
was something in the atmosphere of the room that oppressed her
lungs, and something peculiar in its odor. Without disturbing Jane,
she stood for several minutes looking into the face of Henry.
Something about it troubled her. It was not so calm as usual, nor
had his skin that white transparency so peculiar to a babe.
"Jane," she at length said, laying her hand upon the nurse.
Jane roused up.
"How did Henry get along last night, Jane?"
"Very well, indeed, ma'am; he did not cry at all."
"Do you think he looks well?"
Jane turned her eyes to the face of the child, and regarded it for
some time.
"O, yes, ma'am, he looks very well; he has been sleeping sound all
night."
Thus assured, Mrs. Campbell regarded Henry for a few minutes longer,
and then left the room. But her heart was not at ease. There was a
weight upon it, and it labored in its office heavily.
"Still asleep," she said, about an hour after, coming into Jane's
room. "It is not usual for him to sleep so long in the morning."
Jane turned away from the penetrating glance of the mother, and
remarked, indifferently:
"He has been worried out for the last two nights. That is the
reason, I suppose."
Mrs. Campbell said no more, but lifted the child in her arms, and
carried it to her own chamber. There she endeavored to awaken it,
but, to her alarm, she found that it still slept heavily in spite of
all her efforts.
Running down into the parlor with it, where her husband sat reading
the morning papers, she exclaimed:
"Oh, Henry! I'm afraid that Jane has been giving this child
something to make him sleep. See! I cannot awake him. Something is
wrong, depend upon it!"
Mr. Campbell took the babe and endeavored to arouse him, but without
effect.
"Call her down here," he then said, in a quick, resolute voice.
Jane was called down.
"What have you given this child?" asked Mr. Campbell, peremptorily.
"Nothing," was the positive answer. "What could I have given him?"
"Call the waiter."
Jane left the room, and in a moment after the waiter entered.
"Go for Doctor B---- as fast as you can, and say to him I must see
him immediately."
The waiter left the house in great haste. In about twenty minutes
Dr. B---- arrived.
"Is there any thing wrong about this child?" Mr. Campbell asked,
placing little Henry in the doctor's arms.
"There is," was replied, after the lapse of about half a minute.
"What have you been giving it."
"Nothing. But we are afraid the nurse has."
"Somebody has been giving it a powerful anodyne, that is certain.
This is no natural sleep. Where is the nurse? let me see her."
Jane was sent for, but word was soon brought that she was not to be
found. She had, in fact, bundled up her clothes, and hastily and
quietly left the house. This confirmed the worst fears of both
parents and physician. But, if any doubt remained, a vial of
laudanum and a spoon, found in the washstand drawer in Jane's room,
dispelled it.
Then most prompt and active treatment was resorted to by Doctor
B---- in the hope of saving the child. But his anxious efforts were
in vain. The deadly narcotic had taken entire possession of the
whole system; had, in fact, usurped the seat of life, and was
poisoning its very fountain. At day dawn on the next morning the
flickering lamp went out, and the sad parents looked their last look
upon their living child.
"I have heard most dreadful news," Mrs. May said to her husband, on
his return home that day.
"You have! What is it?"
"Jane has poisoned Mrs. Campbell's child!"
"Ella!" and Mr. May started from his chair.
"It is true. She had it to wean, and gave it such a dose of
laudanum, that it died."
"Dreadful! What have they done with her?"
"She can't be found, I am told."
"You recommended her to Mrs. Campbell."
"Yes. But I didn't believe she was wicked enough for that."
"Though it is true she ill-treated little Charley, and we knew it. I
don't see how you can ever forgive yourself. I am sure that I don't
feel like ever again looking Mr. Campbell in the face."
"But, Mr. May, you know very well that you didn't want me to say any
thing against Jane to hurt her character."
"True. And it is hard to injure a poor fellow creature by blazoning
her faults about. But I had no idea that Jane was such a wretch!"
"We knew that she would steal, and that she was unkind to children;
and yet, we agreed to recommend her to Mrs. Campbell."
"But it was purely out of kind feelings for the girl, Ella."
"Yes. But is that genuine kindness? Is it real charity? I fear not."
Mr. May was silent. The questions probed him to the quick. Let every
one who is good-hearted in the sense that Mr. May was, ask seriously
the same questions.
SLOW AND SURE.
"YOU'D better take the whole case. These goods will sell as fast as
they can be measured off."
The young man to whom this was said by the polite and active partner
in a certain jobbing house in Philadelphia, shook his head and
replied firmly--
"No, Mr. Johnson. Three pieces are enough for my sales. If they go
off quickly, I can easily get more."
"I don't know about that, Mr. Watson," replied the jobber. "I shall
be greatly mistaken if we have a case of these goods left by the end
of a week. Every one who looks at them, buys. Miller bought two
whole cases this morning. In the original packages, we sell them at
a half cent per yard lower than by the piece."
"If they are gone, I can buy something else," said the cautious
purchaser.
"Then you won't let me sell you a case?"
"No, sir."
"You buy too cautiously," said Johnson.
"Do you think so?"
"I know so. The fact is, I can sell some of your neighbors as much
in an hour as I can sell you in a week. We jobbers would starve if
there were no more active men in the trade than you are, friend
Watson."
Watson smiled in a quiet, self-satisfied way as he replied--
"The number of wholesale dealers might be diminished; but failures
among them would be of less frequent occurrence. Slow and sure, is
my motto."
"Slow and sure don't make much headway in these times. Enterprise is
the word. A man has to be swift-footed to keep up with the general
movement."
"I don't expect to get rich in a day," said Watson.
"You'll hardly be disappointed in your expectation," remarked
Johnson, a little sarcastically. His customer did not notice the
feeling his tones expressed, but went on to select a piece or two of
goods, here and there, from various packages, as the styles happened
to suit him.
"Five per cent. off for cash, I suppose," said Watson, after
completing his purchase.
"Oh, certainly," replied the dealer. "Do you wish to cash the bill?"
"Yes; I wish to do a cash business as far as I can. It is rather
slow work at first; but it is safest, and sure to come out right in
the end."
"You're behind the times, Watson," said Johnson, shaking his head.
"Tell me--who can do the most profitable business, a man with a
capital of five thousand dollars, or a man with twenty thousand?"
"The latter, of course."
"Very well. Don't you understand that credit is capital?"
"It isn't cash capital."
"What is the difference, pray, between the profit on ten thousand
dollars' worth of goods purchased on time or purchased for cash?"
"Just five hundred dollars," said Watson.
"How do you make that out?" The jobber did not see the meaning of
his customer.
"You discount five per cent. for cash, don't you?" replied Watson,
smiling.
"True. But, if you don't happen to have the ten thousand dollars
cash, at the time you wish to make a purchase, don't you see what an
advantage credit gives you? Estimate the profit at twenty per cent.
on a cash purchase, and your credit enables you to make fifteen per
cent. where you would have made nothing."
"All very good theory," said Watson. "It looks beautiful on paper.
Thousands have figured themselves out rich in this way, but, alas!
discovered themselves poor in the end. If all would work just
right--if the thousands of dollars of goods bought on credit would
invariably sell at good profit and in time to meet the purchase
notes, then your credit business would be first rate. But, my little
observation tells me that this isn't always the case--that your
large credit men are forever on the street, money hunting, instead
of in their stores looking after their business. Instead of getting
discounts that add to their profits, they are constantly suffering
discounts of the other kind; and, too often, these, and the
accumulating stock of unsaleable goods--the consequence of credit
temptations in purchasing--reduce the fifteen per cent. you speak of
down to ten, and even five per cent. A large business makes large
store-expenses; and these eat away a serious amount of small profits
on large sales. Better sell twenty thousand dollars' worth of goods
at twenty per cent. profit, than eighty thousand at five per cent.
You can do it with less labor, less anxiety, and at less cost for
rent and clerk hire. At least, Mr. Johnson, this is my mode of
reasoning."
"Well, plod along," replied Johnson. "Little boats keep near the
shore. But, let me tell you, my young friend, your mind is rather
too limited for a merchant of this day. There is Mortimer, who began
business about the time you did. How much do you think he has made
by a good credit?"
"I'm sure I don't know."
"Fifty thousand dollars."
"And by the next turn of fortune's wheel, may lose it all."
"Not he. Mortimer, though young, is too shrewd a merchant for that.
Do you know that he made ten thousand by the late rise in cotton;
and all without touching a dollar in his business?"
"I heard something of it. But, suppose prices had receded instead of
advancing? What of this good credit, then?"
"You're too timid--too prudent, Watson," said the merchant, "and
will be left behind in the race for prosperity by men of half your
ability."
"No matter; I will be content," was the reply of Watson.
It happened, a short time after this little interchange of views on
business matters, that Watson met the daughter of Mr. Johnson in a
company where he chanced to be. She was an accomplished and
interesting young woman, and pleased Watson particularly; and it is
but truth to say, that she was equally well pleased with him.
The father, who was present, saw, with a slight feeling of
disapprobation, the lively conversation that passed between the
young man and his daughter; and when an occasion offered, a day or
two afterwards, made it a point to refer to him in a way to give the
impression that he held him in light estimation. Flora, that was the
daughter's name, did not appear to notice his remark. One evening,
not long after this, as the family of Mr. Johnson were about leaving
the tea-table, where they had remained later than usual, a domestic
announced that there was a gentleman in the parlor.
"Who is it?" inquired Flora.
"Mr. Mortimer," was answered.
An expression of dislike came into the face of Flora, as she said--
"He didn't ask for me?"
"Yes," was the servant's reply.
"Tell him that I'm engaged, Nancy."
"No, no!" said Mr. Johnson, quickly. "This would not be right. Are
you engaged?"
"That means, father, that I don't wish to see him; and he will so
understand me."
"Don't wish to see him? Why not?"
"Because I don't like him."
"Don't like him?" Mr. Johnson's manner was slightly impatient.
"Perhaps you don't know him."
The way in which her father spoke, rather embarrassed Flora. She
cast down her eye and stood for a few moments.
"Tell Mr. Mortimer that I will see him in a little while," she then
said, and, as the domestic retired to give the answer, she ascended
to her chamber to make some slight additions to her toilet.
To meet the young man by constraint, as it were, was only to
increase in Flora's mind the dislike she had expressed. So coldly
and formally was Mortimer received, that he found his visit rather
unpleasant than agreeable, and retired, after sitting an hour,
somewhat puzzled as to the real estimation in which he was held by
the lady, for whom he felt more than a slight preference.
Mr. Johnson was very much inclined to estimate others by a
money-standard of valuation. A man was a man, in his eyes, when he
possessed those qualities of mind that would enable him to make his
way in the world--in other words, to get rich. It was this ability
in Mortimer that elevated him in his regard, and produced a feeling
of pleasure when he saw him inclined to pay attention to his
daughter. And it was the apparent want of this ability in Watson,
that caused him to be lightly esteemed.
Men like Mr. Johnson are never very wise in their estimates of
character; nor do they usually adopt the best means of attaining
their ends when they meet with opposition. This was illustrated in
the present case. Mortimer was frequently referred to in the
presence of Flora, and praised in the highest terms; while the bare
mention of Watson's name was sure to occasion a series of
disparaging remarks. The effect was just the opposite of what was
intended. The more her father said in favor of the thrifty young
merchant, the stronger was the repugnance felt towards him by Flora;
and the more he had to say against Watson, the better she liked him.
This went on until there came a formal application from Mortimer for
the hand of Flora. It was made to Mr. Johnson first, who replied to
the young man that if he could win the maiden's favor, he had his
full approval. But to win the maiden's favor was not so easy a task,
as the young man soon found. His offered hand was firmly declined.
"Am I to consider your present decision as final?" said the young
man, in surprise and disappointment.
"I wish you to do so, Mr. Mortimer," said Flora.
"Your father approves my suit," said he. "I have his full consent to
make you this offer of my hand."
"I cannot but feel flattered at your preference," returned Flora;
"but, to accept your offer, would not be just either to you or
myself. I, therefore, wish you to understand me as being entirely in
earnest."
This closed the interview and definitely settled the question. When
Mr. Johnson learned that the offer of Mortimer had been declined, he
was very angry with his daughter, and, in the passionate excitement
of his feelings, committed a piece of folly for which he felt an
immediate sense of shame and regret.
The interview between Mr. Mortimer and Flora took place during the
afternoon, and Mr. Johnson learned the result from a note received
from the disappointed young man, just as he was about leaving his
store to return home. Flora did not join the family at the
tea-table, on that evening, for her mind was a good deal disturbed,
and she wished to regain her calmness and self-possession before
meeting her father.
Mr. Johnson was sitting in a moody and angry state of mind about an
hour after supper, when a domestic came into the room and said that
Mr. Watson was in the parlor.
"What does he want here?" asked Mr. Johnson, in a rough, excited
voice.
"He asked for Miss Flora," returned the servant.
"Where is she?"
"In her room."
"Well, let her stay there. I'll see him myself."
And without taking time for reflection, Mr. Johnson descended to the
parlor.
"Mr. Watson," said he, coldly, as the young man arose and advanced
towards him.
His manner caused the visitor to pause, and let the hand he had
extended fall to his side.
"Well, what is your wish?" asked Mr. Johnson. He looked with knit
brows into Watson's face.
"I have called to see your daughter Flora," returned the young man,
calmly.
"Then, I wish you to understand that your call is not agreeable,"
said the father of the young lady, with great rudeness of manner.
"Not agreeable to whom?" asked Watson, manifesting no excitement.
"Not agreeable to me," replied Mr. Johnson. "Nor agreeable to any
one in this house."
"Do you speak for your daughter?" inquired the young man.
"I have a right to speak for her, if any one has," was the evasive
answer.
Watson bowed respectfully, and, without a word more, retired from
the house.
The calm dignity with which he had received the rough treatment of
Mr. Johnson, rebuked the latter, and added a feeling of shame to his
other causes of mental disquietude.
On the next day Flora received a letter from Watson, in part in
these words--
"I called, last evening, but was not so fortunate as to see you.
Your father met me in the parlor, and on learning that my visit was
to you, desired me not to come again. This circumstance makes it
imperative on me to declare what might have been sometime longer
delayed--my sincere regard for you. If you feel towards me as your
father does, then I have not a word more to say; but I do not
believe this, and, therefore, I cannot let his disapproval, in a
matter so intimately concerning my happiness, and it may be yours,
influence me to the formation of a hasty decision. I deeply regret
your father's state of feeling. His full approval of my suit, next
to yours, I feel to be in every way desirable.
"But, why need I multiply words? Again, I declare that I feel for
you a sincere affection. If you can return this, say so with as
little delay as possible; and if you cannot, be equally frank with
me."
Watson did not err in his belief that Flora reciprocated his tender
sentiments; nor was he kept long in suspense. She made an early
reply, avowing her own attachment, but urging him; for her sake, to
do all in his power to overcome her father's prejudices. But this
was no easy task. In the end, however, Mr. Johnson, who saw, too
plainly, that opposition on his part would be of no avail, yielded a
kind of forced consent that the plodding, behind-the-age young
merchant, should lead Flora to the altar. That his daughter should
be content with such a man, was to him a source of deep
mortification. His own expectations in regard to her had been of a
far higher character.
"He'll never set the world on fire;" "A man of no enterprise;" "A
dull plodder;" with similar allusions to his son-in-law, were
overheard by Mr. Johnson on the night of the wedding party, and
added no little to the ill-concealed chagrin from which he suffered.
They were made by individuals who belonged to the new school of
business men, of whom Mortimer was a representative. He, too, was
present. His disappointment in not obtaining the hand of Flora, had
been solaced in the favor of one whose social standing and
money-value was regarded as considerably above that of the maiden
who had declined the offer of his hand. He saw Flora given to
another without a feeling of regret. A few months afterwards, he
married the daughter of a gentleman who considered himself fortunate
in obtaining a son-in-law that promised to be one of the richest men
in the city.
It was with a very poor grace that Mr. Johnson bore his
disappointment; so poor, that he scarcely treated the husband of his
daughter with becoming respect. To add to his uncomfortable feelings
by contrast, Mortimer built himself a splendid dwelling almost
beside the modest residence of Mr. Watson, and after furnishing it
in the most costly and elegant style, gave a grand entertainment.
Invitations to this were not extended to either Mr. Johnson's family
or to that of his son-in-law--an omission that was particularly
galling to the former.
A few weeks subsequent to this, Mr. Johnson stood beside Mr. Watson
in an auction room. To the latter a sample of new goods, just
introduced, was knocked down, and when asked by the auctioneer how
many cases he would take, he replied "Two."
"Say ten," whispered Mr. Johnson in his ear.
"Two cases are enough for my sales," quietly returned the young man.
"But they're a great bargain. You can sell them at an advance,"
urged Mr. Johnson.
"Perhaps so. But I'd rather not go out of my regular line of
business."
By this time, the auctioneer's repeated question of "Who'll take
another case?" had been responded to by half a dozen voices, and the
lot of goods was gone.
"You're too prudent," said Mr. Johnson, with some impatience in his
manner.
"No," replied the young man, with his usual calm tone and quiet
smile. "Slow and sure--that is my motto. I only buy the quantity of
an article that I am pretty sure will sell. Then I get a certain
profit, and am not troubled with paying for goods that are lying on
my shelves and depreciating in value daily."
"But these wouldn't have lain on your shelves. You could have sold
them at a quarter of a cent advance to-morrow, and thus cleared
sixty or seventy dollars."
"That is mere speculation."
"Call it what you will; it makes no difference. The chance of making
a good operation was before you, and you did not improve it. You
will never get along at your snail's pace."
There was, in the voice of Mr. Johnson, a tone of contempt that
stung Watson more than any previous remark or, action of his
father-in-law. Thrown, for a moment, off his guard, he replied with
some warmth--
"You may be sure of one thing, at least."
"What?"
"That I shall never embarrass you with any of my fine operations."
"What do you mean by that?" asked Mr. Johnson.
"Time will explain the remark," replied Watson, turning away, and
retiring from the auction room.
A coolness of some months was the consequence of this little
interview.
Time proves all things. At the end of fifteen years, Mortimer, who
had gone on in the way he had begun, was reputed to be worth two
hundred thousand dollars. Every thing he touched turned to money; at
least, so it appeared. His whole conversation was touching handsome
operations in trade; and not a day passed in which he had not some
story of gains to tell. Yet, with all his heavy accumulations, he
was always engaged in money raising, and his line of discounts was
enormous. Such a thing as proper attention to business was almost
out of the question, for nearly his whole time was taken up in
financiering--and some of his financial schemes were on a pretty
grand scale. Watson, on the other hand, had kept plodding along in
the old way, making his regular business purchases, and gradually
extending his operations, as his profits, changing into capital,
enabled him to do so. He was not anxious to get rich fast; at least,
not so anxious as to suffer himself to be tempted from a safe and
prudent course; and was, therefore, content to do well. By this
time, his father-in-law began to understand him a little better than
at first, and to appreciate him more highly. On more than one
occasion, he had been in want of a few thousand dollars in an
emergency, when the check of Watson promptly supplied the pressing
need.
As to the real ability of Watson, few were apprised, for he never
made a display for the sake of establishing a credit. But it was
known to some, that he generally had a comfortable balance in the
bank, and to others that he never exchanged notes, nor asked an
endorser on his business paper. He always purchased for cash, and
thus obtained his goods from five to seven per cent cheaper than his
neighbors; and rarely put his business paper in bank for discount at
a longer date than sixty days. Under this system, his profits were,
usually, ten per cent. more than the profits of many who were
engaged in the same branch of trade. His credit was so good, that
the bank where he kept his account readily gave him all the money he
asked on his regular paper, without requiring other endorsements;
while many of his more dashing neighbors, who were doing half as
much business again, were often obliged to go upon the street to
raise money at from one to two per cent. a month. Moreover, as he
was always to be found at his store, and ready to give his personal
attention to customers, he was able to make his own discriminations
and to form his own estimates of men--and these were generally
correct. The result of this was, that he gradually attracted a class
of dealers who were substantial men; and, in consequence, was little
troubled with bad sales.
Up to this time, there had been but few changes in the external
domestic arrangements of Mr. Watson. He had moved twice, and, each
time, into a larger house. His increasing family made this
necessary. But, while all was comfortable and even elegant in his
dwelling, there was no display whatever.
One day, about this period, as Watson was walking with his
father-in-law, they both paused to look at a handsome house that was
going up in a fashionable part of Walnut street. By the side of it
