she was upon the road, with no attendant but the driver of her hack.
Rachel had gone to Sunnybank a month before, to see her relations,
little expecting her mistress to come for her. Ida's spirits and health
declined alarmingly, now that the necessity of eluding suspicion was
over. She had never been sick a day in her life; but she began to feel
that mental ills may be aggravated by bodily disease. The unnatural
tension had been maintained too long. When Sunnybank appeared, she was
unable to raise her head to look at it. The negroes flocked out at the
phenomenon of a travelling carriage in the disused avenue; and loud
were their astonishment and compassion, as they recognised its occupant.

"I have come home to die, mother," said she, as they lifted her out,
and fainted in their arms. In the midst of their consternation, the
family pride of the faithful underlings was stubborn. "Their young
mistress should not be carried to the overseer's;" and Aunt Judy, the
keeper of the keys, hurried off to unlock the house doors. Ida had
a cloudy remembrance of awakening in her mother's chamber, and of a
gleaming fancy, that she was once more a child, aroused from a horrid,
horrid dream, then her senses forsook her, and there was a wide hiatus
in memory. It was night when she awoke again; she was in the same
room;--a fire burned in the chimney, and cast fantastic shapes upon
the ceiling. Crouched in the corner of the fire-place, was a dusky
figure, whose audible breathing sounded loudly through the apartment.
Her slumbers were not very profound, however, for she sprang up at the
feeble call--"Rachel!"

"Miss Ida! honey! what do you want?"

"How long have I slept? my head feels so strange!"

"That's because you've been sick, honey."

"What is the matter with me?"

"Fever, dear--you caught it in them dreadful mountains, and have been
laid up for four weeks. But you'll git well, now--you were out of your
head 'most all the time--and the doctor says you mustn't talk."

Ida desisted, too weak to disobey. With vague curiosity, she followed
her with her eyes, as she smoothed the counterpane, pushed up the bed
on one side, and patted it down on the other; then she put the "chunks"
together upon the hearth, and there was the clinking of spoons and
glasses at a table.

"Here's your drink, Miss Ida," she said, lifting her head with a care
that proved her a practised nurse. It was cool and palatable, and the
heavy lids sank in natural slumber.

Mr. Grant (the overseer) and his wife had not been remiss in their
duty to the sick girl. She had the best medical attendance the county
afforded; and Mr. Read was written to at the commencement of the
attack; the letter was unanswered--probably not received. Rachel was
"sure Miss Jenny or Miss Carry would come in a minute, if they knew she
was sick;" but was ignorant of the address of either. Their nursing
might have been more skilful, but it could not have exceeded hers in
tenderness. She took turns with Mrs. Grant in watching, but she never
left the room except for her meals. She was amply repaid for her labor
of love by the improvement which henceforward was apparent in her
patient. Her raptures awoke no responsive harmony in Ida's bosom.

Her physician was a son of Mr. Hall, the old minister, who had gone to
his rest.

"You must exert yourself, Miss Ida," said he. "Have you walked yet?"

"No, sir."

"Cannot you do it?"

"I don't know, indeed, sir."

"But, my dear child, nature cannot do everything; we must aid her. It
is as binding upon us to save our own lives, as those of others."

"When they are worth saving."

"You want more powerful tonics than any I have;" said the doctor,
eyeing her curiously. "I must think your case over. I command you to
walk across the room twice to-day, three times to-morrow, and so on.
See that she minds me, Rachel!"

Rachel gave her no peace, until she consented to sit up awhile in the
easy-chair, by the window. Sunnybank was sadly changed. The buildings
and enclosures were in good repair, and the fields cultivated; but
the walks and shrubbery were neglected; and the garden, into which Ida
was looking, overgrown with high weeds. Here and there a rose-tree
struggled for a foothold, a scanty growth of yellow leaves clinging to
the mossy stems; the sweetbrier still hung over the window, its long,
bare arms rattling in the cold wind like fleshless bones; the tangled
grass in the yard had run to seed, and piles of dead leaves were heaped
against the palings. She could not see the grave-yard; she knew,
though, that the willows were leafless, and how the sprays were waving
in their melancholy dance, and whispering their old song--"Alone!" If
alone then, how now? sick--dying, perhaps! where were those who had
proudly borne the name of friend? where the sister, in whose bosom she
had lain for months, and eased her sorrows and heightened her joys?
the brother, she had averred, was "all kindness and truth?" and oh!
where he, who had filled her heart to the brim with the rich, red
wine of life, to change, in a moment, to fiery, deadly poison! She
felt no resentment against him; she was too utterly broken-hearted,
she thought, even if she had cause; and she had not. Her wilful
self-deception had been her snare; instead of studying his heart, she
had judged it by her own. Were his candor--his undisguised interest in
her welfare, tokens of love, that ever seeks concealment? No! he had
tried to lead her, a wayward child, to the paths of happiness; and she
had seen nought but the hand which pointed the way. There was prophetic
meaning in Lynn's eye, when he spoke of "the finest growth of heart and
soul, which you flattered yourself were climbing heavenward, twining
with strengthening tendrils around the altar of that one love!" She had
been impious enough to imagine that she was imbibing a fondness for
holy things; her heart had burned within her, as he talked of the loved
theme; she had read the Scriptures, and prayed, in words, for light and
guidance. And by the fierce rebellion which fired her breast--rebellion
against--hatred of the Being, this lip service had blasphemed, she knew
that she had never bowed in soul to Him; and her heart--broken, though
she said it was,--trusting still--adoring still the mortal, through the
great love she bore him--yet reared itself in angry defiance, saying
to the Chastener,--"I will not submit!" What had she done, to be left
desolate--comfortless in the spring-time of life! "He is, they tell
me, merciful and all-powerful;--let Him give me back my love, and I
will believe in Him." And as day by day passed, and there were no
tidings of Carry or the Danas, she felt a morose complacency in the
confirmation of her hard thoughts of them, and in repeating, "I am not
humbled yet!"

"Uncle Will wants to know if he can come in to see you, Miss Ida," said
Rachel, one Sabbath afternoon.

Ida was dressed, and rocking herself listlessly before the fire. "Let
him come," she replied, languidly.

This man was her mother's steward and factotum; a hale, fine-looking
negro; better educated than the generality of his caste, and devotedly
pious. He brushed off a tear with the back of his hand, as his mistress
greeted him. He had not seen her since she was grown, and was moved by
her likeness to her mother.

"You would not have known me,--would you, uncle Will?" she asked.

"Yes ma'am; you are your mother's own child."

"Indeed! I am called like my father."

"You're like her, ma'am--in body, and like her in spirit, too I hope."

"No, Uncle Will, you cannot expect that;--she was an angel."

"Better than that, Mistis--she was a Christian!"

"And how is that better?" said Ida, surprised at the reply. "She is an
angel now--is she not?"

"No ma'am; she is one of the spirits of the just made perfect; and
according to my notion, that's better than to be a born seraph. Angels
may praise and glorify the Lamb, but they haven't so much to be
thankful for as we."

"I do not understand you. They have been happy from all Eternity;
and those who have lived in this world, have had sorrow and pain and
sin--'mourning all their days.'"

"They needn't, ma'am--

  'Why should the children of a King
  Go mourning all their days!'"

said Will readily--"He holds us up under whatever trouble we have;
unless we bring it upon ourselves by our transgressions, and He will
deliver us then, if we call to Him. The Saviour is the Christian's
glory and song--He didn't die for angels."

Ida mused. "There is a question I wish to ask you," said she. "God can
do as He pleases;--can He not?"

"Certainly, Mistis--'He worketh according to the counsel of His own
will.'"

"And He is very pitiful and gracious?" she continued.

"Like as a father pitieth his children, Mistis."

"Then when He knows that we are miserable and sinful and helpless, why
does not He take pity on us, and make us good and happy?"

"He will, ma'am."

"But He does not. He only waits for us to love anything, before He robs
us of it. So far from liking to see us happy, it would seem that He
grudged us the poor crumbs we picked up of ourselves."

"Because they ain't good for us, Mistis."

"Why did He allow us to take them, then? why wait, until we have tasted
and found them sweet, before He snatches them away?"

"I remember, Mistis, when you were a little thing, no higher than my
knee, you were mightily taken with some red peppers growing in the
garden. Your mother called you away from the bed, four or five times,
and ordered you not to touch them. By and by I spied you running down
the walk towards them, when you thought she didn't see you; and I was
starting in a hurry to fetch you back, but she stopped me. 'No, Will!'
says she, 'the punishment sin brings with it, is remembered longer than
a hundred warnings. She will have a useful lesson.' I was loath to have
you hurt; but I had to mind her. Your lesson was right hard; for your
mouth and face and hands were swelled and burning for hours. But you
didn't go near the pepper-bed again. And it seems to me, ma'am, that
the Almighty treats us just so. We run crazy after things, that are
like the red peppers,--pretty outside, but hot as fire when we get to
playing with them. He doesn't push us towards them--He lets us alone;
and we are mighty apt to run to Him, after we've got a fair taste. You
didn't know but your mother would whip you for disobeying her; but you
went straight to her when you felt the smart."

"This does not follow, of course, uncle Will. I have tasted some hot
peppers since those days; and I cannot see any mercy or use in the
lesson."

"Maybe you haven't asked an explanation, ma'am."

"From whom? from you?"

"No ma'am! From Him, unto whom belong the deep things of the Almighty.
And if He doesn't show you their meaning now--He will, sometime.
Children are often puzzled at their parents' dealings."

As he was leaving, she observed his wistful look.

"Have you any requests to make, uncle Will? you will not ask anything
unreasonable, I know."

"I hope not, ma'am. You see--we've been in the habit of holding our
Sunday night prayer-meetings in the basement-room, under this. We used
to meet there in your mother's time. She had the room fixed on purpose
for us. When it's clear weather, in summer, we meet out-doors;--it's
getting cool now--"

"And you are afraid of disturbing me; is that it?"

"Yes ma'am," said he, relieved.

"You may be quite easy as regards that. Has that room been ceiled yet?"

"No ma'am--'twould have been if--you all had stayed here."

"I am glad that it is not. I can hear your hymns--how I used to love
those old tunes! Have your meeting. I wish I had no other disturbance!"

He had got into the entry, when she recalled him; and with the sad
smile she had worn during their conversation, said, "Uncle Will! if you
think I have not done hankering after forbidden fruit, you may pray,
that I may be cured."

"I will, Mistis! God bless you!"

She had forgotten, and Will did not know, that all the services could
be heard through the floor. The worshippers assembled so quietly, that
she was not aware of this, until Will's tones startled her with the
idea that he was in the room. He commenced the exercises by reading the
fourteenth chapter of John's gospel. "Let not your hearts be troubled;
ye believe in God, believe also in me." He offered neither comment nor
explanation. He was a believer in what he called "the pure Word;"
"if I can't comprehend one part," he was wont to say, "I comfort
myself by thinking that there is so much that is plain even to my weak
understanding." The quavering voice of an aged man led in prayer; and
in spite of its verbiage and incorrect grammar, Ida listened, for it
was sincere. They sang in the sweet voices for which the race is so
remarkable,

  "There is a land of pure delight,"

with a wild, beautiful chorus, repeated each time with more emphasis
and fervor--

  "Oh sing to me of Heaven!
  In Heaven alone, no sin is known,
  And there's no parting there!"

Ida shut her eyes and lay motionless, lest she should lose a note.
Forgetful of her unholy enmity to her God--her distrust of her
kind--borne upon the melody her soul arose to Pisgah's top, and looked
yearningly upon the "sweet fields beyond the swelling flood," heard the
jubilant song of the redeemed--

  "In Heaven alone, no sin is known,
  And there's no parting there!"

A solemn hush followed; and Will said, "Let us pray." His deliberate
accents quickened into animation, with the unfolding of his petitions;
spurning the fetters of his imperfect speech, his thoughts clothed
themselves in the language of the Divine Word; coming to a King, be
adopted unconsciously the vernacular of princes. In speaking of Ida,
his manner was earnestly affectionate. "We beseech Thee, O Father, to
deal gently with thine handmaid, whom thou hast set over us in worldly
things. Thou hast seen fit that she should bear the yoke in her youth,
hast made her to possess wearisome nights, and days of vanity; hast
mingled her bread with tears, and her drink with weeping; Thou hast
taken from her father and mother,--the hope of her soul, and the desire
of her eyes; it is the Lord's doings, and it is marvellous in our eyes
and in hers. Lighten her eyes, Our Father! though weeping has endured
for a night, Thou hast promised that joy shall come in the morning;
tell her, that no affliction for the present seemeth joyous, but
grievous; but that Thou wilt make it work out for her an eternal weight
of glory; that whom Thou lovest Thou chasteneth, and upon Thy Blessed
Son Thou didst lay the afflictions and iniquities of us all. May her
hungry soul run to Him, from the far country in which she has been
living, and may He heal her broken bones, give her the oil of gladness
for mourning--the garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness."

The hot, dry channel was broken up, and tears flowed in plenteous
measure. From the softening soul sprang her first real prayer. "Oh! be
my Father and Comforter!"

When Rachel awoke in the morning, she saw that her mistress had
unbarred the shutters of the window by her bed, and was reading. Her
face had a still deeper shade of gloom; but the attached girl drew a
favorable augury from this mark of interest in anything, except her own
thoughts. The book was a mother's gift--a Bible; she had read it with
tolerable regularity for the giver's sake, but she found herself now
lamentably ignorant of its contents. She read of the unapproachable
purity of the Immaculate, of judgment and justice; denunciation of the
wicked, and the "fearful looking for of vengeance" that remained to
rebellious children; in vain she searched it for a message to her--a
promise she could apply. Her alarm augmented, as the fruitlessness of
her endeavors became apparent. The life she had lightly esteemed was
inestimably dear, as she realised what eternity was; and her heart
was still with fear at the thought of the uncertain tenure by which
she held it. In times past she would have blushed at these shakings
of spirit; now she could not banish them. She would not be left alone
an instant; she was afraid to sleep, lest she should not awake in
time. She had said, "what evil have I done?" she saw now that she had
committed evil, and that continually; as she beheld "idolatry, hatred,
variance, emulation, wrath, envyings" in the same enumeration with
monstrous vices--a catalogue which brings to our ears the warring clash
of Pandemonium, rendered more horribly discordant by contrast with the
gentle music of "Love, joy, peace, long-suffering."

In angry despair she threw the volume aside; but tortured conscience
drove her to it again. "I will be a Christian," was her primal
resolve,--as the terrors of the law flamed before her--"I must be!"
and a week of labor and agony ended in a total sinking of hope, and an
exhausted cry, "I cannot!"

It was a calm Sabbath in the Indian Summer, and her chair was wheeled
to the door. The "summer's late, repentant smile" shone fondly upon the
landscape; the russet fields, the dismantled forests, the swift-rolling
river.

She had seen it look just so, often; when the breeze played among the
child's curls, and lent a quicker bound to a light heart--but faded
in body--prematurely old in spirit--she saw no beauty in earth--had
no treasure in heaven. Her Bible was upon her knees; she turned the
pages indolently, and was saying, for the hundredth time, "No hope!"
when a passage appeared to start up from the page. Could it have been
there while she sought it carefully and with tears? "The Lord hath
called thee as a woman, forsaken and grieved in spirit; and as a wife
of youth, when thou wast refused, saith my God. For a small moment
have I forsaken thee, but with great mercies will I gather thee; in a
little wrath I hid my face from thee for a moment, but with everlasting
kindness will I have mercy upon thee, saith the Lord, thy Redeemer.
* * * * Oh! thou afflicted, tossed with tempests, and not comforted!
behold, I will lay thy stones with fair colors, and lay thy foundations
with sapphires!"

As Will passed under the window on his way to Church, he was arrested
by an unusual sound. No one was visible, but his heart and eyes ran
over, as he recognised the voice that sang softly--

  "Other refuge have I none,
    Hangs my helpless soul on Thee;
  Leave, oh! leave me not alone,
    Still support and comfort me.
  All my trust on Thee is stayed,
    All my help from Thee I bring;
  Cover my defenceless head
    With the shadow of Thy wing."




CHAPTER XXI.


The trembling which mingled with her transport, was so foreign to Ida's
ardent temperament, that she doubted sometimes, if she had indeed found
peace. But as her filial love and trust strengthened with time, she
rejoiced with more hope. Much of the old leaven was left; her imperious
temper still chafed at restraint, and she was disheartened at the
discovery, that the loveliest of the "Blessed Three" graces was most
difficult to practise. She leaned upon a Saviour's arm, and was willing
to walk in the ways of His appointment, but the weak heart pleaded
that He would not send her back into the world. Sweet Sunnybank, rich
in associations;--with its peaceful duties and holy enjoyments, must
be more favorable to the advancement of her new life;--she hoped
against hope, that she might be permitted to remain. A letter from her
guardian settled the point. With laconic terseness, he declared the
thing "impossible. By her father's will, the estate was hers, when
she was of age; until then, no preparatory step could be taken." Her
scheme had been to invite a sister of Mrs. Grant, an excellent woman,
now dependent upon her brother-in-law, to reside with her, in the
capacity of housekeeper and companion; and leaving the control of her
finances in Mr. Read's hands, to devote herself to the improvement of
her servants and poor neighbors. It was a praiseworthy enterprise, and
it cost her a sharp pang to resign it, and prepare for the return, her
guardian pressed, "as desirable and proper." Her trunks were packed;
and she had come in from a tour of the negro cabins, and a visit to her
mother's grave, to spend the last twilight in the room in which she was
born--in which her mother had died. The November blast howled in the
chimney;--here it was the music of early days;--in Richmond, it would
be so dreary!

She was not gloomy, although the firelight glistened upon cheeks wet
with tears;--she was not going away, as she had come--alone; still she
was sad at quitting her retreat, and in the prospect of the temptations
awaiting her. There would be trials, too--trials of faith and patience
and charity--and trials of feeling--what if she should be found
wanting! But a whisper tranquilised her--"Fear not--I am with thee!"
Mrs. Grant opened the door. She held a lamp whose rays blinded Ida's
tender eyes.

"A gentleman to see you, Miss Ida,--and as there was no fire in the
drawing-room, I've asked him into the dining-room;" announced the dame,
who was remarkable rather for sterling goodness, than for grace and
discretion. The door of communication was wide open, and Ida had no
alternative but to walk directly into the adjoining apartment. Charley
Dana met her, ere she had advanced three steps beyond the doorway. He
was so shocked at her altered appearance that he could not speak at
once, but stood, pressing her hands in his, and gazing into her face
with inexpressible solicitude and tenderness. She must make an exertion.

"This is kind, Charley! Am I to flatter myself that you have turned out
of your way to see me?"

"No. I have looked neither to the right nor to the left. I came by
the most direct route from Richmond. Sit down--you are not able to
stand--and give an account of yourself. What in the name of all that
is ridiculous and outrageous, brought you here alone, and has kept you
here until the middle of the winter?"

"Not so bad as that, Charley! It is only the last month of Autumn. I
came, because I did not want to go North, and was pining for a sight of
the old place; and have been sick ever since. But tell me of yourself.
When did you return, and why have not you written to me?"

"That is what I call 'iced!'" said Charley, with a laugh that sounded
like former times. "Haven't I sent letters to every post-office in the
Union, and not received a line in answer, since you parted company with
Arthur and Carry? I arrived at home, ten days ago. Mr. Read 'presumed'
you were 'yet in the country, and would be back when you were ready:'
John and Jenny were in the dark; had written and inquired to no
purpose: daily dispatches were pouring in from Arthur, certifying that
Carry was nearly deranged with anxiety. Yesterday, I met Mr. Read, who
told me you had been 'indisposed,' but would be down shortly. I asked
your address, and here I am!"

"You could not be more welcome anywhere; but how unaccountable that
your letters miscarried!"

"Easily explained! I stopped down the road, at a house, half-tavern,
half-store, where I espied 'Post Office,' painted upon a shingle,
hung out of a dirty window; and inquired the name of the place.
'Thompsonburg;' said the P.M. 'Burg,' indeed! 'I thought there was an
office in this neighborhood, called 'Oakland;'" said I.

"'Oh! that's discontinued more than a year ago;' answered he. ''Twas at
the Cross-roads below.'"

Simple solution of a mystery which had led her to doubt her best
earthly friends! Charley looked at her intently.

"'Indisposition,' forsooth! Why, I'll be hanged--"

"No you wont, Charley! Don't say so."

"Shot, then! if I am sure that I am not talking to a spirit! You've
been to Death's door. What made you sick?"

"Oh! a variety of causes."

"Which means, it's no business of mine to inquire. All I have to say
is, that your friends would not have treated you, as you have them. If
I had died in Missouri, I would have left 'good-bye,' and a lock of my
hair for you. You might have departed this life twenty times, and we
been none the wiser."

"How quarrelsome you are! I'll never do so again, if you'll forgive me
this once."

"Forgive! I have nothing to forgive--you were privileged to do as you
pleased;--only, if you had said adieu to the land of the living, it
would have been a gratification to us to know it."

Ida laughed out so merrily that Mrs. Grant, who was superintending
the setting of the tea-table, raised her spectacles to look at her,
and smiled gratifiedly. She and her husband sat at the table, and the
guest's "sociable ways" ingratiated him with them, before the meal was
half over. They retired with the waiters, and Charley, dropping his
bantering tone, established himself for a "quiet coze." It was strange
that he should be the first confidant of Ida's change of heart;--he,
whom men styled careless--sometimes "scoffer."

He did not scoff now;--he paid diligent heed to her recital, and when
it was finished--"From my soul, I congratulate you!" he exclaimed.
"Would to Heaven, that I too believed!"

"You may;" said Ida, timidly.

"You do not know the thickness of the crust around my heart, Ida;--the
unbelief, and ingratitude and worldliness. I can battle with men, and
wear a bravado mask; but I do not forget that I have a soul, and that
it must be attended to. Whether I will ever do it, I cannot say. I
think I must be the most hardened of sinners;--Lynn's death would have
subdued a less obdurate heart;--and do you know that, while thoroughly
persuaded that it was a judgment aimed full at me--for he was my
dearest friend, and I felt his loss, most of all who mourned him--I
hated the Power which had dealt the blow, and scorned angrily the
presumption, that I could be forced into measures!"

"You were not more wicked than I was. There is not a truer sentence
in the Bible, than that the 'carnal mind is enmity against God.' Ah!
Charley! if we loved holy things more! It is so mortifying to find our
thoughts straying away from these subjects, when we are most desirous
of contemplating them!"

"That is the fault of Old Adam--the 'body of death,' Paul writes of;"
replied he. "I am not much of a Bible scholar, but it strikes me he
says something in the next verse of a Deliverer, 'who giveth us the
victory.' Why are Christians ever low-spirited, I wonder."

And poor Ida upbraided herself with the same query, many times within
the next few days. She bore the partings and the journey better than
Charley had feared she would. He did his best to save her pain and
fatigue, but he saw, with secret reverence, that she was supported by a
stronger Friend.

"We are almost there!" said he, letting down the carriage-window, upon
the afternoon of their second day's travel.

Ida leaned out, and beheld the spires and roofs of the city. She was
unprepared for the effect the sight had upon her. Recollections of her
years of loneliness; the trials of her home-life; the one friendship of
her school days; a brother's fondness, and his doom; her love and its
blight--rushed upon her with overwhelming force--she fell back upon the
cushions, and wept aloud. She had not entirely recovered her composure,
when they stopped at Mr. Read's door. Josephine hardly knew the wasted
figure, Charley carried, rather than led into the house; and Mr. Read
was, for once, shocked out of his dignity.

"Why! Mr. Dana! Miss Ida! bless my soul and body!" was his
uncharacteristic exclamation.

Charley was in no humour for trifling, or he would have said, "Amen!"

"Miss Ida's indisposition was not so unimportant as you supposed, you
see, sir;" said he sarcastically. "Thanks to the kind attentions of her
country friends, she is now convalescent."

"Hush, Charley! please!" said a distressed whisper from the sofa,
where he had laid her. "Mr. Grant wrote to you, Mr. Read;" said she,
aloud; "but as you were travelling, we doubted whether you received the
letter."

"I did not;" he answered, the flush going off from his brow.

"I was so carefully nursed, I did not require other attention;" she
continued. "I should have regretted it, if your summer's enjoyment had
been interrupted needlessly. Dr. Hall, and Mr. and Mrs. Grant were
untiring in their kindness; and Rachel here, ought to have a diploma to
practice medicine."

It was a maxim with Mr. Read, that for every mischance, blame must rest
somewhere; and Ida, having exculpated him, he could not do less than
return the compliment, by pitching it back upon her.

"I do not presume to lecture you, Miss Ross; but you will admit that
this freak of yours was one of unsurpassed imprudence. You left my roof
under the protection of those, whom I considered fit guardians for a
young lady." Charley made a movement to speak; but Ida's imploring
glance restrained him. "I hear nothing of you for a long time; and you
write, at last, from an uninhabited country-house, begging permission
to take up your abode there. I refuse the preposterous request, and you
are brought home reduced and weakened by a severe illness, of which I
have not been informed. I cannot be responsible for what the world will
say to all this, Miss Ross!"

The rack could not have silenced Charley now. "I will tell you what the
world's opinion is, sir; and hold you responsible for your own words.
'The world' has said, in my hearing, that the guardian, who loses
sight of a ward--a member of his family--for six months, without being
apprised of, or inquiring into her locality and welfare, is unworthy
of his trust. And if I describe his reception of an invalid, who might
have perished through neglect, for all he knew or cared--'the world,'
sir, will declare indignantly, that he is a disgrace to society and
mankind! I have nothing more to say at present. If you take exception
to my liberty of speech, you can call on me, and relieve your mind.
Miss Ida, let me recommend to you to retire; Mr. Read will finish his
lecture to me--good afternoon, Miss Read. Sir, I have the honor to
bid you good-day!"

Josephine burst forth with a torrent of invective: which Ida did not
stay to hear; nor did she see either of them again for two days. She
was not well enough to go below; and they avoided her chamber.

Mrs. Dana called that evening. Ida was preparing for bed; and she
supplanted Rachel as maid and nurse. Her softest, most nimble of hands
undressed the tired, dispirited girl; smoothed the pillows; and gave
her a composing draught; and with her kiss warm upon her lips, her
pitying eyes watching over her, and a prayer of thankfulness at her
heart, Ida fell asleep.

She learned to expect a daily visit from this dear friend; and rarely
looked in vain. At her third coming she brought a note from Charley.
"He was happy to state;" he said; "that the skirmish which had excited
her uneasiness, had arrived at a bloodless issue. Mr. Read and
himself had had an interview; he had apologised for using language
to him, in his own house, which he considered himself justifiable in
employing anywhere else; and Mr. Read excused his harshness to her, by
representing the excitement of surprise and alarm, under which he was
laboring at the time. It was agreed the matter should stop there--that
is;" wrote Charley; "that his bugbear, the world, shall not get hold of
it."

Josephine had received her orders; for she carried her work into Ida's
chamber, that day, and sat one hour, to a minute, never opening her
lips, save in monosyllables to the questions Ida forced herself to ask.
Abandoning seclusion so soon as she had sufficient strength, the latter
joined the family at meals, and remained longer in their society than
she was wont to do formerly; and if her hope of eventually conquering
their dislike did not increase, her meekness and patience did. She
had occasion for it all. Josephine was quick to discover that she was
happier in her affliction and debility, than she was in health and
prosperity; and when the truth came to light, her natural malignity
to the cause, and her hatred of its humble professor triumphed in
the fiendish anticipation of how she could, by deriding one, wound
the other. She would have descried soil upon an angel's robe. Ida
was a young Christian, contending with the manifold disadvantages of
temper, habit and irreligious associates; and her wily assailant was
not passive long for lack of weapons and opportunity for her warfare.
Any symptom of a convalescent's irritability; the utterance of a taste
or opinion, which did not tally with her standard of consistency,
was marked and laid by for use; and no complaisance or concession on
Ida's part, moved her purpose. Mr. Read paid his pew-rent, went to
church once every fine Sunday, and had a pleasant impression that by
so doing, he was "keeping along;" paying interest as it were, upon
the debt, sanguine that when the distant pay-day arrived, he would be
able, by one prodigious effort, to discharge the principal. He "hated
cant, because it was silly and useless" and if he did not chime in his
daughter's slurs upon religion, and the conduct of Christians, he never
rebuked her by word or sign. Watchfully, prayerfully, Ida strove to
keep her feet in the path, and by no misstep or fall, to cast obloquy
upon the name she loved.

Anna Talbot, a friendly, good-natured girl--her brother's superior
in sense and feeling, was a near neighbor; and she ran in directly
after breakfast one morning, full of a ball to which she was invited.
Josephine had a ticket also, and was wishing for her--she must consult
her about her dress.

"Ma has bought me a lovely white silk," said Anna. "I am to wear
sprigged illusion over it--but oh! I was so disappointed! I wanted
silver-sprigged, you know, like that Miss What's-her-name, from
Philadelphia, wore to Mrs. Porter's party--but although I ransacked
every store in the city, I could not find a piece. What will you get,
Josey?"

"I have not quite determined."

"Do let us dress alike! There is another pattern of silk at P----'s."

"Well! I will look at it. What head-dress?" inquired Josephine.

"Oh! that's another novelty! I saw two darling little loves of wreaths
down town--rose-buds and lilies-of-the-valley--pure white. I asked Mrs.
V---- to lay them aside until to-day. I thought of you."

The "darling little loves" were pronounced au fait.

"What ornaments?" said Josephine, who was in her element.

Anna made a gesture of despair. "There's the trouble! I have nothing
but those rubies, and they will not do at all. I dislike to go without
any; but it cannot be helped."

"Pearls would correspond well with your dress," observed Ida.

"Ah, yes! my dear! and if I had a pearl fishery, I would draw upon my
divers forthwith;--unfortunately I have not."

"Are you certain?" returned Ida, smiling. "Imagine me a diver. I have a
neat set, which is at your service, if you will honor me by wearing it."

"Oh! you dearest of girls!" exclaimed Anna. "But you want them
yourself--I beg your pardon--I forgot you were in mourning;--but your
black is not too deep for ornaments."

"But her odor of sanctity is too strong," said Josephine. "She has
renounced the pomps and vanities you and I love, Anna, and 'put on the
ornament of a meek and quiet spirit.' How do you reconcile it with your
conscience, to let your pearls attend a ball, Ida? How much scouring
and praying will cleanse them again for your use?"

"Oh! I will get you or Anna to air them for me, once in a while, and
trust to time to purify them," said Ida, willing to pass it off as a
joke.

"Do you really think it sinful to go to balls?" asked Anna, wonderingly.

"I could not do it innocently," replied Ida.

"Why not? you used to like them as well as the rest of us."

"For pity's sake! no sermonising!" rudely interrupted Josephine. "I
can show you the root of her piety in two words. Don't you remember a
certain gentleman, whose handsome face and saintly smile set off his
religion so well?"

"Oh!" laughed Anna; "but I thought he liked her very well as she was."

"Nothing like making assurance doubly sure!" answered the other. "Pity
he did not return to town this winter. Love's labor is lost."

"Why, Ida! what a flirt you are!" cried Anna. "When everybody says you
are engaged to Mr. Dana!"

"Everybody is wrong, then," said Ida, calmly.

"Everybody is right!" contradicted Josephine. "She reads in her
Bible, that she 'must love all men;' and her being in mourning for
one beau, and dying with love for another, are no impediments to her
engagement with a third. This is Platonism with a vengeance."

"Fie! Josephine!" said Anna, perceiving by Ida's face, that the
pleasantry, as she still thought it, was going too far. "You know, as
well as I do, that Mr. Holmes was only a friend. Mrs. Dana is in black
for him too--it is as reasonable to say that she was in love with him."

"She may have been, for anything I know to the contrary;" retorted
Josephine, growing more and more insolent. "I don't pretend to
understand the morals of 'the clique.'"

"I am going up stairs, Anna," said Ida, "and will send you the pearls.
If they please you, you are welcome to them, whenever you wish them."

Anna pulled her down. "Don't go! I want to talk with you. You must not
regard Josephine's nonsense--it is only a foolish jest."

"One, which must not be repeated!" said Ida. "I may not notice an
insult to myself, but if my friends are slandered, I must defend them."

"Defend them, as long and loud as you choose;" replied Josephine,
retaining her disagreeable smile and tone. "Recriminate too, if you
like. It is but politic in you to fight for your patrons. Aha! that
flash of the eye was Christian-like! Did you never observe, Anna, that
when the 'brethren' are wrought up to the belligerent point, they are
the fiercest of combatants?"

Ida hurried up stairs--threw herself upon the bed, and cried bitterly;
unobservant of Rachel's presence.

"Oh! Father! pity me! I am so weak and wicked!" she prayed.

Rachel went out boiling with rage.

"More of that Evil's work! Hope I may be forgiven for saying sech a
word, but if she didn't come from the bottomless ditch, I should jist
like to be reformed whar she was made! I know mighty well whar she'll
go. I ain't a goin' to stand it! Miss Ida shan't be terrified forever
and ever. I'll speak my mind to Miss Jenny, before I'm a day older;
maybe Mars' John can get her away from this dreadful place. Miss Ida'd
never forgive me; but she needn't know nothin' about my tellin'!"

"Miss Jenny" heard her with indignant astonishment; but giving her no
encouragement to proceed with her tale, or to hope for an amelioration
of her mistress' condition, merely said she was sorry she could
do nothing for her; and advised her to imitate Ida's prudence and
silence; counsel which confirmed Rachel's skepticism in "white folks'
friendship." Ida thought Charley kinder than ever, that evening. If
he had known the severity of her day's discipline, he could not have
been more tender and consolatory. His inattention to Josephine, who
also had visitors, troubled her somewhat; but she had the comforting
reflection that she was not to blame for it. The day of the ball, he
took her and Mrs. Dana to ride. They called at the residence of a
country friend, to whose green-house Charley had the entree; and he
improved his privilege by culling a bouquet of Camelias, tea-roses and
orange blossoms "for the belle of the ball;" he told his hostess. When
they were again in the carriage, he handed them to Ida, with a laugh.
"I have no idea of going to the ball, and you would be the belle, if
you were to attend; so there was no fibbing, was there?" The flowers
were beautiful, and at this season, very rare; and Ida bore them home
carefully, and put them in water in her room. They were sweet company;
she could only watch, and pet, and talk to them the rest of the day.

Mr. Read was uncommonly jocose at supper time.

"Make yourself pretty, Josey," said he, lighting his lamp; "you don't
have me to escort you every evening."

Josephine looked after him with a sneer. "A mighty honor! If he had a
spark of generosity or politeness, he would have bought me a bouquet,
if they do ask such enormous prices. I have a good mind not to go, I
shall feel so mean without one."

Ida said she regretted it; and she did feel for her. She knew, that to
party-goers, these little things are no trifles; she had seen a girl
dull or sulky for an entire evening, because of a deficiency of this
sort.

"I wish I could help her," she was saying to herself, as she returned
to her apartment. The aroma that stole upon her senses said, "you
can." She was no heroine, for she stood over her flowers, and doubted
and pondered for a good half hour, before her wavering mind rested
upon its pivot; and then a tear bedewed a Camelia's spotless bosom, as
she emptied the vase, and saying aloud, "If thine enemy thirst, give
him drink," set about arranging them anew. Her Christmas rose-tree
was hanging with buds, which, on the morrow, would be blossoms, but
she despoiled it of its nodding pearls; and adding geraniums and
citronaloes, completed as tasteful a bouquet, as ever bloomed under the
fingers of a fashionable florist.

She gave it to Josephine, when she came into the parlor to survey her
full-length figure in the tall glass.

"Oh! how lovely!" she exclaimed involuntarily; then recovering herself,
said coldly, "They are pretty;" and returned them.

"They are for you," said Ida.

"Who sent them?"

"They were presented to me; and as their beauty is wasted upon the
'desert air' of my chamber, I shall be obliged to you to display them."

Josephine would have rejected the generous offer, if there had been
the remotest chance of another; but it was late, and she could not go
bouquetless.

"Who gave them to you?" she asked.

Ida paused, then replied, "Mr. Dana."

"He will know them; I had rather go without any."

"No danger of that! he will not be there." Her patience was nearly
spent. Josephine accepted the gift with a very bad grace; she was
awkward and embarrassed, and what appears more improbable, a little
ashamed. Mr. Read was attired with scrupulous neatness and elegance,
and looked ten years younger than he really was. Ida "presumed" to tell
him so, and was recompensed by a bland smile. She had done her duty,
perhaps more, and she did not repent of her self-denial; but something
of the desolate feeling of "lang-syne" fell upon her, as she was left,
sole tenant of the parlor and the house. Weak and weary, she sighed
for human society and affection. It was a darkened hour; clouded by
self-doubtings, mournful memories and forebodings. The piano was open;
she had not touched it since her arrival at home; but she went to it
now; only plaintive tunes came to her fingers; she played fitfully, as
her mood disposed her; the music was the voice of her thoughts; and she
sang to a rambling, irregular measure--

  "I am alone--the last light tread
    And laugh have died upon my ear;
  And I may weep unchecked--nor dread
    The scorn, that forces back the tear.
  I turn to Thee! oh! when the strings,
    The trustful heart has fondly thrown,
  Wound closely round its best-loved things--
    Are, by one stroke, asunder torn,
  And bleeding, crushed, uncared for, lie--
    When Hope's gay smile no joy can throw,
  And the soul breathes but one wish--to die!
    To whom else can the suffering go?
  Thou--Thou dost look within, and read
    How I have sought for love, and found
  Reproach instead--how in its need
    My spirit bowed it to the ground,--
  E'en to the dust--and deemed it nought
    Bore patiently, when pained and wronged
  And smiled on sorrow, if it brought
    The priceless boon for which it longed.
  In vain! in vain! and now I come--
    As to her nest the dove doth flee;
  Give Thou my wandering heart a home--
    And bind its shattered chords to Thee!"

"My poor child! are you then so sad?"

She knew the hand upon her drooping head before he spoke; and with a
prayer for support, that calmed her fluttering heart, arose to greet
him.

"Am I forgiven for my intrusion?" said he, leading her to a chair. "The
front door was ajar, and hearing your music, I entered without ringing."

"Freely pardoned! Have you been in town long?"

"Since five o'clock this afternoon. I am on my way to the south with
Annie. She is ordered to winter in Florida. Go with us--will you not?
Charley supped with us; and Annie proposed this plan on hearing of your
feeble health. She will wait until you are ready if you comply."

"I am very grateful for her kindness; but I cannot avail myself of it."

"Are there any 'propriety scruples?'" inquired he, smiling. "You will
be her companion; and the most fastidious cannot object to the escort
of a brother, and--an engaged man."

She was fortified against even this. Her arch glance hid the heart-pang
faithfully. "Where is she?" she questioned.

"Lelia? at her father's house in S----. Here is her counterfeit." He
unclasped a locket.

"It is like Carry!" said Ida; then she scanned it long and earnestly.
She was very beautiful; with large, blue eyes; and a cherry mouth,
just parted in a smile; and shining hair, folded above the smooth
forehead--fair enough for him! and as she raised her eyes to say
how lovely she was, she beheld herself in the glass opposite--wan,
hollow-eyed and sallow--and felt how presumptuous--how reckless in its
folly, her dream had been! He shut the spring, without looking at it
himself, (it was delicate and considerate to avoid the comparison!) and
making no reply to her praises of his betrothed, began to speak of the
bond of fellowship, formed between themselves, since their parting. She
had been discouraged by her inability to talk of what was ever in her
mind; had distrusted the genuineness of her faith, because her tongue
faltered in telling of the love which had redeemed her. He entered
fully into her feelings; and she surprised herself by the freedom the
consciousness of this afforded her. He told her of his difficulties
and temptations and conflicts, often anticipating what she would have
related of her own experience. So well did his counsels and comfort
meet the inquiries and wants of her spirit, that she debated within
herself whether he were not sent by heaven--a special messenger in her
hour of trial.

"Say on!" said he, encouragingly, as he caught her eye.

"I was about to ask if you believed in what are termed minute or
particular Providences."

"As in my existence! even to the numbering of the hairs of any head.
You have not been troubling your brain with quibblings upon this
subject, I hope?"

"No; but I have heard it disputed by very good people, who confuse me
by their 'free agency,' and 'accountability,' and 'decrees.'"

"Discard theories, and eschew arguments. Let your Bible and your common
sense be your teachers. As a machinist fashions the minutest cog of the
smallest wheel, as carefully as the mighty lever, the main power,--so
the Supreme Governor looks to the balance of the tiniest atom in His
universe."

"Then," said Ida; "I do not commit presumption when I trace my Father's
hand in every-day events; when I lift up my soul in thankfulness for a
pleasant, or ennobling thought, a visit, a gift, an act of friendship,
which has made me better or happier--or say 'Thy will be done?' in the
petty trials, which annoy, rather than afflict us!"

"It is your privilege and duty. The introductory sentence of the Lord's
Prayer is sufficient to inculcate this truth. 'Our Father--' is not a
father's care constant? He says moreover--'we must become as little
children.' Who relies more than a child? 'As thy day is, so shall thy
strength be;--' no matter where, or how we are placed, God will give us
the requisite strength; and as our positions are changing every moment,
does not this say that He will be with us every moment, and order the
success of whatever we attempt, by the amount of strength He imparts?
And again, 'not a sparrow falls to the ground without your Father.'
Nothing which God does is small, and He 'orders all things according
to the counsel of His own will.' Then nothing is insignificant,
because God orders everything. Our actions may appear trivial; but do
they not assume a terrible importance, when we learn that even our
fleeting words are to be the data of our judgment, at the last day? A
few good people doubt the doctrine of 'special Providences;' but is it
not better for us to believe what God says of his character, than to
determine what character he ought to have? If He says He is the God of
'the hairs of our heads--' of 'sparrows' and lilies of the field--all
we have to do, is to take His word for truth, and act accordingly. His
attention to small things is as conclusive a proof of His Divinity, as
to great ones. It has been well said, that 'man cannot comprehend the
Infinitely great, nor the Infinitely small.' But I weary you."

"You do not--I am interested and instructed. I am but a babe in
leading-strings; so weak and ignorant, it terrifies me to think of
the possibility that I will be obliged to take a single step without
holding my Father's hand."

"That is what none of us are called upon to do, Ida. 'I will never
leave thee, nor forsake thee.' 'Even there shall thy hand lead me, and
Thy right hand shall hold me.' We could not stand alone an instant,
were this 'right hand' withdrawn."

"Charley, who strews many pearls among the rubbish he scatters abroad,
once set me to thinking seriously--I hope, not unprofitably, by
wondering why Christians were ever low-spirited," said Ida. "It seems
to me that they would not be, if their confidence in God were implicit
and abiding; but I am often sad--almost desponding."

"To-night, for instance," said Mr. Lacy, cheerfully. "'This kind
goeth not out, but by prayer;' and you must not be cast down, that
you cannot, in a month, overcome a habit of years. Humanly speaking,
you have had much to embitter your lot;--but as we can, in reviewing
our past lives, see many events which, Janus-like, approached us
frowningly, now changed to smiles of blessing, ought we not, with this
