petite.’

Mrs. Scudder was somewhat flurried and discomposed at the proposition;
there were the pros and the cons in her nature, such as we all have.

In the first place, Madame de Frontignac belonged to high society, and
that was pro; for Mrs. Scudder prayed daily against worldly vanities,
because she felt a little traitor in her heart that was ready to open
its door to them if not constantly talked down. In the second place,
Madame de Frontignac was French, there was a con; for Mrs. Scudder
had enough of her father John Bull in her heart to have a very wary
look-out on anything French. But then, in the third place, she was out
of health and unhappy, and there was a pro again; for Mrs. Scudder
was as kind and motherly a soul as ever breathed. But then she was a
Catholic, con. But the Doctor and Mary might convert her, pro. And
then Mary wanted her, pro. And she was a pretty, bewitching, loveable
creature, pro. The pros had it; and it was agreed that Madame de
Frontignac should be installed as proprietress of the spare chamber,
and she sat down to the tea-table that evening in the great kitchen.




CHAPTER XXVI.


THE domesticating of Madame de Frontignac as an inmate of the cottage,
added a new element of vivacity to that still and unvaried life.
One of the most beautiful traits of French nature is that fine gift
of appreciation, which seizes at once the picturesque side of every
condition of life, and finds in its own varied storehouse something to
assort with it. As compared with the Anglo-Saxon, the French appear to
be gifted with a naïve childhood of nature, and to have the power
that children have of gilding every scene of life with some of their
own poetic fancies.

Madame de Frontignac was in raptures with the sanded floor of her
little room, which commanded, through the apple-boughs, a little morsel
of a sea-view. She could fancy it was a nymph’s cave, she said.

‘Yes, ma Marie, I will play Calypso, and you shall play Telemachus,
and Dr. Hopkins shall be Mentor. Mentor was so very, very good, only a
little bit—dull,’ she said, pronouncing the last word with a wicked
accent, and lifting her hands with a whimsical gesture like a naughty
child who expects a correction.

Mary could not but laugh; and as she laughed more colour rose in her
waxen cheeks than for many days before.

Madame de Frontignac looked triumphant as a child who has made its
mother laugh, and went on laying things out of her trunk into her
drawers with a zeal that was quite amusing to see.

‘You see, ma blanche, I have left all Madame’s clothes at
Philadelphia, and brought only those that belong to Verginie,—no
tromperie, no feathers, no gauzes, no diamonds, only white dresses
and my straw hat en bergère. I brought one string of pearls that was
my mother’s; but pearls, you know, belong to the sea-nymphs. I will
trim my hat with sea-weed and buttercups together, and we will go out
on the beach to-night and get some gold and silver shells to dress ma
miroir.’

‘Oh, I have ever so many now,’ said Mary, running into her room, and
coming back with a little bag. They both sat on the bed together,
and began pouring them out, Madame de Frontignac showering childish
exclamations of delight.

Suddenly Mary put her hand to her heart as if she had been struck with
something; and Madame de Frontignac heard her say, in a low voice of
sudden pain, ‘Oh, dear!’

‘What is it, mimi?’ she said, looking up quickly.

‘Nothing,’ said Mary, turning her head. Madame de Frontignac looked
down, and saw among the sea-treasures a necklace of Venetian shells
that she knew never grew on the shores of Newport. She held it up.

‘Ah, I see,’ she said. ‘He gave you this. Ah, ma pauvrette,’ she
said, clasping Mary in her arms, ‘thy sorrow meets thee everywhere. May
I be a comfort to thee, just a little one.’

‘Dear, dear friend,’ said Mary, weeping. ‘I know not how it is.
Sometimes I think this sorrow is all gone; but then, for a moment, it
comes back again. But I am at peace; it is all right, all right; I
would not have it otherwise. But oh, if he could have spoken one word
to me before! He gave me this,’ she added, ‘when he came home from his
first voyage to the Mediterranean. I did not know it was in this bag. I
had looked for it everywhere.’

‘Sister Agatha would have told you to make a rosary of it,’ said Madame
de Frontignac; ‘but you pray without a rosary. It is all one,’ she
added; ‘there will be a prayer for every shell, though you do not count
them. But come, ma chère, get your bonnet, and let us go out on the
beach.’

That evening, before retiring, Mrs. Scudder came into Mary’s room. Her
manner was grave and tender, her eyes had tears in them; and although
her usual habits were not caressing, she came to Mary and put her arms
around and kissed her. It was an unusual manner, and Mary’s gentle eyes
seemed to ask the reason of it.

‘My daughter,’ said her mother, ‘I have just had a long and very
interesting talk with our dear good friend, the Doctor; ah, Mary, very
few people know how good he is.’

‘True, mother,’ said Mary, warmly; ‘he is the best, the noblest, and
yet the humblest man in the world.’

‘You love him very much, do you not?’ said her mother.

‘Very dearly,’ said Mary.

‘Mary, he has asked me this evening if you would be willing to be his
wife.’

‘His wife, mother?’ said Mary in the tone of one confused with a new
and strange thought.

‘Yes, daughter; I have long seen that he was preparing to make you this
proposal.’

‘You have, mother?’

‘Yes, daughter; have you never thought of it?’

‘Never, mother.’

There was a long pause, Mary standing just as she had been interrupted
in her night toilette, with her long, light hair streaming down over
her white dress, and the comb held mechanically in her hand. She sat
down after a moment, and clasping both hands over her knees, fixed her
eyes intently on the floor; and there fell between the two a silence
so intense, that the tickings of the clock in the next room seemed to
knock upon the door. Mrs. Scudder sat with anxious eyes watching that
silent face, pale as sculptured marble.

‘Well, Mary,’ she said at last.

A deep sigh was the only answer. The violent throbbings of her heart
could be seen undulating the long hair as the moaning sea tosses the
rockweed.

‘My daughter!’ again said Mrs. Scudder.

Mary gave a great sigh, like that of a sleeper awakening from a dream,
and looking on her mother, said: ‘Do you suppose he really loves me,
mother?’

‘Indeed he does, Mary, as much as man ever loved woman.’

‘Does he indeed?’ said Mary, relapsing into thoughtfulness.

‘And you love him, do you not?’ said her mother.

‘Oh yes, I love him!’

‘You love him better than any man in the world, don’t you?’

‘Oh, mother, mother! yes!’ said Mary, throwing herself passionately
forward, and bursting into sobs; ‘yes, there is no one else now that I
love better,—no one,—no one!’

‘My darling, my daughter!’ said Mrs. Scudder, coming and taking her in
her arms.

‘Oh, mother, mother!’ she said, sobbing distressfully, ‘let me cry,
just for a little,—oh, mother, mother, mother!’

What was there hidden under that despairing wail?—it was the parting of
the last strand of the cord of youthful hope.

Mrs. Scudder soothed and caressed her daughter, but maintained still in
her breast a tender pertinacity of purpose, such as mothers will, who
think they are conducting a child through some natural sorrow into a
happier state.

Mary was not one either to yield long to emotion of any kind. Her rigid
education had taught her to look upon all such outbursts as a species
of weakness, and she struggled for composure, and soon seemed entirely
calm.

‘If he really loves me, mother, it would give him great pain if I
refuse,’ said Mary, thoughtfully.

‘Certainly it would; and, Mary, you have allowed him to act as a very
near friend for a long time; and it is quite natural that he should
have hopes that you loved him.’

‘I do love him, mother,—better than anybody in the world except you. Do
you think that will do?’

‘Will do?’ said her mother; ‘I don’t understand you.’

‘Why, is that loving enough to marry? I shall love him more perhaps
after, shall I, mother?’

‘Certainly you will; every one does.’

‘I wish he did not want to marry me, mother,’ said Mary, after a pause.
‘I liked it a great deal better as we were before.’

‘All girls feel so, Mary, at first; it is very natural.’

‘Is that the way you felt about father, mother?’

Mrs. Scudder’s heart smote her when she thought of her own early
love,—that great love that asked no questions; that had no doubts, no
fears, no hesitations; nothing but one great, outsweeping impulse,
which swallowed her life in that of another. She was silent; and after
a moment, she said, ‘I was of a different disposition from you, Mary.
I was of a strong, wilful, positive nature. I either liked or disliked
with all my might; and besides, Mary, there never was a man like your
father.’

The matron uttered this first article in the great confession of
woman’s faith with the most unconscious simplicity.

‘Well, mother, I will do whatever is my duty. I want to be guided.
If I can make that good man happy, and help him to do some good in
the world,—After all, life is short, and the great thing is to do for
others.’

‘I am sure, Mary, if you could have heard how he spoke, you would be
sure you could make him happy. He had not spoken before, because he
felt so unworthy of such a blessing: he said I was to tell you that
he should love and honour you all the same, whether you could feel
to be his wife or not; but that nothing this side of heaven would be
so blessed a gift; that it would make up for every trial that could
possibly come upon him,—and you know, Mary, he has a great many
discouragements and trials;—people don’t appreciate him; his efforts to
do good are misunderstood, and misconstrued; they look down on him, and
despise him, and tell all sorts of evil things about him; and sometimes
he gets quite discouraged.’

‘Yes, mother, I will marry him,’ said Mary. ‘Yes, I will.’

‘My darling daughter,’ said Mrs. Scudder, ‘this has been the hope of my
life.’

‘Has it, mother?’ said Mary, with a faint smile; ‘I shall make you
happier then?’

‘Yes, dear, you will; and think what a prospect of usefulness opens
before you; you can take a position as his wife which will enable you
to do even more good than you do now; and you will have the happiness
of seeing every day how much you comfort the hearts and encourage the
hands of God’s dear people.’

‘Mother, I ought to be very glad I can do it,’ said Mary; ‘and I trust
I am. God orders all things for the best.’

‘Well, my child, sleep to-night, and to-morrow we will talk more about
it.’




CHAPTER XXVII.


MRS. SCUDDER kissed her daughter, and left her. After a moment’s
thought, Mary gathered the long silky folds of hair around her
head, and knotted them for the night. Then leaning forward on her
toilet-table, she folded her hands together, and stood regarding the
reflection of herself in the mirror.

Nothing is capable of more ghostly effect than such a silent, lonely
contemplation of that mysterious image of ourselves which seems to look
out of an infinite depth in the mirror, as if it were our own soul
beckoning to us visibly from unknown regions. Those eyes look into our
own with an expression sometimes vaguely sad and inquiring. The face
wears weird and tremulous lights and shadows; it asks us mysterious
questions, and troubles us with the suggestions of our relations to
some dim unknown. The sad, blue eyes that gazed into Mary’s had that
look of calm initiation, of melancholy comprehension, peculiar to eyes
made clairvoyant by ‘great and critical’ sorrow. They seemed to say to
her, ‘Fulfil thy mission; life is made for sacrifice; the flower must
fall before fruit can perfect itself.’ A vague shuddering of mystery
gave intensity to her reverie. It seemed as if those mirror depths
were another world; she heard the far-off dashing of sea-green waves;
she felt a yearning impulse towards that dear soul gone out into the
infinite unknown.

Her word just passed had in her eyes all the sacred force of the most
solemnly-attested vow; and she felt as if that vow had shut some before
open door between her and him; and she had a kind of shadowy sense of a
throbbing and yearning nature that seemed to call on her,—that seemed
surging towards her with an imperative, protesting force that shook her
heart to its depths.

Perhaps it is so, that souls once intimately related have ever after
this strange power of affecting each other,—a power that neither
absence nor death can annul. How else can we interpret these mysterious
hours, in which the power of departed love seems to overshadow us,
making our souls vital with such longings, with such wild throbbings,
with such unutterable sighings, that a little more might burst the
mortal band? Is it not deep calling unto deep? the free soul singing
outside the cage to her mate, beating against the bars within?

Mary even for a moment fancied that a voice called her name, and
started, shivering. Then the habits of her positive and sensible
education returned at once, and she came out of her reverie as one
breaks from a dream, and lifted all these sad thoughts with one heavy
sigh from her breast; and opening her Bible, she read: ‘They that
trust in the Lord shall be as Mount Zion that cannot be moved. As the
mountains are round about Jerusalem, so the Lord is about His people
from this time henceforth and for evermore.’

Then she kneeled by her bedside, and offered her whole life a sacrifice
to the loving God who had offered His life a sacrifice for her. She
prayed for grace to be true to her promise—to be faithful to the new
relation she had accepted. She prayed that all vain regrets for the
past might be taken away, and that her soul might vibrate without
discord in unison with the will of Eternal Love. So praying, she
rose calm, and with that clearness of spirit which follows an act of
uttermost self-sacrifice; and so calmly she lay down and slept, with
her two hands crossed upon her breast, her head slightly turned on
the pillow, her cheek pale as marble, and her long dark lashes lying
drooping, with a sweet expression, as if under that mystic veil of
sleep the soul were seeing things forbidden to the waking eye. Only
the gentlest heaving of the quiet breast told that the heavenly spirit
within had not gone where it was hourly aspiring to go.

Meanwhile Mrs. Scudder had left Mary’s room, and entered the Doctor’s
study, holding a candle in her hand. The good man was sitting alone
in the dark, with his head bowed upon his Bible. When Mrs. Scudder
entered, he rose and regarded her wistfully, but did not speak. He had
something just then in his heart for which he had no words; so he only
looked as a man does who hopes and fears for the answer of a decided
question.

Mrs. Scudder felt some of the natural reserve which becomes a matron
coming charged with a gift in which lies the whole sacredness of
her own existence, and which she puts from her hands with a jealous
reverence.

She therefore measured the man with her woman’s and mother’s eye, and
said, with a little stateliness,—

‘My dear sir, I come to tell you the result of my conversation with
Mary.’

She made a little pause, and the Doctor stood before her as humbly
as if he had not weighed and measured the universe; because he knew
that though he might weigh the mountains in scales, and the hills in a
balance, yet it was a far subtler power which must possess him of one
small woman’s heart. In fact, he felt to himself like a great awkward,
clumsy, mountainous earthite asking of a white-robed angel to help him
up a ladder of cloud. He was perfectly sure for the moment that he was
going to be refused, and he looked humbly firm—he would take it like
a man. His large blue eyes, generally so misty in their calm, had a
resolute clearness, rather mournful than otherwise. Of course no such
celestial experience was going to happen to him.

He cleared his throat and said,—

‘Well, Madam?’

Mrs. Scudder’s womanly dignity was appeased; she reached out her hand
cheerfully, and said,—

‘She has accepted.’

The Doctor drew his hand suddenly away, turned quickly round, and
walked to the window, although, as it was ten o’clock at night and
quite dark, there was evidently nothing to be seen there. He stood
there quietly, swallowing very hard, and raising his handkerchief
several times to his eyes. There was enough went on under the black
coat just then to make quite a little figure in a romance if it had
been uttered; but he belonged to a class who lived romance, but never
spoke it. In a few moments he returned to Mrs. Scudder and said,—

‘I trust, dear madam, that this very dear friend may never have reason
to think me ungrateful for her wonderful goodness; and whatever sins
my evil heart may lead me into, I hope I may never fall so low as to
forget the undeserved mercy of this hour. If ever I shrink from duty
or murmur at trials, while so sweet a friend is mine, I shall be vile
indeed.’

The Doctor, in general, viewed himself on the discouraging side, and
had berated and snubbed himself all his life as a most flagitious
and evil-disposed individual—a person to be narrowly watched, and
capable of breaking at any moment into the most flagrant iniquity; and
therefore it was that he received his good fortune in so different a
spirit from many of the Lords of Creation in similar circumstances.

‘I am sensible,’ he added, ‘that a poor minister, without much power
of eloquence, and commissioned of the Lord to speak unpopular truths,
and whose worldly condition, in consequence, is never likely to be very
prosperous, that such a one could scarcely be deemed a suitable partner
for so very beautiful a young woman, who might expect proposals, in a
temporal point of view, of a much more advantageous nature; and I am
therefore the more struck and overpowered with this blessed result.’

These last words caught in the Doctor’s throat, as if he were
overpowered in very deed.

‘In regard to her happiness,’ said the Doctor, with a touch of awe
in his voice, ‘I would not have presumed to become the guardian of it,
were it not that I am persuaded it is assured by a Higher Power; for
when He giveth peace, who then can make trouble? (Job xxxv. 29.) But I
trust I may say no effort on my part shall be wanting to secure it.’

Mrs. Scudder was a mother, and come to that spot in life where mothers
always feel tears rising behind their smiles. She pressed the Doctor’s
hand, silently, and they parted for the night.

We know not how we can acquit ourselves to our friends of the great
world for the details of such an unfashionable courtship, so well as by
giving them, before they retire for the night, a dip into a more modish
view of things.

The Doctor was evidently green; green in his faith, green in his
simplicity, green in his general belief of the divine in woman, green
in his particular, humble faith in one small Puritan maiden, whom a
knowing fellow might at least have manœuvred so skilfully as to break
up her saintly superiority, discompose her, rout her ideas, and lead
her up and down a swamp of hopes and fears and conjectures, till she
was wholly bewildered and ready to take him at last—if he made up his
mind to have her at all—as a great bargain for which she was to be
sensibly grateful.

Yes, the Doctor was green, immortally green, as a cedar of Lebanon
which, waving its broad archangel wings over some fast-rooted eternal
old solitude, and seeing from its sublime height the vastness of the
universe, veils its kingly head with humility before God’s infinite
majesty.

He has gone to bed now, simple old soul, first apologizing to Mrs.
Scudder for having kept her up to so dissipated and unparalleled an
hour as ten o’clock on his personal matters.

Meanwhile our Asmodeus will transport us to an easily furnished
apartment in one of the most fashionable hotels of Philadelphia, where
Col. Aaron Burr, just returned from his trip to the then aboriginal
wilds of Ohio, is seated before a table covered with maps, letters,
books, and papers. His keen eye runs over the addresses of the letters,
and he eagerly seizes one from Madame de Frontignac, and reads it;
and as no one but ourselves is looking at him now his face has no
need to wear its habitual mask. First comes an expression of profound
astonishment; then of chagrin and mortification; then of deepening
concern; there were stops where the dark eyelashes flashed together
as if to brush a tear out of the view of the keen-sighted eyes; and
then a red flush rose even to his forehead, and his delicate lips wore
a sarcastic smile. He laid down the letter and made one or two turns
through the room.

The man had felt the dashing against his own of a strong, generous,
indignant woman’s heart fully awakened, and speaking with that
impassioned vigour with which a French regiment charges in battle.
There were those picturesque, winged words, those condensed
expressions, those subtle piercings of meaning, and above all, that
simple pathos for which the French tongue has no superior; and for
the moment the woman had the victory; she shook his heart. But Burr
resembled the marvel with which chemists amuse themselves. His heart
was a vase filled with boiling passions, while his will, a still,
cold, unmelted lump of ice, lay at the bottom.

Self-denial is not peculiar to Christians. They who go downward often
put forth as much force to kill a noble nature as another does to
annihilate a sinful one. There was something in this letter so keen, so
searching, so self-revealing, that it brought on one of those interior
crises in which a man is convulsed with the struggle of two natures—the
godlike and the demoniac, and from which he must pass out more wholly
to the dominion of the one or the other.

Nobody knew the true better than Burr. He knew the god-like and the
pure, he had felt its beauty and its force to the very depths of his
being, as the demoniac knew at once the fair man of Nazareth; and even
now he felt the voice within that said, ‘What have I to do with thee?’
and the rending of a struggle of heavenly life with fast-coming eternal
death.

That letter had told him what he might be, and what he was. It was as
if his dead mother’s hand had held up before him a glass in which he
saw himself, white robed and crowned, and so dazzling in purity that he
loathed his present self.

As he walked up and down the room perturbed, he sometimes wiped tears
from his eyes, and then set his teeth, and compressed his lips. At last
his face grew calm and settled in its expression, his mouth wore a
sardonic smile; he came and took the letter, and folding it leisurely,
laid it on the table, and put a heavy paper weight over it, as if to
hold it down and bury it. Then drawing to himself some maps of new
territories, he set himself vigorously to some columns of arithmetical
calculations on the margin; and thus he worked for an hour or two till
his mind was as dry, and his pulse as calm as a machine; then he drew
the inkstand towards him, and scribbled hastily the following letter
to his most confidential associate—a letter which told no more of the
conflict that preceded it, than do the dry sands and civil gossip of
the sea-waves to-day of the storm and wreck of last week.

    ‘Dear——. Nous voilà once more in Philadelphia. Our schemes
    in Ohio prosper. Frontignac remains there to superintend.
    He answers our purpose passablement. On the whole I don’t
    see as we could do better than retain him; he is, beside, a
    gentlemanly, agreeable person, and wholly devoted to me—a
    point certainly not to be overlooked.

    ‘As to your railleries about the fair Madame, I must say, in
    justice both to her and myself, that any grace with which
    she has been pleased to honour me is not to be misconstrued.
    You are not to imagine any but the most Platonic of
    “liaisons.” She is as high strung as an Arabian steed;
    proud,—heroic, romantic, and French! and such must be
    permitted to take their own time and way, which we in our
    gaucherie can only humbly wonder at. I have ever professed
    myself her abject slave, ready to follow any whim, and
    obeying the slightest signal of the jewelled hand. As that
    is her sacred pleasure, I have been inhabiting the most
    abstract realms of heroic sentiment, living on the most
    diluted moonshine, and spinning out elaborately all those
    charming and seraphic distinctions between tweedle-dum and
    tweedle-dee with which these ecstatic creatures delight
    themselves in certain stages of “affaires du cœur.”

    ‘The last development on the part of my goddess is a fit
    of celestial anger, of the cause of which I am in the most
    innocent ignorance. She writes me three pages of French
    sublimities, writing as only a French woman can, bids me an
    eternal adieu, and informs me she is going to Newport.

    ‘Of course the affair becomes stimulating. I am not to
    presume to dispute her sentence, or doubt a lady’s perfect
    sincerity in wishing never to see me again; but yet I think
    I shall try to pacify the

                   “tantas in animis celestibus iras.”

    If a woman hates you it is only her love turned wrong side
    out, and you may turn it back with due care. The pretty
    creatures know how becoming a grande passion is, and take
    care to keep themselves in mind; a quarrel serves their turn
    when all else fails.

    ‘To another point. I wish you to advertise S——, that
    his insinuations in regard to me, in the Aurora, have
    been observed, and that I require that they be promptly
    retracted. He knows me well enough to attend to this hint.
    I am in earnest when I speak; if the word does nothing, the
    blow will come, and if I strike once no second blow will be
    needed; yet I do not wish to get him on my hands needlessly;
    a duel and a love affair and hot weather, coming on
    together, might prove too much even for me. N.B. Thermometer
    stands at 85. I am resolved on Newport next week.

                                         ‘Yours ever,
                                                   ‘BURR.

    ‘P.S. I forgot to say that, oddly enough, my goddess has
    gone and placed herself under the wing of the pretty
    Puritan I saw in Newport. Fancy the melange; could
    anything be more piquant?—that cart-load of goodness, the
    old Doctor,—that sweet little saint and Madame Faubourg
    St. Germain shaken up together!—fancy her listening with
    well-bred astonishment to a critique on the doings of the
    unregenerate, or flirting that little jewelled fan of hers
    in Mrs. Scudder’s square pew of a Sunday. Probably they will
    carry her to the weekly prayer-meeting, which of course
    she will find some fine French subtlety for admiring, and
    “trouve ravissante.” I fancy I see it.’

When Burr had finished this letter, he had actually written himself
into a sort of persuasion of its truth. When a finely-constituted
nature wishes to go into baseness, it has first to bribe itself. Evil
is never embraced undisguised as evil, but under some fiction which
the mind accepts, and with which it has the singular power of blinding
itself in the face of daylight. The power of imposing on one’s self is
an essential preliminary to imposing on others. The man first argues
himself down, and then he is ready to put the whole weight of his
nature to deceiving others. This letter ran so smoothly, so plausibly,
that it produced on the writer of it the effect of a work of fiction,
which we know to be unreal, but feel to be true. Long habits of
this kind of self-delusion in time produce a paralysis in the vital
nerves of truth, so that one becomes habitually unable to see things in
their verity, and realizes the awful words of scripture, ‘He feedeth
on ashes; a deceived heart hath turned him aside, so that he cannot
deliver his soul, nor say, is there not a lie in my right hand?’




CHAPTER XXVIII.


BETWEEN three and four the next morning, the robin in the nest above
Mary’s room stretched out his left wing, opened one eye, and gave a
short and rather drowsy chirp, which broke up his night’s rest and
restored him to the full consciousness that he was a bird with wings
and feathers—a large apple-tree to live in, and all heaven for an
estate—and so, on these fortunate premises, he broke into a gush
of singing, clear and loud, which Mary without waking heard in her
slumbers.

Scarcely conscious, she lay in that dim clairvoyant state, when the
half-sleep of the outward senses permits a delicious dewy clearness
of the soul; that perfect ethereal rest and freshness of faculties,
comparable only to what we imagine of the spiritual state. Season
of celestial enchantment, in which the heavy weight ‘of all this
unintelligible world’ drops off, and the soul, divinely charmed,
nestles like a wind-tossed bird in the protecting bosom of the One
all Perfect, all Beautiful. What visions then come to the inner eye
have often no words corresponding in mortal vocabularies. The poet,
the artist, and the prophet in such hours become possessed of divine
certainties, which all their lives they struggle, with pencil or
song, or burning words, to make evident to their fellows. The world
around wonders, but they are unsatisfied, because they have seen the
glory and know how inadequate the copy. But not merely to selectest
spirits come these hours, but to those (humble poets) ungifted with
utterance, who are among men as fountains sealed; whose song can be
wrought out only by the harmony of deeds; the patient, pathetic
melodies of tender endurance, or the heroic chant of undiscouraged
labour. The poor slave woman last night parted from her only boy,
and weary with the cotton-picking; the captive pining in his cell;
the patient wife of the drunkard, saddened by a consciousness of the
growing vileness of one once so dear; the delicate spirit doomed
to harsh and uncongenial surroundings;—all in such hours feel the
soothings of a celestial harmony, the tenderness of more than a
mother’s love. It is by such hours as these often, more than by
reasonings or disputings, that doubts are resolved in the region of
religious faith. The All-Father treats us as the mother does her
‘infant crying in the dark;’ He does not reason with our fears, or
demonstrate their fallacy, but draws us silently to His bosom, and we
are at peace. Nay, there have been those undoubtedly who have known
God falsely with the intellect, yet felt Him truly with the heart; and
there may be many, principally among the unlettered little ones of
Christ’s flock, who positively know that much that is dogmatically
propounded to them of their Redeemer is cold, barren, unsatisfying, and
even utterly false, who yet can give no account of their certainties
better than that of the inspired fisherman, ‘We know Him, and have seen
Him.’

It was in such hours as these that Mary’s deadly fears for the soul of
her beloved had passed away, passed out of her, as if some warm healing
nature of tenderest vitality had drawn out of her heart all pain and
coldness, and warmed it with the breath of an eternal summer. So, while
the purple shadows spread their gauzy veils inwove with fire along
the sky, and the gloom of the sea broke out here and there into lines
of light, and thousands of birds were answering to each other from
apple-tree, and meadow-grass, and top of jagged rock, or trooping in
bands hither and thither like angels on loving messages, Mary lay there
with the flickering light through the leaves fluttering over her face,
and the glow of dawn warming the snow-white draperies of the bed, and
giving a tender rose hue to the calm cheek. She lay half conscious,
smiling the while, as one who sleeps while the heart waketh, and who
hears in dreams the voice of the One Eternally Beautiful and Beloved.

Mrs. Scudder entered her room, and thinking that she still slept, stood
and looked down upon her. She felt as one does who has parted with
some precious possession, a sudden sense of its value coming over her;
and she queried in herself whether any living mortal were worthy of so
perfect a gift; and nothing but a remembrance of the Doctor’s prostrate
humility at all reconciled her to the sacrifice she was making.

‘Mary, dear,’ she said, bending over her with an unusual infusion of
emotion in her voice; ‘darling child.’

The arms moved instinctively, even before the eyes unclosed, and drew
her mother down to her with a warm clinging embrace.

Love in Puritan families was often like latent caloric,—an
all-pervading force that affected no visible thermometer, shown
chiefly by a noble, silent confidence, a ready helpfulness, but seldom
out-breathed in caresses,—yet natures like Mary’s always craved these
outward demonstrations, and sprang towards them as a trailing vine
sways to the nearest support. It was delightful for once fully to
feel how much her mother loved her, as well as to know it.

‘Dear, precious mother, do you love me so very much?’

‘I live and breathe in you, Mary,’ said Mrs. Scudder, giving vent to
herself in one of those trenchant short-hand expressions, wherein
positive natures incline to résumé all when they must speak at all.

Mary held her mother silently to her breast, her heart shining through
her face with a quiet radiance of love.

‘Do you feel happy this morning?’ said Mrs. Scudder.

‘Very, very, very happy, mother.’

‘I am so glad to hear you say so,’ said Mrs. Scudder, who, to say the
truth, had entertained many doubts at her pillow the night before.

Mary began dressing herself in a state of calm exaltation. Every
trembling leaf on the tree, every sunbeam was like a loving smile of
God, every fluttering breeze like His voice, full of encouragement and
hope.

‘Mother, did you tell the Doctor what I said last night?’

‘I did, my darling.’

‘Then, mother, I would like to see him a few moments alone.’

‘Well, Mary, he is in his study at his morning devotions.’

‘That is just the time. I will go to him.’

The Doctor was sitting by the window, and the honest-hearted motherly
lilacs, a-bloom for the third time since our story began, were filling
the air with their sweetness. Suddenly the door opened, and Mary
entered in her simple white short-gown and skirt, her eyes calmly
radiant, and her whole manner having something serious and celestial.
She came directly towards him, and put out both her little hands with a
smile half child-like, half angelic, and the Doctor bowed his head, and
covered his face with his hands.

‘Dear friend,’ said Mary, kneeling, and taking his hands, ‘if you want
me, I am come. Life is but a moment. There is an eternal blessedness
just beyond us, and for the little time between, I will be all I can to
you if you will only show me how.’

And the Doctor—— No, young man, the study door closed just then, and no
one heard those words from a quaint old oriental book which told that
all the poetry of that grand old soul had burst into flower, as the
aloe blossoms once in a hundred years. The ripples of that great heart
might have fallen unconsciously into phrases from that one love poem
of the Bible which these men read so purely and devoutly, and which
warmed the icy clearness of their intellects with the myrrh and spices
of ardent lands, where earthly and heavenly love meet and blend in one
indistinguishable horizon line, like sea and sky.

‘Who is she that looketh forth as the morning, fair as the moon? clear
as the sun? My dove, my undefiled, is but one. She is the only one of
her mother—thou art all fair, my beloved, there is no spot in thee.’

The Doctor might have said all this, we will not say he did, nor will
we say he did not; all we know is, that when the breakfast-table was
ready they came out cheerfully together. Madame de Frontignac stood in
a fresh white wrapper, with a few buttercups in her hair, waiting for
the breakfast. She was startled to see the Doctor entering all radiant,
leading in Mary by the hand, and looking as if he thought she were some
dream-miracle which might dissolve under his eyes unless he kept fast
hold of her. The keen eyes shot their arrowy glance, which went at
once to the heart of the matter. Madame de Frontignac knew they were
engaged, and regarded Mary with attention.

The calm, sweet, elevated expression of her face struck her; it struck
her also that that was not the light of any earthly love, that it had
no thrill, no blush, no tremor, but only the calmness of a soul that
knows itself no more, and she sighed involuntarily.

She looked at the Doctor, and seemed to study attentively a face which
happiness had made this morning as genial and attractive as it was
generally strong and fine.

There was little said at the breakfast-table this morning; and yet the
loud singing of the birds, the brightness of the sunshine, the life and
vigour of all things, seemed to make up for the silence of those who
were too well pleased to speak.

‘Eh bien, ma chère,’ said Madame, after breakfast, drawing Mary into
her little room. ‘C’est fini?’

‘Yes,’ said Mary, cheerfully.

‘Thou art content,’ said Madame, passing her arm around her; ‘well
then, I should be: but, Mary, it is like a marriage with the altar,
like taking the veil, is it not?’

‘No,’ said Mary, ‘it is not taking the veil, it is beginning a
cheerful, reasonable life with a kind, noble friend who will always
love me truly, and whom I hope to make as happy as he deserves.’

‘I think well of him, my little cat,’ said Madame, reflectively;
‘but—,’ she stopped something she was going to say, and kissed Mary’s
forehead; after a moment’s pause, she added,

‘One must have love or refuge, Mary; this is thy refuge, child; thou
wilt have peace in it;’ she sighed again.

‘Enfin,’ she said, resuming her gay tone, ‘what shall be la toilette
de noce? Thou shalt have Verginie’s pearls, my fair one, and look like
a sea-born Venus; tiens! let me try them in thy hair.’

And in a few moments she had Mary’s long hair down, and was chattering
like a blackbird, wreathing the pearls in and out, and saying a
thousand pretty nothings, weaving grace and poetry into the strait
thread of Puritan life.




CHAPTER XXIX.

THE QUILTING.


THE announcement of the definite engagement of two such bright
particular stars in the hemisphere of the Doctor’s small parish excited
the interest that such events usually create among the faithful of the
flock.

There was a general rustle and flutter, as when a covey of wild pigeons
has been started, and all the little elves who rejoice in the name of
‘says he,’ and ‘says I,’ and ‘do tell,’ and ‘have you heard,’ were
speedily flying through the consecrated air of the parish.

The fact was discussed by matrons and maidens at the spinning-wheel and
in the green clothes-yard, or at the foaming wash-tub, out of which
arose a new birth of weekly freshness and beauty. Many a rustic Venus
of the foam, as she splashed her dimpled elbows in the rainbow-tinted
froth, talked what should be done for the forthcoming solemnities, and
wondered what Mary would have on when she was married, and whether
she (the Venus) should get an invitation to the wedding, and whether
‘Ethan’ would go—not that she cared in the least whether he did or not.

Grave elderly matrons talked about the ‘prosperity of Zion,’ which
they imagined intimately connected with the event of their minister’s
marriage; and descending from ‘Zion,’ speculated on bed-quilts and
table-cloths, and rummaged their own clean, sweet-smelling stores,
fragrant with balm and rose-leaves, to lay out a bureau cover, or a
pair of sheets, or a dozen napkins for the wedding outfit.

The solemnest of solemn quiltings was resolved upon.

Miss Prissy declared that she fairly couldn’t sleep nights with the
responsibility of the wedding-dresses in her mind; but yet she ‘must
give one day to getting on that quilt.’ The grande monde also was
in motion. Mrs. General Wilcox called in her own particular carriage,
bearing the present of a cashmere shawl for the bride, with the
General’s best compliments, and also an oak-leaf pattern for quilting,
which had been sent her from England, and which was authentically
established to be that used on a petticoat belonging to the Princess
Royal; and Mrs. Major Seaforth came also, bearing a scarf of worked
Indian muslin; and Mrs. Vernon sent a splendid Indian china punch-bowl.
Indeed, to say the truth, the notables high and mighty of Newport, whom
the Doctor had so unceremoniously accused of building their houses with
blood, and establishing their city with iniquity, considering that
nobody seemed to take his words to heart, and that they were making
money as fast as old Tyre, rather assumed the magnanimous, and patted
themselves on the shoulder for this opportunity to show the Doctor
that, after all, they were good fellows, and bore him no malice, though
they did make money at the expense of thirty per cent. human life.

Simeon Brown was the only exception: he stood aloof, grim and
sarcastic, and informed some good, middle-aged ladies who came to see
if he would, as they phrased it, ‘esteem it a privilege’ to add his
mite to the Doctor’s outfit, that he would give him a likely negro boy
if he wanted, and if he was too conscientious to keep him, he might
sell him at a fair profit; a happy stroke of humour, which he was fond
of relating many years after.

The quilting was in these days considered as the most solemn and
important recognition of a betrothal; and for the benefit of those not
to the manner born, a little preliminary instruction may be necessary.

The good wives of New England, impressed with that thrifty orthodoxy of
economy which forbids to waste the merest trifle, had a habit of saving
every scrap and fragment clipped out in the fashioning of household
garments; and these they cut into fanciful patterns, and constructed
of them rainbow shapes and quaint traceries, the arrangement of
which became one of their few fine arts. Many a maiden, as she sorted
and arranged fluttering bits of green, yellow, red, and blue, felt
rising in her breast a passion for somewhat vague and unknown, which
came out at length in a new pattern of patchwork; and collections of
these tiny fragments were always ready to fill an hour when there was
nothing else to do; and as the maiden chatted with her beaux, her busy,
flying needle stitched together the pretty morsels, which, little in
themselves, were destined by gradual unions and accretions to bring
about at last substantial beauty, warmth, and comfort; emblems thus
of that household life which is to be brought to stability and beauty
by reverent economy in husbanding, and tact in arranging the little,
useful, and agreeable morsels of daily existence.

When a wedding was forthcoming, then there was a solemn review of the
stores of beauty and utility thus provided, and the patchwork-spread
best worthy of such distinction was chosen for the quilting.

Thereto, duly summoned, trooped all intimate female friends of the
bride, and the quilt being spread on a frame, and wadded with cotton,
each vied with the other in the delicacy of the quilting they could
put upon it; for quilting also was a fine art, and had its delicacies
and nice points, concerning which, grave, elderly matrons discussed
with judicious care. The quilting generally began at an early hour
in the afternoon, and ended at dusk with a great supper and general
jubilee, in which that ignorant and incapable sex who could not quilt
were allowed to appear, and put in claims for consideration of another
nature. It may perhaps be surmised that this expected reinforcement
was often alluded to by the younger maidens, whose wickedly coquettish
toilettes exhibited suspicious marks of that willingness to get
a chance to say ‘No,’ which has been slanderously attributed to
mischievous maidens.

In consequence of the tremendous responsibilities involved in this
quilting, the reader will not be surprised to learn that the evening
before Miss Prissy made her appearance at the brown cottage, armed with
thimble, scissors, and pincushion, in order to relieve her mind by a
little preliminary confabulation.

‘You see me, Miss Scudder, run almost to death,’ she said; ‘but I
thought I would just run up to Mrs. Major Seaforth’s and see her best
bedroom quilt, ’cause I wanted to have all the ideas we possibly could
before I decided on the pattern. Hers is in shells—just common shells;
nothing to be compared with Miss Wilcox’s oak-leaves; and I suppose
there isn’t the least doubt that Miss Wilcox’s sister in London did
get that from a lady who had a cousin who was governess in the royal
family, and I just quilted a little bit to-day on an old piece of silk,
and it comes out beautiful, and so I thought I would just come and ask
you if you did not think it was best for us to have the oak-leaves.’

‘Well, certainly, Miss Prissy, if you think so,’ said Mrs. Scudder, who
was as pliant to the opinions of this wise woman of the parish as New
England matrons generally are to a reigning dressmaker and factotum.

Miss Prissy had the happy consciousness always that her early advent
under any roof was considered a matter of special grace, and therefore
it was with rather a patronizing tone that she announced that she would
stay and spend the night with them.

‘I knew,’ she added, ‘that your spare chamber was full with that Madame
de What-you-call-her (if I was to die I could not remember the woman’s
name). Well, I thought I could just crawl in with you, Mary, most
anywhere.’

‘That’s right, Miss Prissy,’ said Mary, ‘you shall be welcome to half
my bed any time.’

‘Well, I knew you would say so, Mary; I never saw the thing you would
not give away half of since you was that high,’ said Miss Prissy,
illustrating her words by placing her hand about two feet from the
floor.

Just at this moment Madame de Frontignac entered and asked Mary to come
into her room, and give her advice as to a piece of embroidery. When
she was gone out, Miss Prissy looked after her, and sank her voice once
more to the confidential whisper which we before described.

‘I have heard strange stories about that French woman,’ she said; ‘but
as she was here with you and Mary, I suppose there cannot be any truth
in them. Dear me! the world is so censorious about women! But then, you
know, we don’t expect much from French women. I suppose she is a Roman
Catholic, and worships pictures and stone images; but then, after all,
she has got an immortal soul, and I can’t help hoping Mary’s influence
may be blest to her. They say when she speaks French she swears every
few minutes; but if that is the way she was brought up, maybe she isn’t
accountable. I think we can’t be too charitable for people that a’n’t
privileged as we are. Miss Vernon’s Polly told me she has seen her sew
Sabbath day. She came into her room of a sudden, and she was working on
her embroidery there, and she never winked, nor blushed, nor offered to
put it away, but sat there just as easy! Polly said she never was so
beat in all her life; she felt kind o’ scared every time she thought of
it. But now she has come here, who knows but she may be converted?’

‘Mary has not said much about her state of mind,’ said Mrs. Scudder;
‘but something of deep interest has passed between them. Mary is such
an uncommon child that I trust everything to her.’

We will not dwell further on the particulars of this evening, nor
describe how Madame de Frontignac reconnoitred Miss Prissy with keen,
amused eyes; nor how Miss Prissy apprised Mary, in the confidential
solitude of her chamber, that her fingers just itched to get hold of
that trimming on that Madame de Frogsneck’s dress, because she was
pretty nigh sure she could make some just like it; for she never saw
any trimming she could not make.

The robin that lived in the apple-tree was fairly out-generalled the
next morning, for Miss Prissy was up before him, tripping about the
chamber on the points of her toes, and knocking down all the moveable
things in the room in her efforts to be still, so as not to waken Mary;
and it was not until she had finally upset the stand by the bed, with
the candlestick, snuffers, and Bible on it, that Mary opened her eyes.

‘Miss Prissy! dear me! What is it you are doing?’

‘Why I am trying to be still, Mary, so as not to wake you up, and it
seems to me as if everything was possessed to tumble down so. But it
is only half-past three, so you turn over and go to sleep.’

‘But, Miss Prissy,’ said Mary, sitting up in bed, ‘you are all dressed;
where are you going?’

‘Well, to tell the truth, Mary, I am just one of those people that
can’t sleep when they have got responsibility on their minds; and I’ve
been lying awake more than an hour here, thinking about that quilt.
There is a new way of getting it on to the frame that I want to try,
’cause you know when we quilted Cerinthy Stebbins’ it would trouble us
in the rolling; and I have got a new way that I want to try, and I mean
just to get it into the frame before breakfast. I was in hopes I should
get out without waking any of you; and now I don’t know as I shall get
by your mother’s door without waking her (’cause I know she works hard,
and needs her rest); but that bedroom door squawks like a cat—enough to
raise the dead!

‘Mary,’ she added, with sudden energy, ‘if I had the least drop of
oil in a teacup, and a bit of quill, I’d stop that door making such a
noise.’ And Miss Prissy’s eyes glowed with resolution.

‘I don’t know where you could find any at this time,’ said Mary.

‘Well, never mind, I’ll just go and open the door as slow and careful
as I can,’ said Miss Prissy, as she trotted out of the apartment.

The result of her carefulness was very soon announced to Mary by a
protracted sound resembling the mewing of a hoarse cat, accompanied
with sundry audible grunts from Miss Prissy, terminating in a grand
finale of clatter, occasioned by her knocking down all the pieces of
the quilt-frame that stood in a corner of the room, with a concussion
that roused everybody in the house.
