been none the wiser, if you had not sent in. I have not a single
tumbler left. It is too bad! I don't care so much for the loss of
the tumblers, as I do for the mortifying position it placed me in
toward a neighbor.'"

"Upon my word!" exclaimed my husband. "That is a beautiful
illustration, sure enough, of my remarks about what people may
suffer in the good opinion of others, through the conduct of their
servants in this very thing. No doubt Mrs. Jordon, as you suggest,
is guiltless of a good deal of blame now laid at her door. It was a
fair opportunity for you to give her some hints on the subject. You
might have opened her eyes a little, or at least diminished the
annoyance you had been, and still are enduring."

"Yes, the opportunity was a good one, and I ought to have improved
it. But I did not and the whole system, sanctioned or not sanctioned
by Mrs. Jordon, is in force against me."

"And will continue, unless some means be adopted by which to abate
the nuisance."

"Seriously, Mr. Smith," said I, "I am clear for removing from the
neighborhood."

But Mr. Smith said,

"Nonsense, Jane!" A form of expression he uses, when he wishes to
say that my proposition or suggestion is perfectly ridiculous, and
not to be thought of for a moment.

"What is to be done?" I asked. "Bear the evil?"

"Correct it, if you can."

"And if not, bear it the best I can?"

"Yes, that is my advice."

This was about the extent of aid I ever received from my husband in
any of my domestic difficulties. He is a first-rate abstractionist,
and can see to a hair how others ought to act in every imaginable,
and I was going to say unimaginable case; but is just as backward
about telling people what he thinks of them, and making everybody
with whom he has anything to do toe the mark, as I am.

As the idea of moving to get rid of my borrowing neighbor was
considered perfect nonsense by Mr. Smith, I began to think seriously
how I should check the evil, now grown almost insufferable. On the
next morning the coffee-mill was borrowed to begin with.

"Hasn't Mrs. Jordon got a coffee-mill of her own?" I asked of
Bridget.

"Yes, ma'am," she replied, "but it is such a poor one that Nancy
won't use it. She says it takes her forever and a day to grind
enough coffee for breakfast."

"Does she get ours every morning?"

"Yes, ma'am."

Nancy opened the kitchen door at this moment--our back gates were
side by side--and said--

"Mrs. Jordon says, will you oblige her so much as to let her have an
egg to clear the coffee? I forgot to tell her yesterday that ours
were all gone."

"Certainly," I said. "Bridget, give Nancy an egg."

"Mrs. Jordon is very sorry to trouble you, Mrs. Smith," said Nancy,
re-appearing in a little while, and finding me still in the kitchen,
"but she says if you will lend her a bowl of sugar it will be a
great accommodation. I forgot to tell her yesterday that the sugar
was all gone."

"You appear to be rather forgetful of such matters, Nancy," I could
not help saying.

"I know I am a little forgetful," the girl said, good humoredly, "but
I have so much to do, that I hardly have time to think."

"Where is the large earthen dish that you use sometimes in making
bread?" I asked, after Mrs. Jordon's cook had withdrawn, missing it
from its usual place on the shelf.

"Nancy borrowed it last week."

"Why don't she bring it home?"

"I've told her about it three or four times."

Nancy opened the door again.

"Please, ma'am to let Mrs. Jordon have another half pound of butter.
We haven't enough to do for breakfast, and the butter man don't come
until the middle of the day."

Of course, I couldn't refuse, though I believe I granted the request
with no very smiling grace. I heard no more of Nancy until toward
dinner-time. I had given my cook orders not to lend her anything
more without first coming to me.

"Mrs. Jordon has sent in to know if you won't lend her two or three
scuttles full of coal," said Bridget. "Mr. Jordon was to have sent
home the fires are going down."

"Certainly," I replied, "let her have it, but I want you to see that
it is returned."

"As to that, ma'am, I'll do my best; but I can't get Nancy to return
one half what she borrows. She forgets from one day to another."

"She mustn't forget," I returned, warmly. "You must go to Mrs.
Jordon yourself. It isn't right."

"I shall have to go, I guess, before I'm able to get back a dozen
kitchen things of ours they have. I never saw such borrowing people.
And then, never to think of returning what they get. They have got
one of our pokers, the big sauce-pan and the cake-board. Our muffin
rings they've had these three months. Every Monday they get two of
our tubs and the wash-boiler. Yesterday they sent in and got our
large meat-dish belonging to the dinner-set, and haven't sent it
home yet. Indeed, I can't tell you all they've got."

"Let Nancy have the coal," said I. "But we must stop this in some
way, if it be possible."

For three or four days the same thing was kept up, until I lost all
patience, and resolved, offence or no offence, to end a system that
was both annoying and unjust.

Mrs. Jordon called in to see me one day, and sat conversing in a
very pleasant strain for an hour. She was an agreeable companion,
and I was pleased with the visit. In fact, I liked Mrs. Jordon.

About an hour after she was gone, Nancy came into the kitchen, where
I happened to be.

"What's wanted now?" said I. My voice expressed quite as much as my
words. I saw the color flush in Nancy's face.

"Mrs. Jordon says, will you please to lend her a pan of flour? She
will return it to-morrow."

"Tell Mrs. Jordon," I replied, "that we are going to make up bread
this afternoon, and haven't more than enough flour left, or I would
let her have what she wants. And, by the way, Nancy, tell Mrs.
Jordon that I will be obliged to her if she will send in my large
earthen dish. We want to use it."

Nancy didn't seem pleased. And I thought she muttered something to
herself as she went away.

Not five minutes elapsed before word came to my room that Mrs.
Jordon was in the parlor and wished to speak to me.

"Now for trouble," thought I. Sure enough, when I entered the
parlor, the knit brow, flushed face, and angry eyes of my neighbor
told me that there was to be a scene.

"Mrs. Smith," she began, without ceremony or apology for her
abruptness of manner, "I should like to know what you mean by the
manner in which you refused to let me have a little flour just now?"

"How did I refuse?" I was cool enough to inquire.

"You refused in a manner which plainly enough snowed that you
thought me a troublesome borrower. 'What's wanted now?' I think
rather strange language to use to a domestic of mine."

Really, thought I, this caps the climax.

"To speak the plain truth, Mrs. Jordon," said I, "and not wishing to
give any offence, you do use the privilege of a neighbor in this
respect rather freely--more freely, I must own, than I feel
justified in doing."

"Mrs. Smith, this is too much!" exclaimed Mrs. Jordon. "Why you
borrow of me twice where I borrow of you once. I am particularly
careful in matters of this kind."

I looked at the woman with amazement.

"Borrow of you?" I asked.

"Certainly!" she replied, with perfect coolness. "Scarcely a day
passes that you do not send in for something or other. But dear
knows! I have always felt pleasure in obliging you."

I was mute for a time.

"Really, Mrs. Jordon," said I, at length, as composedly as I could
speak, "you seem to be laboring under some strange mistake. The
charge of frequent borrowing, I imagine, lies all on the other side.
I can name a dozen of my things in your house now, and can mention
as many articles borrowed within the last three days."

"Pray do so," was her cool reply.

"You have my large wash-boiler," I replied, "and two of my washing
tubs. You borrow them every Monday, and I have almost always to send
for them."

"I have your wash-boiler and tubs? You are in error, Mrs. Smith. I
have a large boiler of my own, and plenty of tubs."

"I don't know what you have, Mrs. Jordon; but I do know that you get
mine every week. Excuse me for mentioning these things--I do so at
your desire. Then, there is my coffee-mill, borrowed every morning."

"Coffee-mill! Why should I borrow your coffee-mill? We have one of
our own."

"Yesterday you borrowed butter, and eggs, and sugar," I continued.

"I?" my neighbor seemed perfectly amazed.

"Yes; and the day before a loaf of bread--an egg to clear your
coffee--salt, pepper, and a nutmeg."

"Never!"

"And to-day Nancy got some lard, a cup of coffee, and some Indian
meal for a pudding."

"She did?" asked Mrs. Jordon in a quick voice, a light seeming to
have flashed upon her mind.

"Yes," I replied, "for I was in the kitchen when she got the lard
and meal, and Bridget mentioned the coffee as soon as I came down
this morning."

"Strange!" Mrs. Jordon looked thoughtful. "It isn't a week since we
got coffee, and I am sure our Indian meal cannot be out."

"Almost every week Nancy borrows a pound or a half pound of butter
on the day before your butter man comes; and more than that, doesn't
return it, or indeed anything she gets more than a third of the
time."

"Precisely the complaint I have to make against you," said Mrs.
Jordon, looking me steadily in the face.

"Then," said I "there is something wrong somewhere, for to my
knowledge nothing has been borrowed from you or any body else for
months. I forbid anything of the kind."

"Be that as it may, Mrs. Smith; Nancy frequently comes to me and
says you have sent in for this, that, and the other thing--coffee,
tea, sugar, butter; and, in fact, almost everything used in a
family."

"Then Nancy gets them for her own use," said I.

"But I have often seen Bridget in myself for things."

"My Bridget!" I said, in surprise.

I instantly rang the bell.

"Tell Bridget I want her," said I to the waiter who came to the
door. The cook soon appeared.

"Bridget, are you in the habit of borrowing from Mrs. Jordon without
my knowledge?"

"No, ma'am!" replied the girl firmly, and without any mark of
disturbance in her face.

"Din't you get a bar of soap from our house yesterday?" asked Mrs.
Jordon.

"Yes, ma'am," returned Bridget, "but it was soap you owed us."

"Owed you!"

"Yes, Ma am. Nancy got a bar of soap from me last washing-day, and I
went in for it yesterday."

"But Nancy told me you wanted to borrow it," said Mrs. Jordon.

"Nancy knew better," said Bridget, with a face slightly flushed; but
any one could see that it was a flush of indignation.

"Will you step into my house and tell Nancy I want to see her?"

"Certainly, ma'am." And Bridget retired.

"These servants have been playing a high game, I fear," remarked
Mrs. Jordon, after Bridget had left the room. "Pardon me, if in my
surprise I have spoken in a manner that has seemed offensive."

"Most certainly there is a game playing that I know nothing about,
if anything has been borrowed of you in my name for these three
months," said I.

"I have heard of your borrowing something or other almost every day
during the time you mention," replied Mrs. Jordon. "As for me, I
have sent into you a few times; but not oftener, I am sure, than
once in a week."

Bridget returned, after having been gone several minutes, and said
Nancy would be in directly. We waited for some time, and then sent
for her again. Word was brought back that she was nowhere to be
found in the house.

"Come in with me, Mrs. Smith," said my neighbor, rising. I did so,
according to her request. Sure enough, Nancy was gone. We went up
into her room, and found that she had bundled up her clothes and
taken them off, but left behind her unmistakable evidence of what
she had been doing. In an old chest which Mrs. Jordon had let her
use for her clothes were many packages of tea, burnt coffee, sugar,
soap, eggs; a tin kettle containing a pound of butter, and various
other articles of table use.

Poor Mrs. Jordon seemed bewildered.

"Let me look at that pound lump of butter," said I.

Mrs. Jordon took up the kettle containing it. "It isn't my butter,"
she remarked.

"But it's mine, and the very pound she got of me yesterday for you."

"Gracious me!" ejaculated my neighbor. "Was anything like this ever
heard?"

"She evidently borrowed on your credit and mine--both ways," I
remarked with a smile, for all my unkind feelings toward Mrs. Jordon
were gone, "and for her own benefit."

"But isn't it dreadful to think of, Mrs. Smith? See what harm the
creature has done! Over and over again have I complained of your
borrowing so much and returning so little; and you have doubtless
made the same complaint of me."

"I certainly have. I felt that I was not justly dealt by."

"It makes me sick to think of it." And Mrs. Jordon sank into a
chair.

"Still I don't understand about the wash-boiler and tubs that you
mentioned," she said, after a pause.

"You remember my ten tumblers," I remarked.

"Perfectly. But can she have broken up my tubs and boiler, or
carried them off?"

On searching in the cellar we found the tubs in ruins, and the
wash-boiler with a large hole in the bottom.

I shall never forget the chagrin, anger, and mortification of poor
Mrs. Jordon when, at her request, Bridget pointed out at least
twenty of my domestic utensils that Nancy had borrowed to replace
such as she had broken or carried away. (It was a rule with Mrs.
Jordon to make her servants pay for every thing they broke.)

"To think of it!" she repeated over and over again. "Just to think
of it! Who could have dreamed of such doings?"

Mrs. Jordon was, in fact, as guiltless of the sin of troublesome
borrowing from a neighbor as myself. And yet I had seriously urged
the propriety of moving out of the neighborhood to get away from
her.

We both looked more closely to the doings of our servants after this
pretty severe lesson; and I must freely confess, that in my own
case, the result was worth all the trouble. As trusty a girl as my
cook was, I found that she would occasionally run in to a neighbor's
to borrow something or other, in order to hide her own neglect; and
I only succeeded in stopping the the evil by threatening to send her
away if I ever detected her in doing it again.




CHAPTER XXIX.

EXPERIENCE IN TAKING BOARDERS.


I HAVE no experiences of my own to relate on this subject. But I
could fill a book with the experiences of my friends. How many poor
widows, in the hope of sustaining their families and educating their
children, have tried the illusive, and, at best, doubtful experiment
of taking boarders, to find themselves in a year or two, or three,
hopelessly involved in debt, a life time of labor would fail to
cancel. Many, from pride, resort to this means of getting a living,
because--why I never could comprehend--taking boarders is thought to
be more genteel than needlework or keeping a small store for the
sale of fancy articles.

The experience of one of my friends, a Mrs. Turner, who, in the
earlier days of her sad widowhood, found it needful to make personal
effort for the sustenance of her family, I will here relate. Many
who find themselves in trying positions like hers, may, in reviewing
her mistakes, be saved from similar ones themselves.

"I don't know what we shall do!" exclaimed Mrs. Turner, about six
months after the death of her husband, while pondering sadly over
the prospect before her. She had one daughter about twenty, and two
sons who were both under ten years of age. Up to this time she had
never known the dread of want. Her husband had been able to provide
well for his family; and they moved in a very respectable, and
somewhat showy circle. But on his death, his affairs were found to
be much involved, and when settled, there was left for the widow and
children only about the sum of four thousand dollars, besides the
household furniture, which was very handsome. This sad falling off
in her prospects, had been communicated to Mrs. Turner a short time
before, by the administrator on the estate; and its effect was to
alarm and sadden her extremely. She knew nothing of business, and
yet, was painfully conscious, that four thousand dollars would be
but a trifle to what she would need for her family, and that effort
in some direction was now absolutely necessary. But, besides her
ignorance of any calling by which money could be made, she had a
superabundance of false pride, and shrunk from what she was pleased
to consider the odium attached to a woman who had to engage in
business. Under these circumstances, she had a poor enough prospect
before her. The exclamation as above recorded, was made in the
presence of Mary Turner, her daughter, a well educated girl, who had
less of that false pride which obscured her mother's perceptions of
right. After a few moments' silence the latter said--

"And yet we must do something, mother."

"I know that, Mary, too well. But I know of nothing that we can do."

"Suppose we open a little dry goods' store?" suggested Mary. "Others
seem to do well at it, and we might. You know we have a great many
friends."

"Don't think of it, Mary! We could not expose ourselves in that
way."

"I know that it would not be pleasant, mother; but, then, we must do
something."

"It must be something besides that, Mary. I can't listen to it. It's
only a vulgar class of women who keep stores."

"I am willing to take in sewing, mother; but, then, all I could earn
would go but a little way towards keeping the family. I don't
suppose I could even pay the rent, and that you know, is four
hundred dollars."

"Too true," Mrs. Turner said, despondingly.

"Suppose I open a school?" suggested Mary.

"O no! no! My head would never stand the noise and confusion. And,
any way, I never did like a school."

"Then I don't know what we shall do, unless we take some boarders."

"A little more genteel. But even that is low enough."

"Then, suppose, mother we look for a lower rent, and try to live
more economically. I will take in sewing, and we can try for awhile,
and see how we get along."

"O no, indeed, child. That would never do. We must keep up
appearances, or we shall lose our place in society. You know that it
is absolutely necessary for you and your brothers, that we should
maintain our position."

"As for me, mother," said Mary, in a serious tone, "I would not have
you to take a thought in that direction. And it seems to me that our
true position is the one where we can live most comfortably
according to our means."

"You don't know anything about it, child," Mrs. Turner replied, in a
positive tone.

Mary was silenced for the time. But a banishment of the subject did
not, in any way, lesson the difficulties. Thoughts of these soon
again became apparent in words; and the most natural form of these
was the sentence--

"I don't know what we shall do!" uttered by the mother in a tone
of deep despondency.

"Suppose we take a few boarders?" Mary urged, about three weeks
after the conversation just alluded to.

"No, Mary; we would be too much exposed: and then it would come very
hard on you, for you know that I cannot stand much fatigue," Mrs.
Turner replied, slowly and sadly.

"O, as to that," said Mary, with animation: "I'll take all the
burden off of you."

"Indeed, child, I cannot think of it," Mrs. Turner replied,
positively; and again the subject was dismissed.

But it was soon again recurred to, and after the suggestion and
disapproval of many plans, Mary again said--

"Indeed, mother, I don't see what we will do, unless we take a few
boarders."

"It's the only thing at all respectable, that I can think of," Mrs.
Turner said despondingly; "and I'm afraid it's the best we can do."

"I think we had better try it, mother, don't you?"

"Well, perhaps we had, Mary. There are four rooms that we can spare;
and these ought to bring us in something handsome."

"What ought we to charge?"

"About three dollars and a half for young men, and ten dollars for a
man and his wife."

"If we could get four married couples for the four rooms, that would
be forty dollars a week, which would be pretty good," said Mary,
warming at the thought.

"Yes, if we could, Mary, we might manage pretty well. But most
married people have children, and they are such an annoyance that I
wouldn't have them in the house. We will have to depend mainly on
the young men."

It was, probably, three weeks after this, that an advertisement,
running thus, appeared in one of the newspapers:

"BOARDING--Five or six genteel young men, or a few gentlemen and
their wives, can be accommodated with boarding at No.--Cedar street.
Terms moderate."

In the course of the following day, a man called and asked the terms
for himself and wife.

"Ten dollars," said Mrs. Turner.

"That's too high--is it not?" remarked the man.

"We cannot take you for less."

"Have you a pleasant room vacant?"

"You can have your choice of the finest in the house?"

"Can I look at them, madam?"

"Certainly, sir." And the stranger was taken through Mrs. Turner's
beautifully furnished chambers.

"Well, this is certainly a temptation," said the man, pausing and
looking around the front chamber on the second floor. "And you have
named your lowest terms?"

"Yes, sir; the lowest."

"Well, it's higher than I've been paying, but this looks too
comfortable. I suppose we will have to strike a bargain."

"Shall be pleased to accommodate you, sir."

"We will come, then, to-morrow morning."

"Very well, sir." And the stranger departed.

"So much for a beginning," said Mrs. Turner, evidently gratified.
"He seems to be much of a gentleman. If his wife is like him, they
will make things very agreeable I am sure."

"I hope she is," said Mary.

On the next morning, the new boarders made their appearance, and the
lady proved as affable and as interesting as the husband.

"I always pay quarterly. This is the custom in all the boarding
houses I have been in. But if your rules are otherwise, why just say
so. It makes no difference to me," remarked the new boarder, in the
blandest manner imaginable.

"Just suit yourself about that, Mr. Cameron. It is altogether
immaterial," Mrs. Turner replied, smiling. "I am in no particular
want of money."

Mr. Cameron bowed lower, and smiled more blandly, if possible, than
before.

"You have just opened a boarding house, I suppose, madam?" he said.

"Yes sir, I am a new beginner at the business."

"Ah--well, I must try and make you known all I can. You will find
Mrs. Cameron, here, a sociable kind of a woman. And if I can serve
you at any time, be sure to command me."

"You are too kind!" Mrs. Turner responded, much pleased to have
found, in her first boarders, such excellent, good-hearted people.

In a few days, a couple of young men made application, and were
received, and now commenced the serious duties of the new
undertaking. Mary had to assume the whole care of the house. She had
to attend the markets, and oversee the kitchen, and also to make
with her own hands all the pastry. Still, she had, a willing heart,
and this lightened much of the heavy burden now imposed upon her.

"How do you like your new boarding house?" asked a friend of one of
the young men who had applied, and been received. This was about two
weeks after his entrance into Mrs. Turner's house.

"Elegant," responded the young man, giving his countenance a
peculiar and knowing expression.

"Indeed? But are you in earnest?"

"I am that. Why, we live on the very fat of the land."

"Pshaw! you must be joking. Whoever heard of the fat of the land
being found in a boarding house. They can't afford it."

"I don't care, myself, whether they can afford it or not. But we do
live elegantly. I wouldn't ask to sit down to a better table."

"What kind of a room have you? and what kind of a bed?"

"Good enough for a lord."

"Nonsense!"

"No, but I am in earnest, as I will prove to you. I sleep on as fine
a bed as ever I saw, laid on a richly carved mahogany bedstead, with
beautiful curtains. The floor is covered with a Brussels carpet,
nearly new and of a rich pattern. There is in the room a mahogany
wardrobe, an elegant piece of furniture--a marble top dressing
bureau, and a mahogany wash-stand with a marble slab. Now if you
don't call that a touch above a common boarding house, you've been
more fortunate than I have been until lately."

"Are there any vacancies there, Tom?"

"There is another bed in my room."

"Well, just tell them, to-night, that I'll be there to-morrow
morning."

"Very well."

"And I know of a couple more that'll add to the mess, if there is
room."

"It's a large house, and I believe they have room yet to spare."

A week more passed away, and the house had its complement, six young
men, and the polite gentleman and his wife. This promised an income
of thirty-one dollars per week.

As an off-set to this, a careful examination into the weekly
expenditure would have shown a statement something like the
following: Marketing $12; groceries, flour, &c., $10; rent, $8;
servants' hire-cook, chambermaid, and black boy, $4; fuel, and
incidental expenses, $6--in all, $40 per week. Besides this, their
own clothes, and the schooling of the two boys did not cost less
than at the rate of $300 per annum. But neither Mrs. Turner nor Mary
ever thought that any such calculation was necessary. They charged
what other boarding house keepers charged, and thought, of course,
that they must make a good living. But in no boarding house, even
where much higher prices were obtained, was so much piled upon the
table.

Every thing, in its season, was to be found there, without regard to
prices. Of course, the boarders were delighted, and complimented
Mrs. Turner upon the excellent fare which they received.

Mr. and Mrs. Cameron continued as affable and interesting as when
they first came into the house. But the first quarter passed away,
and nothing was said about their bill, and Mrs. Turner never thought
of giving them a polite hint. Two of her young men were also remiss
in this respect, but they were such gentlemanly, polite, attentive
individuals, that, of course, nothing could be said.

"I believe I've never had your bill, Mrs. Turner, have I?" Mr.
Cameron said to her one evening, when about six months had passed.

"No; I have never thought of handing it in. But it's no difference,
I'm not in want of money."

"Yes, but it ought to be paid. I'll bring you up a check from the
counting-room in a few days."

"Suit your own convenience, Mr. Cameron," answered Mrs. Turner, in
an indifferent tone.

"O, it's perfectly convenient at all times. But knowing that you
were not in want of it, has made me negligent."

This was all that was said on the subject for another quarter,
during which time the two young men alluded to as being in arrears,
went off, cheating the widow out of fifty dollars each.

But nothing was said about it to the other boarders, and none of
them knew of the wrong that had been sustained. Their places did not
fill up, and the promised weekly income was reduced to twenty-four
dollars.

At the end of the third quarter, Mr. Cameron again recollected that
he had neglected to bring up a check from the counting-room, and
blamed himself for his thoughtlessness.

"I am so full of business," said he, "that I sometimes neglect these
little things."

"But it's a downright shame, Mr. Cameron, when it's so easy for you
to draw off a check and put it into your pocket," remarked his wife.

"O, it's not a particle of difference," Mrs. Turner volunteered to
say, smiling--though, to tell the truth, she would much rather have
had the money.

"Well, I'll try and bear it in mind this very night," and Mr.
Cameron hurried away, as business pressed.

The morning after Mr. Cameron's fourth quarter expired, he walked
out, as usual, with his wife before breakfast. But when all
assembled at the table, they had not (something very uncommon for
them) returned.

"I wonder what keeps Mr. and Mrs. Cameron?" remarked Mrs. Turner.

"Why, I saw them leave in the steamboat for the South, this
morning," said one of the boarders.

"You must be mistaken," Mrs. Turner replied.

"O no, ma'am, not at all. I saw them, and conversed with them before
the boat started. They told me that they were going on as far as
Washington."

"Very strange!" ejaculated Mrs. Turner. "They said nothing to me
about it."

"I hope they don't owe you any thing," remarked one of the boarders.

"Indeed, they do."

"Not much, ma'am; I hope."

"Over five hundred dollars."

"O, that is too bad! How could you trust a man like Mr. Cameron to
such an amount?"

"Why, surely," said Mrs. Turner, "he is a respectable and a
responsible merchant; and I was in no want of the money."

"Indeed, Mrs. Turner, he is no such thing."

"Then what is he?"

"He is one of your gentlemen about town, and lives, I suppose, by
gambling. At least such is the reputation he bears. I thought you
perfectly understood this."

"How cruelly I have been deceived!" said Mrs. Turner, unable to
command her feelings; and rising, she left the table in charge of
Mary.

On examining Mr. and Mrs. Cameron's room, their trunk was found, but
it was empty. The owners of it, of course, came not back to claim
their property.

The result of this year's experience in keeping boarders, was an
income of just $886 in money, and a loss of $600, set off against an
expense of $2380. Thus was Mrs. Turner worse off by $1494 at the end
of the year, than she was when she commenced keeping boarders. But
she made no estimates, and had not the most remote idea of how the
matter stood. Whenever she wanted money, she drew upon the amount
placed to her credit in bank by the administrator on her husband's
estate, vainly imagining that it would all come back through the
boarders. All that she supposed to be lost of the first year's
business were the $600, out of which she had been cheated. Resolving
to be more circumspect in future, another year was entered upon. But
she could not help seeing that Mary was suffering from hard labor
and close confinement, and it pained her exceedingly. One day she
said to her, a few weeks after they had entered upon the second
year--

"I am afraid, Mary, this is too hard for you. You begin to look pale
and thin. You must spare yourself more."

"I believe I do need a little rest, mother," said Mary; "but if I
don't look after things, nobody will, and then we should soon have
our boarders dissatisfied."

"That is too true, Mary."

"But I wouldn't mind it so much, mother, if I thought we were
getting ahead. But I am afraid we are not."

"What makes you think so, child?"

"You know we have lost six hundred dollars already, and that is a
great deal of money."

"True, Mary; but we must be more careful in future. We will soon
make that up, I am sure."

"I hope so," Mary responded, with a sigh. She did not herself feel
so sanguine of making it up. Still, she had not entered into any
calculation of income and expense, leaving that to her mother, and
supposing that all was right as a matter of course.

As they continued to set an excellent table, they kept up pretty
regularly their complement of boarders. The end of the second year
would have shown this result, if a calculation had been made: cash
income, $1306--loss by boarders, $150--whole expenses, $2000.
Consequently, they were worse off at the end of the year by $694; or
in the two years, $2188, by keeping boarders.

And now poor Mrs. Turner was startled on receiving her bank book
from the bank, settled up, to find that her four thousand dollars
had dwindled down to $1812. She could not at first believe her
senses. But there were all her checks regularly entered; and, to
dash even the hope that there was a mistake, there were the
cancelled checks, also, bearing her own signature.

"Mary, what shall we do?" was her despairing question, as the full
truth became distinct to her mind.

"You say we have sunk more than two thousand dollars in two years?"

"Yes, my child."

"And have had all our hard labor for nothing?" Mary continued, and
her voice trembled as she thought of how much she had gone through
in that time.

"Yes."

"Something must be wrong, mother. Let us do what we should have done
at first, make a careful estimate of our expenses."

"Well."

"It costs us just ten dollars each week for marketing--and I know
that our groceries are at least that, including flour; that you see
makes twenty dollars, and we only get twenty-eight dollars for our
eight boarders. Our rent will bring our expenses up to that. And
then there are servants' wages, fuel, our own clothes, and the boys'
schooling, besides what we lose every year, and the hundred little
expenses which cannot be enumerated."

"Bless me, Mary! No wonder we have gone behindhand."

"Indeed, mother, it is not."

"We have acted very blindly, Mary."

"Yes, we have; but we must do so no longer. Let us give up our
boarders, and move into a smaller house."

"But what shall we do Mary? Our money will soon dwindle away."

"We must do something for a living, mother, that is true. But if we
cannot now see what we shall do, that is no reason why we should go
on as we are. Our rent, you know, takes away from us eight dollars a
week. We can get a house large enough for our own purposes at three
dollars a week, or one hundred and fifty dollars a year, I am sure,
thus saving five dollars a week there, and that money would buy all
the plain food our whole family would eat."

"But it will never do, Mary, for us to go to moving into a little
bit of a pigeon-box of a house."

"Mother, if we don't get into a cheaper house and husband our
resources, we shall soon have no house to live in!" said Mary, with
unwonted energy.

"Well, child, perhaps you are right; but I can't bear the thought of
it," Mrs. Turner replied. "And any how, I can't see what we are
going to do then."

"We ought to do what we see to be right, mother, had we not?" Mary
asked, looking affectionately into her mother's face.

"I suppose so, Mary."

"Won't it be right for us to reduce our expenses, and make the most
of what we have left?"

"It certainly will, Mary."

"Then let us do what seems to be right, and we shall see further, I
am sure, as soon as we have acted."

Thus urged, Mrs. Turner consented to relinquish her boarders, and to
move into a small house, at a rent very considerably reduced.

Many articles of furniture they were obliged to dispose of, and this
added to their little fund some five hundred dollars. About two
months after they were fairly settled, Mary said to her mother--

"I've been thinking a good deal lately, mother, about getting into
something that would bring us in a living."

"Well, child, what conclusion have you come to?"

"You don't like the idea of setting up a little store?"

"No, Mary, it is too exposing."

"Nor of keeping a school?"

"No."

"Well, what do you think of my learning the dress-making business?"

"Nonsense, Mary!"

"But, mother, I could learn in six months, and then we could set up
the business, and I am sure we could do well. Almost every one who
sets up dress-making, gets along."

"There was always something low to me in the idea of a milliner or
mantua maker, and I cannot bear the thought of your being one," Mrs.
Turner replied, in a decided tone.

"You know what Pope says, mother--

  'Honor and shame from no condition rise;
  Act well your part, there all the honor lies.'"

"Yes, but that is poetry, child."

"And song is but the eloquence of truth, some one has beautifully
said," responded Mary, smiling.

The mother was silent, and Mary, whose mind had never imbibed,
fully, her mother's false notions, continued--

"I am sure there can be no wrong in my making dresses. Some one must
make them, and it is the end we have in view, it seems to me, that
determines the character of an action. If I, for the sake of
procuring an honest living for my mother, my little brothers, and
myself, am willing to devote my time to dress-making, instead of
sitting in idleness, and suffering James and Willie to be put out
among strangers, then the calling is to me honorable. My aim is
honorable, and the means are honest. Is it not so, mother?"

"Yes, I suppose it is so. But then there was always something so
degrading to me in the idea of being nothing but a dress-maker!"

Just at that moment a young man, named Martin, who had lived with
them during the last year of their experiment in keeping boarders,
called in to see them. He kept a store in the city, and was reputed
to be well off. He had uniformly manifested an interest in Mrs.
Turner and her family, and was much liked by them. After he was
seated. Mrs. Turner said to him--

"I am trying, Mr. Martin, to beat a strange notion out of Mary's
head. She has been endeavouring to persuade me to let her learn the
dress-making business."

The young man seemed a little surprised at this communication, and
Mary evinced a momentary confusion when it was made. He said,
however, very promptly and pleasantly, turning to Mary--

"I suppose you have a good reason for it, Miss Mary."

"I think I have, Mr. Martin," she replied, smiling. "We cannot live,
and educate James and William, unless we have a regular income; and
I cannot shut my eyes to the fact that what we have cannot last
long--nor to another, that I am the only one in the family from whom
any regular income can be expected."

"And you are willing to devote yourself to incessant toil, night and
day, for this purpose?"

"Certainly I am," Mary replied, with a quiet, cheerful smile.

"But it never will do, Mr. Martin, will it?" Mrs. Turner remarked.

"Why not, Mrs. Turner?"

"Because, it is not altogether respectable."

"I do not see any thing disrespectable in the business; but, with
Mary's motive for entering into it, something highly respectable and
honorable," Mr. Martin replied, with unusual earnestness.

Mrs. Turner was silenced.

"And you really think of learning the business, and then setting it
up?" said Mr. Martin, turning to Mary, with a manifest interest,
which she felt, rather than perceived.

"Certainly I do, if mother does not positively object."

"Then I wish you all success in your praiseworthy undertaking. And
may the end you have in view support you amid the wearisome toil."

There was a peculiar feeling in Mr. Martin's tone that touched the
heart of Mary, she knew not why. But certain it was, that she felt
doubly nerved for the task she had proposed to herself.
