

CHAPTER XXVIII

PALM SUNDAY


The morning after her arrival in Rome, Agnes was awakened from sleep
by a solemn dropping of bell-tones which seemed to fill the whole air,
intermingled dimly at intervals with long-drawn plaintive sounds of
chanting. She had slept profoundly, overwearied with her pilgrimage,
and soothed by that deep lulling sense of quiet which comes over one,
when, after long and weary toils, some auspicious goal is at length
reached. She had come to Rome, and been received with open arms into
the household of the saints, and seen even those of highest degree
imitating the simplicity of the Lord in serving the poor. Surely,
this was indeed the house of God and the gate of heaven; and so the
bell-tones and chants, mingling with her dreams, seemed naturally
enough angel-harpings and distant echoes of the perpetual adoration
of the blessed. She rose and dressed herself with a tremulous joy.
She felt full hope that somehow--in what way she could not say--this
auspicious beginning would end in a full fruition of all her wishes, an
answer to all her prayers.

"Well, child," said old Elsie, "you must have slept well; you look
fresh as a lark."

"The air of this holy place revives me," said Agnes, with enthusiasm.

"I wish I could say as much," said Elsie. "My bones ache yet with the
tramp, and I suppose nothing will do but we must go out now to all the
holy places, up and down and hither and yon, to everything that goes
on. I saw enough of it all years ago when I lived here."

"Dear grandmother, if you are tired, why should you not rest? I can go
forth alone in this holy city. No harm can possibly befall me here. I
can join any of the pilgrims who are going to the holy places where I
long to worship."

"A likely story!" said Elsie. "I know more about old Rome than you do,
and I tell you, child, that you do not stir out a step without me; so
if you must go, I must go too,--and like enough it's for my soul's
health. I suppose it is," she added, after a reflective pause.

"How beautiful it was that we were welcomed so last night!" said Agnes;
"that dear lady was so kind to me!"

"Ay, ay, and well she might be!" said Elsie, nodding her head. "But
there's no truth in the kindness of the nobles to us, child. They don't
do it because they love us, but because they expect to buy heaven by
washing our feet and giving us what little they can clip and snip off
from their abundance."

"Oh, grandmother," said Agnes, "how can you say so? Certainly, if any
one ever spoke and looked lovingly, it was that dear lady."

"Yes, and she rolls away in her carriage, well content, and leaves you
with a pair of new shoes and stockings,--you, as worthy of a carriage
and a palace as she."

"No, grandmamma; she said she should send for me to talk more with her."

"She said she should send for you?" said Elsie. "Well, well, that is
strange, to be sure!--that is wonderful!" she added, reflectively. "But
come, child, we must hasten through our breakfast and prayers, and go
to see the Pope, and all the great birds with fine feathers that fly
after him."

"Yes, indeed!" said Agnes, joyfully. "Oh, grandmamma, what a blessed
sight it will be!"

"Yes, child, and a fine sight enough he makes with his great canopy
and his plumes and his servants and his trumpeters;--there isn't a king
in Christendom that goes so proudly as he."

"No other king is worthy of it," said Agnes. "The Lord reigns in him."

"Much you know about it!" said Elsie, between her teeth, as they
started out.

The streets of Rome through which they walked were damp and
cellar-like, filthy and ill-paved; but Agnes neither saw nor felt
anything of inconvenience in this: had they been floored, like those of
the New Jerusalem, with translucent gold, her faith could not have been
more fervent.

Rome is at all times a forest of quaint costumes, a pantomime of
shifting scenic effects of religious ceremonies. Nothing there, however
singular, strikes the eye as out-of-the-way or unexpected, since no
one knows precisely to what religious order it may belong, or what
individual vow or purpose it may represent. Neither Agnes nor Elsie,
therefore, was surprised, when they passed through the doorway to the
street, at the apparition of a man covered from head to foot in a long
robe of white serge, with a high-peaked cap of the same material drawn
completely down over his head and face. Two round holes cut in this
ghostly head-gear revealed simply two black glittering eyes, which
shone with that singular elfish effect which belongs to the human eye
when removed from its appropriate and natural accessories. As they
passed out, the figure rattled a box on which was painted an image
of despairing souls raising imploring hands from very red tongues of
flame, by which it was understood at once that he sought aid for souls
in Purgatory. Agnes and her grandmother each dropped therein a small
coin and went on their way; but the figure followed them at a little
distance behind, keeping carefully within sight of them.

By means of energetic pushing and striving, Elsie contrived to secure
for herself and her grandchild stations in the piazza in front of the
church, in the very front rank, where the procession was to pass. A
motley assemblage it was, this crowd, comprising every variety of
costume of rank and station and ecclesiastical profession,--cowls
and hoods of Franciscan and Dominican,--picturesque head dresses
of peasant-women of different districts,--plumes and ruffs of more
aspiring gentility,--mixed with every quaint phase of foreign costume
belonging to the strangers from different parts of the earth;--for,
like the old Jewish Passover, this celebration of Holy Week had its
assemblage of Parthians, Medes, Elamites, dwellers in Mesopotamia,
Cretes, and Arabians, all blending in one common memorial.

Amid the strange variety of persons among whom they were crowded, Elsie
remarked the stranger in the white sack, who had followed them, and who
had stationed himself behind them,--but it did not occur to her that
his presence there was other than merely accidental.

And now came sweeping up the grand procession, brilliant with scarlet
and gold, waving with plumes, sparkling with gems,--it seemed as if
earth had been ransacked and human invention taxed to express the
ultimatum of all that could dazzle and bewilder,--and, with a rustle
like that of ripe grain before a swaying wind, all the multitude went
down on their knees as the cortege passed. Agnes knelt, too, with
clasped hands, adoring the sacred vision enshrined in her soul; and as
she knelt with upraised eyes, her cheeks flushed with enthusiasm, her
beauty attracted the attention of more than one in the procession.

"There is the model which our master has been looking for," said a
young and handsome man in a rich dress of black velvet, who, by his
costume, appeared to hold the rank of first chamberlain in the Papal
suite.

The young man to whom he spoke gave a bold glance at Agnes and
answered,--

"Pretty little rogue, how well she does the saint!"

"One can see that with judicious arrangement she might make a nymph as
well as a saint," said the first speaker.

"A Daphne, for example," said the other, laughing.

"And she wouldn't turn into a laurel, either," said the first.
"Well, we must keep our eye on her." And as they were passing into
the church-door, he beckoned to a servant in waiting and whispered
something, indicating Agnes with a backward movement of his hand.

The servant, after this, kept cautiously within observing distance of
her, as she with the crowd pressed into the church to assist at the
devotions.

Long and dazzling were those ceremonies, when, raised on high like
an enthroned God, Pope Alexander VI. received the homage of bended
knee from the ambassadors of every Christian nation, from heads of
all ecclesiastical orders, and from generals and chiefs and princes
and nobles, who, robed and plumed and gemmed in all the brightest and
proudest that earth could give, bowed the knee humbly and kissed his
foot in return for the palm-branch which he presented. Meanwhile,
voices of invisible singers chanted the simple event which all this
splendor was commemorating,--how of old Jesus came into Jerusalem meek
and lowly, riding on an ass,--how His disciples cast their garments
in the way, and the multitude took branches of palm-trees to come
forth and meet Him,--how He was seized, tried, condemned to a cruel
death,--and the crowd, with dazzled and wondering eyes following the
gorgeous ceremonial, reflected little how great was the satire of the
contrast, how different the coming of that meek and lowly One to suffer
and to die from this triumphant display of worldly pomp and splendor in
His professed representative.

But to the pure all things are pure, and Agnes thought only of the
enthronement of all virtues, of all celestial charities and unworldly
purities in that splendid ceremonial, and longed within herself to
approach so near as to touch the hem of those wondrous and sacred
garments. It was to her enthusiastic imagination like the unclosing
of celestial doors, where the kings and priests of an eternal and
heavenly temple move to and fro in music, with the many-colored glories
of rainbows and sunset clouds. Her whole nature was wrought upon by
the sights and sounds of that gorgeous worship,--she seemed to burn
and brighten like an altar-coal, her figure appeared to dilate, her
eyes grew deeper and shone with a starry light, and the color of her
cheeks flushed up with a vivid glow; nor was she aware how often eyes
were turned upon her, nor how murmurs of admiration followed all her
absorbed, unconscious movements. "Ecco! Eccola!" was often repeated
from mouth to mouth around her, but she heard it not.

When at last the ceremony was finished, the crowd rushed again out
of the church to see the departure of various dignitaries. There was
a perfect whirl of dazzling equipages, and glittering lackeys, and
prancing horses, crusted with gold, flaming in scarlet and purple,
retinues of cardinals and princes and nobles and ambassadors all in one
splendid confused jostle of noise and brightness.

Suddenly a servant in a gorgeous scarlet livery touched Agnes on the
shoulder, and said, in a tone of authority,--

"Young maiden, your presence is commanded."

"Who commands it?" said Elsie, laying her hand on her grandchild's
shoulder fiercely.

"Are you mad?" whispered two or three women of the lower orders to
Elsie at once; "don't you know who that is? Hush, for your life!"

"I shall go with you, Agnes," said Elsie, resolutely.

"No, you will not," said the attendant, insolently. "This maiden is
commanded, and none else."

"He belongs to the Pope's nephew," whispered a voice in Elsie's ear.
"You had better have your tongue torn out than say another word."
Whereupon, Elsie found herself actually borne backward by three or four
stout women.

Agnes looked round and smiled on her,--a smile full of innocent
trust,--and then, turning, followed the servant into the finest of the
equipages, where she was lost to view.

Elsie was almost wild with fear and impotent rage; but a low,
impressive voice now spoke in her ear. It came from the white figure
which had followed them in the morning.

"Listen," it said, "and be quiet; don't turn your head, but hear what
I tell you. Your child is followed by those who will save her. Go your
ways whence you came. Wait till the hour after the Ave Maria, then come
to the Porta San Sebastiano, and all will be well."

When Elsie turned to look she saw no one, but caught a distant glimpse
of a white figure vanishing in the crowd. She returned to her asylum,
wondering and disconsolate, and the first person whom she saw was old
Mona.

"Well, good-morrow, sister!" she said. "Know that I am here on a
strange errand. The Princess has taken such a liking to you that
nothing will do but we must fetch you and your little one out to her
villa. I looked everywhere for you in church this morning. Where have
you hid yourselves?"

"We were there," said Elsie, confused, and hesitating whether to speak
of what had happened.

"Well, where is the little one? Get her ready; we have horses in
waiting. It is a good bit out of the city."

"Alack!" said Elsie, "I know not where she is."

"Holy Virgin!" said Mona, "how is this?"

Elsie, moved by the necessity which makes it a relief to open the
heart to some one, sat down on the steps of the church and poured forth
the whole story into the listening ear of Mona.

"Well, well, well!" said the old servant, "in our days, one does
not wonder at anything, one never knows one day what may come the
next,--but this is bad enough!"

"Do you think," said Elsie, "there is any hope in that strange promise?"

"One can but try it," said Mona.

"If you could but be there then," said Elsie, "and take us to your
mistress."

"Well, I will wait, for my mistress has taken an especial fancy to your
little one, more particularly since this morning, when a holy Capuchin
came to our house and held a long conference with her, and after he was
gone I found my lady almost in a faint, and she would have it that we
should start directly to bring her out here, and I had much ado to let
her see that the child would do quite as well after services were over.
I tired myself looking about for you in the crowd."

The two women then digressed upon various gossiping particulars,
as they sat on the old mossy, grass-grown steps, looking up over
house-tops yellow with lichen, into the blue spring air, where flocks
of white pigeons were soaring and careering in the soft, warm sunshine.
Brightness and warmth and flowers seemed to be the only idea natural
to that charming weather, and Elsie, sad-hearted and foreboding as she
was, felt the benign influence. Rome, which had been so fatal a place
to her peace, yet had for her, as it has for every one, potent spells
of a lulling and soothing power. Where is the grief or anxiety that can
resist the enchantment of one of Rome's bright, soft, spring days?




CHAPTER XXIX

THE NIGHT-RIDE


The villa of the Princess Paulina was one of those soft, idyllic
paradises which lie like so many fairy-lands around the dreamy
solitudes of Rome. They are so fair, so wild, so still, these villas!
Nature in them seems to run in such gentle sympathy with Art, that
one feels as if they had not been so much the product of human skill
as some indigenous growth of Arcadian ages. There are quaint terraces
shadowed by clipped ilex-trees, whose branches make twilight even in
the sultriest noon; there are long-drawn paths, through wildernesses
where cyclamens blossom in crimson clouds among crushed fragments
of sculptured marble green with the moss of ages, and glossy-leaved
myrtles put forth their pale blue stars in constellations under the
leafy shadows. Everywhere is the voice of water, ever lulling, ever
babbling, and taught by Art to run in many a quaint caprice,--here
to rush down marble steps slippery with sedgy green, there to spout
up in silvery spray, and anon to spread into a cool, waveless lake,
whose mirror reflects trees and flowers far down in some visionary
underworld. Then there are wide lawns, where the grass in spring is a
perfect rainbow of anemones, white, rose, crimson, purple, mottled,
streaked, and dappled with ever varying shade of sunset clouds. There
are soft, moist banks where purple and white violets grow large
and fair, and trees all interlaced with ivy, which runs and twines
everywhere, intermingling its dark, graceful leaves and vivid young
shoots with the bloom and leafage of all shadowy places.

In our day, these lovely places have their dark shadow ever haunting
their loveliness: the malaria, like an unseen demon, lies hid in their
sweetness. And in the time we are speaking of, a curse not less deadly
poisoned the beauties of the Princess's villa,--the malaria of fear.

The graveled terrace in front of the villa commanded, through the
clipped arches of the ilex-trees, the Campagna with its soft,
undulating bands of many-colored green, and the distant city of Rome,
whose bells were always filling the air between with a tremulous
vibration. Here, during the long sunny afternoon while Elsie and Monica
were crooning together on the steps of the church, the Princess Paulina
walked restlessly up and down, looking forth on the way towards the
city for the travelers whom she expected.

Father Francesco had been there that morning and communicated to her
the dying message of the aged Capuchin, from which it appeared that
the child who had so much interested her was her near kinswoman.
Perhaps, had her house remained at the height of its power and
splendor, she might have rejected with scorn the idea of a kinswoman
whose existence had been owing to a mésalliance; but a member of
an exiled and disinherited family, deriving her only comfort from
unworldly sources, she regarded this event as an opportunity afforded
her to make expiation for one of the sins of her house. The beauty and
winning graces of her young kinswoman were not without their influence
in attracting a lonely heart deprived of the support of natural
ties. The Princess longed for something to love, and the discovery
of a legitimate object of family affection was an event in the weary
monotony of her life; and therefore it was that the hours of the
afternoon seemed long while she looked forth towards Rome, listening to
the ceaseless chiming of its bells, and wondering why no one appeared
along the road.

The sun went down, and all the wide plain seemed like the sea at
twilight, lying in rosy and lilac and purple shadowy bands, out of
which rose the old city, solemn and lonely as some enchanted island of
dreamland, with a flush of radiance behind it and a tolling of weird
music filling all the air around. Now they are chanting the Ave Maria
in hundreds of churches, and the Princess worships in distant accord,
and tries to still the anxieties of her heart with many a prayer.
Twilight fades and fades, the Campagna becomes a black sea, and the
distant city looms up like a dark rock against the glimmering sky,
and the Princess goes within and walks restlessly through the wide
halls, stopping first at one open window and then at another to listen.
Beneath her feet she treads a cool mosaic pavement where laughing
Cupids are dancing. Above, from the ceiling, Aurora and the Hours look
down in many-colored clouds of brightness. The sound of the fountains
without is so clear in the intense stillness that the peculiar voice
of each one can be told. That is the swaying noise of the great jet
that rises from marble shells and falls into a wide basin, where
silvery swans swim round and round in enchanted circles; and the other
slenderer sound is the smaller jet that rains down its spray into the
violet-borders deep in the shrubbery; and that other, the shallow
babble of the waters that go down the marble steps to the lake. How
dreamlike and plaintive they all sound in the night stillness! The
nightingale sings from the dark shadows of the wilderness; and the
musky odors of the cyclamen come floating ever and anon through the
casement, in that strange, cloudy way in which flower scents seem to
come and go in the air in the night season.

At last the Princess fancies she hears the distant tramp of horses'
feet, and her heart beats so that she can scarcely listen: now she
hears it,--and now a rising wind, sweeping across the Campagna, seems
to bear it moaning away. She goes to a door and looks out into the
darkness. Yes, she hears it now, quick and regular,--the beat of
many horses' feet coming in hot haste along the road. Surely the few
servants whom she has sent cannot make all this noise! and she trembles
with vague affright. Perhaps it is a tyrannical message, bringing
imprisonment and death. She calls a maid, and bids her bring lights
into the reception-hall. A few moments more, and there is a confused
stamping of horses' feet approaching the house, and she hears the
voices of her servants. She runs into the piazza, and sees dismounting
a knight who carries Agnes in his arms pale and fainting. Old Elsie and
Monica, too, dismount, with the Princess's men-servants; but, wonderful
to tell, there seems besides them to be a train of some hundred armed
horsemen.

The timid Princess was so fluttered and bewildered that she lost all
presence of mind, and stood in uncomprehending wonder, while Monica
pushed authoritatively into the house, and beckoned the knight to bring
Agnes and lay her on a sofa, when she and old Elsie busied themselves
vigorously with restoratives.

The Lady Paulina, as soon as she could collect her scattered senses,
recognized in Agostino the banished lord of the Sarelli family, a race
who had shared with her own the hatred and cruelty of the Borgia tribe;
and he in turn had recognized a daughter of the Colonnas. He drew her
aside into a small boudoir adjoining the apartment.

"Noble lady," he said, "we are companions in misfortune, and so, I
trust, you will pardon what seems a tumultuous intrusion on your
privacy. I and my men came to Rome in disguise, that we might watch
over and protect this poor innocent, who now finds asylum with you."

"My Lord," said the Princess, "I see in this event the wonderful
working of the good God. I have but just learned that this young
person is my near kinswoman; it was only this morning that the fact
was certified to me on the dying confession of a holy Capuchin,
who privately united my brother to her mother. The marriage was an
indiscretion of his youth; but afterwards he fell into more grievous
sin in denying the holy sacrament, and leaving his wife to die in
misery and dishonor, and perhaps for this fault such great judgments
fell upon him. I wish to make atonement in such sort as is yet possible
by acting as a mother to this child."

"The times are so troublous and uncertain," said Agostino, "that she
must have stronger protection than that of any woman. She is of a most
holy and religious nature, but as ignorant of sin as an angel who never
has seen anything out of heaven; and so the Borgias enticed her into
their impure den, from which, God helping, I have saved her. I tried
all I could to prevent her coming to Rome, and to convince her of the
vileness that ruled here; but the poor little one could not believe me,
and thought me a heretic only for saying what she now knows from her
own senses."

The Lady Paulina shuddered with fear.

"Is it possible that you have come into collision with the dreadful
Borgias? What will become of us?"

"I brought a hundred men into Rome in different disguises," said
Agostino, "and we gained over a servant in their household, through
whom I entered and carried her off. Their men pursued us, and we had a
fight in the streets, but for the moment we mustered more than they.
Some of them chased us a good distance. But it will not do for us to
remain here. As soon as she is revived enough, we must retreat towards
one of our fastnesses in the mountains, whence, when rested, we shall
go northward to Florence, where I have powerful friends, and she has
also an uncle, a holy man, by whose counsels she is much guided."

"You must take me with you," said the Princess, in a tremor of anxiety.
"Not for the world would I stay, if it be known you have taken refuge
here. For a long time their spies have been watching about me; they
only wait for some occasion to seize upon my villa, as they have on
the possessions of all my father's house. Let me flee with you. I have
a brother-in-law in Florence who hath often urged me to escape to him
till times mend,--for, surely, God will not allow the wicked to bear
rule forever."

"Willingly, noble lady, will we give you our escort,--the more so that
this poor child will then have a friend with her beseeming her father's
rank. Believe me, lady, she will do no discredit to her lineage.
She was trained in a convent, and her soul is a flower of marvelous
beauty. I must declare to you here that I have wooed her honorably to
be my wife, and she would willingly be so, had not some scruples of a
religious vocation taken hold on her, to dispel which I look for the
aid of the holy father, her uncle."

"It would be a most fit and proper thing," said the Princess, "thus to
ally our houses, in hope of some good time to come which shall restore
their former standing and possessions. Of course some holy man must
judge of the obstacle interposed by her vocation; but I doubt not the
Church will be an indulgent mother in a case where the issue seems so
desirable."

"If I be married to her," said Agostino, "I can take her out of all
these strifes and confusions which now agitate our Italy to the court
of France, where I have an uncle high in favor with the King, and who
will use all his influence to compose these troubles in Italy, and
bring about a better day."

While this conversation was going on, bountiful refreshments had been
provided for the whole party, and the attendants of the Princess
received orders to pack all her jewels and valuable effects for a
sudden journey.

As soon as preparations could be made, the whole party left the villa
of the Princess for a retreat in the Alban Mountains, where Agostino
and his band had one of their rendezvous. Only the immediate female
attendants of the Princess, and one or two men-servants, left with her.
The silver plate, and all objects of particular value, were buried in
the garden. This being done, the keys of the house were intrusted to a
gray-headed servant, who with his wife had grown old in the family.

It was midnight before everything was ready for starting. The moon cast
silver gleams through the ilex-avenues, and caused the jet of the great
fountain to look like a wavering pillar of cloudy brightness, when
the Princess led forth Agnes upon the wide veranda. Two gentle, yet
spirited little animals from the Princess's stables were there awaiting
them, and they were lifted into their saddles by Agostino.

"Fear nothing, Madam," he said, observing how the hands of the Princess
trembled; "a few hours will put us in perfect safety, and I shall be at
your side constantly."

Then lifting Agnes to her seat, he placed the reins in her hand.

"Are you rested?" he asked.

It was the first time since her rescue that he had spoken to Agnes. The
words were brief, but no expressions of endearment could convey more
than the manner in which they were spoken.

"Yes, my Lord," said Agnes firmly, "I am rested."

"You think you can bear the ride?"

"I can bear anything, so I escape," she said.

The company were now all mounted, and were marshaled in regular order.
A body of armed men rode in front; then came Agnes and the Princess,
with Agostino between them, while two or three troopers rode on either
side; Elsie, Monica, and the servants of the Princess followed close
behind, and the rear was brought up in like manner by armed men.

The path wound first through the grounds of the villa, with its plats
of light and shade, its solemn groves of stone-pines rising like
palm-trees high in air above the tops of all other trees, its terraces
and statues and fountains,--all seeming so lovely in the midnight
stillness.

"Perhaps I am leaving all this forever," said the Princess.

"Let us hope for the best," said Agostino. "It cannot be that God
will suffer the seat of the Apostles to be subjected to such ignominy
and disgrace much longer. I am amazed that no Christian kings have
interfered before for the honor of Christendom. I have it from the best
authority that the King of Naples burst into tears when he heard of the
election of this wretch to be Pope. He said that it was a scandal which
threatened the very existence of Christianity. He has sent me secret
messages divers times expressive of sympathy, but he is not of himself
strong enough. Our hope must lie either in the King of France or the
Emperor of Germany: perhaps both will engage. There is now a most holy
monk in Florence who has been stirring all hearts in a wonderful way.
It is said that the very gifts of miracles and prophecy are revived in
him, as among the holy Apostles, and he has been bestirring himself to
have a General Council of the Church to look into these matters. When I
left Florence, a short time ago, the faction opposed to him broke into
the convent and took him away. I myself was there."

"What!" said Agnes, "did they break into the convent of the San Marco?
My uncle is there."

"Yes, and he and I fought side by side with the mob who were rushing
in."

"Uncle Antonio fight!" said Agnes, in astonishment.

"Even women will fight, when what they love most is attacked," said the
knight.

He turned to her, as he spoke, and saw in the moonlight a flash from
her eye, and an heroic expression on her face, such as he had never
remarked before; but she said nothing. The veil had been rudely torn
from her eyes; she had seen with horror the defilement and impurity
of what she had ignorantly adored in holy places, and the revelation
seemed to have wrought a change in her whole nature.

"Even you could fight, Agnes," said the knight, "to save your religion
from disgrace."

"No," said she; "but," she added, with gathering firmness, "I could
die. I should be glad to die with and for the holy men who would save
the honor of the true faith. I should like to go to Florence to my
uncle. If he dies for his religion, I should like to die with him."

"Ah, live to teach it to me!" said the knight, bending towards her, as
if to adjust her bridle-rein, and speaking in a voice scarcely audible.
In a moment he was turned again towards the Princess, listening to her.

"So it seems," she said, "that we shall be running into the thick of
the conflict in Florence."

"Yes, but my uncle hath promised that the King of France shall
interfere. I have hope something may even now have been done. I hope to
effect something myself."

Agostino spoke with the cheerful courage of youth. Agnes glanced
timidly up at him. How great the change in her ideas! No longer looking
on him as a wanderer from the fold, an enemy of the Church, he seemed
now in the attitude of a champion of the faith, a defender of holy
men and things against a base usurpation. What injustice had she done
him, and how patiently had he borne that injustice! Had he not sought
to warn her against the danger of venturing into that corrupt city?
Those words which so much shocked her, against which she had shut her
ears, were all true; she had found them so; she could doubt no longer.
And yet he had followed her, and saved her at the risk of his life.
Could she help loving one who had loved her so much, one so noble and
heroic? Would it be a sin to love him? She pondered the dark warnings
of Father Francesco, and then thought of the cheerful, fervent piety
of her old uncle. How warm, how tender, how life-giving had been his
presence always! how full of faith and prayer, how fruitful of heavenly
words and thoughts had been all his ministrations!--and yet it was for
him and with him and his master that Agostino Sarelli was fighting,
and against him the usurping head of the Christian Church. Then there
was another subject for pondering during this night-ride. The secret
of her birth had been told her by the Princess, who claimed her as
kinswoman. It had seemed to her at first like the revelations of a
dream; but as she rode and reflected, gradually the idea shaped itself
in her mind. She was, in birth and blood, the equal of her lover, and
henceforth her life would no more be in that lowly plane where it had
always moved. She thought of the little orange-garden at Sorrento, of
the gorge with its old bridge, the Convent, the sisters, with a sort of
tender, wondering pain. Perhaps she should see them no more. In this
new situation she longed once more to see and talk with her old uncle,
and to have him tell her what were her duties.

Their path soon began to be a wild clamber among the mountains, now
lost in the shadow of groves of gray, rustling olives, whose knotted,
serpent roots coiled round the rocks, and whose leaves silvered in
the moonlight whenever the wind swayed them. Whatever might be the
roughness and difficulties of the way, Agnes found her knight ever at
her bridle-rein, guiding and upholding, steadying her in her saddle
when the horse plunged down short and sudden descents, and wrapping
her in his mantle to protect her from the chill mountain-air. When
the day was just reddening in the sky, the whole troop made a sudden
halt before a square stone tower which seemed to be a portion of a
ruined building, and here some of the men dismounting knocked at an
arched door. It was soon swung open by a woman with a lamp in her hand,
the light of which revealed very black hair and eyes, and heavy gold
ear-rings.

"Have my directions been attended to?" said Agostino, in a tone of
command. "Are there places made ready for these ladies to sleep?"

"There are, my Lord," said the woman, obsequiously, "the best we could
get ready on so short a notice."

Agostino came up to the Princess. "Noble Madam," he said, "you will
value safety before all things; doubtless the best that can be done
here is but poor, but it will give you a few hours for repose where you
may be sure of being in perfect safety."

So saying, he assisted her and Agnes to dismount, and Elsie and
Monica also alighting, they followed the woman into a dark stone
passage and up some rude stone steps. She opened at last the door of a
brick-floored room, where beds appeared to have been hastily prepared.
There was no furniture of any sort except the beds. The walls were
dusty and hung with cobwebs. A smaller apartment opening into this had
beds for Elsie and Monica.

The travelers, however, were too much exhausted with their night-ride
to be critical; the services of disrobing and preparing for rest were
quickly concluded, and in less than an hour all were asleep, while
Agostino was busy concerting the means for an immediate journey to
Florence.




CHAPTER XXX

"LET US ALSO GO, THAT WE MAY DIE WITH HIM"


Father Antonio sat alone in his cell in the San Marco in an attitude
of deep dejection. The open window looked into the garden of the
convent, from which steamed up the fragrance of violet, jasmine, and
rose, and the sunshine lay fair on all that was without. On a table
beside him were many loose and scattered sketches; and an unfinished
page of the Breviary he was executing, rich in quaint tracery of
gold and arabesques, seemed to have recently occupied his attention,
for his palette was wet and many loose brushes lay strewed around.
Upon the table stood a Venetian glass with a narrow neck and a bulb
clear and thin as a soap-bubble, containing vines and blossoms of the
passion-flower, which he had evidently been using as models in his work.

The page he was illuminating was the prophetic Psalm which describes
the ignominy and sufferings of the Redeemer. It was surrounded by a
wreathed border of thorn-branches interwoven with the blossoms and
tendrils of the passion-flower, and the initial letters of the first
two words were formed by a curious combination of the hammer, the
nails, the spear, the crown of thorns, the cross, and other instruments
of the Passion; and clear, in red letter, gleamed out those wonderful,
mysterious words, consecrated by the remembrance of a more than mortal
anguish, "My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?"

The artist monk had perhaps fled to his palette to assuage the
throbbings of his heart, as a mourning mother flies to the cradle of
her child; but even there his grief appeared to have overtaken him,
for the work lay as if pushed from him in an access of anguish such as
comes from the sudden recurrence of some overwhelming recollection.
He was leaning forward with his face buried in his hands, sobbing
convulsively.

The door opened, and a man advancing stealthily behind laid a hand
kindly on his shoulder, saying softly, "So, so, brother!"

Father Antonio looked up, and, dashing his hand hastily across his
eyes, grasped that of the new-comer convulsively, and saying only, "Oh,
Baccio! Baccio!" hid his face again.

The eyes of the other filled with tears, as he answered gently,--

"Nay, but, my brother, you are killing yourself. They tell me that you
have eaten nothing for three days, and slept not for weeks; you will
die of this grief."

"Would that I might! Why could not I die with him as well as Fra
Domenico? Oh, my master! my dear master!"

"It is indeed a most heavy day to us all," said Baccio della Porta,
the amiable and pure-minded artist better known to our times by his
conventual name of Fra Bartolommeo. "Never have we had among us such a
man, and if there be any light of grace in my soul, his preaching first
awakened it, brother. I only wait to see him enter Paradise, and then
I take farewell of the world for ever. I am going to Prato to take the
Dominican habit and follow him as near as I may."

"It is well, Baccio, it is well," said Father Antonio; "but you must
not put out the light of your genius in those shadows,--you must still
paint for the glory of God."

"I have no heart for painting now," said Baccio, dejectedly. "He was my
inspiration, he taught me the holier way, and he is gone."

At this moment the conference of the two was interrupted by a knocking
at the door, and Agostino Sarelli entered, pale and disordered.

"How is this?" he said, hastily. "What devils' carnival is this which
hath broken loose in Florence? Every good thing is gone into dens
and holes, and every vile thing that can hiss and spit and sting is
crawling abroad. What do the princes of Europe mean to let such things
be?"

"Only the old story," said Father Antonio,--"Principes convenerunt in
unum adversus Dominum, adversus Christum ejus."

So much were all three absorbed in the subject of their thoughts, that
no kind of greeting or mark of recognition passed among them, such as
is common when people meet after temporary separation. Each spoke out
from the fullness of his soul, as from an overflowing bitter fountain.

"Was there no one to speak for him,--no one to stand up for the pride
of Italy,--the man of his age?" said Agostino.

"There was one voice raised for him in the council," said Father
Antonio. "There was Agnolo Niccolini: a grave man is this Agnolo,
and of great experience in public affairs, and he spoke out his mind
boldly. He told them flatly, that, if they looked through the present
time or the past ages they would not meet a man of such a high and
noble order as this, and that to lay at our door the blood of a man
the like of whom might not be born for centuries was too impious
and execrable a thing to be thought of. I'll warrant me, he made a
rustling among them when he said that, and the Pope's commissary--old
Romalino--then whispered and frowned; but Agnolo is a stiff old fellow
when he once begins a thing,--he never minded it, and went through with
his say. It seems to me he said that it was not for us to quench a
light like this, capable of giving lustre to the faith even when it had
grown dim in other parts of the world,--and not to the faith alone,
but to all the arts and sciences connected with it. If it were needed
to put restraint on him, he said, why not put him into some fortress,
and give him commodious apartments, with abundance of books, and pen,
ink, and paper, where he would write books to the honor of God and the
exaltation of the holy faith? He told them that this might be a good
to the world, whereas consigning him to death without use of any kind
would bring on our republic perpetual dishonor."

"Well said for him!" said Baccio, with warmth; "but I'll warrant me, he
might as well have preached to the north wind in March, his enemies are
in such a fury."

"Yes, yes," said Antonio, "it is just as it was of old: the chief
priests and Scribes and Pharisees were instant with loud voices,
requiring he should be put to death; and the easy Pilates, for fear of
the tumult, washed their hands of it."

"And now," said Agostino, "they are putting up a great gibbet in the
shape of a cross in the public square, where they will hang the three
holiest and best men of Florence!"

"I came through there this morning," said Baccio, "and there were young
men and boys shouting, and howling, and singing indecent songs, and
putting up indecent pictures, such as those he used to preach against.
It is just as you say. All things vile have crept out of their lair,
and triumph that the man who made them afraid is put down; and every
house is full of the most horrible lies about him,--things that they
said he confessed."

"Confessed!" said Father Antonio,--"was it not enough that they tore
and tortured him seven times, but they must garble and twist the very
words that he said in his agony? The process they have published is
foully falsified,--stuffed full of improbable lies; for I myself have
read the first draught of all he did say, just as Signor Ceccone
took it down as they were torturing him. I had it from Jacopo Manelli,
canon of our Duomo here, and he got it from Ceccone's wife herself.
They not only can torture and slay him, but they torture and slay his
memory with lies."

"Would I were in God's place for one day!" said Agostino, speaking
through his clenched teeth. "May I be forgiven for saying so!"

"We are hot and hasty," said Father Antonio, "ever ready to call down
fire from heaven; but after all, 'the Lord reigneth, let the earth
rejoice.' 'Unto the upright there ariseth light in the darkness.' Our
dear father is sustained in spirit and full of love. Even when they
let him go from the torture, he fell on his knees, praying for his
tormentors."

"Good God! this passes me!" said Agostino, striking his hands together.
"Oh, wherefore hath a strong man arms and hands, and a sword, if he
must stand still and see such things done? If I had only my hundred
mountaineers here, I would make one charge for him to-morrow. If I
could only do something," he added, striding impetuously up and down
the cell and clenching his fists. "What! hath nobody petitioned to stay
this thing?"

"Nobody for him," said Father Antonio. "There was talk in the city
yesterday that Fra Domenico was to be pardoned; in fact, Romalino
was quite inclined to do it, but Battista Alberti talked violently
against it, and so Romalino said, 'Well, a monk more or less isn't
much matter,' and then he put his name down for death with the rest.
The order was signed by both commissaries of the Pope, and one was Fra
Turiano, the general of our order, a mild man, full of charity, but
unable to stand against the Pope."

"Mild men are nuisances in such places," said Agostino, hastily; "our
times want something of another sort."

"There be many who have fallen away from him even in our house here,"
said Father Antonio, "as it was with our blessed Lord, whose disciples
forsook Him and fled. It seems to be the only thought with some how
they shall make their peace with the Pope."

"And so the thing will be hurried through to-morrow," said Agostino,
"and when it's done and over, I'll warrant me there will be found kings
and emperors to say they meant to have saved him. It's a vile, evil
world, this of ours; an honorable man longs to see the end of it. But,"
he added, coming up and speaking to Father Antonio, "I have a private
message for you."

"I am gone this moment," said Baccio, rising with ready courtesy; "but
keep up heart, brother."

So saying, the good-hearted artist left the cell, and Agostino said,--

"I bring tidings to you of your kindred. Your niece and sister are here
in Florence, and would see you. You will find them at the house of one
Gherardo Rosselli, a rich citizen of noble blood."

"Why are they there?" said the monk, lost in amazement.

"You must know, then, that a most singular discovery hath been made
by your niece at Rome. The sister of her father, being a lady of the
princely blood of Colonna, hath been assured of her birth by the
confession of the priest that married him; and being driven from Rome
by fear of the Borgias, they came hither under my escort, and wait to
see you. So, if you will come with me now, I will guide you to them."

"Even so," said Father Antonio.




CHAPTER XXXI

MARTYRDOM


In a shadowy chamber of a room overlooking the grand square of Florence
might be seen, on the next morning, some of the principal personages
of our story. Father Antonio, Baccio della Porta, Agostino Sarelli,
the Princess Paulina, Agnes, with her grandmother, and a mixed crowd
of citizens and ecclesiastics, who all spoke in hushed and tremulous
voices, as men do in the chamber of mourners at a funeral. The
great, mysterious bell of the Campanile was swinging with dismal,
heart-shaking toll, like a mighty voice from the spirit-world; and
it was answered by the tolling of all the bells in the city, making
such wavering clangors and vibrating circles in the air over Florence
that it might seem as if it were full of warring spirits wrestling for
mastery.

Toll! toll! toll! O great bell of the fair Campanile! for this day the
noblest of the wonderful men of Florence is to be offered up. Toll!
for an era is going out,--the era of her artists, her statesmen, her
poets, and her scholars. Toll! for an era is coming in,--the era of her
disgrace and subjugation and misfortune!

The stepping of the vast crowd in the square was like the patter of
a great storm, and the hum of voices rose up like the murmur of the
ocean; but in the chamber all was so still that one could have heard
the dropping of a pin.

Under the balcony of this room were seated in pomp and state the Papal
commissioners, radiant in gold and scarlet respectability; and Pilate
and Herod, on terms of the most excellent friendship, were ready to act
over again the part they had acted fourteen hundred years before. Now
has arrived the moment when the three followers of the Man of Calvary
are to be degraded from the fellowship of His visible Church.

Father Antonio, Agostino, and Baccio stood forth in the balcony, and,
drawing in their breath, looked down, as the three men of the hour,
pale and haggard with imprisonment and torture, were brought up amid
the hoots and obscene jests of the populace. Savonarola first was
led before the tribunal, and there, with circumstantial minuteness,
endued with all his priestly vestments, which again, with separate
ceremonies of reprobation and ignominy, were taken from him. He stood
through it all serene as stood his Master when stripped of His garments
on Calvary. There is a momentary hush of voices and drawing in of
breaths in the great crowd. The Papal legate takes him by the hand and
pronounces the words, "Jerome Savonarola, I separate thee from the
Church Militant and the Church Triumphant."

He is going to speak.

"What says he?" said Agostino, leaning over the balcony.

Solemnly and clear that impressive voice which so often had thrilled
the crowds in that very square made answer,--

"From the Church Militant you may divide me; but from the Church
Triumphant, no,--that is above your power!"--and a light flashed
out in his face as if a smile from Christ had shone down upon him.

"Amen!" said Father Antonio; "he hath witnessed a good
confession,"--and turning, he went in, and, burying his face in his
hands, remained in prayer.

When like ceremonies had been passed through with the others, the three
martyrs were delivered to the secular executioner, and, amid the
scoffs and jeers of the brutal crowd, turned their faces to the gibbet.

"Brothers, let us sing the Te Deum," said Savonarola.

"Do not so infuriate the mob," said the executioner, "for harm might be
done."

"At least let us repeat it together," said he, "lest we forget it."

And so they went forward, speaking to each other of the glorious
company of the apostles, the goodly fellowship of the prophets, the
noble army of martyrs, and giving thanks aloud in that great triumphal
hymn of the Church of all Ages.

When the lurid fires were lighted which blazed red and fearful through
that crowded square, all in that silent chamber fell on their knees,
and Father Antonio repeated prayers for departing souls.

To the last, that benignant right hand which had so often pointed the
way of life to that faithless city was stretched out over the crowd
in the attitude of blessing; and so loving, not hating, praying with
exaltation, and rendering blessing for cursing, the souls of the
martyrs ascended to the great cloud of witnesses above.




CHAPTER XXXII

CONCLUSION


A few days after the death of Savonarola, Father Antonio was found one
morning engaged in deep converse with Agnes.

The Princess Paulina, acting for her family, desired to give her hand
to the Prince Agostino Sarelli, and the interview related to the
religious scruples which still conflicted with the natural desires of
the child.

"Tell me, my little one," said Father Antonio, "frankly and truly, dost
thou not love this man with all thy heart?"

"Yes, my father, I do," said Agnes; "but ought I not to resign this
love for the love of my Saviour?"

"I see not why," said the monk. "Marriage is a sacrament as well as
holy orders, and it is a most holy and venerable one, representing
the divine mystery by which the souls of the blessed are united to
the Lord. I do not hold with Saint Bernard, who, in his zeal for a
conventual life, seemed to see no other way of serving God but for
all men and women to become monks and nuns. The holy order is indeed
blessed to those souls whose call to it is clear and evident, like
mine; but if there be a strong and virtuous love for a worthy object,
it is a vocation unto marriage, which should not be denied."

"So, Agnes," said the knight, who had stolen into the room unperceived,
and who now boldly possessed himself of one of her hands "Father
Antonio hath decided this matter," he added, turning to the Princess
and Elsie, who entered, "and everything having been made ready for
my journey into France, the wedding ceremony shall take place on the
morrow, and, for that we are in deep affliction, it shall be as private
as may be."

And so on the next morning the wedding ceremony took place, and the
bride and groom went on their way to France, where preparations
befitting their rank awaited them.

Old Elsie was heard to observe to Monica, that there was some sense in
making pilgrimages, since this to Rome, which she had undertaken so
unwillingly, had turned out so satisfactory.

