
Gradually, little Mara quieted herself with listening to and admiring
him. It is not comfortable to have any heart-quarrel with one's
cherished idol, and everything of the feminine nature, therefore, can
speedily find fifty good reasons for seeing one's self in the wrong and
one's graven image in the right; and little Mara soon had said to
herself, without words, that, of course, Moses couldn't be expected to
think as much of her as she of him. He was handsomer, cleverer, and had
a thousand other things to do and to think of--he was a boy, in short,
and going to be a glorious man and sail all over the world, while she
could only hem handkerchiefs and knit stockings, and sit at home and
wait for him to come back. This was about the résumé of life as it
appeared to the little one, who went on from the moment worshiping her
image with more undivided idolatry than ever, hoping that by and by he
would think more of her.

Mr. Sewell appeared to study Moses carefully and thoughtfully, and
encouraged the wild, gleeful frankness which he had brought home from
his first voyage, as a knowing jockey tries the paces of a high-mettled
colt.

"Did you get any time to read?" he interposed once, when the boy stopped
in his account of their adventures.

"No, sir," said Moses; "at least," he added, blushing very deeply, "I
didn't feel like reading. I had so much to do, and there was so much to
see."

"It's all new to him now," said Captain Pennel; "but when he comes to
being, as I've been, day after day, with nothing but sea and sky, he'll
be glad of a book, just to break the sameness."

"Laws, yes," said Captain Kittridge; "sailor's life ain't all
apple-pie, as it seems when a boy first goes on a summer trip with his
daddy--not by no manner o' means."

"But," said Mara, blushing and looking very eagerly at Mr. Sewell,
"Moses has read a great deal. He read the Roman and the Grecian history
through before he went away, and knows all about them."

"Indeed!" said Mr. Sewell, turning with an amused look towards the tiny
little champion; "do you read them, too, my little maid?"

"Yes, indeed," said Mara, her eyes kindling; "I have read them a great
deal since Moses went away--them and the Bible."

Mara did not dare to name her new-found treasure--there was something so
mysterious about that, that she could not venture to produce it, except
on the score of extreme intimacy.

"Come, sit by me, little Mara," said the minister, putting out his hand;
"you and I must be friends, I see."

Mr. Sewell had a certain something of mesmeric power in his eyes which
children seldom resisted; and with a shrinking movement, as if both
attracted and repelled, the little girl got upon his knee.

"So you like the Bible and Roman history?" he said to her, making a
little aside for her, while a brisk conversation was going on between
Captain Kittridge and Captain Pennel on the fishing bounty for the year.

"Yes, sir," said Mara, blushing in a very guilty way.

"And which do you like the best?"

"I don't know, sir; I sometimes think it is the one, and sometimes the
other."

"Well, what pleases you in the Roman history?"

"Oh, I like that about Quintus Curtius."

"Quintus Curtius?" said Mr. Sewell, pretending not to remember.

"Oh, don't you remember him? why, there was a great gulf opened in the
Forum, and the Augurs said that the country would not be saved unless
some one would offer himself up for it, and so he jumped right in, all
on horseback. I think that was grand. I should like to have done that,"
said little Mara, her eyes blazing out with a kind of starry light which
they had when she was excited.

"And how would you have liked it, if you had been a Roman girl, and
Moses were Quintus Curtius? would you like to have him give himself up
for the good of the country?"

"Oh, no, no!" said Mara, instinctively shuddering.

"Don't you think it would be very grand of him?"

"Oh, yes, sir."

"And shouldn't we wish our friends to do what is brave and grand?"

"Yes, sir; but then," she added, "it would be so dreadful never to see
him any more," and a large tear rolled from the great soft eyes and fell
on the minister's hand.

"Come, come," thought Mr. Sewell, "this sort of experimenting is too
bad--too much nerve here, too much solitude, too much pine-whispering
and sea-dashing are going to the making up of this little piece of
workmanship."

"Tell me," he said, motioning Moses to sit by him, "how you like the
Roman history."

"I like it first-rate," said Moses. "The Romans were such smashers, and
beat everybody; nobody could stand against them; and I like Alexander,
too--I think he was splendid."

"True boy," said Mr. Sewell to himself, "unreflecting brother of the
wind and the sea, and all that is vigorous and active--no precocious
development of the moral here."

"Now you have come," said Mr. Sewell, "I will lend you another book."

"Thank you, sir; I love to read them when I'm at home--it's so still
here. I should be dull if I didn't."

Mara's eyes looked eagerly attentive. Mr. Sewell noticed their hungry
look when a book was spoken of.

"And you must read it, too, my little girl," he said.

"Thank you, sir," said Mara; "I always want to read everything Moses
does."

"What book is it?" said Moses.

"It is called Plutarch's 'Lives,'" said the minister; "it has more
particular accounts of the men you read about in history."

"Are there any lives of women?" said Mara.

"No, my dear," said Mr. Sewell; "in the old times, women did not get
their lives written, though I don't doubt many of them were much better
worth writing than the men's."

"I should like to be a great general," said Moses, with a toss of his
head.

"The way to be great lies through books, now, and not through battles,"
said the minister; "there is more done with pens than swords; so, if you
want to do anything, you must read and study."

"Do you think of giving this boy a liberal education?" said Mr. Sewell
some time later in the evening, after Moses and Mara were gone to bed.

"Depends on the boy," said Zephaniah. "I've been up to Brunswick, and
seen the fellows there in the college. With a good many of 'em, going to
college seems to be just nothing but a sort of ceremony; they go because
they're sent, and don't learn anything more'n they can help. That's what
I call waste of time and money."

"But don't you think Moses shows some taste for reading and study?"

"Pretty well, pretty well!" said Zephaniah; "jist keep him a little
hungry; not let him get all he wants, you see, and he'll bite the
sharper. If I want to catch cod, I don't begin with flingin' over a
barrel o' bait. So with the boys, jist bait 'em with a book here and a
book there, and kind o' let 'em feel their own way, and then, if nothin'
will do but a fellow must go to college, give in to him--that'd be my
way."

"And a very good one, too!" said Mr. Sewell. "I'll see if I can't bait
my hook, so as to make Moses take after Latin this winter. I shall have
plenty of time to teach him."

"Now, there's Mara!" said the Captain, his face becoming phosphorescent
with a sort of mild radiance of pleasure as it usually was when he spoke
of her; "she's real sharp set after books; she's ready to fly out of her
little skin at the sight of one."

"That child thinks too much, and feels too much, and knows too much for
her years!" said Mr. Sewell. "If she were a boy, and you would take her
away cod-fishing, as you have Moses, the sea-winds would blow away some
of the thinking, and her little body would grow stout, and her mind less
delicate and sensitive. But she's a woman," he said, with a sigh, "and
they are all alike. We can't do much for them, but let them come up as
they will and make the best of it."




CHAPTER XVI

THE NATURAL AND THE SPIRITUAL


"Emily," said Mr. Sewell, "did you ever take much notice of that little
Mara Lincoln?"

"No, brother; why?"

"Because I think her a very uncommon child."

"She is a pretty little creature," said Miss Emily, "but that is all I
know; modest--blushing to her eyes when a stranger speaks to her."

"She has wonderful eyes," said Mr. Sewell; "when she gets excited, they
grow so large and so bright, it seems almost unnatural."

"Dear me! has she?" said Miss Emily, in a tone of one who had been
called upon to do something about it. "Well?" she added, inquiringly.

"That little thing is only seven years old," said Mr. Sewell; "and she
is thinking and feeling herself all into mere spirit--brain and nerves
all active, and her little body so frail. She reads incessantly, and
thinks over and over what she reads."

"Well?" said Miss Emily, winding very swiftly on a skein of black silk,
and giving a little twitch, every now and then, to a knot to make it
subservient.

It was commonly the way when Mr. Sewell began to talk with Miss Emily,
that she constantly answered him with the manner of one who expects some
immediate, practical proposition to flow from every train of thought.
Now Mr. Sewell was one of the reflecting kind of men, whose thoughts
have a thousand meandering paths, that lead nowhere in particular. His
sister's brisk little "Well's?" and "Ah's!" and "Indeed's!" were
sometimes the least bit in the world annoying.

"What is to be done?" said Miss Emily; "shall we speak to Mrs. Pennel?"

"Mrs. Pennel would know nothing about her."

"How strangely you talk!--who should, if she doesn't?"

"I mean, she wouldn't understand the dangers of her case."

"Dangers! Do you think she has any disease? She seems to be a healthy
child enough, I'm sure. She has a lovely color in her cheeks."

Mr. Sewell seemed suddenly to become immersed in a book he was reading.

"There now," said Miss Emily, with a little tone of pique, "that's the
way you always do. You begin to talk with me, and just as I get
interested in the conversation, you take up a book. It's too bad."

"Emily," said Mr. Sewell, laying down his book, "I think I shall begin
to give Moses Pennel Latin lessons this winter."

"Why, what do you undertake that for?" said Miss Emily. "You have enough
to do without that, I'm sure."

"He is an uncommonly bright boy, and he interests me."

"Now, brother, you needn't tell me; there is some mystery about the
interest you take in that child, you know there is."

"I am fond of children," said Mr. Sewell, dryly.

"Well, but you don't take as much interest in other boys. I never heard
of your teaching any of them Latin before."

"Well, Emily, he is an uncommonly interesting child, and the
providential circumstances under which he came into our neighborhood"--

"Providential fiddlesticks!" said Miss Emily, with heightened color,
"I believe you knew that boy's mother."

This sudden thrust brought a vivid color into Mr. Sewell's cheeks. To be
interrupted so unceremoniously, in the midst of so very proper and
ministerial a remark, was rather provoking, and he answered, with some
asperity,--

"And suppose I had, Emily, and supposing there were any painful subject
connected with this past event, you might have sufficient forbearance
not to try to make me speak on what I do not wish to talk of."

Mr. Sewell was one of your gentle, dignified men, from whom Heaven
deliver an inquisitive female friend! If such people would only get
angry, and blow some unbecoming blast, one might make something of them;
but speaking, as they always do, from the serene heights of immaculate
propriety, one gets in the wrong before one knows it, and has nothing
for it but to beg pardon. Miss Emily had, however, a feminine resource:
she began to cry--wisely confining herself to the simple eloquence of
tears and sobs. Mr. Sewell sat as awkwardly as if he had trodden on a
kitten's toe, or brushed down a china cup, feeling as if he were a
great, horrid, clumsy boor, and his poor little sister a martyr.

"Come, Emily," he said, in a softer tone, when the sobs subsided a
little.

But Emily didn't "come," but went at it with a fresh burst. Mr. Sewell
had a vision like that which drowning men are said to have, in which all
Miss Emily's sisterly devotions, stocking-darnings, account-keepings,
nursings and tendings, and infinite self-sacrifices, rose up before him:
and there she was--crying!

"I'm sorry I spoke harshly, Emily. Come, come; that's a good girl."

"I'm a silly fool," said Miss Emily, lifting her head, and wiping the
tears from her merry little eyes, as she went on winding her silk.

"Perhaps he will tell me now," she thought, as she wound.

But he didn't.

"What I was going to say, Emily," said her brother, "was, that I thought
it would be a good plan for little Mara to come sometimes with Moses;
and then, by observing her more particularly, you might be of use to
her; her little, active mind needs good practical guidance like yours."

Mr. Sewell spoke in a gentle, flattering tone, and Miss Emily was
flattered; but she soon saw that she had gained nothing by the whole
breeze, except a little kind of dread, which made her inwardly resolve
never to touch the knocker of his fortress again. But she entered into
her brother's scheme with the facile alacrity with which she usually
seconded any schemes of his proposing.

"I might teach her painting and embroidery," said Miss Emily, glancing,
with a satisfied air, at a framed piece of her own work which hung over
the mantelpiece, revealing the state of the fine arts in this country,
as exhibited in the performances of well-instructed young ladies of that
period. Miss Emily had performed it under the tuition of a celebrated
teacher of female accomplishments. It represented a white marble
obelisk, which an inscription, in legible India ink letters, stated to
be "Sacred to the memory of Theophilus Sewell," etc. This obelisk stood
in the midst of a ground made very green by an embroidery of different
shades of chenille and silk, and was overshadowed by an embroidered
weeping-willow. Leaning on it, with her face concealed in a plentiful
flow of white handkerchief, was a female figure in deep mourning,
designed to represent the desolate widow. A young girl, in a very black
dress, knelt in front of it, and a very lugubrious-looking young man,
standing bolt upright on the other side, seemed to hold in his hand one
end of a wreath of roses, which the girl was presenting, as an
appropriate decoration for the tomb. The girl and gentleman were, of
course, the young Theophilus and Miss Emily, and the appalling grief
conveyed by the expression of their faces was a triumph of the pictorial
art.

Miss Emily had in her bedroom a similar funeral trophy, sacred to the
memory of her deceased mother,--besides which there were, framed and
glazed, in the little sitting-room, two embroidered shepherdesses
standing with rueful faces, in charge of certain animals of an uncertain
breed between sheep and pigs. The poor little soul had mentally resolved
to make Mara the heiress of all the skill and knowledge of the arts by
which she had been enabled to consummate these marvels.

"She is naturally a lady-like little thing," she said to herself, "and
if I know anything of accomplishments, she shall have them."

Just about the time that Miss Emily came to this resolution, had she
been clairvoyant, she might have seen Mara sitting very quietly, busy in
the solitude of her own room with a little sprig of partridge-berry
before her, whose round green leaves and brilliant scarlet berries she
had been for hours trying to imitate, as appeared from the scattered
sketches and fragments around her. In fact, before Zephaniah started on
his spring fishing, he had caught her one day very busy at work of the
same kind, with bits of charcoal, and some colors compounded out of wild
berries; and so out of his capacious pocket, after his return, he drew a
little box of water-colors and a lead-pencil and square of India-rubber,
which he had bought for her in Portland on his way home.

Hour after hour the child works, so still, so fervent, so
earnest,--going over and over, time after time, her simple, ignorant
methods to make it "look like," and stopping, at times, to give the true
artist's sigh, as the little green and scarlet fragment lies there
hopelessly, unapproachably perfect. Ignorantly to herself, the hands of
the little pilgrim are knocking at the very door where Giotto and
Cimabue knocked in the innocent child-life of Italian art.

"Why won't it look round?" she said to Moses, who had come in behind
her.

"Why, Mara, did you do these?" said Moses, astonished; "why, how well
they are done! I should know in a minute what they were meant for."

Mara flushed up at being praised by Moses, but heaved a deep sigh as she
looked back.

"It's so pretty, that sprig," she said; "if I only could make it just
like"--

"Why, nobody expects that," said Moses, "it's like enough, if people
only know what you mean it for. But come, now, get your bonnet, and come
with me in the boat. Captain Kittridge has just brought down our new
one, and I'm going to take you over to Eagle Island, and we'll take our
dinner and stay all day; mother says so."

"Oh, how nice!" said the little girl, running cheerfully for her
sun-bonnet.

At the house-door they met Mrs. Pennel, with a little closely covered
tin pail.

"Here's your dinner, children; and, Moses, mind and take good care of
her."

"Never fear me mother, I've been to the Banks; there wasn't a man
there could manage a boat better than I could."

"Yes, grandmother," said Mara, "you ought to see how strong his arms
are; I believe he will be like Samson one of these days if he keeps
on."

So away they went. It was a glorious August forenoon, and the sombre
spruces and shaggy hemlocks that dipped and rippled in the waters were
penetrated to their deepest recesses with the clear brilliancy of the
sky,--a true northern sky, without a cloud, without even a softening
haze, defining every outline, revealing every minute point, cutting with
sharp decision the form of every promontory and rock, and distant
island.

The blue of the sea and the blue of the sky were so much the same, that
when the children had rowed far out, the little boat seemed to float
midway, poised in the centre of an azure sphere, with a firmament above
and a firmament below. Mara leaned dreamily over the side of the boat,
and drew her little hands through the waters as they rippled along to
the swift oars' strokes, and she saw as the waves broke, and divided and
shivered around the boat, a hundred little faces, with brown eyes and
golden hair, gleaming up through the water, and dancing away over
rippling waves, and thought that so the sea-nymphs might look who came
up from the coral caves when they ring the knell of drowned people.
Moses sat opposite to her, with his coat off, and his heavy black curls
more wavy and glossy than ever, as the exercise made them damp with
perspiration.

Eagle Island lay on the blue sea, a tangled thicket of
evergreens,--white pine, spruce, arbor vitæ, and fragrant silver firs. A
little strip of white beach bound it, like a silver setting to a gem.
And there Moses at length moored his boat, and the children landed. The
island was wholly solitary, and there is something to children quite
delightful in feeling that they have a little lonely world all to
themselves. Childhood is itself such an enchanted island, separated by
mysterious depths from the mainland of nature, life, and reality.

Moses had subsided a little from the glorious heights on which he
seemed to be in the first flush of his return, and he and Mara, in
consequence, were the friends of old time. It is true he thought himself
quite a man, but the manhood of a boy is only a tiny masquerade,--a
fantastic, dreamy prevision of real manhood. It was curious that Mara,
who was by all odds the most precociously developed of the two, never
thought of asserting herself a woman; in fact, she seldom thought of
herself at all, but dreamed and pondered of almost everything else.

"I declare," said Moses, looking up into a thick-branched, rugged old
hemlock, which stood all shaggy, with heavy beards of gray moss drooping
from its branches, "there's an eagle's nest up there; I mean to go and
see." And up he went into the gloomy embrace of the old tree, crackling
the dead branches, wrenching off handfuls of gray moss, rising higher
and higher, every once in a while turning and showing to Mara his
glowing face and curly hair through a dusky green frame of boughs, and
then mounting again. "I'm coming to it," he kept exclaiming.

Meanwhile his proceedings seemed to create a sensation among the
feathered house-keepers, one of whom rose and sailed screaming away into
the air. In a moment after there was a swoop of wings, and two eagles
returned and began flapping and screaming about the head of the boy.

Mara, who stood at the foot of the tree, could not see clearly what was
going on, for the thickness of the boughs; she only heard a great
commotion and rattling of the branches, the scream of the birds, and the
swooping of their wings, and Moses's valorous exclamations, as he seemed
to be laying about him with a branch which he had broken off.

At last he descended victorious, with the eggs in his pocket. Mara stood
at the foot of the tree, with her sun-bonnet blown back, her hair
streaming, and her little arms upstretched, as if to catch him if he
fell.

"Oh, I was so afraid!" she said, as he set foot on the ground.

"Afraid? Pooh! Who's afraid? Why, you might know the old eagles couldn't
beat me."

"Ah, well, I know how strong you are; but, you know, I couldn't help it.
But the poor birds,--do hear 'em scream. Moses, don't you suppose they
feel bad?"

"No, they're only mad, to think they couldn't beat me. I beat them just
as the Romans used to beat folks,--I played their nest was a city, and I
spoiled it."

"I shouldn't want to spoil cities!" said Mara.

"That's 'cause you are a girl,--I'm a man, and men always like war; I've
taken one city this afternoon, and mean to take a great many more."

"But, Moses, do you think war is right?"

"Right? why, yes, to be sure; if it ain't, it's a pity; for it's all
that has ever been done in this world. In the Bible, or out, certainly
it's right. I wish I had a gun now, I'd stop those old eagles'
screeching."

"But, Moses, we shouldn't want any one to come and steal all our things,
and then shoot us."

"How long you do think about things!" said Moses, impatient at her
pertinacity. "I am older than you, and when I tell you a thing's right,
you ought to believe it. Besides, don't you take hens' eggs every day,
in the barn? How do you suppose the hens like that?"

This was a home-thrust, and for the moment threw the little casuist off
the track. She carefully folded up the idea, and laid it away on the
inner shelves of her mind till she could think more about it. Pliable as
she was to all outward appearances, the child had her own still,
interior world, where all her little notions and opinions stood up crisp
and fresh, like flowers that grow in cool, shady places. If anybody too
rudely assailed a thought or suggestion she put forth, she drew it back
again into this quiet inner chamber, and went on. Reader, there are
some women of this habit; and there is no independence and pertinacity
of opinion like that of these seemingly soft, quiet creatures, whom it
is so easy to silence, and so difficult to convince. Mara, little and
unformed as she yet was, belonged to the race of those spirits to whom
is deputed the office of the angel in the Apocalypse, to whom was given
the golden rod which measured the New Jerusalem. Infant though she was,
she had ever in her hands that invisible measuring-rod, which she was
laying to the foundations of all actions and thoughts. There may,
perhaps, come a time when the saucy boy, who now steps so superbly, and
predominates so proudly in virtue of his physical strength and daring,
will learn to tremble at the golden measuring-rod, held in the hand of a
woman.

"Howbeit, that is not first which is spiritual, but that which is
natural." Moses is the type of the first unreflecting stage of
development, in which are only the out-reachings of active faculties,
the aspirations that tend toward manly accomplishments. Seldom do we
meet sensitiveness of conscience or discriminating reflection as the
indigenous growth of a very vigorous physical development. Your true
healthy boy has the breezy, hearty virtues of a Newfoundland dog, the
wild fullness of life of the young race-colt. Sentiment, sensibility,
delicate perceptions, spiritual aspirations, are plants of later growth.

But there are, both of men and women, beings born into this world in
whom from childhood the spiritual and the reflective predominate over
the physical. In relation to other human beings, they seem to be
organized much as birds are in relation to other animals. They are the
artists, the poets, the unconscious seers, to whom the purer truths of
spiritual instruction are open. Surveying man merely as an animal, these
sensitively organized beings, with their feebler physical powers, are
imperfect specimens of life. Looking from the spiritual side, they seem
to have a noble strength, a divine force. The types of this latter class
are more commonly among women than among men. Multitudes of them pass
away in earlier years, and leave behind in many hearts the anxious
wonder, why they came so fair only to mock the love they kindled. They
who live to maturity are the priests and priestesses of the spiritual
life, ordained of God to keep the balance between the rude but absolute
necessities of physical life and the higher sphere to which that must at
length give place.




CHAPTER XVII

LESSONS


Moses felt elevated some inches in the world by the gift of a new Latin
grammar, which had been bought for him in Brunswick. It was a step
upward in life; no graduate from a college ever felt more ennobled.

"Wal', now, I tell ye, Moses Pennel," said Miss Roxy, who, with her
press-board and big flat-iron, was making her autumn sojourn in the
brown house, "I tell ye Latin ain't just what you think 'tis, steppin'
round so crank; you must remember what the king of Israel said to
Benhadad, king of Syria."

"I don't remember; what did he say?"

"I remember," said the soft voice of Mara; "he said, 'Let not him that
putteth on the harness boast as him that putteth it off.'"

"Good for you, Mara," said Miss Roxy; "if some other folks read their
Bibles as much as you do, they'd know more."

Between Moses and Miss Roxy there had always been a state of sub-acute
warfare since the days of his first arrival, she regarding him as an
unhopeful interloper, and he regarding her as a grim-visaged,
interfering gnome, whom he disliked with all the intense, unreasoning
antipathy of childhood.

"I hate that old woman," he said to Mara, as he flung out of the door.

"Why, Moses, what for?" said Mara, who never could comprehend hating
anybody.

"I do hate her, and Aunt Ruey, too. They are two old scratching cats;
they hate me, and I hate them; they're always trying to bring me down,
and I won't be brought down."

Mara had sufficient instinctive insight into the feminine rôle in the
domestic concert not to adventure a direct argument just now in favor of
her friends, and therefore she proposed that they should sit down
together under a cedar hard by, and look over the first lesson.

"Miss Emily invited me to go over with you," she said, "and I should
like so much to hear you recite."

Moses thought this very proper, as would any other male person, young or
old, who has been habitually admired by any other female one. He did not
doubt that, as in fishing and rowing, and all other things he had
undertaken as yet, he should win himself distinguished honors.

"See here," he said; "Mr. Sewell told me I might go as far as I liked,
and I mean to take all the declensions to begin with; there's five of
'em, and I shall learn them for the first lesson; then I shall take the
adjectives next, and next the verbs, and so in a fortnight get into
reading."

Mara heaved a sort of sigh. She wished she had been invited to share
this glorious race; but she looked on admiring when Moses read, in a
loud voice, "Penna, pennæ, pennæ, pennam," etc.

"There now, I believe I've got it," he said, handing Mara the book; and
he was perfectly astonished to find that, with the book withdrawn, he
boggled, and blundered, and stumbled ingloriously. In vain Mara softly
prompted, and looked at him with pitiful eyes as he grew red in the face
with his efforts to remember.

"Confound it all!" he said, with an angry flush, snatching back the
book; "it's more trouble than it's worth."

Again he began the repetition, saying it very loud and plain; he said it
over and over till his mind wandered far out to sea, and while his
tongue repeated "penna, pennæ," he was counting the white sails of the
fishing-smacks, and thinking of pulling up codfish at the Banks.

"There now, Mara, try me," he said, and handed her the book again; "I'm
sure I must know it now."

But, alas! with the book the sounds glided away; and "penna" and
"pennam" and "pennis" and "pennæ" were confusedly and indiscriminately
mingled. He thought it must be Mara's fault; she didn't read right, or
she told him just as he was going to say it, or she didn't tell him
right; or was he a fool? or had he lost his senses?

That first declension has been a valley of humiliation to many a sturdy
boy--to many a bright one, too; and often it is, that the more full of
thought and vigor the mind is, the more difficult it is to narrow it
down to the single dry issue of learning those sounds. Heinrich Heine
said the Romans would never have found time to conquer the world, if
they had had to learn their own language; but that, luckily for them,
they were born into the knowledge of what nouns form their accusatives
in "um."

Long before Moses had learned the first declension, Mara knew it by
heart; for her intense anxiety for him, and the eagerness and zeal with
which she listened for each termination, fixed them in her mind.
Besides, she was naturally of a more quiet and scholar-like turn than
he,--more intellectually developed. Moses began to think, before that
memorable day was through, that there was some sense in Aunt Roxy's
quotation of the saying of the King of Israel, and materially to
retrench his expectations as to the time it might take to master the
grammar; but still, his pride and will were both committed, and he
worked away in this new sort of labor with energy.

It was a fine, frosty November morning, when he rowed Mara across the
bay in a little boat to recite his first lesson to Mr. Sewell.

Miss Emily had provided a plate of seed-cake, otherwise called cookies,
for the children, as was a kindly custom of old times, when the little
people were expected. Miss Emily had a dim idea that she was to do
something for Mara in her own department, while Moses was reciting his
lesson; and therefore producing a large sampler, displaying every form
and variety of marking-stitch, she began questioning the little girl, in
a low tone, as to her proficiency in that useful accomplishment.

Presently, however, she discovered that the child was restless and
uneasy, and that she answered without knowing what she was saying. The
fact was that she was listening, with her whole soul in her eyes, and
feeling through all her nerves, every word Moses was saying. She knew
all the critical places, where he was likely to go wrong; and when at
last, in one place, he gave the wrong termination, she involuntarily
called out the right one, starting up and turning towards them. In a
moment she blushed deeply, seeing Mr. Sewell and Miss Emily both looking
at her with surprise.

"Come here, pussy," said Mr. Sewell, stretching out his hand to her.
"Can you say this?"

"I believe I could, sir."

"Well, try it."

She went through without missing a word. Mr. Sewell then, for curiosity,
heard her repeat all the other forms of the lesson. She had them
perfectly.

"Very well, my little girl," he said, "have you been studying, too?"

"I heard Moses say them so often," said Mara, in an apologetic manner,
"I couldn't help learning them."

"Would you like to recite with Moses every day?"

"Oh, yes, sir, so much."

"Well, you shall. It is better for him to have company."

Mara's face brightened, and Miss Emily looked with a puzzled air at her
brother.

"So," she said, when the children had gone home, "I thought you wanted
me to take Mara under my care. I was going to begin and teach her some
marking stitches, and you put her up to studying Latin. I don't
understand you."

"Well, Emily, the fact is, the child has a natural turn for study, that
no child of her age ought to have; and I have done just as people always
will with such children; there's no sense in it, but I wanted to do it.
You can teach her marking and embroidery all the same; it would break
her little heart, now, if I were to turn her back."

"I do not see of what use Latin can be to a woman."

"Of what use is embroidery?"

"Why, that is an accomplishment."

"Ah, indeed!" said Mr. Sewell, contemplating the weeping willow and
tombstone trophy with a singular expression, which it was lucky for Miss
Emily's peace she did not understand. The fact was, that Mr. Sewell had,
at one period of his life, had an opportunity of studying and observing
minutely some really fine works of art, and the remembrance of them
sometimes rose up to his mind, in the presence of the chefs-d'oeuvre
on which his sister rested with so much complacency. It was a part of
his quiet interior store of amusement to look at these bits of Byzantine
embroidery round the room, which affected him always with a subtle sense
of drollery.

"You see, brother," said Miss Emily, "it is far better for women to be
accomplished than learned."

"You are quite right in the main," said Mr. Sewell, "only you must let
me have my own way just for once. One can't be consistent always."

So another Latin grammar was bought, and Moses began to feel a secret
respect for his little companion, that he had never done before, when
he saw how easily she walked through the labyrinths which at first so
confused him. Before this, the comparison had been wholly in points
where superiority arose from physical daring and vigor; now he became
aware of the existence of another kind of strength with which he had not
measured himself. Mara's opinion in their mutual studies began to assume
a value in his eyes that her opinions on other subjects had never done,
and she saw and felt, with a secret gratification, that she was becoming
more to him through their mutual pursuit. To say the truth, it required
this fellowship to inspire Moses with the patience and perseverance
necessary for this species of acquisition. His active, daring
temperament little inclined him to patient, quiet study. For anything
that could be done by two hands, he was always ready; but to hold hands
still and work silently in the inner forces was to him a species of
undertaking that seemed against his very nature; but then he would do
it--he would not disgrace himself before Mr. Sewell, and let a girl
younger than himself outdo him.

But the thing, after all, that absorbed more of Moses's thoughts than
all his lessons was the building and rigging of a small schooner, at
which he worked assiduously in all his leisure moments. He had dozens of
blocks of wood, into which he had cut anchor moulds; and the melting of
lead, the running and shaping of anchors, the whittling of masts and
spars took up many an hour. Mara entered into all those things readily,
and was too happy to make herself useful in hemming the sails.

When the schooner was finished, they built some ways down by the sea,
and invited Sally Kittridge over to see it launched.

"There!" he said, when the little thing skimmed down prosperously into
the sea and floated gayly on the waters, "when I'm a man, I'll have a
big ship; I'll build her, and launch her, and command her, all myself;
and I'll give you and Sally both a passage in it, and we'll go off to
the East Indies--we'll sail round the world!"

None of the three doubted the feasibility of this scheme; the little
vessel they had just launched seemed the visible prophecy of such a
future; and how pleasant it would be to sail off, with the world all
before them, and winds ready to blow them to any port they might wish!

The three children arranged some bread and cheese and doughnuts on a
rock on the shore, to represent the collation that was usually spread in
those parts at a ship launch, and felt quite like grown people--acting
life beforehand in that sort of shadowy pantomime which so delights
little people. Happy, happy days--when ships can be made with a
jack-knife and anchors run in pine blocks, and three children together
can launch a schooner, and the voyage of the world can all be made in
one sunny Saturday afternoon!

"Mother says you are going to college," said Sally to Moses.

"Not I, indeed," said Moses; "as soon as I get old enough, I'm going up
to Umbagog among the lumberers, and I'm going to cut real, splendid
timber for my ship, and I'm going to get it on the stocks, and have it
built to suit myself."

"What will you call her?" said Sally.

"I haven't thought of that," said Moses.

"Call her the Ariel," said Mara.

"What! after the spirit you were telling us about?" said Sally.

"Ariel is a pretty name," said Moses. "But what is that about a spirit?"

"Why," said Sally, "Mara read us a story about a ship that was wrecked,
and a spirit called Ariel, that sang a song about the drowned
mariners."

Mara gave a shy, apprehensive glance at Moses, to see if this allusion
called up any painful recollections.

No; instead of this, he was following the motions of his little schooner
on the waters with the briskest and most unconcerned air in the world.

"Why didn't you ever show me that story, Mara?" said Moses.

Mara colored and hesitated; the real reason she dared not say.

"Why, she read it to father and me down by the cove," said Sally, "the
afternoon that you came home from the Banks; I remember how we saw you
coming in; don't you, Mara?"

"What have you done with it?" said Moses.

"I've got it at home," said Mara, in a faint voice; "I'll show it to
you, if you want to see it; there are such beautiful things in it."

That evening, as Moses sat busy, making some alterations in his darling
schooner, Mara produced her treasure, and read and explained to him the
story. He listened with interest, though without any of the extreme
feeling which Mara had thought possible, and even interrupted her once
in the middle of the celebrated--

    "Full fathom five thy father lies,"

by asking her to hold up the mast a minute, while he drove in a peg to
make it rake a little more. He was, evidently, thinking of no drowned
father, and dreaming of no possible sea-caves, but acutely busy in
fashioning a present reality; and yet he liked to hear Mara read, and,
when she had done, told her that he thought it was a pretty--quite a
pretty story, with such a total absence of recognition that the story
had any affinities with his own history, that Mara was quite astonished.

She lay and thought about him hours, that night, after she had gone to
bed; and he lay and thought about a new way of disposing a pulley for
raising a sail, which he determined to try the effect of early in the
morning.

What was the absolute truth in regard to the boy? Had he forgotten the
scenes of his early life, the strange catastrophe that cast him into his
present circumstances? To this we answer that all the efforts of Nature,
during the early years of a healthy childhood, are bent on effacing and
obliterating painful impressions, wiping out from each day the sorrows
of the last, as the daily tide effaces the furrows on the seashore. The
child that broods, day after day, over some fixed idea, is so far forth
not a healthy one. It is Nature's way to make first a healthy animal,
and then develop in it gradually higher faculties. We have seen our two
children unequally matched hitherto, because unequally developed. There
will come a time, by and by in the history of the boy, when the haze of
dreamy curiosity will steam up likewise from his mind, and vague
yearnings, and questionings, and longings possess and trouble him, but
it must be some years hence.

       *       *       *       *       *

Here for a season we leave both our child friends, and when ten years
have passed over their heads,--when Moses shall be twenty, and Mara
seventeen,--we will return again to tell their story, for then there
will be one to tell. Let us suppose in the interval, how Moses and Mara
read Virgil with the minister, and how Mara works a shepherdess with
Miss Emily, which astonishes the neighborhood,--but how by herself she
learns, after divers trials, to paint partridge, and checkerberry, and
trailing arbutus,--how Moses makes better and better ships, and Sally
grows up a handsome girl, and goes up to Brunswick to the high
school,--how Captain Kittridge tells stories, and Miss Roxy and Miss
Ruey nurse and cut and make and mend for the still rising
generation,--how there are quiltings and tea-drinkings and prayer
meetings and Sunday sermons,--how Zephaniah and Mary Pennel grow old
gradually and graciously, as the sun rises and sets, and the eternal
silver tide rises and falls around our little gem, Orr's Island.




CHAPTER XVIII

SALLY


"Now, where's Sally Kittridge! There's the clock striking five, and
nobody to set the table. Sally, I say! Sally!"

"Why, Mis' Kittridge," said the Captain, "Sally's gone out more'n an
hour ago, and I expect she's gone down to Pennel's to see Mara; 'cause,
you know, she come home from Portland to-day."

"Well, if she's come home, I s'pose I may as well give up havin' any
good of Sally, for that girl fairly bows down to Mara Lincoln and
worships her."

"Well, good reason," said the Captain. "There ain't a puttier creature
breathin'. I'm a'most a mind to worship her myself."

"Captain Kittridge, you ought to be ashamed of yourself, at your age,
talking as you do."

"Why, laws, mother, I don't feel my age," said the frisky Captain,
giving a sort of skip. "It don't seem more'n yesterday since you and I
was a-courtin', Polly. What a life you did lead me in them days! I think
you kep' me on the anxious seat a pretty middlin' spell."

"I do wish you wouldn't talk so. You ought to be ashamed to be triflin'
round as you do. Come, now, can't you jest tramp over to Pennel's and
tell Sally I want her?"

"Not I, mother. There ain't but two gals in two miles square here, and I
ain't a-goin' to be the feller to shoo 'em apart. What's the use of
bein' gals, and young, and putty, if they can't get together and talk
about their new gownds and the fellers? That ar's what gals is for."

"I do wish you wouldn't talk in that way before Sally, father, for her
head is full of all sorts of vanity now; and as to Mara, I never did see
a more slack-twisted, flimsy thing than she's grown up to be. Now
Sally's learnt to do something, thanks to me. She can brew, and she can
make bread and cake and pickles, and spin, and cut, and make. But as to
Mara, what does she do? Why, she paints pictur's. Mis' Pennel was
a-showin' on me a blue-jay she painted, and I was a-thinkin' whether she
could brile a bird fit to be eat if she tried; and she don't know the
price of nothin'," continued Mrs. Kittridge, with wasteful profusion of
negatives.

"Well," said the Captain, "the Lord makes some things jist to be looked
at. Their work is to be putty, and that ar's Mara's sphere. It never
seemed to me she was cut out for hard work; but she's got sweet ways and
kind words for everybody, and it's as good as a psalm to look at her."

"And what sort of a wife'll she make, Captain Kittridge?"

"A real sweet, putty one," said the Captain, persistently.

"Well, as to beauty, I'd rather have our Sally any day," said Mrs.
Kittridge; "and she looks strong and hearty, and seems to be good for
use."

"So she is, so she is," said the Captain, with fatherly pride. "Sally's
the very image of her ma at her age--black eyes, black hair, tall and
trim as a spruce-tree, and steps off as if she had springs in her heels.
I tell you, the feller'll have to be spry that catches her. There's two
or three of 'em at it, I see; but Sally won't have nothin' to say to
'em. I hope she won't, yet awhile."

"Sally is a girl that has as good an eddication as money can give,"
said Mrs. Kittridge. "If I'd a-had her advantages at her age, I should
a-been a great deal more'n I am. But we ha'n't spared nothin' for Sally;
and when nothin' would do but Mara must be sent to Miss Plucher's school
over in Portland, why, I sent Sally too--for all she's our seventh
child, and Pennel hasn't but the one."

"You forget Moses," said the Captain.

"Well, he's settin' up on his own account, I guess. They did talk o'
giving him college eddication; but he was so unstiddy, there weren't no
use in trying. A real wild ass's colt he was."

"Wal', wal', Moses was in the right on't. He took the cross-lot track
into life," said the Captain. "Colleges is well enough for your smooth,
straight-grained lumber, for gen'ral buildin'; but come to fellers
that's got knots, and streaks, and cross-grains, like Moses Pennel, and
the best way is to let 'em eddicate 'emselves, as he's a-doin'. He's cut
out for the sea, plain enough, and he'd better be up to Umbagog, cuttin'
timber for his ship, than havin' rows with tutors, and blowin' the roof
off the colleges, as one o' them 'ere kind o' fellers is apt to when he
don't have work to use up his steam. Why, mother, there's more gas got
up in them Brunswick buildin's, from young men that are spilin' for hard
work, than you could shake a stick at! But Mis' Pennel told me yesterday
she was 'spectin' Moses home to-day."

"Oho! that's at the bottom of Sally's bein' up there," said Mrs.
Kittridge.

"Mis' Kittridge," said the Captain, "I take it you ain't the woman as
would expect a daughter of your bringin' up to be a-runnin' after any
young chap, be he who he may," said the Captain.

Mrs. Kittridge for once was fairly silenced by this home-thrust;
nevertheless, she did not the less think it quite possible, from all
that she knew of Sally; for although that young lady professed great
hardness of heart and contempt for all the young male generation of her
acquaintance, yet she had evidently a turn for observing their
ways--probably purely in the way of philosophical inquiry.




CHAPTER XIX

EIGHTEEN


In fact, at this very moment our scene-shifter changes the picture. Away
rolls the image of Mrs. Kittridge's kitchen, with its sanded floor, its
scoured rows of bright pewter platters, its great, deep fireplace, with
wide stone hearth, its little looking-glass with a bit of asparagus
bush, like a green mist, over it. Exeunt the image of Mrs. Kittridge,
with her hands floury from the bread she has been moulding, and the dry,
ropy, lean Captain, who has been sitting tilting back in a
splint-bottomed chair,--and the next scene comes rolling in. It is a
chamber in the house of Zephaniah Pennel, whose windows present a blue
