appeared to be suddenly developed, for he was not in the habit of
acknowledging that he was afraid of any thing.

"You don't talk a bit like Sandy Brimblecom," sneered Richard; "and you
act more like an old woman than a fellow of any spunk."

"Humph! I'll bet you are as scared as I am, only you won't own it."

"I don't know what fear means, Sandy."

"O, you can brag; but when a fellow can go and set a man's barn afire,
without wincing, he's worse than I am; that's all I've got to say."

"Worse than you are!" said Richard. "Didn't you agree to the whole
thing? Didn't you go in for paying off Old Batterbones? Didn't you come
down here to burn the barn with me?"

"I did, but I didn't want to come."

"What did you come for, then?"

"Because I agreed to come."

"You're not the fellow I took you to be. You joined me in the affair,
and then, at the last moment, you begin to whine like a sick monkey."

"I'm not so far gone that I can burn a man's barn without feeling it."

"You haven't got the pluck of a mosquito."

"You've said about enough on that tack, Dick Grant," replied Sandy, who
did not relish the reflections cast upon his courage.

"I shall say what I think best."

"No, you won't! I'm sorry for what I've done, and I'm willing to own
it; but I won't take any sauce from you or any other fellow."

"You can talk big enough," sneered Richard.

"Shut up, or I'll bat you over the head."

"Humph!"

"Just put me ashore, Dick Grant, and you and I will part company."

"I'm willing."

Both boys felt that enough had been said, and the conversation was
discontinued by mutual consent. Richard, notwithstanding his bravado,
was no better satisfied with himself than Sandy. Though he had spoken
of "doing the job over again," he had not the slightest idea of
repeating the experiment. The shock which the discovery of the two men
had given him, was too much even for his strong nerves; and though he
was not willing to confess it, he was sorry for what he had done. The
terror of being found out had damped the spirit of revenge. The
excitement of the affair had passed away, and like his companion in
wickedness, visions of public trial, of the house of correction, or the
state prison, began to flit before him.

He was not sorry that the barn had been saved from destruction; and the
only pleasant reflection in connection with the whole transaction was,
that he had insisted upon saving the horses and the oxen. It was with
Richard as it is with all who commit crimes. They are led on by the
spirit of revenge, or some other strong motive. There is a kind of
excitement which urges them on till the wicked deed is committed. Then
the criminal excitement subsides; the hour of reflection comes,
burdened also with the fear of discovery. To some extent, crime is its
own punishment; at least, it is so with those who have not become
hardened in iniquity.

Richard brought the Greyhound up to the point where he had taken Sandy
on board. He did not like to part with him in anger, for, to a certain
extent, he sympathized with him in his penitential confession. But,
more than this, he was afraid Sandy might revenge himself upon him for
the reproaches he had uttered.

"Let's not quarrel, Sandy," said Richard, as he laid the boat alongside
the landing place.

"I don't want to quarrel, but I won't be picked upon by you," replied
Sandy, with spirit.

"I'll take it all back. Let's be friends again. We have failed to do
what we intended, and perhaps it will be just as well for us."

"I'm glad you are coming to your senses. Do you mean to try it again?"

"We won't burn the barn, Sandy, but we must pay off Old Batterbones in
some other way."

"I'll do it. I'll hook his apples, pull out the linchpins of his wagon,
throw a dead cat into his well, or any thing of that sort, with you,
but I won't attempt to burn any man's barn again. No, never!"

"We'll fix him yet, Sandy. When shall I see you again?"

"I shall be round the wharf to-morrow."

"I'll see you there. Good night to you, Sandy."

"Good night, Dick."

Boys don't usually bid each other good night after they have been doing
wicked deeds; and Richard's parting salutation was a peace-offering,
rather than the kindly wish of a friend.

Sandy made his way up to Whitestone, and Richard again pushed off upon
the troubled waters of the Hudson. The Greyhound leaped over the waves
as though she was in haste to get out of the disgraceful business in
which she had been employed. Richard heard the clocks in Whitestone
striking three, as he grappled his moorings and made fast to them.

He landed from the skiff, and, like a thief in the night, stole up to
his father's house. Before he attempted to ascend the trellis, he
pulled off his boots, and fastening them together with his
handkerchief, slung them around his neck. He reached the roof of the
conservatory without noise, and then, to his utter consternation,
discovered a light in Mr. Presby's room. But the precaution he had
taken in the removal of his boots enabled him to reach his chamber
window without producing a sound. Then, to his astonishment and terror,
he found that the window he had left open was closed.

Some one had been there.




CHAPTER VIII.

RICHARD BEHOLDS HOW GREAT A MATTER A LITTLE FIRE KINDLETH.


The window of the chamber was not fastened, and when Richard gained
admission, he found the door locked as he had left it. The window must
therefore have been closed from the outside; but this did not seem
probable, and he came to the conclusion that the sash had dropped of
itself. This was a very comforting reflection, and it removed many of
the doubts and fears which disturbed him.

Congratulating himself upon his escape from manifold perils by land and
water, Richard undressed himself and went to bed. But tired as he was,
he could not go to sleep for some time. His brain was busy calculating
the chances of detection, and devising schemes to avert suspicion if
any should be fastened upon him. Nature triumphed at last, and he went
to sleep.

Late the next morning, when he went down stairs, he was pale and
haggard. Somewhat to his surprise, he found that his father had not
gone to the city as usual. Every body looked sober, and Mr. Grant's
face wore a very stern and troubled expression. Richard ate his
breakfast in silence, wondering all the time what so many serious and
averted faces portended.

"You were out again last night, Richard," said his father, when they
met in the sitting room at a later hour.

"No, sir, not that I am aware of," replied Richard, with as much
self-possession as he could call to his aid, though his heart was
leaping with fear and anxiety.

"If you had been out, shouldn't you have been aware of it?" asked his
father, fixing a penetrating gaze upon him.

"I don't know. I only judge by what happened the other night," answered
Richard, who had determined to "run" the sleep-walking expedient again.

"You mean by that you got up in your sleep if you got up at all?"

"Yes, sir."

"You were entirely unconscious when you got up the other night and went
off in the Greyhound--were you?"

"Of course I was."

A faint smile played upon the lips of Mr. Grant, while the faces of
uncle Obed and Mr. Presby wore a decidedly comical expression. Though
Richard could not see "where the laugh came in," he was conscious that
he had placed himself in a ludicrous attitude.

"And you were asleep last night when you went out--were you?" continued
Mr. Grant.

"If I went out, I suppose I was," replied Richard, going to the window
and looking out, thus turning his back to those in the room.

He could not bear the penetrating gaze of his father, and the quizzing
glances of Mr. Presby and uncle Obed were utterly insupportable.

"Mr. Presby, you have devoted considerable attention to the phenomena
of sleep-walking," added uncle Obed. "What do you think of this case?"

"I think it is the most remarkable one on record," replied the
philosopher, whose smile had grown into a broad grin. "Richard, I am
deeply interested in the investigation of this matter, and I want to
ask you a few questions. Will you oblige me by answering them?"

"I will if I can," said Richard, rather doggedly, for he was fully
satisfied, by this time, that the old gentleman was quizzing him.

"If you can, then, will you be kind enough to tell me whether Sandy
Brimblecom was asleep or not, when he joined you in the boat at the
point below Whitestone?"

"Who? Sandy joined me?" stammered Richard, staggered by this home
thrust of the friend of the family.

"Yes; I am very anxious to know whether there is a sympathy between
sleep-walkers which draws them together, even though separated by miles
of space."

Richard made no reply; he had none to make. He had no idea how much his
tormentors knew of the events of the night.

"You don't answer, my boy. I have been the butt of your uncle for the
last week on account of my devotion to the cause of science. I have
studied your case very thoroughly, and I may want to make a report of
it to the scientific associations."

"Why don't you answer him, Dick?" added uncle Obed, who,
notwithstanding the serious character of the matter, could not restrain
his laughter at the ludicrous side of the question.

"I don't care about your making fun of me," replied the poor
somnambulist.

"My dear boy, this is a scientific, a physiological investigation. You
pulled out the nails which your father had driven into the window; you
skulked away from the house; you went down to your boat, got under way
in a squally, dark night, and met another sleep-walker on the other
side of the river;--I presume he was asleep, for you do not say to the
contrary;--you sailed down the river to a certain inlet; you landed,
and went up to Mr. Batterman's barn; you removed the horses and oxen
from it; you poured turpentine upon a bunch of loose hay prepared for
the purpose; you lighted your matches and set fire to it; and all the
while you were fast asleep. And you returned home and went to bed again
without waking. Really, my dear boy, this is the most astonishing case
of somnambulism on record. I have vainly looked over my books for a
parallel instance. Can you tell me what your dreams were last night?
Did you dream any thing of this kind?"

Richard was filled with dismay at this recital of the events of the
night. The mysterious boat he had twice seen was the only explanation
of the minuteness of Mr. Presby's details that suggested itself to his
mind.

"You talked quite rationally in your sleep, which is a new development
in somnambulism. But, after all," continued the devotee of science,
"the phenomena of last night were not near so remarkable as those of
the former occasion. By the way, my dear boy, do sleep-walkers have any
particular fondness for watermelons?"

Uncle Obed laughed outright at this sally, and even Mr. Grant, wounded
as his paternal heart was by the discovery, could not help smiling,
though he felt more like weeping than laughing.

"You are silent, my dear boy," resumed Mr. Presby. "This is an
important physiological inquiry, and you would enlarge the sphere of
human knowledge of this interesting subject, if you would answer me."

Richard was inclined to get into a passion, but the consciousness of
his guilt restrained him, and he listened in silence to the satirical
remarks of the old gentleman.

"But the most astounding fact of all is, that you could take such an
unmerciful flogging as Mr. Batterman gave you without waking up,"
continued the inquisitor. "Perhaps you did wake under this cruel
infliction, but went to sleep again when the castigation was over. Can
you inform me on this point?"

"You have made fun enough of me," replied Richard; but his words were
very tame, considering the amount of provocation he had endured.

"Were you asleep, Richard, on these two nights when you have been
prowling about the neighborhood?" demanded his father, sternly.

"No, sir, I was not," said Richard, to whom the ridicule of Mr. Presby
and uncle Obed was more terrible than any punishment he could receive
for his misdeeds.

"I am glad to see you have some honesty left in your composition. You
acknowledge the deception, and we will let the farce end here. You have
become a thief and a midnight incendiary. I have been weak and
indulgent towards you. My eyes are opened, and I shall pursue a
different course."

Mr. Grant's lip trembled with emotion as he spoke. Mr. Presby and uncle
Obed suddenly became very serious, and it was plain to the culprit that
the farce had really ended.

"Richard, I knew you were wild, and even dissolute, but I did not think
you would steal," added Mr. Grant, with deep feeling.

"It was only for fun, father," pleaded Richard.

"Do you practise the trade of the incendiary for fun?" asked his
father, sternly.

"That was only because Mr. Batterman flogged me. He had no business to
do that."

"And so you would burn his barn?"

"I didn't burn it."

"It would have burned to the ground, if Mr. Presby and Ben had not put
the fire out. I have let my friend expose you in his own way, because
the trouble he has taken reveals to me your true character. You are
worse than your dissolute companions. Richard, you have become a
villain!"

Mr. Grant rose from his chair and walked away to hide the tears which
this sad revelation of his son's character drew from his eyes.

"He is not so bad as he might be," interposed Mr. Presby. "Remember
that he saved the animals in the barn."

"The record is black even with this redeeming line," said Mr. Grant. "I
would rather follow my son to his grave than have him become such a
wretch as you are, Richard. Shall I let you take the consequences of
your crime?"

"What consequences, father?" asked Richard, with a degree of humility
he had never before exhibited.

"Are you a simpleton? Don't you know the penalty of your crime?"

"We didn't burn the barn."

"In the eye of the law you are just as guilty as though the barn had
burned to the ground. If convicted, you would be sent to the state
prison. I have made up my mind what to do with you," said Mr. Grant, as
he walked out of the room, for his emotions would no longer permit him
to remain.

"You have got into a bad scrape, Dick," added uncle Obed, as he shook
his head, and followed his brother, leaving the culprit alone with Mr.
Presby.

"He will not let them send me to the state prison?" said Richard,
fearful that his father might have abandoned all hope of redeeming him
from the error of his ways.

"You have been a very bad boy," replied Mr. Presby.

"I am very sorry for it, and I mean to do better."

"I hope you will, my dear boy. Your father has suffered terribly since
I returned, and poor Bertha has done nothing but weep for the last two
hours. You are ruining yourself and wounding the hearts of your friends
more than words can describe."

"I will try to do better."

"Your father will not trust you again."

"What is he going to do?"

"He will inform you himself," replied Mr. Presby, as he withdrew from
the room.

Richard was alone with his own thoughts and fears. He felt as though
his career had reached its close, though he could not imagine what
terrible thing his father intended to do. He was really sorry for what
he had done, whether his sorrow was caused by a genuine feeling that he
had done wrong, or by the fear of punishment.

His mind was in a confused state; the past with its sorrows, and the
future with its terrors, whirled through his brain. He wanted time for
reflection, and leaving the house, he walked down to the pier to
deliberate upon the situation.

Ben was there, and Richard began to question him, for Mr. Presby had
intimated that the boatman was with him the night before. From him he
learned all the facts in regard to their movements. It appeared that
the old gentleman had heard Richard when he opened the window, and had
watched him closely, fully satisfied, however, that he was asleep.

When Mr. Presby, from the roof of the conservatory, had noted the
direction he took, he had closed the window, and called the boatman to
assist him. They had followed him in the large sail boat, and landed
near the point where Sandy was taken on board the Greyhound. By this
time, Ben's original idea that Richard was wide awake was adopted by
Mr. Presby. By the exercise of great skill and caution, they had kept
near the boys, and had put out the fire almost as soon as it was
kindled.

While they were still on the ground, Mr. Batterman, who had been
awakened by the bright light of the burning hay, made his appearance.
He found the two old men in the very act of putting out the fire. Mr.
Presby smothered the flames by throwing his great-coat upon it.

"Now, Mr. Richard," continued the boatman, "Mr. Presby saved you. He
was acquainted with Batterman, and has a mortgage on his farm. The
farmer suspected who had attempted to burn his building; he laid it to
you at once, and told us all about the scrape when you stole the
melons. You don't know how mad he was, Mr. Richard. But Mr. Presby made
it all right with him, and he promised not to prosecute. Mr. Richard,
you had better not walk in your sleep any more."

Richard did not like this last remark, and he walked down the pier. The
state prison was only a bugbear then; but his father meant to do
something. He was about to get into his skiff to visit the Greyhound
when Ben hailed him.

"My orders are, not to let you have any of the boats," said he.

The new order of things had begun, and he returned to the house. His
father was in the sitting room when he entered.

"Richard," said Mr. Grant, "to-morrow you will leave home for some
months. I have decided to place you in a boarding school, where you
will be under the eye of one who is competent to manage you."

This was the great matter which a little fire had kindled.




CHAPTER IX.

RICHARD GOES TO THE TUNBROOK MILITARY INSTITUTE.


Richard had several times before been threatened with a residence at a
boarding school. Most of his education had been obtained at home, under
the superintendence of tutors, and special teachers in various
branches. He had been under little or no restraint; and the consequence
was, that his mental discipline had been very imperfect, and his stock
of knowledge was small, considering the opportunities he had enjoyed.

His father had long been conscious of his deficiencies, and proposed to
send him to a boarding school, for the benefit of its discipline; but
Richard was so averse to the idea, that his father had from time to
time postponed his departure. When Mr. Grant saw his son associating
with bad boys he again proposed to send him, and had actually sought
out a suitable place for him; but his own financial trials and troubles
had prevented him from executing his purpose.

If Richard's education had failed to develop his intellect in an
adequate degree, it had built up a sound and vigorous constitution.
Riding on horseback, sailing and rowing, had been pastimes for which he
had sacrificed intellectual culture. But there was still time to remedy
this deficiency, for the youth was hardly sixteen.

The establishment which Mr. Grant had selected for the future residence
of his son was the Tunbrook Military Institute, under the
superintendence of Colonel Brockridge. This place had been chosen, not
because it was a military institution, but because its principal was a
thorough disciplinarian. He had the reputation of being a just and fair
man, and was very popular with boys of strong constitution and decisive
temperaments. No "milk-and-water" boys were ever sent to him; or, if
they were, they soon left the Institute, or became vigorous and decided
in their habits.

Colonel Brockridge had been in the army, though his title was won in
the militia. He was a thorough teacher, and was conscientious and
faithful in the discharge of his duties to those who were intrusted to
his care. He was a "positive man," and no fear of what the father or
mother would say or do ever induced him to alter his plans, or change
his purposes.

Though the Institute was conducted on military principles, it was not
peculiarly the school of the soldier. The principal believed in
discipline; this was his hobby; and he believed that he could best
secure system and order by adopting military routine. His success
justified his theory. He had more applicants than he had places.

Richard knew all about the Tunbrook Military Institute. He had
carefully read its circular, and its rules and regulations. They did
not suit him. He was not a devotee of discipline, in its application to
himself. He was very impatient of restraint, as the reader has already
seen, and he did not like the idea of being sent to this Institute.

When his father had given him his final sentence, he retired to his
chamber. The shame which attended the discovery of his guilt still
rested heavily upon him, and he was in a more humble and tractable mood
than usual. Under ordinary circumstances he would have rebelled against
the decision of his father. He would have frightened his sister by
threatening to run away to sea. It is true, this thought occurred to
him on the present occasion; but Ben had told him enough about the life
of a sailor to convince him that he should not improve his condition by
such a course.

There seemed to be no alternative but passive obedience. He did not
want to go, but he felt that his father must certainly conquer if he
attempted to resist. He had always had his own way to a very great
extent. He had always been a conqueror himself--at least he felt so,
and he could not endure the thought of being compelled to yield
implicit obedience to any person.

At this time Richard's thoughts took a peculiar turn. The shame he
endured, the reproaches that had been heaped upon him, caused him to
feel that there was something wanting in his character. The path in
which he had been travelling, for the first time in his life seemed to
lead to destruction. When he considered that he had been detected in
the act of stealing, and of setting fire to a barn, and in practising a
gross and wicked deception, he felt that his road was down hill; that
he should become a dissolute and worthless man.

He was sitting on the stool of repentance. From a prudential penitence
he had arrived at a genuine one. Something must be done. There was
something to be conquered. There was a harder battle before him than
any he had yet fought. He was master of the boats, of the horses, of
the servants, and even of his companions at Whitestone; but there was
one whom he had never conquered--one that held him in leading-strings,
and was pulling him down to ruin and destruction.

He must conquer himself.

Richard had had such thoughts as these before, but they had never
seemed so substantial as now. He felt the necessity of reforming his
life and character--of conquering himself, his greatest enemy. As he
looked upon his dissolute course, upon the events of the preceding
night, and its fellow a week before, he was disgusted with himself, and
wondered how he could so easily embrace his besetting sin.

While he was engaged in these reflections, his sister Bertha entered
his chamber. She had heard of the sentence, and she had come to comfort
him. Her eyes were still red with weeping, for she had almost lost hope
of the reform of her brother.

"I have been trying to see you for the last two hours," said she, as
she sat down by his side.

"Don't cry any more, Berty," said he, with unwonted tenderness.

"I will try not to do so, Richard. Father says you are going away
to-morrow."

"Yes, Berty, I suppose I am," replied he, with an appearance of
resignation.

"I shall miss you very much."

"It will be a good miss--won't it?"

"Why, Richard! You don't think so--do you?"

"Well, I have been a kind of nuisance to you."

"No, Richard; don't say that."

"I have been in all sorts of scrapes."

"I would a great deal rather have you stay at home, and--and----"

"And be a good boy," added Richard.

"That's what I mean, Richard."

"Berty, I think I have sowed all my wild oats now."

"I hope so."

"I suppose I have been a very bad boy," said he, with a kind of
deprecating smile, as though he did not believe more than one half he
said.

"It was all those bad boys you went with; if it hadn't been for them,
you would have done very well. That Sandy Brimblecom hasn't done you
any good."

"I hope I haven't done him any hurt, Berty. I won't be mean, when I get
into trouble. I don't think Sandy is any worse than I am. I don't know
but that he is a little better. I suppose he and I must part company
now."

"It will be all for the best."

"Berty, I am off to-morrow. I have given you a great deal of trouble. I
mean to do better. I am going to turn over a new leaf."

"O, I hope so, Richard!"

"I mean so, this time."

"I am so glad!"

"Don't you think father will let me stay at home, if I do well?"

"Perhaps he will."

"I don't like the idea of being put into a strait jacket, and tied to a
bell rope."

"It would be hard for you."

"I can't stand it, any how. I have made up my mind to be a saint. I
intend to keep out of all scrapes, and behave with perfect propriety
all the time, night and day."

"I hope you are not jesting, Richard," said Bertha, who did not like
the facetious language with which he clothed his resolutions.

"I'm in earnest. I mean every word I say. I solemnly promise you that I
will be a pattern of propriety; but I don't like the Tunbrook Military
Institute. I don't like the idea of being tied down to Colonel
Brockridge's little finger; of being drummed and fifed here and there;
and of reciting a Latin lesson at six o'clock in the morning, after an
hour's drill on the parade ground. Berty, to tell you the truth, I
don't believe I shall be able to keep my good resolutions, if I am to
be tied to a bell rope, or have to move by the tap of a drum."

"I hope you will."

"If I could stay at home, and have my pony and my boat, I should do
first rate."

Whatever the experienced reader may think of Richard's sincerity, he
was uttering an honest opinion. He sincerely feared that his courage
would not be equal to the work of submitting to the discipline of
Tunbrook, and conquering himself, at one and the same time. Tunbrook
and Colonel Brockridge seemed to be formidable obstacles in the path of
reform.

"You would soon get used to the discipline of the Institute," suggested
Bertha.

"I might get used to it as the old man's horse got used to living upon
shavings--when he died. If I go, I shall try to submit; but I don't
want to go."

"I don't see how it can be avoided. Father is determined that you shall
go."

"You can save me from this strait jacket, if you will, Berty."

"What can I do, Richard?"

"Mr. Presby will do any thing you ask him to do. You can tell him that
you think it would injure me to be sent to Tunbrook. Then he can talk
with father about it; and father will do any thing that Mr. Presby
wishes."

Bertha promised to speak to Mr. Presby about the matter, and she did so
at once; but instead of Bertha convincing him that it would injure
Richard to be sent to the Military School, he convinced her that it
would be the best thing in the world for him.

"I am afraid I spoiled my own children by over indulgence, and I cannot
counsel your father to do the same thing," said the old gentleman, with
deep feeling.

Bertha returned to her brother with his answer. Richard was not angry,
as she feared he would be, and this was a very hopeful sign. But he
went over his argument against strait jackets, bell ropes, and drums
and fifes, once more, and then proposed that he should be put on
probation for one or two months; and if he did any thing wrong, he
would submit without a murmur.

Bertha went to Mr. Presby again, and was so far successful that the old
gentleman agreed to speak with Mr. Grant in the evening. He kept his
promise, but the father carried a stronger argument than the friend of
the family. Richard was doomed to go to the Military Institute, and the
fact was patent to him before he retired. He felt as though he wanted
to submit, but the unconquered enemy that had so often led him astray
was rebellious.

He did not sleep well that night. He was excited by the prospect before
him. His good resolutions seemed to be very shaky, and he found himself
running away from them. When he heard the clock strike twelve, he
actually jumped out of bed, under a sudden impulse, fully resolved to
run away and go to sea. He thought he would take the Greyhound, and
make his way down to the city and ship the next day. He put on a
portion of his clothes, under the influence of this impulse.

"This would be becoming a saint with a vengeance!" said he to himself,
as he threw off his clothes, and got into bed again. "I told Bertha I
would try to submit, and I will."

This was the first decided advantage which Richard had gained over his
great enemy; but the battle was a mere skirmish with the outposts of
the potent foe. It was a victory, however, and it strengthened him. It
improved the morale of his fighting element.

He had resisted temptation, and angels ministered unto him. While they
ministered, peace came, and he fell asleep.

At an early hour in the morning he was called by his father. With the
assistance of Bertha he packed his trunk and prepared himself for the
journey. He was sad, but submissive. At nine o'clock, having bid adieu
to all his friends, and taken a sorrowful survey of Woodville, he and
his father were driven down to the railroad station.

Before night they reached Tunbrook, and Richard was introduced to the
terrible Colonel Brockridge. He was a little man of fifty, with great
bushy red whiskers, whose whole face seemed to be eclipsed by the
wonderful sharpness of his eyes. He shook hands with Richard, spoke to
him very kindly, and hoped they should be good friends. The new recruit
was shown to his quarters, as his room was called, and Mr. Grant took
his leave.

Richard felt that he was alone with the future.




CHAPTER X.

RICHARD LEARNS THE MEANING OF RIGHT ABOUT FACE.


The apartment to which Richard was shown was called "Barrack B." There
were ten rooms of this kind, known by the first ten letters of the
alphabet, omitting J. Each barrack contained twenty narrow iron
bedsteads, and no two boys were allowed to occupy the same bed. At the
head of each barrack, there was an alcove large enough to contain the
bed of the assistant teacher, who had charge of the pupils in the room.
This apartment of the instructor was screened from the view of the boys
by a curtain, so that he could see without being seen, when he desired
to do so.

There was a small closet in the wall between every two beds, for the
use of the boys, and Richard was directed to transfer the contents of
his trunk to this receptacle, by Mr. Gault, the assistant teacher in
charge of Barrack B. Richard opened the trunk, and then sat down upon
the bed to wait until the instructor should retire, for he did not care
to exhibit his wardrobe to a stranger.

"Proceed, if you please," said Mr. Gault.

"I think I will do this business by myself," replied Richard.

"According to a rule of the Institute, the wardrobe of each pupil must
be inspected," said the teacher.

"Inspected?" asked the recruit. "What for?"

"To see that no improper articles are brought in."

"I would rather not," added Richard.

"The rule is imperative," said Mr. Gault, decidedly.

The strait jacket had already begun to oppress the male heir of
Woodville, and he was disposed to resent the indignity, as he deemed
it; but almost the last words of Bertha had been an injunction to
observe the rules of the school, however distasteful they might be.
Reluctantly, and with the feeling that he was sacrificing his
independence, Richard transferred his clothing to the closet assigned
to him. Mr. Gault carefully watched the proceeding, and confiscated
several articles which were declared to be contraband, among which were
some cakes and other sweetmeats, prepared by Bertha, and several
yellow-covered novels he had purchased in Whitestone.

"Can't I have those things?" asked Richard.

"No, sir; no boy belonging to the Institute is allowed to eat cake on
the premises."

"Why not?"

"We do not explain to boys the reason for every thing we do," replied
Mr. Gault, rather curtly.

"I don't think you have any right to take my property away from me."

"I don't ask your opinion, and it is of no value whatever."

"You needn't be so crusty about it," said Richard, who was wholly
unused to this style of remark.

"We tolerate no impudence here. If you use an expression of that kind
again, you will be put under arrest, and spend the night in the guard
house."

Richard's blood was beginning to boil, and he was tempted to pitch into
the insolent instructor who dared to use language of that kind to the
only son of the proprietor of Woodville. But he did not want to get
into trouble the first day; besides, the words "arrest" and "guard
house" had a very ominous sound to him.

"Can't I have my books? They are not cake," asked Richard.

"No, sir; you cannot. Such trash as that is not fit for boys to read.
Your property will be kept safely for you, and when you leave the
school, you can have it again."

"The cake will not be very good then."

"You can do any thing you please with it, except eat it. You can sell
it, or give it away."

"You can do what you like with it."

"Very well. Have you any money about you?"

"I have."

"You will hand it to me, and a receipt for the amount will be forwarded
to your father."

"Do you mean to rob me?" demanded Richard, his face flushing at this
new indignity.

"I refer you to the regulations of the Institute. We provide every
thing the boys require, and they have no more use for money than they
have for wings."

"I won't give up my money."

"Very well, sir. I will refer the matter to Colonel Brockridge, and you
may settle it with him. Follow me, if you please," said Mr. Gault,
after Richard had locked the trunk containing the contraband articles.

The new scholar followed the teacher to the office of the principal on
the first floor. He was very uneasy and nervous, and almost wished he
had given up his money. But he felt that the tutor was carrying things
altogether too far. It was subjecting him to a needless indignity.

"This young man refuses to give up his money," said Mr. Gault to the
colonel, who was writing at his desk.

Without waiting to ascertain the result of the interview, the assistant
departed, leaving the obdurate youth alone with the owner of those
terribly sharp eyes.

"Have you read our regulations, Grant?" said Colonel Brockridge,
turning round and looking the recruit full in the face.

But there was a pleasant smile upon his face, and his words were
gentle, and even respectful.

"Yes, sir," replied Richard.

"Then you are aware that pupils are not allowed to have money--are you
not?"

"Yes, sir."

"Boys are tempted to purchase various articles which injure them, such
as cakes and candy, and improper books. Therefore we think it is better
that they should not be provided with money. Is this a satisfactory
explanation?"

"I don't know but it is, sir," replied Richard, doubtfully.

"It satisfies me, at any rate. How much money have you?"

"About five dollars."

"Now, Grant, if you will hand it to me, I will give you a receipt for
it, or send it to your father. I will keep it, subject to your order,
if you desire it."

"I don't like the rule, sir."

"I think it is an excellent rule. But you waste my time. Your decision,
Grant."

"I should like to think of the matter, sir."

"Your decision at once," said the colonel; and Richard saw the sharp
eyes grow a shade sharper, and heard the deep voice grow a shade
sterner.

The recruit winced under the necessity thus laid upon him. The
principal could not be trifled with, and he must either submit, or take
the consequences, which were so indefinite to him that they seemed
sufficiently terrible.

"I will give up the money," said he, with a struggle, as he handed his
wallet to the colonel.

"I am glad to find you are a discreet and sensible youth," added the
colonel, as he wrote the receipt, and handed it, with the wallet, from
which he had taken the money, back to the owner. "If you wish to use
money for any proper purpose, you can draw on me, and your paper shall
be honored to the extent of the funds in my hands."

"I don't think I am likely to want money here," answered Richard,
gloomily.

"Every needed article will be furnished. Now, Grant, I am afraid you
have come here with an intention to resist our wholesome regulations.
If so, you must learn the meaning of "right about, face"--in its moral
application, I mean. Your father has told me all about you, and given
me explicit instructions to make a man of you. I understand your case
perfectly. If you are disposed to observe the rules of the Institute,
we shall treat you like a gentleman. The future is before you, young
man, and you must choose for yourself."

"I intend to obey the rules, sir," said Richard, rather crest-fallen
after what had happened.

"I am very glad to hear you say so. In a few days you will be provided
with the uniform worn by the pupils of the Institute. Here is a time
card for the fall term. Look it over carefully, for you will be
required to conform to it very strictly. To-morrow morning you will
take your place with the boys, and go through with the programme just
as though you had been here all your lifetime. We make no allowances
for beginners; they will have seasonable warning, and they must be on
the ground promptly at the moment. There will be a dress parade in a
few moments, and you can go out and witness it, if you choose," said
Colonel Brockridge, as he handed Richard the card. "After supper, Mr.
Gault will introduce you to the boys of your barrack."

Richard took the card, and left the room. As he passed out of the
building he descried the boys at play on the lawn. They were all
dressed in a uniform of gray cloth, though some wore a loose blouse,
and some, in the heat of play, had thrown off their jackets. The new
scholar walked over to the flagstaff, where the stars and stripes were
flying, and seated himself on a bench. The boys seemed to be having a
good time, in spite of the strictness of the discipline. As he listened
to the tremendous noise they made, and saw the rough-and-tumble games
in which they were engaged, he became convinced that the Institute was
not of the Blember style, and he began to have some hope that he should
survive the shock.

While he was waiting for the dress parade, he examined the time card
given him by the principal. To him it had a decidedly strait-jacket
odor, and he read it with a feeling of repugnance, not to say disgust.
It was as follows:--

    "TUNBROOK MILITARY INSTITUTE.

    FALL TERM.

    From Sept. 1 to Dec. 1.


     6     A. M.  Reveille.
     6.30    "    Study.
     7.30    "    Breakfast.
     8       "    Squad Drill.
     9       "    Study and Recitation.
    11       "    Battalion Drill.
     1     P. M.  Dinner.
     1.30    "    Recreation.
     3       "    Study and Recitation.
     5       "    Recreation.
     6       "    Dress Parade.
     6.30    "    Supper.
     7       "    Off Time.
     9       "    Retire.

    The 'Off Time' belongs to the student; but deficient lessons must
    be made up during these hours.

    Camp duty will be performed by all students for one week, in each
    term, except the winter term.

                             J. BROCKRIDGE,
                                   Principal."

Richard thought the time card was rather formidable, but he came to the
conclusion that he could stand it, if the rest of the boys could.

While he was musing upon the present and the future, the rattling drum
sounded, and the boys instantly suspended their play. In a moment the
whole crowd had disappeared within the buildings that flanked the lawn;
but presently the rattle of several drums was heard, and one company
after another marched upon the parade ground, and formed the line.
Every boy was dressed in full uniform now, the blouses and other
non-conforming garments having been thrown aside, and every one wore
white gloves.

Richard found that the teachers were not the officers of the companies,
or the battalion, as he had expected. Several of the instructors were
present, but they appeared to take no part in the proceedings. Every
thing was managed by the boys, apparently without any assistance from
the teachers. The captains, lieutenants, sergeants, and corporals were
all in appropriate uniform, with their rank designated as in the United
States army. The swords and muskets were genuine weapons, though not so
large and heavy as those used by older soldiers. The students varied in
age from fourteen to eighteen.

The various evolutions of the dress parade were regularly performed.
The adjutant announced to the major that the parade was formed; the
band, consisting of eight pieces, marched up and down the line; the
first sergeants reported "all present or accounted for," and the
company officers marched up to the commander of the battalion. The boys
were as rigid as statues when the order, "Parade--rest," was given. The
companies marched back to the armories, broke ranks, and were
dismissed.

Richard was delighted with this exhibition, and the Tunbrook Military
Institute went up many degrees in his estimation. He followed the boys
into the supper room, where, without much ceremony, he made the
acquaintance of several captains and lieutenants. He received a hearty
welcome from his new associates, and began to feel very much at home.

The supper was not exactly what he had been accustomed to at Woodville,
but it was plain wholesome food; and when he saw officers and privates,
from the major down to the drummers, partake of it with hearty relish,
he was not disposed to grumble.

After supper, the boys scattered in every direction. Some went out
doors, some to the barracks, some to the school rooms. It was
"off-time," and without much assistance from Mr. Gault, who attempted
to introduce him, he made the acquaintance of half the students in the
Institute. At nine o'clock the sound of the drum rolled through the
halls, and the boys all retired.




CHAPTER XI.
