
"Did I say so?" she asked, in quick evasion. 

" I infer as much, from finding you in the depths of your 
sorrowful grotto." 

" Oh ! my visit to-night was a whim. Not that I have 
not had a touch of the blues all day " 

"I have observed this evening, that you were hardly 
in your usual spirits a trifle below concert pitch, I should 
say. Will you not let me share your trouble or annoyance ? 
relieve it, if I can ?" 

He ventured to steal his arm around her ! the love and 
sympathy depicted in his countenance were plainly to be 
read by the brightness of the moonbeams, pouring over 
them at that instant. She did not repel him, albeit she was 
generally shy of caresses from her betrothed. She even 
looked up, as his soothing, lovefull accents saluted her ears ; 
then, meeting that eloquent gaze, burst into a stormy flood 
of tears, and buried her face in her hands. 

" Robert ! Robert ! if I could only tell you all !" 

"Perhaps that all is not so profound a secret to me as 
you imagine, dearest !" 

He clasped her more firmly, as she would have started 
from his side. 




" Love's eyes are very keen, and mine have discerned 
much that you, from an overstrained, unreasonable sense of 
honor, would have concealed." 

Her sobbing had ceased, but her head was bowed more 
lowly still, and she trembled violently. 

" In this respect, and in this alone, I have been disposed to 
accuse you of injustice to me, Nelly. When I gave you my 
love, or, to speak more accurately, when you accepted it 
for I cannot remember the time when my heart was not 
yours ! when you accepted my love, I gave you my whole 
confidence, and entreated that you should be equally unre 
served with me. While I cannot fail to admire and appre 
ciate the delicacy that has restrained you upon this point, 
for it is both a difficult and a delicate matter to bring a 
charge of unworthiness against one who is so nearly related" 

She threw off his arm ; raised a pale, haughty face, whose 
flashing eyes fairly appalled him. 

" You are laboring under a strange misapprehension, Mr. 
Lay ! I have no accusation of any kind, certainly none of 
unworthiness, to bring against the person of whom you 
speak. Your information is utterly incorrect, or your imagination has wandered wildly, if you believe the contrary." 

" Nelly !" articulated the astonished lover, " listen to me ! 
It is not my imagination that wanders now. Surely, the 
bond which unites you to him who hopes, in less than two 
months, to call you his wife, is as strong as that binding you 
to Colonel Floyd your guardian, indeed, but merely your 
uncle-in-law ! I ask your forgiveness, if I have erred in sup 
posing that this house was an uncongenial home, from which 
you have often longed to escape ; if I have fancied that Col 
onel Floyd was, at times, a harsh, and, to one of your disposition, an unwelcome protector. But, while sympathizing 
with you in the many trials you bear so beautifully, I do not 



pretend to deny that, out of this bitterness, has sprung some 
sweetness to me. I have loved to picture to myself how 
different shall be your daily life when you are all mine, the 
queen of my home, partner of my fortunes, as you are now 
of my affections. Again let me entreat your pardon, if I 
have offended or grieved you by this my first allusion to a 
subject concerning which you have heretofore avoided speaking. But, my pet does it not seem preposterous in us, 
situated as we are, to cherish these foolish, petty're 
serves ?" 

"It is I who should sue for your forgiveness. I was 
petulant, unjust! I did not understand you! Will you 
pardon me ?" 

His answer was a fervent kiss upon the hand she extended. 

" It is as you have said !" she continued, in the same altered tone gentle pleading almost humble. " This has 
never been a happy home to me. I will be as frank as you 
can desire upon this theme; will discard the reserve you 
deem foolish and childish. My aunt is kind and means well. 
She could not treat any thing unkindly, you know ; but al 
though my father was her brother, she loves Lily far better 
than she does her niece by blood. I try to please and to be 
dutiful to her ; I am sincerely grateful for all she has done 
for me ; but she and Lily assimilate more nearly to one 
another than she and I ever can." 

" I understand !" Robert smiled, a little queerly a gleam 
that was not complimentary to Mrs. Floyd's favorite. 

" I do not murmur at this," added Helen. " I have never 
experienced a moment's jealousy of Lily. She is lovely and 
engaging, and was born to win affection. She used to call 
me her sister, and seemed to esteem me as such ; yet she 
has changed greatly within the past six months. She does 
not mean to be unjust ; still, she treats me coldly, and will 


 

assign no reason for the revolution in her feelings or manner. Colonel Floyd, my uncle, never professed any're 
gard for me ; in fact, I have seen, from the time I came to 
live here, that he disliked me. He is more irritable now 
than ever before sometimes says things that are very hard 
to bear.. Oh, Robert ! but for you I should be driven to 
the belief that I have not the power of retaining the love of 
any one ! The scanty share of this, Life's best gift, which 
Providence ever bestowed upon me, seems all to have slipped 
away. Nobody cares for me now nobody !" 

She wrung her hands and moaned much. 

It was a moment of the most exquisite pain the listener 
ever endured. Blest rich beyond all possibility of spirit- 
need in the consciousness of possessing her affection, he 
could not comprehend this agony of poverty of which she 
eomplained. He would fain have hoped to fill her heart, 
if not so fall as she had his, yet, so well as to leave her no 
cause for such repinings. Repressing the expostulation he 
felt would be selfish and cruel, he told her anew, in words 
whose fervor was not diminished by the sadness in which 
they were uttered, of his devotion, single and entire ; his 
trust that coming years had in reserve for her, sunshine that 
should beguile her into forgetfulness of the gloomy Past. 

She heard him with calming pulses and more composed 
mien. Presently, the bowed face was uplifted, and her eyes 
sought his again a look that was reverence, admiration 
was it love ? So it seemed to his sanguine apprehension, as 
he laid the unresisting head upon his breast, and bent to the 
still quivering lips. 

" My own Nelly ! my precious Love ! my Wife ." 

A cloud, crossing the moon's disc, wrapped every thing in 
obscurity for some moments. The room was upon the 
ground floor, the window-sill low, and, as the moonlight 
broke forth again and suddenly, there fell upon, or between 



 

the lovers, the shadow of a man a long, dark figure, with 
a gun in its hand. 

Helen started, with a terrified ejaculation. 

" Hush !" whispered Robert, smiling. " You know who 
it is?" 

" Yes but it was so unexpected ! so like an evil thing ! 
Come back here, where he cannot see you ! He may look 
in." 

"What if he does?" returned the young gentleman, 
bravely. " I hope he will be edified by the spectacle !" 

But he retired into the shade of the interior of the apart 
ment at her reiterated entreaty. 

The master of the mansion, for he was the startling apparition, remained motionless and sentry-like, his back towards the window, for perhaps three minutes, when his 
shadow was joined by another, shorter, stouter, and less 
erect. This belonged to his only confidential servant, the 
head man in the field, and sub-manager of the estate, a 
negro named Booker, who was sire to the redoubtable Ga 
briel, and to the rest of the slaves not only a taskmaster, 
exacting and pitiless, but a veritable tyrant, a meet tool in 
the hands of his unscrupulous owner. He, too, had his 
weapon, a thick cowhide, and, after a brief conference, the 
pair moved on. 

" Do you patrol your plantation in person ?" questioned 
Helen, abruptly. 

" Neither in person, nor by proxy ! On the contrary, I 
have never permitted any patrolling gang to enter or search 
my servants quarters, except upon , very rare occasions, 
when they had a warrant to examine my premises, togethei 
with those of others in the neighborhood, for stolen prop 
erty." 

" I am very glad ! I cannot describe to you the sensa 
tions of disgust and dread which I experience, whenever  


 

happen to espy those two upon their nightly round. They 
go at irregular hours, sometimes as early as nine o'clock, 
at others not until midnight, that they may take trespassers 
by surprise. Every person is expected to be in his cabin by ten, and if a visitor be discovered, he is peremptorily order 
ed off if he has a pass punished if he has not. You must 
have heard that Colonel Floyd shot a poor fellow, one of 
the Reverdy servants, last year ?" 

" I did ! But he caught him thieving, did he not ? That 
is the popular version of the transaction." 

" That was the story set in circulation to palliate the act, 
for Mr. Reverdy is not a man to submit to wanton injury, 
as Colonel Floyd well knows. But the facts of the case are 
just these : The negro who was shot, a very decent, well- 
behaved young fellow, was in love with Sally, my maid. 
For some reason, best known to himself, Colonel Floyd con 
ceived a dislike for him, and forbade his coming upon the 
plantation, with his master's permission or without. I was 
aware that they still met clandestinely, in spite of this prohibition, and several times warned Sally of the danger they 
incurred by so doing. One night they were straying along 
the edge of the melon-patch, when Colonel Floyd hailed 
them by name, and demanded what they were doing there. 
The girl ran one way, the man another. Unfortunately, 
he went directly across the field of melons. When midway, 
he was fired at and severely wounded. Appearances supported the statement of his pursuers Booker was in attendance upon his master that he was in the act of purloining 
the melons, and on  the side of his oppressor there was 
power. Poor Sally ! it nearly killed her ! She is a good 
girl, and sincerely attached to Thomas, her admirer." 

" We will make up the match again, and give them a 
grand wedding at Greenfield, when Christinas is over," was 
the reply. "Would you be very seriously afflicted if some 






evil-minded or careless hunter were to shoot me in like 
manner, wing me, as a certain fair damsel of my acquaintance once served poor Aleck ?" 

" Don t, please !" she begged, in a tone whose distress 
touched, while it flattered him. 

" I am a selfish dog ! inconsiderate and unkind, to permit 
you to stay in this cold vault of a place so long !" he said, 
anxiously. " Your hands are like two icicles, and you are 
positively shivering ! There is a fire in the dining-room, and 
I want to read you Aleck's last letter. Won't he be over 
whelmed by the pleasant surprise we have in store for 
him?" 

" Do you mean that you have never told him " 

"That we were engaged ? Never ! It was hard work to 
keep the delightful secret, but I could not do the subject 
justice upon paper, and then again I owed him a Roland for 
the Oliver he gave me, in writing the pretty tale of his Ger 
man betrothal to Aunt Ruth, and never whispering it to me ! 
He ought to be shot for the trick the dear old fellow !" 

It was at this moment the shower of paper fragments was 
given to the bitter wind. The brothers each took his last 
look at the stormy moonlight at the same time. 




CHAPTER III. 

HELEN GARDNER sat sewing with her maid, in her chamber 
upon the following day, when Virginia Shore and Lily burst 
in upon her quiet. They had just returned from a shopping 
expedition to the neighboring hamlet, dignified by the name 
of a village. 

" Guess who has come at last !" 

" Whom do you think we met at the Post Office !" they 
cried in concert. 

" The queen of England, or a peer of the realm at the 
very least, if one may judge from the state into which the 
encounter has thrown you both !" responded Helen, with provoking coolness. 

"Pshaw ! nonsense ! make a real guess !" insisted Virginia. 

" The Great Mogul, or the Emperor of Timbuctoo possibly, the Lord High Chamberlain of her maj esty, the Em 
press of Borrio-boola-Gha !" was Helen's next attempt. 
" Sally ! take these young ladies bonnets and shawls, and 
set chairs for them!" 

She went on with her needlework, which was a portion 
of her trousseau. 

"A more interesting personage than any you have yet 
named !" Lily walked up to her cousin, and slipped her 
little hand under her chin, that she might better study her 
expression as the news was communicated : " Alexander the 
Great !" 

" Certainly the most distinguished Zay-man of this're 
gion !" Virginia supplied an additional hint. 

If there were suspicious scrutiny in the gaze which Lily 




would have had convey only the impression of arch mirthfulness, its end was foiled for that time. Helen calmly released 
her face from the hold of the pretty hand. 

" Indeed ! he has arrived unexpectedly ! His friends did 
not look for him until next week, at the earliest. I hope he 
is in good plight." 

" Superb ! magnificent ! irresistible !" rejoined Virginia, 
clasping her fingers and rolling up her eyes in tragi-cornic 
earnestness. " Oh, my poor stricken heart !" 

" Let Sally unhook your dress, so that the afflicted organ 
can thump more freely!" recommended Helen. " Or, if the 
palpitation is very alarming,- try a little hartshorn and 
lavender !" 

" Is that whatf you take when you are thus affected ?" ques 
tioned the young lady, plaintively. 

" Always !" Helen answered, gravely. 

" Then, Sally ! if hartshorn be the cure of love, bring it on !" 
She actually made the amused handmaiden pour out a few 
drops of the sedative mixture into a glass, and dilute the 
potion with water ; then drank it off, and executed a grimace. 

"Faugh! what stuff! the remedy is worse than the 
disease !" 

Lily looked supremely disdainful of all this nonsense. 

" How can you act so ridiculously, Virginia ? And you 
have not once thought to deliver your Irresistible's message 
to Helen!" 

The needlewoman's complexion did vary slightly at this, 
and the swift motion of her hand was less even. 

" Message ! he sent none by me ! It was Mr. Robert Lay, 
who said that they intended riding over this afternoon." 

" I beg your pardon !" said Lily, positively, "but my ears 
are unfortunately quick, and assuredly heard him begin a sen 
tence to you, sotto voce, with, And my quondam playfellow, 
Helen I was too honorable to listen any longer." 






" Indeed, my dear child, your ears deceived you for once. 
I have no recollection of any such language, or if it was used, 
I said that myself !" denied the rattle. " I was talking about 
Helen, part of the time, but there was only a single sentence 
spoken on the subject, I am sure." 

" That was what you two were whispering about, at the 
carriage-door, was it ?" 

"I shall not tell you!" 

Virginia's color arose suspiciously, although she still 
laughed. Helen set her teeth and held her peace, while Lily 
sneered significantly. 

" Oh, well ! it is none of my business ! I introduced the 
matter because I supposed that Helen would be glad to get 
the affectionate greeting which I supposed *was committed 
to your trust by her brother-in-law, that is to be. Nelly, 
dear ! we, Virginia and I, have been talking heresy on our 
way home. We have decided that you did not display your 
best taste in your selection. The elder and dark-haired 
brother is unquestionably the handsomer man of the two." 

" Tastes differ !" replied Helen. " Yours and mine often 
do, Lily!" 

There was nothing on the surface of this speech to call forth 
the gasp and wince of surprise or pain with which Lily 
drew in her breath, yet Helen remarked these, and also the 
sudden quietness of manner with which she next spoke. 

" I am very negligent ! I must go and see if I can give 
mamma" (so she always called Mrs. Floyd), " any assistance 
in her preparations for dinner. I am growing heartily tired 
of dining-days !" 

Helen sewed on in silence when she had gone, and her 
sedate, almost stern composure was an uncomfortable damper 
upon Virginia's merry mood. 

" Do give me some sewing, Nelly ! something that will 
keep these idle hands out of the mischief which some- 




ody, who must not be mentioned, always finds for such 
to do!" 

" I have nothing ready besides what we are doing, thank 
YOU !" 

" Your dresses are to be made in Baltimore, are they not ?" 

"Yes." 

" That is the only decent and comfortable way of getting 
ap a trousseau to commit it to the profession." 

" It is the least troublesome." 

A protracted silence, ended by a desperate effort at reaewed liveliness on the part of the chatter-box. 

" Dear me ! I don't wonder you grow sober and thoughtfu and matronly before your time, sitting here, stitch- 
ng eternally upon your wedding-clothes ! The very sight 
of mine would frighten me out of courage and wits to 
gether ! If I am ever married, it must be upon half an 
four's engagement. I should change my mind, if I had 
eisure to reflect seriously upon what was before me. Honor 
aright, now, Nelly. (Sally! Mrs. Floyd is calling you!) 
[ here is nobody but our two selves here now, dear, and I 
can be the soul of secrecy when I choose don't you some- 
imes get a little, just a tiny bit out of the notion of marry- 
ng even so charming and lovable fellow as Robert Lay if 
le does adore you ? It must be nice to be adored, though ! 
wish somebody would help me to a personal experience 
Upon the subject !" 

"If it were only a notion, I have no doubt that I 
hould, now and then, waver in my intention," said Helen ; 
probably reverse it completely." 

" You mean, then, that it was something more substantial 
han a fancy for his sweet smile, his beautiful eyes and 
matchless whiskers, that induced you to say yes when he 
popped the question?" 
"I do!" 




Helen sustained the saucy examination unflinchingly. 

" And you really excuse my impertinence ! but I am an 
humble, sincere, and earnest inquirer after truth, particularly 
since I have seen the resplendent Alexander and you really 
and truly love this man, whom you are to take by the hand, 
with all your heart, soul, and strength, and are resolved, 
henceforward, forsaking all others, to cleave to him and him 
alone ; to love, honor, and obey, so long as you both shall 
live?" 

" When the proper time for putting that question arrives, 
I shall be prepared with an answer." 

Another freezing silence. 

" Have I offended you ? It is only poor, foolish, rattle- 
pated Ginnie, remember," pleaded the visitor at length. 
" I am going off to dress for dinner now. I have a new 
dress which is perfectly heavenly ! The effect upon Aleck's 
heart must be great, but I shall not enjoy it one whit 
unless you assure me that you are not angry with me." 

"Have I ever been- out of temper with you?" Helen's 
iciness thawed as she saw the half-roguish, half-penitent 
face. " I know what valuation to put on your words, Ginnie. You would never give your worst enemy a sly thru 
in the dark, or stab one to the heart under pretence of 
friendly jest !" 

" Of course I wouldn't be guilty of any such shockin 
things ! And we are quite friends now, aren't we ? I
never try to put you through Cupid's catechism again's 
long as my name is Virginia Shore, and yours Helen Garner. I will wait until you exchange it for Helen Lay. My 
isn't that beautiful ? Kiss me, and I am gone !" 

Helen locked the door after her. 

" I could not have borne it two minutes longer ! Poof 
weak, pitiful fool that I am ! whom straws like these can 
pierce to the quick ! Oh ! howl hate myself!" She struck



 

hard upon her breast with her clinched hand. " And he 
dared to send a light message to me ! could speak jestingly 
of our former intercourse to that heedless, giddy creature ! 
It was like him ! His behavior has the merit of consistency, 
to say no more !" Jfc 

She took a note from her work-box. Robert had sent it 
to her that morning, and thereby prepared her to expect 
the tidings brought by the girls. 

" MY DEAEEST HELEN : 

"Picture, as your affectionate heart 

will teach you to do, my surprise and happiness at finding 
Aleck here when I returned home ! I think I have never 
been happier (excepting once) in all my life than I am at 
this moment, as I scribble this, and the blessed old fellow 
sits, smilingly, watching my nervous, wayward fingers 
unmanageable through very joy. He is well, and better- 
looking than ever ; true as steel ; good as gold ! the same 
noble, generous soul whom we parted with so sadly when 
our trio was broken two years ago. What do you think of 
his having divined our secret so far as to provide himself 
with a wedding-present for you before leaving Paris ? So, 

the surprise bonbon I have treasured up against his arrival, 
is all thrown away. I always knew that his instincts were 

unusually fine. I suppose you will slyly insinuate that may- 
be I am deficient in the art of keeping a secret. I do not de 
ny it, when the person to be kept in the dark is one I love. 
" I write to notify you that you may expect a visit from 

just to-day if agreeable to yourself. We shall probably be 
with you at dinner-time. Aleck is naturally impatient to 
see you again ; and when did I fail to avail myself of any 
and every opportunity of seeking your presence ? 
" In haste, but none the less fondly, your own, 





She went over it twice ; she had read it many times be 
fore, the proud lines of her features hardening at each word ; 
refolded it, and deliberately thrust it into the fire. Then 
she unlocked the door, rang up her maid, and began a 
studied toilette for dinner. 

There was other company expected to partake of that 
repast. The Floyds kept an open house from one year's 
end to the other, and these impromptu dinner-parties were, 
at the lowest computation, of semi-weekly occurrence. One 
or two families from the neighborhood were bidden on this 
occasion, as the nominal nucleus of the social gathering ; 
and to this Lily and Virginia had, in the course of their 
morning's drive, added several other cavaliers besides the 
brothers Lay. When Aleck and Robert presented them 
selves in the parlor, their ears were saluted by the hum of 
many voices, and they beheld divers knots of talkers scat 
tered about the room. Mrs. Floyd entertained four or five 
matrons, seated upon a sofa and in rocking-chairs in one 
corner ; the colonel had his cluster of politicians and fox- 
hunters upon the hearth, at the far end of the apartment  
Virginia Shore was " carrying on" in her most extravagant 
style, standing in the middle of the floor, surrounded by a 
bevy of beaux ; and Lily Calvert more ethereal than was 
common, even with her, in her blue silk robe, her sloping 
shoulders veiled thinly by a tulle cape- had her coterie, at a 
little distance from her vivacious friend. 

Upon none of these personages, individually or collect 
ively, did the eyes of the fresh arrivals rest for more than 
second. Robert was quick to observe that Helen stood by 
the western window, chatting with Tom Shore, and tha 
she was very beautiful, as seen in the rich glow of the sun 
shine, streaming through the crimson curtain ; and having 
made his bow to hostess and host, waited impatiently for 
the subsidence of the buzz of welcome and congratulation 



that swelled towards and around Aleck. The travelher received his old friends with great apparent heartiness and a 
subdued show of joviality ; had a cheery word and a hand 
grip for the gentlemen, and a pretty speech for each lady, 
foung and old. Virginia Shore began to think, as she 
narked his progress from one to another of the fair ones, 
svho vied with their fathers and brothers in the warmth of 
their greetings, that she had acted very foolishly verdantly, 
the expressed it to herself in hoarding up, as something 
soo beautiful and precious to be told to Lily and Helen, the 
ugared nothings he had breathed into her willing ear at 
he carriage-door, that forenoon. 

All this time Robert did not approach his betrothed ; 
nade his smile and bow from afar off, the testimonials that 
le acknowledged and rejoiced in her presence. He wished 
to present his brother with himself before her. Nor did 
he stir from her position, or manifest the slightest agitation 
It their entrance. She looked at Aleck, as politeness adised and curiosity seemed to dictate, when Tom Shore re- 
narked aside upon his tanned cheek and hirsute ornaments ; 
Assented naturally, yet nonchalantly, to that youth's refined 
Lsseveration, that "Lay was a blamed handsome fellow, in 
spite of his dark skin and Turkish beard." This was generous, for Tom thought himself an Adonis, and his skin was 
ke milk and roses, his hair fair and curly, his love of a 
louth" tinct as with carmine ; his cleft chin innocent of whisers, or, sooth to say, any promise of the same. At last, pa- 
ent waiting had its reward in Robert's bearing off the prize, 
nd the two neared Miss Gardner. She advanced a step a 
ueen could not have done less and held out a hand that 
as neither chill nor tremulous, to salute the wanderer. 
" We are glad to see you at home again, Mr. Lay ! You 
have taken all your friends by surprise. Had you a pleasant 
voyage ?" 





And yet she was standing, her hand in his, upon the spot 
where she had heard his hasty, passionate farewell; where 
he had pressed the pledge-ring upon her finger ! Involuntarily he glanced down. It was not there ! In place of the 
plain gold circlet there sparkled a diamond hoop his brother's gift. What else could he have expected ? If she noticed the look quick as a flash of light no one else did, nor 
did other ears detect the faintest shade of sarcasm in his 
rejoinder. 

"Very pleasant, thank you, swift and smooth as time 
seems to have flowed for the old acquaintances I meet here 
to-day. I cannot realize that twice twelve months have 
passed since I left the homestead and my boyhood's com 
panions since the evening of our parting, Miss Helen ! By 
the way, it took place in this identical room, did it not ?" 

" I believe it did !" as calmly courteous as himself. 

" Here you shed the parting tear, 
To cross the ocean foam," 

said Tom Shore, who, like his sister, was addicted to quotation from latter-day poets, or, more correctly speaking, 
rhymesters and song-writers. 

" Exactly with the trifling difference that ours was dry- 
eyed mourning," answered Aleck. 

" You cannot take exception to the concluding lines of the 
verse," said Helen. 

" Now, I'm once again with those 
"Who gladly greet me home. 

Your Home again is too obviously an occasion of unfeigned 
and general rejoicing for you to question its heartiness." 

"Thank you!" He bowed profoundly. "I do you th 
justice to believe you sincere at all times, and in all tha 
you do !" 

At this juncture, Tom Shore albeit his constitutional in 




firmity was not an overplus of modesty was seized by the 
impression that the part allotted to him by existing circum 
stances, in this particular locality, was that of second fiddle, 
and walked off in quest of less distinguished company. 
Simultaneously with his withdrawal, Robert obeyed the 
imperious beck of Lily Calvert's fairy forefinger, and, to 
Helen's consternation and Aleck's chagrin, they found them- 
jselves the only occupants of the window recess. 

Consternation nor chagrin outlived the shock of the 
I disco very of their situation. Both would have done all in 
their power, consistent with outward propriety, to avoid 
i the tete-a-tete ; but, now that it was forced upon them, each 
experienced an interest in its progress and results, painful, yet not devoid of a certain strange sweetness. They 
talked of common-place topics ; of neighborhood changes and 
foreign travel. The most jealous lover might have heard 
every word, noted and weighed the import of every intona 
tion and glance, and felt no misgivings as to the standing of 
the colloquists with regard to one another. The past as 
theirs was not referred to in the most remote manner, yet 
it was not practicable for Aleck to continue the cruelly significant badinage which was, to Robert and young Shore, 
but pleasant trifling between old friends. It seemed unmanly and irreverent a thing of which he was ashamed, as 
he looked at, and listened to her ; as if, while they talked, 
the bier, holding the shrouded corpse of his boyish hope and 
manhood's aim, lay between them. 

Whether or not the pride and bitterness passed away, 
 likewise, from Helen's spirit, all trace of either disappeared 
from her demeanor. She ceased to question and reply with 
the elaborate show of strained civility that had hailed his 
approach, and characterized her conversation while others 
were by. It was no longer easy to meet his eyes with 
steady, haughty gaze ; to fling back retort for innuendo ; to 




repay counterfeit courtesy with lofty indifference. The truth 
was that neither had, in his or her anticipations of the in 
terview, taken into account the subtile and sure effect of the 
personal presence; the wondrous magnetism of voice and 
look and action ; the indescribable fascination lingering in 
each and all of these ; every one bringing up its swift train 
of memories, and each link in the chain reuniting, as by 
magic, with the rest, to draw their hearts once more 
together. The awakening, and anguish, and shame, and 
renewed resolves for future conduct with it, would come 
by-and-by; for the present, they saw nothing beyond the 
tumultuous joy of being again with one another, after the 
dreary blank of absence. When dinner was announced, 
Aleck offered his arm, which was silently accepted. Robert 
walked before them, in attendance upon Lily. Devoted in 
appearance to his fair companion, he yet found a favorable 
opportunity for throwing back a smile to his brother and 
Helen. Its gleam of affectionate meaning, its guileless trust 
and hopefulness, were not lost upon them. When they took 
their seats in the dining-room, Helen's cheek had lost its 
blush, and her eye its softness, and beyond offering her the 
ordinary civilities of the occasion, Aleck paid her no attention while they remained at the board. 

It was after sunset when the gentlemen rejoined the 
ladies in the drawing-room. Robert, having seen that 
Helen was not there, bethought himself, as was his wont, 
of the least admired or least courted person of the com 
pany; and finding her in the shape of a shy school-girl, 
ensconced in the nook between the piano and wall, sat 
down in front of her, and tried to draw her into conversation. The barrier of bashfulness and nervous timidity was 
being rapidly undermined by his sedulous tact, when Gabriel 
wormed his way through the talkative groups, dispersed 
irregularly about the room, up to the two in the corner. 




"Was you de lady what asked for a glass of water, 
ma 'am?" presenting a salver, with a goblet upon it. 

" No !" said the girl, in surprise. 

" Beg a thousand pardons, ma 'am ! sorry for de mistake, 
I'm sure, ma 'am!" 

He bowed himself backwards a bit of court etiquette, 
upon whose acquisition and practice he plumed himself 
mightily, and steered off in another direction ; but not before 
he had adroitly dropped into Robert Lay's hand a folded paper. Although the latter divined intuitively and through his 
recollection of precedents the authorship of the wee note, 
hidden so soon as it fell in the hollow of his palm, and 
burned with desire to learn its purport, he retained his position some minutes longer, until he could signal Tom Shore to 
come and occupy it. Tom was dandified and conceited, but 
he was kind-hearted withal, and, to gratify Robert, would 
have undergone ordeals yet more trying, if that were possible, than expending his time and fascinations upon a girl 
who was neither pretty, witty, nor rich, nor yet " know 
ing" enough to appreciate him ; " smacking," as he decided, 
" rather too much of school bread and butter." 

Robert read his precious billet by the hall window. It 
was, as he had supposed, from Helen, and a simple request 
that he would meet her at " the spring," where she would 
wait half an hour for his coming. Hastily taking down his 
overcoat and hat from the row of pegs in the wainscot, he 
was in the act of putting them on, when he heard through 
the dining-room door, which was ajar, Lily's voice, sharp 
with pettishness, yet silvery still. 

" Where did you get the note I saw you give Mr. Lay, 
just now ?" 

" Twouldn't be honorable in me fur to tell what I'm 
ordered not to, Miss Lily !" said Gabriel, respectfully but 
stoutly. 




" Don't answer me in that way, sir !" 

It conflicted sorely with Robert's feelings and sense of 
justice to leave his Eboe ally exposed to the assaults of 
womanly pique and curiosity ; and, not waiting to hear 
more of the dialogue, he stepped across the hall, making as 
much bustle as he conveniently could, and tapped at the 
door. 

" Miss Lily !" he called. 

" Come in !" said the clear tones, with a perceptible 
change of key. 

Gabriel took advantage of the diversion, and vanished, 
like a shadow, through another portal. Lily started at 
sight of her guest's great-coat, and the hat in his hand. 

" You are not going yet, surely !" 

" Only for a walk with Helen." He smiled, and hesitated 
in pronouncing the name. " I wanted to ask you our 
dear little sister to contrive that our absence should not 
provoke the criticism of gossiping tongues, if there are any 
such instruments of mischief among the good people in the 
other room. I will do the same for you some day, when 
you are situated as we now are !" 

She made no reply, except a nod of acquiescence stood 
looking down into the fire with her great sorrowful eyes, 
so large and mournful and there was such an air of desolation expressed in her fragile figure and pale face, that 
Robert felt impelled to say some comforting or friendly 
word before leaving her there alone. 

" I am afraid that we your cousin and myself may 
appear selfish to your apprehension sometimes, Lily ; but it 
is only your imagination that leads you to believe that 
there is any real diminution of our regard for you. You 
must not bear me a grudge because I am happy in the 
thought of taking her away from you. Our home will al 
ways be yours ; for she loves you as fondly as ever ; and, 



 

for myself, I can truly say that you were never dearer to 
me than you are now, while I have in view the blessed 
prospect of the closer the soon to be formed between us." 

He spoke caressingly, for he had known Lily from her 
babyhood, and petted her to this day and hour, as did 
nearly everybody else. 

One of her hands scarcely larger and quite as soft to 

the touch as a petal of her name-flower lay passively 

within his fraternal grasp ; his head was bent towards her 

in protecting tenderness, that looked lover-like, when the 

i door at the side of the fire-place was pushed back, and in 

walked Colonel Floyd ! 

In confusion or alarm, his niece snatched her hand away 
from Robert, with a faint " Oh !" 

" I thought that you were both in the parlor," said the 
guardian, his dark features gathering additional grimness 
from his corrugated brow. 

Robert's pleasant tones answered the reproof he knew 
was aimed at Lily. 

" So we were, three minutes ago, sir ! I was on my way 
out to take an after-dinner stroll the constitutional one 
is apt to need after Mrs. Floyd's dinners, Colonel ! and hear 
ing Miss Lily's voice, as I passed that door, I stepped in to 
angage her kind offices in covering or excusing my tempo 
rary absence." 

" The precaution was needless, Mr. Lay ! It is my wish 
and request that my friends should be free to come and go 
it pleasure, in my house." 

" No one knows that better than I do, sir. Still, my 
withdrawal from society, such as is collected in the parlor, 
juight subject me to the charge of moroseness, or a want 
of gallantry. I shall not be gone long. The bracing air 
will soon clear my brain from the fumes of that last glass 
of champagne." 


He bowed, with his frank, boyish laugh, and went out. 

Lily also moved, as if to go to the parlor, but her uncle 
prevented her. 

" Lily !" 

" Sir !" 

" Is this fine story true, or has that smooth-tongued beau- 
general been making love to you ? One girl at a time is 
enough for most men." 

" Love to me, sir !" Her eyes glittered, as polished steel 
does in the sunlight. " Do you, then, think that I would 
submit to that insult ? for insult it would be from an en 
gaged man !" 

" You might do worse, girl ! Why did you let him 
slip through your net in the first instance ? You angled 
badly." 

" I never had any hold upon him, sir. If I had " 

Colonel Floyd's smile was one of sinister gratification, as 
he studied her face and translated the language of the ges 
ture that finished the sentence. 

" If you had, you are no true Floyd if you allowed him to 
stray with impunity. If you possessed your mother's spirit 
you would not give him up alive. I have watched him and 
her, too, and I tell you, on the authority of one who is seldom mistaken in his judgment of character and feelings, 
that he may still be yours, if you care to make the effort to 
lure him back." 

" Uncle ! You forget that he is to marry Helen next 
month !" 

" Tut, child ! Matches have been broken off at the altar 
before now ! You have a stout will of your own, and a 
quick wit and lie is worth having /" 

She was left alone the girl so early and so terribly 
orphaned left with the fiery Floyd blood, of which her 
tempter had reminded her, swelling and boiling in her 





veins, and his strange, artful insinuations working in her 
mind, revolving in the brain he had truly described as quick 
and shrewd. She had little respect for her guardian, and 
few loved him except the wife he daily trampled in the 
dust ; but Lily had confidence in his boasted acquaintance 
with men and the world's ways his penetrative discrimination of action and motive. He had evidently divined a 
secret she had imagined was buried from all mortal ken, in 
the depths of her own mourning heart. Might it not be 
that he was equally sagacious in reading those of the be 
trothed pair ? 

She roamed up and down through the firelit room, her 
hands chafing one another, and the colorless cheeks whiter 
still than before if that could be under the strivings and 
insidious promptings of the passions he had so cunningly 
aroused. She spoke once, with energy and fire that seemed 
to threaten the rending of the slight, shaking frame. It was 
an appeal to Divinity not the cry of a soul that felt the 
danger of the impending shipwreck among the billows of 
lawless affections " Save ! or I perish !" or the lowlier 
prayer of the tried, yet faithful heart, " Leave me not to 
temptation !" but a sudden, insane-sounding ejaculation : 

" Worth having ! Oh, Heaven ! do I not know that 

too well already !" 



CHAPTER IV. 

" THE spring" was between three and four hundred yards 
distant from the mansion-house, at the foot of the hill on 
which the building was situated ; and beyond the arch of 
rude masonry covering the fountain arose another eminence, 
thickly wooded and cleft with ravines the outskirts of the 
extensive forests attached to the plantation. 

The night was cold, but there was no wind stirring, and 
far up towards the zenith the moon rode in unclouded majesty. The frosted earth and brittle grass crackled under 
Robert's tread as he sought the trysting-place. The walk 
was a familiar one, and a favorite with him ; doubly dear 
since the scene of four months agone that had hallowed the 
rustic fount forever. With the gurgling flow of its waters 
had been blent the first vows of love he had breathed in the 
ear of her who now sat awaiting him upon the gray stone 
that had been their resting-place then. She was not alone. 
Withdrawn to a respectful distance behind her mistress 
stood a woman, whom Robert recognized with a kindly 
"How do you do, Sally?" 

Helen rose immediately and took his proffered arm. Until 
he spoke she had remained quietly seated, her head resting 
upon her hand, apparently buried in absorbing thought. 

" Have I kept you waiting ?" he asked. " I was afraid 
that I should. Gabriel may have met with unavoidable delays in delivering your note, fertile in ruses though he is, 
nor could I get away directly it reached me without attracting attention." 



"You came sooner than I expected. You may have 
thought my message a singular one, but I wished to talk 
with you, and I knew that we could not procure the opportunity for uninterrupted conversation anywhere within doors 
this evening." 

" Not in the grotto ? " asked Robert, smiling. " Do not 
apologize, I entreat you ! Your suggestion it was too modest to be called a request, much less an appointment was 
highly proper, and eminently acceptable. The most starched 
prude in America could not condemn it, especially as Sally 
is in attendance," casting a backward glance at the girl, 
who, with her shawl wrapped about her head in true 
Dinah fashion had seated herself in the shadow of the 
stone arch. 

Helen tried to imitate his mirthful tone. 

" You surely know why I brought her along !" 

