figures ranged upon it. They were well-grown boys, young thieves some
of them, to judge by their looks; and dirty and ragged so as to be
objects of abhorrence much more than of anything else to his eye. Yet
to these squalid, filthy, hardened looking little wretches, scarcely
decent in their rags, Eleanor was most earnestly talking; there was no
avoidance in her air. Her face he could not see; he could guess at its
expression, from the turns of her head to one and another, and the
motions of her hands, with which she was evidently helping out the
meaning of her words; and also from the earnest gaze that her
unpromising hearers bent upon her. He could hear the soft varying play
of her voice as she addressed them. Mr. Carlisle grew restless. There
was a more evident and tremendous gap between himself and her than he
had counted upon. Was she doing this like a Catholic, for penance, or
to work out good deeds to earn heaven like a philanthropist? While he
pondered the matter, in increasing restlessness, mind and body helping
each other; for the atmosphere of the room was heavy and stifling from
the foul human beings congregated there, and it must require a very
strong motive in anybody to be there at all; he could hardly bear it
himself; an incident occurred which gave a little variety to his
thoughts. As he stood in the alley, leaning on the end of a form where
no one sat, a boy came in and passed him; brushing so near that Mr.
Carlisle involuntarily shrank back. Such a looking fellow-creature he
had never seen until that day. Mr. Carlisle had lived in the other half
of the world. This was a half-grown boy, inexpressibly forlorn in his
rags and wretchedness. An old coat hung about him, much too large and
long, that yet did not hide a great rent in his trowsers which shewed
that there was no shirt beneath. But the face! The indescribable
brutalized, stolid, dirty, dumb look of badness and hardness! Mr.
Carlisle thought he had never seen such a face. One round portion of it
had been washed, leaving the dark ring of dirt all circling it like a
border, where the blessed touch of water had not come. The boy moved
on, with a shambling kind of gait, and to Mr. Carlisle's horror, paused
at the form of Eleanor's class. Yes,--he was going in there, he
belonged there; for she looked up and spoke to him; Mr. Carlisle could
hear her soft voice saying something about his being late. Then came a
transformation such as Mr. Carlisle would never have believed possible.
A light broke upon that brutalized face; actually a light; a smile that
was like a heavenly sunbeam in the midst of those rags and dirt
irradiated; as a rough thick voice spoke out in answer to her--"Yes--if
I didn't come, I knowed you would be disappointed."
Evidently they were friends, Eleanor and that boy; young thief, young
rascal, though Mr. Carlisle's eye pronounced him. They were on good
terms, even of affection; for only love begets love. The lesson went
on, but the gentleman stood in a maze till it was finished. The notes
of Eleanor's voice in the closing hymn, which he was sure he could
distinguish, brought him quite back to himself. Now he might speak to
her again. He had felt as if there were a barrier between them. Now he
would test it.
He had to wait yet a little while, for Eleanor was talking to one or
two elderly gentlemen. Nobody to move his jealousy however; so Mr.
Carlisle bore the delay with what patience he could; which in that
stifling atmosphere was not much. How could Eleanor endure it? As at
last she came down the room, he met her and offered his arm. Eleanor
took it, and they went out together.
"I did not know you were in the school," she said.
"I would not disturb you. Thomas is not here--Mrs. Powle wanted him at
home."
Which was Mr. Carlisle's apology for taking his place. Or somewhat more
than Thomas's place; for he not only put Eleanor in a carriage, but
took a seat beside her. The drive began with a few moments of silence.
"How do you do?" was his first question.
"Very well."
"Must I take it on trust? or do you not mean I shall see for myself?"
said he. For there had been a hidden music in Eleanor's voice, and she
had not turned her face from the window of the carriage. At this
request however she gave him a view of it. The hidden sweetness was
there too; he could not conceive what made her look so happy. Yet the
look was at once too frank and too deep for his personal vanity to get
any food from it; no surface work, but a lovely light on brow and lip
that came from within. It had nothing to do with him. It was something
though, that she was not displeased at his being there; his own face
lightened.
"What effect does Field-Lane generally have upon you?" said he.
"It tires me a little--generally. Not to-day."
"No, I see it has not; and how you come out of that den, looking as you
do, I confess is an incomprehensible thing to me. What has pleased you
there?"
A smile came upon Eleanor's face, so bright as shewed it was but the
outbreaking of the light he had seen there before. His question she met
with another.
"Did nothing there please you?"
"Do you mean to evade my inquiry?"
"I will tell you what pleased me," said Eleanor. "Perhaps you
remarked--whereabouts were you?"
"A few feet behind you and your scholars."
"Then perhaps you remarked a boy who came in when the lesson was partly
done--midway in the time--a boy who came in and took his seat in my
class."
"I remarked him--and you will excuse me for saying, I do not understand
how pleasure can be connected in anybody's mind with the sight of him."
"Of course you do not. That boy has been a most notorious pickpocket
and thief."
"Exactly what I should have supposed."
"Did you observe that he had washed his face?"
"I think I observed how imperfectly it was done."
"Ah, but it is the first time probably in years that it has touched
water, except when his lips touched it to drink. Do you know, that is a
sign of reformation?"
"Water?"
"Washing. It is the hardest thing in the world to get them to forego
the seal and the bond of dirt. It is a badge of the community of guilt.
If they will be brought to wash, it is a sign that the bond is
broken--that they are willing to be out of the community; which will I
suppose regard them as suspected persons from that time. Now you can
understand why I was glad."
Hardly; for the fire and water sparkling together in Eleanor's eyes
expressed so much gladness that it quite went beyond Mr. Carlisle's
power of sympathy. He remained silent a few moments.
"Eleanor, I wish you would answer one question, which puzzles me. Why
do you go to that place?"
"You do not like it?"
"No, nor do you. What takes you there?"
"There are more to be taught than there are teachers for," said Eleanor
looking at her questioner. "They want help. You must have seen, there
are none too many to take care of the crowds that come; and many of
those teachers are fatigued with attendance in the week."
"Do you go in the week?"
"No, not hitherto."
"You must not think of it! It is as much as your life is worth to go
Sundays. I met several companies of most disorderly people on my
way--do you not meet such?"
"Yes."
"What takes you there, Eleanor, through such horrors?"
"I have no fear."
"No, I suppose not; but will you answer my question?"
"You will hardly be able to understand me," said Eleanor hesitating. "I
like to go to these poor wretches, because I love them. And if you ask
me why I love them,--I know that the Lord Jesus loves them; and he is
not willing they should be in this forlorn condition; and so I go to
try to help get them out of it."
"If the Supreme Ruler is not willing there should be this class of
people, Eleanor, how come they to exist?"
"You are too good a philosopher, Mr. Carlisle, not to know that men are
free agents, and that God leaves them the exercise of their free
agency, even though others as well as themselves suffer by it. I
suppose, if those a little above them in the social scale had lived
according to the gospel rule, this class of people never would have
existed."
"What a reformer you would make, Eleanor!"
"I should not suit you? Yes--I do not believe in any radical way of
reform but one."
"And that is, what?--counsellor."
"Do unto others as you would that others should do unto you."
"Radical enough! You must reform the reformers first, I suppose you
know."
"I know it."
"Then, hard as it is for me to believe it, you do not go to Field-Lane
by way of penance?"
"The penance would be, to make me stay away."
"Mrs. Powle will do that, unless I contrive to disturb the action of
her free agency; but I think I shall plunge into the question of
reform, Eleanor. Speaking of that, how much reformation has been
effected by these Ragged institutions?"
"Very much; and they are only as it were beginning, you must remember."
"Room for amendment still," said Mr. Carlisle. "I never saw such a
disorderly set of scholars in my life before. How do you find an
occasional somersault helps a boy's understanding of his lesson?"
"Those things were constant at first; not occasional," said Eleanor
smiling; "somersaults, and leaping over the forms, and shouts and
catcalls, and all manner of uproarious behaviour. That was before I
ever knew them. But now, think of that boy's washed face!"
"That was the most partial reformation I ever saw rejoiced in," said
Mr. Carlisle.
"It gives hope of everything else, though. You have no idea what a bond
that community of dirt is. But there are plenty of statistics, if you
want those, Mr. Carlisle. I can give you enough of them; shewing what
has been done."
"Will you shew them to me to-night?"
"To-night? it is Sunday. No, but to-morrow night, Mr. Carlisle; or any
other time."
"Eleanor, you are very strict!"
"Not at all. That is not strictness; but Sunday is too good to waste
upon statistics."
She said it somewhat playfully, with a shilling of her old arch smile,
which did not at all reassure her companion.
"Besides, Mr. Carlisle, you like strictness a great deal better than I
do. There is not a law made in our Queen's reign or administered under
her sceptre, that you would not have fulfilled to the letter--even down
to the regulations that keep little boys off the grass. It is only the
laws of the Great King which you do not think should be strictly kept."
She was grave enough now, and Mr. Carlisle swallowed the reproof as
best he might.
"Eleanor, you are going to turn preacher too, as well as reformer?
Well, I will come to you, dear, and put myself under your influences.
You shall do what you please with me."
Too much of a promise, and more of a responsibility than Eleanor chose
to take. She went into the house with a sober sense that she had a
difficult part to play; that between Mr. Carlisle and her mother, she
must walk very warily or she would yet find herself entangled before
she was aware. And Mr. Carlisle too had a sober sense that Eleanor's
religious character was not of a kind to exhale, like a volatile oil,
under the sun of prosperity or the breezes of flattery. Nevertheless,
the more hard to reach the prize, the more of a treasure when reached.
He never wanted her more than now; and Mr. Carlisle had always, by
skill and power, obtained what he wanted. He made no doubt he would
find this instance like the others.
For the present, the thing was to bring a bill into parliament "for the
reformation of juvenile offenders"--and upon its various provisions Mr.
Carlisle came daily to consult Eleanor, and take advice and receive
information. Doubtless there was a great deal to be considered about
the bill, to make it just what it should be; to secure enough and not
insist upon too much; its bearings would be very important, and every
point merited well the deepest care and most circumspect management. It
enlisted Eleanor's heart and mind thoroughly; how should it not? She
spent hours and hours with Mr. Carlisle over it; wrote for him, read
for him, or rather for those the bill wrought for; talked and discussed
and argued, for and against various points which she felt would make
for or against its best success. Capital for M. Carlisle. All this
brought him into constant close intercourse with her, and gave him
opportunities of recommending himself. And not in vain. Eleanor saw and
appreciated the cool, clear business head; the calm executive talent,
which seeing its ends in the distance, made no hurry but took the steps
and the measures surest to attain them, with patient foresight. She
admired it, and sometimes also could almost have trembled when she
thought of its being turned towards herself. And was it not, all the
while? Was not Eleanor tacitly, by little and little, yielding the
ground she fought so hard to keep? Was she not quietly giving her
affirmative to the world's question,--and to Mr. Carlisle's too? To the
former, yes; for the latter, she knew and Mr. Carlisle knew that she
shewed him no more than the regard that would not satisfy him. But
then, if this went on indefinitely, would not he, and the world, and
her mother, all say that she had given him a sort of prescriptive right
to her? Ay, and Eleanor must count her father too now as among her
adversaries' ranks. She saw it and felt it somewhat bitterly. She had
begun to gain his ear and his heart; by and by he might have listened
to her on what subject she pleased, and she might have won him to the
knowledge of the truth that she held dearest. Now, she had gained his
love certainly, in a measure, but so had Mr. Carlisle. Gently,
skilfully, almost unconsciously it seemed, he was as much domiciled in
her father's room as she was; and even more acceptable. The Squire had
come to depend on him, to look for him, to delight in him; and with
very evident admission that he was only anticipating by a little the
rights and privileges of sonship. Eleanor could not absent herself
neither; she tried that; her father would have her there; and there was
Mr. Carlisle, as much at home, and sharing with her in filial offices
as a matter of rule, and associating with her as already one of the
family. It is true, in his manner to Eleanor herself he did not so step
beyond bounds as to give her opportunity to check him; yet even over
this there stole insensibly a change; and Eleanor felt herself getting
deeper and deeper in the toils. Her own manner meanwhile was nearly
perfect in its simple dignity. Except in the interest of third party
measures, which led her sometimes further than she wanted to go,
Eleanor kept a very steady way, as graceful as it was steady. So
friendly and frank as to give no cause of umbrage; while it was so cool
and self-poised as to make Mr. Carlisle very uneasy and very desperate.
It was just the manner he admired in a woman; just what he would like
to see in his wife, towards all the rest of the world. Eleanor charmed
him more by her high-bred distance, than ever she had done by the
affection or submissiveness of former days. But he was pretty sure of
his game. Let this state of things go on long enough, and she would
have no power to withdraw; and once his own, let him have once again
the right to take her to his breast and whisper love or authority, and
he knew he could win that fine sweet nature to give him back love as
well as obedience,--in time. And so the bill went on in its progress
towards maturity. It did not go very fast.
All this while the sisters saw very little of each other. One morning
Eleanor waylaid Julia as she was passing her door, drew her in, and
turned the key in the lock. The first impulse of the two was to spring
to each other's arms for a warm embrace.
"I never have a chance to speak to you, darling," said the elder
sister. "What has become of you?"
"O I am so busy, you see--all the times except when you are gone out,
or talking in the drawing-room to people, or in papa's room. Then I am
out, and you are out too; somewhere else."
"Out of what?"
"Out of my studies, and teachers, and governesses. I must go now in two
minutes."
"No you must not. Sit down; I want to see you. Are you remembering what
we have learnt together?"
"Sometimes--and sometimes it is hard, you see. Everything is so
scratchy. O Eleanor, are you going to marry Mr. Carlisle?"
"No. I told you I was not."
"Everybody says you are, though. Are you sure you are not?"
"Quite sure."
"I almost wish you were; and then things would go smooth again."
"What do you mean by their being 'scratchy'? that is a new word."
"Well, everything goes cross. I am in ever so many dictionaries besides
English--and shut up to learn 'em--and mamma don't care what becomes of
me if she can only keep me from you; and I don't know what you are
doing; and I wish we were all home again!"
Eleanor sighed.
"I call it scratchy," said Julia. "Everybody is trying to do what
somebody else don't like."
"I hope you are not going on that principle,"--said her sister, with a
smile which made Julia spring to her neck again and load her lips with
kisses over and over.
"I'll try to do what you like, Eleanor--only tell me what. Tell me
something, and I will remember it."
"Julia, are you going to be a servant of Christ? have you forgotten
that you said you loved him?"
"No, and I do, Eleanor! and I want to do right; but I am so busy, and
then I get so vexed!"
"That is not like a servant of Jesus, darling."
"No. If I could only see you, Eleanor! Tell me something to remember,
and I will keep it in my head, in spite of all the dictionaries."
"Keep it in your life, Julia. Remember what Jesus said his servants
must be and how they must do--just in this one little word--'And ye
yourselves like them that wait for their Lord.'"
"How, Eleanor?"
"That is what we are, dear. We are the Lord's servants, put here to
work for him, put just in the post where he wishes us to be, till he
comes. Now let us stand in our post and do our work, 'like them that
wait for their Lord.' You know how that would be."
Julia again kissed and caressed her, not without some tears.
"I know," she said; "it is like Mr. Rhys, and it is like you; and I
don't believe it is like anybody else."
"Shall it be like you, Julia?"
"Yes, Eleanor, yes! I will never forget it. O Eleanor, are you sure you
are not going to Rythdale?"
"What makes you ask me?"
"Why everybody thinks so, and everybody says so; and you--you are with
Mr. Carlisle all the time, talking to him."
"I have so many thoughts to put into his head," said Eleanor gravely.
"What are you so busy with him about?"
"Parliament business. It is for the poor of London, Julia. Mr. Carlisle
is preparing a bill to bring into the House of Commons, and I know more
about the matter than he does; and so he comes to me."
"Don't you think he is glad of his ignorance?" said Julia shrewdly.
Eleanor leaned her head on her hand and looked thoughtfully down.
"What do you give him thoughts about?"
"My poor boys would say, 'lots of things.' I have to convince Mr.
Carlisle that it would cost the country less to reform than to punish
these poor children, and that reforming them is impossible unless we
can give them enough to keep them from starvation; and that the common
prison is no place for them; and then a great many questions besides
these and that spring out of these have to be considered and talked
over. And it is important beyond measure; and if I should let it
alone,--the whole might fall to the ground. There are two objections
now in Mr. Carlisle's mind--or in other people's minds--to one thing
that ought to be done, and must be done; and I must shew Mr. Carlisle
how false the objections are. I have begun; I must go through with it.
The whole might fall to the ground if I took away my hand; and it would
be such an incalculable blessing to thousands and thousands in this
dreadful place--"
"Do you think London is a dreadful place?" said Julia doubtfully.
"There are very few here who stand 'like them that wait for their
Lord,'"--said Eleanor, her face taking a yearning look of
thoughtfulness.
"There aren't anywhere, I don't believe. Eleanor--aren't you happy?"
"Yes!"
"You don't always look--just--so."
"Perhaps not. But to live for Jesus makes happy days--be sure of that,
Julia; however the face looks."
"Are you bothered about Mr. Carlisle?"
"What words you use!" said Eleanor smiling. "'Bother,' and 'scratchy.'
No, I am not bothered about him--I am a little troubled sometimes."
"What's the difference?"
"The difference between seeing one's way clear, and not seeing it; and
the difference between having a hand to take care of one, and not
having it."
"Well why do you talk to him so much, if he troubles you?" said Julia,
reassured by her sister's smile.
"I must," said Eleanor. "I must see through this business of the
bill--at all hazards. I cannot let that go. Mr. Carlisle knows I do not
compromise myself."
"Well, I'll tell you what," said Julia getting up to go,--"mamma means
you shall go to Rythdale; and she thinks you are going."
With a very earnest kiss to Eleanor, repeated with an emphasis which
set the seal upon all the advices and promises of the morning, Julia
went off. Eleanor sat a little while thinking; not long; and met Mr.
Carlisle the next time he came, with precisely the same sweet
self-possession, the unchanged calm cool distance, which drove that
gentleman to the last verge of passion and patience. But he was master
of himself and bided his time, and talked over the bill as usual.
It was not Eleanor alone who had occasion for the exercise of
admiration in these business consultations. Somewhat to his surprise,
Mr. Carlisle found that his quondam fair mistress was good for much
more than a plaything. With the quick wit of a woman she joined a
patience of investigation, an independent strength of judgment, a
clearness of rational vision, that fairly met him and obliged him to be
the best man he could in the business. He could not get her into a
sophistical maze; she found her way through immediately; he could not
puzzle her, for what she did not understand one day she had studied out
by the next. It is possible that Mr. Carlisle would not have fallen in
love with this clear intelligence, if he had known it in the front of
Eleanor's qualities; for he was one of those men who do not care for an
equal in a wife; but his case was by this time beyond cure. Nay, what
might have alienated him once, bound him now; he found himself matched
with Eleanor in a game of human life. The more she proved herself his
equal, the nobler the conquest, and the more the instinct of victory
stirred within him; for pride, a poor sort of pride, began to be
stirred as well as love.
So the bill went on; and prisons and laws and reformatory measures and
penal enactments and industrial schools, and the question of
interfering with the course of labour, and the question of offering a
premium upon crime, and a host of questions, were discussed and
rediscussed. And partly no doubt from policy, partly from an
intelligent view of the subject, but wholly moved thereto by Eleanor,
Mr. Carlisle gradually gave back the ground and took just the position
(on paper) that she wished to see him take.
CHAPTER VII.
IN APRIL.
  "Why, how one weeps
  When one's too weary! Were a witness by,
  He'd say some folly--"
So the bill went on. And the season too. Winter merged into spring; the
change of temperature reminded Eleanor of the changing face of the
earth out of London; and even in London the parks gave testimony of it.
She longed for Wiglands and the Lodge; but there was no token of the
family's going home at present. Parliament was in session; Mr. Carlisle
was busy there every night almost; which did not in the least hinder
his being busied with Eleanor as well. Where she and her mother went,
for the most part he went; and at home he was very much at home indeed.
Eleanor began to feel that the motions of the family depended on him;
for she could find no sufficient explanation in her father's health or
her mother's pleasure for their continued remaining in town. The Squire
was much as he had been all winter; attended now and then by a
physician, and out of health and spirits certainly; yet Eleanor could
not help thinking he would be better at home, and somewhat suspected
her father thought so. Mrs. Powle enjoyed London, no doubt; still, she
was not a woman to run mad after pleasure, or after anything else; not
so much but that the pleasure of her husband would have outweighed
hers. Nevertheless, both the Squire and she were as quietly fixed in
London, to judge by all appearance, as if they had no other place to go
to; and the rising of parliament was sometimes hinted at as giving the
only clue to the probable time of their departure.
Did you ever lay brands together on a hearth, brands with little life
in them too, seemingly; when with no breath blown or stirring of air to
fan them, gradually, by mere action and reaction upon each other, the
cold grey ends began to sparkle and glow, till by and by the fire burst
forth and flame sprang up? Circumstances may be laid together so, and
with like effect.
Everything went on in a train at the house in Cadogan Square; nobody
changed his attitude or behaviour with respect to the others, except as
by that most insensible, unnoticeable, quiet action of elements at
work; yet the time came when Eleanor began to feel that things were
drawing towards a crisis. Her place was becoming uncomfortable. She
could not tell how, she did not know when it began, but a change in the
home atmosphere became sensible to her. It was growing to be
oppressive. Mother, father, and friends seemed by concert to say that
she was Mr. Carlisle's; and the gentleman himself began to look it,
Eleanor thought, though he did not say it. A little tacit allowance of
this mute language of assignment, and either her truth would be
forfeited or her freedom. She must make a decided protest. Yet also
Eleanor felt that quality in the moral atmosphere which threatened that
if any clouds came up they would be stormy clouds; and she dreaded to
make any move. Julia's society would have been a great solace now; when
she never could have it. Julia comforted her, whenever they were
together in company or met for a moment alone, by her energetic
whisper--"I remember, Eleanor!--" but that was all. Eleanor could get
no further speech of her. At the Ragged school Mr. Carlisle was pretty
sure to be, and generally attended her home. Eleanor remonstrated with
her mother, and got a sharp answer, that it was only thanks to Mr.
Carlisle she went there at all; if it were not for him Mrs. Powle
certainly would put a stop to it. Eleanor pondered very earnestly the
question of putting a stop to it herself; but it was at Mr. Carlisle's
own risk; the poor boys in the school wanted her ministrations; and the
"bill" was in process of preparation. Eleanor's heart was set on that
bill, and her help she knew was greatly needed in its construction; she
could not bear to give it up. So she let matters take their course; and
talked reform diligently to Mr. Carlisle all the time they were driving
from West-Smithfield home.
At last to Eleanor's joy, the important paper was drawn up according to
her mind. It satisfied her. And it was brought to a reading in the
House and ordered to be printed. So much was gained. The very next day
Mr. Carlisle came to ask Eleanor to drive out with him to Richmond,
which she had never seen. Eleanor coolly declined. He pressed the
charms of the place, and of the country at that season. Eleanor with
the same coolness of manner replied that she hoped soon to enjoy the
country at home; and that she could not go to Richmond. Mr. Carlisle
withdrew his plea, sat and talked some time, making himself very
agreeable, though Eleanor could not quite enjoy his agreeableness that
morning; and went away. He had given no sign of understanding her or of
being rebuffed; and she was not satisfied. The next morning early her
mother came to her.
"Eleanor, what do you say to a visit to Hampton Court to-day?"
"Who is going, mamma?"
"Half the world, I suppose--there or somewhere else--such a day; but
with you, your friend in parliament."
"I have several friends in parliament."
"Pshaw, Eleanor! you know I mean Mr. Carlisle. You had better dress
immediately, for he will be here for you early. He wants to have the
whole day. Put on that green silk which becomes you so well. How it
does, I don't know; for you are not blonde; but you look as handsome as
a fairy queen in it. Come, Eleanor!"
"I do not care about going, mamma."
"Nonsense, child; you do care. You have no idea what Bushy Park is,
Eleanor. It is not like Rythdale--though Rythdale will do in its way.
Come, child, get ready. You will enjoy it delightfully."
"I do not think I should, mamma. I do not think I ought to go with Mr.
Carlisle."
"Why not?"
"You know, mamma," Eleanor said calmly, though her heart beat; "you
know what conclusions people draw about me and Mr. Carlisle. If I went
to Hampton Court or to Richmond with him, I should give them, and him
too, a right to those conclusions."
"What have you been doing for months past, Eleanor? I should like to
know."
"Giving him no right to any conclusions whatever, mamma, that would be
favourable to him. He knows that."
"He knows no such thing. You are a fool, Eleanor. Have you not said to
all the world all this winter, by your actions, that you belonged to
him? All the world knows it was an engagement, and you have been
telling all the world that it is. Mr. Carlisle knows what to expect."
Eleanor coloured.
"I cannot fulfil his expectations, mamma. He has no right to them."
"I tell you, you have given him a right to them, by your behaviour
these months past. Ever since we were at Brighton. Why how you
encouraged him there!"
A great flush rose to Eleanor's cheeks.
"Mamma,--no more than I encouraged others. Grace given to all is favour
to none."
"Ay, but there was the particular favour in his case of a promise to
marry him."
"Broken off, mamma."
"The world did not know that, and you did not tell them. You rode, you
walked, you talked, you went hither and thither with Mr. Carlisle, and
suffered him to attend you."
"Not alone, mamma; rarely alone."
"Often alone, child; often of evenings. You are alone with a gentleman
in the street, if there is a crowd before and behind you."
"Mamma, all those things that I did, and that I was sorry to do, I
could hardly get out of or get rid of; they were Mr. Carlisle's doing
and yours."
"Granted; and you made them yours by acceptance. Now Eleanor, you are a
good girl; be a sensible girl. You have promised yourself to Mr.
Carlisle in the eye of all the world; now be honest, and don't be shy,
and fulfil your engagements."
"I have made none," said Eleanor getting up and beginning to walk
backwards and forwards in the room. "Mr. Carlisle has been told
distinctly that I do not love him. I will never marry any man whom I
have not a right affection for."
"You did love him once, Eleanor."
"Never! not the least; not one bit of real--Mamma, I liked him, and I
do that now; and then I did not know any better; but I will never, for
I ought never, to marry any man upon mere liking."
"How come you to know any better now?"
Eleanor's blush was beautiful again for a minute; then it faded. She
did not immediately speak.
"Is Mr. Carlisle right after all, and has he a rival?"
"Mamma, you must say what you please. Surely it does not follow that a
woman must love all the world because she does not love one."
"And you may say what you please; I know you like Mr. Carlisle quite
well enough, for you as good as told me so. This is only girl's talk;
but you have got to come to the point, Eleanor. I shall not suffer you
to make a fool of him in my house; not to speak of making a fool of
yourself and me, and ruining--forever ruining--all your prospects. You
can't do it, Eleanor. You have said yea, and you can't draw back. Put
on your green gown and go to Hampton Court, and come back with the day
fixed--for that I know is what Mr. Carlisle wants."
"I cannot go, mamma."
"Eleanor, you would not forfeit your word?"
"I have not given it."
"Do not contradict me! You have given it all these months. Everybody
has understood it so. Your father looks upon Mr. Carlisle as his son
already. You would be everlastingly disgraced if you play false."
"I will play true, mamma. I will not say I give my heart where I do not
give it."
"Give your hand then. All one," said Mrs. Powle laughing. "Come! I
order you to obey me, Eleanor!"
"I must not, mamma. I will not go to Hampton Court with Mr. Carlisle."
"What is the reason?"
"I have told you."
"Do you mean, absolutely, that you will not fulfil your engagement, nor
obey me, nor save us all from dishonour, nor make your friend happy?"
Eleanor grew paler than she had been, but answered, "I mean not to
marry Mr. Carlisle, mamma."
"I understand it then," said Mrs. Powle rising. "It is not your heart
but your head. It is your religious fanaticism I will put that out of
the way!"
And without another word she departed.
Eleanor was much at a loss what would be the next move. Nevertheless
she was greatly surprised when it came. The atmosphere of the house was
heavy that day; they did not see Mr. Carlisle in the evening. The next
day, when Eleanor went to her father's room after dinner she found, not
Mr. Carlisle, but her mother with him. "Waiting for me"--thought
Eleanor. The air of Mrs. Powle said so. The squire was gathered up into
a kind of hard knot, hanging his head over his knees. When he spoke,
and was answered by his daughter, the contrast of the two voices was
striking, and in character; one gruff, the other sweet but steady.
"What's all this, Eleanor? what's all this?" he said abruptly.
"What, papa?"
"Have you refused Mr. Carlisle?"
"Long ago, sir."
"Yes, that's all past; and now this winter you have been accepting him
again; are you going to throw him over now?"
"Papa--"
"Only one thing!" roared the Squire,--"are you going to say no to him?
tell me that."
"I must, papa."
"I command you to say yes to him! What do you say now?"
"I must say the same, sir. If you command me, I must disobey you."
"You will disobey me, hey?"
"I must, papa."
"Why won't you marry him? what's the reason?" said the Squire, looking
angry and perplexed at her, but very glum.
"Papa--"
"I have seen you here myself, all winter, in this very room; you have
as good as said to him every day that you would be his wife, and he has
as good as said to you that he expected it. Has he not, now?"
"Yes, sir,--but--"
"Now why won't you have him, hey?"
"Papa, I do not like him well enough to marry him. That is reason
enough."
"Why did you tell him all the winter that you did?"
"Sir, Mr. Carlisle knows I did not. He has never been deceived."
"Why don't you like him well enough, then? that's the question; what
fool's nonsense! Eleanor, I am going to have you at the Priory and
mistress of it before the world is three months older. Tell me that you
will be a good girl, and do as I say."
"I cannot, papa. That is all past. I shall never be at the Priory."
"What's the reason?" roared her father.
"I have told you, sir."
"It's a lie! You do like him. I have seen it. It's some fool's
nonsense."
"Let me ask one question," said Mrs. Powle, looking up and down from
her work. "If it had not been for your religious notions, Eleanor,
would you not have married Mr. Carlisle more than a year ago? before
you went to Wales?"
"I suppose I should, mamma."
"And if you had no religious notions, would you have any difficulty
about marrying him now? You will speak the truth, I know."
"Mamma--"
"Speak!" the Squire burst out violently--"speak! truth or falsehood,
whichever you like. Speak out, and don't go round about. Answer your
mother's question."
"Will you please to repeat it, mamma?" Eleanor said, a little
faintheartedly.
"If you had never been in a Methodist Chapel, or had anything to do
with Methodists,--would you have any difficulty now about being the
wife of Mr. Carlisle, and lady of Rythdale?"
Eleanor's colour rose gradually and grew deep before she ceased
speaking.
"If I had never had anything to do with Methodists, mamma, I should be
so very different from what I am now, that perhaps, it would be as you
say."
"That's enough!" said the Squire, in a great state of rage and
determination. "Now, Eleanor Powle, take notice. I am as good as the
Methodists any day, and as well worth your minding. You'll mind me, or
I'll have nothing to do with you. Do you go to their chapels?"
"Sometimes."
"You don't go any more! St. George and the Dragon fly away with all the
Methodist Chapels that ever were built! they shall hold no daughter of
mine. And hark ye,--you shall give up this foolery altogether and tell
me you will marry Mr. Carlisle, or I won't have you in my family. You
may go where you like, but you shall not stay with me as long as I
live. I give you a month to think of it, Eleanor;--a month? what's
to-day?--the tenth? Then I give you till the first of next month. You
can think of it and make up your mind to give yourself to Mr. Carlisle
by that time; or you shall be no daughter of mine. St. George and the
Dragon! I have said it, and you will find I mean it. Now go away."
Eleanor went, wondering whether her ears had served her right; so
unnaturally strange seemed this turn of affairs. She had had no time to
think of it yet, when passing the drawing-room door a certain impulse
prompted her to go in. Mr. Carlisle was there, as something had told
her he might be. Eleanor came in, looking white, and advanced towards
him with a free steady step eyeing him fully. She was in a mood to meet
anything.
"Mr. Carlisle," she said, "you are the cause of all the trouble that
has come upon me."
He did not ask her what trouble. He only gently and gravely disclaimed
the truth of her assertion.
"Mr. Carlisle," said Eleanor facing him, "do you want the hand without
the heart?" There was brave beauty in her face and air.
"Yes!" he said. "You do not know yourself, Eleanor--you do not see
yourself at this moment--or you would know better how impossible it is
to give other than one answer to such a question."
His look had faced hers as frankly; there was no evil expression in it.
Eleanor's head and her gaze sank a little. She hesitated, and then
turned away. But Mr. Carlisle with a quick motion intercepted her.
"Eleanor, have you nothing kind to say to me?" he asked, taking her
hand. And he said it well.
"Not just now," said Eleanor slowly; "but I will try not to think
unkindly of you, Mr. Carlisle."
Perhaps he understood that differently from her meaning; perhaps he
chose to misinterpret it; at all events he stooped forward and kissed
her. It brought a flash of colour into Eleanor's face, and she went up
stairs much more angry with her suitor than her last words had spoke
her. The angry mood faded fast when she reached her own room and could
be alone and be still. She sat down and thought how, while he stood
there and held her hand, there had been a swift presentation to her
mind, swift and clear, of all she would be giving up when she turned
away from him. In one instant the whole view had come; the rank, the
ease, the worldly luxury, the affection; and the question came too,
waywardly, as impertinent questions will come, whether she was after
all giving it up for sufficient cause? She was relinquishing if she
quitted him, all that the world values. Not quite that, perhaps; if
turned out from her father's family even, she was in no danger of
wanting food or shelter or protection; for she would be sure of those
and more in Mrs. Caxton's house. But looking forward into the course of
future years that might lie before her, the one alternative offered for
her choice presented all that is pleasant in worldly estimation; and on
the other side there was a lonely life, and duty, and the affection of
one old woman. But though the two views came with startling clearness
before Eleanor just at this moment, the more attractive one brought no
shadow of temptation with it. She saw it, that was all, and turned away
from it to consider present circumstances.
Would her father keep to his word? It seemed impossible; yet coolly
reflecting, Eleanor thought from what she knew of him that he would; so
far at least as to send her into immediate banishment. That such
banishment would be more than temporary she did not believe. Mr.
Carlisle would get over his disappointment, would marry somebody else;
and in course of time her mother and father, the latter of whom
certainly loved her, would find out that they wanted her at home again.
But how long first? That no one could tell, nor what might happen in
the interval; and when she had got so far in her thoughts, Eleanor's
tears began to flow. She let them flow; it relieved her; and somehow
there was a good fountain head of them. And again those two pictures of
future life rose up before her; not as matters of choice, to take one
and leave the other--but as matters of contrast, in somewhat that
entered the spring of tears and made them bitter. Was something gone
from her life, that could never be got back again? had she lost
something that could never be found again? Was there a "bloom and
fragrance" waving before her on the one hand, though unattainable,
which the other path of life with all its beauty did not offer? To
judge by Eleanor's tears she had some such thoughts. But after a time
the tears cleared away, and her bowed face looked up as fair as a blue
sky after a storm. And Eleanor never had another time of weeping during
the month.
It was a dull month to other people. It would have been a dreary one to
her, only that there is a private sunshine in some hearts that defies
cloudy weather. There is an anchor of the soul, sure and steadfast, by
which one rides contentedly in rough water; there is a hope of glory,
in the presence of which no darkness can abide; and there is a word
with which Eleanor dried her tears that day and upon which she steadied
her heart all the days after. It was written by one who knew trouble.
"The Lord is my portion, saith my soul; therefore will I hope in him."
It is hard to take that portion away from a man, or to make him poor
while he has it.
Eleanor had little else the remaining twenty-one days of that month.
What troubled her much, she could by no means see Julia; and she found
that her sister had been sent home, to the Lodge at Wiglands, under
charge of a governess; Mrs. Powle averring that it was time she should
be in the country. London was not good for Julia. Was it good for any
of them, Eleanor thought? But parliament was still sitting; Mr.
Carlisle was in attendance; it was manifest they must be so too.
Everything went on much as usual. Eleanor attended her father after his
early dinner, for Mr. Powle would not come into London hours; and Mr.
Carlisle as usual shared her office with her, except when he was
obliged to be in the House. When he was, Mrs. Powle now took his place.
The Squire was surly and gloomy; only brought out of those moods by Mr.
Carlisle himself. That gentleman held his ground, with excellent grace
and self-control, and made Eleanor more than ever feel his power. But
she kept her ground too; not without an effort and a good deal of that
old arm of defence which is called "all-prayer;" yet she kept it; was
gentle and humble and kind to them all, to Mr. Carlisle himself, while
he was sensible her grave gentleness had no yielding in it. How he
admired her, those days! how he loved her; with a little fierce desire
of triumph mingling, it must be confessed, with his love and
admiration, and heightened by them; for now pride was touched, and some
other feeling which he did not analyse. He had nobody to be jealous of,
that he knew; unless it were Eleanor herself; yet her indifference
piqued him. He could not brook to be baffled. He shewed not a symptom
of all this; but every line of her fine figure, every fold of her rich,
beautiful hair, every self-possessed movement, at times was torment to
him. Her very dress was a subject of irritation. It was so plain, so
evidently unworldly in its simplicity, that unreasonably enough, for
Eleanor looked well in it, it put Mr. Carlisle in a fume every day. She
should not dress so when he had control of her; and to get the control
seemed not easy; and the dress kept reminding him that he had it not.
On the whole probably all parties were glad when the sweet month of May
for that season came to an end. Even Eleanor was glad; for though she
had made up her mind what June would bring her, it is easier to grasp a
fear in one's hand, like a nettle, than to touch it constantly by
anticipation. So the first of June came.
CHAPTER VIII.
IN MAY.
  "Come spur away!
  I have no patience for a longer stay,
  But must go down,
  And leave the changeable noise of this great town;
  I will the country see,
  Where old simplicity,
  Though hid in grey,
  Doth look more gay
  Than foppery in plush and scarlet clad."
Although Eleanor's judgment had said what the issue would be of that
day's conference, she had made no preparation to leave home. That she
could not do. She could not make certain before it came the weary
foreboding that pressed upon her. She went to her father's room after
dinner as usual, leaning her heart on that word which had been her
walking-staff for three weeks past. "The Lord is my portion, saith my
soul; therefore will I hope in him!"
Mrs. Powle was there, quietly knitting. The Squire had gathered himself
up into a heap in his easy chair, denoting a contracted state of mind;
after that curious fashion which bodily attitudes have, of repeating
the mental. Eleanor took the newspaper and sat down.
"Is there anything there particular?" growled the Squire.
"I do not see anything very particular, sir. Here is the continuation
of the debate on--"
"How about that bill of yours and Mr. Carlisle's?" broke in Mrs. Powle.
"It was ordered to be printed, mamma--it has not reached the second
reading yet. It will not for some time."
"What do you suppose will become of it then?"
"What the Lord pleases. I do not know," said Eleanor with a pang at her
heart. "I have done my part--all I could--so far."
"I suppose you expect Mr. Carlisle will take it up as his own cause,
after it has ceased to be yours?"
Eleanor understood this, and was silent. She took up the paper again to
find where to read.
"Put that down, Eleanor Powle," said her father who was evidently in a
very bad humour, as he had cause, poor old gentleman; there is nobody
so bad to be out of humour with as yourself;--"put that down! until we
know whether you are going to read to me any more or no. I should like
to know your decision."
Eleanor hesitated, for it was difficult to speak.
"Come!--out with it. Time's up. Now for your answer. Are you going to
be an obedient child, and give Mr. Carlisle a good wife? Hey? Speak!"
"An obedient child, sir, in everything but this. I can give Mr.
Carlisle nothing, any more than he has."
"Any more than he has? What is that?"
"A certain degree of esteem and regard, sir--and perhaps, forgiveness."
"Then you will not marry him, as I command you?"
"No--I cannot."
"And you won't give up being a Methodist?"
"I cannot help being what I am. I will not go to church, papa, anywhere
that you forbid me."
She spoke low, endeavouring to keep calm. The Squire got up out of his
chair. He had no calmness to keep, and he spoke loud.
"Have you taught your sister to think there is any harm in dancing?"
"In dancing parties, I suppose I have."
"And you think they are wicked, and won't go to them?"
"I do not like them. I cannot go to them, papa; for I am a servant of
Christ; and I can do no work for my Master there at all; but if I go, I
bear witness that they are good."
"Now hear me, Eleanor Powle--" the Squire spoke with suppressed
rage--"No such foolery will I have in my house, and no such disrespect
to people that are better than you. I told you what would come of all
this if you did not give it up--and I stand to my word. You come here
to-morrow morning, prepared to put your hand in Mr. Carlisle's and let
him know that you will be his obedient servant--or, you quit my house.
To-morrow morning you do one thing or the other. And when you go, you
will stay. I will never have you back, except as Mr. Carlisle's wife.
Now go! I don't want your paper any more."
Eleanor went slowly away. She paused in the drawing-room; there was no
one there this time; rang the bell and ordered Thomas to be sent to
her. Thomas came, and received orders to be in readiness and have
everything in readiness to attend her on a journey the next day. The
orders were given clearly and distinctly as usual; but Thomas shook his
head as he went down from her presence at the white face his young
mistress had worn. "She don't use to look that way," he said to
himself, "for she is one of them ladies that carry a hearty brave
colour in their cheeks; and now there wasn't a bit of it." But the old
servant kept his own counsel and obeyed directions.
Eleanor went through the evening and much of the night without giving
herself a moment to think. Packing occupied all that time and the early
hours of the next day; she was afraid to be idle, and even dreaded the
times of prayer; because whenever she stopped to think, the tears would
come. But she grew quiet; and was only pale still, when at an early
hour in the morning she left the house. She could not bear to go
through a parting scene with her father; she knew him better than to
try it; and she shrank from one with her mother. She bid nobody
good-bye, for she could not tell anybody that she was going. London
streets looked very gloomy to Eleanor that morning as she drove through
them to the railway station.
She had still another reason for slipping away, in the fear that else
she would be detained to meet Mr. Carlisle again. The evening before
she had had a note from him, promising her all freedom for all her
religious predilections and opinions--leave to do what she would, if
she would only be his wife. She guessed he would endeavour to see her,
if she staid long enough in London after the receipt of that note.
Eleanor made her escape.
Thomas was sorry at heart to see her cheeks so white yet when they set
off; and he noticed that his young mistress hid her face during the
first part of the journey. He watched to see it raised up again; and
then saw with content that Eleanor's gaze was earnestly fixed on the
things without the window. Yes, there was something there. She felt she
was out of London; and that whatever might be before her, one sorrowful
and disagreeable page of life's book was turned over. London was gone,
and she was in the midst of the country again, and the country was at
the beginning of June. Green fields and roses and flowery hedge-rows,
and sweet air, all wooed her back to hopefulness. Hopefulness for the
moment stole in. Eleanor thought things could hardly continue so bad as
they seemed. It was not natural. It could not be. And yet--Mr. Carlisle
was in the business, and mother and father were set on her making a
splendid match and being a great lady. It might be indeed, that there
would be no return for Eleanor, that she must remain in banishment,
until Mr. Carlisle should take a new fancy or forget her. How long
would that be? A field for calculation over which Eleanor's thoughts
roamed for some time.
One comfort she had promised herself, in seeing Julia on the way; so
she turned out of her direct course to go to Wiglands. She was
disappointed. Julia and her governess had left the Lodge only the day
before to pay a visit of a week at some distance. By order, Eleanor
could not help suspecting it had been; of set purpose, to prevent the
sisters meeting. This disappointment was bitter. It was hard to keep
from angry thoughts. Eleanor fought them resolutely, but she felt more
desolate than she had ever known in her life before. The old place of
her home, empty and still, had so many reminders of childish and happy
times; careless times; days when nobody thought of great marriages or
settlements, or when such thoughts lay all hidden in Mrs. Powle's mind.
Every tree and room and book was so full of good and homely
associations of the past, that it half broke Eleanor's heart. Home
associations now so broken up; the family divided, literally and
otherwise; and worst of all, and over which Eleanor's tears flowed
bitterest, her own ministrations and influence were cut off from those
who most needed them and whom she most wished to benefit. Eleanor's day
at home was a day of tears; it was impossible to help it. The roses
with their sweet faces looked remonstrance at her; the roads and walks
and fields where she had been so happy invited her back to them; the
very grey tower of the Priory rising above the trees held out worldly
temptation and worldly reproof, with a mocking embodiment of her causes
of trouble. Eleanor could not bear it; she spent one night at home;
wrote a letter to Julia which she entrusted to a servant's hands for
her; and the next morning set her face towards Plassy. Julia lay on her
heart. That conversation they had held together the morning when
Eleanor waylaid her--it was the last that had been allowed. They had
never had a good talk since then. Was that the last chance indeed, for
ever? It was impossible to know.
In spite of June beauty, it was a dreary journey to her from home to
her aunt's; and the beautiful hilly outlines beyond Plassy rose upon
her view with a new expression. Sterner, and graver; they seemed to
say, "It is life work, now, my child; you must be firm, and if
necessary rugged, like us; but truth of action has its own beauty too,
and the sunlight of Divine favour rests there always." A shadowless
sunlight lay on the crowns and shoulders of the mountains as Eleanor
drew near. She got out of the carriage to walk the last few steps and
look at the place. Plassy never was more lovely. An aromatic breath,
pure and strong, came from the hills and gathered the sweetness of the
valleys. Roses and honeysuckles and jessamines and primroses, with a
thousand others, loaded the air with their gifts to it, from Mrs.
Caxton's garden and from all the fields and hedge-rows around. And one
after another bit of hilly outline reminded Eleanor that off there
went the narrow valley that led to the little church at Glanog; there
went the road to the village, where she and Powis had gone so often of
Wednesday afternoons; and in that direction lay the little cot where
she had watched all night by the dying woman. Not much time for such
remembrances was just now; for the farmhouse stood just before her. The
dear old farmhouse! looking as pretty as everything else in its dark
red stone walls and slate roof; stretching along the ground at that
rambling, picturesque, and also opulent style. Eleanor would not knock
now, and the door was not fastened to make her need it. Softly she
opened it, went in, and stood upon the tiled floor.
No sound of anything in particular; only certain tokens of life in the
house. Eleanor went on, opened the door of the sitting parlour and
looked in. Nobody there; the room in its summer state of neatness and
coolness as she had left it. Eleanor's heart began to grow warm. She
would not yet summon a servant; she left that part of the house and
wound about among the passages till she came to the back door that led
out into the long tiled porch where supper was wont to be spread. And
there was the table set this evening; and the wonted glow from the
sunny west greeted her there, and a vision of the gorgeous
flower-garden. But Eleanor hardly saw the one thing or the other; for
Mrs. Caxton was there also, standing by the tea-table, alone, putting
something on it. Eleanor moved forward without a word. Her voice would
not come out of her throat very well.
"Eleanor!" exclaimed Mrs. Caxton. "My dear love! what has given me this
happiness?"
Very strong language for Mrs. Caxton to use. Eleanor felt it, every
word of it, as well as the embrace of those kind arms and her aunt's
kisses upon her lips; but she was silent.
"How come you here, my darling?"
"They have sent me away from home."
Mrs. Caxton saw that there was some difficulty of speech, and she would
not press matters. She put Eleanor into a seat, and looked at her, and
took off her bonnet with her own hands; stooped down and kissed her
brow. Eleanor steadied herself and looked up.
"It is true, aunt Caxton. I come to you because I have nowhere else to
be."
"My love, it is a great happiness to have you, for any cause. Wait, and
tell me what the matter is by and by."
She left Eleanor for a moment, only a moment; gave some orders, and
returned to her side. She sat down and took Eleanor's hand.
"What is it, my dear?"
And then Eleanor's composure, which she had thought sure, gave way all
of a sudden; and she cried heartily for a minute, laying her head in
its old resting-place. But that did her good; and then she kissed Mrs.
Caxton over and over before she began to speak.
"They want me to make a great match, aunty; and will not be satisfied
with anything else."
"What, Mr. Carlisle?"
"Yes."
"And is that all broken off?" said Mrs. Caxton, a little tone of
eagerness discernible under her calm manner.
"It was broken off a year ago," said Eleanor--"more than a year ago. It
has always been broken since."
"I heard that it was all going on again. I expected to hear of your
marriage."
"It was not true. But it is true, that the world had a great deal of
reason to think so; and I could not help that."
"How so, Eleanor?"
"Mamma, and papa, and Mr. Carlisle. They managed it."
"But in such a case, my dear, a woman owes it to herself and to her
suitor and to her parents too, to be explicit."
"I do not think I compromised the truth, aunt Caxton," said Eleanor,
passing her hand somewhat after a troubled fashion over her brow. "Mr.
Carlisle knew I never encouraged him with more favour than I gave
others. I could not help being with him, for mamma and he had it so;
and they were too much for me. I could not help it. So the report grew.
I had a difficult part to play," said Eleanor, repeating her troubled
gesture and seeming ready to burst into tears.
"In what way, my love?"
Eleanor did not immediately answer; sat looking off over the meadow as
if some danger existed to self-control; then, still silent, turned and
met with an eloquent soft eye the sympathizing yet questioning glance
that was fixed on her. It was curious how Eleanor's eye met it; how her
eye roved over Mrs. Caxton's face and looked into her quiet grey eyes,
with a kind of glinting of some spirit fire within, which could almost
be seen to play and flicker as thought and feeling swayed to and fro.
Her eye said that much was to be said, looked into Mrs. Caxton's face
with an intensity of half-speech,--and the lips remained silent. There
was consciousness of sympathy, consciousness of something that required
sympathy; and the seal of silence. Perhaps Mrs. Caxton's response to
this strange look came half unconsciously; it came wholly naturally.
"Poor child!"--
The colour rose on Eleanor's cheek at that; she turned her eyes away.
"I think Mr. Carlisle's plan--and mamma's--was to make circumstances
too strong for me; and to draw me by degrees. And they would, perhaps,
but for all I learned here."
"For what you learned here, my dear?"
