“Yes, let me go at once, sir.”

Mr. Bopp stood up, saying slowly,--“Yes, go now; they told me you
had no heart; I beliefe it, and thank you for that No;” then bowed,
and walked straight out of the hall, while the pink domino broke
into a fit of laughter, saying to herself,--

“I’ve done it! I’ve done it! but what a piece of work there’ll be
to-morrow.”

“Dick, who was that tall creature Fan was parading with last night?
No one knew, and he vanished before the masks were taken off,” asked
Dolly, as she and her brother lounged in opposite corners of the
sofa the morning after the masquerade, “talking it over.”

“That was old Bopp, Mrs. Peep.”

“Gracious me! why, he said he wasn’t coming.”

“People sometimes say what they don’t mean, as you may have
discovered.”

“But why didn’t he come and speak to a body, Dick?”

“Better employed, I suppose.”

“Now don’t be cross, dear, but tell me all about it, for I don’t
understand how you allowed him to monopolize Fan so.”

“Oh, don’t bother, I’m sleepy.”

“No you’re not; you look wicked; I know you’ve been in mischief, and
I insist upon hearing all about it, so come and ‘fess’ this
instant.”

Dolly proceeded to enforce her command by pulling away his pillow
and dragging her brother into a sitting posture in spite of his
laughing resistance and evident desire to exhaust her patience; for
Dick excelled in teasing, and kept his sister in a fidget from
morning till night, with occasional fits of penitence and petting
which lasted till next time. Therefore, though dying to ‘fess,’ he
was undecided as to the best method of executing that task in the
manner most aggravating to his listener and most agreeable to
himself, and sat regarding her with twinkling eyes, and his curly
pate in a high state of rumple, trying to appear innocently meek,
but failing signally.

“Now, then, up and tell,” commanded Dolly.

“Well, if you won’t take my head off till I’m done, I’ll tell you
the best joke of the season. Are you sure the pink domino with Bopp
wasn’t yourself,--for she looked and acted very like you?”

“Of course I am. I didn’t even know he was there, and think it very
rude and ungentlemanly in him not to come and speak to me. You know
it was Fan, so do go on.”

“But it wasn’t, for she changed her mind and wore a black domino; I
saw her put it on myself. Her Cousin Jack came unexpectedly, and she
thought if she altered her dress and went with him, you wouldn’t
know her.”

“Who could it have been, Dick?”

“That’s the mystery, for, do you know, Bopp proposed to her.”

“He didn’t!” and Dolly flew up with a startled look that, to adopt a
phrase from his own vocabulary, was “nuts” to her brother.

“Yes he did; I heard him.”

“When, where, and how?”

“In one of these flirtation boxes; they dropped the curtain, but I
heard him do it, on my honor I did.”

“Persons of honor don’t listen at curtains and key-holes. What did
they say?”

“Oh, if it wasn’t honorable to listen, it isn’t to hear; so I won’t
tell, though I could not help knowing it.”

“Mercy! don’t stop now, or I shall die with curiosity. I dare say I
should have done the same; no one minds at such a place, you know.
But I don’t see the joke yet,” said Dolly dismally.

“I do,” and Dick went off into a shout.

“You idiotic boy, take that pillow out of your mouth, and tell me
the whole thing,--what he said, what she said, and what they both
did. It was all fun of course, but I’d like to hear about it.”

“It may have been fun on her part, but it was solemn earnest on his,
for he went it strong I assure you. I’d no idea the old fellow was
so sly, for he appeared smashed with you, you know, and there he was
finishing up with this unknown lady. I wish you could have heard him
go on, with tears in his eyes”--

“How do you know if you didn’t see him?”

“Oh, well, that’s only a figure of speech; I thought so from his
voice. He was ever so tender, and took to Dutch when English was too
cool for him. It was really touching, for I never heard a fellow do
it before; and, upon my word, I should think it was rather a tough
job to say that sort of thing to a pretty woman, mask or no mask.”

“What did she say?” asked Dolly, with her hands pressed tight
together, and a curious little quiver of the lips.

“She said, No, as short as pie-crust; and when he rushed out with
his heart broken all to bits apparently, she just burst out
laughing, and went and polked at a two-forty pace for half an hour.”

Dora unclasped her hands, took a long breath, and cried out,--

“She was a wicked, heartless hussy! and if I know her, I’ll never
speak to her again; for if he was really in earnest, she ought to be
killed for laughing at him.”

“So ought you, then, for making fun of poor Fisher when he went down
on his knees behind the huckleberry bushes last summer. He was
earnest enough, for he looked as black-and-blue as his berries when
he got home. Your theory is all right, ma’am, but your practice is
all bosh.”

“Hold your tongue about that silly thing. Boys in college think they
know everything, can do everything, have everything, and only need
beckon, and all womankind will come and adore. It made a man of him,
and he’ll thank me for taking the sentimental nonsense and conceit
out of him. You will need just such a lesson at the rate you go on,
and I hope Fan will give it to you.”

“When the lecture is over, I’ll go on with the joke, if you want to
know it.”

“Isn’t this enough?”

“Oh, bless you, no! the cream of it is to come. What would you give
to know who the lady was?”

“Five dollars, down, this minute.”

“Very good, hand ‘em over, and I’ll tell you.”

“Truly, Dick?”

“Yes, and prove it.”

Dolly produced her purse, and, bill in hand, sat waiting for the
disclosure. Dick rose with a melo-dramatic bow,--

“Lo, it was I.”

“That’s a great fib, for I saw you flying about the whole evening.”

“You saw my dress, but I was not in it.”

“Oh! oh! who did I keep going to, then? and what did I do to
make a fool of myself, I wonder?”

Purse and bill dropped out of Dolly’s hand, and she looked at her
brother with a distracted expression of countenance. Dick rubbed his
hands and chuckled.

“Here’s a jolly state of things. Now I’ll tell you the whole story.
I never thought of doing it till I saw Bopp and told him who you
were; but on my way for Fan I wondered if he’d get puzzled between
you two; and then a grand idea popped into my head to puzzle him
myself, for I can take you off to the life. Fan didn’t want me to,
but I made her, so she lent me hoops and gown and the pink domino,
and if ever I thanked my stars I wasn’t tall, I did then, for the
things fitted capitally as to length, tho’ I kept splitting
something down the back, and scattering hooks and eyes in all
directions. I wish you could have heard Jack roar while they rigged
me. He had no dress, so I lent him mine, till just before the masks
were taken off, when we cut home and changed. He told me how you
kept running to him to tie up your slippers, find your fan, and tell
him funny things, thinking it was me. I never enjoyed anything so
much in my life.”

“Go on,” said Dolly in a breathless sort of voice, and the deluded
boy obeyed.

“I knew Bopp, and hovered near till he came to find out who I was. I
took you off in style, and it deceived him, for I’m only an inch or
two taller than you, and kept my head down in the lackadaisical way
you girls do; I whispered, so my voice didn’t betray me; and was
very clinging, and sweet, and fluttery, and that blessed old goose
was sure it was you. I thought it was all over once, for when he
came the heavy in the recess, I got a bit flustered, he was so
serious about it, my mask slipped, but I caught it, so he only saw
my eyes and forehead, which are just like yours, and that finished
him, for I’ve no doubt I looked as red and silly as you would have
done in a like fix.”

“Why did you say No?” and Dolly looked as stern as fate.

“What else should I say? You told me you wouldn’t have him, and I
thought it would save you the bother of saying it, and him the pain
of asking twice. I told him some time ago that you were a born
flirt; he said he knew it; so I was surprised to hear him go on at
such a rate, but supposed that I was too amiable, and that misled
him. Poor old Bopp, I kept thinking of him all night, as he looked
when he said, ‘They told me you had no heart, now I believe it, and
I thank you for that No.’ It was rather a hard joke for him, but
it’s over now, and he won’t have to do it again. You said I wouldn’t
dare tell him about you; didn’t I? and haven’t I won the”--

The rest of the sentence went spinning dizzily through Dick’s head,
as a sudden tingling sensation pervaded his left ear, followed by a
similar smart in the right; and, for a moment, chaos seemed to have
come again. Whatever Dolly did was thoroughly done: when she danced,
the soles of her shoes attested the fact; when she flirted, it was
warm work while it lasted; and when she was angry, it thundered,
lightened, and blew great guns till the shower came, and the whole
affair ended in a rainbow. Therefore, being outwitted, disappointed,
mortified, and hurt, her first impulse was to find a vent for these
conflicting emotions, and possessing skillful hands, she left them
to avenge the wrong done her heart, which they did so faithfully,
that if ever a young gentleman’s ears were vigorously and completely
boxed, Dick was that young individual. As the thunder-clap ceased,
the gale began and blew steadily for several minutes.

“You think it a joke, do you? I tell you, it’s a wicked, cruel
thing; you’ve told a lie; you’ve broken August’s heart, and made me
so angry that I’ll never forgive you as long as I live. What do you
know about my feelings? and how dare you take it upon yourself to
answer for me? You think because we are the same age that I am no
older than you, but you’re mistaken, for a boy of eighteen is a
boy, a girl is often a woman, with a woman’s hopes and plans; you
don’t understand this any more than you do August’s love for me,
which you listened to and laughed at. I said I didn’t like him, and
I didn’t find out till afterward that I did; then I was afraid to
tell you lest you’d twit me with it. But now I care for no one, and
I say I do like him,--yes, I love him with all my heart and soul and
might and I’d die this minute if I could undo the harm you’ve done,
and see him happy. I know I’ve been selfish, vain, and thoughtless,
but I am not now; I hoped he’d love me, hoped he’d see I cared for
him, that I’d done trifling, and didn’t mind if he was poor, for
I’d enough for both; that I longed to make his life pleasant after
all his troubles; that I’d send for the little sister he loves so
well, and never let him suffer any more; for he is so good, so
patient, so generous, and dear to me, I cannot do enough for him.
Now it’s all spoilt; now I can never tell him this, never comfort
him in any way, never be happy again all my life, and you have done
it.”

As Dolly stood before her brother, pouring out her words with
glittering eyes, impetuous voice, and face pale with passionate
emotion, he was scared; for as his scattered wits returned to him,
he felt that he had been playing with edge tools, and had cut and
slashed in rather a promiscuous manner. Dazed and dizzy, he sat
staring at the excited figure before him, forgetting the indignity
he had received, the mistake he had made, the damage he had done, in
simple wonder at the revolutions going on under his astonished eyes.
When Dolly stopped for breath, he muttered with a contrite look,--

“I’m very sorry,--it was only fun; and I thought it would help you
both, for how the deuce should I know you liked the man when you
said you hated him?”

“I never said that, and if I’d wanted advice I should have gone to
mother. You men go blundering off with half an idea in your heads,
and never see your stupidity till you have made a mess that can’t be
mended; we women don’t work so, but save people’s feelings, and are
called hypocrites for our pains. I never meant to tell you, but I
will now, to show you how I’ve been serving you, while you’ve been
harming me: every one of those notes from Fan which you admire so
much, answer so carefully, and wear out in your pocket, though
copied by her, were written by me.”

“The devil they were!” Up flew Dick, and clapping his hand on the
left breast-pocket, out came a dozen pink notes tied up with a blue
ribbon, and much the worse for wear. He hastily turned them over as
Dolly went on.

“Yes, I did it, for she didn’t know how to answer your notes, and
came to me. I didn’t laugh at them, or make fun of her, but helped
her silly little wits, and made you a happy boy for three months,
though you teased me day and night, for I loved you, and hadn’t the
heart to spoil your pleasure.”

“You’ve done it now with a vengeance, and you’re a pair of deceitful
minxes. I’ve paid you off. I’ll give Fan one more note that will
keep her eyes red for a month; and I’ll never love or trust a girl
again as long as I live,--never! never!”

Red with wrath, Dick flung the treasured packet into the fire,
punched it well down among the coals, flung away the poker, and
turned about with a look and gesture which would have been comically
tragic if they had not been decidedly pathetic, for, in spite of his
years, a very tender heart beat under the blue jacket, and it was
grievously wounded at the perfidy of the gentle little divinity whom
he worshipped with daily increasing ardor. His eyes filled, but he
winked resolutely; his lips trembled, but he bit them hard; his
hands doubled themselves up, but he remembered his adversary was a
woman; and, as a last effort to preserve his masculine dignity, he
began to whistle.

As if the inconsistencies of womankind were to be shown him as
rapidly as possible, at this moment the shower came on, for, taking
him tenderly about the neck, Dolly fell to weeping so infectiously,
that, after standing rigidly erect till a great tear dropped off the
end of his nose, ignominiously announcing that it was no go, Dick
gave in, and laying his head on Dolly’s shoulder, the twins quenched
their anger, washed away their malice, and soothed their sorrow by
one of those natural processes, so kindly provided for poor
humanity, and so often despised as a weakness when it might prove a
better strength than any pride.

Dick cleared up first, with no sign of the tempest but a slight mist
through which his native sunshine glimmered pensively.

“Don’t dear, don’t cry so; it will make you sick, and won’t do any
good, for things will come right, or I’ll make ‘em, and we’ll be
comfortable all round.”

“No, we never can be as we were, and it’s all my fault. I’ve
betrayed Fan’s confidence, I’ve spoiled your little romance, I’ve
been a thoughtless, wicked girl, I’ve lost August; and, oh, dear me,
I wish I was dead!” with which funereal climax Dolly cried so
despairingly that, like the youngest Miss Pecksniff, she was indeed
“a gushing creature.”

“Oh, come now, don’t be dismal, and blame yourself for every trouble
under the sun. Sit down and talk it over, and see what can be done.
Poor old girl, I forgave you the notes, and say I was wrong to
meddle with Bopp. I got you into the scrape, and I’ll get you out if
the sky don’t fall, or Bopp blow his brains out, like a second
Werther, before to-morrow.”

Dick drew the animated fountain to the wide chair, where they had
sat together since they were born, wiped her eyes, laid her wet
cheek against his own, and patted her back, with an idea that it was
soothing to babies, and why not to girls?

“I wish mother was at home,” sighed Dolly, longing for that port
which was always a haven of refuge in domestic squalls like this.

“Write, and tell her not to stay till Saturday.”

“No; it would spoil her visit, and you know she deferred it to help
us through this dreadful masquerade. But I don’t know what to do.”

“Why, bless your heart, it’s simple enough. I’ll tell Bopp, beg his
pardon, say ‘Dolly’s willing,’ and there you are all taut and
ship-shape again.”

“I wouldn’t for the world, Dick. It would be very hard for you, very
awkward for me, and do no good in the end; for August is so proud
he’d never forgive you for such a trick, would never believe that I
‘had a heart’ after all you’ve said and I’ve done; and I should only
hear with my own ears that he thanked me for that No. Oh, why can’t
people know when they are in love, and not go heels over head before
they are ready!”

“Well, if that don’t suit, I’ll let it alone, for that is all I can
suggest; and if you like your woman’s way better, try it, only
you’ll have to fly round, because to-morrow is the last night, you
know.”

“I shan’t go, Dick.”

“Why not? we are going to give him the rose-wood set of things, have
speeches, cheers for the King of Clubs, and no end of fun.”

“I can’t help it; there would be no fun for me, and I couldn’t look
him in the face after all this.”

“Oh, pooh! yes, you could, or it will be the first time you dared
not do damage with those wicked eyes of yours.”

“It is the first time I ever loved any one.” Dolly’s voice was so
low, and her head drooped so much, that this brief confession was
apparently put away in Dick’s pocket, and being an exceedingly novel
one, filled that inflammable youth with a desire to deposit a
similar one in the other pocket, which, being emptied of its
accustomed contents, left a somewhat aching void in itself and the
heart underneath. After a moment’s silence, he said,--

“Well, if you won’t go, you can settle it when he comes here, though
I think we should all do better to confess coming home in the dark.”

“He won’t come here again, Dick.”

“Won’t he! that shows you don’t know Bopp as well as I. He’ll come
to say good-by, to thank mother for her kindness, and you and me for
the little things we’ve done for him (I wish I’d left the last
undone!), and go away like a gentleman, as he is,--see if he don’t.”

“Do you think so? Then I must see him.”

“I’m sure he will, for we men don’t bear malice and sulk and bawl
when we come to grief this way, but stand up and take it without
winking, like the young Spartan brick when the fox was digging into
him, you know.”

“Then, of course, you’ll forgive Fan.”

“I’ll be hanged if I do,” growled Dick.

“Ah ha! your theory is very good, sir, but your practice is bosh,”
 quoted Dolly, with a gleam of the old mischief in her face.

Dick took a sudden turn through the room, burst out laughing, and
came back, saying heartily,--

“I’ll own up; it is mean to feel so, and I’ll think about forgiving
you both; but she may stop up the hole in the wall, for she won’t
get any more letters just yet; and you may devote your epistolary
powers to A. Bopp in future. Well, what is it? free your mind, and
have done with it; but don’t make your nose red, or take the starch
out of my collar with any more salt water, if you please.”

“No, I won’t; and I only want to say that, as you owe the
explanation to us both, perhaps it would be best for you to tell
August your part of the thing as you come home to-morrow, and then
leave the rest to fate. I can’t let him go away thinking me such a
heartless creature, and once gone it will be too late to mend the
matter. Can you do this without getting me into another scrape, do
you think?”

“I haven’t a doubt of it, and I call that sensible. I’ll fix it
capitally,--go down on my knees in the mud, if it is necessary;
treat you like eggs for fear of another smash-up; and bring him home
in such a tip-top state, you’ll only have to nod and find yourself
Mrs. B. any day you like. Now let’s kiss and be friends, and then go
pitch into that pie for luncheon.”

So they did, and an hour afterward were rioting in the garret under
pretence of putting grandma’s things away; for at eighteen, in spite
of love and mischief, boys and girls have a spell to exorcise blue
devils, and a happy faculty of forgetting that “the world is hollow,
and their dolls stuffed with saw-dust.”

Dick was right, for on the following evening, after the lesson, Mr.
Bopp did go home with him, “to say good-by, like a gentleman as he
was.” Dolly got over the first greeting in the dusky hall, and as
her guest passed on to the parlor, she popped her head out to ask
anxiously,--

“Did you say anything, Dick?”

“I couldn’t; something has happened to him; he’ll tell you about it.
I’m going to see to the horse, so take your time, and do what you
like,” with which vague information Dick vanished, and Dolly wished
herself anywhere but where she was.

Mr. Bopp sat before the fire, looking so haggard and worn out that
the girl’s conscience pricked her sorely for her part in the change,
but plucking up her courage, she stirred briskly among the tea-cups,
asking,--

“What shall I give you, sir?”

“Thank you, I haf no care to eat.”

Something in his spiritless mien and sorrowful voice made Dolly’s
eyes fill; but knowing she must depend upon herself now, and make
the best of her position, she said kindly, yet nervously,--

“You look tired; let me do something for you if I can; shall I sing
for you a little? you once said music rested you.”

“You are kind; I could like that I think. Excoose me if I am dull, I
haf--yes, a little air if you please.”

More and more disturbed by his absent, troubled manner, Dolly began
a German song he had taught her, but before the first line was sung
he stopped her with an imploring--

“For Gott sake not that! I cannot hear it this night; it was the
last I sung her in the Vaterland.”

“Mr. Bopp, what is it? Dick says you have a trouble; tell me, and
let us help you if we can. Are you ill, in want, or has any one
wronged or injured you in any way? Oh, let me help you!”

Tears had been streaming down Mr. Bopp’s cheeks, but as she spoke he
checked them, and tried to answer steadily,--

“No, I am not ill; I haf no wants now, and no one has hurt me but in
kindness; yet I haf so great a grief, I could not bear it all alone,
and so I came to ask a little sympathy from your good Mutter, who
has been kind to me as if I was a son. She is not here, and I
thought I would stop back my grief; but that moosic was too much;
you pity me, and so I tell you. See, now! when I find things go
bright with me, and haf a hope of much work, I take the little store
I saved, I send it to my friend Carl Hoffman, who is coming from my
home, and say, ‘Bring Ulla to me now, for I can make life go well to
her, and I am hungry till I haf her in my arms again.’ I tell no
one, for I am bold to think that one day I come here with her in my
hand, to let her thank you in her so sweet way for all you haf done
for me. Well, I watch the wind, I count the days, I haf no rest for
joy; and when Carl comes, I fly to him. He gifs me back my store, he
falls upon my neck and does not speak, then I know my little Kind
will never come, for she has gone to Himmel before I could make a
home for her on earth. Oh, my Ulla! it is hard to bear;” and, with a
rain of bitter tears, poor Mr. Bopp covered up his face and laid it
down on his empty plate, as if he never cared to lift it up again.

Then Dolly forgot herself in her great sympathy, and, going to him,
she touched the bent head with a soothing hand; let her tears flow
to comfort his; and whispered in her tenderest voice,--

“Dear Mr. Bopp, I wish I could heal this sorrow, but as I cannot,
let me bear it with you; let me tell you how we loved the little
child, and longed to see her; how we should have rejoiced to know
you had so dear a friend to make your life happy in this strange
land; how we shall grieve for your great loss, and long to prove our
respect and love for you. I cannot say this as I ought, but, oh, be
comforted, for you will see the child again, and, remembering that
she waits for you, you will be glad to go when God calls you to meet
your Ulla in that other Fatherland.”

“Ah, I will go now! I haf no wish to stay, for all my life is black
to me. If I had found that other little friend to fill her place, I
should not grieve so much, because she is weller there above than I
could make her here; but no; I wait for that other one; I save all
my heart for her; I send it, but it comes back to me; then I know my
hope is dead, and I am all alone in the strange land.”

There was neither bitterness nor reproach in these broken words,
only a patient sorrow, a regretful pain, as if he saw the two lost
loves before him and uttered over them an irrepressible lament. It
was too much for Dolly and with sudden resolution she spoke out fast
and low,--

“Mr. Bopp, that was a mistake. It was not I you saw at the masque;
it was Dick. He played a cruel trick; he insulted you and wronged me
by that deceit, and I find it very hard to pardon him.”

“What! what is that!” and Mr. Bopp looked up with tears still
shining in his beard, and intense surprise in every feature of his
face.

Dolly turned scarlet, and her heart beat fast as she repeated with
an unsteady voice,--

“It was Dick, not I.”

A cloud swept over Mr. Bopp’s face, and he knit his brows a moment
as if Dolly had not been far from right when she said “he never
would forgive the joke.” Presently, he spoke in a tone she had never
heard before,--cold and quiet,--and in his eye she thought she read
contempt for her brother and herself,--

“I see now, and I say no more but this; it was not kind when I so
trusted you. Yet it is well, for you and Richart are so one, I haf
no doubt he spoke your wish.”

Here was a desperate state of things. Dolly had done her best, yet
he did not, or would not, understand, and, before she could restrain
them, the words slipped over her tongue,--

“No! Dick and I never agree.”

Mr. Bopp started, swept three spoons and a tea-cup off the table as
he turned, for something in the hasty whisper reassured him. The
color sprang up to his cheek, the old warmth to his eye, the old
erectness to his figure, and the eager accent to his voice. He rose,
drew Dolly nearer, took her face between his hands, and bending,
fixed on her a look tender yet masterful, as he said with an
earnestness that stirred her as words had never done before,--

“Dollee, he said No! do you say, Yes?”

She could not speak, but her heart stood up in her eyes and answered
him so eloquently that he was satisfied.

“Thank the Lord, it’s all right!” thought Dick, as, peeping in at the
window ten minutes later, he saw Dolly enthroned upon Mr. Bopp’s knee,
both her hands in his, and an expression in her April countenance
which proved that she found it natural and pleasant to be sitting
there, with her head on the kind heart that loved her; to hear herself
called “meine leibchen;” to know that she alone could comfort him for
little Ulla’s loss, and fill her empty place.

“They make a very pretty landscape, but too much honey isn’t good
for ‘em, so I’ll go in, and we’ll eat, drink, and be merry, in honor
of the night.”

He rattled the latch and tramped on the mat to warn them of his
approach, and appeared just as Dolly was skimming into a chair, and
Mr. Bopp picking up the spoons, which he dropped again to meet Dick,
with a face “clear shining after rain;” and kissing him on both
cheeks after the fashion of his country, he said, pointing to
Dolly,--

“See, it is all fine again. I forgif you, and leave all blame to
that bad spirit, Mephistopheles, who has much pranks like that, but
never pays one for their pain, as you haf me. Heart’s dearest, come
and say a friendly word to Richart, then we will haf a little
health,--Long life and happiness to the King of Clubs and the Queen
of Hearts.”

“Yes, August, and as he’s to be a farmer, we’ll add another,--‘Wiser
wits and better manners to the Knave of Spades.’”




THE CROSS ON THE OLD CHURCH TOWER.


UP the dark stairs that led to his poor home strode a gloomy-faced
young man with despair in his heart and these words on his lips:--

“I will struggle and suffer no longer; my last hope has failed, and
life, become a burden, I will rid myself of at once.”

As he muttered his stern purpose, he flung wide the door and was
about to enter, but paused upon the threshold; for a glance told him
that he had unconsciously passed his own apartment and come up
higher, till he found himself in a room poorer but more cheerful
than his own.

Sunshine streamed in through the one small window, where a caged
bird was blithely singing, and a few flowers blossomed in the light.
But blither than the bird’s song, sweeter than the flowers, was the
little voice and wan face of a child, who lay upon a bed placed
where the warmest sunbeams fell.

The face turned smiling on the pillow, and the voice said
pleasantly,--

“Come in, sir, Bess will soon be back if you will wait.”

“I want nothing of Bess. Who is she and who are you?” asked the
intruder pausing as he was about to go.

“She is my sister, sir, and I’m ‘poor Jamie’ as they call me. But
indeed, I am not to be pitied, for I am a happy child, though it may
not seem so.”

“Why do you lie there? are you sick?”

“No, I am not sick, though I shall never leave my bed again. See,
this is why;” and, folding back the covering, the child showed his
little withered limbs.

“How long have you lain here, my poor boy?” asked the stranger,
touched and interested in spite of himself.

“Three years, sir.”

“And yet you are happy! What in Heaven’s name have you to render you
contented, child?”

“Come sit beside me, and I’ll tell you, sir; that is, if you please
I should love to talk with you, for it’s lonely here when Bess is
gone.”

Something in the child’s winning voice, and the influence of the
cheerful room, calmed the young man’s troubled spirit and seemed to
lighten his despair. He sat down at the bedside looking gloomily
upon the child, who lay smiling placidly as with skilful hands he
carved small figures from the bits of wood scattered round him on
the coverlid.

“What have you to make you happy, Jamie? Tell me your secret, for I
need the knowledge very much,” said his new friend earnestly.

“First of all I have dear Bess,” and the child’s voice lingered
lovingly upon the name; “she is so good, so very good to me, no one
can tell how much we love each other. All day, she sits beside my
bed singing to ease my pain, or reading while I work; she gives me
flowers and birds, and all the sunshine that comes in to us, and
sits there in the shadow that I may be warm and glad. She waits on
me all day; but when I wake at night, I always see her sewing
busily, and know it is for me,--my good kind Bess!

“Then I have my work, sir, to amuse me; and it helps a little too,
for kind children always buy my toys, when Bess tells them of the
little boy who carved them lying here at home while they play out
among the grass and flowers where he can never be.”

“What else, Jamie?” and the listener’s face grew softer as the
cheerful voice went on.

“I have my bird, sir, and my roses, I have books, and best of all, I
have the cross on the old church tower. I can see it from my pillow
and it shines there all day long, so bright and beautiful, while the
white doves coo upon the roof below. I love it dearly.”

The young man looked out through the narrow window and saw, rising
high above the house-tops, like a finger pointing heavenward, the
old gray tower and the gleaming cross. The city’s din was far below,
and through the summer air the faint coo of the doves and the
flutter of their wings came down, like peaceful country sounds.

“Why do you love it, Jamie?” he asked, looking at the thoughtful
face that lit up eagerly as the boy replied,--

“Because it does me so much good, sir. Bess told me long ago about
the blessed Jesus who bore so much for us, and I longed to be as
like him as a little child could grow. So when my pain was very
sharp, I looked up there, and, thinking of the things he suffered,
tried so hard to bear it that I often could; but sometimes when it
was too bad, instead of fretting Bess, I’d cry softly, looking up
there all the time and asking him to help me be a patient child. I
think he did; and now it seems so like a friend to me, I love it
better every day. I watch the sun climb up along the roofs in the
morning, creeping higher and higher till it shines upon the cross
and turns it into gold. Then through the day I watch the sunshine
fade away till all the red goes from the sky, and for a little while
I cannot see it through the dark. But the moon comes, and I love it
better then; for lying awake through the long nights, I see the
cross so high and bright with stars all shining round it, and I feel
still and happy in my heart as when Bess sings to me in the
twilight.”

“But when there is no moon, or clouds hide it from you, what then,
Jamie?” asked the young man, wondering if there were no cloud to
darken the cheerful child’s content.

“I wait till it is clear again, and feel that it is there, although
I cannot see it, sir. I hope it never will be taken down, for the
light upon the cross seems like that I see in dear Bessie’s eyes
when she holds me in her arms and calls me her ‘patient Jamie.’ She
never knows I try to bear my troubles for her sake, as she bears
hunger and cold for mine. So you see, sir, how many things I have to
make me a happy child.”

“I would gladly lie down on your pillow to be half as light of heart
as you are, little Jamie, for I have lost my faith in everything and
with it all my happiness;” and the heavy shadow which had lifted for
a while fell back darker than before upon the anxious face beside
the bed.

“If I were well and strong like you, sir, I think I should be so
thankful nothing could trouble me;” and with a sigh the boy glanced
at the vigorous frame and energetic countenance of his new friend,
wondering at the despondent look he wore.

“If you were poor, so poor you had no means wherewith to get a crust
of bread, nor a shelter for the night; if you were worn-out with
suffering and labor, soured by disappointment and haunted by
ambitious hopes never to be realized, what would you do, Jamie?”
 suddenly asked the young man, prompted by the desire that every
human heart has felt for sympathy and counsel, even from the little
creature before him ignorant and inexperienced as he was.

But the child, wiser in his innocence than many an older counsellor,
pointed upward, saying with a look of perfect trust,--

“I should look up to the cross upon the tower and think of what Bess
told me about God, who feeds the birds and clothes the flowers, and
I should wait patiently, feeling sure he would remember me.”

The young man leaned his head upon his folded arms and nothing
stirred in the room, but the wind that stole in through the roses to
fan the placid face upon the pillow.

“Are you weary waiting for me, Jamie dear? I could not come before;”
 and as her eager voice broke the silence, Sister Bess came hastening
in.

The stranger, looking up, saw a young girl regarding him from
Jamie’s close embrace, with a face whose only beauty was the light
her brother spoke of, that beamed warm and bright from her mild
countenance and made the poor room fairer for its presence.

“This is Bess, my Bess, sir,” cried the boy, “and she will thank you
for your kindness in sitting here so long with me.”

“I am the person who lodges just below you; I mistook this room for
my own; pardon me, and let me come again, for Jamie has already done
me good,” replied the stranger as he rose to go.

“Bess, dear, will you bring me a cup of water?” Jamie said; and as
she hastened away, he beckoned his friend nearer, saying with a
timid wistful look,--

“Forgive me, if it’s wrong, but I wish you would let me give you
this; it’s very little, but it may help some; and I think you’ll
take it to please ‘poor Jamie.’ Won’t you, sir?” and as he spoke,
the child offered a bright coin, the proceeds of his work.

Tears sprung into the proud man’s eyes; he held the little wasted
hand fast in his own a moment, saying seriously,--

“I will take it, Jamie, as a loan wherewith to begin anew the life
I was about to fling away as readily as I do this;” and with a quick
motion he sent a vial whirling down into the street. “I’ll try the
world once more in a humbler spirit, and have faith in you, at
least, my little Providence.”

With an altered purpose in his heart, and a brave smile on his lips,
the young man went away, leaving the child with another happy
memory, to watch the cross upon the old church tower.

It was mid-winter; and in the gloomy house reigned suffering and
want. Sister Bess worked steadily to earn the dear daily bread so
many pray for and so many need. Jamie lay upon his bed, carving with
feeble hands the toys which would have found far readier purchasers,
could they have told the touching story of the frail boy lying
meekly in the shadow of the solemn change which daily drew more
near.

Cheerful and patient always, poverty and pain seemed to have no
power to darken his bright spirit; for God’s blessed charity had
gifted him with that inward strength and peace it so often brings to
those who seem to human eyes most heavily afflicted.

Secret tears fell sometimes on his pillow, and whispered prayers
went up; but Bess never knew it, and like a ray of sunshine, the
boy’s tranquil presence lit up that poor home; and amid the darkest
hours of their adversity, the little rushlight of his childish faith
never wavered nor went out.

Below them lived the young man, no stranger now, but a true friend,
whose generous pity would not let them suffer any want he could
supply. Hunger and cold were hard teachers, but he learned their
lessons bravely, and though his frame grew gaunt and his eye hollow,
yet, at heart, he felt a better, happier man for the stern
discipline that taught him the beauty of self-denial and the
blessedness of loving his neighbor better than himself.

The child’s influence remained unchanged, and when anxiety or
disappointment burdened him, the young man sat at Jamie’s bedside
listening to the boy’s unconscious teaching, and receiving fresh
hope and courage from the childish words and the wan face, always
cheerful and serene.

With this example constantly before him, he struggled on, feeling
that if the world were cold and dark, he had within himself one true
affection to warm and brighten his hard life.

“Give me joy, Jamie! Give me joy, Bess! the book sells well, and we
shall yet be rich and famous,” cried the young author as he burst
into the quiet room one wintry night with snow-flakes glittering in
his hair, and his face aglow with the keen air which had no chill in
it to him now.

Bess looked up to smile a welcome, and Jamie tried to cry “Hurrah;”
 but the feeble voice faltered and failed, and he could only wave his
hand and cling fast to his friend, whispering, brokenly,--

“I’m glad, oh, very glad; for now you need not rob yourself for us.
I know you have, Walter; I have seen it in your poor thin face and
these old clothes. It never would have been so, but for Bess and
me.”

“Hush, Jamie, and lie here upon my arm and rest; for you are very
tired with your work,--I know by this hot hand and shortened breath.
Are you easy now? Then listen; for I’ve brave news to tell you, and
never say again I do too much for you,--the cause of my success.”

“I, Walter,” cried the boy; “what do you mean?”

Looking down upon the wondering face uplifted to his own, the young
man answered with deep feeling,--

“Six months ago I came into this room a desperate and despairing
man, weary of life, because I knew not how to use it, and eager to
quit the struggle because I had not learned to conquer fortune by
energy and patience. You kept me, Jamie, till the reckless mood was
passed, and by the beauty of your life showed me what mine should
be. Your courage shamed my cowardice; your faith rebuked my fears;
your lot made my own seem bright again. I, a man with youth, health,
and the world before me, was about to fling away the life which you,
a helpless little child, made useful, good, and happy, by the power
of your own brave will. I felt how weak, how wicked I had been, and
was not ashamed to learn of you the lesson you so unconsciously were
teaching. God bless you, Jamie, for the work you did that day.”

“Did I do so much?” asked the boy with innocent wonder; “I never
knew it, and always thought you had grown happier and kinder because
I had learned to love you more. I’m very glad if I did anything for
you, who do so much for us. But tell me of the book; you never would
before.”

With a kindling eye Walter replied,--

“I would not tell you till all was sure; now, listen. I wrote a
story, Jamie,--a story of our lives, weaving in few fancies of my
own and leaving you unchanged,--the little counsellor and good angel
of the ambitious man’s hard life. I painted no fictitious sorrows.
What I had seen and keenly felt I could truly tell,--your cheerful
patience, Bess’s faithful love, my struggles, hopes, and fears. This
book, unlike the others, was not rejected; for the simple truth,
told by an earnest pen, touched and interested. It was accepted, and
has been kindly welcomed, thanks to you, Jamie; for many buy it to
learn more of you, to weep and smile over artless words of yours,
and forget their pity in their reverence and love for the child who
taught the man to be, not what he is, but what, with God’s help, he
will yet become.”

“They are very kind, and so are you, Walter, and I shall be proud to
have you rich and great, though I may not be here to see it.”

“You will, Jamie, you must; for it will be nothing without you;” and
as he spoke, the young man held the thin hand closer in his own and
looked more tenderly into the face upon his arm.

The boy’s eyes shone with a feverish light, a scarlet flush burned
on his hollow cheek, and the breath came slowly from his parted
lips, but over his whole countenance there lay a beautiful serenity
which filled his friend with hope and fear.

“Walter bid Bess put away that tiresome work; she has sat at it all
day long, never stirring but to wait on me;” and as he spoke, a
troubled look flitted across the boy’s calm face.

“I shall soon be done, Jamie, and I must not think of rest till
then, for there is neither food nor fuel for the morrow. Sleep,
yourself, dear, and dream of pleasant things; I am not very tired.”

And Bess bent closer to her work, trying to sing a little song, that
they might not guess how near the tears were to her aching eyes.

From beneath his pillow Jamie drew a bit of bread, whispering to his
friend as he displayed it,--

“Give it to Bess; I saved it for her till you came, for she will not
take it from me, and she has eaten nothing all this day.”

“And you, Jamie?” asked Walter, struck by the sharpened features of
the boy, and the hungry look which for a moment glistened in his
eye.

“I don’t need much, you know, for I don’t work like Bess; but yet
she gives me all. Oh, how can I bear to see her working so for me,
and I lying idle here!”

As he spoke, Jamie clasped his hands before his face, and through
his slender fingers streamed such tears as children seldom shed.

It was so rare a thing for him to weep that it filled Walter with
dismay and a keener sense of his own powerlessness. Ho could bear
any privation for himself alone, but he could not see them suffer.
He had nothing to offer them; for though there was seeming wealth in
store for him, he was now miserably poor. He stood a moment, looking
from brother to sister, both so dear to him, and both so plainly
showing how hard a struggle life had been to them.

With a bitter exclamation, the young man turned away and went out
into the night, muttering to himself,--

“They shall not suffer; I will beg or steal first.”

And with some vague purpose stirring within him, he went swiftly on
until he reached a great thoroughfare, nearly deserted now, but
echoing occasionally to a quick step as some one hurried home to his
warm fireside.

“A little money, sir, for a sick child and a starving woman;” and
with outstretched hand Walter arrested an old man. But he only
wrapped his furs still closer and passed on, saying sternly,--

“I have nothing for vagrants. Go to work, young man.”

A woman poorly clad in widow’s weeds passed at that moment, and, as
the beggar fell back from the rich man’s path, she dropped a bit of
silver in his hand, saying with true womanly compassion,--

“Heaven help you! it is all I have to give.”

“I’ll beg no more,” muttered Walter, as he turned away burning with
shame and indignation; “I’ll take from the rich what the poor so
freely give. God pardon me; I see no other way, and they must not
starve.”

With a vague sense of guilt already upon him, he stole into a more
unfrequented street and slunk into the shadow of a doorway to wait
for coming steps and nerve himself for his first evil deed.

Glancing up to chide the moonlight for betraying him, he started;
for there, above the snow-clad roofs, rose the cross upon the tower.
Hastily he averted his eyes, as if they had rested on the mild,
reproachful countenance of a friend.

Far up in the wintry sky the bright symbol shone, and from it seemed
to fall a radiance, warmer than the moonlight, clearer than the
starlight, showing to that tempted heart the darkness of the yet
uncommitted wrong.

That familiar sight recalled the past; he thought of Jamie, and
seemed to hear again the childish words, uttered long ago, “God will
remember us.”

Steps came and went along the lonely street, but the dark figure in
the shadow never stirred, only stood there with bent head, accepting
the silent rebuke that shone down upon it, and murmuring, softly,--

“God remember little Jamie, and forgive me that my love for him led
me astray.”

As Walter raised his hand to dash away the drops that rose at the
memory of the boy, his eye fell on the ring he always wore for his
dead mother’s sake. He had hoped to see it one day on Bess’s hand,
but now a generous thought banished all others and with the energy
of an honest purpose be hastened to sell the ring, purchase a little
food and fuel, and borrowing a warm covering of a kindly neighbor,
he went back to dispense these comforts with a satisfaction he had
little thought to feel.

The one lamp burned low; a few dying embers lay upon the earth, and
no sound broke the silence but the steady rustle of Bess’s needle,
