morning dram. There was no bottle there. He went to the locker; there
was none there. He searched, without success, in all the lockers and
berths of the cabin. While he was engaged in the search, Mollie, who had
heard him, came out of her room.

The captain's hand shook, and his whole frame trembled from the effects
of his long-inebriation. His nerves were shattered, and nothing but
liquor could quiet them. Mollie could not help crying when she saw to
what a state her father had been reduced. He was pale and haggard; and
when he tried to raise a glass of water to his lips his trembling hand
refused its office, and he spilled it on the floor.

"Where is all the liquor, Mollie?" he asked, in shaken, hollow tones.

"I have thrown it all overboard," she replied, firmly.

He was too weak to be angry with her; and she proceeded to tell him what
must be the fate of the vessel, and of all on board, if he did not
attend to his duty. He listened, and promised not to drink another drop;
for he knew then, even when his shattered reason held but partial sway,
that he would be the murderer of his daughter and of his crew, if the
vessel was wrecked by his neglect. He meant to keep his promise; but the
gnawing appetite, which he had fostered and cherished until it became a
demon, would not let him do so. In the forenoon, goaded by the insatiate
thirst that beset him, he went into the hold, which could be entered
from the cabin, and opened a case of liquors, forming part of the cargo.
He drank long and deep, and lay down upon the merchandise, that he might
be near this demon.

Twelve o'clock came, and no observation could be taken. Mollie looked
for her father, and with Noddy's help she found him in the hold,
senseless in his inebriation. Mr. Lincoln was called down, and he was
conveyed to his berth. The liquor was thrown overboard, but it was too
late; before dark the gale broke upon the Roebuck, and fear and
trembling were again in the vessel.




CHAPTER XVI.

NIGHT AND STORM.


Sudden and severe was the gale which came down upon the Roebuck, while
her captain was besotted and helpless in his berth. Mr. Lincoln did all
that a skilful seaman could do, and while the wind and the waves were
the only perils against which the schooner had to contend, there was no
serious alarm for her safety. The night had come, and the time had
passed by when even Captain McClintock could do anything more than the
mate.

Mr. Lincoln had kept the "dead reckoning" as well as he could without
any knowledge of the currents; and it was evident that the vessel was in
a perilous situation, and not far distant from the region of islands and
coral reefs. The first hours of the stormy night wore gloomily away, for
none knew at what moment the schooner might be dashed to pieces upon
some hidden rock.

When the captain revived a little from the stupor of intoxication, he
seemed not to heed the situation of the vessel. Taking the cabin
lantern, he went into the hold again. His only thought seemed to be of
the liquor on which he lived. All the cases that Mollie and Noddy could
find had been thrown overboard; but the drunkard overhauled the cargo
till he found what he wanted, and taking a bottle of gin to his
state-room, he was soon as senseless as the fiery fluid could make him.

Mollie did all that she could do under these trying circumstances; she
prayed that the good Father who had saved them before, would be with
them now; and she knew that the strong arm of Omnipotence could move far
from them the perils with which they were surrounded. She felt better
every time she prayed. But the storm increased in fury, and she knew not
the purposes of the Infinite in regard to them.

"I am afraid we shall never see the light of another day, Noddy," said
she, as the great seas struck with stunning force against the side of
the vessel.

"Why not? We have been out in a worse gale than this," replied Noddy,
who felt that it was his peculiar office to keep hope alive in the
heart of his gentle companion.

"But we may be in the midst of the rocks and shoals."

"We shall do very well, Mollie. Don't give it up."

"I don't give it up; but I am ready for anything. I want to be resigned
to my fate whenever it comes."

"Don't be so blue about it, Mollie. It will be all right with us in the
morning."

"You heard what Mr. Lincoln said, and you know we are in great danger."

"Perhaps we are."

"You know we are, Noddy."

"Well, we are; but for all that, the vessel will ride out the gale, and
to-morrow you will laugh to think how scared you were."

"I am not scared; I am ready to die. Promise me one thing, Noddy."

"Anything," answered he, promptly.

"You will not blame my father if the vessel is lost. He is insane; he
can't help what he does. He never did so before, and I know he don't
mean to do wrong."

"I suppose he don't, and I won't blame him, whatever happens," replied
he, willing to comfort the poor girl in any way he could.

"I should not care so much if it didn't look as though it was all
father's fault."

"It will be all right to-morrow. We will throw the rest of the liquor
overboard. We will search through the hold, and not leave a single
bottle of anything there. Then we shall be safe."

"It will be too late then," sighed Mollie.

"No, it won't; the vessel will be saved. I know it will," added Noddy,
resolutely.

"You don't know."

"Yes, I do; I am just as certain of it as I am of my own existence."

Noddy had hardly uttered these confident words, before a tremendous
shock threw them upon the cabin floor. It was followed by a terrible
crashing sound, as though every timber in the vessel had been rent and
broken; and they could hear the rush of waters, as the torrents poured
in through the broken sides. Noddy, without stopping to think of the
vain prophecy he had made, seized the light form of Mollie, and bore her
to the deck. The sea was running riot there; the great waves swept over
the deck with a force which no human strength could resist, and Noddy
was compelled to retreat to the cabin again.

The lantern still swung from a deck beam, but the water had risen in the
cabin so that his descent was prevented. The Roebuck had run upon a reef
or shoal in such a manner that her bow was projected far out of the
water, while her stern was almost submerged in the waves. Noddy's quick
perception enabled him to comprehend the position of the vessel, and he
placed his charge on the companion ladder, which was protected in a
measure from the force of the sea by the hatch, closed on the top, and
open only on the front.

"My father!" gasped Mollie. "Save him, Noddy!"

"I will try," replied Noddy. "Hold on tight," added he, as a heavy
volume of water rolled down the companion-way.

"Save him, and don't mind me," groaned the poor girl, unselfish to the
last.

The brave boy stepped down to the cabin floor, where the water was up to
his hips. Creeping on the top of the lockers, and holding on to the
front of the berths, he reached the door of the captain's state-room. In
this part of the vessel the water had risen nearly to the top of the
door, and the berth in which the unfortunate inebriate lay was entirely
beneath its surface. He crawled into the room, and put his hand into the
berth. The captain was not there.

The water was still rising, and Noddy had no doubt that the poor man had
already perished. The shock of the collision when the schooner struck,
or the rising waters, had forced him from his position on the bed. The
water was over Noddy's head in the state-room; but the agony of Mollie
induced him to make a desperate effort to save her father. He dropped
down on the floor, and felt about with his feet, till he found the body.
The question was settled. Captain McClintock was dead. He was one of the
first victims of his criminal neglect.

It was not safe to remain longer in the state-room, even if there had
been any motive for doing so, and Noddy worked his way forward again as
he had come. He found Mollie still clinging to the ladder, suffering
everything on account of her father, and nothing for herself.

"My poor father!" said she, when she discovered her friend coming back
without him. "Where is he, Noddy?"

"I couldn't do anything for him, Mollie," replied he.

"Is he lost?"

"He is gone, Mollie; and it was all over with him before I got there.
Don't cry. He is out of trouble now."

"Poor father," sobbed she. "Couldn't you save him? Let me go and help
you."

"No use, Mollie," added Noddy, as he climbed up the ladder, and looked
out through the aperture at the hatch.

"Are you sure we can't do anything for him?" she asked, in trembling
tones.

"Nothing, Mollie. He was dead when I opened the door of his room. I
found him on the floor, and had to go down over my head to find him. He
did not move or struggle, and I'm sure he is dead. I am sorry, but I
can't help it."

"O, dear, dear!" groaned she, in her anguish.

She heeded not the cracking timbers and the roaring sea. Her heart was
with the unfortunate man who lay cold and still beneath the invading
waters. She was ready to go with him to the home in the silent land.

"You hold on tight a little while, and I will go on deck, and see if I
can make out where we are," said Noddy.

"It matters little to me where we are. I shall soon be with my father,"
replied Mollie.

"Don't say that. Your father is at rest now."

"And I shall soon be at rest with him. Do you hear those terrible waves
beat against the vessel? They will break her in pieces in a few moments
more."

"Perhaps they will, and perhaps they won't. You mustn't give up, Mollie.
If I should lose you now, I shouldn't care what became of me."

"You have been very good to me, Noddy; and I hope God will bless you."

"I want to save you if I can."

"You cannot, Noddy, in this terrible storm. We are poor weak children,
and we can do nothing."

"But I am bound to work and win. I shall not give it up yet, Mollie. We
have struck upon a rock or a shoal, and the land can't be a great ways
off."

"Such an awful sea! We could never reach the land."

"We can try--can't we?"

"Where is Mr. Lincoln?"

"I don't know. I have not heard a sound but the noise of the sea since
the vessel struck. I suppose he and the rest of the men were washed
overboard."

"How horrible!"

"I don't know. They may have left in one of the boats."

"I haven't any courage, Noddy. My poor father is gone, and I don't feel
as though it made any difference what became of me."

"Don't talk so, Mollie. Save yourself for my sake, if you don't for your
own."

"What can we do?" asked she, blankly, for the situation seemed utterly
hopeless.

"I don't know; I will see," replied Noddy, as he crawled through the
aperture, and reached the deck.

A huge wave struck him as he rose upon his feet, and bore him down to
the lee side of the vessel; but he grasped the shrouds, and saved
himself from being hurled into the abyss of waters that boiled in the
fury of the storm on both sides of the stranded schooner. He ran up the
shrouds a short distance, and tried to penetrate the gloom of the night.
He could see nothing but the white froth on the waves, which beat on all
sides. There was no land to be seen ahead, as he had expected, and it
was evident that the Roebuck had struck on a shoal, at some distance
from any shore.

It was impossible to walk forward on the deck, for the savage waves that
broke over the vessel would have carried him overboard. The sight
suggested the manner in which the men had so suddenly disappeared. They
had probably been swept away the moment the vessel struck. The rigging
of the schooner was all standing, and Noddy decided to go forward to
ascertain if there was any comfortable position there for Mollie. He
went to the main-mast head, and, by the spring-stay, reached the
fore-mast. Descending by the fore-shrouds, he reached the forecastle of
the schooner.

The bow had been thrown up so high on the shoal that the sea did not
break over this part of the vessel with anything like the force it did
farther aft. The hatch was on the fore-scuttle, and it was possible that
the men had taken refuge in the forecastle. Removing the hatch, he
called the names of Mr. Lincoln and others; but there was no response.
He then went down, and attempted to make his way aft through the hold.
This was impossible, and he was obliged to return by the way he had
come.

"My poor father!" sighed Mollie, as Noddy reached the ladder to which
she was clinging; "I shall never see you again."

"Come, Mollie. I want you to go with me now," said he, taking her by the
arm.

"Did you find any of the crew?" she asked.

"Not a single one."

"Poor men!"

"I am afraid they are all drowned; but we may be saved if we only work.
If we stay here we shall certainly be lost. If the sea should carry off
the companion-hatch, we should be drowned out in spite of all we could
do."

"What can we do?"

"We must go forward."

"That is impossible for me, Noddy."

"No, it isn't."

"Save yourself, Noddy, if you can. I do not feel like doing anything."

"I shall stay by you, and if you are lost I shall be lost with you."

"Then I will go with you, and do anything you say," said she, earnestly;
for when the life of another was at stake, she was willing to put forth
any exertion.

"The vessel holds together first-rate, and if we stick by her till
morning, we may find some way to save ourselves. Don't give it up,
Mollie. Work and win; that's my motto, you know."

"I am ready to work with you, Noddy, whether you win or not."

The persevering boy got a rope, which he made fast around the little
girl's body, and watching his time, at the intervals of the breaking
waves, he bore her to the main shrouds. She went up to the mast head
without much difficulty, though the force of the wind was so great that
Noddy had to hold on to her, to keep her from being blown from the
ropes.

At this point he made a sling for her on the spring-stay, in which she
sat as a child does in a swing. It was adjusted to the big rope so that
it would slip along, and permit her to hold on to the stay with her
hands. The vessel seemed to be so wedged in the rocks or sand, on which
she had struck, that she did not roll, and the only obstacle to a safe
passage from one mast to the other, was the violence of the gale. By
Noddy's careful and skilful management, the transit was made in safety
through the most imminent peril. The descent to the deck, forward, was
more easily accomplished, and the heroic youth soon had the pleasure of
seeing his gentle charge safe, for the present, in the forecastle.

He had worked and won, so far. He was satisfied with the past, and
hopeful of the future. Having conducted Mollie to a safe place, he
turned his attention once more to the situation of the vessel. Looking
over the bow, he discovered the dark, ragged rocks, rising a few feet
above the water, on which she had struck, but he could not see any
land.




CHAPTER XVII.

AFTER THE STORM.


The Roebuck had been built, under the direction of Captain McClintock,
for the voyage around Cape Horn. She was a new vessel, and of extra
strength, and she held together in spite of the hard thumping she
received on the rocks. As she struck, a hole was knocked in her bottom;
but her bow had been forced so far up on the rocks that the water which
she made all settled aft.

With tender care Noddy had wrapped up his frail companion in a pea
jacket he found in the forecastle, and together they waited anxiously
for the morning light. The waves beat fiercely against the side of the
vessel, pounded on the decks as they rolled over the bulwarks; and the
survivors were in continual fear that each moment would witness the
destruction of their ark of safety. Noddy had made the best arrangements
he could for a speedy exit, in case the worst should be realized.

With the first signs of daylight Noddy was on deck endeavoring to obtain
a better knowledge of the location of the wreck. It seemed to him then
that the force of the gale had abated, though the sea was hardly less
savage than it had been during the night. As the day dawned, he
discovered the outline of some dark object, apparently half a mile
distant. He watched this sombre pile till there was light enough to
satisfy him that it was an island.

"Hurrah!" shouted Noddy,--forgetting, in the joy of this discovery, that
death and destruction had reigned on board the Roebuck.

"What is it?" asked Mollie, hardly moved by the gladness of her
companion.

"Land ho!" replied he, as he descended the ladder to the forecastle.

"Where is it?" said she, languidly, as though she did not feel much
interested in the announcement.

"Right over here, about half a mile off."

"It might as well be a thousand miles off; for we can never get there."

"O, yes, we can. We have the boat on deck. I'm afraid you are
discouraged, Mollie."

"I can't help thinking of poor father," said she, bursting into tears
again.

Noddy comforted her as well as he could. He told her she ought not to
repine at the will of God, who had saved her, though he had permitted
her father to be lost; that she ought to be grateful for her own
preservation; and, what seemed to be the strongest argument to him, that
weeping and "taking on" would do no good. He was but a poor comforter,
and only repeated what he had often heard her say in the dark hours of
their former tribulation. Her father was dead, and she could not help
weeping. Whatever were his faults, and however great had been the error
which had brought her to the present extremity, he was her father. In
his sober days he had loved her tenderly and devotedly; and it seemed
like sacrilege to her to dry the tears which so readily and so freely
flowed. They were the natural tribute of affection from a child to a
lost parent.

Noddy did not dare to say all he believed, for he was convinced that the
death of the captain was a blessing to himself and to his daughter. He
was so besotted by the demon that life could henceforth be only a misery
to him, and a stumbling-block to her. It required no great faith for him
to believe, in the present instance, that the good Father doeth all
things well.

The daylight came, and with it the hope of brighter hours. The clouds
were breaking away, and the winds subsided almost as suddenly as they
had risen. Still the waves broke fiercely over the wreck, and it was
impossible to take any steps towards reaching the land, whose green
hills and bright valleys gladdened the heart of the storm-tossed
sailor-boy. With an axe which he found in the forecastle, he knocked
away a couple of the planks of the bulkhead which divided the seamen's
quarters from the hold. He passed through, by moving a portion of the
miscellaneous cargo, to the cabin, where he obtained some water, some
ship bread, and boiled beef.

Poor Mollie had no appetite; but to please her anxious friend, she ate
half a biscuit. They passed the forenoon in the forecastle, talking of
the past and the future; but the thoughts of the bereaved daughter
continually reverted to her father. She talked of him; of what he had
been to her, and of the bright hopes which she had cherished of the
future. She was positive she should never be happy again. After much
persuasion, Noddy induced her to lie down in one of the bunks, and being
thoroughly exhausted by anxiety and the loss of rest, she went to
sleep, which gave her patient friend a great deal of satisfaction.

She slept, and Noddy went on deck again. The waves had now subsided, so
that he could go aft. He found that the jolly-boat was gone from the
stern davits. At first he supposed it had been washed away by the heavy
sea; but a further examination convinced him that it had been lowered by
the men. It was possible, if not probable, the crew had taken to the
boat, and he might find them on the island, or a portion of them, for it
was hardly to be expected that the whole crew had escaped.

From the deck he went below. He had anticipated that the fall of the
tide would enable him to enter the state-room of the captain; but there
was no perceptible change in the height of the water. In this locality
the whole range of the tide was not more than a foot. There were many
things which might be of great value to Mollie, if they ever escaped
from this region, and he was anxious to save them for her use. The
captain had a considerable sum of money in gold and silver. The
cabin-boy, knowing where it was, set himself at work to obtain it. He
was obliged to dive several times before he succeeded; but at last he
brought it up, and deposited it in the safest place he could find.

Other articles of value were saved in the same manner, including the
captain's chronometer and sextant, the sad neglect of which had caused
the terrible disaster. Towards night a change in the wind "knocked down"
the sea, and the waves no longer dashed against the shattered vessel.
The galley had been washed away; but the boat on deck, though thrown
from the blocks, was still uninjured; and Noddy was sorely perplexed to
find a means of getting it overboard. It was too late, and he was too
tired to accomplish anything that night.

Mollie was awake when he went to the forecastle again; and rest and
refreshment had made her more cheerful and more hopeful. She spoke with
greater interest of the future, and dwelt less mournfully on the sad
event which had made her an orphan. Noddy told her his plans for the
morrow; that he intended to launch the long-boat, and visit the island
the next day; that he would build a house for her; and that they would
be happy there till some passing whaler picked them up. The tired boy,
now secure of life, went to sleep. His fair companion wept again, as she
thought of the pleasant days when her father had been a joy to every
hour of her existence; but she, too, went to sleep, with none to watch
over her but the good Father who had saved her in all the perils through
which she had passed.

The sun rose clear and bright the next morning, and Noddy went on deck
to prepare their simple breakfast. He had constructed a fireplace of
iron plates, and he boiled some water to make tea. Mollie soon joined
him; and sad as she still was, she insisted that the cooking was her
duty. She performed it, while Noddy employed himself in devising some
plan by which, with his feeble powers, he could hoist the heavy boat
into the water. The bulwarks had been partially stove on one side, and
he cleared away the wreck till there was nothing to obstruct the passage
of the boat over the side.

They sat down on the deck to eat their breakfast; and during the meal
Noddy was very quiet and thoughtful. Occasionally he cast his eyes up at
the rigging over their heads. Mollie could not help looking at him. She
had a great admiration for him; he had been so kind to her, and so brave
and cheerful in the discharge of the duties which the awful catastrophe
imposed upon him. Besides, he was her only friend--her only hope now.

"What are you thinking about, Noddy?" asked she, perplexed by his
unusually meditative mood.

"I was thinking how I should get the boat into the water."

"You can't get it into the water. What can a small boy like you do with
a great boat like that?"

"I think I can manage it somehow."

"I am afraid not."

"Don't give it up, Mollie; our salvation depends on that boat. I found
out something more, when I went aloft this morning."

"What?"

"There is another island off here to the northward, just as far as you
can see. We may wish to go there, and the boat would be wanted then."

"Noddy, perhaps there are savages on those islands, who will kill us if
we go on shore."

"Two can play at that game," replied Noddy, in his confident tone.

"What could a boy like you do against a mob of Indians?"

"There are two or three pistols in the cabin, and I think I know how to
use them; at any rate I shall not be butchered, nor let you be, without
showing them what I am made of," answered Noddy, as he rose from the
planks, and turned his attention once more to the moving of the boat.

"You wouldn't shoot them--would you?"

"Not if I could help it. I shouldn't want to shoot them; and I won't do
it, if they behave themselves. But I must go to work on the boat now."

"Let me help you, Noddy, I am real strong, and I can do a great deal."

"I will tell you when you can help me, Mollie, for I may need a little
assistance."

"I don't see how you are going to do this job."

"I will show you in a moment," replied Noddy, as he ran up the main
shrouds.

He carried a small hatchet in his belt, with which he detached the
starboard fore-brace from the mast. This was a rope, the end of which
was tied to the main-mast, and extended through a single sheaf-block at
the starboard fore-yard-arm. After passing through this block, the brace
returned to the main-mast, passed through another block, and led down
upon the deck. There was another rope of the same kind on the port side
of the vessel. They were used to swing round the yard, in order to place
the sail so that it would draw in the wind.

When Noddy cut it loose, the brace dropped to the deck. It was now
simply a rope passing through a single block at the end of the yard. The
little engineer made fast one end of the brace to the ring in the bow of
the boat. He then unhooked the peak halliards of the fore-sail, and
attached them to the ring in the stern of the boat. Now, if he had had
the strength, he would have pulled on the yard-arm rope till he dragged
the bow out over the water; the stern line being intended merely to
steady the boat, if necessary, and keep it from jamming against the
mast. When he had drawn the bow out as far as he could with the brace,
he meant to attach the same rope to the stern, and complete the job.

"That's all very pretty," said Mollie, who had carefully noticed all her
companion's proceedings; "but you and I can't hoist the boat up with
that rigging."

"I know that, Mollie," replied Noddy, wiping the perspiration from his
brow. "I haven't done yet."

"I am afraid you won't make out, Noddy."

"Yes, I shall. Work and win; that's the idea."

"You are working very hard, and I hope you will win."

"Did you know I made an improvement on Miss Bertha's maxim?"

"Indeed! What?"

"He that works shall win."

"That's very encouraging; but it isn't always true."

"It is when you work in the right way," answered Noddy, as he took the
end of the yard-arm rope, and, after passing it through a snatch-block,
began to wind it around the barrel of the small capstan on the
forecastle.

"Perhaps you haven't got the right way."

"If I haven't I shall try again, and keep trying till I do get it,"
replied Noddy, as he handed Mollie the end of the rope which he had
wound four times round the capstan. "Do you think you can hold this
rope and take in the slack?"

"I am afraid there will not be any to take in; but I can hold it, if
there is," said she, satirically, but without even a smile.

Noddy inserted one of the capstan bars, and attempted to "walk round;"
but his feeble powers were not sufficient to move the boat a single
inch. He tightened up the rope, and that was all he could accomplish.

"I was afraid you could not stir it," said Mollie; but her tones were
full of sympathy for her companion in his disappointment.

He struggled in vain for a time; but it required a little more
engineering to make the machinery move. Taking a "gun-tackle purchase,"
or "tackle and fall," as it is called on shore, he attached one hook to
the extreme end of the capstan bar, and the other to the rail. This
added power accomplished the work; and he made the capstan revolve with
ease, though the business went on very slowly. He was obliged to shift
back the bar four times for every revolution of the barrel. But the boat
moved forward, and that was success. He persevered, and skill and labor
finally accomplished the difficult task. The boat floated in the water
alongside the wreck. He had worked; he had won.




CHAPTER XVIII.

THE BEAUTIFUL ISLAND.


"There, Mollie, what do you think now!" exclaimed the youthful engineer,
as he made fast the painter of the boat to a ring in the deck of the
schooner.

"You have worked very hard, Noddy, but you have succeeded. You must be
very tired."

"I am tired, for I have done a hard day's work."

"You ought to rest now."

"I think I will. We are in no hurry, for we are very comfortable here,
and storms don't come very often."

It was late in the afternoon when the work of getting out the boat was
finished. Noddy had labored very hard, and he was perfectly willing to
rest during the remainder of the day. Mollie made some tea, and they had
supper at an early hour. It was a remarkably pleasant day, and the air
was as soft and balmy as a poet's dream. Both the young workers were
very much fatigued, and they sat upon the deck till dark.

"Where is my father now?" asked Mollie, as she cast a nervous glance
towards the beautiful island which they hoped to reach on the following
day.

"Where is he?" repeated Noddy, surprised at the question, and not
knowing what she meant.

"I mean his remains."

"In his state-room," answered Noddy, very reluctant to have the subject
considered.

"Will you do one thing more for me, Noddy?" demanded she, earnestly and
impressively.

"Certainly, I will, Mollie."

"It shall be the last thing I shall ask you to do for me."

"Don't say that, for I've always been ready to do everything you wished
me to do."

"I know you have, Noddy; and you work so hard that I don't feel like
asking you to do any extra labor."

"I will do anything you wish, Mollie. You needn't be afraid to ask me,
either. If you knew how much pleasure it gives me to work for you, I'm
sure you would keep me busy all the time."

"I don't wish to wear you out, and you may think this is useless work."

"I'm sure I shall not, if you want it done."

"If you knew how sad it makes me feel to think of my poor father lying
in the water there, you would understand me," added she, bursting into
tears.

"I know what you mean, Mollie, and it shall be done the first thing
to-morrow."

"Thank you, Noddy. You are so good and so kind! I hope I shall see Miss
Bertha, some time, and tell her what you have done for me," continued
she, wiping away her tears.

They retired to the forecastle soon after dark; and when Mollie had said
her simple prayer for both of them, they lay down in the bunks, and were
soon asleep.

Noddy's first work the next morning was to rig a mast and sail for the
long-boat. In this labor he was assisted by Mollie, who sewed diligently
on the sail all the forenoon. While she was thus engaged, Noddy, without
telling her what he was going to do, went into the cabin, carrying a
boat-hook, and, with a feeling of awe amounting almost to superstitious
terror, proceeded to fish up the body of Captain McClintock. He knew
just where it lay, and had no difficulty in accomplishing the task. He
dragged the remains out into the cabin, and floated the corpse in the
water to the foot of the ladder. It was an awful duty for him to
perform; and when he saw the ghastly, bloated face, he was disposed to
flee in terror from the spot.

Noddy was strong for his years, or he could not have placed the body on
the locker, out of the reach of the water. He prepared the remains for
burial precisely as those of Mr. Watts had been. The most difficult
part of the task was yet to be performed--to get the corpse on deck, and
lower it into the boat. He procured a long box in the hold, from which
he removed the merchandise, and found that it would answer the purpose
of a coffin. By much hard lifting, and by resorting to various
expedients, he placed the remains in the box and nailed down the lid. He
felt easier now, for the face of the corpse no longer glared at him.

When he had bent on the sail, and shipped the rudder, he contrived to
set Mollie at work in the forecastle, where she could not see what he
was doing; for he thought his work must be revolting to her feelings,
especially as it would be very clumsily performed. Having put a sling on
the box, he rigged a purchase, and hoisted it out of the cabin. Then,
with suitable rigging, he lowered it into the boat, placing it across
the thwarts, amidships.

"Come, Mollie," said he, in a gentle, subdued tone, at the fore-scuttle.

"What, Noddy?" asked she, impressed by his voice, and by his manner, as
she came up from below.

"We will go on shore now."

"To-day?"

"Yes; but we will return. The boat is ready, and I have done what you
asked me to do."

"What?"

"Your father."

She was awed by his manner, and did not readily understand what he
meant. He pointed to the long box in the boat, and she comprehended the
loving labor he had performed. She did not inquire how he had
accomplished the task, and did not think of the difficulties which
attended it. Noddy did not allude to them.

"I am ready, Noddy; but can you get me the prayer-book?" said she, her
eyes filling with tears, as she prepared to perform the pious duty which
the exigencies of the occasion required of her.

The book was fortunately on a shelf to which the water had not risen,
and he brought it up and gave it to her. He had before placed a pick and
shovel, an axe, a couple of boards and some cords in the boat. He helped
her to a seat in the stern-sheets, and shoved off. There was hardly a
breath of wind, and Noddy sculled the boat towards an opening in the
reef, which was of coral, and surrounded the island. The afflicted
daughter gazed in silent grief at the box, and did not speak a word till
the boat entered a little inlet, which Noddy had chosen as a
landing-place.

He stepped on shore, and secured the boat to a bush which grew on the
bank. Mollie followed him in silence, and selected a place for the
grave. It was at the foot of a cocoa palm. The spot was as beautiful as
the heart could desire for such a holy purpose; and Noddy commenced his
work. The soil was light and loose, and after much severe labor, he made
a grave about three feet deep. It would be impossible for him to lower
the box into the grave; and, from one end, he dug out an inclined plane,
down which he could roll the corpse to its final resting-place.

It required all his skill, strength, and ingenuity to disembark the box;
but this was finally accomplished, with such assistance as the weeping
daughter could render. The rude coffin was then moved on rollers to the
foot of the tree, and deposited in the grave. Mollie opened the book to
the funeral prayer, and handed it to her companion. Severe as the labor
he had performed had been, he regarded this as far more trying. He could
not refuse, when he saw the poor girl, weeping as though her heart would
break, kneel down at the head of the grave. Fortunately he had read this
prayer many times since it had been used at the obsequies of Mr. Watts,
and it was familiar to him. Awed and impressed by the solemn task
imposed upon him, he read the prayer in trembling, husky tones. But he
was more earnest and sincere than many who read the same service in
Christian lands. It touched his own heart, and again the good Father
seemed to be very near to him.

The reading was finished, and the loving girl, not content with what had
been done, gathered wild flowers, rich and luxuriant in that sunny
clime, and showered them, as a tribute of affection, on the rough
coffin. Noddy filled up the trench first, and then, amid the sobs of the
poor child, covered all that remained of her father. With what art he
possessed he arranged the green sods, as he had seen them in the
graveyard at Whitestone. Mollie covered the spot with flowers, and then
seemed loath to leave the grave.

From the beginning, Noddy had trembled lest she should ask to look once
more on the face of the departed. He had been horrified at the sight
himself, and he knew that the distorted visage would haunt her dreams if
she was permitted to gaze upon it; but she did not ask to take that last
look. Though she said nothing about it, she seemed to feel,
instinctively, that the face was not that she had loved, which had
smiled upon her, and which was still present in her remembrance.

"Come, Mollie, it is almost dark, and we must go now," said he,
tenderly, when he had waited some time for her.

"I am ready, Noddy; and you cannot tell how much better I feel now that
my poor father sleeps in a grave on the land--on the beautiful island!"
replied she, as she followed him to the boat. "You have been very kind
to do what you have. It has cost you a whole day's labor."

"It is the best day's work I have done, Mollie, if it makes you feel
better," replied Noddy, as he hoisted the sail.

They did not reach the wreck till it was quite dark, for the wind was
light. Mollie was more cheerful than she had been since the vessel
struck. She had performed a religious duty, which was very consoling to
her feelings in her affliction; and Noddy hoped that even her sadness
would wear away amid the active employments which would be required of
her.

In the morning, Noddy loaded the boat with provisions, and such useful
articles as they would need most on the island, and in the middle of the
forenoon they again sailed for the land. They entered the little inlet,
and moored the boat in a convenient place, for it was decided that they
should explore the island before the goods were landed.

"We are real Robinson Crusoes now, Noddy," said Mollie, as they stepped
on shore.

"Who's he?"

She told him who Crusoe was, and some of the main features of his
residence on the lonely island. She was surprised to learn that he had
never read the story.

"But we have everything we can possibly need, while Crusoe had scarcely
anything. We have provisions enough in the vessel to last us a year,"
added she.

"We shall do very well. I don't think we shall have to stay here long.
There are whale ships in all parts of the South Seas, and if they don't
come to us, we can go to them, for we have a first-rate boat."

They walked up the hill which rose from the little plain by the
sea-side, where they found a small table-land. But it did not take them
long to explore the island, for it was hardly a mile in diameter.
Portions of it were covered with trees, whose shape and foliage were new
and strange to the visitors. No inhabitants dwelt in this little
paradise; but the reason was soon apparent to Noddy; for, when Mollie
was thirsty, their search for water was unavailing. There was none on
the island.

This was an appalling discovery, and Noddy began to consider the
situation of the water casks on board the wreck. They returned to the
boat, and having selected a suitable spot, the goods were landed, and
carefully secured under a sail-cloth brought off for the purpose. For
two weeks Noddy labored diligently in bringing off the most serviceable
goods from the wreck. He had constructed a tent on shore, and they made
their home on the island. For the present there was nothing but hard
work, for a storm might come and break up the schooner.

Noddy rigged a series of pulleys, which enabled him to handle the water
casks with ease. Other heavy articles were managed in the same way.
Farther up the inlet than his first landing-place he found a tree near
the shore, to which he attached his ropes and blocks, to hoist the
barrels out of the boat. We are sorry that our space does not permit a
minute description of these contrivances, for many of them were very
ingenious. The labor was hard, and the progress often very slow; but
Noddy enjoyed the fruit of his expedients, and was happy in each new
triumph he achieved. He had found a joy in work which did not exist in
play.

"Now, Mollie, we must build a house," said he, when he had brought off
sufficient supplies from the wreck.

"Do you think you can make a house, Noddy?"

"I know I can."

"Well, I suppose you can. I think you can do anything you try to do."

"I have brought off all the boards I could get out of the wreck, and I
am sure I can build a very nice house."

The work was immediately commenced. Near the spot selected for the
mansion of the exiles there was a grove of small trees. The wood was
light and soft, and Noddy found that he could fell the trees with his
sharp hatchet quickly and easily. Four posts, with a crotch in the top
of each, were set in the ground, forming the corners of the house. The
frame was secured with nails and with ropes. The sides and the roof were
then covered with the hibiscus from the grove. Noddy worked like a hero
at his task, and Mollie watched him with the most intense interest; for
he would not permit her to perform any of the hard labor.

The frame was up, and covered, but the house was like a sieve. It was
the intention of the master builder to cover the roof with tough sods,
and plaster up the crevices in the sides with mud. But Mollie thought
the fore-topsail of the schooner would be better than sods and mud,
though it was not half so romantic. They had whole casks of nails, small
and large, and the sail was finally chosen, and securely nailed upon the
roof and sides. A floor was made of the boards, and the house banked up
so as to turn the water away from it when it rained. Two rooms, one for
each of the exiles, were partitioned off with sail-cloth. A bunk was
made in each, which was supplied with a berth-sack and bed-clothes from
the schooner. Besides these two rooms, there was one apartment for
general purposes.

This important work occupied three weeks; but it was perfectly luxurious
when completed.




CHAPTER XIX.

THE VISITORS.


The house was finished, and the satisfaction which it afforded to the
young exiles cannot be expressed in words. Noddy had exercised his
ingenuity in the construction of a fireplace, a chimney, and a table.
The stern-lights of the Roebuck furnished the windows of the principal
apartment; while single panes of glass, obtained from the assorted cargo
of the vessel, admitted the light to the sleeping-rooms. They had
knives, forks, spoons, dishes, and cooking utensils in abundance.
Everything they wanted was at hand; and in this respect they differed
from all the Crusoes of ancient and modern times.

The miscellaneous cargo of the schooner supplied the house with all the
comforts and many of the luxuries of civilization; and if Noddy had been
familiar with the refinements of social life, he would probably have
added the "modern improvements" to the mansion. If the house had been an
elegant residence on Fifth Avenue or Blackstone Square, the occupants
could not have enjoyed it more. Day after day Noddy added some new
feature of comfort, until he was as proud of the dwelling as though he
had been the architect of St. Peter's.

The work was done, and they had nothing to do but sit down under their
"own vine and fig-tree," and enjoy themselves. They had provisions and
water enough to last them six months. But Noddy had discovered that
idleness was the sum of all miseries; and after he had thoroughly
explored the island, and amused himself for a few days among the
novelties of the place, he realized that work was a positive luxury.
Even patient, plodding labor, without any excitement, was better than
doing nothing.

Though there had been a storm, the Roebuck still held together; and the
most profitable employment that presented itself was bringing off the
rest of the cargo from the wreck; and everything which it was possible
for him to move was transferred to the shore. He built a storehouse of
sail-cloth, in which all the merchandise and provisions were carefully
secured, though it was not probable that any considerable portion of it
would ever be of any value to the islanders.

Noddy had built a fence around the grave of Captain McClintock, and on a
smooth board had cut the name and age of the deceased. Every day Mollie
visited the spot, and placed fresh flowers on the green sod. The sharp
pangs of her great affliction had passed away, and she was cheerful, and
even hopeful of the future, while she fondly cherished the memory of
her father.

The islands which were just visible in the distance were a source of
interest and anxiety to the sailor-boy and his gentle companion. Noddy
had carefully examined them through the spy-glass a great many times;
and once he had seen a large canoe, under sail, with a ponderous
"out-rigger" to keep it from upsetting; but it did not come near the
home of the exiles. This proved that the other islands were inhabited,
and he was in constant dread of a visit from the savages. He put all the
pistols he had found in the cabin in readiness for use, and practised
firing at a mark, that he might be able to defend himself and his fair
charge if occasion required. They did not come, and there were no signs
on the island that they ever visited it, and he hoped to avoid the
necessity of fighting them.

There were plenty of fish in the waters which surrounded the island, and
Noddy had no difficulty in catching as many of them as he wanted. There
were no animals to be seen, except a few sea-fowl. He killed one of
these, and roasted him for dinner one day; but the flesh was so strong
and so fishy that salt pork and corned beef were considered better.

A two months' residence on the island had accustomed both the boy and
the girl to the novelties of the situation; and though, as might be
reasonably expected, they were anxious to return to the great world
from which they had been banished, they were tolerably contented with
the life they led. Noddy was continually planning some new thing to add
to the comfort of their daily life, and to provide supplies for the
future. As in many large cities, a supply of pure water was a question,
of momentous importance to him, and he early turned his attention to the
subject. He made spouts of canvas for the "mansion" and the storehouse,
by which the water, when it rained, was conducted to barrels set in the
ground, so as to keep it cool. This expedient promised a plentiful
supply, for the rains were heavy and frequent, and the quality was much
better than that of the water casks.
