hurt or not, as the chance may be, and that 
there is no more use in trying to stop them than 
there would be in putting down a little pine 
branch into that great writhing current, to dam 
it up. So she said what she had to say, and 
then let him alone. 

“Look the other way, then,’’ said Tom, 
coolly, leaning far over, with both hands in his 
pockets ; it did have an ugly look, — as if a 
breath would blow him off. 

Gypsy made him no answer, but she pressed 
forward instinctively to watch him, leaned 
heavily upon the railing, and it cracked with a 
loud, sharp noise. 

Tom heard it and sprang. Gypsy was on the 
shore at a bound, safe enough, and the bridge, 
too. Tom, with his hands encumbered, slipped 
and fell. 



There was a cry, — the vacant rock, — and 
horrible silence. 

Into it a groan broke, and Gypsy, leaning 
over with rigid face where all the rest had 
fallen back to make room for her, saw that the 
rock shelved and jutted eight feet down, into a 
narrow ledge. Tom, swinging by the bush 
with one free hand, had fallen here and lay 
helpless, one ankle sprained by a cruel twist in 
a crevice. 

Mr. Guernsey was gone already for a rope, and 
they drew him up and drove him slowly home, 
and — well, I am inclined to think that Tom 
said his prayers that night. 

The sprain proved to be a severe one ; the 
doctor ordered him to the sofa, and to the sofa 
he had to go. The result was that he lost 
several weeks of the beginning of the term. 

This was time and soil for Gypsy’s sowing, 
and she made the most of it. 

It was vacation, so that she had most of her 
time to herself, and she delivered it over entire 
to Tom. Perched on a high, round stool without 
a back, with her feet on the rounds and her 
head on one side like a canary, she sat by his 
sofa hour after hour, and read to him, and sang 
to him, and talked to him, and played chess 
with him. She ran on errands for him, she 
made him lemonade and whips and jellies, she 
saved up every scrap of news that she could 
gather for him, she ran all over town to borrow 
novels for him, — she became, in fact, for 
patience, and gentleness, and persistent care, 
such a model of a little sister as astonished Tom 
beyond measure. Not that she never made 
any blunders. She would scarcely have been 
Gypsy if she had not tipped over his lemonade, 
shut up flies into his books, joggled cold water 
down his neck, and lost the pins out of his 
bandages. Nor was it by any means as easy 
to be a model little sister as might be supposed. 
In spite of her love for Tom, play was play, 
and to sit up on a round stool and read Cooper’s 
novels aloud, when the sun was shining, and 
Sarah Rowe was paddling about in the orchard 
swamp alone, was hard enougli sometimes. 




Moreover, a sick boy is very much like a caged 
panther, and Tom, to tell the truth, was once 
in a while — a little — cross. He voted it a 
bore, this lying on sofas, at least twenty times 
a day, and in by no means the most cheerful 
of tones ; he was sure that his bandage was too 
tight one minute, and confident that it was too 
loose the next; he pronounced the lemonade 
too sour, and the whips not as good as they 
were yesterday ; he wished that Gypsy would 
not read so fast. No, that was too slow, now; 
it sounded like Dr. Prouty preaching a two 
hours’ Fast-Day sermon. Now, why need she 
keep coughing and wriggling about? and what 
was the use of making up such unearthly faces 
over the long words? 

“ Then, you see, I get mad sometimes,” 
Gypsy told Peace, “ and I fire up and say 
something horrid, and then I ’m just as sorry, 
and I go right at him and squeeze him and kiss 
him, and he says he didn’t mean to, and that 
I ’m too good to a fellow, and I say I didn’t 
mean to, and I squeeze him again, and we ’re 


both of us sorry, and after that I go down town 
and get him a pint of peanuts, and you ought 
to see us eat them ! ” 

So the weeks passed, and what Tom thought 
of Gypsy at the end of them, he managed 
partly to tell her one Sunday night when they 
were alone together. 

“ I say. Gyp.” 

“Well?” 

“ Look here.” 

“ I 'm looking as hard as I can ; it ’s pitch 
total ! I can’t see a thing but two boots (they 
want blacking dreadfully) — not in the place 
where boots ought to be — all skewed up on 
top of the parlour sofa.” 

“ Gypsy, I was undertaking to talk sense.” 

“You were? Well, I never! Do let me call 
in father and mother, — they would be so taken 
by surprise.” 

“Yes, ma’am, I was. I was going to say that 
you have been a good girl since I ’ve been shut 
up here.” 

“ Oh ! ” said Gypsy, with a change of tone. 



“A good girl,” repeated Tom, “and what 
with your jellies and novels and bandages, 
you ’ve treated me better than I deserve. I 
vote you a first rate fellow. Give us a kiss, will 
you?” 

Gypsy gave him the kiss, and thought 
about it. 

“ What would you give to see me in a blue 
uniform, with a musket on my shoulder, or a 
sword, perhaps, and a red sash, taking a rebel 
fort and getting into the newspapers, and doing 
up glory, and Hail Columbia, and all the rest 
of it, — be a little proud of your good-for- 
nothing brother, maybe?” 

“ Yes,” said Gypsy, with flashing eyes, “ of 
course I should. But you 're not a good-for- 
nothing, and soldiers are so apt to get killed, 
you know. Besides, mother won’t let you, and 
I had rather be proud of you at college, a great 
deal. I expect you will do splendidly this term, 
don’t you ? ” she added confidentially. 

“ Hum,” said Tom, in a queer tone, and 



broke out whistling. Gypsy could not see his 
face in the dark. 

“You know Yankee Doodle isn't — exactly 
— Sunday, Tom dear,” she ventured at last. 
“ No, nor John Brown’s Body, nor Dixie, 
cither, Tom Breynton ! Old Hundred? Yes, 
that will do. I wonder if it would be wicked 
for me to whistle alto ? ” 

Whenever Gypsy proposed to whistle, Tom’s 
musical tendencies came to an untimely end, 
and this occasion proved no exception. 



A DAY or two before Tom went back to 
college, the children were all sitting 
together one morning in Mrs. Breynton’s room, 
when their father came in from the post office 
with an open letter in his hand. 

“ Oh, I guess that 's a letter from my coal- 
man,” remarked Winnie, with the nonchalance 
of a business man of untold epistolary experi- 
ence. “ I ordered two tons and a pint tipped 
into my cellar, only Mrs. Winnie she said it 
wasn’t enough to keep the children warm, and 
then I tell you we got mad, and I just told her 
she wasn’t anything but a woman, and she kept 
still after that, sir ! ” 



“From Uncle George? ” asked Gypsy, look- 
ing up from her work. “ Oh, what did Joy 
do about those satin slippers, and what did he 
give her on her birthday?” — but then she 
stopped. She had seen, and every one else had 
seen by this time, the dark sternness of her 
father’s face. 

“ Thomas, I should like to have you read 
that.” 

Tom took the letter, read it, dropped it, grew 
very pale. 

It fell on the floor by Gypsy’s chair. She 
saw that it was a printed circular, so she picked 
it up and read : — 

David Breynton, Esq., Sir, — The bill 
of Mr. Thomas Breynton for the last collegiate 
term has not been paid. This notice is given 
in obedience to a law of the college, which 
provides that, “ If any student shall fail to pay, 
within two weeks after the close of any vaca- 
tion, his bills of the preceding term, it shall be 
the duty of the treasurer to give immediate 



notice thereof to the bondsman of such stu- 
dent, unless the latter shall have deposited with 
the treasurer a certificate from his bondsman 
or guardian that the means of payment have 
not been furnished him, or shall have presented 
to the treasurer a satisfactory reason for the 
delay.” 

Your obedient servant, 

Tr. 


“Well,” said Mr. Rreynton, “what have 
you to say for yourself? ” 

Tom had not a word to say for himself He 
sat with his eyes upon the ground, his face still 
very pale. 

“ I should like to know why your tuition was 
not paid,” insisted his father. Tom tried to 
whistle, failed miserably, put his hands in his 
pockets, and walked over to the window. 

“ Meant to pay it this term,” he said sulkily. 
“ My money got played out some way or other, 
I ’m sure I haven’t the fraction of an idea how, 
and I meant to start fresh when I went back, 



and pay it. I don’t know how I was to know 
that the old fellow must come and tell you.” 

“ So first you were guilty of a meanness both 
to your instructors and to me, and then you 
resorted to a deception to hide it.” 

“ There wasn’t any deception about it ! ” 
broke out Tom, angrily. “ I meant to pay it 
up honest, I say, and I didn’t tell you, because 
it was of no use to anybody that I see, and 
then I knew you would make such a — ” 

“Tom!” interrupted his mother’s sorrowful 
voice, and Tom stopped. When he had stopped, 
he saw Gypsy’s eyes, and his face flushed. 

“ You may come into the library, Thomas, 
and we will talk this over,” said his father, ex- 
citedly. They went out and shut the door. 

Winnie, who in the excitement had put his 
coal-basket on his head and forgotten to take it 
off, looked after them with his mouth open, and 
Gypsy and her mother looked at each other and 
never said a word. 

Tom was shut up with his father until dinner- 
time, and a violent headache, brought on by the 



excitement of the morning, kept Mrs. Breynton
in her room all day. Gypsy wandered 
mournfully about the house, shut herself upstairs 
and tried to cry a little, tried to play 
with Winnie, tried to make Tom talk, and, failing 
in all, went at last to Peace Maythorne. 
There, in the quiet room, in sight of the quiet 
eyes, the tears came, and comfort too. 

Yet, after all, there were very many boys 
much worse than Tom. He was thoughtless 
rather than vicious, — too much intent on being 
as well-dressed as anybody, on heading sub- 
scriptions, and patronising first-class clubs, 
and “treating” generously; over-desirous to 
be set down as “a good fellow; ” more anxious 
to be popular than to be a good scholar, like 
many another open-hearted, open-handed, merry 
boy; moreover, a little afraid to say No. Yet, 
as I said, by no means vicious. Faithful to his 
promise to Gypsy, he had left off all manner of 
sipping and pledging in brandies and wines, — 
had met question, laugh, and sneer, and met 
them like a man ; of his incipient gambling he 



had soon wearied ; his sense of honour was his 
'stronghold, and that was crossed by it sadly. 
As for the smoking, — though I am not including 
that very disagreeable habit among the 
viccs — angry as he had been about it, he had 
been cornered by his father’s command ; the 
discomfort of doing a thing, as he said, upon 
the sly,” was rather more than the cigars were 
worth. 

Extravagance and laziness were what ailed 
him now, — two rather treacherous covipagnons 
dc voyage for a college boy. Judging from the 
record of these two terms, what would they 
have done for him when the four years were 
over? Gypsy used to wonder sometimes, her 
bright cheeks paling as she asked herself the 
question. 

Perhaps she need not have been as much 
afraid as she was of having Tom with Francis 
Rowe. He did not seem to fancy Francis as 
much as he had done six months ago. From 
certain mysterious hints that he dropped once 
or twice, and from the expression of his face, 



Gypsy inferred that that young gentleman’s 
recent career at the Halls of Learning had been 
such as to disgust even thoughtless Tom. 

One day, when Tom had been back at college 
a little over a week, Gypsy came slowly home 
from Peace Maythorne’s with troubled eyes. 


This sultry spring weather was doing Peace no 
good. She had grown very weak and almost 
sleepless with continued pain. 

“ She looks like a ghost this morning,” said 
Gypsy, coming into her mother’s room, — so 
thin, and pale, and patient, and sweet, it almost 
made me cry to look at her. I don’t see why 
those old doctors can’t do something for her.” 

“ They do all they can,” said Mrs. Breynton. 
“ These diseases in the spine are very hard to 
manage. But it does seem as if Peace had a 
great deal of suffering, poor child ! ” 

“ It has made an angel of her, anyway,” said 
Gypsy, emphatically. “ I told Tom the other 
day, she made me feel like a little mean cater- 
pillar crawling round in the mud beside her. 
I ’m going to write to him again to-day. He 
always wants to know how Peace is. Hilloa, 
Winnie ! — a letter ? ” 

“ From Tom ! ” 

“ Yes, for you.” 

Mrs. Breynton took it, stopping a moment to 
look at the envelope.' 



“ How blurred the post-marks do get! This 
doesn’t look any more like New Haven than it 
does like Joppa, does it, Gypsy?” 

“ No, and just look at the stamp, skewed 
clear over there in the left-hand corner. How 
funny ! ” 

” Tom is always very particular about his 
stamp, and all the getting up of his letters. 
He must have been in a great hurry,” said his 
mother, breaking the seal. Evidently he was 
in a hurry, for the letter was undated. She 
read, with Gypsy looking over her shoulder. 

My dearest Mother, — I don’t know 
what you will think of me, and it is rough work 
telling you, but I ’ve done it, — I ’ve enlisted. 

I left New Haven day before yesterday, and 
enlisted as a private here at Washington this 

morning, in the regiment, and expect to 

be sent to the front to-morrow. 

I couldn’t stand it any longer. So many of 
the fellows were off, and I wasn’t doing any- 
thing at college, and I was ashamed of myself. 



and I knew you were all ashamed of me. I can 
shoulder a musket and obey orders, and perhaps
— who knows? — take some prisoners, and 
get noticed by the General. At any rate, I can 
die at my post, if there is any necessity, and 
that is better than nothing, and I shouldn’t 
bother you any more. 

There ! I had no business to say that, mother. 
I don’t expect to be killed, either. I expect to 
have a jolly time, and I think serving your 
country is a great deal better than flunking in 
Homer. 

The only thing about it is, I am afraid you 
will feel so, and Gypsy. I didn’t much like 
doing it after you had said No, but I must do 
it on the sly or not go at all, and I set my heart 
on going, before the end of last term. 

I won’t drink, mother, nor learn to swear, nor 
any of the rest of it. I promise you I will be 
a better fellow than I was in college, and be 
double the use in the world, and you shall be 
proud of me some day. Tell Gypsy so and tell 
her not to cry, and to think the best she can of 
me. She is a jewel, and I don’t like disappointing 
her, nor you either. I do hope it won’t 
make you worse. I don’t know what father 
will say ; couldn’t make up my mind to write 
to him. I thought he wouldn’t mind it quite 
so much if you told him. Please give him my 
love if he will take it, and tell him you will all 
see the day when you will think that I have 
done the best way. Give Winnie a kiss for me, 
and tell him my gun is taller than he is. Will 
write again as soon as I get to camp, and tell 
you how to direct. 

I do want to hear soon, and find out whether 
you can forgive 

Your Son, 

Tom. 

P. S. I am very well, — never better in my 
life, — and should be very happy if I only knew 
what you were going to say about it. I suppose 
you will think I have done wrong; well, any- 
way, it can’t be helped now. 

T. B. 



girls, with hands clasped and cheeks 
laid softly together ; the one with her 
bloodless lips and pale gold hair and shrunken 
hands ; the other round and rosy and brown, 
with her dark eyes snapping, and that canary 
poise to her head, and the morning sunlight 
over both, — it made a very pretty picture. 

But neither of them was thinking anything 
about that, — which was the charm of it. 

“ Peace, you are so white this morning, — do 
turn your face out of that sunbeam; it makes 
you look worse.” 

Peace smiled, and moved her head. 


“ Why, it doesn’t do the least good ! The 
sun always goes wherever you do. Peace May- 
thorne, I should like — well, I think I should 
like to pound that doctor with a tack-hammer, 
and then put some cayenne pepper on his hand- 
kerchief, and then pinch him, and then choke 
him a little, — just a little, not enough to be 
impolite, exactly, you know.” 


“ He docs all he can for me,” said Peace, 
laughing, “ and he is very kind, I ’m sure.” 

“ If it weren’t for his whiskers,” considered 
Gypsy, “ such solemn-looking things ! They 
look like grave-stones, exactly, — little black 
slate grave-stones, fringed on the edge.” 

“ He ’s good enough to her, I 'm sure,” ob- 
served Aunt Jane, who sat sewing by the 
window, “ and what with the jelly, and tongue, 
and books, and nobody knows what not, your 
ma keeps sendin’ her, I don’t think Peace has 
much to complain of” 

” Perhaps you would if you had to lie from 
morning to night with a pain in your back, and 
your father and mother dead, and nobody to ” — 
began Gypsy, with flashing eyes, and stopped. 
Then there was the old story over again, — 
Peace was grieved, and Aunt Jane was angry, 
and Gypsy was sorry. Presently Aunt Jane went 
out on an errand, and Gypsy said so. Peace 
sighed, but made no answer. Only, after a time, 
she said something, half to herself, about “ a little 
while,” that Gypsy did not exactly understand. 



“ The worse you feel, the more of an angel 
you are,” said Gypsy, in a pause. 

“ Oh, Gypsy ! ” 

“Yes, you are,” nodded Gypsy; “and I’m 
cross and bothered and worried about Tom, 
and, put it all together, I don’t begin to have 
as hard a time as you. When I come here, and 
look right into your eyes, I am so ashamed of 
myself, — why, I ’m so ashamed. Peace ! ” 

Peace raised her quiet eyes, and then she 
turned them away, for they had grown suddenly 
dark and dim. 

“ But I don’t have anything but myself to 
bear, Gypsy. It is a great deal easier to take 
things ourselves than to see them coming on 
somebody we love so very dearly.” 

“Yes,” said Gypsy, thinking for the moment 
how thankful she would be if she could be the 
soldier in Tom’s place; or how it seemed as if 
she would go to bed and lie there like Peace, 
if she could only make Tom the noble, prin- 
cipled, successful man that he might be, — that 
she was afraid at times he would never be. 



‘Ye-cs; but then, you see, I have Tom, to 
begin ivithT 

And Peace said nothing to that. 

Presently, she wanted to know what they 
heard from him. 

“ Well, we had a letter day before yesterday, 
and he said he was pretty well, and was over 
that terrible neuralgia, — he has had it almost 
ever since he has been there. But he thought 
there was going to be another fight, and so, you 
know, I have to go and think about it, and 
mother sits upstairs in the dark, and I know 
she ’s been crying, as well as I want to.” 

Peace did not say, “ Oh, he won’t get hurt. 
He wasn’t last time. The way not to have a 
thing happen is not to expect it. Look on the 
bright side,” &c., &c., &c. That sorry sort 
of sympathy it was not her fashion to give. 
Of course it was as possible for Tom to be 
wounded as any one else, and she could not have 
deluded Gypsy into thinking it was not, if she 
had tried. But she turned and kissed the cheek 
that was touching hers. 




“ It was so dreadful at first,” said Gypsy, 
who, when she once began to talk to Peace 
about Tom, never knew where to stop; “you 
sec, father, — I guess I told you, didn’t I? — 
well, he was so angry ! I never saw him look 
so in all my life. He said Tom was a disgrace 
to the family, and he said he would go right on 
and bring him home, — Tom is under age, you 
know, and he could do it, and I was so terribly 
afraid he would, and that would make Tom just 
as wicked as he could be, I know, he ’d be so 
angry. But mother talked him over. Well, 
then he sat right down and wrote a letter to 
Tom, and I never saw what was in it, but I 
guess it was awful. I don’t believe but what 
mother talked him round not to send that, too, 
for I saw her tearing up some letter-paper that 
night, and she was just as pale ! But by-and- 
by father didn’t seem to be angry, but just 
sorry. He was walking back and forth, back 
and forth, in the entry, and he never knew I 
saw him, and he shut up his hands together 
tight, and once I heard him groan right out 



loud, and say ‘ Poor boy, poor boy ! ’ and you ’d 
better believe I thought I was going to cry. 
Then did I tell you about our having prayers?” 

“No.” 

“Didn’t? Well, that was the worst of it. 
You see they had been shut up together almost 
all the afternoon and evening, talking it over, I 
suppose, — he and mother, I mean, — and no- 
body ate any supper but Winnie (he ate six 
slices of bread and two baked apples, and 
wanted to know if Tom got killed if he couldn’t 
have his gun), and I couldn’t go to bed, and 
Winnie would n’t, — he acted just as if it was a 
holiday, and said he was going to sit up till nine 
o’clock, because Tom had gone to the wars ; — 
so we just sat round and looked at each other, 
and it grew dark, and we could hear them 
talking upstairs, and it was dreadful. Then 
when Winnie saw me feeling for my handkerchief, 
he began to think he must cry too; so he 
stood up against the wall, and opened his mouth, 
and set up such a shout, — it was enough to 
wake the dead ! and I had enough to do hush- 



ing him up, but it made me laugh, and I 
couldn’t help it to save me. Well, then, it 
kept growing darker, and pretty soon they came 
down, and father called in Patty, just as if 
somebody were dead or something, and told her 
that Mr. Tom had enlisted; then he sent her 
out, and we all sat down, and he said : ‘ Children, 
Tom has done wrong, and we are sorry; 
but we have decided to let him stay in the army 
if he wishes, and now we will pray God to bless 
it to him, and to bring him home to us if it be 
His will.’ And then we all knelt down, and he 
began to pray, and I tell you, Peace, he loves 
Tom Breynton ! I did wish Tom could have 
heard him, and then, perhaps, he would forget 
about some of the times he has worried him 
so. I guess we were all choking before we 
got up, — except Winnie; he was sound asleep 
on the floor when we went to pick him 
up. 

“ So after that they wrote to Tom, but I 
don’t know what they said, and we all wrote to 
him, and his next letter sounded dreadfully 


sorry. Now, I believe something, Peace Maythorne.” 

“What is it?” 

“Well, Tom is just sick of it, only he won’t 
say so.” 

“ Why, what makes you think that? ” 

“ Oh, he keeps praising it up so much, for 
one thing. When Tom likes a thing firstrate, 
he doesn’t keep talking about it. Then once in 
a while he lets out a sentence about the rations 
being rather different from mother’s sponge cake 
and mince pies, and he says the marches tire 
him dreadfully. Then there ’s the neuralgia. 
He’s real patriotic, Tom is, and just as brave; 
but mother says he isn’t strong enough for it, 
and father says such young boys always go 
more from love of adventure than anything else, 
and almost always wish they had stayed at home. 
He says they don’t help the Government 
either, getting sick and filling the hospitals, and 
what we want in the army is men. But as long 
as he has gone, I hope he will take a prisoner 
or something. He likes to get funny letters 


from home, and so I drew a picture last week 
of a great, big, lean, lank, long Rebel, with Tom 
coming up about to his knee, and standing up 
on a barrel to arrest him.' 

“ You write to him often, I suppose? ” asked 
Peace. 

“Oh, yes; Tom likes it. And I tell him all 
the news ; he likes that. And I tell him I love 
him pretty much ; and he likes that. We send 
quantities of letters, and some he gets and some 
he doesn’t. But we get almost all his. But 
the thing of it is, Peace Maythorne, Francis 
Rowe says everybody in the army drinks and 
swears before they are out of it, and then the 
papers do tell such dreadful things about the 
battles, and I think, and go to bed thinking, 
and wake up thinking.” 

“ Gypsy,” said Peace, in a tone that had a 
new thought in it 

“ Well? ” 

“You love Tom ever so much.” 

“ Um — a little — yes.” 

“And you are a real good sister to him, I think.” 



Don’t know about that,” said Gypsy, wink- 
ing; “sometimes I’m horrid, and sometimes 
I’m not; it’s just as it happens.” 

“ I ’ve been wondering,” said Peace, and 
hesitated. 

“ Wondering what? ” 

Peace raised her still eyes, and Gypsy looked 
into them. 

“ Wondering if you have helped him every 
way you can.” 

“ I don’t understand exactly.” 

“ There ’s one way I was thinking about. I 
mean, — if you should tell God about him.” 

“ Oh ! ” 

The quiet eyes looked at Gypsy, and Gypsy 
looked at them. Perhaps for an instant Peace 
was almost sorry that she had said what she 
had, — a little uncertain how Gypsy was going 
to take it. But the quiet eyes showed nothing 
of this ; they held Gypsy’s fast by their stillness 
and their pureness, and did for her what they 
always did. 

“ Peace Maythorne,” — after a pause, — “I 



should like to know what made you think of 
saying that to me ! ” 

“ Oh, I don’t know. I was only wondering, 
and thinking; nothing seems of very much use 
without it ! ” 

Gypsy swung her hat round by the strings, 
and tapped the floor with one foot. 

“ Well, I suppose I have n’t, exactly, — no. 
I say Our Father every day — ’most; only 
sometimes I ’m sleepy. I say something about 
Tom once in a while, but I never supposed it 
was going to make any difference. Besides, I ’m 
so vvicked and horrid.” 

Peace made no answer. 

“ Now I suppose you mean, here I ’ve been 
doing and worrying for Tom all this time, and 
it is all of no account, then?” 

“ Oh, no ; it is of a great deal of account. 
Only if you see a man drowning, and throw 
him out planks and branches and straws and 
shavings, and there is a boat there you could 
have just as well as not? ” 

“ Hum,” said Gypsy; “ yes, I see.” 


There was a silence. Peace broke it. 

“ I expect I've bothered you with my sober 
talk. But I thought — I didn’t know as I
should have another chance.” 

“ Another chance ! ” echoed Gypsy, mystified.
Peace turned her head over with a sud- 
den motion, and did not answer. 

“ Peace, what did you mean?” Alarmed at 
the silence, Gypsy climbed up on the bed to see 
what was the matter. 

They had talked too long, and Peace had 
fainted away. 

“ She has these turns pretty nigh ’most 
every day now,” said Aunt Jane, coming in 
and emptying half the water-pitcher upon her 
moveless face, — not roughly, but very much 
as she would gather a skirt or cut button-holes ; 
as if it were part of the business of life, and 
life meant business, and love was a duty, — a 
crippled orphan or a shirt-bosom, it was all the 
same. 




ONE night, not long after that talk with 
Peace, Gypsy had a dream. It was a 
strange dream. 

It seemed to be nearly two thousand years 
ago, and she was living, and Peace, and 
Tom, and Winnie; and their 'home was 
in Judea. Tom was a young rabbi, and 
Winnie, was in the Temple at Jerusalem,
educating, like Samuel, for the Priesthood ; her 
father and mother were buried in the Cave of 
Machpelah, and she and Peace were Jewish 
maidens, and lived in a little vine-covered house 


by the banks of silver Kedron. It was a very 
pleasant house, though very small and simply 
furnished. From the door she could look over 
to Jerusalem, and see the sun light the towers 
of the Temple, and from the windows she could 
watch the hills, and the shadows on them, and 
the paths worn up : there was a certain awe 
about those paths ; she wondered in the dream 
who wore them, but she did not seem to 
know. 

The bed for Peace was drawn up by the win- 
dow, and Peace lay always (as she always had 
since Gypsy had known her) still upon the 
pillows, with folded hands. Tom used to carry 
her out into the air sometimes, and lay her 
down upon the grass beneath the palm-trees, 
and Gypsy would run and shout, and roam 
away over the brook and up the mountains, and 
Peace could never go, but lay under the palm- 
trees, weak and white, with wistful eyes. And 
once it chanced that they were together, she 
and Peace alone, on a long, smooth beach, with 
the blue waves of Galilee singing and sighing 




up about their feet, and singing and sighing 
out to dash against the prows of boats from 
which bronzed fishermen were casting nets. 

Peace was lying upon the sands, and Gypsy 
had made her a pillow of sea-mosses, and the 
light was falling full upon her face, and resting 
in a line of gold upon the water. Peace was 
watching this line of gold, and Gypsy was 
braiding her hair into the plaits the Jewish 
maidens wore, and it chanced that neither 
heard the stepping of near feet upon the 
sand. 

As they sat there talking softly with each 
other, and looking off to the line of gold, and 
listening to the singing and the sighing of the 
waves, a sudden light fell on them, and One 
stood there smiling, and took the hand of 
Peace, and spoke to her. The words He said 
were few and strange : “ Maiden, I say unto 
thee, arise.” 

Gypsy, hearing, turned in wonder to see who 
it could be that was mocking the helplessness 
of Peace ; but He had gone. And standing 




wliei'c He had stood was Peace, upright, erect, 
and strong, with colour in her cheeks and 
brightness in her eyes, — free to walk, to run, 
to leap, like happy Gypsy, all her crippled 
years forgotten like a dream gone by. 

“ Oh, Peace ! ” said Gypsy, in the dream, 
“ Oh, Peace, I am so glad ! ” and springing 
forward, tried to throw her arms around her 
neck. “ I must go,” said Peace, “ to thank 
Him,” and glided out of Gypsy’s clinging arms, 
and turned her face towards Galilee, and van- 
ished in the line of gold, and there was nothing 
left but the sighing of the waves upon the 
shore, and Gypsy sat alone. 

She woke with a start. The room was dark 
and the house was still. Far up the street a 
distant sound was drawing near. As she lay 
listening to it, it grew into the clatter of horses’ 
hoofs. They drew nearer and louder, and 
rattled up and rattled by; they had a sharp, 
hurried sound, as if they were on an errand of 
life and death. She jumped out of bed, went 
to the window, and looked out. In the faint 

moonlight she caught a glimpse of the doctor’s 
carriage. 

“ What a queer dream,” she thought, going 
back to bed, “ and how pretty ! I suppose it is 
because I have been down to see Peace so much 
lately, and then I was reading mother that 
chapter to-night about the lame man. I ’ll tell 
it to Peace to-morrow, and — and — ” 

She was asleep again by that time. 

To-morrow came, and Gypsy woke early. It 
was a rare morning. The winds, sweeping up 
over beds of late summer violets, and nooks 
where the bells of the Solomon’s seal were 
hanging thickly, and shadowy places under 
pines where anemones, white and purple and 
crimson, clustered with drooping heads, were 
as sweet as winds could be. There was not a 
cloud in the sky, and in the sunshine there was 
a sort of hush, Gypsy thought, like the sunshine 
on Sunday mornings. She remembered 
afterwards having stood at the window and 
wondered how many happy things were going 
to happen all over the world that day, and if 


any sorrowful things could happen, and how sorrowful 
things could ever happen on such days. 

Before she was dressed she heard the doorbell 
ring, wondered who it was so early, and 
forgot all about it in tying a new green ribbon 
— a beautiful shade, just like the greens of the 
apple-trees — upon her hair. Before she had 
finished twisting and pulling the pretty bow 
upon the side (Gypsy always made pretty 
bows), Winnie came stamping in, and said 
that there had been “ a funny little Irish girl, 
with a flat nose and two teeth, down ringin’ the 
door-bell, and now mother just wanted to see 
Gypsy Breynton in her room.” 

Gypsy gave a last look in the glass and 
went, still fingering the ribbon. She could 
never look at that pretty green ribbon after- 
wards without a shiver ; for a long time she 
did not want to wear green ribbons at all. The 
least little things are so linked with the great 
ones of our life. 

Her mother was still in bed, — she seldom 
rose now till after breakfast, — and Gypsy, 


going in, saw that she looked startled and 
pale. 

“ Gypsy, shut the door a minute, and come 
here.” 

Gypsy shut it, and came, wondering. 

