now that the doctor is here ? " she asked, kindly. 

An almost apathetical movement of the head was the only 
answer. For a long while the three watched. Then she 
went for some biscuits and tea. Margaret would have re- 
fused", but Richard held the cup before her, and she drank 
mechanically. All this time the baby had been very quiet ; 



 

now ho began to move uneasily, and purple lines settled 
rapidly about his mouth. 

" You had better go down with Mrs. Wilcox," Richard 
said, hurriedly. 

The look of alarm in her eyes asked the wordless ques- 
tion. 

" Not now," was the whispered reply. 

"How long?" An irrepressible shudder tore her frame. 

" Not before midnight ; perhaps later. But I do not like 
to have you witness this." 

" Please let me stay." 

The convulsion came on slowly, and though not of the 
severest type, racked the young mother's heart with agony. 
Richard used all the means at his command to alleviate the 
little innocent's suffering. More than once he bent closely 
over him to hide the writhing face. When the parqxysm 
passed, and he lay white and rigid, Margaret's fearful cry 
rang through the room. 

" O, he is dead ! dead ! My precious, precious baby-! " 
and she flung herself on the bed beside him. 

Not dead. There were feeble flutterings, faint indications 
of returning life. 

" He may be thus for hours. Would you not rather go 
away ? " 

" no ! no ! I will be quiet. But it is so terrible ! " 
And she clung to Richard with mute agony, as if he could 
give her strength for this fiery trial. He had never been so 
deeply moved by another's woe, and he longed, with wild 
intensity, to be able to shield her from these pangs. 

Father Wilcox came up for one last look of the beautiful 
boy so near heaven. He laid his trembling hand on the 
bowed head of the mother, and prayed that God would sus- 
tain her. Then the twilight fell softly over them, and in the 
midst of gray dusk the lamps were brought in. Still they 
watched. The convulsions returned at intervals until mid- 
night. Slowly the little life was drifting heavenward. The 





clock told off its seconds in deathly silence. Suddenly the 
baby lifted his arms and stretched them out wildly, as if 
searching for some familiar clasp. There was a little, fright- 
ened cry as Margaret clasped him to her heart, and kissed 
him with the last anguish of despairing love. A great awe 
fell uj on them. Then were the heavens opened, and the 
angels of God entered the golden gateway with a ransomed 
eoul. 

Richard took him from her, and laid him down, saying, 
brokenly, " ' I shall go to him, but he shall not return to me.' " 

Her head drooped on his breast. For the first time he 
kissed her, and in that moment took her to his heart entirely. 
Her face was pale and cold, her heavy-lidded eyes closed 
and tearless. He remembered that after a while he sum- 
moned Mrs. Wilcox, and wrapping a shawl carefully around 
the passive little figure, led her down stairs. She did not 
even moan, or make any outward sign of grief. 

The morning was breaking in the eastern skies. Clouds 
of opal and amethyst rayed off from the crimson spires, shoot- 
ing upward from the golden chariot of day. The odorous 
wind sobbed tremulously through the dewy trees, as if 
shadowy night wept tears of pain as she trailed her garments 
over the hill tops, to make room for a brighter visitant. 
The vines on the porch shook out showers of fragrance, 
grateful to the weary ones who paced up and down under 
their blossoms, in a silence too sorrowful to be broken by 
words. 

At length Margaret looked up, with weary, wistful eyes, 
and he led her back to the house, pausing in the parlor to 
open the shutters, and seat her on the sofa. " Wait here," 
he said, " while I go for a pillow." 

He brought not only the pillow, but a composing draught. 
She drank it at his bidding, and allowed him to cover her. 
He glanced at the dry, glittering eyes, and continued, with 
quiet authority, 

" Now you must go to sleep. I shall sit here a while, 



 

arid comfort you with the promises .God keeps for hia 
children." 

He took the chill hands in his, and chafed them tenderly, 
as he repeated verses from Holy Writ the glowing beauty 
of Revelations, and the blessed promises of Isaiah. At first 
she listened hopelessly, then -with senses sharpened by her 
keen suffering ; and the weary look became almost grateful. 
Presently the wide-open eyes drooped a little, the rigid 
lines of pain began to relax, and sleep asserted her power ; 
but rebellious nature gave sharp, nervous starts, and refused 
to be conquered. But the potent draught began to work, 
and the restless nerves succumbed. He watched her for 
a while with the tenderest pity ; then pressed his lips upon 
the white forehead, shut out the light, and left her to a 
slumber he knew must last several hours. 

Mrs. Wilcox had put Margaret's room in order, and 
washed the baby. He lay in his cradle, a sweet, natural 
look taking the place of pain. 

" doctor," Mrs. Wilcox exclaimed, " how will she en- 
dure it ! He has grown into her very life. They were 
scarcely ever separated for an hour, and she idolized him. 
Those so dearly loved are always taken first." 

" May it not be rather that love receives some divine pre- 
sentiment of its brief stay on earth, and develops more 
rapidly into completeness ? Dear baby ! His life work is 
done ; why it was so soon ended we cannot question. Grod, 
who took him, knows best." 

" Is she asleep ? " 

" Yes. The slumber may be heavy, she is so completely 
worn out. I must go now, and will stop on my way to send 
an undertaker. I shall be up this afternoon to make furthei 
arrangements." 




CHAPTER XX. 

So ; closer wind that tender arm. . . . How the hot tears fall ! Do not weep, 
Beloved, but let your smile stay warm about me. " In the Lord they sleep." 

OWEN MEREDITH. 

My heart still feels the weight of that remembered chain. 

MRS. NORTON. 

RICHARD paused at the parlor door with a strange longing 
to gaze once more on that face, still sweet, through all its 
grief and weary vigils. He listened to the heavy breathing 
of utter exhaustion, and then passed on with emotions that 
utterly refused to be analyzed. He was glad to be again in 
the fresh air of early morn ; he had much to think of. The 
future staring him in the face was not such a guest as men 
love to meet. 

Yet now there was no evading it. Daisy needed some 
friend in this cruel strait ; and who so appropriate as Mabel ? 
It would tend to arouse Mrs. Wilcox's suspicion if he kept 
them all away at a time like this. But if he brought Mabel 
there was a. painful duty before him ; he must tell her the 
truth. And then he sighed at the possibility of Daisy learn- 
ing it. 

When he reached home Ann was sweeping the sidewalk, 
and gave him a cheerful good morning. He went directly 
to the office, and throwing open the window, leaned on the 
sill, inhaling the sweetness of the honeysuckles. O, how 
fervently he prayed God to strengthen him for the bitter 
task ! He could not put away this cup. 

Martin came shuffling up from the stable. He fumbled 
in every pocket, and at last produced a letter. 



 

" Good mornin', doctor. I've something here that camf 
in last night's mail. I didn't let Miss Mabel see it, for fear. 
It's from California, and belike there's bad news." 

A shiver thrilled Richard's heart as he saw the strange 
handwriting and insignia of mourning. He broke it open 
hastily. 

" Master Robert ? " Martin inquired after a long pause. 

" Yes, he is dead," was the low, solemn reply. " I will 
tell you the particulars presently ; " and falling into the near- 
est chair, he pressed his hands to his forehead, as if utterly 
unable to take in the fact. That bright, buoyant, vigorous 
nature ; that proud, handsome face ! Oould it be the earth 
had shut it forever from human sight ? 

There followed an overwhelming sensation of relief. 
The weary, heart-corroding care, the burden that at times 
had seemed insupportable, rolled away. A thrill of free- 
dom sped along his veins. Then he checked himself. 
His ease and comfort purchased at such a price ! To this 
succeeded thoughts of Daisy. The secret that might one 
day blight her pure soul had been taken into wiser keeping 
than his. No fear of it now. God had chosen that Robert 
should atone for his treacherous sin by an early death. It 
was no longer his to bear, to pray over, and to fear. He 
could bring the poor, stricken child into their loving house- 
hold, to take Robert's place. He could give her sisters, 
brothers, and a name. 

He had merely glanced over the letter ; now he began to 
read it carefully. Its contents were these : 

" SAN FRANCISCO, June 10, 18. 

" DR. BERTRAND : I suppose, my dear sir, that, by the 
papers of the last steamer, you received an account of the 
sad occurrence which resulted in the death of your brother. 
He died too late to allow me to write in time for the mail. 
No one can deplore the event more deeply than myself and 
Mrs. Cummings, and we offer you our warmest and most heart- 





felt sympathy. The newspaper paragraph was substantially 
correct. Mrs. Cummings had been calling on some friends 
quite beyond the city limits, and on her return, being rather 
late, had taken an unfrequented path on account of its being 
nearer. Here she was beset by two drunken ruffians ; and 
I shudder to think of her possible fate, if your brother had 
not, attracted by her cries, rushed to her rescue. He suc- 
ceeded in disabling both of the miscreants, wounding one 
slightly, and the other severely ; but received a mortal blow 
himself. 

" He was brought immediately to my residence, and every- 
thing medical skill could suggest, done for his recovery, but 
alas ! in vain. He lingered three days, and expired amid 
the universal regret of his friends. My joy at my wife's es- 
cape is therefore tempered with keenest sorrow, that it should 
have been purchased at such a price. Yet I cannot refrain 
from congratulating you on once possessing a brother so 
fearless and chivalrous ; endeared to a large circle of friends 
here ; for his winning manners rendered him a favorite with 
almost every one he met. And I have no doubt that at home 
he will be equally regretted. The wretches who committed 
so unprovoked a murder are both in custody, and will, no 
doubt, pay the penalty of their crimes. 

" Your brother has been buried in our finest cemetery. 
If you particularly desire it, I will see to sending his remains 
home ; but if you and yours could decide to leave him to his 
final slumber in this far country, Mrs. Cummings and myself 
would take it as a great favor to us. Indeed, it is my wi;h 
to erect a monument both suitable and handsome, as a token 
of my appreciation of the inestimable benefit he conferred on 
both of us ; and it will be a work of love to watch over his 
grave. 

" You will be glad to know that his sufferings were not 
very intense, and also that he had every care it was possible 
for Mrs. Cummings to bestow. How deeply we deplofe hia 
loss, words are inadequate to express. 




"If there is anything amongst his effects you desire, ] 
shall be glad to take any trouble in forwarding it. Mrs. 
Cummings joins me in sympathy, regret, and the highest 
regard for your deceased brother. 

"Hoping to hear from you as to the final disposition of 
his remains, 

" I am, very sincerely, yours, 

"E. A. CUMMINGS." 

A thanksgiving surged up in Richard's heart, that his 
brother's death, if sudden, was in the highest degree hon- 
orable. He had expiated his sin towards one woman by 
the salvation of another. He forgave Robert every wrong 
fully and freely. The sneering allusions to Margaret had 
never stung any heart save his own. And he tried to be- 
lieve, that in those last moments, with another world opening 
on his view, Robert had repented, and would fain have re- 
paired the wrong to the poor child. 

He had shrunk with intense pain from making Margaret 
an object of pity for any other cause than her own grief. 
Now, although there might be much wondering, the story 
could be told. Margaret could take the place in the house- 
hold he had so often longed to give her. He could hardly 
realize that the " constant anguish of patience " was indeed 
ended. 

Presently there was a little stir in the house. From the 
parlor opposite, he heard Mabel's sweet voice, as she went 
about her morning's work, 

" ' Then with my waking thoughts 

Bright in thy praise, 
Out of my stony griefs 

Bethel I'll raise ; 
So by my woes to be 
Nearer, my God, to Thee, 

Nearer to Thee.' " 

The words soothed him greatly. He called to her, and 
she entered with a cheerful " good morning." 
He kissed her tenderly. 





" What is the matter, Richard ? You look tired and ill 
Was last night unusually fatiguing ? " 

He drew her down beside him, and replied in an unsteady 
voice, 

" It was a night of agony. Sorrows have multiplied upon 
us, my darling. I have a long, sad story to tell ; but first 
you must read this letter. Martin handed it to me when I 
came home." 

Her eyes wandered over a few lines, and were raised in" 
utter incredulity. Then she said, ' 

" It is not true, surely. Do you believe Robert is dead ? " 

" No one would write such a letter unless the story was 
beyond all question. You see it refers to papers, by the last 
steamer, that we missed. You remember we wondered a 
little at not hearing." 

" I can't believe it. And, Richard, why do you look so 
strangely ? . Are there still worse tidings ? " 

" Last night I watched the soul go out of Robert's little 
baby. He is in heaven with the a.ngels now ; but the poor, 
stricken mother, a fair, fragile girl, scarcely older than Lily, 
is crushed by her unspeakable anguish. For nearly a year 
she has known herself a deserted wife, never hearing of her 
husband save through me." 

" I knew some fresh misfortune had occurred when he left 
us so suddenly," Mabel resumed slowly; " but to be married 
to be dead I cannot realize it at all, Richard." 

" Let me tell you the story." He paused a moment for 
strength, and clasped his arm fondly about her, commencing 
with, " It was a hasty passion on his part, a child's love on 
hers. He tired of her, and refused to support or live with 
her, when the girl's adopted mother interfered. It was she 
who came over here the day before he went away." He con- 
fessed his readiness to have Robert leave for California ; his 
fear lest he had been the dupe of a designing woman, and 
her too facile instrument; and his dislike of the whole affair. 
Then he described his first interview with Margaret, the 



 

total change in his feelings, and all those after days of pity 
and sympathy ; her desolation, her sweetness and patience, 
and her absorbing love for her child. As he went through 
the woe of the last few hours, his voice was choked with 
emotion. 

Mabel was weeping long before he had ended. Now she 
threw herself on his bosom, exclaiming through her sobs, 

" dear, brave, generous Dick ! What a burden you 
have borne for him ! How patient you have been ! how good 
to us all, sacrificing your own comfort and advancement 
everywhere ! Papa could have loved us no better." 

" It was what I promised him, dear ; and I am thankful 
God has enabled me to perform my trust." 

" I seem to forget Robert in that poor, lonely wife. If I 
might go to her " 

" Thank you. It was what I longed to suggest. She has 
no friend of her own age to comfort her. But what a sad 
termination for your bright holiday ! " 

" Richard ! when my life has been so happy and blessed, 
I should be worse than selfish to shut my heart from her. 
Poor Robert ! O, why did he not bring her here ? She 
must come now." 

" Yes." 

The breakfast bell overtook them in the midst of their 
planning. Philip stood ready to banter them on their seclu- 
sion ; but when he saw the grave, tearful faces, he took their 
hands in quiet sympathy. After they were seated at the 
table, Richard repeated the sad history, and announced his 
brother's death. Philip was both surprised and shocked. 
He felt how utterly cruel the heart must have been that 
could condemn a mere child to such a destiny as Margaret's ; 
and, in his straightforward way, he looked upon Robert's 
death as a direct punishment for his sin. 

" You will bury the baby here ? " Mabel said, as they rose. 

" I had hardly thought ; " and Richard's pale face flushed 
as he remembered the secrecy he had considered necessary, 
and for which there was now no occasion. 



 

" I want liim to lie in the cemetery with the rest ; and if 
Robert should never be brought home, it will seem to be a 
memory of him.'.' Mabel forced down some sobs, and con- 
tinued : " Does it not appear most suitable to have the fu- 
neral from this house ? It will announce the principal facts 
at once, and leave less room for questions." 

" I believe you are right," Richard answered, thoughtfully. 

" And the children must be here. It will be a better 
welcome for her." 

" I am fearful they could not receive the word in time." 

"I will go for them," Philip said. 

Mabel's gratified smile was ample reward. 

Richard had some unavoidable calls on his list. While 
he was out Mabel wrote a brief note to Lilian and aunt So- 
phy, and saw Philip started on his journey. Robert's death 
appeared much more real when the sei'vants came to add 
their sorrow. Yet her visions were of a sweet young face, 
desolately mourning a sadder loss than this. 

It was past noon when Richard and Mabel started for 
Orange. The day was not oppressively warm, and the fine 
breeze rendered the ride a very comfortable one. Their 
conversation could not be otherwise than sad, yet it was 
tempered with many feelings besides grief. To Mabel, 
standing on the threshold of a new life, these events were 
of deep importance. Her girlhood had passed so quietly, 
been so blessed and satisfying, that she had scarcely dreamed 
of woes or wants beyond, save in the desultory manner com- 
mon to young hearts. She needed not to go into the world 
to learn her first sad lesson. A cruel thrust had entered 
even that beloved home circle. And Richard had carried 
the cross for them all. O, could they in any after days ever 
recompense him ! 

When Mrs. Wilcox received Dr. Bertrand and his sister, 
her face betrayed traces of recent tears. As she ushered 
them into the parlor, his eye caught a glimpse of pillow and 
shawl. It seemed ages since he brought them there. 



 

" Mrs. Bertrand is in her room," Mrs. Wilcox said. 
" She slept a long while, and was quite refreshed. But O, 
doctor, what can be done for the poor child ? She doesn't 
shed a tear. Her white and stony face frightens me. It is 
so hard ! She did not think her baby could die." 

" I will go for her ; " and Richard started. 

He found Margaret standing by the partially closed win- 
dow, gazing vacantly over houses and gardens bright with 
summer sunshine. How pitiless the cloudless sky looked ! 
What a mockery all this beauty was ! 

She turned a little at his step. The weary, hopeless face 
chilled his heart. The heavy eyes were questioning the far 
depths of space for some ray of consolation ; there was an 
urgent want in them for which human speech had no utter- 
ance. How she had changed ! The complexion was gray, 
the whole face thin and pinched, as if weeks of suffering 
had passed over it. 

He drew her tenderly to his heart, and kissed the fore- 
head almost as cold as death. How natural the caress 
seemed ! He thought it was her sorrow that rendered her 
so dear to him, and the sense of freedom after long re- 
straint. 

" Little sister Daisy ! " 

The words seemed to thrill her strangely. She nestled 
closer, as if fearful of losing the new place he had given her 
with that name. Then he went on, in a low tone, telling 
her how Mabel had desired to come, and what a warm, shel- 
tered corner she should find in their household. She was 
to be no longer a stranger or an alien. 

At any other time she must have shrunk from Mabel's 
stately figure and the dignity that with strangers passed 
for reserve. She only noticed that the voice that welcomed 
her had a lingering touch of Richard's sweetness in it, and 
the clasp enfolding her was tender and fond. She did not 
even glance up at the face, satisfied to take all on trust. 

He judged rightly that they would make friends sooner if 


left entirely to themselves ; so, after a little talk with fatlu.r 
Wilcox, bade them an affectionate good by. He had in- 
trusted to Mabel's discretion the tidings of Robert's death, 
and the arrangements for the baby's burial. 

That evening's paper contained the following announce- 
ments : 

" Married in New York, February 24, 18 , Robert Ber- 
trand, of Newark, to Miss Margaret Tremaine, of the former 
place." 

"Died, suddenly, at San Francisco, Cal., Robert, second 
son of the late Dr. Bertrand, of Newark. 

"At Orange, July 18, Charlie, infant son of Robert, de- 
ceased, and Margaret Tremaine Bertrand, aged six months 
and fourteen days. The friends of the family are invited to 
attend his funeral on Friday, at four P. M., at the residence 
of his uncle, Dr. Richard A. Bertrand." 

The little coffin that stood in the Bertrands' parlor that 
Friday afternoon was almost covered with flowers. The 
lovely child looked as if he were in sweetest slumber. The 
younger members of the family gazed with mingled awe and 
grief, and the neighbors were subdued by a sincere pity. It 
seemed more like a funeral sacred to Robert's memory than 
the tiny being whose birth and death had been announced in 
the same words. Philip read the burial service in calm, 
soothing tones. Mabel never left Daisy for an instant. 
The strain on her delicate nature had begun to tell fearfully. 
More than once she had lain fainting in the arms of her new- 
found sister ; but she nerved herself for this last hour with a 
more than human strength. Her thick veil hid her face 
from curious eyes ; and though an occasional convulsive 
shiver shook her slight frame, she made no outward demon- 
stration. 

She could not trust herself to gaze again on that dear 
face. If she took no formal farewell, it seemed as if her 




baby must come back. Yet he lacked neither tears nor 
kisses. Many regretful glances were cast on the beautifully- 
moulded clay. He looked too fair, too perfect, to be laid 
away in the darkness of the grave. 

Afterwards it came to Daisy with what reverent hands 
Richard and Archie had sprinkled the first earth on the 
baby's breast, and the generous consideration with which 
they all received her, a stranger, whose entrance into the 
family had been marked with trouble from its first date. 
They vied with each other in kindest attentions ; but Tessy, 
whose face was so like Richard's, found a way to her heart 
immediately. 



 



CHAPTER XXI. 

One troop of duplicated Hours sped on, 
And one trode out the moments lingeringly, 
So distant seemed the lonely dawn from me; 
But all was well. 

BAYARD TAYLOR. 

When fainting hearts forget their fears, 
And in the poorest life's salt cup 
Some rare wine runs, and Hope builds up 

Her rainbow over memory's tears. 

GERALD MASSEY. 

BY common consent they all yielded Richard to Daisy. 
Mabel expected to see her sink entirely after the funeral ; 
but instead she appeared quite composed. She rested on 
the sofa a long while, until the summer twilight waned. 
Tessy's little fingers found their way to hers, as they all 
clustered about her, talking of the days to come, when her 
home should be among them. Poor, weary dove ! A strong 
hand reached out through the troublous waves, and drew 
her into the ark, where she might remain forevermore. 

After her removal hither had been arranged, Richard men- 
tioned the request concerning Robert, and left the decision 
to Daisy. 

" Please don't think me cold or ungrateful," she replied, 
brokenly. " I am afraid I do not feel as I should about 
him. I forgave him all he made me suffer ; but I can never, 
never forget his cruel neglect of baby. He might have sent 
one little word of love to him, even if he was tired of me. 
And I think, if he had his choice, he would not care to sleep 
beside baby. And perhaps it would fret him if he could 
know how often I should visit the spot. Am I very, very 
wicked ? " 



 

" No, my poor child ; I do not wonder at your state of 
feeling. Since Mr. and Mrs. Cummings desire it so much, I
think we had better let him remain there." 

" I am glad he found friends there to love him. He was 
so handsome, and he could be so tender, so fond. Since he 
could not love me, it is a comfort to know he was never 
wholly desolate." 

The dreary cadence of the last words pained Richard. 
|iterly forlorn she had been, he gathered more from 
occasional sentences, than from her manner in the 
3 of their early acquaintance. Thank God, it was 
low ! He breathed the thought with fervent emo- 
Looking down the days to come, the slight figure of 
, with her soft brown hair and luminous eyes, glorified 
all. 

ter in the evening he held a conference with Mabel, 
fying her with Daisy's entire assent to their arrange- 
ts. 

" Richard, best and dearest brother, how much you 
have done for us ! Philip and I both think it right to put off 
our marriage another year, if you would like to have me at 
home. Some one ought to repay you." 

" My darling ! No, I couldn't entertain such a proposition. 
Not only Philip, but Mr. Chaloner also, is looking forward 
to a time when a bright young face shall make glad their 
home. I must not grow selfish when I have a new treasure 
added to my circle. May be no one will ever be quite as 
thoughtful for me as you ; but it is time I was getting out of 
these spoiled ways." 

" Selfish ! I do not believe it is anywhere in you, Dick," 
she replied, with proud earnestness. 

" Well, for my sake, you must be married at the time 
appointed. I don't like delayed weddings. And my bird- 
ling must go care-free to her new home ; there will bo 
enough left to render me the most whimsical old bacheloi 
you ever saw." 



" No, Dick," she said, resolutely, " you deserve a better 
fate." 

" I think then God will send it to me," was his low re- 
sponse. 

A few days after, Philip said his last lover's good by, as 
he told Lily. His parting with Daisy was very tender. He 
had been trying to point her to the true source of all com- 
fort, and found her gentle, humble, and child-like. It was 
impossible not to love her. 

When he had gone, Mabel and she were inseparable. To 
the poor child who had never known the delights of a true 
home, nor the sweetness of family ties, this spot seemed a 
radiant heaven. It was with her grief as it had been with 
theirs : instead of banishing it -to the relief of lonely tears, 
they all shared it. After a little she found herself repeating 
scenes that had made the brief happiness of her summer 
baby endearments and answering smiles ; tender mother- 
joys forever gone. Lingering over these fond remem- 
brances, her heart grew warmly human again. 

There was one break in her month with Mabel a duty to 
be performed before Daisy could settle in her new home, and 
accept her new life. Richard had proposed that she and Mabel 
should go up to Mrs. Wilcox's for a day only ; but her plead- 
ing eyes disarmed him. 

" I would rather go alone," she said, quietly. " I think 
Mrs. Wilcox will want me to stay. She has been so kind." 

"I mean you shall go up often," he returned. " But just 
now a visit might not be prudent." 

" Please let me go." Her lip quivered like that of an 
entreating child. 

" My dear Daisy, you shall do as you will. Only remem- 
ber, you belong to us now." 

She laid her cheek on his hand with a mute caress that 
was both fond and grateful. 

He took her up one morning, and at an appointed day 
came for her. How she spent the vigil, in that room where 



 

the baby died, he dimly guessed. What hours of anguish, 
what prayers for divine grace, went up to the great white 
throne, and what angels came and ministered to her, he also 
fancied, for she was never out of his mind a moment. 

He thought when she came down the garden path to meet 
him, that lovely August afternoon, he had never seen her 
look sweeter in her days of comparative content. She was 
pale and thin ; her lips had lost their bright coloring ; but the 
holy calm on her countenance fairly transfigured her. He 
remembered observing just such saintly expressions in the 
baby's face at times. She was glad to see him ; the faint 
flush in her cheek confessed it at his first words. 

Mrs. Wilcox assisted her in packing. Less than a year 
before, she had helped her find places for these books and 
pictures, and welcomed her with moth'erly fondness. Now 
she paused to say, amid a gush of tears, 

" Mrs. Bertrand ! I don't know what I shall do without 
you ! " 

Father Wilcox was equally pained at relinquishing her. 
She had spent hours leaning her fair head on his knee, weep- 
ing silent tears, and listening to the tremulous tones, dearer 
to her than ever, for she knew he might soon be with her 
lost darling. All summer he had been growing feebler, and 
was looking daily for the hour when he should " depart and 
be with Christ." 

" Dr. Bertrand said I might come and see you often," she 
exclaimed, with her farewell. " Shall it be every week ? " 

The old gentleman's eyes lighted with sudden jcy. She 
turned to Richard for approbation. 

" Yes," he answered, " I will bring you up every week." 

" Thank you." The tone was very sweet. 

The trunks were to be sent down the next day. That 
evening, after the joyful welcomes were over, there was an 
animated discussion as to which room should be Daisy's. 
The three girls had shared the large apartment adjoining 
their sitting-room, while the smaller one was claimed by 



 

Archie. Besides Richard's there was only one other 
" papa's room." 

" Not where papa died, or mamma either," said Lily ; " and 
it's delightful." 

" Suppose we make a sitting-room of that," was Richard's 
proposition, " and give Daisy the present one. You will all 
be nearer together then. And I heard Archie talking quite 
largely of a study ; he might take one of the upper rooms, 
and turn his into a sanctum." 

" Capital ! " exclaimed Archie, delightedly. " You plan 
admirably, Dick. The girls are nowhere in comparison. 
We will have a gay time to-morrow." 

So the next day there was quite a revolution in affairs. 
Archie insisted on hanging Daisy's pictures, and brought up 
a little etegere that he declared he had heard Richard pro- 
nounce a nuisance in the office. Tessy filled her vases with 
lovely flowers, and the fresh, fragrant room looked supremely 
inviting. But Daisy persuaded Mabel to share it with her 
during the remainder of her stay. 

The busy days that followed served to draw her from the 
solitude of intense sorrow. She was greatly interested in 
the happy, honorable love before her, so different from her 
own hasty wooing and ill-starred marriage. Philip had ac- 
cepted the position of assistant rector with Mr. Chaloner, 
and persuaded his friend to take immediate advantage of it, 
in joining a party of clerical brethren on a tour to the White 
Mountains. Lily counted up the days for Mabel, and in 
apite of the grief that had fallen upon them, managed to 
throw her own peculiar brightness around every one. 

Mabel had too true an estimate of the love offered her to 
foe weakly despondent at leaving her childhood's home. In- 
deed, she would have been outwardly cheerful for Richard's 
sake, if her own serene nature had not sustained her. 
Philip's visits had been so infrequent, that her evenings, 
And a large portion of her attention, had been devoted ex- 
clusively to her brothers and sisters. More than once she 



 

had sighed over the prospect of leaving Richard to the keep- 
ing of one so thoughtless and eager for her own enjoyment 
as Lily. But God had sent this dear little Daisy, with will- 
ing hands and fondest heart, to supply her place. Young, 
and slight almost to childishness, there lingered about her a 
certain subtle power. Her intuitions were fine, and she pos- 
sessed the rare intelligence which divines and harmonizes 
with a mood electrically. Her sense of right was so perfect 
that it was not possible her coming among them would be 
marked by any misunderstandings. Mabel was satisfied to 
leave her treasures in such hands. 

Philip's arrival diffused a pleasant atmosphere throughout 
the house. Bridal gifts were inspected, packing undertaken 
in a very important manner ; past remembrances and future 
hopes were blended in sad, yet happy talks. For, after all, 
it was no light thing to part thus, to give up all claim to the 
dear old home. 

That the wedding should be quiet surprised no one. The 
day was cloudless, with a touch of summer in the air a ten- 
der regret over the dying flowers. They were all satisfied 
to have no gay rejoicings. Indeed, the memory of Robert's 
departure, and his recent death, came up too forcibly. Lin- 
gering kisses, unbidden tears that fell softly, and fond clasp- 
ing of hands, were mingled in their bridal joy. Mabel was 
to travel a while, and then proceed direct to Rothelan. 

" Two vacant places," mused Richard, when the calls and 
congratulations were over. Then his eye wandered down to 
the petite figure draped in black, with satin-smooth hair, and 
deep, sorrowful eyes a treasure that had come to him out 
of a great ruin ; a pearl stranded on the shore from some con- 
vulsion of the natural order of things. He felt she was his 
in a peculiar sense. 

He so far overcame his dislike of Mrs. Davis as to pay her 
another visit. She had accepted their separation as inevita- 
ble ; indeed she was well satisfied to find her charge in good 
hands hands too strong ever to relinquish her. He detailed 



 

the recent sad occurrences, and his arrangements for the 
future, claiming her most solemn promise never to divulge 
a word of that painful past. 

Daisy's weekly calls on Mrs. Wilcox were a source of great 
interest to both. Occasionally they were extended to the 
whole day. Mr. Wilcox had failed rapidly, and was no 
longer able to sit up, except for a few moments. 

" I think," she said one day to Richard, " I ought to stay, 
if you are willing." 

He rather liked the odd, timid way she had of deferring to 
him. He could not refuse the pleading face, irresistible 
with the light of its tender brown eyes, although he said, 
lingeringly, 

" I am afraid you will overtask your strength." 

" There isn't anything to do ; besides, Mrs. Wilcox is so 
very careful of me." 

She was thankful ever afterwards that she went, and re- 
mained until the last sad moment. 

" I don't know what I should have done without her ! " 
was Mrs. Wilcox's exclamation. " After father grew too 
feeble to speak, she always understood just what he wanted. 
She would sit for hours smoothing his hair or holding his 
hands, and repeating passages of Scripture. And at the last 
I shall never forget the look and tone with which she said, 
' Who shall separate us from the love of Christ ? ' He gave 
her a heavenly smile, closed his eyes, and never stirred 
again. She would not even unclasp his hand until he had 
been dead many minutes. Dr. Bertrand, if there ever 
was an angel in this world, that child is one. I can't see 
why life had to be so hard and painful to her ; but she bears 
it all with the patience of a saint. There doesn't seem any- 
thing earthly about her." 

Richard was not selfish, yet he felt glad no tie beyond the 
family held her now. She was all theirs. 



 



'CHAPTEK XXII. 

She la like a harp the winds do play upon ; mark her well. She shall tell yon 
what she dreams unwittingly, for her face is a mask nothing but a veil, and 
uitder it you shall see her heart beat. OLD PLAY. 

LILY sat playing the Henrietta waltz, while Archie and 
Tessy whirled up and down the long parlor in graceful 
evolutions. On a low ottoman, by the window, Daisy half 
reclined, dividing her attention between the dancers and 
the gray, sullen skies. The day had been very unprom- 
ising ; and now a fine rain began to fall. 

" How is the weather, Daisy ? " And Archie kissed his 
hand to her as he neared the corner. 

" It rains a little," she answered, hesitatingly. 

" ! " and the dancers came to a full pause. " Do you 
believe they will come, Lily ? " 

Lily glanced at her watch. " Yes," she returned, " they 
will be here in five minutes. It didn't rain when they started, 
you know, and clergymen, like doctors, are not afraid of a 
little storm." 

" And Bel said, almost the last word, that she would 
surely be home at Thanksgiving ! " exclaimed Archie ; " so 
go on with the music." And they took another turn. 

A carriage stopped, and before Daisy could announce it 
they all rushed to the hall door. There were Philip and 
Mabel, sure enough ; the hardly three months' wife rosy and 
smiling, with the fondest of caresses for every one. Dur- 
ing the first few moments they all talked and laughed in 
chorus. 

" Now you may go up stairs," said Lily. " Daisy has 



 

arranged her room for you, and, Bel, Mrs. Charlton sent 
in a real bridal bouquet ! " 

The apartment was fragrant with the spicy, Oriental odor 
of tuberoses, and as neat as tasteful hands could render it. 
The three self-elected maids of honor hovered around their 
fair queen, assisted in removing her travelling habiliments, 
and were so attentive that Philip declared himself jealous, 
and insisted on Tessy coming to brush his hair. 

" There's the doctor," said a quiet voice. 

Mabel ran away from her maids, and in a moment was 
clasped to Kichard's heart. There was only the merest 
space of time for conversation before the dinner bell rang. 

When they entered the dining-room a general halt oc- 
curred among the three girls. Daisy's face flushed, and 
she glanced inquiringly at Lilian. 

" O, Mabel is company now," Lily responded, with a 
laugh ; " so, Mrs. Bertrand, you may keep your place. You 
see we have promoted Daisy to the head of the table, in 
consideration of her great age ! " 
