ville. We don't want any help. If we don't get 
her up by to-morrow night I will let some one else 
take hold; but it will cost a heap of money." 
" It shall not cost you anything, Lawry. I haven't 
half paid the debt of gratitude I owe you." 
"Oh, never mind that, sir ! I only want one more 
day." 
" You are very confident, my boy, and I hope 
you will succeed," added Mr. Sherwood, as he turned 
to depart. 
" Take him up, Lawry," said Ben. " Let him 
raise her. He will do it at his own expense, and 
perhaps he will give me the job." 
" Not to-night." 
 
" You are a fool, Lawry ! " exclaimed Ben, when 
Mr. Sherwood and the ladies had gone. 
" Perhaps I am. Time will tell." 
" He offered to pay for raising her, and you 
Wouldn't let him do it ! " 
" He has made me a present of the steamer as 
she lies ; and I don't ask anything- more of him. 
I would rather not take anything more." 
" Take all you can get, Lawry. That's the only 
way to get along in this world." 
Ben was disgusted at the conduct of his brother. 
He was rather envious of him for the reputation he 
had made as a " smart hoy." He did not believe 
that the Woodville could be raised by the method 
adopted, and he was dissatisfied because his own 
counsels had been disregarded, and because he had 
so little influence with the operators. He was older 
and more experienced than Lawiy, who, he thought, 
should " give up " to him, take his advice, and follow 
his directions. He wanted to be captain of 
the Woodville, handle the money she was to earn, 
and generally to be at the head of the enterprise. 
There was likely to be a difference of opinion be- 
tween him and Lawry on these points. 
Ethan slept with his fellow-workman at the cot> 
tage that night, and at daylight in the morning they 
were on their way to the Goblins. At breakfast 
time two casks had been sunk under the bow of the 
steamer, for they had become so familiar with the 
work, that it was carried on with greater rapidity 
than at the first. 
At breakfast they were laughed at again by Ben 
Wilford ; but they chose to keep still, made no re- 
plies, and gave no information in regard to the prog- 
ress of the work. At the earnest request of Lawry, 
seconded by Mrs. Wilford, Ben consented to run the 
ferry that day, and the young engineers took their 
dinners with them when they went down to the 
Goblins. They were full of hope, and confidently 
expected to return to the landing at night with the 
Woodville. 
At eleven o'clock four more hogsheads had been 
placed under the guards. The steamer swayed a 
little in the water ; the stern had risen about two 
feet ; and it was evident that she was on the point 
of floating. The boys were intensely excited at the 
bright prospect before them. 
 
" Lawry, the work is nearly done," said Ethan. 
" That's SO ; I think a couple of those barrels will 
finish it," answered the young pilot, as he looked 
down upon the forward deck of the steamer. " I 
see two anchors at her bow." 
" Yes, there are two anchors and about forty 
fathoms of small chain cable on board of her." 
" I see them ; and I think we had better fish 
them up." 
" That's a good idea." 
With the long boat-hook which Ethan had made, 
the cables were hauled up and coiled away on the 
raft, which had been placed over the bow of the 
sunken vessel. When the chains which were bent 
on to the anchors had been hauled taut, the sinker 
rope, still in the block, and wound on the windlass 
of the derrick, was made fast to one of them, and 
the anchor drawn up. The operation was then 
repeated on the other anchor. 
" Hurrah ! hurrah ! " shouted Lawry, as they be- 
gan to turn the windlass. " She's coming up." 
" Hurrah ! " repeated Ethan, and the faces of both 
boys flowed with excited joy, as the sunken vessel 
followed the anchor up to the surface of the water. 
 
It was necessary to move the raft, and the anchor 
was hauled out over the top of the bulwarks. The 
Woodville rose till her plankshear was even with the 
surface of the water. The boys shouted for joy ; 
they were almost beside themselves with the excite- 
ment of that happy moment. They had conquered ; 
success had crowned their labors. 
" The job is done ! " cried Lawry, as he gazed 
with the most intense satisfaction at the steamer, 
which now floated before him. 
" That's so ! Where is jout brother now ? " ex- 
claimed Ethan. 
" We have got her up soonet than I expected. I 
move you we have our dinner now." 
" I don't feel much like dinner." 
" I do." 
" What is to be done next ? " 
" We must get her up a little farther out of the 
water. We can easily get some more casks under 
her now ; but let us have some dinner first." 
They sat down on a timber on the raft, and ate 
the dinner they had brought with them. They could 
not keep their eyes off the steamer during the meal. 
 
rind they continued to discuss the means of complet- 
ing the work they had begun. 
After dinner the labor was renewed with redoubled 
energy. Four more casks were attached to the bow, 
and four removed from the stern ; the effect of which 
was to lift the bow out of water, while the deck at 
the after part was again submerged. This was Law- 
ry's plan for ascertaining the extent of the injury 
which the hull had received. It now appeared that, 
when the Woodville struck the Goblins, she had slid 
up on a flat rock, while a sharp projection from the 
reef had stove a hole, not quite three feet in diam- 
eter, just above her keel. 
" Now we must stop this hole," said Lawry ; " and 
we may as well do it here as anywhere." 
" That's just my idea," responded Ethan. "There's 
a painted floor-cloth in the kitchen, which will just 
cover it. I will get it." 
" Have you any small nails on board ? " 
" Plenty of them." 
The kitchen and the engineer's store-room were 
now out of water, so that Ethan had no difiiculty in 
procuring the articles needed in stopping up the hole. 
A couple of slats were placed over the aperture to 
prevent the floor-cloth from being forced in by the 
pressure of the water. Both of the boys then went 
to work nailing on the carpet, which was new and 
very heavy. The nails were put very close together, 
and most of them beiug carpet tacks, with broad 
heads, they pressed the oil-cloth closely down to the 
woodwork. It was not expected entirely to exclude 
the water ; but the leakage could be easily controlled 
by the pumps. 
Several of the casks were now removed from the 
bow to the stern, until the hull sat even on the 
water. All the heavy articles on deck, including 
the contents of the " chain box," were transferred 
to the raft, and the laborers were ready to commence 
the long and trying operation of pumping her out. 
It was now six o'clock, and it was plain that this 
jeb could not be finished that night. The wind was 
beginning to freshen, and there were indications of 
bad weather. Lawry had at first intended to move 
the Woodville up to the ferry-landing as soon as she 
floated ; but Ethan, for certain reasons, which were 
satisfactory to his fellow-laborer, wished to pump 
 
her out where she was ; and it was found to be a 
very difficult thing to tow her up to the ferry, in her 
water-logged condition. 
It was not safe to leave her, with the prospect 
of a heavy blow, so near the Goblins, and they 
carried out the anchors in the wherry, and with the 
assistance of the capstan on the forward deck, heaved 
her out into a secure position. The Woodville was 
safe for the night, and the supper horn was sounding 
at the ferry-house. Nearly exhausted by their severe 
exertions, the boys returned to the cottage. 
" I'm so glad that you have done it ! " exclaimed 
Mrs. Wilford, when they went in to supper. 
She had been a deeply interested observer of the 
operations of the young engineers, and her heart had 
bounded with emotions of joy, in unison with theirs, 
when she saw the steamer rise to the surface of 
the lake. 
" I knew we should do it, mother," replied Lawry. 
" Where is Ben ?" 
" I don't know where he is. He went away just 
after dinner, and I haven't seen him since," added 
the mother, a shade of anxiety passing over her face, 
 
" But I saw the ferry-boat go over in the middle 
of the afternoon." 
" I know you did." 
" But who went over with her ? " 
" I did," answered Mrs. Wilford, quietly. 
" You, mother ? " 
" Yes, Lawry ; there was no one else to go, unless 
I called you, and I couldn't bear to take you away 
from your work. I've been over in the ferry times 
enough to know how to manage the boat." 
" Ben said he would take care of the ferry." 
" He doesn't always do as he promises," said Mrs. 
Wilford, sadly. 
Lawry thought it was very kind of his mother to 
run the ferry-boat, rather than disturb him at his 
work ; but he did not like to have her do such labor. 
When he went out after supper, he found the wind 
was still quite fresh, and he was afraid that some acci- 
dent might happen to the steamer in the night. If 
the casks got loose she would sink again. While 
he and Ethan were talking about it Ben Wilford 
returned home ; and it was evident from his looks 
and actions that he had been drinking too much. 
 
CHAPTER XI. 
MR. SHEK.WOOD AND PAKTY. 
" Well, Lawry, I don't see the steamer at the 
ferry-landing," said Ben Wilford, with a coarse, half- 
tipsy chuckle, as he came up to the spot where the 
young engineers were discussing their plans. " You 
know you promised to have her up here to-night ; 
but I knew you wouldn't." 
" We thought we wouldn't bring her up to-night," 
replied Lawry, coldly, and not a little mortified to 
have his friend see his brother intoxicated. 
" I knew you wouldn't, my boy. You didn't keep 
your promise." 
" And you didn't keep yours." 
" I didn't make any. If I'd promised to fetch that 
steamer up, she'd been here." 
" You promised to run the ferry, and you left it." 
" No, I didn't, Lawry. Don't you talk so to me. 
You know too much," added Ben, angrily. " You 
never will raise that steamer in two thousand years." 
" There she is," replied Lawry, quietly, as he 
pointed in the direction of the Goblins. 
Ben looked at her ; he did not seem to be pleased 
to find her on the top of the water. His oft-repeated 
prophecy had been a failure, and Lawry was full as 
smart as people said he was. 
" Humph ! " said he. " She isn't much of a 
steamboat if those barrels brought her up." 
" There she is ; and I have done all I promised 
to do." 
" What you going to do next, Lawry ? " 
"I'm going to pump her out next." 
" You'd better do it pretty quick, or she'll go to 
the bottom again," added Ben, as he walked into the 
house. 
" There comes Mr. Sherwood, with the ladies," 
said Lawry, as he glanced up the road, when his 
brother had gone ; and his brown face glowed with 
pleasure as he spoke. 
" I congratulate you, boys," said Mr. Sherwood, as 
he grasped Lawry' s hand. "We gave three cheers for 
 
you on the hill, when we saw that you had raised the 
Woodville." 
" Thank you, sir. We worked pretty hard, but 
we were successful." 
" You have done bravely," said Mrs. Sherwood. 
" We thought, from what your brother said last 
night, that you would fail." 
" Ethan and I didn't think so." 
" I suppose you wouldn't sell very cheap to-night, 
Lawry," added Mr. Sherwood. 
" No, sir ; the Woodville is a gift, and I should not 
be willing to sell her at any price." 
" Well, Lawry, I am as glad as you are at your 
success. Do you want any help yet ? " 
" No, sir ; we are just going on board of her to 
stay over night, for we are afraid the heavy wind will 
do mischief." 
" I wouldn't do that. You must rest to-night." 
" I'm afraid something will happen if we don't look 
out for her," 
" Are you going to pump her out to-night ? " 
" We may begin pretty early in the morning," said 
Lawry, with a smile. 
" Haste and waste, my boy. If you stay on board 
of her to-night, and get sick, you will not make any- 
thing by your labor." 
" If the wind goes down we shall sleep ashore as 
usual. I don't think it blows quite so hard as it did." 
" I don't," added Ethan. 
" Boys, you musn't overdo this thihg," added Mr. 
Sherwood, seriously. 
His wife whispered to him just then. 
" Yes, Bertha," he continued. " I'll tell you what 
I'm going to do, Lawry. I have four men at work 
for me. I can spare them one day, and they shall 
pump out the Woodville for you." 
"You needn't object," interposed Mrs. Sherwood. 
" Indeed you must not, Lawry," added Miss 
Fanny. " I am afraid you will both be sick if 
you work so hard." 
" We can easily pump her out ourselves," said 
Ethan. 
" You needn't say a word, Ethan," added Fanny 
Jane. 
" I suppose we shall have to submit," replied 
Lawry, laughing. " We can't oppose the ladies." 
 
" Just as you say, Lawry," said Ethan. 
"You shall have the men to-morrow, boys. Now 
you must go to bed, and not think of the steamer till 
morning," continued Mr. Sherwood, as his party left 
the ferry landing. 
As the wind seemed to he subsiding, the boys went 
into the house ; and though it was not quite dark, 
they " turned in," tired enough to sleep without rock- 
ing. Ben was at his supper, in no pleasant frame of 
mind. He was dissatisfied with himself, and with 
his brother, who had succeeded in his undertaking 
contrary to his prophecy. He was envious and 
jealous of Lawry. Now that his father was away, 
he thought he ought to Qe the chief person about the 
house, being the oldest boy. 
" I'm not going to stay at home, and be a nobody," 
said he, angrily. 
" We don't wish you to be a nobody," replied his 
mother. 
" Yes, you do ; Lawry is everybody, and I'm 
nobody." 
" You've been drinking, Benjamin." 
" What if I have ! I'm not going to stay here, 
and play second fiddle to a little boy." 
" What are you talking about, Benjamin ? Lawry 
has not interfered with you. He will treat you kindly 
and respectfully, as he treats everybody." 
" He don't mind any more what I say than he does 
the grunting of the pigs." 
" "What do you want him to do ? " 
" I want him to pay some attention to what I say," 
snarled Ben, as he got up from the table, and threw 
his chair back against the wall. " I suppose he 
thinks that steamboat belongs to him." 
" Certainly he does," replied Mrs. Wilford, aston- 
ished at this remark. 
" I don't." 
" Don't you ? Whom does it belong to, then ? " 
" I'm not a fool, mother ; I know a thing or 
two as well as some others. Lawry is not of 
age." 
" Neither are you." 
" I know that, but I'm older than he is." 
" You are old enough to behave better." 
" How do you expect me to be anybody here, 
when I have to knock under to my younger brother ? 
I say the steamer don't belong to Lawry any more 
 
than she d'oes to me. I have just as much right in 
her as he has." 
" What do you mean by talking so, Benjamin ? 
You know that Mr. Sherwood gave the steamer to 
Lawry, and the bill of sale is in Lawry's name." 
" I don't care for that ; she's just as much mine as 
she is his, and he'll find that out when ske gets to 
running. Lawry's a minor, and can't hold any prop- 
erty ; you know that just as well as I do." 
" What if he is ? I think he will be permitted to 
hold the steamboat, and run her." 
" I don't think so. I was talking with Taylor, 
who holds the mortgage on this place, and he don't 
think so," added Ben, in a tone of triumph. 
" What did he say ? " 
" Well, he means to attach the steamboat on the 
note he holds against father." 
" He will not do that ! " replied Mrs. Wilford, 
alarmed at the suggestion. 
" He says so, anyhow." 
" He will foreclose the mortgage on the place if 
he wants to get his money." 
" The place will not sell for enough to pay his 
note, and he knows it. No matter about him, — the 
steamboat belongs to father, just as much as the 
ferry-boat does ; and I think I ought to have some- 
thing to say about her." 
" If you want to do anything for the family, why 
can't you run the ferry-boat, Benjamin ? " 
" And let Lawry run the steamboat ? Not if I 
know myself! " replied Ben, with savage emphasis. 
" He may run the ferry-boat, and I'll run the 
steamer." 
" That would be neither fair nor right. The 
steamer belongs to Lawry, and I will never consent 
that he shall be turned out of her." 
" I don't want to turn him out of her. Ill take 
charge of her, and he may go pilot; that's all he's 
good for." 
" You mean that you'll be captain ? " 
" That's what I mean." 
" I don't think Lawry will want any one to be 
captain over . him." 
"If I don't run that steamer, nobody shall ! " 
said Ben, angrily, as he rose and left the house. 
It is impossible to tell what a man under the 
 
influence of liquor will do, and JNIrs. Wilford was 
afraid that her dissolute son intended to do some 
mischief. She followed him out the door, and saw 
him go up the road towards the village. He had 
probably gone after more liquor, and, unpleasant as 
this thought was to his mother, it was a relief to 
her to find that he did not go off to the steamer. 
She returned to the house, and washed her dishes ; 
but she could not get rid of the fear that Ben, 
whose envy and jealousy had been intensified by 
the fiery liquors he had drank, intended to cut loose 
the casks that buoyed up the Woodville, and let 
her go to the bottom again. His threat implied 
something as bad as this. 
If Lawry rose in the morning and found his 
steamer sunk, it would break his heart, after he 
had worked so hard to accomplish the result al- 
ready obtained. Mrs. Wilford was determined that 
no harm should come to the Yvoodville while Lawry 
slept. She left the house, and walked down to the 
ferry landing to assure herself that both of the boats 
were in their places. The wherry and the bateau 
were just as the boys had left them. As the anx- 
ious mother was returning to the house, she heard 
the tramp of many feet in the road above the cot' 
tage. It was a time of war ; and the sound sug- 
gested an armed host. But Mrs. Wilford was not 
alarmed ; and she soon discovered, in the darkness, 
a squad of about twenty men, who had halted just 
above the house. 
" Good evening, Mrs. Wilford," said Mr. Sher- 
wood, who seemed to be in command of the de- 
iachment. 
" Are you going to the war, sir ? " asked Mrs. 
Wilford, when she had returned the salutation of 
her wealthy neighbor. 
" Not exactly. Has Lawry gone to bed ? " 
" Yes, an hour ago." 
" Is he asleep ? " 
" I suppose he is ; he was tired enough to go to 
sleep as soon as he struck the bed." 
" All right, then." 
" What in the world are j'ou going to do with 
such a crowd of men, Mr. Sherwood ? " 
" I'm going to help the boys finish their job. 
I'm afraid they are working too hard for their own 
 
good. Ethan told me they had stopped the leak, 
and it only remained to pump out the steamer. I 
am going to do this job ; and I have men enough 
to finish it in a couple of hours." 
" I should think you had," added Mrs. Wilford, 
as she glanced at the squad of laborers. 
" I have gathered together all the men I could find. 
Don't say a word to the boys, if you please. I 
intend to surprise them. They will find the steamer 
free of water in the morning." 
" You are very kind, Mr. Sherwood, to take so 
much trouble." 
" The boys have worked so well that they deserve 
encouragement. May I take the ferry-boat to con- 
vey my men up to the steamer ? " 
" Certainly, sir.'* 
" Please not say a word to the boys." 
" I will not, sir. They will sleep like logs till 
morning, and not know a word about it." 
Mr. Sherwood marched his company down to the 
ferry-boat. They were armed with buckets ; and they 
had so many that the neighborhood must have been 
laid under contribution to supply them. The men 
 
 
embarked, and the sail was hoisted under the di- 
rection of Mr. Sherwood. Though the wind had 
subsided, there was still breeze enough to carry the 
bateau rapidly to her destination. Several lanterns 
brought by the battalion of balers were lighted, and 
the work was promptly commenced. The leader of 
the humane enterprise was of course perfectly familiar 
with the steamer. He stationed two men at the 
pumps, and formed three lines of balers, the first at 
the fore hatch, the second at the fire-room, and the 
third at the companion-way leading into the cabin. 
Mr. Sherwood encouraged the men to work well 
by the promise of extra pay ; and the laborers 
seemed to regard the occasion as a grand frolic. 
They exerted themselves to the utmost, and the 
buckets flew along the lines, while the pumps rolled 
out the water in a continuous flow. As the steamer, 
relieved of the weight that pressed her down, rose 
on the surface of the lake, it was only necessary to 
lift the water from below and pour it upon the 
deck, from which it would run off" itself. 
The job did not last long before such a strong 
force ; and in two hours the work of the balers 
 
was done, the water inside having fallen below the 
cabin floor. Then the men changed hands at the 
pumps every ten minutes, working them so rapidly 
that the water was soon exhausted from the well. 
Ethan had fully described the method by which the 
hole in the hull of the Woodville had been stopped ; 
but Mr. Sherwood had some doubts in regard to the 
strength of the material, and he went below to 
examine the place. Lawry and his fellow-laborer 
had had no opportunity to test the strength and 
fitness of the work they had done, while the boat 
was full of water. 
On examination, Mr. Sherwood found several small 
jets of water streaming through the seams between 
the planks, outside of the canvas carpet, which he 
stopped with packing from the engineer's store-room. 
The braces which the boys had put over the hole 
kept the oil-cloth in position, and when the packing 
had been driven into the open seams with a chisel 
and mallet, hardly any water came in around the 
aperture. The boys were warmly commended by 
their partial friend for the skill they had displayed 
in stopping the leak ; and some of the men, who 
were familiar with vessels, agreed that the steamer 
would not leak ten strokes an hour. 
It was therefore safe to leave her ; and Mr. Sher- 
wood was satisfied that the boys would not find the 
water up to the bottom of the cabin floor in the 
morning. He carefully examined every part of the, 
steamer, assisted by the experienced men of his 
party, to assure himself that everything was right 
before he left her. The pumps were tried again, 
just before they embarked for home, but they yielded 
only a few strokes of water. 
The party returned to the landing, and Mr. Sher- 
wood cautioned the men not to make any noise as 
they passed the cottage, fearful that the boys might 
be awakened, and the delightful surprise in store 
for them spoiled. But Lawry and Ethan, worn out 
by the fatigue and excitement of the day, slept like 
logs, and the discharge of a battery of artillery 
under their chamber window would hardly have 
aroused them from their slumbers. The men went 
to their several homes, and all was quiet at the 
ferry. 
A single stroke of the old clock in the kitchen 
 
of the cottage announced the hour, to those who 
were wakeful enough to hear it, when Benjamin 
Wilford came down the road. He had been at a 
low groggery in the village, nursing his wrath and 
jealousy with the vilest of liquors. For a young 
man of eighteen, he had a strong head, so far as the 
influence of whiskey was concerned, for though he 
had drank a great deal, he was far from overcome. 
The villanous stuff made a demon of him, and he 
could only think of his brother in command of the 
magnificent little steamer, while he, older and more 
experienced than Lawry, was only a cipher. The 
thought maddened him ; and when he reached the 
ferry-house, he sat down on a rock, and actually 
cried with anger and vexation. 
" I won't stand it," whined he, when he had wept 
a while. " If I don't run that steamboat, nobody 
shall." 
He rose, staggered down to the landing, and got 
into the wherry. 
CHAPTER XII. 
mOM DESPONDENCY TO KEJOICING, 
Ben Wileord was too much intoxicated fully to 
realize what he was doing. He was still whining 
and crying when he got into the boat, feeling that 
he had been abused and outraged. He was so ac- 
customed to a boat, that he had no difficulty in row- 
ing up to the Woodville. If he had been sober, he 
would have seen that she now stood too far out of 
the water to be dependent upon the casks alone for 
her buoyancy ; but he did not see this ; and he did 
not even know that the leak in the bow had been 
stopped. 
With some difficulty he made his way to the deck 
of the steamer, and in the darkness stumbled against 
the cables, with which the boat was anchored. He 
was bent on mischief, and he unstoppered the cables, 
permitting them to run out and sink to the bottom 
 
of the lake. The wind was blowmg, still pretty 
fresh, from the west, and the steamer, now loosened 
from her moorings, began to drift towards the middle 
of the lake. 
" They'll find I'm not a nobody," whined he, con- 
tinuing to cry like a baby in his mau-dlin desperation. 
" She'll go down in the deep water this time." 
The drunken villain then stumbled about the deck 
till he found the lines which kept the hogsheads 
in place under the guards. Groaning, crying, and 
swearing, he untied and threw the ropes overboard. 
Some of the casks, relieved of the pressure on them 
by the removal of the water from the interior of the 
hull, came out from their places and floated off. Ben 
rolled into the wherry again, and with the boat-hook 
hauled the others out. Satisfied that he had done 
his work, and that the Woodville would soon go 
down in the middle of the lake, where the water was 
a hundred feet deep, he pulled as rapidly as his 
intoxicated condition would permit towards the ferry 
landing. 
" They'll find I'm not a nobody," he repeated, as 
he rowed to the shore. " They can't raise her now ; 
and they'll never see her again." 
Intoxicated as he was, he had not lost his sense 
of caution. He knew that he had done a mean and 
wicked action, which it might be necessary for him 
to conceal. As he approached the landing, he wiped 
his eyes, and choked down the emotions that agitated 
him. He tried to make no noise, but his movements 
were very uncertain ; he tumbled over the thwarts, 
and rattled the oars, so that, if those in the cottage 
had not slept like rocks, they must have heard him. 
He reeled up to the house, took off his shoes, and 
crept up stairs to his room. He made noise enough 
to wake his mother ; but Lawry and Ethan were not 
disturbed, though Ben's bed was in the room with 
them. 
The wretch had accomplished his work. Pie was 
satisfied, as he laid his boozy head upon the pillow, 
that the Woodville was even then at the bottom of 
the lake, with a hundred feet of water rolling over 
her. It was two o'clock in the morning ; but the vile 
tipple he had drank, and the deed he had done, so 
excited him that he could not sleep. He tossed on 
his bed till the day dawned, and the blessed light 
streamed in at the window of the attic. 
 
" Four o'clock ! " shouted Lawry, springing from 
his bed, as the timepiece in the kitchen struck the 
hour. " All hands ahoy, Ethan ! " 
His enthusiastic fellow-laborer needed no second 
call, and leaped out of bed. Ben was still awake, 
and the lapse of the hours had in some measure 
sobered him. 
" It's a fine day, Ethan," said Lawry, as he 
glanced out at the window. 
Glad of that. How long do you suppose it will 
take us to pump her out ? " 
" All day, I think ; but we are to have four men 
help us. I was considering that matter when I 
ent to sleep last night," replied Lawry. " I was 
hinking whether we could not rig a barrel under a 
errick, so as to get along a little faster than the 
umps will do it." 
" Perhaps we can ; we will see." 
" Where is your steamer ? " asked Ben, rising up 
n the bed. 
" We anchored her near the Goblins," replied 
awry. 
" She isn't there now," added Ben, who could not 
ostpone his revenge. 
 
" How do you know ? " demanded the pilot, star- 
tled by the assertion. 
" I've been sick, and couldn't sleep ; so I got up 
and went out doors. She isn't where you left her, 
and I couldn't see anything of her anywhere." 
" Couldn't see her ! " exclaimed Ethan, aghast at 
the intelligence. 
" I knew very well she wouldn't stay on top of 
the water. Casks wouldn't keep her up," said Ben, 
maliciously. 
Lawry rushed out of the room to the other end of 
the house, the attic window of which commanded a 
full view of the lake. As his brother had declared, 
the Woodville -was not at her anchorage where they 
had left her ; neither was she to be seen, whichever 
way he looked. 
"She is gone!" cried he, returning to his chamber. 
" Of course she is gone," added Ben. 
" I don't understand it." 
" She has gone to the bottom, of course, where I 
told you she would go. You were a fool to leave 
her out there in the deep water. She has gone down 
where you will never see her again." 
 
" It was impossible for her to sink with all those 
casks under her guards," said Ethan. 
" I guess you will find she has sunk. I told you 
she would. If you had only minded wha<" I told 
you, she would have been all right, Lawry." 
Both of the boys seemed to be paralyzed at the 
discovery, and made no reply to Ben. They could 
not realize that all the hard labor they had performed 
was lost. It was hard and cruel, and each reproached 
himself because they had not passed the night on 
board of the steamer, as they had purposed to do. 
" Well, it's no use to stand here like logs," said 
Lawry. " If she has sunk, we will find out where 
she is." 
" I reckon you'll never see her again, Lawry. 
Those old casks leaked, I suppose, and when they 
were full of water the steamer went down again ; or 
else they broke loose from her when the wind blew 
so hard." 
" It didn't blow much when we went to bod. 
What time did you come home, Ben ? " 
" I don't know what time it was," he answered, 
evasively. 
" Come, Ethan, let's go and find out what the mat- 
ter is," continued Lawry, as he led the way down stairs. 
Mrs. Wilford was not up, but she was awake, and 
was anticipating with great satisfaction the pleasure 
of the surprise which awaited the boys, when they 
discovered that the steamer had been freed from 
water. They left the house, and went down to the 
ferry. The Woodville certainly was not where they 
had left her ; not even the top of her smoke-stack 
could be seen peering above the water to inform 
them that she still existed. 
" Well, Lawry, we may as well go out to the 
place where we left her. If she has sunk, we may 
be able to see her," said Ethan. 
They got into the boat ; but one of the oars 
has gone. Ben had lost it overboard when he 
nded, and it had floated off. There was another 
paij. in the wood-shed of the house, and Lawry went 
ip for them. As he entered the shed, he met his 
mother, who had just risen, and gone out for wood 
kindle the fire. The poor boy looked so sad and 
disGonsolate that his long face attracted her attention. 
Whi i's the matter, Lawry ? " she asked. 
 
" The steamer has sunk again," replied the son, 
almost choked with emotion as he uttered the words. 
" Sunk again ! " exclaimed his mother. 
" She is not to be seen, and Ben says she has gone 
down." 
" Ben says so ? " 
" Yes ; he told us of it before we came down. 
We are going to look for her now," answered Lawry, 
as he took the oars, and left the shed. 
What Lawry had said excited the suspicion of his 
mother, as she thought of the malicious words of her 
older son on the preceding evening. She was excited 
and indignant ; she feared he had executed the wicked 
purpose which she was confident he had cherished. 
She went into the house, and up stairs to the room 
where Ben still lay in bed. 
" Benjamin, what have you done ? " demanded she. 
" I haven't done anything. I'm a nobody here ! " 
replied the inebriated young man, with surly em- 
phasis. 
" What did you mean last night when you said 
that you should run that steamer, or nobody should?" 
asked Mrs. Wilford. 
 
 
" I meant just what I said. You and Lawry both 
said I shouldn't run her — and she has gone to the 
bottom again ; she'll stay there this time." 
" O, Benjamin ! " said his mother, bursting into 
tears. " How could you be so wicked ? " 
" Did you think I'd stay round here, and be a 
nobody?" growled the wretched young- man, whom 
the effect of the liquor, now subsiding, had ren- 
dered ugly and reckless. 
" Did you sink that steamer ? " 
' What if I did ? " 
" O, Benjamin ! " 
" You needn't cry about it. Next time, you'd 
better not try to make a nobody out of me." 
" Don't you think I've had trouble enough, with- 
out trying to make more for me ? " sobbed the 
distressed mother. 
" If you had told Lawry to give me the charge of 
the steamer, he would have done it," whined Ben. 
" I shouldn't tell him any such thing ! " replied 
Mrs. Wilford, indignantly. " A pretty captain of a 
steamboat you would make ! You are so tipsy now 
you can't hold your head up ! " 
 
" I'm as sober as you are." 
Mrs. Wilford knew that it was useless to talk to 
a person in his condition, and she left him to sleep off 
the effect of his cups if he could, after the evil deed 
he had done. Full of sympathy for Lawry, under 
his great affliction, she left the house, and hastened 
down to the landing, to learn, if possible, the condi- 
tion of the Woodville. Lawry and Ethan were in 
the wherry, returning to the shore, when she reached 
the landing. 
" Hurrah ! hurrah ! " shouted both of the boys, 
in unison, as Mrs. Wilford came in sight. 
" What now ? " asked the anxious mother, reas- 
sured by the exulting cries of the boys. 
" She's safe, mother ! She has not sunk," replied 
Lawry, as the wherry touched the shore. 
" Where is she ? I don't see her anywhere," 
added Mrs. Wilford, scanning the lake in every 
direction. 
" Over on the other side," replied Lawry, pointing 
to the locality to which the Woodville had drifted 
after Ben had cast off her cables. 
" What's the reason she didn't sink ? " continued 
his mother. 
" The casks kept her up, of course. We want 
something for breakfast and for dinner, mother, for 
she is so far off we can't come home till we have 
pumped her out ; and I won't leave her again till I 
am sure she's all right." 
Mrs. Wilford concluded not to tell Lawry what his 
brother had attempted to do, as his wicked scheme 
had evidently failed for some reason which she did 
not at once comprehend. She also observed Mr. 
Sherwood's instruction, and did not mention what he 
had done with his company of laborers. She went 
into the house, and put up a basket full of such 
provision as she had on hand, while Ethan and Lawry 
were filling the wherry with dry wood and kindlings, 
with which to start the fire in the furnaces of the 
Woodville. 
" What shall I do about the ferry, mother ? " asked 
Lawry, as he took the basket of eatables. " Will 
Ben run the boat to-day?" 
" Don't trouble yourself about the ferry, Lawry. 
If Benjamin won't take care of it, I will." 
" I don't want you to do it, mother." 
" I think your brother will run the boat ; at any 
rate, you needn't give it a thought." 
 
Mrs. Wilford was quite as happy as the boys to 
find that the steamer was not at the bottom of the 
lake again ; and she returned to the cottage with a 
light heart, when she had seen the wherry leave the 
shore. 
From the deepest depths of despondency, if not 
despair, the young engineers had been raised to the 
highest pinnacle of hope and joy, when the Woodville 
was discovered on the other side of the lake. She 
had drifted in behind a point of land, and could not 
be seen from the ferry. They had gone out to the 
place where she had been anchored, near the Goblins ; 
and while they were gazing down into the deep water 
in search of her, Ethan happened to raise his eyes 
and saw her on the other side of the lake. What 
ft thrill went through his heart as he recognized her ! 
A-nd what a thrill he communicated to Lawry when 
he pointed her out to him ! 
The young pilot rowed the boat across the lake ; 
and his arms seemed to be nerved with unwonted 
vigor. Never had the wherry made a quicker passage 
than on this joyous occasion. 
" Why, the casks are all gone ! " exclaimed Ethan, 
who sat in the stern sheets, so that he could see 
objects ahead. 
" All gone ! " replied Lawry, laying on his oars, 
while he turned to look at her. 
" She must be aground," added Ethan ; " but she 
sets out of water a great deal farther than when we 
left her yesterday." 
" We shall soon find out what the matter is," con- 
tinued Lawry, as he bent on his oars again. " She is 
safe, and on the top of the water ; that's enough for 
me at the present time." 
A few more strokes placed the wherry alongside 
the Woodville. She floated as gracefully on the 
water as though she had never touched the bottom 
of the lake and the rebellious water had never visited 
the inside of the hull. The boys were perplexed at 
this appearance, and Lawry almost feared that some 
one had stolen the engine out of her, which was the 
only explanation he could suggest for the fact that 
she floated on her water line. He fastened the 
painter at the gangway, and leaped on board, closely 
followed by his companion. He rushed to the fore- 
hatch, and looked down into the hold. There was no 
water to be seen in her. 
 
" What does this mean! " he exclaimed, turning in 
blank amazement to Ethan. 
" I don't know. The water couldn't have run out 
of her without some help," replied Ethan, as much 
perplexed as his friend. 
" I don't understand it," added Lawry, as he went 
aft, and looked down into the fire-room and the cabin. 
" The casks are all gone, and the steamer has been 
pumped out. Somebody must have done this work ; 
it couldn't have done itself." 
" That's true," said Ethan, as he picked up a lan- 
tern which had been accidentally left by one of Mr. 
Sherwood's party. " Somebody has certainly been 
here." 
" There's no doubt of that ; but I can't see, for the 
life of me, what they wanted to set her adrift for." 
" Nor I ; they were good friends to pump her out 
for us, whoever they were. In my opinion, Mr. Sher- 
wood knows something about this job. If I mistake 
not, I've seen that lantern at his house." 
" But slipping the cables looks just as though they 
intended to have her smashed up on the shore," added 
Lawry- " The anchors are not here, and of course 
 
they are on the bottom of the lake. I don't see 
through this business." 
" Nor I either ; but one thing we can see through : 
the steamer is safe, with the water all pumped out of 
her. We may as well go to work, and get her over 
to the ferry." 
This was good counsel, and without losing any 
more time in attempts to fathom what was dark and 
strange, they commenced the labors of the day. 
 
CHAPTER XIII. 
GETTING UP STEAM. 
A . SURVEY of the position of the Woodville 
showed that she was slightly aground at the stern; 
but Ethan was confident that a few turns of the 
wheels would bring her off. The boys then tried 
the pumps ; but after less than a hundred strokes 
they refused to yield any more water. They then 
carefully examined every part of the interior below 
the decks. 
" She's all right," said Lawry, who was in a state 
of hopeful excitement which made his step quick, 
and his speech rapid. "What shall we do now?" 
" Get up steam," replied Ethan. " I have a couple 
of hours' work to do on the engine ; but we will 
start the furnaces at once." 
" Can't I make the fire ? " asked Lawry. 
" Yes, if you know how " 
 
" You can show me. I don't know much about 
steam boilers and enguaes." 
" We will get our dry wood out of the wherry, 
and I will help you start the fire. While I am at 
work on the engine, you will have to overhaul your 
steering gear, and see that it is all right. The 
chains and pulleys will need to be oiled." 
Lawry got into the wherry, and threw the dry 
wood on deck. Ethan had not expected to kindle 
the fires till night, when he hoped the water would 
be below the furnaces. It was a grateful surprise 
to be able at once to go to work on the engine. 
He was enthusiastic in his fondness for machinery, 
and that of the Woodville was his particular pet. 
He was even so absurd as to call it " his dear," and 
no boy was ever more devoted to his dog or his 
pony than Ethan was to the beautiful little engine 
of the steamer. 
After he had tried the valves on the boiler, and 
assured himself that it contained the proper supply 
of water, the fires were started in the furnaces. 
There was plenty of wood and coal on board, though 
the former was so wet that it would not burn with' 
 
out some assistance, which was furnished by the dry- 
fuel brought off in the wherry. In a little while 
the furnaces were roaring with the blaze from the 
wood, and the coal was shovelled in. Ethan, hav- 
ing dried a quantity of the wet packing, commenced 
rubbing down and oiling the machinery. He was 
in his element now, and never was a young man in 
a higher state of keen enjoyment. 
While he was thus engaged, Lawry overhauled 
the steering apparatus, rubbed down the wheel, 
oiled the pulleys, and satisfied himself that every- 
thing was in working order. The situation and the 
work were in the highest degree exhilarating. It 
was not labor to clean and adjust the gear ; it was 
a pleasure such as he had never realized from the 
most exciting sports. He could hardly repress the 
rapture he felt when he saw the black smoke from 
the pine wood pouring out of the smoke-stack. 
" This is my steamer," said he to himself. " I 
am the owner of her," 
The thought made him laugh with joy. He stood 
up at the wheel, and though he could not turn it, 
because the rudder was fast in the sand, he knew 
•exactly how he should feel when he stood in this 
position with the Woodville gliding swiftly over the 
bright waters of the lake. 
The steering gear was in perfect order, so far as 
he could judge without using it, and Ethan was still 
busy at the engine. Lawry could not deny himself 
the pleasure of a survey of the steamer, for the pur- 
pose of admiring her comforts and conveniences. 
He walked up and down the main deck, entered 
the saloon and the cabin, visited the fore hold, and 
opened the doors of the various apartments forward 
of the paddle-boxes. It is true, everything was in 
a state of " confusion worse confounded." Carpets 
were soaked with water, curtains were drabbled and 
stained, sofas and chairs upset in the cabin and sa- 
loon ; while in the kitchen and store-rooms, shelves 
and lockers had been emptied, and their contents 
strewed in wild disorder about the apartments. 
But Lawry knew how order could be brought out 
of chaos, and the derangement of furniture and uten- 
sils did not disturb him. It would be a delightful 
occupation to restore harmony to these shelves and 
lockers, to bring order and neatness out of the con- 
 
fusion which reigned in every part of the steamer. 
When he had completed his survey, he went to the 
engine-room, and offered his services to Ethan for 
duty in his department. As the engineer had noth- 
ing for him to do, he returned to the kitchen, and 
busied himself in putting things to rights there, 
foreseeing that this apartment would soon be needed. 
He made a fire in the galley, in order to dry the 
room more speedily, and then occupied his time in 
picking up the tins and the kettles, and putting 
them in their places. 
While he was examining the lockers and shelves, 
he found part of a leg of bacon, and some pota- 
