is the man that f eareth the Lord, that delighteth greatly in 
his commandments. His seed shall be mighty upon earth ; 
the generation of the upright shall be blessed Wealth and 



before thee, and it will be all right. If it is not, then you 
are quit of your oath." 

"But, uncle Sam, do you think the Lord sends an angel 
before people now ? " 

"Tiny, do you remember that Jesus Christ is the same 
yesterday, to-day, and for ever ? That means, that He does 
not change. ' The angel of the Lord encampeth round about 
them that fear Him, and delivereth them.' What do you 
think of that ? ' Encampeth round about thenC And then, 
' He shall give His angels charge over thee, to keep thee in 
all thy ways.' That is, of course, if you trust God as Abraham trusted. ' In all thy ways acknowledge Him, and He 
shall direct thy paths, " 

"Abraham's servant seems to have had faith too," said 
Dan. 

" Yes. And well he might. He was satisfied now ; he 
took the oath required of him, and set about the preparations 
for his journey." 

"It seems odd, to leave all that to a servant," said Priscilla. 

" Not a servant like a footman or a butler, Prissy. Great 
men in those times were accustomed to have a trusted 
steward or overseer, in whose care their whole business was 
left. Joseph was such a servant to Potiphar; his master 
knew nothing about his aflFairs, beyond the meals that he 
ate every day. Joseph afterwards had such a steward of his 
own. Now this man, Eliezer, if it was Eliezer, had all Abraham's goods in his hand ; he did what he thought right ; and 
he knew what to do. It was necessary to go with such an 
outfit as should prove what kind of a man Abraham was in 
the world's estimation; it was needful to show tokens of his 
master's prosperity and carry what would honour his own 
mission. He took ten camels for the journey ; some of them 
were for riding, for his own and his servants' use and to 
bring back the wished-for lady and her attendants; the 
others were laden with provisions and with rare and costly 
things for presents; ornaments of gold and silver; rich 
dresses; and probably spices and southern fruits. Less 




than ten camels would not be taken for such an expedition 
now, in such a family." 

" I should thinfc ten would not have been enough," said 
Liph. " Why, the provisions would have been a great deal" 

"And I should think they might have taken horses or 
mules for riding," said Friscilla. " I thought camels were so 
disagreeable to ride." 

" In the first place, liph, a fine camel will carry a load of 
three or four hundred pounds, A good deal of value, do you 
see] in gold and spices, might go on the back of a single one. 
And, secondly, it was not needful to take much in the way 
of food for the journey, for that might be had in great part 
by the way. No ; ten camels were enough. And, my dear 
Rissy, in the desert tract between Aleppo and Haran camels 
were the most convenient animals for the journey, if not the 
only ones. Horses must have plenty of water and plenty of 
grass or corn ; and it would be far less easy to provide them 
with both during those nine days. Nobody would go from 
Hebron now upon the same expedition with any other beasts 
but camels." 

" Horses would not carry much," said Liph ; " and they 
would want camels to take along food enough for them. 
Horses would not do." 

" Well, with his camels and goods the servant departed, 
'and arose and went to Mesopotamia, unto the city of 
Nahor.' The Bible tells it in few words. But let us look 
at the line of travel he and his ten camels followed. First 
up through Palestine, round by the west side of the lakes, 
and then into this beautiful valley called the BukSa Look 
here, children ; on this side of Palestine, following the range 
of the coast, is the long mountain line of Lebanon — Jehel 
LiJlman, the Arabs call it. A little east, you see here is another mountain line ; this is Anti-Lebanon ; or as the Arabs 
have it, Jehel-eshrShurJey — the east mountain. Hermon is 
the southernmost peak of this line. Between the two, do 
you see, there is a long valley, stretching north-east and 
south-west. This is what used to be called Coele-Syria. It 
is the corn-field of northern Palestine. Through the lower 



 

portion of it runs the Idty, the largest river of Syria ; and 
through the upper lies the bed of the Orontes. The one mns 
to the south, and the other to the north ; and this upper 
portion watered by the Orontes, is the old kingdom of 
HamatL The Hamathite, you know, was one of the descendants of Canaan. Up through this rich valley the ten 
camels would have an easy time ; then through Hamath on 
to Aleppo ; from thence across to the Euphrates ; and then 
they would be in Mesopotamia, and two days from the city 
of Nahor. Abraham's brother was so considerable a nlan 
that the place was known as his place. And we do not know 
much more about it." 
." Don't you know anything about it, uncle Sam ? " 

"Very little. It was a famous place too, in olden time; 
famous down into Eoman times, as a city devoted to the 
worship of the Moon goddess. The defeat of Crassus happened there, too, boys. Yet we know nothing about it, except its wells. The caravan routes fork off from it, or used 
to do so, towards the different fords of the Tigris on the 
east and the Euphrates on the west; so it must have been 
a place of business and importance as & meeting-point for 
them. But when we think of Haran, we do not think of 
that, nor of Crassus, nor of the worship of the moon ; but 
we remember that well of water outside the city beside 
which Abraham's servant made his camels kneel down. It 
was evening when they got there ; the day was drawing to a 
close ; they stopped at the well ; and there in something like 
Abraham's faith, Abraham's servant made his camels kneel 
down, and prayed for direction and that the Lord would give 
him good speed." 

" Why did the camels kneel down ? " Priscilla asked. 

" Don't you know any more about camels than that ) " said 
Liph. 

" Why did they, then ? " said uncle SauL.

"Why, sir, they have callous places on their knees and 
breasts, just where they touch the ground in kneeling." 

" And therefore they kneel ? " said my uncle. " Well, liph 
— that is not very clear; but the fact is, that kneeling is the 




natural posture of repose for the camel ; and as you say, lie 
has special provision made for taking it with comfort. 
Camels kneel to be loaded and to have their loads taken off; 
they kneel to be mounted, and they kneel down to rest 
Among the Arabs, the signal to make them kneel is some- 
thing like a soft kind of snoring. I do not know how it was 
in Abraham's time." 

" I thought the camel was the beast of the desert," said my 
grandmother. " How do they manage in those rough and 
dangerous roads and precipices of Palestine ?" 

" Just as well They are the most sure-footed creature 
that can be. In the worst passes where I have been with 
them they are perfectly safe ; they never slip ; they never 
stumble ; they are quite contented with the coarse prickly 
herbs and shrubs of the desert for food ; and, if need be, 
they can go four days without drinking. There is no need 
generally in all Arabia and Palestine ; water is always to be 
found in less time than that from place to place." 

" Well, we don't get on with our wedding journey," said 
Priscilla. " The ten camels were kneeling around the well 
How little Rebecca thought what she was coming to, when 
she came out that night ! " 

" Most true," said my uncle. " It was the time when the 
women who draw water go forth, as the Hebrew reads ; so 
Eebecca was on her way from the city as usual, with her 
pitcher on her shoulder. The whole story is perfectly 
Eastern. Among the Arabs, as I have told you, it is only 
the women that draw the water. I have seen them myself 
hundreds of times at the wells and fountains near the villages in Syria, coming with their jars or water-skins and 
bearing them away on their heads or their shoulders. 
Where flocks were watered, I have seen men helping them." 

" I should think the well would have been inside the city,"
said Dan. 

''The people like it better outside, and so would you. 
They build their villages not far from the well or fountain ; 
but all the bustle and dust and noise of the gatherings 
around it they like to escape, especially when the place is 




on some great line of travel To the fountain all the women 
of the village come forth at eventide ; and Eliezer, if it was 
he, knew what he was about when he halted his camels 
there." 

" And still better he knew what he was about," said my 
grandmother, " when he made his prayer. ' O Lord God of 
my master Abraham, I pray thee, show me good speed this 
day, and show kindness unto my master AbrahauL Behold, 
I stand here by the well of water ; and the daughters of the 
men of the city come out to draw water : and let it come to 
pass, that the damsel to whom I shall say, Let down thy 
pitcher, I pray thee, that I may drink ; and she shall say, 
Drink, and I will give thy camels drink also ; let the same 
be she that thou hast appointed for thy servant Isaac' " 

" And before he had done speaking," my uncle went on, 
"a very fair and beautiful girl came out from the city towards the well, with her pitcher upon her shoulder; she 
was nobody else but Nahor's granddaughter, coming like 
others for water, though she belonged to the greatest family 
in the city. And no doubt the old servant watched her, and 
noted her beauty and grace, and the superior quality of her 
dress and appearance, as she went down to the well and 
filled her pitcher ; and I dare say it was with a good wish in 
his heart that he ran to meet her — perhaps he had forgotten himself looking and thinking — and asked her to give 
him a little water out of her pitcher — a 'sip,' he asked 
for." 

"Then he knew," said Dan. 

"Quickly the polite answer came— ' Drink, my lord' — 
and the pitcher was let down on the hand ; and then as the 
old man put his lips to the water, the damsePs black eye 
noted his stranger's dress and his following of men and 
camels, and in the true spirit of hospitality she added, 'I will 
draw water for thy camels also, until they have done drinking.' She was an energetic little lady that ; no sooner said 
than done ; she emptied her pitcher into the trough, and ran 
to the well and filled it again, and filled it and emptied it 
until the camels had done. ' And the man wondering at her 




held his peace,' till he should know whether he had got indeed the sign that he had asked for from the Lord." 

" But I have got a question to ask," said Priscilla. 

"And so have I," said liph. 

" Come on," said my uncle. " Let us have them." 

"Why did she go down to the welll" said Priscilla. 
"How could shel" 

" The only way to get her pitcher filled," said my uncle. 
" There were steps at the side or at the comer of the well, 
leading down to the water ; Rebecca went down the steps, 
dipped in her pitcher, or dropped it in with a piece of rope, 
and so filled it. Where the water is far down and cannot be 
reached in that way, there are no steps, but a rope is let down 
from the top with a bucket, often a skin bucket, and drawn 
up over the curb-stone. Round the mouth of the well, I 
should have told you, is built a low wall or parapet to prevent accidents ; and in some old wells the stone-coping of 
this wall is worn into grooves — fluted — by the long wear of 
ropes drawn back and forth over it. At Beersheba it is so.
In some places an ass or ox is employed to pull up the rope ; 
and sometimes a pulley or a wheel is used to help."  

" But I have another question," said Priscilla. " Eliezer 

prayed that the damsel that gave him that sign. Now the 

boys will laugh at me if I go on." 

" Never mind," said my uncle. " Let them laugh." 

" The words are : 'Let the same be she that Thou hast 
appointed.' Uncle Sam, do you think it is appointed who 
people shall marry ? " 

The boys did laugh, and uncle Sam too a little. But he 
answered soberly enough. 

" I have no sort of doubt of it. Prissy, my dear. But very 
often indeed, not the individuals they do marry. I mean 
this, my dear. In this matter, as in every other, if we will 
humbly seek and follow the Lord's guidance, we shall have 
it. ' In all thy ways acknowledge Him, and He shall direct 
thy paths,' For want of doing that, people miss the good 
that is really appointed for them, in various lines, and get 
into great scrapes." 



 

" Uncle Sam," put in Liph, " what I want to know is, how 
Rebecca came to say that ? " 

" What, ' Drink, my lord; and I will give thy camels drink 
also ? ' How came she to say it ? Out of her own free wit 
and will Then how was it the Lord's sign to His servant ? 
I do not know, Liph, any more than you do. Only we must 
take the facts of the Bible just as we find them ; and in this 
matter submit to be children together before the Lord. If 
we do not, depend upon it we shall become fools." 

" Uncle Sam, how do you know that Eebecca had black 
eyesi" 

" That 's a nice question, Tiny ! Why, my dear, they all 
have. Big, handsome, black eyes, and keen too ; and Rebecca 
was not the least sharp of her family. She was a woman of 
business, that was ! " 

" Eliezer was not a lord," Priscilla remarked. 

" No, but Rebecca's calling him so was merely politeness. 
Her very words are the same that are used now in those 
regions to any respectable traveller that makes the same 
request that Eliezer did. Ishrvb ya seedy, That is it." 

"Will they be as hospitable now as Rebecca was, and 
water your camels too ? " Dan asked, 

"Never, within my knowledge. I have found it hard 
enough to get that service done for my horse when I was 
willing to pay for it. That was the Lord's sign. Yet Eliezer 
did not feel quite sure that he had found what he sought, 
till he heard something further. As the camels had done 
drinking, he took out of his packages some fine golden ornaments, far richer than were usually seen, and putting them 
on the girl's hands, asked whose daughter she was, and 
whether he and his troop could be accommodated at her 
father's house for the night And then came the answer he 
wanted — ' I am the daughter of Bethuel, the son of Milcah, 
which she bare unto Nahor.' 'And the man bowed down 
his head and worshipped the lord. And he said. Blessed 

be the Lord God of my master Abraham I being 

in the way, the Lord led me to the house of my master's 
brethrea' " 




"Why didn't he give her two ear-rings ? " said Priscilla. 

"Because, I fancy, he did not give her one. The word 
should be translated ' nose-ring,' as only one is spoken of. 
The Bedouin women wear all sorts of rings, and in their 
noses as well as on their fingers — sometimes little, sometimes big. There is one kind three inches in diameter. You 
must imagine such a gold ring depending beneath Eebecca's 
black eyes, and just showing her pretty mouth within its 
circle." 

" Uncle Sam, that is very ugly." 

" She did not think so, nor Isaac neither. The Bedouins 
care little about dress in their own persons, but they like to 
have the ladies of their family make a good appearance. 
They think it is an honour to themselves." 

" But, uncle Sam," said I, " that was a queer time for her 
to put on such ornaments, when she was going with her 
pitcher from the welL" 

" Little Tiny, that is another of your American notions. 
An Arab woman thinks there is no reason why she should 
not be handsomely dressed at one time as well as at another; 
and really I do not know what reason there is. At any rate, 
she acts upon that principle. The Bedouin women put on 
their best things every day, and pile them on, I may say. 
You will see women drawing water or tending sheep, with 
their arms and faces brilliant with jewellery; five or six 
bracelets on one arm, and two or three ear-rings together in 
the same ear. It is often very poor jewellery, no doubt, but 
such as they have they wear it. Those who can afford it
deck themselves in ear-rings and nose-rings of silver, with 
silver chains sometimes round the neck, and ankle-rings ; 
some wear even gold, and amber, coral, and mother-of-pearl 
Poorer ones content themselves with glass bracelets and 'ornaments of horn. Glass bracelets are extensively manufactured 
at Hebron for them." 

"Well!" said Daniel; "a woman must be hard up for 
jewellery when she puts on glass bracelets." 

"All a matter of taste," said uncle Sam. "I think just 
the same sometimes about strips of velvet and bands of 



 

ribband; bnt that only shows how little I know. Just 
within the border of Egypt one day I passed a very great 
flock of sheep, tended by three women. To judge from a 
distance, they were quite splendid enough to go to a ball- 
room ; their necks and arms and ankles were loaded with 
ornaments ; they were brilliant." 

" How did they look when you came near, uncle Sam ? " . 

"Couldn't get near, my dear ; as soon as I tried it they 
ran away in a fury, cursing your grandmother and her 
mother, and indeed ail of you." 

" Cursing tis, uncle Sam ! " 

"Everybody related to me, I believe, Tiny. It is an 
Eastern way of showing displeasure. Not pleasant, but 
harmless." 

"Uncle Sam," said Priscilla, "why does it say that 
Eebecca ran and told them of her mother's house  why not 
her father's house ? " 

" Eastern again, Prissy. Her mother's children were all of 
her father's house that she cared particularly about, or that 
cared particularly about her; Bethuel might have other 
wives and other families of children, you know. Rebecca 
went to her own ; and her careful brother Laban took up the 
matter.  It was very plain to him, from the richness of the 
jewels that Eliezer had adorned his sister with, that this 
stranger was a man to be honoured. He ran out to find him 
where Rebecca had left him by the well ' Come in, thou 
blessed of the Lord ; wherefore standest thou without ? for 
I have prepared the house, and room for the camels.' So he 
brought him in." 

" But it sounds as if the camels came in too, I think. We 
should prepare the bam," said Daniel 

"I presume the camels did come in. Bams are a Westem 
institution. It is usual enough to lodge in the same room 
with the camels, in those regions ; and children are often 
put to sleep in a manger, after it has been cleaned and 
whitewashed. Yes, they allc ame in ; and Laban ungirded 
the camels and gave them straw, with barley or some other 
grain mixed with it At least that is the way cattle are fed 




there now ; hay is not known. And the usual kindness was 
shown to Eliezer and the men that were with him, in washing their feet and preparing food for them ; but he was a 
faithful servant. ' I will not eat, he said, 'until I have told 
mine errand.' Laban was all expectation ; and Eliezer went 
on to declare the whole story, what he was there for and how 
he had been led. ' Then Laban and Bethuel answered and 
said, The thing proceedeth from the Lord : we cannot speak 
unto thee bad or good. Behold, Eebecca is before thee, take 
her, and go.' " 

" I should think they might have asked Kebecca what she 
thought about it," Priscilla said. 

" That is not the way things are done. The lady's friends 
settle the matter for her ; the father, if he is living, or the 
brother, if she have no father. Her consent may possibly be 
asked, but it is not at all needful. In like manner, it is not 
always the bridegroom who chooses the bride ; his parents 
or some friend whom he appoints may manage even that 
matter for him ; and at any rate conduct the arrangements 
Sifter the bride has been fixed upon. So Hagar, you remember, took a wife for her son out of Egjpt ; and here Abra- 
ham sends Eliezer. However, after the lady is found and 
her friends have consented, the next thing is the espousal ; 
that is a formal engagement, made with presents to the 
bride and her friends. Presents are a necessary part of the 
ceremony ; so much so, that the word which means ' to 
betroth,' means literally, 'to make a present.' Eliezer 
understood all that, you see; as soon as Bethuel and his 
forward son Laban had given their consent, he brought out 
his gifts ; rich and costly dresses and ornaments of gold and 
silver for the bride, and for her mother and brother other 
precious things ; what, we do not know. The word may 
mean a great variety' of things, rare fruits and plants, or 
delicacies, or dresses and jewels, somewhat less valuable than 
those given to the bride hersell" 

"Is that the purchase-money of the lady ? " my grand- 
mother asked. 

"Not in those old times. The women were not bought 



 

and sold then. Now they are, in Syria, by Turks, Jews, and 
Christians ; bought and paid for according to the rank of 
the lady's father. But the Bedooins would think it a disgrace if a man were to take a price for his daughter. In 
one tribe it is customary for the father to receive the gifts 
made to the bride — the 'five articles,' as they are called ; but 
they go to her and are her property. The ' five articles' mean, 
a large nose-ring of silver, a silver chain for the neck, silver 
bracelets, a carpet, and a camel-bag of Bagdad carpetwork." 

" Kebecca had a great deal more than that," said Priscilla. 

" Everybody was satisfied. So then Eliezer was feasted, 
and Eebecca and her mother, we may suppose, in the 
women's apartments, were very busy over her dower — that 
is, these wedding gifts — and her proposed journey and her 
prospects. It was usual to let a little time go by between 
the day of the espousals and the day of the wedding. But 
when the morning was come, Abraham's servant demanded 
to be let go, that he might return to his master ; he and 
Eebecca. Laban and her mother pleaded for ten days at 
least; perhaps the crafty fellow meditated some trick or 
cheatery to get more advantage to himself; but Eliezer 
was firm to his demand. ' Hinder me not, seeing the Lord 
hath prospered my way.' Then they called Kebecca. Would 
she start off at one day's notice, and leave her old home 
for a new one ? But Kebecca was never wanting in pluck ; 
and she had made up her mind upon those gold bracelets 
and things, and that gold jewel hanging over her upper lip. 
So she said, ' I will go.' The thing was done. They sent 
her away with her nurse, on the camels provided for her. 
Now, children, the Bible tells us nothing about the journey ; 
how they went and where they stopped, and what they did 
by the way. We can only imagine how the little caravan 
went back by the road it had come, across the desert to 
Aleppo ; and then down southwards through the kingdom 
of Hamath towards the snowy heights of Lebanon rising up 
before them ; then crossing the low hills which separate be- 
tween the valley of the Orontes and the other beautiful 
valley of the Litany, they would have those snowy tops of 



Lebanon high along on their right hand, and the opposite 
range of Anti-Lebanon — Jebet-eihShurhy, the east mountain 
— high on their left. ' Lebanon towards the sunrising,' the 
Bible calls it; and this lovely rich valley it calls the ' valley 
of Lebanon.' It is only from four to six miles broad ; and 
the two mountain ranges rise up on each side of it steeply 
to the height of five or six thousand feet. Getting to the 
end of this valley, they passed the great white head of Hermon at their left hand ; it is the southern point of the Anti 
Lebanon range — and began to come down through the 
length of Palestine. A wonderful journey it must have been 
to the Mesopotamian girl, who had never been far from the 
plains of Haran before. And we know without being told, 
what good care Eliezer took of his charge, and how he 
provided all things for her comfort by day and by night ; and 
what nice stopping-places he arranged." 

"It must have been a terrible long journey for her," said 
Priscilla. 

" Down through the whole length of Palestine ; over the 
mountains of Judah, with their rough precipices and rocky 
ways; past Hebron with its grapes and corn-fields; then 
down, going lower and lower, from one wady to another, 
leaving trees gradually behind them, and running brooks, 
and fruit ; till they reached the open wavy plains of Beersheba. And past Beersheba too, farther south; for Isaac 
dwelt at the well Lahai-roi, the same where Hagar had rested 
on her flight into Egypt and had been turned back. Isaac's 
home was there now. And this we know ; it was getting 
towards evening when the camels were at last coming near 
home. The sunlight was slanting in long beams over the 
grass and the flowers of those rolling downs ; lighting up 
herds of camels and flocks of sheep coming to be watered. 
The tents of the encampment would be seen from a distance, 
spotting a large space with their black curtains. Kebecca 
could look from afar and see what sort of a home she was 
coming to; and she was enough of a business woman to 
count the flocks and measure the herds with her eye, and 
guess what a rich man her husband was. Then, before they 




got quite Home, she spied a solitary man, not busy with ihe 
cattle or anything else, but seemingly worn out for his 
pleasure, and then walking towards the camels. ' What man 
is this that walketh in the field to meet us she asked 
Eliezer. And he answered, 'It is my master.' Would you 
have done then what she did. Prissy? She lighted down 
from off her camel" 

"What for?" 

" To show respect to Isaac." 

"I think she was very particular," said Prissy. 

" No doubt, and Isaac liked her for it. She covered herself with a veil too." 

"What was that for?" Dan asked. 

" A veil was part of the Eastern wedding attire, and has 
been for ages. Perhaps it was so then, and I suppose it was. 
She had been unveiled before ; now, you see, she covered 
herself. The great veil, covering not only the face but the 
whole figure, was said to be a token of the wife's subjection 
to her husband. Nobody else had a right to even look at 
her, unless he pleased." 

" I think that would be a very poor custom," said Priscilla. 

" I should not like our ladies to go veiled," said uncle 
Sam ; "but a little of the principle ? think would not be out 
of place. ' That women adorn themselves in modest apparel, 
with shamefacedness and sobriety.' But neither were the 
ladies in those times veiled all the while, as they are in the 
streets of Syria now ; the veil was a wedding veil ' And 
the servant told Isaac all things that he had done;' and 
Eebecca stood by, I suppose, in her veil, while the story was 
told. Then Isaac led her to his mother's tent; the tent 
which had stood empty for three years ; he gave her the chief 
place, and she became his wife ; the lady of the encampment. 
After that, it says, Isaac was comforted for the loss of his 
mother. And there you see what a deep, gentle, affectionate 
nature belonged to him ; and also. Prissy, that there must 
have been some good in Sarah. Three years, and Isaac had 
mourned for her yet, and was not comforted. Until now at 
last he gave his love to his pretty young wife." 




"Uncle Sam, you spoke of herds of camels. Would there 
be more than one herd of camels ? " 

" I suppose there would, Liph ; if Isaac was rich enough." 

" But why would they not be all together, in one herd ? " 

"They might : but I have seen as many as three herds of 
camels, of difiTerent colours, around one well ; and I did not 
know but Isaac might have a fancy for keeping the colours 
separate." 

" What colours, uncle Sam ?" 

" One herd was black — another was white — the third was 
gray or brown. All marked, however ; every camel among 
the Arabs is branded with the particular mark of the tribe 
and family to which it belongs ; branded with a hot iron on 
the neck or the left shoulder." 

"I wonder what KebeCca thought of the wildemess of 
Beersheba and her new home," said Priscilla. 

" I wonder what she thought of Isaac," said liph. 

"She thought both were easy to get along with," said 
uncle Sam. 





Sept. 21.— ABRAHAM'S CHILDREN. 

"Uncle Sam" said Daniel, ''I think it is veiy odd that 
Abraham should have married another wife." 

" So it seems," said my uncla 

" I don't like it of him," said Prisdlla. 

" I thought you were not fond of Sarah," said uncle Sam. 
"But you must remember Abraham was tdone now, and it is 
not good for a man to be that Isaac lived at Lahai-roi ; 
Abraham was certainly to be excused for trying to make his 
own household more comfortable. At any rate, Prissy, he 
'added and took a wife,' as the Hebrew says; and her name 
was Keturah ; and by her he had six more sons. We must 
look at them a little bit. Some of the names do not appear 
again ; their children were mingled with the more powerful 
tribes and lost in them ; but Jokshan and Midian we haye 
reason to remember." 

"I remember Midian," said Daniel 

" None of these sons of Keturah were suffered to disturb 
the inheritance of Isaac. Abraham had learnt his lesson in 
the case of IshmaeL Isaac, the covenant child, had given 
him all that belonged to his father ; all the property as well 
as all the promises. To these sons of a later marriage and 
inferior wife Abraham gave gifts— something to set them up 
in the world — but while he was yet living he sent them all 
away from him, into the ' east country,' out of Isaac's way. 
Now where was the east country ? We must look on the 
map." 

" It might be all Asia," said Liph. 

" Yes, but it was not When the Hebrews spoke of the 
points of the compass, they supposed themselves standing 
with their face to the sunrising; and so standing, Kedem, 



which means 'before' or 'in front,' was their word for that 
quarter. 'Before/ 'behind,' the 'right,' and the 'left,' were 
the terms for east, west, south, and north. Sometimes they 
spoke of the east as the 'sunrising;' at other times it was 
Kedem — ' before.' So Bem-Kedem were the ' children of the 
east' Now take your place at Beersheba and look toward 
the sunrising ; all those countries spread out in the region 
before you would be what they meant by the ' east,' extend- 
ing perhaps as far as Babylonia and Mesopotamia ; and the 
peoples that inhabited them spread out farther south, down 
to the region between the Arabian and the Persian gulfs, 
lying east of lower Egypt. That is the east country. Now 
Jokshan had two sons, Dedan and Sheba. These, or their 
descendants, are supposed to have been pastoral tribes on 
the borders of Edom, and likely enough to have mixed them- 
selves with the Cushite Sheba and Dedan on the shores of 
the Persian gulf, so as to be mentioned under one name with 
them. For Sheba and Dedan are spoken of afterwards in 
the Bible as carrying on the caravan trade between Persia 
and Palestine ; bringing the rich wares of that region and 
perhaps also of southern Arabia to the markets of Tyre and 
Sidon. It is certain that the children of Keturah stretched 
across the country between the head of the Arabian gulf and 
that of the Persian gulf ; and they intermarried of course 
with other tribes, — Ishmaelite certainly, and maybe in this 
case Cushite." 

"Then the Dedan and Sheba that lived in the desert could 
help the others that lived by the sea," said Daniel ; " they 
coidd furnish them with camels and guides, as the Arabs do 
now for the caravans to Mecca," 

"Ay, but it is not certain," said uncle Sam. "Only 
this is certain ; that tribes bearing the names of Sheba and 
Dedan, and Eaamah the father of the Cushite Dedan, did 
carry on that caravan trade between India and Palestine. 
Ezekiel speaks of them in mentioning the traffic of Tyro, 
'Dedan was thy merchant in precious clothes for chariots' 
— that might have been Babylonian or Persian work; in 
those regions the people were early famous for rich stuffs 



and dothing. ' The merchants of Sheba and Kaamah, they 
were thy merchants ; they occupied in thy fairs with chid
of all spices, and with all precious stones, and gold.' And 
at the same time Jeremiah speaks of Dedan as an Arab tribe 
living on the borders of Edom. ' Flee ye, turn back, dwell 
deep, O inhabitants of Dedan ; for I will bring the calamity 
of Esau upon him, the time that I Tisit Jbim.' That is the 
way, you know, an Arab tribe can do when hard pressed by 
an enemy, or in danger—' flee, turn back, and dwell deep'— 
they can go back into the depths of their wildernesses and 
waste places, where nobody can follow them but one that 
knows how, and that can live as they live." 

"The queen of Sheba brought gold, too," I said. 

" Ah, that was another Sheba, my little Tiny. That was 
the great kingdom established in the south and west of 
Arabia by the sons of Joktan the son of Eber. They overran 
the Cushites who had settled there — don't you remember ? — 
and established a great and powerful kingdom which was 
such for many hundred years. From Mecca on the western 
coast, down south and east and far inland. Sheba was the 
principal tribe among Joktan's sons, and gave name to the 
kingdom for a very long time; and from there came the 
famous queen who was so puzzled about Solomon. Ophir 
was another of Joktan's sons ; Havilah was another. You 
must not confound this great kingdom with the merchant 
tribe settled on the Persian gulf, or the Arab tribe, sons of 
Keturah, pasturing their camels on the borders of Syria." 

" I understand now," I said ; " but, uncle Sam, it is a little 
hard to remember all these names." 

" Till we get to know them," said uncle Sam. " There is 
an interest about the name of Shuah, from the fact that 
Job's friend Bildad was a Shuhite. Job himself, you know, 
was the greatest of all the men of the east. He lived in 
that 'east country.' Eliphaz was a Temanite. But the 
Midianites you must ieJI remember. We hear of them often 
enough." 

" I do," said lipL " I remember." 

" I don't much," said Priscilla. 




"You will, if we go on. The Midianites, in Bible language, 
meant just about the same thing that we mean when we speak 
of the Arabs. They were Arabians; they had the desert 
country lying north of the peninsula of Sinai ; and they even 
took their flocks down into the peninsula, when need was and 
they could find pasture there, so that it too was sometimes 
called the 4and of Midian.' The Midianites were the most 
powerful of the northern Arabian tribes ; so very naturally 
their name came to be taken (it is supposed) to stand for the 
whole northern Arabs generally, whether Ishmaelite or Ketu- 
rahite. Midian you may understand as meaning all the pos- 
sessors of the Egyptian and northern deserts— and those 
deserts would be the ' land of Midian.' And they were regular 
Bedouin. They lived as Bedouin Arabs do; mostly in tents ; 
though there was a city of Midian on the eastern shore of 
the Arabian gulf. From that point northwards and spread- 
ing east and west, was the real land of the Midianites. They 
roved about with their flocks and herds and camels without 
number, as the Bedouin do now ; they were warlike enough 
you know, if you recollect Bible history ; and they were just 
as fond of ornaments and wore them as abundantly as the 
Arab women do. That is, or was, Midian." 

" They plagued the Israelites very much, didn't they, uncle 
Sam, afterwards ? " 

"Very much; they fought them, oppressed them, and 
they led them into sin. It was a caravan of Midianite mer- 
chants that bought Joseph and sold him into Egypt. The 
sheikhs of the Midianites went with the Moabite messengers 
to persuade Balaam to come and curse Israel. Then the 
Midianites later led the Israelites into idolatry, through the 
enticements of Midianitish women, and brought a great 
plague upon the people. And in the time of Gideon they 
overran Israel for years together. They came up into the 
land when the harvests were ripe and swept it of everything; 
left the people nothing to live upon, neither ox nor ass nor 
sheep. For they came with the Amalekites and the children 
of the east generally to help them, and both they and their 
camels were without number, the Word says ; they made a 



 

dean sweep, quite across to Gaza, and deToured the land. 
For seven years Israel groaned under them." 

" If Isaac had known,' said liph, "how much znischief his 
brother Midian would do ! " 

" All the fault of the Israelites though, as you will see" 
said my uncle. 

" It seems so strange," I said, " that the Midianites should 
have been children of Abraham." 

"They dnd the Ishmaelites too," said my uncle. "The 
children of Keturah.and of Hagar inhabited those regions of 
the east country and the wilderness together ; and we may 
as well look at them together. Kedar and Tema were the 
most noted and oftenest named tribes of Ishmael towards 
the west. Up north-west of the peninsula of Sinai, up 
towards the boundaries of Palestine, their portion lay ; and 
there it remained for many a day; perhaps remains still 
On the borders of Syria there is a small town yet bearing the 
name of Teynia, and another not far off called Doomat-el- 
JendeL That is for Dumah, you see, another son of IshmaeL 
At both places there are remains of old fortresses ; both 
places were on the grand highway of the Damascus pilgrim 
caravan, and those fortresses were built for its protection. 
So there are two names of the sons of Ishmael still known 
'by their towns and by their castles,' or fortified places; and 
the others might be made out perhaps, if travellers had gone 
that way and given time and attention to the search. And 
near these two old places is the country of Keydr — that is 
the Kedar of the Bible. So you see how round the future 
land and territory of Israel their future enemies were already 
preparing. Kedar was a great tribe, and very likely under 
its name were included other less important tribes. Of the 
rest of Ishmael's sons we know very little ; but the whole 
western desert was covered with the black tents of Kedar." 

"How can you tell and be sure they were black, uncle 
Sam?" 

"The Bible says, in a certain place, 'I am black, but 
comely, O ye daughters of Jerusalem, as the tents of Kedar.' 
That is in the Song of Solomon." 


"I should not think they would be 'comely, " said Dan ; 
" not like our white tents." 

''Arab tents are, though. See them in the right place, 
with the light striking across them in a sunny desert, or 
touching them up in a mountain hollow— yes, they look well 
And we might almost know the tents of Kedar were of the 
same sort, if we were not told ; the Ishmaelites of the present 
day do so exactly what their fathers did, in every point that 
comes to our knowledge. Dr Eobinson noticed when he was 
in the desert, that several of the Arabs of his party, and 
others whom he saw with camels, carried a particular sort of 
stick or crook, about three feet long, with a crook to one 
end and the head brought down parallel with the stick and 
cut in a certain peculiar shape. Well, boys, the very same 
stick, the very same crook with its peculiar shape, is found 
represented on the walls of temples in the ruins of Thebes ; 
shown in the hands of figures cut in the rock. And Thebes 
was destroyed by Cambyses five hundred years before Christ; 
that is, between two and three thousand years ago ; and the 
Arabs carry the same stick still" 

" Things do not last so in our country," said Daniel 

"We are the children of Japheth,"d my unda "The 
tribes of Kedar and Tema were true Arabs in other things 
besides their tents of goat's hair. They were pastonil tribes, 
we know; keepers of flocks; for Ezekiel says they were 
merchants in the markets of Tjrre — Arabia and all the princes 
of Kedar — ' in lambs, and rams, and goats ; ' and Jeremiah 
speaks of their possessions and way of life in his threat of 
their overthrow: 'Arise ye, go up to Kedar, and spoU the 
men of the east. Their tents and their flocks shall they 
take away : they shall take to themselves their curtains, and 
all their vessels, and their camels.' Nebuchadrezzar was to 
do this. And there is another beautiful mention of Kedar. - 
Though they wandered about in tents, yet being so great and 
powerful a tribe they had also some settled towns or dwelling-places. Isaiah speaks of ' the glory of Kedar — the number of archers— the mighty men of tho children of Kedar.' 
And then, when he is foretelling the coming of Christ and 



 

His salvation — do you remember, mother — he breaks forth 
— ' Sing nnto the Lord a new song, and his praise from the 
end of the earth, ye that go down to the sea, and all that is 
therein ; the isles and the inhabitants thereof. Let the wilderness and the cities thereof lift up their voice, the villages 
that Kedar doth inhabit: let the inhabitants of the rock 
sing, let them shout from the top of the mountains. Let 
them give glory imto the Lord, and declare his praise in the 
islands.'" 

" But Kedar didn't," said L 

" Kedar will For in this glorious prophecy which tells 
us of the spread and increase of the Church in later times, 
Isaiah speaks of them by name. ' The abundance of the sea 
shaU be converted unto thee, the wealth of the Gentiles shall 
come unto thee. The multitude of camels shall cover thee, 
the dromedaries of Midian and Ephah ; all they from Sheba 
shall come ; they shall bring gold and incense ; and they 
shall show forth the praises of the Lord. All the flocks of 
Kedar shall be gathered together unto thee, the rams of 
Nabaioth shall minister unto thee : they shall come up with 
acceptance on mine altar, and I will glorify the house of my 
glory.'" 

"Midian, tool" said L 

" Ay, Midian, and Ephah whom we scarcely hear of, and 
Nebaioth whose descendants we hardly know. Men may 
not know them, but the Lord will gather them, even the 
wild sons of those wild people. Kedar from the western 
desert, and Sheba from the utmost borders of Arabia in the 
soutL ' Who are these that fly as a doud, and as the doves 
to their windows ? " 

" Abraham did not see any of the trouble among his sons, 
uncle Sam." 

" Not any. He sent Keturah's children away into the east 
country, where they would not, he thought, make any trouble 
for Isaac. Pe gave all he had unto Isaac; and then, 'in 
full age, like as a shock of com cometh in his season,' he 
died ; ' an old man and full of years ;' very glad, no doubt, 
to go to that country he had been looking for, and to 




receive in his own person that promise of eternal inheritance." 

" What does it mean, uncle Sam, that 'he was gathered to 
his fathers?" 

"Don't you know, Tinyl He went to join the company 
to which he belonged, of those who had gone before him
Don't you know ? — 

' One army of the living Grod, 

To Hia command we bow ; 
Part of the host have oross'd the flood, 
And part are crossing now. 

' E'en now by faith we join our hands 

With those that went before ; 
And greet the blood-besprinkled bands 
On the eternal shore.' " 

"So Abraham went. And then there was a wonderful 
funeral ; for they came to lay to rest the remains of the man 
who had been the 'friend of God.' Isaac, the heir of the 
promises, came from BeeMahai-roi ; and Ishmael, the elder 
brother, came from his wild life in the wilderuess ; and together the two very different sons of this man buried him in 
the cave of Machpelah, where Sarah had been laid nearly 
forty years before ; where, I suppose, their dust rests at this 
day. In that way, too. Tiny, Abraham was gathered to his 
people ; for there is an eternal procession of  dust to dust.' " 

" Is that all, uncle Sam ?' 

" There is not much more. It is very likely that the two 
brothers never met again after this time. Ishmael lived 
forty-eight years longer in the wilderness of Paran or the 
east country ; his twelve sons spread themselves ' from 
Havilah unto Shur ; ' settled along the country as far as the 
Persian Gulf ; mixing more or less with the Midianites and 
Moabites, and all the children of the east, growing powerful and strong, and fixing their wild character more and 
more. And Isaac fed his flocks in Gerar, and never had anything wild about him but his son Esau. Esau was a little 
