Aunt Rachel sank into a fit of deep despondency, and did not say another
word till dinner time. She sat down to the table with a profound sigh,
as if there was little in life worth living for. Notwithstanding this,
it was observed that she had a good appetite. Indeed, Rachel seemed to
thrive on her gloomy views of life and human nature. She was, it must
be acknowledged, perfectly consistent in all her conduct, as far as this
peculiarity was concerned. Whenever she took up a newspaper, she always
looked first to the space appropriated to deaths, and next in order to
the column of accidents, casualties, etc., and her spirits were visibly
exhilarated when she encountered a familiar name in either list.

Mr. Crump continued to look out for work, but it was with a more
cheerful spirit. He did not now feel as if the comfort of his family
depended absolutely upon his immediate success. Used economically, the
money he had by him would last nine months, and during that time it was
impossible that he should not find something to do. It was this sense
of security--of possessing something upon which he could fall back--that
enabled him to keep up good heart. It is too generally the case that
people are content to live as if they were sure of constantly retaining
their health and never losing their employment. When a reverse does come
they are at once plunged into discouragement, and feel that something
must be done immediately. There is only one way to fend off such an
embarrassment, and that is to resolve, whatever may be the amount of
the income, to lay aside some part to serve as a reliance in time of
trouble. A little economy--though it involves privation--will be well
repaid by the feeling of security thus engendered.

Mr. Crump was not compelled to remain inactive as long as he feared. Not
that his line of business revived,--that still remained depressed,--but
another path was opened to him for a time.

Returning home late one evening, the cooper saw a man steal out from
a doorway, and assault a gentleman whose dress and general appearance
indicated probable wealth. Seizing him by the throat, the villain
effectually prevented him from calling the police, and was engaged in
rifling his pockets when the cooper arrived at the scene. A sudden blow
on the side of the head admonished the robber that he had more than one
to deal with.

“Leave this man instantly,” said the cooper, sternly, “or I will deliver
you into the hands of the police.”

The villain hesitated, but fear prevailed, and springing to his feet, he
hastily made off under cover of the darkness.

“I hope you have received no injury,” said Timothy, respectfully,
turning towards the stranger he had rescued.

“No, my worthy friend, thanks to your timely assistance. The rascal
nearly succeeded, however.”

“I hope you have lost nothing, sir.”

“Nothing, fortunately. You can form an idea of the value of your
interference, when I say that I have fifteen hundred dollars with me,
all of which I should undoubtedly have lost.”

“I am glad,” said the cooper, “that I was able to do you such essential
service. It was by the merest chance that I came this way.”

“Will you add to my indebtedness by accompanying me with that trusty
club of yours? I have some little distance yet to go, and the amount
of money I have with me makes me feel desirous of taking every possible
precaution.”

“Willingly,” said the cooper.

“But I am forgetting,” said the gentleman, “that you yourself will be
obliged to return alone.”

“I do not carry enough money to make me fear an attack,” said Mr. Crump,
laughing. “Money brings care I have always heard, and now I realize it.”

“Yet most people are willing to take their chance of that,” said the
merchant.

“You are right, sir, nor can I call myself an exception. Still I should
be satisfied with the certainty of constant employment.”

“I hope you have that, at least.”

“I have had until recently.”

“Then, at present, you are unemployed?”

“Yes, sir.”

“What is your business?”

“That of a cooper.”

“I must see what I can do for you. Can you call at my office to-morrow,
say at twelve o’clock?”

“I shall be glad to do so, sir.”

“I believe I have a card with me. Yes, here is one. And this is my
house. Thank you for your company, my good friend. I shall see you
to-morrow.”

They stood before a handsome dwelling-house, from whose windows, draped
by heavy crimson curtains, a soft light proceeded. The cooper could hear
the ringing of childish voices welcoming home their father, whose
life, unknown to them, had been in such peril, and he could not but be
grateful to Providence that he had been the means of frustrating the
designs of the villain who would have robbed him, and perhaps done him
farther injury.

He determined to say nothing to his wife of the night’s adventure until
after his meeting appointed for the next day. Then if any advantage
accrued to him from it, he would tell the whole at once.

When he reached home, Mrs. Crump was sewing beside the fire. Aunt
Rachel sat with her hands folded in her lap, with an air of martyr-like
resignation to the woes of life.

“I’ve brought you home a paper, Aunt Rachel,” said the cooper,
cheerfully. “You may find something interesting in it.”

“I sha’n’t be able to read it this evening,” said Rachel, mournfully.
“My eyes have troubled me lately. I feel that it is more than probable
that I am growing blind. But I trust I shall not live to be a burden to
you. Your prospects are dark enough without that.”

“Don’t trouble yourself with any fears of that sort, Rachel,” said the
cooper, cheerily. “I think I know what will enable you to use your eyes
as well as ever.”

“What?” asked Rachel, with melancholy curiosity.

“A pair of spectacles,” said her brother, incautiously.

“Spectacles!” retorted Rachel, indignantly. “It will be a good many
years before I am old enough to wear spectacles. I didn’t expect to be
insulted by my own brother. But it’s one of my trials.”

“I didn’t mean to hurt your feelings, Rachel,” said the cooper,
perplexed.

“Good night,” said Rachel, rising and taking a small lamp from the
table.

“Come, Rachel, don’t go yet. It is early.”

“After what you have said to me, Timothy, my self-respect will not
permit me to stay.”

Rachel swept out of the room with something more than her customary
melancholy.

“I wish Rachel war’n’t quite so contrary,” said the cooper. “She turns
upon a body so sudden, it’s hard to know how to take her. How’s the
little girl, Mary?”

“She’s been asleep ever since six o’clock.”

“I hope you don’t find her very much trouble. That all comes upon you,
while we have the benefit of the money.”

“I don’t think of that, Timothy. She is a sweet child, and I love her
almost as much as if she were my own. As for Jack, he perfectly idolizes
her.”

“And how does Aunt Rachel look upon her?”

“I am afraid she will never be a favorite with Rachel.”

“Rachel never took to children much. It isn’t her way. Now, Mary, while
you are sewing, I will read you the news.”



CHAPTER VI. WHAT THE ENVELOPE CONTAINED.



THE card which had been handed to Timothy Crump contained the name
of Thomas Merriam,----Wall Street. Punctually at twelve, the cooper
reported himself at the counting-room, and received a cordial welcome
from the merchant.

“I am glad to see you,” he said. “I will come to business at once, as
I am particularly engaged this morning. Is there any way in which I can
serve you?”

“Not unless you can procure me a situation, sir.”

“I think you told me you were a cooper.”

“Yes sir.”

“Does this yield you a good support?”

“In good times it pays me two dollars a day. Lately it has been
depressed, and for a time paid me but a dollar and a half.”

“When do you anticipate its revival?”

“That is uncertain. It may be some months first.”

“And, in the mean time, you are willing to undertake some other
employment?”

“Yes, sir. I have no objection to any honest employment.”

Mr. Merriam reflected a moment.

“Just at present,” he said, “I have nothing to offer except the post of
porter. If that will suit you, you can enter upon the duties to-morrow.”

“I shall be very glad to take it, sir. Anything is better than
idleness.”

“Your compensation shall be the same that you have been accustomed to
earn by your trade,--two dollars a day.”

“I only received that in the best times,” said Timothy, conscientiously.

“Your services will be worth it. I will expect you, then, to-morrow
morning at eight. You are married, I suppose?”

“Yes, sir. I am blessed with a good wife.”

“I am glad of that. Stay a moment.”

The merchant went to his desk, and presently returned with a scaled
envelope.

“Give that to your wife,” he said.

The interview terminated, and the cooper went home, quite elated by his
success. His present engagement would enable him to bridge over the dull
time, and save him from incurring debt, of which he had a just horror.

“Just in time,” said Mrs. Crump. “We’ve got an apple-pudding to-day.”

“You haven’t forgotten what I like, Mary.”

“There’s no knowing how long you will be able to afford puddings,” said
Aunt Rachel. “To my mind it’s extravagant to have meat and pudding both,
when a month hence you may be in the poor-house.”

“Then,” said Jack, “I wouldn’t eat any.”

“Oh, if you grudge me the little I eat,” said his aunt, in severe
sorrow, “I will go without.”

“Tut, Rachel, nobody grudges you anything here,” said her brother, “and
as to the poor-house, I’ve got some good news to tell you that will put
that thought out of your heads.”

“What is it?” asked Mrs. Crump, looking up brightly.

“I have found employment.”

“Not at your trade?”

“No, but at something else, which will pay equally well, till trade
revives.”

Here he told the story of the chance by which he was enabled to serve
Mr. Merriam, and of the engagement to which it had led.

“You are, indeed, fortunate,” said Mrs. Crump. “Two dollars a day, and
we’ve got nearly the whole of the money that came with this dear child.
How rich we shall be!”

“Well, Rachel, where are your congratulations?” asked the cooper of his
sister, who, in subdued sorrow, was eating her second slice of pudding.

“I don’t see anything so very fortunate in being engaged as a porter,”
 said Rachel, lugubriously. “I heard of a porter, once, who had a great
box fall upon him and crush him; and another, who committed suicide.”

The cooper laughed.

“So, Rachel, you conclude that one or the other is the inevitable lot of
all who are engaged in this business.”

“It is always well to be prepared for the worst,” said Rachel,
oracularly.

“But not to be always looking for it,” said her brother.

“It’ll come, whether you look for it or not,” returned his sister,
sententiously.

“Then, suppose we spend no thoughts upon it, since, according to your
admission, it’s sure to come either way.”

Rachel pursued her knitting, in severe melancholy.

“Won’t you have another piece of pudding, Timothy?” asked Mrs. Crump.

“I don’t care if I do, Mary, it’s so good,” said the cooper, passing his
plate. “Seems to me it’s the best pudding you ever made.”

“You’ve got a good appetite, that is all,” said Mrs. Crump, modestly.

“By the way, Mary,” said the cooper, with a sudden thought, “I quite
forgot that I have something for you.”

“For me?”

“Yes, from Mr. Merriam.”

“But he don’t know me,” said Mrs. Crump, in surprise.

“At any rate, he asked me if I were married, and then handed me this
envelope for you. I am not quite sure whether I ought to allow gentlemen
to write letters to my wife.”

Mrs. Crump opened the envelope with considerable curiosity, and uttered
an exclamation of surprise, as a bank-note fluttered to the carpet.

“By gracious, mother,” said Jack, springing to get it, “you’re in luck.
It’s a hundred dollar bill.”

“So it is, I declare,” said Mrs. Crump, joyfully. “But, Timothy, it
isn’t mine. It belongs to you.”

“No, Mary, it shall be yours. I’ll put it in the Savings Bank for you.”

“Merriam’s a trump, and no mistake,” said Jack. “By the way, father,
when you see him again, won’t you just insinuate that you have a son?
Ain’t we in luck, Aunt Rachel?”

“‘Pride goes before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall,’”
 said Rachel.

“I never knew Aunt Rachel to be jolly but once,” said Jack, under his
breath; “and that was at a funeral.”



CHAPTER VII. EIGHT YEARS. IDA’S PROGRESS.



EIGHT years slipped by, unmarked by any important event. The Crumps were
still prosperous in an humble way. The cooper had been able to obtain
work most of the time, and this, with the annual remittance for little
Ida, had enabled the family not only to live in comfort, but even to
save up one hundred and fifty dollars a year. They might even have saved
more, living as frugally as they were accustomed to do, but there was
one point upon which none of them would consent to be economical. The
little Ida must have everything she wanted. Timothy brought home daily
some little delicacy for her, which none of the rest thought of sharing.
While Mrs. Crump, far enough from vanity, always dressed with exceeding
plainness, Ida’s attire was always rich and tasteful. She would
sometimes ask, “Mother, why don’t you buy yourself some of the pretty
things you get for me?”

Mrs. Crump would answer, smiling, “Oh, I’m an old woman, Ida. Plain
things are best for me.”

“No, I’m sure you’re not old, mother. You don’t wear a cap.”

But Mrs. Crump would always playfully evade the child’s questions.

Had Ida been an ordinary child, all this petting would have had an
injurious effect upon her mind. But, fortunately she had that rare
simplicity, young as she was, which lifted her above the dangers to
which many might have been subjected. Instead of being made vain, she
only felt grateful for the many kindnesses bestowed upon her by her
father and mother and brother Jack, as she was wont to call them.
Indeed, it had not been thought best to let her know that such was not
the relation in which they really stood to her.

There was one point, more important than dress, in which Ida profited by
the indulgence of her friends.

“Wife,” the cooper was wont to say, “Ida is a sacred charge in our
hands. If we allow her to grow up ignorant, or afford her only ordinary
advantages, we shall not fulfil our duty. We have the means, through
Providence, to give her some of those advantages which she would enjoy
if she remained in that sphere to which her parents, doubtless, belong.
Let no unwise parsimony, on our part, withhold them from her.”

“You are right, Timothy,” said Mrs. Crump; “right, as you always
are. Follow the dictates of your own heart, and fear not that I shall
disapprove.”

Accordingly Ida was, from the first, sent to a carefully-selected
private school, where she had the advantage of good associates, and
where her progress was astonishingly rapid.

She early displayed a remarkable taste for drawing. As soon as this was
discovered, her foster parents took care that she should have abundant
opportunity for cultivating it. A private master was secured, who gave
her daily lessons, and boasted everywhere of his charming little pupil,
whose progress, as he assured her friends, exceeded anything he had ever
before known.

Nothing could exceed the cooper’s gratification when, on his birthday,
Ida presented him with a beautifully-drawn sketch of his wife’s placid
and benevolent face.

“When did you do it, Ida?” he asked, after earnest expressions of
admiration.

“I did it in odd minutes,” she said; “in the evening.”

“But how could you do it without any one of us knowing what you were
about?”

“I had a picture before me, and you thought I was copying it, but
whenever I could do it without being noticed, I looked up at mother as
she sat at her sewing, and so, after awhile, I made this picture.”

“And a fine one it is,” said Timothy, admiringly.

Mrs. Crump insisted that Ida had flattered her, but this the child would
not admit. “I couldn’t make it look as good as you, mother,” she said.
“I tried to, but somehow I couldn’t succeed as well as I wanted to.”

“You wouldn’t have that difficulty with Aunt Rachel,” said Jack,
roguishly.

Ida, with difficulty, suppressed a laugh.

“I see,” said Aunt Rachel, with severe resignation, “that you’ve taken
to ridiculing your poor aunt again. But it’s what I expect. I don’t
never expect any consideration in this house. I was born to be a martyr,
and I expect I shall fulfil my destiny. If my own relations laugh at me,
of course I can’t expect anything better from other folks. But I sha’n’t
be long in the way. I’ve had a cough for some time past, and I expect
I’m in a consumption.”

“You make too much of a little thing, Rachel,” said the cooper. “I don’t
think Jack meant anything.”

“I’m sure, what I said was complimentary,” said Jack.

Rachel shook her head incredulously.

“Yes it was. Ask Ida. Why won’t you draw Aunt Rachel, Ida? I think she’d
make a capital picture.”

“So I will,” said Ida, hesitatingly, “if she will let me.”

“Now, Aunt Rachel, there’s a chance for you,” said Jack. “I advise you
to improve it. When it’s finished, it can be hung up at the Art Rooms,
and who knows but you may secure a husband by it?”

“I wouldn’t marry,” said his aunt, firmly compressing her lips, “not if
anybody’d go down on their knees to me.”

“Now I am sure, Aunt Rachel, that’s cruel in you.”

“There ain’t any man that I’d trust my happiness to.”

“She hasn’t any to trust,” observed Jack, sotto voce.

“They’re all deceivers,” pursued Rachel, “the best of ‘em. You can’t
believe what one of ‘em says. It would be a great deal better if people
never married at all.”

“Then where would the world be a hundred years hence?” suggested her
nephew.

“Come to an end, most likely,” said Aunt Rachel; “and I don’t know but
that would be the best thing. It’s growing more and more wicked every
day.”

It will be seen that no great change has come over Miss Rachel Crump
during the years that have intervened. She takes the same disheartening
view of human nature and the world’s prospects, as ever. Nevertheless,
her own hold upon the world seems as strong as ever. Her appetite
continues remarkably good, and although she frequently expresses herself
to the effect that there is little use in living, probably she would be
as unwilling to leave the world as any one. I am not sure that she does
not derive as much enjoyment from her melancholy as other people from
their cheerfulness. Unfortunately, her peculiar way of enjoying herself
is calculated to have rather a depressing influence upon the spirits of
those with whom she comes in contact--always excepting Jack, who has a
lively sense of the ludicrous, and never enjoys himself better than in
bantering his aunt.

Ida is no less a favorite with Jack than with the other members of the
household. Rough as he is sometimes, Jack is always gentle with Ida.
When she was just learning to walk, and in her helplessness needed the
constant care of others, he used, from choice, to relieve his mother of
much of the task of amusing the child. He had never had a little sister,
and the care of a child as young as Ida was a novelty to him. It was,
perhaps, this very office of guardian to the child, assumed when she was
so young, that made him feel ever after as if she was placed under his
special protection.

And Ida was equally attached to Jack. She learned to look up to him for
assistance in anything which she had at heart, and he never disappointed
her. Whenever he could, he would accompany her to school, holding her by
the hand; and fond as he was of rough play, nothing would induce him to
leave her.

“How long have you been a nurse-maid?” asked a boy, older than himself,
one day.

Jack’s fingers itched to get hold of his derisive questioner, but he had
a duty to perform, and contented himself with saying, “Just wait a few
minutes, and I’ll let you know.”

“I dare say,” was the reply. “I rather think I shall have to wait till
both of us are gray before that time.”

“You won’t have to wait long before you are black and blue,” retorted
Jack.

“Don’t mind what he says, Jack,” whispered Ida, fearful lest he should
leave her.

“Don’t be afraid, Ida; I won’t leave you; I guess he won’t trouble us
another day.”

Meanwhile the boy, emboldened by Jack’s passiveness, followed, with more
abuse of the same sort. If he had been wiser, he would have seen a storm
gathering in the flash of Jack’s eye; but he mistook the cause of his
forbearance.

The next day, as they were again going to school, Ida saw the same boy
dodging round the corner, with his head bound up.

“What’s the matter with him, Jack?” she asked.

“I licked him like blazes, that’s all,” said Jack, quietly.

“I guess he’ll let us alone after this.”



CHAPTER VIII. A STRANGE VISITOR.



IT was about eleven o’clock in the forenoon, Mrs. Crump was in the
kitchen, busy in preparations for dinner, when a loud knock was heard at
the door.

“Who can it be?” ejaculated Mrs. Crump. “Aunt Rachel, there’s somebody
at the door; won’t you be kind enough to see who it is?”

“People have no business to call at such an hour in the morning,”
 grumbled Aunt Rachel, as she laid down her knitting reluctantly, and
rose from her seat. “Nobody seems to have any consideration for anybody
else. But that’s the way of the world.”

Opening the outer door, she saw before her a tall woman, dressed in
a gown of some dark stuff, with marked, and not altogether pleasant
features.

“Are you the lady of the house?” inquired the visitor.

“There ain’t any ladies in this house,” said Rachel. “You’ve come to the
wrong place. We have to work for a living here.”

“The woman of the house, then. It doesn’t make any difference about
names. Are you the one I want to see?”

“No, I ain’t,” said Rachel, shortly.

“Will you lead me to your mistress, then?”

“I have none.”

The visitor’s eyes flashed, as if her temper was easily roused.

“I want to see Mrs. Crump,” she said, impatiently. “Will you call her, or
shall I go and announce myself?”

“Some folks are mighty impatient,” muttered Rachel. “Stay here, and I’ll
call her to the door.”

In a short time Mrs. Crump presented herself.

“Won’t you come in?” she asked, pleasantly.

“I don’t care if I do,” was the reply. “I wish to speak to you on
important business.”

Mrs. Crump, whose interest was excited, led the way into the
sitting-room.

“You have in your family,” said the stranger, after seating herself, “a
girl named Ida.”

Mrs. Crump looked up suddenly and anxiously. Could it be that the secret
of Ida’s birth was to be revealed at last!

“Yes,” she said.

“Who is not your child.”

“But whom I love as such; whom I have always taught to look upon me as
a mother.”

“I presume so. It is of her that I wish to speak to you.”

“Do you know anything of her parentage?” inquired Mrs. Crump, eagerly.

“I was her nurse,” said the other, quietly.

Mrs. Crump examined, anxiously, the hard features of the woman. It was
a relief at least to know, though she could hardly have believed, that
there was no tie of blood between her and Ida.

“Who were her parents?”

“I am not permitted to tell,” was the reply.

Mrs. Crump looked disappointed.

“Surely,” she said, with a sudden sinking of heart, “you have not come
to take her away?”

“This letter will explain my object in visiting you,” said the woman,
drawing a sealed envelope from a bag which she carried on her arm.

The cooper’s wife nervously broke open the letter, and read as
follows:--

“MRS. CRUMP;

“Eight years ago last New Year’s night, a child was left on your
door-steps, with a note containing a request that you would care for
it kindly as your own. Money was sent, at the same time, to defray the
expenses of such care. The writer of this note is the mother of the
child Ida. There is no need to say, here, why I sent the child away
from me. You will easily understand that only the most imperative
circumstances would have led me to such a step. Those circumstances
still prevent me from reclaiming the child, and I am content, still, to
leave Ida in your charge. Yet, there is one thing of which I am
desirous. You will understand a mother’s desire to see, face to face,
the child who belongs, of right, to her. With this view, I have come to
this neighborhood. I will not say where, for concealment is necessary
to me. I send this note by a trustworthy attendant,--Mrs. Hardwick,
my little Ida’s nurse in her infancy,--who will conduct Ida to me, and
return her again to you. Ida is not to know whom she is visiting. No
doubt she believes you her mother, and it is well. Tell her only, that
it is a lady who takes an interest in her, and that will satisfy her
childish curiosity. I make this request as

“IDA’S MOTHER.”

Mrs. Crump read this letter with mingled feelings. Pity for the writer;
a vague curiosity in regard to the mysterious circumstances which had
compelled her to resort to such a step; a half feeling of jealousy,
that there should be one who had a claim to her dear adopted daughter
superior to her own; and a strong feeling of relief at the assurance
that Ida was not to be permanently removed,--all these feelings affected
the cooper’s wife.

“So you were Ida’s nurse,” she said, gently.

“Yes, ma’am,” said the stranger. “I hope the dear child is well.”

“Perfectly well. How much her mother must have suffered from the
separation!”

“Indeed, you may say so, ma’am. It came near to break her heart.”

“So it must,” said sympathizing Mrs. Crump. “There is one thing I would
like to ask,” she continued, hesitating and reddening. “Don’t answer it
unless you please. Was--is Ida the child of shame?”

“She is not,” answered the nurse.

Mrs. Crump looked relieved. It removed a thought from her mind which
would now and then intrude, though it had never, for an instant,
lessened her affection for the child.

At this point in the conversation, the cooper entered the house. He had
just come home on an errand.

“It is my husband,” said Mrs. Crump, turning to her visitor, by way of
explanation. “Timothy, will you come in a moment?”

Mr. Crump regarded his wife’s visitor with some surprise. His wife
hastened to introduce her as Mrs. Hardwick, Ida’s nurse, and handed to
the astonished cooper the letter which the latter had brought with her.

He was not a rapid reader, and it took him some time to get through the
letter. He laid it down on his knee, and looked thoughtful. The nurse
regarded him with a slight uneasiness.

“This is, indeed, unexpected,” he said, at last. “It is a new
development in Ida’s history. May I ask, Mrs. Hardwick, if you have
any further proof. I want to be prudent with a child that I love as my
own,--if you have any further proof that you are what you claim to be?”

“I judged that this letter would be sufficient,” said the nurse; moving
a little in her chair.

“True; but how can we be sure that the writer is Ida’s mother?”

“The tone of the letter, sir. Would anybody else write like that?”

“Then you have read the letter?” said the cooper, quickly.

“It was read to me, before I set out.”

“By----”

“By Ida’s mother. I do not blame you for your caution,” she continued.
“You must be so interested in the happiness of the dear child of whom
you have taken such (sic) excelent care, I don’t mind telling you that I
was the one who left her at your door eight years ago, and that I never
left the neighborhood until I found that you had taken her in.”

“And it was this, that enabled you to find the house, to-day.”

“You forget,” said the nurse, “that you were not then living in this
house, but in another, some rods off, on the left-hand side of the
street.”

“You are right,” said the cooper. “I am disposed to believe in the
genuineness of your claim. You must pardon my testing you in such a
manner, but I was not willing to yield up Ida, even for a little time,
without feeling confident of the hands she was falling into.”

“You are right,” said the nurse. “I don’t blame you in the least. I
shall report it to Ida’s mother, as a proof of your attachment to your
child.”

“When do you wish Ida to go with you?” asked Mrs. Crump.

“Can you let her go this afternoon?”

“Why,” said Mrs. Crump, hesitating, “I should like to have a chance to
wash out some clothes for her. I want her to appear as neat a possible,
when she meets her mother.”

The nurse hesitated.

“I do not wish to hurry you. If you will let me know when she will be
ready, I will call for her.”

“I think I can get her ready early to-morrow morning.”

“That will answer excellently. I will call for her then.”

The nurse rose, and gathered her shawl about her.

“Where are you going, Mrs. Hardwick?” asked the cooper’s wife.

“To a hotel,” was the reply.

“We cannot allow that,” said Mrs. Crump, kindly. “It is a pity if we
cannot accommodate Ida’s old nurse for one night, or ten times as long,
for that matter.”

“My wife is quite right,” said the cooper; “we must insist upon your
stopping with us.”

The nurse hesitated, and looked irresolute. It was plain she would have
preferred to be elsewhere, but a remark which Mrs. Crump made, decided
her to accept the invitation.

It was this. “You know, Mrs. Hardwick, if Ida is to go with you, she
ought to have a little chance to get acquainted with you before you go.”

“I will accept your kind invitation,” she said; “but I am afraid I shall
be in your way.”

“Not in the least. It will be a pleasure to us to have you here. If you
will excuse me now, I will go out and attend to my dinner, which I am
afraid is getting behindhand.”

Left to herself, the nurse behaved in a manner which might be regarded
as singular. She rose from her seat, and approached the mirror. She took
a full survey of herself as she stood there, and laughed a short, hard
laugh.

Then she made a formal courtesy to her own reflection, saying, “How do
you do, Mrs. Hardwick?”

“Did you speak?” asked the cooper, who was passing through the entry on
his way out.

“No,” said the nurse, a little awkwardly. “I believe I said something to
myself. It’s of no consequence.”

“Somehow,” thought the cooper, “I don’t fancy the woman’s looks, but I
dare say I am prejudiced. We’re all of us as God made us.”

While Mrs. Crump was making preparations for the noon-day meal, she
imparted to Rachel the astonishing information, which has already been
detailed to the reader.

“I don’t believe a word of it,” said Rachel, resolutely.

“She’s an imposter. I knew she was the very first moment I set eyes on
her.”

This remark was so characteristic of Rachel, that Mrs. Crump did not
attach any special importance to it. Rachel, of course, had no grounds
for the opinion she so confidently expressed. It was consistent,
however, with her general estimate of human nature.

“What object could she have in inventing such a story?”

“What object? Hundreds of ‘em,” said Rachel, rather indefinitely. “Mark
my words, if you let her carry off Ida, it’ll be the last you’ll ever
see of her.”

“Try to look on the bright side, Rachel. Nothing is more natural than
that her mother should want to see her.”

“Why couldn’t she come herself?” muttered Rachel.

“The letter explains.”

“I don’t see that it does.”

“It says that the same reasons exist for concealment as ever.”

“And what are they, I should like to know? I don’t like mysteries, for
my part.”

“We won’t quarrel with them, at any rate, since they enable us to keep
Ida with us.”

Aunt Rachel shook her head, as if she were far from satisfied.

“I don’t know,” said Mrs. Crump, “but I ought to invite Mrs. Hardwick in
here. I have left her alone in the front room.”

“I don’t want to see her,” said Aunt Rachel. Then changing her mind,
suddenly, “Yes, you may bring her in. I’ll find out whether she is an
imposter or not.”

Mrs. Crump returned with the nurse. “Mrs. Hardwick,” said she, “this is
my sister, Miss Rachel Crump.”

“I am glad to make your acquaintance, ma’am,” said the nurse.

“Aunt Rachel, I will leave you to entertain Mrs. Hardwick,” said Mrs.
Crump. “I am obliged to be in the kitchen.”

Rachel and the nurse eyed each other with mutual dislike.

“I hope you don’t expect me to entertain you,” said Rachel. “I never
expect to entertain anybody again. This is a world of trial and
tribulation, and I’ve had my share. So you’ve come after Ida, I hear?”
 with a sudden change of subject.

“At her mother’s request,” said the nurse.

“She wants to see her, then?”

“Yes, ma’am.”

“I wonder she didn’t think of it before,” said Aunt Rachel, sharply.
“She’s good at waiting. She’s waited eight years.”

“There are circumstances that cannot be explained,” commenced the nurse.

“No, I dare say not,” said Rachel, dryly. “So you were her nurse?”

“Yes, ma’am,” said Mrs. Hardwick, who evidently did not relish this
cross-examination.

“Have you lived with the mother ever since?”

“No,--yes,” stammered the nurse. “Some of the time,” she added,
recovering herself.

“Umph!” grunted Rachel, darting a sharp glance at her.

“Have you a husband living?” inquired Rachel, after a pause.

“Yes,” said Mrs. Hardwick. “Have you?”

“I!” repeated Aunt Rachel, scornfully. “No, neither living nor dead. I’m
thankful to say I never married. I’ve had trials enough without that.
Does Ida’s mother live in the city?”

“I can’t tell you,” said the nurse.

“Humph, I don’t like mystery.”

“It isn’t my mystery,” said the nurse. “If you have any objection to
make against it, you must make it to Ida’s mother.”

The two were not likely to get along very amicably. Neither was gifted
with the best of tempers, and perhaps it was as well that there should
have been an interruption as there was.



CHAPTER IX. A JOURNEY.



“OH, mother,” exclaimed Ida, bounding into the room, fresh from school.

She stopped short, in some confusion, on seeing a stranger.

“Is this my own dear child, over whose infancy I watched so tenderly?”
 exclaimed the nurse, rising, her harsh features wreathed into a smile.

“It is Ida,” said Mrs. Crump.

Ida looked from one to the other in silent bewilderment.

“Ida,” said Mrs. Crump, in a little embarrassment, “this is Mrs.
Hardwick, who took care of you when you were an infant.”

“But I thought you took care of me, mother,” said Ida, in surprise.

“Very true,” said Mrs. Crump, evasively, “but I was not able to have the
care of you all the time. Didn’t I ever mention Mrs. Hardwick to you?”

“No, mother.”

“Although it is so long since I have seen her, I should have known her
anywhere,” said the nurse, applying a handkerchief to her eyes. “So
pretty as she’s grown up, too!”

Mrs. Crump, who, as has been said, was devotedly attached to Ida,
glanced with pride at the beautiful child, who blushed at the
compliment.

“Ida,” said Mrs. Hardwick, “won’t you come and kiss your old nurse?”

Ida looked at the hard face, which now wore a smile intended to express
affection. Without knowing why, she felt an instinctive repugnance to
her, notwithstanding her words of endearment.

She advanced timidly, with a reluctance which she was not wholly able to
conceal, and passively submitted to a caress from the nurse.

There was a look in the eyes of the nurse, carefully guarded, yet not
wholly concealed, which showed that she was quite aware of Ida’s feeling
towards her, and resented it. But whether or not she was playing a part,
she did not betray this feeling openly, but pressed the unwilling child
more closely to her bosom.

Ida breathed a sigh of relief when she was released, and walked quietly
away, wondering what it was that made her dislike the woman so much.

“Is my nurse a good woman?” she asked, thoughtfully, when alone with
Mrs. Crump, who was setting the table for dinner.

“A good woman! What makes you ask that?” queried her adopted mother, in
surprise.

“I don’t know,” said Ida.

“I don’t know anything to indicate that she is otherwise,” said Mrs.
Crump. “And, by the way, Ida, she is going to take you on a little
excursion, to-morrow.”

“She going to take me?” exclaimed Ida. “Why, where are we going?”

“On a little pleasure trip, and perhaps she may introduce you to a
pleasant lady, who has already become interested in you, from what she
has told her.”

“What could she say of me?” inquired Ida, “she has not seen me since I
was a baby.”

“Why,” said the cooper’s wife a little puzzled, “she appears to have
thought of you ever since, with a good deal of affection.”

“Is it wicked,” asked Ida, after a pause, “not to like those that like
us?”

“What makes you ask?”

“Because, somehow or other, I don’t like this Mrs. Hardwick at all, for
all she was my old nurse, and I don’t believe ever shall.”

“Oh yes, you will,” said Mrs. Crump, “when you find she is exerting
herself to give you pleasure.”

“Am I going to-morrow morning with Mrs. Hardwick?”

“Yes. She wanted you to go to-day, but your clothes were not in order.”

“We shall come back at night, sha’n’t we?”

“I presume so.”

“I hope we shall,” said Ida, decidedly, “and that she won’t want me to
go with her again.”

“Perhaps you will think differently when it is over, and you find you
have enjoyed yourself better than you anticipated.”

Mrs. Crump exerted herself to fit Ida up as neatly as possible, and when
at length she was got ready, she thought to herself, with sudden fear,
“Perhaps her mother won’t be willing to part with her again.”

When Ida was ready to start, there came over all a little shadow of
depression, as if the child were to be separated from them for a year,
and not for a day only. Perhaps this was only natural, since even this
latter term, however brief, was longer than they had been parted from
her since, an infant, she was left at their door.

The nurse expressly desired that none of the family should accompany
