last.
Was this the explanation of his new-born courage? It was a terrible
alternative, but Fanny was forced to believe that what he said was
true.
"Is there no escape for us?"
"Don'no; whar's the Injins now?"
"I don't hear them," replied Fanny.
"Nuther do I. We must stay here jest as long as we kin."
"But the barn is on fire! If we are going to get out at all, we must do
so at once."
"Don't hurry. The fire's all out to t'other end o' the barn. It won't
hurt us jest yit," said Ethan, with wonderful coolness. "I s'pose the
Injins is in a hurry, and they won't stop no longer'n they want to.
Jest as soon as they move off we'll git out."
"How shall we get out after the barn is all in a blaze?"
"That's easy enough. I ain't a bit afeered of the fire, but I am pesky
skeered of the Injins."
The confidence of Ethan increased the courage of Fanny. She had more to
dread from the Indians than he had, and if he preferred to die by the
flames, she ought to be willing to share his fate. She commended her
soul and that of her companion to God, and tried to be calm and
resolute, and she succeeded to an extent which astonished herself.
The fire was rapidly leaping upward, and the barn was soon enveloped in
flames. The Indians could not now be seen through the cracks, nor could
their voices be heard, and the fire-besieged fugitives supposed they
had gone to new fields of blood and rapine.
"We can't stand it much longer--kin we?" said Ethan, as they heard the
crash of some falling timbers at the other end of the building.
"We are not burned yet, but I am nearly suffocated by the smoke,"
replied Fanny. "Do you suppose the Indians are gone?"
"I reckon they be; but they hain't gone fur yit," added Ethan, as he
applied his shoulder to one of the boards on the side of the barn.
"Let me help you," said Fanny.
"You ain't nothin' but a gal, and you can't do much," replied Ethan.
He was a stout boy, and the board, only slightly nailed, gave way
before the pressure he applied to it; but it required a great deal of
labor to detach it from the timbers above and below. He had not begun
this work a moment too soon, for the flames were sweeping over the
surface of the mow, and the roof was falling in upon them. The barn was
stored full of new hay, which, being partially green, did not burn very
readily, especially the solid masses of it. The heat was intense, and
nothing but a greater peril without could have forced them to remain so
long in the building.
The first board was removed, and then a second, leaving an opening wide
enough for them to get out. They were about fifteen feet above the
level of the ground, but there was no difficulty, even to Fanny, in the
descent, though some young ladies might have regarded this minor
obstacle as one of some importance. Ethan thrust his head out at the
aperture, and looked in every direction his position commanded a view
of, in search of the Indians, but none of them were in sight.
"Be quick, Ethan, or the fire will be upon us," said Fanny, who began
to feel the near approach of the flames above her.
"Where shall we go when we get out? We must understand matters a leetle
grain aforehand."
"I think we had better go down to the lake. We can take the boat and go
over to the island."
"That's fust rate," replied Ethan, with enthusiasm. "The Injins hain't
got no boats, and can't foller us. Now we'll go down; but be keerful.
It would be miser'ble to break your neck here, arter gittin' clear of
the fire and the Injins both."
Ethan descended, holding on at each side of the aperture with his
hands, and thrusting his feet into the solid mass of hay in the mow.
Fanny, adopting the same method, also reached the ground in safety.
"'Sh!" said Ethan, as he took her arm. "Run for them bushes!" and he
pointed to a little thicket near the barn.
Fanny ran with all her speed to the bushes, and concealed herself
behind them. She was immediately followed by Ethan. The barn was now
nearly consumed; the portion of the roof which had not before fallen
in, now sunk down with a crash upon the masses of burning hay. The lake
was beyond the house, which they were obliged to pass in order to reach
their destination.
"I s'pose the sooner we start, the sooner we'll git there," said Ethan,
after he had carefully surveyed the ground to ascertain if any savages
were near.
"I am ready, Ethan. I will do whatever you say."
"We'll go now, then. Foller me, Fanny."
Ethan led the way, but they had hardly emerged from the bushes before
they were appalled to find that they were discovered by their savage
foes.
"Ho, ho, ho!" yelled the Indians from behind them.
It appeared that Lean Bear and his companions had waited in the
vicinity until the burning barn was so far consumed that it was not
deemed possible for a human being to remain concealed in it, and then
moved off towards another part of the settlement. With watchful eyes
behind as well as before them, they had discovered the young fugitives
when they left the clump of bushes.
"Ho, ho, ho!" shouted the painted wretches, as they gave chase to Fanny
and Ethan.
"Run for the house!" cried Ethan.
"Why not for the lake?" asked Fanny, in an agony of despair.
"They'll ketch you afore you git half way there. Run for the house!"
They were both running with all their might; and Fanny, though against
her judgment, directed her steps to the house. As they approached the
back door, an Indian boy and a squaw came out of the building, where
they had probably been searching for such valuables as might have
escaped the hasty observation of the party who had sacked the premises.
The boy was apparently about ten years old, and the woman appeared to
be his mother.
Fanny, not suspecting any harm from a woman and so young a boy, still
ran towards the door, being in advance of Ethan, who was chivalrous
enough to place himself in position to cover the retreat of his
companion in case of need. To the surprise of Fanny, the squaw placed
herself in her path, and attempted to seize her, uttering yells hardly
less savage than those of her male companions. The terrified girl
paused in her rapid flight till Ethan came up. The resolute fellow had
already picked up a heavy cart stake, and when he saw the new and
unexpected peril which menaced Fanny, he rushed forward, and though the
squaw drew a long knife and stood her ground, he dealt her a heavy blow
on the head, which felled her to the ground.
"Run into the house as fast as you kin, Fanny," said Ethan.
She obeyed, and, in doing so, passed the scalped and mutilated form of
her aunt, which lay near the door. The sight made her sick at heart,
and she had almost fainted under the horror induced by a single glance
at the ghastly spectacle. Such might, and probably would be her own
fate, for it was hoping against hope to expect any other issue.
She reached the door, and clung to the post for support. Then she saw
that Ethan, instead of following her, was pursuing the Indian boy. It
was but a short chase, for he immediately overtook the youth, and in
spite of his yells, dragged him into the house with him. Ethan seemed
then to have a savage spirit, for he handled the boy without mercy,
dragging him by the hair of the head, and kicking him to accelerate his
movements.
The capture of the young Indian had been witnessed by the whole of the
pursuing party, who yelled with renewed vigor when they saw him borne
into the house. When they reached the place where the squaw had fallen,
they paused. The tall form of Lean Bear was seen bending over her, and
it was plain that there was confusion in the counsels of the savages.
"Hold this boy, Fanny," said Ethan, out of breath with the violence of
his exertions, as he took from the belt of the little prisoner a small
scalping-knife, and offered it to Fanny. "Don't let him go, no-how;
stick him ef he don't keep still."
"I can hold him; I don't want the knife," replied she, as she grasped
the boy by the arms, bending them back behind him.
Taking her handkerchief, she tied his arms behind him, so that he was
powerless to do her any mischief. She then cut off a portion of the
clothes line, which hung up in the kitchen, and tied his feet together.
In this condition, he was secured to a door. The boy looked cool and
savage; he did not cry, and ceased to struggle only when the bonds
prevented him from doing so.
"Now we are ready for sunthin'," said Ethan, as he appeared with two
guns and a revolver, which he had taken from their place of concealment
behind the oven.
CHAPTER XV.
THE CONFERENCE.
Mr. Grant, like all settlers and backwoodsmen, had a profound respect
and veneration for his weapons. They were absolutely necessary for
purposes of defence in a new country, and upon their skilful use often
depended the supplies in the family larder. More coveted than any other
property by the Indians, trappers and strollers of the prairies, he was
obliged to secure them carefully, so that they should not be stolen;
and Mr. Grant, in building his house, had provided the place behind the
oven for their reception.
One of the guns was a fowling-piece, and the other a rifle. The
appropriate ammunition for each was kept in the secret closet with the
weapon. For the revolver there was a plentiful supply of patent
cartridges. Mr. Grant owned two of these arms, but the other he had
taken with him.
Like all western boys, Ethan French was accustomed to the use of the
rifle and the fowling-piece, though he had never particularly
distinguished himself as a marksman. It was a bold idea on his part to
think of defending Fanny and himself from the attacks of the savages;
but, desperate as was the thought, it was his only hope, for the
Indians were murdering all who fell into their hands. There was a
slight chance for him, which he was disposed to improve.
Ethan evidently had some other purpose in view than that of merely
defending himself and his companion from the savages--a purpose
indicated by his capture of the Indian boy, though he had not had time
to explain it to Fanny. He was firm and resolute, exhibiting a courage
which no one would have supposed he possessed; indeed, we can hardly
know what is in any person until he is tried in the fiery furnace.
Fanny, too, had ceased to tremble. The firmness and determination of
Ethan had inspired her with courage, and without stopping to consider
the odds against him, she ventured to hope that his efforts would be
crowned with some measure of success. The occupation of the last few
moments was calculated to increase her courage, for "something to do"
is always the best antidote for fear. She had bound the young savage,
and secured him to the door, when Ethan appeared with the weapons; and
now she anxiously waited the development of his next movement.
"What are you going to do, Ethan?" she asked, as her companion walked
to the door.
"I don't know jest exactly what I'm go'n to do; but I'm go'n to do
sunthin', as sure as you're alive. I reckon I've done sunthin' already,
for them Injins hes come to a dead halt."
"Can you see them?"
"Yes, I kin. They look kinder anxious."
The group of savages had gathered around the prostrate form of the
squaw. She could not have been killed, or even very badly injured, by
the blow she had received. Two of the party appeared to be at work over
her, while the others, among whom Lean Bear was prominent, were holding
a consultation near the spot.
"I reckon I got 'em whar the har 's short," added Ethan, with something
like a chuckle at his own cleverness.
"What do you mean, Ethan?" asked Fanny, not yet able to comprehend the
situation.
"D'ye see that little Injin?" replied he, pointing at the prisoner.
"Yes; and I wondered what you dragged him into the house for."
"Don't you see his fine fixin's--his necklaces and his moccasons? I
reckon that boy belongs to the big Injin."
"You mean Lean Bear."
"Yes, if that's his name. He looks enough like him to be his son.
Gittin' him 's what made 'em stop short jist whar they was. I tell you
we've got 'em whar the har 's short."
"What are you going to do with him?"
"Don't ye see?" replied Ethan, as he finished loading the last of the
weapons. "I'm go'n to shoot some of them Injins; and ef they don't keep
off I'm go'n to shoot the boy."
"You wouldn't do that, Ethan."
"You bet!" replied he, firmly, using more western slang than was
necessary, though he was dependent upon such expressions for the force
of his language.
"But it would be wicked to kill the poor boy."
"What's them Injins doin' to all the white folks?"
"That is no reason why you should kill a harmless boy."
"I don't want to kill him; it would make me feel bad to do any sech
thing. Ef any of them Injins come near us, I'm go'n to show 'em what I
kin do. Keep still now; one on 'em is comin' up this way."
Ethan placed himself at one of the open windows, and cocked the rifle.
One of the party was moving towards the house, apparently sent thither
by Lean Bear, who appeared suddenly to have become very quiet and
harmless.
"See hyer, Fanny," said Ethan, still keeping his eye fixed on the
approaching foe.
"What shall I do?" asked Fanny.
"Did you tie that little Injin's hands strong?"
"As well as I could with my handkerchief."
"Better do it better with the clothes line. Then undo his feet, and put
a rope round his neck."
"Around his neck!" exclaimed Fanny, horrified at the suggestion.
"Jest to lead him by. We may want to quit this house reyther suddin."
Fanny obeyed, satisfied that Ethan did not intend to hang the boy. The
Indian, approaching the house, moved very slowly and cautiously,
frequently stopping, and examining the house with great care. Ethan was
on one of his knees, pointing the rifle at the single Indian, resting
it on the sill of the window. When Lean Bear's messenger saw him, he
came to a halt, and began to make earnest gestures, pointing to his
belt, and throwing out his arms to indicate that he had no weapons.
"What does that creetur want?" mused Ethan.
"He wants to talk with you," replied Fanny, correctly interpreting his
gestures.
"I can't talk Injin--kin you?"
"No; but some of the Indians talk English."
"What ye want?" shouted Ethan, satisfied that the man's intentions were
peaceful.
"Talk! talk!" replied the messenger.
"Kim along, then," replied Ethan. "That's jest what I want, too," he
added, to Fanny. "I want to tell them Injins that this hyer boy will
ketch fits if they don't let us be."
The Indian, still gesticulating, continued to approach the house with
cautious step. Ethan put aside the rifle, and took the revolver, which
he was careful that the messenger should see.
"Stop thyer!" said he, when the Indian had come within twenty feet of
the house; and, at the same time, he elevated his pistol to enforce
obedience to his order.
"Me talk," said the messenger.
"Well! what ye got to say?" asked Ethan.
"You got Wahena--little Wahena."
"Yes, sir!" replied Ethan, with emphasis. "I've got him, and I mean to
keep him."
"No keep! We want Wahena," continued the messenger.
"No git him," added Ethan, who was inclined to be facetious at times,
especially when the advantage was on his side.
"Lean Bear's son. Big Lean Bear--little Wahena."
"You can't hev him, nohow," said Ethan, decidedly.
"Me get Wahena--you go 'way--no kill, no hurt."
"You can't fool me."
"No kill, no hurt."
"No, yer don't!"
"Give Wahena--no kill, no hurt," repeated the messenger, impressively.
"You git out!"
"No give Wahena, Lean Bear kill!"
"Two kin play at that game," added Ethan, shaking his head. "Ef you
don't quit, I'll kill the boy."
"No kill Wahena!" cried the savage, evidently horrified at the threat.
"Yes, I will, old boy, ef you don't all go off, and quit right away. I
know what's what, 'n you can't fool me, nohow."
"Why not give up the boy, if they will let us go?" asked Fanny.
"You can't trust one o' them Injin creeturs no more'n you kin trust a
rattlesnake, nohow. Jest fetch the boy here, and I'll show 'em what I
mean."
Fanny had fastened Wahena's hands more securely behind him, and
attached one end of the line to his neck. She had removed the cord from
his ankles, so that he could walk, while by the rope at his neck he
could be kept under perfect control. Ethan took the line, and led the
boy out at the door, where he was placed in full view of the savages.
His captor still held the leaded pistol in his hand.
"No kill Wahena!" shouted the messenger, fiercely.
"I won't hurt him ef you all go off--go 'way--clear out--quit the
ranch."
"No hurt?" asked the Indian.
"All go 'way," answered Ethan, pointing to the west with the revolver.
"Give Wahena--all go."
"No, sir!"
"No give Wahena?"
"I'll kill him ef them creeturs come hyer," said Ethan, sternly, as he
pointed the pistol at the boy's head.
"No kill Wahena!" shouted the messenger.
"Tell 'em to keep back, then."
This demonstration on the part of Ethan had been caused by the sudden
movement of the savages towards the house. Their spokesman fortunately
understood his meaning, and turning round, he shouted out a few words
in the Indian dialect, accompanying them with violent gestures, which
had the effect to stop the nearer approach of the band. As they moved
back, Ethan lowered his weapon. Wahena did not flinch, nor exhibit any
signs of terror while he was menaced with the pistol, though he looked
stern and resolute, as he had probably been taught to be by his savage
father.
Ethan, finding that he had the power all in his own hands, walked a few
paces nearer to the messenger, dragging his prisoner after him. It was
not an easy matter to carry on a conversation with the savage, whose
knowledge of the English language was limited to a few words; but after
a long time, and a great deal of effort, he succeeded in making the
Indian spokesman understand his intention. He refused to give up
Wahena, but he promised that the boy should not be injured if the
Indians would retire, and not attempt to molest Fanny or himself. He
assured the messenger that he would kill the boy if the savages
followed, or fired upon himself or his companion.
It was a long and trying conference, and when the parties came to an
understanding, the Indian withdrew to communicate the result to his
chief. Ethan returned to the house with his prisoner, and from the
window watched the movements of the foe, while he related to Fanny what
had passed between himself and the messenger during the interview.
"I reckon they'll do it, Fanny," said Ethan.
"I hope they will."
"When we are safe, they kin hev the Injin boy; I don't want him. I
reckon it was a smart idee o' mine, ketchin' the young cub."
"I think it was a very good idea. They would certainly have butchered
us before this time if it hadn't been for him."
"I reckon they would; but ef I knows myself, some on 'em would hev gone
down fust."
"I suppose the Indians have murdered a great many people."
"I reckon they hev."
"It's awful!" exclaimed Fanny, shuddering, as she glanced at the place
where poor Mrs. Grant lay cold and still in death.
"So 'tis, but 'tain't no use to think on't now; it makes a feller feel
kind o' weak and sickly. We must figur' it out now."
"Thanks to your good management, we may yet escape."
"I reckon we will. Did you ever fire a pistil, Fanny?"
"No, but I'm not afraid to do so."
"Better take this, then, and I'll use the guns. I reckon it may be of
use to you," added he, handing her the weapon. "Hokee!" suddenly
exclaimed he, as he glanced out of the window.
"What is it, Ethan?"
"Them Injins is go'n off!"
"So they are."
"Mebbe they're comin' round to try us on t'other side of the house. Ef
they be, I'm thar. You hold on to the little Injin, and I'll watch
'em."
Ethan went to a window on the front of the house, and soon returned
with the gratifying intelligence that the redskins were actually moving
off in the direction of the burning buildings to the west of them.
"How thankful we ought to be that we have been saved!" said Fanny. "Let
us thank God with all our hearts, Ethan."
"We can't stop to do no more prayin' now, Fanny. Besides, we ain't out
o' the woods yet."
"We need not stop to pray," replied Fanny, devoutly. "If the prayer is
in our hearts, God will understand it."
"I'm thankful, I'm sure, as a body kin be. Now, you git together
everything you kin find to eat, and I'll git a wheelbarrer to fetch 'em
down to the lake. Ef we kin only git on the island, I don't keer for
all the redskins this side o' sundown."
Wahena was tied up in such a way that he could not escape, and Fanny
hurriedly collected everything in the shape of provisions which had
escaped the depredations of the Indians. Ethan brought from the
chambers an armful of blankets and bed-quilts, and the wheelbarrow was
loaded with all it would contain. A bushel of potatoes, a leg of bacon,
a bucket of corn-meal, a small supply of groceries, and a few cooking
utensils, constituted the stock upon which they were mainly to depend
for sustenance during their banishment from civilized life for they
knew not how long a time. But both of the exiles were hopeful, though
very sad, when they thought of the death and desolation they were
leaving behind them.
CHAPTER XVI.
THE YOUNG EXILES.
Wahena, with his hands still tied behind him, was led by Fanny, while
Ethan trundled the wheelbarrow, across the handles of which lay the two
guns, ready for use if occasion should require. The Indians had halted
on one of the little eminences of the prairie, and appeared to be
watching the departure of the fugitives from their once happy home.
Lean Bear was evidently very fond of his little son, who was a boy of
bright promise, measured by the Indian standard. He had exhibited no
concern for the mother while she lay senseless upon the ground, but he
seemed to be willing to make any sacrifice, even to the curbing of his
ferocious nature, for Wahena's sake.
The party of Indians on the knoll appeared to be impressed with the
misfortune of their leader in the loss of his favorite son. Though the
work of rapine and death was still going on in the settlement, they did
not heed it. The messenger had probably represented to Lean Bear that
Wahena would certainly be killed if he attempted to molest the little
party, and the chief had withdrawn far enough to remove all temptation
on the part of Ethan to execute his threat.
The wheelbarrow was heavily loaded, and it was hard work for the
prairie boy to move it along over the soft soil. On a hill, just before
the descent to the lake commenced, he paused to rest for a moment. He
was in excellent spirits, and was proud of the success which had thus
far attended his stratagem. He was confident that he should reach the
island in safety, where, having the only boat on the lake in his
possession, he was satisfied that he should be able to defend himself
and his companion, especially with Wahena as a guaranty for the good
behavior of the Indians.
Ethan was entirely satisfied with himself, and he was about to resume
the march towards the lake, when his attention was attracted by a noise
in the direction opposite to that in which Lean Bear and his party had
retreated.
"Creation hokee!" shouted Ethan.
"What's the matter?" asked Fanny.
"Don't you see the Injins comin' out of the woods?" replied he, as he
grasped the rifle, and raised it to his shoulder.
"Ho, ho, ho! He, he, he!" yelled the band of savages, as they rushed
out of the covert of the trees, and ran towards the spot where Ethan
stood.
"We are lost!" gasped Fanny, almost overcome by this new peril.
"No, we ain't lost, Fanny. You keep a stiff upper lip. Lay right down
on the ground, behind the wheelbarrer, and don't let the varmints see
you. If they kim hyer, use that ere pistil."
One of the new enemies was considerably in advance of the others, as if
anxious to drink the first blood of the victims before him. Suddenly he
came to a halt, raised his rifle, and fired.
"Creation hokee!" exclaimed Ethan, as the ball whistled frightfully
near his head.
"Hadn't we better run?" asked Fanny, in trembling tones.
"'Tain't no use to run; them redskins kin beat you all to pieces
runnin'," replied Ethan, as he retreated behind the wheelbarrow, and
resting the rifle upon it, took careful aim at the savage who was in
advance of the others.
He fired; the Indian fell, and lay still on the ground.
"That's sunthin' towards it, anyhow," continued Ethan, encouraged by
the success of his first shot. "Ef I kin fetch down one more on 'em, it
will make the rest a leetle grain skeery."
"The other Indians are coming too, Ethan," said Fanny.
"Let 'em kim; if they do we are safe."
The immediate followers of Lean Bear were rushing towards the spot with
all their might. The swiftest runner of the party had far outstripped
his companions, but it was evident to Ethan and Fanny that he was
moving towards the other band of savages, rather than towards them. He
was shouting in his own tongue words which were unintelligible to the
white boy and girl. But if the words were not understood, their effect
was, for the hostile band presently halted, and awaited the arrival of
the messenger.
In the mean time Ethan placed Wahena in a position where he could be
seen by all the savages, and with the revolver in his hand, stood in
readiness to make another demonstration at the life of the boy if it
should be necessary. It was not needed, for all these Indians belonged
to the tribe of Lean Bear, whose command was law to them.
"We are safe, Ethan," said Fanny.
"So we are; but I've killed one Injin, and I reckon I could kill some
more."
"Don't you feel sorry you killed him?" asked Fanny.
"Not ef I knows myself, I don't. I'd like to kill the whole boodle on
'em, after what they've did, consarn thar picters! I reckon we'd better
be go'n along."
"I think we had. It is really terrible to think of killing a man."
"'Tain't no more terrible 'n killin' all them women 'n childern up to
the settlement," replied Ethan, as he raised the handles of the barrow
and moved on. "I hope they'll send the sogers up here, and kill off all
the Injins this side o' sundown."
"I hope it won't be necessary to do that," added Fanny.
"It ought to be did. What's them Injins good for but to be shot? I
kinder wish they'd kim, so I could have fetched down some more on 'em,
consarn 'em!"
"It is lucky the party of Lean Bear was near enough to turn them back.
We might have been killed before this time."
"I dunno," replied Ethan, shaking his head.
"You have done nobly, Ethan; but Wahena has saved us so far."
"I know that; I ketched him for jest what he has did for us."
The rest of the way to the lake was down a gentle declivity, and the
wheelbarrow moved more easily than before. In a short time they reached
their destination, on the shore of the beautiful sheet of water at
which was moored a boat. It was not such a craft as the Greyhound, in
which Fanny had been accustomed to sail; it was a bateau, or
flat-bottomed boat, with very sharp slopes under the bow and stern. It
had a keel and rudder, and was provided with a sail.
The stores and utensils from the wheelbarrow were quickly transferred
to the boat, and then the barrow itself was placed on board. The wind
now blew tolerably fresh, and was fair for reaching the island; but
Ethan, with all his other accomplishments, knew no more about the
management of a boat than of a ship, which he had never even seen. This
boat had been built by Mr. Grant and a carpenter of the settlement
during the preceding winter, and Ethan had never sailed in it but once.
"I don't know nothin' about this hyer thing," said Ethan. "I kin
paddle, but I reckon the sail would tip us over."
"I can manage it," replied Fanny, confidently.
"Kin ye? Did ye ever manage a boat with a sail?"
"Yes, once," answered Fanny, and she thought with shame of the cruise
she had made in the Greyhound. "Let us hoist the sail, and we can run
over to the island in a few moments."
Fanny, assisted by Ethan, hoisted the sail, and the bateau darted out
of the little cove where she had been moored. Wahena, who had been as
stoical in danger as his race, uttered an exclamation of alarm, perhaps
called forth by the novelty of the situation and of the peril. Ethan
was not entirely satisfied with the movements of the boat under sail,
for she careened under the fresh breeze, till her gunwale was within an
inch of the surface of the lake. Fanny took the helm, and, as she eased
off the sheet, which her previous experience had taught her to do in
such an emergency, the boat came up to an even keel, and the confidence
of the prairie boy was fully restored.
"I don't want to be tipped over and drownded, arter we've got away from
the Injins," said he, in apology for his timidity.
"I'm sure I don't fear the water, after the terrible scenes we have
passed through," replied Fanny; "but there is no danger."
"I dunno 's there is; but even the little Injin boy was skeered when
she tipped so."
"I ought to have unfastened this rope before we hoisted the sail,"
added Fanny, pointing to the sheet.
"I ain't afeerd, if you ain't, Fanny. I don't reckon we could 'a
paddled her over to the island in seven year."
"It would have taken a long time," said Fanny, glancing back at the
smoking buildings of the settlement.
She was sad at heart when she thought of the murder and destruction
which had occurred that morning. It was pleasant on the lake, but
neither Fanny nor Ethan was in a condition to enjoy the sail. Each was
thinking of friends in the settlement who had probably been slain by
the remorseless savages. Fanny steered the bateau in silence, till she
reached the shore of the island, which was about two miles from the
point where the party had embarked. It was very small, containing not
more than half an acre of land. A single tree grew on the highest part,
and all of it was covered with grass, like the ground on the western
shores of the lake.
A landing was effected under the lee of the land, and the cargo of the
bateau removed to the shore. Wahena was taken to the middle of the
island, and fastened to the tree. From this point a view of all the
surrounding country could be obtained, and with ordinary care on the
part of the exiles, it would be impossible for an enemy to approach
without their knowledge. The provisions and other articles were
transported on the wheelbarrow to the tree.
"I should kinder like this, ef the folks hadn't all been killed off,"
said Ethan, when the work was done, and he had seated himself at
Fanny's side, in the shade of the tree.
"We were very fortunate to escape with our lives, Ethan, and I feel
very thankful," replied Fanny.
"So do I; and ef you want to say your prayers now, we hain't got
nothin' else to do."
"I have said them many times; God can hear us even when we do not speak
aloud."
"I s'pose so; well, I said mine, too; and that's a thing I don't do
very often."
"I have no doubt they strengthened your arm, and made you feel brave."
"I dunno but they did; but I feel as though a leetle grain o' breakfast
would strengthen my arm most jest now."
Fanny was not very well pleased with the manner in which her rude
companion spoke of serious things, and she improved the opportunity to
embody the prayer of her heart in words. It was a fervent utterance,
and Ethan seemed to join her in spirit. Both of them were grateful--not
abstractly grateful, but grateful to God for his mercy in saving them
from torture and death at the hands of the savages.
They sat in silence for a moment after the prayer, and then Fanny
suggested that they should prepare their breakfast. Ethan had brought
with him a shovel and a sharp axe, and while Fanny was peeling the
potatoes and cutting the bacon, he dug out a kind of fireplace in the
side of the hill. Some dead branches from the tree supplied them with
dry fuel. Fried ham and fried potatoes were soon provided, and they sat
down to their morning meal.
"I should like this fust rate if we hadn't been druv away from hum jest
as we was," said Ethan.
"It would be very pleasant if we could forget the poor people who have
been killed and mangled by the savages," replied Fanny, sadly.
"I reyther like campin' out, and travellin' over the peraries, as we
did when we kim up hyer."
"What is to become of us, after all, Ethan?"
"I dunno; we must stop hyer, I s'pose."
"We cannot remain here a great while."
"Why not?"
"Our provisions will not last many days."
"We kin git more."
"I don't think it is safe for us to go over to the settlement again."
"We've got plenty o' powder'n shot, and thyers ducks and birds enough.
And this lake's full of fish."
"But we must leave some time. We could not stay here through the
winter."
"We kin git off somewhar bime-by. I dunno what all this business
means--whether the Injins is killin' off everybody or not. Sunthin' 'll
happen one o' these days."
It was impossible to plan for the future, for no one could tell what a
day might bring forth. It was evident to the young exiles that the lake
settlement had been destroyed, and the greater portion of the people
killed, though they had no positive knowledge of the extent of the
horrible massacre. They did not know, what was really true, that the
onslaught of the savages extended over hundreds of miles of territory,
and that its victims were numbered by hundreds.
When Ethan and Fanny had finished their breakfast, Wahena was unbound
and permitted to eat all he wanted. His appetite did not seem to be at
all impaired by his imprisonment, for he ate with a greediness which
threatened to make serious inroads upon the scanty stock of provisions.
While he was thus occupied, Fanny sang one of her Sunday school hymns,
a sad and plaintive air, which not only moved Ethan to the depths of
his heart, but visibly affected the little savage. Noticing the effect,
she followed up the impression until she was surprised to see Wahena
offer her his hand.
CHAPTER XVII.
THE NIGHT ATTACK.
Fanny sang "Sweet Home" to the young Indian, with the feeling that
there was no longer a spot on earth which she could call by that
endearing name. By this time, Mr. Grant, with Bertha and Fanny, were in
Europe, and it would be months before she could see them again. Her
uncle had probably been killed by the war party of Lean Bear, while
returning to his home, as the possession of his horses by the Indians
indicated. Her aunt lay mangled and unburied near the house which had
been her happy home. The settlement was doubtless broken up and
deserted; for all who had not been killed or captured by the Indians
must have fled to the woods and the prairies for safety.
The feeling of loneliness in Fanny gave to her song a touching pathos,
which, with the sad sweetness of the melody itself, made the great
tears roll down the bronzed checks of Ethan, and touched the heart of
even the young savage. Wahena looked long and earnestly at Fanny, when
he had finished his breakfast. The music pleased him, and its charms
literally soothed his savage breast. She sang other songs, and he began
to make friendly demonstrations towards her, which ended in the offer
of his hand. She accepted the proffered token of friendship.
Wahena spoke to her, but of course she could not understand a word of
his language. He made signs, using the earnest gestures peculiar to the
Indians. He shook his head, pointed to her, and then to the shore of
the lake in the direction of the settlement. She thought he meant to
say that he would not permit his father to injure her; but she was not
very sure. The young savage was certainly disposed to be her friend,
and manifested his interest in her by all the means within his power.
"Well, Fanny, it's about time for me to go to work," said Ethan, after
he had observed the demonstrations between her and Wahena for a time.
"What are you going to do, Ethan? I thought you had no work."
"Plenty of it, I reckon. 'Tain't no use to groan over what can't be
helped. We may as well make the best on't."
"Of course we will not complain of what we cannot help. Ethan, do you
know what my motto is?"
"Your what?" asked Ethan, with a vacant stare.
"My motto."
"That's sunthin' in Latin, or some outlandish lingo--ain't it?"
"Mine is in plain English."
"I've hearn tell of some Latin stuff they called a motto out in
Illinois; I forgit what it was now."
"'Hope and have,' is my motto."
"What does that mean? 'Tain't Latin, but it might as well be."
"It means hope for the best, and then you will work the harder to have
it."
"Thet jest fits my case."
"The motto was given me by a very good girl in New York, who was dying
of consumption. They were the last words she spoke, and they were
engraved on her tombstone. I will tell you the whole story about her
some time."
"I should like to hear it, fust rate; but I reckon we've got sunthin'
else to do jest now. I hope we shall hev sunthin' like a house for you
to sleep in to-night."
"Hoping alone will not build the house, Ethan; besides, we don't hope
much for that which we are not willing to work for."
"I know thet; and I'm go'n to work on the house right away now,"
replied Ethan, as he rose from the ground, and took his shovel.
"I will help you, for I hope we shall have a house to keep us out of
the wet if it should happen to rain."
"You are nothin' but a gal," said Ethan, rather contemptuously.
"But I can help you. How shall you build a house?"
"Well, I don't quite know."
"I can help you think, if nothing more, Ethan."
"So you kin, Fanny. You are right down smart. I don't know as we should
ever hev got over to this island ef't hadn't been for you."
"Do you think we could get the boat out of the water, Ethan?"
"I reckon we could," replied Ethan, rubbing his head to stimulate his
ideas. "I kin cut some rollers, and kinder pry it along."
Fanny minutely detailed her plan for a house, which, after much
explanation, was adopted. As soon as Ethan comprehended her idea, he
became very enthusiastic for its execution.
"I reckon we must tie up the young Injin afore we go to work," said he,
taking the cord, and moving towards Wahena.
The little savage looked appealingly at Fanny, placed his hand upon his
breast, shook his head violently, and frequently pointed to the shore
of the lake. She interpreted his signs to mean that he would not
attempt to escape, and she so informed Ethan.
"I dassent trust him," said he.
"He can't get away if he tries," replied Fanny.
"But he may take one of the guns and kill one on us."
"Put all the weapons out of the way, then, and I will keep watch of
him," added Fanny, who wished to conciliate Wahena.
Ethan consented, and climbing the tree with his axe, he commenced
cutting off the large branches which were to be used in the
construction of the house.
The plan which Fanny had devised was a very simple one. The slope of
the land on the island was about four feet to a rod. The bateau was to
be rolled up the acclivity about thirty feet, and turned bottom upward.
The lower end was then to be gradually pried up until it was level with
the upper end, leaving a space of four feet under the higher part.
Stakes were to be set in the ground under the gunwale to support the
boat, and form the sides of the house. The smaller branches of the tree
were to be interlaced in the stakes, beginning at the bottom, and the
sods and the dirt thrown from the inside against this network, leaving
the ground level under the roof.
The bateau was sixteen feet long and five feet wide, and the most
difficult part of the work was getting it out of the water, and moving
it up the hill. Ethan and Fanny worked as hard as they could till
sundown with rollers and levers, when they had the boat in position,
and the end elevated to the required level. Wahena showed his gratitude
for the freedom granted to him by assisting in the labor, and made
himself very useful.
After the party had taken their suppers, Ethan made a bed of the
blankets and quilts for Fanny, under the boat, covering the open sides
with the sail and a coverlet.
"Where are you going to sleep, Ethan?" she asked.
"I ain't go'n to sleep nowhar," replied he.
"You are not going to stay up all night."
"That's jest what I'm go'n to do."
"What for?"
"S'pose'n them Injins should kim over in the night."
"I thought you said they could not get over here."
"I reckon they can't, ef I keep my eyes open."
"But you must sleep."
"Ef I do, I must do my sleepin' in the daytime. Ef we should all go to
sleep hyer, we might wake up in the mornin', and find our throats cut.
'Tain't safe, nohow."
"You have worked hard to-day, Ethan, and you must be very tired."
"I am kinder tired."
"We will take turns keeping watch, as they do on board a ship."
"I don't know nothin' about a ship."
"I will keep watch the first half of the night, and you may the other
half."
"S'pose'n the Injins should kim; what would you do then?"
"I can call you."
"Well, Fanny, ef you ain't very tired, I agree to it, for I feel jest
as ef I should go to sleep now."
"I am not so tired as I have been, and not so tired as you are. I will
take the first watch. But do you really think the Indians will come to
the island?"
"I hope not, but they might."
"How do you expect them to come?"
"I dunno; but I shouldn't wonder ef Lean Bear sent some of his redskins
over arter that boy."
Fanny did not see how the savages could reach them at this distance
from the main land, but she agreed with Ethan that it would be better
to keep watch, and be on the safe side. Wahena's hands were tied
together, and he was bound to one of the posts under the boat, in such
a manner that he could lie down and sleep comfortably. Ethan stretched
himself on the bed he had prepared for his companion, and was soon
asleep.
Fanny seated herself under the tree at the top of the hill. It was not
yet dark, and she had a full view of the water on every side. Until a
later hour there was no possibility of a hostile approach by the
Indians, and she gave herself up to the melancholy reflections excited
by the tragic events of the day. Though a great many thoughts passed
through her mind, there was only one which it is important to record
here; and that was, the feeling that she was better prepared for the
bitter experience upon which she had now entered than she would have
been a few months before. If her friends knew that she was a changed
being, the fact was still more evident to her own consciousness.
A religious faith and hope had sustained her in those terrible hours,
when the shrieks of the mangled and the cries of the dying had pierced
her heart, and when torture and death stared her full in the face.
Ethan, in his own quaint terms, had confessed that her prayers and her
unwavering trust in God had awed him and solemnized his mind, thus
raising him to a level with the momentous issues he was to meet. She
felt that her prayers for herself and the brave prairie boy had been
answered, not only in their effect upon themselves, but more directly
in the turning aside of the knife which had been pointed at their
hearts. Renewedly she thanked God for his goodness; and renewedly, as
she thought of the dying Jenny, she felt that to hope was to have.
Thus thinking of the past, thus hoping and praying for the future, the
darkness gathered upon her, and with her mind thus illuminated by
divine wisdom, the words of the Psalmist seemed to be literally
verified, and even the darkness became light about her. As the shades
of evening deepened over her, cutting off her view of the distant
shores of the lake, she felt the necessity of a more vigilant
watchfulness.
Hour after hour wore heavily away, and still Ethan slept. Fanny had no
idea of the time of night, and could not tell whether or not it was
time to call her companion. She knew how hard he had worked during the
day, and she resolved not to call him as long as she could keep awake
herself. Her position was by the tree; but in order to rouse her torpid
faculties, she took a walk around the island. When she reached the side
of their narrow domain where they had landed in the morning, she was
startled by what she thought was a slight splashing in the water, at a
considerable distance from her. After the manner of the Indians, she
lay down upon the ground, and placed her ear near the surface of the
lake, listening with trembling interest for any sounds which might be
borne over the still waters.
This expedient satisfied her that she had not been mistaken in the
sound. She distinctly heard the light dip of a paddle in the water,
worked with the utmost caution. She was almost paralyzed with terror at
the thought of a night visit from the savages, and dreaded the sharp
crack of the rifle and the flashing of the knife. She strained her eyes
to discover any object on the water, but she could see nothing. She
hastened to the house, and roused Ethan.
"I'm comin'," said he, only half awake, and turned over to finish his
nap.
"Ethan, Ethan!" gasped Fanny, shaking him with all her might, "the
Indians are almost upon us."
If she had said Indians before, it would have awakened him in a moment.
He sprang to his feet, and rushed out of the house.
"What's the matter?" he demanded.
"The Indians are coming--at least some one is coming, for I heard a
paddle on the lake."
"The pesky sarpints! I was afeerd they'd kim. Whar be they?"
"They are coming from the settlement."
"Consarn 'em!" added Ethan, as he grasped his two guns, and ran down to
the shore.
He listened, and soon satisfied himself that Fanny's fears were not
groundless. He sent his companion for the revolver, and proceeded with
great coolness and self-possession to make his preparations for
repelling the assault, for he had no doubt that one was intended. It
was a full hour--an hour of the most intense anxiety and suspense to
the young exiles--before they discovered the wily foe stealthily
approaching their retreat.
A little later they could see enough to determine that the assailants
consisted of four Indians, on a raft. Two of them, on their knees, were
paddling the unwieldy craft, and the others appeared to be gazing at
the island.
Ethan had made a rest for the rifle of a crotched stick, for the piece
was too heavy for him to hold up to his shoulder. He took careful aim
at the group of dark forms on the raft, and fired.
CHAPTER XVIII.
THE VISITOR AT THE ISLAND.
"Ho, wo, wo!" yelled the savages on the raft; and their tones sounded
much like the barking of a large mastiff.
Ethan saw one of their number fall, and the commotion in the group
indicated that the savages had been thrown into confusion by Ethan's
well-directed shot. They ceased paddling, and appeared to be consulting
in regard to their next movement.
"Lay right down flat on the ground, so thet they can't see you, Fanny,"
said Ethan, as he hastily loaded the rifle, on which he principally
depended.
"Won't they go away now you have found out they are coming?" asked she,
as she obeyed the requirement.
"I dunno; we shall see. I don't keer much whether they go or kim. Keep
still, and don't move. I reckon they can't see us, and don't know jest
whar to fire."
"They can see you, Ethan."
"No, they can't," replied the resolute boy, as he took careful aim a
second time with the rifle.
He fired, but apparently without any result, except another yell from
the savages. Three of them could still be seen standing and kneeling on
the raft. As soon as the second shot had been fired, they reached their
conclusion, and commenced paddling with all their might towards the
island. Ethan now took the fowling-piece, which he had charged with
duck-shot, and fired again. The Indians yelled as before, and one of
them seemed to be wounded, for he ceased to paddle, and the third man
immediately took his place.
Both of Ethan's guns were now empty; but he had the revolver, which was
good for six shots, though the fire could hardly be effective at the
present distance of the raft from the island. Keeping this weapon in
reserve, he loaded the two guns again. It was very strange that the
Indians did not fire at him, and he could not tell whether it was
because they had no guns, or because they were afraid of killing
Wahena. The party had probably been sent by Lean Bear to recover his
son, and the success of the expedition was to depend upon finding the
exiles asleep. The good judgment of Ethan had therefore saved them from
the calamity of a surprise.
When Ethan had completed the loading of the guns, the raft was within
four or five rods of the shore of the island, and the Indians were
paddling vigorously, though the unwieldy craft they navigated moved
very slowly through the water.
"Don't you stop here no longer, Fanny; 'taint no place for you, nohow.
Jest crawl up to the tree, and keep behind it. Keep both eyes wide open
tight, but don't let the redskins see you."
"But what will become of you?" asked Fanny, unwilling to leave her bold
defender even for a moment.
"Never you mind me; go right off quick. Crawl up to the tree, and I'll
soon fix 'em."
"Ho, wo, wo!" yelled the Indians, apparently satisfied that their work
was accomplished, for the raft was within two rods of the shore.
Then one of them dropped his paddle, and, with an unearthly scream,
leaped into the water, which was now so shallow that he could wade
ashore. Ethan took good aim at this one, and fired. Though not killed,
the sharp cry the savage uttered convinced Ethan that he was wounded.
Without waiting to learn the effect of his shot on the rest of the
party, he fired again at the same man, who was only partially disabled.
The savage in the water, who had been the most dangerous assailant,
uttered another yell of pain, and his companions seemed to be paralyzed
by the continuation of the fire upon them. Probably they supposed the
boy had but one gun, and, when he fired it, that he would not have time
to load again before they could reach him. Ethan then discharged one
ball from the revolver, which added still more to their confusion, for
they were jabbering like wild turkeys.
"Go 'way!" shouted Ethan. "Go 'way, or I'll kill Wahena."
"No kill," replied one of the Indians, whose voice sounded like that of
the messenger Ethan had met in the morning.
"Go 'way then!"
"Me go."
"Go then--consarn ye!" muttered Ethan, as, taking advantage of the
confusion in the ranks of the enemy, he loaded the two guns again.
The two Indians on the raft helped the wounded one in the water to
mount the platform again. Two of the three were evidently wounded, and
it was not an easy thing for them to paddle the clumsy craft away from
the island. One of the savages worked at the paddle for a while; but it
was not till the more able of the other two assisted him that any
sensible progress was made.
"Creation hokee!" exclaimed Ethan, when he was fully conscious that he
had won the victory. "I've done 'em, Fanny!"
"Have they gone?" she asked, when she had joined him.
"They are go'n as fast as they kin; but I reckon they won't git back to
the settlement till some time into mornin'. We're all right now, Fanny,
and you kin go to sleep as soon as you've a mind to."
She was too excited to think of sleeping, and she sat with Ethan on the
shore for an hour, talking about their deliverance from the peril that
had menaced them. Fanny was devoutly grateful to God, who had again
preserved them; and when she had uttered the prayer her heart would not
permit her to keep back, she felt more composed, and retired to the
cabin, where she soon dropped asleep from sheer exhaustion.
This was the only attempt made by the savages to capture the exiles on
the island. The next day, they continued to work upon the house,
interrupted only by a heavy shower in the forenoon; but the boat roof
afforded them a perfect shelter from the pouring rain. It was three
days before the house was finished; but when it was completed, the
wanderers were as proud of it as though it had been a Fifth Avenue
mansion. At night they took turns in keeping the watch; and when the
house was done, both of the exiles were nearly worn out by the hard
work they had done, and the loss of sleep to which they had been
subjected. They decided that it would be best to rest a few days before
they commenced upon certain additions which they contemplated.
The stock of provisions was already much reduced, and the question of
supplies for the future demanded attention. There were plenty of fish
in the lake, but none could be caught in the shallow water which
bordered the island. It was necessary to go out a short distance, and
Ethan found a couple of logs among some drift wood, gathered on the
beach, with which he constructed a raft, just large enough to
accommodate himself.
To prevent accidents, he tied together all the lines which had been
used about the sail, and pushed off the length of his rope. There were
fish-lines in the boat, and bait was obtained on the island. In an hour
Ethan returned to the shore with a large muskellunge and half a dozen
large lake trout. The problem of supplies, therefore, seemed to be
solved, especially as there were abundant opportunities to shoot the
wild duck, plover, and grouse, that visited the little domain of the
exiles.
However pleasant it would be to follow out in detail the daily life of
the residents of the isle, our space prevents us from doing so. A
fortnight of severe labor and constant watchfulness was passed by the
exiles, when a great event occurred to them. Ethan had one day moored
out his raft the length of the line from the shore, on the side of the
island where they had first disembarked, when his attention was
attracted by an object on the water, in the direction of the
settlement. He watched it with interest and anxiety, and soon
ascertained that it was a raft, on which stood a single person, who was
paddling towards the island.
Ethan immediately pulled in his raft, and went for his fire-arms, which
he carefully loaded, in readiness for a hostile visit from a foe. The
stranger approached very slowly, and the exiles were at last satisfied
that he was not an Indian. As he drew nearer to the island, he waved a
white rag, which was intended and understood as a sign of peace.
"Who can it be?" asked Fanny, greatly excited by the incident.
"I dunno; can't tell yet," replied Ethan.
"Do you think it is an enemy?"
"I don't reckon it is."
Both of them continued to watch the approaching visitor, until he had
come within twenty rods of the shore. He did not look like any human
being that Fanny had ever seen before. His clothes were tattered, and
of all colors. Great patches of tent canvas were sewed over a tunic
made of red and yellow blankets. He wore Indian leggins, and his head
was covered with a coon-skin cap. His hair and beard, of grizzly gray,
were tangled and matted in knots and snarls. Crossed on his breast were
the straps by which were supported his powder-horn and shot-flask.
"What a strange-looking man!" exclaimed Fanny, when the raft had come
near enough to enable her to make out the uncouth object upon it.
"I know him now," replied Ethan, "though I hevn't seen him afore for
more 'n a year."
"Who is he?"
"Thet's Rattleshag."
"Who?"
"Rattleshag--leastwise that's the only name anybody knows him by. He's
a hunter 'n trapper that goes roamin' round over the peraries."
"Where does he live?"
"He don't live nowhar; he goes travellin' round, livin' on the white
folks and Injins. They say he is the best shot west of the Miss'sip."
"He won't shoot us--will he?"
"No; he won't hurt nothin'."
The raft came up to the shore, and the trapper landed.
"How d'ye do, Rattleshag?" said Ethan.
The strange visitor made no reply, but walked deliberately up to the
young exiles, gave his hand first to Ethan, then to Fanny.
"Toler'ble, considering," said he, at last.
"Whar did you kim from?"
"Over thar," he answered, pointing to the settlement, and shaking his
head.
"Anybody thar?" asked Ethan, anxiously.
"Injins."
"No white folks?"
"All gone: some on 'em's killed, and some on 'em's kerried off. Awful
times, everywhar," added the trapper, shaking his head mournfully.
"Whar's the Injin boy?"
"Up thyer," answered Ethan, pointing to the cabin where Wahena had been
secured as soon as the raft was discovered, for another attack from the
Indians had been anticipated. "You may let him loose again, Fanny."
She was always glad to perform this office for her captive friend, and
she soon returned to the shore with Wahena.
"He's all safe--ain't he?" asked Rattleshag.
"Yes; we hain't hurt him; and he's as fond of Fanny as a pet puppy
dog."
"Glad on't. I was tooken by the Injins over thar, and got nigh bein'
skelped. Lean B'ar let me go to kim over here arter the boy," added the
trapper.
"We can't let him go," said Ethan.
"I reckon you mought."
Ethan explained in what manner the presence of Wahena had saved them
from the Indians.
"We can't spare him till we get out of the woods ourselves," added
Ethan.
"Then I must go back and be skelped," replied Rattleshag, solemnly. "I
promised Lean B'ar thet I'd git the boy, or else I'd kim back myself;
and old Rattleshag never broke his word to Injin or white man."
"Thet's so," said Ethan, who knew the reputation of the trapper for
simple honesty and fidelity.
"Hev you got a boat?" asked Rattleshag.
"Yes."
"Then I reckon we kin go down to Mankato. The sogers is drivin' the
Injins back. Thyer's ben awful times all through the country; more 'n a
thousand men, women, and children hes ben killed. I've trevelled all
through from Big Stone, dodgin' the Injins all the way. They are as
savage as painters. I kim down hyer to git away from 'em, but I found
they'd ben hyer too," added the trapper, with another melancholy shake
