"Oh!" said Gypsy, penitently; "dangerous?"

"Yes."

Gypsy looked sober because her mother did, and she thought she ought to.

"Your father and I are going in this noon train," proceeded Mrs.
Breynton, rolling up a pair of slippers, and folding a wrapper away in
the trunk. "I think I am needed. The fever is very severe;
possibly—contagious," said Mrs. Breynton, quietly. Mrs. Breynton made
it a rule to have very few concealments from her children. All family
plans which could be, were openly and frankly discussed. She believed
that it did the children good to feel that they had a share in them;
that it did them good to be trusted. She never kept bad tidings from
them simply because they were bad. The mysteries and prevarications
necessary to keep an unimportant secret, were, she reasoned, worse for
them than a little anxiety. Gypsy must know some time about her aunt's
sickness. She preferred she should hear it from her mother's lips, see
for herself the reasons for this sudden departure and risk, if risk
there were, and be woman enough to understand them.

Gypsy looked sober now in earnest.

"Why, mother! How can you? What if you catch it?"

"There is very little chance of that, one possibility in a hundred,
perhaps. Help me fold up this dress, Gypsy—no, on the bed—so."

"But if you should get sick! I don't see why you need go. She isn't your
own sister anyway, and she never did anything for us, nor cared anything
for us."

"Your uncle wants me, and that is enough. I want to be to her a sister
if I can—poor thing, she has no sister of her own, and no mother,
nobody but the hired nurses with her; and she may die, Gypsy. If I can
be of any help, I am glad to be."

Her mother spoke in a quiet, decided tone, with which Gypsy knew there
was no arguing. She helped her fold her dresses and lock her trunk, very
silently, for Gypsy, and then ran away to busy herself with Patty in
getting the travelers' luncheon. When Gypsy felt badly, she always
hunted up something to do; in this she showed the very best of her good
sense. And let me tell you, girls, as a little secret—in the worst
fits of the "blues" you ever have, if you are guilty of having any, do
you go straight into the nursery and build a block house for the baby,
or upstairs and help your mother baste for the machine, or into the
dining-room to help Bridget set the table, or into the corner where some
diminutive brother is crying over his sums which a very few words from
you would straighten, or into the parlor where your father sits shading
his eyes from the lamplight, with no one to read him the paper; and
before you know it, you will be as happy as a queen. You don't believe
it? Try and see.

Gypsy drowned her sorrow at her mother's departure, in broiling her
mutton-chops and cutting her pie, and by the time the coach drove to the
door, and the travelers stood in the entry with bag and baggage, all
ready to start, the smiles had come back to her lips, and the twinkle to
her eyes.

"Good-bye, father! O-oh, mother Breynton, give me another kiss.
There!—one more. Now, if you don't write just as soon as you get
there!"

"Be a good girl, and take nice care of Winnie," called her mother from
the coach-window. And then they were driven rapidly away, and the house
seemed to grow still and dark all at once, and a great many clouds to be
in the warm, autumn sky. The three children stood a moment in the entry
looking forlornly at each other. I beg Tom's pardon—I suppose I should
have said the two children and the "young man." Probably never again in
his life will Tom feel quite as old as he felt in that sixteenth year.
Gypsy was the first to break the dismal silence.

"How horrid it's going to be! You go upstairs and she won't be there,
and there'll be nobody coming home from the store at night, and,
then—you go round, and it's so still, and nobody but me to keep house,
and Patty has just what she likes for breakfast, for all me, and I
think Aunt Miranda needn't have gone and been sick, anyway."

"A most sensible and sympathizing niece," observed Tom, in his
patronizing way.

"Well, you see, I suppose I don't care very much about Aunt Miranda,"
said Gypsy, confidentially. "I'm sorry she's sick, but I didn't have a
bit nice time in Boston last vacation, and she scolded me dreadfully
when I blew out the gas. What is it, Patty? Oh, yes—come to dinner,
boys."

"I say," remarked Winnie, at the rather doleful dinner-table, "look
here, Gypsy."

"What?"



"S'posin' when they'd got Aunt Miranda all nailed into her
coffin—tight in—she should be un-deaded, and open her eyes, and
begin—begin to squeal, you know. S'pose they'd let her out?"

Just four days from the morning Mrs. Breynton left, Tom came up from the
office with a very sober face and a letter.

Gypsy ran out to meet him, and put out her hand, in a great hurry to
read it.

"I'll read it to you," said Tom; "it's to me. Come into the parlor."

They went in, and Tom read:

    "My Dear Son:

    "I write in great haste, just to let you know that your Aunt Miranda
    is gone. She died last night at nine o'clock, in great distress. I
    was with her at the last. I am glad I came—very; it seems to have
    been a comfort to her; she was so lonely and deserted. The funeral
    is day after to-morrow, and we shall stay of course. We hope to be
    home on Monday. There has been no time yet to make any plans; I
    can't tell what the family will do. Poor Joy cannot bear to be left
    alone a minute. She follows me round like a frightened child. The
    tears come into my eyes every time I look at her, for the thoughts
    of three dear, distant faces that might be left just so, but for
    God's mercy to them and to me. She is just about Gypsy's age and
    height, you know. The disease proved not to be contagious, so you
    need feel no anxiety. A kiss to both the children. Your father sends
    much love. We shall be glad to get home and see you again.

    "Very lovingly,

    "Mother."

Inside the note was a slip for Gypsy, with this written on it:

    "I must stop to tell you, Gypsy, of a little thing your aunt said
    the day before she died. She had been speaking of Joy in her weak,
    troubled way—of some points wherein she hoped she would be a
    different woman from her mother, and had then lain still a while,
    her eyes closed, something—as you used to say when you were a little
    girl—very sorry about her mouth, when suddenly she turned and
    said, 'I wish I'd made Gypsy's visit here a little pleasanter. Tell
    her she must think as well as she can of her auntie, for Joy's sake,
    now.'"

Gypsy folded up the paper, and sat silent a moment, thinking her own
thoughts, as Tom saw, and not wishing to be spoken to.

Those of you who have read "Gypsy Breynton" will understand what these
thoughts might be. Those who have not, need only know that Gypsy's aunt
had been rather a gay, careless lady, well dressed and jeweled, and fond
enough of dresses and jewels; and that in a certain visit Gypsy made her
not long ago, she had been far from thoughtful of her country niece's
comfort.

And this was how it had ended. Poor Aunt Miranda!

"Well," said Gypsy, at last, with something dim in her eyes, "I dare say
I was green and awkward, and it was half my fault. I never could
understand how people could just turn round when anybody dies, and say
they were good and perfect, when it wasn't any such a thing, and I can't
say I think she was, for it would be a lie. But I won't say anything
more against her. Poor Joy, poor Joy! Not to have any mother, Tom, just
think! Oh, just think!"




CHAPTER II

SHE SHALL COME?


Supper was ready. It had been ready now for ten minutes. The cool, white
cloth, bright glass, glittering silver, and delicate china painted with
a primrose and an ivy-leaf—the best china, and very extravagant in
Gypsy, of course, but she thought the occasion deserved it—were all
laid in their places upon the table. The tea was steeped to precisely
the right point; the rich, mellow flavor had just escaped the clover
taste on one side, and the bitterness of too much boiling on the other;
the delicately sugared apples were floating in their amber juices in the
round glass preserve-dish, the smoked halibut was done to the most
delightful brown crispness, the puffy, golden drop-cakes were smoking
from the oven, and Patty was growling as nobody but Patty could growl,
for fear they would "slump down intirely an' be gittin' as heavy as
lead," before they could be eaten.

There was a bright fire in the dining-room grate; the golden light was
dancing a jig all over the walls, hiding behind the curtains, coquetting
with the silver, and touching the primroses on the plates to a perfect
sunbeam; for father and mother were coming. Tom and Gypsy and Winnie
were all three running to the windows and the door every two minutes and
dressed in their very "Sunday-go-to-meeting best;" for father and mother
were coming. Tom had laughed well at this plan of dressing up—Gypsy's
notion, of course, and ridiculous enough, said Tom; fit for babies like
Winnie, and girls. (I wish I could give you in print the peculiar
emphasis with which Tom was wont to dwell on this word.) But for all
that, when Gypsy came down in her new Scotch plaid dress, with her
cheeks so red, and her hair so smooth and black; and Winnie strutted
across the room counting the buttons on his best jacket, Tom slipped
away to his room, and came down with his purple necktie on.

It made a pretty, homelike picture—the bright table and the firelight,
and the eager faces at the window, and the gay dresses. Any father and
mother might have been glad to call it all their own, and come into it
out of the cold and the dark, after a weary day's journey.

These cozy, comfortable touches about it—the little conceit of the
painted china, and the best clothes—were just like Gypsy. Since she
was glad to see her father and mother, it was imperatively necessary
that she should show it; there was no danger but what her joy would have
been sufficiently evident—where everything else was—in her eyes; but
according to Gypsy's view of matters, it must express itself in some
sort of celebration. Whether her mother wouldn't have been quite as well
pleased if her delicate, expensive porcelain had been kept safely in the
closet; whether, indeed, it was exactly right for her to take it out
without leave, Gypsy never stopped to consider. When she wanted to do a
thing, she could never see any reasons why it shouldn't be done, like a
few other girls I have heard of in New England. However, just such a
mother as Gypsy had was quite likely to pardon such a little
carelessness as this, for the love in it, and the welcoming thoughts.

"They're comin', comin', comin'," shouted Winnie, from the door-steps,
where, in the exuberance of his spirits, he was trying very hard to
stand on his head, and making a most remarkable failure—"they're
comin' lickitycut, and I'm five years old, 'n' I've got on my best
jacket, 'n' they're comin' slam bang!"

"Coming, coming, coming!" echoed Gypsy, about as wild as Winnie himself,
and flying past him down to the gate, leaving Tom to follow in Tom's own
dignified way.

Such a kissing, and laughing, and talking, and delightful confusion as
there was then! Such a shouldering of bags and valises and shawls, such
hurrying of mother in out of the cold; such a pulling of father's
whiskers, such peeping into mysterious bundles, and pulling off of
wrappers, and hurrying Patty with the tea-things; and questions and
answers, and everybody talking at once—one might have supposed the
travelers had been gone a month instead of a week.

"My kitty had a fit," observed Winnie, the first pause he could find.

"And there are some letters for father," from Tom.

"Patty has a new beau," interrupted Gypsy.

"It was an awfully fit," put in Winnie, undiscouraged; "she rolled under
the stove, 'n' tell you she squealed, and——"

"How is uncle?" asked Tom, and it was the first time any one had thought
to ask.

"Then she jumped—splash! into the hogshead," continued Winnie,
determined to finish.

"He is not very well," said Mr. Breynton, gravely, and then they sat
down to supper, talking the while about him. Winnie subsided in great
disgust, and devoted himself, body, mind, and heart, to the drop-cakes.

"Ah, the best china, I see," said Mrs. Breynton, presently, with one of
her pleasantest smiles, and as Mrs. Breynton's smiles were always
pleasant, this was saying a great deal. "And the Sunday things on,
too—in honor of our coming? How pleasant it all seems! and how glad I
am to be at home again."

Gypsy looked radiant—very much, in fact, like a little sun dropped
down from the sky, or a jewel all ablaze.

Some mothers would have reproved her for the use of the china; some who
had not quite the heart to reprove would have said they were sorry she
had taken it out. Mrs. Breynton would rather have had her handsome
plates broken to atoms than to chill, by so much as a look, the glow of
the child's face just then.

There was decidedly more talking than eating done at supper, and they
lingered long at the table, in the pleasant firelight and lamplight.

"It seems exactly like the resurrection day for all the world," said
Gypsy.

"The resurrection day?"

"Why, yes. When you went off I kept thinking everybody was dead and
buried, all that morning, and it was real horrid—Oh, you don't know!"



"Gypsy," said Mrs. Breynton, a while after supper, when Winnie had gone
to bed, and Tom and his father were casting accounts by the fire, "I
want to see you a few minutes." Gypsy, wondering, followed her into the
parlor. Mrs. Breynton shut the door, and they sat down together on the
sofa.

"I want to have a talk with you, Gypsy, about something that we'd better
talk over alone."

"Yes'm," said Gypsy, quite bewildered by her mother's grave manner, and
thinking up all the wrong things she had done for a week. Whether it was
the time she got so provoked at Patty for having dinner late, or scolded
Winnie for trying to paint with the starch (and if ever any child
deserved it, he did), or got kept after school for whispering, or
brought down the nice company quince marmalade to eat with the blanc
mange, or whether——

"You haven't asked about your cousin, Joy," said her mother,
interrupting her thinking.

"Oh!—how is she?" said Gypsy, looking somewhat ashamed.

"I am sorry for the child," said Mrs. Breynton, musingly.

"What's going to become of her? Who's going to take care of her?"

"That is just what I came in here to talk about."

"Why, I don't see what I have to do with it!" said Gypsy, astonished.

"Her father thinks of going abroad, and so there would be no one to
leave her with. He finds himself quite worn out by your aunt's sickness,
the care and anxiety and trouble. His business also requires some member
of the firm to go to France this fall, and he has almost decided to go.
The only thing that makes him hesitate is Joy."

"I see what you mean now, mother—I see it in your eyes. You want Joy
to come here." Gypsy spoke in a slow, uncomfortable way, as if she were
trying very hard not to believe her own words.

"Yes," said Mrs. Breynton, "that is it."

Gypsy's bright face fell. "Well?" she said, at last.

"I told your uncle," said her mother, "that I could not decide on the
spot, but would let him know next week. The question of Joy's coming
here will affect you more than any member of the family, and I thought
it only fair to you that we should talk it over frankly before it is
settled."

Gypsy had a vague notion that all mothers would not have been so
thoughtful, but she said nothing.

"I do not wish," proceeded Mrs. Breynton, "to make any arrangement in
which you cannot be happy; but I have great faith in your kind heart,
Gypsy."

"I don't like Joy," said Gypsy, bluntly.

"I know that, and I am sorry it is so," said her mother. "I understand
just what Joy is. But it is not all her fault. She has not been trained
just as you have, Gypsy. She was never taught and helped to be a
generous gentle child, as you have been taught and helped. Your uncle
and aunt felt differently about these things; but it is no matter about
that now—you will understand it better when you are older. It is
enough for you to know that Joy has great excuse for her faults. Even if
they were twice as great as they are, one wouldn't think much about them
now; the poor child is in great trouble, lonely and frightened and
motherless. Think, if God took away your mother, Gypsy."

"But Joy didn't care much about her mother," said honest Gypsy. "She
used to scold her, Joy told me so herself. Besides, I heard her, ever so
many times."

"Peace be with the dead, Gypsy; let all that go. She was all the mother
Joy had, and if you had seen what I saw a night or two before I came
away, you wouldn't say she didn't love her."

"What was it?" asked Gypsy.

"Your auntie was lying all alone, upstairs. I went in softly, to do one
or two little things about the room, thinking no one was there.

"One faint gaslight was burning, and in the dimness I saw that the sheet
was turned down from the face, and a poor little quivering figure was
crouched beside it on the bed. It was Joy. She was sobbing as if her
heart would break, and such sobs—it would have made you cry to hear
them, Gypsy. She didn't hear me come in, and she began to talk to the
dead face as if it could hear her. Do you want to know what she said?"

Gypsy was looking very hard the other way. She nodded, but did not
speak, gulping down something in her throat.

"This was what she said—softly, in Joy's frightened way, you know:
'You're all I had anyway,' said she. 'All the other girls have got
mothers, and now I won't ever have any, any more. I did used to bother
you and be cross about my practising, and not do as you told me, and I
wish I hadn't, and—

"Oh—hum, look here—mother," interrupted Gypsy, jumping up and
winking very fast, "isn't there a train up from Boston early Monday
morning? She might come in that, you know."

Mrs. Breynton smiled.

"Then she may come, may she?"

"I rather think she may," said Gypsy, with an emphasis. "I'll write her
a letter and tell her so."

"That will be a good plan, Gypsy. But you are quite sure? I don't want
you to decide this matter in too much of a hurry."

"She'll sleep in the front room, of course?" suggested Gypsy.

"No; if she comes, she must sleep with you. With our family and only one
servant, I could hardly keep up the extra work that would cause for six
months or a year."

"Six months or a year! In my room!"

Gypsy walked back and forth across the room two or three times, her
merry forehead all wrinkled into a knot.

"Well," at last, "I've said it, and I'll stick to it, and I'll try to
make her have a good time, anyway."

"Come here, Gypsy."

Gypsy came, and one of those rare, soft kisses—very different from the
ordinary, everyday kisses—that her mother gave her when she hadn't
just the words to say how pleased she was, fell on her forehead, and
smoothed out the knot before you could say "Jack Robinson."

That very afternoon Gypsy wrote her note to Joy:

    "Dear Joy:

    "I'm real sorry your mother died. You'd better come right up here
    next week, and we'll go chestnutting over by Mr. Jonathan Jones's. I
    tell you it's splendid climbing up. If you're very careful, you
    needn't tear your dress very badly. Then there's the raft, and you
    might play baseball, too. I'll teach you.

    "You see if you don't have a nice time. I can't think of anything
    more to say.

    "Your affectionate cousin,

    "Gypsy."




CHAPTER III

ONE EVENING


So it was settled, and Joy came. There was no especial day appointed for
the journey. Her father was to come up with her as soon as he had
arranged his affairs so that he could do so, and then to go directly
back to Boston and sail at once.

Gypsy found plenty to do, in getting ready for her cousin. This having a
roommate for the first time in her life was by no means an unimportant
event to her. Her room had always been her own especial private
property. Here in a quiet nook on the broad window-sill she had curled
herself up for hours with her new story-books; here she had locked
herself in to learn her lessons, and keep her doll's dressmaking out of
Winnie's way; here she had gone away alone to have all her "good cries;"
here she sometimes spent a part of her Sabbath evenings with her most
earnest and sober thoughts.

Here was the mantel-shelf, covered with her little knick-knacks that no
one was ever allowed to touch but herself—pictures framed in pine
cones, boxes of shell-work, baskets of wafer-work, cologne-bottles,
watchcases, ivy-shoots and minerals, on which the dust accumulated at
its own sweet will, and the characteristic variety and arrangement
whereof none ever disputed with her. What if Joy should bring a trunkful
of ornaments?

There in the wardrobe were her treasures covering six shelves—her
kites and balls of twine, fishlines and doll's bonnets, scraps of gay
silk and jackknives, old compositions and portfolios, colored paper and
dried moss, pieces of chalk and horse-chestnuts, broken jewelry and
marbles. It was a curious collection. One would suppose it to be a sort
of co-partnership between the property of a boy and girl, in which the
boy decidedly predominated.



Into this wardrobe Gypsy looked regretfully. Three of those
shelves—those precious shelves—must be Joy's now. And what should
be done with the things?

Then there were the bureau drawers. What sorcerer's charms, to say
nothing of the somewhat unwilling fingers of a not very enthusiastic
little girl, could cram the contents of four (and those so full that
they were overflowing through the cracks) into two?

Moreover, as any one acquainted with certain chapters in Gypsy's past
history will remember, her premises were not always celebrated for the
utmost tidiness. And here was Joy, used to her elegant carpets and
marble-covered bureaus, and gas-fixtures and Cochituate, with servants
to pick up her things for her ever since she was a baby! How shocked she
would be at the dust, and the ubiquitous slippers, and the slips and
shreds on the carpet; and how should she have the least idea what it was
to have to do things yourself?

However, Gypsy put a brave face on it, and emptied the bureau drawers,
and squeezed away the treasures into three shelves, and did her best to
make the room look pleasant and inviting to the little stranger. In
fact, before she was through with the work she became really very much
interested in it. She had put a clean white quilt upon the bed, and
looped up the curtain with a handsome crimson ribbon, taken from the
stock in the wardrobe. She had swept and dusted every corner and
crevice; she had displayed all her ornaments to the best advantage, and
put fresh cologne in the bottles. She had even brought from some
sanctum, where it was folded away in the dark, a very choice silk flag
about four inches long, that she had made when the war began, and was
keeping very tenderly to wear when Richmond was taken, and pinned it up
over her looking-glass.

On the table, too, stood her Parian vase filled with golden and
blood-red maple-leaves, and the flaming berries of the burning-bush.
Very prettily the room looked, when everything was finished, and Gypsy
was quite proud of it.

Joy came Thursday night. They were all in the parlor when the coach
stopped, and Gypsy ran out to meet her.

A pale, sickly, tired-looking child, draped from head to foot in black,
came up the steps clinging to her father's hand, and fretting over
something or other about the baggage.

Gypsy was springing forward to meet her, but stopped short. The last
time she had seen Joy, she was in gay Stuart-plaid silk and corals. She
had forgotten all about the mourning. How thin and tall it made Joy
look!

Gypsy remembered herself in a minute and threw her arms warmly around
Joy's neck. But Joy did not return the embrace, and gave her only one
cold kiss. She had inferred from Gypsy's momentary hesitation that she
was not glad to see her.

Gypsy, on her part, thought Joy was proud and disagreeable. Thus the two
girls misunderstood each other at the very beginning.

"I'm real glad to see you," said Gypsy.

"I thought we never should get here!" said Joy, petulantly. "The cars
were so dusty, and your coach jolts terribly. I shouldn't think the town
would use such an old thing."

Gypsy's face fell, and her welcome grew faint.

Joy had but little to say at supper. She sat by her father and ate her
muffins like a very hungry, tired child—like a very cross child, Gypsy
thought. Joy's face was always pale and fretful; in the bright lamplight
now, after the exhaustion of the long journey, it had a pinched,
unpleasant look.

"Hem," coughed Tom, over his teacup. Gypsy looked up and their eyes met.
That look said unutterable things.



If it had not been for Mrs. Breynton, that supper would have been a
dismal affair. But she had such a cozy, comfortable way about her, that
nobody could help being cozy and comfortable if they tried hard for it.
After a while, when Mr. Breynton and his brother had gone away into the
library for a talk by themselves, and Joy began to feel somewhat rested,
she brightened up wonderfully, and became really quite entertaining in
her account of her journey. She thought Vermont looked cold and stupid,
however, and didn't remember having noticed much about the mountains,
for which Gypsy thought she should never forgive her.

But there was at least one thing Gypsy found out that evening to like
about Joy. She loved her father dearly. One could not help noticing how
restless she was while he was out of the room, and how she watched the
door for him to come back; how, when he did come, she stole away from
her aunt and sat down by him, slipping her hand softly into his. As he
had been all her life the most indulgent and patient of fathers, and was
going, early to-morrow morning, thousands of miles away from her into
thousands of unknown dangers, it was no wonder.

While it was still quite early, Joy proposed going to bed. She was
tired, and besides, she wanted to unpack a few of her things. So Gypsy
lighted the lamp and went up with her.

"So I am to sleep with you," said Joy, as they opened the door, in by no
means the happiest of tones, though they were polite enough.

"Yes. Mother thought it was better. See, isn't my room pretty?" said
Gypsy, eagerly, thinking how pleased Joy would be with the little
welcome of its fresh adornments.

"Oh, is this it?"

Gypsy stopped short, the hot color rushing all over her face.

"Of course, it isn't like yours. We can't afford marble bureaus and
Brussels carpets, but I thought you'd like the maple-leaves, and I
brought out the flag on purpose because you were coming."

"Flag! Where? Oh, yes. I have one ten times as big as that at home,"
said Joy, and then she too stopped short, for she saw the expression of
Gypsy's face. Astonished and puzzled, wondering what she had done, Joy
turned away to unpack, when her eye fell on the vase with its gorgeous
leaves and berries, and she cried out in real delight: "O—oh, how
pretty! Why, we don't have anything like this in Boston."

But Gypsy was only half comforted.

Joy unlocked her trunk then, and for a few minutes they chatted merrily
over the unpacking. Where is the girl that doesn't like to look at
pretty clothes? and where is the girl that doesn't like to show them if
they happen to be her own? Joy's linen was all of the prettiest pattern,
with wonderful trimmings and embroideries such as Gypsy had seldom seen:
her collars and undersleeves were of the latest fashion, and fluted with
choice laces; her tiny slippers were tufted with velvet bows, and of her
nets and hair-ribbons there was no end. Gypsy looked on without a single
pang of envy, contrasting them with her own plain, neat things, of
course, but glad, in Gypsy's own generous fashion, that Joy had them.

"I had pretty enough things when you were in Boston," said Joy,
unfolding her heavy black dresses with their plain folds of bombazine
and crape. "Now I can't wear anything but this ugly black. Then there
are all my corals and malachites just good for nothing. Madame St.
Denis—she's the dressmaker—said I couldn't wear a single thing but
jet, and jet makes me look dreadfully brown."

Gypsy hung up the dress that was in her hand and walked over to the
window. She felt very much as if somebody had been drawing a file across
her front teeth.

She could not have explained what was the matter. Somehow she seemed to
see a quick picture of her own mother dying and dead, and herself in the
sad, dark dresses. And how Joy could speak so—how she could!

"Oh—only two bureau drawers! Why didn't you give me the two upper
ones?" said Joy, presently, when she was ready to put away her collars
and boxes.

"Because my things were in there," said Gypsy.

"But your things were in the lower ones just as much."

"I like the upper drawers best," said Gypsy, shortly.

"So do I," retorted Joy.

The hot color rushed over Gypsy's face for the second time, but now it
was a somewhat angry color.

"It wasn't very pleasant to have to give up any, and there are all those
wardrobe shelves I had to take my things off from too, and I don't think
you've any right to make a fuss."

"That's polite!" said Joy, with a laugh. Gypsy knew it wasn't, but for
that very reason she wouldn't say so.

One more subject of dispute came up almost before this was forgotten.
When they were all ready to go to bed, Joy wanted the front side.

"But that's where I always sleep," said Gypsy.

"There isn't any air over the back side and I can't breathe," said Joy.

"Neither can I," said Gypsy.

"I never can get to sleep if I don't have the place I'm used to," said
Joy.

"You can just as well as I can," said Gypsy. "Besides, it's my bed."

This last argument appeared to be unanswerable, and Gypsy had it her
way.

She thought it over before she went to sleep, which was not very soon;
for Joy was restless, and tossed on her pillow, and talked in her
dreams. Of course the front side and the upper drawers belonged to
her—yes, of course. She had only taken her rights. She would be
obliged to anybody to show her where she was to blame.

Joy went to sleep without any thoughts, and therein lay just the
difference.




CHAPTER IV

CHESTNUTS


Something woke Gypsy very early the next morning. She started up, and
saw Joy standing by the bed, in the faint, gray light, all dressed and
shivering with the cold.

"Well, I never!" said Gypsy.

"What's the matter?"

"What on earth have you got your dress on in the middle of the night
for?"

"It isn't night; it's morning."

"Morning! it isn't any such a thing."

"'Tis, too. I heard the clock strike five ever so long ago."

Gypsy had fallen back on the pillow, almost asleep again. She roused
herself with a little jump.

"See here!"

"Ow! how you frightened me," said Joy, with another jump.



"Did I? Oh, well"—silence. "I don't see"—another silence—"what you
wear my rubber—rubber boots for."

"Your rubber boots! Gypsy Breynton, you're sound asleep."

"Asleep!" said Gypsy, sitting up with a jerk, and rubbing both fists
into her eyes. "I'm just as wide awake as you are. Oh, why, you're
dressed!"

"Just found that out?" Joy broke into a laugh, and Gypsy, now quite
awake, joined in it merrily. For the first time a vague notion came to
her that she was rather glad Joy came. It might be some fun, after all,
to have somebody round all the time to—in that untranslatable girls'
phrase—"carry on with."

"But I don't see what's up," said Gypsy, winking and blinking like an
owl to keep her eyes open.

"Why, I was afraid father'd get off before I was awake, so I was
determined he shouldn't. I guess I kept waking up pretty much all night
to see if it wasn't time."

"I wish he didn't have to go," said Gypsy. She felt sorry for Joy just
then, seeing this best side of her that she liked. For about a minute
she wished she had let her have the upper drawer.



Joy's father started by a very early train, and it was still hardly
light when he sat down to his hurried breakfast, with Joy close by him,
that pale, pinched look on her face, and so utterly silent that Gypsy
was astonished. She would have thought she cared nothing about her
father's going, if she had not seen her standing in the gray light
upstairs.

"Joyce, my child, you haven't eaten a mouthful," said her father.

"I can't."

"Come, dear, do, just a little, to please father."

Joy put a spoonful of tea to her lips, and put it down. Presently there
was a great rumbling of wheels outside, and the coachman rang the
door-bell.

"Well, Joy."

Joy stood up, but did not speak. Her father, holding her close in his
arms, drew her out with him into the entry. Mrs. Breynton turned away;
so did Gypsy and the rest. In a minute they heard Joy go into the parlor
and shut the door, and then her father called out to them with his
cheerful good-byes, and then he was in the coach, and the door was shut.

Gypsy stole into the parlor. Joy was standing there alone by the window.

"Why don't you cry?" said Gypsy; "I would."

"I don't want to," said Joy, moving away. Her sorrow at parting with her
father made her fretful that morning. This was Joy's way. She had
inherited her mother's fashion of taking trouble. Gypsy did not
understand it, and her sympathy cooled a little. Still she really wanted
to do something to make her happy, and so she set about it in the only
ways she knew.

"See here, Joy," she called, merrily, after breakfast, "let's come out
and have a good time. I have lots and lots to show you out in the barn
and round. Then there is all Yorkbury besides, and the mountains.
Which'll you do first, see the chickens or walk out on the ridge-pole?"

"On the what?"

"On the ridge-pole; that's the top of the roof, you know, over the
kitchen. Tom and I go out there ever so much."

"Oh, I'd rather see the chickens. I should think you'd kill yourself
walking on roofs. Wait till I get my gloves."

"Oh, you don't want gloves in Yorkbury," said Gypsy, with a very
superior air. "That's nothing but a Boston fashion. Slip on your hat and
sack in a jiff, and come along."

"I shall tan my hands," said Joy, reluctantly, as they went out.
"Besides, I don't know what a jiff is."

"A jiff is—why, it's short for jiffy, I suppose."

"But what's a jiffy?" persisted Joy.

"Couldn't tell you," said Gypsy, with a bubbling laugh; "I guess it's
something that's in a terrible hurry. Tom says it ever so much."

"I shouldn't think your mother would let you use boys' talk," said Joy.
Gypsy sometimes stood in need of some such hint as this, but she did not
relish it from Joy. By way of reply she climbed up the post of the
clothesline.

Joy thought the chickens were pretty, but they had such long legs, and
such a silly way of squealing when you took them up, as if you were
going to murder them. Besides she was afraid she should step on them. So
they went into the barn, and Gypsy exhibited Billy and Bess and Clover
with the talent of a Barnum and the pride of a queen. Billy was the old
horse who had pulled the family to church through the sand every Sunday
since the children were babies, and Bess and Clover were white-starred,
gentle-eyed cows, who let Gypsy pull their horns and tickle them with
hay, and make pencil-marks on their white foreheads to her heart's
content, and looked at Joy's strange face with great musing beautiful
brown eyes. But Joy was afraid they would hook her, and she didn't like
to be in a barn.

"What! not tumble on the hay!" cried Gypsy, half way up the ladder into
the loft. "Just see what a quantity there is of it. Did you ever know
such a quantity? Father lets me jump on it 'cause I don't hurt the
hay—very much."

No. Joy couldn't possibly climb up the ladder. Well, Gypsy would help
her then. By a little maneuvering she persuaded Joy to step up three
rounds, and she herself stood behind her and began to walk up. Joy
screamed and stood still.

"Go ahead—you can't stop now. I'll keep hold of you," said Gypsy,
choking with laughter, and walking on. There was nothing for Joy to do
but climb, unless she chose to be walked over, so up they went, she
screaming and Gypsy pushing all the way.

"Now all you have to do is just to get up on the beams and jump off,"
said Gypsy, up there, and peering down from among the cobwebs, and
flying through the air, almost before the words were off from her lips.
But Joy wouldn't hear of getting into such a dusty place. She took two
or three dainty little rolls on the hay, but the dried clover got into
her hair and mouth and eyes, and she was perfectly sure there was a
spider down her neck; so Gypsy was glad at last to get her safely down
the ladder and out doors.

After that they tried the raft. Gypsy's raft was on a swamp below the
orchard, and it was one of her favorite amusements to push herself about
over the shallow water. But Joy was afraid of wetting her feet, or
getting drowned, or something—she didn't exactly know what, so they
gave that up.

Then Gypsy proposed a game of marbles on the garden path. She played a
great deal with Tom, and played well. But Joy was shocked at the idea.
That was a boy's play!

"What will you do, then?" said Gypsy, a little crossly. Joy replied in
the tone of a martyr, that she was sure she did not know. Gypsy coughed,
and walked up and down on the garden fence in significant silence.

Joy was not to go to school till Monday. Meantime she amused herself at
home with her aunt, and Gypsy went as usual without her.

Saturday afternoon was the perfect pattern of an autumn afternoon. A
creamy haze softened the sharp outline of the mountains, and lay
cloudlike on the fields. The sunlight fell through it like sifted gold,
the sky hung motionless and blue—that glowless, deepening blue that
always made Gypsy feel, she said, "as if she must drink it right
up"—and away over miles of field and mountain slope the maples
crimsoned and flamed.

Gypsy came home at noon with her hat hanging down her neck, her cheeks
on fire, and panting like the old lady who died for want of breath;
rushing up the steps, tearing open the door, and slamming into the
parlor.

"Look here!—everybody—where are you? What do you think? Joy! Mother!
There's going to be a great chestnutting."

"A what?" asked Joy, dropping her embroidery.

"A chestnutting, up at Mr. Jonathan Jones's trees, this afternoon at two
o'clock. Did you ever hear anything so perfectly mag?"—mag being
"Gypsy" for magnificent.

"Who are to make the party?" asked her mother.

"Oh, I and Sarah Rowe and Delia Guest and—and Sarah Rowe and I," said
Gypsy, talking very fast.

"And Joy," said Mrs. Breynton, gently.

"Joy, of course. That's what I came in to say."

"Oh, I don't care to go if you don't want me," said Joy, with a slighted
look.

"But I do want you. Who said I didn't?"

"Well," said Joy, somewhat mollified, "I'll go if there aren't any
spiders."

The two girls equipped themselves with tin pails, thick boots and a
lunch-basket, and started off in high spirits at precisely half-past
one. Joy had a remarkably vague idea of what she was going to do, but
she felt unusually good-natured, as who could help feeling, with such a
sunlight as that and such distant glories of the maple-trees, and such
shadows melting on the mountains!

"I want to go chestnotting, too-o-o!" called Winnie, disconsolate, in
the doorway.

"No, Winnie, you couldn't, possibly," said Gypsy, pleasantly, sorry to
disappoint him; but she was quite too well acquainted with Winnie to
undertake a nutting party in his company.

"Oh, yes, do let's take him; he's so cunning," said Joy. Joy was totally
unused to children, having never had brothers and sisters of her own,
and since she had been there, Winnie had not happened to develop in any
of his characteristic methods. Moreover, he had speedily discovered that
Joy laughed at everything he said; even his most ordinary efforts in the
line of wit; and that she gave him lumps of sugar when she thought of
it; and therefore he had been on his best behavior whenever she was
about.

"He's so terribly cunning," repeated Joy; "I guess he won't do any
hurt."

"I won't do any hurt," put in Winnie; "I'm real cunnin', Gypsy."

"You may do as you like, of course," said Gypsy. "I know he will make
trouble and spoil all the party, and the girls would scold me 'cause I
brought him. I've tried it times enough. If you're a mind to take care
of him, I suppose you can; but you see if you don't repent your
bargain."

Gypsy was perfectly right; she was not apt to be selfish in her
treatment of Winnie. Such a tramp as this was not at all suited to his
capacities of feet or temper, and if his mother had been there she would
have managed to make him happy in staying home. But Winnie had received
quite too much encouragement; he had no thought of giving up his bargain
now.

"Gypsy Breynton, you just needn't talk. I'm goin' chestnotting. I'm five
years old. I'm goin' with cousin Joy, and I'll eat just as many
chestnots as you or anybody else, now!"

Gypsy had not the slightest doubt of that, and the three started off
together.

They met Sarah Rowe and Delia on the way, and Gypsy introduced them.

"This is my cousin Joy, and this is Sarah. That one in the shaker bonnet
is Delia Guest. Oh, I forgot. Joy's last name is Breynton, and Sarah is
Sarah Rowe."

Joy bowed in her prim, cityish way, and Sarah and Delia were so much
astonished thereat that they forgot to bow at all, and Delia stared
rudely at her black dress. There was an awkward silence.

"Why don't you talk, somebody?" broke out Gypsy, getting desperate.
"Anybody'd think we were three mummies in a museum."

"I don't think you're very perlite," put in Winnie, with a virtuous
frown; "if you don't let me be a dummy, too, I'll tell mother, and that
would make four."

This broke the ice, and Sarah and Delia began to talk very fast about
Monday's grammar lesson, and Miss Cardrew, and how Agnes Gaylord put a
green snake in Phœbe Hunt's lunch-basket, and had to stay after school
for it, and how it was confidently reported in mysterious whispers, at
recess, that George Castles told Mr. Guernsey he was a regular old fogy,
and Mr. Guernsey had sent home a letter to his father—not Mr.
Guernsey's father, but George's; he had now, true's you live.

Now, to Joy, of course, none of this was very interesting, for she had
not been into the schoolroom yet, and didn't know George Castles and
Agnes Gaylord from Adam; and somehow or other it never occurred to Gypsy
to introduce some subject in which they could all take part; and so
somehow it came about that Joy fell behind with Winnie, and the three
girls went on together all the way to Mr. Jones's grove.

"Isn't it splendid?" called Gypsy, turning around. "I'm having a real
nice time."

"Ye—es," said Joy, dolefully; "I guess I shall like it better when we
get to the chestnuts."

Nothing particular happened on the way, except that when they were
crossing Mr. Jonathan's plowed field, Winnie stuck in the mud tight, and
when he was pulled out he left his shoes behind him; that he repeated
this pleasing little incident six consecutive times within five minutes,
varying it by lifting up his voice to weep, in Winnie's own accomplished
style; and that Joy ended by carrying him in her arms the whole way.

Be it here recorded that Joy's ideal of "cherubic childhood," Winnie
standing as representative cherub, underwent then and there several
modifications.

"Here we are!" cried Gypsy at last, clearing a low fence with a bound.
"Just see the leaves and the sky. Isn't it just—oh!"

It was, indeed "just," and there it stopped; there didn't seem to be any
more words to say about it. The chestnut-trees were clustered on a
small, rocky knoll, their golden-brown leaves fluttering in the
sunlight, their great, rich, bursting green burs bending down the boughs
and dropping to the ground. Around them and among them a belt of maples
