Stephen Dane smiled contemptuously when he heard 
 
this. Poor little Hope, how would she fare? He re- 
solved then that this money in his possession should be 
held in trust for Hope. At some distant day he would 
restore it to her. 
There were many hard struggles during the first year, 
on their limited capital. They were both energetic and 
persevering, and found good friends. The second year 
they began to breathe more freely, and go back to the 
old enthusiasm concerning their experiment. All their 
spare hours were spent upon the model. New theories 
took the place of old ones. It became to both an ob- 
ject of more than interest strange, wonderful love. 
Disappointment endeared it only the more. And as it 
approached completion, as it worked more and more 
satisfactorily, their enthusiasm grew into reverence. 
Yet all of Stephen Dane's life did not go into this. 
As soon as circumstances warranted, he had changed to 
a more comfortable abode, something he could beautify 
with flowers and sunshine. They had a " best room," 
with a bright carpet on the floor, and a few cheap pic- 
tures that he had found at an old second-hand stall, of 
much more value than their price indicated. One, a 
warm, changeful thing, with tints of sunset glow, bits 
of silvery water, and a shallow, pebbly lake-shore, the 
tiny stones washed to whiteness by the slow motion of 
the current. Some books on a shelf though these 
were mostly of a scientific nature ; an easy chair, cush- 
ioned with crimson worsted damask, where his father 
 
could sit and doze. The old man had changed some- 
what. He would always be thin, angular, and shaky, 
but his clothes were clean and whole, his hair and beard 
neatly trimmed. They were snow-white now. 
Joe had improved, too. She no longer went about 
slip-shod, with torn dresses and disordered hair. Ste- 
phen had insisted upon a dress-maker taking her in 
hand ; and it was astonishing to see how her whole 
figure had changed. Her hair, the only beauty she 
possessed, for it was long, soft, and fine, and of a 
shadowy, purple-black tint, was trained into a luxuri- 
ant coil at the back of her head, with no stray, untidy 
ends. Her collar was always fresh and white, fastened 
with a knot of ribbon. Stephen kept her well supplied. 
It seemed as if he had inherited all these delicate, wo- 
manly attributes, a quick eye and refined taste, a cer- 
tain sense of harmony and propriety. Joe lacked them 
entirely. She had so little perception or tact. She did 
these things, not from any love of being pretty, but 
simply because they pleased Stephen. If living in some 
wretched hut without them would have won his love, 
she would have been satisfied all the same. Apart 
from him, beauty or order was of but little consequence 
to her. 
She studied somewhat, too. Hard work it was. She 
had an innate dislike to books. She puzzled her brains 
over them until her whole body revolted. She left off 
her provincialisms, she no longer clipped her words in 
 
ignorant economy, and yet she was far from any re- 
ceived standard of intellectuality. A shadow of the 
old life would always hang about her. Was it some 
inherent birth-mark? It was true she had come of 
generations of sloth, thriftlessness, and dissipation. 
Who shall answer for it? Who has deprived these 
weak, uncertain souls of the sure stay and support 
the birthright God meant them to have ? 
There was but one strong passion in the nature of 
Josephine Dane her love for Stephen. A more 
vigorous minded girl might have found a mate beyond 
the precincts of her home, but with Joe, association was 
a great deal. Her soul seemed to be purely mechani- 
cal. Put it in any common groove, and it would soon 
become accustomed to the routine, and ask no other. 
It would never torment you by sending out troublesome 
shoots, by forcing a passage up into the light and air, 
or demanding finer nourishment than it found in its 
narrow sphere. She had loved him, not for any strong 
or striking characteristic, but simply because he came 
in her way. Her highest ideal of life had been Sally 
Fawcett. A jolly, not over neat matron, laughing and 
scolding in a breath ; taking life easy if the house did 
remain unswept, and the children tumbling about in 
rags. She had fancied herself falling into something 
like this. What if Stephen did go to the tavern and 
come home a little merry? His kisses even then would 
be sweeter than clean, orderly silence and abstinence. 
 
And if children hung about her knees or tangled their 
sticky hands in her unkempt hair, what matter, so 
long as they were his ! 
But this day-dream was going' through a slow, cruel 
process of disillusion. That careless, rollicking exist- 
ence would never be hers. She was lifted up to a new 
sphere one less congenial. Thought, or any kind of 
brain work, was hard labor to her. She would rather 
stand over the steaming washing-tub all day. Stephen 
went up to new heights easily and naturally, and to be 
a little nearer him, she followed reluctantly. 
And yet she seemed to understand that the gulf 
between them was widening, had been ever since the 
advent of Adams and the books. She was not so happy 
for it he happier. This was what she could not 
account for, and she held against them a sort of jealous 
grudge. As if Stephen had no right to outstrip her ! 
Stephen, being a man, and much occupied with his 
labor and his plans, studied Joe very superficially. 
So long as she was comfortable and made no com- 
plaints, so long as her calico dresses were neat and trim, 
the cherry-colored ribbon at her throat fresh, and her 
bonnet not too showy in its floral adornments, he was 
satisfied. To have her read a whole page, or a news- 
paper column, without stumbling or miscalling words, 
and write a neat order for the grocer, were achieve- 
ments in his eyes. He praised her for them. And the 
smiles, the kind words, gave her hope when hope was 
 
almost 'dead. It never occurred to her that it might 
not be as easy for Stephen to love her, as it was for her 
to love him. 
At last the most eventful day of Stephen Dane's life 
drew nigh. The model had been removed to the shop 
of a friend, a man well known in business circles, and 
who had been very kind to these young beginners, so 
stubbornly contesting Dame Fortune. A number of 
scientific men and practical machinists had been invited 
to the trial. 
"If you want to go up, Adams," Dane said in an un- 
steady voice, "go on. I'd rather stay here. Somehow 
it seems like trying a critical surgical operation on a 
beloved child. You don't know whether it will fail or 
succeed. And I believe I'm a coward. If I should 
have to take the poor mangled remains back into my 
arms, I should break down into womanish tears." 
"Don't talk so, Dane; you make me nervous. It 
can't fail. McKinstry said so, and his word is as good 
as any of them. He offered to buy us both out this 
morning. Yes, I'd like to go, and you must too, 
Dane. Let's shut up shop, and take a holiday. We've 
earned it." 
"No, no; I couldn't stand it. I'm in earnest, 
Adams. To come so near, and fail ! " 
Tut, man ! Who thinks of failure ? " 
"Go on then." 
 
" And come back a successful man on the high road 
to fortune. Is that what you mean ? " 
Stephen gave a faint and sickly smile. His whole 
system was unnerved. He had known nothing like this 
since those fearful days at Tregony, when life itself 
hung on a thread a word. 
The two workmen, stolid and grimy, went on with 
their usual indifference. They had nothing at stake. 
Stephen glanced furtively at his father. Sitting op- 
posite there, before a bench his son had rigged up to 
please him, straightening little bars of iron, trying them 
in the vice, riveting them together, smiling in his un- 
meaning way, or talking to himself. It gratified him 
so to be employed. He had a fancy he did his son 
good service, and Stephen encouraged these harmless 
vagaries. He even took a strange comfort in the poor, 
worn life. It had grown so near to him that it almost 
seemed something of his own. There was no point of 
duty in which he failed now. He humbly repented 
those rebellious thoughts when he first learned that 
God meant he should take up this heavy cross. Daily 
wearing had made it light. And so we sometimes find 
a sweet and strengthening grace in our bitterest trials. 
At noon he locked the shop and walked home, with 
his father trudging by his side. . The people he met in 
the street no longer wondered at his tender care. An 
old woman who kept a stand on the corner always gave 
them a bright smile. " Such a good son ! " and a sigh, 
 
that was more of commendation than grief, would usurp 
the smile. 
" Well ? " Joe exclaimed. It was her usual style of 
questioning. 
"We have not heard yet." And then Stephen ate 
his dinner in silence. Joe had grown used to his grave 
ways. 
Back again. There was so much routine to life. 
You did the same things over and over every day. 
Adams ran in once, his face full of the wildest 
enthusiasm. 
"Tell you what, Dane, they're putting her through 
h-a-r-d," with a lingering emphasis. "And she's just 
splendid ! They can't find a flaw in her if they work 
from now until Christmas. No fear of her coming 
back with amputated limbs. Our child, Dane ! " 
A warmth and glow of fathership overspreading him, 
permeating every fibre of his body. He was at the 
very summit of happiness. It was wife, child, and all 
to him. 
Then the bells rang for six. A pleasant summer 
day it was. Stephen loitered about the shop. All 
day he had lived in a dream, hardly daring to think. 
By this time 
"Dane, old fellow! we're rich men, both of us;" 
and Adams's hand came down vigorously on the other's 
shoulder. " McKinstry and Disbrow want you, straight. 
Why, we've half revolutionized the world of steam. 
 
One more discovery and we shall go up to the top of 
the ladder. How grave you are ! Don't you believe 
it? Why, I threw up my old hat Silas Adams 
forty and odd years old ! " 
I think some tears came into Stephen Dane's deep 
and shady eyes. Three years ago he had been in 
Thomas Vennard's Foundery, studying on this question 
in his vague, ignorant way. Three years to-morrow 
since ah, no wonder he shivered I 
"Why, manfilive, what ails you?" 
Stephen roused himself. 
" Come, they're waiting." 
He glanced at his father. " I must take him home 
first." 
" Nonsense ! Bring him along. We'll find a quiet 
corner to put him " impatiently. 
" No ; let me take him home. I shall feel better." 
"But think, Dane ! It's late, and they're all waiting. 
I said I'd have you back in a twinkling. Come." 
He took the old man by the arm almost roughly. 
The frightened eyes turned imploringly to Stephen, 
who was locking the door. 
He soon released his father from the vehement grasp, 
and the three went on silently together. 
" One would think Dane had some terrible secret on 
his mind," mused Adams, a little crossly, to himself, 
never dreaming how near he came to the truth. 
But Stephen Dane brightened up amid the hearty 
 
congratulations of the group of which he had at once 
become the centre. For Adams had been generous. 
There was no meanness about the man. 
" We both worked on it, and did our best ; but I do 
believe the main idea that clinched the thing was 
Dane's. He's long-headed. The world will hear some- 
thing else of him if I'm not mistaken," Adams had said, 
warmly. 
It encouraged Stephen Dane to find himself so much 
at home with these educated men. By slow degrees 
he was coming up to his true place. A sort of informal 
talk this was ; but they all became better friends, and 
adjourned for business the next morning. It was really 
true. Fortune and fame were within his grasp. Why, 
three years ago he had thought himself the most misera- 
able and accursed man on God's earth ! 
"Take me home, Stephen," said a faltering, broken 
voice at his side ; and, turning, he beheld his father, the 
dull gray of his face deathly white, and his eyes fixed 
in a frightened stare. 
" I seen him, Stephen, a standin' over there. Don't 
let him take me ! Did he get up out o' the river ? " 
He put his strong arm around his father. He drew 
the shaking head down on his shoulder so that the un- 
thinking lips might be stopped. 
"Is he ill?" some one asked. 
"He is weak and wandering. I must take him 
home. I am the only child he ever had, and he 
 
clings to me. Poor father! I am here. Do not be 
afraid." 
Something in Stephen Dane's mien and tones filled 
them all with involuntary respect and admiration. 
McKinstry thought of his three sturdy boys growing 
up, and wondered if one of them would treat his white 
hairs with such filial tenderness. 
" Out o' the river, Stephen. All white, and dread- 
ful ! " 
Stephen Dane drew a long breath of dismay. 
Adams stood looking on. What if, at this height, he 
was to be hurled back into degradation ! He turned 
blindly. He lifted the trembling, cowering figure, 
shaking as if an ague fit had seized him. 
"My carriage is there in the yard," said Disbrow. 
" I insist upon your taking it, Dane. Here, let me 
call my man." 
Stephen carried him out, stopping the betraying 
mouth with kisses. He had never offered such a caress 
before, but he was in a great bound of agony now. 
The lips were soft as a child's, the breath no longer 
polluted with rum and tobacco. 
At last they were safe. The carriage door closed 
with a sharp click. The driver there on the front seat 
would never translate this pitiful moan 
" Out o' the river, Stephen ! " 
He carried his father through the room, and laid him 
on the bed, making a brief explanation to Joe. Then 
 
he administered a composing draught, and watched 
until drowsiness intervened. Archy Dane still twitched 
and quivered with some strong nervous shock. The 
eyes were but half closed, the white frightfully visible 
in contrast with his sunken, withered cheeks. 
"Is he going to be sick?" Joe asked, in a low tone, 
as Stephen sat down to the supper table. 
M I don't know. Something frightened him, I 
think." 
"He looks dreadfully as if he might die. I've' 
never seen anybody die, Stephen ; " and Joe shivered. 
" Don't think of it now." 
Stephen was glad that Joe slept up stairs. For all 
night his father gave fitful starts, and cried out with 
dim remembrances of the fatal deed that was bearing 
heavily upon him again. The son watched him, and 
thought, wildly and agonizingly enough at times. All 
day a sort of chill presentiment had hung over him. 
Perhaps because it was nearing this fatal season. 
He had hoped that memory would never return to his 
father. If life could go out quietly may be there was 
some mercy with God, that man knew not of. lie 
could see the weakness, the temptation, the unguarded 
moment ; and He was pity, as well as justice. 
The long night wore away; for long it seemed, al- 
though at midsummer. The stars softened and died 
out ; there were faint opal streaks coming up in the east, 
and a quiver of soft gray light. He extinguished the 
 
lamp and opened the blinds. A fragrant breath from 
distant river and meadow-land fluttered into the great 
city with dawn. How calm and peaceful the far- 
off heavens were ! God was so strong, so restful ! 
And Stephen Dane prayed not this time to have his 
burden removed, but for grace to bear it. God was 
wiser than he, leading him through paths he had not 
known. 
" Stephen ! " How unnaturally clear the tone was I 
He went back to the bed-side. 
"Is it night?" 
"No, morning. The sun is just rising." 
" If I could see it ! " 
Stephen raised him, and turned his face towards the 
window. The dull eyes rolled vacantly. 
" It's all dark. Don't leave me, Stephen." 
The old, old pleading. A strange awe fell over 
him. 
" Stephen, am I sick? Call your mother, boy." 
"Dear father, she is dead. Years and years agone, 
you know." 
"Dead ! " He caught fiercely at the word, grasping 
Stephen's arm. "Yes, he's dead. You needn't tell 
me. What do you know? Did he get up out o' the 
river, and tell you?" 
"No, no ; be quiet." 
" Stephen, what come o' Mr. Vennard?" 
Should he tell the truth? He was in an agony of 
doubt. 
 
"Stephen," the voice was low and awesome, and 
made the blood curdle in his veins, " Stephen, I mur- 
dered him ! I didn't mean to do it. I see him a 
countin' his money. He had so much, and we was so 
poor ! He hadn't any business with such a lot, while 
other folks hadn't none. I thought I'd just knock him 
over, an' make off afore he could get up. So I hit him 
with my fist one side o' his head, for I crep' up softly 
behind him. He keeled over like a log, an' never 
stirred. I took the money an' went off, an' when I 
looked back, and see him layin' so still and white, I 
was scared. I went to him an ris him up. There 
was a great gash t'other side of his head, where he'd 
hit agin' a stone. I wet my han'kercher and tried to 
bring him to. But it wan't no use. He was dead. 
O, Stephen ! " 
Stephen Dane neither moved nor spoke. His lips 
were dry. His heart almost stood still. 
"I 'gin an awful scream. I couldn't help it. If the 
money would a' brought him back, he might a' had it 
for all me. I didn't know what to do, I was so 
frightened. I dragged him to the river, and tumbled 
him in. And he's come up agin', Stephen. Take me 
away where he'll never find me." 
"Can you listen to me, father?" Stephen's voice 
was strong and distinct. 
w You'll keep me safe ! You won't let him have 
me ? " with quivering terror in the faintest gesture. 
 
" Yes, safe. Now listen." And then Stephen went 
briefly and clearly over the particulars of that terrible 
event, the inquest, Forbes's arrest and acquittal, their 
removal from Tregony, and assured him again and 
'again of his safety. 
" Seems as if I'd been in a dream. So, they buried 
him, put him in the ground. He can't get up. But 
I didn't mean to, Stephen, God knows. And if I could 
a' given my life for his'n, to bring him back What 'll 
God say?" 
O, it was coming near. That fateful question 
what could he answer ! 
"I never touched the money. I lost it somewhere 
I forget. And I didn't mean to kill him. Tell it to 
God, Stephen. You've been a good boy, an' He'll 
hear you. Tell him how sorry I was It's so 
dark. Where is He, Stephen?" 
In his agony of tender love^ Stephen prayed that 
God would forgive this poor soul as he forgave the 
thief upon the cross. That out of his infinite pity and 
boundless love, he would pardon the deed that had no 
malice in it or murderous intention. That he would 
wash the guilty soul in his own precious blood, shed for 
all sinners. 
" Stephen ! " the clutch was deathly in its intensity 
" did He hear you ? Mother taught me a prayer long 
ago I forget I can't see you get a light, Stephen ! 
Kiss me. She used to." 
 
He bent down in reverence. The lips were cold. 
"I can't remember . Hold me by the hand. Is 
it very far, Stephen ? I didn't mean to do it. God 
forgive me ! I didn't mean " 
The thin fingers relaxed their grasp. The jaw fell. 
There was a spasmodic convulsion, and all was still. 
Stephen Dane knelt by the bed-side and prayed. 
Joe found him there when she came down, and she 
knew by the first glimpse of his face that her uncle 
was dead. 
Of the men whom Stephen had met during the last 
year, Mr. McKinstry respected his grief the most. 
The little scene he had witnessed had touched him to 
the heart. He offered a pretty plot in Laurel Hill for 
the interment, and showed his sympathy in many 
delicate ways. That Stephen should be so prostrated 
by grief, scarcely surprised him. 
And yet I cannot say that Stephen sorrowed regret- 
fully, if deeply. He missed his father daily, hourly. 
He had been such a constant charge, such a child in all 
things, that the feeling of loneliness was very great. 
He hardly knew, until now, how much he had loved 
him. 
But it also brought a sense of relief and freedom. 
He could scarcely believe the shadowy dread had fallen 
off, that he was no longer walking on deceitful ground, 
where an earthquake might yawn at any moment. 
That awful secret was safe forevermore. 
 
And it was comforting to know that, although his 
father's hand was stained with crime, it was not so 
utterly foul and black. He had not intended murder. 
At that fatal moment he would have given his own life. 
Perhaps God remembered that in the country whither 
he had gone. 
To Stephen there came a great change after this. 
Holding their patent in their own hands, both he and 
Adams derived from it a considerable income. The 
little shop was given up. Adams received a very ad- 
vantageous offer from New York, and he would fain 
have persuaded Stephen to join him ; but McKinstry, at 
the head of a flourishing business himself, induced the 
young man to remain. Besides, he was attached to the 
place. Some strange, yearning affection held him near 
the spot where his father was sleeping peacefully ; the 
poor, weak, troublous soul forever at rest. 
And now Stephen Dane had arrived at that point of 
success where everything turns into gold. He bought 
a pretty cottage, and furnished it to his liking, install- 
ing Joe as mistress, though she longed for another and 
dearer title. To her he was utterly incomprehensible. 
She felt afraid of him in a most peculiar manner, and 
yet her love grew to be the mastering thought of her 
existence. 
The first money that Stephen felt he could call his, 
he invested, principal and interest, for Hope Ven- 
nard. The debt had always been sacred to him. He 
 
had heard that Mrs. Forsyth, shortly after her mar- 
riage, had gone to Europe. Adams had incidentally 
spoken of their return to New York, and the rumor 
that Mr. Forsyth had dissipated the greater part of his 
wife's fortune. A wild desire to see the little girl 
haunted Stephen. Fate had in some sense made him 
her protector, if she needed one. And so, five years 
after that terrible summer, with a new life opening be- 
fore him, he resolved to find Hope Vennard, and hence- 
forth keep watch over her. 
 
vni. 
HOPE. 
SILAS ADAMS, in his prosperity, had taken to 
himself a wife. Heretofore he had professed to 
hold matrimony somewhat in contempt. Perhaps his 
being well able to afford such a luxury now softened 
his views. And he had chosen, as men of that age 
often do, a little, sunny-haired, eager, impulsive being, 
who would never outgrow her childhood, and whose 
strongest charm lay in her ardent love for her husband. 
She amused and interested Stephen Dane from the fact 
of her being so unlike any woman he had ever met before. 
Adams had insisted upon his being domesticated 
with them during his stay in New York. No two 
women ever had more talking to do. Tregony, the 
old life together in Philadelphia, their success, and the 
many improvements since. Then there was so much 
to see in the city. At times Stephen felt confused and 
wearied with the never-ending variety. 
He had learned, without any questions, all that 
Adams knew of Mrs. Yennard, now Mrs. Forsyth. 
 
Mr. Forsyth had proved a dissipated spendthrift. He 
had wasted nearly all his wife's property. 
"It's a shame," Adams said. " So much as she must 
have had from her father ! But, Dane, I sometimes 
think how Vennard worked, and ground his men to the 
lowest ebb, all for what? That some one else might 
fool away the money. I'd like to know how the little 
girl fared between them. I thought I would hunt them 
up, just out of curiosity ; but I lost track, and haven't 
found the time, or the interest either, for that matter. 
One cannot look after everybody." 
With Stephen it was a sacred duty. Through his 
father's agency Hope had been deprived of her natural 
protector ; and now, if she was in any need, he must 
surely supply the place. He said nothing of his inten- 
tions to Adams, however ; it was too sore a subject 
with him for discussion. But in his daily walks, by 
the aid of a directory, he managed to find most of the 
Forsyths in the city. Of several he made inquiries. 
Once, indeed, he fancied he had gained a clew. But 
this Forsyth had disappeared with a second-rate actress, 
and of the wife he could find no trace. 
His stay drew to a close. Already it had exceeded 
his first limit. And yet he hated to leave the place 
without having made the slightest discovery. One hope 
was still left him : from the Ellicotts in Philadelphia, 
distant connections, he might learn something of Mrs. 
Forsyth. 
 
One warm October afternoon he had been rambling 
through the precincts east of City Hall, haunting old 
second-hand bookstalls, and discovering one or two 
curious pictures, of some far-back date. He hardly 
knew how the time had gone, until he saw throngs of 
men and boys hurrying homeward. Not caring to be 
jostled about by the crowd, he turned into a by-street 
and pursued his way leisurely. 
It became evident, ere long, that he had taken the 
wrong direction, for here he was coming out to the 
river. A damp, dirty smell pervaded the air, and 
groups of sharp-eyed, half-dressed children beset him. 
Sturdy little beggars, with their whining plea of, "Only 
one penny ; " or, if he listened, a more extended story 
of the sick mother or father, or household of helpless 
children. Many of them little girls, too. What if this 
should ever be Hope's fate? Why did he think of it? 
Surely it could not come to that ! 
She was twelve now. Quite a large girl, perhaps. 
And yet he could never see her as otherwise than the 
little child he had held in his arms. Her soft, beautiful 
hair, her pleading eyes, her sweet voice, how they all 
haunted him ! And that indefinable grace about her, 
that suggestion of fragrance : to think of her in con- 
nection with these wretches ! 
He wandei-ed on, seeming to face the river at every 
other turn. Gray evening had begun to fall. No ten- 
der sunset tints to penetrate these close, narrow streets. 
 
Harsh, discordant voices, shrill laughs that jarred upon 
his soul. A homesick longing stole over his heart. 
What was this? Rutgers Street cleaner and more 
quiet. He wanted to go towards the north, somewhere ; 
so he stood thinking. 
"If you please, sir " said a soft, hesitating voice 
at his side. 
He turned, but could not see her face : it was hidden 
by her hat. 
"Mother is sick, and we haven't anything to eat." 
The old story. He had not given to the noisy beg- 
gars down yonder ; so he drew some bits of change from 
his pocket, and thrust them in her hand. 
" Thank you ; " and she was gone. He walked on to 
the corner, and then paused. A man was lighting the 
street lamp ; should he ask him the direction ? 
"Sir!" 
He glanced around. The same little girl he could 
have told her voice. And now he remarked the strag- 
gling golden curls. 
" You gave me a gold piece. I thought may be it was 
a mistake, and ran back as fast as I could. There was 
a good deal besides." 
He caught the child and drew her towards the lamp. 
He pushed back her hat, and scanned her face eagerly. 
Thin and pale, with a pinched, forlorn look, and yet a 
certain air of native refinement. 
" What is your name ? " 
 
" O, please, sir, let me go. I never begged before. 
But there was nothing in the house, and mother was so 
hungry ! I didn't mind for myself." 
She was crying now, partly with fright, and partly 
because the grasp on her arm really hurt her. 
" Tell me your name ! " He did not know how excited 
his own voice was. For somehow this little face touched 
him strangely. 
"HopeForsyth." 
"Hope Vennard, you mean." He must always have 
her by that old name. He hated the Forsyth. It had 
worked her cruel wrong if it had reduced her to this. 
She looked at him with wild, startled eyes. 
" Where do you live ? Where is your mother ? " 
"Just down here." 
"Take me there." 
Pie placed his arm around her gently enough now. 
But he wanted to clasp her to his heart. Little Hope 
Vennard given back to him, to him alone ! 
They turned up a narrow court. He knew it was 
filthy, because he stepped into a pool of slimy water. 
She paused at the door. w It's up stairs. If you'll 
wait until I get a light." 
The same clear, delicate intonation that had struck 
him so oddly in the child. 
"Never mind. I can find my way." But he held 
her tightly by the hand. 
 
Up two flights of stairs. Here, a smell of salt fish ; 
there, beefsteak and onions. A crying baby ; a woman 
scolding; a man singing in a drunken, maudlin fashion. 
But on this floor it was quieter. 
She went in and lighted a candle. By the dim yellow 
ray he surveyed the room. Not positively barren, but 
feeling chill, and looking uncomfortable. 
" A gentleman, mamma. He gave me some money." 
There was an unconscious grace in this simple intro- 
duction. 
" Raise me up, Hope. I never sent the child out to 
beg before. We've been used to plenty all our lives, 
until now ; I never thought to die here like a dog ! " 
The voice was weak and fretful, breaking down into a 
cough. She was frightfully emaciated, the eyes sunken, 
the lips livid, the hands skeleton-like, and trembling. 
"I came to see if I could be of any assistance to you," 
Stephen Dane said, when he had recovered a little from 
his surprise. 
" I never thought to ask it from any one. We had 
plenty didn't we Hope ? until that villain " 
" Hush, dear ; it makes you cough." 
"You want a fire," Stephen began. "These autumn 
nights are chilly. Are there any stores near by ? " 
" Yes. I had better go," and Hope laid her mother 
down. " I shall find them sooner. I won't be gone but 
a moment." 
 
Stephen put the gold piece in her hand again. " Get 
everything you can think of," he said. 
w I'm sure you're very kind, sir. But it's hard to 
have to come to charity, when one has had every luxury 
of one's own. My father was very rich. So was my 
first husband. Hope was his child, but I'm sure I've 
been a mother to her. Only if I hadn't let him get hold 
of her money. He was a false, black-hearted villain." 
" Don't talk." She was coughing fearfully now, and 
Stephen noticed that the handkerchief she held to her 
mouth was saturated with blood. 
"Yes. I want to tell you. I married again a 
second cousin of my own. He was Hope's guardian. 
I thought he loved me so. But he only wanted the 
money. And when that was gone, he went off with an 
actress, a shameless hussy ! and left us here to starve. 
I've been ailing a long while. As much a broken heart, 
as anything." 
Her tone was querulous and bitter. Stephen Dane 
had never been prepossessed in her favor when she was 
Miss Ellicott. Going back to those crude perceptions, 
he had the key to the woman's whole character. Weak, 
vain, and self-indulgent, with no real strength or forti- 
tude, no faculty of governing circumstances. 
" How long since your husband went away ? " he 
asked presently. 
" In July. He took about a thousand dollars. It 
was Hope's money. I didn't mean that he should have 
it, but he threatened to kill us both. He was so in- 
fatuated with that woman ! And he took my diamonds ! 
I sold my jewelry and my dresses by degrees. We 
were forced to come here at last ; and now all is gone. 
There was nothing more to sell. I hoped I should die 
before it came to this. Poor Hope ! She never begged 
before ! " 
The child entered at this moment, her little arms 
full. She built a fire upon the hearth ; snuffed the 
candle and Stephen noticed in a vague way how the 
tallow had made a little roll at one side. A winding- 
sheet, superstitious Joe would have said. Well, one 
would soon be needed. 
" Can't I help you ? " said Stephen, coming up to Plope 
in an awkward way. 
" Get me something to eat, Hope," exclaimed the 
invalid, impatiently. " It's a hard thing to starve." 
Stephen Had looked after his father so long that he 
was at home in this department. When they had made 
some broth and administered it to Mrs. Forsyth, he 
remarked that Hope had purchased but sparingly. So 
he took up his hat. 
" Are you going ? " and Hope's voice was full of vague 
sadness. 
" Only to buy some more food, and see a physician. 
I will come back soon." 
 
Hope held the candle at the stairway. Once he 
glanced back at those entreating eyes. His little Hope I 
The more his because she was so friendless and forlorn. 
He returned laden with delicacies, and accompanied 
by a physician. The famished woman, in that extreme 
hunger which sometimes precedes consumptive dissolu- 
tion, was begging eagerly for something to eat. 
"Let her have anything that she wants," said the 
doctor. " Her pulse is very low. She cannot last but a 
little while." 
"How long?" 
w Two or three days at the utmost. She may drop 
off at any moment. This mixture will alleviate her 
cough that is all I can do." 
Hope and Stephen were left alone with the dying 
woman, though to both she looked much improved. 
Her voice grew stronger, and she would talk. She 
seemed to revel in that old time of luxury and ease. 
Her weak mind, even at the last, could not endure that 
this stranger should remain in ignorance of her true 
station. Of Mr. Forsyth she spoke with all the bitter- 
ness her feeble nature could command. And yet it was 
evident his sway over her had been complete. A hard 
master and a tyrant he had proved, a cruel, sensual 
man. 
" I couldn't help his getting Hope's money," she said, 
in her weak, pitiful defence. w He was her guardian. 
 
I tried to do my best. I have been good to you, Hope 
haven't I?" 
te Yes," said Hope, kissing the fevered brow with her 
cool lips. Which meant she had not beaten or other- 
wise maltreated her. But, for all motherly tenderness 
or sympathy, the child might as well have been utterly 
friendless. 
"I'm sure I meant it all for the best," in a whining 
tone. " I don't know what the poor child will do when 
I'm gone. Her father had some friends somewhere 
I've forgotten." 
" She shall be cared for." He turned the child 
around so that she faced him. "Will you trust me, 
Hope? "he asked. 
She looked at him questioningly. He was glad there 
was nothing about her to remind him of her father. 
" Will you ? " His voice trembled with emotion. 
"Yes." She placed one hand in his. 
Mrs. Forsyth's mind began to wander a little. But 
it was her second husband that troubled her thoughts. 
Of Mr. Vennard she never spoke at all. No one could 
have been more entirely forgotten. But when he 
married Lucy Ellicott, he did not desire any strong or 
forcible points of character. He had not considered his 
child's welfare only his own insatiable desire for 
wealth. 
Stephen felt that it would be impossible to go away 
 
and leave Hope alone with her mother. When this 
fever strength was spent, the last great change might 
come. Presently she grew drowsy, and fell into snatches 
of slumber, broken by incoherent mutterings. He drew 
his chair nearer the bed, and took Hope upon his knee. 
The poor, tired girl yielded to the sense of warmth, and 
relief from hunger, and leaned against the strong arm 
passed around her. In a few moments she was asleep. 
Stephen watched her with peculiar sensations. An 
awe and tenderness, a strong feeling of duty, a devout 
thankfulness that he had found her, when she so sorely 
needed a friend, mingled with a strange delight that 
proceeded from none of these. He could not analyze 
this ; indeed, he did not try. He was content with the 
present, and neither burdened himself with the future 
and dim dreams of what might come, nor brooded over 
an unalterable past. 
Mrs. Forsyth stirred again. " Hope," she exclaimed, 
in sick impatience, " I'm hungry ! I do believe, child, 
you'd see me lie here and starve." 
In the sweet land whither Hope had gone, she heard 
not the voice. Stephen touched her shoulder gently. 
" O ! " She gave a long sigh. 
"Your mother needs something, Hope." 
She was on her feet now, her senses all alert, her 
eyes wide open. Mrs. Forsyth moved at the sound of 
the strange voice. 
 
"O," she said, in a vague way, "I remember. You 
came with Hope. I'm hungry, child." And Stephen 
smiled to himself, remarking how much more gentle the 
tone was. 
Hope obeyed her mother's behest. The dying eyes 
wandered with a restless, glassy stare, but she took 
the food as if indeed famishing. 
" If you must go " she said at length, looking at 
Stephen. 
" No, it is not safe for you to be left alone. I will 
remain all night." 
"You are very kind. I never expected to ask so 
much of strangers, I'm sure. I suppose I cannot last 
much longer. I do not care. I have nothing to live 
for. I couldn't even do Hope any good. It was shame- 
ful in him to treat me so, when I let him take everything ! 
To die here like a dog, while he is flaunting off with 
that miserable thing! I hope he'll leave her in just 
such distress. He's a mean, selfish brute ! O, if I'd 
never married trim ! We would be rich now, Hope, 
living in luxury, with servants to wait upon us. O 
Heaven I how bitter it is ! " 
Her voice died away in moans. Hope lighted another 
candle, and stirred the fire. Then she came back, and 
smoothed the sufferer's brow until she fell into another 
doze. Stephen held out his arms. She nestled in the 
tender clasp again. The city clocks were striking twelve. 
 
Presently Hope fell asleep. Stephen watched and 
thought. This human soul, weak and helpless, drifting 
out to the broad ocean of eternity ! What work, or 
what good, had it ever done in the world ? And yet, 
God kept a place for every one. He took the tangled 
threads in His hands, and made out of the confused 
mass a shapely web. Some day all the mysteries would 
be explained why one was weak and easily tempted, 
why another trode in thorny paths, or was left to work 
blindly, groping along with many doubts and fears, and 
why some were blessed beyond compare with all that 
makes life desirable love, home, and wealth. No 
trials few cares. It was well for human faith that 
there were some happy souls. 
Once before he had watched with the dying. All the 
long night! He shivered, thinking of it. If how 
strangely we can carry back our reasoning ! if Thomas 
Vennard had been stunned that summer day, as his 
assailant meant, or if the blow had missed its aim, 
what then ? He and his father would have been hunted 
to the utmost verge. Vennard was relentless and 
vindictive. Instead who had brought all this about? 
He was the prosperous man. He had succeeded over 
the ruins of another's life, as one might say. Where 
God's direct agency came in, was too awful a subject for 
his vain questioning. He had been given a sacred duty 
that was enough for him now. 
 
The candle flared out its ghostly yellow light. The 
sick woman tossed uneasily, murmured broken sentences, 
and occasionally roused to ask for a drink. Stephen 
gave it to her with the one hand at liberty. He bathed 
her brow with fragrant water, and administered from 
time to time the cordial the physician had left. The 
fire burned out there was no more wood to replenish 
it. The remnant of the candle fell into a pool of its 
own grease, and sputtered out a farewell. Through the 
window came a faint glimmer of dawn, softening from 
gray to pink, from pink to crimson and gold. The air 
of the room grew chilly, and Stephen strained Hope 
close to his heart. 
" I've had such a nice sleep ! " she exclaimed at length, 
opening her lovely eyes, just as a faint streak of sunshine 
stole in the window. "And, O, it's morning! Did 
you hold me all night ? " and a conscious color fluttered 
up in her face. " You must be very, very tired I " 
Stephen felt stiff and cramped from the awkward 
position, but hardly fatigued. 
" You have been so kind ! " Her breath came with a 
sigh. "I wonder " But that was cut short by Mrs. 
Forsyth's awakening. 
" Mamma, dearest," and Hope bent to kiss her. 
" I'm so much better, Hope I I never thought to live 
the night through. I am so easy I no pain, and very 
 
little coughing. If we were still rich, I should want to 
get well ; but it's of no use." 
A greenish pallor had overspread her face, and her 
eyes were frightfully sunken. Stephen noted these sure 
signs of dissolution. 
Hope began to bustle about the room. 
" I'll go for some wood," Stephen said. 
"I'm sure we're very grateful to you," was Mrs. 
Forsyth's comment. "A perfect stranger, too we 
don't even know your name." 
"Stephen Dane," he answered. 
Hope was bending over the ashes, and did not even 
glance up. If Lucy Ellicott had ever heard any such 
name, she had forgotten it now. 
He went for the wood, and purchased a few luxuries 
for breakfast. Hope was a handy little housekeeper, 
swift, noiseless, and patient. How often she must have 
suffered from Mrs. Forsyth's unreasoning whims and 
fretful moods ! 
"I think," he began, presently, " that I must return 
to my friends and give some account of myself. You 
will not mind being left alone an hour or two?" 
" O, no. And mamma is so much better ! " 
He glanced furtively at the bed. " You have neigh- 
bors you can call on in an emergency ? " 
" We haven't made friends with any of them," Hope 
 
replied, with downcast eyes. " And they think us 
proud." 
"Any one will come in time of need," he said, 
thoughtfully. "I shall not be gone long." 
He bade Mrs. Forsyth a cheerful good morning. 
The fresh, keen air was inspiriting to him. Still, he 
hurried along, impelled by some vague sense of danger. 
He found Mr. and Mrs. Adams in a state of conster- 
nation, but he lost no time in explaining the cause of his 
absence. They both listened in astonishment. 
" To think that you should have met the child in such 
a plight ! Actually begging ! I wonder that Vennard 
did not rise out of his grave and haunt the villain who 
brought them to this. Yes, let us go immediately. 
Pet," to Mrs. Adams, " get your bonnet." 
"But Mr. Dane must have some breakfast. After 
watching all night, too ! " 
" I had some, thank you." 
"It could have been hardly worth the eating. Let 
me make you a cup of fresh coffee." 
" No, I must return as soon as possible." 
But " Pet " dallied after the fashion of women. She 
hafl her dress to change, orders to give for dinner, and 
a dozen other little matters to take up her time. Stephen 
paced the sitting-room and talked to his friend. At 
last they were started. 
Mrs. Adams held her breath with a strange awe and 
 
pity as they mounted the dirty steps. Stephen rapped 
lightly at the door. 
There was no answer, so he opened it and walked in, 
leaving them to follow. His first glance was at the 
bed. There lay Mrs. Forsyth, the eyes staring wide, 
but all meaning gone from them the under jaw 
dropped down, and a small purple thread of blood 
issuing from the mouth. 
"O ! " Hope raised herself from the foot of the bed, 
where she had been striving to hide from the fearful 
sight. Her eyes were tearless, her face white and 
frightened. 
"Is she dead? O, mamma ! mamma ! " 
Stephen placed his hand on the heart. It had stopped 
beyond a peradventure. Then he caught Hope as she 
was about to throw herself beside the dead body. 
"O," she said, brokenly, with a great, dry sob, "she 
did love me, and I loved her. It is so terrible to be 
all alone!" 
"You will never be alone again." Stephen's lips 
were close to her ear, his strong arms around her. 
" But you can't love me " 
" Yes, I can love you. I do love you." His voice 
came through waves of suppressed feeling. 
She buried her face on the great, true heart, that was 
to be hers forevermore. 
By this time Mrs. Adams had advanced to the bed. 
 
"O!" she exclaimed, "we are too late. Was this 
little thing all alone with her mother, when " 
Her voice recalled both Stephen and Hope. One is 
often alone with joy, but there are so many events con- 
nected with grief that bring us back to every-day life. 
Wisely ordered by a mind farther-reaching than ours. 
Stephen said, briefly, "How long ago?" 
" I don't know." There was a dreary grief in Hope's 
eyes. " She was talking, and she seemed so strong ! 
Then she began to cough." 
Stephen and Adams consulted together. Then the 
former started in pursuit of some kindly neighbor, while 
Adams went for an undertaker. Mrs. Adams tried 
to comfort Hope. The child listened that was all. 
There was but one voice that had power to soothe 
her. 
On Stephen's return he asked Hope to put on her 
hat and shawl, and go with him. 
" Mamma?" Her pale lips quivered. 
"You will see her again presently. Mr. and Mrs. 
Adams will attend to all that is necessary." 
Hope did his bidding. Once in the street, he took 
her by the hand, and led her she knew not whither. 
Only at last they came to a pretty house, and, being 
admitted by the servant, he led her into the sitting- 
room. 
"Are you tired?" he asked. 
 
"No, only " and then her eyes slowly filled with 
tears. 
"This is Mr. Adams's house. Mamma will be sent 
up here, and kept until she is buried. Afterwards I am 
going to take you home with me, to Philadelphia, if you 
will go ? " 
" I did have some relatives there, but I believe they 
are dead," she said, absently. 
" I don't want to find any friend or relative. I mean 
to keep you. It is a debt I owe. If you can trust 
me " 
The look said, "If not you, who then on the wide 
earth ? " But presently, with a little flush of delicacy, 
she made answer, 
"Do you know I am very poor? Papa Forsyth 
spent everything we had. He was cruel to mamma 
poor mamma I " 
" That is why I want you. I said it was a debt. 
All that I can do for you will never repay it. I must 
be brother and father to you," and here his voice 
grew husky. 
Hope was too much stunned by her recent grief, too 
much surprised by all the late events, to be curious. 
Circumstances had never cultivated this quality of her 
nature. And something that she could not understand 
