had certainly made up her mind to have the 
sun shine. Moreover, she had cherished secret 
expectations of looping her dress over a cer 
tain pretty white skirt that hung in the closet; 
white always is and always must be so much 
more ladylike-looking than anything else. 
Now there was nothing to look forward to 
but a balmoral. 

It was not over-pleasant to hear the driving 
of the rain as she locked the last trunk, 
fastened the last pin, and turned, cape and hat 
and little bag over her arm, to take the last 
look around her deserted room before she shut 
the door. She wished that the wind would not 
blow so while she sat eating her breakfast ; and 
her mother, softly busy about her luncheon, 
stopped to stroke her cheek a little. 



She felt very sure that the driver had come 
too early when his long sharp ring pealed 
through the house, and he ran clattering up 
stairs and clattering downstairs with the trunks, 




and Patty came from the kitchen wiping her 
hands on her apron to say good-bye ; and when 
the last words came upon the steps, and sleepy 
Winnie, who had to pry both fists into his eyes 



to keep them open, insisted that he was " cry 
ing because Gypsy 's gone off to a Boarded 
School ; " when her mother, with wet eyelashes 
and face a little pale, caught her up into her 
arms once, twice, and once again, and her 
father, looking straight ahead, went down the 
path holding the umbrella carefully over her. 
She stopped a moment on the carriage steps, 
half in and half out, the rain whisking against 
the pretty gray travelling-dress, where her 
waterproof blew aside, her face turned back 
towards the house, a rather forlorn-looking 
little Gypsy. The first they knew, she had 
jumped right out into the rain, and was up 
the path and the steps, her arms about her 
mother 's neck. 

" Oh, mother, mother, mother ! I love you 
hard!" 

And the year at the Golden Crescent began 
to look a little misty. 

It was a day 's journey to the little Massachu 
setts town of Snapberry. You did not know 
that there was such a town? Very well; find 



ft on the map if you can. It is there, 
whether you find it or not ; only it happens to 
be a little differently spelled. 

Nothing of any importance happened on the 
way, except that Gypsy could not get her bag 
gage checked, and lost her luncheon out of the 
car-window, and once walked straight into the 
smoking-car. Though a very courageous, she 
was not a very old traveller. 

It poured all day. Gypsy patronised the 
" popcorn boy " till she could eat no more, 
bought a Harper 's Weekly and looked at the 
pictures, read a remarkable story by Cousin 
Somebody of a young lady who climbed into a 
burning house to save her lover, watched the 
people in the car till she knew them by heart 
and had made up a story for every one of 
them, counted the telegraph poles till she was 
dizzy, and at last, as the twilight began to fail, 
leaned her forehead against the side of the 
window and idly watched the storm, the driv 
ing rain, the gusts of wind tossing the leaves 
about, the muddy pools collected by the 



tracks, the clenched figures loitering at the 
stations, the soaked meadows, soaked feru.es, 
soaked grass trying to grow in the shade of 
brick walls and bridges, dripping umbrellas, 
dripping roofs, dripping trees, her face catch 
ing a bit of dreariness from it as she looked. 
There was a bright fire in the parlor now at 
home ; Winnie was picking up his blocks to be 
ready for father 's coming home early from the 
store ; mother had gone out to the kitchen to 
see Patty about supper; she would take her 
knitting when she came back, and the little 
hair-cloth rocking-chair; down at her feet there 
would be a cricket with nobody on it. 

The year at the Golden Crescent looked 
decidedly gray. 

The train was due at Snapberry at six o'clock. 
A young lady came in about half-past five 
from one of the junctions where she had been 
waiting, and took a seat a little in front of 
Gypsy. She had on a very pretty bonnet, and 
Gypsy, glad to have something else than that 
cricket at home to think of, sat up straight and 



looked at it. It was a brown travelling straw 
with a brown feather, neither very simple nor 
very showy, but with that indescribable some 
thing about it which girls call " so stylish," and 
which means more than conformity of shape 
and trimming to the prevailing mode. There 
was a spray of pink heather inside, which fell 
against a mass of black hair, black as onyx, 
Gypsy could see from the side glimpses which 
she had when the light struck it. 

The young lady 's dress, a brown mozam- 
bique, softly shaded off around the skirt by a 
heavy fold of browner silk, though covered by 
her cloak, and decorously looped over her 
dainty white skirt, was yet sufficiently visible 
for one to remark upon its elegance. 

Her very waterproof, finished at the throat 
by a high tucked linen collar, and thrown 
gracefully back from her free arms, had more 
of an "air" about it than would velvet upon 
nine-tenths of the people who wear it. 

It was also observable, as she slightly turned 

her head, and the curve of her cheek was outlined
in rich dark carmine, that the pink feathet 
was chosen with a studied aptitude of tints. 

It is an " old saw," almost worn out in these 
days of high wages and bead trimmings, that a 
lady can always be recognised by her dress. 
Perhaps the trimmed skirt was a little rich for 
such a dingy, muddy, dripping day, but there 
was something about the tout ensemble of this 
young lady with which Gypsy was pleased. 
There was, however, one exception. She 
wore a pair of light, very light, kid gloves. 
Whether this was a notch in the saw, could 
not be decided at once. 

When she had been a little while in the car, 
she turned around to speak to the conductor, 
and Gypsy could see her face fully. Her first 
impression was that it was a very handsome 
face, and as Gypsy liked to watch handsome 
faces much as she liked to watch pictures, she 
looked at it every chance she had, till the 
whistle sounded for Snapberry. Her second 
impression was that it was a handsome face 
without the "very; " her third, that handsome 



was not the word. A striking face it certainly 
was. There was an abundance of that oynx- 
like hair ; good eyes, full, black, expressive ; 
the mouth, however, was peculiar, it was 
well shaped, with warm, rich colour in the lips, 
but something, one could scarcely tell what, 
was the matter with it. 

As the train shrieked into Snapberry, and 
Gypsy was putting on her gloves, she observed 
the young lady take down her little bag from 
the rack above her head. When Snapberry 
passengers left the cars, she left with them. 

Gypsy stepped out into the pouring rain 
upon the uncovered platform of the little 
wooden depot, with a great sinking sense of 
loneliness. Wet umbrellas spattered into her 
face, and wet overcoats brushed against her; 
wet baggage-men were slamming wet trunks 
about, and a very wet little girl who stood upon 
the platform was crying because nobody had 
come to meet her. Gypsy, seeking for the 
Ladies Room, ran against a little coachman 
with a moustache, who agreed to carry her to 



the Golden Crescent, and appeared to be the 
only arrangement for such case made and 
provided. 

The Ladies Room consisted of a floor, and a 
bench running around a wall. It contained a 
very smoky kerosene lamp, and one old lady in 
a poke-bonnet. Gypsy sat down on the bench 
and winked very hard, first at the lamp, and 
then at the old lady. While she was waiting 
there for the coachman to find her trunks, the 
wet little girl was brought in by a dripping 
father, held warmly in his arms, with his kisses 
dropping on her forehead. 

"Did Dolly think papa 'd forgotten her?" 
Gypsy heard him say; and it seemed as if 
the great sinking would take away her breath. 

Presently the little coachman came in, jing 
ling a check. 

" Can't find but one of yer trunks, mum ; 
the big un 's here, but there 's no signs of 
t other." 

" My little trunk ! not here ! " 

" No, mum, it hain 't. Dy er thinks it "s got 



took to the Junction, an will be long down the 
fust train in the morning; you jest take your 
check and stick to t, and you 'll git it, no dan 
ger. This way, mum, this way." 

Gypsy followed him out into the rain, with a 
very sober face. 

It is not exactly a cheering thing to lose 
one 's baggage in bright sunlight. Now, in the 
dark and loneliness and strangeness, it seemed 
to be the straw that broke the camel 's back. 
What would her mother say? And what 
should she do for the very dress which she had 
meant to wear to-morrow morning? And 
what if the trunk did not come back by the 
"fust train" or any train? and that Honi- 
ton collar ! and the corn-coloured necktie ! 
and that bridle with bead fringe ! 

Gypsy found several girls in the coach be 
fore her. One was the young lady with the 
heather in her bonnet and the Mozambique 
dress. Just before the door was shut, the 
driver handed in a pretty girl with light hair 
and very small hands; she muttered some- 



thing about it 's being scandalously crowded, 
and swept into the only vacant seat, beside this 
young lady. She wore no waterproof, and 
her showy travelling-suit was drenched and 
spattered with mud ; the other, either by acci 
dent or design, moved away a little into the 
corner, and gathered her cloak closely about 
her. The new-comer saw the act and turned 
sharply, some words upon her lips, which she 
apparently found difficulty in restraining. The 
two girls eyed each other for a moment with 
that sort of dislike which comes and goes 
too, sometimes by instinct, but neither spoke. 

The coach was dimly and drearily lighted, 
the rain pattering in a dismal style upon the 
drawn windows, and Gypsy noted these things 
by way of something to think about. 

There were two girls old scholars, evi 
dently upon the back seat, chatting merrily 
with each other. It never occurred to them 
that the new-comers might feel strange and 
homesick, and glad to be spoken to; so they 
had all the talking to themselves. 




Presently, however, the young lady in the 
Mozambique turned around with a smile to 
Gypsy, and asked if she were going to the 
Golden Crescent. 

"Yes," said Gypsy; "is it very dreadful, do 
you think?" 

"I don't know," said the young lady; "I 
am a new scholar too." 

"Oh!" 

" Didn't I see you in the cars, I wonder?" 

" Did you? Well, I saw you, and I 'm much 
obliged for your bonnet." 

" Obliged for my bonnet?" 

" Yes ; you see I came just about as near 
being homesick ! and when your bonnet walked 
in, it was so pretty I had to sit up and look 
at it." 

The young lady laughed, and looked very 
much amused ; not ill-pleased, either, it seemed. 

The rest of the girls had by this time all 
grown quiet to listen to the conversation, and 
Gypsy, hearing a little laugh go round, shrank 
back, somewhat appalled, into the dark. 



Fifteen minutes ride brought them to a high 
white house surrounded by large grounds and 
many trees. Gypsy could see them dimly 
through the rain, as she jumped from the coach 
door at a bound, regardless of the helping hand 
of the little coachman. Her acquaintance of 
the cars came down more sedately, but seemed 
quite able to take care of herself. The pretty 
girl made a great commotion ; she handed her 
umbrella to one, and thrust her bag into the lap 
of another, and caught her crinoline upon the 
steps, and must needs scream about it, gave the 
driver both her very little hands, and finally 
allowed him to lift her to the ground. Little 
things make great impressions, and Gypsy 
noticed. 

A lady whom she concluded must be Mrs. 
McMunn met the girls in the hall, shook hands 
with each in turn, asked their names, and sent 
a servant to show them their rooms. Gypsy 
was taken to the third story, and shown into a 
room by herself. 

It was a low, small room, with one good 




sized window, an indescribable carpet, plain 
furniture, brown papering, no pictures, and a 
bare mantelpiece. 

Somebody brought up her trunk; she un 
locked it as she would unlock a trunk in a 
dream, and dressed herself for supper with her 
eyes shut, so as not to see that lonely, bare 
mantelpiece and the staring walls; they had 
the singular effect of making her feel as if she 
were going to choke. 

Presently a strange girl knocked at the door, 
said that supper was ready, and went away again. 

Gypsy found her way down through the 
crooked entries to the first floor, where she 
encountered her friend of the coach. 

" Oh, is that you ? Good ! We 'll go in to 
gether," said the young lady, drawing Gypsy 's 
arm through hers. Gypsy was pleased. She 
had dreaded to walk the length of the long 
dining-hall alone, and she was glad to have 
somebody to speak to. She did not say so, but 
there was a little grateful snap to her eyes, 
which the young lady saw, and she slipped her 



arm about her waist, with a half-confidential, 
half-patronising air, laughing. 

" It is an undertaking to walk down a dining- 
hall, but we won't look green if we are new 
scholars, will we, Miss " 

" There isn't any Miss about it I 'm just 
Gypsy Breynton." 

" Gypsy Breynton ! Gypsy Breynton ! What 
an odd name ! Did your mother find it in a 
book? Well, I 'm Maude Clare." 

Gypsy thought that Maude Clare was a very 
pretty name, and said so ; which Maude Clare 
appeared to like. 

" I don't see what they call this the Golden 
Crescent for," said Gypsy, as they passed the 
length of the table, arm-in-arm, to the seats 
which Mrs. McMunn pointed out to them. 

" I believe there are some yellow maples or 
something on the hill behind the house," said 
Maude Clare; and then in a whisper as they 
sat down, "Plated forks ! did you ever?" 

" Never," said Gypsy, without a very deaf 
idea what she was talking about ; and the next




she knew, Mrs. McMunn was asking the 
blessing. 

The supper was good, but the table was long 
and somewhat dimly lighted, and the girls 
looked homesick and cold. Maude Clare 
talked a good deal. 

When Gypsy went up to her room after tea, 
she was surprised and disappointed to find a 
quiet, rather plain girl in black there, unpack 
ing a bag. She and Maude Clare had been 
hoping that they should room together* 

She walked over to the window, and stood 
looking out, with her forehead on the glass. 
It was raining still, and the wind was blowing 
bitterly. A little hill rolled up just behind the 
house from the garden ; on its top, through the 
darkness, she could faintly see the outline, high 
against the sky, of a curve of tossing trees. 

" I should like to know where the Golden 
comes in, anyway," she said drearily. 

" The old girls say it "s beautiful in the 
sun," said the quiet room-mate, creeping into 
bed. 




Gypsy pulled down the curtain, and began 
to undress with a jerk. 

Long after she was in bed, with her eyes 
shut, she seemed to see the black mantelpiece 
and the staring, pktureless walls, and the trees 



tossing out in the rain. Long after she was in 
bed, she saw the fire in the parlour grate at 
home, the little hair-cloth rocking-chair, and 
the empty cricket. The room-mate, who was 
not Maude Clare, was crying softly though 
that she did not knew on the pillow beside 
her. 

The -year at the Golden Crescent began to 
look very black. 



YOU BLESSED LITTLE 
MOTHER, You never 
did ! No, I know you 
never did, for all the 

people you went to boarding-school with wear 
little pugs to their hair behind, and have a 
baby with whooping-cough ; besides, there 
msn't any Maude Clare. 

I think it 's perfectly mag. at the Golden 
Crescent, and I 'll tell you why. It poured 
pitchforks all day Tuesday, that isn't why, 
but I 'm coming to it sometime, if I live long 
enough, and don't forget it, and you 'd better 
believe that I had on blue very delicate sky 



blue spectacles before night. Besides, I lost 
my luncheon, and was hungry enough to eat 
stewed marbles. Then I had to go and lose my 
trunk on top of it, and when that man came 
in jingling the check, didn't I want to see 
you? 

The trunk came back from the Junction 
Wednesday morning turned topsy-turvy, with the 
cork out of the cologne bottle. I mean the 
trunk was topsy-turvy, not Wednesday morn 
ing. Mrs. McMunn says I 'm careless with my 
commas. I meant to have written before, just 
as much as could be, that little scrap I sent 
off Wednesday, just to let you know I was 
alive, wasn't anything, but there hasn't been 
a minute. I have to study, and then Maude 
Clare comes in. But here I 've written three 
pages, and haven't told you a thing you want 
to know, and father will have such a quantity of 
questions about Mrs. McMunn and all. Let 
me see: 

Sfiapberry is a town situated somewhere in 
Massachusetts, upon the Snapberry River. It 



has five thousand inhabitants, six stores, three 
churches, a bridge, a de"pot, and a large number 
of minute boys with their mouths open. It is 
celebrated for its little coachmen, brown sugar, 
and pretty girls. 

The Golden Crescent is a select family school 
for young ladies; but twenty admitted, and 
usually nineteen on hand ; young ladies expected 
to supply their own napkin-rings, pillow-cases, 
and Oh, I forgot, there is a beauful row 
of yellow maples over on a hill behind the 
house, shaped just like a quarter of a moon, 
and when I woke up Wednesday morning, they 
were all blowing about in the sun, as if they 
were on fire. 

Mrs. McMunn is a widow, or else she isn't, 
and I don't know which. The girls say she was 
divorced from her husband, and that he is liv 
ing somewhere ; but they say she never speaks 
of him any more than if she had never had any. 
Mrs. McMunn is the funniest ! I really can't 
think of anything she looks like, but a barrel 
walking about with a very large Baldwin apple 



for a head. She is so stout the same size all 
the way up to her neck, and her cheeks are 
so red, and then she is freckled. Besides, her 
kid gloves don't fit, and her waterfall sticks out 
like a little feather, ever so far from her neck, 
and when she shakes her head at the girls, it 
nods about; they cut up, just so as to see it go. 
Besides, I can make her laugh, and then she 
sobers down and says, " Too much levity, Miss 
Breynton, too much levity," and then I nearly 
go off; when I laugh, the other girls all have to 
go and laugh too ; I 'm sure I don't see what 's 
the reason. 

Then there is Mademoiselle. It is so funny 
to hear her talk English. I don't see much of 
her, except in French Reader, and she is very 
quiet and stays in her own room. I don't know 
whether she 's lonely, or what. One girl in the 
class insists on calling le chat, lee shat, and puts 
poor Mademoiselle in an agony. Every time 
the cat is round, she will say, " Comment 's ap- 
pelle-t-il ce bite Id, Miss Holly? " and poor 
Miss Holly stammers and blushes, and is sure 



she has it right now, till she and the shat are 
sent off in disgrace. 

There are two other teachers, Miss Ayre 
and Chaplain Goss. Chaplain Goss attends 
prayers and Mathematics ; he wears green 
spectacles, and has a cough ; the girls plague 
him half out of his life, and when he wants to 
make them mind, he snaps his fingers at them : 
I do believe he knows that Algebra by heart, 
though, anyway. You ought to have seen him 
look at me this morning, when I said x was 
equal to 3, and it ought to have been some 
thing else, I 'm sure I don't know what. My ! 
you would have thought I was a chicken just 
out of the shell, running round with horrid little 
half-grown feathers on. 

Miss Ayre teaches Latin, Botany, and all those 
sorts of things. She talks 

on a funny little squeak ; 

she 's as thin as a pin and as cross as a bear. 

She always acts as if she were trying to make 

up for Mrs. McMunn, and she scolds when 

Mrs. McMunn laughs at the girls. 



Mrs. McMunn teaches History, and the big 
girls who are finishing up on Mental Philoso 
phy and Butler. What is Butler, some sort 
of a geography? She 's very pleasant, if she 
only would take down that waterfall. 

Oh, I forgot Mr. Schleiermacher, the music- 
teacher. He has a moustache and a diamond 
ring, and the girls put on their best dresses 
days when they take a music-lesson. I asked 
Maude Clare one day what she did it for, and 
she said her other was torn. 

And now I ve come to Maude Clare my 
beautiful, darling, precious Maude Clare. Isn't 
it a lovely name? and doesn't it sound just 
exactly like a novel? She says her mother 
found it in a book somewhere, and that it was 
the name of an heiress who was carried off by 
the Indians, and she had ever so many lovers, 
and they all came after her and brought her 
back ; I believe she married one of them with 
a rich uncle, and they went to Europe for their 
wedding tour. I think it must be a splendid story. 
Maude Clare says she had such passionate eyes. 



Maude Clare is splendid. She is as hand 
some as she can be, and so stylish why, you 
haven't any idea! She has more things just 
for this fall than I have in two years. 

Jacqueline Delancey doesn't think Maude is 
pretty, but that is just because she is pretty 
herself. I don't like Jacqueline Delancey. I 
saw her in the coach and I knew I should n t. 
She is afraid of things, and screams. Then she 
has little bits of hands and is always showing 
them off. Then she runs down Maude Clare. 

I like to watch Maude Clare dress. She 
moves her hands about in such a pretty way. 
She looks at my things sometimes out of the 
corners of her eyes, but she never laughs at 
them, the way Jack Delancey does, and that 's 
one reason why I like her. I don't mind being 
laughed at a bit, but then I 'd rather not. 

Maude Clare and I are going to be friends 
all our lives long, and she thinks ever so much 
of me, and I think ever so much of her. I like 
to braid her hair for her. She has seen ever so 
many gentlemen, and they all thought a great 



deal of her, and she tells me about them 
and she doesn't tell another soul. 

She and I are never going to marry, because 
we never could love our husbands as much as 
we do each other. Besides, I 'd a great deal 
rather have her than a husband, and besides, I 
wouldn't be married anyway. I think it 's 
horrid. Maude Clare and I always go to walk 
together, and I sit by her at table. 

I 'd give the world if we were room-mates, 
but Mrs. McMunn won't let us change now. 
Maude Clare rooms with poor Miss Holly on 
the second floor, and I 'm up here with Jane 
Bruce. Jane Bruce is very good, I guess, but 
she 's homely and she doesn't talk. She 's in 
mourning, but I never asked her for whom. I 
don't see much of her anyway, for we go right 
to sleep at night, and I 'm always in Maude 
Clare 's room out of study-hours. Maude likes 
to have me go down there because she says 
the stairs are crooked, and she doesn't like to 
climb up. 

Jo Courtis is another girl I know a little 

Her name is Josephine, but the girls call her 
Jo. She came from the West somewhere, and 
she talks very loud, and says funny things. 
When they don't call her Jo they call her 
Courtis, and she does seem like a boy. But 
then I sort of like her. 

There 's a lame girl named Phcebe Hand, 
who rooms on the first floor. She 's pale, and 
always looks frightened. I haven't seen much 
of her. There are a good many others, but 
most of them are in Jack Delancey 's set, and I 
don't go with them. 

Mrs. Holt is the housekeeper, and she 's cross. 
Nancy and Dolly are the Irish girls, and Nancy 
gave me some cold rice-pudding last night. 

I study Algebra and French and Latin; 
next term I 'm going to take Roman History. 
I only take one music-lesson a week, as you 
said, so I only have to give an hour a day to 
practising. I told Mr. Schleiermacher that you 
wanted me to give most of my time to my 
lessons, because that was what I came to school 
for. 




I don't think I have to study very hard. 

I was so homesick I thought I should go 
crazy Tuesday night, but Wednesday the sun 
shone, and Maude Clare made me laugh. I 
am having a splendid time, and think boarding- 
school 's the nicest thing in the world. 

Please pull father 's whiskers for me, and give 
Winnie a squeeze. I wrote to Tom yesterday. 

I haven't forgotten what I promised you up 
in my room in the dark. I 've gone to work 
and had a regular talk with you every night 
since I ve been here. Last night I 'd been eat 
ing peanuts all study-hours, and didn't want to 
a bit; but I did. I don't mean to eat any 
peanuts to-night. 

Your letter was magnificent. I 'm sorry 
Sarah Rowe has the measles. Do write very 
soon again to 

Your horrid little GYPSY. 

P. S. Maude Clare says Jacqueline Delan- 
cey is no lady, because she tries to show off her 

diamond ring ; it was only her father who gave 



it to her, but she wears it on her first finger, 
and tries to make people think she is engaged. 
Maude Clare is very particular, and wouldn't 
do an unladylike thing for a good deal. She 
means to make her father give her a diamond 
next Christmas. 

P. S. No. 2. The girls won't believe I wear 
my own hair, so I have to take it down and 
run round with it hanging, to let them see. 





YPSY was standing one morning at her window, watch 
ing that crescent of yellow 
maples, when Jacqueline Delancey called her. 
Those maples, by the way, were well worth 
watching. The light fell under them from the 
east, where the sun climbed the little hill, cut 
ting the outline of each separate leaf in flame. 
The wind and the frost had begun to twist off 
their rich, ripe stems, and the air was filled with 
them ; down on the grass, where the hoar-frost 
was heavy, they blazed like jewels. The swell 
of the curve was marked and rounded out by 
three blood-red trees, and the whole stood out 
sharply against a deep October sky. Gypsy 
always brought her books to this window, and 
did, I am inclined to think, quite as much look 




ing as studying. She spent much of her play 
time at this window, and sometimes forgot 
here even Maude Clare. It held a spell for 
her. 



But Jacqueline Delancey was calling. 

" Gypsy ! Gypsy Breynton ! Courtis, where 
is she? Has anybody seen her? Miss Breyn 
ton ! Gypsy ! " 

" Here ! " cried Gypsy, turning away with an 
impatient start from the window; the maples 
and Miss Delancey did not suit exactly. 
"Here I am. What 's up?" 

Jacqueline Delancey climbed the last stair, 
flew along the passage and through Gypsy 's 
opened door, with her breath gone. She 
tapped her throat with her pretty hands it 
was a fine opportunity to show them and sat 
down panting. 

" Well, you seem to be in a hurry," said 
Gypsy, eyeing her not very hospitably. 
" Don't sit on the bed, please. I don't like 
my bed tumbled. Take a chair by the fire?" 

Miss Delancey concluded that it was time to 
stop panting, took the chair, and observed in a 
very impressive manner that she had something 
to tell her. 

"Tell away," said Gypsy. 



" What do you suppose Maude Clare 's name 
is?" 

"Maude Clare, to be sure," said mystified 
Gypsy. 

" It 's Maude Clare as far as it goes, but that 
isn't the whole." 

" Not the whole ! " 

" No, I guess it isn't ! She has another 
name, and she 's ashamed of it I 'm sure I 
don't blame her, for the matter of that," said 
Miss Delancey, making a gigantic effort to look 
sarcastic, with about the success that a wax 
doll would have under similar circumstances. 
"But to think of her being ashamed of it, and 
trying to hide it from people, and that 's your 
paragon of a Miss Maude Clare ! " 

" I don't believe it ! " said Gypsy, more 
warmly than politely. 

" Oh, you needn't believe it unless you 
choose ; it doesn't concern me. I thought 
you 'd like to know it, that 's all, and I heard 
Mademoiselle call her by it, in Racine this 
morning you ought to have seen Maude 



look ! so, if you won't take my word, you 
may take hers." 

"What is the name?" 

" Go and ask her yourself," said Miss De- 
lancey, triumphantly. 

Gypsy hurried away to Maude Clare, and 
indignantly told the story as " Jack Delancey 's 
latest." 

Maude Clare coloured. 

" Why you don't " began Gypsy. 

" Well, I suppose I do ; but I should like to 
know what business it is of Jacqueline Delan 
cey 's if I choose to call myself Zerubbabel ! " 

" Then Maude Clare isn't your real name ? " 

" Of course. You don't suppose I 'd say so 
if it weren't ! " 

" But you have another, and it isn't pretty, 
and so you leave it off," said Gypsy, in a maze. 
Maude Clare nodded and looked cross. Gypsy 
asked what it was. 

" Smith" said Maude Clare, faintly. 

Jacqueline Delancey had made a point, and, 
as this young lady very seldom did make a 




point, she whittled it to its sharpest, and stuck 
it into Maude Clare then and thenceforward 
whenever occasion offered. 

No one word was oftener on her lips, with 
cough and laugh and sneer, and double enten- 
dre, in season and out of season, than this poor 
little word of five letters, which made Maude 
Clare 's pretty brows blacken like a thunder 
cloud, and Maude Clare 's keen tongue (of 
which Miss Delancey was secretly in fear, hav 
ing felt its edge more than once) keep silence. 
Partly for the joke of the thing, partly from 
unconscious imitation, the rest of the girls fell 
into the way, as long as Maude Clare remained 
at the Golden Crescent, of pronouncing the 
unfortunate name as Maude Clare 's rival did, 
and of writing it as they pronounced it, - 
Maude Clare Smith, with a pause of mock 
respect at the dash that was indescribable. 

Boarding-school was not pure Paradise, after 

all. Gypsy found this out in due time. She 

enjoyed the fun and chatter and novelty, 

" wearing long dresses and drawing her own 




checks," having no errands to do, and Mrs. 
McMunn 's waterfall to laugh at. She soon 
found herself for some unaccountable reason 
which she spent her whole year at the Crescent 
trying to find out everybody 's pet and 
favourite ; and her lessons, to put it moderately, 
could not be said to be so severe a strain upon 
her intellect as to endanger health or reason. 
As for home, why, she missed it, to be sure,, 
but the holidays were coming sometime. Then 
she never felt very far away from her mother ; 
beginning, as she did in the morning, to 
treasure up things for that talk with her at 
night ; very often the talk was put into a letter, 
but, written or spoken, Gypsy felt it a reality. 

But still over her merry days there fell now 
and then a little shade. 

Maude Clare had plenty of money. So had 
Jacqueline ; so had the rest. It was an ex 
pensive school, and attracted the notice of 
wealthy parents. Gypsy and a small minority 
of three or four must economise, sometimes 
closely. The girls were for the most part too 



ladylike to taunt her with this, but they 
reminded her of it, by no means infrequently; 
sometimes unnecessarily, always painfully. 

One day a little knot of them gathered in 
Josephine Courtis room, discussing each other 's 
pretty things. Josephine 's winter cloak had 
just come from home by express. 

" It 's early for it, to be sure," she said, shak 
ing out the heavy folds, " but I can't go the 
buttons on my sacque ; they look as if they 
were handed down from Mrs. Japhet." 

" Why, I 'm sure they were only a summer 
style," said Gypsy. 

"Oh, well; it 's all the same Dutch," an 
swered Josephine in her brusque way, holding 
up the cloak for inspection and admiration. 
Josephine 's " loud " no other word expresses 
it Western taste was always questionable. 
Gypsy did not like the striking cuir-coloured 
cassock, with its heavy, dead-black finish of 
velvet; and while the rest admired, she said 
nothing. 

" What are you going to have for a bonnet?"



Jo?" asked Jacqueline, in a tone which plainly 
said that she should like to be asked what she 
was going to have. As Jo did not ask, how 
ever, Miss Delancey had to volunteer the 
information. 

" Green velvet with quilted white satin let 
in. Quilted white is all the rage." 
