in order to reduce the rebellious pupils to subjection.
"I am no Yankee, and I can't guess. I can mention several things he
might do."
"Tell us, if you please!" called out one of the more timid of the
boys.
"Very likely he will attempt to starve us out by surrounding the
island with boats, and preventing us from obtaining provisions. He
must know that we have a very small stock of eatables on hand."
"We will trust to our commodore to break his lines, if he blockades
our camp," laughed Tom Rush.
"He may come with a force of men in the night, and take away the
boats."
"You said we should keep a watch at night," suggested Fred Mason.
"We hope the commodore will be able to protect his squadron," said Bob
Hale.
"I shall do my best to insure the safety of the boats, or to run the
blockade, if one is established," I replied, with becoming modesty;
and in fact I was getting so excited over the prospect, that I rather
hoped there would be an attempt to blockade us, or to carry off the
boats, that I might have an opportunity to exercise my talent for
navigation and strategy.
"And Mr. Parasyte may collect a force, and come over to capture the
whole of us. He can charge us with stealing his boats, or something of
that sort. He has already obtained a warrant for the arrest of
Thornton, and to have him taken away from us would be about the worst
thing that could happen," said Vallington.
"We will not let them take him," interposed a belligerent student.
"What will you do?"
"Pitch the sheriff overboard," replied the spunky speaker.
"That will not do," I added. "I hope no fellow will think of such a
thing as resisting an officer of the law."
"No, that wouldn't do," continued Vallington. "If Mr. Greene could not
arrest Thornton because he was out of his county, Mr. Parasyte will
get a sheriff from the proper county to do the job."
"That's so," said Bob Hale. "He will do his worst, you may depend upon
that."
"I have an idea!" I shouted, under the inspiration of my new thought;
and it really seemed to me like a brilliant suggestion.
"What is it?" demanded our leader.
"Suppose we change our quarters?"
"Where shall we go?"
"To Pine Island. It is about seven miles from here, or nine miles and
a half from Parkville," I answered.
"What shall we gain by moving?" asked Vallington, deeply interested in
my proposition.
"Several things. We are now six miles from Cannondale, where we must
procure our provisions, while Pine Island is less than three."
"That's a decided advantage, if we are to be starved out," added the
commissary.
"It is so far from Parkville that our movements could not be observed
from the shore," I continued. "And Pine Island is at least four times
as large as Cleaver Island, which would make it four times as
difficult to blockade."
"Pine Island! Pine Island!" shouted the rebels, in concert, as they
began to perceive the advantages of the proposed location.
"If the fellows don't object to working a part or the whole of the
night, we might be in our new quarters before morning; and if we keep
a good lookout, we may stay there two or three days before Mr.
Parasyte finds out where we are."
"Pine Island! Pine Island!" was the chorus which came from the throng
of boys, all of whom had gathered near the bluff.
"Those in favor of moving to-night, say ay," continued Vallington.
"Ay!" shouted the students, with one voice.
"Those opposed, say no."
There was not a dissenting voice.
"It is a unanimous vote," added the leader. "Commodore Thornton, you
are charged with the execution of this order, and you will make your
preparations accordingly."
"But what shall we do for provisions?" asked the commissary, troubled
about the proper administration of the affairs of his department. "We
must have something to eat before dinner-time to-morrow; and if we are
to keep out of sight, I don't see how we are to get anything."
"Perhaps Commodore Thornton can afford us some information on that
subject," said Vallington. "Our safety and success depend mainly upon
the vulgar things which the stomach requires."
"There is a good breeze now, General Vallington, and--"
The students interrupted me with a hearty laugh at the new title I had
given to the parson.
"A truce to titles," laughed our leader.
"You call me commodore, and I think it is no more than fair that I
should give you your proper title."
"But you were duly elected commodore of our squadron."
"Mr. Chairman, I move that Henry Vallington be created
general-in-chief of all our forces, by sea and by land," I continued.
"Second the motion," added Bob Hale. "I call upon the secretary to put
the question."
The question was put by Fred Mason, and carried, unanimously.
"I am very much obliged to you for the honor you have conferred upon
me; but we can hardly afford the time now to talk about titles. You
were going to say something about the breeze, Commodore Thornton."
"I say that there is a good breeze now, General Vallington; and I
think, if the commissary is ready, we can reach Cannondale in the
Splash by nine o'clock. It is half past seven now," I replied, looking
at my watch.
"The commissary is all ready," said Tom Rush.
"What time shall you return?" asked the general.
"By eleven or twelve. I think the fellows had better turn in, and
sleep till we return," I suggested. "There will be time enough then to
load the scow, and reach the island by daylight."
The general approved of this idea, but was afraid the boys were too
much excited to sleep. I called those who had been detailed to serve
as boatmen to assist in putting the Splash into the water, and, with
Tom Rush alone, started for Cannondale. The breeze was fresh, and
before the time I had mentioned we landed at our destination.
Since I had owned the Splash, I had spent all my vacations and
holidays, and indeed all my spare time every week day when boating was
practicable, on the lake. A spirit of adventure had prompted me to
make long trips, and I had sometimes spent half the night in my lonely
cruises. The darkness, therefore, was not an obstacle with me to the
navigation of those familiar waters. I knew every point, headland,
bay, and inlet, at midnight as well as noonday.
Lake Adieno, though a fresh-water lake, was not always the smoothest
of navigation. Its shores were nearly level land, and there was
nothing to shelter it from the blasts when the wind blew; and, with
an uninterrupted reach of twenty miles from east to west, old Boreas
had room enough to kick up quite a heavy sea. In a strong north-west
or south-west wind, boating on the lake was no child's play.
We landed at Cannondale, and secured the Splash at the steamboat pier.
For several years I had purchased the groceries for the cottage of my
uncle; and since I had owned the sail-boat, I had as often procured
them at Cannondale as at Parkville, and I was nearly as familiar with
the streets of the former as with those of the latter.
We found a grocer and a provision-dealer, of whom Tom Rush purchased
the supplies we needed. Of the former the commissary purchased ten
kegs of crackers, and a variety of small stores, and of the latter
sixteen hams, twenty pounds of salt pork, and twelve bushels of
potatoes. At the baker's we obtained all the soft bread on hand--about
a hundred loaves. These articles amounted to more than the assessments
levied on the members, but Tom and I made up the balance. The
provision-dealer harnessed his horse and carted the stores down to the
pier; and, grateful for the patronage we had given him, and the cash
paid him, he asked no troublesome questions; and we simply told him
that the goods were for the school, which was then camping out.
The Splash was loaded to her utmost capacity, and we decided to land
the stores at Pine Island before we returned to our companions.
CHAPTER XVI.
IN WHICH ERNEST CONVEYS THE STUDENTS TO PINE ISLAND.
We landed the provisions at Pine Island, and being still favored with
a fresh breeze, made a quick run over to Cleaver Island. It was bright
moonlight now, and very pleasant sailing on the lake. As we approached
the landing-place, I discovered a row-boat pulling round the point
below. My first thought was, that Mr. Parasyte was paying a second
visit to the camp, intent upon carrying out the threats he had
uttered.
"Can you make her out, Ernest?" asked Tom.
"It is a boat full of men or boys--I don't know which," I replied. "We
will run down to her, and see what she is."
"It may be Parasyte."
"Very likely it is," I added, heading the Splash towards the
intruder.
"What shall we do if it is?"
"I don't know that we can do anything but keep an eye upon him. I have
a great mind to serve him as he did me yesterday--run him down, and
sink his boat; but I won't do it."
I decided, however, to give him a scare; and with all sail drawing
well, the Splash going through the water at a rapid rate, I ran
directly for the row-boat. When we came within a few feet of the
intruders, the fate that stared them in the face was too much for
their nerves. They sprang to their feet, and begged me not to run them
down. It was a startling scene for them; but at that moment I put the
helm up, and ran astern of the row-boat, just grazing her as we went
by.
"Boat ahoy!" I shouted as I put the helm down, and the Splash came up
into the wind on the other side of the row-boat.
"Don't run into us," said one of the boys in the boat, whose voice I
recognized as that of Bill Poodles; and by this time I had found that
Mr. Parasyte was not one of the party.
"Who are you?" demanded Tom Rush.
"It's me," replied Poodles.
"Who's me?"
It was a disgrace to the Parkville Liberal Institute that any member
of the school should use such execrable grammar, and we were not quite
willing to believe that the party were fellow-students, with the
exception of Poodles, from whom nothing better in the shape of correct
speech was to be expected.
"I'm Bill Poodles--don't you know me?"
"Bill Poodles!" exclaimed Tom, in disgust. "What do you want here?"
"We have come over to see you," said another in the boat, whose voice
was that of Dick Pearl.
"Well, what do you want?"
"We want to join you," answered Pearl.
"I don't know that we want you. Have you any news from the shore?"
added Tom.
"We can tell you all that has happened since you left. We ran away
after supper to join you," said Pearl. "If you will let us in, we will
do all we can to help you."
"I don't know; I will speak to the general, and if he is willing, you
may join; but you can't go ashore till he gives you leave."
Pearl, who seemed to be the leading spirit of the recruits, promised
to wait off the shore till Vallington had been informed of his
request, and his answer returned. The Splash filled away, and we
landed at the point where the scow lay. We found that our enterprising
general had not been idle during our absence. The tents had been
struck, and the materials put on board the flat-boat. Everything was
ready for the departure to Pine Island.
The approach of the row-boat had been noticed by the vigilant
sentinels on the bluff, and the whole company had watched our
interview with the new comers. Tom Rush reported on the case to our
general, and it was necessary to act upon the request of the party for
admission to the camp. In this matter there was less unanimity than
had before been manifested, and several of the students were opposed
to granting the request. Bob Hale was the most earnest among them, and
declared that Bill Poodles, Dick Pearl, and the rest of the party
could not be trusted; they were mean fellows, and we should be better
off without them than with them. They were the "creatures" of Mr.
Parasyte, and they would make trouble if we admitted them.
It would have been well for us if this advice had been heeded, as the
sequel will show; but it was not. Some of our best declaimers urged
that there was power in mere numbers; and the strength of an
harmonious union was yielded to this idea. The vote was in favor of
permitting the recruits to be received; but a very respectable
minority voted against it. Bob cheerfully surrendered the point, and
Poodles and his companions were invited to land. When they came on
shore, Vallington questioned them in regard to their intentions. They
all made fair promises, and assured the general they would be good and
faithful subjects.
Tom Rush had reported on the provision question, and gladdened the
hearts of all the fellows when he stated what bountiful supplies of
ham, bread, potatoes, and coffee had been deposited on Pine Island for
the use of the party.
"Now, we are all ready to move," said Vallington. "The boats are all
loaded, and we submit the rest of the job to the skill of Commodore
Thornton."
"Move!" exclaimed Dick Pearl, and in the bright moonlight I saw him
glance anxiously at Poodles.
"We have decided to break up our camp here and move to Pine Island."
"Be you?" said Poodles.
"We be," answered Vallington.
"If we had known it, I don't know that we should have come," added
Pearl.
"What possible difference can it make to you whether we camp at Pine
Island or at Cleaver Island?"
"I don't know."
"It is too late to back out now; you have found out where we are
going, and you must go with us, to help keep the secret," said our
general, decidedly.
Pearl and Poodles looked at each other, and evidently wished to
consult together; but there was no opportunity.
For my own part, I was not satisfied with their conduct, and I
determined to keep a close watch upon them; for it seemed to me, from
their appearance, that they intended to make mischief. I whispered my
suspicions to Vallington, who thought it was well enough to keep an
eye upon them; but he did not believe ten such fellows as they were
would attempt to interfere with the plans of the company. I assured
him Pearl was a smart fellow, and under his lead the party might make
trouble.
As the wind was not only fresh, but fair for our passage to Pine
Island, I rigged one of the tent poles as a mast for the flat-boat,
intending to save the boys the hard labor of towing her seven miles. I
secured another pole across the mast for a yard, to which I bent on
the canvas of one of the tents for a sail. There was a heavy steering
oar in the boat, which answered the purpose of a rudder. Having
adjusted all this gear to my satisfaction, we pushed off, and I took
my station at the helm of the flat-boat, which was crowded with boys.
I appointed Bob Hale, who had some experience as a boatman, to the
charge of the Splash, though, as a matter of prudence, I directed him
to set only the jib and mainsail. The row-boats were towed alongside
the scow. The sail fully answered all my expectations, and the old
"gundalow" actually made about three knots an hour under her new rig.
The students stretched themselves on the tents, and very likely some
of them went to sleep, for it was now two o'clock in the morning, and
most of them were tired out, and gaped fearfully.
It was daylight when we ran into the little sheltered bay where we had
landed the goods from the Splash. It was quite chilly in the morning
air, and the fellows were glad of the exercise required to unload the
scow and pitch the tents. But in a couple of hours the work was done,
and the weary laborers were glad enough to stretch themselves on the
beds of pine foliage in the tents. All the boats were hauled into an
inlet, where they could not be seen by any passing craft on the lake,
and I felt that everything was safe.
Everybody was worn out, and I think everybody went to sleep, even to
the sentinels, who were stationed where they could give notice of the
approach of any intruders. I was so exhausted myself that I should
have slept if I had known all the deputy sheriffs in the state had
been after me. And there we all lay till noon, buried in slumber. And
when we awoke there appeared to be no life anywhere but on the
island. The lake was calm and silent, and from the distant shores not
a sound came to disturb us.
When the boys did wake they were wide awake, and immediately voted
that "breaking away" was a capital idea. It was then unanimously
resolved that it was time to have something to eat. The boys had had
some experience in the culinary art in previous campaigns, and we had
all the pots, kettles, and pans provided for such occasions. A fire
was made in the woods, near the centre of the island, where it was
hoped the smoke would not betray us, and potatoes and ham were soon
hissing in the pans. About twenty of the students were employed in
this work,--peeling potatoes, and preparing the pork and bacon,--while
only four of the most experienced were intrusted with the care of the
actual cooking. We had a big meal, though we had no knives and forks,
or plates. The company was divided into messes of ten each, there
being one large tin pan for each, from which the boys took the "grub"
with sharpened sticks or jackknives. We enjoyed it quite as much as
we did our dinners at the Institute.
We passed a quiet day, without interruption from within or without. We
neither saw nor heard anything from Mr. Parasyte, and the Poodles
party behaved better than we had expected, so that we had learned to
trust them. The necessary work of the camp was all we could do, and
when night came we were glad to turn in at an early hour, for we had
not yet fully recovered from the fatigues of the previous day and
night.
It was ordered by the general-in-chief that the watch during the night
should be relieved every two hours, and that three should be on duty
at once. A sufficient number of the company were detailed for this
purpose, and a tent apart from the rest assigned to them, that others
might not be disturbed when the watch was changed. How faithfully this
watch performed their duty we learned from the developments of the
next day.
I turned out about five o'clock in the morning, intending to try my
hand at fishing with Bob Hale and Tom Rush. We went down to the inlet
where the squadron had been secured, to obtain one of the row-boats.
There was not a boat there!
Even the old scow had disappeared, and the Splash was nowhere to be
seen!
CHAPTER XVII.
IN WHICH ERNEST FINDS THERE IS TREASON IN THE CAMP.
What had become of the boats? I was a commodore without a squadron,
and I felt so cheap that I would have sold out my commission for
sixpence, and thrown myself in. The boats had been carefully secured,
under my own direction, in the little inlet, and they could not have
drifted away, I looked at Bob Hale, and Bob Hale looked at me; but
neither of us could explain the disappearance of the fleet.
"An enemy hath done this," I began, in Scripture phrase.
"Of course it couldn't have been done by a friend," added Tom Rush.
"It's lucky we have a good stock of provisions on hand."
"But the stock won't last forever," suggested Bob.
"We are not going to be starved out in a week, or a year, for that
matter," I interposed. "We are not to be broken up by any such
accident as this."
"The commodore is spunky," laughed Bob, who was always good-natured,
whatever happened.
"I am not to be put down by any such expedient as this taking away the
boats. When I want to visit the main shore, I shall do so, boat or no
boat," I replied; for I already saw how I could counteract the
misfortune of the loss of our squadron.
"Parasyte has snuffed us out, I suppose, and sent a party up here in
the night to take the boats," continued Bob Hale. "He means to starve
us out."
"He will discover his mistake. But let us take a look round the
island; perhaps we may find out what has become of the boats;" and I
led the way to the nearest point, at which a sentinel had been
stationed.
The student on watch there knew nothing of the absence of the boats.
There had been no alarm given at the guard tent. We walked around the
island without obtaining any information of the lost squadron. We
reported the mishap to Vallington, who was both surprised and
indignant.
The occupants of the guard tent were all turned out, and those who had
been on watch during the night were examined; but none of them knew
anything about the boats. They had not heard any noise during the
night, or seen anything on the lake. The general then mustered the
company, and after stating what had occurred, called for any
information; but no one had any to give.
"Where is Bill Poodles?" suddenly demanded Bob Hale, as he glanced
around among the students.
"He is not here," replied Tom Rush, after he had scrutinized all the
faces.
"And Dick Pearl?"
"Not here."
"Is any of the party that came off that night present?" demanded the
general.
"No," answered several, after each fellow had looked his neighbor full
in the face.
"That's what's the matter!" exclaimed Bob Hale. "Bill Poodles and the
rest of them have run away with the boats; and in my opinion that's
what they joined us for."
A further examination convinced all present that this was the fact. It
looked as though Mr. Parasyte had sent off the ten boys who joined us
on the first night, to rob us of the boats. We remembered the dismay
with which Pearl and Poodles had listened to the announcement of our
intended removal from Cleaver Island, and were fully confirmed in our
view of the traitors' purpose.
We found that the conspirators had all occupied the same tent, and one
of the fellows who slept with them now remembered that he had half
waked up, and heard Dick Pearl talking in a low tone to some one.
Vallington called up the sentinels again, and spoke pretty sharply to
them of their neglect of duty.
"It would have been impossible for them to carry off the boats if you
had been awake; and now you have got us into a pretty scrape. We shall
have to back out, and march back to the Institute like whipped
puppies," said he, with becoming indignation.
But the sentinels protested that they had kept awake all the time.
"Tell that to a dead mule, and he would kick your brains out," replied
the general. "Who stood at the south station?"
"I did from ten till twelve," answered Joe Slivers; "and I am sure no
boat went out of the cove during that time."
"And who from twelve till two?" continued the general.
No one answered.
"Who was it--don't you know?" demanded Vallington, sternly.
"I know," replied Ben Lyons. "It was Carl Dorner, for I had the north
station at the same time."
"Carl Dorner!" exclaimed Bob Hale. "He was one of the Poodles party."
"That accounts for it," added Vallington. "Who had the east station
from twelve till two?"
"Mat Murray," replied Slivers.
"He's another of the Poodles tribe," added Bob. "It's as clear as mud
now. We put traitors on guard, and we are sold out."
"Ben Lyons, you had the north station from twelve till two," continued
the general.
"I did; but I was nearly half a mile from the cove," replied the
sentinel.
"And Carl Dorner and Mat Murray had the east and south stations at the
same time."
"They did."
"Who called the fellows that were to relieve you?"
"I did," answered Lyons.
"Didn't you miss Dorner and Murray?"
"I didn't notice them; but I did see the three fellows who went on
guard at two o'clock. They started for their stations, and I turned
in, without thinking anything about Dorner and Murray."
It further appeared that the two traitors had used some "shuffling" to
obtain the east and south stations. It was evident now that the
conspirators had executed their plan shortly after midnight, while
their associates were on guard at the two posts where their operations
could be seen or heard. The south station was on a point of land which
commanded a full view of the cove where the boats lay. From the east
station the lake in the direction of Parkville and Cannondale could be
seen. From the north station, which was considerably farther west
than either of the other posts, nothing could be seen on the south
side of the island.
If the conspirators had gone to the eastward with the boats, they
could easily have kept out of sight of the sentinel at the north
station--the only true one on duty when the mischief was done--by
hugging the main south shore of the lake. If they had gone to the
westward, or farther away from Parkville,--which was not likely,--they
could not have been seen by Ben Lyons till they had gone at least a
mile.
In the mud at the bottom of the cove we found a pole sticking up,
which the traitors had probably used in pushing the scow out into the
lake. This showed us in what manner they had gone to work; but I was
satisfied that they had not attempted to tow the scow any distance; it
would not have been possible for them to do so. It was comparatively
easy to move her with setting-poles, but they could have done nothing
with the unwieldy craft in the deep water. I therefore concluded that
they had merely pushed her out into the lake, and then turned her
adrift. It was probable that she had been driven ashore by the
north-west wind somewhere in the vicinity of Cannondale.
What the conspirators had done with the Splash was not so clear to me,
for not one of them knew anything about the management of a sail-boat.
She had a pair of oars on board, and it was probable they had rowed
her, as they had the other boats. All the sentinels agreed in their
statements that the wind had blown pretty fresh in the night, and I
was not quite willing to believe that the ten faithless ones had
pulled the four boats the whole distance to Parkville, which was nine
miles, in the heavy sea that must have been caused by a brisk
north-west wind. They were not boatmen enough to undertake such a job,
or to carry it through if they did attempt it.
Cannondale lay to the south-east of Pine Island, and with the
prevailing wind of the night, it was an easy matter to accomplish the
two miles which lay between them. After a great deal of thinking,
reasoning, and studying, I came to the conclusion that the Splash,
and perhaps two or three of the four row-boats,--for the conspirators
had added one to our original number,--were not farther off than
Cannondale. The wind was still fresh from the north-west, and the
traitors would hardly care to pull even a single boat eight miles. The
steamer, on her way to Parkville, would touch at Cannondale about one
o'clock, and I surmised that the deserters would return in her.
I made up my mind, in view of these facts and suppositions, that it
would be advisable for some of our party to visit Cannondale before
one o'clock. Pine Island had sometimes been used as a picnic ground,
and the people had been conveyed thither in a steamer. Near the south
station, in the deepest water, there was a rude pier of logs built
out, for the convenience of landing the parties. This loose structure
suggested to me the means of reaching the main shore; and, without
waiting for breakfast, I "piped" away my boatmen, and proceeded to
build a raft.
Placing three large logs in the water, we lashed them together, and
covered them with short pieces of board, from the ruins of an old
cook-house on the island. The job was finished when breakfast was
ready, about seven o'clock, including a mast and sail, the latter made
of the curtain of a tent. The preparations I had been making had a
wonderful effect in warming up the spirits of the boys, considerably
depressed by the prospective calamities which were supposed to lie in
the wake of the loss of our boats; and at least three quarters of them
applied to me for permission to join my expedition to the main shore.
I determined, however, to take but four with me, among whom were Bob
Hale and Tom Rush.
As soon as we had eaten a hearty breakfast, we embarked, and hoisted
the sail on our clumsy craft. When she had passed out of the cove, she
took the breeze, and went off at a very satisfactory pace towards
Cannondale, plunging and rolling in the heavy sea like a ship in a
gale. With us as navigators, "the die was cast," for it would be
impossible to return to the island unless the wind changed, for the
raft would only go before it.
The craft dived down and jumped up, and every wave swept completely
over it; but we had taken off our shoes and stockings, and rolled up
our trousers' legs, so that we suffered no inconvenience. The fresh
breeze carried us over in about half an hour, and the raft was thrown
high and dry on the beach, a quarter of a mile below the town.
CHAPTER XVIII.
IN WHICH ERNEST AND HIS COMPANIONS LAND AT CANNONDALE.
We landed on the beach, put on our shoes and stockings, and walked
towards the village of Cannondale. It was still early in the
morning,--as people who lie abed till breakfast measure time,--and I
was quite confident that I should find the boats, if not the deserters
from our camp, at the town. The fact that none of the party were
boatmen assured me they could not have gone on to Parkville. The wind
must have brought them to Cannondale, and must have prevented them
from leaving it.
We followed the beach from the point where we had landed until we came
to the steamboat pier, which was the usual landing-place for all
boats.
On the further side of the wharf, sheltered from the wind and the
sea, was our entire squadron, with the exception of the flat-boat.
"We are all right now," said Bob Hale; and we broke into a run, and
hastened over to the point where the boats were secured.
"Where do you suppose the deserters are?" asked Tom Rush.
"Probably, as they didn't sleep any last night, they have gone to bed
at the hotel," I replied. "It will be a good joke for them, when they
wake up, to find they have had their labor for their pains."
On the steamboat wharf there was a building used for the storage of
goods. Just as I was about to go down the steps at the foot of which
the Splash lay, with the row-boats made fast to her, a lame man came
out of the warehouse, and hailed us.
"What do you want?" he demanded, in no conciliatory tones.
"I want this boat," I replied.
"You can't have her," he added, decidedly.
"Why not?"
"Because you can't."
"That doesn't seem to be a very good reason," I answered, descending
the steps, and jumping into the Splash.
"Do you hear what I say?" demanded he, in savage tones.
"I do; I am not deaf, and you speak loud enough to be heard," I added,
as I proceeded to remove the stops from the mainsail, preparatory to
hoisting the sail.
"Are you going to mind what I say, or not?" he shouted, in loud tones.
"I am not."
"That boat's in my charge, and you can't have her."
"I don't care whose charge she is in. The boat belongs to me, and I
intend to have her."
"Who are you?"
"It doesn't matter who I am; but I take it any one has a right to his
own property, wherever he finds it."
"Can you prove that the boat is your property?" asked he, in a milder
tone.
"I can, but I shall not take the trouble to do so," I replied, with
more impudence than discretion.
"All I've got to say is, that you can't have that boat," added he,
angrily; and he came down the steps, and took position by my side in
the Splash.
"Come aboard, fellows!" I called to my companions.
"I suppose you claim these row-boats too--don't you?" said the lame
man, with a sneer.
"I do not," I answered, concluding, under the circumstances, to go no
farther than the facts would warrant. "Those boats belong to the
Parkville Liberal Institute."
"I know they do," growled the man, who seemed to be in doubt what to
do.
"Hoist the jib, Tom. If you wish to land, sir, now is your time," I
suggested to the intruder, as I picked up the heavy oak tiller of the
Splash.
"What are you going to do with that tiller?" continued he, fixing his
eye fiercely upon me.
"I am going to steer the boat with it," I replied. "If you wish to go
with us, I shall not object to your company."
I saw that the man only wished me to bully and threaten him a little,
to induce him to pitch into me, though it was plain he did not like
the looks of the heavy tiller in my hand. I refrained from provoking
him any further than to persist in claiming possession of my boat.
"You say this boat is yours," said he, after a moment of deliberation.
"I do; if you need any proof, I will now refer to Mr. Leman, the
grocer, and Mr. Irwin, the provision-dealer; and if you belong on this
wharf, you must have seen me land from her more than once."
"I don't want to quarrel with you," he added. "I know the boat very
well, and very likely I've seen you in her; but I don't remember. I
live close to the shore beyond the village, and I was waked up in the
night--it was about one o'clock, I guess--by a lot of boys hollering.
I got up, and found all these boats heaved up on the beach, and the
boys trying to get 'em off. I helped 'em a while, and then brought the
boats round here, for they would all got stove to pieces there."
The man talked very well now, and I met him in the same spirit.
"The boys who got into the scrape ought to pay you for helping them
out," I replied.
"I don't like to be turned out of my bed in the night to do such a job
for nothing."
"You must make them pay you."
"They said they would, or that the schoolmaster over to Parkville
would, for he sent them to look out for some boys who had run away."
"Did they?" I replied, glancing significantly at Bob Hale, for this
acknowledgment implied that Mr. Parasyte had sent the deserters to do
the work they had accomplished. "But I don't see that we have anything
to do with the matter. If I were you, I would hold the other boats
till they paid me for my trouble."
"I'll do that."
"How much do they owe you?" asked Bob.
"Well, I don't know; they ought to give me a couple of dollars, I
think," replied the man.
We passed a few words among ourselves, and Tom handed the man two
dollars.
"That's to pay for saving this boat," said Tom. "We ought not to pay
it, for our boat was stolen from us; but you must collect as much
more before you let the other boats go."
"Thank ye," replied the man, with a broad grin, indicative of his
satisfaction, as he took the money. "I spoke rather sharp to you at
first, because I thought you were going to take the boats without
paying for the job I did. I didn't mean nothing by it, and I hope
you'll excuse it."
"It is all right."
"You can take the other boats too, if you like," continued the man,
magnanimously.
We concluded that we did not want them. They were of no service to us,
for with a south-west wind, I could work the scow over to Parkville;
and I intended to go in search of her in the Splash.
"Did the fellows that came in these boats say anything to you about
where they came from?" asked Bob Hale of the man.
"They told me all about it; but I knew something about it yesterday,
for the schoolmaster came over here in the steamer, inquiring after
you. He said you went to the Cleaver first, and then left--he didn't
know where you was now."
"Mr. Parasyte here!" exclaimed Tom Rush.
"He's at the hotel, and he's going to find you and bring you back
to-day," added the man, with a laugh. "You have done the handsome
thing by me, and I don't mind telling you all about it."
We could scarcely believe that this was the man who had been so intent
upon quarrelling with us; but it seemed he supposed we were the same
boys who had come in the boats, and intended to cheat him out of his
money for the job he had done.
"What is he going to do?" asked Bob Hale, rather excited.
"He has engaged the Adieno, and is going to look for you."
"The Adieno!" ejaculated Tom Rush.
The Adieno was a small steamer, owned in Parkville and Cannondale,
employed in towing, conveying pleasure parties, and other uses on the
lake. She was lying at the other side of the steamboat pier, and the
smoke was already rolling out of her smokestack. Our informant did not
precisely know in what manner Mr. Parasyte intended to proceed; and
we could not ascertain whether he intended to bring off our party by
force, or to resort to some milder means to break up the camp; but we
were very grateful for the information we had obtained. By this time
Mr. Parasyte had learned from the deserters where we were.
Our new-made friend, who, I think, had learned to respect me for the
decision with which I had answered him, went up the steps. As he did
so, he repeated his offer to allow us to take the other boats, which
we again declined.
"He's coming!" said our new ally, as he reached the cap-sill of the
wharf.
"Who?"
"The schoolmaster, and all them boys. Be in a hurry! He's close by."
I ran the mainsail up, and cast off the fasts which secured the
Splash; but just as I had pushed off from the steps, Mr. Parasyte,
attended by the deserters, appeared on the wharf. The eyes of the
latter opened wide when they saw our party in the Splash, and it
appeared to be a great mystery to them how we happened to be on the
main shore, when they had left us on the island without a boat or
craft of any kind. We were behind the wharf and building, so that the
sails of the Splash did not get the wind, and I told a couple of my
companions to take the oars.
"Stop, Thornton!" shouted Mr. Parasyte.
"Hold on a minute, and let us hear what he has to say," said Bob Hale.
We waited, looking up at the principal of the Parkville Liberal
Institute to hear what he had to communicate. Mr. Parasyte went down
the steps with the deserters, and they got into a couple of the
row-boats.
"We are ready to hear anything you have to say," called Tom Rush.
"I simply wish to know whether you intend to compel me to use extreme
measures," said Mr. Parasyte, as, by his direction, Dick Pearl pushed
the boat in which they stood towards the Splash.
"We will return to the Institute when you comply with the terms stated
by Henry Vallington," replied Bob Hale, as the bow of the row-boat
came up to the stern of our craft.
"Perhaps I did not clearly understand what that proposition was," said
Mr. Parasyte, as he turned and said something to Pearl which we could
not hear.
Bob was going to restate the terms, when Pearl suddenly made fast the
painter of his boat to a ring in the stern of the Splash.
"Only to hold her for a moment," said the principal, as he stepped
into the bow of the row-boat.
We watched him closely. The other row-boat, in which six of the
deserters had taken their places, was also working up to the Splash. I
decided that we were getting into a scrape, and told my companions
with the oars to pull. They obeyed, and in a moment we caught the
stiff breeze; the Splash forged ahead, twitching the row-boat after
it.
"Hold on tight, Pearl!" said Mr. Parasyte, savagely, now indicating
that he meant war, and not peace.
I dragged the boat half a mile from the shore, and then, in tacking,
gave it such a sudden twitch as to throw Mr. Parasyte, who was still
standing, off his balance, and he went over the side into the angry
waters.
CHAPTER XIX.
IN WHICH ERNEST AND HIS FRIENDS ARE DISGUSTED WITH MR. PARASYTE'S
INGRATITUDE.
It was very imprudent in Mr. Parasyte to stand up in a boat, while
being dragged through the water at such a rapid rate as the Splash was
going. I tried my best, before the accident, to detach the painter of
his boat; but Pearl had passed the rope through the ring, hauled it
back, and made it fast on the stem of his own craft. It was my
intention to cut it as soon as I came about, and I had taken out my
knife for the purpose.
When the Splash tacked, the row-boat ran up to her stern, slacking the
painter. As this was a favorable moment for Mr. Parasyte, who was
determined to "board" us, he was on the point of stepping forward. As
soon as the sails of our craft caught the breeze, she darted off
again, straightening the painter, and giving the principal's boat
such a fierce jerk, that it not only upset Mr. Parasyte, but heeled
his boat over so that she half filled with water.
"Help! Help!" shouted Mr. Parasyte, in tones which convinced us that
he fully appreciated the perils of his position.
"Let go your painter, Dick Pearl!" I shouted.
"I can't; we are half full of water," replied he.
It was useless to argue the point, and with the knife I had open in my
hand, I severed the half-inch rope, and permitted the row-boat to go
adrift. There was a heavy sea for an inland lake, and the row-boat
made very bad weather of it, in her water-logged condition.
"Don't leave us, Thornton," said Dick, with what self-command he had,
while Bill Poodles, who was with him, actually blubbered with terror.
"Sit down and bale out your boat!" I called to them, as I put the
Splash about to save Mr. Parasyte. "Keep cool and you are all right.
Bale out your boat!"
"We have no dipper."
When my boat had come about, I ran her close to them, and tossed a
small bucket to Pearl, with which he went to work to free his boat
from water. The circumstances were by no means desperate, though Pearl
was the only fellow among them who appeared to have any
self-possession.
"Help! Help!" shouted Mr. Parasyte, more feebly than before.
"Go forward, Bob, with the boat-hook; and stand by, Tom, to help him.
Let him get hold of the boat-hook."
I swept round in the Splash, till I threw her up into the wind with
Mr. Parasyte under the bow. Bob Hale extended the boat-hook to him,
which he promptly grasped, and with some difficulty we hauled him on
board. It was a warm day in June, and I did not think him any the
worse for the bath he had taken; but I was perfectly satisfied that he
would have been drowned if we had left him to be rescued by Pearl and
his party. We felt that we had done a good thing--that we had rendered
good for evil.
For my own part, judging by what I should have felt in his situation,
I expected some conciliatory proposition from him; and we waited,
with no little interest and anxiety, till he had wiped his face and
neck, and adjusted his damp linen as well as he could. He had the
satisfaction of knowing that I, the rebel, who had resisted him, and
whom he regarded as the author of all the mischief, had saved his
life; and I am sure that it was a greater satisfaction to me than it
was to him. I ran the Splash up towards the deserters, who were still
employed in baling out their boat.
Mr. Parasyte spoke at last. Though I knew he was a tyrant, though I
knew there was nothing that could be called noble in his nature, I did
not expect what followed. I supposed there was some impressible spot
in his heart which might have been reached through the act we had just
done.
"So you meant to drown me--did you?" were the first words he said, and
in a tone so uncompromising that we saw at once there was nothing to
hope.
I looked at Bob Hale, and Bob looked at me. Our surprise was mutual;
and as there was nothing that could be said, we said nothing.
"You meant to drown me--did you?" repeated Mr. Parasyte, with more
emphasis than before.
Bob and I looked at each other again. Grave as was the charge he
indirectly preferred against us, there was something so ludicrous in
the making of it by one whom we had just pulled out of the water, that
I could not help smiling. Mr. Parasyte saw that smile, and as he
always put the worst construction upon what was done by those not in
favor, he misinterpreted it, and tortured it into a sneer.
"I say you meant to drown me; and you sneer at me."
"We did not mean to drown you, sir," replied Tom Rush, respectfully.
"Yes, you did! And now you are laughing at your wicked deed," he
replied, looking fiercely at me.
"I was laughing, Mr. Parasyte, to think that one whom we have just
pulled out of the water should accuse us of attempting to drown him,"
I replied.
"That's what you meant to do; but you didn't dare to do it. You were
afraid of the consequences."
"You are mistaken, sir; we had no such intentions," added Bob Hale,
with due deference.
"Didn't you, or didn't Thornton, throw me over into the lake?"
demanded he, as if surprised that we should attempt to deny the
charge.
"No, sir; I did not," I answered.
"Didn't you turn your boat, and jerk the painter so as to throw me
into the water?"
"I certainly changed the course of my boat, and that jerked the rope;
but I did not intend to throw you into the water."
"Yes, you did! It is worse than folly for you to deny it!" replied he,
angrily.
"If you had not been very careless, you could not have been thrown
out!" I added.
"Don't tell me I was careless!"
"People acquainted with boats don't often stand up in them in such a
sea as this, when they are towed."
"Let me hear no more of your impudence."
Discretion lay in silence, and we said no more. I ran the Splash up
alongside the boat, from which Pearl and his companions had by this
time dipped out all the water.
"Here is your boat, Mr. Parasyte," said Bob Hale. "Will you get into
her, sir?"
"No, I will not," he replied.
"May I ask what you intend to do, sir?" I demanded, out of patience
with him, in his unreasoning malice.
"You will take me to the shore."
"I will not," I replied, bluntly.
"You won't!"
"No, sir."
"We'll see," said he, rising to his feet.
"Better sit down, sir, or you will be overboard again," interposed
Bob, as I drew the heavy tiller from its socket, intending to defend
myself from assault.
The Splash lay with her sails shaking, and her position was a very
uneasy one. Mr. Parasyte concluded to sit down, simply because he
could not stand up, and I restored the tiller to the rudder.
"If you don't choose to get into that boat, Mr. Parasyte, I will land
you at Cleaver Island," I added, as I filled away again, and headed
the Splash towards the point indicated.
"Thornton, I want you to understand, that for all you have done you
shall be brought to a strict account," said the principal, sternly,
but vexed that he had failed to have his own way.
"I am ready to face the music, sir."
"No slang to me!"
"Will you land on Cleaver Island, or will you get into that boat?"
"I will get into the boat, but only that I may the sooner bring you to
justice," said he, desperately.
I came about again, and ran alongside of Pearl's boat. Mr. Parasyte,
still dripping from his bath, embarked with his toadies.
"The end is not yet," said he, shaking his head, as the Splash filled
away once more. "You will soon hear from me again."
We made no reply; and I was profoundly grateful that his life had been
saved. My high hopes that what we had done for him might enable him to
yield with better grace, and thus end the "breaking away," were dashed
to the ground. With the wind on the beam, we ran by Cannondale, and
stood down the lake near the shore, in search of the flat-boat,
though it would be impossible for us to work her over to the island
with the wind from the north-west.
"It is no use of talking any more," said Bob Hale, after a silence of
several minutes. "I can never go back to the Parkville Institute while
Mr. Parasyte is the principal of it. He is too mean a man for me to
sit under."
"My sentiments exactly," replied Tom Rush.
"I suppose I shall not go back, whoever is principal," I added.
"Why not?"
"I must take care of myself after this; and I can't afford to go to
school."
"Perhaps your uncle will think better about it," suggested Tom.
"He may, but I don't believe he will."
"There's the flat-boat!" exclaimed one of our party forward.
"I see her; when the wind hauls round to the southward or eastward, we
will come over, and work her back to the island," I replied. "She
looks comfortable where she is, and we will return to our party."
In a short time the Splash reached the cove, where we found all our
company assembled to learn the news, for they had observed our
movements on the water. Vallington was much surprised when he learned
that Mr. Parasyte was the person who had fallen overboard, and been
rescued by the Splash. We told him what our persecutor intended to do
with the steamer, and a council was immediately called to decide upon
our proper course.
"What shall we do?" asked our general. "That's the question."
"I don't see that we can do anything," answered Bob Hale.
"Perhaps it will be best for us to keep still, and let things take
their course," added Vallington.
"But Mr. Parasyte will carry off our tents and provisions," I
interposed. "Can't we conceal our hams and other eatables."
"There comes the steamer!" shouted one of the boys.
"There isn't time now to do anything," continued Vallington. "I will
do the best I can for you, fellows."
Some proposed one thing, and some another; but it was plain that, in
the multitude of advisers, nothing could be adopted which promised to
help our prospects; and it was finally voted to leave the course of
action entirely to our general, who had thus far proved himself worthy
of confidence. He was to be guided entirely by circumstances; and he
assured us he would be prompt to take advantage of any favorable
event.
"Now, fellows, I want you all to keep together," said Vallington.
"Don't one of you wander away from the rest. Leave all the talking to
me--don't say a word to any one who comes in the steamer."
Our whole company promised to obey these instructions to the letter,
and to be in readiness for any movement which might be ordered. The
steamer ran up to the rude pier, and made fast her bow-line to a
tree.
CHAPTER XX.
IN WHICH ERNEST TAKES THE WHEEL OF THE ADIENO.
We watched with intense interest the proceedings of the men who came
off in the steamer. After the exhibition of meanness on the part of
Mr. Parasyte, it seemed that the rebellion was more serious than any
of us had supposed. We made up our minds, with Bob Hale, that it would
be impossible for us ever to be reconciled to him again. We felt as
though the Rubicon had been passed, and what had commenced as a mere
frolic was likely to end as a very grave affair. Though the boys
talked solemnly at first about their rights, and had "struck" to
vindicate a principle, they had no idea of the seriousness of their
proceedings.
I shall not pretend to justify all that was done by our boys, or even
to acknowledge that "breaking away," under any circumstances, is
justifiable; but I do say, that such a man as the principal of the
Parkville Liberal Institute was not a fit person to instruct and
discipline young men. He was grossly unjust and partial; he was a
tyrant at heart, though for policy's sake he veiled his purposes; he
was low-minded and narrow in his views; and I am happy to say that he
was not a fair specimen of the teachers of our land.
If the boys were wrong, he was so to a much greater degree, and his
position and his influence made him responsible for the mischief he
had driven the boys to perpetrate. It would have been better for them,
as a body, to submit until redress could be obtained in a better
way--as by the circular addressed to their parents, which was even
then in the hands of the printer. I palliate, I do not justify, the
conduct of the students.
Matters had begun to assume a graver aspect. Mr. Parasyte had come
with a steamer, and with about a dozen men, as nearly as we could
judge, to accomplish some purpose not yet apparent to us. We were
curious to know whether we were to be driven like sheep on board of
the Adieno, or whether our persecutor intended to resort to strategy.
He had sent off his toadies to take our boats away; but he had started
them while we were upon Cleaver Island, and before we had laid in our
stock of provisions. This plan had failed. We were not long left in
doubt.
Mr. Parasyte stepped on shore, followed by nine men, and then by the
ten deserters from our camp. The men had sticks, bits of rope, and
other articles in their hands. This looked like force, and we could
not help glancing anxiously at Vallington, to ascertain, if we might,
whether he intended to fight or to run away. We had no clubs or other
weapons, but the pile of sticks which we had gathered for fuel was
near. I saw the general glance at it; but I concluded that he did not
intend to give battle, unless it was in self-defence.
As soon as the party under the lead of Mr. Parasyte had landed, the
man who was left on board as boat-keeper hauled in the plank, by Mr.
Parasyte's order, apparently to prevent the students from going on her
deck. I could not but smile at this precaution, for the Adieno lay in
such a position that the removal of the plank was no hinderance to
agile boys like the students, and we could go on board when we chose.
Vallington stood on a stump near the path leading from the pier to the
interior of the island, and his forces were gathered behind him,
leaving the road open for the passage of the invaders.
Mr. Parasyte marched solemnly up the path, closely followed by the men
and boys of his party. He looked uglier than I had ever seen him look
before. By this time he must have been convinced that the Institute
was ruined; that such a host of rebels could never be reduced to
subjection; and he appeared to be acting out of the malice of his
heart. But even then something was due to appearances, and he halted
opposite the stump on which our general stood.
"Vallington!" said he, sharply and crustily.
"Sir."
"If you choose to go on board of that steamer, return to the
Institute, and submit to the punishment you deserve, it is not too
late for you to do so," continued Mr. Parasyte.
"Do you allude to me alone?"
"To all of you. I understand you to speak for the whole party."
"We shall be happy to do so," replied our general; and I am sure he
spoke the sentiment of all the students.
"I am glad to see you are returning to reason," added the principal;
but there was a look upon his face which showed how much pleasure he
expected to derive from the proposed punishment.
"May I ask whether we are to be punished equally?" asked Vallington.
"You are to be punished in proportion to your offences--the
ringleaders more, of course, than those who were simply led away by
the influence of their leaders."
"And we are to be punished only for this breaking away?"
Mr. Parasyte bit his lips. It is possible he had a hope of restoring
the Institute to its former condition.
"I don't understand you," said he.
"Is Thornton to be regarded as guilty only of breaking away, with the
rest of us?"
"Thornton's affair is to be settled by itself," replied Mr. Parasyte.
"Then I have nothing more to say, sir," added Vallington, with
becoming dignity.
I interposed, and begged him not to consider me, but to make terms if
he could, and permit me to settle my own affair. Bob Hale and Tom Rush
protested; but no protest was needed to keep Vallington true to his
purpose.
"You reject my terms, Vallington," said Mr. Parasyte.
"I do, sir."
"I wish to do what I can to end this unhappy disturbance, and I am
willing to say that the punishment shall be very mild--if you will
return to your duty."
"You have treated one of our number with shameful injustice, Mr.
Parasyte. We can prove, and have proved, that he was not guilty of the
charge brought against him. If you will do him justice, and through
him all the rest of us, we will submit to such punishment as you think
proper for breaking away."
"Thornton!" exclaimed Mr. Parasyte, with a malignant sneer. "Do you
expect me to receive the forced confession of Poodles and Pearl?"
"The confession was not forced, sir."
"Come here, Poodles," said the principal, sharply.
Poodles stepped forward.
"Did you make this confession?" demanded Mr. Parasyte, sternly.
"I did--but I was afraid the fellows would kill me if I didn't do it,"
whined the toady.
"Do you hear that?"
"I hear it, and do not wonder at anything he says," replied
Vallington.
Pearl told the same story; but our general protested that no
compulsion had been used by the students; that two boys who were
charged with deception were not to be believed in preference to eighty
others. Vallington proposed that the case should be heard over again,
and Poodles required to perform the examples. The principal was
indignant, and refused all compromise.
"Thornton is not only guilty, but this very day he attempted to drown
me in the lake," said he. "Do you think I can forgive him, without--"
"We don't ask you to forgive him, and he does not ask it. We only wish
you to give him a fair trial."
"I will hear no more about it!" replied Mr. Parasyte, impatiently.
"Will you return or not?"
"We will not."
"Very well. I wish every one here to understand that I have given you
an opportunity to return to your duty. You will not, and the
consequences be upon yourselves."
Mr. Parasyte walked up the path, followed by his party. As Pearl and
Poodles passed us, a suggestion was made that we seize upon them, and
punish them for the falsehoods they had uttered, and the meanness of
which they had been guilty; but this proposition was promptly
negatived by Vallington. We wondered what the invaders intended to do,
and whether our general purposed to let them proceed without
opposition. He stood calm and apparently unmoved on the stump,
watching the enemy.
The principal halted his forces at the point where our provisions and
cooking utensils were kept. Every eatable, and every utensil, even to
