to this question would enable me to decide whether or not to land her on
the pier.
"No, no!" replied she, with the most decisive emphasis.
"But your names are the same."
"They are; of course she has my father's name."
I could not see why that followed, but I did not like to carry my
questions to the point of impudence.
"Is your father at home?"
"My father is dead," she answered, in a very sad tone.
"Excuse me if I ask who the lady is that stands on the pier."
"Mrs. Loraine."
"And not your mother?"
"No!"
"You seemed to be running away from her when I heard you screaming."
"I was; she was trying to catch me."
Perhaps Miss Kate Loraine thought I was very obtuse, but I could not
understand the relation between the parties, and I had not the faintest
idea why she was running away from Mrs. Loraine. I was not willing to
believe that a young miss like her intended to resort to such a
desperate remedy as suicide for any real or imaginary sufferings.
"What shall we do, Bob?" I asked, turning to my companion, completely
nonplussed by the circumstances.
"I don't know what to do. It seems to me we ought to return the young
lady to her friends," replied he.
"I have no friends," interposed Kate, and the tears started in her eyes;
"at least I have none in Cannondale."
"Don't you live at Mrs. Loraine's?" asked Bob.
"Yes; but I shall live there no longer."
"You say she is not your mother?" I added, returning to the point I had
twice left.
"She was my father's wife, but she is not my mother."
"She is your step-mother," I continued, as the light flooded my dull
brain.
"She is; I do not wish to speak ill of her, but I do wish to keep away
from her. She is not kind to me, to say the very least."
I pitied her, and I saw by Bob's looks that he was not at all behind me
in the outflow of his sympathy. I had read stories enough about "awful
step-mothers" to form an idea of Kate's situation, though I had no
prejudices against step-mothers, as such. Bob Hale's father had married
a second wife, but Bob and his sister would never have known from her
treatment of them, that she was not their own mother.
If Kate was not a very pretty girl, she was certainly a very interesting
one. Her form was grace itself, but her eyes were all that was pretty
about her face; and when I looked at her I was not willing to believe it
possible that any one, and especially one bearing her father's name,
could ill-treat her.
By this time the boat had gone to the farther corner of the lake, and it
was necessary to brace her up or come about. I went aft to take the
helm, and Kate followed me, taking a seat at my side. I put the tiller
hard down, and the Splash came about, heading towards Cannondale. Our
passenger was quick to discern the course, and became quite excited
again.
"You are taking me home again!" exclaimed she. "O, Ernest Thornton! you
will not do that. Let me land here, anywhere, even on that island, but
do not give me back to her."
"I don't know what to do, Miss Loraine; but I think you ought to have
dry clothes at once."
"Have pity upon me, and do not take me home," pleaded she.
She was so agitated that I became alarmed; and to pacify her, I came
about again, and steered for Parkville.
CHAPTER II.
IN WHICH ERNEST LISTENS TO THE STORY OF MISS KATE LORAINE.
FORTUNATELY the day was warm and the sun shining brightly, or our gentle
passenger must have suffered severely from the effects of her voluntary
bath. I do not know that I ever felt more embarrassed and perplexed than
I did when I sat in the Splash that day, with Miss Kate Loraine at my
side, her dress hanging "slinky" and dripping upon her. Certainly there
was nothing sentimental in the affair, for, though I was willing to
become a knight errant in a good cause, the situation was so awkward
that I could not enjoy it.
Bob Hale was as much in trouble as I was, and he could not tell what to
do any better than I could. Neither of us was willing to assume the
responsibility of taking the young lady from her home on the strength
of her own assertion that her step-mother abused her. There were two
sides to every question, and with the brighter example of Mrs. Hale
before us, we were not disposed to regard her as a monster without
giving her a hearing.
Kate was quite composed again when she found the boat was headed towards
Parkville, instead of Cannondale. One thing was very much in her favor;
she was not willing to speak evil of the lady who abused her. She had
told us no more than was necessary to explain her position. Her demeanor
did not indicate any thing malignant in her heart; on the contrary, her
conduct exhibited a degree of Christian forbearance which was hardly to
be expected of one who had been abused.
"I have heard all about you, Ernest Thornton," said Kate, as the Splash
stood over towards Parkville.
"Have you, indeed? I was not aware that I was celebrated enough to be
talked about," I laughingly replied.
"You are; and ever since you beat the Champion in the race with the
Adieno, I have looked upon you as a hero. I have often wished that I
might see you close to."
She was close enough to me now to make me shiver when I looked at her,
she was so wet and drabbled.
"Perhaps I am a kind of one-horse hero among the boys," I added, for the
sake of saying something.
"And among the girls, too," said she, promptly, if not boldly, though
there was a degree of simplicity in her manner which prevented me from
giving her words an unfavorable construction. "I have heard them in
Cannondale and Parkville tell what a bold, brave fellow you are."
"I am very much obliged to them and to you for the good opinion of me.
If you have confidence in me, that will answer my present purpose."
She looked curiously at me; and taking advantage of this favorable
current of sentiment, I put the Splash about on the other tack, so that
she was again headed towards Cannondale. Bob looked anxiously from Kate
to me, and from me to Kate again. He expected another storm of emotion
from her, and so did I; but I had decided upon my course, and was fully
determined to carry it out, even if it broke the heartstrings of my
fair passenger. I was sorry to be so ungallant as to resist the will of
a young lady, but my conscience would not let me interfere with the
domestic arrangements of Mrs. Loraine, without giving her a chance to
defend herself.
"They say you are a smart boy, Ernest Thornton," added she, apparently
without noticing the change in the course of the boat.
"Perhaps I am--I don't know," I replied; "I am afraid if I take you over
to Parkville, people will think I am smarter than I ever was before."
"Why?" asked she, bestowing a painfully anxious glance upon me.
"Don't you think it would be rather smart for Bob Hale and me to run
away with a young lady like you?"
"Run away with me!" exclaimed she, with a troubled look.
"What should we do with you after we had landed you?"
"O, I won't give you any trouble at all--not a bit."
"We don't mind the trouble, Miss Loraine; we were only thinking what
would become of you."
"I have an uncle in New York city--my father's brother. If I can only
get to him, it will be all I want," she answered, and her future course
seemed to be clear enough to her.
"But how will you get to New York?" I asked.
"I don't know; I would rather walk than stay at Cannondale any longer."
"Haven't you written to your uncle?" asked Bob.
"No; I don't know what his first name is; and Mrs. Loraine won't let me
write any letters. I wrote one once, and directed it to Mr. Loraine, New
York, but she burnt it up."
"Do you think you could find him?"
"I am sure I could. I would call on every one of that name in the city.
Why, Ernest Thornton! You are going back to Cannondale!" exclaimed Kate,
as she happened to glance ahead, and saw the shore not far distant.
"Don't be alarmed, Miss Loraine. Just now you said I was a hero, and a
smart boy, and all that sort of thing. My friend Bob Hale, here, is as
smart and as much of a hero as I am, I assure you. Between us two we
will do what we can for you," I interposed when she began to exhibit
signs of another outbreak of emotion.
"That's so!" added Bob, decidedly; and he was always ready to back up
any thing I said or did.
"Now keep cool, Miss Loraine," I continued. "Don't be a bit afraid, and
Bob and I will see you through, if we have to stand on our heads and
walk through fire and water to do it."
"You are very kind, and I am very much obliged to you," replied she,
with a shudder, as she glanced at the pier, a quarter of a mile off, on
which Mrs. Loraine was still standing. "But don't make me go there
again."
"Now, Miss Loraine, you must be reasonable," said I, in the gentlest
tone I could command, albeit I was not much accustomed to the
refinements of young ladies' society. "It would not be right for Bob and
me to carry you away from your home. People would think hard of us."
"Then I don't want you to do it," she replied, in tones of resignation.
"We don't know any thing about the affairs at your house."
"I have told you the truth."
"We do not doubt that; but you only say that Mrs. Loraine is not kind to
you."
"She is not."
"Do you mean that she abuses you?"
"I do mean that," replied Kate, with some hesitation, which evinced an
unwillingness to acknowledge the fact.
"What has she done to you?"
"She locks me up in one of the attic rooms for weeks together," she
replied, bursting into tears.
"Don't cry, Kate; what does she lock you up for?" asked Bob, when I
paused.
"I suppose I am very naughty, sometimes, but I can't help it," sobbed
she.
"Then she locks you up to punish you for being naughty--does she?"
"Yes."
Bob looked significantly at me, as much as to say that he did not wish
to have anything to do with "rescuing" a young miss who had been shut up
for being naughty.
"If she would only be kind to me sometimes, I could bear it all. If
she only smiled on me even once a month, I think I should not complain.
But, O, it is so terrible to be locked into your chamber, and stay there
day after day for a whole week!" moaned she, with a convulsive quiver.
"When did she lock you up last?" continued Bob, who had taken the
investigation into his own hands, when Kate showed a willingness to
answer.
"About a week ago."
"A week ago? I thought you said she kept you in your room for a week?"
"So she does, and she only let me out this forenoon."
"What did she lock you up for last time?"
"For taking such long stitches hemming her handkerchief."
"For taking long stitches!" exclaimed Bob, with something like horror in
his tones. "Did she shut you up for a week for this?"
"She did; and she fastened the blinds of the chamber so that I could not
open them."
"Did you refuse to take short stitches?" I asked, fearing there might be
some aggravating circumstances.
"No, I did not, indeed. I hemmed the handkerchief just as I always did,
and I did not think the stitches were too coarse," she replied, wiping
away her tears with a wet handkerchief. "It was done just like this
one," she added, exhibiting it as a specimen of her work.
Neither Bob nor myself was sufficiently skilled in sewing craft to judge
of the quality of the work, but the stitches did not seem to be very
long. We compared the hemming with that on our own handkerchiefs, but
were not able to detect much difference.
"When did Mrs. Loraine shut you up the time before that," I asked,
handing her the handkerchief.
"I had not been out three days."
"What was it for that time?"
"Because I pulled up some flowers in the garden which were just coming
up. I thought they were weeds; and I'm sure I didn't mean any harm."
"How long did she shut you up for this?" asked Bob.
"Eight days."
"What do you do in your chamber while shut up there?" I inquired.
"Nothing."
"Don't you have books?"
"O, no! If I did, I shouldn't mind it so much."
"Don't you sew?"
"No; I'm not allowed to do anything," she answered, with a convulsive
sob.
I could hardly keep from crying myself, and I was almost choked by my
efforts to keep down my emotions. I had kept the boat away from the
pier, in order to afford time for this inquiry, and the Splash was now
off the Point. I put her about, and ran before the wind towards the pier
again.
"Are you willing to tell us what the trouble was to-day, before you
jumped into the water?" said Bob, tenderly.
"She told me to water the flowers in her garden, and I was doing it. She
kept telling me how to do it, and what to water, and I tried as hard as
I could to please her; but I was so frightened lest I should do
something wrong, that I trod on a peony, and broke it down. She was very
angry, and immediately told me to go back to my room, and stay there
another week. O, if you only knew how I dreaded that room! If you only
knew how gloomy and sad I am when shut up there! If you could only feel
how long and heavy the hours are there, you would pity me."
"I do pity you," said Bob, warmly.
"I begged her on my knees not to shut me up. I felt then that I would
rather die than be shut up again, for I only got out this morning.
That's my room," said she, with a shudder, as she pointed to an attic
window in the rear of the house.
"Miss Loraine, we will stand by you!" I exclaimed, with enthusiasm, for
my feelings had been strongly worked upon by her story. "But you must go
to the house, and get warm clothing. Bob and I will go with you."
"But I shall be sent to my room at once."
"If you are, we will get you out this very night, if we have to lift the
roof off the house to do it."
Kate was fearful; but whatever happened, we were determined that she
should have dry clothing. I ran the Splash up to the pier, where Mrs.
Loraine was impatiently waiting for the boat.
CHAPTER III.
IN WHICH ERNEST CALLS UPON MRS. LORAINE.
"I BEGAN to fear that you did not intend to return, young gentlemen,"
said Mrs. Loraine, as the Splash came up on the leeward side of the
pier. "I am afraid this young lady has given you a great deal of
trouble."
"No trouble at all," I replied.
"She is a wayward and disobedient girl. I have trouble enough with her,
but I do not wish to have her trouble other people," continued Mrs.
Loraine; and I could see that the glances she bestowed upon her
step-daughter were full of malice.
"She seems to have some trouble herself, or she wouldn't have jumped
into the lake."
"She would not have done that if she hadn't seen your boat close by,"
added the lady.
"I fear she will take cold," said I, wishing to draw the woman out as
much as possible.
"There is no danger. She would be in the water half the time if I would
let her. She is a troublesome girl."
Mrs. Loraine certainly took the matter quite coolly, and did not seem to
realize or to believe that the troublesome miss had actually jumped into
the lake to escape from her cruelty. She told Kate to get out of the
boat, and go into the house. The terrified girl obeyed in silence, and
with trembling frame.
"Go to your room, and put on dry clothes," she added, as Kate walked up
the pier. "She is a very naughty girl; but I am much obliged to you,
young gentlemen, for the trouble you have taken on her account."
"We were very glad to serve her," I replied, fastening the painter of my
boat to a ring in the pier, as the lady walked towards the house.
Bob and I stepped on shore and followed her--a movement which seemed to
annoy her very much; but we were too decidedly in earnest to care what
she thought or felt. Without any consultation with my companion, I had
by this time made up my mind that Miss Kate had the rights of the case;
that Mrs. Loraine was a female tyrant. I did not consider that her
family affairs did not concern me, and I had already concluded to adopt
the policy of intervention, without regard to consequences.
Mrs. Loraine was a lady, so far as her manners were concerned. There was
nothing coarse or brutal about her. Like our old enemy, Mr. Parasyte,
she appeared to be a refined tyrant, whose oppression was all the more
intolerable because it was smooth and polished. The lady walked at a
dignified pace towards the house, and we followed her at a respectful
distance. Occasionally she glanced half round, so that she could see us,
but she did not challenge us in regard to our intentions.
"What are you going to do, Ernest?" asked Bob Hale, in a low tone.
"I hardly know yet. We will follow the matter up, and when we get a
little farther into it we shall know better what to do," I replied. "I
think we will stop here a while, and let things take their course."
We halted, and busied ourselves in examining a parterre of flowers,
while the lady continued on her way, and entered the house at a side
door.
"I don't know about this business," said Bob, when Mrs. Loraine was no
longer within hearing.
"I do," I answered decidedly. "I'm as clear as a quill in regard to it."
"What are you going to do?"
"I'm going to get the young lady out of the scrape, by hook or by crook.
Since I have seen this woman, I am satisfied that Miss Kate did not tell
us more than half of the truth."
"What can you do?"
"Just as soon as Kate has had time to put on dry clothes, we will call
upon her to inquire for her health. We can't do any thing less than
that, after we have pulled her out of the lake."
"We can certainly do that, but it seems to me that is about all we can
do."
"I don't know; we will see," I replied, not quite willing yet to tell my
prudent friend what I intended; not that he would be behind me in
carrying out any good work, but because he was rather fond of arguing
against bold measures.
We waited about half an hour, but we were not unobserved; for through
the Venetian blinds I saw Mrs. Loraine several times in the act of
watching our movements. It was plain enough to me that we were not
welcome visitors, and that the lady was not a little disturbed by our
presence. We went up to the side door, where she had entered, and rang
the bell. The summons was answered by the servant girl, who, when we
asked to see Mrs. Loraine, invited us to the sitting-room. I judged that
we had unwittingly chosen an opportune moment for our entrance, for
Kate's persecutor was not in the room, and probably had not noticed our
approach. If she had, it is very likely she would not have permitted us
to come in.
Through the open door we saw her come down the stairs. She looked vexed
and annoyed when she discovered who her visitors were, and sailed into
the room with an exhibition of hauteur which might have produced a
strong impression on a couple of smaller boys than Bob and myself.
"We called to inquire for Miss Kate," I began, after I had risen from my
chair, and made the politest bow I was capable of making.
"She is quite well," replied Mrs. Loraine, coolly.
"I hope she has not suffered from the cold bath she took in the lake," I
continued.
"Not at all."
"She was very much agitated and distressed."
"She will get over that."
"We would like to see her, if you please," I added, coming to the point
without any more parleying.
"It would not be convenient for her to see you this evening," answered
Mrs. Loraine, with more emphasis than an ordinary case seemed to
require.
"I am sorry, for we desire very much to see her; indeed, we promised to
see her after she had changed her clothes."
"Well, young gentlemen, I will assure her you have kept your promise,
which will be sufficient to relieve you from any charge of want of
fidelity," said she.
"I beg your pardon, Mrs. Loraine, but if it isn't too much trouble, we
would like very much to see Miss Kate."
"It would be no trouble at all, but it would be entirely inconsistent
with my purposes to have her leave her room to-night," answered she,
haughtily.
"At what hour to-morrow could we see her," I asked.
"It would not be proper at any hour to-morrow for you to see her. Kate
is a wilful and disobedient girl, and I find it necessary to permit her
to see no one, in her present frame of mind."
"Perhaps I ought to tell you, Mrs. Loraine, that Kate very strongly
objected to returning to her home, and begged us to land her any
where--in the woods--rather than bring her back to you," I added.
"Did she, indeed!" exclaimed Mrs. Loraine, her face becoming very red.
"Then she is even more wilful than I supposed."
"It was only by the promise to see her, that we induced her to land
here."
"You behaved very properly in returning her to me, and I am greatly
obliged to you for your consideration. It is not necessary for me to
detail to you, who are strangers to me, the troubles I experience in my
domestic affairs; and you are too gentlemanly to wish to pry into them."
"Excuse me, but when a young lady becomes so desperate as to jump
overboard, it seems to me she must be in a very bad condition."
"That was all a sham. Perhaps I have indulged her too much, and not
begun early enough to subdue her violent temper. She is very wilful, and
needs stern discipline."
"Do you think it was fair to keep her in a room a week for taking too
long stitches, or for treading on a flower?"
She looked at me, and turned red again.
"I see that Kate has been indelicate enough to tell you about our family
affairs. Of course you have sufficient discretion to disbelieve such
ridiculous stories."
"After pulling her out of the lake, we were much interested in her. We
don't wish to interfere, but I suppose there can be no harm in telling
us what you did shut her up a week or ten days for."
"I am greatly obliged to you, young gentlemen, for what you have done;
but I cannot submit to be called to an account for my conduct in my own
family. I must ask you to excuse me now, for I have an engagement at
this hour."
It was evident to me that we could find out nothing about Kate from her;
but the look of malignity she wore on her face when she spoke of her
step-daughter was the best kind of testimony to me. I rose from my
chair, and moved towards the door, followed by Bob Hale. We bade the
lady good evening, and she closed the door behind us.
Just as we were going down the steps, a buggy, drawn by two handsome
horses, came up to the door, which assured us that the lady's engagement
was not a pretence used to get rid of us. The horses were driven by a
gayly-dressed gentleman. When he alighted, and I obtained a fair view of
his face and form, I was considerably interested in him, for I had seen
him before.
It was the gentleman I had seen at the cottage, with whom my uncle Amos
had had some hard words. He was in some way connected with my silent
guardian, and I was very anxious to know who and what he was, for such
information might be the key to the mystery which shrouded my existence.
For the moment I forgot all about Kate.
"Come along, Ernest," said Bob, when I paused to observe the gentleman.
"Go down to the boat, Bob, and I will be with you in a few minutes."
I stepped into a path where the foliage concealed me; but I saw the
gentleman looking down the drive-way as if to obtain a second view of
me, for I had observed before that he appeared to recognize me.
"I will be ready in a moment, Tom," said Mrs. Loraine, opening the front
door.
Tom! He was a constant visitor, or she would not be thus familiar with
him. Who was Tom? I wished she had called him by his surname. As I gazed
at his face, while he sat in the buggy, I fancied that it bore some
resemblance to that of my uncle.
This man had a quarrel with my misanthropic guardian. I had lived at the
cottage with uncle Amos from early childhood. I could faintly remember a
weary waste of waters before I came to Parkville,--in which the cottage
was located,--but nothing more. During the preceding year I had drawn it
out of my uncle that my father was dead, and my mother an inmate of an
insane asylum, and that no property was left for me by my parents. Who
they were, where my father died, or where my mother was imprisoned, he
refused to tell me.
This gentleman who sat in the buggy had been to the cottage several
times. High words had generally attended his visits. I had once asked my
uncle who he was, and the fact that an answer was refused, was enough to
assure me that a better knowledge of him would assist me in finding a
clew to my own history.
Mrs. Loraine appeared at the door, and "Tom" nimbly leaped from his
seat, and assisted her into the buggy.
"Who was that young fellow that came out of the house as I drove up?"
asked he, as he took his place at her side.
"Ernest Thornton," replied the lady.
"Whew!" exclaimed he, as he drove off.
CHAPTER IV.
IN WHICH ERNEST RELEASES THE CAPTIVE MAIDEN FROM HER PRISON.
WHAT the precise signification was of the "whew!" which the gentlemanly
Tom had uttered, I did not know; but it seemed to indicate that he was
not particularly pleased to learn that I had been a visitor at the
house. I felt that there was work for me to do, which I could commence
at once by following out the clew afforded me by Mrs. Loraine's visitor.
My first business was to ascertain who this gentleman was. Doubtless any
one in the house could tell me. Probably Kate knew all about him, and I
was all the more eager to see her.
I walked down to the pier in a brown study. Mrs. Loraine had positively
refused to let me see Kate, at the present time or in the future. She
was again confined to her room, not to leave it, I judged, for weeks,
unless I put my plan of intervention into execution. Her oppressor was
away, and the present seemed to be the most favorable time for releasing
the captive.
"Come, Ernest, are you going home, or not?" called Bob, who was getting
impatient at my delay.
"Not yet, Bob; there is something for us to do before we go."
"What's that?"
"I don't intend to leave Miss Kate here."
"I don't see what we can do about it," said he.
"I haven't any idea of leaving her to the tender mercies of that
tigress. She shall be a passenger in the Splash," I added, as I stepped
into the boat, and sat down in the standing-room. "I want to see her for
my own sake as well as hers. I've had an idea since you left me."
"An idea?" queried he.
"Yes, a big idea. You know my story as well as I know it myself, and I
don't mean to keep anything from you."
"What's up, Ernest?"
"I want to know who and what I am; and I'm going to find out, if there
is any such thing. I told you about a well-dressed fellow who has been
to the cottage of my uncle several times."
"I remember all about him. He quarrelled with your uncle, you said."
"That's the man. Well, Bob, the fellow that drove up in that two-horse
buggy, as we came out of the house, was the very one who came to the
cottage."
"Is that so?"
"That's so."
"Does he live in Cannondale?"
"I don't know where he lives. I heard Mrs. Loraine call him Tom, and
that's all I know about him. I'm going to find out who he is."
"If you can."
"Kate must know who he is, for he seems to be a regular visitor at the
house of Mrs. Loraine."
"Well, what are you going to do about it?"
"I'm going to get Kate out of the house."
"How, Ernest?"
"I don't exactly know yet, but I shall find a way."
"Don't you think that would be rather high-handed?"
"I can't help it if it is. I would just as lief raise a breeze over here
as not."
"We shall get into a scrape, Ernest."
"I won't drag you into it, Bob. You may stay on the boat--"
"No, I won't! I'm ready to take my share in the enterprise."
"I'm satisfied this girl is abused, and it would be mean in us to leave
her to her fate. It's nearly dark now, and there isn't any one in the
garden. I'm going up to take a look. Kate said her room was in the
attic."
"Yes; that's the one with the blinds closed."
I landed again, and Bob went with me up to the house. There was no one
in sight, and nothing to prevent our doing the work we had undertaken
immediately. After examining the premises, I concluded that we must
release the captive maiden by means of the window. It would not be
prudent to enter by the door, which was probably locked in the absence
of the lady.
I visited the stable on the grounds in search of a rope; but I found
there a ladder, which suited me better. With the assistance of Bob, I
carried this to the rear of the house, and raised it to the window. I
ascended to the window, and found that the blinds were nailed on the
outside, so that they could not be opened. This was some confirmation of
the truth of Kate's story. I descended again, and found a hammer in the
stable, with which I returned and removed the nails.
"Kate!" I called, as soon as I had opened the blinds.
"O, Ernest Thornton!" exclaimed she, opening the window. "I felt sure
that you had deserted me. I am so glad you have come!"
"We have no time to spare. Get your clothes as quick as possible; tie
them up in a bundle, and throw them out the window."
She did not occupy many minutes in this preparation for her departure.
The bundle was made up and thrown to the ground.
"How am I to get out?" asked she, glancing blankly at the ladder.
"Can you go down stairs and go out by the door?" I asked, willing to
spare her the descent by the ladder.
"I cannot; the door is locked," she replied, in trembling tones, for she
was violently agitated by the situation.
"Then you must go down by the ladder," I added, ascending a few rounds
higher. "Now give me your hands, and don't be afraid, for I can hold you
so that you cannot fall."
I braced myself upon the ladder, which I directed Bob to hold firmly in
its place, and took her by both hands. It was a perilous feat to step
from the window to the ladder, and she was so terrified that I held her
whole weight; but the passage was safely effected. I held her by the
hands till she reached the ground, for she was so timid I dared not
trust her to her own energies. I went up again, closed the blinds, and
restored the nails, hoping that the escape of the prisoner would not be
discovered before the next day. The ladder was conveyed to the stable,
and placed where we had found it.
"Now run down to the pier and get into the boat as fast as you can,"
said I to Kate. "Crawl into the cuddy, and keep out of sight."
"Do you think any one will catch me?" asked she, quivering with terror.
"No; there is no person near to catch you," I replied, as I picked up
her bundle of clothes.
We reached the boat without meeting any person, though Mrs. Loraine's
man drove the cow into the yard just as we were pushing off from the
pier. I had only lowered the jib of the Splash, so that she was ready to
start without any delay; and in a few moments we were standing up the
lake, the breeze still fresh from the north-west.
"You may come out now, Kate," I called to our passenger, when we were
half a mile from the pier.
"Am I perfectly safe?" she asked, timidly, as she crawled out of the
cuddy.
"Yes; no one can see you now. Sit down on this seat, and don't be
alarmed."
"What shall we do with Miss Loraine now we have released her?" asked
Bob, as she sat down by his side in the standing-room.
"I don't know," I replied. "We will settle that question before we go on
shore. What did Mrs. Loraine do to you when you went into the house,
Kate?"
"She spoke to me very severely, and sent me to my room. She told me I
should not come out again for a month."
"She was mistaken this time, if she never was before," said Bob, with a
congratulatory smile.
"She was, indeed; and O, I'm so thankful to you!"
"Do you know where Mrs. Loraine has gone now?" I asked, approaching the
subject which was so near my own heart.
"I don't; I heard a carriage drive up the yard. I suppose she has gone
out to ride," replied Kate.
"A gentleman drove up to the door in a two-horse buggy. Do you know who
the gentleman was?" I asked, anxiously. "Mrs. Loraine called him Tom."
"O, that was Mr. Thornton," she answered.
"Mr. Thornton!" I exclaimed.
"Yes; is he any relation to you!"
"Not that I am aware of," I replied, musing upon the fact that he bore
my name.
"He often comes to see Mrs. Loraine, and people say they are engaged to
be married," continued Kate.
"Where does he live?"
"I'm not very sure, but I think it is in Philadelphia. He stays at the
Cannondale Hotel about a week at a time, and comes to Mrs. Loraine's
every day."
"How often does he come to Cannondale?"
"Every two or three months, I should think. But I don't see much of him.
I have been kept in my chamber most of the time," she added, sadly.
"Did you ever hear him speak about Amos Thornton, my uncle?"
"Never."
"You say he is going to be Mrs. Loraine's husband."
"That's what people say; I don't know anything about it, only that he is
very often at the house."
"Do you know anything about Mr. Thornton?" I continued. "Is he rich?"
"I don't know whether he is or not. I think he must be. He always takes
her out to ride with a span of fine horses."
"Is Mrs. Loraine very rich herself?"
"She is not very rich herself. She has what my father left her by his
will."
"Of course your father left something to you," added Bob Hale.
"Mr. Windleton called me a little heiress two years ago, and said I
should have forty thousand dollars when I was old enough to receive it."
"Who is Mr. Windleton?"
"He was a great friend of my father. He keeps the money that belongs to
me. I forget what they call him."
"A trustee," suggested Bob, who was somewhat earned in the law.
"Yes; that's what he said he was. My father gave his wife only half as
much as he gave me; but I wish he had given her all of his property,"
said Kate, looking over into the water.
"Why do you wish so?" I asked.
"I think she would have been kinder to me. Mr. Windleton's daughter
Ellen told me, if I should die, that my money would go to Mrs. Loraine.
I don't know whether it is true or not;" and without any apparent
reason, Kate burst into tears.
Bob and I comforted her as well as we could.
"I'm afraid," she continued, when she had wiped away her tears, "she
hopes I shall die."
"I guess not," I added. "That would be horrible."
"Why does she treat me so then--not even let me look out the window?"
sobbed she. "I think she wants my money. I have tried to think it was
not so, but I can't, ever since Ellen Windleton told me that."
"Why don't you tell Mr. Windleton how your step-mother treats you?"
asked Bob.
"He and his whole family are in Europe. They have been there more than a
year. I shall tell him when he comes back; but Mrs. Loraine is my
guardian."
"Ernest, we are almost over to Parkville, and it is time to know what we
are to do with Miss Loraine. It won't do to take her to Parkville," said
Bob.
"I will stay in the boat all night. That's a nice little place in
there," interposed Kate, pointing to the cuddy.
"You may go in there now, if you please," I added. "I will land you,
Bob, and take care of Kate myself. It is quite dark now, and I can take
her up to the cottage. No one will find her there."
"What will your uncle say?"
"He will not see her; if he does, he won't say anything; he never says
anything."
My friend was entirely willing to take his share of the responsibility,
but I was satisfied that I could dispose of my fair passenger without
any assistance. I landed him at the steamboat pier, and then stood over
towards the cottage.
CHAPTER V.
IN WHICH ERNEST IS AWAKENED BY A LOUD KNOCKING.
THE Splash continued on her course up the lake, after I had landed Bob
Hale. It was quite dark, and I told Kate she need not stay in the cuddy
any longer. She came out, and sat down near me. I was still in doubt as
to what I should do with her; and now that Bob had left me, the problem
seemed more difficult than before. Mrs. Loraine was not a woman to let
the matter rest where it was. She was full of spirit and vindictiveness,
and as she was the legal guardian of Kate, she would not let her escape
pass unnoticed.
In the morning, if not before, it would be discovered that the bird had
flown. After the interest Bob and I had manifested in the welfare of the
young lady, her guardian would know where to apply for information, and
I might expect to hear from her in the course of twenty-four hours, and
it was not improbable that the search would be commenced that very
evening. I told Kate, as we sailed along, that her absence would create
a tempest in the household of her step-mother, and that we must be
prepared for vigorous proceedings on her part.
"I hope I haven't got you into trouble, Ernest Thornton," said she, her
tones indicating much anxiety.
"Never mind me, Kate. I am used to trouble, and I can stand anything. I
only hope I shall be able to keep you safe from your enemies."
"Can't I stay in this boat? That cabin is a nice place; I am sure it
seems like a fairy palace to me, compared with my prison house in the
attic chamber."
"You might stay in the cabin a day or two; but of course you can't live
there for any great length of time. You say you have an uncle in New
York city."
"I have. If I could only find him I should be safe. I never saw him, at
least not since I can remember; but as he is my father's brother, he
must be something like my father, and he will take care of me."
"How can we get you to New York? That's the question."
"If I could only reach the railroad, I should not be afraid to go
alone," she added, earnestly. "I am sure I could find my uncle, for his
name is not a very common one."
"But I don't think it would be safe for you to go alone. We must manage
that some way or other, though I hardly know how. It will need some
money to pay your fare."
"Dear me! so it will!" exclaimed she, blankly. "And I haven't a single
cent!"
"Never mind, Kate; we will manage that. I can raise the money for you,
and see that you get to New York."
"You are very kind, Ernest Thornton," replied she, warmly. "I shall have
plenty of money some time, and will pay you back every cent."
"There will be no trouble about that," I added. "I am only thinking how
I shall get you safely to your destination; but I am going to do it
somehow or other. Are you not afraid to stay in the boat all night?"
"O, no! I'm not afraid of anything but my attic chamber."
"My cabin isn't a bad place to stay in. I have slept there a great many
nights, in all parts of the lake, sometimes miles from any house."
"I'm not a bit afraid, Ernest Thornton. Why, the cabin is a splendid
place, and there are two nice beds there. I'm sure I don't want any
better room than that. I could live there a whole year."
"You will not have to stay there long. Just as soon as I can get the
money, and find some one to go with you to New York, I shall sail up the
creek, where there is a railroad station, and you shall start for New
York. Now we are almost to the cottage of my uncle, and you had better
keep out of sight, for I don't want any one to see you."
She crawled into the cuddy, and sat down on one of the berths. I always
moored the Splash about ten rods from the shore, so that she could lie
in the deep water. The row-boat in which I came off to her was fastened
to the buoy, so that I easily found the place in the darkness, and made
fast to the moorings. I lowered my sails, and put every thing in order
as usual.
"Now, Kate, I think you will be perfectly safe here. I will bring you
off some supper very soon."
"I don't need any supper. Mrs. Loraine sent me some before she went out
to ride; but I could not eat a mouthful."
"No matter; I will bring off something, and see you again to-night."
I went ashore in the row-boat. My supper was waiting for me in the
dining-room. After I had finished the meal, I buttered several slices of
bread, and wrapped them in a napkin, with some cheese and some cake.
Probably old Betsey, the housekeeper, thought I had a ravenous appetite
that night; but she never asked any questions, or expressed any surprise
at anything which occurred at the cottage. I pulled off to the boat
again, and gave the contents of the napkin to Kate.
"I am sorry I can't light the lantern, Kate," I added, as I handed her
the provisions; "but I'm afraid it would betray you, if Mrs. Loraine
should happen to come here in search of you to-night."
"I don't care to have a light. I am so rejoiced to get away from my
prison that I don't care for anything," said she, with enthusiasm. "You
don't know how much I have suffered over there, Ernest Thornton."
"I hope you have seen the last of it; but we must be very careful. In
the morning you must stay in your cabin, for my uncle gets up very
early, and walks all about the place. You must not let him see you on
any account."
"I will not. I will be as careful as you can desire."
"In the morning I hope I shall be able to do something with you."
"I shall trust myself wholly to you, Ernest Thornton, and one of these
days I hope to be able to repay you for your goodness to me."
"Never mind that, Kate; I am going to do what I think is right because
it is right. I suppose you thought it was rather hard in me to take you
ashore at the pier over there, this afternoon; but I'm sure I shouldn't
have dared to do what I have done if I hadn't seen Mrs. Loraine, and
satisfied myself that she ill-treated you."
"I think you did just right, Ernest Thornton; but I was willing to
suffer rather than get you into trouble."
"I don't care for myself; it don't make much difference what happens to
me. If I can only enable you to reach your uncle in New York city, that
is all I want. But it is getting late now, and I think you had better go
to sleep. You can do as I do, Kate, when I sleep on board. I always lock
myself in."
I explained to her how this was done. There were two doors opening into
the cuddy, one on each side of the mainmast, with a slide over each.
Outside of these doors were two round holes, which I had sawed in the
bulkhead for ventilation. By reaching the arm through one of these
apertures the slide could be locked. I fastened Kate into the cuddy, and
then gave her the key, with which she opened the door without difficulty
herself.
"I shall keep a good lookout for you," said I, as I pulled my tender
alongside.
"I am not a bit afraid, Ernest Thornton," replied she. "I shall pray for
you, and thank God for giving me such a good friend."
"Good night," I added, speaking through the round hole.
"Good night; and don't worry about me," replied she.
So far as her comfort was concerned, there was not the least need of
worrying about her, for the cabin of the Splash was a miniature parlor.
There were two good hair mattresses in the berths, with plenty of
bed-clothes. The floor was carpeted, and there was every convenience
which so small an apartment could contain. I had slept there for a week
together; and when my uncle had banished me from his house, I had
intended to live on board of her all the time, and earn my living by
carrying out parties. So long as no one disturbed her, I had no fears in
regard to my guest in the boat.
But I was very much troubled about the final disposal of her. It would
not be safe for her to go to New York alone. It might be several days
before she found her uncle, and it was not proper to subject a young
girl like her to the perils of the great city without a protector. I had
no objection to making a trip to New York myself. The spring vacation
would commence on the following Monday, and I could be absent from home
a whole week without being missed, if I kept the Splash out of sight,
for my uncle would suppose I was off on a cruise in her.
This plan pleased me, and I determined to carry it out. School kept but
two days more before the vacation, and if I could only keep Kate out of
sight till Monday, everything would work well. The financial question
was not a difficult one to manage. I calculated that about thirty
dollars would pay the expenses of the trip to the metropolis; and uncle
Amos would give me this sum or more, without asking a single question. I
had about ten dollars on hand, which would be a sufficient margin for
contingencies.
The whole matter was as luminous now as youth and enthusiasm could wish;
and I went to my chamber satisfied that I had solved the problem. It
seemed to me that the only possible obstacle to the complete success of
my scheme would be the interference of Mrs. Loraine and her friends. In
the morning, at farthest, the search for the escaped prisoner would be
commenced. But I could do nothing to provide against emergencies in this
direction. I could only wait till I saw how "the land lay" in the
morning, and then trust to my own skill and dash to overcome the
difficulties as they presented themselves. In my prayers I remembered
poor Kate, and asked the blessing of Heaven upon her. I felt sure that
the Good Father would help me to save her from the cruel persecution to
which she was subjected. Having thus commended myself and Kate to the
care of Him who watches over the innocent, I turned over and went to
sleep.
My slumber was soon disturbed by a violent pounding at the front door of
the cottage, which was just beneath my window. I leaped up in the bed
and listened. They were not doubtful sounds that I heard, and they
appeared to be made by the heel of a heavy boot. The person who demanded
admission to the cottage at that unseemly hour was evidently in earnest,
and the door groaned under the vigorous assaults he made upon it. Of
course I could not be uncertain in regard to the errand of the midnight
visitor--for such the striking of the clock in the hall below now
assured me he was. "The tug of war" was at hand, and I was to be called
upon at once to "face the music."
I decided not to be forward in meeting the messenger from Mrs. Loraine,
whoever he was. It was possible, if not probable, that she had sent the
deputy sheriff after me; and this terrible official might hurry me off
from my bed to a cell in the Cannondale lockup, heedless of the fact
that I was found in another county. If I was arrested, what would become
of poor Kate? The cold sweat stood on my brow as I thought of her. But I
came to the conclusion that I would not be arrested by any deputy
sheriff, or any one else, if I could possibly avoid it; and it was a
satisfaction for me to hear the wind piping merrily at my window, for
that would give heels to the Splash, if a hurried departure became
necessary.
CHAPTER VI.
IN WHICH ERNEST GETS AN IDEA.
THE knocking at the door of the cottage was continued almost without
intermission. The visitor was evidently endowed with only a small
portion of the necessary virtue of patience, for when he ceased pounding
for an instant, it was only to curse and swear at the heaviness of the
sleepers within. I was sure that old Jerry and Betsey, who slept in the
rear of the house, would not hear the summons, even if the imperative
messenger broke the door down; but I was rather surprised that my uncle,
who, I always supposed, slept with one eye open, if he ever slept at
all, did not answer the call more promptly.
I got out of bed, and looked out at the window, hoping to obtain a sight
of the visitor; but the night was too dark for me to distinguish his
form or features. Again he swore, and again he hammered away at the
door. What they do in New Jersey when it rains is to let it rain; and
what I did when he pounded was to let him pound. I was perfectly
willing he should pound; I even hoped that he enjoyed it. In spite of
the anxiety I felt for poor Kate, I could not help laughing at the
ludicrous earnestness with which he swore and pounded. Like most men, my
uncle was cool when he was not excited; and as there had been nothing on
the present occasion to excite him, I suppose he was cool. Doubtless he
stopped to dress himself before he answered the summons. Very likely the
dread necessity of speaking to the visitor appalled him, and he desired
to postpone the trying ordeal as long as possible.
I am obliged to acknowledge my belief that Mrs. Loraine's messenger was
exceedingly unreasonable, for he did not intermit his hammering long
enough to ascertain whether any one was coming to the door or not. What
was not more than five minutes in fact, might have seemed to be half an
hour to him. Within as short a time as could have been properly
expected, I heard the door of my uncle's library open, and uneasily I
listened for the result. The bolt on the front door creaked and grated.
The door opened with difficulty, and while my uncle was tugging at it, I
lifted the sash of my window a couple of inches, that I might hear what
passed.
The door swung back, and I put my head to the window to catch the first
words that were spoken. Of course my uncle was not the first to utter
them; he seldom spoke, and never was surprised into speaking, even on an
emergency.
"Well, governor," said the messenger, crustily, "you sleep like a rock.
Where is that confounded boy of yours?"
"In bed," replied my uncle.
"Rout him out; I want him," continued the visitor, pushing his way into
the house.
This movement prevented me from hearing what followed immediately; but I
hastened to my door, hoping to catch a word which would enable me to
determine who the person was.
"The young villain has run away with Mrs. Loraine's step-daughter," I
heard him say, as I opened the door wide enough to permit me to catch
the sound. "I tell you, governor, you must get rid of the young
vagabond, or he will swamp the whole of us."
"Hush! he will hear you," said uncle Amos.
"No matter. I have pounded away hard enough to wake the dead. If that
didn't rouse him, nothing will," added the messenger, gruffly.
"Silence!"
"I have had about enough of this thing," continued the rough visitor.
"You insist on keeping the whelp here, when you know he is a bombshell
in your path and mine. Why don't you send him to sea, and let him get
drowned?"
"Be still, Thomas," replied my uncle, in a whisper.
"I won't be still, governor. The vagabond has run away with that girl,
and--"
They passed into the dining-room, and I could not hear the rest of the
sentence. The visitor was Tom Thornton, for my uncle called him Thomas.
I was a vagabond, and a bombshell in the path of both of them. Tom
called my uncle "governor," and this indicated that he was his son. I
half suspected this before, but it was news to me to learn that I was
regarded as a dangerous young man. Why was I dangerous? I had not done
anything to imperil the life or the fortunes of either of them.
My uncle would not tell me anything about my father, or my mother, save
that the latter was insane and the inmate of an asylum. Now, Tom
objected because I had not been sent to sea to be drowned! They were
talking about me down stairs, and I slipped on my pants, and crept down
the stairs. I found that they had entered my uncle's library, and the
spring lock on the door had fastened it. I listened, but I could not
distinguish what was said.
I was determined not to be balked in my purpose, for this was an
opportunity which might not occur again for years to obtain some clew to
my own affairs. In fact, I had resolutely resolved to SEEK AND FIND my
mother, who was still living; and I wanted information.
The library of my uncle was contained in an addition to the house which
had been erected after the completion of the original structure. It was
on the end of the house, and could be reached only through his chamber.
The roof was flat, and covered with tin plates. On the side fronting
the lake there was a bay window. The middle sash was generally open at
the top in warm weather, as I had no doubt it was at the present time.
I stole softly up stairs to my chamber, from which one of the windows
opened upon the flat roof over the library. I raised this window, and
crawled like a cat over to the bay window, the top of which was
considerably lower than the roof. Lying down on the projection, I placed
my head near the top of the window. I was rejoiced to find that I could
hear the voices of the occupants of the room below me. More than this, a
lucky thought, as I regarded it, occurred to me as I lay there. The
window was pulled down at the top, and I found that I could get into the
room almost as easily as I could stay out. I deemed this an important
discovery, for I fully intended, at the first convenient opportunity, to
explore the library. Though the thought came to me, I did not follow out
its leading at this time.
"How can I get rid of him?" demanded uncle Amos, as I placed my head
near the open sash; and it was evident that the parties had made some
progress in the discussion while I was securing my position.
"Send him off. I can find a place for him in a store in New Orleans,
where the yellow fever will make an end of him," replied Tom.
"Thomas, I will not harm him. I don't want to kill him," added uncle
Amos.
"Of course you don't want to kill him--let the fever do that. Let him go
away, and lose the run of you. Something must be done at once. He is a
smart boy, they say, and if he should happen to get an idea, he would
blow you and me so high that we never should come down."
That was an idea, and I happened to get it.
"My son, I have stained my soul with crime for your sake," added my
uncle, bitterly. "We have wronged this boy enough. I will not have him
injured."
"I don't wish to injure him, only to get him out of the way, so that he
will lose the run of you," replied Tom, petulantly. "He don't know
anything about me."
"Don't flatter yourself, Tom Thornton," I thought, but did not say.
"I am willing to do anything proper to be done with him. He will
graduate soon at the Institute, and we must find a place for him in some
business," said uncle Amos.
"I will find a situation for him in New Orleans."
"Not to take his life."
"No, no; certainly not. I know of a firm there that wants a young man
from the north, and you must send him off in the course of a week. Now,
what has the villain done with that girl?"
"I don't know; he has not brought her here," answered my uncle.
"What has he done with her? There was a young fellow with him; do you
know who he was?"
"Probably the Hale boy. They run together."
"What could they have done with the girl?"
"I don't know. What motive had they for carrying her off?"
"Out of pity I suppose. Kate is a careless girl, wilful, and
disobedient. She objects to being shut up in her chamber for her
misdemeanors."
Tom Thornton related the incident in which Bob and I had been concerned
on the pier.
"The child must have been badly abused, or she would not have jumped
into the lake," said uncle Amos, when he had heard the story.
"It does not concern you or me whether she has been or not. I fancy the
girl is not of much use to any one."
"Why do you run after her, then?"
"What's the use of arguing the question. Mrs. Loraine wishes me to find
the girl, and return her; and I'm going to do it, if I have to choke
your smart boy to get at it. Where is he?"
"In his chamber; but you must not harm him," replied uncle Amos,
nervously. "He is as high-spirited as his father was."
"What do I care for that? He must tell me where the girl is."
"Perhaps he will not be willing to tell you."
"Then I shall make him do so," added Tom, savagely; and it seemed to me
he was getting up a very pleasant prospect for me.
"You must handle him very carefully," said my uncle, nervously.
"If he tells me where the girl is, that's all I want of him. If he
don't, I shall--I shall crush it out of him. He will find I am not made
of milk and water."
"You will find I am not, either," I said to myself, as, when Tom moved
towards the door, I rose from my recumbent posture, and hastened back to
my chamber.
I slipped off my pants, and got into bed again, that I might not be
suspected of having left it. I had scarcely done so before Tom entered
my room with a lamp in his hand. I opened my eyes, rubbed them, and
stared at him.
"I want to see you, youngster," he began. "I suppose you don't know me.
My name is Jones."
"If your name is Jones, my name is Smith," I replied, with gross
imprudence.
He looked at me, and appeared to be startled by my sharp and reckless
reply. Very likely he thought me as smart as my reputation.
"Your name is Thornton," said he.
"So is yours," I answered; and I couldn't help it.
He stared at me again. Perhaps he concluded that I had obtained my
information of Kate Loraine, and he knew that I had seen him at her
step-mother's house.
"What have you done with that girl?" demanded he.
"Hold on a moment till I dress myself," I replied, as I jumped out of
bed, and began to put on my clothes.
CHAPTER VII.
IN WHICH ERNEST HAS AN INTERVIEW WITH MR. TOM THORNTON.
FROM my perch over the bay window of the library, I had heard Tom
Thornton express his savage determination to crush out of me the
information he wanted. Being forewarned, I was in a measure forearmed,
and I did not intend to be caught in a vulnerable position. I decided to
do a little light skirmishing before the battle opened. What I had seen
and heard of my assailant gave me a wonderful self-possession, for which
I could not account to myself.
I hurried on my clothing, though I dressed myself with the expectation
of taking a cruise on the lake before my head rested on the pillow
again. Though I felt that it was my first duty to protect Kate Loraine,
and send her to a place of safety, I fully realized that I had a battle
of my own to fight. By their own confession, Tom and his father had
wronged me deeply. If my mother was still living, as I believed she was,
they had probably wronged her a hundred fold more than me. With these
thoughts and feelings, an impulse of desperation seemed to inspire me. I
was ready for anything, but I was astonished and amazed at my own
calmness.
"Do you think I'm going to wait all night for an answer?" demanded Tom,
gruffly, before I had half finished dressing myself.
"If I am to give the answer, I expect you will wait till I get ready," I
replied.
"Do you, indeed?" stormed he.
"I do, indeed."
He moved towards me, and I retreated to a corner of the room, where
