nal of Italy nothing but applause and encouragement 
of the national side in our late war.) My new-made 
friend turned out to be a Milanese. He was a phy- 



 

sician, and had served as a surgeon in the late war of 
Italian independence ; but was now placed in a hospital 
in Milan. There was a gentle little blonde with him, 
and at Piacenza, where we stopped for lunch, " You 
see," said he, indicating the lady, " we are newly 
married," which was, indeed, plain enough to any 
one who looked at their joyous faces, and observed 
how great disposition that little blonde had to nestle 
on the young man's broad shoulder. " I have a 
week's leave from my place," he went on, " and this 
is our wedding journey. We were to have gone to 
Florence, but it seems we are fated not to see that 
famous city." 

He spoke of it as immensely far off, and herein 
greatly amused us Americans, who had outgrown 
distances. 

" So we are going to Genoa instead, for two or 
three days." " Oh, have you ever been at Genoa ? " 
broke in the bride. " What magnificent palaces ! 
And then the bay, and the villas in the environs ! 
There is the Villa Pallavicini, with beautiful gardens, 
where an artificial shower breaks out from the bushes, 
and sprinkles the people who pass. Such fun ! " and 
she continued to describe vividly a city of which she 
had only heard from her husband ; and it was easy 
to see that she walked in paradise wherever he led 
her. 

They say that Italian husbands and wives do not 
long remain fond of each other, but it was impossi- 
ble in the presence of these happy people not to be- 



 

lieve in the eternity of their love, and it was hard to 
keep from " dropping into poetry " on account of 
them. Their bliss infected every body in the car, 
and in spite of the weariness of our journey, and the 
vexation of the misadventures which had succeeded 
one another unsparingly ever since we left home, we 
found ourselves far on the way to Genoa before we 
thought to grumble at the distance. There was with 
us, besides the bridal party, a lady travelling from 
Bologna to Turin, who had learned English in Lon- 
don, and spoke it much better than most Londoners. 
It is surprising how thoroughly Italians master a lan- 
guage so alien to their own as ours, and how frequently 
you find them acquainted with English. From 
Russia the mania for this tongue has spread all over 
the Continent, and in Italy English seems to be 
prized first among the virtues. 

As we drew near Genoa, the moon came out on 
purpose to show us the superb city, and we strove 
eagerly for a first glimpse of the proud capital where 
Columbus was born. To tell the truth, the glimpse 
was but slight and false, for railways always enter 
cities by some mean level, from which any pictur- 
esque view is impossible. 

Near the station in Genoa, however, is the weak 
and ugly monument which the municipality has lately 
raised to Columbus. The moon made the best of 
this, which stands in a wide open space, and con- 
trived, with an Italian skill in the arrangement of 
light, to produce an effect of undeniable splendor. 



 

On the morrow, we found out by the careless candor 
of the daylight what a uselessly big head Columbus 
had, and how the sculptor had not very happily 
thought proper to represent him with his sea-legs on. 



V. 

UP AND DOWN GENOA. 

I HAD my note-book with me on this journey, and 
pledged myself to make notes in it. And, indeed, I 
did really do something of the kind, though the re- 
sult of my labors is by no means so voluminous as I 
would like it to be, now when the work of wishing 
there were more notes is so easy. We spent but one 
day in Genoa, and I find such a marvelous succinct 
record of this in my book that I am tempted to give 
it here, after the fashion of that Historical Heavy- 
weight who writes the Life of " Frederick the Great." 

" Genoa, November 13. Breakfast d la fourchette 
excellently and cheaply. I buy a hat. We go to 
seek the Consul, and, after finding every thing else 
for two hours, find him. Genoa is the most magnifi- 
cent city I ever saw ; and the new monument to 
Columbus about the weakest possible monument. 
Walk through the city with Consul ; Doge's palace ; 
cathedral ; girl turning somersaults in the street ; 
blind madman on the cathedral steps. We leave for 
Naples at twelve midnight." 

As for the breakfast, it was eaten at one of the 
many good caffe" in Genoa, and perhaps some statis- 



 

tician will like to know that for a beefsteak and pota- 
toes, with a half-bottle of Ligurian wine, we paid a 
franc. For this money we had also the society of an 
unoccupied waiter, who leaned against a marble col- 
umn and looked on, with that gentle, half-compassion- 
ate interest in our appetites, which seems native to 
the tribe of waiters. A slight dash of surprise is 
in this professional manner ; and there is a faint 
smile on the solemn, professional countenance, which 
is perhaps prompted by too intimate knowledge of the 
mysteries of the kitchen and the habits of the cook. 
The man who passes his life among beefsteaks can- 
not be expected to love them, or to regard without 
wonder the avidity with which others devour them. 
I imagine that service in restaurants must beget 
simple and natural tastes in eating, and that the 
jaded men who minister there to our pampered ap- 
petites demand only for themselves 

"A scrip with herbs and fruits supplied, 
And water from the spring." 

Turning from this thought to the purchase of my 
hat, I do not believe that literary art can interest the 
reader in that purely personal transaction, though I 
have no doubt that a great deal might be said about 
buying hats as a principle. I prefer, therefore, to 
pass to our search for the Consul. 

A former Consul at , whom I know, has told 

me a good many stories about the pieces of popu- 
lar mind which he received at different times from 
the travelling public, in reproof of his difficulty of 
discovery ; and I think it must be one of the most 



jealously guarded rights of American citizens in for- 
eign lands to declare the national representative hard 
to find, if there is no other complaint to lodge against 
him. It seems to be, in peculiar degree, a quality of 
consulship at , to be found remote and inac- 
cessible. My friend says that even at New York, 
before setting out for his post, when inquiring into 
the history of his predecessors, he heard that they 
were one and all hard to find ; and he relates that on 
the steamer, going over, there was a low fellow who 
set the table in a roar by a vulgar anecdote to this 
effect : 

" There was once a consul at , who indi- 
cated his office-hours by the legend on his door, 'In 
from ten to one.' An old ship-captain, who kept 
coming for about a week without finding the Consul, 
at last furiously wrote, in the terms of wager, under 
this legend, ' Ten to one you 're out ! ' 

My friend also states that one day a visitor of his 
remarked : " I 'm rather surprised to find you in. As 
a general rule, I never do find consuls in." Habitu- 
ally, his fellow-countrymen entertained him with ac- 
counts of their misadventures in reaching him. It 
was useless to represent to them that his house was 
in the most convenient locality in , where, in- 
deed, no stranger can walk twenty rods from his hotel 
without losing himself; that their guide was an ass, 
or their courier a rogue. They listened to him po- 
litely, but they never pardoned him in the least ; and 
neither will I forgive the Consul at Genoa. I had 
no earthly consular business with him, but a private 



 

favor to ask. It was Sunday, and I could not reason- 
ably expect to find him at his office, or any body to 
tell me where he lived ; but I have seldom had so 
keen a sense of personal wrong and national neglect 
as in my search for that Consul's house. 

In Italy there is no species of fact with which any 
human being you meet will not pretend to have per- 
fect acquaintance, and, of course, the driver whose 
fiacre we took professed himself a complete guide to 
the Consul's whereabouts, and took us successively 
to the residences of the consuls of all the South 
American republics. It occurred to me that it might 
be well to inquire of these officials where their col- 
league was to be found ; but it is true that not one 
consul of them was at home ! Their doors were 
opened by vacant old women, in whom a vague intel- 
ligence feebly guttered, like the wick of an expiring 
candle, and who, after feigning to throw floods of 
light on the object of my search, successively flick- 
ered out, and left me in total darkness. 

Till that day, I never knew of what lofty flights 
stairs were capable. As out-of-doors, in Genoa, it is 
either all up or down hill, so in-doors it is either all 
up or down stairs. Ascending and descending, in one 
palace after another, those infinite marble steps, it 
became a question not solved to this hour, whether it 
was worse to ascend or descend, each ordeal in its 
turn seemed so much more terrible than the other. 

At last I resolved to come to an understanding 
with the driver, and I spent what little breath I had 
left it was dry and hot as the simoom in blow- 



 

ing up that infamous man. " You are a great 
driver," I said, " not to know your own city. What 
are you good for if you can't take a foreigner to his 
consul's ? " " Signore," answered the driver pa- 
tiently, " you would have to get a book in two vol- 
umes by heart, in order to be able to find every 
body in Genoa. This city is a labyrinth." 

Truly, it had so proved, and I could scarcely believe 
in my good luck when I actually found my friend, 
and set out with him on a ramble through its toils. 


A very great number of the streets in Genoa are 
footways merely, and these are as narrow, as dark, as 
full of jutting chimney-places, balconies, and opened 
window-shutters, and as picturesque as the little alleys 
in Venice. They wander at will around the bases 
of the gloomy old stone palaces, and seem to have a 
vagabond fondness for creeping down to the port, and 
losing themselves there in a certain cavernous arcade 
which curves round the water with the flection of the 
shore, and makes itself a twilight at noonday. Under 
it are clangorous shops of iron-smiths, and sizzling 
shops of marine cooks, and, looking down its dim 
perspective, one beholds chiefly sea-legs coming and 
going, more or less affected by strong waters ; and as 
the faces to which these sea-legs belong draw near, 
one discerns sailors from all parts of the world, 
tawny men from Sicily and Norway, as diverse in 
their tawniness as olive and train-oil ; sharp faces 
from Nantucket and from the Piraeus, likewise might- 
ily different in their sharpness ; blonde Germans and 
blonde Englishmen ; and now and then a colored 



 

brother also in the seafaring line, with sea-legs, also, 
more or less affected by strong waters like the rest. 

What curious people are these seafarers ! They 
coast the whole world, and know nothing of it, being 
more ignorant and helpless than children on shore. 
I spoke with the Yankee mate of a ship one day at 
Venice, and asked him how he liked the city. 

Well, he had not been ashore yet. 

He was told he had better go ashore ; that the 
Piazza San Marco was worth seeing. 

Well, he knew it ; he had seen pictures of it ; but 
he guessed he would n't go ashore. 

Why not, now he was here ? 

Well, he laid out to go ashore the next time he 
came to Venice. 

And so, bless his honest soul, he lay three weeks 
at Venice with his ship, after a voyage of two months, 
and he sailed away without ever setting his foot on 
that enchanted ground. 

I should have liked to stop some of those seafarers 
and ask them what they thought of Genoa. 

It must have been in the little streets impassable 
for horses that the people sat and talked, as Heine 
fabled, in their doorways, and touched knees with the 
people sitting and talking on the thresholds of the 
opposite side. But we saw no gossipers there on our 
Sunday in Genoa ; and I think the domestic race of 
Heine's day no longer lives in Genoa, for every body 
we saw on the streets was gayly dressed in the idea 
of the last fashions, and was to be met chiefly in the 
public promenades. The fashions were French ; but 



 

here still lingers the lovely phantom of the old na- 
tional costume of Genoa, and snow-white veils flut- 
tered from many a dark head, and caressed many an 
olive cheek. It is the kindest and charitablest of 
attirements, this white veil, and, while decking 
beauty to the most perilous effect, befriends and 
modifies age and ugliness. 

The pleasure with which I look at the splendor of 
an Italian crowd in winter is always touched with 
melancholy. I know that, at the time of its noonday 
promenade, it has nothing but a cup of coffee in its 
stomach ; that it has emerged from a house as cold 
and dim as a cellar ; and that it will presently go 
home to dine on rice and boiled beef. I know that 
chilblains secretly gnaw the hands inside of its kid 
gloves, and I see in the rawness of its faces the an- 
guish of winter-long suffering from cold. But I also 
look at many in this crowd with the eye of the econ- 
omist, and wonder how people practicing even so 
great self-denial as they can contrive to make so 
much display on their little means, how those 
clerks of public offices, who have rarely an income 
of five hundred dollars a year, can dress with such 
peerless gorgeousness. I suppose the national instinct 
teaches them ways and means unknown to us. The 
passion for dress is universal : the men are as fond of 
it as the women ; and, happily, clothes are compara- 
tively cheap. It is no great harm in itself, this dis- 
play : it is only a pity that there is often nothing, or 
worse than nothing, under the shining surface. 
We walked with the brilliant Genoese crowd upon 



 

the hill where the public promenade overlooks a land- 
scape of city and country, houses and gardens, vines 
and olives, which it makes the heart ache to behold, 
it is so faultlessly beautiful. Behind us the fountain 
was 

" Shaking its loosened silver in the sun ; " 

the birds were singing; and there were innumerable 
fair girls going by, about whom one might have made 
romances if one had not known better. Our friend 
pointed out to us the " pink jail " in which Dickens 
lived while at Genoa; and showed* us on the brow of 
a distant upland the villa, called II Paradiso, which 
Byron had occupied. I dare say this Genoese joke 
is already in print : That the Devil reentered Para- 
dise when Byron took this villa. Though, in loveli- 
est Italy, one is half-persuaded that the Devil had 
never left Paradise. 

After lingering a little longer on that delicious 
height, we turned and went down for a stroll through 
the city. 

My note-book says that Genoa is the most magnifi- 
cent city I ever saw, and I hold by my note-book, 
though I hardly know how to prove it. Venice is, 
and remains, the most beautiful city in the world ; 
but her ancient rival impresses you with greater 
splendor. I suppose that the exclusively Renaissance 
architecture, which Ruskin declares the architecture 
of pride, lends itself powerfully to this effect in Genoa. 
It is here in its best mood, and there is little gro- 
tesque Renaissance to be seen, though the palaces 



 

are, as usual, loaded with ornament. The Via Nu- 
ova is the chief thoroughfare of the city, and the crowd 
pours through this avenue between long lines of pal- 
aces. Height on height rise the stately, sculptured 
fagades, colonnaded, statued, pierced by mighty door- 
ways and lofty windows ; and the palaces seem to 
gain a kind of aristocratic hauteur from the fact that 
there are for the most part no sidewalks, and that 
the carriages, rolling insolently through the crowd, 
threaten constantly to grind the pedestrian up against 
their carven marbles, and immolate him to their stony 
pride. There is something gracious and gentle in the 
grandeur of Venice, and much that the heart loves 
to cling to ; but in Genoa no sense of kindliness is 
touched by the magnificence of the city. 

It was an unspeakable relief, after such a street, to 
come, on a sudden, upon the Duomo, one of the few 
Gothic buildings in Genoa, and rest our jaded eyes 
on that architecture which Heaven seems truly to 
have put into the thoughts of man together with the 
Christian faith. O beloved beauty of aspiring arches, 
of slender and clustered columns, of flowering capi- 
tals and window-traceries, of many-carven breadths 
and heights, wherein all Nature breathes and blos- 
soms again ! There is neither Greek perfection, nor 
winning Byzantine languor, nor insolent Renaissance 
opulence, which may compare with this loveliness of 
yours ! Alas that the interior of this Gothic temple 
of Genoa should abound in the abomination of rococo 
restoration ! They say that the dust of St. John the 
Baptist lies there within a costly shrine ; and I won- 



 

der that it can sleep in peace amid all that heathen- 
ish show of bad taste. But the poor saints have to 
suffer a great deal in Italy. 

Outside, in the piazza before the church, there was 
an idle, cruel crowd, amusing itself with the efforts 
of a blind old man to find the entrance. He had a 
number of books which he desperately laid down 
while he ran his helpless hands over the clustered 
columns, and which he then desperately caught up 
again, in fear of losing them. At other times he 
paused, and wildly clasped his hands upon his eyes, 
or wildly threw up his arms ; and then began to run 
to and fro again uneasily, while the crowd laughed 
and jeered. Doubtless a taint of madness afflicted 
him ; but not the less he seemed the type of a blind 
soul that gropes darkly about through life, to find the 
doorway of some divine truth or beauty, touched 
by the heavenly harmonies from within, and misera- 
bly failing, amid the scornful cries and bitter glee of 
those who have no will but to mock aspiration. 

The girl turning somersaults in another place had 
far more popular sympathy than the blind madman at 
the temple door, but she was hardly a more cheerful 
spectacle. For all her festive spangles and fairy-like 
brevity of skirts, she had quite a work-a-day look upon 
her honest, blood-red face, as if this were business 
though it looked like sport, and her part of the diver- 
sion were as practical as that of the famous captain 
of the waiters, who gave the act of peeling a sack of 
potatoes a playful effect by standing on his head. The 
poor damsel was going over and over, to the sound of 



 

most dismal drumming and braying, in front of the 
immense old palace of the Genoese Doges, a clas- 
sic building, stilted on a rustic base, and quite worthy 
of Palladio, if any body thinks that is praise. 

There was little left of our day when we had 
dined ; but having seen the outside of Genoa, and 
not hoping to see the inside, we found even this little 
heavy on our hands, and were glad as the hour drew 
near when we were to take the steamer for Naples. 

It had been one of the noisiest days spent during 
several years in clamorous Italy, whose voiceful up- 
roar strikes to the summits of her guardian Alps, and 
greets the coming stranger, and whose loud Addio 
would stun him at parting, if he had not meanwhile 
become habituated to the operatic pitch of her every- 
day tones. In Genoa, the hotels, taking counsel of 
the vagabond streets, stand about the cavernous ar- 
cade already mentioned, and all the noise of the ship- 
ping reaches their guests. We rose early that Sun- 
day morning to the sound of a fleet unloading car- 
goes of wrought-iron, and of the hard swearing of all 
nations of seafaring men. The whole day long the 
tumult followed us, and seemed to culminate at last 
in the screams of a parrot, who thought it fine to 
cry, " Piove ! piove ! piove ! " " It rains ! it 
rains ! it rains ! " and had, no doubt, a secret 
interest in some umbrella-shop. This unprincipled 
bird dwelt somewhere in the neighborhood of the 
street where you see the awful tablet in the wall 
devoting to infamy the citizens of the old republic 
that were false to their country. The sight of that 



 

pitiless stone recalls with a thrill the picturesque, un- 
happy past, with all the wandering, half-benighted 
efforts of the people to rend their liberty from now 
a foreign and now a native lord. At best, they only 
knew how to avenge their wrongs ; but now, let us 
hope, they have learnt, with all Italy, to prevent 
them. The will was never wanting of old to the 
Ligurian race, and in this time they have done their 
full share to establish Italian freedom. 

I do not know why it should have been so surpris- 
ing to hear the boatman who rowed us to the steam- 
er's anchorage speak English ; but, after his harsh 
Genoese profanity in getting his boat into open water, 
it was the last thing we expected from him. It 
had somehow the effect of a furious beast address- 
ing you in your native tongue, and telling you it was 
" Wary poordy wedder ; " and it made us cling to 
his good-nature with the trembling solicitude of 
Little Red-Riding-Hood, when she begins to have 
the first faint suspicions of her grandmother. How- 
ever, our boatman was no wild beast, but took our 
six cents of buonamano with the base servility of a 
Christian man, when he had put our luggage in the 
cabin of the steamer. I wonder how he should have 
known us for Americans ? He did so know us, and 
said he had been at New York in better days, when 
he voyaged upon higher seas than those he now nav- 
igated. 

On board, we watched with compassion an old 
gentleman in the cabin making a hearty meal of sar- 
dines and fruit-pie, and I asked him if he had ever 



 

been at sea. No, he said. I could have wept over 
that innocent old gentleman's childlike confidence of 
appetite, and guileless trust of the deep. 

We went on deck, where one of the gentle beings 
of our party declared that she would remain as long 
as Genoa was in sight ; and to tell the truth, the 
scene was worthy of the promised devotion. There, 
in a half-circle before us, blazed the lights of the 
quay ; above these twinkled the lamps of the steep 
streets and climbing palaces ; over and behind all 
hung the darkness on the heights, a sable cloud 
dotted with ruddy points of flame burning in the 
windows of invisible houses. 

"Merrily did we drop" 

down the bay, and presently caught the heavy swell 
of the open sea. The other gentle being of our 
party then clutched my shoulder with a dreadful 
shudder, and after gasping, " O Mr. Scribbler, why 
will the ship roll so ? " was meekly hurried below by 
her sister, who did not return for a last glimpse of 
Genoa the Proud. 

In a moment heaven's sweet pity flapped away as 
with the sea-gull's wings, and I too felt that there 
was no help for it, and that I must go and lie down 
in the cabin. With anguished eyes I beheld upon 
the shelf opposite to mine the innocent old gentleman 
who had lately supped so confidently on sardines and 
fruit-pie. He lay upon his back, groaning softly to 
himself. 



VI. 

BY SEA FROM GENOA TO NAPLES. 
I. 

LIKE the Englishman who had no prejudices, I do 
hate a Frenchman ; and there were many French- 
men among our passengers on the Messina, in whose 
company I could hardly have been happy, had I not 
seen them horribly sea-sick. After the imprudent 
old gentleman of the sardines and fruit-pie, these 
wretched Gauls were the first to be seized with the 
malady, which became epidemic, and were miserable 
up to the last moment on board. To the enormity 
of having been born Frenchmen, they added the 
crime of being commercial travellers, a class of fel- 
low-men of whom we know little at home, but who 
are met everywhere in European travel. They spend 
more than half their lives in movement from place 
to place, and they learn to snatch from every kind of 
travel its meagre comforts, with an insolent disregard 
of the rights and feelings of other passengers. They 
excuse an abominable trespass with a cool " Pardon ! " 
take the best seat everywhere, and especially treat 
women with a savage rudeness, to which an Ameri- 
can vainly endeavors to accustom his temper. I have 



seen commercial travellers of all nations, and I think 
I must award the French nation the discredit of pro- 
ducing the most odious commercial travellers in the 
world. The Englishman of this species wraps him- 
self in his rugs, and rolls into his corner, defiantly, 
but not aggressively, boorish ; the Italian is almost a 
gentleman ; the German is apt to take sausage out 
of a newspaper and eat it with his penknife ; the 
Frenchman aggravates human nature beyond endur- 
ance by his restless ill-breeding, and his evident in- 
tention not only to keep all his own advantages, but 
to steal some of yours upon the first occasion. There 
were three of these monsters on our steamer : one a 
slight, bloodless young man, with pale blue eyes and 
an incredulous grin ; another, a gigantic full-bearded 
animal in spectacles ; the third an infamous plump 
little creature, in absurdly tight pantaloons, with a 
cast in his eye, and a habit of sucking his teeth at 
table. When this wretch was not writhing in the 



agonies of sea- sickness, he was on deck w r ith his com- 
rades, lecturing them upon various things, to which 
the bloodless young man listened with his incredulous 
grin, and the bearded giant in spectacles attended 
with a choked look about the eyes, like a suffering 
ox. They were constantly staggering in and out of 
their state-room, which, for my sins, was also mine ; 
and opening their abominable commodious travelling 
bags, or brushing their shaggy heads at the reeling 
mirror, and since they were born into the world, I 
think they had never cleaned their finger-nails. 
They wore their hats at dinner, but always went 
away, after soup, deadly pale. 




II. 

IN contrast with these cattle, what polished and 
courtly gentlemen were the sailors and firemen ! As 
for our captain, he would in any company have won 
notice for his gentle and high-bred way ; in his place 
at the head of the table among these Frenchmen, he 
seemed to me the finest gentleman I had ever seen. 
He had spent his whole life at sea, and had voyaged 
in all parts of the world except Japan, where he 
meant some day, he said, to go. He had been first 
a cabin-boy on a little Genoese schooner, and he had 
gradually risen to the first place on a sailing-vessel, 
and now he had been selected to fill a commander's 
post on this line of steamers. (It is an admirable line 
of boats, not belonging I believe to the Italian gov- 
ernment, but much under its control, leaving Genoa 
every day for Leghorn, Naples, Palermo, and Ancona, 
on the Adriatic coast.) The captain had sailed a good 
deal in American waters, but chiefly on the Pacific 
coast, trading from the Spanish republican ports to 
those of California. He had been in that State dur- 
ing its effervescent days, when every thing foul 
floated to the top, and I am afraid he formed there 
but a bad opinion of our people, though he was far 
too courteous to say outright any thing of this sort. 

He had very fine, shrewd blue eyes, a lean, weather- 
beaten, kindly face, and a cautious way of saying 
things. I hardly expected him to turn out so red-hot 
a Democrat as he did on better acquaintance, but being 



 

a warm friend of man myself, I was not sorry. Gar- 
ibaldi was the beginning and ending of his political 
faith, as he is with every enthusiastic Italian. The 
honest soul's conception of all concrete evil was 
brought forth in two words, of odd enough applica- 
tion. In Europe, and Italy more particularly, true 
men have suffered chiefly from this form of evil, and 
the captain evidently could conceive of no other cause 
of suffering anywhere. We were talking of the 
American war, and when the captain had asked the 
usual question, " Quando finird mai questa guerra ? " 
and I had responded as usual, U A, ci vuol pazienza  " 
the captain gave a heavy sigh, and turning his head 
pensively aside, plucked his grapes from the cluster a 
moment in silence. 

Then he said : " You Americans are in the habit 
of attributing this war to slavery. The cause is not 
sufficient." 

I ventured to demur and explain. " No," said the 
captain, " the cause is not sufficient. We Italians 
know the only cause which could produce a war like 
this." 

I was naturally anxious to be instructed in the Ital- 
ian theory, hoping it might be profounder than the 
English notion that we were fighting about tariffs. 

The captain frowned, looked at me carefully, and 
then said : 

" In this world there is but one cause of mischief 
the Jesuits." 






III. 

THE first night out, from Genoa to Leghorn, was 
bad enough, but that which succeeded our departure 
from the latter port was by far the worst of the three 
we spent in our voyage to Naples. How we envied 
the happy people who went ashore at Leghorn ! I 
think we even envied the bones of the Venetians, 
Pisans, and Genoese who met and slew each other 
in the long-forgotten sea-fights, and sank too deeply 
through the waves to be stirred by their restless tu- 
mult. Every one has heard tell of how cross and 
treacherous a sea the Mediterranean is in winter, and 
my own belief is, that he who has merely been sea- 
sick on the Atlantic should give the Mediterranean a 
trial before professing to have suffered every thing of 
which human nature is capable. Our steamer was 
clean enough and staunch enough, but she was not 
large no bigger, I thought, than a gondola, that 
night as the waves tossed her to and fro, till unwinged 
things took flight all through her cabins and over her 
decks. My berth was placed transversely instead of 
lengthwise with the boat, an ingenious arrange- 
ment to heighten sea-sick horrors, and dash the blood 
of the sufferer from brain to boots with exaggerated 
violence at each roll of the boat ; and I begged the 
steward to let me sleep upon one of the lockers in the 
cabin. I found many of my agonized species already 
laid out there ; and the misery of the three French 
commercial travellers was so great, that, in the excess 



 

of my own dolor, it actually afforded me a kind of 
happiness, and I found myself smiling at times to see 
the giant, with the eyes of a choked ox, rise up and 
faintly bellow. Indeed, there was something eldritch 
and unearthly in the whole business, and I think a 
kind of delirium must have resulted from the sea-sick- 
ness. Otherwise, I shall not know how to account for 
having attributed a kind of consciousness and individ- 
uality to the guide-book of a young American who 
had come aboard at Leghorn. He turned out after- 
ward to be the sweetest soul in the world, and I am 
sorry now that I regarded with amusement his failure 
to smoke off his sickness. He was reading his guide- 
book with great diligence and unconcern, when sud- 
denly I marked him lay it softly, softly down, with 
that excessive deliberation which men use at such 
times, and vanish with great dignity from the scene. 
Thus abandoned to its own devices, this guide-book 
began its night-long riots, setting out upon a tour of 
the cabin with the first lurch of the boat that threw 
it from the table upon the floor. I heard it careen at 
once wildly to the cabin door, and knock to get out ; 
and failing in this, return more deliberately to the 
stern of the boat, interrogating the tables and chairs, 
which had got their sea-legs on, and asking them how 
they found themselves. Arrived again at the point 
of starting, it seemed to pause a moment, and then I 
saw it setting forth on a voyage of pleasure in the 
low company of a French hat, which, being itself a 
French book, I suppose it liked. In these travels 
they both ran under the feet of one of the stewards, 


 

and were replaced by an immense tour de force on 
the table, from which the book eloped again, this 
time in company with an overcoat ; but it seemed 
the coat was too miserable to go far : it stretched it- 
self at full length on the floor, and suffered the book 
to dance over it, back and forth, I know not how 
many times. At last, as the actions of the book were 
becoming unendurable, and the general sea-sickness 
was waxing into a frenzy, a heavy roll, that made the 
whole ship shriek and tremble, threw us all from our 
lockers ; and gathering myself up, bruised and sore 
in every fibre, I lay down again and became sensible 
of a blissful, blissful lull ; the machinery had stopped, 
and with the mute hope that we were all going to the 
bottom, I fell tranquilly asleep. 



IV. 

IT appeared that the storm had really been danger- 
ous. Instead of being only six hours from Naples, 
as we ought to be at this time, we were got no fur- 
ther than Porto Longone, in the Isle of Elba. We 
woke in a quiet, sheltered little bay, whence we could 
only behold, not feel, the storm left far out upon the 
open sea. From this we turned our heavy eyes 
gladly to the shore, where a white little town was 
settled, like a flight of gulls upon the beach, at the 
feet of green and pleasant hills, whose gentle lines 
rhymed softly away against the sky. At the end of 
either arm of the embracing land in which we lay, 
stood gray, placid old forts, with peaceful sentries 



 

pacing their bastions, and weary ships creeping round 
their feet, under guns looking out so kindly and 

harmlessly, that I think General himself would 

not have hesitated (except, perhaps, from a profound 
sentiment of regret for offering the violence) to at- 
tack them. Our port was full of frightened shipping 
steamers, brigs, and schooners of all sizes and 
nations ; and since it was our misfortune that Napo- 
leon spent his exile in Elba at Porto Ferrate instead 
of Porto Longone, we amused ourselves with looking 
at the vessels and the white town and the soft hills, 
instead of hunting up dead lion's tracks. 

Our fellow-passengers began to develop themselves : 
the regiment of soldiers whom we were transporting 
picturesquely breakfasted forward, and the second- 
cabin people came aft to our deck, while the English 
engineer (there are English engineers on all the 
Mediterranean steamers) planted a camp-stool in a 
sunny spot, and sat down to read the " Birmingham 
Express." 

Our friends of the second cabin were chiefly officers 
with their wives and families, and they talked for the 
most part of their sufferings during the night. They 
spoke such exquisite Italian that I thought them 
Tuscans, but they told me they were of Sicily, where 
their beautiful speech first had life. Let us hear what 
they talked of in their divine language, and with that 
ineffable tonic accent which no foreigner perfectly 
acquires ; and let us for once translate the profanities, 
Pagan and Christian, which adorn common parlance 
in Italy : 




" Ah, my God ! how much I suffered ! " says a 
sweet little woman with gentle brown eyes, red, red 
lips, and blameless Greek lines of face. " I broke 
two basins ! " 

" There were ten broken in all, by Diana ! " says 
this lady's sister. 

" Presence of the Devil ! " says her husband ; and 

" Body of Bacchus ! " her young brother, puffing 
his cigar. 

" And you, sir," said the lady, turning to a hand- 
some young fellow in civil dress, near her, " how did 
you pass this horrible night ? " 

" Oh ! " says the young man, twirling his heavy 
blond mustache, " mighty well, mighty well ! " 

" Oh mercy of God ! You were not sick ? " 

" I, signora, am never sea-sick. I am of the navy." 

At which they all cry oh, and ah, and declare they 
are glad of it, though why they should have been I 
don't know to this day. 

" I have often wished," added the young man 
meditatively, and in a serious tone, as if he had 
indeed given the subject much thought, " that it 
might please God to let me be sea-sick once, if only 
that I might know how it feels. But no ! " He 
turned the conversation, as if his disappointment were 
too sore to dwell upon ; and hearing our English, he 
made out to let us know that he had been at New 
York, and could spik our language, which he pro- 
ceeded to do, to the great pride of his countrymen, 
and our own astonishment at the remarkable forms 
of English speech to which he gave utterance. 



 



V. 

WE set out from Porto Longone that night at eight 
o'clock, and next evening, driving through much- 
abated storm southward into calm waters and clear 
skies, reached Naples. At noon, Monte Circeo, 
where Circe led her disreputable life, was a majestic 
rock against blue heaven and broken clouds ; after 
nightfall, and under the risen moon, Vesuvius crept 
softly up from the sea, and stood a graceful steep, 
with wreaths of lightest cloud upon its crest, and the 
city lamps circling far round its bay. 



VII. 

CERTAIN THINGS IN NAPLES. 



I. 

PERHAPS some reader of mine who visited Naples 
under the old disorder of things, when the Bourbon 
and the Camorra reigned, will like to hear that the 
pitched battle which travellers formerly fought, in 
landing from their steamer, is now gone out of fashion. 
Less truculent boatmen I never saw than those who 
rowed us ashore at Naples ; they were so quiet and 
peaceful that they harmonized perfectly with that 
tranquil scene of drowsy-twinkling city lights, slum- 
brous mountains, and calm sea, and, as they dipped 
softly toward us in the glare of the steamer's lamps, 
I could only think of Tennyson's description : 

" And round about the keel with faces pale, 
Dark faces pale against the rosy flame, 
The mild-eyed melancholy lotus-eaters came." 

The mystery of this placidity had been already solved 
by our captain, whom I had asked what price I 
should bargain to pay from the steamer to 'the shore. 
" There is a tariff," said he, " and the boatmen keep 
to it. The Neapolitans are good people, (buona gente,) 
and only needed justice to make them obedient to 
the laws." I must say that I found this to be true. 





The fares of all public conveyances are now fixed, 
and the attempts which drivers occasionally make to 
cheat you, seem to be rather the involuntary impulses 
of old habit than deliberate intentions to do you 
wrong. You pay what is due, and as your man 
merely rumbles internally when you turn away, you 
must be a very timid signorina indeed, if you buy his 
content with any thing more. I fancy that all these 
things are now much better managed in Italy than 
in America, only we grumble at them there and 
stand them in silence at home. Every one can recall 
frightful instances of plunder, in which he was the 
victim, at New York in which the robbery had 
none of the neatness of an operation, as it often has 
in Italy, but was a brutal mutilation. And then as 
regards civility from the same kind of people in the 
two countries, there is no comparison that holds in 
favor of us. All questions are readily and politely 
answered in Italian travel, and the servants of com- 
panies are required to be courteous to the public ; 
whereas, one is only too glad to receive a silent snub 
from such people at home. 



