"A woman's excuse for trifling." 

" It is well there are some whose fine perception enables 
them to distinguish between ordinary politeness and the 
gratification of a foolish vanity. While there are such 
cool, clear-eyed people in the world, we need not fear for 
society." 

"Undoubtedly;" and his voice was irritatingly sweet. 
" Neither may we apprehend any Quixotic reform when 
the prophets of the new faith are diverted by a word or a 
look from some fanciful sentimentalist." 

If I could have annihilated him with a glance, I should 
have done so : and he looking calm and handsome, w r ith 
that bafHing smile playing about his face. 

"You ridicule my high aims, and if I find any satis- 
faction in ordinary pleasures, you sneer. What is your 
ideal?" 

"And you are a fiery radical," he said, ignoring my 
question. " I wonder " a little lower, as if he was think- 
ing to himself "if you mean to play with hearts in that 
fashion ? " 

" Will it do any harm ? Are men so sensitive and deli- 
cate?" 

" O, no," he said, dryly. " It may go hard with some 
of them at first, but they soon get used to the wjyrfare. It 
does damage faith a little, but those old-fashiolrcd virtues 
are at a discount in modern life." 

" I think you wrong us all," I said, more hurt than I 
cared to show. " If we wound any one, it is because we 
have first been pained ourselves." 

Mrs. Lawrence crossed the hall, and I took shelter under 
her kindly wing. She put her slender white hand over 
my shoulder, and presently we walked away together. 


" "Whnt was Stuart saying? " she asked ; but I could see 
it was not from any curiosity. "You must not mind his 
queer notions; he lias always been odd. I think it was 
living here so much alone, and the St. Johns are peculiar 
people. I married very young, and went away ; and have 
only been back since the death of Mr. Lawrence, which 
occurred a few years ago." 

I was silent. 

"My dear," she continued, in her soft, musical tones, 
"you really surprised me by your self-possession. You 
will be a very fascinating woman, only you must not ruin 
your success by falling in love immediately." 

"Why? In what manner would it interfere?" and I 
smiled. 

"O, it breaks up the general interest. When a girl be- 
comes engaged, the real strife for her is over, and she is 
soon superseded by newer attractions. You need not 
marry for a year or so. I think I can make it very pleas- 
ant for you; and I confess to liking you a great deal. Butt 
came near forgetting my chief errand: Thiiza wants you." 

Afterwards I went to my own room. How lovely it 
looked, and how really delightful life was! Somehow I 
cannot help enjoying it. Is it worth while to strive against 
the current? Surely youth and pleasure go hand in hand, 
and one may find elements of truth and beauty in any 
existence. Why, then, torture one's self with a scourging 
sense of duty in continually grasping at the unattainable ? 
Could I not take the richness of life without stooping to 
its dross? 

I think Mr. St. John must dislike me. He is very kind 
to his sister listens to her plans without making one 
objection ; does many things for her pleasure, and never 
sneers or shows the bitter side of his nature: for he is 
bitter and stern, a strong, masterful man, and yet his very 
power attracts. 



 

I wonder if I am unstable. Sometimes I feel afraid of 
myself. After all, how much can one help or hinder! If 
I only had a patient, trusty friend that I could go to in 
these weak moments ! But I should as soon think of 
confiding in this marble Clytie as Mrs. Lawrence. Both 
are sweet, but cold. 



 



CHAPTER IV. 

" Well, well, 

But you must cultivate yourself; it will pay you. 
Study a dimple, work hard at a smile; 
The things most delicate require most pains." 

FESTUS. 

WE were in perfect order at last, and started on our 
campaign. To say that I was not interested, would be 
untrue. There was a fascination about seeing the world 
in this guise. Several of the girls at school had counted 
largely on a season at Newport or Saratoga, while I held 
my peace, knowing nothing of my future. 

Mr. St. John had engaged a suit of rooms, so all we had 
to do was to enter in and take possession. While Thirza 
unpacked, and Mrs. Lawrence indulged in a rest on the 
sofa, I sat by the window enjoying the changeful scene 
below, that looked to my unpractised eye like irremediable 
confusion, and yet it attracted me wonderfully. I was to 
join this gay throng, and take my share of pleasure. 

We did not go down to the parlors until evening. Mrs. 
Lawrence looked exquisitely lovely, and I fancied almost 
as youthful as I. Thirza had not over-dressed me, and I 
felt quite at home in my new attire. But the scene ren- 
dered me nearly breathless with surprise. Elegant wo- 
men, stately and well-bred men, grouped together, talking, 
smiling, and posing themselves with the rare grace of 
statuary. What a brilliant picture it made ! 

In ten minutes Mrs. Lawrence and her brother were 
surrounded by a throng of old friends, and warmly wel- 



 

corned. I responded to introductions that I felt sure I 
should never remember, and was rather confused, I am 
afraid. Mr. St. John was so kind that I almost wanted to 
express my gratitude. lie answered questions for me, 
and warded off anything like awkwardness, until I began 
to talk quite naturally. 

Presently the circle widened a little. I was standing 
by an open window, when I felt my arm clasped, and a 
familiar voice exclaimed, scarcely above a whisper, 

"In the name of all that's remarkable for wonders, how 
did you come here, Sydnie Adriance?" 

I turned and found a school friend, Laura Hastings. 

"Are you speechless?" she continued, laughingly. "Or 
are you out on a masquerade, where confessing one's 
identity breaks the charm, and resolves you back into a 
Cinderella ? " 

" Neither. Silent from surprise only." 

"Didn't I tell you that I expected to make my debut in 
the world of fashion ? How happens it that you were not 
equally communicative?" 

" Because I had no idea what my destiny would be." 

"Let us walk up and down this piazza, for I want to 
catechise you. In the first place, when did you arrive?" 

" This morning." 

Laura Hastings was an odd, vivacious girl, who always 
seemed to carry everything her own way. We had been 
very good friends, without the slightest spark of affection. 
She occasionally ridiculed me, and I retorted by pro- 
nouncing her heartless. 

"Who brought vou here?" she went on. 

O / 

"My guardian, Mr. St. John, and his sister, Mrs. Law- 
rence." 

" Pretty well, so far. What kind of a woman is Mrs. 
Lawrence ? Young, rich, and handsome ? " 



 

"All three." 

" The gods are unjust to bestow so much upon one 
person. Do you aspire to belleship, Miss Adriance?" 

I laughed at her piquant manner, and said, " I have no 
such ambition." 

"Then you are not as sensible as I supposed. With 
your face and style I would have half Newport in love 
with me, and the other half dying with envy." 

" That would not be a very high gratification." 

"Don't be saintish and nonsensical! You should have 
left all that at school. However, if you are generous, I 
may stand a better chance. I've been here only a week, 
and had an offer already, besides strongly interesting a 
New York millionnaire but he is old enough to be my 
father." 

" You refused the offer ? " 

" Of course. He was a young artist, my cousin Carrie's 
bright particular. She put on airs, and went to a stupid 
little country place, but he seemed to have a fancy for 
hovering in the flame. He was only singed a little, and 
will go back to her with more devotion than ever, so no 
one was hurt. I believe I rather tempted him to come 
here." 

" O, Laura ! Why, when you did not mean to many 
him?" 

" To tease Came a little. She has an idea that good- 
ness is all the capital one needs in this world. It is a 
poor investment, to my thinking." 

" But truth, and honor, and generosity ought to meet 
with some recognition," I said, warmly. 

" You cling to your first love pertinaciously, I see. A 
month at Newport will convert you to the true faith. 
Plain women may carry about a list of virtues as long as 
their sober faces, but the handsome ones all believe alike. 



 

And yon are rather magnificent. You've had some help, 
for I know you never possessed all these ideas of your 
own." 

I flushed a little and was silent, for we paused at one 
of the windows. She gave a quick glance around and 
eaid, 

" Can you see your Mrs. Lawrence ? I'm wild to know 
what vsort of <i chaperone you have." 

" She is sitting by that table yonder, between two 
ladies, wears blue crape, and has golden ringlets." 

" My dear Sydnie, I'm delighted. I can foresee a charm- 
ing family party. The lady on her left, in mauve silk, is 
my august mamma, and the other, Mrs. Westervelt, from 
New York, an intimate friend. And your beautiful Mrs. 
Lawrence why, Sydnie, you live in Virginia, don't 
you ? " 

I answered in the affirmative. 

"You are the most fortunate girl alive! Think how 
you used to study, as if you expected to teach fora living! 
I've heard Philip Westervelt talk of this Mr. St. John. 
They're immense friends. He is as rich as a Jew, and lives 
elegantly, doesn't he ? " 

" Laurel wood is a lovely place," I said. 

"I'm afraid you'll make me envy you, after all. Why, 
you have only to captivate your bachelor guardian, to be- 
come mistress of one of the handsomest estates in the 
country." 

I blushed to my very finger ends, and for an instant 
was positively angry at her boldness. She saw it. 

"My dear," she said, good-naturedly, "please exercise 
your Christian forbearance a little. Simplicity is very 
charming, but it is a woman's duty to make the best mar- 
riage she can. We have this advantage over Eastern 
women in that we are not absolutely sold to the highest 



 

bidder, but make ourselves attractive and win him 
gently." 

"Marriage must be something better than that with 
me," I answered, curtly. 

"Now here is a modern hero that I should like to fas- 
cinate," she recommenced, with animation ; " though I 
have a fancy that he could make a good fight. There's 
so much in his face a sort of strength and defiance that 
always rouses one ; and in figure and carriage he is splen- 
did. He has just spoken to Mrs. Westervelt." 

" That is Mr. St. John." 

She turned her eyes full upon me, and studied me cu- 
riously. 

"You're in love with him, of course?" 
, "I am not in love with him." I tried to say it calmly, 
but I had a misgiving that my voice was not quite steady; 
not because her accusation was true, but from its sudden- 
ness. 

" Then you are a greater dunce than I imagined. Why, 
he cannot be much over thirty ; just a good age. Was he 
at home when you went to Laurelwood ? " 

" He came for me at school. Mrs. Lawrence was in New 
York awaiting me," I said, coldly. 

" You do mean to marry him ? Honor bright, now." 

" I have no expectations of the kind, neither will I dis- 
cuss him in that fashion." 

" Don't get vexed. You will not mind if I flirt a little 
with him?" 

" As you like." My tone was calm enough then, but my 
face burned with secret annoyance. 

" I am dying for my introduction. Let us go in." 

" O, my dear," Mrs. Lawrence exclaimed, in a relieved 
tone, " I had begun to wonder where you were when I saw 
Mr. St. John alone. I am glad you have met a friend." 



 

She looked Laura all over, and I had begun to under- 
stand her so well that I knew her verdict was favorable. 
Mrs. Hastings was a stylish and rather haughty-looking 
woman ; Mrs. Westervelt very sweet and gracious. Some- 
Low I was drawn to the latter at once. 

Laura and Mr. St. John fell into a light skirmish. With- 
out being absolutely witty, she was quick and piquant, and 
it appeared to me never enough in earnest to be vexed if 
any one demolished her opinions. He was not severe, and 
kept back the sarcasm with which he had treated me on. 
our first meeting. She certainly amused and interested 
him. 

I had never thought Laura handsome at school. She 
was showy, vivacious, and possessed the art of adapting 
herself to any person* She had all sorts of beliefs, fenthu- 
Biasms, and graces, and was very generally admired. To- 
night, amid this brilliance, she did appear unusually at- 
tractive. 

Presently Mr. St. John took us for a promenade and 
ices. They had all the conversation, for I only spoke when 
either appealed to me ; but I tried to decide what Laura's 
fascination for such a man was, and failed. It was alto- 
gether beyond my ken. 

After quite a ramble \ve found the party discussing a 
hop that was to take place the next evening. Afterwards 
our circle widened, and I found myself enjoying the gay 
talk, the music, and the changing groups. The newness 
interested me strongly. 

The next morning we went to ride. A friend of Mr. 
St. John's sent the horses, and accompanied us himself a 
very agreeable gentleman withal, and a rather distinguished- 
looking cavalier. The day was delightful. The sun went 
hi and out among masses of dreamy, floating cloud ; the 
fragrant air seemed to throb to the beating of the ocean 



 

waves beyond. All around was life blissful, hopeful life. 
A kind of auspicious beginning ; yet now and then I 
thought of the solitary child who had first learned to love 
nature while scrambling over lonely, moss-grown rocks. 
In those restricted visions how could she dream what the 
dawn of womanhood would be ? 

It was curious what a listless air the hotel took on about 
midday. Young men lounged in the shadiest corners of 
the balconies, finding it too warm for billiards. Bathing 
was over, dowagers were taking an after-dinner nap, young 
ladies had disappeared to renew their beauty and freshness 
for the evening. A droning sort of stillness, rather enjoy- 
able after all the crowd and confusion. 

Laura insisted that I should come and look over her 
dresses, and help her choose one for the hop. 

" I suppose you'll be magnificent. That comes of hav- 
ing a fortune. What a splendid mannger Mrs. Lawrence 
is! Your ride of this morning was just the thing, and 
created a sensation. That salmon-tinted plume in your 
hat nearly drove me crazy; and you sat like a duchess. 
She has given you a royal entree." 

" The ride wasn't managed at all. Mr. Blanchard pro- 
posed sending his horses over. "We simply accepted the 
invitation." 

" Well, if you had taken immense pains, you couldn't 
have played a better card. I shall have to look well to my 
laurels, in spite of your meek protestations. Half a dozen 
young men are counting upon an introduction to-night. I 
was quite in demand because I happened to be at school 
with you." 

" I wish you would find other things to talk about," I 
said, pettishly. 

"You can't make me cross with you, my dear. I want 
you for a confidant. I must have some one with whom 



 

I can talk over my conquests. In return I will allow you 
to give me high moral lectures. Perhaps I may profit. 
But if I stood in your place, wouldn't there be one tre- 
mendous sensation ! You don't half appreciate it. I 
mean to make love to Mrs. Lawrence, and get myself in- 
vited to Laurelwood." 

I smiled in spite of my annoyance. 

" Confession number one will begin to-morrow," she said, 
as I went out of the room. 

The hop was enchanting. Thirza made me supremely 
elegant. Mrs. Lawrence was in a radiant mood, and I was 
pleased, delighted, charmed. So many handsome and pol- 
ished men, and lovely women, such brilliant lights and 
delicious music low talk behind fans and in corners, 
dancing, compliments, and enjoyment to the very brim of 
pleasure's chalice. To know one is capable of inspiring 
others with admiration, to attract and satisfy insensibly, to 
see faces brighten at a word, does give one a peculiar con- 
tentment. It was my first real entrance into the world 
of fashion. I used to consider most of the school recep- 
tions a bore, and perhaps had based my ideas of parties 
upon those. That was weak claret to this Moselle. 

Laura looked, acted, and danced in a most bewildering 
fashion. Everybody thought her beautiful, and she is a 
general favorite. Mrs. Westervelt pets her like a daugh- 
ter. Mrs. Lawrence admires her style and spirit exceed- 
ingly. She is considered frank and amiable, and gains 
credit for hosts of virtues that she sneers at in private in 
her flippant way. 

What avails it to struggle against the continual tempta- 
tions that beset one, trying and failing, repenting and 
making new resolves, when a little surf-ice gilding carries 
oft' the palm? Do those who exhort us to be earnest and 
pure in heart, simple and truthful, really believe these 



 

homely virtues win a bright reward ? The approval of 
one's conscience is something, to be sure ; but are not the 
people who seem to be utterly deficient in conscience the 
happiest ? At least they take the smaller share of suf- 
fering. 

Moralizing over a ball ! Well, I was happy. The com- 
pliments and small talk did not seem as vapid as I ex- 
pected. Mr. St. John appeared to enjoy it, though he did 
not dance never does, his sister says. He was very 
attentive, introducing people to me; yet he was just as 
kind to Laura. 

" Such a conquest! " and Laura, fan in hand, threw her- 
self on the sofa by the window. "Put away your writing 
and listen to me, if it isn't a love letter." 

"I am all attention," and I shut my tiny desk with a 
sharp click. " What fortress have you laid in ruins now ? " 

"First wasn't it superb last night! The handsomest 
woman in the room was acknowledged to be Mrs. Law- 
rence ; the two girls who bore off the palm were Miss 
Adriance and Miss Hastings: the one with her dusky, ori- 
ental magnificence, eyes of slumberous fire, and vivid 
southern temperament, the other with her cooler northern 
blood, that gives a touch of frost, melting at the first ad- 
vance of summer. Shall I go on?" 

" Spai-e your nonsense," I said. " If I hear so much of 
the ball I shall be sick of it." 

"There is no use of airing your humility before me. 
You did enjoy it, I know. I was glad to see you be- 
have so respectably." 

" I don't imagine a ball-room triumph is worth a great 
deal," I returned, with a doubtful smile. 

" Take the goods the gods provide, and make a feast 
over them all. That is the only true philosophy. I enjoy 
being considered handsome, though I do call in the assist- 



 

ance of art. I'm thankful to the Bloom of Youth for my 
radiant complexion, to the hair-dresser for making the most 
of my scanty locks, and the dress-maker for improving my 
figure. When society praises you, take it as your just 
desert, and people will pride themselves upon telling you 
the truth. It is pleasanter to be overvalued than under- 
valued." 

" But your conquest ? " I said, impatiently. 

"You were so engrossed with your own admirers that 
you missed the fun. Of course you were introduced to 

the poet, II ? The on dit is that he is engaged to Miss 

Conway, who really docs write delightful stories, and is a 
very fine, intellectual woman. She was determined to 
keep him within her charmed circle of congenial minds, 
and I threw out a little bait. My sweet simplicity capti- 
vated him, and he has asked me to drive with him this 
afternoon. I wonder how Miss Conway will take it! " 

"O, Laura, how could you ?" 

"All is fair in love and war, you know. I have im- 
proved the seventeen years and five months of my life. I 
think he is desperately smitten." 

"Suppose he should fall in love?" 

" Then he must fall out again." 

"You will not marry him?" 

" My dear simpleton, he is poor, and I am looking for a 
fortune." 

" Whether you love or not?" 

"When you come to take the census you will find that 
love matches do not pay. All I ever knew turned out 
miserably. Love in a cottage is charming to talk about, 
and I shall improve upon the theme this afternoon most 
eloquently." 

" And you can deliberately resolve to throw away hap- 
piness for a mere show ! " 





"Put it 'substantial,' and I'll risk the happiness. You 
are too romantic, Syclnie. Your ideals and dreams will 
never be realized in this world of shams." 

" There must be some truth, some reality." 

"Nonsense! Society is a very fine humbug, and it 
won't do to drag in Truth by the hair of her head. It 
does not ask what is under the satin, but it does insist 
rigorously upon the satin. You will find that the chief 
end of woman is to make a good marriage. What else 
can she do? Old maids are laughed at, quizzed, sent 
about from pillar to post, and made the slaves of every- 
body, unless they happen to have a fortune. Not to marry 
well is a capital sin against society." 

" But no true woman could degrade herself by marrying 
without aifection." 

" Of course it would be a crime to confess it. Here, 
with the mask off, we can show honest faces. What does 
a man marry for? He wants an elegant mistress to his 
establishment, or an income that will help him sustain one. 
In six months he wouldn't be able to tell his wife from 
other women, if it wasn't that she asked him for money 
occasionally. And if she was weak enough to pin her 
faith on his love, she can spend the rest of her days in the 
shadow of a dead hope, grow old and miserable at home, 
while society adores him, and pities him for being tied to 
such a log." 

"You will admit that people can love?" 

" One feels in one's novel-reading days as if there was 
a tender place in the head or the heart, that love alone 
could fill ; yet few of the people who marry for love are 
happy. It has a miserable faculty of turning to dross. I 
choose to look at the facts. Here is the world, pretty fair 
if you are sharp enough to take advantage of it ; other- 
wise you drift about to no purpose. When you have a 



 

good position you can dictate to your neighbors, and it is 
much pleasanter to rule than to be ruled." 

"How much nobler we should all be if we took as much 
pains to do right as some do to be false and unnatural." 

" O, it would wear me out in a month to practise so 
many virtues." 

" And you are willing to receive credit for qualities you 
don't even desire to possess ? " 

"O, my dear girl, you go too deeply into these matters. 
Life in general is like French flowers. Brilliancy and 
beauty at the top underneath, a little cotton and painted 
muslin stuck together by paste. It is not wise to go into 
details." 

" I can never be satisfied with such an existence," I said, 
warmly. 

" You had better ask for a missionary appointment, and 
go to foreign lands, for I think the majority of the people 
here do not desire to be converted from the error of their 
ways. You are a little too good for this world ; yet I 
don't quite despair of you, under Mrs. Lawrence's judicious 
training. But I must run away now. Wish me success." 

How much her views were like Mr. St. John's ! Was 
there no real nobleness and generosity in the world? I 
would not judge it so harshly, because I felt in my own 
soul that I was capable of higher joys than dressing and 
flirting. And yet, what else was there to do in such a 
life? One read novels in a desultory fashion, or sketched, 
or crocheted a little, the rest of the time being devoted to 
pleasure. 

Laura took her drive, and made a new engagement. 
She laughingly begged me to comfort Miss Conway, and 
fate threw us together. A fine, pure soul was hers, full of 

high aspirations. I liked II also. I could understand 

the harmony there might be between them, and it vexed 
me that he should neglect her for Laura. 



 

How the girl managed that her ninny flirtations should 
not interfere I cannot divine. Most of the gentlemen 
seemed to consider her a charming and almost irresponsible 
child, and more than one matron excused her on the ground 
that she really did not mean any harm, but was frank and 
impulsive, and always ready to please. She was not nn- 
mindful of the main chance, however, and kept Mr. Varick 
within reach constantly. He was a widower, but childless ; 
and for many years a sister, now dead, had superintended 
bis establishment. Others besides her cast longing eyes 
towards the possessor of such a fortune* 

As a whole, I believe my month at Newport was a suc- 
cess. Mrs. Lawrence approved, Mr. St. John took care 
that I should not lack for pleasures. Riding, bathing, 
dancing, and merriment of all kinds, that youth cannot 
resist. I honestly tried not to flirt, and was thankful that 
I had not come husband-hunting. 

Not that there were no men worthy of loving. But in 
the glamour of such gayety who can see soul to soul ? I 
felt that I would hardly risk a love born under such aus- 
pices. One could hot tell the tinsel from the pure gold, 
if indeed there was any. 

With all these gayeties there was little time to cultivate 
friendships, yet I did spend many pleasant hours with Miss 
Conway and Mrs. Westcrvelt. The latter was such a sweet, 
kind, motherly woman. I really wondered what attraction 
there was in the place for her, and found that her son had 
made her promise to join the Hastings party, as he expected 
to be away nearly all summer on business. Her passion 
for him was one of the rare romances of life. He was the 
last of quite a large family. 

" A good young man," said Laura, with her peculiar 
little laugh. "Devoted to his mother, and all that. I 
don't know but I should marry him, only I ain not of the 



 

goody sort, and want a little liberty to breathe now and 
then." 

At last we reached the grand ball of the season a mas- 
querade. Such an endless discussion as to characters and 
dresses, and guesses hazarded about every one ! The scene 
itself was beyond description. One felt transported to 
strange countries. Cavaliers, dukes, kings, historical char- 
acters, pages, and knights of romance jostled one another, 
ami jested gayly. Laura personated Byron's Leila, look- 
ing the coquettish girl to perfection, the Oriental dress and 
fillet of pearls making her absolutely beautiful. The poet 
paid court to her as the Giaour. Mr. St. John chose the 
costume of a Spanish woman for me ; and I wondered if 
my grandmother ever stepped more stately in flowing 
robes and lace mantle. Somehow I felt wondrously at 
home, and fancied that I acquitted myself very well. 

It was nc'iir d;i\vn when the revellers began to disperse. 
The night had been one of unusual enjoyment, but now 
crape, illusion, and flowers began to droop. 

" Let us go," I said to Mrs. Lawrence ; " I don't want to 
remember the scene in ruins." 

"You are right," Mr. St. John returned. "The last gala 
night here. Are you not sorry?" 

"No," I answered, a little wearily; "the whole month 
has appeared like a masquerade. I shall be glad to get 
back to sober life." 

" Laurelwood will seem dull and tame." 

"If it is as bright as my remembrance of it, I shall have 
no fear." 

It I turned me suddenly round, and gave one long, search- 
ing glance into my face ; then, with a hurried good night, 
we parted. 



CHAPTER V. 



THE next day was one of farewells. No more rambles 
in the tender, throbbing moonlight, with the great swells 
of the ocean rising and sinking with their thunderous 
rhythm, and foam phantoms chasing one another far up 
the shore. No more drives in softest twilight, where the 
purple air was all alive and quivering with the glory of 
the departed day. No more brilliance and flirting in the 
long hall, thronged with porters bringing down hosts of 
trunks. The revel was surely over, and the place already 
wore an air of desolation. 

Mrs. Westervelt had insisted, and Mrs. Lawrence had 
accepted an invitation for a few weeks in New York. 

"Miss Adriance will not want to keep straight on with 
dissipation, I think," Mr. St. John said. " Suppose we 
take a quiet little turn about the country for a fortnight." 

"O!" I exclaimed, in a delighted tone; and I know the 
gratification in my face finished the sentence. 

So we said good by to the party. I should have been 
very lonely for the remainder of the day if I had not 
heeded Mrs. Lawrence's fervent injunction, and gone to 
bed. I was really tired and sleepy. 

The parlors looked lonely enough in the evening. Two 
or three lingerers sang at the piano, but I fancied the 
voices had a pathetic touch. 



 

" Let us go out for a short walk," Mr. St. John said. 
"There is no moon, but we shall not lose our way." 

" Well," he began, after a long, long while, just as I fan- 
cied that he was not going to talk at all, " how do you 
like this phase of life'? I think its gayeties have not 
proved tiresome." 

"It seems a sort of hot-house existence," I answered; 
"and, though it is delightful for a while, I shouldn't want 
it continually." 

lie laughed sharply, with a curious sound in his voice 
that displeased me. 

" You still cling to the old notion. Your friend should 
have turned your thoughts into a more practical channel." 

I knew he meant Laura. 

"I think neither of us would be likely to influence the 
other. We are as widely different as one can well im- 
agine." Then, after a pause, which lie seemed in no hurry 
to break, I said, "Mr. St. John, have you tny faith, any 
creed, any rule of conduct?" 

"My beliefs are not for a woman fair and young;" and 
I knew the expression of his f;ice must be bitter by the 
tone he used. " But we will not spoil our last night here 
by disputing. We surely can find some pleasanter topic 
of conversation." 

And, to do him justice, he did. I confess I do not un- 
derstand the man at all. Every change in him surprises 
me. When lie seemed firmly fixed as the rock of Gibral- 
tar, and hedged about with thorns, and while you are con- 
sidering in what manner you can best meet his mood, ho 
suddenly becomes as calm and as fair as a summer s;-a. 

Our little tour was very delightful, taking in Niagara. 
My pen almost stops, my very thoughts stand with uncov- 
ered, reverent heads. Sublimity and grandeur arc mean- 
ing words, but they are tame when applied to this resistless 



 

tide, nature's magnificent organ, whose tones seem akin to 
the full choral of that morning when the stars all sang to- 
gether. Every dash of spray is deeply tinctured with a 
sense of mysterious loveliness, amber, opal, and frost-white 
with the warmer hues born of sunshine. A sacred pil- 
grimage that ought to make one's soul better and nobler. 

I liked Mr. St. John so much while we were there ! He 
seemed to throw off the mask he wears continually, and 
give one a glimpse of the real man, royally sweet, appre- 
ciative, and enjoyable. 

I was glad to see Mrs. Wcstervelt again. She welcomed 
us all warmly, with that genuine hospitality which is al- 
ways beyond question. Home is preeminently her place. 
Her gentleness, her affection, her comprehensive charity 
charm me. I wonder how it would have been with me if 
I had shared such a mother's love ! 

Philip, the son, was still away when we first came. I 
own that I was positively anxious to see him, and it was 
delightful to have his mother talk of him in her fond, half- 
girlish manner for she is one of the women who will 
never grow old. Mr. Westervelt, though not much her 
senior, seems quite aged beside her. He is still hale and 
hearty, though, with his mind completely engrossed by 
business. 

Mrs. Lawrence had gone out one afternoon, and I sat in 
Mrs. "Westervelt's room, reading to her. This was a great 
pleasure to me ; and coming occasionally to a passage 
marked, I lingered over it with peculiar interest. She 
would recognize it with a quick smile, and for a few sec- 
onds lose herself in happy remembrances. During one of 
these pauses I heard a servant's exclamation in the hall, 
the quiet shutting of the door, and a light, springing step 
mounted the stairs, two at a bound. 

She gave a little cry of joy, and started from her chair, 




to be clasped to a heart fond and warm as lier own. I 
had a glimpse of a frank, youthful face, blushing in sur- 
prise, and a head of tawny, chestnut curls, and then I ran 
away, feeling that the scene was too sacred for stranger 
eyes. And it saddened me to know that in all the wide 
world there was no such love and no such welcome for me. 

Presently I was sent for to the drawing-room, and intro- 
duced formally ; but Mr. Westervelt laughed as he said, 

" My mother insists that I shocked you half an hour ago, 
Miss Adriance, by my sudden appearance. Not having 
the grace of an angel, I suppose I ought to apologize. I 
expected to find her alone." 

"Not a very complimentary apology, when yon saw how 
I was entertained," Mrs. Westervelt said, deprecatingly. 

"Mother, do you mean to keep me from making peace 
with Miss Adriance? Did you expect me to send a tele- 
gram, with date of hour and moment, when I came flying 
upon the wings of the wind myself? Suppose we do it 
all over again ? Newport has put some grand ideas in 
your head. I shall have to take a turn there next sum- 
mer. Miss Adriance, am I forgiven ? Please don't think 
me a bear. I am more like a great, shaggy Newfoundland 
dog." 

" There certainly was nothing to pardon ; " and I 
smiled. 

" Mamma mine, you see she doesn't hold malice. I'm 
glad, Miss Adriance, for I want to be friends with you, 
since you have a claim on some one very clear to me. If 
you had not started quite so soon, I should have dropped 
down upon you at Laurelwood, for I have been rambling 
about Virginia the last six weeks. It would have been 
Tara's halls deserted." 

"But 'Beauty's reign ' was not over." 

"Ah, you have been conquered by its potent spell. Did 



 

you ever see so lovely a place, Miss Adrinnce? St. John 
goes on adding to it year by year, and yet to me it has 
always been perfect." 

Mrs. Westervelt rang for a servant to light tip the room. 
I ventured to take my first real glimpse of Philip then. 
Frank and manly, without being regulaily handsome ; a 
rather full figure, with remnants of boyish grace, and a 
face good and sweet, rather than strong. Not that it was 
weak ; but it lacked the sense of maturity and power that 
always pleased me so in Mr. St. John. I don't know why 
I should compare other men with him, as if he were a 
standard of excellence, and yet I often find myself doing 
it. There was nothing bitter nor satirical in this face ; and 
I felt how genial and warm his heart must be. 

Mrs. Westervelt left us to give some orders about the 
dinner. Philip eyed me in an odd, amused fashion for a 
moment, then said, with his bright smile, 

" You must pardon me, but I have had a great curiosity 
to see what Mr. St. John's ward would be like. Guardian- 
ship seems a new phase for him." 

"Pie did not choose her," I returned; "she was 'great- 
ness thrust upon him.' " 

"How does he bear his honors meekly?" 

" I have a fancy that meekness is not one of his strong 
characteristics." 

"You are right. Well, do you like him?" 

" Sometimes." I made a slight grimace for the rest. 

He laughed. 

"Don't think me impertinent. He is peculiar, and so 
are you." 

" Peculiar ! " I echoed. 

"Yes ; you carry it in your face ; a kind of mystery that 
perplexes one." 

" I was not aware of that," I said. " I always fancied 
my feelings came quite readily to the surface." 



 

u Do they ? Not those that you care the most about. Did 
you ever think, Miss Adriiince, of the different stories peo- 
ple carry in their faces? Some writer says, 'We come at 
length in ourselves to express the spirit within us. The 
physical fact has its perfect moral respondent.'" 

" But that cannot apply to faces." 

"I believe no general rule applies to all. But some 
