that this interest was somehow the cause of the war. To strengthen,
perpetuate and extend this interest, was the object for which the
insurgents would rend the Union even by war, while the Government
claimed no right to do more than to restrict the territorial
enlargement of it.

Neither party expected for the war the magnitude or the duration which
it has already attained. Neither anticipated that the cause of the
conflict might cease with, or even before the conflict itself should
cease. Each looked for an easier triumph, and a result less fundamental
and astounding.

Both read the same Bible and prayed to the same God, and each invoke
his aid against the other. It may seem strange that any men should dare
to ask a just God's assistance in wringing their bread from the sweat
of other men's faces, but let us judge not, that we be not judged.
The prayers of both could not be answered. That of neither has been
answered fully. The Almighty has his own purposes. 'Woe unto the world
because of offences, for it must needs be that offences come: but woe
to that man by whom the offence cometh.' If we shall suppose that
American slavery is one of these offences, which in the providence of
God must needs come, but which having continued through his appointed
time, He now wills to remove, and that he gives to both North and South
this terrible war as the woe due to those by whom the offence came,
shall we discern therein any departure from those divine attributes
which the believers in a living God always ascribe to Him? Fondly do we
hope, fervently do we pray, that this mighty scourge of war may soon
pass away. Yet, if God wills that it continue until all the wealth
piled by the bondman's two hundred and fifty years of unrequited toil
shall be sunk, and until every drop of blood drawn with the lash shall
be paid with another drawn with the sword, as was said three thousand
years ago; so, still it must be said, 'The judgments of the Lord are
true and righteous altogether.'

With malice toward none, with charity for all, with firmness in the
right, as God gives us to see the right, let us strive on to finish
the work we are in, to bind up the nation's wounds, to care for him
who shall have borne the battle and for his widow and orphans, to do
all which may achieve and cherish a just and a lasting peace among
ourselves and with all nations."

The words of Lincoln seemed to grow more clear and more remarkable as
they approached the end. Perhaps in no language, ancient or modern, are
any number of words found more touching and eloquent than his speech
of November 19, 1863, at the Gettysburg celebration. He wrote it in a
few moments, while on the way to the celebration, on being told that he
would be expected to make some remarks, and after Mr. Everett's oration
he rose and read it. It was as follows:

"Fourscore and seven years ago, our fathers brought forth on this
continent a new nation, conceived in liberty, and dedicated to the
proposition that all men are created equal. Now, we are engaged in
a great civil war, testing whether that nation, or any nation, so
conceived and dedicated, can long endure. We are met on a great
battle-field of that war. We have come to dedicate a portion of that
field as a final resting-place for those who here gave their lives that
the nation might live. It is altogether fitting and proper that we
should do this.

But in a larger sense, we cannot dedicate, we cannot consecrate,
we cannot hallow, this ground. The brave men, living and dead, who
struggled here, have consecrated it far above our poor power to add
or detract. The world will little note, nor long remember what we say
here, but it can never forget what they did here. It is for us, the
living, rather to be dedicated here to the unfinished work which they
who fought here have thus far so nobly advanced. It is rather for
us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us, that
from these honored dead, we take increased devotion to that cause for
which they gave the last full measure of devotion; that we here highly
resolve that these dead shall not have died in vain; that this nation,
under God, shall have a new birth of freedom; and that government of
the people, by the people, and for the people, shall not perish
from the earth."

The audience had admired Mr. Everett's long address. At Mr. Lincoln's
few words, they cheered and sobbed and wept. When Mr. Lincoln had
ended, he turned and congratulated Mr. Everett on having succeeded so
well. Mr. Everett replied, with a truthful and real compliment, "Ah,
Mr. Lincoln, how gladly I would exchange all my hundred pages, to have
been the author of your twenty lines!"

Probably no ruler ever made a more profoundly and peculiarly
Christian impression on the mind of the world than Lincoln. In
his religious faith two leading ideas were prominent from first to
last--man's helplessness, both as to strength and wisdom, and God's
helpfulness in both. When he left Springfield to assume the Presidency,
he said to his townsmen:

"A duty devolves on me which is perhaps greater than that which has
devolved on any other man since the days of Washington. He never would
have succeeded but for the aid of divine Providence, on which he at
all times relied, and I feel that I cannot succeed without the same
Divine aid which sustained him. On the same Almighty Being I place my
reliance for support, and I hope that you, my friends, will pray that I
may receive that Divine assistance, without which I cannot succeed, but
with which success is certain."

Abraham Lincoln's whole course showed that he possessed that faith
without which, St. Paul says, it is impossible to please God, for
"he that cometh to God must believe that He IS, and that He is a
rewarder of those who diligently seek him."

And now our Christian pilgrim having passed through the valley of the
shadow of death, and slain and vanquished giants and dragons, at last
had a little taste, a few days sojourn, in the land of Beulah.

Cheer after cheer rose up and shook the land as by one great stroke
after another the awful convulsions of the conflict terminated in full,
perfect, final victory.

Never did mortal man on this earth have a triumph more dramatic and
astounding than Lincoln's victorious entry into Richmond. Years before,
when a humble lawyer in Illinois, a man without prestige of person or
manners or education, he had espoused what the world called the losing
side, and been content to take the up-hill, laborious road. He had seen
his rival, adorned with every external advantage of person, manners,
eloquence and oratory, sweeping all prizes away from him, and far
distancing him in the race of political ambition.

In those days, while confessing that he had felt the promptings of
ambition, and the disappointment of ill success, there was one manly
and noble sentiment that ought to be printed in letters of gold, as the
motto of every rising young man. Speaking of the distinction at which
Douglas was aiming, he said:

"SO REACHED AS THAT THE OPPRESSED OF MY SPECIES MIGHT HAVE EQUAL REASON
TO REJOICE WITH ME, I SHOULD VALUE IT MORE THAN THE PROUDEST CROWN THAT
COULD DECK THE BROW OF A MONARCH."

At this moment of his life he could look back and see far behind
him the grave of the once brilliant Douglas, who died worn out and
worn down with disappointed ambition, while he, twice elected to
the Presidency, was now standing the observed of all the world, in
a triumph that has no like in history. And it was a triumph made
memorable and peculiar by the ecstacies and hallelujahs of those very
oppressed with whose care years before he had weighted and burdened
his progress. It was one of those earthly scenes which grandly
foreshadow that great final triumph predicted in prophecy, when the
Lord God shall wipe away all tears from all faces, and the rebuke
of his people shall he utterly take away. A cotemporary witness has
described Lincoln, calm and simple, leading his little boy by the hand,
while the liberated blacks hailed him with hymns and prayers, mingling
his name at each moment with ascriptions of praise and glory to Jesus
the Great Liberator, whose day at last had come. Who can say of what
ages of mournful praying and beseeching, what uplifting of poor, dumb
hands that hour was the outcome? Years before, a clergyman of Virginia
visiting the black insurrectionist, Nat Turner, in his cell before
execution, gives the following wonderful picture of him: "In rags, in
chains, covered with blood and bruises, he yet is inspired by such a
force of enthusiasm, as he lifts his chained hands to heaven, as really
filled my soul with awe. It is impossible to make him feel that he
is guilty. He evidently believes that he was called of God to do the
work he did. When I pointed out to him that it could not be, because
he was taken, condemned, and about to be executed, he answered with
enthusiasm, 'Was not Jesus Christ crucified? My cause will succeed
yet!'"

Years passed, and the prophetic visions of Nat Turner were fulfilled
on the soil of Virginia. It did indeed rain blood; the very leaves of
the trees dripped blood; but the work was done, the yoke was broken,
and the oppressed went free. An old negress who stood and saw the
confederate prisoners being carried for safe keeping into the former
slave pens, said grimly, "Well, de Lord am slow, but He am sure!"

As the final scenes of his life drew on, it seemed as if a heavenly
influence overshadowed the great martyr, and wrought in him exactly
the spirit that a man would wish to be found in when he is called to
the eternal world. His last expressions and recorded political actions
looked towards peace and forgiveness. On the day before his death
he joyfully ordered the discontinuance of the draft. His very last
official act was to give orders that two of the chief leaders of the
rebellion, then expected in disguise at a sea port, on their flight to
Europe, should not be arrested, but permitted to embark; so that he was
thinking only of saving the lives of rebels, when they were thinking of
taking his. If he had tried of set purpose to clear his soul for God's
presence, and to put the rebels and their assassin champion in the
wrong before that final tribunal, he could not have done better.

Mr. Lincoln seems to have had during his course a marked presentiment
of the fate which had from the first been threatening him, and which
the increasing pile of letters marked "Assassination," gave him
constant reason to remember. In more than one instance he had in
his public speeches professed a solemn willingness to die for his
principles. The great tax which his labors and responsibilities made
on his vitality, was perhaps one reason for his frequently saying that
he felt that he should not live to go through with it. He observed
to Mr. Lovejoy, during that gentleman's last illness, in February,
1864, "This war is eating my life out; I have a strong impression
that I shall not live to see the end." In July following, he said to
a correspondent of the Boston Journal, "I feel a presentiment that I
shall not outlast the rebellion. When it is over, my work will be done."

Concerning the last painful history, there have been a thousand
conflicting stories. From the mass of evidence the following
brief account has been prepared, which sufficiently outlines the
circumstances:

Who were the persons concerned in the assassination of President
Lincoln, has never been judicially proved. Perhaps it never will be.
The indictment against the conspirators named the following parties.
David E. Herold, George A. Atzerodt, Lewis Payne, Michael O'Laughlin,
Edward Spangler, Samuel Arnold, Mary E. Surratt, Samuel A. Mudd, John
H. Surratt, John Wilkes Booth, Jefferson Davis, George N. Sanders,
Beverly Tucker, Jacob Thompson, William C. Cleary, Clement C. Clay,
George Harper, and George Young; and it added, "and others unknown."
The assassin was John Wilkes Booth. And whether or no Jefferson Davis
and his fellows in the rebel government were actually aiding and
abetting in this particular crime, it has not been unjust nor unnatural
to suspect them of it. For Mr. Davis certainly accredited Thompson,
Sanders, Clay, and Tucker, as his official agents in Canada. These men
in their turn, and acting in harmony with their instructions and the
purposes of their government, gave a commission to that John A. Kennedy
who was detected in attempting to kindle an extensive fire in the city
of New York, and consulted with him about his proposed plans. This was
the substance of Kennedy's own confession, and he and his accomplices
did kindle fires in four of the New York hotels. It is completely
proved, again, that Davis paid sundry sums, in all $35,000 in gold, to
incendiaries hired by his government to burn hospitals and steamboats
at the West, and that Thompson paid money to a person engaged in Dr.
Blackburn's attempt to spread yellow fever in our cities.

But more: when one Alston wrote to Davis, offering his services to try
to "rid my country of some of her deadliest enemies, by striking at the
very heart's blood of those who seek to enchain her in slavery"--adding
the very significant remark, "I consider nothing dishonorable having
such a tendency," Mr. Davis caused this proposition not to be refused,
nor passed over in silence, nor indignantly exposed; but to be
"respectfully referred, by direction of the President, to the honorable
Secretary of War." Still more: it has been proved that in 1863, John
Wilkes Booth declared that "Abraham Lincoln must be killed." The rebel
agents in Canada, six months before the assassination, specifically
made the same declaration. In the summer of 1864, Thompson said that
he could at any time have the "tyrant Lincoln," or any of his advisers
that he chose, "put out of the way," and that Thompson's agents would
not consider doing this a crime, if done for the rebel cause; and Clay,
when he heard of this, corroborated the sentiment, saying, "That is
so; we are all devoted to our cause, and ready to go any length--to do
anything under the sun." Many other such utterances by rebel leaders
are proved and have become uncontradicted matter of history. Besides;
when Mr. Davis, at Charlotte, North Carolina, while fleeing from
Richmond, received the telegram announcing the fate of Mr. Lincoln,
he calmly read it aloud to the people present, and without a word of
disapproval, uttered a cold comment: "If it were to be done, it were
better it were well done." And when Breckinridge said he regretted
it, (not because it was wicked or dishonorable, but because it was
unfortunate for the South just then,) Mr Davis replied in the same
tone of cold indifference or of concealed satisfaction, and using the
same words: "Well, General, I don't know; if it were to be done at
all, it were better that it were well done; and if the same had been
done to Andy Johnson, the Beast (i. e. Gen. Butler), and to Secretary
Stanton, the job would then be complete." Those are not the words of
an honorable man, nor of a disapprover. But they are exactly natural
to an accessory before the fact, who does not confess his part in it,
and prefers to dissemble his joy. It is not at all unreasonable to
suspect that the men who are proved to have done thus and spoken thus,
before and after the deed, and who have openly hired and approved the
perpetration of such other deeds, were concerned in the planning and
execution of this deed too.

Booth was an actor, and the son of a well known actor; and the son had
inherited, apparently, much of the reckless and occasionally furious
temper of his father. He was also a very violent and bitter rebel.
During the fall of 1864, he had been in Canada, consulting with the
rebel agents there, and mixed up with a number of other subordinate
agents in the business of assassinating President Lincoln; and he was
the most prominent candidate, so to speak, for the place of actual
murderer. On November 11th, 1864, he was in New York, where, while
riding with a companion in a street car, he dropped a letter which came
into the possession of the government; it was a vigorous appeal to
him to assassinate Mr. Lincoln. It said: "Abe must die, and now. You
can choose your weapons, the cup, the knife, the bullet;" and again:
"Strike for your home, strike for your country; bide your time, but
strike sure." During the winter, Booth was engaging the assistance
required for his scheme; and he had already fixed upon the scene of the
murder; for, not later than January, he was urging one Chester to enter
into the plan, and assuring him that all his part of it would be to
stand at the back door of Ford's Theatre and open it. This was a safe
calculation, for the President's enjoyment of dramatic performances was
great, and enhanced by the difficulty of finding agreeable relaxations,
and also by the awful pressure of his official duties and of the war,
which intensified the need of relaxation.

The scheme as finally arranged, provided for the assassination of
Mr. Lincoln, by Booth; of Mr. Johnson, by Atzerodt; of Mr. Seward,
by Payne, (alias Powell); and of Gen. Grant, by O'Laughlin. For the
President, an elaborate death trap was constructed in Ford's Theatre.
The catches of the locks to all three doors of the President's box (one
outer and two inner ones), were loosened by loosening their screws, and
left so that a slight push would enable the assassin to enter even
though the doors should be locked. A small hole was made through one
of the two inner ones, to enable him to see before entering exactly
how his victim sat, so that the final moves within the box could be
laid out before entering it; and a wooden brace was prepared to set
against the outer door (which opened inward) with one end, and with the
other to fit a mortice cut in the wall behind, so that after entering,
the assassin could fasten the door behind him sufficiently to prevent
any interruption until his work was done. Arrangements were made for
securing horses for the murderers to flee with. The stage carpenter or
assistant, Spangler, was employed to be on hand and open and shut the
back door of the theatre when wanted. Some scenes and miscellaneous
matter that frequently impeded more or less the passage from the front
of the stage to this back door, were piled up or otherwise put out of
the way. A supply of weapons for the conspirators was provided. And a
route for flight from Washington within the rebel lines was determined
on. This route led southward from the city, over Anacostia Bridge, ten
miles to Mrs. Surratt's house at Surrattsville, then some fifteen miles
more to Dr. Mudd's house, then about twenty miles to a point where
arrangements were made for crossing the Potomac and proceeding towards
Richmond.

All being ready, Booth, about 9 P. M., on the 14th of April, 1865, went
to the theatre. He first went to the back door, entered it and saw that
all was prepared; left Spangler in charge, and left his horse to be
held by another subordinate of the theatre. Then he went round to the
front of the building, where three of the conspirators were waiting.
It was now about half past nine. One act of the play, "Our American
Cousin,"--was nearly through. "I think he will come out now," remarked
Booth. It is very usual for the spectators to leave the theatre between
the acts, often to return; and if Mr. Lincoln had happened to feel too
busy to remain longer and had left then, probably Booth would have
attacked him there, trusting to be able to escape into the theatre in
the bustle and so through his guarded door. But the President did not
come. Booth went into a saloon close by and drank some whisky. The
spectators had returned for the next act. Booth entered the vestibule
of the theatre, and from it the passage that leads from the street to
the stage and also to the outer door of the President's box. As he did
so, one of his companions followed him into the vestibule, looked up
to the clock and called out the hour. It was approaching ten. Three
successive times, at intervals of several minutes, the companion thus
called out the hour. The third time he called, in a louder tone, "Ten
minutes past ten o'clock!" At this Booth disappeared in the theatre,
and the three others walked rapidly away. Booth went straight to the
outer door of the President's box, paused and showed a visiting card
to the President's messenger, who was in waiting; placed his hand
and his knee against the door, and pushing it open, entered. He then
quietly fastened the door with the brace that stood ready; looked
through the hole in the inner door, and saw the President. Silently
opening the door, he entered. Mr. Lincoln sat at the left hand front
corner of the box, his wife at his right hand, a Miss Harris at the
right hand front corner, and a Major Rathbone behind her. Mr. Lincoln
was leaning forward and looking down into the orchestra. Booth stepped
quickly up, and fired a pistol bullet into the President's head, behind
and on the left side. The murdered man raised his head once; it fell
back upon his chair, and his eyes closed. Major Rathbone, a cool, bold
and prompt soldier, who had been absorbed in the play, now hearing
the pistol-shot, turned, saw Booth through the smoke, and instantly
sprang upon him. Booth, a nervous and strong man, expert in all
athletic exercises, and a skillful fencer, wrenched himself free with
a desperate effort, as he well needed to do. He had already dropped
his pistol and drawn a heavy bowie knife, with which he made a furious
thrust at his captor's heart. Rathbone parried it, but was wounded
deeply in the arm and his hold loosed. Booth sprang for the front of
the box; Rathbone followed, but only caught his clothes as he sprang
over. Rathbone shouted "Stop that man!" and then turned to assist the
President.

Booth leaped over the front of the box, down upon the stage, shouting
as he went, "Revenge for the South!" His spur caught in the national
flag as he descended; the entanglement caused him to fall almost flat
on the stage as he came down; and either the wrench of tearing loose
from the flag, or the fall, snapped one of the bones of his leg between
knee and ankle. This fracture, though not preventing him at once from
moving about, so far disabled him as probably to have been the occasion
of his being overtaken and captured; so that it is scarcely extravagant
to imagine the flag as having, in a sense, avenged the guilt of the
crime perpetrated upon its chief official defender, by waylaying and
entrapping the criminal in his turn, as he had done his victim. Booth
instantly sprang up, turned towards the audience, and raising his
bloody knife in a stage attitude, with a theatrical manner, vociferated
the motto of the State of Virginia, "Sic semper tyrannis!"--a motto
already turned into a discreditable satire by its contrast with the
characteristic traffic of the great slavebreeding state, and even
more effectually disgraced by the use now made of it, to justify
assassination. It will be strange if some less dishonored words are not
one day chosen for the device of Free Virginia.

Booth, thus vaporing for a moment, then rushed headlong across the
stage, and darted by the side passage to the rear door. One man sprang
from an orchestra seat upon the stage and shouted to stop him. One of
the employes of the theatre, standing in the passage, was too much
startled to stand aside, and the desperate fugitive struck him on the
leg, cut at him twice, knocked him one side and darted on. The door
was ready. He sprang out, and it shut behind him. Seizing the horse
which was held in waiting for him, Booth, as if in a frenzy like that
of the Malays when "running amok," struck the poor fellow who held
it, with the butt of his knife, knocking him down; and then kicking
him, sprang to the saddle, and after a few moments lost in consequence
of some nervousness or fright of the animal, rode swiftly off. This
was on the evening of Friday, the 14th; it was on Wednesday, the 26th,
that Booth, after having been delayed by having his leg set, and
crippled by it afterwards, was discovered in Garrett's barn, south of
the Rappahannock, not far from twenty miles from the Potomac, and was
surrounded, shot and taken.

The murdered President was quickly carried from the theatre to a house
across the street and placed upon a bed. Surgical aid was at once
obtained, but an examination at once showed that there was no hope of
life. Mr. Lincoln's eyes had not opened, nor had consciousness returned
at all, and they never did. The ball was a heavy one, from what is
called a Derringer pistol, a short single-barreled weapon with a large
bore. It had passed clear through the brain, and lodged against the
bone of the orbit of the left eye, breaking that bone. It is almost
certain that Mr. Lincoln suffered no pain after being shot, as the
injury was of a nature to destroy conscious life. His exceedingly
strong constitution and tenacity of life maintained respiration and
circulation for a remarkably long time, but he died the next morning at
about half past seven.

Of the particulars of that great national mourning which bowed the
whole land, it is not needful to speak. Like many parts of that great
history of which it formed a portion, there were often points in it of
a peculiar and symbolic power, which rose to the sublime. Such was the
motto--"Be still, and know that I am God"--which spoke from the walls
of the New York depot when amid the hush of weeping thousands, the
solemn death car entered. The contrast between the peaceful expression
on the face of the weary man, and the surging waves of mourning and
lamentation around him was touching and awful.

Not the least touching among these expressions of national mourning was
the dismay and anguish of that poor oppressed race for whose rights he
died.

A southern correspondent of the New York Tribune, the week following
the assassination, wrote: "I never saw such sad faces, or heard such
heavy heart-beatings, as here in Charleston the day the news came. The
colored people were like children bereaved of a parent. I saw one old
woman going up the streets, wringing her hands, and saying aloud as she
walked, looking straight before her, so absorbed in her grief that she
noticed no one;

'O Lord! Oh Lord! O Lord! Massa Sam's dead! Massa Sam's dead!'

'Who's dead, Aunty?' 'Massa Sam's dead!' she said, not looking at me,
and renewing her lamentations.

'Who's Massa Sam?' said I.

'Uncle Sam,' she said, 'O Lord! O Lord!'

Not quite sure that she meant the President, I spoke again:

'Who's Massa Sam, Aunty?'

'Mr. Lincum!' she said, and resumed wringing her hands, mourning in
utter hopelessness of sorrow."

The poor negroes on the distant plantations had formed a conception
of Lincoln, much akin to that of a Divine Being. Their masters
fled on the approach of our soldiers, and this gave the slaves the
conception of a great Invisible Power which they called Massa Lincum.
An old negro exhorter once, rising in an assembly of them, was heard
solemnly instructing his fellows in the nature of this great unknown:
"Bredren," he said solemnly, "Massa Lincum, he be eberywhere. He knows
ebery ting;" and looking up solemnly, "He walk de earf like de Lord."

To them the stroke was almost as if we could possibly conceive death as
happening to the God we worship; a mingled shock of grief, surprise and
terror.

No death of a public man ever entered so deep into the life of
individual families, so as to seem like a personal domestic sorrow. The
assumption of mourning badges and garments, the hanging out of mourning
tokens, was immediate in thousands of families, each obeying the same
spontaneous impulse without stopping to consult the other. It seemed
almost as if the funeral bells tolled of themselves and without hands.
Wherever the news travelled, so immediately and without waiting for
public consultation, were these tributes of mourning given.

One fact alone, proves the depth and strength of these feelings more
than volumes of description. It is, the vast extent of the publications
in which the history of Mr. Lincoln's life and times, his individual
biography and real or written utterances, or his personal appearance,
were in one way or another commemorated. A gentleman who has begun a
collection of such materials had some time ago gathered two hundred
different books on Mr. Lincoln, a hundred and twenty-five portraits,
besides badges, mourning cards, autographs and manuscripts, as he
reports, "almost without number." And in the list of publications about
the rebellion compiled by Mr. Bartlett, are enumerated three hundred
and eighty books, sermons, eulogies or addresses upon his life or
death.

There is an astonishing contrast between the perfect sweetness and
kindness of Mr. Lincoln's sentiments and utterances, whether private
or public, individual or official, in reference to the rebels and
the rebellion, and theirs about him. Doubtless no loyal citizen of
the United States was so uniformly kind in feeling and decorous and
even courteous in expression, about the rebels; and doubtless no such
citizen was so odiously bespattered with the most hateful and vulgar
and ferocious insult and abuse, both public and private. To give the
quotations to prove the point would be simply disgusting. They were
sprinkled through the newspapers and the public documents of the
rebellion from beginning to end of it. A compend and a proof at once of
the whole of them was that private bundle of letters threatening death,
marked in Mr. Lincoln's own handwriting "Assassination," and kept in
his private cabinet. And the assassination itself and the circumstances
connected with it, constituted another proof and specimen, still more
overwhelming. Never since the times of the Christian martyrs has
history recorded a contrast more humiliating to humanity, between
his kind words and kind intentions on the one hand, and infamous
abusiveness and deliberate bloodthirsty ferocity in those who thus slew
the best and kindest friend they had in the world.

Scarcely less striking was the contrast between the habitual tone
of the foreign utterances about President Lincoln before his death
and that of those after it; a change, moreover, whose promptness
and evident manly good faith may in some measure atone for the
unreasonable and even indecent character of many things said and
printed in Europe. It is unnecessary to reproduce the offences: it
is a more grateful task to quote a few specimens of the feelings and
expressions with which the news of his death and of the manner of it
was received abroad.

It may be premised, that some few persons of foreign birth and good
position, had already discerned the truth of the character of Mr.
Lincoln. A correspondent of the N. Y. Times wrote that paper from
Washington, on one occasion, the following narrative:

"One day, as President Lincoln drove past a Washington hotel, sitting
alone in his carriage, three gentlemen stood talking in front of
the hotel. One of them, a foreigner of high cultivation and great
distinction, with a gesture quite involuntary, raised his hat and
remained uncovered until Mr. Lincoln had passed by. One of his
companions, surprised at so much ceremony, observed, "You forget that
you are in republican America and not in Russia." "Not at all, sir--not
at all," was the reply, given with a certain indignation; "that is the
only living ruler whom I sincerely reverence. I could not avoid showing
the feeling, if I would. He is a patriot, a statesman, a great-hearted
honest man. You Americans reverence nothing in the present." And
after a few more sentences to the like effect, he ended by saying:
"Not only your posterity, but the posterity of all the peoples which
love honesty and revere patriotism, will declare that the part which
President Lincoln was called to perform, required the exercise of as
noble qualities as the 'Father of his Country' ever possessed. It is
any thing but a credit to you that you do not better appreciate the man
whom God has sent in these perilous times to rule the people of this
republic."

The rebuke was received in silence. But such cases were very few. The
general tone of foreign opinion about him was thoroughly unjust. Not so
the obituary testimonials from across the sea.

On the first of May, 1865, Sir George Grey, in the English House of
Commons, moved an address to the Crown, to express the feelings of the
House upon the assassination of Mr. Lincoln. In this address he said
that he was convinced that Mr. Lincoln "in the hour of victory, and in
the triumph of victory, would have shown that wise forbearance, and
that generous consideration, which would have added tenfold lustre to
the fame that he had already acquired, amidst the varying fortunes of
the war."

In seconding the same address, at the same time and place, Mr. Benjamin
Disraeli said: "But in the character of the victim, and in the very
accessories of his almost latest moments, there is something so homely
and so innocent that it takes the subject, as it were, out of the pomp
of history, and out of the ceremonial of diplomacy. It touches the
heart of nations, and appeals to the domestic sentiments of mankind."

In the House of Lords, Lord John Russell, in moving a similar address,
observed: "President Lincoln was a man who, although he had not been
distinguished before his election, had from that time displayed a
character of so much integrity, sincerity and straightforwardness,
and at the same time of so much kindness, that if any one could have
been able to alleviate the pain and animosity which have prevailed
during the civil war, I believe President Lincoln was the man to have
done so." And again, in speaking of the question of amending the
constitution so as to prohibit slavery, he said: "We must all feel that
there again the death of President Lincoln deprives the United States
of the man who was the leader on this subject."

Mr. John Stuart Mill, the distinguished philosopher, in a letter to
an American friend, used far stronger expressions than these guarded
phrases of high officials. He termed Mr. Lincoln "the great citizen
who had afforded so noble an example of the qualities befitting
the first magistrate of a free people, and who, in the most trying
circumstances, had gradually won not only the admiration, but almost
the personal affection of all who love freedom or appreciate simplicity
or uprightness."

Professor Goldwin Smith, writing to the London Daily News, began by
saying, "It is difficult to measure the calamity which the United
States and the world have sustained by the murder of President Lincoln.
The assassin has done his best to strike down mercy and moderation, of
both of which this good and noble life was the main stay."

Senhor Rebello da Silva, a member of the Portuguese Chamber of Peers,
in moving a resolution on the death of Mr. Lincoln, thus outlined his
character: "He is truly great who rises to the loftiest heights from
profound obscurity, relying solely on his own merits as did Napoleon,
Washington, Lincoln. For these arose to power and greatness, not
through any favor or grace, by a chance cradle, or genealogy, but
through the prestige of their own deeds, through the nobility which
begins and ends with themselves--the sole offspring of their own
works. * * * Lincoln was of this privileged class; he belonged to this
aristocracy. In infancy, his energetic soul was nourished by poverty.
In youth, he learned through toil the love of liberty, and respect
for the rights of man. Even to the age of twenty-two, educated in
adversity, his hands made callous by honorable labor, he rested from
the fatigues of the field, spelling out, in the pages of the Bible,
in the lessons of the gospel, in the fugitive leaves of the daily
journal--which the aurora opens, and the night disperses--the first
rudiments of instruction, which his solitary meditations ripened.
The chrysalis felt one day the ray of the sun, which called it to
life, broke its involucrum, and it launched forth fearlessly from
the darkness of its humble cloister into the luminous spaces of its
destiny. The farmer, day-laborer, shepherd, like Cincinnatus, left the
plough-share in the half-broken furrow, and, legislator of his own
State, and afterwards of the Great Republic, saw himself proclaimed
in the tribunal the popular chief of several millions of people, the
maintainer of the holy principle inaugurated by Wilberforce."

There are some vague and some only partially correct statements in this
diffuse passage; but it shows plainly enough how enthusiastically the
Portuguese nobleman had admired the antique simplicity and strength of
Mr. Lincoln's character.

Dr. Merle d'Aubigne, the historian of the Reformation, writing to Mr.
Fogg, U. S. Minister to Switzerland, said: "While not venturing to
compare him to the great sacrifice of Golgotha, which gave liberty to
the captives, is it not just, in this hour, to recall the word of an
apostle (1 John, iii: 16): 'Hereby perceive we the love of God, because
he laid down his life for us: and we ought to lay down our lives for
the brethren'? Who can say that the President did not lay down his life
by the firmness of his devotion to a great duty? The name of Lincoln
will remain one of the greatest that history has to inscribe on its
annals. * * * Among the legacies which Lincoln leaves to us, we shall
all regard as the most precious, his spirit of equity, of moderation,
and of peace, according to which he will still preside, if I may so
speak, over the restoration of your great nation."

The "Democratic Association" of Florence, addressed "to the Free People
of the United States," a letter, in which they term Mr. Lincoln "the
honest, the magnanimous citizen, the most worthy chief magistrate of
your glorious Federation."

The eminent French liberal, M. Edouard Laboulaye, in a speech showing
a remarkably just understanding and extremely broad views with respect
to the affairs and the men of the United States, said: "Mr. Lincoln was
one of those heroes who are ignorant of themselves; his thoughts will
reign after him. The name of Washington has already been pronounced,
and I think with reason. Doubtless Mr. Lincoln resembled Franklin more
than Washington. By his origin, his arch good nature, his ironical
good sense, and his love of anecdotes and jesting, he was of the same
blood as the printer of Philadelphia. But it is nevertheless true
that in less than a century, America has passed through two crises in
which its liberty might have been lost, if it had not had honest men
at its head; and that each time it has had the happiness to meet the
man best fitted to serve it. If Washington founded the Union, Lincoln
has saved it. History will draw together and unite those two names.
A single word explains Mr. Lincoln's whole life: it was Duty. Never
did he put himself forward; never did he think of himself; never did
he seek one of those ingenious combinations which puts the head of a
state in bold relief, and enhances his importance at the expense of the
country; his only ambition, his only thought was faithfully to fulfil
the mission which his fellow-citizens had entrusted to him. * * * His
inaugural address, March 4, 1865, shows us what progress had been made
in his soul. This piece of familiar eloquence is a master-piece; it
is the testament of a patriot. I do not believe that any eulogy of
the President would equal this page on which he has depicted himself
in all his greatness and all his simplicity. * * * History is too
often only a school of immorality. It shows us the victory of force
or stratagem much more than the success of justice, moderation, and
probity. It is too often only the apotheosis of triumphant selfishness.
There are noble and great exceptions; happy those who can increase the
number, and thus bequeath a noble and beneficent example to posterity!
Mr. Lincoln is among these. He would willingly have repeated, after
Franklin, that 'falsehood and artifice are the practice of fools who
have not wit enough to be honest.' All his private life, and all his
political life, were inspired and directed by this profound faith in
the omnipotence of virtue. It is through this, again, that he deserves
to be compared with Washington; it is through this that he will remain
in history with the most glorious name that can be merited by the head
of a free people--a name given him by his cotemporaries, and which will
be preserved to him by posterity--that of Honest Abraham Lincoln."

A letter from the well known French historian, Henri Martin, to
the Paris Siècle, contained the following passages: "Lincoln will
remain the austere and sacred personification of a great epoch, the
most faithful expression of democracy. This simple and upright man,
prudent and strong, elevated step by step from the artizan's bench to
the command of a great nation, and always without parade and without
effort, at the height of his position; executing without precipitation,
without flourish, and with invincible good sense, the most colossal
acts; giving to the world this decisive example of the civil power
in a republic; directing a gigantic war, without free institutions
being for an instant compromised or threatened by military usurpation;
dying, finally, at the moment when, after conquering, he was intent on
pacification, * * * this man will stand out, in the traditions of his
country and the world, as an incarnation of the people, and of modern
democracy itself. The great work of emancipation had to be sealed,
therefore, with the blood of the just, even as it was inaugurated with
the blood of the just. The tragic history of the abolition of slavery,
which opened with the gibbet of John Brown, will close with the
assassination of Lincoln.

And now let him rest by the side of Washington, as the second founder
of the great Republic. European democracy is present in spirit at his
funeral, as it voted in its heart for his re-election, and applauded
the victory in the midst of which he passed away. It will wish with one
accord to associate itself with the monument that America will raise to
him upon the capitol of prostrate slavery."

The London Globe, in commenting on Mr. Lincoln's assassination, said
that he "had come nobly through a great ordeal. He had extorted the
admiration even of his opponents, at least on this side of the water.
They had come to admire, reluctantly, his firmness, honesty, fairness
and sagacity. He tried to do, and had done, what he considered his
duty, with magnanimity."

The London Express said, "He had tried to show the world how great, how
moderate, and how true he could be, in the moment of his great triumph."

The Liverpool Post said, "If ever there was a man who in trying times
avoided offenses, it was Mr. Lincoln. If there ever was a leader in a
civil contest who shunned acrimony and eschewed passion, it was he. In
a time of much cant and affectation he was simple, unaffected, true,
transparent. In a season of many mistakes he was never known to be
wrong. * * * By a happy tact, not often so felicitously blended with
pure evidence of soul, Abraham Lincoln knew when to speak, and never
spoke too early or too late. * * * The memory of his statesmanship,
translucent in the highest degree, and above the average, and openly
faithful, more than almost any of this age has witnessed, to fact and
right, will live in the hearts and minds of the whole Anglo-Saxon
race, as one of the noblest examples of that race's highest qualities.
Add to all this that Abraham Lincoln was the humblest and pleasantest
of men, that he had raised himself from nothing, and that to the last
no grain of conceit or ostentation was found in him, and there stands
before the world a man whose like we shall not soon look upon again."

In the remarks of M. Rouher, the French Minister, in the Legislative
Assembly, on submitting to that Assembly the official despatch of
the French Foreign Minister to the Chargé at Washington, M. Rouher
remarked, of Mr. Lincoln's personal character, that he had exhibited
"that calm firmness and indomitable energy which belong to strong
minds, and are the necessary conditions of the accomplishment of great
duties. In the hour of victory he exhibited generosity, moderation and
conciliation."

And in the despatch, which was signed by M. Drouyn de L'Huys, were the
following expressions: "Abraham Lincoln exhibited, in the exercise of
the power placed in his hands, the most substantial qualities. In him,
firmness of character was allied to elevation of principle. * * * In
reviewing these last testimonies to his exalted wisdom, as well as the
examples of good sense, of courage, and of patriotism, which he has
given, history will not hesitate to place him in the rank of citizens
who have the most honored their country."

In the Prussian Lower House, Herr Loewes, in speaking of the news of
the assassination, said that Mr. Lincoln "performed his duties without
pomp or ceremony, and relied on that dignity of his inner self alone,
which is far above rank, orders and titles. He was a faithful servant,
not less of his own commonwealth than of civilization, freedom and
humanity."

By far the most beautiful of all these foreign tributes, was the very
generous memorial of the London Punch. That paper had joined all
the fashionable world in making merry at Lincoln's expense while he
struggled, weary and miry, through the "valley of humiliation,"--but
it is not every one who does a wrong who is capable of so full and
generous a reparation. We give it entire, because, apart from its noble
spirit, it is one of the most truthful summaries of Lincoln's character:

    You lay a wreath on murdered Lincoln's bier!
      You, who with mocking pencil wont to trace,
    Broad for the self-complacent British sneer,
      His length of shambling limb, his furrowed face,

    His gaunt, gnarled hands, his unkempt, bristling hair,
      His garb uncouth, his bearing ill at ease,
    His lack of all we prize as debonair,
      Of power or will to shine, of art to please!

    You, whose smart pen backed up the pencil's laugh,
      Judging each step, as though the way were plain;
    Reckless, so it could point its paragraph,
      Of chief's perplexity, or people's pain!

    Beside this corpse, that bears for winding-sheet
      The stars and stripes he lived to rear anew,
    Between the mourners at his head and feet,
      Say, scurril-jester, is there room for you?

    Yes, he had lived to shame me from my sneer--
      To lame my pencil, and confute my pen--
    To make me own this hind of princes peer,
      This rail-splitter a true-born king of men.

    My shallow judgment I had learned to rue,
      Noting how to occasion's height he rose;
    How his quaint wit made home-truth seem more true;
      How, iron-like, his temper grew by blows;

    How humble, yet how hopeful he could be;
      How in good fortune and in ill the same;
    Nor bitter in success, nor boastful he,
      Thirsty for gold, nor feverish for fame.

    He went about his work--such work as few
      Ever had laid on head, and heart, and hand--
    As one who knows where there's a task to do;
      Man's honest will must Heaven's good grace command,

    Who trusts the strength will with the burden grow,
      That God makes instruments to work his will,
    If but that will we can arrive to know,
      Nor tamper with the weights of good and ill.

    So he went forth to battle, on the side
      That he felt clear was Liberty's and Right's,
    As in his peasant boyhood he had plied
      His warfare with rude nature's thwarting mights;--

    The uncleared forest, the unbroken soil,
      The iron bark that turn's the lumberer's axe,
    The rapid, that o'erbears the boatman's toil,
      The prairie, hiding the mazed wanderer's tracks,

    The ambushed Indian, and the prowling bear--
      Such were the needs that helped his youth to train:
    Rough culture--but such trees large fruit may bear,
      If but their stocks be of right girth and grain.

    So he grew up, a destined work to do,
      And lived to do it: four long suffering years'
    Ill-fate, ill-feeling, ill-report, lived through,
      And then he heard the hisses change to cheers,

    The taunts to tribute, the abuse to praise,
      And took both with the same unwavering mood;
    Till, as he came on light, from darkling days,
      And seemed to touch the goal from where he stood,

    A felon hand, between the goal and him,
      Reached from behind his back, a trigger prest--
    And those perplexed and patient eyes were dim,
      Those gaunt, long-laboring limbs were laid to rest!

    The words of mercy were upon his lips,
      Forgiveness in his heart and on his pen,
    When this vile murderer brought swift eclipse
      To thoughts of peace on earth, good-will to men.

    The old world and the new, from sea to sea,
      Utter one voice of sympathy and shame!
    Sore heart, so stopped when it at last beat high!
      Sad life, cut short just as its triumph came.

Lincoln must be looked upon in the final review of his character, as
one of those men elect of God, whom he calls and chooses to effect
great purposes of his own, and fashions and educates with especial
reference to that purpose. As is usual in such cases, the man whom God
chooses for a work is not at all the man whom the world beforehand
would choose, and often for a time the world has difficulty in
receiving him. There was great questioning about him in the diplomatic
circles of Europe, when the war began, and there was great searching
of heart concerning him at home. There have been times when there were
impatient murmurs that another sort of man was wanted in his chair--a
man with more dash, more brilliancy, more Napoleonic efficiency. Yet
in the contest such a man might have been our ruin. A brilliant
military genius might have wrecked the republic on the rock of military
despotism, where so many good ships have gone down; whereas, slow,
cautious, honest old Abe only took our rights of habeas corpus, and
other civil privileges, as he did the specie of old, to make the legal
tender, and brought it all back safe and sound.

Lincoln was a strong man, but his strength was of a peculiar kind; it
was not aggressive so much as passive, and among passive things it was
like the strength not so much of a stone buttress as of a wire cable.
It was strength swaying to every influence, yielding on this side and
on that to popular needs, yet tenaciously and inflexibly bound to carry
its great end. Probably by no other kind of strength could our national
ship have been drawn safely through so dreadful a channel. Surrounded
by all sorts of conflicting claims, by traitors, by half-hearted, timid
men, by border State men and free State men, by radical abolitionists
and conservatives, he listened to all, heard all, weighed all, and in
his own time acted by his own honest convictions in the fear of God,
and thus simply and purely he did the greatest work that has been done
in modern times.







CHAPTER II.

ULYSSES SIMPSON GRANT.

  A General Wanted--A Short War Expected--The Young Napoleon--
    God's Revenge Against Slavery--The Silent Man in Galena--
    "Tanning Leather"--Gen. Grant's Puritan Descent--How he Loaded
    the Logs--His West Point Career--Service in Mexico--Marries
    and Leaves the Army--Wood-Cutting, Dunning and Leather-Selling
    --Enlists against the Rebellion--Missouri Campaign--Paducah
    Campaign--Fort Donelson Campaign--Battle of Shiloh--How
    Grant Lost his Temper--Vicksburg Campaign--Lincoln on Grant's
    "Drinking"--Chattanooga--Grant's Method of Making a Speech--
    Appointed Lieutenant-General--The Richmond Campaign--"Mr. Grant
    is a Very Obstinate Man"--Grant's Qualifications as a Ruler--
    Honesty--Generosity to Subordinates--Sound Judgment of Men--
    Power of Holding his Tongue--Grant's Sidewalk Platform--Talks
    Horse to Senator Wade--"Wants Nothing Said"--The Best Man for
    Next President.


When the perception of our late great military crisis first came upon
us, and we found ourselves engaged in an actual and real war, our first
inquiry was for our General.

For years and years there had been only peace talk and peace valuations
in our market. There had, to be sure, been some frontier skirmishing--a
campaign in Mexico, which drew off our more restless adventurers, and
gave our politicians a little of a smart, martial air, in rounding
their periods, and pointing their allusions. We had played war in
Mexico as we read romances, and the principal interest of it was,
after all, confined to our very small regular army of some twenty-five
thousand men, where some got promotions in consequence of the vacancies
made in this or that battle.

Gen. Scott won European renown and some laurels in this country. We
created an office of Lieutenant General on purpose to do him honor;
but the people, after all, laughed in their sleeves, and irreverently
called our national hero "Old Fuss and Feathers;" a nickname which
went far to show that whatever his talents in the field might be, he
had not succeeded in establishing over the body of his countrymen the
ascendency which strong minds hold over weak ones.

But when the hour of our trial came we had to look to him as our
leader, and Gen. Scott accepted cheerfully the situation, whose reality
and magnitude neither he nor we, nor any mortal living at that time,
perceived, or could estimate. Seward smiled in his cabinet chair, and
spoke of the affair as a little skirmish that would be over in ninety
days. A battle or two, might occur, then an armistice, and then "We, Us
and Company" would walk in with our red tape and circumlocution office,
and tie up everything better than before. So Scott spread his maps
and talked cheerfully, and the Washington cabinet congratulated one
another. "This is to be my last campaign," said Scott, "and I mean it
to be my best."

The country listened with earnest ears now to what our chief military
man said. When the father of a family is lying between life and death,
there is no more laughing at the doctor--and in the solemn hush that
preceded real war, there was no more sneering at old Fuss and
Feathers. People wanted to believe in him. They searched out his old
exploits, talked of his old successes, that they might hope and believe
that they had a deliverer and a leader in their midst.

Slowly, surely, it began to appear through many a defeat, many a
disaster; through days and nights when men's hearts failed them for
fear, and for looking for the things that were coming on the earth;
through all such signs and wonders as usher in great convulsions of
society--it began to be manifested that this nation was in a contest
for which there were no precedents, which was to be as wide as from
ocean to ocean, which was to number its forces by millions, and for
which all former rules and ordinances of war, all records of campaigns
and battles, were as mere obsolete ballads and old songs. The inquiry
began to grow more urgent: Who is to be our General?

General Scott professed that the work was too great for him, but he
called to his right hand and presented to the nation one whom he
delighted to honor, and who was announced with songs and cheerings as
the young Napoleon of America.

The nation received him with acclamation. They wanted a young Napoleon.
A young Napoleon was just what they needed, and a young Napoleon
therefore they were determined to believe that they had; and for a
while nothing was heard but his praises. Every loyal paper was on
its knees in humble expectancy, to admire and to defend, but not
to criticise. Mothers were ready to send their sons to his banner;
millionaires offered the keys of their treasure chests for his
commissariat; the administration bowed to his lightest suggestion,
gave him all he asked, hung on his lightest word. Everywhere he moved
amid victorious plaudits, the palms and honors of victory everywhere
credited to him in advance by the fond faith of the whole nation.

We waited for victories. Our men were burning with enthusiasm--begging,
praying to be led to the field, and yet nothing was done. "It takes
time to create an army," was the first announcement of our chief.
We gave him time, and he spent it in reviews, in preparations, in
fortifications and entrenchments. The time he took gave the enemy just
what they stood in perishing need of--time to organize, concentrate,
drill, arrange with Europe, and get ready for a four years' conflict.

It was God's will that we should have a four years' war, and therefore
when we looked for a leader he sent us Gen. McClellan.

It was God's will that this nation--the North as well as the
South--should deeply and terribly suffer for the sin of consenting
to and encouraging the great oppressions of the South; that the
ill-gotten wealth which had arisen from striking hands with oppression
and robbery, should be paid back in the taxes of war; that the blood
of the poor slave, that had cried so many years from the ground in
vain, should be answered by the blood of the sons from the best hearth
stones through all the free States; that the slave mothers, whose tears
nobody regarded, should have with them a great company of weepers,
North and South--Rachels weeping for their children and refusing to be
comforted; that the free States, who refused to listen when they were
told of lingering starvation, cold, privation and barbarous cruelty,
as perpetrated on the slave, should have lingering starvation, cold,
hunger and cruelty doing its work among their own sons, at the hands of
