fragments. Then came a terrific explosion, like the din of an
earthquake, shaking the raft with its violence. The boiler of the
steamer had exploded.
CHAPTER XIX.
AFTER THE EXPLOSION.
When the explosion occurred, the wind was nearly dead ahead, and we were
floating with the current, which was the particular reason why we had
come so near being run down by the contestants.
"What's the matter?" asked Flora, alarmed by the noise, but unable to
explain the cause of it.
"One of those steamers has burst her boiler. Didn't you see the pieces
fly?" I replied.
"But where are the people we saw laughing and talking as she went by?"
continued she, with a shudder.
"A good many of them will never laugh and talk any more."
"Hookie!" shouted Sim, as soon as he comprehended the nature of the
disaster. "That's wus'n fallin' in the river."
"Get out the sail, Sim!" I added, sharply.
"What you want the sail for?" inquired he. "The wind ain't right for
it."
"Up with it, and we will talk about that afterwards."
Letting go the steering oar, I hastened to Sim's assistance, while the
raft whirled in the current as she went down the mighty river. We
hoisted the sail, hauled in the braces, and I took my place on the
platform again. After no little labor at the steering oar, I succeeded
in putting the raft before the wind, thus heading her up the river.
"What are you going to do, Buckland?" asked Flora, who was watching the
scene of the accident with the most painful interest.
"Hundreds of those poor people have already perished, and more will be
drowned, unless they have some help," I replied, much excited. "I am
going to try and get up there, so as to be of some service."
"O, I hope you will! But there are boats out picking them up already,"
added she, wringing her hands, as she realized more vividly the nature
of the terrible catastrophe.
"I'm going to do all I can," I replied, thrilled by the exciting scene,
which, though a mile distant, we could understand and realize.
I expected the hull of the steamer would float down the river with the
swift current, bringing with it all its fearful surroundings; but in her
haste to outstrip her competitor, she had run into the shallow water,
and when riven by the explosion, had sunk. The awful scene, therefore,
did not come down the stream, as I anticipated. In a few moments, three
steamboats, besides the one which had been engaged in the race, were
hovering about the wreck, and at least a dozen boats were busy in
picking up the sufferers.
I found that it was utterly impossible to make any progress against the
current with the raft. Though the wind was tolerably fresh from the
southward, and the sail drew well, it barely held its own. The wreck and
the raft remained about the same distance apart as at the moment of the
explosion. But it was a consolation to know that our services were not
absolutely needed, so abundant was the assistance afforded from the
shore, and from the passing steamers.
In a short time parts of the wreck began to come down the river. We
picked up a broken door, and other pieces of the wood-work, but nothing
of any great value. We kept a sharp lookout for any survivors who might
have been overlooked by the boats about us; but as yet we saw none, or
even any who had been killed. Finding we could be of no service, I was
about to turn the raft, and resume our voyage, when Flora called my
attention to an object floating at some distance from us.
"It's a woman, Buckland!" exclaimed she, clasping my arm with convulsive
energy.
"So it is," I replied, with my heart almost in my throat.
We were all too young and inexperienced to behold a human being
apparently at the gates of death without a tremendous sensation of
horror.
"Hookie!" gasped Sim, after he had gazed an instant at the object, his
breath collapsing as he uttered the favorite expression.
"Can't you save her?" cried Flora, in trembling tones.
"I will if I can."
"O, do save her. It's terrible."
"She is clinging to a piece of wood, and has her head quite out of
water," I added, as I turned the raft.
The unfortunate person was still some distance farther up the stream
than the raft. I told Sim to trim the sail, and I hoped to get my clumsy
craft in such a position that the current would bring the woman towards
it, so that we could intercept her.
"Help! Help!" called the sufferer, in faint and fearful tones, as we
came nearer to her.
"Hold on a few moments longer," I replied.
"I can't!" she answered, evidently chilled by the cold, and exhausted by
her fruitless struggles.
"Only a moment," I added.
That moment was a fearfully long one, and at the end of it came failure.
The raft disappointed me. The current was bearing the helpless female by
it, but not more than fifty feet distant. It might as well have been a
mile, so far as our capacity to overcome the space between us was
concerned.
"Down with the sail, Sim!" I shouted, sharply.
"Hookie!" gasped Sim, still standing with his mouth wide open, gazing at
the poor woman.
"Down with it!" I repeated, giving him a kick to sharpen his wits.
He stumbled to the sail; but his fingers were all thumbs, and he could
not untie the halyard. I was obliged to do it myself, for the sail had
filled aback, and it was retarding the progress of the raft.
"Help! Save me!" cried the unhappy person again, but fainter than
before, as hope appeared to desert her.
"Hold on a moment more!" I shouted to her.
I grasped the steering oar, and vainly struggled to turn the raft, so as
to bring it near enough to the sufferer to enable me to haul her on
board; but the only effect was to cause it to whirl in the current. Both
the woman and our craft were carried along by the stream, fifty feet
apart; but neither had the power to approach any nearer to the other.
"I'm sinking!" called the woman, throwing one of her hands up into the
air.
"No! Hold on for your life!" I shouted, as loud as I could scream.
My voice had some effect upon her, for she grasped the stick to which
she was clinging.
"O, Buckland!" cried Flora, wringing her hands and sobbing hysterically.
"Can't you do something?"
"I can, and will!" I replied, with some of the earnestness that thrilled
my soul; and I felt that I ought to die myself rather than permit the
poor sufferer to perish before my eyes.
"Do!" gasped my poor sister; and I knew she would have sacrificed her
precious life to save that of the stranger.
"Come here, Sim!" I called.
My blundering deck hand came promptly at my call, and I gave him the
steering oar, bidding him keep the raft steady before the current. I
took the long lines, which I used as mooring ropes, and tied them
together, making a cord at least a hundred feet in length. I took off
all my clothes but my pants and shirt, and secured the cord around my
body, making fast the other end to the raft.
"Sim!" said I, startling him with the sharpness of my tones.
"Yes; I'm here, Buck! Hookie!" stammered he.
"Mind what you're about!"
"O, yes! I will!"
"When I tell you, let go the oar, and pull in on this rope."
"I'll help him," said Flora.
"Don't you touch the rope, Flora. You may get dragged overboard."
"What shall I do?"
"You may make a fire in the stove, if you can," I answered, wishing to
get her out of the reach of danger if I could.
"I will, Buckland;" and she went into the house.
I was a powerful swimmer, and nerved by the peril of the stranger in the
water, I felt able to do anything. I let myself down into the river, and
struck out with all my strength towards the sufferer. The current of the
Mississippi is swift and treacherous. It was the hardest swimming I had
ever known; and, dragging the rope after me, I had a fierce struggle to
make any progress. In going those fifty feet, it seemed to me that I
worked hard enough to accomplish a mile.
I reached the sufferer, and grasped the stick to which she clung. I was
nearly exhausted myself by the violence of my efforts. I waited a moment
to regain my breath, before I attempted to deal with the difficulties of
the situation. I glanced at the person for whom I was to struggle. She
was not a woman, but a girl of fourteen. She was in a sinking condition,
apparently more from the effects of fear than actual suffering, for the
stick to which she clung afforded her ample support.
Afraid that the act of hauling us in would detach her from the stick, I
grasped it firmly with one hand, and clasped her around the waist with
the other. Her frame quivered with the cold and the terror of her
situation. As all persons in peril of drowning are apt to do, she was
disposed to cling to me.
"Don't be afraid," said I to her. "You are safe now."
"Save me!" gasped she, hardly loud enough to be heard.
"Haul in!" I shouted to Sim.
I felt the rope cutting my waist as Sim jerked and tugged at it with
all his strength. There was no lack of zeal on his part, but if anything
had depended upon coolness and skill, we might both have been drowned. I
kept a firm hold upon my helpless charge, and managed to keep her head
above the water, though my own was dragged under several times by the
clumsiness of my willing friend.
Sim pulled and hauled with energy, if not with skill. When he abandoned
the steering oar, the raft began to whirl, and thus to complicate his
labor. I caught a glance of the simple-minded fellow, as the craft
turned, and I heard him yell, "Hookie!" He was nonplussed by the change
of the raft; but he did not know enough to follow it round upon the
outside. I am not sure this freak of the current did not save us from a
calamity, for as it revolved, and the rope became tangled in the
platform, we were thrown against the raft, thus saving my helpmate half
his toil. Fortunately the end of the stick on which I floated struck the
logs first, and broke the force of what might otherwise have been a
stunning blow.
"Tie the rope, Sim!" I called to my assistant, who was now on the other
side of the raft.
"O, Buckland!" cried Flora, as she came out of the house and gazed at me
with an expression of intense pain.
"Hookie!" ejaculated Sim, rushing to the point where I had seized hold
of the raft.
He stood there, jumping up and down on both feet, bewildered and
helpless.
CHAPTER XX.
EMILY GOODRIDGE.
In the water, struggling for his own or another's life, a man's stock in
trade consists mainly of breath. Without that he can't do much, and
generally he fails for the want of it; not when life deserts him, but
when he might, by an economical use of it, have been able to save
himself. I had been in the water enough to learn this lesson, and to be
competent to advise all my young friends, in the moment of peril, to
refrain from useless and unreasonable struggling, for that wastes the
breath, and fritters away the strength.
I held on at the raft till I had recovered my breath, and felt strong
enough to make another effort; for I found that my own life and that of
my charge were to depend principally on my own exertions. Sim was
willing, but he was stupid; and I was afraid that some blunder of his
would yet lose me the battle.
I brought the helpless girl on my arm so that she could take hold of the
raft, but she seemed not to have the power to do so.
"Sim, mind what you are about now!" I called to my help.
"I will, Buck! What shall I do?" stuttered he.
"Lie down on the platform so that you can reach the girl."
He obeyed, and held out his great paws towards my helpless burden. I
raised her up a little, and he grasped her under the arms. He was as
strong as an ox; and raising her a little way, he turned over, and then
lifted her clear from the water, but dragging her up as roughly as
though she had been a log of wood. I needed no help myself, and was on
the raft almost as soon as the girl. She was utterly exhausted, and
unable to hold up her head. Sim and I carried her into the house. We
laid her in Sim's bunk, and Flora was as tender with her as though she
had been a baby.
"Hookie!" exclaimed Sim, staring at the sufferer, with his mouth open
wide enough to take in a canal boat. "Is she dead?"
"No--not dead!" replied Flora, as she lifted the wet locks from her
face, and gently rubbed her temples. "What shall we do for her,
Buckland?"
"She is chilled with the cold, and worn out with fear and exertion."
"I shall be better soon," said the girl, faintly. "I feel better now.
Let me rest a moment."
"Give her some hot tea," suggested Flora.
The tea-pot was on the stove, and I prepared a cup of tea for her. She
drank it, and the effect was good.
"I feel better; but I am so cold!" said she.
Flora and I consulted what it was best to do, and we finally decided
that her wet clothing must be removed. I carried her into my sister's
room, and laid her on a blanket. I then closed up the shutters of the
outer room, replenished the fire, and left Flora to do the rest. The
stove would heat the house as hot as an oven when the windows and doors
were closed.
Sim was now at the steering oar, where I joined him. Except the
fragments of the wreck which floated on the river, there was no vestige
of the terrible calamity in sight.
"Do you think she will die?" asked Sim, looking as anxious as though the
girl had been one of our own party.
"No; she is better now. She will be all right in a day or two."
"Who is she?" asked he, opening his mouth and his eyes to express his
wonder.
"I don't know--how should I?"
"Didn't she tell you?"
"No--she isn't able to talk much yet. She hasn't said ten words."
"Didn't she tell you who she was?"
Sim asked silly questions, and I had not always the patience to answer
him, especially when he had asked the same ones half a dozen times. I
had as much curiosity as he had to know who and what the young lady was,
and I was impatient to hear from Flora. As she did not call me, I was
satisfied her patient was doing well. It was quite dark now, and I was
walking rapidly up and down the raft, to keep myself warm, for I had
had no opportunity to change my wet clothes for dry ones.
"Buckland!" called the soft voice of Flora, "You may come in now."
"How is the girl?" I asked.
"She is nicely now. I have rubbed her, put dry clothes upon her, and
covered her up with blankets in my bed. She wants to see you."
I followed Flora into her room. The stranger, with the exception of her
head, was buried in the blankets, and by the dim light of the lantern I
saw as pretty a face as it ever had been my good fortune to behold
before. I had hardly seen her until now; certainly my first impressions
of her features and expression were derived from this observation,
rather than from any former one. She had a very mild, soft blue eye; but
she looked quite sad and troubled.
"I wish to tell you how grateful I am to you for saving my life," said
she. "I shall never forget your kindness, and I hope I may be able to do
something more for you."
"O, never mind that," I replied. "That's all right. I'm glad I had a
chance to do as I did."
"You are a brave and noble young man, and you saved my life. It may do
for you to forget it, but it will not do for me to do so."
"I won't complain if you do;" and as all heroes say under similar
circumstances, I told her I had only done my duty.
"Yet I almost wish you had not saved me," she added, with a shudder, as
her eyes suddenly filled with tears.
"Why so?" I asked, though I had not much difficulty in reading the cause
of her sadness.
"My mother! O, my mother!" cried she, in agony.
Poor girl! I wanted to cry with her. Flora threw her arms around her
neck, and wept with her.
"Your mother was in the steamer--was she?" I added.
"She was--and lost."
"Perhaps not," I suggested.
"O, I know she was."
"Probably some were saved."
"I dare not hope so," sobbed she, uncovering her eyes, and glancing at
me. "I was sitting clear back, as far as I could get, looking into the
water, when this terrible thing happened. I was thrown into the river by
the shock, or I jumped in--I don't know which. I caught hold of that
stick, but I did not know what I was doing."
"But where was your mother?" I asked. "She may have been equally
fortunate."
"The boat was racing with another, and Mr. Spear asked my mother to go
forward, and see the furnaces under the boilers, which, he said, were
red hot. I was reading a book, and did not want to go. In two or three
minutes after they went, the boiler burst. My mother must have been very
near the furnaces when the explosion took place."
"Who was Mr. Spear?"
"He was the gentleman who was taking charge of us."
"But it is possible that your mother was saved."
"I wish I knew!" she exclaimed, with tremulous emotion. "Can't you
ascertain? I shall be so grateful to you!"
"I will try," I replied. "We are not more than ten miles from the place
where the accident happened, and I can return."
"O, I wish you would!"
"Do you wish to return?" I asked.
"She cannot go to-night," interposed Flora. "She is all worn out."
"I do not feel able to go," added the poor girl; "and I do not wish to
go unless my mother is saved."
"What is your mother's name?"
"Mrs. Goodridge."
"And yours?"
"Emily Goodridge."
"Where do you live?"
"In New Orleans. My father is a merchant there. I have been sick, and
the doctor said I must go to the North; but my mother--"
She could say no more, for her sobs choked her utterance. I assured her
I would do all I could to ascertain the fate of her mother. I went into
the other room, and changed my clothes, and wrote down the names which
Emily gave me, so that I need not forget them. After assuring myself
that everything was right in the house, I went out and hoisted the
sail. Taking the steering oar, I ran the raft up to the shore on the
Missouri side, as the wind was favorable in that direction. I secured
the craft in the strongest manner, in order to make sure that she did
not go adrift during the night.
I knew there was a village not far above, for I had seen the lights of
it through the window as I was talking to Emily. I went on shore, and
walked about a mile, which brought me to the place. I went into a store
that I found open on the levee, and inquired of the keeper in what
manner I could get to Cairo. He told me I could only go by a steamboat,
and that I might have to wait an hour, or a couple of days, for one.
But, while I was talking with him, a man came in and said there was a
boat coming up the river. The person who brought this pleasing
intelligence was rough looking, and I offered him a dollar if he would
put me on board of her. He accepted my proposition so good-naturedly
that I concluded the boat was coming up to the town; but she did not,
and he put me into a bateau, and pulled off to her. At first she would
not stop.
"Great news!" I shouted, at the top of my lungs.
Curiosity did what good-nature would not, and the boat stopped her
wheels long enough for me to jump on her deck.
"What do you mean by great news?" demanded a gentleman, who, I soon
found, was the captain. "Did you say that to make me stop the boat? If
you did, I'll heave you overboard."
"No, sir; I did not," I replied, with becoming promptness after the
threat he had used.
"What's your great news, then?" demanded he.
"Do you know what two steamers went up the river about two or three
hours ago?" I asked.
"Certainly I do--the River Queen No. 4 and the Centurion. They passed me
this morning. But what's your news, boy?"
"The Centurion blew up about seven o'clock, as she was going into the
Ohio River."
"The Centurion!" exclaimed he.
"Yes, sir."
"Is that so, or are you making up this story?"
"It is true, sir. I saved a young lady who was a passenger. I left her
below this village, and I want to go up and find out whether her mother
was lost, or not."
"What is her name?"
"Emily Goodridge."
"Goodridge? Do you know her father's name?"
I looked at my paper, and found the name was Edward F. Goodridge.
"He is one of the heaviest merchants in New Orleans," added the captain,
thoughtfully.
My news proved to be all I had represented it, and I was plied with
questions which I could not answer, by the passengers interested in the
fate of those on board of the unfortunate steamer. I could only tell
them that the boat had been blown all to pieces, and that there was
plenty of assistance at hand to save those who were thrown into the
water.
In less than an hour my news was fully confirmed on the arrival of the
steamer at Cairo. We were informed that the River Queen No. 4 was still
there, with the survivors of the disaster on board, and I hastened to
find her.
CHAPTER XXI.
FLORA AND HER PATIENT.
There was no difficulty, in finding the River Queen No. 4, for she was
the centre of a circle of melancholy interest, and a crowd of people had
gathered on the levee to hear the latest tidings of woe from her cabin,
now changed into a hospital. I care not to dwell upon the sad scene
which greeted my vision as I went on board of her, nor to describe the
horror with which I glanced at the long row of ghastly corpses which had
been taken from the water.
It was a sickening sight, and terrible were the groans and the wailings
of the sufferers which resounded through the boat. I learned that the
captain of the ill-fated steamer was among the dead. If it had not been
so, an hour in the midst of this horrible din of sighs, and wails, and
groans would have been an all-sufficient punishment, if he had a human
heart in his bosom, for the base crime of sacrificing those precious
lives to the stupid rivalry of the hour.
The officers and passengers had been engaged in making up lists of the
wounded and the dead. Among the latter I found the name of Mrs.
Goodridge and Mr. Spear. I shuddered as I realized that the worst fears
of Emily were confirmed. I informed the clerk of the boat that I had
saved one of the passengers, and her name was stricken from the list of
the dead, and added to that of the living.
I learned that the body of Mrs. Goodridge had been recovered, and that
friends on board of the steamer would take charge of it. There was
nothing more for me to do, and I fled, sick at heart, from the awful
spectacle. I went to a small hotel near the landing, and though I slept
heavily, awake or in my slumber, the scenes of death and woe I had
beheld still haunted my mind. I took an early breakfast, and then
endeavored to find a boat bound down the river. There was none in Cairo
that would start that day, and it might be several days before I could
obtain a passage. I could not think of prolonging the agonizing suspense
of our passenger on the raft, or of leaving the two females to the care
of so heavy a thinker as Sim Gwynn. If a squall or a sudden rise of the
river occurred, my assistant would be helpless; and if the raft broke
loose, he would not have wit enough to bring it up to the shore again.
I walked up and down the levee, thinking what I should do. I could not
charter a steamer, and there was no conveyance on the other side of the
Mississippi. While I was thus fretting at the delay, I came to a yard
where boats were kept for sale. Most of them were for the use of
steamers, and were far beyond my means; but I found a second-hand skiff,
which I purchased for ten dollars, including in the price a pair of good
oars. It would be a handy thing to have on the raft, and if I had had it
when I first saw poor Emily Goodridge in the water, I could have saved
her without any difficulty.
In this light boat I embarked at nine o'clock. The raft was ten or
twelve miles below Cairo; but the swift current would speed me on my way
with little labor at the oars. I pulled steadily, and with just power
enough to give me steerage-way; and when I reached the raft, I found I
had made the passage in little more than two hours.
"Hookie!" ejaculated Sim, with a stupid stare, as I ran the skiff up to
the raft.
"Catch the painter!" I called, throwing him the rope.
"I hain't seen no painter," he replied, staring around him, and letting
the rope run off the raft, and the skiff go adrift.
I pulled up to the raft again, and succeeded in making my deck hand
understand that he was to hold on to the rope attached to the boat.
"Where did you get that boat?"
"Catch hold, and haul it up," I replied; for I seldom found it
practicable to answer Sim's questions.
"Did you find this boat?" he asked when he had pulled it up on the
platform.
"No; how is the girl we saved?"
"Did you make this boat?"
"No; I bought it; gave ten dollars for it. How is the girl?"
"O, she's sick! Leastwise, she ain't very well, and didn't sleep much."
I did not suppose she had slept very well; for one with such a fearful
anxiety on her mind must have suffered intensely during the long night.
I hastened into the house, and found dear Flora making some tea for her
patient. I surmised that the poor child had also spent a sleepless
night, for she looked pale and ill herself, and I trembled for her
welfare, devoted and self-sacrificing as she was in the presence of the
heavy woe of her charge.
"How is Emily?" I asked.
"She is very sick, I fear," replied poor Flora, sadly, for she seemed to
make her patient's sufferings her own. "She has hardly closed her eyes
during the night."
"And you have not slept yourself, Flora."
"No, I have not. The poor girl has talked about her mother all night
long. What news do you bring, Buckland?"
"I hardly dare to speak it," I replied, in a whisper.
"It can be no worse that her fears. She is already reconciled to the
worst," added my sister, with a sympathetic tear.
"Flora," moaned Emily.
The devoted little nurse hastened to her patient. I had not the courage
to follow her, and face the torrent of woe which my news must carry to
her aching heart. Perhaps it was cowardly in me, but I could not help
it. I stood at the door and listened.
"Your brother has come. I heard his voice," said Emily, in a tone
convulsed with emotion.
"He has come, dear," replied Flora; and I heard her kiss the
grief-stricken maiden.
"You have no good news to tell me. I know you haven't," wailed the
sufferer. "I did not expect any. I knew she was--"
And then I heard her sob. She was calmer than I had anticipated, and I
ventured to go into the room. My heart was in my throat as I gazed upon
her pale face and hollow eyes. She wept bitterly, as I confirmed her
worst fears; and Flora, with her arm twined around the poor girl's neck,
wept with her, and frequently kissed her. As gently and tenderly as I
could I told her the sad truth, and assured her that kind friends had
taken charge of her mother's remains.
I left her with Flora then, for she was the best comforter. As I put on
my working clothes in the adjoining room, I heard my sweet sister
speaking to her the tenderest of pious consolations. She breathed the
name of Jesus in her ear, and pointed her to the Rock of Ages for hope,
for the joy which this world cannot give and cannot take away. Great
rough fellow as I was, I wept with them; for never had my heart been so
deeply touched before.
On the platform I found Sim, still employed in examining the skiff I had
purchased, apparently filled with astonishment that a little thing like
that had borne me safely down the river for ten miles. He wanted to ask
more questions about it; but I told him to cast off the fasts, and in a
few moments we were again borne on by the current of the Father of
Waters. The day was bright and pleasant, and a fresh wind from the
north-west was blowing. I hoisted the sail and trimmed it, and taking
my place at the steering oar, I brooded over the bitter lot of my
passenger. I pitied her, and loved her for her misfortunes.
As the raft continued on its way, I began to consider what should be
done with her. She was quite sick, and the rough house on the raft was
not a suitable place for her. But she had no friends nearer than New
Orleans. I asked myself whether I ought not to abandon the raft, and
take passage in a steamboat; but I had not money enough to pay the
passages of the party, and I was obliged to answer the question in the
negative. But I could pay Emily's fare, and place her in charge of the
officers of some boat. I concluded to adopt this course at the first
large town we reached, where a steamer would be likely to make a
landing.
The poor girl was unable to sit up during the day; indeed, she was so
ill that I began to be alarmed about her. After dinner, I insisted that
Flora should lie down on my bed, and obtain the rest she so much needed,
while I sat with the patient. My poor sister was all worn out, and she
slept till dark. Thanks to the gentle ministrations of Flora, Emily was
quite calm, but she could not sleep. She talked to me of her mother all
the time, and I became almost a woman myself in my efforts to console
her.
I told her that I proposed to send her to New Orleans by the first
steamer I could find which was bound there. To my surprise, she strongly
objected, declaring that Flora was an angel, and she would not leave
her. She said she was very comfortable on the raft, and that she was
much happier there than she should be in a steamboat; and she trembled
when she uttered the word. I told her that her father would be very
anxious about her, and she finally decided to write a letter to him,
informing him that she was in the hands of good friends, on her way
home.
Flora was much refreshed by the sleep she had obtained, and sat up till
midnight with Emily. I made a bed for her on the floor by the side of
her patient, and in the morning I found that both of them had rested
well during the latter part of the night. Sim and I kept the raft going
all night, as usual. The next day I mailed Emily's letter to her
father. The physical condition of the poor sufferer did not yet begin
to improve, and Flora was unremitting in her efforts to help her. I was
very much surprised to find that the devoted nurse did not sink under
her exertions. But the patient slept tolerably well at night, and I
relieved my sister during part of the day.
On the third day after the disaster, we passed Memphis; and I again
urged Emily to take a steamer for her destination. She consented; but I
found that she did so in order to save us the trouble she gave. When I
assured her that we had no desire to get rid of her, she insisted upon
completing the voyage on the raft. She could not bear to part with
Flora, who had been both nurse and comforter to her in her affliction.
I made a landing at Memphis, and procured everything I could think of
that would add to the comfort of Emily. She was very grateful to me, as
well as to Flora, and I am free to say that I found my greatest
happiness in caring for her and my sister; and all the more because they
were so devoted to each other.
Day after day went by; and our course continued past Vicksburg, Natchez,
Grand Gulf, Baton Rouge, till, on the thirteenth day from Cairo, and on
the twenty-third from Torrentville, we came in sight of the spires of
New Orleans.
The sun was just setting as we came abreast of the dense piles of
houses. When we reached a place favorable for landing, I ran the raft up
to the levee, and made it fast to a post.
CHAPTER XXII.
THE END OF THE VOYAGE.
For the week preceding the arrival of the raft, Emily Goodridge had been
improving in health, though she was still quite feeble. She sat up part
of the day, and spent an hour or two in the forenoon in the open air. As
we approached the city, the excitement of being so near home buoyed her
up, and seemed to give her an unnatural strength.
For my own part, I was in a whirl of excitement. The end of the voyage
was a tremendous event in itself; but, as I thought of the astonishment
of my brother when he should see Flora and me, and of the meeting
between Mr. Goodridge and his daughter, I could hardly contain myself.
The sights along the river, too, were sufficiently wonderful to keep my
eyes wide open, and my heart leaping. For the first time in my life I
saw a ship--hundreds of them, whose forest of masts and spars was as
strange to me as though I had been transported to the centre of the
Celestial Empire.
It seemed to me an age since I had left Torrentville; since, with
bounding bosom, I had guided the raft down the creek to the Wisconsin.
The events which had preceded our departure appeared to have occurred
years ago, and to be dwarfed into littleness by the lapse of time.
Captain Fishley, his wife, and Ham seemed almost like myths, so far
removed were they from me by distance and time. I had almost forgotten
that I had been charged with a base crime, and that I had fled to escape
unpleasant consequences.
There was the great city of New Orleans spread out before me; and there,
somewhere in the midst of its vast mass of heaving life, was my brother,
and Flora's brother. I knew not where to look for him. But my first duty
was to the poor girl, sick in body and sick at heart, who had voyaged
down the river with us; who had made us feel enough of Christ's spirit
to know that "it is more blessed to give than to receive."
Emily was in the chamber with Flora when Sim and I fastened the raft to
the post. My fellow-laborer had already indulged in unnumbered
"Hookies," and his eyes were set wide open by the wonders that
surrounded us. I left him to stare, and to be stared at by the idlers on
shore, and went into the house.
"Our journey is ended!" I exclaimed.
"And I am close to my father's house," added Emily, with convulsive
emotion.
As I looked into her pale face, I could not help fearing that she was
close to her Father's house in a higher sense than she meant the
words--close to that "house of many mansions, eternal in the heavens;"
for she seemed to have, in her weakness, but little hold upon this life.
"Where does your father live, Emily?" I asked.
"In Claiborne Street," she replied. "If you could get a carriage, I
would like to go there at once."
"Do you feel able to ride in the carriage?"
"O, yes--to go home."
I went ashore, and soon found a carriage. I need hardly say that Emily's
clothing was in very bad condition, though Flora had done what she
could to improve it. Fortunately, it was nearly dark, and her appearance
did not excite much attention. I could not permit her to go alone, and
she insisted that Flora should accompany her. I left Sim in charge of
the raft, with the promise to return soon. The carriage conveyed us to
the number in Claiborne Street indicated by Emily. It was an elegant
mansion, and I was abashed by the splendors that were presented to my
view as I entered.
The coming of Emily created a sensation among the servants; but her
father was not at home, though he was momentarily expected. Flora and I
were conducted to a magnificent parlor, whose splendors exceeded
anything of which I had ever dreamed. Emily went up stairs, to clothe
herself properly before her father came. The poor girl wept bitterly as
she entered the house which she had left three weeks before with her
mother. The torrent of grief was renewed as she gazed again upon the
familiar scenes which had always been so closely associated with the
dear one who was gone.
A mulatto servant-man came into the room where Flora and I were. He had
just greeted his young mistress, and his eyes were still filled with
tears.
"We have been expecting Miss Emily for several days," said he. "Her
father has suffered everything on her account."
"I am sorry she was delayed, but she would not leave my sister," I
replied.
"But how did she come? It was a very slow steamer," he added.
"It was not a steamer. Didn't she write to her father?"
"Yes; but she didn't say what she was coming in; only that she was with
very good friends, and should be home in a week or ten days."
"She came on a raft."
"On a raft!" exclaimed the man. "Miss Emily?"
"It was her own choice. I tried to have her take a steamer; but she
would not. But there was a house on the raft, and she had a good bed."
"Of course her father has felt very bad, and since the funeral he has
fretted a great deal about her."
"Since what funeral?" I asked.
"Her mother's. Poor Mrs. Goodridge was brought down from Cairo, packed
in ice, and the funeral was a week ago yesterday."
One of the many steamers which passed us on our way down the river had
brought the remains of Emily's mother, and they had already been
committed to their last resting-place.
The ringing of the door-bell called the servant from us. We heard the
heavy step of a man, as he went up stairs; but we did not witness the
first interview between Emily and her father. They had much to say, and
we did not see them for half an hour. When they entered the parlor
together, both of them were tolerably calm; but the traces of tears were
still visible in their eyes.
"Young man," said Mr. Goodridge, taking me by the hand, after Emily had
introduced Flora and me by name, "I am indebted to you for the life of
my child."
He wept, and could not utter what he evidently intended to say. My cheek
burned, for in my sympathy for the poor girl and her father I had quite
forgotten my hard swim after the disaster. I stammered some reply, and
did not even then know what I was saying.
"Under God, you saved her; and I shall bless you as long as I live for
the noble deed. It was hard to lose her who is gone; it would have been
doubly hard to lose both of them."
"O, I don't think anything of what I did," I replied. "My poor little
sister here has done a good deal more than I have for her."
Mr. Goodridge took the hand of Flora, and thanked her as he had thanked
me. I told him the story of our voyage down the river after Emily joined
us, as briefly as I could, giving my poor sister the credit for all her
careful and devoted nursing of the invalid.
"I must go now, sir," I added, when the narrative was finished.
"Indeed, you must not," said the grateful father, decidedly.
"I left Sim Gwynn on the raft. He is rather simple, and I am afraid
something will happen to him."
"Can't he leave the raft?"
"Not yet; my sister's clothes and other things are in the house."
He called the servant and ordered a carriage, saying he would go with me
himself to the raft, and employ a man to take charge of it. We drove to
the levee, where Mr. Goodridge sent for one of the porters in his
warehouse, who was ordered to sleep on board, and see that nothing was
stolen. Sim was directed to get into the carriage with us, and we went
back to the house of the merchant.
"Hookie!" almost screamed Sim, as we entered the elegant mansion.
"Shut up, Sim! Don't open your mouth again!" I whispered to him.
"Hookie!" replied he, in a suppressed tone.
"Well, Buckland," said our host, when we were seated in the parlor,--Sim
with his mouth open almost as wide as his eyes,--"I should like to know
something more about you. You have only told me what occurred after you
saved Emily. How happened you to be floating down the river on a raft?"
I told my story, from the day my father died, keeping back nothing
except the matter relating to Squire Fishley's infirmity.
"And your brother is here in New Orleans?" said he.
"Yes, sir. He has gone into business here."
"What is his name?"
"Clarence Bradford."
"Bradford! I thought your name was Buckland."
"John Buckland Bradford, sir."
"I know your brother very well. He is the junior partner in the firm of
Bent, La Motte, & Co. Their house is doing a fine business, too. I don't
think we can find your brother to-night, but we will in the morning."
"He will be very much astonished to see us here."
"No doubt of it; but your coming was a blessing to me. I have three
sons, but Emily is my only daughter, and the youngest child. She is my
pet. She is in delicate health, and I tremble at the thought of losing
her. You cannot understand what a service you have rendered me."
He was silent for several minutes, and I saw the tears starting in his
eyes again. He was thinking of her who was lost, or her who was
saved--of both, more likely.
"Shall you return to Torrentville again?" he asked, after walking across
the room two or three times, apparently to quiet his emotions.
"No, sir, I think not."
"Wherever you go, young man, I shall be your friend, with my money and
my influence."
"Thank you, sir."
"I will consult with your brother, to-morrow, in regard to what I can do
to serve you best; but my gratitude shall have a substantial
expression."
"O, sir, I don't ask anything for what I have done," I protested.
"You do not ask it; but that does not absolve me from doing something.
But, to change the subject, I do not quite like to have you accused of
robbing the mail."
"I didn't do it, sir."
"The gentleman who gave you the money ought to come forward and explain.
If you didn't open the letter, you should not suffer a day for it. I
will see your brother about that, too. It must be made right."
"I should be very glad to have it made right; but I can't tell who the
man was that gave me the money."
He insisted, in very complimentary terms, that one who had done what I
had could not be guilty of a crime, and that I must be cleared even from
the suspicion of evil.
Sim and I slept on beds of down that night. The next morning Mr.
Goodridge undertook to find Clarence. About the middle of the forenoon,
while our raft party were all gathered in the parlor with the
housekeeper, he was shown into the room. Not a word had been said to him
as to the nature of the business upon which he was called, and his eyes
opened almost as wide as Sim's when he saw Flora and me.
CHAPTER XXIII.
CLARENCE BRADFORD.
"My dear little Flora!" exclaimed Clarence, as he glanced from me to
her, after he entered the room.
He sprang to her chair, and embraced and kissed her. I perceived that he
was winking rapidly, as though an unmanly weakness was getting
possession of him.
"Buck!" he added, extending his hand to me, "what does all this mean? I
supposed you were both in Torrentville."
"We are not. We couldn't stand it any longer," I replied.
"Stand what?" he demanded, sternly.
"The way that Captain Fishley's folks treated us."
"You don't mean to say they abused you!"
"That's just what I mean to say. I thought I spoke plain enough in my
letters for you to understand me."
"I had no idea that you were actually abused. Boys are always grumbling
and complaining, and some of them think their lot is a great deal harder
than it is. Flora didn't say anything in her letters; she didn't
complain."
"She wouldn't have said anything if they had killed her," I replied. "I
am not one of the grumbling sort, and I didn't say anything till they
picked upon me so that I couldn't stand it. I was kept at home from
school half the time to work; and then I was the old man's servant, the
old woman's servant, and Ham's servant. I was kept on the jump by some
of them all the time."
"But you were only to take care of the horse, and go for the mail every
evening; and I thought you rather liked that," he added; and he wore a
look of astonishment and indignation.
"I did like it; but I had to work in the garden, feed the pigs, make the
fires, do chores about the house, run of errands, and work in the store.
I was kept busy from morning till night."
"That wasn't the bargain I made with them."
"I wouldn't have made any row about the work, if they hadn't treated me
so meanly. Ham used me like a dog, and ordered me around as though I had
been his nigger servant. It was 'Buck, do this,' and 'Buck, do that, and
be quick about it.' It was 'Buck, black my boots,' in surly tones."
"Black his boots!" exclaimed Clarence.
"Yes, black his boots; and I was fool enough to do it until I found I
only got kicked for minding. Mrs. Fishley used to snarl at me from
morning till night. I never did anything right, and was never in the
place where I ought to be. But, Clarence, I should have staid there, I
suppose, till the time you named, if they had not abused Flora."
"Flora!" said he, knitting his brow, as he glanced at her.
I told him that our female tyrant had actually shaken her several times,
to say nothing of the constant scolding to which she was subjected. He
was indignant, and assured me, if he had supposed the case was half as
bad as I had represented, he should have hastened to Torrentville and
removed us at once. He thought my complaints were simply boyish
dissatisfaction, and the situation nothing more than simply unpleasant.
"But you haven't told the worst of the story," interposed Mr. Goodridge.
"I will tell that now, for it was the final cause of our leaving," I
continued. "A certain gentleman, whose name I cannot mention, gave me
one hundred dollars for something I did for him."
"Who was he?" asked Clarence.
"I can't tell you, or anybody, who he was. About this time Ham Fishley
robbed a letter of forty dollars, and when the money was missed, he laid
it to me."
"How do you know he did it?" demanded Clarence.
"I saw him do it. I saw him break the seal, take out the money, and burn
the letter;" and I explained fully the circumstances. "Ham saw me
counting my money, and his father wanted me to tell where I got it. I
couldn't do that. They sent for a constable; but I took to the swamp.
Now, I had either to tell where I got the money,--which I couldn't
do,--or go to jail. Instead of doing either, I took Flora on the raft
with me, and came down the river."
"This is a very strange story, Buck; and I don't much blame Captain
Fishley for not believing it," said Clarence. "Somebody gave you a
hundred dollars, and you would not tell who, even to save yourself from
going to jail. I can't blame him."
"Nor I either, so far as that was concerned; but I do blame Ham, for he
knew very well that I did not rob the mail."
"But why can't you tell who gave you the money?"
"Because I promised not to do so, and because my telling would do an
injury to the person who gave it to me."
"I don't like the looks of this thing, Buck," added Clarence, shaking
his head.
"I know it don't look very well," I replied, rather sheepishly, for I
realized that my brother had his suspicions.
"Why should a man give you a hundred dollars?"
"Because I saved his life," I answered, desperately.
"If you did, he ought to be the first one to give you the credit for the
noble deed."
"There's the hitch."
"So I think," said my brother, shaking his head.
"Clarence, I know Buckland is honest and true," interposed Flora. "He is
the best brother that ever was, and you mustn't think hard of him."
"Perhaps you know more about it than I do, Flora; but it looks bad for
him. Why a man should give him a hundred dollars for saving his life,
and then not be willing that he should mention his name, passes my
comprehension."
"The gentleman had been drinking a little too much, and that was what
made him fall into the water," I added, goaded on to reveal thus much by
the doubts and suspicions of my brother.
"Well, that makes it a little more plausible," replied Clarence. "Was
there no one present when the man fell overboard?"
"I shall not say any more about it, whether you believe it or not," I
answered, rather indignantly. "I made a promise, and I intend to keep
it."
"I am satisfied the young man is honest, Mr. Bradford," said the
merchant.
"I know he is," added Emily, with an enthusiasm which was worth the
testimony of all the others.
"After the noble deed he has done, after risking his life to save that
of an entire stranger, as he did for my daughter, I know he is not
capable of robbing the mail," continued Mr. Goodridge.
"Saved your daughter?" asked Clarence, with an inquiring look at Emily
and her father.
Flora volunteered to tell the story of the events following the
steamboat explosion, and my modesty will not permit me to set down the
pleasant speeches which Emily added to the narrative.
"Well, Buck, I am willing to grant that you are a hero," said Clarence,
good-naturedly; "and you have done things for which I should have been
slow to give you the credit, if the facts were not fully attested by all
these witnesses. So you have made a voyage from Torrentville to New
Orleans on a raft?"
"I have, and brought Flora with me."
"You have proved yourself to be a smart boy, and I only wish you had
left a better reputation behind you at Torrentville."
I thought this remark was a little harsh. I do not wish to say anything
against my brother, but I was very much disappointed in the view which
he took of the robbery question. I know that he valued reputation as the
apple of his eye, and keenly felt that it was cowardice for an innocent
person to run away from the appearance of evil. I know that he was very
indignant at the treatment which the Fishleys had bestowed upon Flora
and me; but he seemed to believe that I had exaggerated it, and that I
had fled from Torrentville solely to escape the consequences of robbing
the mail.
He was not satisfied with my conduct, and declared that my character
must be cleared from all suspicion. The name he bore must not be tainted
even by the appearance of a crime. He had been an honest man; his father
had been an honest man; and he would rather have his brother sunk in the
deepest depths of the Mississippi than that the stigma of a crime
should be fastened upon him. I was awed and abashed by the dignity of
his bearing and his speech.
"Buck, dare you go back to Torrentville?" he asked.
"I should only be thrown into jail if I went."
"No matter for that. Dare you trust to your own integrity for the final
result?"
"I can't bring the gentleman into court to say that he gave me the
money, which is the only thing against me."
"Have you told the person how you are situated, and of the charge
against you?"
"No, I haven't seen him. He lives a hundred miles from Torrentville."
"I suppose so. Such witnesses are always a great way off when they are
wanted," added my brother, with an ill-concealed sneer.
"I see that you think I am guilty, Clarence," I replied, wounded beyond
measure at his severe conclusions.
"I confess that the affair looks to me like a trumped-up story."
"No, no, Clarence," interposed poor Flora, her eyes filled with tears,
as she came to my chair and put her arm lovingly around my neck. "Dear
Buckland, I know you are innocent!"
"So do I," exclaimed Emily.
"Hookie!" ejaculated Sim Gwynn, who had been sitting in silence, with
his eyes and mouth wide open, but rather nervous when the battle seemed
to be going against me.
I wanted to cry myself, for I felt that my brother was very hard upon
me. While the others were reaching conclusions through their feelings
alone, he was taking the common-sense view of the case. The facts were
stubborn, as I had been obliged to acknowledge before; and all I could
bring to attest my innocence was my simple word. But the conference was
interrupted by the coming of the family physician, who had been sent for
to see Emily. She and her father left the room.
Clarence went over the history of the robbery again; and the more he
considered, the more dissatisfied he became with me. Dear Flora pleaded
for a more gentle judgment, and told him how ill Ham and Mrs. Fishley
treated me.
"I don't blame you for leaving the Fishleys," he added. "I blame myself
for permitting you to remain there, after you complained of them; but I
had just been taken into partnership with my employers, and I could not
well be absent. But I do blame you for leaving them with a stain upon
your character. Something must be done immediately. I will not permit
them to think you are guilty, unless you are so. If you are guilty, you
are no brother of mine."
"I am not guilty," I protested.
"Then you must prove it."
"I can't prove it."
"Are you willing to take your oath before God, in court, that you saw
Ham Fishley take the money and burn the letter?"
"I am."
"Very well. Then you shall go to Torrentville, and face your accusers."
"I am willing to do what you think is best."
"I can't believe you are guilty of this crime; but you were foolish to
run away from it."
"I will write to the person who gave me the money, and he may do as he
pleases about helping me out of the scrape."
"My business is nothing compared with this matter, and I will go with
you. Now, where is this raft?"
He wished to see it, and Sim and I went with him to the levee.
CHAPTER XXIV.
UP THE RIVER.
Clarence called a dray, and had all Flora's things conveyed to the house
he was fitting up as his residence. The raft and its apparatus he sold,
and he gave me the money. This was the end of the craft which had
brought us on our voyage of seventeen hundred and fifty miles. We
returned to the house of Mr. Goodridge in the afternoon.
The physician had only repeated his advice that Emily must have a change
of climate. Her father had already decided to accompany her to the North
himself. Clarence declared that Flora must not stay in the city during
the sickly season. He had been married a month before, and if we had
remained in Torrentville, the letter he wrote to us just before the
happy event would doubtless have reached us. It had been his plan to
start for New York early in August, and to return to New Orleans by the
way of the West in October, taking Flora and me with him. Our unexpected
arrival changed his purpose. In the course of a week it was arranged
that we should go to Torrentville at once, and Mr. Goodridge and his
daughter were to accompany us.
Flora and I remained at the house of the merchant during our stay in the
city, though we frequently saw my brother's wife. She soon became much
attached to Flora; the gentle invalid was so patient and loving that she
could not help it. If there had been no cloud hanging over me, I should
have been very happy in the bright prospect before me; but I hoped, when
we arrived at Torrentville, that Squire Fishley would find a way to
extricate me from my dilemma.
"Buck," said Clarence to me, on the day before we started, "you begin
life under brighter auspices than I did. Mr. Goodridge has just paid
over to me the sum of ten thousand dollars, to be invested for you, and
to be paid over to you when you are of age."
"Ten thousand dollars!" I exclaimed, amazed at the magnitude of the sum.
"And the same sum for Flora. Well, twenty thousand dollars is not much
for him. He is a very rich man, and Emily is his pet. He has three sons;
but all of them are bad boys, and all his hope in this world rests in
his daughter. You are a lucky fellow, Buck."
"I didn't think of anything of this kind," I added, filled with wonder
at my good fortune.
"I don't say you didn't deserve it; for, according to all accounts, you
behaved well, and the girl would certainly have been drowned if you had
not saved her. I am proud of you, Buck; but I wish you were well out of
this Torrentville scrape."
That worried him; and, indeed, it worried me, after I had heard so much
said about it. If I had understood the matter as well in the time of it
as I did afterwards, doubtless I should not have trusted to flight for
safety, but faced my accusers. My sudden departure could not have failed
to confirm the suspicions of Captain Fishley, and probably Ham had made
the best use of the circumstances.
The next day we went on board of a fine steamer bound to St. Louis.
State-rooms had been engaged for the whole party, and I should be glad
to tell the story of the journey if space would permit. We enjoyed it
very much, and on the way I pointed out to my companions the various
objects of interest connected with the slower voyage of the raft. At
first Emily was timid on board of the steamer; but her father introduced
the captain to her, and he assured her that the boilers were new, and
that he never raced with other boats under any circumstances. She
acquired confidence. Her health had improved a great deal, and she was
able to sit up all day.
At St. Louis we took another steamer, and from that were transferred to
a third, which went up the Wisconsin River. When we arrived at
Riverport, I felt as though I was at home, though I dreaded to appear
again in Torrentville. At St. Louis I had written a long letter to
Squire Fishley, narrating all the facts of the robbery of the mail, and
the charge against me. I assured him I should keep the promise I had
made to him, if I had to die in jail for doing so, and that he might do
as he pleased about assisting me. I told him our party would be in
Riverport by the 10th of June, and wished him to write me there,
advising me what to do.
On my arrival at Riverport I went to the post-office, and obtained the
letter which was waiting for me. The senator wrote that he would meet me
in Riverport as soon after the 10th of June as his business would
permit. He thanked me very warmly for keeping his secret so well, and
assured me I should not suffer for my fidelity to him.
This letter made me happy. I told Clarence that the gentleman who had
given me the money was coming to my relief, and would be in Riverport
within a few days. As the party were pleasantly situated at the hotel,
it was decided to remain until the "mysterious personage," as Clarence
called him, made his appearance. Then the awkward fact that when he did
come he would be recognized, by my friends, as the tippler who had
fallen overboard, would be disclosed; and I blamed myself for what I had
said to them. I stated my dilemma to Clarence, and he placed the whole
party under the seal of secrecy.
I had promised not to tell who had given me the money. I had not done
so; but I had said enough to enable my friends to know who he was when
the squire came. It was awkward, but I could not help it, though I
blamed myself for saying even as much as I did.
Emily and I had become fast friends. Before we started from New Orleans,
Clarence had dressed me up in a new suit of black clothes, and I
flattered myself that I was not a bad-looking fellow. I was satisfied
that Emily did not think I was an ill-favored young man. We had some
pleasant walks at the places where we stopped.
I was very impatient for the arrival of Squire Fishley. I expected him
the day after we reached Riverport; but he did not come. In the evening
I went to the vicinity of the post-office, and had a view of Darky and
the wagon; but it was driven by a strange boy, who had been employed to
take my place. I did not care to be recognized by any one from
Torrentville; but as this boy did not know me, I ventured to go up and
pat my friend the black horse on the neck. The old fellow seemed to
know me, and whether he enjoyed the interview or not, I am sure I did.
While I was caressing the horse, the new boy came out of the office with
the mail-bag in his hand. He looked curiously at me, and seemed to
