going now."

"Well, good-by, old fellow. Keep a stiff upper lip, and don't give up
the ship--horsemanship, I mean. I must go round to the office, and see
if father doesn't need a little professional assistance."

John leaped on Prince's back, and turned him in the direction of home.
The revelation which Sam had made gave a new direction to his thoughts.
If his father had really intended to give him a share of the estate, he
felt that he ought to have it, and determined to institute a search as
cautiously as possible.

Driving into the yard he saw Ben sitting sullenly on the door-step. He
eyed John with no very friendly glance.

"Where've you been?" he demanded.

"Up the road," said John, briefly.

"It's the last time you'll ride my horse."

"It's not your horse."

"You'll find out whose horse it is," muttered Ben.

"I don't care about disputing with you," said John, quietly, turning
towards the stable.

"My mother wishes to see you at once; do you hear?" said Ben,
unpleasantly. "She's going to make you apologize to me for your
impudence."

"I'll go in and see her as soon as I have put the horse in the stable,"
John answered, quietly.

"I hate that fellow," muttered Ben, following our hero with lowering
eyes; "he puts on too many airs altogether. But my mother'll fix him."




CHAPTER III.

JOHN'S TROUBLES BEGIN.


After putting Prince in the stable, John went into the house slowly,
for he was in no hurry to anticipate what he feared would be an
unpleasant interview.

"Where is Mrs. Oakley, Jane?" he asked of a servant whom he met in the
hall.

"She's in the sitting-room, Master John," said Jane. "She wants to see
you immediately."

"Very well; I'll go in."

He heard steps behind him, and, turning, found that Ben was following
him.

"He wants to hear me scolded," thought John. "However, I won't take any
notice."

Mrs. Oakley was sitting in a rocking-chair. She looked up with a frown
as John entered. She had never liked him, but since Ben had declared,
falsely, as we know, that John had no more respect for her than a
servant, this dislike was greatly increased.

[Illustration] She was inwardly determined to make his life as
uncomfortable as possible.

"Well, sir," she said, "so you have come at last."

"I came as soon as Ben told me you wished to see me," said John. "I
only waited till I had put my horse into the stable."

"His horse!" repeated Ben, by way of calling his mother's attention
to the claim to ownership expressed in those words.

"I suppose I ought to consider it lucky that you paid any attention to
my words," said Mrs. Oakley.

"I hope I have not failed in proper respect," said John.

"It was very respectful in you to ride off with the horse, when I had
told Ben he might use it."

"It was my horse," said John, firmly. "If Ben wanted it, he might ask
me."

"Ask you, indeed!" repeated Ben, scornfully; "you won't catch me doing
that."

"It was enough that I told him that he might ride. Didn't he tell you
that?"

"Yes."

"Then what right had you to refuse?"

"The horse is mine," said John. "It was given me by my father."

"He allowed you to use it."

"He gave it to me. At the same time he gave Ben a watch, which he is
wearing now. He has no more right to demand my horse than I have to
claim his watch."

"You seem to forget," said Mrs. Oakley, coldly, "that your father saw
fit to leave me his property. The horse forms a part of that property,
and belongs to me, and it is for me to say who shall ride on it. Ben,
you may ride on the horse to-morrow."

"Do you hear that?" demanded Ben, triumphantly, looking towards John.

"I suppose," said John, quietly, "you will order Ben to let me have his
watch to-morrow."

"I shall do no such thing," said Mrs. Oakley, sharply, "and it is
impudent in you to ask such a thing."

"I don't see why it isn't fair," said John. "It appears to me rather
mean in Ben to want both, and leave me neither."

"That is for me to decide," said Mrs. Oakley. "There is one thing more
I have to speak to you about. My son tells me you were brutal enough to
strike him with the whip. Do you deny that?"

"I never deny what's true."

"Then you did strike him."

"Yes, I struck him twice."

"And you have the impudence to stand there, and say it to my face!"

"You asked me, and I have answered you. I don't see why that should be
called impudent."

"You glory in your disgraceful action," said Mrs. Oakley, sharply.

"Did Ben tell you that he struck me first?" asked John.

"I am very glad to hear it. It was what you deserved," said Mrs. Oakley.

"Then," said John, firmly, "I gave him what he deserved. You can't
expect me to stand still and be struck without returning it."

"The only fault I find with Ben is, that he did not strike you more
than once," said Mrs. Oakley, in an excited tone.

John glanced from the mother to her son, who was evidently pleased with
the reproaches John was receiving, and said, quietly:--

"I think Ben had better not attempt it."

"What do you mean by that?" demanded Mrs. Oakley, quickly.

"I don't want to strike Ben, or injure him in any way," said John; "but
I mean to defend myself if I am attacked."

And Ben, though he chose to sneer, knew very well that, quietly as
John spoke, he was thoroughly in earnest, and would do precisely as he
said. He knew very well, too, that, though he was older and taller than
John, he would very likely be worsted in an encounter. He preferred,
therefore, that his mother should fight his battles for him.

"You hear, mother," he said. "He defies you. I knew he would. You
remember what I told you."

Mrs. Oakley did remember very well, and the recollection made her angry.

"John Oakley," she said, "you will find that it won't do to insult me."

"I have no wish to insult you, Mrs. Oakley," said John. "I have not
forgotten who you are, and I shall try to treat you accordingly."

"What do you mean by that?" said Mrs. Oakley, turning pale with rage.

She was misled by the statement Ben had made, and she thought John
referred to the fact that she had been his father's house-keeper,--a
point on which she felt sensitive.

"I mean," said John, a little surprised at this outburst, "that I have
not forgotten that you are my father's widow, and as such are entitled
to my respect."

"Was that what you meant?" asked Mrs. Oakley, suspiciously.

"Certainly," said John. "What else could I mean?"

Mrs. Oakley turned to Ben, who shrugged his shoulders, intimating that
he did not believe it.

"All very fine," said his mother, "but words are cheap. If you think I
am entitled to your respect, you will do as I require. Will you promise
this?"

"I would rather not promise," said John. "If it is anything I ought to
do, I will do it."

"It is something you ought to do," said Mrs. Oakley.

"What is it?"

"I require you immediately to apologize to my son Benjamin, for the
blows you struck him with the whip this afternoon."

"I cannot do this," said John, firmly.

"Why can't you do it?"

"Because I had a good reason for striking him. He ought to apologize to
me for striking me first."

"Catch me doing it!" said Ben, scornfully.

"I have no fault to find with him for striking you," said Mrs. Oakley.
"On the contrary, I think him perfectly justified in doing so. You
forced him off the horse after I had given him permission to ride, and
I should have been ashamed of him if he had not resisted. I am glad he
gave you such a lesson."

Once more John looked at Ben, and was not surprised to see the smile
of triumph that rose to his face as he listened to these words of his
mother.

"Well," said Mrs. Oakley, impatiently, "what have you to say?"

"What can I say? You are determined to find me in the wrong."

"It is because you are wrong. I demand once more, John Oakley, will
you apologize to my son?"

"I will not," said John, firmly.

"Please to remember that you are left dependent upon me, and that your
future comfort will be a good deal affected by the way in which you
decide."

"Whatever happens," said John, who partly understood the threat, "I
refuse to apologize, unless--"

"Unless what?"

"If Ben will say that he is sorry that he struck me, I will say the
same to him."

"Ben will do nothing of the kind," said Mrs. Oakley, promptly. "I
should be ashamed of him if he did."

"Catch me apologizing to such a whipper-snapper as you!" muttered Ben.

"Then I have no more to say," said John.

"But I have," said Mrs. Oakley, angrily. "You have chosen to defy me
to my face, but you will bitterly repent of it. I'll break your proud
spirit for you!"

John certainly did not feel very comfortable as he left the room. He
was not afraid of what his stepmother could do, although he knew she
could annoy him in many ways, but it was disagreeable to him to feel at
variance with any one.

"If my poor father had only lived," he thought, "how different all
would have been!"

But it was useless to wish for this. His father was no longer on earth
to protect and shield him from the malice of Ben and his mother. Trials
awaited him, but he determined to be true to himself, and to the good
principles which he had been taught.

As for Mrs. Oakley, having once resolved to annoy John, she lost no
time in beginning her persecutions. She had a small, mean nature, and
nothing was too petty for her to stoop to.

John and Ben had been accustomed to occupy bedrooms on the second
floor, very prettily furnished, and alike in every respect. It had been
the policy of Squire Oakley to treat the two boys precisely alike,
although Ben had no claim upon him, except as the son of the woman whom
he had married. Now that he was dead, Mrs. Oakley determined that Ben
should occupy a superior position, and should be recognized throughout
the house as the eldest son and heir. After her unsatisfactory
interview with John, just described, in which he had refused to
apologize, she summoned Jane, and said:--

"Jane, you may remove John's clothes from the bedchamber where he has
slept to the attic room next to your own."

"Is Master John going to sleep there?" asked Jane, in amazement.

"Certainly."

"And shall I move Master Ben's things upstairs, also?"

"Of course not," said Mrs. Oakley, sharply. "What made you think of
such a thing?"

"Beg pardon, ma'am; but who is going to have Master John's room?"

"You ask too many questions, Jane. It is no concern of yours that I am
aware of."

Jane did not venture to reply, but went out muttering:--

"It's a shame, so it is, to put Master John upstairs in that poor room,
while Ben stays downstairs. He's a young reprobate, so he is, just for
all the world, like his mother."

The fact was, that John was a favorite in the house, and Ben was
not. The latter was in the habit of domineering over the servants,
and making all the trouble in his power, while John was naturally
considerate, and always had a pleasant word for them. However, Mrs.
Oakley's commands must be obeyed, and Jane, much against her will,
found herself obliged to remove John's things to the attic. She found
John already in his chamber.

"Excuse me, Master John," she said, "but I have orders to move your
things up to the attic."

"What!" exclaimed John, in amazement.

Jane repeated her words.

"Did Mrs. Oakley tell you to do that?"

"Yes, Master John, and a shame it is."

"Is Ben to go up into the attic too?"

"The mistress said no."

"Wait a minute, Jane; I'll go and speak to Mrs. Oakley."

John went downstairs, and found his stepmother in the room where he had
left her.

"May I speak to you a moment, Mrs. Oakley?" he said.

"Have you come to apologize for your impertinence to me, and your
rudeness to my son?"

"No, I have not," said John.

"Then I don't care to speak to you."

"Excuse me, Mrs. Oakley, but Jane tells me that you have ordered her to
remove my things to the attic."

"Well?"

"Is Ben to go into the attic too?"

"No, he is not."

"Then why are you driving me from my room?"

"You seem to forget that you are only a boy. This house is mine, and I
shall make what arrangements I please."

"The room in the attic is not nearly as good as my present room."

"It is good enough for you."

"I am willing to go up there if Ben goes up, but I claim to be treated
as well as he."

"Ben is older than you. Besides, he is respectful and dutiful, while
you are impertinent and disobedient. I shall treat you as well as you
deserve."

"Why did you not make this change while my father was alive, Mrs.
Oakley?" said John, significantly.

Mrs. Oakley colored, for she understood very well the meaning of this
question.

"I do not intend to be catechised by you," she said, sharply. "I intend
to do what I please in my own house, and I shall not submit to have my
arrangements questioned."

"May I ask how my room is going to be used?" said John, who wanted to
be sure whether his stepmother had any motive for the change except
hostility to himself.

"No, you may not ask," she said, angrily; "or if you do, you need not
expect any answer. And now I will thank you to leave the room, as I
have something else to do besides answering impertinent questions."

There was nothing more to say, and John left the room.

"Well, Master John," said Jane, who had waited till his return, "what
will I do?"

"You may move the things upstairs, Jane," said John.

"It's a shame," said Jane, warmly.

"Never mind, Jane," said John. "I don't like it much myself, but I dare
say it'll all come out right after a while. I'll help you with that
trunk. It's rather heavy to carry alone."

"Thank you, Master John. Ben wouldn't offer to help if he saw me
breakin' my back under it. It's easy to see which is the gentleman."

The room to which John's things were removed was uncarpeted, the floor
being painted yellow. It had been used during Squire Oakley's life by
a boy who was employed to run errands, but who had been dismissed by
Mrs. Oakley, who was disposed to be economical and save his wages. The
bed was a common cot bedstead, comfortable indeed, but of course quite
inferior to the neat French bed in which John had been accustomed to
sleep. There was a plain pine table and bureau, in which John stored
his things. There was a small cracked mirror, and a wash-stand with
the paint rubbed off in spots. Altogether it was hardly suitable for
a gentleman's son to sleep in. John, however, was not proud, and
would not have minded if there had not been malice on the part of his
stepmother. He had scarcely got moved when a step was heard on the
attic stairs, and Ben came up to enjoy the sight of John's humiliation.

"So you've got a new room, John?" he said, smiling maliciously.

"So it seems," said John, quietly.

"I'm sorry to lose so agreeable a neighbor," he continued.

"Are you?" said John, looking at him searchingly.

"But you'll be more at home up here," said Ben.

"What do you mean by that?"

"I mean it's more suitable for you."

"Ben Brayton," said John, his eyes flashing, "if you have come up here
to insult me, the sooner you go down the better. Your mother has moved
me up here, for what reason I don't know. The only satisfaction I have
in the change is, that it removes me further from you."

"You're uncommon polite since you've moved into this elegant
apartment," said Ben, tauntingly.

"Elegant or not, it is mine, and I want it to myself," said John.
"Leave the room!"

He advanced towards Ben as he spoke. Ben thought a moment of standing
his ground, but there was something in John's eye that looked
threatening, and he concluded that it would be the best policy to obey.
With a parting taunt he backed out of the chamber, and John was left to
himself.




CHAPTER IV.

BEN BRAYTON'S RIDE.


John took his place at the supper-table as usual; but neither Mrs.
Oakley nor Ben, though they spoke freely to each other, had a word to
say to him. If John had been conscious of deserving such neglect, he
would have felt disturbed; but as he felt that all the blame for what
had occurred rested with Ben and his mother, he ate with his usual
appetite, and did not appear in the least troubled by their silence,
nor by the scornful looks which from time to time Mrs. Oakley directed
towards him. After supper he went up into his little room, and prepared
his lesson in Virgil for the next day. He was at the head of his class,
and was resolved to let no troubles at home interfere with his faithful
preparation of his lessons.

Ben did not attend school. In fact, he was not very partial to study,
and though Squire Oakley had offered to bear his expenses at the
academy, and afterwards at college, Ben had persuaded his mother
that his health was not firm enough to undertake a long course of
study. While, therefore, John was occupied daily for several hours
at the academy, Ben had lived like a gentleman of leisure, spending
considerable time at the billiard rooms in the village, and in lounging
on the hotel piazza. He managed to get through considerable money, but
his mother had always kept him well supplied.

Although he did not wish to go to college himself, he did not fancy
the idea of John's going, since this would increase the superiority of
the latter over him. He knew very well that a liberal education would
give John a certain position and influence which he was not likely to
attain, and he determined to prevent his obtaining it. When, therefore,
John had gone to school the next morning, Ben attacked his mother on
the subject.

"Are you going to send John to college, mother?" he asked.

"Why do you ask?"

"Because I don't want him to go."

"Why not?"

"He'll put on no end of airs if he goes, and turn up his nose at me,
because I don't happen to know so much about Latin and Greek, and such
rigmarole."

"I wish you would make up your mind to go to college, Ben," said his
mother, earnestly, for she was very ambitious for her son.

"It's of no use, mother. I'm seventeen, and it would take three years
to get ready, and hard study at that."

"You have studied Latin already."

"I don't remember anything about it. I should have to begin all over
again."

"Well," said Mrs. Oakley, reluctantly giving up the idea, "you might
study law without going to college."

"I don't think I should like to be a lawyer. It's too hard work."

"You needn't be, but you could go to the Law School, and study long
enough to get a degree. You would make some aristocratic acquaintances,
and it would be an honorable profession to belong to."

"Well," said Ben, "I don't know but I'll enter the Law School in a
year, or two. There is no hurry. I suppose you'll give me enough
money so that I won't have to earn my living? I say, mother, how much
property did old Oakley leave?"

Considering the obligations under which Mrs. Oakley was placed to her
late husband it might have been supposed that she would reprove Ben
for the disrespectful manner in which he spoke of him; but, as may be
guessed, she cared nothing for her husband, except for what she could
get out of him, and was not in the least disturbed by the manner in
which Ben referred to him.

"This house and the land around it," she said, "are estimated at ten
thousand dollars. There are, besides, stocks, bonds, and mortgages to
the amount of fifty thousand dollars."

"Sixty thousand dollars in all!" exclaimed Ben, his eyes sparkling.
"You're quite a rich woman, mother."

"Yes," said Mrs. Oakley, complacently, "I suppose I am."

"It's a little different from when you came here four years ago on a
salary of twenty dollars a month. You were pretty hard up, then."

"Yes, Ben, but we can hold up our heads with anybody now."

"I say, mother," said Ben, persuasively, "as I'm your only son, I think
you might give me ten thousand dollars right out. You'd have fifty
thousand left."

Mrs. Oakley shook her head.

"You're too young, Ben," she said. "Some time or other you shall be
well provided for."

"I'm seventeen," grumbled Ben. "I'm old enough to look after property."

"I'll tell you what I'll do, Ben," said Mrs. Oakley. "I will give you
an allowance of ten dollars a week from now till you are twenty-one.
Then, if you behave well, I will make over to you twenty thousand
dollars."

"You might say thirty. You're not saving a third for John Oakley, are
you?"

Mrs. Oakley's face hardened.

"No," she said; "he's been too insolent to me. I suppose I must give
him something, but he shall never have a third."

"Five hundred dollars will be enough for him," said Ben, with
contemptible meanness, considering that but for the accident of his
father's second marriage the whole property--one hundred and twenty
times as much--would have gone to John.

"I can't tell you how much he will get," said Mrs. Oakley. "It depends
on how he behaves. If he had treated us with greater respect, his
chances would be a great deal better."

"He's a proud upstart!"

"But his pride shall be broken. I'm determined upon that."

"Then you won't send him to college? That would make him prouder still.
Besides," added Ben, his habitual meanness suggesting the thought, "it
costs a good deal to keep a fellow at college."

"No," said Mrs. Oakley, "he shan't go to college."

"Good!" said Ben, his eyes sparkling; "that will be a bitter pill for
him, for he wants to go."

"How soon would he be ready?"

"In about a year."

"You may set your mind at rest on that point. He shan't go."

"All right, mother. When are you going to pay me my allowance?" he
said, insinuatingly.

Mrs. Oakley took out her purse, and placed a ten-dollar bill in his
hand.

"That's for the first week," she said.

"Couldn't you make it fifteen, mother?"

"No, ten must do for the present."

"Are you going to allow John anything?"

"He doesn't deserve anything. When he does, I will allow him fifty
cents a week."

Ben strolled over to the billiard rooms, and spent the forenoon playing
billiards with another young fellow as idle and unpromising as himself.
He then walked over to the hotel, and bought a dozen cigars, one of
which he began to smoke. At one o'clock he returned home to dinner.
John was not present at this meal. The intermission between morning
and afternoon schools at the academy was but an hour, and he had been
accustomed to carry his lunch with him. He was not released until four
o'clock in the afternoon.

"Well, mother," said Ben, "how about the horse? Are you going to give
up to John?"

"Certainly not; you may consider the horse yours," said Mrs. Oakley.

"John'll make a fuss."

"Let him," said Mrs. Oakley. "He'll find that I can make a fuss too."

"I'll go out to ride this afternoon," said Ben, with satisfaction.
"I'll get started just before four o'clock, so as to meet John on
his way from school. He'll look mad enough when he sees me;" and Ben
laughed, as he fancied John's looks.

"It is a very good plan," said Mrs. Oakley, approvingly. "We'll see if
he dares to interfere with you again."

The more Ben thought of it, the better he was pleased with this plan.
All the academy boys knew that the horse was John's, and they would
now see him upon it. He would be likely to meet many of them, and this
would make John's humiliation the greater. At half-past three he went
out to the barn.

"Mike," he said, to the hostler, "you may saddle Prince. I am going to
ride out."

"Master John's horse?"

"No, my horse."

"Your horse, sir? Prince belongs to Master John."

"How dare you stand there contradicting me?" said Ben, haughtily. "The
horse is mine. My mother has given it to me."

"It's a shame, then," said Mike to himself, "for Master John sets a
sight by that horse. The old woman's mighty queer."

It was lucky for Mike that Mrs. Oakley was not aware of the
disrespectful term applied to her in Mike's thoughts, or he would
probably have been discharged at short notice. But the fact was, that
none of the servants liked her. Feeling a little doubtful of her own
position, she always spoke to them in a haughty tone, as if they were
far beneath her, and this, instead of increasing their respect, only
diminished it.

Mike saddled Prince, and led him out into the yard.

"You must be careful, Master Ben," he said. "The horse has got a spirit
of his own, and he isn't used to you."

Ben was a poor horseman, and he knew it; but he was too proud to admit
it to Mike.

"Don't trouble yourself," he said, haughtily. "If John can manage him,
I can."

"He's used to Master John."

"Well, he's got to get used to me," said Ben. "If he don't behave well
it will be the worse for him. You haven't given me the whip."

"You'd better not use it much, Master Ben. He won't stand a whip very
well."

"Keep your advice till it is asked for," said Ben.

"All right, sir," said Mike, and handed him the whip. He followed him
with his eyes as he rode out of the yard. "He don't sit like Master
John. It wouldn't take much to throw him off. However, I've warned him,
and he must have his own way if he breaks his neck."

Although Ben had spurned Mike's warning with so much disdain, he
thought of it as he rode up the street, and let Prince take his own
gait. The truth was, he did not feel very secure in his seat, and did
not feel very much confidence in his own horsemanship. Indeed, he would
not have cared to ride out this afternoon, but for the anticipated
pleasure of mortifying John.

He rode leisurely along, taking the direction of the academy, which was
nearly a mile distant. He looked at his watch, and estimated that he
would meet the pupils of the academy as they emerged from school.

He was right in his reckoning. At precisely four o'clock there was
a bustle about the doors, and with merry shouts the boys poured out
into the street. Among them were John Oakley and Sam Selwyn, who, as
intimate friends and classmates, generally were found in company. They
turned up the street which led by Mr. Selwyn's office, and in the
direction of John Oakley's home.

"John," said Sam, suddenly, "I do believe that is Ben Brayton riding on
your horse."

John looked up the street, and saw that Sam was right.

"You are right, Sam," he said.

"Did you tell him he might ride on it?"

"No."

"Then what business has he with it?"

"His mother told him he might take it. She has taken it from me."

"She's an old--"

"Don't call names, Sam. I'll tell you more about it another time."

Meanwhile Ben had seen the boys coming from the academy. Among others
he recognized John and Sam, and his eyes flashed with anticipated
triumph. Hitherto he had been content to let the horse go on at his
own rate, but now he thought it was time to make a display. He thought
it would annoy John to have him dash by at gallant speed, while he,
the rightful owner, was obliged to stand out of the path, unable
to interfere. He therefore brought the whip down with considerable
emphasis upon Prince's side. Unfortunately he had not foreseen the
consequences of the blow. Prince took the bit between his teeth, and
darted forward with reckless speed, while Ben, seeing his mistake too
late, pale and terrified, threw his arms around the horse's neck, and
tried to keep his seat.

John started forward, also in alarm, for though he had no reason to
like Ben, he did not want him to be hurt, and called "Prince!"

The horse recognized his master's voice, and stopped suddenly,--so
suddenly that Ben was thrown off, and landed in a puddle of standing
water in a gully by the side of the road. Prince stopped quietly for
his master to come up.

"Are you hurt, Ben?" asked John, hurrying up.

Ben rose from the puddle in sorry plight. He was only a little bruised,
but he was drenched from head to foot with dirty water, and patches of
yellow mud adhered to his clothes.

"You did this!" he said, furiously to John.

"You are entirely mistaken. I hope you are not hurt," said John, calmly.

"You frightened the horse on purpose."

"That's a lie, Ben," said Sam, indignantly. "It's a lie, and you know
it."

"I understand it all. You don't deceive me," said Ben, doggedly.

"Will you ride home?" asked John.

Ben refused. In fact, he was afraid to trust himself again on Prince's
back.

"Then I suppose I must." And John sprang lightly upon the horse's back,
and rode towards home, followed by Ben in his soiled clothes.

Mrs. Oakley, looking from her window, beheld, with wondering anger,
John riding into the yard, and her son following in his soiled clothes.

"What's he been doing to Ben?" she thought, and hurried downstairs in a
furious rage.




CHAPTER V.

BEN IS COMFORTED.


"What have you been doing to my son, you young reprobate?" demanded
Mrs. Oakley of John. Her hands trembled convulsively with passion, as
if she would like to get hold of our hero, and avenge Ben's wrongs by
inflicting punishment on the spot.

John was silent.

"Why don't you speak, you young rascal?" demanded Mrs. Oakley,
furiously.

"I am neither a reprobate nor a rascal, Mrs. Oakley," said John,
calmly, "and I do not choose to answer when addressed in that way."

"Ben," said Mrs. Oakley, turning to her son, "what has he done to you?
How happens it that you come home in such a plight?"

"I was thrown over the horse's head into a mud-puddle," said Ben.

"Didn't he have anything to do with it?" asked Mrs. Oakley,
determined to connect John with Ben's misfortune, if possible.

"He spoke to the horse," said Ben.

"And then he threw you?"

"Yes."

Ben answered thus, being perfectly willing that his mother should
charge his fall upon John, as this would create additional prejudice
between them. It was contemptible meanness on his part, but meanness
was characteristic of him, and he had no hesitation in stooping to
falsehood, direct or indirect, if by so doing he could compass his
object.

"It is as I thought," said Mrs. Oakley, thinking it unnecessary to
inquire further. "Of course, as soon as you were thrown, he jumped on
the horse and rode home. You're carrying matters with a high hand,
young man; but you'll find that I'm your match. Get off that horse,
directly."

"That was my intention," said John. "I am sorry, Mrs. Oakley," he
continued, "that Ben has not seen fit to give you a correct account of
what has happened. If he had, it would have been unnecessary for me to
speak."

"It is unnecessary for you to speak now, John Oakley," said his
stepmother, sharply. "Do you mean to charge my son with telling a
falsehood? If that is the case, take care what you say."

"Ben has not told a falsehood, but he is trying to make you believe
that I caused his fall."

"I have no doubt you did."

"Then you are mistaken. Why didn't he tell you that when I first saw
the horse he was running at great speed, in consequence of Ben's having
imprudently struck him severely with the whip? He is a spirited horse,
and won't stand the whip."

"He is like you in that, I suppose," said Mrs. Oakley, sneering.

"He is like me in that," said John, quietly.

"You would both be better if you had to stand it," said his stepmother,
angrily.

John did not see fit to reply to this.

"Is this true, Ben?" she asked.

"Yes," said Ben, reluctantly. "I struck the horse; but it was not till
John spoke to him that he threw me off."

"So I supposed," said Mrs. Oakley, significantly.

"I see, Mrs. Oakley," said John, "you are determined to find me guilty
of causing Ben's fall. If I could be mean enough to do such a thing,
and so risk his life, I should despise myself. Prince was rushing up
the street with tremendous speed, and I was frightened at Ben's danger;
I called out to Prince, but he stopped so suddenly that Ben was thrown
into the puddle, or he might have been seriously hurt."

There was so much sincerity in what John said, that Mrs. Oakley,
though very much against her will, could hardly help believing him.
Determined, however, to make out a case against him, she said:--

"As soon as you saw him off, you jumped on the horse and rode home,
leaving him to get home as he could. That was a very generous and noble
thing to do!"

"Ask Ben if I did not ask him to ride home," said John.

Ben, in answer to his mother's glance, said, rather unwillingly:--

"Yes, he asked me to ride home, but he knew I wouldn't after being
thrown once. I won't get on the brute's back again, I promise you."

Mrs. Oakley was disappointed to find that the case she was trying to
make out against John had failed at all points, and that he was cleared
even by the testimony of her principal witness.

"You had better come in and change your clothes, Ben," she said. "I
am afraid you will take cold. And do you"--turning to John--"take the
horse round to the stable. He's an ugly brute, and I'll take care that
he doesn't endanger your life any more."

John led Prince round to the stable, and delivered him into the hands
of Mike.

"Where's Master Ben?" inquired Mike.

"He got thrown off."

"I thought how it would be," said Mike. "He can't ride no more'n a
stick. I told him not to take the whip, but he wouldn't heed a word I
said."

"That's how he got thrown. He struck the horse violently, and he was
running away with him when he heard my voice and stopped."

"Did Master Ben get hurt?"

"Not much. He fell into a puddle, and dirtied his clothes."

"Maybe he'll be wiser next time."

"He says he won't ride Prince again."

"All the better for you, Master John."

"I don't know, Mike," said John, soberly. "I'm afraid Mrs. Oakley will
sell him. She says he is an ugly brute, and she won't have any more
lives endangered."

"Ugly brute!" repeated Mike, indignantly. "There's not a bit of
ugliness about him. He wants to be treated well, and I'd like to know
who don't. And he's so attached to you, Master John!"

"Yes, Mike, it'll be hard to part with him." And John's lips quivered
as he looked with affection at the noble horse, to which he had
become much attached. Besides, it was his father's gift, and as such
had an additional value for him, as, owing to his disinheritance, he
had nothing else of value by which he could remember the parent whose
loss he was made to feel more and more, as his stepmother's injustice
and harsh treatment, and Ben's meanness and hostility served daily to
increase. It almost seemed to him as if Prince was the only friend he
had left, and that he must be parted even from him.

Meanwhile Ben was changing his clothes in his room. The adventure which
had just happened to him did not make him feel very pleasant. In the
first place, it is rather disagreeable to be thrown violently into a
puddle of dirty water, and Ben might be excused for not liking that.
Ben's pride was touched, since it had been demonstrated in the most
public manner that he could not manage Prince, while it was well known
that John could. Ben knew boys well enough to feel sure that he would
be reminded from time to time of his adventure, and he did not like to
be laughed at. Why was it that John always seemed to get the better
of him? He went out expressly to triumph over John in presence of his
schoolmates, and this had been the humiliating result.

"Why was I such a fool as to use the whip?" thought Ben, vexed with
himself. "If it had not been for that, it would have been all right."

But he had used the whip, and it was all wrong. As to using the horse
any more, he did not care to do it. To tell the truth, Ben, who, as
we know, was not very courageous, was afraid of Prince. He suspected
that the horse would remember the blow he had given him, and would be
likely to serve him the same trick the next time he mounted him. So
he resolved that he would never ride out on Prince again; but he was
equally anxious that John should also be prevented from using him. The
words that his mother had last used led him to hope that she would
agree to sell him, and, what was still more important in his eyes,
give him the money resulting from the sale. Under these circumstances
the triumph would still be his, and he would enjoy John's grief for the
loss of his horse.

When Ben descended from his chamber, in a clean suit, he found that his
mother had taken measures to console him for his mortifying adventure.
The tea-table was spread, and two or three delicacies such as he
particularly liked were set before his plate. Ben surveyed this with
satisfaction, for he was something of a gourmand.

"I thought you might be hungry, Ben," said his mother; "so I got
some of that marmalade that you like so well, and here is some hot
mince-pie."

"That's just what I like, mother."

"We will sit down at once. John can come when he gets ready."

"What are you going to do about that horse, mother?" asked Ben, rather
indistinctly, for his mouth was full.

"I did intend to keep him for your use; but if he is likely to play
such tricks as he has to-day, I suppose I had better sell him."

"Yes, mother, sell him. I'll never mount such a vicious brute again,
and I suppose you won't keep him just for John's use."

"Of course not. It costs considerable to keep a horse. Besides, he'd be
flinging out that he could manage the horse, and you couldn't."

"Of course he would. But the horse is used to him, you know, and that
is why he doesn't find any trouble with him. But you gave me the horse,
you know, mother."

