that afternoon. I will mention one rather amusing instance of his
preoccupation of mind.

A lady entered the store, leading by the hand her son Edwin, a little
boy of seven.

"Have you any hats that will fit my little boy?" she said.

"Yes, ma'am," said Fosdick, absently, and brought forward a large-sized
man's hat, of the kind popularly known as "stove-pipe."

"How will this do?" asked Fosdick.

"I don't want to wear such an ugly hat as that," said Edwin, in dismay.

The lady looked at Fosdick as if she had very strong doubts of his
sanity. He saw his mistake, and, coloring deeply, said, in a hurried
tone, "Excuse me; I was thinking of something else."

The next selection proved more satisfactory, and Edwin went out of the
store feeling quite proud of his new hat.

Towards the close of the afternoon, Fosdick was surprised at the
entrance of Mr. Bates. He came up to the counter where he was standing,
and said, "I am glad I have found you in. I was not quite sure if this
was the place where you were employed."

"I am glad to see you, sir," said Fosdick.

"I have just received a telegram from Milwaukie," said Mr. Bates,
"summoning me home immediately on matters connected with business. I
shall not therefore be able to remain here to follow up the search upon
which I had entered. As you and your friend have kindly offered your
assistance, I am going to leave the matter in your hands, and will
authorize you to incur any expenses you may deem advisable, and I will
gladly reimburse you whether you succeed or not."

Fosdick assured him that they would spare no efforts, and Mr. Bates,
after briefly thanking him, and giving him his address, hurried away,
as he had determined to start on his return home that very night.


   [Footnote 2: This was before the war. Now most of the National Banks
    in New York pay ten per cent., and some even higher.]




CHAPTER V.

INTRODUCES MARK, THE MATCH BOY.


It was growing dark, though yet scarcely six o'clock, for the day was
one of the shortest in the year, when a small boy, thinly clad, turned
down Frankfort Street on the corner opposite French's Hotel. He had
come up Nassau Street, passing the "Tribune" Office and the old Tammany
Hall, now superseded by the substantial new "Sun" building.

He had a box of matches under his arm, of which very few seemed to
have been sold. He had a weary, spiritless air, and walked as if quite
tired. He had been on his feet all day, and was faint with hunger,
having eaten nothing but an apple to sustain his strength. The thought
that he was near his journey's end did not seem to cheer him much. Why
this should be so will speedily appear.

He crossed William Street, passed Gold Street, and turned down
Vandewater Street, leading out of Frankfort's Street on the left. It
is in the form of a short curve, connecting with that most crooked of
all New York avenues, Pearl Street. He paused in front of a shabby
house, and went upstairs. The door of a room on the third floor was
standing ajar. He pushed it open, and entered, not without a kind of
shrinking.

A coarse-looking woman was seated before a scanty fire. She had
just thrust a bottle into her pocket after taking a copious draught
therefrom, and her flushed face showed that this had long been a habit
with her.

"Well, Mark, what luck to-night?" she said, in a husky voice.

"I didn't sell much," said the boy.

"Didn't sell much? Come here," said the woman, sharply.

Mark came up to her side, and she snatched the box from him, angrily.

"Only three boxes gone?" she repeated. "What have you been doing all
day?"

She added to the question a coarse epithet which I shall not repeat.

"I tried to sell them, indeed I did, Mother Watson, indeed I did,"
said the boy, earnestly, "but everybody had bought them already."

"You didn't try," said the woman addressed as Mother Watson. "You're
too lazy, that's what's the matter. You don't earn your salt. Now give
me the money."

Mark drew from his pocket a few pennies, and handed to her.

She counted them over, and then, looking up sharply, said, with a
frown, "There's a penny short. Where is it?"

"I was so hungry," pleaded Mark, "that I bought an apple,--only a
little one."

"You bought an apple, did you?" said the woman, menacingly. "So that's
the way you spend my money, you little thief?"

"I was so faint and hungry," again pleaded the boy.

"What business had you to be hungry? Didn't you have some breakfast
this morning?"

"I had a piece of bread."

"That's more than you earned. You'll eat me out of house and home, you
little thief! But I'll pay you off. I'll give you something to take
away your appetite. You won't be hungry any more, I reckon."

She dove her flabby hand into her pocket, and produced a strap, at
which the boy gazed with frightened look.

"Don't beat me, Mother Watson," he said, imploringly.

"I'll beat the laziness out of you," said the woman, vindictively. "See
if I don't."

She clutched Mark by the collar, and was about to bring the strap
down forcibly upon his back, ill protected by his thin jacket, when a
visitor entered the room.

"What's the matter, Mrs. Watson?" asked the intruder.

"Oh, it's you, Mrs. Flanagan?" said the woman, holding the strap
suspended in the air. "I'll tell you what's the matter. This little
thief has come home, after selling only three boxes of matches the
whole day, and I find he's stole a penny to buy an apple with. It's for
that I'm goin' to beat him."

"Oh, let him alone, the poor lad," said Mrs. Flanagan, who was a
warm-hearted Irish woman. "Maybe he was hungry."

"Then why didn't he work? Them that work can eat."

"Maybe people didn't want to buy."

"Well, I can't afford to keep him in his idleness," said Mrs. Watson.
"He may go to bed without his supper."

"If he can't sell his matches, maybe people would give him something."

Mrs. Watson evidently thought favorably of this suggestion, for,
turning to Mark, she said, "Go out again, you little thief, and mind
you don't come in again till you've got twenty-five cents to bring to
me. Do you mind that?"

Mark listened, but stood irresolute:

"I don't like to beg," he said.

"Don't like to beg!" screamed Mrs. Watson. "Do you mind that, now, Mrs.
Flanagan? He's too proud to beg."

"Mother told me never to beg if I could help it," said Mark.

"Well, you can't help it," said the woman, flourishing the strap in a
threatening manner. "Do you see this?"

"Yes."

"Well, you'll feel it too, if you don't do as I tell you. Go out now."

"I'm so hungry," said Mark; "won't you give me a piece of bread?"

"Not a mouthful till you bring back twenty-five cents. Start now, or
you'll feel the strap."

The boy left the room with a slow step, and wearily descended the
stairs. I hope my young readers will never know the hungry craving
after food which tormented the poor little boy as he made his way
towards the street. But he had hardly reached the foot of the first
staircase when he heard a low voice behind him, and, turning, beheld
Mrs. Flanagan, who had hastily followed after him.

"Are you very hungry?" she asked.

"Yes, I'm faint with hunger."

"Poor boy!" she said, compassionately; "come in here a minute."

She opened the door of her own room which was just at the foot of the
staircase, and gently pushed him in.

It was a room of the same general appearance as the one above, but was
much neater looking.

"Biddy Flanagan isn't the woman to let a poor motherless child go
hungry when she's a bit of bread or meat by her. Here, Mark, lad, sit
down, and I'll soon bring you something that'll warm up your poor
stomach."

She opened a cupboard, and brought out a plate containing a small
quantity of cold beef, and two slices of bread.

"There's some better mate than you'll get of Mother Watson. It's cold,
but it's good."

"She never gives me any meat at all," said Mark, gazing with a look of
eager anticipation at the plate which to his famished eye looked so
inviting.

"I'll be bound she don't," said Mrs. Flanagan. "Talk of you being lazy!
What does she do herself but sit all day doing nothin' except drink
whiskey from the black bottle! She might get washin' to do, as I do, if
she wanted to, but she won't work. She expects you to get money enough
for both of you."

Meanwhile Mrs. Flanagan had poured out a cup of tea from an old tin
teapot that stood on the stove.

"There, drink that, Mark dear," she said. "It'll warm you up, and
you'll need it this cold night, I'm thinkin'."

The tea was not of the best quality, and the cup was cracked and
discolored; but to Mark it was grateful and refreshing, and he eagerly
drank it.

"Is it good?" asked the sympathizing woman, observing with satisfaction
the eagerness with which it was drunk.

"Yes, it makes me feel warm," said Mark.

"It's better nor the whiskey Mother Watson drinks," said Mrs. Flanagan.
"It won't make your nose red like hers. It would be a sight better for
her if she'd throw away the whiskey, and take to the tea."

"You are very kind, Mrs. Flanagan," said Mark, rising from the table,
feeling fifty per cent. better than when he sat down.

"Oh bother now, don't say a word about it! Shure you're welcome to the
bit you've eaten, and the little sup of tea. Come in again when you
feel hungry and Bridget Flanagan won't be the woman to send you off
hungry if she's got anything in the cupboard."

"I wish Mother Watson was as good as you are," said Mark.

"I aint so good as I might be," said Mrs. Flanagan; "but I wouldn't be
guilty of tratin' a poor boy as that woman trates you, more shame to
her! How came you with her any way? She aint your mother, is she."

"No," said Mark, shuddering at the bare idea. "My mother was a good
woman, and worked hard. She didn't drink whiskey. Mother was always
kind to me. I wish she was alive now."

"When did she die, Mark dear?"

"It's going on a year since she died. I didn't know what to do, but
Mother Watson told me to come and live with her, and she'd take care of
me."

"Sorra a bit of kindness there was in that," commented Mrs. Flanagan.
"She wanted you to take care of her. Well, and what did she make you
do?"

"She sent me out to earn what I could. Sometimes I would run on
errands, but lately I have sold matches."

"Is it hard work sellin' them?"

"Sometimes I do pretty well, but some days it seems as if nobody wanted
any. To-day I went round to a great many offices, but they all had as
many as they wanted, and I didn't sell but three boxes. I tried to sell
more, indeed I did, but I couldn't."

"No doubt you did, Mark, dear. It's cold you must be in that thin
jacket of yours this cold weather. I've got a shawl you may wear if you
like. You'll not lose it, I know."

But Mark had a boy's natural dislike to being dressed as a girl,
knowing, moreover, that his appearance in the street with Mrs.
Flanagan's shawl would subject him to the jeers of the street boys. So
he declined the offer with thanks, and, buttoning up his thin jacket,
descended the remaining staircase, and went out again into the chilling
and uninviting street. A chilly, drizzling rain had just set in, and
this made it even more dreary than it had been during the day.




CHAPTER VI.

BEN GIBSON.


But it was not so much the storm or the cold weather that Mark cared
for. He had become used to these, so far as one can become used to
what is very disagreeable. If after a hard day's work he had had a
good home to come back to, or a kind and sympathizing friend, he
would have had that thought to cheer him up. But Mother Watson cared
nothing for him, except for the money he brought her, and Mark found it
impossible either to cherish love or respect for the coarse woman whom
he generally found more or less affected by whiskey.



Cold and hungry as he had been oftentimes, he had always shrunk from
begging. It seemed to lower him in his own thoughts to ask charity of
others. Mother Watson had suggested it to him once or twice, but had
never actually commanded it before. Now he was required to bring home
twenty-five cents. He knew very well what would be the result if he
failed to do this. Mother Watson would apply the leather strap with
merciless fury, and he knew that his strength was as nothing compared
to hers. So, for the first time in his life, he felt that he must make
up his mind to beg.

He retraced his steps to the head of Frankfort Street, and walked
slowly down Nassau Street. The rain was falling, as I have said, and
those who could remained under shelter. Besides, business hours were
over. The thousands who during the day made the lower part of the city
a busy hive had gone to their homes in the upper portion of the island,
or across the river to Brooklyn or the towns on the Jersey shore. So,
however willing he might be to beg, there did not seem to be much
chance at present.

The rain increased, and Mark in his thin clothes was soon drenched to
the skin. He felt damp, cold, and uncomfortable. But there was no rest
for him. The only home he had was shut to him, unless he should bring
home twenty-five cents, and of this there seemed very little prospect.

At the corner of Fulton Street he fell in with a boy of twelve, short
and sturdy in frame, dressed in a coat whose tails nearly reached the
sidewalk. Though scarcely in the fashion, it was warmer than Mark's,
and the proprietor troubled himself very little about the looks.

This boy, whom Mark recognized as Ben Gibson, had a clay pipe in his
mouth, which he seemed to be smoking with evident enjoyment.

"Where you goin'?" he asked, halting in front of Mark.

"I don't know," said Mark.

"Don't know!" repeated Ben, taking his pipe from his mouth, and
spitting. "Where's your matches?"

"I left them at home."

"Then what'd did you come out for in this storm?"

"The woman I live with won't let me come home till I've brought her
twenty-five cents."

"How'd you expect to get it?"

"She wants me to beg."

"That's a good way," said Ben, approvingly; "when you get hold of a
soft chap, or a lady, them's the ones to shell out."

"I don't like it," said Mark. "I don't want people to think me a
beggar."

"What's the odds?" said Ben, philosophically. "You're just the chap to
make a good beggar."

"What do you mean by that, Ben?" said Mark, who was far from
considering this much of a compliment.

"Why you're a thin, pale little chap, that people will pity easy. Now I
aint the right cut for a beggar. I tried it once, but it was no go."

"Why not?" asked Mark, who began to be interested in spite of himself.

"You see," said Ben, again puffing out a volume of smoke, "I look too
tough, as if I could take care of myself. People don't pity me. I
tried it one night when I was hard up. I hadn't got but six cents, and
I wanted to go to the Old Bowery bad. So I went up to a gent as was
comin' up Wall Street from the Ferry, and said, 'Won't you give a poor
boy a few pennies to save him from starvin'?'"

"'So you're almost starvin', are you, my lad?'" says he.

"'Yes, sir,' says I, as faint as I could.

"'Well, starvin' seems to agree with you,' says he, laughin'. 'You're
the healthiest-lookin' beggar I've seen in a good while.'

"I tried it again on another gent, and he told me he guessed I was
lazy; that a good stout boy like me ought to work. So I didn't make
much beggin', and had to give up goin' to the Old Bowery that night,
which I was precious sorry for, for there was a great benefit that
evenin'. Been there often?"

"No, I never went."

"Never went to the Old Bowery!" ejaculated Ben, whistling in his
amazement. "Where were you raised, I'd like to know? I should think you
was a country greeny, I should."

"I never had a chance," said Mark, who began to feel a little ashamed
of the confession.

"Won't your old woman let you go?"

"I never have any money to go."

"If I was flush I'd take you myself. It's only fifteen cents," said
Ben. "But I haven't got money enough only for one ticket. I'm goin'
to-night."

"Are you?" asked Mark, a little enviously.

"Yes, it's a good way to pass a rainy evenin'. You've got a warm room
to be in, let alone the play, which is splendid. Now, if you could only
beg fifteen cents from some charitable cove, you might go along of me."

"If I get any money I've got to carry it home."

"Suppose you don't, will the old woman cut up rough?"

"She'll beat me with a strap," said Mark, shuddering.

"What makes you let her do it?" demanded Ben, rather disdainfully.

"I can't help it."

"She wouldn't beat me," said Ben, decidedly.

"What would you do?" asked Mark, with interest.

"What would I do?" retorted Ben. "I'd kick, and bite, and give her one
for herself between the eyes. That's what I'd do. She'd find me a hard
case, I reckon."

"It wouldn't be any use for me to try that," said Mark. "She's too
strong."

"It don't take much to handle you," said Ben, taking a critical survey
of the physical points of Mark. "You're most light enough to blow away."

"I'm only ten years old," said Mark, apologetically. "I shall be bigger
some time."

"Maybe," said Ben, dubiously; "but you don't look as if you'd ever be
tough like me."

"There," he added, after a pause, "I've smoked all my 'baccy. I wish
I'd got some more."

"Do you like to smoke?" asked Mark.

"It warms a feller up," said Ben. "It's jest the thing for a cold, wet
day like this. Didn't you ever try it?"

"No."

"If I'd got some 'baccy here, I'd give you a whiff; but I think it
would make you sick the first time."

"I don't think I should like it," said Mark, who had never felt any
desire to smoke, though he knew plenty of boys who indulged in the
habit.

"That's because you don't know nothin' about it," remarked Ben. "I
didn't like it at first till I got learned."

"Do you smoke often?"

"Every day after I get through blackin' boots; that is, when I aint
hard up, and can't raise the stamps to pay for the 'baccy. But I guess
I'll be goin' up to the Old Bowery. It's most time for the doors to
open. Where you goin'?"

"I don't know where to go," said Mark, helplessly.

"I'll tell you where you'd better go. You won' find nobody round here.
Besides it aint comfortable lettin' the rain fall on you and wet you
through." (While this conversation was going on, the boys had sheltered
themselves in a doorway.) "Just you go down to Fulton Market. There
you'll be out of the wet, and you'll see plenty of people passin'
through when the boats come in. Maybe some of 'em will give you
somethin'. Then ag'in, there's the boats. Some nights I sleep aboard
the boats."

"You do? Will they let you?"

"They don't notice. I just pay my two cents, and go aboard, and snuggle
up in a corner and go to sleep. So I ride to Brooklyn and back all
night. That's cheaper'n the Newsboys' Lodgin' House, for it only costs
two cents. One night a gentleman came to me, and woke me up, and said,
'We've got to Brooklyn, my lad. If you don't get up they'll carry you
back again.'

"I jumped up and told him I was much obliged, as I didn't know what my
family would say if I didn't get home by eleven o'clock. Then, just
as soon as his back was turned, I sat down again and went to sleep.
It aint so bad sleepin' aboard the boat, 'specially in a cold night.
They keep the cabin warm, and though the seat isn't partic'larly soft
its better'n bein' out in the street. If you don't get your twenty-five
cents, and are afraid of a lickin', you'd better sleep aboard the boat."

"Perhaps I will," said Mark, to whom the idea was not unwelcome, for
it would at all events save him for that night from the beating which
would be his portion if he came home without the required sum.

"Well, good-night," said Ben; "I'll be goin' along."

"Good-night, Ben," said Mark, "I guess I'll go to Fulton Market."

Accordingly Mark turned down Fulton Street, while Ben steered in the
direction of Chatham Street, through which it was necessary to pass in
order to reach the theatre, which is situated on the Bowery, not far
from its junction with Chatham Street.

Ben Gibson is a type of a numerous class of improvident boys, who live
on from day to day, careless of appearances, spending their evenings
where they can, at the theatre when their means admit, and sometimes
at gambling saloons. Not naturally bad, they drift into bad habits from
the force of outward circumstances. They early learn to smoke or chew,
finding in tobacco some comfort during the cold and wet days, either
ignorant of or indifferent to the harm which the insidious weed will do
to their constitutions. So their growth is checked, or their blood is
impoverished, as is shown by their pale faces.

As for Ben, he was gifted with a sturdy frame and an excellent
constitution, and appeared as yet to exhibit none of the baneful
effects of this habit. But no growing boy can smoke without ultimately
being affected by it, and such will no doubt be the case with Ben.




CHAPTER VII.

FULTON MARKET.


Just across from Fulton Ferry stands Fulton Market. It is nearly fifty
years old, having been built in 1821, on ground formerly occupied by
unsightly wooden buildings, which were, perhaps fortunately, swept away
by fire. It covers the block bounded by Fulton, South, Beekman, and
Front Streets, and was erected at a cost of about quarter of a million
of dollars.

This is the chief of the great city markets, and an immense business is
done here. There is hardly an hour in the twenty-four in which there is
an entire lull in the business of the place. Some of the outside shops
and booths are kept open all night, while the supplies of fish, meats,
and vegetables for the market proper are brought at a very early hour,
almost before it can be called morning.

Besides the market proper the surrounding sidewalks are roofed over,
and lined with shops and booths of the most diverse character, at which
almost every conceivable article can be purchased. Most numerous,
perhaps, are the chief restaurants, the counters loaded with cakes and
pies, with a steaming vessel of coffee smoking at one end. The floors
are sanded, and the accommodations are far from elegant or luxurious;
but it is said that the viands are by no means to be despised. Then
there are fruit-stalls with tempting heaps of oranges, apples, and in
their season the fruits of summer, presided over for the most part by
old women, who scan shrewdly the faces of passers-by, and are ready on
the smallest provocation to vaunt the merits of their wares. There are
candy and cocoanut cakes for those who have a sweet tooth, and many a
shop-boy invests in these on his way to or from Brooklyn to the New
York store where he is employed; or the father of a family, on his
way to his Brooklyn home, thinks of the little ones awaiting him, and
indulges in a purchase of what he knows will be sure to be acceptable
to them.

But it is not only the wants of the body that are provided for at
Fulton Market. On the Fulton Street side may be found extensive booths,
at which are displayed for sale a tempting array of papers, magazines,
and books, as well as stationery, photograph albums, etc., generally at
prices twenty or thirty per cent. lower than is demanded for them in
the more pretentious Broadway or Fulton Avenue stores.

Even at night, therefore, the outer portion of the market presents a
bright and cheerful shelter from the inclement weather, being securely
roofed over, and well lighted, while some of the booths are kept open,
however late the hour.

Ben Gibson, therefore, was right in directing Mark to Fulton Market,
as probably the most comfortable place to be found in the pouring rain
which made the thoroughfares dismal and dreary. Mark, of course, had
been in Fulton Market often, and saw at once the wisdom of the advice.
He ran down Fulton Street as fast as he could, and arrived there
panting and wet to the skin. Uncomfortable as he was, the change from
the wet streets to the bright and comparatively warm shelter of the
market made him at once more cheerful. In fact, it compared favorably
with the cold and uninviting room which he shared with Mother Watson.

As Mark looked around him, he could not help wishing that he tended
in one of the little restaurants that looked so bright and inviting to
him. Those who are accustomed to lunch at Delmonico's, or at some of
the large and stylish hotels, or have their meals served by attentive
servants in brown stone dwellings in the more fashionable quarters of
the city, would be likely to turn up their noses at his humble taste,
and would feel it an infliction to take a meal amid such plebeian
surroundings. But then Mark knew nothing about the fare at Delmonico's,
and was far enough from living in a brown stone front, and so his ideas
of happiness and luxury were not very exalted, or he would scarcely
have envied a stout butcher boy whom he saw sitting at an unpainted
wooden table, partaking of a repast which was more abundant than choice.

But from the surrounding comfort Mark's thoughts were brought back to
the disagreeable business which brought him here. He was to solicit
charity from some one of the passers-by, and with a sigh he began to
look about him to select some compassionate face.

"If there was only somebody here that wanted an errand done," he
thought, "and would pay me twenty-five cents for doing it, I wouldn't
have to beg I'd rather work two hours for the money than beg it."

But there seemed little chance of this. In the busy portion of the day
there might have been some chance, though this would be uncertain; but
now it was very improbable. If he wanted to get twenty-five cents that
night he must get it from charity.

A beginning must be made, however disagreeable. So Mark went up to
a young man who was passing along on his way to the boat, and in a
shamefaced manner said, "Will you give me a few pennies, please?"

The young man looked good-natured, and it was that which gave Mark
confidence to address him.

"You want some pennies, do you?" he said, with a smile, pausing in his
walk.

"If you please, sir."

"I suppose your wife and family are starving, eh?"

"I haven't got any wife or family, sir," said Mark.

"But you've got a sick mother, or some brothers or sisters that are
starving, haven't you?"

"No, sir."

"Then I'm afraid you're not up to your business. How long have you been
round begging?"

"Never before," said Mark, rather indignantly.

"Ah, that accounts for it. You haven't learned the business yet. After
a few weeks you'll have a sick mother starving at home. They all do,
you know."

"My mother is dead," said Mark; "I shan't tell a lie to get money."

"Come, you're rather a remarkable boy," said the young man, who was a
reporter on a daily paper, going over to attend a meeting in Brooklyn,
to write an account of it to appear in one of the city dailies in the
morning. "I don't generally give money in such cases, but I must make
an exception in your case."

He drew a dime from his vest-pocket and handed it to Mark.

Mark took it with a blush of mortification at the necessity.

"I wouldn't beg if I could help it," he said, desiring to justify
himself in the eyes of the good-natured young man.

"I'm glad to hear that. Johnny." (Johnny is a common name applied to
boys whose names are unknown.) "It isn't a very creditable business.
What makes you beg, then?"

"I shall be beaten if I don't," said Mark.

"That's bad. Who will beat you?"

"Mother Watson."

"Tell Mother Watson, with my compliments, that she's a wicked old
tyrant. I'll tell you what, my lad, you must grow as fast as you can,
and by and by you'll get too large for that motherly old woman to whip.
But there goes the bell. I must be getting aboard."

This was the result of Mark's first begging appeal. He looked at the
money, and wished he had got it in any other way. If it had been the
reward of an hour's work he would have gazed at it with much greater
satisfaction.

Well, he had made a beginning. He had got ten cents. But there still
remained fifteen cents to obtain, and without that he did not feel safe
in going back.

So he looked about him for another person to address. This time he
thought he would ask a lady. Accordingly he went up to one, who was
walking with her son, a boy of sixteen, to judge from appearance, and
asked for a few pennies.

"Get out of my way, you little beggar!" she said, in a disagreeable
tone. "Ain't you ashamed of yourself, going round begging, instead of
earning money like honest people?"

"I've been trying to earn money all day," said Mark, rather indignant
at this attack.

"Oh no doubt," sneered the woman. "I don't think you'll hurt yourself
with work."

"I was round the streets all day trying to sell matches," said Mark.

"You mustn't believe what he says, mother," said the boy. "They're all
a set of humbugs, and will lie as fast as they can talk."

"I've no doubt of it, Roswell," said Mrs. Crawford. "Such little
impostors never get anything out of me. I've got other uses for my
money."

Mark was a gentle, peaceful boy, but such attacks naturally made him
indignant.

"I am not an impostor, and I neither lie nor steal," he said, looking
alternately from the mother to the son.

"Oh, you're a fine young man. I've no doubt," said Roswell, with a
sneer. "But we'd better be getting on, mother, unless you mean to stop
in Fulton Market all night."

So mother and son passed on, leaving Mark with a sense of mortification
and injury. He would have given the ten cents he had, not to have asked
charity of this woman who had answered him so unpleasantly.

Those of my readers who have read the two preceding volumes of
this series will recognize in Roswell Crawford and his mother old
acquaintances who played an important part in the former stories. As,
however, I may have some new readers, it may be as well to explain that
Roswell was a self-conceited boy, who prided himself on being "the
son of a gentleman," and whose great desire was to find a place where
the pay would be large and the duties very small. Unfortunately for
his pride, his father had failed in business shortly before he died,
and his mother had been compelled to keep a boarding-house. She, too,
was troubled with a pride very similar to that of her son, and chafed
inwardly at her position, instead of reconciling herself to it, as many
better persons have done.

Roswell was not very fortunate in retaining the positions he obtained,
being generally averse to doing anything except what he was absolutely
obliged to do. He had lost a situation in a dry-goods store in Sixth
Avenue, because he objected to carrying bundles, considering it beneath
the dignity of a gentleman's son. Some months before he had tried
to get Richard Hunter discharged from his situation in the hope of
succeeding him in it; but this plot proved utterly unsuccessful, as is
fully described in "Fame and Fortune."

We shall have more to do with Roswell Crawford in the course of the
present story. At present he was employed in a retail bookstore up
town, on a salary of six dollars a week.




CHAPTER VIII.

ON THE FERRY-BOAT.


Mark had made two applications for charity, and still had but ten
cents. The manner in which Mrs. Crawford met his appeal made the
business seem more disagreeable than ever. Besides, he was getting
tired. It was not more than eight o'clock, but he had been up early,
and had been on his feet all day. He leaned against one of the stalls,
but in so doing he aroused the suspicions of the vigilant old woman who
presided over it.

"Just stand away there," she said. "You're watchin' for a chance to
steal one of them apples."

"No, I'm not," said Mark, indignantly. "I never steal."

"Don't tell me," said the old woman, who had a hearty aversion to boys,
some of whom, it must be confessed, had in times past played mean
tricks on her; "don't tell me! Them that beg will steal, and I see you
beggin' just now."

To this Mark had no reply to make. He saw that he was already classed
with the young street beggars, many of whom, as the old woman implied,
had no particular objection to stealing, if they got a chance.
Altogether he was so disgusted with his new business, that he felt it
impossible for him to beg any more that night. But then came up the
consideration that this would prevent his returning home. He very well
knew what kind of a reception Mother Watson would give him, and he had
a very unpleasant recollection and terror of the leather strap.

But where should he go? He must pass the night somewhere, and he
already felt drowsy. Why should he not follow Ben Gibson's suggestions,
and sleep on the Fulton ferry-boat? It would only cost two cents to get
on board, and he might ride all night. Fortunately he had more than
money enough for that, though he did not like to think how he came by
the ten cents.

When Mark had made up his mind, he passed out of one of the entrances
of the market, and, crossing the street, presented his ten cents at
the wicket, where stood the fare-taker.

Without a look towards him, that functionary took the money, and pushed
back eight cents. These Mark took, and passed round into the large room
of the ferry-house.

The boat was not in, but he already saw it halfway across the river,
speeding towards its pier.

There were a few persons waiting besides himself, but the great rush
of travel was diminished for a short time. It would set in again about
eleven o'clock when those who had passed the evening at some place of
amusement in New York would be on their way home.

Mark with the rest waited till the boat reached its wharf. There was
the usual bump, then the chain rattled, the wheel went round, and the
passengers began to pour out upon the wharf. Mark passed into the boat,
and went at once to the "gentlemen's cabin," situated on the left-hand
side of the boat. Generally, however, gentlemen rather unfairly crowd
into the ladies' cabin, sometimes compelling the ladies, to whom it of
right belongs, to stand, while they complacently monopolize the seats.
The gentlemen's cabin, so called, is occupied by those who have a
little more regard to the rights of ladies, and by the smokers, who are
at liberty to indulge in their favorite comfort here.

When Mark entered, the air was redolent with tobacco-smoke, generally
emitted from clay pipes and cheap cigars, and therefore not so
agreeable as under other circumstances it might have been. But it was
warm and comfortable, and that was a good deal.

In the corner Mark espied a wide seat nearly double the size of an
ordinary seat, and this he decided would make the most comfortable
niche for him.

He settled himself down there as well as he could. The seat was hard,
and not so comfortable as it might have been; but then Mark was not
accustomed to beds of down, and he was so weary that his eyes closed
and he was soon in the land of dreams.

He was dimly conscious of the arrival at the Brooklyn side, and the
ensuing hurried exit of passengers from that part of the cabin in which
he was, but it was only a slight interruption, and when the boat,
having set out on its homeward trip, reached the New York side, he was
fast asleep.

"Poor little fellow!" thought more than one, with a hasty glance at the
sleeping boy. "He is taking his comfort where he can."

But there was no good Samaritan to take him by the hand, and inquire
into his hardships, and provide for his necessities, or rather there
was one, and that one well known to us.

Richard Hunter and his friend Henry Fosdick had been to Brooklyn that
evening to attend an instructive lecture which they had seen announced
in one of the daily papers. The lecture concluded at half-past nine,
and they took the ten o'clock boat over the Fulton ferry.

They seated themselves in the first cabin, towards the Brooklyn side,
and did not, therefore, see Mark until they passed through the other
cabin on the arrival of the boat at New York.

"Look there, Fosdick," said Richard Hunter. "See that poor little chap
asleep in the corner. Doesn't it remind you of the times we used to
have, when we were as badly off as he?"

"Yes, Dick, but I don't think I ever slept on a ferry-boat."

"That's because you were not on the streets long I took care of myself
eight years, and more than once took a cheap bed for two cents on a
boat like this. Most likely I've slept in that very corner."

"It was a hard life, Dick."

"Yes, and a hard bed too; but there's a good many that are no better
off now. I always feel like doing something to help along those like
this little chap here."

"I wonder what he is,--a boot-black?"

"He hasn't got any brush or box with him. Perhaps he's a newsboy. I
think I'll give him a surprise."

"Wake him up, do you mean?"

"No, poor little chap! Let him sleep. I'll put fifty cents in his
pocket, and when he wakes up he won't know where it came from."

"That's a good idea, Dick. I'll do the same. All right."

"Here's the money. Put mine in with yours. Don't wake him up."

Dick walked softly up to the match boy, and gently inserted the
money--one dollar--in one of the pockets of his ragged vest.

Mark was so fast asleep that he was entirely unconscious of the
benevolent act.

"That'll make him open his eyes in the morning," he said.

"Unless somebody relieves him of the money during his sleep."

"Not much chance of that. Pickpockets won't be very apt to meddle with
such a ragged little chap as that, unless it's in a fit of temporary
aberration of mind."

"You're right, Dick. But we must hurry out now, or we shall be carried
back to Brooklyn."

"And so get more than our money's worth. I wouldn't want to cheat the
corporation so extensively as that."

So the two friends passed out of the boat, and left the match boy
asleep in the cabin, quite unconscious that good fortune had hovered
over him, and made him richer by a dollar, while he slept.

While we are waiting for him to awake, we may as well follow Richard
Hunter and his friend home.

Fosdick's good fortune, which we recorded in the earlier chapters
of this volume had made no particular change in their arrangements.
They were already living in better style than was usual among youths
situated as they were. There was this difference, however, that whereas
formerly Dick paid the greater part of the joint expense it was now
divided equally. It will be remembered that Fosdick's interest on the
twenty bank shares purchased in his name amounted to one hundred and
sixty dollars annually, and this just about enabled him to pay his own
way, though not leaving him a large surplus for clothing and incidental
expenses. It could not be long, however, before his pay would be
increased at the store, probably by two dollars a week. Until that time
he could economize a little; for upon one thing he had made up his
mind,--not to trench upon his principal except in case of sickness or
absolute necessity.

The boys had not forgotten or neglected the commission which they had
undertaken for Mr. Hiram Bates. They had visited, on the evening after
he left, the Newsboys' Lodging House, then located at the corner of
Fulton and Nassau Streets, in the upper part of the "Sun" building, and
had consulted Mr. O'Connor, the efficient superintendent, as to the boy
of whom they were in search. But he had no information to supply them
with. He promised to inquire among the boys who frequented the lodge,
as it was possible that there might be some among them who might have
fallen in with a boy named Talbot.

Richard Hunter also sought out some of his old acquaintances, who were
still engaged in blacking boots, or selling newspapers, and offered a
reward of five dollars for the discovery of a boy of ten, named Talbot,
or John Talbot.

As the result of this offer a red-haired boy was brought round to the
counting-room one day, who stoutly asserted that his name was John
Talbot, and his guide in consequence claimed the reward. Dick, however,
had considerable doubt as to the genuineness of this claim, and called
the errand-boy, known to the readers of earlier volumes, as Micky
Maguire.

"Micky," said Richard, "this boy says he is John Talbot. Do you know
him?"

"Know him!" repeated Micky; "I've knowed him ever since he was so high.
He's no more John Talbot than I am. His name is Tim Hogan, and I'll
defy him to say it isn't."

Tim looked guilty, and his companion gave up the attempt to obtain the
promised reward. He had hired Tim by the promise of a dollar to say he
was John Talbot, hoping by the means to clear four dollars for himself.

"That boy'll rise to a seat in the Common Council if he lives long
enough," said Dick. "He's an unusually promising specimen."




CHAPTER IX.

A PLEASANT DISCOVERY.


The night wore away, and still Mark, the match boy, continued to sleep
soundly in the corner of the cabin where he had established himself.
One of the boat hands passing through noticed him, and was on the point
of waking him, but, observing his weary look and thin attire, refrained
from an impulse of compassion. He had a boy of about the same age, and
the thought came to him that some time his boy might be placed in the
same situation, and this warmed his heart towards the little vagrant.

"I suppose I ought to wake him up," he reflected, "but he isn't doing
any harm there, and he may as well have his sleep out."

So Mark slept on,--a merciful sleep, in which he forgot his poverty
and friendless condition; a sleep which brought new strength and
refreshment to his limbs.

When he woke up it was six o'clock in the morning. But it was quite
dark still, for it was in December, and, so far as appearances went,
it might have been midnight. But already sleepy men and boys were on
their way to the great city to their daily work. Some were employed a
considerable distance up town, and must be at their posts at seven.
Others were employed in the markets and must be stirring at an early
hour. There were keepers of street-stands, who liked to be ready
for the first wave in the tide of daily travel that was to sweep
without interruption through the city streets until late at night.
So, altogether, even at this early hour there was quite a number of
passengers.

