them here as it had been there. 

So he washed his face in good cold water that 
cleared the cobwebs from his brain ; he combed the 
tangles out of his curly hair and felt quite like 
another boy. 

Eunning down stairs, he met Kathie looking fresh 
and sweet as a rose. 

" I was as rude as a bear to you a little while ago,'
he said, in a hurried whisper. " And I 

" Never mind. I was having such a nice time that 
I quite forgot about every one else ; but you may have 
the ponies all clay to-morrow, - - that will make it 
about straight again." 

He wasn't a bit afraid to meet Uncle Kobert's eye, 
and he felt as light and cheery about the heart as 
you please. He even went and had a nice time with 
Prince, who wagged his shaggy tail and looked out of 
his great delighted eyes as only a dog can look. And 
that evening he and Uncle Robert had a good long 
talk about the old Australian life. 



 



CHAPTEE II. 

EOB'S WEEK OF FUN. 

BOB'S vacation was signalized by the promised 
visit to New York, and he enjoyed it immensely. 
It made no difference to him that all the fashion- 
able people had gone to Saratoga or Newport. 
They had left the Park, the hotels, the broad bay, 
and the islands, and Eob felt that when the week 
came to an end he had not seen half, though he 
had gone about continually. He pitied Kathie a 
good deal for having been a girl and not able to 
enjoy the sights in his fashion. 

" But I had a lovely time," she said, contentedly. 

" And she brought me home a locomotive," put 
in Fred, as a sort of settler for the superiority of 
her visit. 

"But she had a wonderful purse, and I have 
not," he returned. 

Truth to tell, he had not thought about bringing 
them anything. Eob was always too well satisfied 





with his own enjoyment to consider the wants or 
pleasures of others. He was not more selfish than 
a great many boys, it is true, but he claimed a 
pretty large right to think first of himself. And 
then it seemed to him that they had about every- 
thing they wanted. 

" We must begin to plan a little for the future," 
said Uncle Eobert, as they were spending the even- 
ing in Aunt Euth's room. " It will soon be the 
first of September, and Eob's vacation will come to 
an end." 

" O dear ! " and the boy sighed. 

" Why, Eob !  exclaimed his mother, in amaze- 
ment, " haven't you had enough play in the last 
six weeks ? I believe you have not been still a 
moment, except when you were asleep." 

" But a whole year again seems so long. I wish 
I was a grown-up man, like Uncle Eobert, and did 
n't have anything to do." 

" Well, what would be the first step ? " 

" I 'd buy a yacht and sail all around the world, 
going from one port to another, and have lots of 
adventures. I 'd learn all about different countries, 
and I 'd rescue people from shipwreck, and ever 
so many things ! " 



 

" I 'm afraid I can't make a public benefactor out 
of you, Eob, nor a man of pleasure, so you will have 
to moderate your desires." 

"But I might go to Australia and make a fortune." 

" Eob, for the one who succeeds there are ten fail- 
ures. And at present it is boyhood, not manhood, for 
which we have to plan. A good education, good 
moral habits, and strength of character, form the best 
capital that one can have ; and now you must be 
acquiring it. You will be fifteen in the winter." 

"I think I should like to go to boarding-school," 
Eob announced, after a pause. 

" I don't know that I am. quite prepared to part 
with you upon so short an acquaintance," said his 
uncle, laughingly. " I was talking to Mr. Grayson 
about the Academy, and I find that he is very well 
satisfied with it." 

" Oh," exclaimed Mrs. Alston, " I don't want Eob to 
go away from home at present. And now the idea 
of his growing to manhood is not attractive. My 
little Eob ! ' : and his mother placed her hand affec- 
tionately on his shoulder. 

" But I 'm not to be a baby always," he said, with 
a good deal of big-boy dignity. 





" I used to think," said Kathie, " that our good 
fortune would begin when Eob was a man and could 
work for us." 

Eob felt in his heart that he was very well satisfied 
to have the good fortune now. 

" So I think it will be best for Eob to try the 
Academy for a year at least." 

"The boys are snobby/' declared Eob, "all but 
Dick Grayson, and old Crittenden 's awful strict ; 
they don't have but precious little fun." 

" The fun had better be out of school, my boy/' 
returned his uncle, gravely. "Fred must keep on 
where he is, I suppose, for they have no pupils 
younger than ten at the Academy." 

Eob was rather delighted with this, though he did 
not say so ; but Freddy was as bad as the Old Man 
of the Mountains to him. 

" And what am I to do ? " asked Kathie. 

" We are coming to that. Aunt Euth thinks she 
may want you presently. Dr. Markham desires her 
to come to "New York about the middle of next 
month, and it will be best for your mamma to go 
with her." 

Kathie slipped her hand within Aunt Euth's. 



 

Part of Uncle Eobert's errand to the city had been 
to make arrangements for Aunt Euth's removal; 
and though she was very much interested in. hav- 
ing the invalid restored to health, her tender little 
heart shrank from the pain and suffering that must 
be endured. 

"And while we are all away, you will have to 
be housekeeper, Kathie/' her uncle said, cheerily. 
" I want to see how well you can all get along." 

" But am I not to go to school at all ? " asked 
Kathie, wonderingly. 

" I will give you a few lessons, and you must study 
some by yourself. There will be a good deal of 
excitement and anxiety, and as you are my little 
right-hand man, I don't want you to have too 
much on your mind." 

" Well I 'm bound to have one good week of 
fun ! " said Eob, as he went off to his room. 

That was Monday night. Early Tuesday morning, 
before he was out of bed, he began planning what he 
should do. Harry Cox had asked him to come over 
to his house. His cousin from New York was there, 
and had brought his gun, and it pleased the two "boys 
very much to be allowed to use it. 





Eob had teased a little for a gun. His mother, 
having a great dread of fire-arms, persuaded his- 
uncle not to indulge him at present, so he had grum- 
bled in secret about women always being afraid. 
Harry had said, " Come one day this week, before 
school commences, and we 'll have lots of fun." So 
Eob thought he could not do a better thing than to 
accept the invitation at once. 

" But you were at Harry's on Friday," his mother 
said. 

" I promised to come again ; his cousin Jim is 
staying there." 

" Come home quite early then." 

Harry and Jim were just starting off to the woods 
with gun, game-bag, and dog. They were glad to see 
Eob, and the party trudged along to the woods, where 
there were plenty of squirrels. Jim Fields quite 
prided himself upon being a good shot ; but he was 
nearly seventeen. 

The gun being his, he tried his luck first ; and the 
boys thought it splendid. What opinion the poor 
little birds and squirrels had was quite another 
matter. Harry used to be tender-hearted at first, 
but boys soon get over these feelings, I am sorry to 



 

say. He had practised considerably, and now waited 
impatiently for his turn to come. 

" There," said Jim, " beat that if you can ; now 
I 'll rest a little while." 

With that he stretched himself upon the grass 
and began reading a dime-novel, giving the boys a 
watchful glance now and then. 

" I know I could pop over some of them just as 
handy as you please if I could only get a chance 
at them," exclaimed Harry ; " come a little farther 
down." 

They rambled slowly about, talking in low tones, 
and presently they espied a fine fellow sitting almost 
in the crotch of a tree, looking as if he had hidden away 
there. Harry took aim and, sure enough, down he fell 

" There," he announced, much elated, " I told you 
so ; and there goes a bird ! Just wait till I have 
another shot." 

" That wasn't the bargain," said Eob. 

" Boys," shouted a voice from a distance, " what 
luck ? Whose shot this time ? ' 

" Just see what a hit, Jim, straight through the 
head ! " and Harry held up the shattered squirrel ; 
" I 'd like to go down by the creek." 

 

""Well, be careful; and you too, Eob Alston." 

So Jim found another soft spot in the mossy woods 
and resigned himself to his book. 

Eob insisted upon having his turn next. He shot 
into a flock of birds, scattering them in every direc- 
tion, but not even touching a feather. 

" What an aim ! " laughed Harry, scornfully. "Now 
you just watch me." 

Considering that Eob was a year the oldest, this 
command was rather mortifying ; and when Harry 
took his turn three or four times in succession, Eob's 
patience began to fail. At first he was a trifle sulky ; 
but he could not quietly endure seeing another have 
all the fun. 

During a little lull in Harry's ardor a red squir- 
rel crept out cautiously and ran along the fence. 

" Now ! " said Eob, in a whisper ; " just this once. 
See there!" 

" No, I 'll be sure to bring him. You could n't." 

Both had hold of the gun. Eob thought Harry 
real mean and gave a jerk, and somehow Harry's 
hand slipped. It all happened in a second, and 
Eob was keeping one eye on the squirrel, but the 
gun went off and Harry, uttering a loud cry, fell 
to the ground. 



 

Rob screamed too. He was so frightened at first 
that he trembled like a leaf, then he ran off, for 
he couldn't bear to look at Harry. He came clear 
up to the spot where Jim was reading before the 
latter stirred. 

" Oh ! " he exclaimed, breathless and pale as a 
ghost, - - " Oh, come quick ; I 've killed Harry ! '' 

He was too much frightened to make any ex- 
cuse, for it seemed to him by this time that Harry 
must surely be dead. 

Jim made a bound, then turned to ask " Where ? " 
and the two ran on together. 

Harry was not killed, but sitting up against a tree, 
groaning vigorously, yet some blood was trickling 
through the leg of his brown linen trousers. He 
looked pretty pale, however. 

" What is it ? How did it happen ? Where are 
you hurt, Harry ? " asked Jim, in a breath. 

" Rob jerked the gun and it went off ! I think 
my leg 's broken to splinters," the sufferer whined. 

Jim had his wits about him and ripped up the 
pantaloons. Rob grew rather white about the 
mouth, expecting to see a ghastly wound. Jim 
wiped the blood away with a handful of soft moss, 





and there were two or three scratches. The re- 
vulsion was so great that Eob had hard work to 
keep from laughing. 

" dear ! " groaned Harry. 

" Why, it 's nothing, fortunately for you. There 
may be a stray shot lodged under the skin, but it 
will not do much damage. Eob Alston, didn't you 
know any better than to jerk the gun away from 
him ? Why, you might have killed him ! " 

" I didn't mean to hurt him, and it was my turn. 
He 'd been shooting all the time." 

" Well, the gun belongs to my cousin," said Harry, 
ungraciously. Generally I will admit that Harry 
was a very good-tempered boy ; but he was wont to 
become very much excited over hunting expeditions, 
and now he was smarting with the pain of his wound. 

Eob might have confessed that he was sorry a 
moment before, but now he was angry. He bit his 
lip hard, that he might not say anything. 

"Eob," said Jim, in a grave tone, " you must never 
do the like again under any circumstances, or some- 
thing might happen to make you miserable for your 
whole life. And you know you promised to agree 
about taking turns." 



"Harry would n't," Eob flung out, indignantly, 
ready to cry from excitement and the peculiar revul- 
sion of feeling that had followed Jim's announce- 
ment. 

In the mean while Jim was bandaging Harry's 
leg with his handkerchief. " Now," he said, " we 
will stop at the druggist's and see if it is mortal." 

" I don't believe I can walk," was the faint 
response. 

" yes, you can ; Eob will help you on one side. 
It 's better to have it properly cared for. Come ! " 

They lifted him up, and when once started went 
on quite bravely. Harry was not much of a soldier ; 
but the young doctor who made his head-quarters at 
the drug-store laughed at him a little, extracted two 
or three shot, and bade him not to run a race for 
the next day or two. Then he said, " If you 'll get 
in my wagon I 'll take you home." 

" Good by ! " exclaimed Eob, turning away. 

" Don't worry yourself about it," said Jim ; 
"Harry will soon be running around again. Only 
in future be more careful with fire-arms." 

It was about noon, and Eob could hardly decide 
what to do. If he went home now he must tell the 





story and worry his mother, who would be sure to 
think of all that might have happened ; so he ram- 
bled off down to the river, and took a swim in 
the shade of the overhanging trees ; but it seemed 
dull music. His fun was spoiled that day ; besides, 
he was growing very hungry. He went up to the 
village, and stopped at the baker's to buy some cake 
with a few pennies that he had. Then he sauntered 
around until, utterly tired out, he turned his steps 
homeward. His mother was tying up a vine on the 
kitchen porch. 

" Why, how early you are ! " she said. " Did you 
have a nice time ? " and then she fancied that he did 
not look very happy. 

If it had not been for alarming her, he certainly 
would have told the truth, he thought. Indeed, he 
had a guilty feeling about it, and resolved to confess 
to Uncle Kob at once. 

" Pretty nice," he said, faintly. 

" Charlie Darrell and Miss Jessie are here." 

" Oh, are they ? " then Eob passed through the hall, 
and went up to his room to make himself presentable. 

" Eob," began Freddy, who was rummaging 
round, " won't you make me a rabbit-house ? Charlie 



 

Darrell says that he will give me two teeny little 
white rabbits." 

" Yes, to-morrow," answered Bob, hurrying into 
some clean clothes. 

Then he hastened down to the lawn, where they 
were all sitting in the shade. 

" I am so glad you have come," said Kathie ; " we 
were wishing for you to play a little croquet. I don't 
believe I shall ever learn." 

" But there are not enough of us ! ' : 

" Miss Jessie said that we could try it." 

Eob felt that he ought to be particularly obliging, 
so he went for the box of balls and mallets. 

There was a good deal of amusement, if not much 
science. In the height of their laughing at Kathie's 
blunders, Uncle Eobert made his appearance. Then 
they coaxed mamma out, and had quite a game. 
Presently Hannah announced supper. 

They spent a very pleasant hour together after- 
ward ; but when Miss Jessie and Charlie had gone 
home one of the workmen came to discuss some 
plans with Uncle Eobert, and so Eob went off to bed 
without having told his story. After all, he guessed 
that it didn't make much matter. Harry would be 





well in a few days, the doctor said, and lie would 
speak of it tlie first time that he had a chance. 
After all, it was not very much his fault ; and his 
conscience did not trouble him enough to keep 
him awake. 

" Eob ! " shouted Freddy in his ear the next morn- 
ing. " Come, get up ! You promised to make niy 
rabbit-house, you know ! " 

"Well, you needn't rouse me in the middle of 
the night," exclaimed Eob, sleepily. 

Freddy presented a rather comical picture as he 
stood tugging away at the leg of his trousers. 

'"T isn't the middle of the night," he said, 
sturdily. " It 's broad morning ! " 

" Well," returned Eob, " there will be no peace, I 
suppose, so I may as well get about it." 

He wondered a little how Harry felt and if he 
meant to be angry with him. Wouldn't it be right 
to go over and inquire about him ? 

After breakfast he went to work in good earnest. 
Freddy was delighted, and made hiniseH* so helpful 
that he was a great bother, but Eob kept his patience 
remarkably well. Mr. Morrison marked out some 
stuff for him, and Eob- sawed and hammered like a 



 

Trojan. There was to be a little covered house and 
a yard enclosed with palings, as Mrs. Alston said 
they would do too much injury to the trees and 
shrubs if they ran about. 

Uncle Robert came to oversee a little, and praised 
his nephew's skill. By noon the place was pretty 
well finished. An hour or so afterward Dick 
Grayson came over, and the two boys soon painted 
it. A very pretty looking place it was. 

"Now," said Bob, "if Kathie doesn't want the 
horses we 'll have a nice drive. Freddy, you must 
keep away from this paint ; now remember." 

Rob picked up his tools and ran away up stairs. 
Hearing Kathie singing, he tumbled them on the 
bench and went to ask her. No, she did not care to 
go out, but if he went, Aunt Euth wanted him to do 
an errand. So he started to learn what it was, and 
then went to order the horses. He had to take a 
last view of the building and command Freddy for 
the fiftieth time to keep away. He dressed himself 
in a hurry at the last, and as he was going down 
stairs remembered that he had not taken care of his 
tools nor locked the workroom. He could not run 
back and do it now, though, and he guessed that 





Freddy would be kept busy admiring the rabbit- 
house. 

They had a very pleasant drive, and Eob returned 
home in fine spirits. The first thing that met his 
eye as he entered Aunt Euth's room was Freddy 
sitting quietly in an arm-chair, his hand bandaged 
and in a sling. Uncle Eobert was reading to him. 

" Why, what 's the matter ? " asked Eob. 

" Oh, I sawed my hand off ! " and with that Fred 

began to cry. 

" It doesn't hurt much now," said his uncle, " and 
you know you were to be a brave boy." 

" Freddy, you didn't go meddling with my tools, 
did you ? " asked Eob, rather sharply. 

Freddy whined and began to make excuses. "I 
was only trying to saw a little stick." 

"And so he disobeyed orders and marched into 
forbidden territory, and you, Eobert, were very care- 
less to leave your tools scattered around. I was 
quite surprised at the disorder." 

" I was in a great hurry," said Eob, apologetically. 

"Then you might have locked the door. I was 
very strongly inclined to do it and keep the key." 

Eob felt that he should have gone back, and he 



 

could not plead forgetfulness, so he was silent for 
a moment, then he asked soberly if Fred's hand was 
seriously hurt. 

" Quite a severe flesh wound. I hope, Bob, that 
I "shall not have to ask you to be careful for the next 
three months at least." 

" I 'in sure you won't/' returned the boy, confi- 
dently. 

Then his mother talked to him a little about being 
so careless, and Eob's temper was sadly ruffled. He 
thought he ought to have some credit for amusing 
Freddy all the morning, but no one ever seemed 
to appreciate the good things he did, and a great fuss 
was always made over the accidents. 

Poor Rob didn't enjoy his evening very much, and 
w T as glad to go to bed. These two days had been 
failures. 

The next morning he resolved that he would be 
extra good. His conscience still troubled him a little 
about Harry, and now it seemed so hard to tell. 

He put his tools in order, made the room nice and 
tidy, then pulled some weeds out of his flower-bed 
and tied up his dahlias. Afterward he took his boat 
down to the lake to sail it, and Freddy wanted to go 





with him. At first he felt tempted to refuse, but on 
second thoughts he acquiesced. 

Eob, with his uncle's assistance, had made a very 
pretty little ship, painted tastefully, and named " The 
Jessie." Freddy was always delighted to watch it 
as it floated gracefully along the shore, its sails gently 
filling with wind. He found a stick and was extremely 
anxious to give it a little assistance, which Rob 
forbade. Then he picked up some dry leaves and set 
them floating, beating the water to make waves and 
foam. 

" Don't ! ' said Eob a time or two, and then he 
went farther down to escape the annoyance. 

There was a tiny cove with a very shallow shore 
edge half filled with large stones. Fred had watched 
Eob and Kathie jump from one to another, but he 
had been forbidden to do it alone. He saw Eob going 
slowly down, half hidden by the cedars, so he resolved 
to venture. He succeeded bravely and found it great 
fun. If he could only get on the big rock and be 
Eobinson Crusoe ! His feet were quite wet by the 
exploit, but he was enjoying himself hugely, when 
Eob called " Freddy ! ' : Now if he could only 
scamper back in time ! 



 

Alas ! With his first bound he soused into the 
water. Eob heard the splash, but did not suppose it 
anything more than a stone. A scream followed it 
very soon, and he ran to see what was the matter. 
There was Fred floundering about, his nose, eyes, and 
ears full of water. As he was in no danger of drown- 
ing, Eob stopped to pull off his shoes and roll up his 
trousers. 

" you torment ! " he exclaimed, giving him a jerk. 

Fred's wounded hand had been hurt by the fall, 
and he was crying with pain and fright. Eob 
dragged him to the shore rather ungently. 

" I have a good mind to send you home alone. 
You ought to have a whipping ! " 

" Oh, my hand ! Don't run so fast, Eob ! dear ! 
dear ! " 

" Mother," exclaimed Eob, as they came in sight 
of the kitchen, " Fred 's been climbing over the stones 
and has fallen in the water. He 's the worst and 
most troublesome boy that I ever saw. He ought to 
have a whipping and be sent to bed." 

" Why did you let him climb over the stones ? ' 
Mrs. Alston asked, in mild reproach. 

' He went off to sail his boat," sobbed Fred. " He 





never watched me at all, and I wanted to play Rob- 
inson Crusoe. I had a big stick for Friday. And if 
he hadn't hollered I wouldn't ha' tumbled into the 
water. My hand hurts so dear ! " 

"Robert, I think you might take better care of 
Freddy, and, Freddy, you will have to be punished 
for disobeying. Come up stairs and get on some dry 
clothes." 

Rob thought of his boat and flung himself out of 
the room. He ran down to the lake as fast as pos- 
sible, but there was his boat half-way across. If he 
only had stopped to take it out of the water ! He 
stamped his feet in anger and despair, and then he 
gave way to some passionate tears. Everything 
would go wrong. There never was such an unlucky 
boy in the world. He was always blamed for other 
people's faults, and if he had something particularly 
nice, it was sure to meet with an accident. Dick 
Grayson never had any trouble, nor Charlie Darrellj 
but everything did happen to him ! 

Then he espied Uncle Robert in the road below, 
and he ran down to him with a woe-begone face. 

" Why, Rob, what now ? ' asked his uncle, in as- 
tonishment. 



 

So Eob related his misadventure about the boat, 
and this had to take in Fred's graver complication. 

" I guess it hasn't been a very funny week," 
said his uncle, with a quiet smile that meant a 
good deal. 

" Funny ! " 

" Yes. You set out to have a good deal of fun in 
this your last week, you know." 

" And it 's all been trouble ! How can we get the 
boat ? " 

" You see the wind is blowing it over to the oppo- 
site shore. I cannot think of any better way than 
to walk round." 

He turned as if to go, and Eob was pleased with 
the idea of having company. 

" Eob/' he said presently, in a grave tone, " I want 
a little talk with you. I have just been to see 
Harry Cox." 

Eob stood still in the path. He gave his uncle 
one glance, then his eyes drooped and his face was 
scarlet. 

" I can't tell you how pained and hurt I felt when 
I heard of the accident this morning. And you 
have not even been to inquire about him." 





Eob lelt so thoroughly ashamed that he almost 
wished the ground would open and swallow 
him. 

" Were you afraid to speak of it ? " 

" I didn't want to worry mamma/' said Eob, hesi- 
tatingly. " She 's so afraid of fire-arms." 

"That excuse would not apply to me." 

There was a great struggle going on within Eob's 
heart and conscience. After his late mishaps he 
was sore and disposed to be resentful, and yet he 
had a dim suspicion that he was not altogether in 
the right. 

" Eob, my dear boy," said his uncle, gravely, " I 
want you to believe that I love you and to have 
confidence in my regard. I have undertaken to fill 
the place of a father to you, but .as I have not a 
father's authority I depend upon you to make the 
task easier for me by showing that you do trust me. 
I should like most of all to be your dearest friend, 
and have you feel free to come to me in doubt or 
trouble or difficulty of any kind. And when I fail 
I feel very, very sorry." 

Something in the tone touched Eob deeply. There 
was in the depths of his heart a peculiar nobility, and 



 

such an appeal roused him when harsher means 
would have driven him to sulky silence. 

"Uncle Robert," he said, huskily, turning and 
placing his hand on his uncle's shoulders, and look- 
ing at him with honest tears in his eyes, " I did mean 
to tell you, but so many things came in my way. I 
was so sorry about it too, but it was partly Harry's 
fault. And I 've been frightened and worried all the 
time. Is Harry very angry with me ? " 

" Will you tell me frankly how it happened ? ' ; 
asked his uncle, not answering his question. 

Eob thought a moment. He knew his uncle would 


not want to hear him justify himself. He was rather 
apt to shirk the truth and make weak excuses. 

" I 'll try," he said, quite humbly for him. " Har- 
ry's cousin, Jim Fields, has a gun, and he taught us 
both to use it. Mr. Cox didn't object any, but - 
I was afraid to ask on mamma's account. You 
know she said so much against my having a gun. 
They go hunting nearly every day, and I had been 
once before with them. Jim said Harry and I should 
take turns, and so we did the first time. Well, on 
Tuesday Harry would hardly let me try at all, but 
after he had fired a good many times, I spied a 

 





squirrel and took the gun, when he said I couldn't 
shoot it and that he would. So we both had hold of 
it, pulling, and it went off." 

It was a great effort for Bob to tell the story as 
fairly as he did. His uncle knew this from the little 
breaks that came in his voice. 

" Thank you, Bob," he said, " for being brave enough 
to tell just the truth. Harry told me the story this 
morning also, and very generously took all the blame." 

" Then he isn't - ' and Bob drew a long breath of 
relief, feeling very much as if he wanted to cry. 

" He feels a good deal hurt that you have not been 
over to see him. And I can't tell you, Bob, how it 
pained me to think that he had more true courage 
than my boy." 

" But he acted like a great baby when it hap- 
pened." 

" He admitted that he was very much frightened/* 

" Uncle Bobert," the boy said, " I hate cowards and 
sneaks, and I don't mean to be one. I suppose it was 
because I had been doing something that mamma and 
you would not approve of that I had not the courage 
to tell. And yet I don't see what harm there is in a 
boy's having a gun." 



 

" I do not think there is any particular harm in it, 
or in learning to shoot. It leads to one evil that I 
deprecate sincerely, - - the practice of boys shooting at 
every little bird, which is wanton cruelty. If you are 
just exercising your skill, any mark will do as well. 
I should have bought you a gun if your mother had 
not objected so strongly. I resolved then that some 
time we would go on a little tour, camping out, and I 
would give you some instructions." 

" Uncle Eobert ! " he exclaimed, gratefully. 

" I am trying to win your love, and to deserve 
it as well," was the rejoinder. 

Eob clasped his arms around his uncle's neck. He 
was not a bit ashamed to cry then. " Oh, please do 
trust me again," he sobbed ; " please help me to be 
good. I do, try sometimes, but it seems such hard 
work, and everything goes against me." 

" I do not believe it is ever very easy. You have 
some grave faults that I should like to see you cor- 
rect. You rarely think how anything will affect 
another person, and you are always so strongly 
intent upon your own pleasure or wishes. Men 
of this stamp are careless and apt to become hard 
and unscrupulous. I want to see you grow up into a 





noble and useful man, and you must lay the founda- 
tion in "boyhood." 

Rob felt very grave and tender at heart. "I 
believe I am selfish now," he said, presently. 

"And I want you to cultivate that true moral 


courage that does not shrink from facing any diffi- 
culty that one may be betrayed into by a thoughtless 
act. You will learn by experience that all such 
secrets grow to be an immense burden, and you will 
feel very miserable in carrying them about. Now I 
wish you to go and see Harry. I am sorry that you 
have been so unfriendly." 

" And what about mamma ? ' : 

" Had you rather tell her, or have her learn it 
from some other person? It came to me quite by 
accident." 

" I 'll tell her/' Eob said, slowly and yet with 
earnestness. 

By this time they had reached the opposite side of 
the lake, and the boat was drifting in. Uncle Eobert 
cut a slender branch, with a crook at the end, and 
towed it to the shore. They walked quietly home- 
ward, Eob revolving manv things in his mind. He 

**-J v O 

remembered that after he had been sick he had 



 

turned over a new leaf, and for a while events had 
gone smoothly ; but with prosperity had come a good 
deal of carelessness. 

" Mother," he said, finding her alone in the dining- 
room arranging the table, " I think it was partly my 
fault that Freddy fell in ; I wasn't watching him." 

" Fred must learn to obey and do just as he is told. 
He is growing too thoughtless." 

So Freddy had a dinner of bread and water up in 
his room, and no one was allowed to share his con- 
finement. Eob felt really sorry about it ; but in the 
afternoon he went over to see Harry Cox, and the 
boys had a long, pleasant talk. Harry possessed a 
genial, forgiving nature, and he had always been 
great friends with Eob. 

There had not been very much fun in the week, he 
concluded. Was it because he had thought of him- 
self first, and all the time ? It did look rather mean 
and selfish to care simply for one's own gratification 
and let others be pleased as best they might. 

"I will try," he said softly to himself, after his 
evening prayer. 







CHAPTEE III. 

WHAT STRAYED INTO THE POUND. 



" I DON'T see what has become of all my gimlets," 
said Bob, after his first day's school. " I had three, 
and they have all disappeared. I used the last one 
the day I was making Fred's rabbit-house. You did 
n't carry it away ? " to Freddy, who was entertaining 
himself with a procession of animals from Noah's Ark. 

" No, I 'm sure I did n't. And I can't find Noah 
