"It's good enough for me, if it is for you."
"It is a gambling-house, and the people who live here are my friends. I
can bring in half a dozen men to help me."
"Bring them in," I replied, laughing, though I confess that I was not
very much amused.
"It's no joke."
"It will not be for you when you are done with it. When my father
misses me, he will be very likely to send for our friends, Mr. Lamar
and Mr. Gray."
"In a word, Phil, will you give me that note."
"In a word, I will not; and in another word, I will fight just as long
as I have a breath in my body, if you or anybody else attempts to
meddle with me."
"Phil, you go to prayer-meetings, and claim to be honest," continued
Lynch, changing his tone when he found that he did not terrify me.
"I do go to prayer-meetings when I can, and I try to be honest."
"I hope you will keep on trying. By the merest accident Blair stumbled
upon you, and turns out to be the heir of the man whose money you have.
He is the last of the Rockwoods. Do you think it is honest to keep him
out of his money?"
"I'm not so sure now that he stumbled upon me."
"Didn't he ask you something about the upper Missouri, and tell you he
had an uncle there? and didn't he tell you the name of his uncle before
you had mentioned it?"
"He certainly did; but since I have found out what company he keeps, I
begin to think you posted him up, and sent him to stumble upon me."
"That's absurd."
"Not at all. Didn't you hear me tell the whole story in the police
station, Mr. Leonidas Lynchpinne?"
"I never saw him till after that," replied Lynch, angrily, as he picked
up the pistol, which he had laid upon the table. "It is useless to
reason with you. Come, Blair, we will leave him here to think about it
till morning."
The villain moved towards the door, pointing his pistol at me. It was
capped, and I supposed it was loaded. Blair unlocked the door, and
retreated into the entry. Lynch followed his example, and as it was
possible that he might fire at me, I did not deem it prudent to be the
aggressor. I heard the door locked upon me.
  CHAPTER XX.
  IN WHICH PHIL IS STARTLED BY THE SIGHT OF A FAMILIAR FACE.
I actually laughed when I heard the bolt of the lock snapped upon me;
partly because I thought it was better to laugh over my mishaps than to
cry, and partly because the trick of which I had been made the victim
was simply ridiculous. Perhaps, if I had been a boy brought up in the
city, and had never been thrown upon my own resources in times of
peril, I might have taken a different view of the matter. I can easily
believe that many boys would have been intimidated, and given up the
money and the note. Lynch ought to have known me better, though I had
been a lamb at Leavenworth.
I seated myself in the rocking-chair, and looked around the room. There
was a luthern window in it, which opened upon the roof. A cheerful
coal fire burned in the grate, and the room was quite comfortable.
I examined the silver card box on the table, and the other articles
there; but I was not much interested in them, and soon gave myself up
to a consideration of the situation. Of course the whole trick was
intended to intimidate me; but I positively refused to be intimidated.
I supposed my persecutors would soon return, and renew the onslaught.
For my own part, I could not see what they intended to gain, even if
they obtained the note against Mr. Gracewood. It was stupid of them to
imagine that he would give up the money to total strangers. Still they
must have believed he would let them have the gold, for they could not
have taken all this trouble for the seventy dollars which I had. But
it was no use to speculate upon their intentions. The note was safe in
my pocket, and the money at my boarding-house. If I had supposed there
was any possibility of the villains obtaining the former, I would have
burned it on the spot, for I knew that Mr. Gracewood would pay the
money whether there was any legal document to show for it or not.
I rose from my chair, and walked to the door, in order to examine it.
This same Lynch had once before locked me into a room, and it was
possible that I might break this door open, as I had done on the former
occasion. But I found this was a different piece of work from that at
Leavenworth. It fitted well in the frame. I tried the handle, and found
that it was securely locked.
"No use, Phil," said a voice in the entry, which I recognized as that
of Morgan Blair.
It appeared that my late fellow-workman was stationed as a sentinel at
the door to prevent my escape.
"Where's Lynch?" I asked, placing my mouth at the key-hole.
"Down stairs. Are you ready to give up the note?"
"No."
"When you are, let me know."
I made no reply, but walked to the window to see what the prospect was
in that direction. I did not wish to stay in my prison a great while,
for I knew that my father would worry about me if I did not return
soon. I was in the hands of the enemy, and I was afraid that Lynch
would keep me in the room till the middle of the night, and then, with
the aid of others, overcome me, and rob me of the note. I was not so
well satisfied with the situation as at first, when I could realize the
possibilities of the occasion.
The window opened upon a steep roof. I raised the sash very carefully,
so that Blair might not know what I was about. But, then, I had hardly
a hope of being able to escape in this direction; for I did not see how
it was possible for me to descend to the street. However, I should be
out of the reach of my inquisitors, even if I passed the night on the
cold slates of the roof. I climbed out of the window, and my head swam
when I looked down the fearful depth below me. I was on the rear slope
of the roof, and beneath me was the back yard of the house.
The darkness rather favored me, for I could not so readily measure
distances, and in a short time I became accustomed to the giddy height,
though I thought it best not to look down. Holding on with one hand at
the side of the luthern window, I closed the lower sash, and dropped
the upper one. Grasping the inside of the window-frame for support, I
climbed up till my feet were placed upon the top of the two sashes.
I could then reach the roof of the luthern window. A ledge on the
top of it afforded me a good hold, and I drew myself up, though with
considerable difficulty, and my breath was all gone when I reached the
point, exhausted by the violence of my exertions.
I lay where I was a few moments to recover my wind and my strength. I
had placed the poker on the roof before I ascended, for I was afraid
that I might yet have to fight a battle. I had worked very carefully,
so as not to disturb the sentinel at the door of the room; and, so far
as I could judge, I had been successful, for I heard nothing of him. I
was on the top of the luthern window; and, so far as the inquisitors
were concerned, I was safe. I preferred to stay there, though the night
was quite chilly, rather than in the chamber of Lynch. But if I could
have my choice, it would suit me better to go home, and sleep in my
own bed.
About half way between the luthern window and the ridge-pole of the
house there was a skylight. The light shone up through it, and I
concluded from its position that it was used to light the entry where
Blair was keeping guard over the door. Lying down on the slated roof,
with my feet resting upon the luthern window, I found I could reach the
upper end of the skylight with my hands. I looked through the glass
into the entry below, and saw a gas-light burning there. Under me was
the door of the gambling-chamber, but Blair was not there. I tried to
raise the skylight; but it was secure, and could not be moved. It was
at least fourteen feet above the floor, and the space between the glass
and the ceiling of the entry was boxed in, forming a ventiduct for the
passage of the air.
If I could have opened the skylight, it would have been hardly
prudent for me to drop down fourteen feet upon a hard floor, with the
additional peril of encountering my enemies in going down the stairs. I
could not see Blair, and I concluded that he had heard me, in spite of
all my precautions, and had gone to procure the aid of Lynch. Whether
this view was correct or not, I decided to act upon it, and increase
the distance between myself and my persecutors. Grasping the upper part
of the skylight, I dragged myself up to the point where I had placed my
hands. Here I paused to breathe again.
While I was waiting I heard voices through the skylight. Looking
through the glass, I saw Lynch and Blair, the latter unlocking the
chamber door. I immediately concluded not to rest any longer, and
laying hold of the ridge-pole, I drew myself up, and took a seat
astride the saddle-boards. The block extended as far as I could see in
the gloom of the night. With my hands upon the saddle-boards, I hopped
along like a frog till I was satisfied that I was out of the reach of
any pursuers. But I began to be very anxious to reach terra firma
once more, and I continued to hop till I came to a four-story block
with a flat roof. This was hopeful, and passing from the steep slope I
found myself in a very comfortable position.
I could discover no signs of any pursuers behind me; and I concluded
that the inquisitors were not enterprising enough to follow me in
the perilous track I had chosen. Pleasant as was my present location
compared with the slippery sides of the slated roof, I was not disposed
to spend the night there. But I did not think it safe to jump down into
the street, for I knew that the pavement could stand the shock of such
a descent better than I could. On one of the roofs there were planks
laid down, and places for lines, and I concluded that it was used for
drying clothes. At every house I found a scuttle, and some of them
were not fastened; but I did not like the idea of being captured as a
burglar, and sent to the station-house to remain over Sunday. I walked
to the end of the block, where a cross-street interrupted my further
progress in that direction.
Between the several tenements which composed the block there were brick
walls rising about a foot above the flat roof. They were the dividing
lines between the houses. I observed that the house at the corner of
the cross-street occupied as much space as three of the others, and
was planked all over, with stanchions for clothes-lines. I concluded
that the building was used for a purpose different from the others. I
went to the front, and looked down into the street. There were a couple
of gas-lamps before the door, and people were constantly arriving and
departing. I satisfied myself that the house was a hotel.
In the rear of the roof there was a kind of crane, with a couple of
ropes reaching to the ground. I reasoned that the apparatus was used
for hoisting up baskets of clothes. I also found a scuttle door, which
was not fastened, and I began to consider whether I should go down by
the rope or by the stairs. I did not like the idea of dangling in the
air fifty feet from the ground on the one hand, or of being captured
as a thief on the other. If I went down the rope, it might drop me in
some back yard, where I might be liable to suspicion if discovered. On
the whole, I concluded that the stairs were the safer expedient, and I
carefully opened the scuttle door.
The steps led down to a well-lighted entry; and, having satisfied
myself that no one was there, I descended, taking the precaution to
hook the door behind me, which some careless servant had neglected to
do, though I was not disposed to blame her for the neglect. Passing
down the steps, I came to a long entry, from which opened on each side
the sleeping-rooms. The stairs were at the other end, and I walked
as lightly as my thick boots would permit through the hall. At the
stairs I heard the sound of voices on the floor below, and I paused. I
concluded that the upper floors were used for sleeping-rooms, and that
no one would remain long in the entry. Presently I heard a door open,
and then the sound of footsteps on the stairs below. As all was still
again, I ventured to descend the steps to the next hall.
I had hardly reached this floor before a gentleman came out of one
of the rooms; but he passed me, and went down stairs without taking
any notice of me. I was now on the third story, and must descend two
more flights in order to reach the street. I was not a thief, and
there was no stolen property upon me. But men in white jackets were
always whisking about in hotels, as I had observed at the Planters'.
I determined to be ready with an answer if any of these fellows
challenged me, and to tell the whole truth if I was detained.
I had hardly reached this conclusion before a waiter in a white jacket
confronted me, looked at me suspiciously, and demanded my business.
"Where is Mr. Rockwood?" I asked, using the name most familiar to me.
"That's his room over there, where the door is open," said he, pointing
towards the other end of the hall, and then continuing on his way up
stairs.
I walked in the direction indicated, intending to rush down stairs as
soon as the waiter was out of hearing. I went as far as the open door,
and looked into the apartment. A gentleman sat in an arm-chair, reading
a newspaper. A glance at him startled me more than anything that had
ever occurred to me before.
That gentleman was Matt Rockwood, it seemed to me, dressed in his best
clothes. He glanced from his paper into the entry, as I paused there.
The face, the expression, the white beard,--everything about him was
Matt Rockwood.
  CHAPTER XXI.
  IN WHICH PHIL FINDS HIMSELF SIXTY-FIVE DOLLARS OUT.
I repeat that I was startled when I saw the gentleman in the room with
the open door. He was the very image of Matt Rockwood, who had taken
me from the cold waters of the upper Missouri, and brought me up in
his log cabin. Of course I could not believe it was old Matt, for I
had seen him fall before the rifle-shot of the Indian, and had wept
bitterly over his grave when his remains were committed to the earth.
The gentleman before me was dressed better than old Matt ever clothed
himself; but his face was as brown from exposure, and his brow as
deeply indented with wrinkles. If I had not known that my foster-father
was dead, I should have been willing to declare, at the first glance,
that this gentleman was he.
"What do you want, young man?" said he, as I paused rather longer that
politeness would tolerate before his door.
His voice was that of Matt Rockwood; and, as I do not care to prolong a
sensation, I at once jumped to the conclusion that the person before me
was the brother of my foster-father, though Morgan Blair had assured me
that he also was in his grave.
"If you please, sir, I would like to speak to you," I replied to his
question.
"Come in," he added, laying aside his newspaper. "What is your business
with me?"
I entered the room, which was a parlor, and from it a bedroom opened
on one side. The apartments were very handsomely furnished, and as the
gentleman before me was very well dressed, I concluded that fortune had
dealt more kindly with him than with Matt.
"Are you Mr. Rockwood?" I asked, gazing earnestly at him.
"I am."
"Mr. Mark Rockwood?"
"Yes."
"You had a brother, sir?"
"I had."
"And a sister?"
"No; or rather I had two, but both of them died in their childhood," he
replied, evidently astonished at my line of questions.
He had no sister, and Morgan Blair's story, as I had suspected after I
found him in the company of Lynch, was all a fiction.
"Have you heard from your brother within a few years?" I inquired.
"Not for twenty years. But who are you, young man?" he demanded,
evidently supposing that I had known his brother.
At this moment the waiter of whom I had inquired for Mr. Rockwood
appeared before the door and looked in.
"What do you want, John?" asked the old gentleman.
"Nothing, sir; the young man with you inquired for your room, and I
came to see if he found you," replied the servant, retiring.
"Who are you, young man, and why do you ask me these questions?"
"I have seen your brother Matthew since you have, and I did not know
but you might wish to hear about him, though I haven't any good news
for you."
"You knew Matthew, then?"
"Yes, sir; I lived with him about ten years. In fact, he brought me up."
"But the last I heard of him, he had gone up the Missouri River."
"Yes, sir; and it was there that I lived with him."
"Where is he now?" asked Mr. Rockwood; and I saw that he was
considerably moved.
"I am sorry to say I have no good news to tell you."
"Is he living?"
"No, sir; he died last spring. But I want to tell you, before I say
anything more, that no better man than your brother ever lived."
Mr. Rockwood was silent for a few moments. Doubtless the intelligence
I communicated revived the memories of the past, when they had been
children together.
"I am glad to hear you speak well of him, young man, for really you
could not say anything more pleasant of him," said Mr. Rockwood, at
last. "Since he is dead, nothing can be more comforting than to know
that he was a good man. Matt was always honest and straightforward; but
he was almost always unfortunate, he failed in business, and left this
part of the country discouraged and disheartened. I hope he was never
in want, or anything of that kind."
"No, sir; he always had plenty; and when he died he left some property."
"I'm very glad to hear it, for I have had times when I worried a great
deal about it. I tried to find out where he was, but I never succeeded.
Were you with him when he died?"
"I was, sir," I replied, not a little embarrassed; for I did not like
to reveal the manner of his death.
"Was he sick long?"
"No, sir; he had been troubled with the rheumatism for two or three
months; but he was able to be about on crutches at the time he died."
"Did he die of rheumatism?"
"No, sir; he did not die of any disease, nor suffer any pain."
"What do you mean, young man?"
"He was shot, and instantly killed, in a fight with the Indians."
"Poor Matt!" exclaimed Mr. Rockwood, averting his gaze from me.
"I was as near to him as I am to you now when he fell. He never moved
or breathed after he went down," I added.
"Well, he had lived his threescore and ten, and perhaps one could not
pass away any easier; but it is grating to one's feelings to know that
his brother was shot."
I related to him very minutely the history of Matt Rockwood; and he
listened, as may well be supposed, with the deepest interest.
"And so you found your father?" said he, as I concluded the narrative.
"Yes, sir; and I hope yet to save him from himself."
"I hope so; and I am willing to do all I can for you and for him."
"Thank you, sir. As I said before, sir, your brother left about a
thousand dollars in gold, and by selling wood and produce we made
the amount up to about sixteen hundred dollars. A young man, by the
name of Morgan Blair, says he is the son of Matt's sister, and claims
this money."
  [Illustration: PHIL BEFORE THE DOOR OF THE SOUTHERN PLANTER.
  Page 244.]
"Matt had no sister," replied Mr. Rockwood, smiling.
I told him what had happened to me that night; but, as I related the
story in a good-natured vein, he was rather amused at it.
"Then you did not come to this hotel to see me?"
"No, sir; I blundered upon you;" and I explained how I had happened to
be before his door when he discovered me, and why I had paused there
longer than I intended.
He laughed heartily at my story, but I noticed that he suddenly became
sad whenever I alluded, directly or indirectly, to his brother.
"We will take care of Mr. Morgan Blair in due time," said Mr. Rockwood.
"Now, Phil, what do you do?"
"I am a carpenter."
"Where do you live?"
I gave him Mrs. Greenough's address, and he wrote it down in his
memorandum book.
"But I must go home, sir; I ought to have gone long ago. I am afraid my
father will think something has happened to me," I continued.
"Well I think something has happened to you. But I will not keep you
any longer. I will go home with you, if you have no objection."
"I should be very glad to have you, sir."
"I should like to see your father."
While he was putting on his overcoat, I took Mr. Gracewood's note from
my pocket, and tendered it to him.
"What's that, Phil?" he asked.
"It's a note for fifteen hundred dollars--the money your brother left
and the proceeds of the sale of some of his property."
"This is the note that those ruffians wanted?" he replied, taking the
paper and reading it.
"I think a little of it belongs to me, for I earned it after the death
of your brother."
"O, my boy, you shall have the whole of it! I will never touch a penny
of it."
"But it does not all belong to me."
"Every mill of it," said he, earnestly. "You took care of my brother
when he was sick, and he brought you up. You have a better claim to his
property than I have, or should have if I needed it, which I do not."
"You are very kind, sir."
"Only just."
We went down stairs, and I saw that all the people in the hotel treated
Mr. Rockwood with "distinguished consideration." At his request, the
landlord called a carriage, and I went home in state. I had never been
in a carriage before, and I regarded it as a very pleasant mode of
conveyance.
"I am sorry I did not see you before, Phil, for I must leave for the
south in a day or two," said Mr. Rockwood, as the carriage drove off.
"Do you live at the south?"
"Yes; I have been in Mississippi almost twenty years. I have a large
plantation there. I made my fortune down there; but I don't think I
shall remain there much longer. The climate don't agree with my wife as
well as St. Louis. I have been investing money in this city for several
years, and when I can sell my plantation I shall come here to live. I
own that hotel and the block of buildings with the flat roof over which
you passed. I have to come here two or three times a year to look after
the property; and my family generally spend the summer here. I hope I
shall see more of you, Phil."
"Thank you, sir."
"If you were a little older, I could give you something better to do
than carpentering."
"I like that business, sir, and don't care about leaving it at present."
The carriage stopped at Mrs. Greenough's, and we went up stairs. I was
obliged to show my wealthy friend into the kitchen, for there was no
fire in the parlor. However, there was not much difference between the
two rooms.
"I am so glad you have come home, Phil!" said my landlady, descending
the stairs when she heard me. "We have been really worried about you."
"I am all right," I replied; and then I introduced Mr. Rockwood.
Mrs. Greenough apologized for meeting him in the kitchen. She was
obliged to stay with Mr. Farringford so much of the time that she did
not keep a fire in the parlor. She would make one, if he would excuse
her; but the distinguished gentleman declined to excuse her, and
thought the kitchen was very comfortable and very pleasant.
"And so you got out, Phil," she added, turning to me.
"Out? How did you know anything about it?" I inquired, very much
surprised to find that the intelligence of my adventure had preceded me.
"Why, a policeman has been here with your note."
"My note! What note?"
"Didn't you write a billet to me?" she continued, bustling about to
find the important document.
"I am not aware that I did," I replied.
"Why, yes, you did, Phil. Where is it? I must have left it up stairs. I
will go up after it."
"But I haven't written any billet," I protested.
"I will show it to you," said she, hastening up stairs to find the note.
"Your friends appear to have doubled on you, after all," laughed Mr.
Rockwood.
"I don't understand it, though I remember that in order to save the
rascals the trouble of attempting to get any money out of me, I told
them I had left my balance at home."
Mrs. Greenough returned with the note, and handed it to me. I read it
with astonishment and indignation. My name was signed at the end of it;
but, of course, no part of the contents was written by me. In the note
I was represented as informing the good lady that I had been arrested,
and conveyed to the station-house; but I could be bailed out till
Monday by depositing sixty-five dollars with the sergeant of police.
"Who brought this?" I asked.
"A man who said he was a policeman."
"Did you know him?"
"No; but after consulting a long time with your father, we sent the
money."
"You did!" I exclaimed.
I concluded that I was sixty-five dollars out.
  CHAPTER XXII.
  IN WHICH PHIL RETURNS TO THE DEN OF THE ENEMY.
I felt that I could afford to lose sixty-five dollars better than
ever before; but I did not like the idea of being swindled. It was
especially repugnant to be overreached by such scoundrels as Lynch and
Blair, though the latter appeared to be only the tool of the former.
"I did not like to give the man the money, but your father thought
that, as he was a policeman, it was all right," Mrs. Greenough
explained. "Your father was very much worried when he heard you were
arrested."
"I have not been arrested," I replied.
"Your father wishes to see you," added the landlady.
"I will go up with you, if you please," said Mr. Rockwood.
We went up to my father's room, where I introduced my new friend to
him. It required some time, of course, to explain who and what the
planter was, and how I had made his acquaintance.
"Then you have not been arrested," said my father.
"No; but I was kept a prisoner by these scoundrels."
"We must attend to them," added Mr. Rockwood, consulting his watch.
"Dear me! there is the door-bell again!" exclaimed Mrs. Greenough. "Who
can it be at this time of night!"
"It is only half past nine," added the planter, as I took a light to
answer the bell. "I think Mrs. Greenough had better go to the door,
for I don't believe these scoundrels will be satisfied with sixty-five
dollars."
At this suggestion Mrs. Greenough answered the summons, and soon
returned with another note--from me! I opened it, and read that I had
been arrested in connection with the claim of Morgan Blair, and that
when the police sergeant heard there was a note, which represented the
property claimed, in my possession, he thought it was better to have
it deposited with the chief of police for safe keeping.
"These fellows evidently think you have not yet returned to your home,
Phil," said Mr. Rockwood.
"I don't blame them much for thinking so, for I expected to stay on
those roofs all night; and I think I should if you had not been so wise
as to put a hotel in the block," I replied.
"The man asked if Phil was at home before he gave me the note," said
the landlady, "and I evaded the question."
"What shall we do?" asked my father, raising himself in the bed.
"Phil and I will pay a visit to these rascals," answered the planter.
"Have you an envelope?"
"Yes," I replied, producing one, with some paper.
He folded up a sheet of paper, put it in the envelope, and requested
the landlady to direct it to the chief of police.
"Where is this messenger?" asked Mr. Rockwood.
"He is waiting in the kitchen."
"Very well, Mrs. Greenough. If you will close the door, so that we can
get into the street without his knowledge, we will follow him up and
attend to this business."
The landlady went down stairs, and when she had closed the kitchen
door, the planter and myself crept softly down stairs, and went into
the street. We placed ourselves where we could identify the messenger
when he came out of the house. He was evidently satisfied that the
envelope contained the document for which he had been sent, for he
immediately followed us out of the house. He was a well-dressed man, as
we saw by the light of the corner street lamp. He wore a light-colored
overcoat, so that we could easily follow him as he passed through the
streets. Mr. Rockwood went behind him, while I walked on the other side
of the street, and kept up with him. He went, as I supposed he would,
to the house to which I had been enticed earlier in the evening. He
went in by the aid of a night-key, and doubtless believed that he had
fully accomplished the mission upon which he had been sent.
"You are younger and more active than I am, Phil," said Mr. Rockwood,
when the man had entered the house and closed the door behind him.
"If you will stay here, and follow any of the rascals if they come out
again, I will get an officer."
"Very well, sir."
The planter hastened to his hotel, and I stationed myself where I could
see who left the house. My friend was not absent more than a quarter
of an hour, and returned with two officers, whom the landlord of the
hotel had procured for him. One of them was in uniform, and the other
a detective in plain clothes. I concluded that Mr. Rockwood meant
business, and instead of my spending Sunday as a prisoner, this would
be the fate of those who were trying to swindle me.
"That's a gambling-house," said the policeman in uniform, when I
pointed out the door where the man entered.
"Undoubtedly it is a gambling-house," replied the detective, gazing
inquiringly at me, as though he was not quite satisfied with the story
related to him by Mr. Rockwood; "but even a gambling-house has certain
rights, which may not be disturbed without proper cause."
"Proper cause!" exclaimed Mr. Rockwood. "Don't I tell you that this
young man has been robbed and abused by the villains in this house?"
"You will excuse me, sir, but it is possible to be mistaken. If I
understand you, Mr. Rockwood, you met this boy for the first time about
two hours ago."
"But I have entire confidence in him. He is the son of Edward
Farringford."
"Perhaps he is, though I do not believe it; but that is nothing to
recommend him. His story is absurd on the face of it."
"My story is true, sir, every word of it," I interposed, indignantly.
Mr. Bogart, the detective, asked me a few questions in regard to my
escape from the building, and I repeated all the particulars. He shook
his head, and declared that he was unwilling to enter the house upon
the strength of such a story. It would damage his reputation as an
officer, and his superiors would not justify the measure.
"I'll tell you what I will do," he continued.
"Well, what will you do?" demanded Mr. Rockwood, impatiently.
"I will go with this young man to the top of the house, where he left
the chamber of the gambler. I will follow him into the house by the
window through which he came out."
"I don't think you can get in at the window."
"I suppose not," said Mr. Bogart, with a palpable sneer.
"But I will go with you, and show you the window," I added.
"I wish you would," replied the officer, who evidently believed that I
should give him the slip before I verified my position.
Mr. Rockwood and the policeman were to remain in the street and keep
watch of the house during our absence. If the gambler's messenger who
had gone to the house of Mrs. Greenough appeared, he was to be arrested.
Mr. Bogart and myself went to the hotel, where, after my companion had
spoken to the landlord, we ascended to the roof.
"Now, young man, if you will go ahead, I will follow you," said the
detective.
"I hope you are used to climbing," I replied.
"Don't borrow any trouble on my account; I will follow anywhere that
you will lead."
"All right, sir; I hope I shall soon be able to prove all that I have
stated."
"I hope so," replied he, in a tone which assured me that he did not
expect anything of the kind.
I led the way across the flat roof, and at the next block we mounted
the ridge-pole of the pitch roof. Mr. Bogart cautioned me to move with
care, so as not to disturb the inmates of the houses beneath us. I was
soon in position to see the bright light streaming up from the tenement
to which I had been decoyed by the villains.
"That's the house," said I, pointing to the light.
"Did you come up through that scuttle?" he asked.
"No, I came up over the top of the luthern window."
"Impossible!" exclaimed he, glancing at the window.
"It is true; and I suppose I shall have to go in that way," I
continued; and I explained minutely how I had made my exit from the
chamber.
"Lead on. We will examine the house," said Mr. Bogart.
On a nearer approach to the roof of the gambling-house, I discovered
that the glass scuttle was open, and I concluded that Lynch and Blair
had been upon the roof in search of me. When I reached the opening I
found a ladder conveniently placed for my descent, if I chose to avail
myself of its aid. I looked down into the entry, where the gas-light
still blazed cheerfully. The door of Lynch's room was open, and I could
distinctly hear the voices of my late captors.
"They took me into that front room," I whispered to my doubting
companion.
"This looks a little as though your story was true," said Mr. Bogart.
"Will you follow me down this ladder?"
"No, not yet. I wish to get a little better idea of what these fellows
mean. Are you afraid of them?"
"No; not a bit," I answered, raising the poker which I had picked up
where I left it on the roof.
"Will you go down alone?" he asked.
"Yes, if you desire it."
"I will keep the run of you, and see what is done. If you get into
trouble with them, just whistle as loud as you can, and I will join
you."
"But suppose they take away the ladder?"
"Then I will go down as I came up, and enter the house by the front
door. Don't be afraid of anything."
"I'm not afraid."
"I will be near you. I want to know what these fellows mean to do. If
they close the door, I will go down the ladder into the entry."
Suddenly my companion appeared to have become very enthusiastic in the
business upon which we were engaged. Though he did not say so, I was
satisfied that he was convinced of the truth of my statement.
"What shall I do?" I asked, rather puzzled by the tactics of the
detective.
"Do whatever they wish you to do; but don't let them know that you have
been off the roof since you escaped.
"Why not?"
"I cannot stop to explain now; only I don't think these rascals have
taken all this trouble with you for fifty or a hundred dollars; and
they mean to use you as a cat's paw for something else."
"I know they do," I replied, in a whisper. "They want the fifteen
hundred dollars in gold, for which I hold a note signed by Mr.
Gracewood."
"No matter now," said he, impatiently. "Go down, and give them all the
rope they want."
"Shall I give them the note, which I have in my pocket?"
"I haven't heard about the note. If you had told me the whole story
before now, I should have known better what to do."
We retreated a few paces from the skylight, and I told him all about
the note and the object of Lynch. I assured him that Mr. Rockwood was
the legal heir of the property.
"The note is of no consequence then," said Mr. Bogart. "Give it to
them, but don't indorse it, and I will see that it is returned to you.
We have them now. They can't escape us. Now, go down, and let them have
their own way, but with some show of opposition."
I descended the ladder, and stood before the open door of the chamber,
when I saw Lynch, with his feet on the table, smoking. Morgan Blair sat
opposite him. They discovered me as soon as I landed in the hall, and
made haste to place themselves between me and the stairs, in order to
cut off my escape. As I did not wish to escape, I gave them no trouble
in this direction, but entered the chamber.
  CHAPTER XXIII.
  IN WHICH PHIL MEETS A PALE GENTLEMAN WITH ONE ARM IN A SLING.
"I thought you would come back, my dear Phil," said Mr. Leonidas
Lynchpinne, as he placed himself in the doorway before me. "I knew you
had so much respect and regard for us that you would not break our
hearts by being long absent. By the way, Phil, how is the weather on
the roof?"
"It is rather cool," I replied, seating myself in the vacant chair,
"but not quite so cool as you are, Mr. Leonidas Lynchpinne."
"Phil, be virtuous, and you will always be happy; that is the secret of
my uninterrupted cheerfulness; that enables me always and everywhere to
be perfectly calm and collected. Be honest, just, and upright, Phil;
and then the man don't live that can make you tremble, or, in other
words, shake in your boots. But besides being all these, Phil, you
should be charitable and humane, especially the latter. I am humane,
Phil, and that adds to the sum total of my bliss on earth."
"You must be an exceedingly happy man, Mr. Leonidas Lynchpinne," I
added; and I saw that he had been drinking some exhilarating beverage
since I left him.
"O, I am--happy as the day is long, and the night too. You were so
very imprudent, Phil, as to make your exit--in other words, your
departure--from this room by the way of that front window. You might
have fallen upon the hard pavement in the street below; and then how I
should have wept over your brief but wasted life!"
"You are very affectionate."
"Affection is the staple fodder of my existence, Phil. By a process
of reasoning which I need not attempt to develop to your unpractised
understanding, I arrived at the conclusion that you would be compelled
to remain all night on the roof of this and the adjacent houses, unless
something was done for you. Dreading lest, benumbed with cold, you
should attempt the fearful feat of returning to this humble apartment
by the same means you used in leaving it, I placed that ladder at the
skylight for your use. After all the wrongs, injuries, and insults you
have heaped upon me, I took this means to prevent you from sacrificing
yourself on the hard pavement below. That is what I call humanity, and
I offer it to you as an exemplification of that noble attribute."
"Thank you; and I will endeavor to profit by your example, at least so
far as it illustrates the attribute of humanity. If you have nothing
more to say to me, I will take my leave of you."
"Stay, Phil; I have more to say to you," he interposed. "Be honest, and
you will be eccentric--I mean, you will be happy."
"I am glad to hear such lessons of practical wisdom from you, Mr.
Leonidas Lynchpinne," I replied, hoping he would soon come to the
point, if he had any point, as Mr. Bogart had suggested.
"You appreciate true wisdom, Phil. Good! Then you will give that note
to this honest young man."
"Certainly I will give it to him when he proves his claim."
I concluded that he was not satisfied with the blank paper sent in the
envelope.
"I knew you would be just, Phil, after the good advice I have given
you; for you are not a bad boy at heart, though you have been led away
by evil influences. If you stay with me a while, you will be reformed,
and then you will lead a good and true life, and then you will be
eccentric--happy, I mean. Won't you smoke a cigar, Phil?"
"No, I thank you; I never smoke."
"That's right, Phil. It's a filthy practice, besides leading to other
vices more to be condemned," said he, lighting a fresh cigar. "Now,
Phil, about that note, which justly and rightly belongs to my good
friend Morgan Blair. Do you happen to have it about you?"
"Yes; I have it in my pocket," I replied, acting upon the advice of Mr.
Bogart.
"Capital! Things always work right for those who are faithful and
humane. I'm faithful and humane. Now, we are going to bring you two
good and true witnesses, who will convince you that Morgan Blair is the
son of Matt Rockwood's sister. We have taken a great deal of pains to
send to Vandalia for them, and they will be here to-night--this very
night, Phil. That's all we want to see you for."
"Very well; I should like to hear what they have to say."
"You shall hear them. I will go down and bring them up," he added,
rising from the chair.
He had hardly got up before the door was darkened by what to me seemed
to be an apparition. It was a gentleman with an overcoat thrown loosely
over his shoulders. He wore no other coat, and no vest. I saw that
his left arm was suspended in a sling. His face was very pale, and
he looked very much like my excellent friend Mr. Gracewood, though
a second glance assured me it was not he. When he discovered me, he
started back, and was disposed to retreat.
"You have company, Mr. Lynch," said the pale gentleman. "I will come
another time."
"Come in, Mr. Gracewood. Come in!" replied Lynch, placing the
rocking-chair for the visitor, who was evidently an invalid.
Mr. Gracewood! It certainly was not my kind friend; but the resemblance
was strong enough to assure me that he was a relative, if not a brother.
"Is this the way you keep my secret?" said the pale gentleman,
reproachfully, as he retreated a pace into the entry.
"O, it's all right here. This is Phil Farringford, of whom I spoke to
you," added Lynch.
"So much the worse!" exclaimed the invalid, impatiently.
"But he is the very essence of discretion and reserve. Your secret is
as safe with him as with me," protested the gambler.
"The mischief is done, whatever it may be. You have called me by my
name."
"May I ask if you are a relative of Henry Gracewood?" I inquired, so
much interested in the pale gentleman that I forgot everything else.
"His own brother, and his only brother," replied Mr. Gracewood,
bitterly. "I would not have him know that I am here for his fortune
and mine, though I am guilty of no crime against him."
"Mind that, Phil," interposed Lynch; "and remember that discretion is
the better part of valor, and sometimes the better part of virtue. This
honest gentleman has been unfortunate, but not guilty."
I could not understand how a person in his situation, apparently an
invalid, should happen to be in a gambling-house, and it seemed to me
that the secrecy he coveted was an indication of something evil. He
declared that he was guilty of no crime against his brother. Respect
and regard for the good friend of my early years prompted me not to
betray him, at least before I knew more about him. Then it occurred
to me that the detective on the roof, or perhaps in the entry by this
time, might discover more than it was desirable for him to know.
"Do you know where my brother is now, young man?" asked the invalid.
"He is at Delaware City, where his wife is sick," I replied, giving
him the details of the illness of Mrs. Gracewood.
"You can talk it over between you," interposed Lynch. "I have an
engagement with the governor of Missouri and half a dozen congressmen;
and I hope you will excuse me for half an hour."
Mr. Gracewood nodded, and Lynch and Blair left the room. I had no doubt
Mr. Bogart, in the entry, would attend to their movements, and I did
not trouble myself about them. I told my companion all I knew about his
brother.
"I had a letter from him this autumn, saying he expected to return to
St. Louis before winter. He spoke about you, and about his wife and
daughter. I have heard nothing from them since."
"He would have been here a fortnight ago if his wife had not been sick."
"Young man, do you know the character of this house?" said Mr.
Gracewood, looking at me very sharply.
"I do, sir, very well indeed; and the character of the man who has just
left us."
"How do you happen to be in such a place, then?"
"I was enticed here by Lynch, who wanted to plunder me of certain
property in my possession; but I understand him, and he won't make
anything out of me."
"Perhaps you wonder that I am here," he added, looking upon the floor,
as though he considered his own position more equivocal than mine.
"I confess that I do, sir, especially as you look like an invalid, and
I see you have your arm in a sling."
"I would not have my brother know that I am here for all the world,
for I judge from the tone of his letter that a great change has come
over him. He talks to me of the mercies of God, which I feel that I
need more than all else on earth. I am overwhelmed with shame at my
situation."
Mr. Gracewood covered his face with his hand, and I heard him groan in
bitterness of spirit. I pitied him, for whatever he had done, he was a
penitent, and I was sure that God's mercy could reach and comfort him.
"If you wish, I will tell you how I happen to be here," I added,
intending, if possible, to divert his mind from the woe that
overwhelmed him.
"No, young man; I do not care to know. As you may see my brother before
I do, I had better tell you how I happen to be here," he added. "I
have been gambling, and I have lost thousands and tens of thousands of
dollars. I have even impaired my fortune; and if this calamity had not
overtaken me,"--and he pointed to his wounded arm,--"I might even have
spent my brother's fortune, which, perhaps you know, he placed in my
keeping. I sold stocks and bonds in which I had invested his money, and
lost the proceeds at the gambling table.
"In my home at Glencoe, I cursed my own folly and wickedness in wasting
my substance in games of chance; but I hoped to redeem my heavy losses.
I was fully resolved, when I had done so, never to play again. But the
judgment comes when we least expect it. I found, when I looked over
my accounts in the quiet of my chamber at Glencoe, that I had lost
about twenty thousand dollars' worth of stocks and bonds belonging to
my brother. I was appalled, for both his property and mine was largely
invested in real estate, and I had not the ready money to make good
the deficiency. A few days before, an offer was made me for a piece of
property in this city. I proposed to sell it for thirty thousand, and
was offered twenty-five. Under the pressure of this need to repair my
brother's fortune, I hastened to the city, and closed the bargain at
the lower price.
"The purchaser came to me with the money in his hand as soon as I could
have the papers prepared. It was four o'clock in the afternoon when the
business was completed, and I had twenty-five thousand dollars in my
pocket. It was too late to deposit it in the bank that day, and meeting
one whose acquaintance I had made at Forstellar's, I came here. I lost
a thousand dollars before I fully realized what I was doing. Then I
refused to play any more. The one with whom I had come was angry with
me. In a word, we had a quarrel, and in his wrath he attempted to stab
me; but I warded off the blow with my arm, which was severely wounded.
"The ruffian escaped; but I was taken to a chamber, and a surgeon sent
for. Then I thought of the large sum of money in my possession, and the
character of the place, and--"
Mr. Gracewood suddenly placed his hand against his breast, and, without
another word, fled from the room.
  CHAPTER XXIV.
  IN WHICH PHIL MEETS AN OLD FRIEND, AND MR. LEONIDAS LYNCHPINNE COMES
  TO GRIEF.
I could not imagine what had so suddenly driven Mr. Gracewood from the
room. He left as though he had been shot from a gun, and did not utter
a word in explanation of his conduct. On the impulse of the moment I
followed him. In the entry I looked for Mr. Bogart, in order to report
progress to him; but I did not see him. The ladder was still standing
at the skylight, but the detective was not in sight upon the roof, and
though I called his name as loud as I dared to speak he did not respond.
I descended the stairs to the next floor, where I had understood the
room of the invalid was located. The door of his apartment was open,
and I discovered Mr. Gracewood in the act of ransacking his bed. He
was very nervous and excited, and I saw that the hand he was able to
use trembled violently.
  [Illustration: THE LOST MONEY. Page 281.]
"What is the matter, Mr. Gracewood?" I asked, as he continued to tumble
over the mattress and the pillows.
"All is lost!" exclaimed he, in the tones of despair.
"What is lost?"
"My money!" he gasped, in a hoarse whisper.
"Do you mean to say that it is gone!" I asked, startled at the
suggestion.
"All gone!" groaned he. "Twenty-four thousand dollars!"
"But where did you put it, sir?"
"Between the two beds, when Lynch sent for me to come up into his room."
"Did he send for you, sir?" I interposed.
"He did."
"Then it was a plot to rob you, sir."
"I fear that it was; but I was careless. I had hardly been out of my
room before; but when I did leave it, I took my money with me. I had
become accustomed to its possession, and I did not think of it. I did
not believe Lynch was a bad man. He was very kind to me, and attended
to my wants after I was hurt."
"Did he know you had this money?"
"I did not tell him, but I think he did. He must have stolen it."
"Don't be alarmed, sir. I don't think you will lose it," I added.
"It is gone already, and I shall never see it again."
"Perhaps you will, sir."
"No, never! The men in this house are all villains," said he, bitterly,
as he dropped into a chair, apparently from sheer exhaustion, and in
utter despair.
"No, sir; I happen to know that the eyes of a detective were upon him
at the very moment when he left the room above. I have no doubt he has
been arrested by this time."
"Detective?"
"Yes, sir;" and I gave a brief account of the manner in which Lynch had
swindled me, and stated the purpose for which I had returned to the
house.
"But I shall be exposed!" exclaimed Mr. Gracewood, bitterly. "I would
rather lose my money than have my wife and children know that I have
been gambling, and that I frequent such places as this. I wrote them
a miserable lie--that I was obliged to go to Memphis--to explain my
absence. If God will forgive and spare me this time, never will I be
guilty again!"
"Calm yourself, sir. I am sorry you have done wrong; but seeing and
repenting the wrong half undoes it--so your brother taught me."
"I shall never be at peace again in this world," groaned the sufferer.
"But let the money go; I can sell another estate, though a third of all
I had is gone already."
"The money is not gone, Mr. Gracewood. I am satisfied that Lynch is
arrested by this time."
"So much the worse! I shall be exposed."
"Perhaps not. Let us look the matter over. Why did Lynch send for you
to go up into his room?"
"He sent me a note by the young man who was with him. Here it is," he
added, rising and taking a piece of paper from the table.
I took the paper, which contained a few lines, as follows: "I have seen
the young fellow, Phil Farringford, who was with your brother. If you
will come up to my room, I will tell you what he says."
"You seem to have known about me before," I added, when I had read the
note.
"As I said, this Lynch took care of me when I was hurt. I did not
intend that any one here should know my name, but I think he read it
where the tailor had written it on the inside of my coat; at any rate,
he called me by name. I think he must have seen me take the package
of bank notes from my pocket and put it under the pillow, before the
surgeon came. When the doctor left, and I was more comfortable, he told
me that he had met my brother on board of a steamer up the Missouri,
and said there was a boy with him whom he had since seen in the city. I
was very anxious to know when my brother was coming, so that I might be
prepared to see him.
"Lynch did not know where my brother was, and I asked him if he
knew where to find you. He thought he should be able to see you,
and to-night I was very glad to learn that he had succeeded, and I
hastened up stairs to obtain the intelligence of the absent one."
The plan of the villain appeared to me to be past finding out. I
concluded that I had been sent for to assist in some manner in the
plundering of the unhappy gentleman. But they had done the job, so
far as I could see, without any help from me, unless my presence was
intended to lure the victim from his room, and thus enable them to do
the work. Why they had skirmished by robbing me of sixty-five dollars
was not at all clear to me. I explained to Mr. Gracewood that I had
left Mr. Rockwood and an officer outside of the house.
"I will go down and see if they are there now," I added. "Perhaps I
shall be able to tell you something about Lynch."
"Don't leave me, young man. I am miserable."
"But I want to know what has become of Lynch."
"No matter; let him go. Do not allow them to expose me."
I did not wonder that this man's conscience stung him, and that he
dreaded to have his name in the newspapers in connection with his
presence at the gambling-house. The only safety for men, young or old,
is to keep away from evil haunts. Those who enter gambling-houses from
curiosity may be impelled to repeat the visit from stronger motives.
While I was discussing the question with the miserable man, I heard
footsteps in the entry. I opened the door, and found Mr. Rockwood and
the detective, who had come to look for me.
"We have nabbed them both, Phil," said Mr. Rockwood. "They are in irons
at the next station-house. And a big haul it was, too."
"Whose room is that you came out of just now?" asked Mr. Bogart.
"It is occupied by a gentleman who is stopping here," I replied.
"Do you know what Lynch stole from that room?"
"I do--a package containing twenty-four thousand dollars. Did you see
him take it?"
"I did," answered Mr. Bogart. "But I don't understand this business."
"Neither do I."
"Where is the gentleman? I want to see him."
"I wouldn't see him to-night. He is quite sick, and suffering terribly."
"I want to tell him that his money is safe."
"I will tell him that."
"And that the thief is in custody. When he is able, he must appear, and
claim his money."
Fortunately Mr. Bogart was in a great hurry; and when I assured him I
had no fears in regard to my own safety, he left me in the house, with
Mr. Rockwood. Before he went he took the occasion to apologize to me
for doubting my story, earlier in the evening. Leaving Mr. Rockwood in
the entry, I went in to see Mr. Gracewood again. He was exceedingly
nervous and uneasy when I told him that his money was safe.
"And the whole story will be out in the newspapers on Monday morning,"
said he, gloomily.
"I don't know much about these things. I am willing to do anything that
is right for you," I replied.
"I deserved to be exposed, but I have not the courage to meet the
ordeal."
"Mr. Rockwood is waiting for me in the entry. He is a wealthy and
influential gentleman. His brother and your brother were neighbors and
intimate friends on the upper Missouri. If you will see him, I think he
could serve you."
At first he was very unwilling to meet any one, but at last he
consented. I stated the case to Mr. Rockwood in the entry, and then
introduced him to the sufferer.
"Don't distress yourself, my dear sir," said Mr. Rockwood, when the
misery of the other was manifested. "The best of men have their
misfortunes."
"I cannot call that a misfortune which is brought upon me by my own
folly and wickedness," replied Mr. Gracewood.
"But the best of men have their failings. Your secret is safe with me,
and I shall only hope that you may be stronger in the future than in
the past."
"With the help of God, this will be a lesson to me that shall make me
a better man than ever before," added Mr. Gracewood, fervently.
"But you shall not stay another night in such a place as this, my dear
sir," continued Mr. Rockwood, earnestly. "The very atmosphere of the
den is poison."
"I dare not leave it."
"My hotel is only a few steps from here. You shall have my rooms, and
no one need ever know that you are there."
"You are very kind. I had no right to expect such generous treatment
from an entire stranger."
"Your brother and my brother were the best of friends for many years;
we will imitate their example, and be friends for their sake."
Mr. Rockwood insisted upon his arrangement, paid the invalid's bill,
and sent for a carriage to convey him to his new quarters. We dressed
the miserable man, and helped him into the vehicle. The driver was
directed to stop at the private door on the cross-street, and Mr.
Gracewood was conducted to the rooms of his new friend without
attracting any attention.
"I used to stay at this hotel myself," said Mr. Gracewood, when he was
seated in the planter's great arm-chair.
"It is a good house, and you shall have every care you need."
Having seen the invalid so comfortably provided for, I thought it was
about time for me to go home. I promised to call the next day, and left
the room. I felt as though a mighty secret had been confided to me; but
I could not see how Mr. Gracewood could escape the exposure he so much
dreaded. I could not understand how he had thus far escaped it, if he
frequented gambling-houses. Certainly he was thoroughly conscious of
the sin of which he had been guilty, and peace would follow penitence
and reform.
I descended the stairs to the lower floor of the hotel, and was
hastening by the office when I discovered my excellent friend Mr. Henry
Gracewood walking up and down the hall, smoking his pipe. My heart
thrilled with emotion as I hastened to greet him. He grasped my hand
with a warmth that assured me he had lost none of his old regard for
me.
"I am glad to see you, Phil Farringford," said he. "Come right up
stairs, and see Mrs. Gracewood and Ella."
He led the way to a suit of rooms adjoining those of Mr. Rockwood, and
it seemed to me that the catastrophe which the invalid so much dreaded
could not long be postponed.
  CHAPTER XXV.
  IN WHICH PHIL FINDS THE PROSPECT GROWING BRIGHTER.
The meeting with the family of Mr. Gracewood was none the less pleasant
because it was entirely unexpected. I had been expecting and hoping to
see them, till I was afraid the winter would set in and compel them
to remain where they were till spring, for Mrs. Gracewood was too ill
to bear the fatigues of the long journey by land. I thought that Ella
looked prettier than ever, and the welcome she gave me was worth all
the patient waiting I had bestowed upon it.
The lady looked very pale and sick; indeed, a great change had come
over her since we parted, only a few weeks before. I saw that she had
been very sick, and that she was still very far from being in her usual
health. Though she had been brought up tenderly and delicately, she
had done the house-work, with the assistance of Ella and myself, at the
settlement during the summer. For my own part, I felt quite alarmed
about her, she looked so pale and sick. She was reclining upon the
lounge when I entered, but she rose to greet me.
"I am glad to see you, Phil Farringford, for I have thought a great
deal about you since we parted so strangely," said Mr. Gracewood. "Your
letter afforded me a great deal of satisfaction."
"I have worried a great deal about you and your family, sir," I
replied; "and it gives me new life to see you again. When did you
arrive?"
