day."

"I do wish father were here. I am afraid he will expose himself to the
Indians, or wear himself out, he is so anxious for me."

"We will do the best we can to let him know that you are safe. Perhaps
Kit and I will try to find him, as soon as we have conducted you to the
Castle, and relieved the anxiety of your poor mother."

"We marched very cautiously through the woods, and with our rifles in
our hands ready for instant use. In a short time, under the skilful
lead of the hunter, we reached the river; but I had left the barge a
mile farther down the stream.

"I am not sure that we shall find the barge where I left it, Kit," said
I, as we took the path on the bank of the Little Fish.

"Most like you won't, boy. That Injun that went down to look for
t'other mought have took it."

"What will you do, then?" asked Ella.

"We shall be obliged to walk another mile, to the landing-place."

My trembling companion was constantly in fear of an attack from the
savages, or that a shot from them would hit her, or some other one of
the party. I said all I could to comfort and assure her; but the
circumstances were so novel to her that she could not be reconciled to
them. As I was not without fear myself, I could not take the matter so
coolly as Kit did. But the old hunter, steady and brave as he was in
peril, was a prudent man, and not at all disposed to be reckless. He
knew that an Indian bullet could kill him, as well as another man, and
he had none of that affectation of courage which so often belies the
boaster and the reckless man.

"Hyer's your barge," said Kit, ahead of us, when we had gone less than
half a mile down the stream.

"So it is; but I did not leave it here," I replied, as I glanced at the
boat.

"That Injun has come up stream in it, and left it hyer. Most like he
ain't fur from hyer."

I assisted Ella into the barge. Kit seated himself in the bow, and I
took the oars.

"Fotch her over under the further shore, boy," said Kit, as I pushed
off the boat. "Keep as fur as you kin from danger allus."

The old hunter's suggestion was certainly a good one, as was fully
demonstrated only a few minutes later. I pulled the barge to the other
side of the river; but we had gone only a few rods before the crack of
a rifle, followed by a whizzing bullet, assured us the enemy were at
hand. The barge was painted white, and was a shining mark in the night
for the savages to fire at.

"O, mercy!" cried Ella.

"Did it hit you?" I asked, alarmed by her cry.

"No, no--but----"

"Don't make any noise, then."

"Run the barge ashore hyer, boy," said Kit Cruncher, quietly.

I obeyed instantly; but another shot followed the first one, though,
fortunately, neither of them did any harm.

"Let the gal go ashore," added Kit.

I understood his plan, and assisted Ella to land.

"Run up the bank into the woods, and get behind a tree," I said to her,
as a third shot came across the river.

But the Indians were firing blindly in the dark, and though the last
bullet hit the boat, we were still safe. Kit stepped on the shore, and
we dragged the boat out of the water. The hunter paused on the bank of
the river, and gazed across in the direction from which the shots came.

"There's three on 'em over thyer," said Kit. "The shots was too near
together to come out of one barrel. Haul the barge up the bank afore
they hev time to load up agin."

The barge was light, and we had no difficulty in taking it up the bank
into the woods. For the present we were safe; but it was certain that
there were three savages on the bank of the river, and between us and
the Castle. We had, luckily, escaped injury so far, and Kit was not the
man to lead us into any unnecessary peril. We were now on the tongue of
land between the Big and the Little Fish Rivers, and only a short
distance above their junction. At the point where we landed it was less
than a quarter of a mile from one river to the other.

"We can't go down Fish River to-night," said I, when we had pulled the
boat up the bank.

"Not without resk, boy," replied Kit.

"What shall we do?" asked the frightened Ella.

"Don't be skeered, little gal," interposed Kit, in a tone more tender
than he was in the habit of using. "You are as safe hyer as you'd be in
your marm's lap."

"Can't the savages come over here?" she inquired.

"'Pears like they can't; leastwise, not without swimming, and we kin
stop 'em faster'n they kin come over. Rifle-balls travels fast,"
answered Kit, sagely. "But I don't reckon they'll want to come over
hyer."

"Do you suppose they know there are soldiers at the clearing?" I asked.

"I don't reckon they do. They mought know it, and they mought not; but
from what you say, I cal'late they hain't had time to go down and see."

"Perhaps they intended to go there to-night," I suggested.

"It mought be."

"I think they were looking for something to eat first. I believe the
two Indians who came across the river on the log were to meet the other
two at the camp on the brook where I went. They knew they could get
plenty of fish there. After I shot one of the party at the camp, the
remaining one must have come across the other two. They will keep
between us and the Castle."

"Most like they've been lookin' for the gal all the evenin'," added
Kit.

"It seems to me, if they knew the soldiers were at the clearing, they
would not stay here."

"'Tain't much use to guess at these things. You mought as well shoot at
nothin' in the dark. We can't go down Fish River to-night; that's all
that's sartin."

"That is very true."

"And I cannot see my mother to-night, then," said Ella.

"I dunno, little gal; 'pears like you can't; but mebbe you kin see your
father," replied Kit. "And it mought be you kin see both. I dunno. We
must be keerful. Better not see 'em till to-morrer 'n not see 'em at
all."

"What do you mean by seeing her father tonight, Kit?" I inquired,
afraid that he was kindling vain hopes in the mind of the suffering
maiden.

"I'll tell you, boy. Ef, as you say, them soldiers is rampagin' over
the country 'tween the Fish and Crooked River, we mought find 'em afore
mornin'. We kin kerry this boat over to the Big Fish, and land on
t'other side on't."

"That's a capital plan, Kit, and our safest course," I replied.

We wasted no time in debating a question on which we were perfectly
agreed. We carried the light barge across the tongue of land, and
launched it in the Big Fish. Our party embarked, and I pulled up the
river. I realized that it would not be an easy matter to find the
soldiers, for they would not kindle any camp fire, which would betray
their presence to the savages.

I pulled vigorously, for half an hour, against the current; and we were
satisfied that the three Indians had not crossed the river, for we were
not again annoyed by them. As the barge approached the rapids, beyond
which we could not go by water, we heard a noise on the shore.

"Who goes there?" shouted a soldier.

"Friends," I replied.

"Advance, friends, and give the countersign."

We had no countersign, but I immediately ran the boat ashore, and we
landed.




CHAPTER XV.

IN WHICH PHIL AND HIS COMPANIONS START FOR THE CASTLE.


"Who are you?" demanded the soldier who had hailed the boat, probably
astonished to find himself answered in plain English.

"Friends," I replied.

"What is your name?"

"Phil Farringford."

"You are the boy that came on board the steamer this morning?"

"I am; have you seen any Indians to-day?"

"Not an Indian."

"You didn't go where they were," I added.

"We have been beating about the woods all day; but the Indians who
captured the girl have dodged us."

"Then you haven't recovered her yet?"

"No."

"I have; and here she is," I continued; helping Ella out of the boat,
and up the bank of the river.

By this time half a dozen soldiers had gathered on the shore, with
their blankets on their arms. When they understood that the young lady
had been recovered from the Indians, they gave an involuntary cheer.

"Where is my father?" asked Ella, anxiously.

"I suppose he is with Lieutenant Pope," replied Corporal Flint, who was
the spokesman of the party. "The headquarters are about a mile up the
river."

"I must go to him at once," added Ella, nervously.

"You shall, miss. The hunt's up now, and we needn't stay here any
longer," continued the corporal. "We are divided into three squads, and
posted on the river to keep the Indians from crossing."

"There hasn't been an Indian on this neck for six hours," I added; and
I proceeded to inform the corporal in what manner the Indians had made
their escape.

"They are cunning," said he. "They know the country better than we do."

"Whar's the cap'n?" demanded Kit, who had been engaged in hauling the
barge out of the water, and concealing it in the bushes.

"Who are you?" replied Corporal Flint, as the tall hunter loomed up
before him.

"I don't reckon it makes any matter who I am; but I want to see the
cap'n, and show him whar the redskins is."

"Lieutenant Pope commands the troops, and he will be very glad to know
where the redskins are."

"My father is with him; do let us make haste," said Ella, dragging me
by the hand in the direction of the next post of the soldiers.

"We will escort you, miss," added the corporal, ordering his squad to
march.

Our walk was enlivened by the frequent challenge of the sentinels
posted along the bank of the river. One half of the troops were
watching the stream, while the other half slept. In a short time we
reached the bivouac of the commanding officer. As we approached, I
recognized the form of Mr. Gracewood, who was walking back and forth
near the party asleep on the ground.

"Here she is, Mr. Gracewood!" I shouted, while the soldiers were going
through their military forms, for they were very precise in all these
matters.

The unhappy father halted, and Ella dragged me towards him, impatient
to heal the wounded heart. He seemed to be unable to comprehend the
meaning of my words; but as soon as he saw her in the gloom of the
forest, he rushed forward and clasped her in his arms. I heard them sob
in each other's embrace, and while the tears started in my own eyes, I
had an all-sufficient reward for the peril and labor I had incurred in
restoring her.

"Why, Ella, I can hardly believe it is you," said he, his voice
tremulous with emotion.

"It is I, father," she replied, clinging to him convulsively. "I am so
happy!"

"Are you safe? Are you hurt? Did they injure you?"

"No, father I have been awfully frightened, but I am not hurt. You
don't say a word to Phil. He saved me."

"Phil Farringford!"

"Yes, father."

"My dear boy, you have saved me from a misery you cannot understand,"
said the glad parent, grasping my hand.

"I am very glad to do something for you, after you have done so much
for me, sir."

"But how was it? Tell me about it. Where did you find her?" asked Mr.
Gracewood.

"I congratulate you, sir," said Lieutenant Pope, approaching the spot,
having learned the substance of the story from Corporal Flint.

"I am the happiest man in the world," added Mr. Gracewood, with
enthusiasm. "Phil Farringford is a hero! Now let us know where you
found her."

"Here's Kit Cruncher, too," I added, unwilling that my stalwart ally
should be ignored.

Mr. Gracewood shook hands with Kit, who was duly introduced to the
lieutenant.

"I'm hyer, Mr. Mell'ton, or Mr. Greasewood--if that's your name."

"Gracewood," interposed the happy Ella.

"Jest so; Greasewood--that's what I say. I'm hyer, and I want to tell
the cap'n whar the redskins is; but I don't reckon my story'll spile
while Phil tells you about the gal. Go on, boy; wag your tongue as fast
as you wagged your legs to-day."

"I've had rather a long tramp to-day, and I'll sit down and rest while
we talk," I answered, availing myself of a log.

I related minutely all the circumstances of the recapture of Ella, and
gave her explanation of the plan by which the Indians had escaped from
the soldiers.

"I never thought of those dugouts," said the lieutenant. "We have not
been near the river to-day."

"Now, cap'n," interposed Kit Cruncher, "the Injuns from the nor'ard is
on a rampage. More'n a hund'ed on 'em is camped on the head streams of
the Little Fish, working down this way. They mean to wipe out all on
us. They stole Matt's hosses, but we got 'em back. Then they kim down
on us, and two or three on 'em got shot. Now the whole on 'em's comin'
down."

"I will take care of them if you will show me where they are," added
the officer.

"I'll do that. I ain't no milintry man, but I kin tell you how to fix
them redskins. Them Injuns up thar has got hosses. They're go'n' to
come down by the Little Fish. Phil tells me you sent a force to the
Castle. Ef you take 'em in the rear with your men, by marchin' round
across both the Fish rivers, the t'other kin take 'em in front, and
atwixt the two you'll chaw 'em all up."

"Do you think we had better march to-night?" asked Lieutenant Pope,
evidently impressed by the suggestion of the veteran hunter.

"No; that would spile the whole game. Let 'em kim down as fur's they
will."

"But where are the three Indians who were engaged in the capture of
Miss Gracewood?"

"They're doggin' round the clearin'; but I don't reckon they know any
sogers is over thar yet."

"They will join the large force on the Little Fish, and inform them of
our presence here."

"They mought do it; but a march of seven mile will fotch you to 'em.
They'll start arly 'n the mornin'; and them three Injuns won't go up to
their camp to-night, for they're as fur off from it as we are. Ef you
start at sunrise, you kin git in behind 'em, crossin' both rivers in
the forenoon."

Kit Cruncher was very clear in his views, and the commander of the
troops saw the wisdom of his plan. The latter knew nothing of the
country, and was dependent upon the information afforded by such men as
Kit for the means of punishing the Indians when they violated their
treaty obligations.

"As my daughter cannot go with you, we need remain here no longer,"
said Mr. Gracewood.

"But you can't get to the clearing to-night," replied Lieutenant Pope.
"You may be intercepted by these strolling savages; and I cannot spare
my men to escort you, for they may be obliged to march all day
to-morrow."

"Where is my barge, Kit?" asked the anxious father.

"In the bushes down the river."

"We can carry it across the land to the Crooked River, and go down in
that way. I am very anxious to join my wife, who is still suffering
with anxiety for our child," added Mr. Gracewood.

"Very well; if you feel safe to leave the camp, I shall not object,"
continued the lieutenant. "My men shall carry your boat over to the
river."

"Phil will go with me, and I don't think there is any danger."

"I should be glad to have you go, for I wish to send some orders to
Lieutenant Jackson, commanding the men at the clearing."

"Exactly, cap'n," interposed Kit. "Send word for 'em to form a line
atween the Little Fish and the pond. Phil kin show 'em whar it is."

Four men were sent to carry the barge across the country to Crooked
River, and Kit explained to the officer the nature of the region where
he suggested that the line of defence should be established. By the
light of a match, the lieutenant wrote an order, which he gave to me,
to be delivered to the officer in command of the detachment at the
Castle. Bidding the lieutenant good night, we started for the river,
attended by Kit, who was determined to see us safely embarked.

"I am afraid you are too tired to walk, Ella," said I, placing myself
at her side.

"I am very tired, and I hope the distance is not long."

"Not less than two miles," I replied.

"I will try to do it," said she, with all the courage she could muster.

After going half the distance, we met the men who were carrying the
boat. They had laid it on a couple of poles, and were bearing it on
their shoulders. By this time poor Ella was almost fainting with
exhaustion.

"We kin tote the gal in the boat," said Kit.

"She cannot sit on the keel of it," replied Mr. Gracewood; for the
soldiers had placed it bottom upwards on the sticks.

"We kin turn it t'other side up," added Kit. "Drop that boat, sogers."



The men, who were full of sympathy for Ella, laid the boat upon the
ground. Kit turned it over, and with the painter and another line,
slung it to the poles right side up. Ella seated herself in the barge,
and the soldiers lifted it up, placing the poles upon their shoulders.
The march was resumed, and occasionally Kit and Mr. Gracewood relieved
the men, so that it was not very hard work. We reached the river, and
embarked.

"Take care of yourself. There'll be a big fight to-morrer, and the
Injuns'll git squeezed."

"I will endeavor to take care of myself," I replied, as we pushed off.

Mr. Gracewood took the oars, and I was permitted to rest myself, after
the severe fatigue and excitement of the day.

"Is there any danger now, father?" asked Ella.

"No, child, I don't think there is," replied Mr. Gracewood.

"Do you think there is, Phil?" she added, appealing to me.

"No; but I should like to know where those two dugouts are."

"According to your story, one of them has gone adrift, and the other is
up this river," said Mr. Gracewood. "Is your rifle in order, Phil?"

"Yes, sir."

"Then keep a sharp lookout, Phil; and I think we shall be all right."

And we were all right till we reached a point near the mouth of Fish
River, where I discovered a dugout moving out into the Missouri, and
containing three men.




CHAPTER XVI.

IN WHICH PHIL ARRIVES AT THE CASTLE.


Mr. Gracewood was not rowing at the time I discovered the dugout, for
the swift current of the Missouri gave us sufficient headway, and the
oars were only used to keep the boat from whirling. Poor Ella, worn out
by the fatigues and perils of the day, had dropped asleep, her head
resting upon my shoulder. I only raised my hand, and pointed out the
position of the dugout. Mr. Gracewood understood me, and looked in the
direction indicated.

The three Indians in the boat were doubtless the ones who had visited
the island in the morning. I concluded that they had found the dugout
in which I had shot the savage, and which had probably grounded
somewhere in the shallow water. But the Indians were not coming towards
us, and I judged from their movements that they did not see us. The
dugout came into the great river, and then headed down the stream.

"Don't move," I whispered to Mr. Gracewood.

"But the current is carrying us upon them," he replied, his anxiety
apparent in his tones.

"If you can work her farther in shore without making any noise, do so,"
I added.

In paddling the dugout the Indians all faced ahead, instead of astern
as in rowing. We were under the shadow of the high bank of the river,
which was covered with wood. Mr. Gracewood carefully worked the barge
nearer to the bank, until I was able to grasp the branch of a tree
which had fallen down as the earth caved off beneath its roots. I held
it there, and in a moment more the dugout disappeared in the gloom.

"They are not looking for us," said Mr. Gracewood.

"No; but they have not come down here for nothing," I replied.

"What do you think they intend to do?"

"They fired at us as we were coming down the river. Possibly they
followed us, and saw us go up the Big Fish. Perhaps they think now that
there is no one at the Castle, and they can plunder it without
opposition. They will soon discover their blunder."

"But Mrs. Gracewood is there."

"So are the soldiers."

"They may capture her if she is in the Castle, while the soldiers are
encamped in the rear, not expecting an enemy on the river side."

"We need not stay here any longer," I added, letting go the branch, and
permitting the current to carry the barge down the stream. "Don't make
any noise with the oars, Mr. Gracewood."

"We must hurry forward and alarm the soldiers. They have no suspicion
that there are any Indians within many miles of them."

"What's the matter, father?" cried Ella, waking with a start.

"Hush! Ella. Don't make any noise. We are safe, and there is no
danger."

"What has happened?" she whispered, trembling with fear.

"Nothing has happened; but we saw three Indians go down the river. They
did not discover us, and there is nothing to fear. Don't be alarmed."

The barge floated down to the mouth of the Fish, and Mr. Gracewood,
using the oars very carefully, guided it to the landing, where we went
on shore. I hastened up the rising ground to ascertain if there was any
demonstration against the Castle. On the way, I heard old Firefly
neigh; and then I remembered that I had left him there when I started
to follow the Indians. The old fellow was very glad to see me, for he
probably did not like to be excluded from his warm stable, and robbed
of his supper.

I jumped upon his back, and rode down to the landing, where Mr.
Gracewood was hauling up his boat. My appearance on horseback startled
him and Ella, but the sound of my voice reassured them. I explained in
what manner I happened to be mounted so speedily.

"I will ride up to the Castle, and see that the soldiers are on the
lookout for those Indians," I added. "I will return with the wagon in a
few minutes, and carry you to the house."

"And leave us here alone?" said Mr. Gracewood.

"Do you think there is any danger?" I inquired.

"Those Indians may land here and discover us. For myself I don't care;
but I am afraid on account of Ella, who is too weak to run, how ever
great the peril."

"I will take her on the horse with me if you like," I suggested.

"But you may meet the savages, and a bullet from the cunning foe might
destroy all my hopes in this world."

"I will not leave you, then, sir; but I thought Ella was too feeble to
walk another mile."

"I could not walk a mile," added she, faintly.

"What shall we do, then?" I asked.

"We will go a little way with you."

Ella had sat so long in the barge that her limbs were stiff, and she
was unable to walk, even a short distance. Her father had lifted her
out of the boat, and seated her on a log.

"I could do nothing if the Indians came upon me, with my child in this
helpless condition. I will carry her in my arms a little way, and we
will conceal ourselves in the bushes. Go as quick as you can, Phil
Farringford," said the anxious father.

"I will not be absent long," I replied, as I urged Firefly forward.

The horse was anxious to reach his stable, and he galloped at the top
of his speed. I kept a wary lookout for the savages, as I approached
the Castle, but I saw none.

"Halt!" shouted a sentinel, placing himself in the road.

This vigilance on the part of the troops assured me the Castle was in
no danger of a surprise, and I reined in my steed.

"Who goes there?" demanded the guard.

"Friend, in a tremendous hurry," I replied.

"Advance, friend in a tremendous hurry, and give the countersign."

"I have no countersign; but I am Phil Farringford."

"O, the young fellow that belongs here!"

"Yes; and by this time there are three Indians in a dugout in front of
you. Stir up your men, and send two or three of them down towards the
landing. Mr. Gracewood and his daughter are there, and the Indians may
find them."

"Has the girl been found?"

"Yes; but I can't stop to talk. Wake up your officer."

I hurried Firefly to the barn, and dismounted.

"Who is it? What has happened?" asked Mrs. Gracewood, in trembling
tones, as she came towards the stable.

"It's only Phil," I replied. "All right, Mrs. Gracewood."

"Where have you been? I was afraid the Indians had caught you."

"I have been after Ella."

"O, have you heard anything from her?" demanded she, choking with
emotion.

"Yes, we have heard from her. She's all right," I answered, as I throw
the harness upon Firefly.

"What do you mean? Don't deceive me, Phil."

"I won't, Mrs. Gracewood. You shall see her yourself in ten minutes."

"Where is she?" gasped the poor mother, apparently unable to believe
the good news.

"She is down at the landing; but she is all worn out, and not able to
move a step. I am going down with the wagon after her."

"Do you really mean so?"

"Certainly I do, Mrs. Gracewood; and her father is with her."

"Father in heaven, I thank thee!" exclaimed she, fervently, sobbing and
weeping.

"It's just as I tell you; but you had better go into the house, for
there are some Indians along the river somewhere."

"I am not afraid of them, if I can only see Ella."

By this time, the sentinel who had confronted me had passed the word to
the camp, and the soldiers were all under arms. A squad of them
hastened to the river, and presently I heard a couple of shots in that
direction. I had finished harnessing the horses, and was putting old
Matt's bed upon the wagon for Ella to lie upon, when Lieutenant
Jackson, the officer in command of the detachment, rushed up to me.

"What is the matter?" he demanded. "Are we attacked?"

"There are three Indians on the river. I suppose your men are firing at
them. Here is an order from Lieutenant Pope," I added, handing him the
paper, and jumping upon the wagon, where Mrs. Gracewood had already
placed herself. "We have recovered the young lady, and I am going down
to the landing after her."

"But I wish to know----"

"Well, I can't stop now to talk, sir."

"I will go with you;" and he leaped upon the wagon.

"I advise you to take two or three more with you. You may capture the
three Indians your men are firing at now."

He called three of his men, who joined us in the wagon, and I drove off
as fast as I could make the horses go.

"Where did you see Lieutenant Pope?" asked Mr. Jackson.

"At his camp on the Big Fish. You must keep those three Indians from
going up the Fish River if you can."

"Why so?"

But the violent jolting of the wagon prevented me from talking, and him
from hearing; so I deferred my explanation till a more convenient
season. In a few minutes, I stopped the horses a short distance from
the landing, when Mr. Gracewood hailed me from a clump of bushes. I
felt relieved when I saw that Ella and he were safe. I helped the
trembling mother out of the wagon, and conducted her to the spot.

"My child! O, Ella!" cried Mrs. Gracewood, as she bent over the form of
her daughter.

"I am safe, mother," she replied, faintly.

They sobbed and wept in each other's arms till Mr. Gracewood
interposed, and then we placed the sufferer on the bed in the wagon.

"Now, lieutenant, if you will let one of your men drive the horses up
to the Castle, I will tell how the land lies here," said I, when the
party was ready to start.

Mr. Jackson ordered one of the soldiers to go with the wagon, and
return with it; but Mr. Gracewood preferred to drive himself while Ella
was a passenger. As the team started, I walked with the officer and two
soldiers down to the landing. I imparted all the information I had
obtained, including the movements of the Indians who had captured Ella.

"You are a plucky little fellow to stand up and shoot down an Indian:
but I think you would have done better if you had called me, instead of
following the Indians yourself," said Lieutenant Jackson.

"I don't think so. We might have gone a dozen miles before we found
them, if I had lost sight of them. The three Indians went down the
river just as we came in sight. I heard your men fire at them. Now you
must not let them go up the Fish, for they will carry information to
the large party up that river, and spoil the plan of Lieutenant Pope."

"You are right, my boy," replied the officer, as he posted his two men
where they could see the dugout as it approached.

"You will have a big fight to-morrow," I added.

"I should think so from what you say; but I haven't read my orders
yet."

"Hark!"

I heard the splashing of paddles in the river below us, and I concluded
that the three Indians who had failed in front of the Castle were
returning to Fish River.




CHAPTER XVII.

IN WHICH PHIL CONDUCTS THE SOLDIERS TO THE LINE OF DEFENCE.


I had a theory of my own in regard to the movements of the four Indians
who had come down the Crooked River in the two dugouts. The savages
were incensed against us because they had failed to obtain our horses,
and because we had shot two or three of their men in the skirmishes
which followed. This party had gone home and stirred up the Indians,
who were now upon the war-path. Mr. Gracewood had identified himself
with the defence of the Castle, and they had visited his island to
wreak their vengeance upon him, and obtain his property.

If he was at home, they would kill him; if not, they would appropriate
or destroy his property. Having disposed of him, if he were there, the
four Indians were to go down the river to the front of the Castle, and
when the main body appeared in the forest, make an attack on the river
side, or steal upon us in the night, and murder us in our sleep. At any
rate, these Indians knew that a large force of their own people were
coming down the Fish, and they were in some manner to assist them.

Lieutenant Jackson and myself went to the bank of the river, and soon
saw the dugout, two of the Indians in it paddling with all their might.
They had discovered their blunder, in part at least, when the soldiers
opened upon them. The fact that any one was awake at the Castle was
enough to turn them from their purpose, for they had not the courage to
stand up before the rifle of Kit Cruncher, whom they doubtless supposed
to be there.

"Give them a shot, Morgan," said the lieutenant to one of his men.

The soldier fired, but without effect, except to alarm the Indians.

"Why didn't you hit them?" added the officer, as the savages turned the
dugout from the shore, and paddled with renewed zeal towards the
opposite side of the great river.

"So I would if they would hold still long enough for me to cover them,"
replied the soldier.

The other man fired, but with no better success, so far as we could
discover. Before they could reload their pieces, the dugout was too far
off to warrant the wasting of any more powder and lead.

"You will not see them again to-night," said I, as the Indians
disappeared in the gloom.

"Can they get to the rear of our position by any other way than up this
river?" asked Lieutenant Jackson.

"Yes, sir, they can. They may go up Bear River to the lake, and cross
the country to the Fish," I replied. "But there are rapids between the
lake and the Missouri, and they would have to carry their boat half a
mile."

"Then I must put a guard at the mouth of the Bear."

"It will be the safest way," I added, as the soldier returned with my
team.

We drove back to the Castle, and I put up the horses. The lieutenant
sent a corporal and two men to the mouth of Bear River, two miles below
the Castle; and I was satisfied that the three Indians could not
possibly join the band which was moving down the Fish. We went into the
house together, where a cheerful fire of pitch wood was blazing on the
hearth. Poor Ella had dropped asleep, and her father and mother sat by
her bedside watching her heaving chest. They were very anxious about
her, though Mr. Gracewood declared that she suffered only from
exhaustion, and that rest would restore her.

The lieutenant read the order I had brought to him, and we left the
Castle, so as not to disturb Ella. By this time I was willing to
believe I was tired myself. I thought it must be nearly daylight, and
was surprised when the officer told me it was only twelve o'clock. It
seemed to me that I had lived a whole year since sundown. I was invited
to sleep in the lieutenant's tent, and I did sleep there in good
earnest till long after sunrise the next morning, when a soldier called
me.

"We are about ready to start, Phil," said Mr. Jackson. "My orders say
you are to be my guide."

"I must take care of my horses and pigs, and eat my breakfast."

"My men have fed your horses, and cleaned them. I thought you would be
very tired, and I had your work done for you," said the lieutenant.

"I was tired--that's a fact; but I am as good as new now."

"Mr. Gracewood says your breakfast is all ready."

"How is Ella?" I asked.

"She is better, but still very weak."

"Is she sick?"

"No, they say not; only worn out."

I went to the Castle, and was at once greeted with an outpouring of
thanks from father, mother, and daughter for what I had done the night
before. Ella, as the officer had said, was suffering only from stiff
limbs and over-fatigue. Mr. Gracewood had cooked our breakfast, and we
all sat down to the table. It was a happy family which gathered around
the board, and the father said a prayer of thanksgiving for the mercy
of God in sparing our lives during the perils of the preceding day and
night; and it was a prayer in which we all joined, in mind and heart.

The scene was a novel one to me. It was the first time in my life that
I had ever sat at table with women--the first family I had ever seen
together. I had read of such things, and my kind teacher had told me
all about the customs of civilized life. I thought that every family,
as father, mother, and children gathered together at table, or in the
evening, ought to be very happy. Still I knew it was not so, for even
the reunited husband and wife before me had quarrelled and separated.
People do not understand and appreciate their greatest blessings,
because they are so common; but I, who had never known a mother's
care,--at least not since my infancy,--could realize what a joy it was
to have a father and mother, and to be with them every day. It seemed
to me that I could never disregard the slightest wish of father or
mother, if I had them.

I ate a hearty breakfast, for even the pretty sentiment which was
flitting through my mind could not impair my appetite. When I went out
I found that the lieutenant had drawn up his force in the field, struck
his tents, and loaded his baggage upon my wagon. Firefly and Cracker
were harnessed, and I had only to take my seat on the load. The
soldiers had repaired the bridge over the brook, and everything was
ready for a start.

"Of course you leave a guard here, lieutenant," I said, as I took my
place on the wagon.

"I have detailed a corporal and three men to take care of the Castle,"
replied Mr. Jackson. "Do you think that is force enough?"

"Plenty, sir, if they keep their eyes wide open," I replied. "They have
only to guard the approach on the water side."

"All right. Attention--company! Shoulder arms! Right shoulder--shift!
Forward--march!"

The soldiers marched ahead, and I followed with the wagon. It was about
two miles to the point between the lake and the Little Fish, where the
detachment was to be posted, and in less than an hour we arrived at our
destination. We halted, and a sergeant and three men were sent forward
to scout the woods, and give the troops early intimation of the
approach of the enemy. The rest of the force was immediately set at
work in the erection of two breastworks--one near the river, and the
other between Kit's Brook and the lake. The first commanded the road on
the Little Fish, and the other the brook path.

"Don't your soldiers have any cannons?" I asked, after the lieutenant
had set the men at work.

"We have some mountain howitzers at the fort; but field-pieces are not
available for this bushwhacking service," replied Mr. Jackson. "I wish
we had a couple of howitzers here."

"Mr. Gracewood has what he calls a twelve-pounder."

"Indeed! Is it mounted?"

"It's on wheels, if that is what you mean."

"Do you know whether he has any ammunition for it?" asked the officer,
evidently much interested in the information I had given him.

"He has plenty of powder, and some tin cans----"

"Canister shot: just the thing for us," interposed the officer. "Is it
possible to have this gun brought down here?"

"I don't see why it isn't."

"It would be as good as twenty men to us in these breastworks. Couldn't
you take a couple of my men, and go after it?"

"Of course I could, and I will."

"You will do us a great service, for I may have to fight four times my
own force."

Two men were selected to go with me to the island, and taking them upon
the wagon, I drove back to the Castle. Mr. Gracewood readily gave me
permission to bring off the gun, but he wanted to know how I expected
to bring it over.

"In the boat," I replied.

"Do you mean my barge?"

"Yes, sir."

"How much do you think it weighs?" he asked, with a smile.

"I don't know--perhaps a hundred weight," I answered, comparing it with
a barrel of flour, which was my standard.

"Not less than six hundred," said he. "The barge will not carry it with
three of you besides; and if it would, you could not load it."

"I can get it over, I know," I replied, confidently, and rather pleased
to have a difficult problem to solve.

"Very well. The ammunition is in the blue box; and that will be a good
load for the barge."

"I will agree to get them both over here," I replied; and, jumping upon
the wagon, I drove down to the landing.

While I was securing the horses, the two soldiers put the barge into
the water. I was thinking all the time of the problem of transporting
the gun and ammunition. I was quite sure that I could do the job, and I
had my plan ready. I took a couple of axes from the shanty at the
landing, and we embarked. One of the soldiers rowed the boat.

"What are you going to do with the axes, Phil?" asked the soldier who
was seated in the bow.

"I thought we might want them, and so I brought them along," I replied,
not caring to discuss my plan with him.

"How big is the gun we are to bring?"

"Mr. Gracewood says it weighs about six hundred."

"Do you expect to bring a gun weighing six hundred in this little
boat?"

"We'll see," I replied.

"We are on a fool's errand."

"You wait and see."

"I think you are smart, Phil, after what you did last night; but you
might as well try to drink up the Missouri as to bring that gun in this
boat," persisted the soldier.

"Let Phil alone," said Morgan, the oarsman, who seemed to have more
confidence in my ability than his companion.

We landed at the south end of Paradise Island, because there were no
bluffs to interfere with our operations. Securing the boat, we walked
up the hill to the house. I was still thinking of the plan by which the
gun was to be transported to the main shore, when I was startled by the
crack of a rifle from the direction of the house.




CHAPTER XVIII.

