most awful of religious emotions came to have a trademark and market
value! In short, New York is the great business mart, the Vanity Fair of
the world, where everything is pushed by advertising and competition,
not even excepting the great moral enterprise of bringing in the
millennium; and in the first blast and blare of its busy, noisy
publicity and activity, I felt my inner spirits shrink and tremble with
dismay. Even the religion of this modern century bears the deep impress
of the trade-mark, which calendars its financial value.

I could not but think what the sweet and retiring Galilean, who in the
old days was weary and worn with the rush of crowds in simple old
Palestine, must think if he looks down now, on the way in which his
religion is advertised and pushed in modern society. Certain it is, if
it be the kingdom of God that is coming in our times, it is coming with
very great observation, and people have long since forgot the idea that
they are not to say "Lo, here!" and "Lo, there!" since that is precisely
what a large part of the world are getting their living by doing.

These ideas I must confess bore with great weight on my mind, as I had
just parted from my mother, whose last words were that whatever else I
did, and whether I gained anything for this life or not, she trusted
that I would live an humble, self-denying, Christian life. I must own
that for the first few weeks of looking into the interior management of
literary life in New York, the idea at times often seemed to me really
ludicrous. To be humble, yet to seek success in society where it is the
first duty to crow from morning till night, and to praise, and vaunt,
and glorify, at the top of one's lungs, one's own party, or paper, or
magazine, seemed to me sufficiently amusing. However, in conformity with
a solemn promise made to my mother, I lost no time in uniting myself
with a Christian body, of my father's own denomination, and presented a
letter from the Church in Highland to the brethren of the Bethany
Church.

And here I will say that for a young man who wants shelter, and
nourishment and shade for the development of his fine moral
sensibilities, a breakwater to keep the waves of materialism from
dashing over and drowning his higher life, there is nothing better, as
yet to be found, than a union with some one of the many bodies of
differing names and denominations calling themselves Christian Churches.
A Christian Church, according to the very best definition of the name
ever yet given, is a congregation of faithful men in which the pure word
of God is preached, and the sacraments duly ministered according to
Christ's ordinance; and making due allowance for all the ignorance, and
prejudice, and mistakes, and even the willful hypocrisy, which, as human
nature is, must always exist in such connections, I must say that I
think these Churches are the best form of social moral culture yet
invented, and not to be dispensed with till something more fully
answering the purpose has been tested for as long a time as they.

These are caravans that cross the hot and weary sands of life, and while
there may be wrangling and undesirable administration at times within
them, yet, after all, the pilgrim that undertakes alone is but a speck
in the wide desert, too often blown away, and withering like the leaf
before the wind.

The great congregation of the Bethany on Sabbath days, all standing up
together and joining in mighty hymn-singing, though all were outwardly
unknown to me, seemed to thrill my heart with a sense of solemn
companionship, in my earliest and most sacred religious associations. It
was a congregation largely made up of young men, who like myself were
strangers, away from home and friends, and whose hearts, touched and
warmed by the familiar sounds, seemed to send forth magnetic odors like
the interlocked pine trees under the warm sunshine of a June day.

I have long felt that he who would work his brain for a living, without
premature wear upon the organ, must have Sunday placed as a sacred
barrier of entire oblivion, so far as possible, of the course of his
week-day cares. And what oblivion can be more complete than to rise on
the wings of religious ordinance into the region of those diviner
faculties by which man recognizes his heirship to all that is in God?

In like manner I found an oasis in the hot and hurried course of my
week-day life, by dropping in to the weekly prayer-meeting. The large,
bright, pleasant room seemed so social and home-like, the rows of
cheerful, well-dressed, thoughtful people, seemed, even before I knew
one of them, fatherly, motherly, brotherly, and sisterly, as they joined
with the piano in familiar hymn-singing, while the pastor sat among them
as a father in his family, and easy social conversation went on with
regard to the various methods and aspects of the practical religious
life.

To me, a stranger, and naturally shy and undemonstrative, this socialism
was in the highest degree warming and inspiring. I do not mean to set
the praise of this Church above that of a hundred others, with which I
might have become connected, but I will say that here I met the types of
some of those good old-fashioned Christians that Hawthorne celebrates in
his "Celestial Railroad," under the name of Messrs. "Stick to the
Right," and "Foot it to Heaven," men better known among the poor and
afflicted than in fashionable or literary circles, men who, without
troubling their heads about much speculation, are footing it to Heaven
on the old, time-worn, narrow way, and carrying with them as many as
they can induce to go.

Having thus provided against being drawn down and utterly swamped in the
bread-and-subsistence struggle that was before me, I sought to gain a
position in connection with some paper in New York. I had offers under
consideration from several of them. The conductors of "The Moral
Spouting Horn" had conversed with me touching their projects, and I had
also been furnishing letters for the "Great Democracy," and one of the
proprietors had invited me to a private dinner, I suppose for the
purpose of looking me over and trying my paces before he concluded to
purchase me.

Mr. Goldstick was a florid, middle-aged man, with a slightly bald head,
an easy portliness of manner, and that air of comfortable patronage
which men who are up in the world sometimes carry towards young
aspirants. It was his policy and his way to put himself at once on a
footing of equality with them, easy, jolly, and free; justly thinking
that thereby he gained a more unguarded insight into the inner citadel
of their nature, and could see in the easy play of their faculties just
about how much they could be made to answer his purposes. I had a
chatty, merry dinner of it, and found all my native shyness melting away
under his charming affability. In fact, during the latter part of the
time, I almost felt that I could have told him anything that I could
have told my own mother. What did we not talk about that is of interest
in these stirring times? Philosophy, history, science, religion, life,
death, and immortality--all received the most graceful off-hand
treatment, and were discussed with a singular unanimity of
sentiment--that unanimity which always takes place when the partner in a
discussion has the controlling purpose to be of the same mind as
yourself. When, under the warm and sunny air of this genial nature, I
had fully expanded, and confidence was in full blossom, came the
immediate business conversation in relation to the paper.

"I am rejoiced," said Mr. Goldstick, "in these days of skepticism to
come across a young man with real religious convictions. I am not, I
regret to say, a religious professor myself, but I appreciate it, Mr.
Henderson, as the element most wanting in our modern life."

Here Mr. Goldstick sighed and rolled up his eyes, and took a glass of
wine.

I felt encouraged in this sympathetic atmosphere to unfold to him my
somewhat idealized views of what might be accomplished by the daily
press, by editors as truly under moral vows and consecrations, as the
clergymen who ministered at the altar.

He caught the idea from me with enthusiasm, and went on to expand it
with a vigor and richness of imagery, and to illustrate it with a
profusion of incidents, which left me far behind him, gazing after him
with reverential admiration.

"Mr. Henderson," said he, "The Great Democracy is not primarily a
money-making enterprise--it is a great moral engine; it is for the great
American people, and it contemplates results which look to the complete
regeneration of society."

I ventured here to remark that the same object had been stated to me by
the Moral Spouting Horn.

His countenance assumed at once an expression of intense disgust.

"Is it possible," he said, "that the charlatan has been trying to get
hold of you? My dear fellow," he added, drawing near to me with a
confidential air, "of course I would be the last man to infringe on the
courtesies due to my brethren of the press, and you must be aware that
our present conversation is to be considered strictly confidential."

I assured him with fervor that I should consider it so.

"Well, then," he said, "between ourselves, I may say that The Moral
Spouting Horn is a humbug. On mature reflection," he added, "I don't
know but duty requires me to go farther, and say, in the strictest
confidence, you understand, that I consider The Moral Spouting Horn a
swindle."

Here it occurred to me that the same communication had been made in
equal confidence, by the proprietor of The Moral Spouting Horn in
relation to The Great Democracy. But, much as I was warmed into
confidence by the genial atmosphere of my friend, I had still enough
prudence to forbear making this statement.

"Now," said he, "my young friend, in devoting yourself to the service of
The Great Democracy you may consider yourself as serving the cause of
God and mankind in ways that no clergyman has an equal chance of doing.
Beside the press, sir, the pulpit is effete. It is, so to speak," he
added, with a sweep of the right hand, "nowhere. Of course the
responsibilities of conducting such an organ are tremendous,
tremendous," he added, reflectively, as I looked at him with awe; "and
that is why I require in my writers, above all things, the clearest and
firmest moral convictions. Sir, it is a critical period in our history;
there is an amount of corruption in this nation that threatens its
dissolution; the Church and the Pulpit have proved entirely inadequate
to stem it. It rests with the Press."

There was a solemn pause, in which nothing was heard but the clink of
the decanter on the glass, as he poured out another glass of wine.

"It is a great responsibility," I remarked, with a sigh.

"Enormous!" he added, with almost a groan, eyeing me sternly.
"Consider," he went on, "the evils of the tremendously corrupted
literature which is now being poured upon the community. Sir, we are
fast drifting to destruction, it is a solemn fact. The public mind must
be aroused and strengthened to resist; they must be taught to
discriminate; there must be a just standard of moral criticism no less
than of intellectual, and that must be attended to in our paper."

I was delighted to find his views in such accordance with my own, and
assured him I should be only too happy to do what I could to forward
them.

"We have been charmed and delighted," he said, "with your contributions
hitherto; they have a high moral tone and have been deservedly popular,
and it is our desire to secure you as a stated contributor in a
semi-editorial capacity, looking towards future developments. We wish
that it were in our power to pay a more liberal sum than we can offer,
but you must be aware, Mr. Henderson, that great moral enterprises must
always depend, in a certain degree, on the element of self-sacrifice in
its promoters."

I reflected, at this moment, on my father's life, and assented with
enthusiasm--remarking that "if I could only get enough to furnish me
with the necessaries of life I should be delighted to go into the
glorious work with him, and give to it the whole enthusiasm of my
soul."

"You have the right spirit, young man," he said. "It is delightful to
witness this freshness of moral feeling." And thus, before our interview
was closed, I had signed a contract of service to Mr. Goldstick, at very
moderate wages, but my heart was filled with exulting joy at the idea of
the possibilities of the situation.

I was young, and ardent; I did not, at this moment, want to make money
so much as to make myself felt in the great world. It was the very
spirit of Phæton; I wanted to have a hand on the reins, and a touch of
the whip, and guide the fiery horses of Progress.

I had written stories, and sung songs, but I was not quite content with
those; I wanted the anonymous pulpit of the Editor to speak in, the
opportunity of being the daily invisible companion and counselor of
thousands about their daily paths. The offer of Mr. Goldstick, as I
understood it, looked that way, and I resolved to deserve so well of him
by unlimited devotion to the interests of the paper, that he should open
my way before me.




CHAPTER XIII.

BACHELOR COMRADES.


I soon became well acquainted with my collaborators on the paper. It was
a pleasant surprise to be greeted in the foreground by the familiar face
of Jim Fellows, my old college class-mate.

Jim was an agreeable creature, born with a decided genius for gossip. He
had in perfection the faculty which phrenologists call individuality. He
was statistical in the very marrow of his bones, apparently imbibing all
the external facts of every person and everything around him, by a kind
of rapid instinct. In college, Jim always knew all about every student;
he knew all about everybody in the little town where the college was
situated, their name, history, character, business, their front door and
their back door affairs. No birth, marriage, or death ever took Jim by
surprise; he always knew all about it long ago.

Now, as a newspaper is a gossip market on a large scale, this species of
talent often goes farther in our modern literary life than the deepest
reflection or the highest culture.

Jim was the best-natured fellow breathing; it was impossible to ruffle
or disturb the easy, rattling, chattering flow of his animal spirits. He
was like a Frenchman in his power of bright, airy adaptation to
circumstances, and determination and ability to make the most of them.

"How lucky!" he said, the morning I first shook hands with him at the
office of the Great Democracy; "you are just on the minute; the very
lodging you want has been vacated this morning by old Styles; sunny
room--south windows--close by here--water, gas, and so on, all correct;
and, best of all, me for your opposite neighbor."

I went round with him, looked, approved, and was settled at once, Jim
helping me with all the good-natured handiness and activity of old
college days. We had a rattling, gay morning, plunging round into
auction-rooms, bargaining for second-hand furniture, and with so much
zeal did we drive our enterprise, seconded by the co-labors of a whom
Jim patronized, that by night I found myself actually settled in a home
of my own, making tea in Jim's patent bachelor tea-kettle, and talking
over his and my affairs with the freedom of old cronies. Jim made no
scruple in inquiring in the most direct manner as to the terms of my
agreement with Mr. Goldstick, and opened the subject succinctly, as
follows:

"Now, my son, you must let your old grandfather advise you a little
about your temporalities. In the first place; what's Old Soapy going to
give you?"

"If you mean Mr. Goldstick," said I----

"Yes," said he, "call him 'Soapy' for short. Did he come down handsomely
on the terms?"

"His offers were not as large as I should have liked; but then, as he
said, this paper is not a money-making affair, but a moral enterprise,
and I am willing to work for less."

"Moral grandmother!" said Jim, in a tone of unlimited disgust. "He
be--choked, as it were. Why, Harry Henderson, are your eye-teeth in such
a retrograde state as that? Why, this paper is a fortune to that man; he
lives in a palace, owns a picture gallery, and rolls about in his own
carriage."

"I understood him," said I, "that the paper was not immediately
profitable in a pecuniary point of view."

"Soapy calls everything unprofitable that does not yield him fifty per
cent. on the money invested. Talk of moral enterprise! What did he
engage you for?"

I stated the terms.

"For how long?"

"For one year."

"Well, the best you can do is to work it out now. Never make another
bargain without asking your grandfather. Why, he pays me just double;
and you know, Harry, I am nothing at all of a writer compared to you.
But then, to be sure, I fill a place you've really no talent for."

"What is that?"

"General professor of humbug," said Jim. "No sort of business gets on in
this world without that, and I'm a real genius in that line. I made Old
Soapy come down, by threatening to 'rat,' and go to the Spouting Horn,
and they couldn't afford to let me do that. You see, I've been up their
back stairs, and know all their little family secrets. The Spouting
Horn would give their eye-teeth for me. It's too funny," he said,
throwing himself back and laughing.

"Are these papers rivals?" said I.

"Well, I should 'rayther' think they were," said he, eyeing me with an
air of superiority amounting almost to contempt. "Why, man, the thing
that I'm particularly valuable for is, that I always know just what will
plague the Spouting Horn folks the most. I know precisely where to
stick a pin or a needle into them; and one great object of our paper is
to show that the Spouting Horn is always in the wrong. No matter what
topic is uppermost, I attend to that, and get off something on them. For
you see, they are popular, and make money like thunder, and, of course,
that isn't to be allowed. Now," he added, pointing with his thumb
upward, "overhead, there is really our best fellow--Bolton. Bolton is
said to be the best writer of English in our day; he's an A No. 1, and
no mistake; tremendously educated, and all that, and he knows exactly to
a shaving what's what everywhere; he's a gentleman, too; we call him the
Dominie. Well, Bolton writes the great leaders, and fires off on all the
awful and solemn topics, and lays off the politics of Europe and the
world generally. When there's a row over there in Europe, Bolton is
magnificent on editorials. You see, he has the run of all the rows they
have had there, and every bobbery that has been kicked up since the
Christian era. He'll tell you what the French did in 1700 this, and the
Germans in 1800 that, and of course he prophesies splendidly on what's
to turn up next."

"I suppose they give him large pay," said I.

"Well, you see, Bolton's a quiet fellow and a gentleman--one that hates
to jaw--and is modest, and so they keep him along steady on about half
what I would get out of them if I were in his skin. Bolton is
perfectly satisfied. If I were he, I shouldn't be, you see. I say,
Harry, I know you'd like him. Let me bring him down and introduce him,"
and before I could either consent or refuse, Jim rattled up stairs, and
I heard him in an earnest, persuasive treaty, and soon he came down with
his captive.

I saw a man of thirty-three or thereabouts, tall, well formed, with
bright, dark eyes, strongly-marked features, a finely-turned head,
and closely-cropped black hair. He had what I should call
presence--something that impressed me, as he entered the room, with
the idea of a superior kind of individuality, though he was simple in
his manners, with a slight air of shyness and constraint. The blood
flushed in his cheeks as he was introduced to me, and there was a
tremulous motion about his finely-cut lips, betokening suppressed
sensitiveness. The first sound of his voice, as he spoke, struck on my
ear agreeably, like the tones of a fine instrument, and, reticent and
retiring as he seemed, I felt myself singularly attracted toward him.

What impressed me most, as he joined in the conversation with my
rattling, free and easy, good-natured neighbor, was an air of patient,
amused tolerance. He struck me as a man who had made up his mind to
expect nothing and ask nothing of life, and who was sitting it out
patiently, as one sits out a dull play at the theater. He was
disappointed with nobody, and angry with nobody, while he seemed to have
no confidence in anybody. With all this apparent reserve, he was simply
and frankly cordial to me, as a new-comer and a fellow-worker on the
same paper.

"Mr. Henderson," he said, "I shall be glad to extend to you the
hospitalities of my den, such as they are. If I can at any time render
you any assistance, don't hesitate to use me. Perhaps you would like to
walk up and look at my books? I shall be only too happy to put them at
your disposal."

We went up into a little attic room whose walls were literally lined
with books on all sides, only allowing space for the two southerly
windows which overlooked the city.

"I like to be high in the world, you see," he said, with a smile.

The room was not a large one, and the center was occupied by a large
table, covered with books and papers. A cheerful coal-fire was burning
in the little grate, a large leather arm-chair stood before it, and,
with one or two other chairs, completed the furniture of the apartment.
A small, lighted closet, whose door stood open on the room, displayed a
pallet bed of monastic simplicity.

There were two occupants of the apartment who seemed established there
by right of possession. A large Maltese cat, with great, golden eyes,
like two full moons, sat gravely looking into the fire, in one corner,
and a very plebeian, scrubby mongrel, who appeared to have known the
hard side of life in former days, was dozing in the other.

Apparently, these genii loci were so strong in their sense of
possession that our entrance gave them no disturbance. The dog unclosed
his eyes with a sleepy wink as we came in, and then shut them again,
dreamily, as satisfied that all was right.

Bolton invited us to sit down, and did the honors of his room with a
quiet elegance, as if it had been a palace instead of an attic. As soon
as we were seated, the cat sprang familiarly on the table and sat down
cosily by Bolton, rubbing her head against his coat-sleeve.

"Let me introduce you to my wife," said Bolton, stroking her head. "Eh,
Jenny, what now?" he added, as she seized his hands playfully in her
teeth and claws. "You see, she has the connubial weapons," he said, "and
insists on being treated with attention; but she's capital company. I
read all my articles to her, and she never makes an unjust criticism."

Puss soon stepped from her perch on the table and ensconced herself in
his lap, while I went round examining his books.

The library showed varied and curious tastes. The books were almost all
rare.

"I have always made a rule," he said, "never to buy a book that I could
borrow."

I was amused, in the course of the conversation, at the relations which
apparently existed between him and Jim Fellows, which appeared to me to
be very like what might be supposed to exist between a philosopher and a
lively pet squirrel--it was the perfection of quiet, amused tolerance.

Jim seemed to be not in the slightest degree under constraint in his
presence, and rattled on with a free and easy slang familiarity,
precisely as he had done with me.

"What do you think Old Soapy has engaged Hal for?" he said. "Why, he
only offers him--" Here followed the statement of terms.

I was annoyed at this matter-of-fact way of handling my private affairs,
but on meeting the eyes of my new friend I discerned a glance of quiet
humor which re-assured me. He seemed to regard Jim only as another form
of the inevitable.

"Don't you think it is a confounded take-in?" said Jim.

"Of course," said Mr. Bolton, with a smile, "but he will survive it. The
place is only one of the stepping-stones. Meanwhile," he said, "I think
Mr. Henderson can find other markets for his literary wares, and more
profitable ones. I think," he added, while the blood again rose in his
cheeks, "that I have some influence in certain literary quarters, and I
shall be happy to do all that I can to secure to him that which he ought
to receive for such careful work as this. Your labor on the paper will
not by any means take up your whole power or time."

"Well," said Jim, "the fact is the same all the world over--the people
that grow a thing are those that get the least for it. It isn't your
farmers, that work early and late, that get rich by what they raise out
of the earth, it's the middlemen and the hucksters. And just so it is in
literature; and the better a fellow writes, and the more work he puts
into it, the less he gets paid for it. Why, now, look at me," he said,
perching himself astride the arm of a chair, "I'm a genuine literary
humbug, but I'll bet you I'll make more money than either of you,
because, you see, I've no modesty and no conscience. Confound it all,
those are luxuries that a poor fellow can't afford to keep. I'm a
sounding brass and a tinkling cymbal, but I'm just the sort of fellow
the world wants, and, hang it, they shall pay me for being that sort of
fellow. I mean to make it shell out, and you see if I don't. I'll bet
you, now, that I'd write a book that you wouldn't, either of you, be
hired to write, and sell one hundred thousand copies of it, and put the
money in my pocket, marry the handsomest, richest, and best educated
girl in New York, while you are trudging on, doing good, careful work,
as you call it."

"Remember us in your will," said I.

"Oh, yes, I will," he said. "I'll found an asylum for decayed authors of
merit--a sort of literary 'Hotel des Invalides.'"

We had a hearty laugh over this idea, and, on the whole, our evening
passed off very merrily. When I shook hands with Bolton for the night,
it was with a silent conviction of an interior affinity between us.

It is a charming thing in one's rambles to come across a tree, or a
flower, or a fine bit of landscape that one can think of afterward, and
feel richer for their its in the world. But it is more when one is in a
strange place, to come across a man that you feel thoroughly persuaded
is, somehow or other, morally and intellectually worth exploring. Our
lives tend to become so hopelessly commonplace, and the human beings we
meet are generally so much one just like another, that the possibility
of a new and peculiar style of character in an acquaintance is a most
enlivening one.

There was something about Bolton both stimulating and winning, and I lay
down less a stranger that night than I had been since I came to New
York.




CHAPTER XIV.

HAPS AND MISHAPS.


I entered upon my new duties with enthusiasm, and produced some
editorials, for which I was complimented by Mr. Goldstick.

"That's the kind of thing wanted!" he said; "a firm, moral tone, and
steady religious convictions; that pleases the old standards."

Emboldened by this I proceeded to attack a specific abuse in New York
administration, which had struck me as needing to be at once righted. If
ever a moral trumpet ought to have its voice, it was on this subject. I
read my article to Bolton; in fact I had gradually fallen into the habit
of referring myself to his judgment.

"It is all perfectly true," he remarked, when I had finished, while he
leaned back in his chair and stroked his cat, "but they never will put
that into the paper, in the world."

"Why!" said I, "if ever there was an abuse that required exposing, it is
this."

"Precisely!" he replied.

"And what is the use," I went on, "of general moral preaching that is
never applied to any particular case?"

"The use," he replied calmly, "is that that kind of preaching pleases
everybody, and increases subscribers, while the other kind makes
enemies, and decreases them."

"And you really think that they won't put this article in?" said I.

"I'm certain they won't," he replied. "The fact is this paper is bought
up on the other side. Messrs. Goldstick and Co. have intimate connection
with Messrs. Bunkam and Chaffem, who are part and parcel of this very
affair."

I opened my mouth with astonishment. "Then Goldstick is a hypocrite," I
said.

"Not consciously," he answered, calmly.

"Why!" said I, "you would have thought by the way he talked to me that
he had nothing so much at heart as the moral progress of society, and
was ready to sacrifice everything to it."

"Well," said Bolton, quietly, "did you never see a woman who thought she
was handsome, when she was not? Did you never see a man who thought he
was witty, when he was only scurrilous and impudent? Did you never see
people who flattered themselves they were frank, because they were
obtuse and impertinent? And cannot you imagine that a man may think
himself a philanthropist, when he is only a worshiper of the golden
calf? That same calf," he continued, stroking his cat till she purred
aloud, "has the largest Church of any on earth."

"Well," said I, "at any rate I'll hand it in."

"You can do so," he replied, "and that will be the last you will hear of
it. You see, I've been this way before you, and I have learned to save
myself time and trouble on these subjects."

The result was precisely as Bolton predicted.

"We must be a little careful, my young friend," said Mr. Goldstick, "how
we handle specific matters of this kind; they have extended relations
that a young man cannot be expected to appreciate, and I would advise
you to confine yourself to abstract moral principles; keep up a high
moral standard, sir, and things will come right of themselves. Now, sir,
if you could expose the corruptions in England it would have an
admirable moral effect, and our general line of policy now is down on
England."

A day or two after, however, I fell into serious disgrace. A part of my
duties consisted in reviewing the current literature of the day; Bolton,
Jim, and I, took that department among us, and I soon learned to
sympathize with the tea-tasters, who are said to ruin their digestion by
an incessant tasting of the different qualities of tea. The enormous
quantity and variety of magazines and books that I had to "sample" in a
few days brought me into such a state of mental dyspepsia, that I began
to wish every book in the Red Sea. I really was brought to consider the
usual pleas and tone of book notices in America to be evidence of a high
degree of Christian forbearance. In looking over my share, however, I
fell upon a novel of the modern, hot, sensuous school, in which glowing
coloring and a sort of religious sentimentalism were thrown around
actions and principles which tended directly to the dissolution of
society. Here was exactly the opportunity to stem that tide of
corruption against which Mr. Goldstick so solemnly had warned me. I made
the analysis of the book a text for exposing the whole class of
principles and practices it inculcated, and uttering my warning against
corrupt literature; I sent it to the paper, and in it went. A day or two
after Mr. Goldstick came into the office in great disorder, with an open
letter in his hand.

"What's all this?" he said; "here's Sillery and Peacham, blowing us up
for being down on their books, and threatening to take away their
advertising from us."

Nobody seemed to know anything about it, till finally the matter was
traced back to me.

"It was a corrupt book, Mr. Goldstick," said I, with firmness, "and the
very object you stated to me was to establish a just moral criticism."

"Go to thunder! young man," said Mr. Goldstick, in a tone I had never
heard before. "Have you no discrimination? are you going to blow us up?
The Great Democracy, sir, is a great moral engine, and the advertising
of this publishing house gives thousands of dollars yearly towards its
support. It's an understood thing that Sillery and Peacham's books are
to be treated handsomely."

"I say, Captain," said Jim, who came up behind us at this time, "let me
manage this matter; I'll straighten it out; Sillery and Peacham know me,
and I'll fix it with them."

"Come! Hal, my boy!" he said, hooking me by the arm, and leading me out.

We walked to our lodgings together. I was gloriously indignant all the
way, but Jim laughed till the tears rolled down his cheeks.

"You sweet babe of Eden," said he, as we entered my room, "do get quiet!
I'll sit right down and write a letter from the Boston correspondent on
that book, saying that your article has created a most immense sensation
in the literary circles of Boston, in regard to its moral character, and
exhort everybody to rush to the book-store and see for themselves. Now,
'hush, my dear, lie still and slumber,' while I do it."

"Why, do you mean to go to Boston?" said I.

"Only in spirit, my dear. Bless you! did you suppose that the Boston
correspondents, or any other correspondents, are there, or anywhere else
in fact, that they profess to be? I told you that I was the professor of
humbug. This little affair lies strictly in my department."

"Jim!" said I, solemnly, "I don't want to be in such a network of
chicanery."

"Oh, come, Hal, nobody else wants to be just where they are, and after
all, it's none of your business; you and Bolton are great moral
forty-pounders. When we get you pointed the right way for the paper you
can roar and fire away at your leisure, and the moral effect will be
prodigious. I'm your flying-artillery--all over the field everywhere,
pop, and off again; and what is it to you what I do? Now you see, Hal,
you must just have some general lines about your work; the fact is, I
ought to have told you before. There's Sillery and Peacham's books have
got to be put straight along: you see there is no mistake about that;
and when you and Bolton find one you can't praise honestly, turn it over
to me. Then, again, there's Burill and Bangem's books have got to be put
down. They had a row with us last year, and turned over their
advertising to the Spouting Horn. Now, if you happen to find a bad
novel among their books show it up, cut into it without mercy; it
will give you just as good a chance to preach, with your muzzle pointed
the right way, and do exactly as much good. You see there's everything
with you fellows in getting you pointed right."

"But," said I, "Jim, this course is utterly subversive of all just
criticism. It makes book notices good for nothing."

"Well, they are not good for much," said Jim reflectively. "I sometimes
pity a poor devil whose first book has been all cut up, just because
Goldstick's had a row with his publishers. But then there's this
comfort--what we run down, the Spouting Horn will run up, so it is
about as broad as it is long. Then there's our Magazines. We're in with
the Rocky Mountains now--we've been out with them for a year or two
and cut up all their articles. Now you see we are in, and the rule is,
to begin at the beginning and praise them all straight through, so
you'll have plain sailing there. Then there's the Pacific--you are to
pick on that all you can. I think you had better leave that to me. I
have a talent for saying little provoking things that gall people, and
that they can't answer. The fact is, the Pacific has got to come down
a little, and come to our terms, before we are civil to it."

"Jim Fellows"--I began,

"Come, come, go and let off to Bolton, if you have got anything more to
say;" he added, "I want to write my Boston letter. You see, Hal, I shall
bring you out with flying colors, and get a better sale for the book
than if you hadn't written."

"Jim," said I, "I'm going to get out of this paper."

"And pray, my dear Sir, what will you get into?"

"I'll get into one of the religious papers."

Jim upon this leaned back, kicked up his heels, and laughed aloud. "I
could help you there," he said. "I do the literary for three religious
newspapers now. These solemn old Dons are so busy about their
tweedle-dums and tweedle-dees of justification and election, baptism and
church government, that they don't know anything about current
literature, and get us fellows to write their book notices. I rather
think that they'd stare if they should read some of the books that we
puff up. I tell you, Christy's Minstrels are nothing to it. Think of it,
Hal,--the solemn Holy Sentinel with a laudatory criticism of Dante
Rosetti's "Jenny" in it--and the Trumpet of Zion with a commendatory
notice of Georges Sand's novels." Here Jim laughed with a fresh impulse.
"You see the dear, good souls are altogether too pious to know anything
about it, and so we liberalize the papers, and the publishers make us a
little consideration for getting their books started in religious
circles."

"Well, Jim," said I, "I want to just ask you, do you think this sort of
thing is right?"

"Bless your soul now!" said Jim, "if you are going to begin with that,
here in New York, where are you going to end--'Where do you 'spect to
die when you go to?'--as the old darkey said."

"Well," said I, "would you like to have Dante Rosetti's "Jenny" put
into the hands of your sister or younger brother, recommended by a
religious newspaper?"

"Well, to tell the truth, Hal, I didn't write those notices. Bill Jones
wrote them. Bill's up to anything. You know every person in England and
this country have praised Dante Rosetti, and particularly "Jenny," and
religious papers may as well be out of the world as out of fashion,--and
so mother she bought a copy for a Christmas present to sister Nell. And
I tell you if I didn't get a going over about it!"

"I showed her the article in the Holy Sentinel, but it didn't do a bit
of good. She made me promise I wouldn't write it up, and I never have.
She said it was a shame. You see mother isn't up to the talk about high
art, that's got up now a days about Dante Rosetti and Swinburne, and
those. I thought myself that "Jenny" was coming it pretty strong,--and
honest now, I never could see the sense in it. But then you see I am not
artistic. If a fellow should tell a story of that kind to my sister, I
should horsewhip him, and kick him down the front steps. But he dresses
it up in poetry, and it lies around on pious people's tables, and nobody
dares to say a word because it's "artistic." People are so afraid they
shall not be supposed to understand what high art is, that they'll
knuckle down under most anything. That's the kind of world we live in.
Well! I didn't make the world and I don't govern it. But the world owes
me a living, and hang it! it shall give me one. So you go up to Bolton,
and leave me to do my work; I've got to write columns, and then tramp
out to that confounded water-color exhibition, because I promised Snooks
a puff,--I shan't get to bed till twelve or one. I tell you it's steep
on a fellow now."

I went up to Bolton, boiling, and bubbling and seething, with the spirit
of sixteen reformers in my veins. The scene, as I opened the door, was
sufficiently tranquilizing. Bolton sat reading by the side of his shaded
study-lamp, with his cat asleep in his lap; the ill-favored dog, before
mentioned, was planted by his side, with his nose upturned, surveying
him with a fullness of doggish adoration and complacency, which made his
rubbishly shop-worn figure quite an affecting item in the picture.
Crouched down on the floor in the corner, was a ragged, unkempt,
freckled-faced little boy, busy doing a sum on a slate.

"Ah! old fellow," he said, as he looked up and saw me. "Come in; there,
there, Snubby," he said to the dog, pushing him gently into his corner;
"let the gentleman sit down. You see you find me surrounded by my
family," he said. "Wait one minute," he added, turning to the boy in the
corner, and taking his slate out of his hand, and running over the sum.
"All right, Bill. Now here's your book." He took a volume of the
Arabian Nights from the table, and handed it to him, and Bill settled
himself on the floor, and was soon lost in "Sinbad the Sailor." He
watched him a minute or two, and then looked round at me, with a smile.
"I wouldn't be afraid to bet that you might shout in that fellow's ear
and he wouldn't hear you, now he is fairly in upon that book. Isn't it
worth while to be able to give such perfect bliss in this world at so
small an expense? I've lost the power of reading the Arabian Nights,
but I comfort my self in seeing this chap."

"Who is he?" said I.

"Oh, he's my washerwoman's boy. Poor fellow. He has hard times. I've set
him up in selling newspapers. You see, I try now and then to pick up one
grain out of the heap of misery, and put it into the heap of happiness,
as John Newton said."

I was still bubbling with the unrest of my spirit, and finally
overflowed upon him with the whole history of my day's misadventures,
and all the troubled thoughts and burning indignations that I had with
reference to it.

"My dear fellow," he said, "take it easy. We have to accept this world
as a fait accompli. It takes some time for us to learn how little we
can do to help or to hinder. You cannot take a step in the business of
life anywhere without meeting just this kind of thing; and one part of
the science of living is to learn just what our own responsibility is,
and to let other people's alone. The fact is," he said, "the growth of
current literature in our times has been so sudden and so enormous that
things are in a sort of revolutionary state with regard to it, in which
it is very difficult to ascertain the exact right. For example, I am
connected with a paper which is simply and purely, at bottom, a
financial speculation; its owners must make money. Now, they are not bad
men as the world goes--they are well-meaning men--amiable, patriotic,
philanthropic--some of them are religious; they, all of them, would
rather virtue would prevail than vice, and good than evil; they, all of
them, would desire every kind of abuse to be reformed, and every good
cause to be forwarded, that could be forwarded without a sacrifice of
their main object. As for me, I am not a holder or proprietor. I am
simply a servant engaged by these people for a certain sum. If I should
sell myself to say what I do not think, or to praise what I consider
harmful, to propitiate their favor, I should be a dastard. They
understand perfectly that I never do it, and they never ask me to.
Meanwhile, they employ persons who will do these things. I am not
responsible for it any more than I am for anything else which goes on in
the city of New York. I am allowed my choice among notices, and I never
write them without saying, to the best of my ability, the exact truth,
whether literary or in a moral point of view. Now, that is just my
stand, and if it satisfies you, you can take the same."

"But," said I, "It makes me indignant, to have Goldstick talk to me as
he did about a great self-denying moral enterprise--why, that man must
know he's a liar."

"Do you think so?" said he. "I don't imagine he does. Goldstick has
considerable sentiment. It's quite easy to get him excited on moral
subjects, and he dearly loves to hear himself talk--he is sincerely
interested in a good number of moral reforms, so long as they cost him
nothing; and when a man is working his good faculties, he is generally
delighted with himself, and it is the most natural thing in the world,
to think that there is more of him than there is. I am often put in mind
of that enthusiastic young ruler that came to the Saviour, who had kept
all the commandments, and seemed determined to be on the high road to
saintship. The Saviour just touched him on this financial question, and
he wilted in a minute. I consider that to be still the test question,
and there are a good many young rulers like him, who don't keep all
the commandments."

"Your way of talking," said I, "seems to do away with all moral
indignation."

He smiled, and then looked sadly into the fire--"God help us all," he
said. "We are all struggling in the water together and pulling one
another under--our best virtues are such a miserable muddle--and
then--there's the beam in our own eye."

There was a depth of pathos in his dark eyes as he spoke, and suddenly a
smile flashed over his features, and looking around, he said--

  "So, what do you think of that, my cat,
  And what do you think of that, my dog."




CHAPTER XV.

I MEET A VISION.


"I say, Hal, do you want to get acquainted with any of the P. G.'s here
in New York? If you do, I can put you on the track."

"P. G.'s?" said I, innocently.

"Yes; you know that's what Plato calls pretty girls. I don't believe you
remember your Greek. I'm going out this evening where there's a lot of
'em--splendid house on Fifth avenue--lots of tin--girls gracious. Don't
know which of 'em I shall take yet. Don't you want to go with me and
see?"

Jim stood at the looking-glass brushing his hair and arranging his
necktie.

"Jim Fellows, you are a coxcomb," said I.

"I don't know why I shouldn't be," said he. "The girls fairly throw
themselves at one's head. They are up to all that sort of thing.
Besides, I'm on the lookout for my fortune, and it all comes in the way
of business. Come, now, don't sit there writing all the evening. Come
out, and let me show you New York by gaslight."

"No," said I; "I've got to finish up this article for the Milky Way.
The fact is, a fellow must be industrious to make anything, and my time
for seeing girls isn't come yet. I must have something to support a wife
on before I look round in that direction."

"The idea, Harry, of a good-looking fellow like you, not making the most
of his advantages! Why, there are nice girls in this city that could
help you up faster than all the writing you can do these ten years. And
you sitting, moiling and toiling, when you ought to be making some
lovely woman happy!"

"I shall never marry for money, Jim, you may depend upon that."

"Bah, bah, black sheep," said Jim. "Who is talking about marrying for
money? A fine girl is none the worse for fifty thousand dollars, and I
can give you a list of twenty that you can go round among until you fall
in love, and not come amiss anywhere, if it's falling in love that you
want to do."

"Oh, come, Jim," said I, "do finish your toilet and be off with yourself
if you are going. I don't blame a woman who marries for money, since
the whole world has always agreed to shut her out of any other way of
gaining an independence. But for a man, with every other avenue open to
him, to mouse about for a rich wife, I think is too dastardly for
anything."

"That would make a fine point for a paragraph," said Jim, turning round
to me, with perfect good humor. "So I advise you to save it for the
moral part of the paper. You see, if you waste too much of that sort of
thing on me, your mill may run low. It's a deuced hard thing to keep the
moral agoing the whole year, you'll find."

"Well," said I, "I am going to try to make a home for a wife, by good,
thorough work, done just as work ought to be done; and I have no time to
waste on society in the meanwhile."

"And when you are ready for her," said Jim, "I suppose you expect to
receive her per 'Divine Providence' Express, ticketed and labeled, and
expenses paid. Or, may be she'll be brought to you some time by genii,
as the Princess of China was brought to the Prince of Tartary, when he
was asleep. I used to read about that in the Arabian tales."

I give this little passage of my conversation with Jim, because it is a
pretty good illustration of the axiom, that "It is not in man that
walketh to direct his steps." When we have announced any settled purpose
or sublime intention, in regard to our future course of life, it seems
to be the delight of fortune to throw us directly into circumstances in
which we shall be tempted to do what we have just declared we never will
do, and the fortunes of our lives turn upon the most inconsiderable
hinges.

Mine turned upon an umbrella.

The next morning I had business in the very lowermost part of the city,
and started off without my umbrella; but being weather-wise, and
discerning the face of the sky, I went back to my room and took it. It
was one of those little pet objects of vertu, to which a bachelor
sometimes treats himself in lieu of domestic luxuries. It had a
finely-carved handle, which I bought in Dieppe, and which caused it to
be peculiar among all the umbrellas in New York.

It was one of those uncertain, capricious days that mark the coming in
of April, when Nature, like a nervous beauty, doesn't seem to know her
own mind, and laughs one moment and cries the next with a perplexing
uncertainty.

The first part of the morning the amiable and smiling predominated, and
I began to regret that I had encumbered myself with the troublesome
precaution of an umbrella while tramping around down town. In this mood
of mind I sat at Fulton Ferry waiting the starting of the Bleecker
street car, when suddenly the scene was enlivened to my view by the
entrance of a young lady, who happened to seat herself exactly opposite
to me.

Now, as a writer, an observer of life and manners, I had often made
quiet studies of the fair flowers of modern New York society as I rode
up and down in the cars. In no other country in the world, perhaps, has
a man the opportunity of being vis-à-vis with the best and most
cultured class of young women in the public conveyances. In England,
this class are veiled and secluded from gaze by all the ordinances and
arrangements of society. They go out only in their own carriage; they
travel in reserved compartments of the railway carriages; they pass from
these to reserved apartments in the hotels, where they are served apart
in family privacy as much as in their own dwellings. So that the
stranger traveling in the country, unless he have introductions to the
personal hospitality of these circles, has almost no way of forming any
opinion even as to the external appearance of its younger women. In
France, a still stricter régime watches over the young, unmarried
girl, who is kept in the shade of an almost conventual seclusion till
marriage opens the doors of her prison. The young American girl,
however, of the better and of the best classes, is to be met and
observed everywhere. She moves through life with the assured step of a
princess, too certain of her position and familiar with her power even
to dream of a fear. She looks on her surroundings from above with the
eye of a mistress, and expects, of course, to see all things give way
before her, as in our republican society they generally do.

During the few months I had spent in New York I had diligently kept out
of society. The permitted silent acquaintance with my fair countrywomen
which I gained while riding up and down the street conveyances, became,
therefore, a favorite and harmless source of amusement. Not an item in
the study escaped me, not a feather in that rustling and wonderful
plumage of fashion that bore them up, was unnoted. I mused on styles,
and characteristics, and silently wove in my own mind histories to
correspond with the various physiognomies I studied. Let not the reader
imagine me staring point blank, with my mouth open, at all I met. The
art of noting without appealing to note, of seeing without seeming to
see, was one that I cultivated with assiduity.

Therefore, without any impertinent scrutiny, satisfied myself of the
fact that a feminine presence of an unusual kind and quality was
opposite to me. It was, at first glance, one of the New York princesses
of the blood, accustomed to treading on clouds and breathing incense.
There was a quiet savoir faire and self-possession as she sat down on
her seat, as if it were a throne; and there was a species of repressed
vitality and decision in all her little involuntary movements that
interested me as live things always do interest, in proportion to their
quantum of life. We all are familiar with the fact that there are some
people, who, let them sit still as they may, and conduct themselves
never so quietly, nevertheless impress their personality on those around
them, and make their presence felt. An attraction of this sort drew my
