alone in the hogshead. 


Bub sits down in the bottom of the hogshead 
and grits his teeth. He doesn't cry, you un- 
derstand. Not he. Used to cry when he got 
bit. And holler. But got so old he give it up. 
Lor. Ain't he glad none the other coves knows 
now. You bet. Hi-igh. 

All the foreheads of the buttercups and clovers 
seem dripping with sacred water, when Bub lifts 
his little aged yellow face with the dirt and 
blood and tobacco upon it, over — just over — 
the edge of the hogshead to see what became of 
the rat. The cheek of the sky blushes a sadder 
red for shame. The sleepy pine-trees stretch their 
arms out solemnly towards the little fellow. The 
cascades are at play with each other's hands and 
feet. The great pulse of the dam, as sad as life, 
as inexorable as death, as mysterious as both, 
beats confused meanings into the quiet time. 





" Lor," says Bub in the hogshead, looking out, 
half pausing for the instant with his gashed finger 
at his sly mouth, — " Lor, it 's goin' to be a boozier 
of a day. I 'll bet." 

But the bells have waked, with a cross cry, and 
Five Falls starts, to stand for eleven hours and a 
half upon its feet. The peaceful time has slipped 
and gone. The pine-trees rub their eyes and 
sigh. The pulse of the dam throbs feverishly 
fast. The sun dries the baptismal drops from the 
heads of the buttercups and clovers. The dew- 
laid streets fill and throng ; the people have dirty 
clothes and hurried faces ; the dust flies about ; 
the East Street tenements darken to the sight in 
the creeping heat, like the habit of old sins 
returned to darken a sad and sorry life ; you see 
that there are villanous stairs and no drains ; 
you hear coughing and confusion from the 
woman's bedchamber overhead. You see, too, 
that the spotless cheek of the sky is blackened 
now by the chimneys all about, and how still and 
patiently it lies to take the breath of the toil- 
worn town. 

Only those tiny cascades play — eternal children — 
upon a mother's bosom ; as if the heart 




of a little child, just for being the heart of a little 
child, must somehow, somewhere, play forever in 
the smile of an undying morning. 

By means of stopping to have his finger bound, 
and of a search in the bean-patch for the rat, and 
of another search in the cellar for the rat, and of 
the delay occasioned by a vindictive kick or two 
at the hogshead, and by forgetting his breakfast 
and remembering it, and going back for it to find 
that it is all eaten, if indeed there has ever been 
any, which the confusion in the sick-room ren- 
ders a probable theory, Bub is late this morning. 
Nynee was cross about the finger, too ; pulled 
the thread and hurt him ; wanted her own break- 
fast probably. Bub's little old face wears an extra 
shade of age and evil as he trots away to work, 
and he swears roundly by the way ; swears loud 
enough to be heard across the street, for Mr. 
Garrick, on his way to the station, turns his head 
to look after the child. Bub shies away ; has 
been a little skittish about Mr. Garrick, since they 
tried to put him to school and his father swore 
him off for ten years old. It is generally 
understood now in Hayle and Kelso that the firm 
occasionally pull in different ways ; Mr. Mell knows 





where to trace any unusual disturbance of his 
family government which is calculated to arrest 
a child's steady stride to ruined manhood ; every- 
body knows ; Mr. Garrick is unpopular accordingly. 
He has his friends among his work-people, 
chiefly of the kind that do not easily come to 
the surface. The young watchman at the Old 
Stone is one of them, you may be sure. But he 
is not a popular master so far. 

Bub, with his sly eyes, and tobacco-yellowed 
skin, and his pipe in his mouth, and the blood 
and dirt upon his clothes, and the little rag be- 
hind, and his old, old smile, trots away to the 
mills, whose open door has, to Mr. Garrick's 
fancy, an air of gaping after the child. 

" As a prison-door will do in the end," muses 
Mr. Garrick. 

He takes a note-book from his pocket, jotting 
something in it ; about the child, perhaps. He 
has been making an estimate this week of the 
suffering and profligate children in his mills. 
There is scarcely a vice on the statute-book 
which he has not found in existence among the 
little children in those mills. 

The leaf of the note-book turns, in closing, to 
recent entries, which run like this : — 




" Said the chaplain of an English prison, after 
showing the cost of ninety-eight juvenile crim- 
inals to the State, in six years, to have amounted, 
in various ways, to £ 6,063 ( 30;3 1 S) ' they have 
cost a sum of money which would have kept them 
at a boarding-school the whole time! 

" Said the Honorable, the late Clerk of the Police 
of Fall River, Mass., in answer to an inquiry as 
to the number of children in that town peculiarly 
exposed to a life of crime :....'! should say, 
after consulting the docket of our Police Court, 
and inquiring as to the subsequent expenses, that 
the cost of such juvenile offenders as ultimately 
reach the State Prison would average two hun- 
dred and fifty dollars. We have had some who 
have cost much more than this ; one as much as 
five hundred dollars.' " 

Mr. Garrick glances over them with his pecu- 
liar smile, just as Bub and the little wagging rag 
disappear in the yawn of the mill-door. 

There is another noticeable entry, by the way, 
in Mr. Garrick's note-book. It lies against Httlc 
Dib Docket's name : — 

" In H the Chief of the Pohce estimates the 

number of openly abandoned women at not less 





than seventy-five, besides an equal number of a 
less notorious and degraded class. ' They are,' 
said he, 'brought before the Police Court again 
and again. Most of them are under twenty years 
of age. They come from the country and the 
manufacturing towns. They are the children of 
drunken and vicious parents.' " 

Bub dips into the mouth of the door and crawls 
up the stairs on " all fours,'' so much, so very 
much like a little puppy ! He is a little afraid 
of his overseer, being so late. At the top of the 
stairs he loiters and looks down. In the blue 
distance beyond the windows, the cascades are 
just to be seen at their eternal play. 

The machinery is making a great noise this 
morning. The girls are trying to sing, but the 
engines have got hold of the song, and crunch 
it well. Bub, on the threshold of the spooling- 
room, stops with a queer little chuckle like a sigh. 

He wishes he needn't go in. It looks kinder 
jolly out. Lor ! don't it .' Would a'most go to 
school fur the sake uv gettin' out. But guesses 
he must be too old. 

Won't that boss jaw this mornin' ? He'll bet. 
Hi-igh ! 




The strain from down stairs struggles and faints 
as Bub goes in to work ; as if the engines had a 
mouthful of it, and were ready for more. 

The "boss" does. "jaw" this morning. Bub 
expects it, deserves it, bears it, hangs his head 
and holds his tongue, glad, on the whole, that it is 
no worse. A cuff or a kick would not surprise 
him. The overseer is a passionate man, of a race 
of passionate men ; an overseer by birthright ; 
comes from a family of them, modernized, in a 
measure, to be sure. He can remember when his 
father, being an overlooker in a Rhode Island mill, 
carried to work a leathern strap, with tacks 
inserted, for the flagellation of children. This man 
himself can tell you of children whom he has run, 
in some parts of the country, at night work, when 
the little creatures dropped asleep upon their 
feet, and he was obliged to throw water over 
them to keep them awake and at worL 

The girls down stairs are singing something 
this morning about a " Happy Day." Bub, dimly 
hearing, dimly wonders what ; having never had 
but one green boy at the Mission, does not know ; 
thinks it has a pretty sound, wishes the wheels 
would let it alone, hopes the boss is out of the way 





now, wishes he had a chew, finds himself out of 
tobacco, and recovers sufficiently from the 
mortification of the "jawing" to lift his little, wrinkled 
face — it seems as if it never before had borne 
such wrinkles - to see what he can do about it. 

Another little wrinkled face, old, yellow, sly, 
and sad, works close beside him. It has mouth 
and pockets full of quids. 

" Give us a chaw," says Bub. 

" Not much," says the little face, with a wink. 

" Seems as if I should choke ! " says Bub. " I 
must have a chaw. Bill." 

" You don't do none of my chawin'," says Bill, 
" less 'n five cents down." 

" Fact is," says Bub, ruefully, " I 'm out o' cash 
just now. Never you mind, though." 

Bub minds, however. He goes to work again 
with one eye on Bill. Bill's pocket is torn down. 
He must be green. You could a'most get a quid 
out and he 'd never know it. Bub watches his 
chance. He must have tobacco at any chance. 
The child lives upon it, like an old toper on his 
dram. Every inch of his little body craves it. 
He is in a dry, feverish heat. He thinks he shall 
burn up, if he does not get it. To work till 



nooning without it is not' to be thought of. He 
meant to have sold that rat to a chap he knew, 
and to have been supplied. 

Think a cove of his size can work all day 
without it ? You — bet — not — 

There is a spring and a cry. Bub has pounced 
upon Bill's torn pocket. Bill has backed, and 
dragged him. The wagging rag on Bub's little 
trousers has caught in a belt. 

All over the spooling-room there is a spring 
and a cry. 

All up the stairs there seems to be a spring 
and a cry. They come from the song about the 
Happy, Happy Day. The engines close teefh on 
the song_and the child together. 

They stop the machinery ; they run to and 
fro ; they huddle together ; they pick up 
something here, and wipe up something there, and 
cover up something yonder, closely ; they look 
at one another with white faces ; they sit down 
sickly ; they ask what is to do next. 

There is nothing to do. Bub has saved the 
State his two hundred and fifty dollars, and has 
Bill's quid of tobacco in his mangled hand. 
There is nothing to do. Life, like everything 





else, was quite too young for Bub. He has got 
so old, he has given it up. 

There is nothing to do but to carry the news 
now ; nobody likes to carry the news to the sick 
woman ; nobody offers ; the overseer, half wish- 
ing that there had been an oath or two less in 
the "jawing," volunteers to help about the — the 
— pieces, if they 'll find somebody to go on ahead. 
That's all he objects to ; goin' on ahead. 

Mr. Hayle the senior, who has been summoned 
from the counting-room, takes his hat to go in 
search of some one ; would go himself, but the 
fact is, he has never seen the woman, nor the 
father to know him by name, and feels a delicacy 
about obtruding his services. He mentions the 
matter to his son, but Maverick succinctly 
refuses ; remembers just now, for the first time 
since it happened, some long-past allusion of 
Miss Kelso's to a drain, and concludes that his 
personal sympathy can hardly be the most 
desirable to offer to Mr. Mell. 

Just without the mill-yard, bent upon some 
early errand of her own, the two gentlemen 
chance upon Perley. 



"Ask her" says the younger man, in a low 
voice ; " she would do to break ill news to the 
mother of the Maccabees." 

They pause to tell her what has happened ; 
their shocked faces speak faster than their slow 
words ; she understands quite what is needed of 
her ; has turned the corner to East Street, while 
their unfinished explanation hangs upon their 
decorous lips. 

The young man stands for a moment looking 
after her swift, strong, helpful figure, as it 
vanishes from view, with a sense of puzzled loss 
upon his handsome face, but shrugs his shoulders, 
and back in the counting-room shrugs them 
again. 

Perley is none too soon at the First Tenement 
and No. 6. 

The overlooker and his covered burden, and 
the little crowd that trails whispering after it, 
are just in sight, as she climbs the villanous 
stairs. 

The overlooker, and the covered burden, and 
the whispering crowd, are none too late at the 
First Tenement and No. 6. 

Mr. Mell comes out from the sick-room on 




tiptoe ; the children crouch and hide their faces 
behind the door ; the doctor, who has been, has 
gone, and the coughing and confusion are quite 
over. 

Mr. Mell stands still in the middle of the 
kitchen, with his hand at his ear. Whether he 
is listening to a thing which Perley says, — a 
gentle, awful thing, said in a gentle, awful voice, 
— or whether he is listening to certain sounds of 
feet upon the stairs, it were difficult to say. 

He stands still in the middle of the kitchen, 
with his hand behind his ear. 

The feet upon the stairs have climbed the 
stairs, have passed the stairs, have pass.ed the 
door, have paused. 

The overlooker, with his hat in his hand, has 
laid the covered burden softly down upon the 
mat behind the door, where the little burden, 
like a little puppy, slept last night. 

Mr. Mell sits down then in the nearest chair. 
He points at the open bedroom door. He seems 
to be weak from watching, and the hand with 
which he points trembles badly. 

" Do you see .' " he says. " Look there. See, 
don't ye ? I 'm glad ye didn't come ten minute 




sooner. It would ha' ben such a fretful thing for 
her. She would ha' greeted sair, I 'm feared. 
Keep the laddie well covered, will ye ? I wald 
na' like so much as her dead een to seem to see 
it. It would ha' ben sae fretful for her ; I wald 
na' likit to see her greetin' ower the laddie. I 
wald na likit yon ; keep him covered, will ye ? " 

It is very touching to hear the man mourn 
in the old long-disused Scotch words of his 
youth, and very touching to hear what a cry 
there is in the words themselves. 

But it is not heart-breaking, like the thing 
which he says in broad English, next. It is after 
the overlooker has gone, and the covered burden 
is laid decently upon a bed, and Perley has been 
busied in and out of the bedroom, and the chil- 
dren have been washed a little, and the " fust 
gell," crying bitterly over a cup of coffee which 
she is trying to make, has been comforted, and a 
cleanly silence has fallen upon the two rooms, 
and upon the two beds with their mute occupants. 
It is after he has sat stupidly still with his face 
in his hands. It is just as Perley, seeing nothing 
more that she can do for him, is softly shutting 
the door to go and find flowers for little Bub. 





Look a here. Say ! What damages do you 
think the mills 'II give me ? T 'd ought to have 
damages on the loss of the boy's wages. He was 
earniii reglar, and growin too. 

At the foot of the stairs Perley finds a girl 
with large eyes, and soiled blue ribbons on her 
hair, sitting and sobbing in her mill-dress, 
rubbing the dust about her pretty face. 

" I wouldn't sit here, Nynee," suggests Perley 
gently ; " go up and help your sister, and do not 
cry." 

" It seems as if everything fretful happened to 
me," sobs Nynee, pettishly. " The mills was bad 
enough. Then it was mother, and then it was 
somebody comin' in to tell me about Bub, and 
now it 's both of 'em. I wish I 'd tied up Bub's 
finger pleasant this morning. It 'll be fretfuller 
than ever to home now. I wish I was dead like 
them two ; yes, I do. I had other things that 
bothered me besides. I didn't want no more ! " 

" What other things .'' " asks Perley, very gently 
sitting down on the stairs, and very wisely taking 
no heed just now of the little miserable, selfish 
sobs. 

" O, different things. Things about some- 





body that I — like, and somebody that I don't 
like, and some folks that like some folks better 
than me. I was bothered to death before ! " cries 
Nynee. 

"Some time," says Perley, "you shall tell me all 
about them. Run up to your sister, npw." 

Nynee runs up, and Perley, in going foV Bub's 
flowers, thinks that she would rather gain the 
hearing of that little love-story, sitting on the 
dirty stairs, than to get the girl to church with 
her for a year to come. 







CHAPTER XI. 

GOING INTO SOCIETY. 

" DELIGHTED, Perley, I am sure, and shall 
 be sure to come. Nothing could give 
us greater pleasure than a day with you in your 
lovely. Quixotic, queer venture of a home. Mam- 
ma begs me, with her love and acceptance, to 
assure you that she appreciates," etc., etc. 

" As for my friends, the Van Doozles of New 
York, you know, (it is Kenna Van Doozle who is 
engaged to Mr. Blodgett,) they are charmed. It 
was just like you to remember them in your 
kind," etc. 

" And actually to see for ourselves one of your 
dear, benevolent, democratic, strong-minded
reunions, of which we have heard so much ! What 
could be more .' " etc. 

" I promise you that I will be very good and 
considerate of yowr proteges. I will wear nothing 
gayer than a walking-suit, and I will inform myself 





beforehand upon the ten-hour question, and I will 
be as charming as I know how, so that you shall 
not regret having honored me by," etc. 

" And now, my dear Perley, I cannot come to 
Five Falls without telling you myself what I 
should break my heart if you should hear from 
anybody but myself 

" I know that you must have guessed my little 
secret before now. But Maverick and I thought 
that we should like at least to pretend that it was 
a secret for a little while. 

" Ah, Perley, I see your great wise eyes smile ! 
Do you know, I suspect that you were too wise for 
him, dear boy ! He seems to think a little, fool- 
ish, good-for-nothing girl like me would make 
him happy. 

" And I know he wants me to say, dear Perley, 
how we have neither of us ever had any hardness 
in our hearts towards you, or ever can. How 
can we now .'' We are so very happy ! And I 
know how wise he thinks you still, and how 
good. So very good ! A great deal better than 
his ridiculous little Fly, I have no doubt ; but 
then, you see, we don't either of us mind that," 
etc., etc., etc. 



Fly's note preceded Fly by but a few hours, it 
so chanced. That evening Miss Kelso's parlors 
presented what Fly perhaps was justified in 
calling " such a dear, delightful, uncommon appear- 
ance." 

Kenna Van Doozle called it outrd. She was 
sitting on a sofa by Nynee Mell when she said so. 

It was a stifling July night, and closed a stifling 
day. Mrs. Silver, in the cars, on the Shore Line, 
and swept by sea breezes, had '' suffered agonies," 
so she said. Even in the close green dark of 
Miss Kelso's lofty rooms, life had ceased to be 
desirable, and the grasshopper had been a burden, 
until dusk and dew-fall. 

" In the houses from which my guests are 
coming to-night," she had said at supper, " the 
mercury has not been below 90°, day nor night, 
for a week." 

Her guests seemed to appreciate the fact ; 
shunned the hot lawn and garden, where a pretty 
show of Chinese lanterns and a Niobe at a 
fountain (new upon the grounds, this year) usually 
attracted them, and grouped in the preserved 
coolness of the parlor. 

Her guests, in those parlors, were worth a ride 
from town in the glare to meet. 





There were some thirty, perhaps, in all ; fami- 
lies, for the most part, just as they came. Mr. 
Mell, for instance, in decent clothes ; the " fust 
gell," with one of the children ; Nynee, in light 
muslin and bright ribbons ; old Bijah Mudge in 
a corner with little Dib Docket, — they sent Dib 
to the poorhouse by especial permit to bring 
him, always ; Catty, closely following the crisp 
rustle of the hostess's plain white dress (Sip was 
delayed, nobody knew just why) ; and Dirk Bur- 
dock, apart from the other young fellows, 
drifting restlessly in and out of the hot, bright lawn ; 
little knots of young people chattering over 
picture-racks ; a sound of elections and the evening 
news in other knots where their fathers stood with 
hands behind them ; the elder women easily 
seated in easy-chairs ; a tangle about the piano, 
where a young weaver was doing a young waltz 
very well. 

Now there was one very remarkable thing 
about these thirty people. With the exception 
of a little plainness about their dress (plainness 
rather than roughness, since in America we will 
die of bad drainage, but we will manage to have 
a " beat suit " when occasion requires) and an air 



of really enjoying themselves, they did not, after 
all, leave a very different impression upon the 
superficial spectator from that of any thirty peo- 
ple whom Fly Silver might collect at a musi- 
cale. 

The same faces at their looms to-morrow you 
could not identify. 

" I suppose they 're on their best behavior," 
suggested Fly, in an opportunity. 

" What have you and I been on all our lives ? " 
asked Perley, smiling. " One does not behave 
till one has a chance." 

" And not in the least afraid of us," observed 
Fly, with some surprise. " I was afraid we should 
make it awkward for them." 

" But how," asked Miss Van Doozle, with 
her pale eyes full of a pale perplexity, — " you 
are exceedingly original, I know, — but Aow, for 
instance, have you ever brought this about ? I 
had some such people once, in a mission class ; I 
could do nothing with them ; they pulled the fur 
out of my muff, and got up and left in the middle 
of the second prayer." 

" I have brought nothing about," said Perley, 
" They have brought themselves about. All that 





I do is to treat these people precisely as I treat 
you, Miss Van Doozle." 

" Ah ? " blankly from Miss Van Doozle. 

" For instance," said the hostess in moving 
away, " I get up thirty or so of those every fort- 
night. I don't know how this came here. Put it 
in your pocket, please." 

She tossed from the card-basket a delicate 
French envelope, of the latest mode of monogram 
and tint, enclosing a defective invitation in her 
own generous hand, running : — 

" Miss Kelso requests the pleasure of Mr. Mell's 
company at half past seven o'clock on Friday evening next. 

"July 15." 

" Perley," observed Mrs. Silver, pensively, 
" ought to have been a literary character. I have 
always said so ; haven't I, Fly ? " 

" Why, mamma ? " asked Fly. 

" That excuses so much always, my dear," softly 
said Mrs. Silver. 

There seemed to be some stir and stop in Miss 
Kelso's " evening," that hot Friday. Dirk Bur- 
dock, restlessly diving in and out of the lawn, 
finally found his hat, and, apparently at the host- 




ess's request, excused himself and disappeared. - 
The young weaver played the young waltz out, 
and politics in corners lulled. 

" It is a Victor Hugo evening," explained Miss 
Kelso to her friends from town, " and our reader 
has not come. We always manage to accomplish 
something. I wish you could have heard an 
essay on Burns from a Scotchman out of the 
printing-rooms, a fortnight ago. Or some of our 
Dickens readings. Something of that or this 
kind takes better with the men than a musical 
night ; though we have some fine voices, I assure 
you. I wish, Fly, you would play to us a little, 
while we are waiting." 

Fly, not quite knowing what else to do, but feel- 
ing surprisingly ill at ease, accomplished a sweet 
little thin thing, and was prettily thanked by 
somebody somewhere ; but still the reader had 
not come. 

It has been said, upon authority, that the 
next thing which happened was the Andante from 
the Seventh Symphony, Miss Kelso herself at 
the keys. 

Mrs. Silver looked at Miss Van Doozle. Miss 
Van Doozle looked at Mrs. Silver. 





" She has made a mistake," said Mrs. Silver's 
look. 

" The people cannot appreciate Beethoven," 
was Miss Van Doozle's look. 

Now, in truth, Beethoven could not have asked 
a stiller hearing than he and Miss Kelso com- 
manded out of those thirty work-worn factory- 
faces. 

The blind-mute Catty stood beside Miss Kelso 
while she played. She passed the tips of her 
fingers like feathers over the motion of Perley's 
hands. It was a privilege she had. She bent 
her head forward, with her lip dropped and dull. 

" When she plays," she often said to Sip, 
" there 's wings of things goes by." 

"What, wings ? " asked Sip. 

" I don't know — wings. When I catch, they 
fly." 

Miss Kelso's elegant white, without flaw or 
pucker of trimming, presented a broad and shin- 
ing background to the poor creature's puzzled 
figure. Catty seemed to borrow a glory from it, 
as a lean Byzantine Madonna will, from her 
gilded sky. Mrs. Silver fairly wiped her eyes. 

After Beethoven there was Nynee Mell, with a 





song or two in Scotch ; and then another stop 
and stir. The reader, they said, was coming. 

Fly Silver, in the pauses, had done very well. 
She was a good-hearted little lady, and nobody 
succeeded in being afraid of her. She had cate- 
chised Dib Docket a little, and effected a timid 
acquaintance with Bijah Mudge. The old man 
was in a wise dotage peculiarly his own. He 
came, however, regularly to Miss JCelso's " even- 
ings " ; enjoyed his saucer of ice-cream as much 
as any other child there ; and yet always managed 
to gather about him a little audience of men with 
frowns in their foreheads, who listened to his 
wild ravings with a kind of instinctive respect, 
which pleased the old fellow amazingly. 

He had a paper in his hand which he showed 
to Fly. He always had a paper in his hand. It 
was a petition to the Legislature of the State of 
Massachusetts, with illustrated margins of etch- 
ings in pen and ink. The designs ran all to
foliage, — indiscriminate underbrush at first glance ; 
upon examination, forests came out in rows ; upon 
study, hands came out from the forests, hundreds 
of them, from bough, from twig, from stem, from 
leaf. The forest on the left margin wrung its 





hands, it seemed. The forest on the right margin 
clapped them smartly. 

" What for ? " asked Fly, politely. 

" Is it not written," said the old man, solemnly, 
" that in that day all the trees of the field shall 
clap their hands ? " 

" But what about ? " persisted Fly. 

" The voice said, ' Cry ! ' " said Bijah, shrilly ; 
"and I said, 'What shall I cry?'" He lifted 
his petition to the Legislature of the State of 
Massachusetts in his shaking hand, and fixed his 
bleared eyes over it upon Fly's pretty, fright- 
ened face. " What shall I cry ? ' And thou 
saidst in thine heart, I shall be a lady forever ; so 
that thou didst not lay these things to thy heart, 
neither didst remember the latter end of it I ' " 

" O dear ! " said Fly, and rippled away. 

"A Hebrew prophet and a canary-bird," 
thought Perley, when she heard of it. 

Fly rippled out into the hall, where the stir 
and stop seemed to have centred. The hostess 
was there, talking to Sip Garth in a low tone. 
Dirk Burdock was there, having found Sip, he 
said, half-way over ; and a young Irish girl 
whom Sip had with her, a fine-featured little 





creature, with heavy sodden circles about her eyes 
and mouth. ' 

She was sorry to be so late, Sip was saying, 
"But Maggie 'd set her heart so on coming, you 
see ; and there she lay and fainted, and I have 
n't been able to bring her round enough to get 
over here till this minute. Her folks was all 
away, and I couldn't seem to leave her ; and 
she did so set her heart on coming ! She -has 
been carried in a faint out of the mill four times 
to-day — out into the air, and a dash of water — 
and back again ; and down again. The ther- 
mometer has stood at 115° in our room to-day. 
It hasn't been below 110° not since last Satur- 
day. It's 125° in the dressing-room. There's 
men in the dressing-room with the blood all 
gathered black about their faces, just from heat ; 
they look like men in a fit ; they 're all pur- 
ple. You 'd ought to see the clothes we wear ! — 
drenched like fine folks' bathing-clothes. I could 
virring mine out. We call it the lake of fire, — our 
room. That 's all I could think of since Sunday : 
the Last Day and the lake with all the folks in it. 
I haven't been in such a coolness not since I 
was here last time, Miss Kelso. It 's most as bad 
as hell to be mill-folks in July ! " 





"A blowzy, red-faced girl," Miss Van Doozle 
thought, when the reader came in. 

" My Lords ! " began the red-faced reader, " I 
impart to you a novelty. The human race ex- 
ists " . . . . 

" We have nothing so popular," whispered 
Miss Kelso, " as that girl's readings and recitations.
They ring well." 

" An unappreciated Siddons, perhaps ? " The 
pale Van Doozle eyes assumed the homoeopathic 
trituration of a sarcasm. The Van Doozle eyes 
were not used to Sip exactly. 

"I have thought that there might be greater 
than . Siddons in Sip," replied Miss Kelso,
musingly ; " but not altogether of the Siddons sort, I 
admit." 

Sip followed Miss Kelso, in the breaking up of 
the evening, after the books and the ices were 
out of the way. They had some plan about the 
little Irish girl already ; a week's rest at least. 
There was that family on the Shore Line ; and 
the hush of the sea ; where they took such care of 
poor Bert Bush. If Catty were well, Sip would 
take her down. 

" I know the girl. She must be got away till 





this drought 's over. She 'll work till the breath 
is out of her, but she 'll work ; has a brother in 
an insane asylum, and likes to pay his board. 
Maggie's obstinate as death about such things. 
You 'd ought to see her pushing back her hair 
and laughing out, when she come out of those 
faints to-day, and at it again, for all anybody 
could say. You wouldn't think that she 'd ever 
take to Jim, would you ? But got over it, I guess. 
Had a hard time, though. Look here ! I found 
a piece in a newspaper yesterday, and cut it out 
to show to you." 

Sip handed to Miss Kelso, with a smile, a slip 
from one of the leading city dailies, reading 
thus : — 

" What is generally written about Lorenzo fac- 
tory-girls is sensational and pure nonsense. They 
are described as an overworked class, rung up, 
rung out, rung in ; as going to their labors worn, 
dispirited, and jaded ; as dreading to meet their 
task-masters in those stifling rooms, where they 
have cultivated breathing as a iine art ; as
coming home from their thraldom happy but for 
thoughts of the resumption of their toil on the 
morrow. The fact is, sympathy has been offered 





where it was not needed. The officers of the mills 
and the girls themselves will tell you the tasks 
are not exhaustive. No one gets so tired that 
she cannot enjoy the evening, every thought 
of work dismissed. Her employment is such that 
constant attention is not demanded. She may 
frequently sit thinking of the past or planning 
for the future. She earns nearly four dollars per 
week, beside her board. The pleasantest rela- 
tions subsist between her and her overseer, who 
is frequently the depositary of her funds, who 
perhaps goes with her to buy her wedding or 
household outfit, who is her counsellor and pro- 
tector. Her step is not inelastic, but firm 

The mills are high studded, well ventilated, and 
scrupulously clean. The girls are healthy and well 
looking, and men and women, who have worked 
daily for twenty or thirty years, are still in
undiminished enjoyment of sound lungs and limbs." 

" I never was in Lorenzo," said Sip, drily, as 
Perley folded the slip, " but mills are mills. I 'd 
like to see the fellow that wrote that." 

Fly and her friends had sifted into the library, 
while Miss Kelso's guests were thinning. 

" This, I suppose," Mrs. Silver was sadly saying,
" is but a specimen of our poor dear Perley's 
life." 

" You speak as if she were dead and buried, 
mamma," said Fly, making a dazzling little heap 
of herself upon a cricketful of pansies. 

" So she is," affirmed Mrs. Silver, plaintively, 
— " so she , is, my dear, as far as Society is 
concerned, r have been struck this evening by the 
thought, what a loss to Society ! Why, Miss 
Kenna, I am told that this superb house has 
been more like a hospital or a set of public soup- 
rooms for six months past, than it has like the 
retiring and secluded home of a young lady. 
Those people overrun it. They are made wel- 
come to it at all hours and under all circum- 
stances. She invites them to tea, my dear! 
They sit down at her very table with her. I 
have known her to bring out Mirabeau from town 
to furnish their music for them. Would you 
credit it .'' Mirabeau ! In the spring she bought 
a Bierstadt. I was with her at the time. ' I 
have friends in Five Falls who have never seen 
a Bierstadt,' she said. Now what do you call 
that .' T call it morbid," nodded the lady, making 
soft gestures with her soft hands, — " morbid ! " 




" I don't suppose anybody knows the money 
that she has put into her libraries, and her model 
tenements, and all that, either," mused Fly, from 
her cricket. 

"It does well enough in that Mr. Garrick," 
proceeded Mrs. Silver, in a gentle bubble of de- 
spair ; "I don't object to fanatical benevolence in 
a man like him. It is natural, of course. He is 
self-made entirely ; twenty years ago might have 
come to Miss Kelso's evenings himself, you 
know. It is excusable in him, though awkward 
in the firm, as I had reason to know, when he 
started to build that chapel. Now there is 
another of poor Perley's freaks. What does 
she do but leave Dr. Dremaine's, where she 
had at least the dearest of rectors and the best 
pew-list in Five Falls, on the ground that the 
