and yesterday's purchases had come out of 
her twenty-five dollars. " A tea-kettle and 
what else ? " thought Matilda. " Some 
towels? She does dreadfully want some 
towels. But then I cannot get everything! " 
Slowly going towards the corner, with her 
eyes on the ground, her two hands were sud 
denly seized by somebody and she was 
brought to a stand-still. 
"Norton!" cried Matilda joyously. 
" Yes. What has become of you ? " 
"I have been so busy ! " 
School ? " said Norton. 
" O no ; I don't go to school. I have 
things to do at home." 
Things ! " said Norton. " Why don't 
you speak straight? What things ? your 
lessons ? " 
 
" I don't have lessons, Norton," said the 
child patiently, lifting her eyes to Norton's 
face. " My aunt gives me other things. to do." 
" Don't you have lessons at all ? " said 
Norton. 
" Not now. I wish I did." 
" Where are you going now, Pink ? " 
" Pink ! " echoed Matilda. 
" Yes, that's your name. Where are you 
going ? Come home with me." 
" I have got business, Norton." 
" You haven't got " said Norton peering 
round " Yes, I declare she has got that 
Bible tucked under her arm ! Are you going 
to see nobody again ? " 
Matilda nodded. 
" I'll go too," said Norton, " and find out 
what it all means. Give me the book, and 
I'll carry it." 
"But Norton!" said Matilda holding the 
Bible fast, " I would like to have you, but I 
am afraid you wouldn't like it." 
" Like what, Pink ? The Bible ? " 
 
" O no. O yes, I wish you did like that ; 
but I mean, where I am going." 
Do you like it ?" 
" I like to go. I don't like the place, Norton, for the place is very disagreeable." 
" So I should think. But I might like 'to 
go too, you know. I'm going to try." 
Matilda stood still and looked very dubious. 
" I'm going," Norton repeated laughing. 
" You want me to go, don't you ? " 
" Why I would like it very much, if you 
would not" 
"What? No, I will not," said Norton 
shaking his head. 
" But Norton, I am going into Mr. Forshew's, first." 
" Well ; I can go into Mr. Forshew's too. 
I've been'there before." 
" I am going to buy a tea-kettle." 
" I shall not interfere with that," said Nor 
ton. 
" But I am going to get a tea-kettle and 
take it along with me ; to Lilac lane." 
" What for ? They'll send it if you want 
it." 
" I want it immediately ; and Mr. Forshew's 
boy is never there when he is wanted, you 
know." 
" You want the tea-kettle immediately. You 
are not going to make tea immediately, are 
you?" 
" Exactly that, Norton. That is one of the 
things I am going to do. And the poor old 
woman I am going to see, has no tea-kettle." 
" Then I don't believe she has tea." 
" O yes, but I know she has tea, Norton." 
And bread and butter ? " 
" Yes, and bread and butter too," said Ma 
tilda, nodding her little head positively. 
Norton looked at her with a perfectly grave 
face. 
" It must be a very odd house," said he, " I 
don't see how you can be so sure of things." 
Matilda began to walk on towards the 
corner. 
" Who took her tea and bread and butter ? " 
said Norton. " I suppose you know, if you 
know the rest." 
" Of course, somebody must have done it," 
said Matilda hesitating. 
" I wonder if there was a Pink anywhere 
among the things," said Norton. " Did you 
see anything of it ? " 
Matilda could not help laughing, and they 
both laughed; and so they went into Mr. 
Forshew's shop. It was a little low shop, 
just on the corner ; but to be sure, there was 
a great variety and a good collection of things 
there. All sorts of iron things, and a great 
many sorts of tin things ; with iron dust and 
street dust plentifully overlying the shop and 
everything in it. Stoves were there in variety ; 
chains and brooms and coalskuttles ; coffee- 
mills and axes and lamps ; tin pails and 
earthen batter jars ; screws and nails and 
hinges and locks ; and a telegraph operator 
was at work in a corner. Several customers 
were there too ; Matilda had to wait. 
" It is odd now," said Norton. " I suppose, 
if I wanted to spend money here, I should buy 
everything else in the world but a tea-kettle. 
That's what it is to be a girl." 
" Nonsense ! " said Matilda, and the set of 
her head was inimitable. Norton laughed. 
" That's what it is to be a Pink," ' he said. 
" I forgot. I don't believe there is another 
girl in town wants a tea-kettle but you. 
What else do you want, Pink ? " 
" A great deal," said Matilda ; " but I can't 
get all I want." 
" You don't want an axe, for instance ; nor 
a coffee-mill ; nor a tin pail, nor an iron chain, 
nor a dipper; nor screws, nor tacks; nor a 
lamp, do you ? nor a box of matches " 
" O yes, Norton ! O yes, that is just what 
I do want ; a box of matches. I never should 
have thought of it." 
" How about stoves, Pink ? Here are 
plenty." 
" She has a stove. Don't be ridiculous, 
Norton." 
And Mr. Forshew being just then at lei- 
 
sure, Matilda purchased a little tin tea-kettle 
and came out with it in triumph. 
Now is that all ? " said Norton. " How 
about the bread and butter ? Perhaps it has 
given out." 
" No, I think not. I guess there is enough. 
Perhaps we had better take another loaf of 
bread, though. We shall pass the baker's on 
our way." 
" Have you got money enough for every 
thing you want, Pink ? does your aunt give 
you whatever you ask for ? " 
" O I never ask her for anything," said 
Matilda. 
" Take it without asking ? " 
" I do not ask, and she does not give me, 
Norton. But once she did, when she first 
came ; she gave me, each of us, twenty-five 
dollars. I have got that, all that is left of 
it." 
" How much is left of it ? " 
" Why, I don't know exactly. I spent four 
dollars for something else ; then eighty-five 
cents yesterday, and a dollar just, to-day. 
That makes " 
" Five eighty-five," said Norton. "And that 
out of twenty-five, leaves nineteen fifteen." 
" I've got that, then," said Matilda. 
" And no hope of more ? That won't do, 
Pink. Nineteen dollars won't last for ever at 
this rate. Here's the baker's." 
The bread Norton paid for and carried off; 
and the two stepped along briskly to Lilac 
lane. 
Matilda was very glad privately that she 
had swept Mrs. Eldridge's floor yesterday. 
The place looked so much the more decent ; 
though as it was, Norton cast his eyes around 
him whistling low, and Matilda knew well 
enough that he regarded it as a very odd 
place for either himself or Pink to find them 
selves in. 
" What's to be done now ? " he inquired of 
her, as she was putting the bread and matches 
on a shelf of the cupboard. 
" The first thing is to make a fire, Norton. 
 
I've got wood enough here. And the 
matches." 
" You have got " said Norton stooping to 
fetch out the sticks from the lower cupboard 
where Matilda had stowed them. " Did you 
get it ? Where did you get it ? " 
" Mr. Swain split it up for me, at the 
iron shop, you know." 
" Did you go to the iron shop for it ? And 
bring it back yourself? " 
" There was nobody else to do it," said 
Matilda. 
"You're a brick!" said Norton. "That's 
what I said. But is this all, Pink ? " 
" It is plenty, Norton." 
" Plenty for to-day. It won't last for any 
more. What then ? " 
I don't know," said Matilda. " O Norton, 
are you going to make the fire ? " 
Norton shewed that such was his intention, 
and shewed besides that he knew very well 
what he was about. Matilda, after looking 
on admiringly, ran off to the pump with her 
 
kettle. The pump was at some distance ; 
before she could fill her kettle and come back, 
Norton overtook her. He quietly assumed 
the tea-kettle as a matter of course. 
" O thank you, Norton ! how good you are," 
Matilda exclaimed. " It was heavy." 
" Look here. Do you come here to do this 
sort of thing all by yourself ? " said Norton. 
" I cannot help that," said Matilda. " And 
I like to do it, too." 
" You mustn't " said Norton. 
" Who will, then, Norton ? And the poor 
old woman cannot do anything for herself." 
" Isn't there somebody in the world to take 
care of her ? " 
" No ; nobody." 
" That's a shame. And I don't believe it, 
either." 
" O but there is nobody, Norton. She is 
quite alone. And if some one will not help 
her, she must go without everything." 
Norton said no more, but he looked very 
much disgusted with this state of society. 
 
He silently watched what Matilda was doing, 
without putting in any hinderance or hinting 
at any annoyance further ; which she thought 
was very good of him. Instead of that, he 
looked after the fire and lifted the kettle when 
it was needful. Matilda as yesterday made 
the tea and spread bread and butter and 
cooked a herring ; and then had the satisfaction of seeing the poor old woman luxuriating 
over what was to her a delicious meal. She 
had said very little since their coming in ; 
but eyed all they did, with a gradual relaxing 
of the lines of her face. Something like 
pleasure, something like comfort, was stealing 
into her heart and working to soften those 
hard lines. Matilda waited now until the 
meal should be quite finished before she 
brought forward anything of different interest. 
" That's a new kettle," was the first 
remark, made while Matilda was clearing 
away the remains of the supper. 
" How do you like it ? " said Norton. 
The old woman looked at him, she had 
done that a great deal already, and answered, 
Who be you ? " 
" I'm the fellow that brought the kettle 
from the shop," said Norton. 
Whose kettle is it ? " 
"It ought to be your's it's on your 
stove." 
"It is your's, Mrs. Eldridge," said Matilda. 
" Well, I hain't had a tea-kettle," said the 
old woman meditatively, " not since I 
declare, I don't know when 'twas. I hain't 
had a tea-kettle, not since my old un fell 
down the well. I never could get it out. 
That one hadn't no kiver." 
" Don't let this one get down in the well," 
said Norton. 
" I shan't go to the well no more," said 
Mrs. Eldridge. " When I had a place, and a 
well, and a bucket, it was good times ! 
That ain't my kettle." 
" Yes, Mrs. Eldridge, it is," said Matilda. 
" It is your's ; and it just fits the stove hole." 
" A kettle's a good thing," said the old 
woman. " It looks good." 
" Now would you like to have a little read 
ing again?" Matilda inquired, bringing out 
her Bible. 
" Have you got anything more about the 
what was it? I don' know what 'twas." 
" About the shepherd ? the Good Shep 
herd ? " 
" You may read a bit about that," said the 
old woman. " There ain't no shepherds now, 
is there ? " 
" Plenty of 'em," said Norton. 
" It don't seem as if there was no place for 
'em to keep the sheep. I don't see none. 
But he used for to be a shepherd ; and he 
took good care of 'em, he did." 
" The Lord Jesus is the Good Shepherd ; 
and he takes good care of his sheep," said 
Matilda. " He cares for them always. He 
cares for you, Mrs. Eldridge." 
The old woman made no answer to this ; 
but instead, sat with so meditative a look 
upon her face that Matilda, though she had 
her book open to read, forbore, and waited. 
" Did he send you ? " said Mrs. Eldridge. 
Norton glanced a quick look of amuse 
ment at Matilda, but Matilda simply answered. 
" Yes." 
" I didn't know as there was any one as 
cared," she said slowly. 
Matilda began to read, upon that; giving 
her the twenty-third psalm again ; then the 
tenth chapter of John ; finishing with one or 
two passages in the Revelation. Norton 
stood in the doorway while she read, looking 
out and looking in, very quiet; and Mrs. 
Eldridge sat and listened and gave tremulous 
shakes of her old head, and was very quiet too. 
" I must go now," said Matilda, when she 
had done and had paused a few minutes. 
" It has a good sound " said the old 
woman. 
" It's true " said Matilda. 
And she and Norton took their leave. 
Then began a joyous walk home. 
 
" Pink," said Norton, when they were got a 
little way from the house, " you made your 
tea in a tea-cup." 
" Yes ; there is only a wretched little tin 
tea-pot there, not fit to be used ; it is in such 
a state." 
" No spoons either? " 
" No, and no spoons. There is hardly any 
thing there at all, Norton." 
" I don't see how people come to be so 
poor," said Norton. 
"No, I don't," said Matilda. But she is 
old, you see, and cannot help herself, and has 
no one left that does care about her. Nobody 
in the world, I mean." 
" That house is in a tremendous condition," 
said Norton. " For dirt I mean." 
" Yes, I know it." 
" I don't see why somebody hasn't cleaned 
it before now." 
"Why Norton, who should do it? None 
of the neighbours care anything about her." 
Is she bad ? " 
" No, Norton ! not bad at all ; but they are 
poor too, and sick, some of them ; and they 
have their own work to do, and their own 
things to get, and they haven't anything to 
spare for her." 
" She was glad of that tea-kettle." 
"Wasn't she ! I could see that." 
" But I say, Pink ! I don't see how people 
come to be so poor. There's money enough." 
" For some people " said Matilda. 
" Money enough for everybody." 
" Perhaps, if it was divided " said Matilda. " But Norton, it isn't. The rich people have got it almost all." 
" Have they ? " said Norton. Then they 
ought to look out for such poor chaps as 
this." 
" So I think, Norton," said Matilda eagerly. 
" But Pink, you can't do it. You are only 
one, and you can't take care of all Lilac lane, 
to begin with. That's what I am thinking 
about." 
" No, not all the lane. But I can do something. I can read to Mrs. Eldridge, and 
Mrs. Rogers." 
" You can't buy tea-kettles, though, for 
Mrs. Eldridge and Mrs. Rogers, with the tea 
and the sugar and the bread and butter and 
the fish and the mutton chops they will all 
want. Your nineteen dollars will soon be 
gone at that rate." 
" Mutton chops ! " echoed Matilda. " Norton, they do not see anything so good as 
mutton chops." 
"They ought to," said Norton. "They 
have as much right as other folks." 
" But they can't, Norton." 
" Yes, they can, Pink. We'll take 'em some 
for once. They shall know how mutton 
tastes." 
" Oh Norton ! " said Matilda in a low 
voice of delight, " how good that would be ! " 
" But what I say" continued the boy with 
emphasis, " you cannot go on doing this. 
Tour money will not last." 
" I can do what I can," said Matilda softly. 
 
" But what's the use, Pink ? All you can 
do will just touch one old woman, perhaps, a 
few times; and then Lilac lane will not be 
any better off than it was. And anyhow, 
you only touch one. What's the use?" 
" Why the use of that one." 
" Yes, but it don't really make any difference to speak of, when you think of all the 
people that you cannot help. The world 
won't be any better don't you see? " 
"If I was the one to be helped, I should 
think it made a great deal of difference, Nor 
ton." 
Norton could not dispute that view of the 
case, though he whistled over it. 
" Pink, will you come and play croquet to 
morrow ? " 
" To-morrow ? I will see if I can," said 
Matilda, with a brightening face. 
" What's to hinder you ? " 
" I don't know that anything. If aunt 
Candy will let me." 
" Does she hinder you?" 
" Sometimes" Matilda said hesitating. 
What for ? " 
" I do not know. That puzzles me, Norton." 
" How does she hinder you ? " said the boy 
stopping short with a scowl upon his brow. 
" She won't let me go out, sometimes; I 
don't know why. Then besides, I have to 
spend a good deal of time reading to her, 
and darning stockings ; -and I have a great 
many other things to do, Norton." 
" Well, come to-morrow, Pink ; or I shall 
come after you. Hulloa! see that squirrel" 
And Norton set off on such a race and 
chase after the squirrel, that Matilda stopped 
to look on in sheer admiration. The race 
was not fruitful of anything however but 
admiration; and the rest of the way they 
hurried home. 
It was a trembling question with Matilda, 
could she go to play croquet the next day ? 
She could not go in her work dress ; and she 
feared to change her dress and so draw attention, lest her aunt should put a stop to her 
going out at all. She debated the matter a 
good deal, and finally concluded to make an 
open affair of it and ask leave. 
" To go to Mrs. Laval's," said Mrs. 
Candy, meditating. 
" Who is going to play croquet, besides 
you?" inquired Clarissa. 
" I do not think anybody is to be there 
besides me," said Matilda. 
" Well " said Mrs. Candy, " I suppose 
you had better go ; with my compliments 
and thanks to Mrs. Laval. Put on your 
white dress, Matilda, and I will tie a ribband 
round your waist." 
The white dress and the black ribband 
were duly put on, and Matilda set out ; very 
happy indeed ; only sorry that Maria was left 
behind. She got a glad welcome from Norton, who was at the iron gate watching foi 
her. And when she came to the door of 
the house, Matilda was fain to stand still and 
look, everything was so beautiful. It was 
very different from last winter, when the 
snow covered all the world. Now the grass 
was soft and green, cut short and rolled 
smooth, and the sunlight made it seem almost 
golden. The rose bushes were heavy and 
sweet with great cabbage roses and delicate 
white roses, and gay yellow roses made an 
elegant variety. Overhead the golden clusters 
of a laburnum tree dropped as if to meet 
them. Then there were pinks and violets 
and daisies ; and locust trees a little way off, 
standing between the house and the sun, 
made the air sweet with their blossoms. 
Every breath was charged with some delicious 
perfume or other. The house stood hospitably and gayly open in summer dress; the 
farm country lay rich in the sun towards 
the west ; and the mountains beyond, having 
lost all their white coating of snow long ago, 
were clothed in a kind of drapery of purple 
mist. 
" What's the matter ? " said Norton. 
" It's so beautiful ! " said Matilda. 
 
" O is that all ! Come in. Mamma wants 
to see you." 
In the house, over floors marble and 
matted, through rooms green with the light 
that came through the blinds, cool in shadow, 
but from which the world without looked like 
a glittering fairyland, so they went, passing 
from one to another, till they found the mistress of the house. She was not in the 
house, but in a deep wicker chair on the 
shady side of the verandah. 
" Here she is ! " the lady exclaimed as she 
saw them, throwing aside the book which 
had been in her hands, and drawing Matilda 
into her arms instead. " My dear child so 
you've come. Norton and I are very glad. 
How do you do ? You are thin." 
Am I ? " said Matilda. 
" I am afraid you are. What are you 
going to do ? play croquet ? it's too warm 
yet. Sit down here and have some strawberries first. Norton, you get her some strawberries." 
She put Matilda affectionately into a chair 
and took off her hat. 
"And how do you like croquet?" 
" O very much ! But I do not know how 
to play yet," said Matilda. 
" Norton will teach you." 
" Yes, ma'am," Matilda said with a happy 
look. 
" I think Norton is making a little sister 
of you," Mrs. Laval said tenderly, drawing 
her hand down Matilda's cheek. " Do you 
know, Norton once had a little sister as old 
as you ? " 
The lady's tone had changed. Matilda 
only looked, she dared not speak in answer 
to this. 
" I think he wants to make a sister of you," 
Mrs. Laval repeated wistfully, her hand dropping to Matilda's hand and taking hold of 
that. " How would you like to be Norton's 
sister?" 
" O I should like it very much ! " Matilda 
answered, half eagerly, but her answer 
 
touched with a soberness that belonged to 
the little sister and daughter that Norton and 
Mrs. Laval had lost. There was a delicate, 
sensitive manner about both her face and 
her voice as she spoke, perfectly intelligible 
to the eyes that were watching her; and the 
response to it was startling. For Mrs. Laval 
suddenly took the child in her arms, upon 
her lap, though Matilda never knew how 
she got there, and clasping her close, half 
smothered her with kisses ; some of which 
Matilda felt were wetted with tears. It was 
a passion of remembered tenderness and 
unsatisfied longing. Matilda was astonished 
and passive under caresses she could not 
return, so close was the clasp of the arms 
that held her, so earnest the pressure of the 
lips that seemed to devour every part of her 
face by turns. In the midst of this Norton 
came with the strawberries; and he too stood 
still and offered no interruption. But when 
a pause in Mrs. Laval's ecstasy gave him a 
chance, he said low, 
 
" Mrs. Beechey, mamma, and Miss Beecheys, 
are there." 
Mrs. Laval was quiet a moment, hiding 
her face in Matilda's neck ; then she put her 
gently down, rose up, and met some ladies 
who were coming round the corner of the 
verandah, with a tone and bearing so coo] 
and careless and light, that Matilda asked 
her ears if it was possible. The guests were 
carried off into the house ; Matilda and Nor 
ton were left alone. 
It was Matilda's turn then. She set down 
the plate of strawberries Norton had given 
her and hid her face in her hands. 
Norton bore this for a minute, and no 
more. Then one of his hands came upon 
one of Matilda's, and the other upon the 
other, very gently but decidedly suggesting 
that they should come down. 
" Pink ! " said he, " this may do for mamma and you, but it is very poor entertainment 
for me. Come ! leave that, and eat your 
strawberries, and let us go on the lawn. The 
sun will do now." 
 
Matilda felt that this was reasonable, and 
she put by her own gratification. Neverthe 
less her eyes and eyelashes were alt glittering 
when she lifted them up. 
" What has mamma done to you ? " said 
Norton wondering. " Here, Pink, do you 
like strawberries?" 
" If you please, Norton," said Matilda, 
" couldn't I have them another time ? I don't 
want them now." 
" Then they may wait till we have done 
playing," said Norton ; " and then I'll have 
some too. Now come." 
The great trees cast a flickering shadow on 
the grass before the house. Norton planted 
his hoops and distributed colours, and 
presently Matilda's sober thoughts were 
driven as many ways as the balls ; and they 
went very widely indeed. 
" You must take aim, Matilda ? " Norton 
cried. 
"At what?" 
" Why you must learn at what ; that's the 
 
game. You must fight. Just as I fight you. 
You ought to touch my ball now, if you can. 
I don't believe you can. You might try." 
Matilda tried, and hit it. The game went 
on prosperously. The sun got lower, and the 
sunbeams came more scattering, and the 
breeze just stirred over the lawn ; not enough 
to bend the little short blades of grass. Mrs. 
Laval's visiters went away, and she came out 
on the verandah to look at the children ; they 
were too much engaged to look at her. At 
last the hard fought battle came to an end. 
Norton brought out another plate of strawberries for himself along with Matilda's, and 
the two sat down on the bank under the 
locust trees to eat them. The sun was near 
going down beyond the mountains by this 
time, and his setting rays changed the purple 
mist into a bath of golden haze. 
" How nice and cold these are," said Matilda. 
" They have been in the ice. That makes 
things cold," observed Norton. 
 
" And being warm oneself makes them 
seem colder," said Matilda. 
" Why, are you warm, Pink ? " 
" Yes, indeed. I have had to fight you so 
hard, you know." 
" You did very well," said Norton in a 
satisfied tone. 
" Norton, how pretty it all is to-night." 
Norton eat strawberries. 
" Very different from Lilac lane," said 
Matilda looking at the china plate in her hand, 
on which the painting was very fine and 
delicate. 
" Rather different," said Norton. 
" Norton, I was thinking of what you said 
yesterday ; how odd it is that some people 
should be rich and others poor." 
" I am glad I am one of the first sort," said 
Norton, disposing of a very large strawberry. 
" But isn't it strange ? " 
" That is what I said, Pink." 
" It don't seem right," said Matilda thought 
fully 
" Yes, it does." 
" It doesn't to me." 
" How can you help it ? " 
" Why 7 cannot help it, Norton ; but if 
everybody that is rich chose, they could help 
it." 
"How?" 
" Don't you think they ought ? " 
" Well how, Pink ? If people were in 
dustrious and behaved right, they wouldn't 
be poor, you see." 
" O but, Norton, they would sometimes. 
There is Mrs. Eldridge, and there are the poor 
women at Mrs. Rogers' ; and a great many 
more like them." 
" Well if somebody hadn't behaved wrong," 
said Norton, " they wouldn't be so hard up." 
" O but that does not help them." 
Not much." 
" And they ought to be helped," said Matilda slowly, examining the painted flowers 
on the china in her hand, and remembering 
Mrs. Eldridge's cracked delf tea-cup. 
 
" That plate would buy up the whole concern where we were yesterday, wouldn't it? " 
Matilda looked up suddenly, at Norton's 
thus touching her thought ; but she did not 
like to pursue it. Norton however had no 
scruples. 
" Yes ; and these strawberries, I suppose, 
would feed her for a week the old woman, 
I mean. And one of our drawing room chairs 
would furnish her house, pretty near. Yes, I 
guess it would. And I really think one week 
of the coal we burned a few months ago 
would keep her, and Mrs. Rogers too, warm 
all winter. And I am certain one of mamma's dresses would clothe her for a year. 
Seems queer, don't it." 
" And she is cold and hungry and uncom 
fortable," said Matilda. The two looked at 
each other. 
" But then, you know, if mamma gave one 
of her dresses to clothe this old woman, sh'e 
would have to give another to clothe some 
other old woman ; and the end would be, she _ 
 
would have no dresses for herself. And if 
she tried to warm all the cold houses, she 
wouldn't have firing to cook her own dinner. 
You see it has to be so, Pink ; some rich and 
some poor. And suppose these strawberries 
had been changed into some poor somebody's 
dinner, I couldn't have had them to give to 
you. Do you see, Pink ? " 
" But O, Norton ! " Matilda began, and 
stopped. " These strawberries are very nice." 
" But you would rather turn them into 
mutton chops and give them away?" said 
Norton. " I dare say you would ! Wouldn't 
you ? " 
" Norton," said Matilda cautiously, " do 
you think anything I could have bought with 
that dollar would have given me so much 
pleasure as that tea-kettle yesterday?" 
" It was a good investment," said Norton. 
" But it is right to eat strawberries, Pink. 
Where are you going to stop ? " 
" I'll take Mrs. Eldridge some strawberries," 
said Matilda smiling, " when they get plenty." 
" Well, agreed," said Norton. " Let us 
take her some other things too. I've got 
money. Stop let me put these plates in 
the house and fetch a piece of paper ; then 
we'll see what we'll take her." 
Matilda sat while he was gone, looking at 
the golden mist on the mountains and dreaming. 
" Now," said Norton, throwing himself on 
the turf beside her, with his piece of paper, and 
thrusting his hand deep down in his pocket 
to get at his pencil, " now let us see what we 
will do." 
" Norton," said Matilda joyously, " this is 
better than croquet." 
Norton looked up with those bright eyes of 
his, but his reply was to proceed to business. 
" Now for it, Pink. What shall we do for 
the old lady ? What does she want  Pooh ! 
she wants everything ; but what to begin 
with ? " 
" Strawberries, you said." 
"Strawberries! Not at all. That's the 
 
last thing. I mean we'll fix her up, Pink. 
Now what does she want, to be comfortable. It is only one old woman ; but we 
shall feel better if she is comfortable. Or 
you will." 
" But what do you mean, Norton ? how 
much can we do ? " 
"Just as much as we've a mind to. I've 
got money, I tell you. Come ; begin. What 
goes down first ? " 
" Why Norton," said Matilda in an ecstasy, 
" it is like a fairy story." 
What ? " 
" This, that we are doing. It is like a fairy 
story exactly." 
" How is it like fairy stories ? " said Norton. 
"I don't know." 
" Did you never read fairy stories ? " 
" Never. What are they like ? " 
" Why some of them are just like this," 
said Matilda. " People are rich, and can do 
what they please; and they set out to get 
things together for a feast, or to prepare a 
 
palace for some princess ; and first one nice 
thing is got, and then another, and then something else ; until by and by you feel as if you 
had been at the feast, or seen the palace, or 
had done the shopping. I do." 
" This isn't for a princess," said Norton. 
, " No, nor a palace," said Matilda ; " but it 
seems just as good." 
" Go on, Pink ; let us quit princesses and 
get to the real business. What do you want 
to get, first thing ? " 
" First thing," said Matilda, " I think would 
be to get somebody to clean the house. 
There are only two little rooms. It wouldn't 
be much. Don't you think so, Norton ? " 
" As we cannot build a palace, and have it 
new, I should say the old one had better be 
cleaned." 
" Sabrina Rogers would do it, I dare say," 
Matilda went on ; " and maybe that would 
be something good for her." 
" Teach her to clean her own ? " said Norton. 
" Why no, Norton ; her own is clean. I 
meant, maybe she would be glad of the 
pay." 
" There's another princess, eh, that wants 
a palace ? " said Norton. " If we could, we 
would new build Lilac lane, wouldn't we ? 
But then, I should want to make over the 
people that live in it." 
" So should I ; and that is the hardest. 
But perhaps, don't you think the people 
would be different, if they had things different?" 
" I'm certain I should be different, if I
lived where they do," said Norton. " But go 
on, Pink ; let us try it on what's her name. 
We have only cleaned her house yet." 
" The first thing, then, is a bedstead, Norton." 
" A bedstead ! What does she sleep on ? " 
" On the floor; with rags and straw, and I 
think a miserable make-believe of a bed. No 
sheets, no blankets, nor anything. It is 
dreadful." 
 
" Rags and straw," said Norton. " Then 
a bedstead wants a bed on it, Pink ? and 
blankets or coverlets or something, and sheets, 
and all that." 
Matilda watched Norton's pencil as it 
noted the articles. 
" Then she wants some towels, and a basin 
of some sort to wash in." 
" Hm ! " said Norton. Herself, I hope ? " 
" Yes, I hope so. But she has nothing to 
make herself clean with." 
" Then a stand and basin and towels ; 
and a pitcher, Pink, I suppose, to hold 
water." 
" Yes, a pitcher or jug or something. We 
want to get the cheapest things we can. And 
soap." 
" Let's have plenty of that," said Norton, 
putting down soap. " Now then what 
next ? " 
" A little wooden table, Norton ? she has 
nothing but a chair to set her tea on." 
" A table. And a carpet ? " 
 
" O no, Norton ; that's not necessary. It 
is warm weather now. She does not want 
that. But she does want a pail for water. I 
have to take the tea-kettle to the pump." 
Norton at this laughed, and rolled over on 
the grass in his amusement. Having thus 
refreshed himself, he came back to business. 
" Has she got anything to go on her fire, 
except a tea-kettle ? " 
" Not much. A saucepan would be a very 
useful thing, and not cost much. I bought 
one the other day; so I know." 
" What's a saucepan ? " said Norton. " A 
pan to make sauce in ? " 
It was Matilda's turn to laugh. " Poor Mrs. 
Eldridge don't have many puddings, I guess
to make sauce for," she said. 
" Well Pink, now we come, don't we, to 
the eating line. We must stock her up." 
'' Put down a broom first, Norton." 
" A broom ! Here goes." 
" Yes, you can't think how much I have 
wanted a broom there. And a tea-pot. O 
yes, and a little milk pitcher, and sugar bowl. 
Can't we ? " 
" I should think we could," said Norton. 
Tea-cups ? 
" I guess not. She's got two ; and three 
plates. Now, Norton the eatables. What 
did you think of? " 
" I suppose there isn't anything in the 
house," said Norton. 
" Nothing at all except what we took 
there." 
u Then she wants everything." 
" But You see, Norton, she can't do any 
thing herself; she couldn't use some things. 
There would be no use." 
" No use in what ? " 
" Flour, for instance. She couldn't make 
bread." 
" I don't know anything about flour," said 
Norton. " But she can use bread when she 
sees it, I will take my affidavit." 
" O yes, bread, Norton. We will take her 
some bread ; and a little butter. And sugar. 
And tea. She has got some, but it won't 
last long." 
" And I said she should have a mutton 
chop." 
" I dare say she would like it." 
" I wonder if a bushel of potatoes wouldn't 
be the best thing of all." 
" Potatoes would be excellent," said Ma 
tilda delightedly. " I suppose she would be 
very glad of anything of that sort. Let's 
take her some cheese, Norton." 
" Cheese. And strawberries. And cake, 
Pink." 
" I am afraid we should be taking too much 
at once. We had better leave the cake to 
another time." 
" There's something we forgot," said Norton. " Mr. What's-his-name will not split up 
box covers for your fire every day ; we must 
send in a load of firing. Wood, I guess." 
" O how good!" said Matilda. " You see, 
Norton, she has had no wood to make a fire 
even to boil her kettle." 
" And no kettle to boil," added Norton. 
" So that she went without even tea. I 
don't know how she lived. Did you see how 
she enjoyed the tea yesterday ? " 
" Pink," said Norton, " do you expect to 
go there to make her fire every day?" 
" No, Norton, I cannot every day ; I can 
not always get away from home. But I was 
thinking I know some other girls that I 
guess would help ; and if there were several 
of us, you know, it would be very easy." 
" Well," said Norton, " we have fixed up 
this palace and princess now. What do you 
think of getting the princess a new dress or 
two ? " 
" O it would be very nice, Norton. She 
wants it." 
" Mamma will do that. Could you get it, 
Pink ? would you know how ? supposing 
your purse was long enough." 
" O yes, Norton. Of course I could ! " 
" Then you shall do it. Who will see to 
all the rest ? " 
 
" To buy the things, do you mean ? " 
" To buy them, and to choose them, and to 
get them to their place, and all that ? " 
" Why, you and I, Norton. Shan't we ? " 
" I think that is a good arrangement. The 
next question is, when? When shall we 
send the things there ? " 
" We must get the rooms cleaned. I will 
see about that. Then, Norton, the sooner 
the better ; don't you think so ? " 
" How is it in the fairy stories ? " 
" O, it's all done with a breath there ; that 
is one of the delightful things about it. You 
speak, and the genie comes ; and you tell him 
what you want, and he goes and fetches it ; 
there is no waiting. And yet, I don't know," 
Matilda added ; " I don't wish this could be 
done in a breath " 
" What ? " said a voice close behind her. 
The two looked up, laughing, to see Mrs. 
Laval. She was laughing too. 
" What is it, that is not to be done in a 
breath?" 
"Furnishing a palace, mamma (getting 
it cleaned first,) and setting up a princess." 
Mrs. Laval wanted to hear about it, and 
gradually she slipped down on the grass 
beside Matilda and drew an arm round her, 
while she listened to Norton's story. Norton 
made quite a story of it, and told his mother 
what Matilda had been doing the day before 
in Lilac lane, and what schemes they had 
presently on hand. Mrs. Laval listened 
curiously. 
" Dear, is it quite safe for you to go to such 
a place ? " she asked Matilda then. 
" O yes, ma'am." 
" But it cannot be pleasant." 
" O yes, ma'am ! " Matilda answered more 
earnestly. 
"How can it be?" 
" I thought it would not be pleasant, at 
first," said Matilda. "But I found it 
was." 
" What made it pleasant, dear ? " 
" If you saw the poor old woman, Mrs. 
 
Laval, and how much she wanted comfort, I 
think you would understand it." 
" Would you come and see me, if I wanted 
comfort? " the lady inquired. Matilda smiled 
at the possibility. Then something in Mrs. 
Laval's face reminded her that even with such 
a beautiful house and so rich abundance of 
things that money can buy, there might be a 
sad want of something that money cannot 
buy ; and she grew grave again. 
" Would you ? " Mrs. Laval repeated. 
And Matilda said yes. And Mrs. Laval 
again put her face down to Matilda's face and 
pressed her lips upon hers, again and again, 
as if she drew some sweetness from them. 
Not so passionately as the time before; yet 
with quiet earnestness. Then with one hand 
she stroked the hair from Matilda's forehead, 
and drew it forward, and passed her fingers 
through it ; caressing it in a tender, thoughtful 
way. Norton knelt on the grass beside them 
and looked on, watching and satisfied. Matilda was happy and passive. 
 
" Have you got money enough, love, for all 
you want to do ? " Mrs. Laval asked at 
length. 
" I haven't much," said Matilda ; " but 
Norton is going to help." 
" Have you got enough, Norton ? " 
" I guess so, mamma." 
Mrs. Laval put her hand in her pocket and 
drew out a little morocco pocket-book. She 
put it in Matilda's hand. 
" Norton shall not do it all," she said. "I 
don't know exactly how much is in this ; you 
can use what you choose on this fairy palace 
you and Norton are building." 
" O ma'am ! " Matilda began, flushing and 
delighted. Mrs. Laval stopped her mouth 
with a kiss. 
" But ma'am won't you please take out 
what you wish I should spend for Mrs. Eldridge " 
" Spend just what you like." 
" I might take too much," said Matilda. 
" It is all your's. Do just what you like 
 
