That would alter the case, Matilda thought. She sat back on her cushion
again and laid her head down as before. But then, what meant the Bible
words; "He that hath two coats, let him impart to him that hath none;
and he that hath meat, let him do likewise"? The Bible could not be
mistaken. Matilda was puzzled with the difficult question; and
presently the warm fire and her thoughts together were too much for
her. The eyelids drooped over her eyes; she was asleep. Mrs. Laval made
a sign to Norton to keep quiet. Her own fingers touched tenderly the
soft brown locks of the head which lay on her lap; but too softly to
disturb the sleeper.
"Mamma," said Norton softly, "isn't she a darling?"
"Hush!" said Mrs. Laval. "Don't wake her."
"She is perfectly fast asleep," said Norton. "She don't sham sleeping
any more than awake. Mamma, how will grandmamma like her?"
"She cannot help it," said Mrs. Laval.
"Aunt Judy won't," said Norton. "But mamma, she is twenty times
prettier than Judith Bartholomew."
"She is as delicate as a little wood flower," said Mrs. Laval.
"She has more stuff than that," said Norton; "she is stiff enough to
hold her head up; but I'll tell you what she is like. She is like my
Penelope hyacinth."
"Your Penelope hyacinth!" Mrs. Laval echoed.
"Yes; you do not know it, mamma. It is not a white hyacinth; just off
that; the most delicate rose pearl colour. Now Judy is like a purple
dahlia."
"Matilda is like nothing that is not sweet," said Mrs. Laval fondly,
looking at the little head.
"Well, I am sure hyacinths are sweet," said Norton. "Mamma, will you
let me teach her?"
"You will not have time."
"I will. I have plenty of time."
"What will you teach her?"
"Everything I learn myself--if you say so."
"Perhaps she would like better to go to school."
"She wouldn't," said Norton. "She likes everything that I say."
"Does she!" said his mother laughing. "That is dangerous flattery,
Norton."
"Her cheeks are just the colour of the inside of a pink shell," said
Norton. "Mamma, there is not a thing ungraceful about her."
"Not a thing," said Mrs. Laval. "Not a movement."
"And she is so dainty," said Norton. "She is just as particular as you
are, mamma."
"Or as my boy is," said his mother, putting her other hand upon his
bright locks. "You are my own boy for that."
"Mamma," Norton went on, "I want you to give Pink to me."
"Yes, I know what that means," said his mother. "That will do until you
get to school and are going on skating parties every other day; then
you will like me to take her off your hands."
Norton however did not defend himself. He kissed his mother, and then
stooped down and kissed the sleeping little face on her lap.
"Mamma, she is so funny!" he said. "She actually puzzles her head with
questions about rich and poor people, and the reforms there ought to be
in the world; and she thinks she ought to begin the reforms, and I
ought to carry them on. It's too jolly."
"It will be a pleasure to see her pleasure in New York."
"Yes, won't it! Mamma, nobody is to take her first to the Central Park
but me."
The questions about rich and poor were likely to give Matilda a good
deal to do. She had been too sleepy that night to think much of
anything; but the next day, when she was putting her five dollars in
her pocket-book, they weighed heavy.
"And this is only for November," she said to herself; "and December's
five dollars will be here directly; and January will bring five more.
Fifteen. How many shoes and boots must I get for that time?"
Careful examination shewed that she had on hand one pair of boots well
worn, another pair which had seen service as Sunday boots, but were
quite neat yet, and one pair of nice slippers. The worn boots would not
do to go out with Mrs. Laval, nor anywhere in company with Matilda's
new pelisse. "They will only do to give away," she concluded. They
would have seen a good deal of service in Shadywalk, if she had
remained there with her aunt Candy; Mrs. Laval was another affair. One
pair for every day and one pair for best, would do very well, Matilda
thought. Then gloves? She must get some gloves. How many?
She went to Mr. Cope's that very afternoon, and considered all the
styles of gloves he had in his shop. Fine kid gloves, she found, would
eat up her money very fast. But she must have them; nothing else could
be allowed to go to church or anywhere in company with Mrs. Laval, and
even Norton wore nothing else when he was dressed. Matilda got two
pair, dark brown and dark green; colours that she knew would wear well;
though her eyes longed for a pair of beautiful tan colour. But besides
these, Matilda laid in some warm worsted gloves, which she purposed to
wear in ordinary or whenever she went out by herself. She had two
dollars left, when this was done. The boots, Mrs. Laval had told her,
she was to get in New York; she could wait till December for them.
And now everybody was in a hurry to get to New York. The house was left
in charge of the Swiss servants. The grey ponies were sent down the
river by the last boat from Rondout. Matilda went to see Mrs. Eldridge
once, during these days of bustle and expectancy; and the visit
refreshed all those questions in her mind about the use of money and
the duties of rich people. So much work a little money here had done!
It was not like the same place. It was a humble place doubtless, and
would always be that; but there was cozy warmth instead of desolation;
and comfortable tidiness and neatness instead of the wretched condition
of things which had made Matilda's heart sick once; and the poor woman
herself was decently dressed, and her face had brightened up
wonderfully. Matilda read to her, and came away glad and thoughtful.
The farewell visit was paid at the parsonage the last thing; and on the
first of December the party set out to go to the new world of the great
city. It was a keen, cold winter's day; the sky bleak with driving grey
clouds; the river rolling and turbulent under the same wind that sped
them. Sitting next the window in the car, where she liked to sit,
Matilda watched it all with untiring interest; and while she watched
it, she thought by turns of Mr. Richmond's words the evening before.
Matilda had asked him how she should be sure to know what was right to
do always? Mr. Richmond advised her to take for her motto those
words--"Whatsoever ye do, in word or deed, do all in the name of the
Lord Jesus;"--and to let every question be settled by them. He said
they would settle every one, if she was willing they should. And now as
Matilda sat musing, she believed they would; but a doubt came up,--if
she lived by that rule, and all around her without exception went by
another rule, how would they get along? She was obliged to leave it;
she could not tell; only the doubt came up.
It seemed a long way to New York. After Poughkeepsie had been some time
left behind, Matilda began to think it was time to hear about the end
of the journey; but Norton told her they were only in the Highlands.
Matilda watched the changing shores, brown and cold-looking, till the
hills were left behind, and the river took a look she was more
accustomed to. Still Norton only laughed at her, when she appealed to
him; they were not near New York, he said; it was Haverstraw bay. It
seemed to take a great while to pass that bay and Tappan Sea. Then
Norton pointed out to her the high straight line of shore on the
opposite side of the river. "Those are the Palisades, Pink," he said;
"and when you see the Palisades come to an end, then New York is not
far off."
But it seemed as if the Palisades would never come to an end, in
Matilda's tired fancy. She was weary of the cars by this time, and
eager for the sight of the new strange place where her life was to be
for so long. And the cars sped on swiftly, and still the straight line
of the Palisades stretched on too. At last, at last, that straight line
shewed signs of breaking down.
"Yes," said Norton, to whom Matilda pointed this out,--"we'll soon be
in now, Pink."
Matilda roused up, to use her eyes with fresh vigilance. She noticed
one or two places where carts and men were busy, seemingly, with the
endeavour to fill up the North river; at least they were carrying out
loads of earth and dumping it into the water. She was tired of talking
by this time, and waited to ask an explanation till the roar of the
car-wheels should be out of her ears. They came to scattered buildings;
then the buildings seemed less scattered; then the train slackened its
wild rate of rushing on, and Matilda could better see what she was
passing. They were in a broad street at last, broader than any street
in Shadywalk. But it was dismal! Was this New York? Matilda had never
seen such forlorn women and children on the sidewalks at home. Nor ever
so much business going on there. Everybody was busy, except one or two
women lounging in a doorway. Carts, and builders, and hurried passers
by; and shops and markets and grocery stores in amazing numbers and
succession. But with a sort of forlornness about them. Matilda thought
she would not like to have to eat the vegetables or the meat she saw
displayed there.
Then came the slow stopping of the cars; and the passengers turned out
into the long shed of the station house. Here Norton left them, to go
and find the carriage; while Matilda lost herself in wonder at the
scene. So many people hurrying off, meeting their friends, hastening by
in groups and pairs, and getting packed into little crowds; such
numbers of coachmen striving for customers at the doors, with their
calls of "Carriage, sir?" "Carriage, ma'am?" pattering like hail. It
was wonderful, and very amusing. If this was only the station house of
the railway, and the coming in of one train, Matilda thought New York
must be a very large place indeed. Presently Norton came back and
beckoned them out, through one of those clusters of clamorous hackney
coachmen, and Matilda found herself bestowed in the most luxurious
equipage she had ever seen in her life. Surely it was like nothing but
the appointments of fairy land, this carriage. Matilda sunk in among
the springs as if they had been an arrangement of feathers; and the
covering of the soft cushions was nothing worse than satin, of dark
crimson hue. Nothing but very handsome dresses could go in such a
carriage, she reflected; she would have to buy an extremely neat pair
of boots to go with the dresses or the carriage either. It was Mrs
Lloyd's carriage; and Mrs. Lloyd was Mrs. Laval's mother.
The carriage was the first thing that took Matilda's attention; but
after that she fell to an eager inspection of the houses and streets
they were passing through. These changed rapidly, she found. The
streets grew broad, the houses grew high; groceries and shops were
seldomer to be seen, and were of much better air; markets disappeared;
carmen and carts grew less frequent; until at last all these
objectionable things seemed to be left behind, and the carriage drew up
before a door which looked upon nothing that was not stately. Up and
down, as far as Matilda could see, the street was clean and splendid.
She could see this in one glance, almost without looking, as she got
out of the carriage, before Norton hurried her in.
She felt strange, and curious; not afraid; she knew the sheltering arms
of her friends would protect her. It was a doubtful feeling, though,
with which she stepped on the marble floor of the hall and saw the
group which were gathered round Mrs. Laval. What struck Matilda at
first was the beautiful hall, or room she would have called it, though
the stairs went up from one side; its soft warm atmosphere; the rustle
of silks and gleam of colours, and the gentle bubbling up of voices all
around her. But she stood on the edge of the group. Soon she could make
more detailed observations.
That stately lady in black silk and lace shawl, she was Mrs. Laval's
mother; she heard Mrs. Laval call her so. Very stately, in figure and
movement too; a person accustomed to command and have her own way,
Matilda instinctively felt. Now she had her arms round Norton; she was
certainly very fond of him. The lady with lace in her gleaming hair,
and jewels at her breast, and the dress of crimson satin falling in
rich folds all about her, sweeping the marble, that must be Mrs.
Laval's sister. She looked like a person who did not do anything and
had not anything she need do, like Mrs. Laval. Then this girl of about
her own age, with a very bright mischievous face and a dress of sky
blue, Matilda knew who she must be; would they like each other, she
questioned? And then she had no more time for silent observations;
Norton called upon her, and pulled her forward into the group.
"Grandmamma, you have not seen her," he cried; "you have not seen one
of us. This is mamma's pet, and my--darling." It was evident the boy's
thought was of "daughter" and "sister," but that a tender feeling
stopped his tongue. Mrs. Lloyd looked at Matilda.
"I have heard of her," she said.
"Yes, but you must kiss her. She is one of us."
"She is mine," said Mrs. Laval meaningly, putting both arms around
Matilda and drawing her to her mother.
The stately lady stooped and kissed the child, evidently because she
was thus asked.
"Grandmamma, she is to have half my place in your heart," said Norton.
"Will you give it up to her?" Mrs. Lloyd asked.
"It is just as good as my having it," said Norton.
Perhaps he would have presented Matilda then to his aunt, but that lady
had turned off into the drawing room; and the travellers mounted the
stairs with Mrs. Lloyd to see their apartments and to prepare for
dinner. The ladies went into a large room opening from the upper hall;
Norton and the girl Matilda had noticed went bounding up the second
flight of stairs.
Mrs. Laval lay down on a couch, and said she would have a cup of tea
before dressing. While she took it, Mrs. Lloyd sat beside her and the
two talked very busily. Matilda, left to herself, put off her coat and
hat and sat down at the other side of the fire, for a fire was burning
in the grate, and pondered the situation. The house was like a palace
in a fairy tale, surely, she thought. Her eyes were dazzled with the
glimmer from gildings and mirrors and lamps hanging from the ceilings.
Her foot fell on soft carpets. The hangings of the bed were of blue
silk. The couches were covered with rich worsted work. Pictures made
the walls dainty. Beautiful things which she could not examine yet,
stood on the various tables. It immediately pressed on Matilda's
attention, that to be of a piece with all this elegance and not out of
place among the people inhabiting there, she had need to be very
elegant herself. The best dress in her whole little stock was the brown
merino she had worn to travel in. She had thought it very elegant in
Shadywalk; but how did it look alongside of Miss Judy's blue silk?
Matilda had nothing better, at any rate. She glanced down at her boots,
to see how they would do. They were her best Sunday boots. They were
neat, she concluded. They wanted a little brushing from dust; then they
would do pretty well. But she did not think they were elegant. The
soles of them were rather too thick for that. At this point her
attention was drawn to what was saying at the other side of the fire.
"Do the children dine with us?"
"To-day."
"Not in ordinary?"
"It is bad for the boys; puts them out. One o'clock suits them a great
deal better. And six is a poor hour for children always. And with
company of course it is impossible; and that makes irregularity; and
that is bad."
"I suppose it is best so," said Mrs. Laval with half a sigh. "What room
is Matilda to have, mother?"
"Matilda?--O, your new child. You want her to have a room to herself?"
"Yes."
"I will let her have the little front corner room, if you like. There
is room enough."
"That will do," said Mrs. Laval. "Come, darling, let us go upstairs and
look at it. Then you will begin to feel at home."
She sprang off the sofa, and taking Matilda's hand they mounted
together the second flight of stairs; wide, uncarpeted, smooth,
polished stairs they were; to the upper hall. Just at the head of the
stairs Mrs. Laval opened a door. It let them into a pretty little room;
little indeed only by comparison with other larger apartments of the
house; it was of a pleasant size, with two great windows; and being a
corner room, its windows looked out in two directions, over two several
city views. Matilda had no time to examine them just then; her
attention was absorbed by the room. It had a rich carpet; the hangings
and covering of the bed were dark green; an elegant little toilet table
was furnished with crystal, and the washcloset had painted green china
dishes. There were pictures here too, and little foot cushions, and a
beautiful chest of drawers, and a tall wardrobe for dresses. The room
was full.
"This will do very nicely," said Mrs. Laval. "You wanted a south
window, Matilda; here it is. I think you will like this room better
than one of those large ones, darling; they are large enough for you to
get lost in. See, here is the gas jet, when you want light; and here
are matches, Matilda. And now you will have a place where you can be by
yourself when you wish it; and at other times you can come down to me.
You will feel at home, when you get established here, and have some
dresses to hang up in that wardrobe. That is one of the first things
you and I must attend to. I could not do it at Shadywalk. So come down
now, dear, to my room, and we will get ready for dinner. Are you tired,
love?"
Matilda met and answered the kiss that ended this speech, and went
downstairs again a very contented child. However, all her getting ready
for dinner that day consisted in a very thorough brushing of her short
hair, and a little furtive endeavour to get rid of some specks of dust
on her boots. She sat down then and waited, while Mrs. Laval changed
her travelling dress, and Mrs. Bartholomew alternately assisted and
talked to her. That elegant crimson satin robe swept round the room in
a way that was very imposing to Matilda. She could not help feeling
like a little brown thrush in the midst of a company of resplendent
parrots and birds of paradise. But she did not much care. Only she
thought it would be very pleasant to have the wardrobe upstairs
furnished with a set of dresses to correspond somewhat with her new
splendid surroundings. Mrs. Bartholomew had not spoken to her yet, nor
anybody, except Mrs. Laval's mother. Matilda thought herself forgotten;
but when the ladies were about to go downstairs, Mrs. Laval called her
sister's attention to the subject.
"Judith, this is my new child."
Mrs. Bartholomew cast a comprehensive glance at Matilda, or all over
her. Matilda could not have told whether she had looked at her until
then.
"Where did you pick her up, Zara?"
"I did not pick her up," said Mrs. Laval, smiling at Matilda. "A wave
wafted her into my arms."
"What sort of a wave?" said the other lady dryly.
"No matter what sort of a wave. You see from what sort of a shore this
flower must have drifted."
"You are poetical," said the other, laughing slightly. "You always
were. Shall we go down?"
Mrs. Laval stretched out her hand to Matilda and held it in a warm
clasp as they went down the stairs; and still held her fast and seated
her by herself in the drawing room. It was the only point of connection
with the rest of the world that Matilda felt she had just then. Until
Norton came running downstairs with his two cousins, and entered the
room.
"Come here, Judy," said Mrs. Laval. "This is my new little daughter,
Matilda. You two must be good cousins and friends."
Miss Black-eyes took Matilda's hand; but somehow Matilda could perceive
neither the friendship nor the cousinship in the touch of it.
"Matilda what?" Miss Judith asked. Her aunt hesitated an instant.
"She has not learned yet to do without her old name. Her new name is
mine, of course."
Matilda was a good deal startled and a little dismayed. Was she to give
up her own name then, and be called Laval? she had not heard of it
before. She was not sure that she liked it at all. There was no time to
think about it now.
"David," Mrs. Laval went on, "come here. I want you all to be good
friends as soon as possible."
She put Matilda's hand in his as she spoke. But David said never a
word; only he bowed over Matilda's hand in the most calmly polite
manner, and let it drop. He was not shy, Matilda thought, or he could
not have made such an elegant reverence; but he did not speak a word.
His aunt laughed a little, and yet gave a glance of admiration at the
boy.
"You are not changed," she said.
Changed in what? Matilda wondered; and she looked to see what she could
make out in David Bartholomew. He was not so dark as his sister; he had
rich brown hair; and the black eyes were not snapping and sparkling
like hers, but large, lustrous, proud, and rather gloomy, it seemed to
the little stranger's fancy. She looked away again; she did not like
him. In another minute they were called to dinner.
It was but to walk across the hall, and Matilda found herself seated at
the most imposing board she had ever beheld. Certainly everything at
Mrs. Laval's table was beautiful and costly; but there it had been only
a table for two or three; no company, and the simplest way of the
house. Here there was a good tableful, and a large table; and the
sparkle of glass and silver quite dazzled the child's unaccustomed
eyes. How much silver, and what brilliant and beautiful glass! She
wondered at the profusion of forks by her own plate, and almost thought
the waiter must have made a mistake; but she saw Norton was as well
supplied. The lights, and the flowers, and the fruit in the centre of
the table, and the gay silks and laces around it, and all the
appointments of the elegant room, almost bewildered Matilda. Yet she
thought it was very pleasant too, and extremely pretty; and discovered
that eating dinner was a great deal more of a pleasure when the eyes
could be so gratified at the same time with the taste. However, soup
was soup, she found, to a hungry little girl.
"Pink," said Norton, after he had swallowed his soup,--"where do you
think we will go first?" Norton had got a seat beside her and spoke in
a confidential whisper.
"I am going with your mother to-morrow," Matilda returned in an
answering whisper. "So she said."
"That won't tire you out," said Norton. "After she goes, or before she
goes, you and I will go. Where first?"
"You and I alone?" said Matilda softly.
"Alone!"
"Norton," said Matilda very softly, "I think I want to go first of all
to the shoemaker's."
Norton had nearly burst out into a laugh, but he crammed his napkin
against his face.
"You dear Pink!" he said; "that isn't anywhere. That's business. I mean
pleasure. You see, next week I shall begin to go to school, and my time
will be pretty nicely taken up, except Saturday. We have got three days
before next week. And you have got to see everything."
"But Norton, I do not know what there is to see."
"That's true. You don't, to be sure. Well Pink, there's the Park; but
we must have a good day for that; to-day is so cold it would bite our
noses. We can go every afternoon, if it's good. Then there is the
Museum; and there is a famous Menagerie just now."
"Oh Norton!"--said Matilda.
"Well?"
"Do you mean a Menagerie with lions? and an elephant?"
"Lions, and splendid tigers, David says; and an elephant, and a
hippopotamus; and ever so many other creatures besides. All of them
splendid, David says."
"I did not use that word," David remarked from the other side of the
table.
"All right," said Norton. "It is my word. Then, Pink, we'll pay our
respects to the lions and tigers the first thing. After the shoe"--
"Hush, Norton," said Matilda. "You forget yourself."
Norton laughed, pleased; for Matilda's little head had taken its
independent set upon her shoulders, and it shewed him that she was
feeling at ease, and not shy and strange, as he had feared she might.
In truth the lions and tigers had drawn Matilda out of herself. And now
she was able to enjoy roast beef and plum pudding and ice cream as well
as anybody, and perhaps more; for to her they were an unusual
combination of luxuries. Now and then she glanced at the other people
around the table. Mrs. Lloyd always seemed to her like a queen; the
head of the house; and the head of such a house was as good as a queen.
Judith looked like a young lady who took, and could take, a great many
liberties in it. David, like a grave, reserved boy who never wanted to
take one. Mrs. Bartholomew seemed a luxurious fine lady; Matilda's
impression was that she cared not much for anybody or anything except
herself and her children. And how rich they all must be! Not Mrs. Lloyd
alone; but all these. Their dress shewed it, and their talk, and their
air still more. It was the air of people who wanted nothing they could
not have, and did not know what it meant to want anything long. Mrs.
Lloyd was drinking one sort of wine, Mrs. Bartholomew another, and Mrs.
Laval another; one had a little clear wineglass, another a yellow
bowl-like goblet, much larger; the third had a larger still. Every
place was provided with the three glasses, Matilda saw. Just as her
observations had got thus far, she was startled to see Norton sign the
servant and hold his claret glass to be filled.
Matilda's thoughts went into a whirl immediately. She had not seen
Norton take wine at home; it brought trooping round her, by contrast,
the recollections of Shadywalk, the Sunday school room, the meetings of
the Commission, and Mr. Richmond, and talk about temperance, and her
pledge to do all she could to help the cause of temperance. Now, here
was a field. Yes, and there was David Bartholomew on the other side of
the table, he also was just filling his glass. But what could Matilda
do here? Would these boys listen to her? And yet, she had promised to
do all she could for the cause of temperance. She could certainly do
something, in the way of trying at least. She must. To try, is in
everybody's power. But now she found as she thought about it, that it
would be very difficult even to try. It is inconceivable how unwilling
she felt to say one word to Norton on the subject; and as for
David!--Well, she need not think of David at present; he was a
stranger. If she could get Norton to listen-- But she could not get
Norton to listen, she was sure; and what was the use of making a fuss
and being laughed at just for nothing? Only, she had promised.
The working of these thoughts pretty well spoiled Matilda's ice cream.
There was a trembling of other thoughts, too, around these, that were
also rather unwelcome. But she could not think them out then. The
company had left the table and gathered in another room, and there a
great deal of talk and discussion of many things went on, including
winter plans for the children and home arrangements, in which Matilda
was interested. Shopping, also, and what stuffs and what colours were
most in favour, and fashions of making and wearing. Matilda had
certainly been used to hear talk on such subjects in the days of her
mother's life-time, when the like points were eagerly debated between
her and her older children. But then it was always with questions.
What is fashionable; and What can we manage to get? Now and here,
that questioning was replaced by calm knowledge and certainty and the
power to do as they pleased. So the subject became doubly interesting.
The two boys had gone off together; and the two girls, mixing with the
group of their elders, listened and formed their own opinions, of each
other at least. For every now and then, the black eyes and the brown
eyes met; glances inquiring, determining, but almost as nearly
repellent as anything else. So passed the evening; and Matilda was very
glad when it was time to go to bed.
Mrs. Laval went with her to her pretty room, and saw with motherly care
that all was in order and everything there which ought to be there. The
room was warm, though no fire was to be seen; the gas was lit; and
complete luxury filled every corner and met every want, even of the
eye. And after a fond good night, Matilda was left to herself. She was
in a very confused state of mind. It was a strange place; she half
wished they were back in Shadywalk; but with that were mixed floating
visions of shopping and her filled wardrobe, visions of driving in the
Park with Norton, fancies of untold wonderful things to be seen in this
new great city, with its streets and its shops and its rich and its
poor people. No, she could not forego the seeing of these; she was glad
to be in New York; were there not the Menagerie and Stewart's awaiting
her to-morrow? But what sort of a life she was to live here, and how
far it would be possible for her to be like the Matilda Englefield of
Shadywalk why, she was not to be Matilda Englefield at all, but
Laval. Could that be the same? Slowly, while she thought all this,
Matilda opened her little trunk and took out her nightdress and her
comb and brush, and her Bible; and then, the habit was as fixed as the
other habit of going to bed, she opened her Bible, brought a pretty
little table that was in the room, put it under the gas light, and
knelt down to read and pray. She opened anywhere, and read without very
well understanding what she read; the thoughts of lions and tigers, and
green poplin, and red cashmere, making a strange web with the lines of
Bible thought, over which her eye travelled. Till her eyes came to a
word so plain, so clear, and touching her so nearly, that she all at
once as it were woke up out of her maze.
"Who mind earthly things."
What is that? Must one not mind earthly things? Then she went back to
the beginning of the sentence, to see better what it meant.
"For many walk, of whom I have told you often, and now tell you even
weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ: whose end is
destruction, whose God is their belly, and whose glory is in their
shame, who mind earthly things."
Must one not mind earthly things? thought Matilda. How can one help
minding them? How can I help it? All the people in this house mind
nothing else. Neither did they all at home, when mother was alive, mind
anything else. Mr. Richmond does.--
She went back now to the beginning of the chapter and read it anew. It
was easier to read than to think. The chapter was the third of
Philippians. She did not know who wrote it; she did not exactly
understand a good part of it; nevertheless one thing was clear, a heart
set on something not earthly, and minding nothing that interfered with
or did not help that. So much was clear; and also that the chapter
spoke of certain people not moved by a like spirit, as enemies of the
cross of Christ. It was the hardest reading, Matilda thought, she had
ever done in her Bible. If this is what it is to be a Christian, it was
easier to be a Christian when she was darning lace for Mrs. Candy and
roasting coffee beans in her kitchen for Maria. But she did not wish to
be back there. Some way could be found, surely, of being a Christian
and keeping her pretty room and having her wardrobe filled. And here
Matilda became so sleepy, the fatigue and excitement of this long day
settling down upon her now that the day was over, that she could
neither think nor read any more. She was obliged to go to bed.
CHAPTER VI.
The second of December rose keen and clear, like the first; but inside
Matilda's room there was a state of pleasant summer temperature; she
could hardly understand that it was cold enough outside to make the
pretty frosting on her window panes which hindered the view. She
dressed in royal comfort, and in a delightful stir of expectation and
hope. It was really New York; and she was going to Stewart's to-day.
The cold would not bite her as it used to do in Shadywalk, for they
would be in a carriage.
When she was dressed she contrived to clear a loophole in her frosted
window, and looked out. The sun shone on a long, clean, handsome
street, lined with houses that looked as if all New York were made of
money. Brick and stone fronts rose to stately heights, as far as her
eye could see; windows were filled with beautiful large panes of glass,
like her own window, and lace and drapery behind them testified to the
inside adorning and beautifying. There could not be any one living in
all that street who was not rich; nothing but plenty and ease could
possibly be behind such house-fronts. Then Matilda saw an omnibus going
down the street; but her breath dimmed her look-out place and she had
to give it up for that time. It was her hour for reading and praying.
Matilda was a little inclined to shrink from it, fearing lest she might
come upon some other passage that would give her trouble. She thought,
for this morning, she would turn to a familiar chapter, which she had
read many a time, and where she had never found anything to confuse
her. She began the fifth of Matthew. But she had read only fifteen
verses, and she came to this.
"Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works,
and glorify your Father which is in heaven."
If a ray of the very sunshine, pointed and tipped with fire like a
spear, so that it could prick her, had come in through the frosting on
the window pane and smote upon Matilda's face, she would not more
keenly have felt the touch. It had never touched her before, that
verse, with anything but rose leaf softness; now it pricked. Why? The
little girl was troubled; and leaning her elbows on the table and her
head in her hands, she began to think. And then she began to pray. "Let
your light shine." The light must burn if it was to shine; that was one
thing; and she must let no screen come between the light and those who
should see it. Fear must not come there, nor shame, to hide or cover
the light. And the light itself must be bright. Nobody would see a dim
shining. By and by, as she pondered and prayed, with her head in her
hands, this word and last night's word joined themselves together; and
she began to see, that "minding earthly things" would act to hide the
light first, and then to put it out. So far she got; but the battle was
only set in array; it was not fought nor gained, when she was called
down to breakfast.
The rest of the family were all seated at the table before the two boys
came in.
"Pink," Norton burst forth, as soon as he had said good morning, "we
must get there at feeding time!"
"Here you are!"--said David waggishly; and Matilda looking up, saw
Judith's black eyes all on fire and a flash of the same fun in her
brother's face. Those proud eyes could sparkle, then. Her look passed
to Norton. But he was as cool as usual.
"Mamma," he said, "I am going to take Pink this morning to the
Menagerie."
"You had better wait till she has something to wear, Norton."
"When will that be, ma'am? It won't take long will it?"
"I do not know."
"Mamma, Pink does not care, and I do not care. She has never seen a
live lion in her life; and it will not make any difference with the
lions. I guess she will keep warm. I want to be there at twelve
o'clock; or I want to be there before. They feed the animals at twelve
o'clock, and they're all alive."
"We feed the animals here at one o'clock," said his grandmother. "I
hope you will remember that."
"Do you want to go, Matilda?" Mrs. Laval asked.
"She has never seen a lion," repeated Norton.
"Somebody else has never seen a monkey," said Judith.
"That is somebody who don't live in the house with Judy Bartholomew,"
Norton returned.
"We don't want to see a bear, either," said Miss Judy pouting.
"Well, remember and be at home for luncheon," said Mrs. Laval. "I want
Matilda after that."
The breakfast went on now delightfully. Matilda sometimes lifted her
eyes to look at her opposite neighbours; they had a fascination for
her. Judith was such a sprite of mischief, to judge from her looks; and
David was so utterly unlike Norton. Norton was always acute and frank,
outspoken when he had a mind, fearless and careless at all times.
Fearless David might be, but not careless, unless his face belied him;
he did not look as if it were often his pleasure to be outspoken, or to
shew what he was thinking of. And that was the oddest of all, that he
did not seem lighthearted. Matilda fancied he was proud; she was sure
that he was reserved. In the family gatherings he was seen but not
heard; and she thought he did not care much for what was going on.
Nothing escaped Judy's ears or eyes; and nothing was serious with her
which she could turn into fun. Her eyes gave a funny snap now and then
when they met Matilda's eyes across the table, as if she had her own
thoughts about Matilda and knew half of Matilda's thoughts about her.
Matilda hoped she would not take it into her head to go to the
Menagerie.
"Norton, I believe I'll go too," said Judith the next minute.
"Where?" said Norton.
"To the Menagerie. Where should I go?"
"All right," said Norton. "But if you are going to do me the honour to
go with me, you must wait till I have brought Matilda back. I can't
take care of both of you."
"I don't want you to take care of me," said Judy.
"I know that. But I am going to take care of Matilda."
"Why cannot you take care of both of them?" his grandmother asked,
interrupting Judith.
"Make Judith tell first why she wants to go, grandmamma. She has been
lots of times."
"Grandmamma," said Judy with her eyes snapping, "I want to see a new
sort of wild animal, just come, and to see how it will look at the
tigers."
They all laughed, but Mrs. Laval put her arm round Matilda and stooped
down and kissed her.
"Judith is a wild animal herself, isn't she, dear? She is a sort of
little wild-cat. But she has soft paws; they don't scratch."
Matilda was not quite so sure of this. However, when they left the
table Judith set about gaining her point in earnest; but Norton was not
to be won over. He was going with Matilda alone, he said, the first
time; and so he did.
It was all enjoyment then, as soon as Matilda and Norton left the house
together. Matilda was in a new world. Her eyes were busy making
observations everywhere.
"How beautiful the houses are, Norton," she said, when they had gone a
block or two. "There are not many poor people in New York, are there?"
"Well, occasionally you see one," said Norton.
"I don't see anything that looks like one. Norton, why do they have the
middle of the street covered with those round stones? They make such a
racket when the carts and carriages go over them. It is very
disagreeable."
"Is it?" said Norton. "You won't hear it after you have been here a
little while."
"Not hear it? But why do they have it so, Norton?"
"Why Pink, just think of the dust we should have, and the mud, if it
was all like Shadywalk, and these thousands of wheels cutting into it
all the time."
Matilda was silenced. One difference brings on another, she was
learning to find out. But now Norton hailed a street car and they got
into it. The warmth of the car was very pleasant after the keen wind in
the streets. And here also the people who filled it, though most of
them certainly not rich people, and many very far from that, yet looked
to a certain degree comfortable. But just as Norton and Matilda got
out, and were about to enter the building, where an enormous painted
canvass with a large brown lion upon it told that the Menagerie was to
be seen, Matilda stopped short. A little ragged boy, about as old as
herself, offered her a handful of black round-headed pins. What did he
mean? Matilda looked at him, and at the pins.
"Come on," cried Norton. "What is that?--No, we don't want any of your
goods just now; at least I don't. Come in, Pink. You need not stop to
speak to everybody that stops to speak to you."
"What did he want, Norton? that boy."
"Wanted to sell hairpins. Didn't you see?"
Matilda cast a look back at the sideway, where the boy was trying
another passenger for custom; but Norton drew her on, and the boy was
forgotten in some extraordinary noises she heard; she had heard them as
soon as she entered the door; strange, mingled noises, going up and
down a scale of somewhat powerful, unearthly notes. She asked Norton
what they were?
"The lions, Pink," said Norton, with intense satisfaction. "The lions,
and the rest of the company. Come--here they are."
And having paid his fee, he pushed open a swinging baize door, and they
entered a very long room or gallery, where the sounds became to be sure
very unmistakable. They almost terrified Matilda. So wildly were
mingled growls and cries and low roarings, all in one restless,
confused murmur. The next minute she all but forgot the noise. She was
looking at two superb Bengal tigers, a male and a female, in one large
cage. They were truly superb. Large and lithe, magnificent in port and
action, beautiful in the colour and marking of their smooth hides. But
restless? That is no word strong enough to fit the ceaseless impatient
movement with which the male tiger went from one corner of his iron
cage to the other corner, and back again; changing constantly only to
renew the change. One bound in his native jungle would have carried him
over many times the space, which now he paced eagerly or angrily with a
few confined steps. The tigress meanwhile knew his mood and her wisdom
so well that she took care never to be in his way; and as the cage was
not large enough to allow her mate to turn round in the corner where
she stood, she regularly took a flying leap over his back whenever he
came near that corner. Again and again and again, the one lordly
creature trod from end to end the floor of his prison; and every time,
like a feather, so lightly and gracefully, the huge powerful form of
the other floated over his back and alighted in the other corner.
"Do they keep doing that all the time!" said Matilda, when she had
stood spell-bound before the cage for some minutes.
"It's near feeding time," said Norton. "I suppose they know it and it
makes them worry. Or else know they are hungry; which answers just as
well."
"Poor creatures!" said Matilda. "If that tiger could break his cage,
now, how far do you think he could jump, Norton?"
"I don't know," said Norton. "As far as to you or me, I guess. Or else
over all our heads, to get at that coloured woman."
The woman was sweeping the floor, a little way behind the two talkers,
and heard them. "Yes!" she said, "he'd want me fust thing, sure."
"Why?" whispered Matilda.
"Likes the dark meat best," said Norton. "Fact, Pink; they say they do."
Matilda gazed with a new fascination on the beautiful, terrible
creatures. Could it be possible, that those very animals had actually
tasted "dark meat" at home?
"Yes," said Norton; "there are hundreds of the natives carried off and
eaten by the tigers, I heard a gentleman telling mother, every year, in
the province of Bengal alone. Come, Pink; we can look at these fellows
again; I want you to see some of the others before they are fed."
They went on, with less delay, till they came to the Russian bear. At
the great blocks of ice in his cage Matilda marvelled.
"Is he so warm!" she said. "In this weather?"
"This room's pretty comfortable," said Norton; "and to him I suppose
it's as bad as a hundred and fifty degrees of the thermometer would be
to us. He's accustomed to fifty degrees below zero."
"I don't know what 'below zero' means, exactly," said Matilda. "But
then those great pieces of ice cannot do him much good?"
"Not much," said Norton.
"And he must be miserable," said Matilda; "just that we may look at
him."
"Do you wish he was back again where he came from?" said Norton; "all
comfortable, with ice at his back and ice under his feet; where we
couldn't see him?"
"But Norton, isn't it cruel?"
"Isn't what cruel?"
"To have him here, just for our pleasure? I am very glad to see him, of
course."
"I thought you were," said Norton. "Why I suppose we cannot have
anything, Pink, without somebody being uncomfortable for it, somewhere.
I am very often uncomfortable myself."
Matilda was inclined to laugh at him; but there was no time. She had
come face to face with the lions. Except for those low strange roars,
they did not impress her as much as their neighbours from Bengal. But
she studied them, carefully enough to please Norton, who was making a
very delight to himself, and a great study, of her pleasure.
Further on, Matilda was brought to a long stand again before the wolf's
cage. It was a small cage, so small that in turning round he rubbed his
nose against the wall at each end; for the ends were boarded up; and
the creature did nothing but turn round. At each end of the cage there
was a regular spot on the boards, made by his nose as he lifted it a
little to get round the more easily, and yet not enough to avoid
touching. Yet he went round and round, restlessly, without stopping for
more than an instant at a time.
"Poor fellow, poor fellow!" was again Matilda's outcry. "He keeps doing
that all the time, Norton; see the places where his nose rubs."
"Don't say 'poor fellow' about a wolf," said Norton.
"Why not? He is only an animal."
"He is a wicked animal."
"Why Norton, he don't know any better than to be wicked. Do you think
some animals are really worse than others?"
"I'm certain of it," said Norton.
"But they only do what it is their nature to do."
"Yes, and different animals have different natures. Now look at that
wolf's eyes; see what cruel, sly, bad eyes they are. Think what
beautiful eyes a horse has; a good horse."
"And sheep have beautiful eyes," said Matilda.
"And pigs have little, ugly, dirty eyes; mean and wicked too. You need
not laugh; it is true."
"I don't know how pigs' eyes look," said Matilda. "But it is very
curious. For of course they do not know any better; so how should
they be wicked? Those tigers, they looked as if they hadn't any heart
at all. Don't you think a dog has a heart, Norton?"
Norton laughed, and pulled her on to a cage at a little distance from
the wolf, where there were a party of monkeys. And next door to them
was a small ape in a cell alone. Matilda forgot everything else here.
These creatures were so inimitably odd, sly and comical; had such an
air of knowing what they were about, and expecting you to understand it
too; looking at you as though they could take you into their
confidence, if it were worth while; it was impossible to get away from
them. Norton had some nuts in his pocket; with these he and the monkeys
made great game; while the little ape raked in the straw litter of his
cage to find any stray seeds or bits of food which might have sifted
down through it to the floor, managing his long hand-like paw as
gracefully as the most elegant lady could move her dainty fingers.
Matilda and Norton staid with the monkeys, till the feeding hour had
arrived; then Norton hurried back to the tigers. A man was coming the
rounds with a basket full of great joints of raw meat; and it was
notable to see how carefully he had to manage to let the tiger have his
piece before the tigress got hers. He watched and waited, till he got a
chance to thrust the meat into the cage at the end where the tiger's
paw would the next instant be.
"Why?" Matilda asked Norton.
"There'd be an awful fight, I guess, if he didn't," said Norton; "and
that other creature would stand a chance to get whipped; and her coat
would be scratched; that's all the man cares for."
"And is that the reason the tigress keeps out of the tiger's way so?"
"Of course. Some people would say, I suppose, that she was amiable."
"I never should, to look in her face," said Matilda laughing. "Tigers
certainly are wicked. But, they do not know any better. How can it be
wickedness?"
"Now come, Pink," said Norton; "we have got to be home by one, you
know, and there's a fellow you haven't seen yet; the hippopotamus. We
must go into another place to see him."
He was by himself, in a separate room, as Norton had said, where a
large tank was prepared and filled with water for his accommodation.
Matilda looked at him a long time in silence and with great attention.
"Do you know, Norton," she said, "this is the behemoth the Bible
speaks about?"
"I don't know at all," said Norton. "How do you know?"
"Mr. Richmond says so; he says people have found out that it is so. But
he don't seem to me very big, Norton, for that."
The keeper explained, that the animal was a young one and but half
grown.
"How tremendously ugly he is!" said Norton.
"And what a wonderful number of different animals there are in the
world," said Matilda. "This is unlike anything I ever saw. I wonder why
there are such a number?"
"And so many of them not good for anything," said Norton.
"Oh Norton, you can't say that, you know."
"Why not? This fellow, for instance; what is he good for?"
"I don't know; and you don't know. But that's just it, Norton. You
don't know."
"Well, what are lions and tigers good for?" said Norton. "I suppose we
know about them. What are they good for?"
"Why Norton, I can't tell," said Matilda. "I would very much like to
know. But they must be good for something."
"To eat up people, and make the places where they live a terror," said
Norton.
"I don't know," said Matilda, with a very puzzled look on her little
face. "It seems so strange, when you think of it. And those great
serpents, Norton, that live where the lions and tigers live; they are
worse yet."
"Little and big," said Norton. "I do despise a snake!"
"And crocodiles," said Matilda. "And wolves, and bears. I wonder if the
Bible tells anything about it."
"The Bible don't tell everything, Pink," said Norton laughing.
"No, but I remember now what it does say," said Matilda. "It says that
God saw everything that he had made, and it was very good."
Norton looked with a funny look at his little companion, amused and yet
with a kind of admiration mixed with his amusement.
"I wonder how you and David would get along," he remarked. "He is as
touchy on that subject as you are."
"What subject?" said Matilda. "The Bible?"
"The Old Testament. The Jewish Scriptures. Not the New! Don't ever
bring up the New Testament to him, Pink, unless you want stormy
weather."
"Is he bad-tempered?" Matilda asked curiously.
"He's Jewish-tempered," said Norton. "He has his own way of looking at
things, and he don't like yours. I mean, anybody's but his own. What a
quantity it must take to feed this enormous creature!"
"You may take your affidavit of that!" said the keeper, who was an
Irishman. "Faith, I think he's as bad as fifty men."
"What do you give him?"
"Well, he belongs to the vegetable kingdom intirely, ye see, sir."
"He's a curious water-lily, isn't he?" said Norton low to Matilda. But
that was more than either of them could stand, and they turned away and
left the place to laugh. It was time then, they found, to go home.
A car was not immediately in sight when they came out into the street,
and Norton and Matilda walked a few blocks rather than stand still. It
had grown to be a very disagreeable day. The weather was excessively
cold, and a very strong wind had risen; which now went careering along
the streets, catching up all the dust of them in turn, and before
letting it drop again whirling it furiously against everybody in its
way. Matilda struggled along, but the dust came in thick clouds and
filled her eyes and mouth and nose and lodged in all her garments. It
seemed to go through everything she had on, and with the dirt came the
cold. Shadywalk never saw anything like this! As they were crossing one
of the streets in their way, Matilda stopped short just before setting
her foot on the curb-stone. A little girl with a broom in her hand
stood before her and held out her other hand for a penny. The child was
ragged, and her rags were of the colour of the dust which filled
everything that day; hair and face and dress were all of one hue.
"Please, a penny," she said, barring Matilda's way.
"Norton, have you got a penny?" said Matilda bewildered.
"Nonsense!" said Norton, "we can't be bothered to stop for all the
street-sweepers we meet. Come on, Pink." He seized Matilda's hand, and
she was drawn on, out of the little girl's range, before she could stop
to think about it. Two streets further on, they crossed an avenue; and
here Matilda saw two more children with brooms, a boy and a girl. This
time she saw what they were about. They were sweeping the crossing
clean for the feet of the passers-by. But their own feet were bare on
the stones. The next minute Norton had hailed a car and he and Matilda
got in. Her eyes and mouth were so full of dust and she was so cold, it
was a little while before she could ask questions comfortably.
"What are those children you wouldn't let me speak to?" she said, as
soon as she was a little recovered.
"Street-sweepers," said Norton. "Regular nuisances! The police ought to
take them up, and shut them up."
"Why, Norton?"
"Why? why because they're such a nuisance. You can't walk a half mile
without having half a dozen of them holding out their hands for
pennies. A fellow can't carry his pocket full of pennies and keep it
full!"
"But they sweep the streets, don't they?"
"The crossings; yes. I wish they didn't. They are an everlasting
bother."
"But Norton, isn't it nice to have the crossings swept? I thought it
was a great deal pleasanter than to have to go through the thick dust
and dirt which was everywhere else."
"Yes, but when they come every block or two?" said Norton.
"Are there so many of them?"
"There's no end to them," said Norton.
"But at any rate, there are just as many crossings," said Matilda. "And
they must be either dirty or clean."
"I can get along with the crossings," said Norton.
"Well, your boots are thick. Haven't those children any way to get a
living but such a way?"
"Of course not, or they wouldn't do that, I suppose."
"But their feet were bare, Norton; they were bare, on those cold
dirty stones."
"Dirt is nothing," said Norton, buttoning up his great coat
comfortably. He had just loosened it to get at some change for the car
fare.
"Dirt is nothing?" repeated Matilda looking at him.
"I mean, Pink," said he laughing, "it is nothing to them. They are as
dirty as they can be already; a little more or less makes no
difference."
"I wonder if they are as cold as they can be, too," said Matilda
meditatively.
"No!" said Norton. "Not they. They are used to it. They don't feel it."
"How can you tell, Norton?"
"I can tell. I can see. They are jolly enough sometimes; when they
aren't boring for cents."
"But that little girl, Norton,--all of them,--they hadn't much on!"
"No," said Norton; "I suppose not. It's no use to look and think about
it, Pink. They are accustomed to it; it isn't what it would be to you.
Don't think about it. You'll be always seeing sights in New York. The
best way is not to see."
But Matilda did think about it "Not what it would be to her"! why, it
would kill her, very quickly. Of course it must be not exactly so to
these children, since they did not die; but what was it to them? Not
warmth and comfort; not a pleasant spending of time for pleasure.
"Norton," she began again just as they were getting out of the car, "it
seems to me that if those children sweep the streets, it is right to
give them pay for it. They are trying to earn something."
"You can't," said Norton. "There are too many of them. You cannot be
putting your hand in your pocket for pennies all the while, and
stopping under the heels of the horses. I do once in a while give them
something. You can't be doing it always."
CHAPTER VII.
Norton asked to be allowed to go with the shopping party, which his
mother refused. To Matilda's disappointment, she took Miss Judy
instead. Matilda would rather have had any other one of the household.
However, nothing could spoil the pleasure of driving to Stewart's. To
know it so cold, and yet feel so comfortable; to see how the dust flew
in whirlwinds and the wind caught people and staggered them, and yet
not to be touched by a breath; to see how the foot travellers had to
fight with both wind and dust, and to feel at the same time the easy
security, the safe remove from everything so ugly and disagreeable,
which they themselves enjoyed behind the glass of their Clarence; it
was a very pleasant experience. The other two did not seem to enjoy it;
they were accustomed to the sensation, or it had ceased to be one for
them. Matilda was in a state of delight every foot of the way. This
was what she had come to, this safety and ease and elegance and
immunity. She was higher than the street or the street-goers, by just
so much as the height of the axletree of the carriage. How about those
little dust covered street-sweepers?
The thought of them jarred. There was nothing between them and the
roughest of the rough. How came they to be there, at the street
corners, and Matilda here, behind these clear plates of glass which
enclosed the front of the carriage?
"How very disagreeable it is to day!" Mrs. Laval said with a shudder.
"This is some of New York's worst weather."
"It's just horrid!" said Judy.
"I would not take a walk to-day, for all I am worth," the lady went on.
"There is one thing; there will be fewer people out, and we shall not
have to wait so fearfully long to be served."
The carriage stopped before a large white building, and Matilda
followed the others in, full of curiosity and eager pleasure. In
through the swinging doors, and then through such a crowd of confusion
that she could think of nothing but to keep close behind Mrs. Laval;
till they all stopped at a counter and Mrs. Laval sat down. What a
wonderful place it seemed to Matilda! A small world that was all
shops--or one shop; and the only business of that world was buying and
selling things to wear. Just at this counter people were getting silk
dresses, it appeared; here, and all round the room in which Mrs. Laval
was seated; blue and rose silks were displayed in one part; black silks
before some customers; figured and parti-coloured silks were held up to
please others; what colour was there not? and what beauty? Matilda
found that whatever Mrs. Laval wanted of her that afternoon, it was not
any help in making her purchases; and she was quite at liberty to use
her eyes upon everything. The beautiful goods on the counters were the
great attraction, however; Matilda could not look away much from the
lustre of the crimson and green and blue and tawny and grey and
lavender which were successively or together exhibited for Mrs. Laval's
behoof; and she listened to find out if she could by the quantities
ordered, which of them, if any, were for herself. She was pretty sure
that a dark green and a crimson had that destination; and her little
heart beat high with pleasure.
From the silk room they went on to another where the articles were not
interesting to look at; and Matilda discovered that the coming and
going people were. She turned her back upon the counter and watched
the stream as it flowed past and around her. Miss Judith also here
found herself thrown out of amusement, and came round to Matilda. They
had hardly spoken to each other hitherto. Now Miss Judy's eye first
went up and down the little figure which was such a new one in her
surroundings. Matilda knew it, but she could bear it.
"You were never here before?" said her companion.
"Never," Matilda answered.
"What do you think of it?"
"I think they have nice things here," said Matilda.
Judith did not at all know what to make of this answer.
"What is aunt Zara going to get for you?"
"I do not know--some dresses, I think."
Judith's eye ran up and down Matilda's dress again. "That was made in
the country, wasn't it?"
"Mrs. Laval had it made."
"Yes, but you will want another. Aunt Zara--aunt Zara!--Aren't you
going to get her a cloak?"
"A cloak?" said Mrs. Laval looking round. "Yes; that is what I brought
her for."
"There!" said Judy, "now you know something you didn't know before.
What sort of a cloak would you like?"
"I don't know," said Matilda in a flutter of delight. "Mrs. Laval
knows."
"I suppose she does, but she doesn't know what you would like, unless
you tell her. Let us watch the people coming in and see if we see
anything you would like. Isn't it funny?"
"What?" Matilda asked.
"All of it. To see the people. They are all sorts, you know, and so
