ministers, but I missed this striking feature of the 
exhibition, for I did not arrive in the afternoon till 
the last speech was being made by a gentleman 
whom I saw gesticulating effectively, and whom I 
suppose to have been intelligible to a matter of 
twenty thousand people in his vicinity, but who,was 
to me, of the remote, outlying thirty thousand, a 



 

voice merely. One word only I caught, and I 
report it here that posterity may know as much as 
we thirty thousand contemporaries did of 

THE president's SPEECH. 


I do not know if I shall he ahle to give an idea of 
the immensity of this scene ; but if such a reader as 
has the dimensions of the Coliseum accurately fixed 
in his mind will, in imagination, densely hide all that 
interminable array of benching in the parquet and 
the galleries and the slopes at either end of the edi- 
fice with human heads, showing here crowns, there 
occiputs, and yonder faces, he will perhaps have 
some notion of the spectacle as we beheld it from 
the northern hill-side. Some thousands of heads 
nearest were recognizable as attached by the usual 
neck to the customary human body, but for the rest, 
we seemed to have entered a world of cherubim. 
Especially did the multitudinous singers seated far 
opposite encourage this illusion ; and their fluttering 
fens and handkerchiefs wonderfiilly mocked the 
movement of those cravat-like pinions which the 
fency attributed to them. They rose or sank at the 
wave of the director's baton ; and still looked like 
an innumerable flock of cherubs drifting over some 
slopes of Paradise, or settling upon it, — if cherubs 
ean settle. 



 

The immensity was quite as striking to the mind 
as to the eye, and an absolute democracy was appre- 
ciable in it. Not only did all artificial distinctions 
cease, but those of nature were practically obliter- 
ated, and you felt for once the full meaning of unan- 
imity. No one was at a disadvantage ; one was as 
wise, as good, as handsome as another. In most 
public assemblages, the foolish eye roves in search 
of the vanity of female beauty, and rests upon some 
lovely visage, or pretty figure ; but here it seemed to 
matter nothing whether ladies were well or ill-look- 
ing ; and one might have been perfectly ascetic 
without self-denial. A blue eye or a black, — what 
of it ? A mass of blonde or chestnut hair, this sort 
of walking-dress or that, — you might note the 
difference casually in a few hundred around you ; 
but a sense of those myriads of other eyes and 
chignons and walking-dresses absorbed the impres- 
sion in an instant, and left a dim, strange sense of 
loss, as if all women had suddenly become Woman. 
For the time, one would have been preposterously 
conceited to have felt his Httleness in that crowd ; 
you never thought of yourself in an individual 
capacity at all. It was as if you were a private in an 
army, or a very ordinary billow of the sea, feeling 
the battle or the storm, in a collective sort of way, 
but unable to distinguish your sensations from those 
of the mass. If a rafter had fallen and crushed you 
and your unimportant row of people, you could 
scarcely have regarded it as a personal calamity, but 
might have found it disagreeable as a shock to that 



 

great body of humanity. Recall, then, how aston- 
ished you were to be recognized by some one, and 
to have your hand shaken in your individual charac- 
ter of Smith. "Smith? My dear What's-your- 
name, I am for the present the fifty-thousandth part 
of an enormous emotion ! " 

It was as difficult to distribute the various facts of 
the whole effect, as to identify one's self. I had only 
a public and general consciousness of the delight 
given by the harmony of hues in the parquet below ; 
and concerning the orchestra I had at first no dis- 
tinct impression save of the three hundred and thirty 
violin-bows held erect like standing wheat at one 
motion of the director's wand, and then falling as if 
with the next he swept them down. Afterwards 
files of men with horns, and other files of men with 
drums and cymbals, discovered themselves ; while far 
above all, certain laborious figures pumped or groimd 
vnth incessant obeisance at the apparatus supplying 
the organ with wind. 

What helped, more than anything else, to restore 
you your dispersed and wandering individuality was 
the singing of Parepa-Rosa, as she triumphed over 
the harmonious rivalry of the orchestra. There wg,s 
something in the generous amplitude and robust 
cheerfulness of this great artist that accorded well with 
the ideal of the occasion ; she was in herself a great 
musical festival ; and one felt, as she floated down 
the stage with her far-spreading white draperies, and 
swept the audience a colossal courtesy, that here was 
the embodied genius of the Jubilee. I do not trust 



 

myself to speak particularly of her singing, for I 
have the natural modesty of people who know noth- 
ing about music, and I have not at command the 
phraseology of those who pretend to understand it ; 
but I say that her voice filled the whole edifice with 
delicious melody, that it soothed and composed and 
utterly enchanted, that, though two hundred Adolins 
accompanied her, the greater sweetness of her note 
prevailed over all, like a mighty will commanding 
many. What a sublime ovation for her when a 
hundred thousand hands thundered their acclaim ! 
A victorious general, an accepted lover, a successftd 
young author, — these know a measure of bliss, I 
dare say ; but in one throb, the singer's heart, as it 
leaps in exultation at the loud delight of her applau- 
sive thousands, must out-enjoy them all. Let me 
lay these poor little artificial flowers of rhetoric at 
the feet of the divine singer, as a faint token of grat- 
itude and eloquent intention. 

When Parepa (or Prepper, as I have heard her 
name popularly pronounced) had sung, the revived 
consciousness of an individual life rose in rebellion 
against the oppression of that dominant vastness. In 
fact, human nature can stand only so much of any 
one thing. To a certain degree you accept and 
conceive of facts truthfully, but beyond this a mere 
fantasticality rules ; and having got enough of grand- 
eur, the senses played themselves false. That array 
of fluttering and tuning people on the southern slope 
began to look minute, like the myriad heads assem- 
bled in the infinitesimal photograph which you view 




through one of those little half-inch lorgnettes ; and 
you had the satisfaction of knowing that to any lovely 
infinitesimality yonder you showed no bigger than a 
carpet-tack. The whole performance now seemed 
to be worked by those tireless figures pumping at 
the orn, in obedience to signals from a very alert 
figure on the platform below. The choral and 
orchestral thousands sang and piped and played ; 
and at a given point in the scena from Verdi, a hun- 
dred fairies in red shirts marched down through the 
sombre mass of puppets, and beat upon as many 
invisible anvils. 

This was the stroke of anti-climax ; and the droll 
sound of those anvils, so far above all the voices and 
instruments in its pitch, thoroughly disillusioned you 
and restored you finally to your proper entity and 
proportions. It was the great error of the great 
Jubilee, and where almost everything else was noble 
and impressive, — where the direction was faultless, 
and the singing and instrumentation as perfectly con- 
trolled as if they were the result of one volition, — 
this anvil-beating was alone ignoble and discordant, 
— trivial and huge merely. Not even the artillery 
accompaniment, in which the cannon were made to 
pronounce words of two syllables, was so bad. 

The dimensions of this sketch bear so little pro- 
portion to those of the Jubilee, that I must perforce 
leave most of its features unnoticed ; but I wish to 
express the sense of enjoyment which prevailed 
(whenever the anvils were not beaten) over every 
other feeling, even over wonder. To the ear as to 



 

the eye it was a delight, and it was an assured suc- 
cess in the popular affections from the performance 
of the first piece. For my own part, if one pleasur- 
able sensation, besides that received from Parepa's 
singing, distinguished itself from the rest, it was thkt 
given by the performance of the exquisite Coronation 
March from Meyerbeer's " Prophet ; " but I say this 
under protest of the pleasure taken in the choral 
rendering of the " Star-Spangled Banner." Closely 
allying themselves to these great raptures were the 
minor joys of wandering freely about from point to 
point, of receiving freeh sensations from the varying 
lights and aspects in which the novel scene presented 
itself with its strange fascinations, and of noting, 
half consciously, the incessant movement of the 
crowd as it revealed itself in changing effects of 
color. Then the gay tumult of the fifteen minutes 
of intermission between the parts, when all rose with 
a susurrus of innumerable silks, and the thousands 
of pretty singers fluttered about, and gossiped trem- 
ulously and delightedly over the glory of the per- 
formance, revealing themselves as charming feminine 
personalities, each with her share in the difficulty 
and the achievement, each with her pique or pride, 
and each her something to tell her friend of the con- 
duct, agreeable or displeasing, of some particular 
him ! Even the quick dispersion of the mass at the 
close was a marvel of orderliness and grace, as the 
melting and separating parts, falling asunder, radi- 
ated from the centre, and flowed and rippled rapidly 
away, and lefi the great hall empty and bare at 
last. 




And as you emerged from the building, what 
bizarre and perverse feeling was that yon knew ? 
Something as if all-out-doors were cramped and 
small, and it were better to return to the freedom 
and amplitude of the interior ? 

On the second day, much that was wonderful in a 
first experience of the festival was gone ; but though 
the novelty had passed away, the cause for wonder 
was even greater. If on the first day the crowd 
was immense, it was now something which the im- 
perfect state of the language will not permit me to 
describe; perhaps awfvl will serve the purpose' as 
well as any other word now in use. As you looked 
round, from the centre of the building, on that rest- 
less, fiinning, fluttering multitude, to right and left 
and north and south, all comparisons and similitudes 
abandoned you. If you were to write of the scene, 
you felt that your effort, at the best, must be a meagre 
sketch, suggesting something to those who had seen 
the fact, but conveying no intelligible impression of 
it to any one else. The galleries swarmed, the vast 
slopes were packed, in the pampa-like parquet even 
the aisles were half filled with chairs, while a cloud 
of placeless wanderers moved ceaselessly on the bor- 
ders of the mass under the balconies. 

When that common-looking, uncommon little man 
whom we have called to rule over us entered the 
house, and walked quietly down to his seat in the 
centre of it, a wild, inarticulate clamor, like no other 
noise in the world, swelled from every side, till 
General Grant rose and showed himself, when it 



 

grew louder than ever, and then gradnlly subsided 
into silence. Then a voice, which might be uttering 
some mortal alarm, broke repeatedly across the still- 
ness from one of the balconies, and a thousand glasses 
were leveled in that direction, while everywhere else 
the mass hushed itself with a mute sense of peril. 
The capacity of such an assemblage for self-destruc- 
tion was, in fact, but too evident. From fire, in an 
edifice of which the sides could be knocked out in a 
moment, there could have been Kttle danger ; the 
fabric's strength had been perfectly tested the day 
before, and its fall was not to be apprehended ; but 
we had ourselves greatly to dread. A panic could 
have been caused by any mad or wanton person, in 
which thousands might have been instantly trampled 
to death ; and it seemed long till that follish voice 
was stilled, and the house lapsed back into tranquillity, 
and the enjoyment of the music. In the performance 
I recall nothing disagreeable, nothing that to my igno- 
rance seemed imperfect, though I leave it to the wise 
in music to say how far the great concert was a suc- 
cess. I saw a flourish of the director's wand, and I 
heard the voices or the instruments, or both, respond, 
and I knew by my programme that I was enjoying an 
unprecedented quantity of Haydn or Handel or Mey- 
erbeer or Rossini or Mozart, afforded with an unques- 
tionable precision and promptness ; but I own that I 
liked better to stroll about the three-acre house, and 
that for me the music was, at best, only one of the 
joys of the festival. 
There was good hearing outside for those that 




desired to listen to the music, with seats to let in 
the surrounding tents and booths ; and there was 
unlimited seeing for the mere looker-on. At least 
fifly thousand people seemed to have come to the 
Jubilee with no other purpose than to gaze upon the 
outside of the building. The crowd was incompara- 
bly greater than that of the day before ; all the main 
thoroughfares of the city roared with a tide of feet 
that swept through the side streets, and swelled aim- 
lessly up the places, and eddied there, and poured 
out again over the pavements. The carriage-ways 
were packed with every sort of vehicle, with foot- 
passengers crowded from the sidewalks, and with the 
fragments of the military parade in honor of the 
President, with infantry, with straggling cavalry- 
men, with artillery. All the paths of the Common 
and the Garden were filled, and near the Coliseum 
the throngs densified on every side into an almost 
impenetrable mass, that made the doors of the build- 
ing difficult to approach and at times inaccessible. 

The crowd diflFered from that of the first day 
chiefly in size. There were more country faces and 
country garbs to be seen, though it was still, on the 
whole, a regular-featured and well-dressed crowd, 
with still very few but American visages. It seemed 
to be also a very frugal-minded crowd, and to spend 
little upon the refreshments and amusements pro- 
vided for it. In these, oddly enough, there was 
nothing of the march of mind to be observed ; they 
were the refreshments and amusements of a former 
generation. I think it would not be extravagant to 



 

say that there were tons of pie for sale in a multitude 
of booths, with lemonade, soda-water, and ice-ci*eam 
in proportion ; but I doubt if there was a ton of pie 
sold, and towards the last the venerable pastry was 
quite covered with dust. Neither did people seem 
to care much for oranges or bananas or peanuts, or 
even pop-corn, — five cents a package and a prize in 
each package. Many booths stood unlet, and in 
others the pulverous ladies and gentlemen, their 
proprietors, were in the enjoyment of a leisure which 
would have been elegant if it had not been forced. 
There was one shanty, not otherwise distinguished 
from the rest, in which French soups were declared 
to be for sale ; but these alien pottages seemed to be 
no more favored than the most poisonous of our 
national viands. But perhaps they were not French 
soups, or perhaps the vicinage of the shanty was not 
such as to impress a belief in their genuineness upon 
people who like French soups. Let us not be too 
easily disheartened by the popular neglect of them. 
If the dating reformer who inscribed French soups 
upon his sign will reappear ten years hence, we shall 
all flock to his standard. Slavery is abolished ; pie 
must follow. Doubtless in the year 1900, the man- 
agers of a Jubilee would even let the refreshment- 
rooms within their Coliseum to a cook who would 
offer the public something not so much worse than 
the worst that could be found in the vilest shanty 
restaurant on the ground. At the Jubilee, of which 
I am writing, the unhappy person who went into the 
Cohseum rooms to refresh himself was offered for 




coffee a salty and unctuous wash, in one of those 
thick cups which are supposed to be proof against 
the hard usage of " guests " and scullions in humble 
eating-houses, and which are always so indescribably 
nicked and cracked, and had pushed towards him a 
bowl of veteran sugar, and a .tin spoon that had 
never been cleaned in the world, while a yoimg per- 
son stood by, and watched him, asking, " Have you 
paid for that coffee ? " 

The side-shows and the other amusements seemed 
to have addressed themselves to the crowd with the 
same mistaken notion of its character and require- 
ments ; though I confess that I witnessed their neg- 
lect with regret, whether from a feeling that they 
were at least harmless, or an inconscious sympathy 
with any quite idle and unprofitable thmg. Those 
rotary,' legless horses, on which children love to ride 
in a perpetual sickening circle, — the type of > all our 
effort, — were nearly always mounted ; but those 
other whirligigs, or whatever the dreadful circles 
with their swinging seats are called, were often so 
empty that they must have been distressing, from 
their want of balance, to the muscles as well as the 
spirits of their proprietors. The society of monsters 
was also generally shunned, and a cow with five legs 
gave milk from the top of her back to an audience 
of not more than six persons. The public apathy 
had visibly wrought upon the temper of the gen- 
tleman who lectured upon this gifted animal, and 
he took inquiries in an ironical manner that con- 
trasted disadvantageously with the philosophical 


sei-enity of the person who had a weighing-machine 
outside, and whom I saw sitting in the chair and 
weighing himself by the hour, with an expression of 
profound enjoyment. Perhaps a man of less bulk 
could not have entered so keenly into that simple 
pleasure. 

There was a large tent on the grounds for dramat- 
ical entertainments, with six performances a day, 
into which I was lured by a profusion of high-colored 
posters, and some such announcement, as that the 
beautiful serio-comic danseuse and world-renOwned 
cloggist. Mile. Brown, would appear. About a 
dozen people were assembled within, and we waited 
a half-hour beyond the time announced for the cur- 
tain to rise, during which the spectacle of a young man 
in black broadcloth, eating a cocoa-nut with his pen- 
knife, had a strange and painfiil fascination. At the 
end of this half-hour, our number was increased to 
eighteen, when the orchestra appeared, — a snare- 
drummer and two buglers. These took their place 
at the back of the tent ; the buglers, who were 
Germans, blew seriously and industriously at their 
horns ; but the native-bom citizen, who played the 
drum, beat it very much at random, and in the mean 
time smoked a cigar, while his humorous friend kept 
time upon his shoulders by striking him there with a 
cane. How long this might have lasted, I cannot 
tell ; but, after another delay, I suddenly bethought 
me whether it were not better not to see Mile. 
Brown, after all ? I rose, and stole softly out be- 
hind the rhythmic back of the drummer ; and the 




world-renowned cloggist is to me at this momeut 
only a beautiful dream, — an aiiy shape fashioned 
upon a hint supplied by the engraver of the posters. 

What, then, did the public desire, if it would not 
smile upon the swings, or monsters, or dramatic 
amusements that had pleased so long? Was the 
music, as it floated oiit &om the Coliseum, a suffi- 
cient delight? Or did the crowd, averse to the 
shows provided for it, crave something higher and 
more intellectual, — like, for example, a course of 
the Lowell Lectures ? Its general expression had 
changed : it had no longer that entire gayety of the 
first day, but had taken on something of the sarcastic 
pathos with which we Americans bear most oppressive 
and fatiguing things as a good joke. The dust was 
blown about in clouds ; and here and there, sitting 
upon the vacant steps that led up and down among 
the booths, were dejected and motionless men and 
women, passively gathering dust, and apparently 
awaiting burial under the accumulating sand, — the 
mute, melancholy sphinxes of the Jubilee, with their 
unsolved riddle, " Why did we come ? " At inter- 
vals, the heavens shook out fierce, sudden showers 
of rain, that scattered the surging masses, and sent 
them flying impotently hither and thither for shelter 
where no shelter was, only to gather again, and 
move aimlessly and comfortlessly to and fro, like a 
lost child. 

So the multitude roared within and without the 
Coliseum as I turned homeward ; and yet I found it 
wandering with weary feet through the Garden, and 




the Common, and all the streets, and it dragged its 
innumerable aching legs with me to the railroad 
station, and, entering the train, stood up on them, — 
having paid for the tickets with which the companies 
professed to sell seats. 

How still and cool and fresh it was at our subur- 
ban station, when the train, speeding away with a 
sardonic yell over the misery of the passengers yet 
standing up in it, left us to walk across the quiet 
fields and pleasant lanes to Benicia Street, through 
groups of little idyllic Irish boys playing base-ball, 
with milch-goats here and there pastorally cropping 
the herbage ! 

In this pleasant seclusion I let all Bunker Hill 
Day thunder by, with its cannons, and processions, 
and speeches, and patriotic musical uproar, hearing 
only through my open window the note of the birds 
singing in a leafy coliseum across the street, and 
making very fair music without an anvil among 
them. " Ah, signer ! " said one of my doorstep 
acquaintance, who came next morning and played 
me Captain Jenks, — the new air he has had added 
to his instrument, — " never in my life, neither at 
Torino, nor at Milano, nor even at Genoa, never did 
I see such a crowd or hear such a noise, as at that 
Colosseo yesterday. The carriages, the horses, the 
feet ! And the dust, O Dio mio ! All those millions 
of people were as white as so many millers ! " 

On the afternoon of the fourth day the city looked 
quite like the mill in which these millers had been 
grinding ; and even those nnpromisingly elegant 




streets df the Back Bay showed mansions powdered 
with dust enough for sentiment to strike root in, and 
so soften them with its tender green against the time 
when they shall he ruinous and sentiment shall swal- 
low them up. The crowd had perceptihly dimin- 
ished, but it was stm great, and on the Common it 
was allured by a greater variety of recreations and 
bargains than I had yet seen there. There were, 
of course, all sorts of useful and instructive amuse- 
ments, — at least a half-dozen telescopes, and as 
many galvanic batteries, with numerous patented 
inventions ; and I fancied that most of the peddlers 
and charlatans addressed themselves to a utilitarian 
spirit supposed to exist in us. A man that sold 
whistles capable of reproducing exactly the notes of 
the mocking-bird and the guinea-pig set forth the 
durabiKty of the invention. " Now, you see this 
whistle, gentlemen. It is rubber, all rubber ; and 
rubber, you know, enters into the composition of a 
great many valuable articles. This whistle, then, is 
entirely of rubber, — no worthless or flimsy material 
that drops to pieces the moment you put it to your 
lips," — as if it were not utterly desirable that it 
should. " Now, I'll give you the mocking-bird, 
gentlemen, and then I'll give you the guinea-pig, 
upon this pure dia-rubber whistle." And he did 
so with a great animation, — this young man with a 
perfectly intelligent and very handsome face. " Try 
your strength, and renovate your system I " cried 
the proprietor of a piston padded at one end and 
working into a cylinder when you struck it a blow 



with your fist; and the owners of lung-testing 
machines called upon you from every side to try 
their consumption cure ; while the galvanic-battery 
men sat still and mutely appealed with inscription? 
attached to their cap- visors declaring that electriciiv 
taken from their batteries would rid you of every ache 
and pain known to suffering humanity. Yet they 
were themselves as a class in a state of sad physical 
disrepair, and one of them was the visible prey of 
rheumatism which he might have sent flying from his 
joints with a single shock. The only person whom 
I saw improving his health with the battery was a 
rosy-faced school-boy, who was taking ten cents' 
worth of electricity ; and I hope it did not disagree 
with his pop-corn and soda-water. 

Farther on was a picturesque group of street- 
musicians, — violinists and harpers ; a brother and 
four sisters, by their looks, — who afforded almost 
the only unpractical amusement to be enjoyed on 
the Common, though not far from them was a blind 
old negro, playing upon an accordion, and singing to 
it in the faintest and thinnest of black voices, who 
could hardly have profited any listener. No one 
appeared to mind him, till a jolly Jack-tar with both 
arms cut off, but dressed in full sailor's togs, lurched 
heavily towards him. This mariner had got quite a 
good effect of sea-legs by some means, and looked 
rather drunker than a man with both arms ought to 
be ; but he was very affectionate, and, putting his 
face close to the other's, at once entered into talk 
with the blind man, forming with him a picture curi- 




ously pathetic and grotesque. He was the only 
tipsy person I saw during the Jubilee days, — if he 
was tipsy, for after all they may have been real sea- 
legs he had on. 

If the throng upon the streets was thinner, it was 
greater in the Cohseum than on the second day ; and 
matters he'd settled there into regular working order. 
The limits of individual liberty had been better 
ascertained ; there was no longer any movement in 
the aisles, but a constant passing to and fro, between 
the pieces, in the promenades. The house presented, 
as before, that appearance in which reality forsook 
it, and it became merely an amazing picture. The 
audience supported the notion of its unreality by 
having exactly the character of the former audiences, 
and impressed you, despite its restlessness and inces- 
sant agitation, with the feeling that it had remained 
there from the first day, and woidd always continue 
there ; and it was only in wandering upon its bor- 
ders through the promenades, that you regained 
possession of facts concerning it. In no other way 
was its vastness more observable than in the perfect 
indifference of persons one to another. Each found 
himself, as it were, in a solitude ; and, sequestered 
in that wilderness of strangers, each was freed of his 
bashfiilness and trepidation. Young people lounged 
at ease upon the floors, about the windows, on the 
upper promenades ; and in this seclusion I saw such 
betrayals of tenderness as melt the heart of the 
traveller on our desolate railway trains, — Fellows 
moving to and fro or standing, careless of other eyes. 




with their arms around the waists of their Grirls. 
These were, of course, people who had only attained 
a certain grade of civilization, and were not charac- 
teristic of the crowd, or, indeed, worthy of notice 
except as expressions of its unconsciousness. I 
fancied that I saw a number of their class outside 
listening to the address of the agent of a patent hni- 
ment, proclaimed to be an unfailing specific for neu- 
ralgia and headache, — if used in the right spirit. 
" For," said the orator, " we like to cure people who 
treat us and our medicine with respect. Folks say, 
' What is there about that man ? — some magnetism 
or electricity.' And the other day at New Britain, 
Connecticut, a yoimg man he come up to the car- 
riage, sneering like, and he tried the cure, and it 
didn't have the least effect upon him." There 
seemed reason in this, and it produced a visible sen- 
sation in the Fellows and Girls, who grinned sheep- 
ishly at each other. 

Why will the yoimg man with long hair force 
himself at this point into a history, which is striving 
to devote itself to graver interests ? There he stood 
with the other people, gazing up at the gay line of 
streamers on the summit of the Cohseura, and taking 
in the Anvil Chorus with the rest, — a young man 
well-enough dressed, and of a pretty sensible face, 
with his long black locks falling from under his cyl- 
inder hat, and covering his shoulders. What awful 
spell was on him, obliging him to make that figure 
before his fellow-creatures ? He had nothing to 
sell ; he was not, apparently, an advertisement of 



 

any kind. Was he in the performance of a vow ? 
Was he in his right mind ? For shame ! a person 
may wear his hair long if he will. But why not, 
then, in a top-knot ? This young man's long hair 
was not in keeping with his frock-coat and his cylin- 
der hat, and he had not at all the excuse of the old 
gentleman who sold salve in the costume of Wash- 
ington's time ; one could not take pleasure in him as 
i];i the negro advertiser, who paraded the grounds in 
a costume compounded of a consular chapeau bras 
and a fox-hunter's top-boots — the American diplo- 
matic uniform of the future — and offered every one 
a printed billet ; he had not even the attraction of 
the cabalistic herald of Hunkidori. Who was he ? 
what was he ? why was he ? The mind played for- 
ever around these questions in a maze of hopeless 
conjecture. 

Had all those quacks and peddlers been bawling 
ever since Tuesday to the same hsteners ? Had all 
those swings and whirligigs incessantly performed 
their rounds ? The cow that gave milk from the 
top of her back, had she never changed her small 
circle of admirers, or ceased her flow? And the 
gentleman who sat in the chair of his own balance, 
how much did he weigh by this time ? One could 
scarcely rid one's self of the illusion of perpetuity 
concerning these things, and I could not believe 
that, if I went back to .the Coliseum grounds at any 
ftiture time, I should not behold all that vast machin- 
ery in motion. 

It was curious to see, amid this holiday turmoil, 



 

men pursuing the ordinary business of their lives, 
and one was strangely rescued and consoled by the 
spectacle of the Irish hod-carriers, and the brick- 
layers at work on a first-class swell-front residence 
in the very heart of the city of tents and booths. 
Even the locomotive, being associated with quieter 
days and scenes, appealed, as it whistled to and fro 
upon the Providence Railroad, to some soft bucolic 
sentiment in the listener, and sending its note, 
ordinarily so discordant, across that human uproar, 
seemed to " babble of green fields." And at last 
it wooed us away, and the Jubilee was again swal- 
lowed up by night. 

There was yet another Jubilee Day, on the morn- 
ing of which the thousands of public-school children 
clustered in gauzy pink and white in the place of the 
mighty chorus, while the Coliseum swarmed once 
more with people who listened to those shrill, sweet 
pipes blending in unison ; but I leave the reader to 
imagine what he will about it. A week later, after 
all was over, I was minded to walk down towards the 
Coliseum, and behold it in its desertion. The city 
streets were restored to their wonted summer-after- 
noon tranquillity ; the Public Garden presented its 
customary phases of two people sitting under a tree 
and talking intimately together on some theme of 
commoli interest, — 

" Beei, bees, was it your bydromel? " — 

of the swans sailing in ftill view upon the little lake ; 
of half a dozen idlers hanging upon the bridge to 
look at them ; of children gayly dotting the paths 



 

here and there ; and, to heighten the peacefdhiess 
of the effect, a pretty, pale invalid lady sat, half in 
shade and half in sun, reading in an easy-chair. Far 
down the broad avenue a single horse-car tinkled 
slowly ; on the steps of one of the mansions charm- 
ing little girls stood in a picturesque group full of 
the bright color which abormds in the lovely dresses 
of this time. As I drew near the Coliseum, I could 
perceive the desolation which ha.d fallen upon the 
festival scene ; the white tents were gone ; the place 
where the world-renowned cloggist gave her serio- 
comic dances was as lonely and silent as the site of 
Carthage ; in the middle distance two men were dis- 
mantling a motionless whirligig ; the hut for the sale 
of French soups was closed ; farther away, a solitary 
policeman moved gloomily across the deserted spaces, 
showing his dark-blue figure against the sky. The 
vast fabric of the Coliseum reared itself, hushed and 
deserted within and without ; and a boy in his shirt- 
sleeves pressed his nose against one of the painted 
window-panes in the vain effort to behold the noth- 
ing inside. But sadder than this loneliness sur- 
rounding the CoKseum, sadder than the festooned 
and knotted banners that drooped funereally upon 
its facade, was the fact that some of those luckless 
refreshment-saloons were still open, displaying viands 
as little edible now as carnival confetti. It was as 
if the proprietors, in an unavailing remorse, had con- 
demned themselves to spend the rest of their days 
there, and, slowly consuming their own cake and 
pop-corn, washed down with their own soda-water 
and lemonade, to perish of dyspepsia and despair. 




I WOULD not willingly repose upon the friendship 
of a man whose local attachments are weak. I 
should not demand of my intimate that he have a 
yearning for the homes of his ancestors, or even the 
scenes of his own boyhood ; that is not in American 
nature ; on the contrary, he is but a poor creature who 
does not hate the village where he was bom ; yet a 
sentunent for the place where one has lived two or 
three years, the hotel where one has spent a week, 
the sleeping car in which one has ridden from Al- 
bany to Buffalo, — so much I should think it well to 
exact from my friend in proof of that sensibility and 
constancy without which true friendship does not 
exist. So much I am ready to yield on my own 
part to a friend's demand, and I profess to have all 
the possible regrets for Benicia Street, now I have 
left it. Over its deficiencies I cast a veil of decent 
obHvion, and shall always try to look upon its worthy 
and consoling aspects, which were far the more nu- 
merous. It was never otherwise, I imagine, than an 
ideal region in very great measure ; and if the read- 
er whom I have sometimes seemed to direct thither, 
should seek it out, he would hardly find my Benicia 
Street by the city sign-board. Yet this is not wholly 
because it was an ideal locality, but because much of 



 

its reality has now become merely historical, a portion 
of the tragical poetry of the past. Many of the 
vacant lots abutting upon Benicia and the intersect- 
ing streets flourished up, during the four years we 
knew itj into fresh-painted wooden houses, and the 
time came to be when one might have looked in 
vain for the abandoned hoop-skirts which used to 
decorate the desirable building-sites. The lessening 
pasturage also reduced the herds which formerly fed 
in the vicinity, and at last we caught the tinkle 
of the cow-bells only as the cattle were driven past 
to remoter meadows. And one autumn afternoon 
two laborers, hired by the city, came and threw up 
an earthwork on the opposite side of the street, 
which they said was a sidewalk, and would add to 
the value of property in the neighborhood. Not 
being dressed with coal-ashes, however, during the 
winter, the sidewalk vanished next summer under 
a growth of rag-weed, and hid the increased values 
with it, and it is now an even question whether this 
monument of municipal grandeur will finally be held 
by Art or resumed by Nature, — who indeed has a 
perpetual motherly longing for her own, and may be 
seen in all outlying and suburban places, pathetically 
striving to steal back any neglected bits of ground 
and conceal them under her skirts of tattered and 
shabby verdure. But whatever is the event of this 
contest, and whatever the other changes wrought in 
the locality, it has not yet been quite stripped of 
the characteristic charms which first took our hearts, 
and which have been duly celebrated in these pages. 



 

When the new house was chosen, we made prep- 
arations to leave the old one, but preparations so grad- 
ual, that, if we had cared much more than we did, 
we might have suffered greatly by the prolongation 
of the agony. We proposed to ourselves fo escape 
the miseries of moving by transferring the contents 
of one room at a time, and if we did not laugh incred- 
ulously at people who said we had better have it 
over at once and be done with it, it was because we 
respected their feelings, and not because we believed 
them. We took up one carpet after another ; one 
wall after another we stripped of its pictures ; we 
sent away all the books to begin with ; and by this 
subtle and ingenious process, we reduced ourselves 
to the discomfort of living in no house at all, as it 
were, and of being at home in neither one place nor 
the other. Yet the logic of our scheme remained 
perfect ; and I do not regret its failure in practice, for 
if we had been ever so loath to quit the old house, its 
inhospitable barrenness would finally have hurried us 
forth. In fact, does not life itself in some such fashion 
dismantle its tenement until it is at last forced out 
of the uninhabitable place ? Are not the poor little 
comforts and pleasures and ornaments removed one 
by one, till life, if it would be saved, must go too ? 
We took a lesson from the teachings of mortality, 
which are so rarely heeded, and we lingered over our 
moving. We made the process so gradual, indeed, 
that I do not feel myself all gone yet from the famil- 
iar work-room, and for aught I can say, I still write 
there ; and as to the guest-chamber, it is so densely 



 

peopled by those it has lodged that it will never quite 
be emptied of them. Friends also are yet in the 
habit of calling in the parlor, and talking with us ; 
and will the children never come off the stairs? 
Does life, our high exemplar, leave so much behind 
as we did ? Is this what fills the world with ghosts? 

In the getting ready to go, nothing hurt half so 
much as the sight of the little girl packing her doll's 
things for removal. The trousseaux of all those 
elegant creatures, the wooden, the waxen, the bis- 
cuit, the india-rubber, were carefully assorted, and 
arranged in various small drawers and boxes ; their 
house was thoughtfully put in order and locked for 
transportation; their innumerable broken sets of 
dishes were packed in paper and set out upon the 
floor, a heart-breaking little basketful. Nothing real 
in this world is so affecting as some image of real- 
ity, and this travesty of our own flitting was almost 
intolerable. I will not pretend to sentiment about 
anything else, for everything else had in it the ele- 
ment of self-support belonging to all actual 'afflic- 
tions. When the day of moving finally came, and 
the furniture wagon, which ought to have been only 
a shade less dreadful to us than a hearse, drew up 
at our door, our hearts were of a Neronian hardness. 

" Were I Diogenes," says wrathful Charles Lamb 
in one of his letters, " I would not move out of a 
kilderkin into a hogshead, though the first had noth- 
ing but small beer in it, and the second reeked claret." 
I fancy this loathing of the transitionary state came 
in great part fi:om the rude and elemental nature of 



 

the means of moving in Lamb's day. In our own 
time, in Charlesbridge at least, everything is so per- 
fectly contrived, that it is in some ways a pleasant 
excitement to move ; though I do not commend the 
diversion to any but people of entire leisure, for it 
cannot be denied that it is, at any rate, an interrup- 
tion to work. But little is broken, little is defaced, 
nothing is heedlessly outraged or put to shame. Of 
course there are in every house certain objects of 
comfort and even ornament which in a state of repose 
derive a sort of dignity from being cracked, or 
scratched, or organically debilitated, and give an 
idea of ancestral possession and of long descent to 
the actual owner ; and you must not hope that this 
venerable quality will survive their public exposure 
upon the fumitnre wagon. There it instantly per- 
ishes, like the consequence of some country notable 
huddled and hustled about in the graceless and igno- 
rant tumult of a great city. To tell the truth, the 
number of things that turn shabby under the ordeal 
of moving strikes a pang of unaccustomed poverty 
to the heart which, loving all manner of makeshifts, 
is rich even in its dilapidations. For the time you 
feel degraded by the spectacle of that forlomness, 
and if you are a man of spirit, you try to sneak out 
of association with it in the mind of the passer-by ; 
you keep scrupulously in-doors, or if a fancied exi- 
gency obhges you to go back and forth between the 
old house and the new, you seek . obscure by-ways 
remote from the great street down which the wagon 
flaunts your ruin and decay, and time your arrivals 




and departures so as to have the air of merely drop- 
ping in at either place. This consoles you ; but it 
deceives no one ; for the man who is moving is un- 
mistakably stamped with transition. 

Yet the momentary eclipse of these things is not 
the worst. It is momentary ; for if you will but 
plant them in kindly comers and favorable exposures 
of the new house, a mould of respectability will 
gradually overspread them again, and they will once 
more account for their presence by the air of having 
been a long time in the family ; but there is danger 
that in the first moments of mortification you will be 
tempted to replace them with new and costly articles. 
Even the best of the old things are nothing to boast 
of in the hard, unpitying light to which they are 
exposed, and a difficult and indocile spirit of extrav- 
agance is evoked in the least profuse. Because of 
this fact alone I should not commend the diversion 
of moving save to people of very ample means as 
well as perfect leisure ; there are more reasons than 
the misery of flitting why the dweller in the kilder- 
kin should not covet the hogshead reeking of claret. 

But the grosser misery of moving is, as I have 
hinted, vastly mitigated by modem science, and what 
remains of it one may use himself to with no tre- 
mendous efibrt. I have found that in the dentist's 
chair, — that ironically luxurious seat, cushioned in 
satirical suggestion of impossible repose, — after a 
certain initial period of clawing, filing, scraping, and 
punching, one's nerves accommodate themselves to 
the torment, and one takes almost an objective in- 


terest in the operation of tooth-filling ; and in like , 
manner after two or three wagon-loads of your house- 
hold stuff have passed down the public street, and 
all your morbid associations with them have beeir 
desecrated, you begin almost to like it. Yet I can- 
not regard this abandon as a perfectly healthy emo- 
tion, and I do not counsel my reader to mount himself 
upon the wagon and ride to and fro even once, for 
afterwards the remembrance of such an excess will 
grieve him. 

Of course, I meant to imply by this that' moving 
sometimes comes to an end, though it is not easy to 
believe so while moving. The time really arrives 
