associations. It is twenty-five miles long, and from one 
to three in breadth, a free growth of stately pines, whose 
boughs are full of music and sweet odors, — a succession 
of lovely glades and avenues, with miles and miles of 
drives over the springy turf At the point where we 
entered is a farmhouse. Laborers had been gathering 
the cones, which were heaped up in immense windrows, 
hundreds of feet in length. Boys and men were busy 
pounding out the seeds from the cones. The latter are 
used for fuel, and the former are pressed for their oil. 
They are also eaten : we have often had them served at 
hotel-tables, and found them rather tasteless, but not 
unpleasant. The turf, as we drove into the recesses of 
the forest, was thickly covered with wild-flowers, of many 
colors and delicate forms ; but we liked best the violets, 
for they reminded us of home, though the driver seemed 
to think them less valuable than the seeds of the pine- 
cones. A lovely day and history and romance united 
to fascinate us with the place. We were driving over 
the spot where, eighteen centuries ago, the Roman fleet 
used to ride at anchor. Here, it is certain, the gloomy 
spirit of Dante found congenial place for meditation, and 
the gay Boccaccio material for fiction. Here for hours, 
day after day, Byron used to gallop his horse, giving 
vent to that restless impatience which could not all 
escape from his fiery pen, hearing those voices of a past 
and dead Italy which he, more truthfully and patheti- 
cally than any other poet, has put into living verse. 
The driver pointed out what is called Byron's Path, 
where he was wont to ride. Everybody here, indeed, 
knows of Byron ; and I think his memory is more secure 
than any saint of them all in their stone boxes, — partly 
because his poetry has celebrated the region, perhaps 



  

rather from the perpetuated tradition of his generosity. 
No foreigner was ever so popular as he while he lived at 
Ravenna. At least, the people say so now, since they 
find it so profitable to keep his memory alive and to point 
out his haunts. The Italians, to be sure, know how to 
make capital out of poets and heroes, and are quick to 
learn the curiosity of foreigners, and to gratify it for a 
compensation. But the evident esteem in which Byron's 
memory is held in the Armenian monastery of St. 
Lazzare, at Venice, must be otherwise accounted- for. 
The monks keep his library-room and table as they 
were when he wrote there, and like to show his portrait, 
and tell of his quick mastery of the difficult Armenian 
tongue. We have a notable example of a Person who 
became a monk when he was sick ; but Byron accom- 
plished too much work during the few months he was on 
the Island of St. Lazzare, both in original composition 
and in translating English into Armenian, for one phy- 
sically ruined and broken. 



DANTE AND BYRON. 

THE pilgrim to Ravenna, wlio has any idea of what 
is due to the genius of Dante, will be disappointed 
when he approaches his tomb. Its situation is in a not 
very conspicuous corner, at the foot of a narrow street, 
bearing the poet's name, and beside the Church of San 
Francisco, which is interesting as containing the tombs 
of the Polenta family, whose hospitality to the wander- 
ing exile has rescued their names from oblivion. Op- 
posite the tomb is the shabby old brick house of the 
Polentas, where Dante passed many years of his life. 
It is tenanted now by all sorts of people, and a dirty 
carriage-shop in the courtyard kills the poetry of it. 
Dante died in 1321, and was at first buried in the neigh- 
boring church ; but this tomb, since twice renewed, was 
erected, and his body removed here, in 1482. It is a 
square stuccoed structure, stained light green, and cov- 
ered by a dome, — a tasteless monument, embellished 
with stucco medallions; inside, of the poet, of Virgil, 
of Brunetto Latini, the poet's master, and of his patron, 
Guido da Polenta. On the sarcophagus is the epitaph, 
composed in Latin by Dante himself, who seems to have 
thought, with Shakspeare, that for a poet to make his 
own epitaph was the safest thing to do. Notwithstand- 
ing the mean appearance of this sepulchre, there is none 
in all the soil of Italy that the traveller from America 
will visit with deeper interest. Near by is the house 
where Byron first resided in Ravenna, as a tablet re- 
cords. 



The people here preserve all the memorials of Byron ; 
and, I should judge, hold his memory in something like 
afiection. The Palace Guiccioli, in which he subse- 
quently resided, is in another part of the town. He 
spent over two years in Ravenna, and said he preferred 
it to any place in Italy. Why I cannot see ; unless it 
was reinote from the route of travel, and the desolation 
of it was congenial to him. Doubtless he loved these 
wide, marshy expanses on the Adriatic, and especially 
the great forest of pines on its shore ; but Byron was 
apt to be governed in his choice of a residence by 
the woman with whom he was intimate. The palace 
was certainly pleasanter than his gloomy house in the 
Strada di Porta Sisi, and the society of the Countess 
Guiccioli was rather than otherwise a stimulus to his 
literary activity. At her suggestion he wrote the Pro- 
phecy of Dante ; and the translation of Francesca da 
Kimini was " executed at Ravenna, where, five centuries 
before, and in the very house in which the unfortunate 
lady was born, Dante's poem had been composed." 
Some of his finest poems were also produced here,  =— 
poems for which Venice is as grateful as Ravenna. 
Here he wrote " Marino Faliero," " The Two Foscari," 
« Morganti Maggiore," " Sardanapalus," " The Blues," 
the fifth canto of " Don Juan," " Cain," " Heaven and 
Earth," and " The Vision of Judgment." I looked in 
at the court of the palace, — a pleasant, quiet place, — 
where he used to work, and tried to guess which were 
the windows of his apartments. The sun was shining 
brightly, and a bird was singing in the court ; but there 
was no other sign of life, nor any thing to remind one 
of the profligate genius who was so long a guest here. 



RESTING-PLACE OF CSARS. — PIC- 
TURE OF A BEAUTIFUL HERETIC. 

VERY different from the tomb of Dante, and dif- 
V ferent in the associations it awakes, is the Ro- 
tunda or Mausoleum of Theodoric the Goth, outside 
the Porta Serrata, whose daughter, Amalasuntha, as it 
is supposed, about the year 530, erected this imposing 
structure as a certain place " to keep his memory whole 
and mummy hid " forever. But the Goth had not lain 
in it long before Arianism went out of fashion quite, and 
the zealous Roman Catholics despoiled his costly sleep- 
ing-place, and scattered his ashes abroad. I do not 
know that any dead person has lived in it since. The 
tomb is still a very solid affair, — a rotunda built of solid 
blocks of limestone, and resting on a ten-sided base, 
each side having a recess surmounted by an arch. The 
upper story is also decagonal, and is reached by a flight 
of modern stone steps. The roof is composed of a single 
block of Istrian limestone, scooped out like a shallow 
bowl inside ; and, being the biggest roof-stone I ever 
saw, I will give you the dimensions. It is thirty-six feet 
in diameter, hollowed out to the depth of ten feet, four 
feet thick at the centre, and two feet nine inches at the 
edges, and is estimated to weigh two hundred tons. 
Amalasuntha must have had help in getting it up there. 
The lower story is partly 'under water. The green grass 
of the enclosure in which it stands is damp enough for 
frogs. An old woman opened the iron gate to let us in. 
Whether she was any relation of the ancient proprietor, 


I did not inquire ; but she had so much trouble in turn- 
ing the key in the rusty lock, and letting us in, that I 
presume we were the only visitors she has had for some 
centuries. 

Old women abound in Ravenna ; at least, she was not 
young who showed us the mausoleum of Galla Placidia. 
Placidia was also prudent and foreseeing, and built this 
once magnificent sepulchre for her own occupation. It 
is in the form of a Latin cross, forty-six feet in length 
by about forty in width. The floor is paved with rich 
marbles ; the cupola is covered with mosaics of the time 
of the empress ; and in the arch over the door is a fine 
representation of the Good Shepherd. Behind the altar 
is the massive sarcophagus of marble (its cover of silver 
plates was long ago torn off) in which are literally the 
ashes of the empress. She was immured in it as a mummy, 
in a sitting position, clothed in imperial robes ; and there 
the ghastly corpse sat in a cypress-wood chair, to be looked 
at by anybody who chose to peep through the aperture, 
for more than eleven hundred years, till one day, in 1577, 
some children introduced a lighted candle, perhaps out 
of compassion for her who sat so long in darkness, when 
her clothes caught fire, and she was burned up, — a 
warning to all children not to play with a dead and dry 
empress. In this resting-place are also the tombs of 
Honorius II., her brother, of Constantius III., her sec- 
ond husband, and of Honoria, her daughter. There are 
no other undisturbed tombs of the Csesars in existence. 
Hers is almost the last, and the very small last, of a 
great succession. What thoughts of a great empire in 
ruins do not force themselves on one in the confined 
walls of this little chamber I What a woman was she 
whose ashes lie there ! She saw and aided the ruin of 
the empire ; but it may be said of her, that her vices 
were greater than her misfortunes. And what a story 
is her life ! Born to the purple, educated in the palace 
at Constantinople, accomplished but not handsome, at the 
age of twenty she was in Rome when Alaric besieged it. 





Carried off captive by the Goths, she became the not 
unwilling object of the passion of King Adolphus, who at 
length married her at Narbonne. At the nuptials the 
king, in a Roman habit, occupied a seat lower than hers, 
while she sat on a throne habited as a Roman empress, 
and received homage. Fifty handsome youths bore to 
her in each hand a dish of gold, one filled with coin, and 
the other with precious stones, — a small part only, these 
hundred vessels of treasure, of the spoils the Goths 
brought from her country. When Adolphus, who never 
abated his fondness for his Roman bride, was assassinated 
at Barcelona, she was treated like a slave by his as- 
sassins, and driven twelve miles on foot before the horse 
of his murderer. Ransomed at length for six hundred 
thousand measures of wheat by her brother Honorius, 
who handed her over struggling to Constantius, one of 
his generals. But, once married, her reluctance ceased ; 
and she set herself to advance the interests of herself 
and husband, ruling him as she had done the first one. 
Her purpose was accomplished when he was declared 
joint emperor with Honorius. He died shortly after ; 
and scandalous stories of her intimacy with her brother 
caused her removal to Constantinople ; but she came 
back again, and reigned long as the regent of her son, 
Valentinian HI., a feeble youth, who never grew to have 
either passions or talents, and was very likely, as was 
said, enervated by his mother in dissolute indulgence, 
so that she might be supreme. But she died at Rome 
in 450, much praised for her orthodoxy and her devotion 
to the Trinity. And there was her daughter, Honoria, 
who ran off with a chamberlain, and afterward offered 
to throw herself into the arms of Attila, who wouldn't 
take her as a gift at first, but afterward demanded her, 
and fought to win her and her supposed inheritance. 
But they were a bad lot altogether ; and it is no credit 
to a Christian of the nineteenth century to stay in this 
tomb so long. 

Near this mausoleum is the magnificent Basilica of St. 




Vitale, built in the reign of Justinian, and consecrated in 
547. I was interested to see it because it was erected 
in confessed imitation of St. Sophia, at Constantinople, 
is in the octagonal form, and has all the accessories 
of Eastern splendor, according to the architectural au- 
thorities. Its eflfect is really rich and splendid ; and it 
rather dazzled us with its maze of pillars, its upper and 
lower columns, its galleries, complicated capitals, arches 
on arches, and Byzantine intricacies. To the student 
of the very early ecclesiastical art, it must be an object 
of more interest than even of wonder. But what I cared 
most to see were the mosaics in the choir, executed in 
the time of Justinian, and as fresh and beautiful as on 
the day they were made. The mosaics and the exquisite 
arabesques on the roof of the choir, taken together, are 
certainly unequalled by any other early church-deco- 
ration I have seen ; and they are as interesting as they 
are beautiful. Any description of them is impossible ; 
but mention may be made of two characteristic groups, 
remarkable for execution, and having yet a deeper in- 
terest. 

In one compartment of the tribune is the figure of the 
Emperor Justinian, holding a vase with consecrated offer- 
ings, and surrounded by courtiers and soldiers. Oppo- 
site is the figure of the Empress Theodora, holding a 
similar vase, and attended by ladies of Jaer court. There is 
a refinement and an elegance about the empress, a grace 
and sweet dignity, that is fascinating. This is royalty, 
— stately and cold perhaps : even the mouth may be 
a Httle cruel, I begin to perceive, as I think of her ; but 
she wears the purple by divine right. I have not seen 
on any walls any figure walking out of history so cap- 
tivating as this lady, who would seem to have been 
worthy of apotheosis in a Christian edifice. Can there 
be any doubt that this lovely woman was orthodox? 
She, also, has a story, which you doubtless have been 
recalling as you read. Is it worth while to repeat even 
its outlines? This charming regal woman was the 




daughter of the keeper of the bears in the circus at 
Constantinople ; and she early went upon the stage as 
a pantomimist and buffoon. She was beautiful, with 
regular features, a little pale, but with a tinge of natural 
color, vivacious eyes, and an easy motion that displayed 
to advantage the graces of her small but elegant figure. 
I can see all that in the mosaic. But she sold her charms 
to whoever cared to buy them in Constantinople ; she 
led a life of dissipation that cannot be even hinted at in 
these days ; she went off to Egypt as the concubine of 
a general ; was deserted, and destitute even to misery 
in Cairo ; wandered about a vagabond in many Eastern 
cities, and won the reputation everywhere of the most 
beautiful courtesan of her time ; re-appeared in Constan- 
tinople ; and, having, it is said, a vision of her future, 
suddenly took to a pretension of virtue and plain sew- 
ing ; contrived to gain the notice of Justinian, to inflame 
his passions as she did those of all the world besides, 
to captivate him into first an alliance, and at length a 
marriage. The emperor raised her to an equal seat 
with himself on his throne ; and she was worshipped 
as empress in that city where she had been admired 
as harlot. And on the throne she was a wise woman, 
courageous and chaste; and had her palaces on the 
Bosphorus ; and took good care of her beauty, and in- 
dulged in the pleasures of a good table ; had ministers 
who kissed her feet ; a crowd of women and eunuchs in 
her secret chambers, whose passions she indulged ; was 
avaricious and sometimes cruel ; and founded a convent 
for the irreclaimably bad of her own sex, some of whom 
liked it, and some of whom threw themselves into the 
sea in despak ; and when she died was an irreparable 
loss to her emperor. So that it seems to me it is a pity 
that the historian should say that she was devout, but a 
little heretic. 




THE splendid and tiresome ceremonies of Holy Week 
set in ; also the rain, which held up for two days. 
Kome without the sun, and with rain and the bone- 
penetrating damp cold of the season, is a wretched 
place. Squalor and ruins and cheap splendor need the 
sun ; the galleries need it ; the black old masters in the 
dark corners of the gaudy churches need it ; I think 
scarcely any thing of a cardinal's big, blazing footman, 
unless the sun shines on him, and radiates from his 
broad back and his splendid calves ; the models, who 
get up in theatrical costumes, and get put into pictures, 
and pass the world over for Roman peasants (and 
beautiful many of them are) can't sit on the Spanish 
Stairs in indolent pose when it rains ; the streets are 
slimy and horrible ; the carriages try to run over you, 
and stand a very good chance of succeeding, where there 
are no sidewalks, and you are limping along on the slip- 
pery, round cobble-stones ; you can't get into the coun- 
try, which is the best part of Rome : but when the sun 
shines all this is changed ; the dear old dirty town exer- 
cises its fascinations on you then, and you speedily forget 
your recent misery. 

Holy Week is a vexation to most people. All the 
world crowds here to see its exhibitions and theatrical 
shows, and works hard to catch a glimpse of them, and 
is tired out, if not disgusted, at the end. The things to 
see and hear are Palm Sunday in St. Peter's ; singing 
of the miserere by the pope's choir on Wednesday, 

Thursday, and Friday in the Sistine Chapel ; washing 
of the pilgrims' feet in a chapel of St. Peter's, and serv- 
ing the apostles at table by the pope on Thursday, with 
a papal benediction from the balcony afterwards ; Easter 
Sunday, with the illumination of St. Peter's in the even- 
ing ; and fireworks (this year in front of St. Peter's in 
Montorio) Monday evening. Raised seats are built up 
about the high altar under the dome in St. Peter's, which 
will accommodate a thousand, and perhaps more, ladies ; 
and for these tickets are issued without numbers, and 
for twice as many as they will seat. Gentlemen who 
are in evening dress are admitted to stand in the re- 
served places inside the lines of soldiers. For th 
miserere in the Sistine Chapel tickets are also issued. As 
there is only room for about four hundred ladies, and a 
thousand and more tickets are given out, you may ima- 
gine the scramble. Ladies go for hours before the singing 
begins, and make a grand rush when the doors are open. 
I do not know any sight so unseemly and cruel as a 
crowd of women intent on getting in to such a ceremony : 
they are perfectly rude and unmerciful to each other. 
They push and trample one another under foot ; veils 
and dresses are torn ; ladies faint away in the scrim- 
mage, and only the strongest and most unscrupulous get 
in. I have heard some say, who have been in the pell- 
mell, that, not content with elbowing and pushing and 
pounding, some women even stick pins into those who 
are in the way. I hope this latter is not true ; but it is 
certain that the conduct of most of the women is brutal. 
A weak or modest or timid woman stands no more 
chance than she would in a herd of infuriated Campagna 
cattle. The same scenes are enacted in the efforts to 
see the pope wash feet, and serve at the table. For the 
possession of the seats under the dome on Palm Sunday 
and Easter there is a like crush. The ceremonies do 
not begin until half-past nine ; but ladies go between 
five and six o'clock in the morning, and when the pas- 
sages are open they make a grand rush. The seats, 




except those saved for the nobility, are soon all taken ; 
and the ladies who come after seven are lucky if they 
can get within the charmed circle, and find a spot to sit 
down on a camp-stool. They can then see only a part 
of the proceedings, and have a weary, exhausting time 
of it for hours. This year Rome is more crowded 
than ever before. There are American ladies enough 
to fill all the reserved places ; and I fear they are ener- 
getic enough to get their share of them. 

It rained Sunday ; but there was a steady stream of 
people and carriages all the morning pouring over the 
Bridge of St. Angelo, and discharging into the piazza 
of St. Peter's. It was after nine when I arrived on the 
ground. There was a crowd of carriages under the 
colonnades, and a heavy fringe in front of them ; but 
the hundreds of people moving over the piazza, and up 
the steps to the entrances, made only the impression of 
dozens in the vast space. I do not know if there*, are 
people enough in Rome to fill St. Peter's ; certainly there 
was no appearance of a crowd as we entered, although 
they had been pouring in all the morning, and still 
thronged the doors. I heard a traveller say that he fol- 
lowed ten thousand soldiers into the church, and then 
lost them from sight : they disappeared in the side 
chapels. He did not make his affidavit as to the num- 
ber of soldiers. The interior area of the building is not 
much greater than the square of St. Mark in Venice. 
To go into the great edifice is almost like going out doors. 
Lines of soldiers kept a wide passage clear from the front 
door away down to the high altar ; and there was a good 
mass of spectators on the outside. The tribunes for the 
ladies, built up under the dome, were, of course, filled 
with masses of ladies in solemn black ; and there was 
more or less of a press of people surging about in that 
vicinity. Thousands of people were also roaming about 
in the great spaces of the edifice ; but there was no- 
where else any thing like a crowd. It had very much 
the appearance of a large fair-ground, with little crowds 




about favorite booths. Gentlemen in dress-coats were 
admitted to the circle under the dome. The pope's 
choir was stationed in a gallery there opposite the high 
altar. Back of the altar was a wide space for the dig- 
nitaries ; seats were there, also, for ambassadors and 
those born to the purple ; and the pope's seat was on a 
raised dais at the end. Outsiders could see nothing of 
what went on within there ; and the ladies under the 
dome could only partially see, in the seats they had 
fought so gallantly to obtain. 

St. Peter's is a good place for grand processions and 
ceremonies ; but it is a poor one for viewing - them. A 
procession which moves down the nave is hidden by the 
soldiers who stand on either side, or is only visible by 
sections as it passes : there is no good place to get the 
grand effect of the masses of color, and the total of the 
gorgeous pageantry. I should like to see the display 
upon a grand stage, and enjoy it in a cowp d'(Eil. It is 
a fine study of color and effect, and the groupings are 
admirable ; but the whole affair is nearly lost to the mass 
of spectators. It must be a sublime feeling to one in the 
procession to walk about in such monstrous fine clothes ; 
but what would his emotions be if more people could see 
him ! The grand altar stuck up under the dome, not 
only breaks the effect of what would be the fine sweep 
of the nave back to the apse, but it cuts off all view of 
the celebration of the mass behind it, and, in effect, 
reduces what should be the great point of display in the 
church to a mere chapel. And, when you add to that 
the temporary tribunes erected under the dome for seat- 
ing the ladies, the entire nave is shut off from a view 
of the gorgeous ceremony of high mass. The effect 
would be incomparable if one could stand in the door, 
or anywhere in the nave, and, as in other churches, 
look down to the end upon a great platform, with the high 
altar and all the sublime spectacle in full view, with the 
blaze of candles and the clouds of incense rising in the 
distance. 



At half-past nine the great doors opened, and the pro- 
cession began, in slow and stately moving fashion, to 
enter. One saw a throng of ecclesiastics in robes and 
ermine; the white plumes of the Guard Noble; the 
pages and chamberlains in scarlet ; other pages, or what 
not, in black short-clothes, short swords, gold chains, 
cloak hanging from the shoulder, and stiff white ruffs ; 
thirty-six Isardinals in violet robes, with high, mitre- 
shaped white silk hats, that looked not unlike the paste- 
board "trainer-caps" that boys wear when they play 
soldier; crucifixes, and a blazoned banner here and 
there ; and, at last, the pope, in his red chair, borne on 
the shoulders of red lackeys, heaving along in a sea- 
sicky motion, clad in scarlet and gold, with a silver 
mitre on his head, feebly making the papal benediction 
with two upraised fingers, and moving his lips in blessing. 
As the pope came in, a supplementary choir of men and 
soprano hybrids, stationed near the door, set up a high, 
welcoming song, or chant, which echoes rather finely 
through the building. All the music of the day is 
vocal. 

The procession having reached its destination, and 
disappeared behind the altar of the dome, the pope dis- 
mounted, and took his seat on his throne. The blessing 
of the palms began, the cardinals first approaching, and 
afterwards the members of the diplomatic corps, the 
archbishops and bishops, the heads of the religious 
orders, and such private persons as have had permission 
to do so. I had previously seen the palms carried in by 
servants in great baskets. It is, perhaps, not necessary 
to say that they are not the poetical green waving palms, 
but stiff sort of wands, woven out of dry, yellow, split 
palm-leaves, sometimes four or five feet in length, braided 
into the semblance of a crown on top, — a kind of rough 
basket-work. The palms having been blessed, a proces- 
sion was again formed down the nave and out the door, 
all in it " carrying palms in their hands," the yellow color 
of which added a new element of picturesqueness to the 

splendid pageant. The pope was carried as before, 
and bore in his hand a short, braided palm, with gold 
woven in, flowers added, and the monogram I. H. S. 
worked in the top. It is the pope's custom to give this 
away when the ceremony is over. Last year he pre- 
sented it to an American lady, whose devotion attracted 
him : this year, I saw it go away in a gilded coach in 
the hands of an ecclesiastic. The procession disappeared 
through the great portal into the vestibule, and the door 
closed. In a moment, somebody knocked three times 
on the door : it opened, and the procession returned, 
and moved again to the rear of the altar, the singers 
marchinor with it and chanting. The cardinals then 
changed their violet for scarlet robes ; and high mass, for 
an hour, was celebrated by a cardinal priest : and I was 
told that it was the pope's voice that we heard, high and 
clear, singing the passion. The choir made the responses, 
and performed at intei'vals. The singing was not with- 
out a certain power ; indeed, it was marvellous how some 
of the voices really filled the vast spaces of the edifice, 
and the choruses rolled in solemn waves of sound through 
the arches. The singing, with the male sopranos, is not 
to my taste ; but it cannot be denied that it had a wild 
and strange effect. 

While this was going on behind the altar, the people 
outside were wandering about, looking at each other, and 
on the watch not to miss any of the shows of the day. 
People were talking, chattering, and greeting each other 
as they might do in the street. Here and there some- 
body was kneeling on the pavement, unheeding the 
passing throng. At several of the chapels, services were 
being conducted ; and there was a large congregation, an 
ordinary church full, about each of them. But the most 
of those present seemed to regard it as a spectacle only ; 
and, as a display of dress, costumes, and nationalities, it 
was almost unsurpassed. There are few more wonder- 
ful sights in this world than an Englishwoman in what 
she considers fiill dress. An English dandy is also a 



pleasing object. For my part, as I liaye hinted, I like 
almost as well as any thing the big footmen, — those in 
scarlet breeches and blue, gold-embroidered coats. I 
stood in front of one of the fine creations for some time, 
and contemplated him as one does the Farnese Hercules. 
One likes to see to what a splendor his species can come, 
even if the brains have all run down into the calves of 
the legs. There were also the pages, the officers of the 
pope's household, in costumes of the Middle Ages ; the 
pope's Swiss guard in the showy harlequin uniform de- 
signed by Michael Angelo ; the foot-soldiers in white 
short-clothes, which threatened to burst, and let them fly 
into pieces; there were fine ladies and gentlemen, 
loafers and loungers, from every civilized country, jabber- 
ing in all the languages ; there were beggars in rags, and 
boors in coats so patched, that there was probably none 
of the original material left ; there were groups of peas- 
ants from the Campagna, the men in short jackets and 
sheepskin breeches with the wool side out, the women 
with gay-colored folded cloths on their heads, and coarse, 
woollen gowns ; a squad of wild-looking Spanish gypsies, 
burning-eyed, olive-skinned, hair long, black, crinkled, 
and greasy, as wild in raiment as in face ; priests and 
friars. Zouaves in jaunty light gray and scarlet ; rags and 
velvets, silks and serge cloths, — a cosmopolitan gath- 
ering poured into the world's great place of meeting, — 
a fine religious Vanity Fair on Sunday. 

There came an impressive moment in all this con- 
fusion, a point of august solemnity. Up to that instant, 
what with chanting and singing the many services, and 
the noise of talking and walking, there was a wild Babel. 
But at the stroke of the bell and the elevation of the 
Host, down went the muskets of the guard with one 
clang on the marble ; the soldiers kneeled ; the multitude 
in the nave, in the aisles, at all the chapels, kneeled ; and 
for a minute in that vast edifice there was perfect stillness : 
if the whole great concourse had been swept from the 
earth, the spot where it lately was could not have been 




more silent. And then the military order went down 
the line, the soldiers rose, the crowd rose, and the mass 
and the hum went on. 

It was all over before one ; and the pope was borne 
out again, and the vast crowd began to discharge itself. 
But it was a long time before the carriages were all filled 
and rolled off". I stood for a half-hour watching the 
stream go by, — the pompous soldiers, the peasants and 
citizens, the dazzling equipages, and jaded, exhausted 
women in black, who had sat or stood half a day under 
the dome, and could get no carriage ; and the great 
state coaches of the cardinals, swinging high in the air, 
painted and gilded, with three noble footmen hanging 
on behind each, and a cardinal's broad face in the 
window. 



VESUVIUS. 



CLIMBING A VOLCANO. 

EVERYBODY who comes to Naples, — that is, 
everybody except the lady who fell from her 
horse the other day at Eesina, and injured her shoulder, 
as she was mounting for the ascent, — everybody, I say, 
goes up Vesuvius, and nearly every one writes impres- 
sions and descriptions of the performance. If you be- 
lieve the tales of travellers, it is an undertaking of great 
hazard, an experience of frightful emotions. How 
unsafe it is, especially for ladies, I heard twenty times 
in Naples before I had been there a day. Why, there 
was a lady thrown from her horse and nearly killed, 
only a week ago ; and she still lay ill at the next hotel, a 
witness of the truth of the story. I imagined her plunged 
down a precipice of lava, or pitched over the lip of the 
crater, and only rescued by the devotion of a gallant 
guide, who threatened to let go of her if she didn't pay 
him twenty francs instantly. This story, which will live 
and grow for years in this region, a waxing and never- 
waning peril of the volcano, I found, subsequently, had 
the foundation I have mentioned above. The lady did 
go to Resina in order to make the ascent of Vesuvius, 
mounted a horse there, fell off, being utterly unhorsewo- 
manly, and hurt herself; but her injury had no more 
to do with Vesuvius than it had with the entrance of 
Victor Emanuel into Naples, which took place a couple 
of weeks after. Well, as I was saying, it is the fashion 
to write descriptions of Vesuvius ; and you might as well 
have mine, which I shall give to you in rough outline. 

 

There came a day when the Tramontane ceased to 
blow down on us the cold air of the snowy Apennines, 
and the white cap of Vesuvius, which is, by the way, 
 worn generally like the caps of the Neapolitans, drifted 
inland instead of toward the sea. Warmer weather had 
come to make the bright sunshine no longer a mockery. 
For some days I had been getting the gauge of the 
mountain. With its white plume it is a constant quan- 
tity in the landscape : one sees it from every point of 
view ; and we had been scarcely anywhere that volcanic 
remains, or signs of such action, — a thin crust shaking 
under our feet, as at Solfatara, where blasts of sulphur- 
ous steam drove in our faces, — did not remind us that 
the whole ground is uncertain, and undermined by the sub- 
terranean fires that have Vesuvius for a chimney. All 
the coast of the bay, within recent historic periods, in 
different spots at different times, has risen and sunk and 
risen again, in simple obedience to the pulsations of the 
great fiery monster below. It puffs up or sinks, like the 
crust of a baking apple-pie. This region is evidently 
not done ; and I think it not unlikely it may have to be 
turned over again before it is. We had seen where Her- 
culaneum lies under the lava and under the town of Re- 
sina ; we had walked those clean and narrow streets of 
Pompeii, and seen the workmen picking away at the 
embedded gravel, sand, and ashes which still cover 
nearly two-thirds of the nice little, tight little Roman 
city ; we had looked at the black gashes on the moun- 
tain-sides, Avhere the lava streams had gushed and rolled 
and twisted over vineyards and villas and villages ; and 
we decided to take a nearer look at the immediate cause 
of all this abnormal state of things. 

In the morning when I awoke the sun was just rising 
behind Vesuvius ; and there was a mighty display of gold, 
and crimson in that quarter, as if the curtain was about 
to be lifted on a grand performance,   — say a ballet at 
San Carlo, which is the only thing the Neapolitans think 
worth looking at. Straight up in the air, out of the 





mountain, rose a white pillar, spreading out at the top 
like a palm-tree, or, to compare it to something I have 
seen, to the Italian pines, that come so picturesquely into 
all these Naples pictures. If you will believe me, that 
pillar of steam was like a column of fire, from the sun 
shining on and through it, and perhaps from the reflec- 
tion of the background of crimson clouds and blue and 
gold sky, spread out there and hung there in royal and 
extravagant profusion, to make a highway and a regal 
gateway, through which I could just then see coming the 
horses and the chariot of a southern perfect day. They 
said that the tree-shaped cloud was the sign of an erup- 
tion ; but the hotel-keepers here are always predicting 
that. The eruption is usually about two or three weeks 
distant ; and the hotel proprietors get this information 
from experienced guides, who observe the action of the 
water in the wells ; so that there can be no mistake about 
it. 

We took carriages at nine o'clock to Resina, a drive 
of four miles, and one of exceeding interest, if you wish 
to see Naples life. The way is round the curving bay 
by the sea; but so continuously built up is it, and so 
enclosed with high walls of villas, through the open 
gates of which the golden oranges gleam, that you seem 
never to leave the city. The streets and quays swarm 
with the most vociferous, dirty, multitudinous life. It is 
a drive through Rag Fair. The tall, whitey-yellow 
houses fronting the water, six, seven, eight stories high, 
are full as bee-hives ; people are at all the open windows ; 
garments hang from the balconies and from poles thrust 
out; up every narrow, gloomy, ascending street are 
crowds of struggling human shapes ; and you see how 
like herrings in a box are packed the over half a million 
people of Naples. In front of the houses are the mar- 
kets in the open air, — fish, vegetables, carts of oranges ; 
in the sun sit women spinning from distaffs or weaving 
fishing-nets ; and rows of children who were never washed 
and never clothed but once, and whose garments have 





nearly wasted away ; beggars, fishermen in red caps, 
sailors, priests, donkeys, fruit-venders, street-musicians, 
carriages, carts, two-wheeled break-down vehicles, — the 
whole tangled in one wild roar and rush and Babel, — a 
shifting, varied panorama of color, rags, — a pandemonium 
such as the world cannot show elsewhere, — thai is what 
one sees on the road to Resina. The drivers all drive 
in the streets here as if they held a commission from the 
Devil, cracking their whips, shouting to their horses, and 
dashing; into the thickest tangle with entire recklessness. 
They have one cry, used alike for getting more speed out 
of their horses or for checking them, or in warning to 
the endangered crowds on foot. It is an exclamatory 
grunt, which may be partially expressed by the letters 
" a-e-ugh." Everybody shouts it, — mule-driver, "coachee," 
or cattle driver; and even I, a passenger, fancied I could 
do it to disagreeable perfection after a time. Out of this 
throng in the streets I like to select the meek, patient, 
diminutive little donkeys, with enormous panniers that 
almost hide them. One would have a woman seated on 
top, with a child in one pannier and cabbages in the 
other ; another, with an immense stock of market-greens 
on his back, or big baskets of oranges, or with a row of 
wine-casks and a man seated behind, adhering, by some 
unknown law of adhesion, to the sloping tail. Then 
there was the cart drawn by one diminutive donkey, or 
by an ox, or by an ox and a donkey, or by a donkey and 
horse abreast, — never by any possibility a matched team. 
And, funniest of all, was the high, two-wheeled caCeche, 
with one seat, and top thrown back, with long thills and 
poor horse. Upon this vehicle were piled, Heaven knows 
how, behind, before, on the thills, and underneath the 
high seat, sometimes ten, and not seldom as many as 
eighteen people, — men, women, and children, — all in 
flaunting rags, with a colored scarf here and there, or a gay 
petticoat, or a scarlet cap, — perhaps a priest, with broad 
black hat, in the centre, — driving along like a comet, the 
poor horse in a gallop, the bells on his ornamented sad- 




die merrily jingling, and the wliole load in a roar of mer- 
riment. 

But we sliall never get to Vesuvius at this rate. I 
will not even stop to examine the macaroni manufacto- 
ries on the road. The long strips of it were hung out on 
poles to dry in the streets, and to get a rich color from 
the dirt and dust, to say nothing of its contact with the 
filthy people who were making it. I am very fond of 
macaroni. At Resina we take horses for the ascent. 
We had sent ahead for a guide and horses for our party 
of ten ; but we found besides, I should think, pretty 
nearly the entire population of the locality awaiting us, 
not to count the importunate beggars, the hags, male and 
female, and the ordinary loafers of the place. We were 
besieged to take this and that horse or mule, to buy 
walking-sticks for the climb, to purchase lava cut into 
charms, and veritable ancient coins, and dug-up cameos, 
— all manufactured for the demand. One wanted to 
hold the horse, or to lead it, to carry a shawl, or to show 
the way. In the midst of infinite clamor and noise, we 
at last got mounted, and, turning into a narrow lane 
between hiofh walls, beo;an the ascent, our cavalcade 
attended by a procession of rags and wretchedness up 
throuo;h the villao;e. Some of them fell off as we rose 
among the vineyards, and they found us proof against 
begging ; but several accompanied us all day, hoping 
that, in some unguarded moment, they could do us some 
slight service, and so establish a claim on us. Among 
these I noticed some stout fellows with short ropes, with 
which they intended to assist us up the steeps. If I looked 
away an instant, some urchin would seize my horse's bri- 
dle ; and when I carelessly let my stick fall on his hand, 
in token for him to let go, he would fall back with an 
injured look, and grasp the tail, from which I could only 
loosen him by swinging my staff and preparing to break 
his head. 

The ascent is easy at first between walls and the vine- 
yards which produce the celebrated Lachryma Christi. 


 

After a lialf-hour we readied and began to cross the 
lava of 1858, and the wild. desolation and gloom of the 
mountain began to strike us. One is here conscious of 
the Titanic forces at work. Sometimes it is as if a giant 
had ploughed the ground, and left the furrows without har- 
rowins: them to harden into black and brown stone. We 
could see again how the broad stream, flowing down, 
squeezed and squashed like mud, had taken all fantastic 
shapes, — now like gnarled tree-roots ; now like serpents 
in a coil ; here the human form, or a part of it, — a torso or 
a limb, — in agony ; now in other nameless convolutions 
and contortions, as if heaved up and twisted in fiery pain 
and suffering, — for there was almost a human feeling in 
it ; and again not unlike stone billows. We could see 
how the cooling crust had been lifted and split and 
turned over by the hot stream underneath, which, con- 
tinually oozing from the rent of the eruption, bore it 
down and pressed it upward. Even so low as the point 
where we crossed the lava of 1858 were fissures whence 
came hot air. 

An hour brought us to the resting-place called the' 
Hermitage, an osteria and observatory established by 
the Government. Standing upon the end of a spur, it 
seems to be safe from the lava, whose course has always 
been on either side ; but it must be an uncomfortable 
place in a shower of stones and ashes. We rode half 
an hour longer on horseback, on a nearly level path, to 
the foot of the steep ascent, the base of the great crater. 
This ride gave us completely the wide and ghastly deso- 
lation of the mountain, the ruin that the lava has 
wrought upon slopes that were once green with vine 
and olive, and busy with the hum of hfe. This black, 
contorted desert waste is more sterile and hopeless than 
any mountain of stone, because the idea of relentless 
destruction is involved here. This great, hummocked, 
sloping plain, ridged and seamed, was all about us, with- 
out cheer or relaxation of grim solitude. Before us rose, 
as black and bare, what the guides call the mountain, 





and whicli used to be the crater. Up one side is worked 
in the lava a zigzag path, steep, but not very fatiguing, 
if you take it slowly. Two-thirds of the way up, I saw 
specks of people climbing. Beyond it rose the cone of 
ashes, out of which the great cloud of sulphurous smoke 
rises and rolls night and day now. On the very edge of 
that, on the lip of it, where the smoke rose, I also saw 
human shapes ; and it seemed as if they stood on the 
brink of Tartarus and in momently, imminent peril. 

We left our horses in a wild spot, where scorched 
bowlders had fallen upon the lava bed ; and guides and 
boys gathered about us like cormorants : but, declining 
their offers to pull us up, we began the ascent, which 
took about three-quarters of an hour. We were then on 
the summit, which is, after all, not a summit at all, but an 
uneven waste, sloping away from the Cone in the centre. 
This sloping lava waste was full of little cracks, — not fis- 
sures with hot lava in them, or any thing of the sort, — out 
of which white steam issued, not unlike the smoke from 
a great patch of burned timber ; and the wind blew it 
along the ground -towards us. It was cool, for the sun 
was hidden by light clouds, but not cold. The ground 
under foot was slightly warm. I had expected to feel 
some dread, or shrinking, or at least some sense of inse- 
curity, but I did not the slightest, then or afterwards ; 
and I think mine is the usual experience. I had no 
more sense of danger on the edge of the crater than I 
had in the streets of Naples. 

We next addressed ourselves to the Cone, which is a 
loose hill of ashes and sand, — a natural slope, I should 
say, of about one and a half to one, offering no foothold. 
The climb is very fatiguing, because you sink in to the 
ankles, and slide back at every step ; but it is short, — we 
were up in six to eight minutes, — though the ladies, who 
had been helped a little by the guides, were nearly 
exhausted, and sank down on the very edge of the cra- 
ter, with their backs to the smoke. What did we see ? 
What would you see if you looked into a steam boiler ? 
 

We stood on the ashy- edge of the crater, the sharp edge 
sloping one way down the mountain, and the other into 
the bowels, whence the thick, stijfling smoke rose. We 
rolled stones down, and heard them rumbling for half a 
minute. The diameter of the crater on the brink of 
which we stood was said to be an eighth of a mile ; but 
the whole was completely filled with vapor. The edge 
where we stood was quite warm. We ate some rolls we 
had brought in our pockets, and some of the party tried 
a bottle of the wine that one of the cormorants had 
brought up, but found it any thing but the Lachryma 
Christi it was named. We looked with longing eyes 
down into the vapor-boiling caldron ; we looked at the 
wide and lovely view of land and sea ; we tried to realize 
our awful situation, munched our dry bread, and laughed 
at the monstrous demands of the vagabonds about us for 
money, and then turned and went down quicker than we 
came up. 

We had chosen to ascend to the old crater rather than 
to the new one of the recent eruption on the side of the 
mountain, where there is nothing to be seen. When we 
reached the bottom of the Cone, our guide led us to the 
north side, and into a region that did begin to look like 
business. The wind drove all the smoke round there, 
and we were half stifled with sulphur fumes to begin 
with. Then the Vhole ground was discolored red and 
yellow, and with many more gay and sulphur-suggesting 
colors. And it actually had deep fissures in it, over 
which we stepped and among which we went, out of 
which came blasts of hot, horrid vapor, with a roaring as 
if we were in the midst of furnaces. And if we came 
near the cracks the heat was powerful in our faces, and 
if we thrust our sticks down them they were instantly 
burned ; and the guides cooked eggs ; and the crust was 
thin, and very hot to our boots ; and half the time we 
couldn't see any thing ; and we would rush away where 
the vapor was not so thick, and, with handkerchiefs to our 
mouths, rush in again to get the full effect. After we 





came out again into better air, it was as if we had been 
through the burning, fiery furnace, and had the smell 
of it on our garments. And, indeed, the sulphur had 
changed to red certain of our clothes, and noticeably my 
pantaloons and the black velvet cap of one of the ladies ; 
and it was some days before they recovered their color. 
But, as I say, there was no sense of danger in the adven- 
ture. 

We descended by a different route, on the south side 
of the mountain, to our horses, and made a lark of it. 
We went down an ash slope, very steep, where we sank 
in a foot or little less at every step, and there was noth- 
ing to do for it, but to run and jump. We took steps as 
lonoj as if we had worn seven-leao;ue boots. When the 
whole party got in motion, the entire slope seemed to 
slide a little with us, and there appeared some danger of 
an avalanche. But we didn't stop for it. It was exactly 
like plunging down a steep hillside that is covered 
thickly with light, soft snow. There was a gray-haired 
gentleman with us, with a good deal of the boy in him, 
who thought it great fun. 

I have said little about the view ; but I might have 
written about nothing else, both in the ascent and de- 
scent. Naples, and all the villages which rim the bay 
with white, the gracefully-curving arms that go out to 
sea, and do not quite clasp rocky Capri, which lies at 
the entrance, made the outline of a picture of sur- 
