candle, and its dim light revealed "'the boys" sitting here and 
there on bunks, candle-boxes, powder-kegs, etc. They said : 
" Sh — ! Don't speak — he's going to commence." 

I found a seat at once, and Blaine said : 

" I don't reckon them times will ever come aerain. There 


never was a more bullier old ram than what he was. Grand- 
father fetched him from Illinois — got him of a man by the 

name of Yates 
—Bill Yates— maybe you might have 
heard of him ; 
his father was a 
deacon — B a p - 
tist — and he was 
a rustler, too ; a 
man had to get 
up ruther early 
to get the start 
of old Thankful 
Yates ; it was 
him that put the 
Greens up to jining teams 
with my grandfather when he 
moved west. Seth Green was prob'ly the pick of the flock; 
he married a Wilkerson — Sarah Wilkerson — good cretur, she 
was — one of the likeliest heifers that was ever raised in old 
Stoddard, everybody said that knowed her. She could heft a 
bar'l of flour as easy as I can flirt a flapjack. And spin ? 
Don't mention it ! Independent ? Humph ! When Sile 
Hawkins come n browsing around her, she let him know that 
for all his tin he couldn't trot in harness alongside of her. 
You see, Sile Hawkins was — no, it warn't Sile Hawkins, after 
all — it was a galoot by the name of Filkins — I disremember 
his first name ; but he vms a stump — come into pra'r meeting 
drunk, one night, hooraying for Nixon, becuz he thought it 
was a primary ; and old deacon Ferguson up and scooted him 
through the window and he lit on old Miss Jefferson's head, 
poor old filly. She was a good soul — had a glass eye and used 
to lend it to old Miss Wagner, that hadn't any, to receive 
company in ; it warn't big enough, and when Miss Wagner 
warn't noticing, it would get twisted around in the socket, and 
look up, maybe, or out to one side, and every which way, 
while t' other one was looking as straight ahead as a spy-glass. 
Grown people didn't mind it, but it most always made the 
children cry, it was so sort of scary. She tried packing it in raw 
cotton, but it wouldn't work, somehow — the cotton would get 
loose and stick out and look so kind of awful that the children 
couldn't stand it no way. She was always dropping it out, and 
turning up her old dead-light on the company empty, and 
making them oncomfortable, becuz she never could tell when 
it hopped out, being blind on that side, you see. So some- 
body would have to hunch her and say, " Your game eye has 
fetched loose. Miss Wagner dear " — and then all of them 
would have to sit and wait till she jammed it in again — wrong 
side before, as a general thing, and green as a bird's Q<g, being 
a bashful cretur and easy sot back before company. But 
being wrong side before warn't much dilSerence, anyway, 
becuz her own eye was sky-blue and the glass one was yaller 

on the front side, so which- 
ever way she turned it it 
didn't match nohow. Old 
Miss Wagner was consid- 
erable on the borrow, she 
was. When she had a 
quilting, or Dorcas S'iety at 
her house she gen'ally bor- 
rowed Miss Higgins's wooden leg to stump around on ; 
it was considerable shorter 
than her other pin, but 
much she minded that. She 
said she couldn't abide 
crutches when she had company, becuz they were so slow ; 
said when she had company and things had to be done, she 
wanted to get up and hump herself. She was as bald as 
a jug, and so she used to borrow Miss Jacops's wig — Miss 
Jacops was the coffin-peddler's wife — a ratty old buzzard, he 
was, that used to go roosting around where people was sick, 
waiting for 'em ; and there that old rip would sit all day, in 
the shade, on a coffin that he judged would tit the can'idate ; 
and if it was a slow customer and kind of uncertain, he'd 
fetch his rations and a blanket along and sleep in the coffin 
nights. He was anchored out that way, in frosty weather, for 
about three weeks, once, before old Robbins's place, waiting 
for him ; and after that, for as much as two years, Jacops was 
not on speakijig terms with the old man, on account of his 
disapp'inting him. He got one of his feet froze, and lost 
money, too, becuz old Bobbins took a favorable turn and got 
well. The next time Robbins got sick, Jacops tried to make 
up with him, and varnished up the same old coffin and fetched 
it along ; but old Robbins was too many for him ; he had him 
in, and 'peared to be powerful weak ; he bought the coffin for 
ten dollars and Jacops was to pay it back and twenty-five more 
besides if Robbins didn't like the coffin after he'd tried it. 
And then Robbins died, and at the funeral he bursted off the 
lid and riz up in his shroud and told the parson to let up on 
the performances, becnz he could not stand such a coffin as 
that. You see he had been in a trance once before, when he 
was young, and he took the chances on another, cal'lating that 
if he made the trip it was money in his pocket, and if he 
missed fire he conldn't lose a cent. And by George he sued 
Jacops for the rhino and got jedgment ; and he set np the 
coffin in his back parlor and said he 'lowed to take his time, 
now. It was always an aggravation to Jacops, the way that 
miserable old thing acted. He moved back to Indiany pretty 
soon — went to Wellsville — Wellsville was the place the Hog- 
adorns was from. Mighty fine family. Old Maryland stock. 
Old Squire Hogadorn could carry around more mixed licker, 
and cuss better than most any man I ever see. His second 
wife was the widder Billings — she that was Becky Martin ; 
her dam was deacon Dunlap's first wife. Her eldest child, 
Maria, married a missionary and died in grace — et np by the 
savages. They et Jmn, too, poor feller — biled him. It warn't 
the custom, so they say, but they explained to friends of his'n 
that went down there to bring away his things, that they'd 
tried missionaries every other way and never conld get any 
good ont of 'em — and so it annoyed all his relations to find 
out that that man's life was fooled away just out of a dern'd 
experiment, so to speak. But mind you, there ain't anything 
ever reely lost ; everything that people can't understand and 
don't see the reason of does good if you only hold on and give 
it a fair shake ; Prov'dence don't fire no blank ca'tridges, boys. 
That there missionary's substance, unbeknowns to himself, 
actu'ly converted every last one of them heathens that took a 
chance at the barbacue. Iothing ever fetched them but that. 
Don't tell me it was an accident that he was biled. There 

ain't no such a thing as an 
accident. When my uncle 
Lem was leaning up agin 
a scaffolding once, sick, or 
drunk, or suthin, an Irishman with a hod full of 
bricks fell on him out of the third story and broke 
the old man's back in two 
places. People said it was 
an accident. Much accident there was about that. 
lie didn't know what he 
was there for, but he was 
there for a good object. If 
he hadn't been there the 
Irishman would have been 
killed. Nobody can ever make me believe anything 
different from that. Uncle 
Lem's dog was there. Why didn't the Irishman fall on the 
dog ? Becuz the dog would a seen him a coming and stood from 
under. That's the reason the dog warn't appinted. A dog 
can't be depended on to cany out a special providence. Mark 
my words it was a put-np thing. Accidents don't happen, 
boys. Uncle Lem's dog — I wish you could a seen that dog. 
He was a reglar shepherd — or ruther he was 
part bull and part shepherd — splendid ani- 
mal ; belonged to parson Ilagar before Uncle 
Lem e:ot him. Parson IIn,'>'ar belono;ed to 
the Western Keserve Ilagars ; prime family ; 
his mother was a Watson ; one of his sisters 
married a Wheeler ; they settled in Morgan 
county, and he got nipped by the machinery 
in a carpet factory and went through in less — -" 
than a quarter of a minute ; his widder _= ~ ' 
bought the piece of carpet that had his — ~ 
remains wove in, and people come a hundre d ~~ 
mile to 'tend the funeral. There was four- 
teen yards in the piece. She wouldn't let ff 
them loll him up, but planted him just so 
— fall length. The church was middling _—_" 
small where they preached the funeral, and -'' 
they had to let one end of the coffin stick  
out of the window. They didn't bury him -* 
— they planted one end, and let him stand  
up, same as a monument. And they nailed 
a sign on it and put — put on — put on it — 
sacred to — the m-e-m-o-r-y — of fourteen 
y-a-r-d-s — of three-ply — car pet — con- ; 

taining all that was — m-o-r-t-a-1— of — of— 
W-i-1-l-i-a-m— W-h-e— " 

Jim Blaine had been growing gradually 
drowsy and drowsier — his head nodded, 
once, twice, three times — dropped peacefully upon his breast, 
and he fell tranquilly asleep. The tears were running down 
the boys' cheeks — they were suffocating with suppressed laugh- 
ter — and had been from the start, though I had never noticed 
it. I perceived that I was " sold." I learned then that Jim 
Blaine's peculiarity was that whenever he reached a certain 
stage of intoxication, no Imnian poM-er could keep him from 
setting out, with impressive unction, to tell about a wonderful 
adventure which he had once had with his grandfather's old 
ram — and the mention of the ram in the lirst sentence was as 
far as any man had ever heard him get, concerning it. He 
always maundered off, interminably, from one thing to another, 
till his whisky got the best of him and he fell asleep. What 
the thing was that happened to him and his grandfather's old 
ram is a dark mystery to this day, for nobody has ever yet 
found out. 




OHAPTEE LIT. 

OF course there was a large Chinese population in Virginia 
— it is the case with every town and city on the Pacific 
coast. . They are a harmless race when white men either let 
them alone or treat them no worse than dogs ; in fact they are 
almost entirely harmless anyhow, for they seldom think of re- 
senting the vilest insults or the cruelest injuries. They are 
quiet, peaceable, tractable, free from drunkenness, and they 
are as industrious as the day is long. A disorderly Chinaman 
is rare, and a lazy one does not exist. So long as a Chinaman 
has strength to use his hands he needs no support from any- 
body ; white men often complain of want of work, but a China- 
man offers no such complaint ; he always manages to find 
something to do. He is a great convenience to everybody — 
even to the worst class of white men, for he bears the most of 
their sins, suffering fines for their petty thefts, imprisonment 
for their robberies, and death for their murders. Any white 
man can swear a Chinaman's life away in the courts, but no 
Chinaman can testify against a white man. Ours is the " land 
of the free" — nobody denies that — nobody challenges it. 
[Maybe it is because we won't let other people testify.] As I 
write, news comes that in broad daylight in San Francisco,, 
some boys have stoned an inoffensive Chinaman to death, and 
that although a, large crowd witnessed the shameful deed, no 
one interfered. 

There are seventy thousand (and possibly one hundred 
thousand) Chinamen on the Pacific coast. There were about 
a thousand in Virginia. They were penned into a " Chinese 
quarter " — a thing which they do not particularly object to, a 
they are fond of herding together. Their buildings were of 
wood ; usually only one story high, and set thickly together 
along streets scarcely wide enough for a wagon to pass through. 
Their quarter was a little removed from the rest of the town. 
The chief employment of Chinamen in towns is to wash 
clothing. They always send a bill, like this below, pinned to 
the clothes. It is mere ceremony, for it does not enlighten 
the customer much. Their price for washing 
 I was $2.50 per dozen — rather cheaper than white 

 people could afford to wash for at that time. A 

 very common sign on the Chinese houses was ' 

" See Yup, Washer and Ironer " ; " Hong Wo, 
Washer " ; " Sam Sing & Ah Hop, Washing." 
The house servants, cooks, etc., in California and 
Nevada, were chiefly Chinamen. There were 
few white servants and no Chinawomen so employed. 
Chinamen make good house servants, 
"" being quick, obedient, patient, quick to learn 
and tirelessly industrious. They do not need to 
be taught a thing twice, as a general thing. They 
are imitative. If a Chinaman were to see his 
master break up a centre table, in a passion, and 
kindle a fire with it, that Chinaman would be 
likely to resort to the furniture for fuel forever 
afterward. 

All Chinamen can read, write and cipher 
with easy facility — pity but all our petted voters 
could. In California they rent little patches 
of ground and do a deal of gardening. They 
will raise surprising crops of vegetables on a 
sand pile. They waste nothing. What is rubbish 
to a Christian, a Chinaman carefully preserves and makes 
useful in one way or another. He gathers up all the old oyster 
and sardine cans that white people throw away, and procures 
marketable tin and solder from them by melting. 



IMITATION. 



He gathers up old bones and turns them into manure. 
In California he gets a living out of old mining claims 
that white men have 
abandoned as exhausted and worthless — and then the 
officers come down 
on him once a month 
with an exorbitant 
swindle to which the 
legislature has given 
the broad, general 
name of " foreign " 
mining tax, but it is 
usually inflicted on 
no foreigners but 
Chinamen. This 
swindle has in some 
cases been repeated 

once or twice on the same victim in the course of the same 
month — but the public treasury was not additionally enriched 
by it, probabl3 

Chinamen hold their dead in great reverence — they worship 
their departed ancestors, in fact. Hence, in China, a man's front 
yard, back yard, or any other part of his premises, is made his 
family burying ground, in order that he may visit the graves 
at any and all times. Therefore that huge empire is one 
mighty cemetery ; it is ridged and wringled from its centre ta 
its circumference with graves — and inasmuch as every foot of 
ground must be made to do its utmost, in China, lest the swarm- 
ing population suifer for food, the very graves are cultivated 
and yield a harvest, custom holding this to be no dishonor to 
the dead. Since the departed are held in such worshipful 
reverence, a Chinaman cannot bear that any indignity be 
offered the places where they sleep. Mr. Burlingame said that 
herein lay China's bitter opposition to railroads ; a road 
could not be built anywhere in the empire without distui'bing 
the graves of their ancestors or friends. 


A Chinaman liardly believes he could enjoy the hereafter 
except his body lay in his beloved China ; also, he desires to 
receive, himself, after death, that worship with which he has 
honored his dead that preceded him. Therefore, if he visits a 
foreign country, he makes arrangements to have his bones re- 
turned to China in case he dies ; if he hires to go to a foreign 
country on a labor contract, there is always a stipulation that 
his body shall be taken back to China if he dies ; if the govern- 
ment sells a gang of Coolies to a foreigner for the usual tive- 
jear term, it is specified in the contract that their bodies shall 
be restored to China in case of death. On the Pacific coast 
the Chinamen all belong to one or another of several great 
companies or organizations, and these companies keep track of 
their members, register their names, and ship their bodies home 
when they die. The See Yup Company is held to be the 
largest of these. The Ning Yeong Company is next, and 
numbers eighteen thousand members on the coast. Its head- 
quarters are at San Francisco, where it has a costly temple, 
several great officers (one of whom keeps regal state in seclu- 
sion and cannot be approached by common humanity), and a 
numerous priesthood. In it I was shown a register of its mem- 
bers, with the dead and the date of their shipment to China 
duly marked. Every ship that sails from San Francisco carries 
away a heavy freight of Chinese corpses — or did, at least, until 
the legislature, with an ingenious refinement of Christian 
cruelty, forbade the shipments, as a neat underhanded way of 
deterring Chinese immigration. The bill was offered, whether 
it passed or not. It is my impression that it passed. There 
was another bill — it became a law — compelling every incoming 
Chinaman to be vaccinated on the wharf and pay a duly ap- 
pointed quack (no decent doctor would defile himself with 
such legalized robbery) ten dollars for it. As few importers 
of Chinese would want to go to an expense like that, the law- 
makers thought this would be another heavy blow to Chinese 
immigration. 

What the Chinese quarter of Virginia was like — or, indeed, 
what the Chinese quarter of any Pacific coast town was and is 
like — may be gathered from this item which I printed iu the 
Enterpi'ise while reporting for that paper : 

Chinatown. — Accompanied by a fellow reporter, we made a trip through 
our Chinese quarter the other night. The Chinese have built their portion 
of the city to suit themselves ; and as they keep neither carriages nor 
wagons, their streets are not wide enough, as a general thing, to admit of 
the passage of vehicles. At ten o'clock at night the Chinaman may be seen 
in all his glory. In every little cooped-up, dingy cavern of a hut, faint with 
the odor of burning Josh-lights and with nothing to see the gloom by save 
the sickly, guttering tallow candle, were two or three yellow, long-tailed 
vagabonds, coiled up on a sort of short truckle-bed, smoking opium, motion- 
less and with their lustreless eyes turned inward from excess of satisfaction 
— or rather the recent smoker looks thus, immediately after having passed 
the pipe to his neighbor — for opium-smoking is a comfortless operation, and 
requires constant attention. A lamp sits on the bed, the length of the long 
pipe-stem from the smoker's mouth ; he puts a pellet of opium on the end of 
a wire, sets it on fire, and plasters it into the pipe much as a Christian would 
fill a hole with putty ; then he applies the bowl to the lamp and proceeds to 
smoke — and the stewing and frying of the drug and the gurgling of the 
juices in the stem would wellnigh turn the stomach of a statue. John 
likes it, though ; it soothes him, he takes about two dozen whiffs, and then 
rolls over to dream. Heaven only knows what, for we could not imagine by 
looking at the soggy creature. Possibly in his visions he travels far away 
from the gross world and his regular washing, and feasts on succulent rata 
and birds'-nests in Paradise. 

Mr. Ah Sing keeps a general grocery and provision store at No. 13 Wang 
street. He lavished his hospitality upon our party in the friendliest way. 
He had various kinds of colored and colorless wines and brandies, with un- 
pronouncable names, imported from China in little crockery jugs, and which 
he oflijred to us in dainty little miniature wash-basins of porcelain. He 
offered us a mess of birds'-nests ; also, small, neat sausages, of which we 
could have swallowed several yards if we had chosen to try, but we sus- 
pected that each link contained the corpse of a mouse, and therefore 
refrained. Mr. Sing had in his store a thousand articles of merchandise, 
curious to behold, impossible to imagine the uses of, and beyond our ability 
to describe. 

His ducks, however, and his eggs, we could understand ; the former were 
split open and flattened out like codfish, and came from China in that 
shape, and the latter were plastered over with some kind of paste which 
kept them fresh and palatable through the long voyage. 

We found Mr. Hong Wo, No. 37 Chow-chow street, making up a lottery 
scheme — in fact we found a dozen others occupied iu the same way in vari- 
ous parts of the quarter, for about every third Chinaman runs a lottery, and 
the balance of the tribe " buck " at it. " Tom," who speaks faultless English, 
and used to be chief and only cook to the Territorial Enterprise, when the 
establishment kept bachelor's hall two years ago, said that " Sometime 
Chinaman buy ticket one dollar hap, ketch urn. two tree hundred, sometime 
no ketch um anyting ; lottery like one man fight um seventy — may-be he 
whip, may-be he get whip heself , welly good." However, the percentage 
being sixty-nine against him, the chances are, as a general thing, that "he 

get whip heself." We could not see that these lotteries differed in any 
respect from our own, save that the figures being Chinese, no ignorant white 
man might ever hope to succeed in telling " t'other from which ; " the man- 
ner of drawing is similar to ours. 

Mr. See Yup keeps a fancy store on Live Fox street. He sold us fans of 
white feathers, gorgeously ornamented ; perfumery that smelled like Lim- 
burger cheese, Chinese pens, and watch-charms made of a stone unscratch- 
able with steel instruments, yet polished and tinted like the inner coat of a 
sea-shell.* As tokens of his esteem, See Yup presented the party with 
gaudy plumes made of gold tinsel and trimmed with peacocks' feathers. 

We ate chow-chow with chop-sticks in the celestial restaurants ; our com- 
rade eluded the moon-eyed damsels in front of the houses for their want of fem- 
inine reserve ; we received protecting Josh-lights from our hosts and " dickered 
" for a pagan God or two. Finally, we were impressed with the genius 
of a Chinese book-keeper ; he figured up his accounts on a machine like a grid- 
iron with buttons strung on its bars ; the different rows represented units, 
tens, hundreds and thousands. He fingered them with incredible rapidity — 
in fact, he pushed them from place to place as fast as a musical professor's 
fingers travel over the keys of a piano. 

A peculiar species of the "jade-stono" — to a Chinaman peculiarly 
precious. 



They are a kindly disposed, well-meaning race, and are 
respected and well treated by the upper classes, all over the 
Pacific coast. No Californian gentleman or lady ever abuses 
or oppresses a Chinaman, under any circumstances, an explana- 
tion that seems to be much needed in the East. Only the scum 
of the population do it — they and their children ; they, and, 
naturally and consistently, the policemen and politicians, like- 
wise, for these are the dust-licking pimps and slaves of the 
scmn, there as well as elsewhere in ximerica. 




CHAPTEE LY. 

I BEGAN to get tired of staying in one place so long. 
There was no longer satisfying variety in going down to 
Carson to report the proceedings of the legislature once a year, 
and horse-races and pmnpkin-shows once in three months ; 
(they had got to raising pumpkins and potatoes in Washoe 
Yalley, and of course one of the first achievements of the 
legislature was to institute a ten-thousand-dollar Agricultural 
Fair to show off forty dollars' worth of those pumpkins in — 
however, the territorial legislature was usually spoken of as 
the "asylum"). I wanted to see San Francisco. i I wanted to 
go somewhere. I wanted — I did not know what I wanted. I 
had the "spring fever" and wanted a change, principally, no 
doubt. Besides, a convention had framed a State Constitu- 
tion ; nine men out of every ten wanted an office ; I believed 
that these gentlemen would "treat" the moneyless and the 
irresponsible among the population into adopting the consti- 
tution and thus wellnigh killing the country (it could not 
well carry such a load as a State government, since it had 
nothing to tax that could stand a tax, for undeveloped mines 
could not, and there were not fifty developed ones in the land, 
there was but little realty to tax, and it did seem as if nobody 
was ever going to think of the simple salvation of inflicting a 
money penalty on murder). I believed that a State government 
would destroy the " flush times," and I wanted to get away. I 
believed that the mining stocks I had on hand would soon be 
worth $100,000, and thought if they reached that before the 
Constitution was adopted, I would sell out and make myself 
secure from the crash the change of government was going to 
bring. I considered $100,000 sufficient to go home with 
decently, though it was but a small amount compared to what 
I had been expecting to return with. I felt rather down- 
hearted about it, but I tried to comfort myself with the re- 
flection that with such a smn I could not fall into want. 
About this time a schoolmate of mine whom I had not seen 
since boyhood, came tramping in on foot from Reese Kiver, a 
Aery allegory of Poverty. The son of wealthy parents, here 
he was, in a strange land, hungry, bootless, mantled in an 
ancient horse-blanket, roofed 
with a brimless hat, and so 
generally and so extravagantly dilapidated that he 
could have " taken the shine 
out of the Prodigal Son 
himself," as he pleasantly remarked. He wanted to 
borrow forty-six dollars — 
twenty-six to take him to 
San Francisco, and twenty 
for something else ; to buy 
some soap with, maybe, for 
he needed it. I found I had 
but little more than the 
amount wanted, in my pocket ; so I stepped in and borrowed 
forty-six dollars of a 
banker (on twenty days' time, 
without the formality of a 
note), and gave it him, rather 
than walk half a block to the 
office, where I had some specie laid up. If anybody had told 
me that it would take me two years to pay back that forty-six 
dollars to the banker (for I did not expect it of the Prodigal, 
and was not disappointed), I would have felt injured. And 
so would the banker. 


I wanted a eliange. I wanted variety of some kind. It 
came, Mr. Goodman went away for a week and left me the 
post of chief editor. It destroyed me. The first day, I wrote 
my "leader" in the forenoon. The second day, I had no 
subject and put it ofl" till the afternoon. The third day I put 
it off till evening, and then copied an elaborate editorial out 
of the "American Cyclopedia," that steadfast friend of the 
editor, all over this land. The fourth day I " fooled around " 
till midnight, and then fell back on the Cyclopedia again. 
The fifth day I cudgeled my brain till midnight, and then 
kept the press waiting while I penned some bitter personalities 
on six difterent people. The sixth day I labored in anguish 
till far into the night and brought forth — nothing. The paper 
went to press without an editorial. The seventh day I re- 
signed. On the eighth, Mr. Goodman returned and found 
six dyels on his hands — my personalities had borne fruit. 

Nobody, except he has tried it, knows what it is to be an 
editor. It is easy to scribble local rubbish, with the facts all 
before you ; it is easy to clip selections from other japers ; it 
is easy to string out a correspondence from any locality ; but 
it is unspeakable liardship to wn-ite editorials. Suhjects are the 
trouble — the dreary lack of them, I mean. Every day, it is 
drag, drag, drag — think, and worry and sufter — all the world 
is a dull blank, and yet the editorial columns must be filled. 
Only give the editor a snJjJect, and his work is done — it is no 
trouble to write it up ; but fancy how you would feel if you 
had to pump your brains dry every day in the week, fifty-two 
weeks in the year. It makes one low spirited simply to think 
of it. The matter that each editor of a daily paper in America 
writes in the course of a year would fill from four to eight 
bulky volumes like this book ! Fancy what a library an editors 
work would make, after twenty or thirty years' service. Yet 
people often marvel that Dickens, Scott, Bulwer, Dumas, etc., 
have been able to produce so many books. If these authors 
had wrought as voluminously as newspaper editors do, the 
result would be something to nuirvel at, indeed. How editors 
can continue this tremendous labor, this exhausting consumtion 
of brain fibre (for their work is creative, and noi 
mechanical laying-up of facts, like reporting), day ai. 
and year after year, is incomprehensible. Preachers take 
months' holiday in midsmnmer, for they find that to prodnce . 
sermons a week is wearing, in the long run. In truth it mu. 
be so, and is so ; and therefore, how an editor can take from 
ten to twenty texts and build upon them from ten to twenty 
painstaking editorials a week and keep it up all the year round, 
is farther beyond comprehension than ever. Ever since I 
survived my week as editor, I have found at least one pleasure 
in any newspaper that comes to my hand; it is in admiring 
the long columns of editorial, and wondering to myself how 
in the mischief he did it ! 

Mr. Goodman's return relieved me of employment, unless 
I chose to become a reporter again. I could not do that ; I 
could not serve in the ranks after being General of the army. 
So I thought I would depart and go abroad into the world 
somewhere. Just at this juncture, Dan, my associate in the 
reportorial department, told me, casually, that two citizens had 
been trying to persuade him to go with them to Kew York 
and aid in selling a rich silver mine which they had discovered 
and secured in a new mining district in our neighborhood. He 
said they offered to pay his expenses and give him one third 
of the proceeds of the sale. He had refused to go. It was 
the very opportunity I wanted. I abused him for keeping so 
quiet about it, and not mentioning it sooner. He said it had 
not occurred to him that I would like to go, and so he had 
recommended them to apply to Marshall, the reporter of the 
other paper. I asked Dan if it was a good, honest mine, and 
no swindle. He said the men had shown him nine tons of the 
rock, which they had got out to take to New York, and he 
could cheerfully say that he had seen but little rock in Kevada 
that was richer ; and moreover, he said that they had secured * 
a tract of valuable timber and a mill-site, near the mine. ,My 
first idea was to kill Dan. But I changed my mind, notwithstanding 
I was so angry, for I thought maybe the chance was 
not yet lost. Dan said it was by no means lost ; that the men 

3nt at the mine again, and would not be in Virginia 

for the East for some ten days ; that they had reued 
him to do the talking to Marshall, and he had promised 
he would either secure Marshall or somebody else for 
em by the time they got back ; he would now say nothing 
CO anybody till they returned, and then fulfil his promise by 
furnishing me to them. 

It was splendid. I went to bed all on fire with excite- 
ment ; for nobody had yet gone East to sell a Nevada silver 
mine, and the field was white for the sickle. I felt that such 
a mine as the one described by Dan would bring a princely 
sum in ITew York, and sell without delay or difliculty. I 
could not sleep, my fancy so rioted through its castles in the 
air. It was the " blind lead " come again. 

Next day I got away, on the coach, with the usual eclat 
attending departures of old citizens, — for if you have only half 
a dozen friends out there they will make noise for a hundred 
rather than let you seem to go away neglected and unregretted 
— and Dan promised to keep strict watch for the men that had 
the mine to sell. 

The trip was signalized but by one little incident, and that 
occurred just as we were about to start. A very seedy looking 
vagabond passenger got out of the stage a moment to wait 
till the usual ballast of silver bricks was thrown in. He was 
standing on the pavement, when an awkward express employe, 
carrying a brick weighing a hundred pounds, stumbled and 
let it fall on the bummer's foot. He instantly dropped on the 
ground and began to howl in the most heart-breaking way. A 
sympathizing crowd gathered around and were going to pull 
his boot ojff; but he screamed louder than ever and they 
desisted ; then he fell to gasping, and between the gasps ejacu- 
lated " Brandy ! for Heaven's sake, brandy ! " They poured 
half a pint down him, and it wonderfully restored and com- 
forted him. Then he begged the people to assist him to the 
stage, which was done. The express people urged him to 
have a doctor at their expense, but he declined, and said that 
if he only had a little brandy to take along with him, to soothe 
his paroxyms of pain when they came on, he would be grate 
till and content. He was quickly supplied with two bottles, 
and we drove otf. lie was so smiling and happy after that, 
that I could not refrain from asking him how he could possibly 
be so comfortable __ 

with a crushed foot. 

" Well," said he, 
"I hadn't had a 
drink for twelve 
hours, and hadn't a 
cent to my name. I 
was most perishing — and so, when that 
duffer dropped that 
hundred-pounder on 
my foot, I see my 
chance. Got a cork 
leg, you know ! " and 
he pulled up his pantaloons and proved it. 

He was as drunk 
as a lord all day long, 
and full of chucklings over his timely 
ingenuity. 

One drunken man necessarily reminds one of an- 
other. I once heard a gentleman tell about an incident which 
he witnessed in a Californian bar-room. He entitled it " Ye 
Modest Man Taketh a Drink." It was nothing but a bit of 
acting, but it seemed to me a perfect rendering, and worthy of 
Toodles himself. The modest man, tolerably far gone with beer 
and other matters, enters a saloon (twenty-live cents is the price 
for anything and everything, and specie the only money used) 
and lays down a half dollar ; calls for whiskey and drinks it ; 

the bar-keeper makes change and lays the qnarter in a wet 
phice on the counter ; the modest man fumbles at it with 
nerveless fingers, but it slips and the "water holds it ; he contem- 
plates it, and tries again ; same result ; observes that people 
are interested in what he is at, blushes ; fumbles at the quarter 
again — bluslies — puts his forefinger carefully, slowly down, to 
make sure of his aiin — pushes the coin toward the bar-keeper, 
and says with a sigh : 

" ('ic !) Gimme a cigar ! " 

Jaturally, another gentleman present told about another 
drunken man. He said lie reeled toward home late at night ; 

made a mistake and en- 
tered the wrong gate ; 
thought he saw a dog on 
the stoop ; and it was — an 
iron one. He stopped and 
considered ; wondered if 
it was a dangerous dog ; 
ventured to say " Be (hie) begone ! " No effect. Then 
he approached warily, 
and adopted conciliation ; 
pursed up his lips and tried to 
whistle, but failed ; still approached, 
saying, " Poor dog ! — doggy, doggy, 
doggy ! — poor doggy-dog ! " Got 
up on the stoop, still petting with 
fond names ; till master of the advantages ; then exclaimed, " Leave, 
you thief ! " — planted a vindictive 
kick in his ribs, and went head-over-heels overboard, of course. 
A pause ; a sigh or two of pain, 
and then a remark in a reflective voice : 

"Awful solid dog. What could he ben eating? ('ic!) 
Rocks, p'raps. Such animals is dangerous. 'At's what I say 
— they're dangerous. If a man — ('ic!) — if a man wants to 
feed a dog on rocks, let iwc).feed him on rocks ; 'at's all right; 

"gimme a cigar! 


but let him keep him at home — not have him layin' roTincl pro- 
miscuous, where ('ic !) where people's liable to stnmhle over 
him when they ain't notiein' ! " 

It was not without regret that I took a last look at the tiny 
flag (it was thirty-live feet long and ten feet wide) fluttering 
like a lady's handkerchief from the topmost, peak of Mount 
Davidson, two thousand feet above Virginia's roofs, and felt 
that doubtless I was bidding a permanent farewell to a city 
which had aftbrded me the most vigorous enjoyment of life I 
had ever experienced. And this reminds me of an incident 
which the dullest memory Virginia could boast at the time it 
happened must vividly recall, at times, till its possessor dies. 
Late one summer afternoon we had a rain shower. That was 
astonishing enough, in itself, to set the whole town buzzing, 
for it only rains (during a week or two weeks) in the winter 
in Nevada, and even then not enough at a time to make it 
worth while for any merchant to keep umbrellas for sale. But 
the rain was not the chief wonder. It only lasted five or ten 
minutes ; while the people were still talking about it all the 
heavens gathered to themselves a dense blackness as of mid- 
night. All the vast eastern front of Mount Davidson, over- 
kjoking the city, put on such a funereal gloom that only the 
nearness and solidity of the mountain made its outlines even 
f>cint]y distinguishable from the dead blackness of the heavens 
they rested against. This unaccustomed sight turned all eyes 
toward the mountain ; and as they looked, a little tongue of 
rich golden flame was seen waving and quivering in the heart 
of the midnight, away up on the extreme summit ! In a few 
minutes the streets were packed with people, gazing with 
hardly an uttered word, at the one brilliant mote in the brooding 
world of darkness. It flicked like a candle-flame, and looked 
no larger ; but with such a background it was wonderfully 
bright, small as it was. It was the flag I — though no one sus- 
pected it at first, it seemed so like a supernatural visitor of 
some kind — a mysterious messenger of good tidings, some 
were fain to believe. It was the nation's emblem transfigured 
by the departing rays of a sun that was entirely palled from 

view ; and on no other object did the gloiy fall, in all the 
broad panorama of mountain ranges and deserts. Not even 
npon the stait" of the flag — for that, a needle in the distance 
at any time, was now untouched by the light and undistin- 
guishable in the gloom. For a whole hour the weird visitor 
winked and burned in its lofty solitude, and still the thousands 
of uplifted eyes watched it with fascinated interest. How the 
people were wrought up ! The superstition grew apace that 
this was a mystic courier come with great news from the war 
— the poetry of the idea excusing and commending it — and on 
it spread, from heart to heart, from lip to lip and from street 
to street, till there was a genera! impulse to have out the 
military and welcome the bright waif with a salvo of artillery ! 
And all that time one sorely tried man, the telegraph 
operator sworn to official secrecy, had to lock his lips and chain 
his tongue with a silence that was like to rend them ; for he, 
and he only, of all the speculating multitude, knew the great tilings this sinking sun had seen that day in the east — Yicks- 
burg fallen, and the Union arms victorious at Gettysburg ! 

But for the journalistic monopoly that forbade the slightest 
revealment of eastern news till a day after its publication in. 
the California papers, the glorified flag on Moimt Davidson 
would have been saluted and re-saluted, that memorable even- 
ing, as long as there was a charge of powder to thunder with ; 
the city would have been illuminated, and every man that had 
any respect for himself would have got drunk, — as was the 
custom of the country on all occasions of public moment. 
Even at this distant day I cannot think of this needlessly 
marred supf-eme opportunity without regret. What a time 
we might have had ! 




CHAPTER LYI. 

They rumbled over the plains and valleys, climbed tbe 
Sierras to the clouds, and looked down upon summer- 
clad California. And I will remark here, in passing, that all 
scenery in California requires distance to give it its highest 
charm. The mountains are imposing in their sublimity and 
their majesty of form and altitude, from any point of view — 
but one must have distance to soften their ruggedness and en- 
rich their tintings ; a Californian forest is best at a little dis- 
tance, for there is a sad poverty of variety in species, the trees 
being chiefly of one monotonous femily — redwood, pine, spruce, 
fir — and so, at a near view there is a wearisome sameness of 
attitude in their rigid arms, stretched downward and outward 
in one continued and reiterated appeal to all men to " Sh ! — 
don't say a word ! — you might disturb somebody ! " Close at 
hand, too, there is a reliefless and relentless smell of pitch and 
turpentine ; there is a ceaseless melancholy in their sighing 
and complaining foliage ; one walks over a soundless carpet of 
beaten yellow bark and dead spines of the foliage till he feels 
like a wandering spirit bereft of a footfall ; he tires of the end- 
less tufts of needles and yearns for substantial, shapely leaves ; 
he looks for moss and grass to loll upon, and finds none, for 
where there is no bark there is naked clay and dirt, enemies 
to pensive musing and clean apparel. Often a grassy plain 
in California, is what it should be, but often, too, it is best 
contemplated at a distance, because although its grass blades 
are tall, they stand up vindictively straight and self-sufficient, 
and are unsociably wide apart, with uncomely spots of barren 
Band between. 

One of the queerest things I know of, is to hear toiu-ists 
from " the States " go into ecstasies over the loveliness of 
" ever-blooming California." And they always do go into that 
sort of ecstasies. But perhaps they would modify them if they 
knew how old Californians, with the memory full upon them 
of the dust-covered and questionable summer greens of Cali- 
fornian "verdure," 
stand astonished, and 
filled with worship- 
ping admiration,in the 
presence of the lavish 
richness, the brilliant 
green, the infinite 
freshness, the spend- 
thrift variety of form 
and species and foliage that make an 
Eastern landscape a 
vision of Paradise itself. The idea of a 
man falling into raptures over grave and 
sombre California, when that man has 

seen New England's meadow-expanses and her maples, oaks 
and cathedral-windowed elms decked in summer attire, or the 
opaline splendors of autumn descending upon her forests, comes 
very near being funny — would be, in fact, but that it is so 
pathetic. No land with an unvarying climate can be very 
beautiful. The tropics are not, for all the sentiment that is 
wasted on them. They seem beautiful at first, but sameness 
impairs the charm by and by. Change is the handmaiden 
Nature requires to do her miracles with. The land that has 
four well-defined seasons, cannot lack beauty, or pall with 
monotony. Each season brings a world of enjoyment and 
interest in the watching of its unfolding, its gradual, harmo- 
nious development, its culminating graces — and just as one 
begins to tire of it, it passes away and a radical change comes, 
with new witcheries and new glories in its train. And I think 
that to one in sympathy with nature, each season, in its turn, 
seems the loveliest. 

San Francisco, a truly fascinating city to live in, is 
stately and handsome at a fair distance, but close at hand 
one notes that the architecture is mostly old-fashioned, many 
streets are made up of decaying, smoke-grimed, wooden 
houses, and the barren sand-hills toward the outskirts obtrude 
themselves too prominently. Even the kindly climate is some- 
times pleasanter when read about than personally experienced, 
for a lovely, cloudless sky wears out its welcome by and by, 
and then when the longed for rain does come it stays. Even 
the playful earthquake is better contemplated at a dis — 

However there are varying opinions about that. 

The climate of San Francisco is mild and singularly 
equable. The thermometer stands at about seventy degrees 
the year round. It hardly changes at all. You sleep under 
one or two light blankets Summer and Winter, and never use 
a mosquito bar. ISobody ever wears Summer clothing. You 
wear black broadcloth — if you have it — in August and Janu- 
ary, just the same. It is no colder, and no warmer, in the one 
month than the other. You do not use overcoats and you do 
not use fans. It is as pleasant a climate as could well be con- 
trived, take it all around, and is doubtless the most unvarying 
in the whole M'orld. The wind blows there a good deal in the 

Summer months, but then you can go over to Oakland, if you 
choose — three or four miles away — it does not blow there. 
It has only snowed twice in San Francisco in nineteen years, 
and then it only remained on the ground long enough to 
astonisli the children, and set them to wondering what the 
feathery stuff was. 

During eight months of the year, straight along, the skies 
are bright and cloudless, and never a drop of rain falls. But 
when the other four months come along, you will need to go 
and steal an umbrella. Because you will require it. Not just 
one day, but one hundred and twenty days in hardly varying 
succession. When you want to go visiting, or attend church, 
or the theatre, you never look up at the clouds to see whether 
it is likely to rain or not — you look at the almanac. If it is 
Winter, it will 7'ain — and if it is Summer, it oonH rain, and 
you cannot help it. You never need a lightning-rod, because 
it never thunders and it never lightens. And after you have 
listened for six or eight weeks, every night, to the dismal 
monotony of those quiet rains, you will wish in your heart the 
thunder would leap and crash and roar along those drowsy 
skies once, and make everything alive — you will wish the 
prisoned lightnings would cleave the dull firmament asunder 
and light it with a blinding glare for one little instant. You 
would give anything to hear the old familiar thunder again 
and see the liohtnino- strike somebodv. And alono; in the 
Summer, when you have suffered about four months of 
lustrous, pitiless sunshine, you are ready to go down on your 
knees and plead for rain — hail — snow — thunder and lightning 
— anything to break the monotony — you will take an earth- 
quake, if you cannot do any better. And the chances are 
that you'll get it, too. 

San Francisco is built on sand hills, but they are prolific 
sand hills. They yield a generous vegetation. All the rare 
flowers which people in " the States " rear with such patient 
care in parlor flower-pots and green-houses, flourish luxu- 
riantly in the open air there all the year round. Calla lilies, all 
sorts of geraniums, passion flowers, moss roses — I do not know ' 
the names of a tenth part of them. I only know that while 

New Yorkers are burdened with banks and drifts of snow, 
Californians are burdened with banks and drifts of flowers, if 
they only keep their hands off and let them grow. And I 
have heard that they have also that rarest and most curious of 
all the flowers, the beautiful Espivitu Santo, as the Spaniards 
call it — or flower of the Holy Spirit — though I thought it 
grew only in Central America — down on the Isthmus. In its 
cup is the daintiest little fac-simile of a dove, as pure as snow. 
The Spaniards have a superstitious reverence for it. The 
blossom has been conveyed to the States, submerged in ether ; 
and the bulb has been taken thither also, but every attempt to 
make it bloom after it arrived, has failed. 

I have elsewhere spoken of the endless Winter of Mono, 
California, and but this moment of the eternal Spring of San 
Francisco. Now if we travel a hundred miles in a straight 
line, we come to the eternal Summer of Sacramento. One 
never sees Summer-clothing or mosquitoes in San Francisco — 
but they can be found in Sacramento. Not always and 
unvaryingly, but about one hundred and forty-three months 
out of twelve years, perhaps. Flowers bloom there, always, 
the reader can easily believe — people sufier and sweat, and 
swear, morning, noon and night, and wear out their stanchest 
energies fanning themselves. It gets hot there, but if you go 
down to Fort Yuma you will find it hotter. Fort Yuma is 
probably the hottest place on earth. The thermometer stays at 
one hundred and twenty in the shade there aU the time — except 
when it varies and goes higher. It is a U. S. military post, 
and its occupants get so used to the terrific heat that they 
suffer without it. There is a tradition (attributed to John 
Phenix*) that a very, very wicked soldier died there, once, and 
of course, went straight to the hottest corner of perdition, — and 
the next day he telegraplied hack for his hlankets. There is 
no doubt about the truth of this statement — there can be no 
doubt about it. I have seen the place where that soldier used 
to board. In Sacramento it is fiery Summer always, and you 
can gather roses, and eat strawberries and ice-cream, and wear 
white linen clothes, and pant and perspire, at eight or nine 
o'clock in the morning, and then take the cars, and at noon 
pnt on yonr furs and your skates, and go skimming over frozen 

It has been purloined by fifty different scribblers who were too poor to 
invent a fancy but not ashamed to steal one. 

Douner Lake, seven thousand feet above the valley, among 
snow banks fifteen feet deep, and in the shadow of grand 
mountain peaks that lift their frosty crags ten thousand feet 
above the level of the sea. There is a transition for you.' 
Where will you find another like it in the Western hemis- 
phere ? And some of us have swept around snow-walled 
curves of the Pacific Railroad in that vicinity, six thousand 
feet above the sea, and looked down as the birds do, upon the 
deathless Summer of the Sacramento Valley, with its fruitful 
fields, its feathery foliage, its silver streams, all slumbering in 
the mellow haze of its enchanted atmosphere, and all infinitely 
softened and spiritualized by distance — a dreamy, exquisite 
glimpse of fairyland, made all the more charming and striking 
that it was caught through a forbidden gateway of ice and 
snow, and sav?» crags and precipices. 



CHAPTEE LYII. 

IT was in this Sacramento Yalley, just referred to, that a deal 
of the most lucrative of the early gold mining was done, 
and you may still see, in places, its grassy slopes and levels 
torn and guttered and disfigured by the avaricious spoilers of 
fifteen and twenty years ago. You may see such disfigure- 
ments far and wide over California — and in some such places, 
where only meadows and forests are visible — not a living 
creature, not a house, no stick or stone or remnant of a ruin, 
and not a sound, not even a whisper to disturb the Sabbath 
stillness — you will find it hard to believe that there stood at 
one time a fiercely-fiom-ishing little city, of two thousand or 
three thousand souls, with its newspaper, fire company, brass 
