THE YOUNG LADY. Oh! 



MANDEVILLE. When we got aboard at May- 
ence we were conscious of a dreadful odor some 
where ; as it was a foggy morning, we could see 
no cause of it, but concluded it was from some 
thing on the wharf. The fog lifted, and we got 
under way, but the odor travelled with us, and 
increased. We went to every part of the vessel 
to avoid it, but in vain. It occasionally reached 
us in great waves of disagreeableness. We had 
heard of the odors of the towns on the Rhine, 
but we had no idea that the entire stream was 
infected. It was intolerable. 

The day was lovely, and the passengers stood 
about on deck holding their noses and admir 
ing the scenery. You might see a row of them 
leaning over the side, gazing up at some old 
ruin or ivied crag, entranced with the romance 
of the situation, and all holding their noses with 
thumb and finger. The sweet Rhine ! By and 
by somebody discovered that the odor came from 
a pile of cheese on the forward deck, covered 
with a canvas ; it seemed that the Rhinelanders 
are so fond of it that they take it with them 
when they travel. If there should ever be war 



 

between us and Germany, the borders of the 
Rhine would need no other defence from Ameri 
can soldiers than a barricade of this cheese. I 
went to the stern of the steamboat to tell a stout 
American traveller what was the origin of the 
odor he had been trying to dodge all the morn 
ing. He looked more disgusted than before 
when he heard that it was cheese ; but his only 
reply was : " It must be a merciful God who can 
forgive a smell like that ! " 



II. 

THE above is introduced here in order to illus 
trate the usual effect of an anecdote on conversa 
tion. Commonly it kills it. That talk must be 
very well in hand, and under great headway, that 
an anecdote thrown in front of will not pitch off 
the track and wreck. And it makes little differ 
ence what the anecdote is ; a poor one depresses 
the spirits, and casts a gloom over the company ; 
a good one begets others, and the talkers go to 
telling stories; which is very good entertainment 
in moderation, but is not to be mistaken for that 



 

unwearying flow of argument, quaint remark, 
humorous color, and sprightly interchange of 
sentiments and opinions, called conversation. 

The reader will perceive that all hope is gone 
here of deciding whether Herbert could have 
written Tennyson's poems, or whether Tennyson 
could have dug as much money out of the Helio- 
gabulas Lode as Herbert did. The more one 
sees of life, I think the impression deepens that 
men, after all, play about the parts assigned 
them, according to their mental and moral gifts, 
which are limited and preordained, and that their 
entrances and exits are governed by a law no less 
certain because it is hidden. Perhaps nobody 
ever accomplishes all that he feels lies in him to 
do ; but nearly every one who tries his powers 
touches the walls of his being occasionally, and 
learns about how far to attempt to spring. There 
are no impossibilities to youth and inexperience ; 
but when a person has tried several times to 
reach high C and been coughed down, he is quite 
content to go down among the chorus. It is 
only the fools who keep straining at high C all 
their lives. 



 



Mandeville here began to say that that reminded him of something that happened when 
he was on the 

But Herbert cut in with the observation 
that no matter what a man's single and several 
capacities and talents might be, he is controlled 
by his own mysterious individuality, which is 
what metaphysicians call the substance, all else 
being the mere accidents of the man. And this 
is the reason that we cannot with any certainty 
tell what any person will do or amount to, for, 
while we know his talents and abilities, we do not 
know the resulting whole, which is he himself. 

THE FIRE-TENDER. So if you could take all 
the first-class qualities that we admire in men 
and women, and put them together into one 
being, you wouldn't be sure of the result ? 

HERBERT. Certainly not. You would proba 
bly have a monster. It takes a cook of long 
experience, with the best materials, to make a 
dish " taste good " ; and the " taste good " is the 
indefinable essence, the resulting balance or 
harmony which makes man or woman agreeable 
or beautiful or effective in the world. 



 

THE YOUNG LADY. That must be the reason 
why novelists fail so lamentably in almost all 
cases in creating good characters. They put in 
real traits, talents, dispositions, but the result of 
the synthesis is something that never was seen 
on earth before. 

THE FIRE-TENDER. O, a good character in 
fiction is an inspiration. We admit this in 
poetry. It is as true of such creations as 
Colonel Newcome, and Ethel, and Beatrix 
Esmond. There is no patchwork about them. 

THE YOUNG LADY. Why wasn't Thackeray 
ever inspired to create a noble woman ? 

THE FIRE-TENDER. That is the standing 
conundrum with all the women. They will 
not accept Ethel Newcome even. Perhaps we 
shall have to admit that Thackeray was a writer 
for men. 

HERBERT. Scott and the rest had drawn so 
many perfect women that Thackeray thought it 
was time for a real one. 

THE MISTRESS. That's ill-natured. Thack 
eray did, however, make ladies. If he had de 
picted, with his searching pen, any of us just 



 

as we are, I doubt if we should have liked it 
much. 

MANDEVILLE. That's just it. Thackeray 
never pretended to make ideals, and if the best 
novel is an idealization of human nature, then 
he was not the best novelist. When I was 
crossing the Channel 

THE MISTRESS. O dear, if we are to go to 
sea again, Mandevilie, I move we have in the 
nuts and apples, and talk about our friends. 



III. 

THERE is this advantage in getting back to 
a wood fire on the hearth, that you return to a 
kind of simplicity ; you can scarcely imagine 
any one being stiffly conventional in front of it. 
It thaws out formality, and puts the company 
who sit around it into easy attitudes of mind 
and body, lounging attitudes, Herbert said. 

And this brought up the subject of culture in 
America, especially as to manner. The back 
log period having passed, we are beginning to 
have in society people of the cultured manner, 



 

as it is called, or polished bearing, in which the 
polish is the most noticeable thing about the 
man. Not the courtliness, the easy simplicity 
of the old-school gentleman, in whose presence 
the milkmaid was as much at her ease as the 
countess, but something far finer than this. 
These are the people of unruffled demeanor, 
who never forget it for a moment, and never let 
you forget it. Their presence is a constant rebuke to society. They are never "jolly" ; their 
laugh is never anything more than a well-bred 
smile ; they are never betrayed into any enthu 
siasm. Enthusiasm is a sign of inexperience, 
of ignorance, of want of culture. They never 
lose themselves in any cause ; they never heart 
ily praise any man or woman or book ; they are 
superior to all tides of feeling and all outbursts 
of passion. They are not even shocked at vul 
garity. They are simply indifferent. They are 
calm, visibly calm, painfully calm ; and it is not 
the eternal, majestic calmness of the Sphinx 
either, but a rigid, self-conscious repression. 
You would like to put a bent pin in their chair 
when they are about calmly to sit down. 





A sitting hen on her nest is calm, but hope 
ful ; she has faith that her eggs are not china. 
These people appear to be sitting on china eggs. 

Perfect culture has refined all blood, warmth, 



flavor, out of them. We admire them without 
envy. They are too beautiful in their manners 
to be either prigs or snobs. They are at once 
our models and our despair. They are properly 
careful of themselves as models, for they know 
that if they should break, society would become 
a scene of mere animal confusion. 

MANDEVILLE. I think that the best-bred peo 
ple in the world are the English. 

THE YOUNG LADY. You mean at home. 

MANDEVILLE. That's where I saw them.* 
There is no nonsense about a cultivated English 
man or woman. They express themselves stur 
dily and naturally, and with no subservience to 
the opinions of others. There 's a sort of hearty 
sincerity about them that I like. Ages of cul 
ture on the island have gone deeper than the 
surface, and they have simpler and more natural 

* Mandeville once spent a week in London, riding about on 
the tops of omnibuses. 



 

manners than we. There is something good in 
the full, round tones of their voices. 

HERBERT. Did you ever get into a diligence 
with a growling Englishman who hadn't secured 
the place he wanted ? 

THE MISTRESS. Did you ever see an English 
exquisite at the San Carlo, and hear him cry 
" Bwavo " ? 

MANDEVILLE. At any rate, he acted out his 
nature, and wasn't afraid to. 

THE FIRE-TENDER. I think Mandeville is 
right, for once. The men of the best culture in 
England, in the middle and higher social classes, 
are what you would call good fellows, easy 
and simple in manner, enthusiastic on occasion, 
and decidedly not cultivated into the smooth 
calmness of indifference which some Americans 
seem to regard as the sine qna non of good 
breeding. Their position is so assured that they 
do not need that lacquer of calmness of which 
we were speaking. 

THE YOUNG LADY. Which is different from 
the manner acquired by those who live a great 
deal in American hotels? 



 

THE MISTRESS. Or the Washington manner? 

HERBERT. The last two are the same. 

THE FIRE-TENDER. Not exactly. You think 
you can always tell if a man has learned his 
society carriage of a dancing-master. Well, 
you cannot always tell by a person's manner 
whether he is a habitu/ of. hotels or of Washing 
ton. But these are distinct from the perfect 
polish and politeness of indifferentism. 



IV. 

DAYLIGHT disenchants. It draws one from the 
fireside, and dissipates the idle illusions of con 
versation, except under certain conditions. Let 
us say that the conditions are : a house in the 
country, with some forest-trees near, and a few 
evergreens, which are Christmas-trees all winter 
long, fringed with snow, glistening with ice-pen 
dants, cheerful by day and grotesque by night ; 
a snow-storm beginning out of a dark sky, fall 
ing in a soft profusion that fills all the air, its 
dazzling whiteness making a light near at hand, 
which is quite lost in the distant darkling spaces. 



 

If one begins to watch the swirling flakes and 
crystals, he soon gets an impression of infinity of 
resources that he can have from nothing else so 
powerfully, except it be from Adirondack gnats. 
Nothing makes one feel at home like a great 
snow-storm. Our intelligent cat will quit the 
fire and sit for hours in the low window, watch 
ing the falling snow with a serious and contented 
air. His thoughts are his own, but he is in ac 
cord with the subtlest agencies of Nature ; on 
such a day he is charged with enough electricity 
to run a telegraphic battery, if it could be util 
ized. The connection between thought and elec 
tricity has not been exactly determined, but the 
cat is mentally very alert in certain conditions 
of the atmosphere. Feasting his eyes on the 
beautiful out-doors does not prevent his atten 
tion to the slightest noise in the wainscot. 
And the snow-storm brings content, but not 
stupidity, to all the rest of the household. 

I can see Mandeville now, rising from his arm 
chair and swinging his long arms as he strides 
to the window, and looks out and up, with, 
" Well, I declare ! " Herbert is pretending to 



 

read Herbert Spencer's tract on the philosophy 
of style ; but he loses much time in looking at 
the Young Lady, who is writing a letter, holding 
her portfolio in her lap, one of her everlasting 
letters to one of her fifty everlasting friends. 
She is one of the female patriots who save the 
post-office department from being a disastrous 
loss to the treasury. Herbert is thinking of 
the great radical difference in the two sexes, 
which legislation will probably never change ; 
that leads a woman always to write letters on 
her lap and a man on a table, a distinction 
which is commended to the notice of the anti- 
suffragists. 

The Mistress, in a pretty little breakfast- cap, 
is moving about the room with a feather-duster, 
whisking invisible dust from the picture-frames, 
and talking with the Parson, who has just come 
in, and is thawing the snow from his boots on 
the hearth. The Parson says the thermometer 
is 15, and going down; that there is a snow 
drift across the main church entrance three feet 
high, and that the house looks as if it had gone 
into winter quarters, religion and all. There 



 

were only ten persons at the conference meeting 
last night, and seven of those were women ; he 
wonders how many weather-proof Christians 
there are in the parish, anyhow. 

The Fire-Tender is in the adjoining library, 
pretending to write ; but it is a poor day for 
ideas. He has written his wife's name about 
eleven hundred times, and cannot get any far 
ther. He hears the Mistress tell the Parson 
that she believes he is trying to write a lecture 
on the Celtic Influence in Literature. The 
Parson says that it is a first-rate subject, if 
there were any such influence, and asks why 
he doesn't take a shovel and make a path to 
the gate. Mandeville says that, by George ! he 
himself should like no better fun, but it wouldn't 
look well for a visitor to do it. The Fire-Ten 
der, not to be disturbed by this sort of chaff, 
keeps on writing his wife's name. 

Then the Parson and the Mistress fall to talk 
ing about the soup-relief, and about old Mrs. 
Crumples in Pig Alley, who had a present of 
one of Stowe's Illustrated Self-Acting Bibles on 
Christmas, when she hadn't coal enough in the 



 

house to heat her gruel ; and about a family be 
hind the church, a widow and six little children" 
and three dogs ; and he didn't .believe that any 
of them had known what it was to be warm in 
three weeks, and as to food, the woman said, she 
could hardly beg cold victuals enough to keep 
the dogs alive. 

The Mistress slipped out into the kitchen to 
fill a basket with provisions and send it some 
where ; and when the Fire-Tender brought in a 
new forestick, Mandeville, who always wants to 
talk, and had been sitting drumming his feet 
and drawing deep sighs, attacked him. 

MANDEVILLE. Speaking about culture and 
manners, did you ever notice how extremes 
meet, and that the savage bears himself very 
much like the sort of cultured persons we were 
talking of last night ? 

THE FIRE-TENDER. In what respect ? 

MANDEVILLE. Well, you take the North 
American Indian. He is never interested in 
anything, never surprised at anything. He has 
by nature that calmness and indifference which 
your people of culture have acquired. If he 



 

should go into literature as a critic, he would 
scalp and tomahawk with the same emotionless 
composure, and he would do nothing else. 

THE FIRE-TENDER. Then you think the red 
man is a born gentleman of the highest breeding ? 

MANDEVILLE. I think he is calm. 

THE FIRE-TENDER. How is it about the 
war-path and all that ? 

MANDEVILLE. O, these studiously calm and 
cultured people may have malice underneath. It 
takes them to give the most effective " little 
digs " ; they know how to stick in the pine-splin 
ters and set fire to them. 

HERBERT. But there is more in Mandeville's 
idea. You bring a red man into a picture-gal 
lery, or a city full of fine architecture, or into a 
drawing-room crowded with objects of art and 
beauty, and he is apparently insensible to them 
all. Now I have seen country people, and by 
country people I don't mean people necessarily 
who live in the country, for everything is mixed 
in these days, some of the best people in the 
world, intelligent, honest, sincere, who acted as 
the Indian would. 



 * 

THE MISTRESS. Herbert, if I didn't know you 
were cynical, I should say you were snobbish. 

HERBERT. Such people think it a point of 
breeding never to speak of anything in your 
house, nor to appear to notice it, however beau 
tiful it may be ; even to slyly glance around 
strains their notion of etiquette. They are like 
the countryman who confessed afterwards that 
,he could hardly keep from laughing at one of 
Yankee Hill's entertainments. 

THE YOUNG LADY. Do you remember those 
English people at our house in Flushing last 
summer, who pleased us all so much with their 
apparent delight in everything that was artis 
tic or tasteful, who explored the rooms and 
looked at everything, and were so interested ? 
I suppose that Herbert's country relations, many 
of whom live in the city, would have thought it 
very ill-bred. 

MANDEVILLE. It 's just as I said. The Eng 
lish, the best of them, have become so civilized that 
they express themselves, in speech and action, 
natiually, and are not afraid of their emotions. 

THE PARSON. I wish Mandeville would travel 
more, or that he had stayed at home. It 's won- 



*  

derful what a fit of Atlantic sea-sickness will do 
for a man's judgment and cultivation. He is pre 
pared to pronounce on art, manners, all kinds of 
culture. There is more nonsense talked about 
culture than about anything else. 

HERBERT. The Parson reminds me of an 
American country minister I once met walking 
through the Vatican. You couldn't impose 
upon him with any rubbish ; he tested every-, 
thing by the standards of his native place, and 
there was little that could bear the test. He 
had the sly air of a man who could not be de 
ceived, and he- went about with his mouth in 
a pucker of incredulity. There is nothing so 
placid as rustic conceit. There was something 
very enjoyable about his calm superiority to all 
the treasures of art. 

MANDEVILLE. And the Parson reminds me of 
another American minister, a consul in an Italian 
city, who said he was going up to Rome to have 
a thorough talk with the Pope, and give him a 
piece of his mind. Ministers seem to think that 
is their business. They serve it in such small 
pieces in order to make it go round. 

THE PARSON. Mandeville is an infidel. 





Jet 's have some music ; nothing else will keep 
him in good humor till lunch-time. 
THE MISTRESS. What shall it be ? 
THE PARSON. Give us the largJietto from Beet 
hoven's second symphony. 

The Young Lady puts aside her portfolio. 
Herbert looks at the young lady. The Parson 
composes himself for critical purposes. Mande- 
ville settles himself in a chair and stretches his 
long legs nearly into the fire, remarking that 
music takes the tangles out of him. 

After the piece is finished, 
lunch is announced. It 
is still snowing. 





is difficult to explain the attraction 
which the uncanny and even the hor 
rible have for most minds. I have 
seen a delicate woman half fascinated, but 
wholly disgusted, by one of the most unseemly 
of reptiles, vulgarly known as the " blowing 
viper " of the Alleghanies. She would look at it, 
and turn away with irresistible shuddering and the 
utmost loathing, and yet turn to look at it again 
and again, only to experience the same spasm of 
disgust. In spite of her aversion she must have 
relished the sort of electric mental shock that 
the sight gave her. 

I can no more account for the fascination 
for us of the stories of ghosts and " appear- 



 







ances," and those weird tales in which the dead 
are the chief characters ; nor tell why we 
should fall into converse about them when 
the winter evenings are far spent, the* embers 
are glazing over on the hearth, and the listener 
begins to hear the eerie noises in the house. 
At such times one's dreams become of impor 
tance, and people like to tell them and dwell 
upon them, as if they were a link between the 
known and unknown, and could give us a 
clew to that ghostly region which in certain 
states of the mind we feel to be more real than 
that we see. 

Recently, when we were, so to say, sitting 
around the borders of the supernatural late at 
night, MANDEVILLE related a dream of his which 
he assured us was true in every particular, and 
it interested us so much that we asked him to 
write it out. In doing so he has curtailed it, 
and to my mind shorn it of some of its more 
vivid and picturesque features. He might have 
worked it up with more art, and given it a finish 
which the narration now lacks, but I think 
best to insert it in its simplicity. It seems to 
me that it may properly be called, 

 

A NEW "VISION OF SIN." 

IN the winter of 1850 I was a member of one 
of the leading colleges of this country. I was in 
moderate circumstances pecuniarily, though I was 
perhaps better furnished with less fleeting riches 
than many others. I was an incessant and indis 
criminate reader of books. For the solid sciences 
I had no particular fancy, but with mental modes 
and habits, and especially with the eccentric and 
fantastic in the intellectual and spiritual opera 
tions, I was tolerably familiar. All the literature 
of the supernatural was as real to me as the lab 
oratory of the chemist, where I saw the continual 
struggle of material substances to evolve them 
selves into more volatile, less palpable and coarse 
forms. My imagination, naturally vivid, stimu 
lated by such repasts, nearly mastered me. At 
times I could scarcely tell where the material 
ceased and the immaterial began (if I may so 
express it) ; so that once and again I walked, as 
it seemed, from the solid earth onward upon an 
impalpable plain, where I heard the same voices, 
I think, that Joan of Arc heard call to her in the 



garden at Domremy. She was inspired, how 
ever, while I only lacked exercise. I do not 
mean this in any literal sense ; I only describe a 
state of mind. I was at this time of spare habit, 
and nervous, excitable temperament. I was am 
bitious, proud, and extremely sensitive. I cannot 
deny that I had seen something of the world, and 
had contracted about the average bad habits of 
young men who have the sole care of themselves, 
and rather bungle the matter. It is necessary to 
this relation to admit that I had seen a trifle 
more of what is called life than a young man 
ought to see, but at this period I was not only 
sick of my experience, but my habits were as cor 
rect as those of any Pharisee in our college, and 
we had some very favorable specimens of that 
ancient sect. 

Nor can I deny that at this period of my life I 
was in a peculiar mental condition. I well remember an illustration of it. I sat writing late 
one night, copying a prize essay, a merely man 
ual task, leaving my thoughts free. It was in 
June, a sultry night, and about midnight a wind 
arose, pouring in through the open windows, full 



 

of mournful reminiscence, not of this, but of 
other summers, the same wind that De Quincey 
heard at noonday in midsummer blowing through 
the room where he stood, a mere boy, by the side 
of his dead sister, a wind centuries old. As I 
wrote on mechanically I became conscious of a 
presence in the room, though I did not lift my 
eyes from the paper on which I wrote. Gradually 
I came to know that my grandmother dead so 
long ago that I laughed at the idea was in the 
room. She stood beside her old-fashioned spin 
ning-wheel, and quite near me. She wore a plain 
muslin cap with a high puff in the crown, a short 
woollen gown, a white and blue checked apron, 
and shoes with heels. She did not regard me, 
but stood facing the wheel, with the left hand 
near the spindle, holding lightly between the 
thumb and forefinger the white roll of wool 
which was being spun and twisted on it. In her 
right hand she held a small stick. I heard the 
sharp click of this against the spokes of the 
wheel, then the hum of the wheel, the buzz of 
the spindles as the twisting yarn was teased by 
the whirl of its point, then a step backwards, a 



 

pause, a step forward and the running of the 
yarn upon the spindle, and again a backward 
step, the drawing out of the roll and the droning 
and hum of the wheel, most mournful, hopeless 
sound that ever fell on mortal ear. Since child 
hood it has haunted me. All this time I wrote, 
and I could hear distinctly the scratching of the 
pen upon the paper. But she stood behind me 
(why I did not turn my head I never knew), 
pacing backward and forward by the spinning- 
wheel, just as I had a hundred times seen her in 
childhood in the old kitchen on drowsy summer 
afternoons. And I heard the step, the buzz and 
whirl of the spindle, and the monotonous and 
dreary hum of the mournful wheel. Whether her 
face was ashy pale and looked as if it might 
crumble at the touch, and the border of her 
white cap trembled in the June wind that blew, 
I cannot say, for I tell you I did NOT see her. 
But I know she was there, spinning yarn that 
had been knit into hose years and years ago by 
our fireside. For I was in full possession of my 
faculties, and never copied more neatly and legi 
bly any manuscript than I did the one that night. 



 

And there the phantom (I use the word out of 
deference to a public prejudice on this subject) 
most persistently remained until my task was 
finished, and, closing the portfolio, I abruptly 
rose. Did I see anything ? That is a silly and 
ignorant question. Could I see the wind which 
had now risen stronger, and drove a few cloud- 
scuds across the sky, filling the night, somehow, 
with a longing that was not altogether born of 
reminiscence ? 

In the winter following, in January, I made an 
effort to give up the use of tobacco, a habit 
in which I was confirmed, and of which I have 
nothing more to say than this : that I should 
attribute to it almost all the sin and misery in 
the world, did I not remember that the old 
Romans attained a very considerable state of 
corruption without the assistance of the Virginia 
plant. 

On the night of the third day of my absti 
nence, rendered more nervous and excitable than 
usual by the privation, I retired late, and later 
still I fell into an uneasy sleep, and, thus into a 
dream, vivid, illuminated, more real than any 



 

event of my life. I was at home, and fell sick. 
The illness developed into a fever, and then a 
delirium set in, not an intellectual blank, but a 
misty and most delicious wandering in places 
of incomparable beauty. I learned subsequently 
that our regular physician was not certain to 
finish me, when a consultation was called, which 
did the business. I have the satisfaction of 
knowing that they were of the proper school. 
I lay sick for three days. 

On the morning of the fourth, at sunrise, I 
died. 

The sensation was not unpleasant. It was not 
a sudden shock. I passed out of my body as one 
would walk from the door of his house. There 
the body lay, a blank, so far as I was con 
cerned, and only interesting to me as I was 
rather entertained with watching the respect 
paid to it. My friends stood about the bedside, 
regarding me (as they seemed to suppose), while 
I, in a different part of the room, could hardly 
repress a smile at their mistake, solemnized as 
they were, and I too, for that matter, by my 
recent demise. A sensation (the word you see 



 

is material and inappropriate) of etherealization 
and imponderability pervaded me, and I was not 
sorry to get rid of such a dull, slow mass as I 
now perceived myself to be, lying there on the 
bed. When I speak of my death, let me be 
understood to say that there was no change, ex 
cept that I passed out of my body and floated to 
the top of a bookcase in the corner of the room, 
from which I looked down. For a moment I 
was interested to see my person from the out 
side, but thereafter I was quite ' indifferent to 
the body. I was now simply soul. I seemed 
to be a globe, impalpable, transparent, about six 
inches in diameter. I saw and heard everything 
as before. Of course, matter was no obstacle to 
me, and I went easily and quickly wherever I 
willed to go. There was none of that tedious 
process of communicating my wishes to the 
nerves, and from them to the muscles. I sim 
ply resolved to be at a particular place, and 
I was there. It was better than the tele 
graph. 

It seemed to have been intimated to me at 
my death (birth I half incline to call it) that I 



 

could remain on this earth for four weeks after 
my decease, during which time I could amuse 
myself as I chose. 

I chose, in the first place, to see myself de 
cently buried, to stay by myself to the last, and 
attend my own funeral for once. As most of 
those referred to in this true narrative are still 
living, I am forbidden to indulge in personali 
ties, nor shall I dare to say exactly how my 
death affected my friends, even the home circle. 
Whatever others did, I sat up with myself and 
kept awake. I saw the " pennies " used instead 
of the " quarters " which I should have preferred. 
I saw myself " laid out," a phrase that has come 
to have such a slang meaning, that I smile as 
I write it. When the body was put into the 
coffin I took my place on the lid. 

I cannot recall all the details, and they are 
commonplace besides. The funeral took place 
at the church. We all rode thither in carriages, 
and I, not fancying my place in mine, rode on 
the outside with the undertaker, whom I found 
to be a good deal more jolly than he looked to 
be. The coffin was placed in front of the pulpit 



 

when we arrived. I took my station on the pul 
pit cushion, from which elevation I had an ad 
mirable view of all the ceremonies, and could 
hear the sermon. How distinctly I remember 
the services. I think I could even at this dis 
tance write out the sermon. The tune sung was 
of the usual country selection, Mount Vernon. 
I recall the text. I was rather flattered by the 
tribute paid to me, and my future was spoken 
of gravely and as kindly as possible, indeed 
with remarkable charity, considering that the 
minister was not aware of my presence. I 
used to beat him at chess, and I thought, even 
then, of the last game ; for, however solemn the 
occasion might be to others, it was not so to 
me. With what interest I watched my kins 
folks and neighbors as they filed past for the 
last look ! I saw, and I remember, who pulled 
a long face for the occasion and who exhibited 
genuine sadness. I learned with the most dread 
ful certainty what people really thought of me. 
It was a revelation never forgotten. 

Several particular acquaintances of mine were 
talking on the steps as we passed out. 




" Well, old Starr 's gone up. Sudden, wasn't 
it ? He was a first-rate fellow." 

" Yes, queer about some things ; but he had 
some mighty good streaks," said another. And 
so they ran on. 

Streaks! So that is the reputation one gets 
during twenty years of life in this world. Streaks ! 

After the funeral I rode home with the family. 
It was pleasanter than the ride down, though it 
seemed sad to my relations. They did not men 
tion me, however, and I may remark, that al 
though I stayed about home for a week, I never 
heard my name mentioned by any of the family. 
Arrived at home, the tea-kettle was put on and 
supper got ready. This seemed to lift the gloom 
a little, and under the influence of the tea they 
brightened up and gradually got more cheer 
ful. They discussed the sermon and the sing 
ing, and the mistake of the sexton in digging the 
grave in the wrong place, and the large congre 
gation. From the mantel-piece I watched the 
group. They had waffles for supper, of which 
I had been exceedingly fond, but now I saw 
them disappear without a sigh. 



 

For the first day or two of my sojourn at home 
I was here and there at all the neighbors, and 
heard a good deal about my life and character, 
some of which was not very pleasant, but very 
wholesome, doubtless, for me to hear. At the 
expiration of a week this amusement ceased to 
be such, for I ceased to be talked of. I realized 
the fact that I was dead and gone. 

By an act of volition I found myself back at 
college. I floated into my own room, which was 
empty. I went to the room of my two warmest 
friends, whose friendship I was and am yet as 
sured of. As usual, half a dozen of our set were 
lounging there. A game of whist was just com 
mencing. I perched on a bust of Dante on the 
top of the book-shelves, where I could see two 
of the hands and give a good guess at a third. 
My particular friend Timmins was just shuffling 
the cards. 

" Be hanged if it isn't lonesome without old 
Starr. Did you cut ? I should like to see him 
lounge -in now with his pipe, and with feet on 
the mantel-piece proceed to expound on the du 
plex functions of the soul." 



 



" There misdeal," said his vis-a-vis. " Hope 
there 's been no misdeal for old Starr." 

" Spades, did you say ? " the talk ran on. " I 
never knew Starr was sickly." 

" No more was he ; stouter than you are, and 
as brave and plucky as he was strong. By 
George, fellows, how we do get cut down ! Last 
term little Stubbs, and now one of the best fel 
lows in the class." 

" How suddenly he did pop off, one for 
game, honors easy, he was good for the 
Spouts' Medal this year, too." 

" Remember the joke he played on Prof. A., 
freshman year ? " asked another. 

" Remember he borrowed ten dollars of me 
about that time," said Timmins's partner, gather 
ing the cards for a new deal. 

" Guess he is the only one who ever did," retorted some one. 

And so the talk went on, mingled with whist- 
talk, reminiscent of me, not all exactly what I 
would have chosen to go into my biography, but 
on the whole kind and tender, after the fashion 
of the boys. At least I was in their thoughts, 





and I could see was a good deal regretted, 
so I passed a very pleasant evening. Most of 
those present were of my society, and wore crape 
on their badges, and all wore the usual crape on 
