"I am not sick, but I have had much to think of and to do, lately,
and I may look somewhat jaded," he answered. "You left Eunice well,
you say?"

"Quite well, thank you! You have overworked yourself in getting the
house ready for me. You should have left that for me to do."

"It was not necessary. As it is, you will find much room for
alteration and improvement, I doubt not. You were fortunate in
meeting with a pleasant escort on your journey. Are you much
fatigued?"

"No, but my head aches a little," turning her face to the window.

She was disappointed in her reception. The parting from Eunice had
been a grievous trial; the journey filled with mournful thoughts of
the past that now lay so very far behind her. In turning her back
upon her parents' graves and her birthplace, she seemed to have
parted company forever with the blithe girl who had been born and
had grown up to woman's estate, careless and joyous as the swallows
that had for a century built their nests in the belfry of the
church-tower. She had almost forgotten how Jessie Kirke felt and
acted. Yet she was thankful that in the midst of melancholy and
dazement, her appointed way lay clear and open before her; that she
had still a sure staff on which to lean,--the hope and resolve that
she would do her duty bravely and well in the sphere for which her
marriage-vow had set her apart. It was indicative of the generous
temper and sound sense that never failed to assert themselves when
the momentary tumult of passion had passed, which neither her faults
nor the influence of the tempter had warped, that she had never, for
one moment, blamed Roy for hurrying forward their marriage. They
were "troth-plight," as her Scottish ancestors would have put it.
She had said, "If you insist upon the fulfilment of my promise, I
will submit to your decision." And she had not said it idly. He had
taken her at her word, as he had the right to do, and by that pledge
she would abide.

Lonely and tired, the sight of Roy's face in the crowd of strangers
upon the platform of the Hamilton station had cheered her heart like
a cordial. She forgot that he was her husband; remembered him only
as a noble and faithful friend in whose presence she would be no
longer solitary and sad. She was even conscious of a proud sense of
proprietorship in the fine-looking, dignified man who was the first
to enter the car when it stopped,--a consciousness that flushed her
cheeks faintly, and quickened her pulses, as she introduced him to
the gentleman who had acted as her escort and heard his well-chosen
words of acknowledgment for the favor done him. He had not kissed
her then--she supposed because there were so many looking on; but
after taking his place beside her in the carriage, he might surely
tell her that her coming gave him joy; repeat something of the
rapturous anticipations that had overflowed his heart in writing his
last letter, received by her the night before. His face was very
pale, his eyes abstracted, his voice constrained. Anything more
unlike the Roy she had known in Dundee could hardly be imagined,
without changing the identity of the man. It was not surprising that
a qualm of home-sickness weakened her heroic resolutions; put to
flight her dreams of forgetting her unhappiness in the sustained
effort to be and do all he wished.

Roy saw the struggle and surmised, in part, the cause of it; but
what could he say to assuage or encourage? The caresses and fond
words with which he had sought to console her in the earlier days of
her desolation must, he now saw in the lurid light shed upon his
honeymoon by that terrible letter, have aggravated her sufferings.

Professing to be her protector, he had played the part of a brutal
ravisher; had torn her,--shrinking and crying out against the
loathed union she felt would "be a sin--a fearful sin," from her
free, happy girl-life, and bound her, soul and body, in fetters more
hateful and enduring than manacles of steel. After the first shock
of horror and of grief, he forgot the wrong he had sustained in his
overmastering compassion for her. And he could not free her! Loving
her better than he did his own happiness and life, he was powerless
to ensure her peace of mind by restoring her to liberty. Had he been
other than the true Christian and true man he was, the distracting
anguish of that conviction would have driven him to madness and to
suicide, as a sequel to the fearful vigil that followed the
discovery of his real position.

Light came with the morning, and strength for the day. His course
was plain--to mitigate the rigors of her fate by such kindly deeds
as a brother might perform for the promotion of a sister's welfare;
by abstaining from even such manifestations of affection as are a
brother's right. There should be no formal explanation until she had
recovered from the fatigue of her journey, and begun to feel at home
in her new abode. Thus much he could and would do, and await the
result.

"What a pretty, pretty house!" exclaimed Jessie, as the carriage
drew up at the gate of a cottage on the southern slope of one of the
hills on which the handsome town was built.

She had meant to praise his selection of a residence however
ordinary its appearance, but her enthusiastic admiration was
genuine.

Roy smiled, but not with the glad gleam she looked to see.

"It is good and kind in you to say so! If you can be satisfied here,
I ask nothing better or grander."

A tidy girl opened the door, whom Jessie recognized with pleased
surprise as a former servant in Dr. Baxter's family.

"Why, Phoebe! This is homelike! How very generous in Cousin Jane
to give you up to me!"

"She said you might find me useful, Miss Jessie! I beg your
pardon--Mrs. Fordham!" replied the girl, dropping a courtesy.

Jessie colored, Roy thought, painfully, at the as yet unfamiliar
name. He interfered to save her further embarrassment, in the shape
of congratulations.

"You will show her to her room, if you please, Phoebe. And then
let her have a cup of tea. She has a headache. Your trunks will be
sent up in the course of half an hour, Jessie, but I would not
advise you to wait for them, or take the trouble of changing your
travelling-dress. You must begin your life here by doing just as you
choose in such matters."

He met her in the hall when she ran down, ten minutes later, fearful
lest she had kept him waiting, and led her into the supper room;
letting her take her place behind the tea-tray without one of the
tenderly gallant speeches with which a bridegroom would naturally
install his bride in the chair always appropriated by the mistress
of heart and home. He was attentive to her wants, and talked as much
as usual--perhaps more--in the endeavor to put her at her ease;
telling how the flowers upon the tea-table and in her chamber were
sent over at noon from Judge Provost's conservatory; that the silver
service was a present from the Baxters, the bronze mantel-clock from
Fanny Provost, who was very anxious to see her and resume their old
intimacy. Selina Bradley had sent the chased silver butter-bowl, and
other Hamilton families had testified their good-will by elegant and
suitable gifts.

"I am every day more glad that you spent last winter here," he said.
"You do not come as a stranger; have already pleasant associations
with our town and its inhabitants, and gained a foothold, I find, in
many hearts."

He had unwittingly dealt as direct a blow at the secret panel that
hid the skeleton in her heart, as he had at Orrin Wyllys' indurated
conscience the previous evening.

Jessie had no words in which to reply; sought to conceal her
confusion by steadfastly regarding the pattern on her plate--one of
a set of china Roy had purchased in Dresden, she discovered,
presently, when she remarked upon its beauty.

"I had no idea you had such exquisite taste!" She made a bold
attempt to break through the nameless but powerful constraint that
kept down everything like easy or merry converse on her part. "I
expect to be in a state of perpetual astonishment on that score for
a long time to come. I did not know that learned scholars ever
condescended to consider such petty details of domestic life as
porcelain and carpets."

He put back his chair without replying directly to the compliment,
at which, to her mortification, he looked rather pained than
pleased.

"If you have finished your supper, perhaps you would like to go over
the house?" he said, politely. "Or, if you are tired, we will
postpone it until to-morrow."

"I should greatly prefer going now!" catching at the prospect of
some mitigation of the growing stiffness.

The survey was a quiet progress for the most part, certainly not
accomplishing the end she had hoped for. Roy said little, and Jessie
felt very awkward, as door after door was opened, and she
appreciated the thoughtfulness that had ministered to her comfort,
from first to last, yet was forbidden by the mysterious spell
chaining her tongue, to thank him who had wrought it all. But when
they reached the sitting-room, where the flames were crackling and
curling among the wood on the hearth, and her chair and fire-screen
awaited her, the home-restfulness of the scene broke down the ice
wall. The feelings that had gathered to oppression upon her heart,
overflowed her eyes and choked her articulation.

"This is too much!" she exclaimed, catching Roy's hand in hers, and
gazing tearfully into his face. "Oh! what am I--"

She could say no more.

"The mistress of this room and this house!" responded Roy, in kindly
seriousness. "One who has a right to expect every attention I can
bestow. This is your sanctum. Nobody shall enter it without your
permission."

Jessie tried to smile playfully.

"Excepting yourself!"

"When you want me, I shall come!" was the evasive reply.

"Surely you will not wait--"

The remonstrance was cut short by a tap at the door, signalling Mrs.
Baxter's impetuous entrance.

"My dearest lamb!" she cried, with a strangled sob, clasping her
cousin in her embrace.

"The doctor would come the instant he had swallowed his tea!" she
tried to cover Jessie's emotion and her own by saying, when she
could speak clearly. "I told him it was barbarously unfeeling and
unromantic; that, according to all rules of etiquette and sentiment,
you should pass this evening without the intrusion of company. But
he was obstinate. I don't believe you two have the remotest
conception of his favoritism of you!"

Meantime, the doctor had, in his odd fashion, slipped his hand under
the young wife's chin, and raised to the light a strangely agitated
face--eyes swimming in tears, forehead slightly puckered with the
effort after self-control, and little eddies of smiles breaking up
around the mouth. Roy saw in it the whole history of the shipwreck
of her heart and life, and her womanly determination to keep the
knowledge of the disaster to herself. Would the physiognomist's
keenly solemn gaze detect as much?

Neither of the lately wedded pair was prepared for the remark with
which he released the blushing Jessie.

"I wanted to see if the heart of her husband could safely trust in
her. My daughter! do you know what a good man you have married?"

"Do not raise her expectations to an unreasonable height, my dear
sir!" interposed Roy, in time to forestall her reply. "And let me
thank you, in her name and in mine, for the honor you have done us
in this early visit."

The doctor accepted the compliment and the chair that the host
wheeled forward, in profound silence. The conversation had been
carried on by the others for several minutes before he again joined
in. He was aroused then by his wife's laudations of Orrin's
generosity as displayed in his bridal present.

"I don't see how you can take it so quietly!" she berated the
recipient. "One would suppose pianos were given away every day! And
you should value the instrument the more highly because it is the
gift of your great admirer and true friend, Mr. Wyllys. I assure
you, Mr. Fordham, nothing could exceed his care of and devotion to
her, for your sake and in your name, of course! while you were over
the seas and far away."

"True friend!" echoed the doctor's dryest, most rasping tones.
"Humph!"

"Now, my love, I do implore that you will not drag forward that
most unjust and unreasonable prejudice in the present company!"
cried his wife, in a nervous flutter from her bonnet-crown to her
gaiter-tips. "If I have failed to convince you that it is
groundless and absurd, oblige me by withholding the expression of
it, here and now!"

"My good Jane!" returned the imperturbable spouse--"Where else could
the truth be so fitly spoken as in the hearing of judicious friends?
I am sorry to say, Mr. Fordham, that my excellent wife and myself do
not agree respecting Mr. Wyllys' character and actions."

"Doctor! doctor!" ejaculated the frantic woman, plunging forward, at
an angle of forty-five degrees, to pluck his sleeve. "You forget
that you are addressing Mr. Wyllys' cousin!"

"A candid man, and a fair judge of human nature and motives,
nevertheless," her lord went on to say, with a stiff little bow in
the direction of the person named. "The only safe rule among friends
is candor. It is seldom I attribute sinister purposes to one whom I
do not know certainly to be malevolent or hypocritical, but when I
declare it to be my firm conviction that Orrin Wyllys--(of whom the
best thing I know is that he has descended physically from the same
stock that produced your husband, my child!)"--this to Jessie--"when
I affirm that I believe him to be a wolf who ravens safely and
reputably under the cowardly cover of sheep's clothing, I am not,
as my dear Jane here would persuade herself and you, the victim of
causeless prejudice."

"Dearest, I entreat!" broke in the wife, at her last gasp of
distress.

His discourse moved on majestically. There were four knots in his
handkerchief already.

"From the moment I heard Mr. Wyllys caution Mrs. Baxter not to
allude in her letter of invitation to our Jessie, to information he
had supplied relative to her person, residence, and education, I
distrusted the singleness of his desire for the resumption of Mrs.
Baxter's intercourse with the family of her early friend. When the
invited guests arrived, and I learned that the terms of their
previous intercourse entitled him to become her cavalier on all
occasions; her preceptor and referee in doubtful cases of conscience
and conduct;--when I compared this circumstance with his careless
and apparently accidental mention of her to Mrs. Baxter, and his
pretended indifference to her coming, I made up my mind that he was
particularly interested in her for some reason he did not care to
divulge. I believe still that this was the case. I believe that,
knowing her to be betrothed to his cousin, he strove, consciously
and systematically, to win her from her allegiance. I thank GOD that
he did not succeed; that she has given herself and her happiness
into the keeping of a true and honorable gentleman!"

"I am grateful to you, doctor, for your staunch friendship for
myself, and your paternal guardianship of my wife!"

Roy Fordham's full, pleasant tones reached Jessie's ears like an
angelic benediction through the seething chaos that was swallowing
her up.

"I am glad, moreover, that you have, in the present company,
introduced the subject of your misgivings regarding my cousin's
behavior while I was away. I appointed him my proxy before I left my
betrothed and my native land. The attentions that misled you into
doubt of his right dealing were paid in that character. I cannot
have you undervalue the 'true and honorable gentleman' I know Orrin
Wyllys to be. He is my friend!"

The doctor tugged at his cravat-bow and stared into the chandelier.
Mrs. Baxter gulped down all the solicitude she could swallow, and
threw all the rest into the deprecating look she cast upon Roy. He
stood before his zealous old superior--courteous, kind, but earnest
in defence of his absent friend--the model of gallant manliness,
thought the abject creature, cowering in the shadow of Mrs. Baxter's
chair, half dead with remorse and the dread of additional
questioning.

The love of this man she had trodden under foot! forgotten affection
and duty to him in the mad, wicked delirium wrought by the wiles of
one whom Roy, in the simplicity of his integrity, still accounted
honest and faithful. A cheat and a coward Jessie had written Orrin
down since that early September day when he confided to her the fact
of his engagement, and shrank visibly at the suggestion of Roy's
anger at his shameless breach of faith. She stigmatized him now, in
the council of her thoughts, as a liar from the beginning. He had
manoeuvred, then, to procure Mrs. Baxter's invitation for herself,
while he denied to her that she had ever been named between them
until after this was sent; had inveigled her away from the shelter
of her father's roof and the guard of her sister's care, that he
might establish his fell influence over her. Would not Roy, with all
his generous trust in his cousin's honor and friendship, compare the
doctor's mal-apropos statement with her confession of the change in
herself, and arrive at a tolerably correct perception of the truth
that would blast her forever in his sight, as not merely weak and
fickle, but forward and unmaidenly?

When the throbbing of her heart would let her listen intelligently
to what was going on, the doctor had been beguiled into a
dissertation upon Druidistic history, by Roy's exhibition of a
paper-weight in the form of an altar, encircled by a wreath of
mistletoe, graven out of a bit of stone he had picked up at
Stonehenge. His considerate spouse carried him off before one-third
of the knots in his handkerchief were untied. Her valedictory, like
her salutatory, was a diffuse apology for their intrusion upon the
sacredness of the installation-eve.

"But the doctor--dear, blundering man! is amenable to no laws of
conventionality," she subjoined, with an indulgent shrug and sigh.

It is questionable whether either of the persons addressed regretted
the breach of etiquette. The time had gone by more swiftly and
comfortably than if they had been left to themselves. As it was, an
embarrassing silence followed the visitors' departure. Roy stood on
the rug, facing the fire, motionless and thoughtful. Jessie,
trembling in a nervous chill that changed her fingers into shaking
icicles, durst not attempt to speak.

Fordham finally came out of his reverie with a start, and turned
toward her apologetically.

"You are sadly tired! Our good friends were very welcome, but they
have kept you up beyond your strength. May I take you to your room?"

She murmured a disclaimer of the imputation of excessive fatigue,
but took his proffered arm, and they mounted the stairs together.

A bright fire burned in the large front chamber, flashed gayly back
from the gilt fleur-de-lis of the delicately tinted wallpaper and
the frames of the few pictures. A cosey armchair stood ready for
Jessie, with a foot-cushion below it, and the marble slabs of bureau
and mantel bore fragile wealth of Bohemian and frosted glass and
Parian ornaments.

"Is there anything I can do to make you more comfortable?" inquired
Roy, not offering to sit down. "Wouldn't a glass of wine do your
head good?"

"I think not. I need nothing, thank you!" without raising her eyes
from the carpet.

"I hope you will be quite rested by morning," he continued, with the
same ceremonious gentleness. "I may as well explain to you that,
foreseeing how frequently I shall be obliged to sit up late at my
studies, I have had the chamber opposite prepared for myself. So I
will bid you good-night now."

He held out his hand. She placed hers within it, silently, eyes
still averted.

"Good-night, and pleasant dreams!" he repeated, with a kindly
pressure of the chill fingers.

An impulse she could not control or define drew her to her feet.
"Won't you kiss me, Roy?" she asked, in sorrowful humility.

She did not see how bloodless were the lips that obeyed. The
salute was, to her apprehension, cold and reluctant, and, without
another syllable, he passed on to the outer door. There he
stopped--hesitated, with a backward glance at the drooping figure,
standing where he had left her--and returned.

"I had not intended to say it yet," he said, agitatedly. "There have
been times when I questioned the propriety of any attempt at
self-justification. But I would not have you think worse of me than
I deserve for my selfish recklessness in hurrying on our marriage. I
received this letter"--giving it to her--"last night. It furnishes
the clue to much that I now see ought to have checked my unseemly
impatience to claim the right I believed was still mine. This was
the communication to which you referred when you pleaded that the
contents of your last letter should have hindered my proposal. I
supposed, in the haste and excitement of the moment, that you meant
the false rumor of your mother's insanity which had been treated of
in a former communication, the receipt of which, let me say here,
hastened my return. Not that I dreaded insanity for you, but because
I gathered from your letter that you were unhappy and a prey to
morbid fancies, and I hoped to be able to do you good by diverting
these. If this 'last letter' which you hold had reached me in
season, your request should have been granted."

He paused to master his own emotion, or to give her opportunity for
reply. He may have hoped yet, in the face of the evidence to the
contrary he had had, that she would retract her declaration. "I love
you no longer" might represent that she was possessed by "morbid
fancies" when it was penned; that under the sharp tutelage of
sorrow, her affections had regained their balance.

She only sat still, her face hidden in her hands. There was a crouch
in her attitude that suggested an unpleasant idea to the observer.
It was that she feared him--his wrath and the results of this
explanation. He forgot his sufferings in the desire to remove this
apprehension if it existed.

"My only hope now is, that since I know what I should have perceived
from the beginning, I may spare you annoyance, if not misery, by
consulting your wishes and respecting your repugnances. If I could
set you free, I would. My heaviest burden is the consciousness that
this is impracticable. But it is my desire that, from this time, you
should cease to regard me as your husband, and try to think of me as
your friend. For we may still be that to each other--may we not,
dear Jessie?"

She was moaning as in mortal pain.

"This kindness kills me! I had rather you should say that you hated
me!"

"But that would not be true," said the gentle voice. "And
henceforward we will be very frank and just in our dealings with one
another. We will try, moreover, to put vain regrets out of sight,
and to do the duty of the day; to serve our fellows and honor HIM
who has some merciful intent in leading us through these dark
waters. Now, my child, this subject need never be renewed. Our
Father knows our sorrows. To HIM we will look for strength. HE
knows, too, the sincerity of my sad heart when I say how deeply it
afflicts me to feel how much more grievous is your trial than mine."

Folding in his the hands she extended in a speechless passion of
tears--her lips trying vainly to form a petition for pardon--he
prayed the GOD of all consolation to have her in His holy keeping;
to give her joy for weeping, the garment of praise for the spirit of
heaviness. Then, bidding her again "Be comforted and sleep," he went
out.




CHAPTER XXI.


"I knocked at Mr. Fordham's door, ma'am, as you bid, and he said
that he wasn't well enough to leave his room, and would you be
pleased to eat breakfast without him. And he said, ma'am, that you
needn't be uneasy the leastest bit in the world, for it's only a
cold and sore throat he's got, and, indeed, if I may make so bold as
to say it, he's that hoarse I could scarcely hear him at all."

Phoebe eyed her mistress slyly and keenly when she had delivered
her message. Although not particularly given to prying and gossip,
her curiosity was excited by certain peculiarities in the home life
of Mr. and Mrs. Fordham, for which the supposition that the master
of the house had "picked up German ways," while abroad, did not
fully account. They had distinctly separate apartments, carrying the
rule of division so far that Mr. Fordham never entered his wife's
sitting-room without knocking at the door, and if she invaded the
library when he was in, she not only asked admittance in the same
way, but apologized for interrupting his studies.

"They are too polite by half!" Phoebe estimated, judging them by
her not very extensive observation and experience. "There's Mrs.
Baxter will make more fuss over her dried-up atomy of a man in one
day, than Mrs. Fordham does about her fine figure of a husband in a
year."

She had never seen Mr. Fordham kiss or otherwise caress his bride,
or indulge in any of the romping fondling which the lately wedded
are prone to forget may be less interesting to spectators than to
themselves. Yet, she was ready to affirm stoutly that, in her
parlance, "they thought the world and all of one another;" that Mr.
Fordham studied his wife's inclinations, anticipated her wishes, and
ministered to her comfort more than any other gentleman she knew;
while "Mr. Fordham likes this," or, "he is not fond of that," were
decisive phrases in Jessie's mouth in the conduct of her domestic
affairs, and her many devices to make his home-coming at noon and
evening, an ever-new pleasure, called forth the continual admiration
of the handmaiden.

It was a puzzle past her finding out. But here was a test that could
hardly fail. The wife should, according to Phoebe's creed, fly on
the wings of love and anxiety to the bedside of her sick lord;
become his nurse and servitor until he recovered.

To the girl's grieved disappointment,--for she was sincerely
attached to the whilom "Miss Jessie," and wanted to think well of
her in all things--Mrs. Fordham said, composedly, if not
coolly--"Very well, Phoebe! Bring in breakfast!" and turned again
to the window at which she was standing, when the news was brought
to her of her husband's sad case.

"I'm right down sorry--that I am!" grumbled the servant over the
kitchen range. "I did hope she'd show some feeling for him when he's
maybe took for dipthery or quincy or something else awful. And he
such a good provider and well-spoken gentleman, and never so much as
raising his voice in a temper with her, but treating her like a
queen! I've a mind to slip up myself, and ask what he'll have to
eat. These are the beautifullest muffins ever I see! She is a master
hand at the like. And I know she made these, as she does all sorts
of nice things, because he likes 'em. Queer she never lets on but
what I get up the dishes he praises. Mistresses mostly is glad
enough to pocket the compliments as belongs to their girls. She's a
genuwine lady, and no mistake, but it cuts me to see her so
cold-hearted to him. I suppose they're what folks call a
'fashionable couple.'"

While this soliloquy was going on, the subject of it stood still at
the window, gazing into the street. It was a bleak December day.
There had been rain in the night; then the thermometer sank
abruptly, and by morning the sidewalks were glazed with ice. The
earth was black and grim, the clouds, grayly sullen, seemed to rest
upon the chimney-tops, and while Jessie looked, it began to snow,
gently for a while, then so fast that a wavering sheet soon shut out
her view of distant objects. The cottage was on a corner, and this
being a side-window, gave upon the college-grounds on one hand,
Judge Provost's house, garden, and lawn on the other. By changing
her position never so slightly, the lady could have beheld the
balconied front and imposing cupola of the Wyllys' residence, of
which the happy pair had taken formal possession ten days before,
postponing their bridal tour until Spring. "For," as the bride
eagerly explained to everybody--"both of us have been everywhere on
this side of the water, and winter-travelling is an awful bore. To
be sure, we've been abroad, too, and seen everything that is worth
seeing. So we are beating our brains to devise something
recherché" (pronounced rechurchy) "in the way of a wedding-trip.
And it is so sweet and romantic to come to our own home, right
away! Indeed, as I told Orrin, it isn't safe to leave such carpets
and furniture as ours unprotected."

Jessie had heard all this fanfaronade, and much more from Mrs.
Baxter, but she was not thinking of it now. Nor did she move so as
to bring the "new and superb mansion of our popular fellow-citizen,
Orrin Wyllys, Esq.," within the range of her vision; only seemed to
watch the falling snow, and the few passers-by who dotted the
whitening streets at this early hour. In reality, she was
speculating upon the meaning of the stillness in the chamber
overhead. Was Roy, then, too ill to get up? Was his room
comfortable? What attention from nurse or physician did he need? How
was she to learn and supply his wants? It would be barbarous
unkindness, if he were very sick, to stand aloof and leave the
charge of him to hirelings. Yet her personal attendance would be
awkward for both. She was not sure that he would approve of it, so
fastidious had been his care to excuse her from such offices. He had
spoken, in an off-hand way, overnight, of feeling chilly, and
apologized for not offering to read the new number of a magazine to
her by saying that his throat was sore. Without consulting him, she
had brewed a pitcher of hot lemonade, and insisted upon his drinking
it after he went to his room. He had thanked her with the invariable
courtesy that met her every effort to serve him, and "was sure it
was all he needed. A most agreeable prescription too!" he added, as
he bore off the pitcher. It was a shock, after this pleasant
parting, to hear that he was sick in bed. What if he were to be
seriously ill? Her heart gave a great bound, then ceased moving for
a moment. He was so robust, so full of life and energy, that this
could not be.

What if he were to die! She too thought of diphtheria. There had
been several fatal cases of it in Hamilton recently. She was pale
and faint; her limbs giving way under her as she admitted the
frightful supposition. What would she be--what would she do if the
strong staff of his protection, the solace of his companionship,
were reft from her?

For she knew that, little cause as she had given him in the
circumstances attending their marriage, to cherish her as all men
should--as some men do the women who love them fervently and
constantly, there was hardly a wife in the land who was surrounded
by the atmosphere of chivalrous devotion which encompassed her in
the secluded life she led as the nominal mistress of Roy Fordham's
home. Her deep mourning was a sufficient excuse for declining to
enter the gay circle in which Mrs. Wyllys fluttered and her diamonds
and husband shone. But Roy saw to it that she was not lonely. The
Baxters, Provosts, and others of his friends were often with them
during the day, and he spent his evenings, as a rule, at home.

"Will you favor me with your company in the library, or shall I come
to your sitting-room?" he would ask, when supper was over.

They wrote and studied together as two friends of the same sex
might; talked freely upon all subjects suggested by either--each
watchful that no chance touch should wound the other; make him or
her swerve quickly aside lest the next step should be upon the fresh
grave that lay ever between them. In all their intercourse, Roy's
apparent ease far surpassed his wife's. Cheerful, cordial, always
kind and more than kind in manner and language, he yet comported
himself as if there were nothing abnormal in this sort of
association; as if passion and regret were alike things of the Past,
to which he had said they need never again recur. No warmer
love-name than "Jessie, dear," ever passed his lips, and after the
night of the home bringing, he had never offered to kiss or embrace
her. A hand-clasp, night and morning; a smiling bow and lively
phrase, when he came in to dinner and tea, were the most
affectionate courtesies exchanged. But no distraught lover, at the
height of his lunacy, ever studied his mistress's fantasies, sought
to penetrate and fulfil her will, as did this quiet and courtly
husband that of the woman who had confessed that her heart was none
of his when he married her. Flowers, fruits, birds, and books were
lavished upon her; passed into her hands through other than his, but
were always procured by him in response to some expressed liking on
her part, or in accordance with what he imagined were her wishes or
needs. Nor was his unobtrusive attention to her health less
constant. In the same friendly style, he regulated exercise, diet,
and work; saw that her habits were not too sedentary, and that she
did not expose herself imprudently to cold, damp, or fatigue.

Her review of all this was rapid and circumstantial.

"He deserves all that I can do for him. False delicacy nor pride
shall keep me back from ministering to the wants of one who is to me
father, brother, friend. I may, at least, wait upon him as a hostess
might tend an honored guest--a housekeeper the master of the house!"
she had decided by the time Phoebe set coffee, muffins, and steak
upon the table.

Then to the serving-girl's increased chagrin, she sat down, with
Roy's vacant chair opposite her, and break-fasted alone.

"Not much of a breakfast, to be sure!" said Phoebe, returning at
the end of ten minutes, to find the room deserted. "Half a muffin,
and a cup of coffee, and she clean forgot to carve the steak! Looks
like she was in love--but that can't be!"

"Come in!" said the changed voice that had wrought upon Phoebe's
womanly compassion, as Jessie awaited the warrant to enter the
sick-room--a faint-hearted lingerer upon the threshold. She buoyed
up her courage by remembering that she was the housekeeper who had
come for the orders for the day; the diffidence she railed at
inwardly, as ridiculous and uncalled for, had no visible effect,
except to heighten her color, and make her carry her head a trifle
less loftily.

Already Mrs. Wyllys had been heard to say that, "if Mrs. Fordham
were worth a million in her own right, she could not look more
haughty and indifferent to people who were richer and better bred.
When, as everybody knew, she was a poor preacher's daughter with
just money enough to buy her wedding-clothes. Though, pity knows,
they couldn't have cost much! Was there ever such awful taste, as
not to lighten her mourning to suit the circumstances? Who ever
heard of a bride's wearing crêpe?"

There were red spots upon Roy's cheeks, when he saw who his visitor
was--probably hectic, for his demeanor was natural. With instant
thought of her probable embarrassment, he put out his hand,
smilingly.

"Ah! Jessie, dear! Good-morning! You are very good to visit a poor
fellow in his affliction. For such a throat and head as I have
to-day are an affliction. I seldom strike my colors to a common
cold."

"This seems to me to be an uncommon one!" Jessie said, feeling
his pulse with the practised touch she had learned in her
parish-visiting. "You have fever. You ought to have medical advice.
Who is your physician?"

"I have never had occasion to call in one since I came to Hamilton.
Suppose we 'bide a bit,' as our worthy President says, and if I am
not better in the course of an hour or two, we can send for Dr.
Bradley. I had a trying day yesterday. Professor Fairchild is sick,
and I had some of his classes in addition to my own. It is well this
is Saturday. I can lie still, and rest my throat with a clear
conscience. Provided"--smiling in her grave face--"provided you do
not let me trouble you!"

"Trouble me! you should know better than that! But"--hesitating--"if
you will let me say it"--

"Go on! there is nothing you may not say to me," he said
encouragingly.

"I do think it would be better to see Dr. Bradley, at once--if only
as a precautionary measure."

He started--looked at her intently.

"You are thinking of diphtheria! You ought not to have come in until
that point was settled. There may be danger to you. If, through my
carelessness--"

He turned his face away, unable or unwilling to finish the sentence.

"I never thought of that!" said Jessie, simply. "If I had, I
should have come all the same. Whatever may be the doctor's opinion,
I shall stay here, and take care of you. It is my place."

She rang the bell for Phoebe, and in Roy's hearing, ordered her to
go for the doctor. She would not have her charge suspect that she
was unduly alarmed, or believe there was occasion for a hasty
summons. Then, she brought a sunshiny face to the bedside, and put a
fresh pillow under the hot, heavy head.

"You don't know what a famous nurse I am," she said, blithely. "My
father"--her voice sinking with the sacred word--"used to say that
nursing was a talent, and that I was born with it."

She set to work, forthwith, without waiting for permission. Roy,
regarding her silently from his bed, heartily endorsed Mr. Kirke's
verdict. Not Eunice herself could have moved more soundlessly,
wrought more efficiently to alleviate, so far as she could, the pain
and discomfort of his situation. The doctor was at home, and obeyed
the call promptly. Roy glanced inquiringly at Jessie when he was
announced.

"Show him up!" was all she said, and when he followed Phoebe into
the chamber, she met him with high-bred ease as the lady of the
house; as the patient's wife discussed his symptoms; heard, with
marked gratification, that her fears of diphtheria were unfounded,
and received his directions gratefully and attentively.

"A fine woman, and a most devoted wife!" pronounced Dr. Bradley, at
his luncheon-table, that day. "Let me hear no more gossip about her,
girls. Remember!"

"But, Papa, they do say they live queerly!" ventured the
irrepressible Selina. "Mrs. Wyllys--"

"Is a fool! see that you don't become another in listening to her
twaddle!" was the peremptory reply.

Orrin Wyllys, hearing accidentally of his cousin's indisposition,
called at noon, and was conducted by Phoebe, by warrant of the
relationship, into Roy's presence. The chamber was heated usually by
the furnace register, but Roy lay in bed gazing at the glowing pile
of coals in the grate. There was a happy ray in his eyes,
spontaneity in the gayety with which he welcomed his guest, that did
not accord with the latter's preconceived ideas of the dolor of a
sick-room.

"You look like an invalid--don't you?" was Wyllys' second remark.
"This is the cheeriest place I have been in to-day. It is what the
English call beastly weather, out-of-doors. I don't blame anybody
for keeping his bed. I thought you showed me the room across the
hall as yours when you took me through the house, that night, 'the
last of your quasi widowerhood.'"

"We changed the arrangement afterward," rejoined Roy, carelessly.
"But it is a luxury--is'n't it? to lie still on a stormy day, and
stare a fire like that out of countenance; especially on a holiday,
when there are no phantoms of unsaid lectures to torment one's
reveries. I am enjoying it amazingly. I hadn't the remotest
conception that being sick was so delightful."

"By Jove! I should think you would luxuriate in it, unless you have
less brains than I give you credit for! With an houri for
head-nurse, too! I say! get out of that! I can play the sentimental
sufferer as well as you, and I have a native bias for lazy luxury,
which you haven't. I dare say, you cunning dog! if all were told,
there is some dainty mess preparing for you below stairs,--a triumph
of conjugal affection and culinary skill, that should be tasted by
none but an educated appetite. A Teuton like yourself would be as
well suited with bretzels and sauerkraut, washed down by a gallon of
lager. I am a devout predestinarian, and here lies the case. I have
a canine hunger upon me. I am on my way home to luncheon. Without,
'the day is dark and cold and dreary.' I am led to this corner of
cosiness and comfort and fairy fare to dispossess you. Impostor! how
dare you lie there, and grin at my emptiness and agony! Confess!
what did you have for breakfast? What do you mean to devour for
lunch? What do you hope to consume for dinner?"

Roy could never resist the infection of this merry banter, seldom
indulged in by Orrin except when with him. It brought back their
early days--"when you thrashed the big boys for bullying me"--he
liked to remind the other when they slept, played, and studied
together. Orrin had his foibles, and a graver fault or so, but he
was his friend, as he had told Dr. Baxter, and the boyish love for
his gallant senior was still strong upon him. His laugh now was
hearty and mischievous.

"Such a breakfast!" he said. "Gotten up in strict conformity with
the injunction--'Feed a cold'"--

"And you will have a fever to starve!" interjected Wyllys. "That
would be poetical justice! But go on!"

"Imprimis;" resumed Fordham,--"a cup of Turkish coffee,--fragrant
and clear. Item, cream toast. Knowest thou the taste thereof? Of
real cream toast? light, rich, smooth, that sootheth the inflamed
membrane of the throat, and maketh the diaphragm to rejoice
exceedingly? Item, broiled chicken--a marvel of juicy tenderness; an
omelette aux fines herbes which was an inspiration"--

"For Heaven's sake!" Orrin feigned to tear his hair. "If you don't
want to be murdered in your bed, hold your tongue!"

Roy was in a paroxysm of laughter; Wyllys, scowling horribly, had
snatched the poker and was making adroit passes at him, like the
cunning master of fence he was, when Jessie, ignorant of the liberty
Phoebe had taken, and supposing her patient to be alone, entered.
She had a waiter in one hand containing a silver pitcher and goblet,
and a plate in the other, heaped with hothouse grapes. Transfixed
with astonishment at the spectacle within she stopped on the
threshold. Her amazement was not lessened when Orrin, replacing his
weapon on the hearth, threw himself into a chair and covered his
face with his handkerchief.

"A victim of covetousness!" exclaimed Roy, trying to check his
merriment.

"Of misplaced confidence!" uttered Orrin, gloomily, removing his
cambric, and arising with a show of melancholy composure. "I hope I
have the pleasure of seeing you quite well, Mrs. Fordham! I should
judge so from your blooming appearance, but having just had a
notable lesson in the deceitfulness of outward seeming, I am
sceptical as to the evidence of the senses and human reason."

"A dash of scepticism is like vaccine virus,--a useful thing, where
there is fear of infection," said Jessie, not comprehending what had
gone before, and not choosing to ask questions of him.

She bowed in passing him, making of her full hands a tacit excuse
for the cavalier salutation,--a pretext that was transparent to the
person she intended to slight. Depositing her burden upon a table,
she bent over it, pretending to rearrange the grapes and stir the
contents of the pitcher, that her face might cool before he had a
chance to scrutinize it. His presence in this place was odious to
her. What had she, in her self-abasement and earnest reachings after
a nobler life than he had ever thought of, or aspired to, to do with
his masquerading tricks and persiflage? His mummery, then and
there, was more than heartless--it was an insult to her, with the
recollection of her broken vows and blighted life, dogging every
thought of possible happiness. Her residence in Hamilton had no
severer trial than these chance encounters with him--her husband's
nearest of kin.

"Nectar and grapes of Eshcol!" he exclaimed in a tone of calm
despair, referring to the contents of waiter and plate. "You may not
believe it, Mrs. Fordham--in fact I don't expect you to, for it is
the nature of your sex to trust and trust again,--but you are
nourishing a serpent! a base trickster! yet one of whose want of
originality I am ashamed. The interesting invalid dodge is the
stalest and flimsiest known to the guild of artful dodgers. Now, if
I were in his place--"

"I am heartily glad you are not!" escaped Jessie, against her will
to treat him with civility for Roy's sake.

Her emphasis of sincerity was unmistakable and wrought with various
effect upon her two auditors.

"So am I!" laughed Roy, his eyes alight with more than mirth. "The
grapes you cannot touch, my grasping friend! They were a present to
me, not an hour since, from Miss Fanny Provost--a basketful,
wreathed with exquisite flowers. She believes in the reality of my
interesting invalidism. As for the nectar--give him a sip--Jessie,
please! It is not fair that one man should monopolize all the good
things of life."

Jessie poured out the draught, without jest or smile; then stood
back with a gesture that bade him help himself if he would. She
would not be a party to the sport, Orrin perceived.

"A missish, spiteful show of disdain!" he thought, contemptuously.
"She is hardly worth a scene!"

To show that he was not repelled or overawed, he advanced a step;
took up the goblet with a profound obeisance; stared her in the
eyes, and swallowed a mouthful. Roy's shout of exultation and the
uncontrollable grimace of the dupe, moved Jessie to a smile, but she
did not speak.

"Witches' broth?" queried Orrin, with the tragical gravity of one
who has made up his mind to die like a man.

"So Socrates might have glared and growled!" said Roy. "'The
hemlock, jailor?'" mimicking the other's tone. "Not this time, my
dear fellow! Only sage tea, sweetened with honey and stiffened with
alum--an incomparable gargle, according to such eminent authorities
as Miss Eunice Kirke, her sister, and, last and least, Dr. Bradley."

Orrin took up his hat, undismayed to the last.

"Sage tea! I go home a wiser, if not a better man! I am glad to
see there is nothing the matter with you, Roy, while I lament, as
one of your blood and lineage, over your unblushing hypocrisy. Mrs.
Fordham--"

"You used to call her 'Jessie,'" interrupted Roy. "I said, 'Cousin
Hester,' yesterday, to your bride. Shall I imitate your formal
address?"

"No! But my little wife is august in nobody's eyes. Whereas, Mrs.
Fordham--Cousin Jessie--I beg your pardon! Which shall it be?"

His back was to Roy; his meaning gaze upon herself was, to her
perception, audacious insolence. Not daring to resent it in Roy's
hearing, she yet obeyed the wifely impulse to seek his protection.

"That is for your cousin to decide. My name belongs to him!" She
said it proudly, flashing her wide eyes from one to the other, and
moving involuntarily nearer to Roy.

Wyllys caught up the last words.

"His relations should be yours, if the partnership be in good faith,
and on equal terms."

"That is for him to decide!" answered she, precisely as before.

"Thank you! I do not shirk the responsibility," said Roy putting
himself in the breach as usual, when he saw her non-plussed or
disturbed. "Another sip of nectar, Orrin, before you breast the
storm?"

A wry face was the response, and the most fascinating man in
Hamilton bowed himself out. As he drew the door to after him, he
glanced across the hall. The room Roy had showed him as his was
opposite, and the door open. There was fire in that grate also; a
lady's sewing-chair in front of it, and a work-box he recognized as
Jessie's on the small table beside it. On the back of the chair hung
a linen apron, with pockets, such as he had seen her wear when
engaged in household tasks in Dundee, or gardening. He guessed
directly that she had stopped in there to lay it off when she
brought up the gargle. That this was her apartment, he was sure,
when another step revealed a bureau with a ladies' dressing-case
open upon it.

"Separate apartments!" he mused, picking his steps lightly down the
cottage stairs. "Very unsentimental! Very un-American! decidedly
independent and jolly. But, in this case, what is the meaning of
it?"

He believed he had the clue to the mystery before he inserted his
latch-key in the door of his--or his wife's--house. Jessie Fordham
could not forget that Jessie Kirke had loved him. The decent show of
conjugal felicity he had witnessed that day was a hollow crust below
which the lava still surged and seethed. Jessie was more faithful to
the one great passion of her life, and less philosophical than he
had been ready to believe. Her scrupulous avoidance of him whenever
this could be done without awakening suspicion; the half bitter
retorts that fell now and then from the lips she would train to the
utterance of conventional lies; the indignant sparkle of the eyes
that answered the searching appeal of his--what were all these but
the ill-concealed tokens of an attachment that had so inwrought
itself with the fibres of heart and being as to defy her strenuous
attempts to pluck it forth, or keep it out of sight. It was a
revelation to him, and a flattering one--one that merited serious
consideration.

The devil gat hold of him in that hour; sifted him as wheat,
bringing all that was base in his nature uppermost. Heretofore, he
had shunned everything that could secure for him the reputation of a
cicisbeo. When a woman was once married, she became an object of
indifference to him. He accounted the pursuit of such, a hazardous
and flavorless exhibition of Lothario-ism which the refined age
should frown down. He was not a gourmand or libertine, he had
often proudly asserted to himself. Pleasures of that stamp he left
to men of grosser tastes and coarser grain. He had meant to allow
his cousin all the domestic peace which should honestly fall
to his share, and to cultivate amicable relations with his
cousin-in-law--Roy's wife, who had given conclusive evidence of
intelligent appreciation of himself.

But if Jessie were unhappy; not on terms with her respectable
husband, cleverly as both dissembled--if Jessie still loved him--

"C'est une autre chose!" he muttered between his teeth, and
complacently knocking the snow off his boots upon the marble steps
of his "mansion."

His most heartless propositions always sought cover in the facile
foreign tongue.

A writer in the last generation defined an egotist to be "One who
