obeyed Clement's bidding. And then he began to watch 
his father more narrowly than before. How the face and 
figure had changed ! The shoulders were bent a little, 
the cheeks thin and rather sunken, the hair and beard fast 
turning silvery white. But there was something that he 
had not remarked before. A kind of hesitancy, coupled 
with an almost painful watchfulness, as if he were listening 
for a sound that he might not readily understand, or the 



 

coming of a dreaded visitant. Had there leen an uncon- 
fessed symptom of paralysis ? 

In this anxiety, Philip had recourse to Dr. Oonway 
once more. 

" He is considerably worn and shattered, but I see no 
cause for apprehension," was the doctor's verdict. " Truth 
to tell, he is not able to endure the fatigues of business. 
He needs a holiday." 

" And he shall have it," said Philip, with a swelling 
heart. 

He took Madge and Jessie into council. If, when the 
warm weather came, they could persuade both parents to 
take a pleasant trip somewhere among country scenes, 
where peace and rest forever brooded in the air, and every 
breath brought new life ! 

"It is too hard to have him work at all!" said Philip. 
" If he would be content to give up entirely ! " 

They pressed each other's hands in silence. Poverty 
was no romance with them, but a bitter, actual fact. They 
felt it most keenly for their father's sake. They were 
young, and could face it sturdily, bear all the deprivations, 
for they had not taken such firm root among the graces 
and appliances of wealth. 

Philip considered a long while how best to broach the 
subject to his father. The idea of a two months' vacation 
might startle him ; and then again, if the situation had to 
be filled would he be willing to go? 

These perplexities soon came to an end. The holiday 
was proffered without any asking, only it was final. 

He came home early one March afternoon, his face more 
wan than ever, and the soft eyes full of despair. Jessie 
was alone. Madge had persuaded her mother into taking 
a ramble around the Park. 

"O, papal Are you ill?" and Jessie's tender anni 
were about him, her warm cheek against his. 

" No, my darling." 





There was a curious calmness in his tone, though ht 
Was trembling in every limb. 

"But you are home sooner than usual ! n 

"Yes." 

There was a faint sinking of the lines about the mouth, 
a half-fearful expression as if some blow had been struck, 
and he apprehended another. 

She stood looking at him, mutely questioning him with 
her fond eyes. 

" I have been discharged, Jessie; " with a little cry, as if 
the pain went deep. 

" O, papa ! That is not so very hard to bear." 

The comforting voice was low and untrembling, the 
scarlet lips parting to a half smile. 

"That is not all, Jessie. There was a mistake I don't 
know how I could have made it I go over things so 
many times ; " in a weary tone. " But Mr. Evans was 
angry. You can hardly understand, my darling, how it 
seems to have a man much younger, and your inferior in 
every way, a kind of coarse, grudging nature, glad to find 
fault on the slightest pretext, placed over you as master, 
and to bear petty sneers and pompous commands. And 
though I answered mildly, it was nothing against the 
torrent." 

" Forget all about it, papa. Philip has been planning 
something a pleasure, and this just conies in right." 

"But you don't know" clasping his thin fingers to- 
gether "you don't know all. That was this morning; 
and I have been trying ever since to find some em- 
ployment. They think me old and incapable ; I see it in 
every one's face." 

His pale lips twitched convulsively, and a tear dropped 
on the carpet. 

"You need a little rest; Philip said so. And then I
think it will all come right. Dear papa, let us trust " 

" It is so hard when one is unfortunate." 



 

" And that is just the time." 

"If there was no one if I could be spared but it 
seems as if the time had not quite come yet. I wanted 
Clement to be tolerably free of burdens for a few years, 
since he has taken the one high task upon himself." 

Something strange and awesome seemed to find entrance 
in Jessie's brain. This Home Nook, so dear and precious, 
was a kind of promised land to them here in the wilder- 
ness. They were all striving, and hoping, and praying 
but what if God meant they should never possess it again ? 
She grew cold with a painful apprehension. It was the 
first time she had ever thought of the improbability. 

" Papa," she said, in a low tone, " all we can do is to 
trust God. He never will forsake us." 

"True, my darling." 

And then Mr. Ashburton was silent. It was more diffi 
cult to trust in adversity. One could not help asking why 
one must be stricken so sorely, rendered so helpless! 

He made several efforts after this, but with no success. 
Business was very dull at least, anything that he 
could do. 

Philip gained consent to his plan. Some one recom- 
mended a quiet little sea-side place on Long Island, where 
board could be obtained at moderate terms. Thither Mr. 
and Mrs. Ashburton went, and were well pleased with 
their surroundings. 

" But it seems as if I ought not to be a burden on my 
children," he said to his wife. " I always meant to do so 
much for them." 

" And shall we refuse to let them do for us?" 

"It does not appear right," in his slow, sad manner. 

" We must thank God for these two noble boys, and 
leave the rest in his hands." 

Madge and Jessie missed the two familiar faces sorely ; 
but both were brave ; and they began to consider what 
manner of life lay before them. 





" I believe I ought to make application for a situation, 
said Madge. "I never could endure the thought of teach- 
ing school ; but Nelly used to consider it genteel, and I 
hardly know what else I could do. We are not both 
needed at home." 

It was very true. 

"And since my destiny appears to be decided, and if 
one in which there bids fair to be a good deal of waiting, ' 
with a kind of half-sad smile, " perhaps it would be as well 
to make myself useful." 

" I am sorry to have you undertake anything you do 
not like." 

" It may be a good discipline, perhaps. I find that I 
am quite prone to consult my own likes and dislikes. And 
if I knew just what would suit me! I run over the list of 
female employments, and find that some of the higher ones 
are altogether out of my reach. O, dear ! Life is full of 
perplexities." 

Poor Madge. The realities were rapidly crowding upon 
her. 

But that afternoon, as she sat alone, puzzling her brains 
with many unanswerable questions, Jessie having gone out 
to do some errands, she was startled from her reverie by 
a ring at the door. 

" O ! " with a glad cry ; and the next instant she was 
sobbing in her young lover's arms. 

" My darling ! " he cried, in alarm. 

She raised her wet, blushing face with a touch of Elea- 
nor's dignity, for Charlie Westlake was manlier than ever. 
How dared she give way to such weakness and folly ! 

" My dear girl, are you not going to ask me in ? " with 
a little of the old gayety in his voice. " I thought I should 
surprise you, but I had not dreamed of so sad a greeting. 
The others ?" 

a Are well," Madge hastened to say, shyly preceding hef 
Lover into the parlor. 



"Did I startle you ? I ought to have known." 

"I should have cried in another moment anyhow. Your 
coming is only a lame excuse," and she tried to smile. 

"I do not want to lose my bright little gypsy Madge, 
for we have a way before us that will require a good deal 
of patience and hope." 

" Mine was foolishness," said Madge, resolutely. 

" Was it ? And are you all alone ? O, what lovely 
roses ! They are from Miss Jessie's estate, I know." 

A choice bouquet stood on the centre-table, in the cool, 
pleasant-looking parlor. Jessie was a marvellous gardener. 
Everything she tended came straight to perfection. 

"I am glad to find you alone, Madge, for various 
reasons," and the young lover's face grew a trifle graver. 
" I have a great deal to tell you, but first I must hear about 
your sorrow." 

" I do not know as it ought to be dignified with such a 
high-sounding title," and the girl smiled again. 

"But there was some pain in it, or there would have 
been no tears. Am I not your nearest friend? nay, 
more than a friend ? " 

She turned partly away. The sympathy was too dan- 
gerously sweet. 

" What was the trouble ? " in a low, persuasive voice. 

" Not worth the telling." 

" Only that I have a right to know." 

There was a little authority in his voice. Insensibly 
they were coming to that second estate where soul speaks 
to soul the power on a man's side, the obedience on a 
woman's. 

Was it about your father? " 

Partly." 

And presently it all came out. The hundred little fears 
shadowing their path, the question that had become so im- 
portant with her, what she should do, and how she 
should do it 





" School teaching does appear to be about the only re 
source of an educated woman, unless she has a special 
genius. And it does keep one fresh, up to a certain mark, 
in acquirements. But, my darling, I am so sorry to see 
you compelled to enter the arena of toil and strife. If I 
could take you now " 

" Don't," she said, as if a little pained. " You know we 
promised to abide by mamma's decision." 

"And I have hardly kept my promise. Nay, Madge," 
with a grave smile, "wait until you hear; "for she was 
just ready to speak. " I have confessed all to my mother." 

" O ! " in a relieved tone. 

" Yes, at last. I think truly that we have been trying 
to wear out each other's patience. As if she suspected, she 
would not let me talk. But coming home, I had to make 
some decision." 

" And she disapproves ? " Madge cried, with the quick un- 
reason of youth. 

"I will not deceive you, my dear brave girl. She affects 
to consider it merely a boyish fancy. I think the loss of 
fortune does make some difference with her, Madge, but I 
do believe that when she comes to understand this as the 
great faith of my life, the one crown of my manhood, she 
will be won into consenting. And since we should have 
to wait in any event n 

" I don't mind the waiting," Madge said, hurriedly. 

"I told mother that hitherto we had been friends only, 
but henceforward it would be an engagement. She was 
qiite anxious for me to wait until my return, but finally 
she assented. O, Madge ! why do you look so grave f 
Surely this is not bad news." 

"Are you quite sure you will never repent? I feel aa 
if I ought to give it up. We shall never be rich again, 
as we once were, and I should be most sorry to enter any 
family where I was not welcome. I see all these things 
in a so much clearer light now.'' 



 

"There is another course. I thought if mother and 
I came to any open controversy, I should take it that is, 
to give up my plans, accept a situation somewhere, and 
marry. Nay, you need not turn so pale ; I was very reso- 
lute." 

" You shall not give up your hopes for me," she an- 
swered decisively. 

" This is my mother's plan. I think it does deserve 
some consideration. It was her pet project to go abroad 
as soon as I had graduated. Now the doctor has reo- 
ommended it for my cousin, who is in delicate health. 
They both want me, and perhaps need me for a pro- 
tector ! " 

"And you are going?" 

Madge gave a gasp. To be left alone as it were, in this 
time of all !

"My darling, it is as you decide. I could go at my law 
studies immediately, and be near you ; or, as I said before, 
I can take some position that will enable me to marry 
presently. If I go, it is with the undertanding that I am 
engaged to you." 

" O ! " said Madge, " everything has a dark and troubled 
side. I wonder if it was for the best? I was so happy 
that day, so thoughtless ; but what seemed simple and 
natural then, has grown complicated, until one hardly dares 
move in the matter." 

She shrank back a little as she uttered this. Life had 
become so much wider and more sacred in these years. 

" I do believe it is for the best. It does not seem as if 
God could allow two persons to love one another so dearly, 
and not have it come to its highest joy some time. We 
are young and strong, and I feel as if there was a long life 
before us. Yet, my darling, I shall do nothing without 
your consent." 

Madge was trying to bridge over the commonplace and 
the heroic. It was BO much easier to think of sacnfioei 




than to make them. If mamma were only here to find the 
right way out of the tangle !" 

"I think you ought to go," she said, at length, choking 
down a little cry in her throat. 

" I will tell you how it appears to me. It is a long- 
cherished plan of mother's ; she has talked of it ever since 
I can remember ; and as she consents to our engagement on 
that condition, it seems ungrateful to refuse." 

M O1" and Madge brightened. "Then she does consent?" 

" If I keep my mind ; " and he smiled so assured of his 
own love. " It will only be a year or two, and we can 
correspond." 

" It is not so bad after all ; " and a rift of sunshine illu- 
mined the sweet face. 

" We are to go in June, so there can be some blessed 
weeks, my darling. We will keep them for remembrances, 
and look forward to the precious re-union. O, Madge, 
you never will doubt me ! " 

"Doubt you? Why, you do not understand this 
love is my very life ! Perhaps being poor, and having 
fewer resources, renders it a more sacred thing to me, but 
I never could love any one again ; " and her lip quiv- 
ered. 

He caught her in his arms and kissed the sweet, flushed 
face in a transport of profound affection. 

" I am going to see Mr. and Mrs. Ashburton to-morrow. 
I want our affairs placed on a firm basis, with the privilege 
of considering you mine, and corresponding with you. 
We are old enough now to know our own minds." 

Jessie returned at this juncture, and by degrees Madge 
came out of the spell that seemed to have overwhelmed 
her. Yet whether she was most sorry or most glad, it 
would have been hard to tell. 

True to his word, Charlie Westlake saw Mr. and Mrs. 
Ashburton the next day. His straightforward, earnest 



 

manner pleased them both. That he was simere and reso- 
lute, they coull not for a moment doubt, and to refuse to 
sanction the engagement now seemed cruel. 

"And yet our daughters are not marrying under happy 
auspices," said Mr. Ashburton, sadly. 

"This may prove brighter in the end. I am sorry that 
it happened, but since neither he nor Madge change their 
minds, there is no excuse for breaking the claim. Mrs. 
Westlake may feel less bitter and disappointed as the years 
go on ; and since we have to walk blindfold at every step, 
we will endeavor to bear the burdens sent upon us, trust- 
ing to see light at last." 

"O, for your blessed faith, my wife ! For somehow the 
way is dark, and I seem to wander." 

Some quiet tears came to Mrs. Ashburton's eyes. Of 
late her husband had grown very much depressed, more 
so than during their first sharp losses. 

Charlie Westlake had softened the truth in some par- 
ticulars, and withheld one fact, that might, perhaps, have 
thrown a little light upon later events. Yet he did it 
from a tender and honest humility. How could he con- 
fess that his mother had declared his cousin May's life 
was centred in her love for him? He fancied if May's 
penchant were worn out by mere cousinly kindness, or if 
she should be attracted elsewhere during their tour, Mrs. 
Westlake would consent the more readily to receive 
Madge as a daughter. Then his mother's almost kind 
compliance to his wishes softened in his mind her first 
bitter opposition, and he was too loyal a son to say aught 
more than the circumstances required. 

To Madge, after the first excitement was over, there 
came a bright holiday indeed. Because the period was 
so brief, Charlie felt disposed to make the most of it. He 
brought the girls flowers, he persuaded Philip to " beg ofljt 
and take two or three delightful drives with them, and then 
there were dainty little suppers that were like fessie'a 
own self. 





For this young lover seemed to add one to the family, 
His coming never made any break. Jessie sat and sewed 
while they discoursed of future plans, for nothing concern- 
ing Madge was a secret. 

"I shall hunt up your sister," he said, " and maybe bring 
her home with me. You never would believe," with a 
gay smile> " that I was always half afraid of Miss Ash- 
burton." 

" Poor Nelly," rejoined Madge. " How glad we should 
be to see her ! " 

They always spoke of her in this fashion now. Her 
letters had grown gradually grave there was less trav- 
elling about, fewer pleasures, it seemed, but always baby 
Margaret. Had the coming of the little one rendered El- 
eanor so serious, or was the glamour of life slowly fading 
away ? She said nothing of a return, but still she uttered 
no complaint of loneliness, lack of tender care, or any 
sorrow. Yet sometimes they feared that she was not 
happy. 

" O, if you will find her ! " Jessie replied. " And if she 
would come back ! " 

So they freighted him with dozens of loving messages. 
Every day the year of separation appeared to grow 
shorter. There would be all the letters, with no restric- 
tion upon them, the joy of a return, and then the work- 
ing present stretching smooth and level, so much to be 
done, so much to be gained, and home and love at the 
end ! 

Ah! how many bright dreams have blossomed on tins 
wise and faded ! When the sheaves are gathered at lust, 
out of more than one will drop a withered flower, and 
God knowing the many tears that fell over it, may set 
to bloom in fairer fields. 

At last came the good by, spoken amid quivering sobs. 
How hard it was ! And in this pang the year stretched 
out again. All that had gone before was child's play ; but 



 

now Madge Ashburton felt that she loved with a woman's 
love, and to her deeper nature any pang would be doubly 
bitter. 

Jessie took her in her arms and kissed her, for Jessie 
could always comfort 
 







CHAPTER XIL 

IN THB SHADOW. 

IT was a cool day, late in August, with a wind blowing 
up from the sea. The very air had a. salt, suggestive 
smell as it went moaning through the streets, n whisper of 
storm, and danger, and wreck. Overhead, the sky was 
gray and lowering; a cheerless prospect indeed. 

Madge had made a handful of fire in the grate. Again 
they were watching for the travellers to return home. 

It looked bright enough within, and the pungent fra- 
grance of heliotrope gave a summer flavor to the air. 
Madge had brought out some gay wools, and was crochet- 
ing ; Jessie had a trifle of simple sewing in her hands, and 
both were watching. They had grown strangely silent in 
these few weeks. 

Presently they started at the sound of carriage wheels. 
There they were, mamma, papa, and Philip. 

The first greeting was in the hall. Mr. Ashburton came 
in, leaning on his son's arm. In some respects he had im- 
proved. He was not so thin, and the deathly pallor had 
given place to a more healthy color. Yet Jessie remarked 
that strange listening, as if to catch the faintest sound, 
and the unusual habit of putting his hand before him, as if 
he was not quite certain of the next step. What was this 
wavering and hesitation ? weakness ? 

She ran out to the little kitchen, and made the tea. 
The table was in neatest array. She meant it should be a 
kind of welcome feast, and had indulged in a few luxuries. 
Then, smiling to herself she summoned the household. 

There was some pleasant talk of the summer's enjoy- 



 

ment, and yet a strange awe seemed to have fallen over 
them, betrayed in the low tones and frequent pauses. 
Jessie glanced at them all with startled eyes. 

Madge was passing something to her father and answer- 
ing Philip at the same time. Mr. Ashburton stretched out 
his thin fingers uncertainly, and his eyes appeared to wan- 
der, Jessie caught them just in range of the lamp. The 
pnpils seemed to move slowly in a dim sea. 

"Yes," he said, with an air of relief, helping himself. 
" Thank you, my dear." 

Jessie glanced at her mother in a dumb, white terror. 
Her very throat was constricted by a spasm of anguish. 
O, could her terrible suspicion be true ? 

Mrs. Ashburton answered her with a pathetic, entreating 
look. For an instant, Jessie felt tempted to cry out in 
despair. Was there no end to the burdens, but must all 
the waves and storms sweep over them ? 

They rose presently, and went back to the cheerful par- 
lor. Madge roused into a flash of olden gayety. Jessie 
caught her mother's hand, and smothered a little cry. 

" He does not know ; " in a breathless whisper. 

" I think he is fighting against it. He has not been so 
bad ; at least everything here is quite new, and it shows 
more." 

" O, mamma ! " 

Mr. Ashburton had stumbled over a chair. 

" How awkward ! Jessie, my dear, I like a good deal 
of light, and the fire alone will not suffice for old eyes." 

"Why, here is the lamp!" said Madge, turning to the 
low burner that stood on the centre-table. 

He seemed to listen. Standing there, he looked such a 
pale, shattered wreck, the color gone out of his cheek, 
and his lip quivering. And then he turned wrongly. The 
child clasped him with her outstretched arms. 

' O, papa ! " with a half-strangled and pathetic wail, 
each rapid pulse throbbing with a new pang. 





" God help me ! I believe I am going blind ! " 

Madge led him to a seat, as if he had been a child 
Jessie tried vainly to choke her sob before it rose to her 
lips. 

" My dear ones," Mrs. Ashburton said, like an angel it 
seemed to them in the midst of their passionate grief, 
God still careth for us." 

"O, does he, mamma?" was Madge's vehement ques- 
tion. " Then why did he send this ? Did not poor papa 
have enough to endure in his losses and his ill health ? It 
is so very, very hard ! " 

" He will help us bear it. He has promised." 

" But if He is so strong and all-powerful, and cares for 
us when we suffer, why could He not have helped it ? I 
don't understand " 

"My darling," in a tremulous voice, that came over 
waves of grief, " none of us do. We should be all-wise if 
we did sufficient for ourselves." 

" Papa ! " Jessie found her father's face half hidden on 
the pillow, and kissed it amid tears. The soft, true arms 
encircled him, but ah ! they could not shut out that terri- 
ble knowledge. 

He raised his head at length, and the frail figure seemed 
to sway to and fro in its strong passion, its bitter sense of 
loss. 

" My children," he exclaimed, " the hand of God is laid 
heavily upon me. I meant, years ago, to make your young 
lives bright with choicest blessings; but instead I have 
added griefs and burdens. I am a poor, helpless, blind 
old man. All I ask now is, that Heaven will pity me a 
little, and take me to my final rest. It cannot come too 
soon." 

No, fearful as this was, death and separation would 
bring still keener anguish. They clustered about him ; he 
felt the hands so gentle, the hands so strong, and let the 
silence pass unquestioned, knowing well what was in ach 
heart. 



 

The business of life must go on in spite of sorrow. 
Perhaps it is as well. Brooding over loss and pain can 
but deepen the intensity, and it is God's will that wo 
should see a golden edge to the cloud that overshadows us. 
For, behind it, is his infinite glory. 

The Ashburtons took up their duties the next morning 
with brave, sad hearts. Jessie. Madge, and Philip break- 
fasted together. 

"Perhaps something can be done," said Philip, hope- 
fully. " There are many successful operations." 

" I think it has been coming on a long while," remarked 
Jessie. "But mamma says he has been so sensitive all 
summer to the least allusion concerning his sight, that she 
never dared breathe a suspicion." 

" I mean to send up Dr. Con way." 

" Not yet," answered Jessie. " Let him recover a little 
from the shock." 

" Everything in the shape of misfortune happens to us," 
said Madge. "I wonder what will go next." 

They thought of Clement, their tower of earthly 
strength. 

" It will be sad news for him," said Philip. " Ah, how 
happy we were when Clement went away ! " 

A few days afterward Dr. Conway called. Mr. Ash- 
burton was extremely dispirited, but yielded to the 
examination without a word. After all, what did it mat- 
ter ? Life must soon be over with him, he thought. A 
little longer carrying about this heavy burden, and then 
he would lay it down thankfully. The end could not 
come too soon. 

" It is a sad affair," the doctor exclaimed, with unwonted 
tenderness. "It would have been better if you had not 
used your eyes so rigorously last year. You were too 
weak in brain and nerve. And this is cataract." 

" I did not like the way he took it," Dr. Conway said 
to Philip afterwards. "You must all cheer him up, 





and not let him lose his strength. The film is going verj 
rapidly over one eye, and the other is a good deal affected ; 
but perhaps in a year or two he will be ready for an opera, 
tion." 

" Thank you," Philip answered with a gasp. 

" Your brother is prospering is he not, Ashburton ?" 

" Yes," was the quiet reply. 

"Intends to make a fortune, and then return, I suppose." 

" He hopes to ; " and Philip gave a faint smile. 

"You must all keep heart. When matters touch the 
worst point, they begin to mend. You are young and 
brave." 

" I shall do my best." 

It seemed to them at times as if all comfort was weari- 
some. Profound griefs and passions seek solitude natural- 
ly, and they had fallen out of the old circle, drifted so far, 
indeed, that the world had begun to forget them, and new 
voices, even in sympathy, sounded strange. 

Madge started with much energy to take her place in 
the ranks. It was not as pleasant as the romance concern- 
ing work. For though she preferred her application, and 
entered the normal school as a pupil, nothing seemed to 
come of it. Then she answered two or three advertise- 
ments for a daily governess, but in every case she was too 
young. 

" It is hard not to find anything to do when one is will- 
ing to work," she said, tearfully. " If I could meet with 
something else indeed, I have half a mind to take in 
dress-making." 

Jessie smiled. " I am afraid you have not much genius 
for that." 

"No. And then, I do not like sewing. Besides " 

Madge did not finish her sentence. There was a fine 
chord of sensitiveness in it that she could not quite ex- 
plain, even to Jessie. It was not only herself that she 
must think of, but, Mrs. Westlake's future daughter-in-law. 



 

To be lowered in the social scale would be worse than tha 
burden of poverty. 

"Though I do not see why all employments are not 
equally honorable," she continued, after a long pause. 

" Why ? are they not ? " and Jessie glanced up in sur- 
prise. 

"Did I utter a heresy? Well, I have been studying 
the subject of late. If I could write a book or paint a 
picture, it would not be considered derogatory to any 
position. If we should attain to any prosperity in the 
future, that would be so much of a triumph to me ; but 
many other employments might be mentioned to my dis- 
favor. Yet, in both cases, my motive would be to earn 
money." 

" It does not seem right to me to condemn any person 
who has labored honorably and faithfully," Jessie returned, 
with a thoughtful air "Only, I think, some employments 
presuppose education and refinement, and others do not. 
Is not that the true dividing-line?" 

"But why not make the refinement centre in the person, 
instead of the business ? " 

There was a puzzled look in the young face. It was a 
grave question that she could not seem to simplify nor 
answer. 

" I think it does," Jessie said, slowly. 

"But the reputation of it surely does not. You remem- 
ber how Nelly once scouted my going in a store. And if 
I did that, or sewed, or took up any of the minor occupa- 
tions, somebody would remember it with a little sneer. I 
suppose, when we lived at dear old Home Nook we did 
not think of being intimate friends with our dress-maker, 
or any of the people who worked for us." 

" Yet we could always be kind and polite." 

"We were. It never was mamma's nature to be 
haughty to any one. But Nelly, you know, always held 
herself regally above such associations. She used to bo 
troubled about the attention yon paid to poor people." 





Jessie smiled gravely. 

"Poverty and pride never did agree," Madge went on 
with something of the old brightness. " Yet I do not feel 
proud for myself. It seems to me that it would be won- 
derfully entertaining to find a place as saleswoman in a 
millinery store. I should like it a hundred times better 
than teaching school. But I am afraid that even Charlie 
would not approve, and Mrs. Westlake would consider me 
irremediably disgraced. Yet I should be just as good, just 
as pure-minded, just as refined, and, it seems to me, equally 
worthy of every one's regard." 

"And all right-minded persons would think so," re- 
sponded Jessie warmly. 

"May be I am looking at matters with over critical 
eyes ; but the world seems hard and unjust to me, and you 
always have to be keeping up small shams when the truth 
would be so much more comfortable. Only all these out- 
side events and little slights prick and pain you, until it 
appears as if there was not one invulnerable spot." 

Jessie remembered the day Mrs. Westlake and her 
niece passed her, they in their elegant carriage, and she in 
the dawn of family misfortunes. And it seemed a rather 
sad and uncomfortable thing that Charlie had spoken, 
sweet as it was for Madge to have the love. 

" It is a tangled and knotty problem," she made answer, 
softly. "I do not know that I blame rich people for 
desiring to shut out the uncultured and commonplace, with 
which they can have so little sympathy and no enjoyment, 
even if it does exclude the poor who could be their com- 
panions in point of intellect and education." 

" So, it is wealth, after all." 

"But there are some noble exceptions." 

"Jessie," said Madge, after a long pause, during which 
ber eyes slowly filled with tears, "it must always be a 
great comfort to you and mamma to think that while you 
were prosperous you tried to make others happy, and 



 

shared your good fortune with them. And if we had 
some kind friend now " 

"We are going through dark days, my darling; and yet 
it seems as if there was something to hope for in the 
end." 

" I believe I am a coward ! I sometimes feel like crying 
out with the Psalmist, 'Hide me until these storms are 
overpast,' instead of fighting my way through. It is well 
that men are seldom perplexed with the thought of what 
is respectable or genteel ! " 

Poor Madge ! The way did indeed seem full of thorns. 
And yet she had fancied that her regret for the lost wealth 
would be less than that of the others. She had been 
anxious to come to the time when she might assist in not 
only bearing the burden of cares, but in making them 
lighter. And now why should she shrink away weakly ? 

Philip and Mrs. Ashburton gave their verdict in favor 
of the school. 

" It will keep you in a kind of intellectual discipline," 
her mother said. "You will not only remember your 
present acquirements, but make some further improve- 
ment, I hope. And there ought to be a pleasure in 
performing any duty well." 

"But I feel as if I had no taste for it," still complained 
the child, for child she was. 

Philip was quite urgent. It did wound his pride a little 
that ultra-sensitiveness of a refined young man, in re- 
gard to his sisters that Madge should be compelled to 
take her place among the workers. But Jessie was more 
efficient at home, and her sweet thoughtfulness was just 
what Mr. Ashburton needed in his hours of despondency. 
Madge could best be spared indeed, her assistance was 
not required in the management of household affairs. 

After waiting until she became almost discouraged, 
Madge at length received an appointment. To be sure 
the salary was not very large, three hundred and fifty 





the first year, yet it looked like quite a little fortune to 
her, and she went at her work with a really thankful 
heart. 

And yet, as she had said, it was not much to her taste. 
She had an extravagant fondness for pretty, bright, well- 
kept children, who needed only to be entertained with 
games, stories, or music ; but to be held responsible for 
their intellectual well-being, to be patient with stupidity, 
disobedience, deceit, and the many wayward moods of the 
little ones, taxed every nerve to the farthest verge of 
endurance. 

Yet there were some pleasures to her life. The happi- 
ness it gave her to be able to contribute her mite to the 
household was deep and fervent. Some luxury for papa, 
a tiny cluster of flowers for Jessie, or any simple gift, was 
an exquisite joy to her, as springing from the toil to which 
she bent her restless soul; and then Charlie Westlake's 
letters cheered her immeasurably. True, Eleanor had 
gone over the same route, but everything was new seen 
through his eyes. There was gay Paris with its throngs 
of people, among whom Mrs. Weetlake found many 
friends, and May Rossiter hosts of admirers ; indeed, her 
pure blonde beauty made her quite the sensation of the 
winter. There were palaces, libraries, pictures, and rare 
old historical haunts to examine ; and for diversion, drives, 
dinner-parties, skating, in which Charlie distinguished him- 
self, and the many varieties of Parisian life. He possessed 
very vivid and accurate powers of description, and the fre- 
quent letters were a real treat to them all in their quiet 
life. 

The summer was to be spent in Switzerland. And there 
were the capitals of Germany, Vienna, Rome, and all the 
British dominions unexplored. 

"Though I want to save something to visit for the first 
time with you," he wrote, " and if it is possible I shall not 
exceed my year. Yet I find a little time to study, ir. the 



THE CROWN OF DUTY. 

hope of not having quite so much to make up when I 
return." 

And then the spring came. In spite of hard times and 
general depression, rents, it seemed, were continually on 
the advance. This season another fifty dollars was added 
Madge and Jessie went through with the same routine of 
house-hunting, with the success of the year before. There 
was nothing cheaper for a small family, unless one took 
some inconvenient rooms in a house with several othei 
families ; and now this appeared quite impossible. 
