
" Well then, listen, Miss Obstinate. You 
may not know that Sibyl and I have some money 
coming to us this month. We shall be quite 
rich. I shouldn't wonder if there were five hun- 
dred dollars in all. Quite a fortune, you see ! 
And I shall take mine to pay the debts of my 
foolish little cousin, who must be a real sugar- 
dolly to have eaten so much candy," said Hugh, 
laughing. 

" Oh, Hugh ! you splendid, generous fellow !



 

said Bessie, with the tears still shining in her 
eyes ; " but I shall not let you do it." 

" Yes you will, Bessie ; you would do the 
same for me." 

" That is true enough : but I hate to take your 
money, Hugh." 

" You don't take it ; * J. Evins ' takes it," said 
Hugh merrily. " Come, give me the bill, and 
say no more about it, or we shall quarrel." So 
it was settled, and there were two light hearts 
in the studio that bright June morning. 

While Aunt Faith was busy with her house- 
keeping duties, she heard Sibyl's touch on the 
piano, — giving full value to every note, and 
exact iime to every measure. Sibyl was an ac- 
curate musician, and several hours of each day 
were invariably devoted to piano practice. She 
never turned over a pile of sheet-music, trying 
now a little of this, and now a little of that ; but, 
having made her selections, she played the piece 
entirely through, note for note, exactly as it was 
written. Most people liked to hear Miss War- 



 

rington play, for the performance was very complete. 
She sat gracefully at the piano, showed 
no nervous anxiety, interpreted the notes 
conscientiously, and finished the music to the very last- 
octave. But Aunt Faith detected a want of ex- 
pression in this studied mechanism ; it seemed to 
her that Sibyl did not, in her heart, feel the spirit 
of the music which her fingers played. Coming 
in from the kitchen, this morning, after setting in 
motion the household wheels for the day, she 
again noticed this automatic execution in the 
strains of Mendelssohn's " Spring-Song," and it 
grated on her ear as she tended the hanging bas- 
kets on the piazza. Continuing her round from 
her plants to her birds and gold-fish, Aunt Faith 
kept listening to the monotonous sound of the 
piano. " I wonder if Sibyl has a heart ? " she 
thought ; " sometimes I am tempted to think she 
has none. How can she practise so steadily 
when she has so much to decide ? This visit to 
Saratoga will mean more than it looks. The decision
will be between religion and the world 

If she deliberately makes up her mind to go, it 
will show me that Mr. Leslie's influence has not 
been strong enough to subdue her worldliness 
and secret ambition. Poor child ! she is like her 
mother. And yet, Mabel Fitzhugh became an 
earnest Christian before she died. God grant 
that her daughter may grow in grace also. Hugh, 
now, is all Warrington ; he is like his father, 
with all his father's faults and all his father's 
generosity. Dear James ! my favorite brother ! " 
and Aunt Faith wiped away a tear, as she crossed 
the hall and entered the parlor where Sibyl was 
practising. 

The parlor in the old stone house was the 
counterpart of the sitting-room, large and. square, 
with two north and two south windows, — for the 
main body of the house contained only the length 
of the apartments finished by a north and south 
piazza, while the other rooms ran off on either 
side in wings and projections, as though the de- 
signer had tried to cover as much ground as pos- 
sible. The parlor was plainly furnished as regards 
cost, for there was no superb set of furni- 
ture, no tall mirror, no velvet carpet or lace cur- 
tains. Easy-chairs of various patterns were nu- 
merous, the carpet was small figured, in neutral 
tints, and the plain, gray walls brought out the 
beauties of the two fine pictures which lighted 
up the whole room with their vivid idealism ; the 
piano was a perfect instrument, filling a corner 
of its own, and opposite to it was an open book- 
case filled with pleasant-looking, well-used books, 
well worn too, like old friends, so much better 
than new ones. The crimson lounge seemed to 
invite the visitor with its generous breadth and 
softness, and the white muslin curtains were in 
perfect keeping with the old-fashioned windows, 
through which came the perfume of the old- 
fashioned flowers in the garden. 

" Sibyl," said Aunt Faith, as her niece paused 
in her practising ; " shall we talk over your 
plans for the summer now ? " 

" Yes, if you please, aunt ; I can finish my 
practising another time." said Sibyl, carefully 
replacing the sheet-music in its portfolio. 


" Mrs. Leighton is very kind to invite you, 
Sibyl ; such a summer excursion will be expen- 
sive." 

"Yes, Aunfc, I suppose so; but cousin Jane 
knows that the addition of a young lady will add 
to the attractions of her party." 

" Do you really wish to go, dear ? " 

" I have been thinking it over, Aunt Faith. 
"While I was practising I looked at the subject 
in all lights, and I have almost decided to go ; 
there is nothing to keep me here, and no doubt 
the society at Saratoga and Newport would be of 
great advantage to me." 

" In what way, Sibyl ? " 

" In giving me the acquaintance of persons and 
families who will be desirable friends for a life- 
time. I am not rich, as you know, Aunt Faith, 
and I do not wish to be a burden upon Hugh. I 
consider it prudent to look to the future, and see 
life as it really is ; I do not believe in fancies, — 
I must have something sure." 

Aunt Faith looked at the speaker in silence 
 

for a moment. Then she said, " There is nothing 
sure in this life, Sibyl, but our trust in God." 

" I know that, Aunt ; I hope you do not think 
I have been remiss in my religious duties ? " 

" No, child no," replied Aunt Faith with a 
half-sigh ; " but are you sure there is nothing in 
Wester ton that interests you more than the fash- 
ionable life at Saratoga ! " 

" Nothing, Aunt ; except affection for all of 
you, of course." Sibyl's voice did not waver, 
neither did the shade of color in her oval cheek 
deepen ; Aunt Faith, who was watching her 
closely, said no more on that subject, but turned 
the discussion towards the arrangements for the 
journey. " You will need some additions to your 
wardrobe, I suppose, my dear ? " 

" Yes, Aunt ; I think I shall take that money 
that is coming to me this month for the purpose. 
I do not care for many dresses, but they must be 
perfect of their kind, and I think I shall purchase 
that antique set of pearls at Carton's." 

" But they are very costly, Sibyl." 



 

" Of course they are. I should not wish them 
if they were not rare. Pearls become me, and 
the antique setting will set me off far better than 
anything modern ; a white organdie, long and 
flowing, with the pearls, would be just my style,'' 
said Sibyl in a musing voice, as though she saw 
herself so arrayed. As she spoke, a vision rose 
before Aunt Faith's eyes : Sibyl at Saratoga, her 
classical head and hair adorned with the antique 
circlet, rising in simple beauty from the soft, 
white draperies. " She will look like a Greek 
statue," thought the elder lady ; " after all, how 
beautiful she is ! " 

The discussion went on, arranging the details 
of the various toilets, a committee of ways and 
means highly important in Sibyl's eyes. 

" At any rate, you need not begin immediately, 
Sibyl," said Aunt Faith ; " if you only wish two 
or three dresses ; and those are to be so simple, a 
week will be time enough to devote to them. 
You can have a full month of quiet here with all 
of us, dear ; and, after all, something may hap- 
pen to change your plans." 



 

" I think not, Aunt Faith. Are you going ? 
Then I may as well fmi?h my practising ; " and 
for the next hour the Spring-song filled the par- 
lor with its oft-repeated harmony. 

Down in the back garden, Tom and Gem were 
deeply engaged in the construction of an under- 
ground shanty. The grassy terrace behind the 
north piazza sloped down in a gentle declivity 
towards the vegetable garden, and at the base of 
this small hill the two sappers and miners were 
at work, their operations being marked by a 
convenient growth of currant-bushes at the top. 
The three dogs watched the proceedings with 
great interest. Turk, always thoughtful of his 
own comfort, had stretched himself out near by 
under the shadow of the bushes, and Pete Trone, 
in the excess of his zeal, had burrowed so far 
into the hill that nothing was to be seen but his 
tail and hind legs ; Grip,, however, persisted in 
"tearing around the garden in wild circles, bark- 
ing furiously every time he passed his master as 
if to encourage him in his labors. " This will 



 

never do ! " said Tom, pausing and wiping his 
forehead; "Grip will spoil everything with his 
ridiculous barking, and the whole neighborhood 
will come to. see what is the matter. Here, Grip ! 
Here, this minute ! Very well, sir ! ver-y well ! 
ex-treme-ly well ! You'd better come, sir ! You'd 
bet-tev, — oh ! you're coming, are you ? There ! 
get into that tub, sir, and don't let me see you 
so much as wag your tail without permission ! " 

So Grip sat mournfully in his tub, and watched 
the work in silence, resting his nose on the side, 
and blinking his eyes at every fresh shovel-full 
of earth. The sun shone out warmly, and the 
laborers felt the perspiration on their heated 
faces. Gem was the first to drop her shovel. 
" Oh, Tom ! " she said, wiping her forehead, " my 
hands are all blistered ! " 

" What of that?" said Tom, shovelling steadily ; 
" the honest hand of toil, you know." But 
Gem didn't know, and betook herself to the 
shade of the bushes for a rest. " There's Dick 
Nelson coming up through the pasture, Tom," 
she said, after a few moments. 



 

" Is it ? oh, how jolly ! Now we'll have a 
shanty that will beat the town. I'll get Dick 
to bring all the B. B.'s to help." 

So saying, Tom ran down to meet his friend, 
and the two, after some conversation, darted 
away to the right and the left, returning in 
about fifteen minutes with the " Band of 
Brothers," as they called themselves, a number 
of boys who lived in the vicinity, and hunted in 
a herd, as the neighbors said, for they were 
seldom seen apart. 

"The B.'s have come, Gem! the B. B.'s 
have come ! " cried Tom, as they approached ;, 
" now you'll see a shanty fit for a king ! Just 
run in and get all the shovels you can find, will 
you?" 

Gem obeyed, and having confiscated those in 
use in the kitchen, she went up to the garret to 
find the fire utensils belonging to the other 
rooms, stored away there for the summer. Col- 
lecting a number, she started to return, but, 
loaded as she was, this was no easy matter. 



 

First one shovel fell, then another, and finally 
to save the whole load from going, she sat down 
on the stairs and considered the situation. 

Hugh and Bessie were still in the studio ; for, 
hei troubles over, Bessie's good spirits had re- 
turned, and she had persuaded Hugh to give her 
a sitting in order that she might satisfy a long- 
cherished desire to paint his portrait. " But 
what can you make out of my stupid phiz ? " 
Hugh had said, laughing. 

" I can make Fitz Hugh Warrington out of it ; 
fair and golden, Saxon and strong ; ruddy and 
stalwart; lithe and long. Now sit still, Hugh, 
and I will do my best. If you had black eyes I 
would not . paint you ; black eyes are snaky ; 
that's the reason I don't like Gideon Fish." 

"But he likes you, Queen Bess." 

" No, he only likes Aunt Faith's cake. If he 
had to choose between me and pie, I am afraid I 
should not have a chance. As for jelly, he fairly 
gloats over it. Do you know, Hugh, I shall feel 
so sorry for his wife when he marries ; how tired 
she will be of him ! " 



 

" Oh, no, she won't," said Hugh; "she will 
think he is perfect, and cook for him all her life 
without ever once finding out what a humbug 
he is." 

" Well, perhaps it is better so. Deception is 
sometimes a blessing," said Bessie. At this 
point a singular noise was heard outside the 
door ; then another, and still another. 

" What can that be ? " said Hugh, opening the 
door ; " Gem, what are you doing ? " 

" Oh, Hugh, don't make any noise," said Gem, 
in a whisper. 

" Jam not making any noise. It is you with 
your shovels. What are you doing with them ? " 
asked Hugh, laughing. 

" Oh, Hugh, please don't tell ! but Tom and 
the B. B.'s are making an underground shanty, 
and they sent me for all the shovels, and I got 
all I could find, and now I can't carry them," 
said Gem dolefully. 

" An underground shanty ! What in the world 
are you going to do with it, and who are the 


B. B.'s ? " asked Hugh, relieving his little cousin 
from her load, and carrying it down the stairs for 
her. 

" Live in it, like Robinson Crusoe, you know, 
and roast potatoes and everything." 

" It will be rather hot, won't it, Pussy ? " 

" Oh, no ! •' said Gem decisively ; " Tom says 
it will be delightfully cool. We're going to 
have a stove, and chairs, and a table, and 
candles, and things to eat ; and then the dogs 
can stay there too. Grip has never had a regular 
house, you know, and Tom says it isn't respecta- 
ble for him to be loose round the garden at 
night any more, and so he's going to let him live 
in the shanty." 

" Happy Grip ! " said Hugh, as he delivered the 
shovels at the foot of the stairs ; " but who are 
the B. B.'s, Gem ? " 

" Oh ! the Band of Brothers, — a secret society. 
Don't let them see 3'Ou, please, Hugh, for f 
promised not to tell, and I'm almost afraid of 
them, they've got such a dreadful motto." 



 

" What is it, Pussy ? " 

" Ruin, Riot, and Revenge," said Gem in a 
solemn whisper. 

" Well done, B. B.'s ! " said Hugh laughing ; 
" truly, a terrific motto ! There, take your 
shovels and run, little one. I won't betray you. " 

So the shovels disappeared, and Hugh, return- 
ing to the studio, related the adventure to 
Bessie with a hearty laugh. £ Do you know 
anything about the B. B.'s ? " he asked, as Bessie 
resumed her work. 

" Oh, yes ! " she replied ; " I know them to my 
cost. They are ruin to water-melons, riot on 
peaches, and revenge to anyone who inter feres 
with them. A few weeks ago they frightened 
Mrs. Lane and her sister almost into a fainting- 
fit. You know that high board fence below 
here? Well! one evening the B. B.'s happened 
to find out that they were over at Mrs. Reed's, 
so they waited until the ladies came along, and 
then they laid themselves down on the ground 
close behind the fence, and putting their mouths 



 

against the boards, groaned out, one by one, 
4 seven years ago I was murdered and buried 
under this fence, oh ! — ! oil ! — oh ! ' — each boy 
keeping up the groan until the next one took it 
up as the ladies hurried by." 

Hugh laughed ; " What did they do it for ? " he 
asked. 

" Oh, I believe Mrs. Lane had ordered them 
out of her garden, one day, when they were 
playing there with her Johnny." 

" I am afraid if Aunt Faith knew they were 
undermining her terrace, she would order them 
out of lier's, too." 

" I think not, Hugh. Aunt Faith likes boys, 
and she never seems to see their pranks." 

" Dear Aunt Faith ! she is certainly the 
kindest aunt a graceless nephew ever had," said 
Hugh warmly. 

" That she is ; I love her dearly, and I do mean 

to try not to vex her any more," said Bessie 

earnestly. 

" But the horseback-riding, Bessie ! " 
"But the hqraeback-rLling, Hugh ! " 



 

The two offenders looked at each other a 
moment in silence, and then burst into a peal of 
laughter. 

" It's of no use," said Bessie ; " we can't be 
good." 

" Do you think Aunt Faith would be very- 
much shocked if we should tell her ? " asked 
Hugh. 

" Of course she would. She^loes not like to 
see a lady on horseback, because her cousin was 
killed by a fall from a horse, you know. Still, 
she might not forbid my going, provided I would 
ride quietly on a country road ; but that is just 
what I do not want to do. The whole excite- 
ment is in the racing, you know." 

" Well, I suppose it would be better not to 
tell her, then," said Hugh slowly. 

Dinner-time came, and the family assembled 
in the dining-room, Sibyl attired in a fresh muslin, 
and Bessie and Hugh somewhat dusty after their 
morning in the studio. Tom and Gem came in 
witli flushed faces ; — the B. B.'s were to return 



 

after dinner and finish the excavation, and the 
afternoon was to be full of glory. 

*' Sibyl," said Aunt Faith, when the others had 
left the dining-room, " would you like to go 
with me to see Margaret Brown, about four 
o'clock ? You have been there before, I believe ? " 

" No, Aunt Faith, I have never been there." 

" I thought Mr. Leslie said so." 

" He did, but he was mistaken," replied Sibyl 
calmly. " I will go with you, however, this 
afternoon, aunt, if you wish." 

" Do not go merely to oblige me, my dear. I 
thought you seemed to be interested in Mr. 
Leslie's description. For my part, I have 
thought of it ever since." 

A slight flush rose in Sibyl's fair face. " I was 
much interested, aunt," she said quickly, " and 
I shall be glad to go with you, if you will allow 
it." 

So Aunt Faith went upstairs for her afternoon 
siesta, and soon feel asleep on the cool chintz 
lounge, in her shaded room, where the old- 



 

fashioned furniture, high bedstead, spindle-legged 
chairs, and antique toilet-table, had remained 
nn changed from her youth, when the oval mirror 
reflected back a merry, rosy girl-face, instead of 
the pale, silver-haired woman. 

But Sibyl did not sleep. She went into the 
still parlor, and seated herself by the window 
with a book ; but her thoughts were busy, and 
only her eyes were fixed upon the page, as her 
mind wandered far away from the author's sub- 
ject. " Shall I or shall I not go to Saratoga? " 
she mused. " This is more than the mere ques- 
tion of a summer journey ; I know that very 
well. It is, I feel it, a turning-point in my life. 
Can I deliberately give up my ambition, my 
hopes, all my prospects for a bright and prosper- 
ous future ? Is it, after all, wrong to like wealth 
and ease? Is it wrong to like elegance and re- 
finement, the society of cultivated people, and 
the charming surroundings which only money 
can bring ? I have an innate horror of misery, — • 
an inability to endure the want of. all that is 



 

beautiful in life. I think I could be a very good 
womau in an elegant city home, with all my little 
wishes gratified, and nothing to offend my taste. 
But I fear, yes, I know, I should be a miserable, 
if not a wicked woman, in a poor home, with 
nothing but rasping, wearing poverty, day after 
day. Why, the very smell and steam of the 
wet flannels coming from the kitchens of small 
houses where I have happened to be on washing- 
days, has made me uncomfortable for hours. I 
know I am not heroic, but I am afraid I was not 
intended for a heroine. I know myself and 
all my faults thoroughly. I am sure I should be 
generous with my money if I was rich, — kind 
to the poor, and regular in the discharge of all 
my religious duties. People would love me ; I 
should make them happy, and be happy myself. 
Now the question is, am I right in thinking such 
a life far better for me, constituted as I am, than 
any other ? 

" Let me look at the opposite side, now. It is 
not likely I should ever be obliged to work at 

severe manual labor ; but the annoyances and 
privations of a limited income seem to me almost 
worse than that. I think I would rather be a 
washerwoman, provided I could acquire the 
strength, than the wife of a struggling man who 
has all the refined tastes and sensitive nerves 
of a gentleman, without a gentleman's income. 
I should see him growing more and more care- 
less, more and more haggard, day after day ; I 
should see myself growing old, ugly, ill-tempered, 
and sick, hour after hour. I have not the moral 
force of mind, or the physical force of body, to 
,make a cold, half-furnished house seem a haven 
of rest, a piece of corned-beef and potatoes con- 
tinued indefinitely through the week seem a 
delicious repast, or an old-fashioned cloak and 
dowdy bonnet seem like my present pretty fresh 
attire. Well ! this being the case, I am afraid I 
am but a worldly woman, and, as such, would I 
not wrong a poor man if I consented to be his 
wife ? Would he not be sure to repent when it 
was too late, — when he had discovered the sel- 



 

fishness and love of luxury which are in me? I 
know he would. I will not put myself in such a 
position. I will do the best I can ; but, as I can- 
not make myself over, I will select the life which 
is best suited to me." 

Here Sibyl sighed, and tried to bring her mind 
back upon her book. In vain ; her thoughts 
would wander. "There is poor Aunt Faith. I 
can easily see how anxious she is about me, and 
how her heart aches over my worldliness. I do 
]ove her dearly ; all the good in me I owe to her, 
and if I ever do anything right, it will be the 
result of her loving guidance. Sometimes I am 
tempted to tell her all that is in my heart, — all 
I have been thinking this afternoon, for instance. 
I believe I will write it down now, and give it to 
her. She will understand me better, then ; and, 
if I request it, she will never allude to the paper 
in words. Yes, I think I will do it." So Sibyl 
took a sheet of paper from the drawer, and, in 
hei clear handwriting, wrote out her thoughts 
of the afternoon, adding a request that the subject 
might not be brought into discussion, and 
also, that the paper should be destroyed. " I will 
not take any false steps," she thought ; " I will 
be true to my determination, and therefore I 
will not go to see Margaret Brown this afternoon ; 
there would be a double motive in the visit, I 
fear." Rising, she went slowly up the stairs to 
Aunt Faith's room ; the door was partly open, 
and she could hear the rustle of book-leaves. 
"Aunt Faith ! " she said, standing outside in the 
hall, " I have decided not to go with you this 
afternoon, if you will excuse me. I sheffl go 
over to the cottage to see Rose Saxon. And I 
have written down some ideas of mine on this 
paper ; perhaps you may be interested in reading 
them." 

She did not wait for a reply, but laying down 
the folded paper on a chair by the door, she 
went down the stairs, took her little straw 
round hat, and walked over to the cottage, the 
residence of Mrs. Marr, whose niece, Rose Saxon, 
had been one of her schoolmates. Aunt Faitb 



 

laid aside her book and read Sibyl's paper several 
times over ; then she arranged her dress, and 
went alone to see Margaret Brown, leaving an 
order for some work, and inviting the children 
to come and play in the large garden at the old 
stone house. Her voice was gentle, her words 
cordial, and Margaret felt cheered by the visit ; 
but the visitor's heart was sad, and when, on her 
way home, she met Mr. Leslie, she merely bowed, 
without stopping as usual to exchange a pleasant 
greeting. But the young clergyman joined his 
old friend in spite of her constrained manner, and 
began talking : " You have been to see Margaret 
Brown, I presume, Mrs. Sheldon. I am very 
glad. I am sure she will interest you, and she 
has so few friends to help her, that I feel anxious 
to gain for her your good will. Miss Warrington 
has also visited her, I believe ? " 

"No, Mr. Leslie," replied Aunt Faith ; " Sibyl 
has never been to see Margaret, and she did not 
care to accompany m'e this afternoon." 

A shade came over the young clergyman's 
face, but he made no comment. 



 

" Westerton is very dull for Sibyl ; she is 
better fitted for the gay society of the busy 
city," pursued Aunt Faith, determined at any 
cost to prevent Mr. Leslie from looking at her 
niece with blinded eyes. 

" Miss Warrington is fitted for any life," re- 
plied the young clergyman gravely; "if you 
please, Mrs. Sheldon, I will accompany you 
home. I would like to see Miss Warrington." 

Poor Aunt Faith ! what could she do but mur- 
mur an invitation. As they reached the old 
stone house and Sibyl greeted them with a bright 
smile, poor Aunt Faith felt very much like the 
spider in the old song of the spider and the fly. 

The tea-table was inviting, and the circle 
around it as pleasant as six handsome young 
faces and one handsome old face could make it, — 
faces handsome with vivacity and good nature as 
well as artistic beauty. Mr. Leslie was there, 
and being a general favorite, the conversation 
was full of life and interest; 

" He's just splendid ! " said Gem to Tom after 



 

the meal was over, " and I wish we dared to show 
him the shanty. He'd like it ever so much; 
IVe heard him tell such funny stories about 
what he did when he was a boy." 

" But he would not like our keeping it all from 
Aunt Faith." 

"That's true. Well, I suppose, then, we'd 
better not tell him now. But, oh ! Tom, how I 
wish I could stay up with the B. B.'s to-night." 

" No ; girls must always stay in nights. I've 
always thought it a great pity you could not be a 
boy, Gem. But it can't be helped now. Re- 
member, if I fling a stone up, it will mean that 
we want something, and you must be sure to get 
it." 

Aunt Faith spent the evening in the sitting- 
room busily engaged in her fancy work. On the 
piazza, Sibyl and Mr. Leslie talked in low tones, 
and now and then she caught a word or two 
which seemed to indicate the serious character 
of the conversation. " I fear I am doing wrong 
to allow it," she thought; "there is no doubt in 




my mind as to John Leslie's liking for Sibyl, and 
the child is so worldly ! Still, what can I do! 
The way in which he put aside my little endeav- 
ors this afternoon and walked boldly into the very 
danger ! It certainly looks as though he was 
not afraid of anything, and, to tell the truth, I 
do not think he is. I shall have to let him take 
care of Himself; he looks fully able to do it," 
and Aunt Faith smiled at her own discomfiture, 
as a vision of the clergyman's resolute face and 
broad shoulders rose before her eyes. 

Later in the evening Bessie came in and 
slipped into the sofa corner by her aunt's side. 

" How flushed you are," said Aunt Faith, 
stroking the young girl's cheek ; " do you feel 
quite well, dear ? " 

" Oh yes, auntie," said Bessie with downcast 
eyes ; " the evening is warm, you know." 

" Do you find it warm also? " asked Aunt 
Faith, as Hugh entered, fanning himself with his 
straw hat. Hugh, who had just taken the 
horses down through the pasture, murmured 




some inarticulate reply and crossed the hall into 
the parlor. " Let us have some music, Bessie," 
he called out as he opened the piano. Then as 
his cousin joined him, he said in a low tone, " I 
cannot bear this deception, Bessie. It makes 
me feel like a puppy." 

" Oh Hugh, you are not going to tell, and 
spoil all my fun ? " 

" You are a second Eve with her apple, 

Brownie." 

" I am not Eve, and I don't like apples;" said 
Bessie indignantly. " Don't spoil my fun, now, 
Hugh. The summer will soon be over, and you 
will be gone. Then I shall be oh ! — so good." 

" When you have no longer a chance to be 
naughty," said Hugh, laughing. 

At eleven o'clock the lights were all extin- 
guished in the old stone house, and every one 
was soon asleep. After awhile a sharp rap on 
the closed blinds awoke Gem ; at first she was 
startled, but instantly remembering the night- 
watch in the underground shanty, she stole to 



 

the window and peeped out. There stood Tom ! 
" We want something to eat," he said in a loud 
whisper ; " the B. B.'s are awful hungry. Come 
down and open the back door." 

" Oh, Tom, I don't dare to do it ! " said Gem, 
trembling. 

" Don't be a baby, Gem ! Come down, or I'll 
 tell the B. B.'s you're afraid of the dark." 
This taunt aroused Gem's failing courage, she 
stole down the stairs and slipped back the bolt, 
regaining her room with the speed of a little pus- 
sy cat. She heard nothing more for some time, 
and was almost asleep when another tap on the 
blinds aroused her. 

"We want more candles," whispered Tom; 
" I can't find 'em. Of course you know where 
they are. Hurry up ! " 

" Oh, Tom ! must I come down again ? " 
pleaded Gem, 

" Of course you must ! hurry up ! " 

So Gem got the candles and crept back to her 
bed with a lessening respect for the delights of 



 

the underground shanty. In a few moments 
another tap was heard. " Oh, Tom ! what is it 
now ? " 

" I want my fiddle ; the B. B.'s are awful 
sleepy, and they say they'll all go home if I don't 
play for them." 

" Oh, Tom, somebody will hear you ! " 

" Not under the ground, you silly ! Come 
down and get the fiddle ; I can't go in the sit- 
ting-room with my boots on." 

So the violin was handed out, and poor Gem at 
last fell asleep, with a vague intention of being a 
good girl, and giving up the society of Tom and 
the B. B.'s forever. 

About half past twelve Aunt Faith awoke ; 
" Icertainly hear music! " she thought. Opening 
the blinds she heard the faint strains of " Nelly 
Bly," with the well known " Hi," E flat ; " Hi," 
E natural ; " Hi," F natural, and at the same 
time saw a light proceeding mysteriously from 
the ground. Hastily dressing herself, she ran 
over to Tom's room ; it was empty. Much disturbed, 
she knocked at Hugh's door; "Hugh ! 
Hugh ! " she called ; " something is wrong. 
Please get up." 

" What is it, Aunt Faith ? " said a sleepy voice. 

" Get up at once ! Tom is gone; there is mu- 
sic somewhere, and the strangest light coming 
out of the ground in the back garden." 

"The B. B.'s, I'll be bound," said Hugh with 
a laugh, as he threw on his clothes. " Don't be 
frightened, Aunt Faith ; it's Ruin, Riot and Re- 
venge." 

" Dreadful ! " murmured Aunt Faith outside 
the door. 

By this time the whole household was awake, 
and a group of persons stole out of the back door 
and went down the garden walk. Finding a 
barricade of boards at the base of the hill, they 
opened it, and discovered a little den in the earth 
containing one chair, a table, the three dogs, and 
Tom ; a candle stuck in a bottle gave light to 
the scene, and the table was covered with the re- 
mains of a feast, cake and pies having evidently 



 

once filled the empty dishes. Tom was playing 
dismally upon his violin, and the three dogs sat 
mournfully at his feet. 

" Thomas, what does this mean ? " said Aunt 
Faith severely. 

Tom looked up and saw the extent of his audi- 
ence. " It's just my underground shanty, Aunt 
Faith," he said dejectedly; "I've worked like a 
slave over it all clay, and the B. B.'s agreed to 
sit up here all night and have lots of fun, so I 
climbed out of the back window and came down. 
But first they wanted things to eat, and I had to 
get 'em ; and then, when they'd eaten up every- 
thing, they said if I didn't play they'd go home, 
so I had to get my fiddle. And I only knew one 
tune, and they got tired of it after a while, and a 
few minutes ago they all skedaddled and left me 
here alone with the dogs. However, I wasn't 
going to give it up, so I was just playing to 
amuse myself a little before daylight." 

" Before daylight? " said Aunt Faith; " what 
time do you think it is now ? " 



 

" I suppose about four or five," said Tom. 

" It isn't one yet," said Hugh laughing. 
" Come in and go to bed, you young brigand." 

At first Tom objected, but the dogs had al- 
ready taken advantage of the open door to de- 
part, the candle burned dimly, and the air was 
damp. He yielded, and the underground shanty 
was left to its earthy seclusion. 




 

MISJUSTICE has never been done to this 

ftm, month of months," said Hugh, coming 

in to the breakfast-table one morning, 

bringing a spray of roses with the dew 

shining on their fragrant petals. " I propose we 

celebrate the day, the fifteenth of June ; the 

most perfect day of the most perfect month of 

this most perfect year cf our lives. Who knows 

where we shall be before another June comes 

round ? ' We have lived and loved together 

through many a changing year; we have shared 

each other's pleasures and wept each other's 




 

tears.' But tempus fiigit, oh, how fast! and be- 
fore we know it we shall all be old ! Friends, fill 
your coffee-cups to the brim, and let us resolve 
to celebrate." 

" A picnic ! " said Gem. 

" A torch-light procession and fireworks ! " 
said Tom. 

" A croquet-party ! " said Sibyl. 

" A dance ! " said Bessie. 

" An editor's sanctum," said Hugh. 

The novelty of this suggestion made a favora- 
ble impression. u Explain yourself, Hugh," said 
Aunt Faith ; " I am afraid your project is too 
large for the field." 
