The plentiful meal was at last over, and the children, made happy for
one day at least, were slowly dispersing to their dreary homes, drifting
away from the better influences good men and women had been trying to
gather about them even for a little while. The children were beginning
to leave the tables when Edith, who had been busy among them, remembered
the little boy who had so interested her, and made her way to the place
where he had been sitting. But he was not there. She looked into the
crowd of boys and girls who were pressing toward the door, but could not
see the child. A shadow of disappointment came over her feelings, and a
strange heaviness weighed over her heart.

“Oh, I’m so sorry,” she said to herself. “I wanted to see him again.”

She pressed through the crowd of children, and made her way down among
them to the landing below and out upon the street, looking this way and
that, but could not see the child. Then she returned to the upper rooms,
but her search was in vain. Remembering that Mrs. Paulding had called
him by name, she sought for the missionary’s wife and made inquiry about
him.

“Do you mean the little fellow I called Andy?” said Mrs. Paulding.

“Yes, that’s the one,” returned Edith.

“A beautiful boy, isn’t he?”

“Indeed he is. I never saw such eyes in a child. Who is he, Mrs.
Paulding, and what is he doing here? He cannot be the child of depraved
or vicious parents.”

“I do not think he is. But from whence he came no one knows. He drifted
in from some unknown land of sorrow to find shelter on our inhospitable
coast. I am sure that God, in his wise providence, sent him here, for
his coming was the means of saving a poor debased man who is well worth
the saving.”

Then she told in a few words the story of Andy’s appearance at Mr.
Hall’s wretched hovel and the wonderful changes that followed--how a
degraded drunkard, seemingly beyond the reach of hope and help, had
been led back to sobriety and a life of honest industry by the hand of a
little child cast somehow adrift in the world, yet guarded and guided
by Him who does not lose sight in his good providence of even a single
sparrow.

“Who is this man, and where does he live?” asked Mr. Dinneford, who had
been listening to Mrs. Paulding’s brief recital.

“His name is Andrew Hall,” was replied.

“Andrew Hall!” exclaimed Mr. Dinneford, with a start and a look of
surprise.

“Yes, sir. That is his name, and he is now living alone with the child
of whom we have been speaking, not very far from here, but in a much
better neighborhood. He brought Andy around this morning to let him
enjoy the day, and has come for him, no doubt, and taken him home.”

“Give me the street and number, if you please, Mr. Paulding,” said Mr.
Dinneford, with much repressed excitement. “We will go there at once,”
 he added, turning to his daughter.

Edith’s face had become pale, and her father felt her hand tremble as
she laid it on his arm.

At this moment a man came up hurriedly to Mrs. Paulding, and said, with
manifest concern,

“Have you seen Andy, ma’am? I’ve been looking all over, but can’t find
him.”

“He was here a little while ago,” answered the missionary’s wife. “We
were just speaking of him. I thought you’d taken him home.”

“Mr. Hall!” said Edith’s father, in a tone of glad recognition,
extending his hand at the same time.

“Mr. Dinneford!” The two men stood looking at each other, with shut lips
and faces marked by intense feeling, each grasping tightly the other’s
hand.

“It is going to be well with you once more, my dear old friend!” said
Mr. Dinneford.

“God being my helper, yes!” was the firm reply. “He has taken my feet
out of the miry clay and set them on firm ground, and I have promised
him that they shall not go down into the pit again. But Andy! I must
look for him.”

And he was turning away.

“I saw Andy a little while ago,” now spoke up a woman who had come in
from the street and heard the last remark.

“Where?” asked Mr. Hall.

“A girl had him, and she was going up Briar street on the run, fairly
dragging Andy after her. She looked like Pinky Swett, and I do believe
it was her. She’s been in prison, you know but I guess her time’s up.”

Mr. Hall stopped to hear no more, but ran down stairs and up the street,
going in the direction said to have been taken by the woman. Edith sat
down, white and faint.

“Pinky Swett!” exclaimed Mrs. Paulding. “Why, that’s the girl who had
the child you were looking after a long time ago, Mr. Dinneford.”

“Yes; I remember the name, and no doubt this is the very child she had
in her possession at that time. Are you sure she has been in prison
for the last two years?” and Mr. Dinneford turned to the woman who had
mentioned her name.

“Oh yes, Sir; I remember all about it,” answered the woman. “She stole a
man’s pocket-book, and got two years for it.”

“You know her?”

“Oh yes, indeed! And she’s a bad one, I can tell you. She had somebody’s
baby round in Grubb’s court, and it was ‘most starved to death. I heard
it said it belonged to some of the big people up town, and that she was
getting hush-money for it, but I don’t know as it was true. People will
talk.”

“Do you know what became of that baby?” asked Edith, with ill-repressed
excitement. Her face was still very pale, and her forehead contracted as
by pain.

“No, ma’am. The police came round asking questions, and the baby wasn’t
seen in Grubb’s court after that.”

“You think it was Pinky Swett whom you saw just now?”

“I’m dead sure of it, sir,” turning to Mr. Dinneford, who had asked the
question.

“And you are certain it was the little boy named Andy that she had with
her?”

“I’m as sure as death, sir.”

“Did he look frightened?”

“Oh dear, yes, sir--scared as could be. He pulled back all his might,
but she whisked him along as if he’d been only a chicken. I saw them go
round the corner of Clayton street like the wind.”

Mr. Paulding now joined them, and became advised of what had happened.
He looked very grave.

“We shall find the little boy,” he said. “He cannot be concealed by this
wretched woman as the baby was; he is too old for that. The police will
ferret him out. But I am greatly concerned for Mr. Hall. That child is
the bond which holds him at safe anchorage. Break this bond, and he may
drift to sea again. I must go after him.”

And the missionary hurried away.

For over an hour Edith and her father remained at the mission waiting
for some news of little Andy. At the end of this time Mr. Paulding came
back with word that nothing could be learned beyond the fact that a
woman with a child answering to the description of Andy had been seen
getting into an up-town car on Clayton street about one o’clock. She
came, it was said by two or three who professed to have seen her, from
the direction of Briar street. The chief of police had been seen, and he
had already telegraphed to all the stations. Mr. Hall was at the central
station awaiting the result.

After getting a promise from Mr. Paulding to send a messenger the moment
news of Andy was received, Mr. Dinneford and Edith returned home.




CHAPTER XXIII.



AS Edith glanced up, on arriving before their residence, she saw for
a moment her mother’s face at the window. It vanished like the face of
a ghost, but not quick enough to prevent Edith from seeing that it was
almost colorless and had a scared look. They did not find Mrs. Dinneford
in the parlor when they came in, nor did she make her appearance until
an hour afterward, when dinner was announced. Then it was plain to both
her husband and daughter that something had occurred since morning to
trouble her profoundly. The paleness noticed by Edith at the window and
the scared look remained. Whenever she turned her eyes suddenly upon
her mother, she found her looking at her with a strange, searching
intentness. It was plain that Mrs. Dinneford saw in Edith’s face as
great a change and mystery as Edith saw in hers, and the riddle of her
husband’s countenance, so altered since morning, was harder even than
Edith’s to solve.

A drearier Christmas dinner, and one in which less food was taken
by those who ate it, could hardly have been found in the city. The
Briar-street feast was one of joy and gladness in comparison. The
courses came and went with unwonted quickness, plates bearing off the
almost untasted viands which they had received. Scarcely a word was
spoken during the meal. Mrs. Dinneford asked no question about the
dinner in Briar street, and no remark was made about it by either
Edith or her father. In half the usual time this meal was ended. Mrs.
Dinneford left the table first, and retired to her own room. As she did
so, in taking her handkerchief from her pocket, she drew out a letter,
which fell unnoticed by her upon the floor. Mr. Dinneford was about
calling her attention to it when Edith, who saw his purpose and was near
enough to touch his hand, gave a quick signal to forbear. The instant
her mother was out of the room she sprang from her seat, and had just
secured the letter when the dining-room door was pushed open, and Mrs.
Dinneford came in, white and frightened. She saw the letter in Edith’s
hand, and with a cry like some animal in pain leaped upon her and tried
to wrest it from her grasp. But Edith held it in her closed hand with
a desperate grip, defying all her mother’s efforts to get possession of
it. In her wild fear and anger Mrs. Dinneford exclaimed,

“I’ll kill you if you don’t give me that letter!” and actually, in
her blind rage, reached toward the table as if to get a knife. Mr.
Dinneford, who had been for a moment stupefied, now started forward,
and throwing his arms about his wife, held her tightly until Edith
could escape with the letter, not releasing her until the sound of his
daughter’s retiring feet were no longer heard. By this time she had
ceased to struggle; and when he released her, she stood still in a
passive, dull sort of way, her arms falling heavily to her sides. He
looked into her face, and saw that the eyes were staring wildly and
the muscles in a convulsive quiver. Then starting and reaching out
helplessly, she fell forward. Catching her in his arms, Mr. Dinneford
drew her toward a sofa, but she was dead before he could raise her from
the floor.

When Edith reached her room, she shut and locked the door. Then all her
excitement died away. She sat down, and opening the letter with hands
that gave no sign of inward agitation or suspense, read it through. It
was dated at Havana, and was as follows:

“MRS. HELEN DINNEFORD: MADAM--My physician tells me that I cannot live a
week--may die at any moment; and I am afraid to die with one unconfessed
and unatoned sin upon my conscience--a sin into which I was led by you,
the sharer of my guilt. I need not go into particulars. You know to what
I refer--the ruin of an innocent, confiding young man, your daughter’s
husband. I do not wonder that he lost his reason! But I have information
that his insanity has taken on the mildest form, and that his friends
are only keeping him at the hospital until they can get a pardon from
the governor. It is in your power and mine to establish his innocence
at once. I leave you a single mouth in which to do this, and at the same
time screen yourself, if that be possible. If, at the end of a month, it
is not done, then a copy of this letter, with a circumstantial statement
of the whole iniquitous affair, will be placed in the hands of your
husband, and another in the hands of your daughter. I have so provided
for this that no failure can take place. So be warned and make the
innocence of George Granger as clear as noonday.

“LLOYD FREELING.”

Twice Edith read this letter through before a sign of emotion was
visible. She looked about the room, down at herself, and again at the
letter.

“Am I really awake?” she said, beginning to tremble. Then the glad
but terrible truth grappled with her convictions, and through the wild
struggle and antagonism, of feeling that shook her soul there shone into
her face a joy so great that the pale features grew almost radiant.

“Innocent! innocent!” fell from her lips, over which crept a smile of
ineffable love. But it faded out quickly, and left in its place a shadow
of ineffable pain.

“Innocent! innocent!” she repeated, now clasping her hands and lifting
her eyes heavenward. “Dear Lord and Saviour! My heart is full of
thankfulness! Innocent! Oh, let it be made as clear as noonday! And my
baby, Lord--oh, my baby, my baby! Give him back to me!”

She fell forward upon her bed, kneeling, her face hidden among the
pillows, trembling and sobbing.

“Edith! Edith!” came the agitated voice of her father from without. She
rose quickly, and opening the door, saw his pale, convulsed countenance.

“Quick! quick! Your mother!” and Mr. Dinneford turned and ran down
stairs, she following. On reaching the dining-room, Edith found her
mother lying on a sofa, with the servants about her in great excitement.
Better than any one did she comprehend what she saw.

“Dead,” fell almost coldly from her lips.

“I have sent for Dr. Radcliffe. It may only be a fainting fit,” answered
Mr. Dinneford.

Edith stood a little way off from her mother, as if held from personal
contact by an invisible barrier, and looked upon her ashen face without
any sign of emotion.

“Dead, and better so,” she said, in an undertone heard only by her
father.

“My child! don’t, don’t!” exclaimed Mr. Dinneford in a deprecating
whisper.

“Dead, and better so,” she repeated, firmly.

While the servants chafed the hands and feet of Mrs. Dinneford, and did
what they could in their confused way to bring her back to life, Edith
stood a little way off, apparently undisturbed by what she saw, and
not once touching her mother’s body or offering a suggestion to the
bewildered attendants.

When Dr. Radcliffe came and looked at Mrs. Dinneford, all saw by his
countenance that he believed her dead. A careful examination proved the
truth of his first impression. She was done with life in this world.

As to the cause of her death, the doctor, gathering what he could from
her husband, pronounced it heart disease. The story told outside was
this--so the doctor gave it, and so it was understood: Mrs. Dinneford
was sitting at the table when her head was seen to sink forward, and
before any one could get to her she was dead. It was not so stated to
him by either Mr. Dinneford or Edith, but he was a prudent man, and
careful of the good fame of his patients. Family affairs he held as
sacred trusts. We’ll he knew that there had been a tragedy in this
home--a tragedy for which he was in part, he feared, responsible; and he
did not care to look into it too closely. But of all that was involved
in this tragedy he really knew little. Social gossip had its guesses
at the truth, often not very remote, and he was familiar with these,
believing little or much as it suited him.

It is not surprising that Edith’s father, on seeing the letter of Lloyd
Freeling, echoed his daughter’s words, “Better so!”

Not a tear was shed on the grave of Mrs. Dinneford. Husband and daughter
saw her body carried forth and buried out of sight with a feeling of
rejection and a sense of relief. Death had no power to soften their
hearts toward her. Charity had no mantle broad enough to cover her
wickedness; filial love was dead, and the good heart of her husband
turned away at remembrance with a shudder of horror.

Yes, it was “better so!” They had no grief, but thankfulness, that she
was dead.

On the morning after the funeral there came a letter from Havana
addressed to Mr. Dinneford. It was from the man Freeling. In it he
related circumstantially all the reader knows about the conspiracy to
destroy Granger. The letter enclosed an affidavit made by Freeling, and
duly attested by the American consul, in which he stated explicitly
that all the forgeries were made by himself, and that George Granger was
entirely ignorant of the character of the paper he had endorsed with the
name of the firm.

Since the revelation made to Edith by Freeling’s letter to her mother,
all the repressed love of years, never dead nor diminished, but only
chained, held down, covered over, shook itself free from bonds and the
wrecks and debris of crushed hopes. It filled her heart with an agony
of fullness. Her first passionate impulse was to go to him and throw
herself into his arms. But a chilling thought came with the impulse, and
sent all the outgoing heart-beats back. She was no longer the wife of
George Granger. In a weak hour she had yielded to the importunities of
her father, and consented to an application for divorce. No, she was no
longer the wife of George Granger. She had no right to go to him. If it
were true that reason had been in part or wholly restored, would he not
reject her with scorn? The very thought made her heart stand still. It
would be more than she could bear.




CHAPTER XXIV.



NO other result than the one that followed could have been hoped for.
The strain upon Edith was too great. After the funeral of her
mother mind and body gave way, and she passed several weeks in a
half-unconscious state.

Two women, leading actors in this tragedy of life, met for the first
time in over two years--Mrs. Hoyt, alias Bray, and Pinky Swett. It had
not gone very well with either of them during that period. Pinky, as the
reader knows, had spent the time in prison, and Mrs. Bray, who had also
gone a step too far in her evil ways, was now hiding from the police
under a different name from any heretofore assumed. They met, by what
seemed an accident, on the street.

“Pinky!”

“Fan!”

Dropped from their lips in mutual surprise and pleasure. A little while
they held each other’s hands, and looked into each other’s faces with
keenly-searching, sinister eyes, one thought coming uppermost in the
minds of both--the thought of that long-time-lost capital in trade, the
cast-adrift baby.

From the street they went to Mrs. Bray’s hiding-place a small
ill-furnished room in one of the suburbs of the city--and there took
counsel together.

“What became of that baby?” was one of Mrs. Bray’s first questions.

“It’s all right,” answered Pinky.

“Do you know where it is?”

“Yes.”

“And can you put your hand on it?”

“At any moment.”

“Not worth the trouble of looking after now,” said Mrs. Bray, assuming
an indifferent manner.

“Why?” Pinky turned on her quickly.

“Oh, because the old lady is dead.”

“What old lady?”

“The grandmother.”

“When did she die?”

“Three or four weeks ago.”

“What was her name?” asked Pinky.

Mrs. Bray closed her lips tightly and shook her head.

“Can’t betray thatt secret,” she replied.

“Oh, just as you like;” and Pinky gave her head an impatient toss. “High
sense of honor! Respect for the memory of a departed friend! But it
won’t go down with me, Fan. We know each other too well. As for the
baby--a pretty big one now, by the way, and as handsome a boy as you’ll
find in all this city--he’s worth something to somebody, and I’m on that
somebody’s track. There’s mother as well as a grandmother in the case,
Fan.”

Mrs. Bray’s eyes flashed, and her face grew red with an excitement she
could not hold back. Pinky watched her keenly.

“There’s somebody in this town to-day who would give thousands to get
him,” she added, still keeping her eyes on her companion. “And as I was
saying, I’m on that somebody’s track. You thought no one but you and
Sal Long knew anything, and that when she died you had the secret all to
yourself. But Sal didn’t keep mum about it.”

“Did she tell you anything?” demanded Mrs. Bray, thrown off her guard by
Pinky’s last assertion.

“Enough for me to put this and that together and make it nearly all
out,” answered Pinky, with great coolness. “I was close after the game
when I got caught myself. But I’m on the track once more, and don’t mean
to be thrown off. A link or two in the chain of evidence touching the
parentage of this child, and I am all right. You have these missing
links, and can furnish them if you will. If not, I am bound to find
them. You know me, Fan. If I once set my heart on doing a thing, heaven
and earth can’t stop me.”

“You’re devil enough for anything, I know, and can lie as fast as you
can talk,” returned Mrs. Bray, in considerable irritation. “If I could
believe a word you said! But I can’t.”

“No necessity for it,” retorted Pinky, with a careless toss of her head.
“If you don’t wish to hunt in company, all right. I’ll take the game
myself.”

“You forget,” said Mrs. Bray, “I can spoil your game.”

“Indeed! how?”

“By blowing the whole thing to Mr.--”

“Mr. who?” asked Pinky, leaning forward eagerly as her companion paused
without uttering the name that was on her lips.

“Wouldn’t you like to know?” Mrs. Bray gave a low tantalizing laugh.

“I’m not sure that I would, from you. I’m bound to know somehow, and it
will be cheapest to find out for myself,” replied Pinky, hiding her real
desire, which was to get the clue she sought from Mrs. Bray, and which
she alone could give. “As for blowing on me, I wouldn’t like anything
better. I wish you’d call on Mr. Somebody at once, and tell him I’ve
got the heir of his house and fortune, or on Mrs. Somebody, and tell her
I’ve got her lost baby. Do it, Fan; that’s a deary.”

“Suppose I were to do so?” asked Mrs. Bray, repressing the anger that
was in her heart, and speaking with some degree of calmness.

“What then?”

“The police would be down on you in less than an hour.”

“And what then?”

“Your game would be up.”

Pinky laughed derisively:

“The police are down on me now, and have been coming down on me for
nearly a month past. But I’m too much for them. I know how to cover my
tracks.”

“Down on you! For what?”

“They’re after the boy.”

“What do they know about him? Who set them after him?”

“I grabbed him up last Christmas down in Briar street after being on his
track for a week, and them that had him are after him sharp.”

“Who had him?”

“I’m a little puzzled at the rumpus it has kicked up,” said Pinky, in
reply. “It’s stirred things amazingly.”

“How?”

“Oh, as I said, the police are after me sharp. They’ve had me before the
mayor twice, and got two or three to swear they saw me pick up the child
in Briar street and run off with him. But I denied it all.”

“And I can swear that you confessed it all to me,” said Mrs. Bray, with
ill-concealed triumph.

“It won’t do, Fan,” laughed Pinky. “They’ll not be able to find him
any more then than now. But I wish you would. I’d like to know this Mr.
Somebody of whom you spoke. I’ll sell out to him. He’ll bid high, I’m
thinking.”

Baffled by her sharper accomplice, and afraid to trust her with the
secret of the child’s parentage lest she should rob her of the last gain
possible to receive out of this great iniquity, Mrs. Bray became wrought
up to a state of ungovernable passion, and in a blind rage pushed Pinky
from her room. The assault was sudden and unexpected---so sudden that
Pinky, who was the stronger, had no time to recover herself and take
the offensive before she was on the outside and the door shut and locked
against her. A few impotent threats and curses were interchanged between
the two infuriated women, and then Pinky went away.

On the day following, as Mr. Dinneford was preparing to go out, he was
informed that a lady had called and was waiting down stairs to see him.
She did not send her card nor give her name. On going into the room
where the visitor had been shown, he saw a little woman with a dark,
sallow complexion. She arose and came forward a step or two in evident
embarrassment.

“Mr. Dinneford?” she said.

“That is my name, madam,” was replied.

“You do not know me?”

Mr. Dinneford looked at her closely, and then answered,

“I have not that pleasure, madam.”

The woman stood for a moment or two, hesitating.

“Be seated, madam,” said Mr. Dinneford.

She sat down, seeming very ill at ease. He took a chair in front of her.

“You wish to see me?”

“Yes, sir, and on a matter that deeply concerns you. I was your
daughter’s nurse when her baby was born.”

She paused at this. Mr. Dinneford had caught his breath. She saw the
almost wild interest that flushed his face.

After waiting a moment for some response, she added, in a low, steady
voice,

“That baby is still alive, and I am the only person who can clearly
identify him.”

Mr. Dinneford did not reply immediately. He saw by the woman’s face
that she was not to be trusted, and that in coming to him she had only
sinister ends in view. Her story might be true or false. He thought
hurriedly, and tried to regain exterior calmness. As soon as he felt
that he could speak without betraying too much eagerness, he said, with
an appearance of having recognized her,

“You are Mrs.----?”

He paused, but she did not supply the name.

“Mrs.----? Mrs.----? what is it?”

“No matter, Mr. Dinneford,” answered Mrs. Bray, with the coolness and
self-possession she had now regained. “What I have just told you is
true. If you wish to follow up the matter--wish to get possession of
your daughter’s child--you have the opportunity; if not, our interview
ends, of course;” and she made a feint, as if going to rise.

“Is it the child a woman named Pinky Swett stole away from Briar street
on Christmas day?” asked Mr. Dinneford, speaking from a thought that
flashed into his mind, and so without premeditation. He fixed his eyes
intently on Mrs. Bray’s face, and saw by its quick changes and blank
surprise that he had put the right question. Before she could recover
herself and reply, he added,

“And you are, doubtless, this same Pinky Swett.”

The half smile, half sneer, that curved the woman’s lips, told Mr.
Dinneford that he was mistaken.

“No, sir,” was returned, with regained coolness. “I am not ‘this same
Pinky Swett.’ You are out there.”

“But you know her?”

“I don’t know anything just now, sir,” answered the woman, with a chill
in her tones. She closed her lips tightly, and shrunk back in her chair.

“What, then, are your here for?” asked Mr. Dinneford, showing
considerable sternness of manner.

“I thought you understood,” returned the woman. “I was explicit in my
statement.”

“Oh, I begin to see. There is a price on your information,” said Mr.
Dinneford.

“Yes, sir. You might have known that from the first. I will be frank
with you.”

“But why have you kept this secret for three years? Why did you not come
before?” asked Mr. Dinneford.

“Because I was paid to keep the secret. Do you understand?”

Too well did Mr. Dinneford understand, and it was with difficulty he
could suppress a groan as his head drooped forward and his eyes fell to
the floor.

“It does not pay to keep it any longer,” added the woman.

Mr. Dinneford made no response.

“Gain lies on the other side. The secret is yours, if you will have it.”

“At what price?” asked Mr. Dinneford, without lifting his eyes.

“One thousand dollars, cash in hand.”

“On production of the child and proof of its identity?”

Mrs. Bray took time to answer. “I do not mean to have any slip in this
matter,” she said. “It was a bad business at the start, as I told Mrs.
Dinneford, and has given me more trouble than I’ve been paid for, ten
times over. I shall not be sorry to wash my hands clean of it; but
whenever I do so, there must be compensation and security. I haven’t the
child, and you may hunt me to cover with all the police hounds in the
city, and yet not find him.”

“If I agree to pay your demand,” replied Mr. Dinneford, “it can only be
on production and identification of the child.”

“After which your humble servant will be quickly handed over to the
police,” a low, derisive laugh gurgling in the woman’s throat.

“The guilty are ever in dread, and the false always in fear of
betrayal,” said Mr. Dinneford. “I can make no terms with you for any
antecedent reward. The child must be in my possession and his parentage
clearly proved before I give you a dollar. As to what may follow to
yourself, your safety will lie in your own silence. You hold, and will
still hold, a family secret that we shall not care to have betrayed. If
you should ever betray it, or seek, because of its possession, to annoy
or prey upon us, I shall consider all honorable contract we may have at
an end, and act accordingly.”

“Will you put in writing, an obligation to pay me one thousand dollars
in case I bring the child and prove its identity?”

“No; but I will give you my word of honor that this sum shall be placed
in your hands whenever you produce the child.”

Mrs. Bray remained silent for a considerable time, then, as if
satisfied, arose, saying,

“You will hear from me by to-morrow or the day after, at farthest.
Good-morning.”

As she was moving toward the door Mr. Dinneford said,

“Let me have your name and residence, madam.”

The woman quickened her steps, partly turning her head as she did so,
and said, with a sinister curl of the lip,

“No, I thank you, sir.”

In the next moment she was gone.




CHAPTER XXV.



NOTHING of all this was communicated to Edith. After a few weeks
of prostration strength came slowly back to mind and body, and with
returning strength her interest in her old work revived. Her feet went
down again into lowly ways, and her hands took hold of suffering.

Immediately on receipt of Freeling’s letter and affidavit, Mr. Dinneford
had taken steps to procure a pardon for George Granger. It came within
a few days after the application was made, and the young man was taken
from the asylum where he had been for three years.

Mr. Dinneford went to him with Freeling’s affidavit and the pardon, and
placing them in his hands, watched him closely to see the effect they
would produce. He found him greatly changed in appearance, looking older
by many years. His manner was quiet, as that of one who had learned
submission after long suffering. But his eyes were clear and steady, and
without sign of mental aberration. He read Freeling’s affidavit first,
folded it in an absent kind of way, as if he were dreaming, reopened and
read it through again. Then Mr. Dinneford saw a strong shiver pass over
him; he became pale and slightly convulsed. His face sunk in his hands,
and he sat for a while struggling with emotions that he found it almost
impossible to hold back.

When he looked up, the wild struggle was over.

“It is too late,” he said.

“No, George, it is never too late,” replied Mr. Dinneford. “You have
suffered a cruel wrong, but in the future there are for you, I doubt
not, many compensations.”

He shook his head in a dreary way, murmuring,

“I have lost too much.”

“Nothing that may not be restored. And in all you have not lost a good
conscience.”

“No, thank God!” answered the young man, with a sudden flush in his
face. “But for that anchor to my soul, I should have long ago drifted
out to sea a helpless wreck. No thank God! I have not lost a good
conscience.”

“You have not yet read the other paper,” said Mr. Dinneford. “It is your
pardon.”

“Pardon!” An indignant flash came into Granger’s eyes. “Oh, sir, that
hurts too deeply. Pardon! I am not a criminal.”

“Falsely so regarded in the eyes of the law, but now proved to be
innocent, and so expressed by the governor. It is not a pardon in any
sense of remission, but a declaration of innocence and sorrow for the
undeserved wrongs you have suffered.”

“It is well,” he answered, gloomily--“the best that can be done; and I
should be thankful.”

“You cannot be more deeply thankful than I am, George.” Mr. Dinneford
spoke with much feeling. “Let us bury this dreadful past out of our
sight, and trust in God for a better future. You are free again, and
your innocence shall, so far as I have power to do it, be made as clear
as noonday. You are at liberty to depart from here at once. Will you go
with me now?”

Granger lifted a half-surprised look to Mr. Dinneford’s face.

“Thank you,” he replied, after a few moments’ thought. “I shall never
forget your kindness, but I prefer remaining here for a few days, until
I can confer with my friends and make some decision as to the future.”

Granger’s manner grew reserved, almost embarrassed. Mr. Dinneford was
not wrong in his impression of the cause. How could he help thinking of
Edith, who, turning against him with the rest, had accepted the theory
of guilt and pronounced her sentence upon him, hardest of all to bear?
So it appeared to him, for he had nothing but the hard fact before him
that she had applied for and obtained a divorce.

Yes, it was the thought of Edith that drew Granger back and covered him
with reserve. What more could Mr. Dinneford say? He had not considered
all the hearings of this unhappy case; but now that he remembered the
divorce, he began to see, how full of embarrassment it was, and how
delicate the relation he bore to this unhappy victim of his wife’s
dreadful crime.

What could he say for Edith? Nothing! He knew that her heart had never
turned itself away from this man, though she had, under a pressure she
was not strong enough to resist, turned her back upon him and cast aside
his dishonored name, thus testifying to the world that she believed him
base and criminal. If he should speak of her, would not the young man
answer with indignant scorn?

“Give me the address of your friends, and I will call upon them
immediately,” said Mr. Dinneford, replying, after a long silence, to
Granger’s last remark. “I am here to repair, to any extent that in me
lies the frightful wrongs you have suffered. I shall make your cause my
own, and never rest until every false tarnish shall be wiped from your
name. In honor and conscience I am bound to this.”

Looking at the young man intently, he saw a grateful response in the
warmer color that broke into his face and in the moisture that filled
his eyes.

“I would be base if I were not thankful, Mr. Dinneford,” Granger
replied. “But you cannot put yourself in my place, cannot know what I
have suffered, cannot comprehend the sense of wrong and cruel rejection
that has filled my soul with the very gall of bitterness. To be cast out
utterly, suddenly and without warning from heaven into hell, and for no
evil thought or act! Ah, sir! you do not understand.”

“It was a frightful ordeal, George,” answered Mr. Dinneford, laying his
hand on Granger with the tenderness of a father. “But, thank God! it
is over. You have stood the terrible heat, and now, coming out of the
furnace, I shall see to it that not even the smell of fire remain upon
your garments.”

Still the young man could not be moved from his purpose to remain at the
asylum until he had seen and conferred with his friends, in whose hands
Mr. Dinneford placed the governor’s pardon and the affidavit of Lloyd
Freeling setting forth his innocence.

Mrs. Bray did not call on Mr. Dinneford, as she had promised. She had
quarreled with Pinky Swett, as the reader will remember, and in a fit
of blind anger thrust her from the room. But in the next moment she
remembered that she did not know where the girl lived, and if she lost
sight of her now, might not again come across her for weeks or months.
So putting on her hat and cloak hurriedly, she waited until she heard
Pinky going down stairs, and then came out noiselessly, and followed her
into the street. She had to be quick in her movements, for Pinky, hot
with anger, was dashing off at a rapid speed. For three or four blocks
Mrs. Bray kept her in view; but there being only a few persons in the
street, she had to remain at a considerable distance behind, so as not
to attract her attention. Suddenly, she lost sight of Pinky. She had
looked back on hearing a noise in the street; turning again, she could
see nothing of the girl. Hurrying forward to the corner which Pinky had
in all probability turned, Mrs. Bray looked eagerly up and down, but to
her disappointment Pinky was not in sight.

“Somewhere here. I thought it was farther off,” said Mrs. Bray to
herself. “It’s too bad that I should have lost sight of her.”

She stood irresolute for a little while, then walked down one of the
blocks and back on the other side. Halfway down, a small street or alley
divided the block.

“It’s in there, no doubt,” said Mrs. Bray, speaking to herself again.
On the corner was a small shop in which notions and trimmings were sold.
Going into this, she asked for some trifling articles, and while looking
over them drew the woman who kept the shop into conversation.

“What kind of people live in this little street?” she inquired, in a
half-careless tone.

The woman smiled as she answered, with a slight toss of the head,

“Oh, all kinds.”

“Good, bad and indifferent?”

“Yes, white sheep and black.”

“So I thought. The black sheep will get in. You can’t keep ‘em out.”

“No, and ‘tisn’t much use trying,” answered the shop-keeper, with a
levity of manner not unmarked by Mrs. Bray, who said,

“The black sheep have to live as well as the white ones.”

“Just so. You hit the nail there.”

“And I suppose you find their money as good as that of the whitest?”

“Oh yes.”

“And quite as freely spent?”

“As to that,” answered the woman, who was inclined to be talkative and
gossipy, “we make more out of the black sheep than out of the white
ones. They don’t higgle so about prices. Not that we have two prices,
but you see they don’t try to beat us down, and never stop to worry
about the cost of a thing if they happen to fancy it. They look and buy,
and there’s the end of it.”

“I understand,” remarked Mrs. Bray, with a familiar nod. “It may be
wicked to say so; but if I kept a store like this, I’d rather have the
sinners for customers than the saints.”

She had taken a seat at the counter; and now, leaning forward upon her
arms and looking at the shop-woman in a pleasant, half-confidential way,
said,

“You know everybody about here?”

“Pretty much.”

“The black sheep as well as the white?”

“As customers.”

“Of course; that’s all I mean,” was returned. “I’d be sorry if you knew
them in any other way--some of them, at least.” Then, after a pause, “Do
you know a girl they call Pinky?”

“I may know her, but not by that name. What kind of a looking person is
she?”

“A tall, bold-faced, dashing, dare-devil sort of a girl, with a snaky
look in her eyes. She wears a pink hat with a white feather.”

“Yes, I think I have seen some one like that, but she’s not been around
here long.”

“When did you see her last?”

“If it’s the same one you mean, I saw her go by here not ten minutes
ago. She lives somewhere down the alley.”

“Do you know the house?”

“I do not; but it can be found, no doubt. You called her Pinky.”

“Yes. Her name is Pinky Swett.”

“O-h! o-h!” ejaculated the shop-woman, lifting her eyebrows in a
surprised way. “Why, that’s the girl the police were after. They said
she’d run off with somebody’s child.”

“Did they arrest her?” asked Mrs. Bray, repressing, as far as possible,
all excitement.

“They took her off once or twice, I believe, but didn’t make anything
out of her. At any rate, the child was not found. It belonged, they
said, to a rich up-town family that the girl was trying to black-mail.
But I don’t see how that could be.”

“The child isn’t about here?”

“Oh dear, no! If it was, it would have been found long before this, for
the police are hunting around sharp. If it’s all as they say, she’s got
it hid somewhere else.”

While Mrs. Bray talked with the shop-woman, Pinky, who had made a
hurried call at her room, only a hundred yards away, was going as fast
as a street-car could take her to a distant part of the city. On leaving
the car at the corner of a narrow, half-deserted street, in which the
only sign of life was a child or two at play in the snow and a couple
of goats lying on a cellar-door, she walked for half the distance of
a block, and then turned into a court lined on both sides with small,
ill-conditioned houses, not half of them tenanted. Snow and ice blocked
the little road-way, except where a narrow path had been cut along close
to the houses.

Without knocking, Pinky entered one of these poor tenements. As she
pushed open the door, a woman who was crouching down before a small
stove, on which something was cooking, started up with a look of
surprise that changed to one of anxiety and fear the moment she
recognized her visitor.

“Is Andy all right?” cried Pinky, alarm in her face.

The woman tried to stammer out something, but did not make herself
understood. At this, Pinky, into whose eyes flashed a fierce light,
caught her by the wrists in a grip that almost crushed the bones.

“Out with it! where is Andy?”

Still the frightened woman could not speak.

“If that child isn’t here, I’ll murder you!” said Pinky, now white with
anger, tightening her grasp.

At this, with a desperate effort, the woman flung her off, and catching
up a long wooden bench, raised it over her head.

“If there’s to be any murder going on,” she said, recovering her powers
of speech, “I’ll take the first hand! As for the troublesome brat, he’s
gone. Got out of the window and climbed down the spout. Wonder he wasn’t
killed. Did fall--I don’t know how far--and must have hurt himself,
for I heard a noise as if something heavy had dropped in the yard, but
thought it was next door. Half an hour afterward, in going up stairs
and opening the door of the room where I kept him locked in, I found it
empty and the window open. That’s the whole story. I ran out and looked
everywhere, but he was off. And now, if the murder is to come, I’m going
to be in first.”

And she still kept the long wooden bench poised above her head.

Pinky saw a dangerous look in the woman’s eyes.

“Put that thing down,” she cried, “and don’t be a fool. Let me see;”
 and she darted past the woman and ran up stairs. She found the window
of Andy’s prison open and the print of his little fingers on the
snow-covered sill outside, where he had held on before dropping to the
ground, a distance of many feet. There was no doubt now in her mind as
to the truth of the woman’s story. The child had made his escape.

“Have you been into all the neighbors’ houses?” asked Pinky as she came
down hastily.

“Into some, but not all,” she replied.

“How long is it since he got away?”

“More than two hours.”

