subject which the younger gentleman had introduced, in the belief, which
would scarcely have pleased the other, that he was much embarrassed. His
good-nature went still further; and when his cousin returned presently,
with Mrs. Ellison, he presented Mr. Arbuton to the ladies, and then
thoughtfully made Mrs. Ellison walk up and down the deck with him for
the exercise she would not take ashore, that the others might be left to
deal with their vexation alone.

"I am very sorry, Miss Ellison," said Mr. Arbuton, "to have been the
means of a mistake to you to-day."

"And I was dreadfully ashamed to make you the victim of my blunder,"
answered Miss Ellison penitently; and a little silence ensued. Then as
if she had suddenly been able to alienate the case, and see it apart
from herself in its unmanageable absurdity, she broke into a confiding
laugh, very like her cousin's, and said, "Why, it's one of the most
hopeless things I ever heard of. I don't see what in the world can be
done about it."

"It is rather a difficult matter, and I'm not prepared to say myself.
Before I make up my mind I should like it to happen again."

Mr. Arbuton had no sooner made this speech, which he thought neat, than
he was vexed with himself for having made it, since nothing was further
from his purpose than a flirtation. But the dark, vicinity, the young
girl's prettiness, the apparent freshness and reliance on his sympathy
from which her frankness came, were too much: he tried to congeal again,
and ended in some feebleness about the scenery, which was indeed very
lonely and wild, after the boat started up the Saguenay, leaving the few
lights of Tadoussac to blink and fail behind her. He had an absurd sense
of being alone in the world there with the young lady; and he suffered
himself to enjoy the situation, which was as perfectly safe as anything
could be. He and Miss Ellison had both come on from Niagara, it seemed,
and they talked of that place, she consciously withholding the fact that
she had noticed Mr. Arbuton there; they had both come down the Rapids of
the St. Lawrence, and they had both stopped a day in Montreal. These
common experiences gave them a surprising interest for each other, which
was enhanced by the discovery that their experiences differed
thereafter, and that whereas she had passed three days at Quebec, he, as
we know, had come on directly from Montreal.

"Did you enjoy Quebec very much, Miss Ellison?"

"O yes, indeed! It's a beautiful old town, with everything in it that I
had always read about and never expected to see. You know it's a walled
city."

"Yes. But I confess I had forgotten it till this morning. Did you find
it all that you expected a walled city to be?"

"More, if possible. There were some Boston people with us there, and
they said it was exactly like Europe. They fairly sighed over it, and it
seemed to remind them of pretty nearly everything they had seen abroad.
They were just married."

"Did that make Quebec look like Europe?"

"No, but I suppose it made them willing to see it in the pleasantest
light. Mrs. March--that was their name--wouldn't allow me to say that
I enjoyed Quebec, because if I hadn't seen Europe, I couldn't
properly enjoy it. 'You may think you enjoy it,' she was always
saying, 'but that's merely fancy.' Still I cling to my delusion. But I
don't know whether I cared more for Quebec, or the beautiful little
villages in the country all about it. The whole landscape looks just
like a dream of 'Evangeline.'"

"Indeed! I must certainly stop at Quebec. I should like to see an
American landscape that put one in mind of anything. What can your
imagination do for the present scenery?"

"I don't think it needs any help from me," replied the young girl, as if
the tone of her companion had patronized and piqued her. She turned as
she spoke and looked up the sad, lonely river. The moon was making its
veiled face seen through the gray heaven, and touching the black stream
with hints of melancholy light. On either hand the uninhabitable shore
rose in desolate grandeur, friendless heights of rock with a thin
covering of pines seen in dim outline along their tops and deepening
into the solid dark of hollows and ravines upon their sides. The cry of
some wild bird struck through the silence of which the noise of the
steamer had grown to be a part, and echoed away to nothing. Then from
the saloon there came on a sudden the notes of a song; and Miss Ellison
led the way within, where most of the other passengers were grouped
about the piano. The English girl with the corn-colored hair sat, in
ravishing picture, at the instrument, and the commonish man and his very
plain wife were singing with heavenly sweetness together.

"Isn't it beautiful!" said Miss Ellison. "How nice it must be to be able
to do such things!"

"Yes? do you think so? It's rather public," answered her companion.

When the English people had ended, a grave, elderly Canadian gentleman
sat down to give what he believed a comic song, and sent everybody
disconsolate to bed.

"Well, Kitty?" cried Mrs. Ellison, shutting herself inside the young
lady's state-room a moment.

"Well, Fanny?"

"Isn't he handsome?"

"He is, indeed."

"Is he nice?"

"I don't know."

"Sweet?"

"Ice-cream," said Kitty, and placidly let herself be kissed an
enthusiastic good-night. Before Mrs. Ellison slept she wished to ask her
husband one question.

"What is it?"

"Should you want Kitty to marry a Bostonian? They say Bostonians are so
cold."

"What Bostonian has been asking Kitty to marry him?"

"O, how spiteful you are! I didn't say any had. But if there should?"

"Then it'll be time to think about it. You've married Kitty right and
left to everybody who's looked at her since we left Niagara, and I've
worried myself to death investigating the character of her husbands. Now
I'm not going to do it any longer,--till she has an offer."

"Very well. You can depreciate your own cousin, if you like. But I
know what I shall do. I shall let her wear all my best things. How
fortunate it is, Richard, that we're exactly of a size! O, I am so glad
we brought Kitty along! If she should marry and settle down in
Boston--no, I hope she could get her husband to live in New York--"

"Go on, go on, my dear!" cried Colonel Ellison, with a groan of despair.
"Kitty has talked twenty-five minutes with this young man about the
hotels and steamboats, and of course he'll be round to-morrow morning
asking my consent to marry her as soon as we can get to a justice of the
peace. My hair is gradually turning gray, and I shall be bald before my
time; but I don't mind that if you find any pleasure in these little
hallucinations of yours. Go on!"




II.

MRS. ELLISON'S LITTLE MANEUVRE.


The next morning our tourists found themselves at rest in Ha-Ha Bay, at
the head of navigation for the larger steamers. The long line of sullen
hills had fallen away, and the morning sun shone warm on what in a
friendlier climate would have been a very lovely landscape. The bay was
an irregular oval, with shores that rose in bold but not lofty heights
on one side, while on the other lay a narrow plain with two villages
clinging about the road that followed the crescent beach, and lifting
each the slender tin-clad spire of its church to sparkle in the sun.

At the head of the bay was a mountainous top, and along its waters were
masses of rocks, gayly painted with lichens and stained with metallic
tints of orange and scarlet. The unchanging growth of stunted pines was
the only forest in sight, though Ha-Ha Bay is a famous lumbering port,
and some schooners now lay there receiving cargoes of odorous pine
plank. The steamboat-wharf was all astir with the liveliest toil and
leisure. The boat was taking on wood, which was brought in wheelbarrows
to the top of the steep, smooth gangway-planking, where the habitant
in charge planted his broad feet for the downward slide, and was hurled
aboard more or less en masse by the fierce velocity of his heavy-laden
wheelbarrow. Amidst the confusion and hazard of this feat a procession
of other habitans marched aboard, each one bearing under his arm a
coffin-shaped wooden box. The rising fear of Colonel Ellison, that these
boxes represented the loss of the whole infant population of Ha-Ha Bay,
was checked by the reflection that the region could not have produced so
many children, and calmed altogether by the purser, who said that they
were full of huckleberries, and that Colonel Ellison could have as many
as he liked for fifteen cents a bushel. This gave him a keen sense of
the poverty of the land, and he bought of the boys who came aboard such
abundance of wild red raspberries, in all manner of birch-bark canoes
and goblets and cornucopias, that he was obliged to make presents of
them to the very dealers whose stock he had exhausted, and he was in
treaty with the local half-wit--very fine, with a hunchback, and a
massive wen on one side of his head--to take charity in the wild fruits
of his native province, when the crowd about him was gently opened by a
person who advanced with a flourishing bow and a sprightly "Good
morning, good morning, sir!" "How do you do?" asked Colonel Ellison; but
the other, intent on business, answered, "I am the only person at Ha-Ha
Bay who speaks English, and I have come to ask if you would not like to
make a promenade in my horse and buggy upon the mountain before
breakfast. You shall be gone as long as you will for one shilling and
sixpence. I will show you all that there is to be seen about the place,
and the beautiful view of the bay from the top of the mountain. But it
is elegant, you know, I can assure you."

The speaker was so fluent of his English, he had such an audacious,
wide-branching mustache, such a twinkle in his left eye,--which wore its
lid in a careless, slouching fashion,--that the heart of man naturally
clove to him; and Colonel Ellison agreed on the spot to make the
proposed promenade, for himself and both his ladies, of whom he went
joyfully in search. He found them at the stern of the boat, admiring the
wild scenery, and looking

    "Fresh as the morn and as the season fair."

He was not a close observer, and of his wife's wardrobe he had the
ignorance of a good husband, who, as soon as the pang of paying for her
dresses is past, forgets whatever she has; but he could not help seeing
that some gayeties of costume which he had dimly associated with his
wife now enhanced the charms of his cousin's nice little face and
figure. A scarf of lively hue carelessly tied about the throat to keep
off the morning chill, a prettier ribbon, a more stylish jacket than
Miss Ellison owned,--what do I know?--an air of preparation for battle,
caught the colonel's eye, and a conscious red stole responsive into
Kitty's cheek.

"Kitty," said he, "don't you let yourself be made a goose of."

"I hope she won't--by you!" retorted his wife, "and I'll thank you,
Colonel Ellison, not to be a Betty, whatever you are. I don't think it's
manly to be always noticing ladies' clothes."

"Who said anything about clothes?" demanded the colonel, taking his
stand upon the letter.

"Well, don't you, at any rate. Yes, I'd like to ride, of all things;
and we've time enough, for breakfast isn't ready till half past eight.
Where's the carriage?"

The only English scholar at Ha-Ha Bay had taken the light wraps of the
ladies and was moving off with them. "This way, this way," he said,
waving his hand towards a larger number of vehicles on the shore than
could have been reasonably attributed to Ha-Ha Bay. "I hope you won't
object to having another passenger with you? There's plenty of room for
all. He seems a very nice, gentlemanly person," said he, with a queer,
patronizing graciousness which he had no doubt caught from his English
patrons.

"The more the merrier," answered Colonel Ellison, and "Not in the
least!" said his wife, not meaning the proverb. Her eye had swept the
whole array of vehicles and had found them all empty, save one, in which
she detected the blamelessly coated back of Mr. Arbuton. But I ought
perhaps to explain Mrs. Ellison's motives better than they can be made
to appear in her conduct. She cared nothing for Mr. Arbuton; and she had
no logical wish to see Kitty in love with him. But here were two young
people thrown somewhat romantically together; Mrs. Ellison was a born
match-maker, and to have refrained from promoting their better
acquaintance in the interest of abstract matrimony was what never could
have entered into her thought or desire. Her whole being closed for the
time about this purpose; her heart, always warm towards Kitty,--whom she
admired with a sort of generous frenzy,--expanded with all kinds of
lovely designs; in a word, every dress she had she would instantly have
bestowed upon that worshipful creature who was capable of adding another
marriage to the world. I hope the reader finds nothing vulgar or
unbecoming in this, for I do not; it was an enthusiasm, pure and simple,
a beautiful and unselfish abandon; and I am sure men ought to be sorry
that they are not worthier to be favored by it. Ladies have often to
lament in the midst of their finesse that, really, no man is deserving
the fate they devote themselves to prepare for him, or, in other words,
that women cannot marry women.

I am not going to be so rash as try to depict Mrs. Ellison's arts, for
then, indeed, I should make her appear the clumsy conspirator she was
not, and should merely convict myself of ignorance of such matters.
Whether Mr. Arbuton was ever aware of them, I am not sure: as a man he
was, of course, obtuse and blind; but then, on the other hand, he had
seen far more of the world than Mrs. Ellison, and she may have been
clear as day to him. Probably, though, he did not detect any design; he
could not have conceived of such a thing in a person with whom he had
been so irregularly made acquainted, and to whom he felt himself so
hopelessly superior. A film of ice such as in autumn you find casing the
still pools early in the frosty mornings had gathered upon his manner
over night; but it thawed under the greetings of the others, and he
jumped actively out of the vehicle to offer the ladies their choice of
seats. When all was arranged he found himself at Mrs. Ellison's side,
for Kitty had somewhat eagerly climbed to the front seat with the
colonel. In these circumstances it was pure zeal that sustained Mrs.
Ellison in the flattering constancy with which she babbled on to Mr.
Arbuton and refrained from openly resenting Kitty's contumacy.

As the wagon began to ascend the hill, the road was so rough that the
springs smote together with pitiless jolts, and the ladies uttered some
irrepressible moans. "Never mind, my dear," said the colonel, turning
about to his wife, "we've got all the English there is at Ha-Ha Bay, any
way." Whereupon the driver gave him a wink of sudden liking and
good-fellowship. At the same time his tongue was loosed, and he began to
talk of himself. "You see my dog, how he leaps at the horse's nose? He
is a moose-dog, and keeps himself in practice of catching the moose by
the nose. You ought to come in the hunting season. I could furnish you
with Indians and everything you need to hunt with. I am a dealer in wild
beasts, you know, and I must keep prepared to take them."

"Wild beasts?"

"Yes, for Barnum and the other showmen. I deal in deer, wolf, bear,
beaver, moose, cariboo, wild-cat, link--"

"What?"

"Link--link! You say deer for deers, and link for lynx, don't you?"

"Certainly," answered the unblushing colonel. "Are there many link about
here?"

"Not many, and they are a very expensive animal. I have been shamefully
treated in a link that I have sold to a Boston showman. It was a
difficult beast to take; bit my Indian awfully; and Mr. Doolittle would
not give the price he promised."

"What an outrage!"

"Yes, but it was not so bad as it might have been. He wanted the money
back afterwards; the link died in about two weeks," said the dealer in
wild animals, with a smile that curled his mustache into his ears, and a
glance at Colonel Ellison. "He may have been bruised, I suppose. He may
have been homesick. Perhaps he was never a very strong link. The link is
a curious animal, miss," he said to Kitty, in conclusion.

They had been slowly climbing the mountain road, from which, on either
hand, the pasturelands fell away in long, irregular knolls and hollows.
The tops were quite barren, but in the little vales, despite the stones,
a short grass grew very thick and tenderly green, and groups of kine
tinkled their soft bells in a sweet, desultory assonance as they cropped
the herbage. Below, the bay filled the oval of the hills with its sunny
expanse, and the white steamer, where she lay beside the busy wharf, and
the black lumber-ships, gave their variety to the pretty scene, which
was completed by the picturesque villages on the shore. It was a very
simple sight, but somehow very touching, as if the soft spectacle were
but a respite from desolation and solitude; as indeed it was.

Mr. Arbuton must have been talking of travel elsewhere, for now he said
to Mrs. Ellison, "This looks like a bit of Norway; the bay yonder might
very well be a fjord of the Northern sea."

Mrs. Ellison murmured her sense of obligation to the bay, the fjord, and
Mr. Arbuton, for their complaisance, and Kitty remembered that he had
somewhat snubbed her the night before for attributing any suggestive
grace to the native scenery. "Then you've really found something in an
American landscape. I suppose we ought to congratulate it," she said, in
smiling enjoyment of her triumph.

The colonel looked at her with eyes of humorous question; Mrs. Ellison
looked blank; and Mr. Arbuton, having quite forgotten what he had said
to provoke this comment now, looked puzzled and answered nothing: for he
had this trait also in common with the sort of Englishman for whom he
was taken, that he never helped out your conversational venture, but if
he failed to respond inwardly, left you with your unaccepted remark upon
your hands, as it were. In his silence, Kitty fell a prey to very evil
thoughts of him, for it made her harmless sally look like a blundering
attack upon him. But just then the driver came to her rescue; he said,
"Gentlemen and ladies, this is the end of the mountain promenade," and,
turning his horse's head, drove rapidly back to the village.

At the foot of the hill they came again to the church, and his
passengers wanted to get out and look into it. "O certainly," said he,
"it isn't finished yet, but you can say as many prayers as you like in
it."

The church was decent and clean, like most Canadian churches, and at
this early hour there was a good number of the villagers at their
devotions. The lithographic pictures of the stations to Calvary were, of
course, on its walls, and there was the ordinary tawdriness of paint and
carving about the high altar.

"I don't like to see these things," said Mrs. Ellison. "It really seems
to savor of idolatry. Don't you think so, Mr. Arbuton?"

"Well, I don't know. I doubt if they're the sort of people to be hurt by
it."

"They need a good stout faith in cold climates, I can tell you," said
the colonel. "It helps to keep them warm. The broad church would be too
full of draughts up here. They want something snug and tight. Just
imagine one of these poor devils listening to a liberal sermon about
birds and fruits and flowers and beautiful sentiments, and then driving
home over the hills with the mercury thirty degrees below zero! He
couldn't stand it."

"Yes, yes, certainly," said Mr. Arbuton, and looked about him with an
eye of cold, uncompassionate inspection, as if he were trying it by a
standard of taste, and, on the whole, finding the poor little church
vulgar.

When they mounted to their places again, the talk fell entirely to the
colonel, who, as his wont was, got what information he could out of the
driver. It appeared, in spite of his theory, that they were not all good
Catholics at Ha-Ha Bay. "This chap, for example," said the Frenchman,
touching himself on the breast and using the slang he must have picked
up from American travellers, "is no Catholic,--not much! He has made too
many studies to care for religion. There's a large French party, sir, in
Canada, that's opposed to the priests and in favor of annexation."

He satisfied the colonel's utmost curiosity, discoursing, as he drove by
the log-built cottages which were now and then sheathed in birch-bark,
upon the local affairs, and the character and history of such of his
fellow-villagers as they met. He knew the pretty girls upon the street
and saluted them by name, interrupting himself with these courtesies in
the lecture he was giving the colonel on life at Ha-Ha Bay. There was
only one brick house (which he had built himself, but had been obliged
to sell in a season unfavorable for wild beasts), and the other edifices
dropped through the social scale to some picturesque barns thatched with
straw. These he excused to his Americans, but added that the ungainly
thatch was sometimes useful in saving the lives of the cattle toward the
end of an unusually long, hard winter.

"And the people," asked the colonel, "what do they do in the winter to
pass the time?"

"Draw the wood, smoke the pipe, court the ladies.--But wouldn't you like
to see the inside of one of our poor cottages? I shall be very proud to
have you look at mine, and to have you drink a glass of milk from my
cows. I am sorry that I cannot offer you brandy, but there's none to be
bought in the place."

"Don't speak of it! For an eye-opener there is nothing like a glass of
milk," gayly answered the colonel.

They entered the best room of the house,--wide, low-ceiled, dimly lit by
two small windows, and fortified against the winter by a huge Canada
stove of cast-iron. It was rude but neat, and had an air of decent
comfort. Through the window appeared a very little vegetable garden with
a border of the hardiest flowers. "The large beans there," explained the
host, "are for soup and coffee. My corn," he said, pointing out some
rows of dwarfish maize, "has escaped the early August frosts, and so I
expect to have some roasting-ears yet this summer."

"Well, it isn't exactly what you'd call an inviting climate, is it?"
asked the colonel.

The Canadian seemed a hard little man, but he answered now with a kind
of pathos, "It's cruel! I came here when it was all bush. Twenty years I
have lived here, and it has not been worth while. If it was to do over
again, I should rather not live anywhere. I was born in Quebec," he
said, as if to explain that he was used to mild climates, and began to
tell of some events of his life at Ha-Ha Bay. "I wish you were going to
stay here awhile with me. You wouldn't find it so bad in the
summer-time, I can assure you. There are bears in the bush, sir," he
said to the colonel, "and you might easily kill one."

"But then I should be helping to spoil your trade in wild beasts,"
replied the colonel, laughing.

Mr. Arbuton looked like one who might be very tired of this. He made no
sign of interest either in the early glooms and privations or the summer
bears of Ha-Ha Bay. He sat in the quaint parlor, with his hat on his
knee, in the decorous and patient attitude of a gentleman making a call.

He had no feeling, Kitty said to herself; but that is a matter about
which we can easily be wrong. It was rather to be said of Mr. Arbuton
that he had always shrunk from knowledge of things outside of a very
narrow world, and that he had not a ready imagination. Moreover, he had
a personal dislike, as I may call it, of poverty; and he did not enjoy
this poverty as she did, because it was strange and suggestive, though
doubtless he would have done as much to relieve distress.

"Rather too much of his autobiography," he said to Kitty, as he waited
outside the door with her, while the Canadian quieted his dog, which was
again keeping himself in practice of catching the moose by making
vicious leaps at the horse's nose. "The egotism of that kind of people
is always so aggressive. But I suppose he's in the habit of throwing
himself upon the sympathy of summer visitors in this way. You can't
offer a man so little as shilling and sixpence who's taken you into his
confidence. Did you find enough that was novel in his place to justify
him in bringing us here, Miss Ellison?" he asked with an air he had of
taking you of course to be of his mind, and which equally offended you
whether you were so or not.

Every face that they had seen in their drive had told its pathetic story
to Kitty; every cottage that they passed she had entered in thought, and
dreamed out its humble drama. What their host had said gave breath and
color to her fancies of the struggle of life there, and she was startled
and shocked when this cold doubt was cast upon the sympathetic tints of
her picture. She did not know what to say at first; she looked at Mr.
Arbuton with a sudden glance of embarrassment and trouble; then she
answered, "I was very much interested. I don't agree with you, I
believe"; which, when she heard it, seemed a resentful little speech,
and made her willing for some occasion to soften its effect. But nothing
occurred to her during the brief drive back to the boat, save the fact
that the morning air was delicious.

"Yes, but rather cool," said Mr. Arbuton, whose feelings apparently had
not needed any balm; and the talk fell again to the others.

On the pier he helped her down from the wagon, for the colonel was
intent on something the driver was saying, and then offered his hand to
Mrs. Ellison.

She sprang from her place, but stumbled slightly, and when she touched
the ground, "I believe I turned my foot a little," she said with a
laugh. "It's nothing, of course," and fainted in his arms.

Kitty gave a cry of alarm, and the next instant the colonel had relieved
Mr. Arbuton. It was a scene, and nothing could have annoyed him more
than this tumult which poor Mrs. Ellison's misfortune occasioned among
the bystanding habitans and deck-hands, and the passengers eagerly
craning forward over the bulwarks, and running ashore to see what the
matter was. Few men know just how to offer those little offices of
helpfulness which such emergencies demand, and Mr. Arbuton could do
nothing after he was rid of his burden; he hovered anxiously and
uselessly about, while Mrs. Ellison was carried to an airy position on
the bow of the boat, where in a few minutes he had the great
satisfaction of seeing her open her eyes. It was not the moment for him
to speak, and he walked somewhat guiltily away with the dispersing
crowd.

Mrs. Ellison addressed her first words to pale Kitty at her side. "You
can have all my things, now," she said, as if it were a clause in her
will, and perhaps it had been her last thought before unconsciousness.

"Why, Fanny," cried Kitty, with an hysterical laugh, "you're not going
to die! A sprained ankle isn't fatal!"

"No; but I've heard that a person with a sprained ankle can't put their
foot to the ground for weeks; and I shall only want a dressing-gown, you
know, to lie on the sofa in." With that, Mrs. Ellison placed her hand
tenderly on Kitty's head, like a mother wondering what will become of a
helpless child during her disability; in fact she was mentally weighing
the advantages of her wardrobe, which Kitty would now fully enjoy,
against the loss of the friendly strategy which she would now lack.
Helpless to decide the matter, she heaved a sigh.

"But, Fanny, you won't expect to travel in a dressing-gown."

"Indeed, I wish I knew whether I could travel in anything or not.
But the next twenty-four hours will show. If it swells up, I shall have
to rest awhile at Quebec; and if it doesn't, there may be something
internal. I've read of accidents when the person thought they were
perfectly well and comfortable, and the first thing they knew they were
in a very dangerous state. That's the worst of these internal injuries:
you never can tell. Not that I think there's anything of that kind the
matter with me. But a few days' rest won't do any harm, whatever
happens; the stores in Quebec are quite as good and a little cheaper
than in Montreal; and I could go about in a carriage, you know, and put
in the time as well in one place as the other. I'm sure we could get on
very pleasantly there; and the colonel needn't be home for a month yet.
I suppose that I could hobble into the stores on a crutch."

Whilst Mrs. Ellison's monologue ran on with scarcely a break from Kitty,
her husband was gone to fetch her a cup of tea and such other light
refreshment as a lady may take after a swoon. When he returned she
bethought herself of Mr. Arbuton, who, having once come back to see if
all was going well, had vanished again.

"Why, our friend Boston is bearing up under his share of the morning's
work like a hero--or a lady with a sprained ankle," said the colonel as
he arranged the provision. "To see the havoc he's making in the ham and
eggs and chiccory is to be convinced that there is no appetizer like
regret for the sufferings of others."

"Why, and here's poor Kitty not had a bite yet!" cried Mrs. Ellison.
"Kitty, go off at once and get your breakfast. Put on my--"

"O, don't, Fanny, or I can't go; and I'm really very hungry."

"Well, I won't then," said Mrs. Ellison, seeing the rainy cloud in
Kitty's eyes. "Go just as you are, and don't mind me." And so Kitty
went, gathering courage at every pace, and sitting down opposite Mr.
Arbuton with a vivid color to be sure, but otherwise lion-bold. He had
been upbraiding the stars that had thrust him further and further at
every step into the intimacy of these people, as he called them to
himself. It was just twenty-four hours, he reflected, since he had met
them, and resolved to have nothing to do with them, and in that time the
young lady had brought him under the necessity of apologizing for a
blunder of her own; he had played the eavesdropper to her talk; he had
sentimentalized the midnight hour with her; they had all taken a morning
ride together; and he had ended by having Mrs. Ellison sprain her ankle
and faint in his arms. It was outrageous; and what made it worse was
that decency obliged him to take henceforth a regretful, deprecatory
attitude towards Mrs. Ellison, whom he liked least among these people.
So he sat vindictively eating an enormous breakfast, in a sort of angry
abstraction, from which Kitty's coming roused him to say that he hoped
Mrs. Ellison was better.

"O, very much! It's just a sprain."

"A sprain may be a very annoying thing," said Mr. Arbuton dismally.
"Miss Ellison," he cried, "I've been nothing but an affliction to your
party since I came on board this boat!"

"Do you think evil genius of our party would be too harsh a term?"
suggested Kitty.

"Not in the least; it would be a mere euphemism,--base flattery, in
fact. Call me something worse."

"I can't think of anything. I must leave you to your own conscience. It
was a pity to end our ride in that way; it would have been such a
pleasant ride!" And Kitty took heart from his apparent mood to speak of
some facts of the morning that had moved her fancy. "What a strange
little nest it is up here among these half-thawed hills! and imagine the
winter, the fifteen or twenty months of it, they must have every year. I
could almost have shed tears over that patch of corn that had escaped
the early August frosts. I suppose this is a sort of Indian summer that
we are enjoying now, and that the cold weather will set in after a week
or two. My cousin and I thought that Tadoussac was somewhat retired and
composed last night, but I'm sure that I shall see it in its true light,
as a metropolis, going back. I'm afraid that the turmoil and bustle of
Eriecreek, when I get home--"

"Eriecreek?--when you got home?--I thought you lived at Milwaukee."

"O no! It's my cousins who live at Milwaukee. I live at Eriecreek, New
York State."

"Oh!" Mr. Arbuton looked blank and not altogether pleased. Milwaukee was
bad enough, though he understood that it was largely peopled from New
England, and had a great German element, which might account for the
fact that these people were not quite barbaric. But this Eriecreek, New
York State! "I don't think I've heard of it," he said.

"It's a small place," observed Kitty, "and I believe it isn't noted for
anything in particular; it's not even on any railroad. It's in the
north-west part of the State."

"Isn't it in the oil-regions?" groped Mr. Arbuton.

"Why, the oil-regions are rather migratory, you know. It used to be in
the oil-regions; but the oil was pumped out, and then the oil-regions
gracefully withdrew and left the cheese-regions and grape-regions to
come back and take possession of the old derricks and the rusty boilers.
You might suppose from the appearance of the meadows, that all the
boilers that ever blew up had come down in the neighborhood of
Eriecreek. And every field has its derrick standing just as the last
dollar or the last drop of oil left it."

Mr. Arbuton brought his fancy to bear upon Eriecreek, and wholly failed
to conceive of it. He did not like the notion of its being thrust within
the range of his knowledge; and he resented its being the home of Miss
Ellison, whom he was beginning to accept as a not quite comprehensible
yet certainly agreeable fact, though he still had a disposition to cast
her off as something incredible. He asked no further about Eriecreek,
and presently she rose and went to join her relatives, and he went to
smoke his cigar, and to ponder upon the problem presented to him in this
young girl from whose locality and conjecturable experiences he was at
loss how to infer her as he found her here.

She had a certain self-reliance mingling with an innocent trust of
others which Mrs. Isabel March had described to her husband as a charm
potent to make everybody sympathetic and good-natured, but which it
would not be easy to account for to Mr. Arbuton. In part it was a
natural gift, and partly it came from mere ignorance of the world; it
was the unsnubbed fearlessness of a heart which did not suspect a sense
of social difference in others, or imagine itself misprized for anything
but a fault. For such a false conception of her relations to polite
society, Kitty's Uncle Jack was chiefly to blame. In the fierce
democracy of his revolt from his Virginian traditions he had taught his
family that a belief in any save intellectual and moral distinctions was
a mean and cruel superstition; he had contrived to fix this idea so
deeply in the education of his children, that it gave a coloring to
their lives, and Kitty, when her turn came, had the effect of it in the
character of those about her. In fact she accepted his extreme theories
of equality to a degree that delighted her uncle, who, having held them
many years, was growing perhaps a little languid in their tenure and was
glad to have his grasp strengthened by her faith. Socially as well as
politically Eriecreek was almost a perfect democracy, and there was
little in Kitty's circumstances to contradict the doctor's teachings.
The brief visits which she had made to Buffalo and Erie, and, since the
colonel's marriage, to Milwaukee, had not sufficed to undeceive her; she
had never suffered slight save from the ignorant and uncouth; she
innocently expected that in people of culture she should always find
community of feeling and ideas; and she had met Mr. Arbuton all the more
trustfully because as a Bostonian he must be cultivated.

In the secluded life which she led perforce at Eriecreek there was an
abundance of leisure, which she bestowed upon books at an age when most
girls are sent to school. The doctor had a good taste of an
old-fashioned kind in literature, and he had a library pretty well
stocked with the elderly English authors, poets and essayists and
novelists, and here and there an historian, and these Kitty read
childlike, liking them at the time in a certain way, and storing up in
her mind things that she did not understand for the present, but whose
beauty and value dawned upon her from time to time, as she grew older.
But of far more use and pleasure to her than these now somewhat mouldy
classics were the more modern books of her cousin Charles,--that pride
and hope of his father's heart, who had died the year before she came to
Eriecreek. He was named after her own father, and it was as if her Uncle
Jack found both his son and his brother in her again. When her taste for
reading began to show itself in force, the old man one day unlocked a
certain bookcase in a little upper room, and gave her the key, saying,
with a broken pride and that queer Virginian pomp which still clung to
him, "This was my son's, who would one day have been a great writer; now
it is yours." After that the doctor would pick up the books out of this
collection which Kitty was reading and had left lying about the rooms,
and look into them a little way. Sometimes he fell asleep over them;
sometimes when he opened on a page pencilled with marginal notes, he
would put the volume gently down and go very quickly out of the room.

"Kitty, I reckon you'd better not leave poor Charley's books around
where Uncle Jack can get at them," one of the girls, Virginia or Rachel,
would say; "I don't believe he cares much for those writers, and the
sight of the books just tries him." So Kitty kept the books, and herself
for the most part with them, in the upper chamber which had been Charles
Ellison's room, and where, amongst the witnesses of the dead boy's
ambitious dreams, she grew dreamer herself and seemed to inherit with
his earthly place his own fine and gentle spirit.

The doctor, as his daughter suggested, did not care much for the modern
authors in whom his son had delighted. Like many another simple and
pure-hearted man, he thought that since Pope there had been no great
poet but Byron, and he could make nothing out of Tennyson and Browning,
or the other contemporary English poets. Amongst the Americans he had a
great respect for Whittier, but he preferred Lowell to the rest because
he had written The Biglow Papers, and he never would allow that the last
series was half so good as the first. These and the other principal
poets of our nation and language Kitty inherited from her cousin, as
well as a full stock of the contemporary novelists and romancers, whom
she liked better than the poets on the whole. She had also the advantage
of the magazines and reviews which used to come to him, and the house
over-flowed with newspapers of every kind, from the Eriecreek Courier to
the New York Tribune. What with the coming and going of the eccentric
visitors, and this continual reading, and her rides about the country
with her Uncle Jack, Kitty's education, such as it was, went on very
actively and with the effect, at least, to give her a great liveliness
of mind and several decided opinions. Where it might have warped her out
of natural simplicity, and made her conceited, the keen and wholesome
airs which breathed continually in the Ellison household came in to
restore her. There was such kindness in this discipline, that she never
could remember when it wounded her; it was part of the gayety of those
times when she would sit down with the girls, and they took up some work
together, and rattled on in a free, wild, racy talk, with an edge of
satire for whoever came near, a fantastic excess in its drollery, and
just a touch of native melancholy tingeing it. The last queer guest,
some neighborhood gossip, some youthful folly or pretentiousness of
Kitty's, some trait of their own, some absurdity of the boys if they
happened to be at home, and came lounging in, were the themes out of
which they contrived such jollity as never was, save when in Uncle
Jack's presence they fell upon some characteristic action or theory of
his and turned it into endless ridicule.

But of such people, of such life, Mr. Arbuton could have made nothing if
he had known them. In many things he was an excellent person, and
greatly to be respected for certain qualities. He was very sincere; his
mind had a singular purity and rectitude; he was a scrupulously just
person so far as he knew. He had traits that would have fitted him very
well for the career he had once contemplated, and he had even made some
preliminary studies for the ministry. But the very generosity of his
creed perplexed him, his mislikers said; contending that he could never
have got on with the mob of the redeemed. "Arbuton," said a fat young
fellow, the supposed wit of the class, "thinks there are persons of
low extraction in heaven; but he doesn't like the idea." And Mr. Arbuton
did not like the speaker very well, either, nor any of his poorer
fellow-students, whose gloveless and unfashionable poverty, and meagre
board and lodgings, and general hungry dependence upon pious bequests
and neighborhood kindnesses, offended his instincts. "So he's given it
up, has he?" moralized the same wit, upon his retirement. "If Arbuton
could have been a divinely commissioned apostle to the best society, and
been obliged to save none but well-connected, old-established, and
cultivated souls, he might have gone into the ministry." This was a
coarse construction of the truth, but it was not altogether a
perversion. It was long ago that he had abandoned the thought of the
ministry, and he had since travelled, and read law, and become a man of
society and of clubs; but he still kept the traits that had seemed to
make his vocation clear. On the other hand he kept the prejudices that
were imagined to have disqualified him. He was an exclusive by training
and by instinct. He gave ordinary humanity credit for a certain measure
of sensibility, and it is possible that if he had known more kinds of
men, he would have recognized merits and excellences which did not now
exist for him; but I do not think he would have liked them. His doubt of
these Western people was the most natural, if not the most justifiable
thing in the world, and for Kitty, if he could have known all about her,
I do not see how he could have believed in her at all. As it was, he
went in search of her party, when he had smoked his cigar, and found
them on the forward promenade. She had left him in quite a lenient mood,
although, as she perceived with amusement, he had done nothing to merit
it, except give her cousin a sprained ankle. At the moment of his
reappearance, Mrs. Ellison had been telling Kitty that she thought it
was beginning to swell a little, and so it could not be anything
internal; and Kitty had understood that she meant her ankle as well as
if she had said so, and had sorrowed and rejoiced over her, and the
colonel had been inculpated for the whole affair. This made Mr.
Arbuton's excuses rather needless, though they were most graciously
received.




III.

ON THE WAY BACK TO QUEBEC.


By this time the boat was moving down the river, and every one was alive
to the scenery. The procession of the pine-clad, rounded heights on
either shore began shortly after Ha-Ha Bay had disappeared behind a
curve, and it hardly ceased, save at one point, before the boat
re-entered the St. Lawrence. The shores of the stream are almost
uninhabited. The hills rise from the water's edge, and if ever a narrow
vale divides them, it is but to open drearier solitudes to the eye. In
such a valley would stand a saw-mill, and huddled about it a few poor
huts, while a friendless road, scarce discernible from the boat, wound
up from the river through the valley, and led to wildernesses all the
forlorner for the devastation of their forests. Now and then an island,
rugged as the shores, broke the long reaches of the grim river with its
massive rock and dark evergreen, and seemed in the distance to forbid
escape from those dreary waters, over which no bird flew, and in which
it was incredible any fish swam.

Mrs. Ellison, with her foot comfortably and not ungracefully supported
on a stool, was in so little pain as to be looking from time to time at
one of the guide-books which the colonel had lavished upon his party,
and which she was disposed to hold to very strict account for any
excesses of description.

"It says here that the water of the Saguenay is as black as ink. Do
you think it is, Richard?"

"It looks so."

"Well, but if you took some up in your hand?"

"Perhaps it wouldn't be as black as the best Maynard and Noyes, but it
would be black enough for all practical purposes."

"Maybe," suggested Kitty, "the guide-book means the kind that is light
blue at first, but 'becomes a deep black on exposure to the air,' as the
label says."

"What do you think, Mr. Arbuton?" asked Mrs. Ellison with unabated
anxiety.

"Well, really, I don't know," said Mr. Arbuton, who thought it a very
trivial kind of talk, "I can't say, indeed. I haven't taken any of it up
in my hand."

"That's true," said Mrs. Ellison gravely, with an accent of reproval for
the others who had not thought of so simple a solution of the problem,
"very true."

The colonel looked into her face with an air of well-feigned alarm. "You
don't think the sprain has gone to your head, Fanny?" he asked, and
walked away, leaving Mr. Arbuton to the ladies. Mrs. Ellison did not
care for this or any other gibe, if she but served her own purposes; and
now, having made everybody laugh and given the conversation a lively
turn, she was as perfectly content as if she had not been herself an
offering to the cause of cheerfulness. She was, indeed, equal to any
sacrifice in the enterprise she had undertaken, and would not only have
given Kitty all her worldly goods, but would have quite effaced herself
to further her own designs upon Mr. Arbuton. She turned again to her
guide-book, and left the young people to continue the talk in unbroken
gayety. They at once became serious, as most people do after a hearty
laugh, which, if you think, seems always to have something strange and
sad in it. But besides, Kitty was oppressed by the coldness that seemed
perpetually to hover in Mr. Arbuton's atmosphere, while she was
interested by his fastidious good looks and his blameless manners and
his air of a world different from any she had hitherto known. He was one
of those men whose perfection makes you feel guilty of misdemeanor
whenever they meet you, and whose greeting turns your honest good-day
coarse and common; even Kitty's fearless ignorance and more than Western
disregard of dignities were not proof against him. She had found it easy
to talk with Mrs. March as she did with her cousin at home: she liked to
be frank and gay in her parley, to jest and to laugh and to make
harmless fun, and to sentimentalize in a half-earnest way; she liked to
be with Mr. Arbuton, but now she did not see how she could take her
natural tone with him. She wondered at her daring lightness at the
breakfast-table; she waited for him to say something, and he said, with
a glance at the gray heaven that always overhangs the Saguenay, that it
was beginning to rain, and unfurled the slender silk umbrella which
harmonized so perfectly with the London effect of his dress, and held it
over her. Mrs. Ellison sat within the shelter of the projecting roof,
and diligently perused her book with her eyes, and listened to their
talk.

"The great drawback to this sort of thing in America," continued Mr.
Arbuton, "is that there is no human interest about the scenery, fine as
it is."

"Why, I don't know," said Kitty, "there was that little settlement round
the saw-mill. Can't you imagine any human interest in the lives of the
people there? It seems to me that one might make almost anything out of
them. Suppose, for example, that the owner of that mill was a
disappointed man who had come here to bury the wreck of his life
in--sawdust?"

"O, yes! That sort of thing; certainly. But I didn't mean that, I meant
something historical. There is no past, no atmosphere, no traditions,
you know."

"O, but the Saguenay has a tradition," said Kitty. "You know that a
party of the first explorers left their comrades at Tadoussac, and came
up the Saguenay three hundred years ago, and never were seen or heard of
again. I think it's so in keeping with the looks of the river. The
Saguenay would never tell a secret."

"Um!" uttered Mr. Arbuton, as if he were not quite sure that it was the
Saguenay's place to have a legend of this sort, and disposed to snub the
legend because the Saguenay had it. After a little silence, he began to
speak of famous rivers abroad.

"I suppose," Kitty said, "the Rhine has traditions enough, hasn't it?"

"Yes," he answered, "but I think the Rhine rather overdoes it. You can't
help feeling, you know, that it's somewhat melodramatic and--common.
Have you ever seen the Rhine?"

"O, no! This is almost the first I've seen of anything. Perhaps," she
added, demurely, yet with a tremor at finding herself about to make
light of Mr. Arbuton, "if I had had too much of tradition on the Rhine I
should want more of it on the Saguenay."

"Why, you must allow there's a golden mean in everything, Miss Ellison,"
said her companion with a lenient laugh, not feeling it disagreeable to
be made light of by her.

"Yes; and I'm afraid we're going to find Cape Trinity and Cape Eternity
altogether too big when we come to them. Don't you think eighteen
hundred feet excessively high for a feature of river scenery?"

Mr. Arbuton really did have an objection to the exaggerations of nature
on this continent, and secretly thought them in bad taste, but he had
never formulated his feeling. He was not sure but it was ridiculous, now
that it was suggested, and yet the possibility was too novel to be
entertained without suspicion.

However, when after a while the rumor of their approach to the great
objects of the Saguenay journey had spread among the passengers, and
they began to assemble at points favorable for the enjoyment of the
spectacle, he was glad to have secured the place he held with Miss
Ellison, and a sympathetic thrill of excitement passed through his loath
superiority. The rain ceased as they drew nearer, and the gray clouds
that had hung so low upon the hills sullenly lifted from them and let
their growing height he seen. The captain bade his sight-seers look at
the vast Roman profile that showed itself upon the rock, and then he
pointed out the wonderful Gothic arch, the reputed doorway of an
unexplored cavern, under which an upright shaft of stone had stood for
ages statue-like, till not many winters ago the frost heaved it from its
base, and it plunged headlong down through the ice into the unfathomed
depths below. The unvarying gloom of the pines was lit now by the
pensive glimmer of birch-trees, and this gray tone gave an indescribable
sentiment of pathos and of age to the scenery. Suddenly the boat rounded
the corner of the three steps, each five hundred feet high, in which
Cape Eternity climbs from the river, and crept in under the naked side
of the awful cliff. It is sheer rock, springing from the black water,
and stretching upward with a weary, effort-like aspect, in long impulses
of stone marked by deep seams from space to space, till, fifteen hundred
feet in air, its vast brow beetles forward, and frowns with a scattering
fringe of pines. There are stains of weather and of oozing springs upon
the front of the cliff, but it is height alone that seems to seize the
eye, and one remembers afterwards these details, which are indeed so few
as not properly to enter into the effect. The rock fully justifies its
attributive height to the eye, which follows the upward rush of the
mighty acclivity, steep after steep, till it wins the cloud-capt summit,
when the measureless mass seems to swing and sway overhead, and the
nerves tremble with the same terror that besets him who looks downward
from the verge of a lofty precipice. It is wholly grim and stern; no
touch of beauty relieves the austere majesty of that presence. At the
foot of Cape Eternity the water is of unknown depth, and it spreads, a
black expanse, in the rounding hollow of shores of unimaginable wildness
and desolation, and issues again in its river's course around the base
of Cape Trinity. This is yet loftier than the sister cliff, but it
slopes gently backward from the stream, and from foot to crest it is
heavily clothed with a forest of pines. The woods that hitherto have
shagged the hills with a stunted and meagre growth, showing long
stretches scarred by fire, now assume a stately size, and assemble
themselves compactly upon the side of the mountain, setting their
serried stems one rank above another, till the summit is crowned with
the mass of their dark green plumes, dense and soft and beautiful; so
that the spirit perturbed by the spectacle of the other cliff is calmed
and assuaged by the serene grandeur of this.

There have been, to be sure, some human agencies at work even under the
shadow of Cape Eternity to restore the spirit to self-possession, and
perhaps none turns from it wholly dismayed. Kitty, at any rate, took
heart from some works of art which the cliff wall displayed near the
water's edge. One of these was a lively fresco portrait of
Lieutenant-General Sherman, with the insignia of his rank, and the other
was an even more striking effigy of General O'Neil, of the Armies of the
Irish Republic, wearing a threatening aspect, and designed in a bold
conceit of his presence there as conqueror of Canada in the year 1875.
Mr. Arbuton was inclined to resent these intrusions upon the sublimity
of nature, and he could not conceive, without disadvantage to them, how
Miss Ellison and the colonel should accept them so cheerfully as part of
the pleasure of the whole. As he listened blankly to their exchange of
jests he found himself awfully beset by a temptation which one of the
boat's crew placed before the passengers. This was a bucket full of
pebbles of inviting size; and the man said, "Now, see which can hit the
cliff. It's farther than any of you can throw, though it looks so near."

The passengers cast themselves upon the store of missiles, Colonel
Ellison most actively among them. None struck the cliff, and suddenly
Mr. Arbuton felt a blind, stupid, irresistible longing to try his
chance. The spirit of his college days, of his boating and ball-playing
youth, came upon him. He picked up a pebble, while Kitty opened her eyes
in a stare of dumb surprise. Then he wheeled and threw it, and as it
struck against the cliff with a shock that seemed to have broken all the
windows on the Back Bay, he exulted in a sense of freedom the havoc
caused him. It was as if for an instant he had rent away the ties of
custom, thrown off the bonds of social allegiance, broken down and
trampled upon the conventions which his whole life long he had held so
dear and respectable. In that moment of frenzy he feared himself capable
of shaking hands with the shabby Englishman in the Glengarry cap, or of
asking the whole admiring company of passengers down to the bar. A cry
of applause had broken from them at his achievement, and he had for the
first time tasted the sweets of popular favor. Of course a revulsion
must come, and it must be of a corresponding violence; and the next
moment Mr. Arbuton hated them all, and most of all Colonel Ellison, who
had been loudest in his praise. Him he thought for that moment
everything that was aggressively and intrusively vulgar. But he could
not utter these friendly impressions, nor is it so easy to withdraw from
any concession, and he found it impossible to repair his broken
defences. Destiny had been against him from the beginning, and now why
should he not strike hands with it for the brief half-day that he was to
