
Half an hour later, as Sara and I were strolling near the far point of
the island, we caught through the trees a glimpse of Iris seated in the
low, crooked bough of a live-oak, and at her feet John Hoffman,
reclining on the white tufted moss that covered the ground. “Absurd!” I
said, angrily.

“Why absurd? Is she not good and fair? To me there is something very
bewitching about Iris Carew. She is the most graceful little creature;
look at her attitude now, swinging in that bough! and when she walks
there is a willowy suppleness about her that makes the rest of us look
like grenadiers. Then what arch dark eyes she has, what a lovely
brunette skin, the real brune! Pretty, graceful little Iris, she is
always picturesque, whatever she does.”

“But she is a child, Sara, while he--”

“Is John Hoffman,” replied Sara, with a little curl of her lip. “Come,
Martha, I want to show you some Arcadians.”

“Arcadians?”

“Yes. Not the people who found the tomb in the forest, but some real
practical Arcadians, who enjoy life as Nature intended.”

“Who knows what she intended? I am sure I don’t,” I said, crossly.

Near the ruins of the mansion we found the Arcadians, a young man with
his wife and child, living in a small out-building which might have been
a cow-house. It was not more than ten feet square, the roof had fallen
in, and was replaced by a rude thatch of palmetto leaves; there was no
window of any kind, no floor save the sand, and for a door only an old
coverlet hung up and tied back like a curtain. Within we could see a low
settle-bed with some ragged coverings, a stool, powder, shot, and
fishing tackle hung up on one side, and an old calico dress on the
other; without was a table under a tree, a cupboard hung on the outside
of the house, containing a few dishes, and the ashes of the family fire
near at hand. Two thin dogs and a forlorn calf (oh, the cadaverous
cattle of Florida!) completed the stock of this model farm.

“They eat and cook out-of-doors all the year round, I suppose. What a
home! Did any one ever see such poverty,” I said, “and such indolence?
They do not even take the trouble to make a door.”

“What do they want of a door? There is nothing to keep out but Nature.
And as for poverty, they seem happy enough,” replied Sara.

They did. The woman came to meet us with her brown baby, and the young
husband took his gun and went out to find his supper--partridge from the
wood, probably, and oysters from the beach. They had lived there three
years, the woman said. Her name was Anita, her husband’s Gaspar, the
baby was Rafaello. No, they did not work much. They had a few
sweet-potatoes yonder, and sometimes she braided palmetto and took it
down to the city to sell. Gaspar had a dug-out, and sometimes he sold
fish, but not often. They had every thing they wanted. Did she know any
thing about this old place? No, she did not. Couldn’t she find out? Yes,
she supposed she could; her people had lived along the Matanzas for
years; but she never took the trouble to ask. Should she send that brown
baby to school when it grew larger?

“To school?” And the young mother laughed merrily, showing even, white
teeth, and tossing up the little Rafaello until he crowed with glee.
“None of us-uns goes to school, my lady.”

“But what will he do, then?”

“Do? Why, live here or somewhars, jes as we’re doing,” replied Anita.
“That’s all he wants.”

“A great many people come over here in the season, do they not?” I
asked, abandoning my educational efforts.

“Yes, pleasant days folks come.”

“Do you think the ladies are pretty?”

“Sometimes,” replied Anita, with a critical air.

“Wouldn’t you like to look as they do?”

“Oh no,” replied our “nut-brown mayde,” with a broad, contented smile.

“And the gentlemen. What do you think of them?”

“Eh? the mens, did you say? Oh, they’re so wimpsy!” And bursting into a
peal of laughter, the mother tossed up the baby again until he too
joined in the merriment over the “wimpsyness,” whatever that was, of the
tourists from the North.

“Do you know, I feel as though Calhoun himself was laughing at me from
his grave,” I said, as we walked away. “Your Arcadians, Sara, have made
me more conscious of my bodily defects than a whole regiment of fine
city people. What a shape that woman had! what eyes! what teeth! But
what did she mean by wimpsy?”

“Very likely she meant Mokes. He is certainly limpsy; then why not
wimpsy? There he is, by-the-way.”

So he was, sitting with (of all persons in the world!) the governess.
“In 1648 there were three hundred householders resident in St.
Augustine, Mr. Mokes,” we heard her say as we drew near.

“Must have wanted to--beast of a place,” commented Mokes. He looked up
doubtfully as we went by, but not having decided exactly how
strong-minded Sara might be, he concluded not to venture; the governess
at least never posed a fellow with startling questions.

“Poor Mokes!” I said.

“Oh yes, very poor!”

“I was thinking of his forlorn love affair, Sara.”





“Iris may still be Mrs. Mokes.”

“Oh no!”

“Do not be too sure, Martha. In my opinion--nay, experience--a young
girl is far more apt to be dazzled by wealth than an older woman. The
older woman knows how little it has to do with happiness, after all; the
young girl has not yet learned that.”

The Osceola carried us northward again, and then around into a creek
where was the landing-place of Anastasia Island.

“This Anastasia was a saint,” I said, as we strolled up the path leading
to the new light-house. “She belonged to the times of Diocletian, and we
know where to find her, which is more than I can say of Maria Sanchez
over in the village.”

“And who is this Maria Sanchez?” inquired Aunt Diana, in her affable,
conversational tone. Aunt Di always asked little questions of this kind,
not because she cared to know, but because she esteemed it a duty to
keep the conversation flowing.

“Ah! that is the question, aunt--who was she? There are persons of that
name in the town now, but this creek bore the name centuries ago;
wherefore, nobody knows. Maria is a watery mystery.”

The new light-house, curiously striped in black and white like a
barber’s pole, rose from the chaparral some distance back from the
beach, one hundred and sixty feet into the clear air; there was nothing
to compare it with, not a hill or rise of land, not even a tall tree,
and therefore it looked gigantic, a tower built by Titans rather than
men.

“Let us go up to the top,” said Iris, peeping within the open door. We
hesitated: one hundred and sixty feet of winding stairway may be
regarded as a crucial test between youth and age.

“Oh, Aunt Di, not you, of course! nor you either, Miss Sharp, nor the
Professor, nor Cousin Martha,” said Iris, heedlessly. “You can all sit
here comfortably in the shade while the rest of us run up; we shall not
stay long.”

Upon this instantly we all arose and began to climb up those stairs. Sit
there comfortably in the shade, indeed! Not one of us!

The view from the summit seemed wonderfully extensive--inland over the
level pine-barrens to the west; the level blue sea to the east; north,
the silver sands of the Florida main-land; and south, the stretch of
Anastasia Island, its backbone distinctly visible in the slope of the
low green foliage.

“How soft and blue the ocean looks!” said Iris. “I should like to sail
away to the far East and never come back.”

“If I only had my yacht here now, Miss Iris!” said Mokes, gallantly.
“But we should want to come back some time, you know. Egypt and the
Nile--well, they are dirty places; although I--er--I always carry every
thing with me, it is almost impossible to live properly there.”

We all knew what Mokes meant; he meant his portable bath. He aped
English fashions, and was always bringing into conversation that blessed
article of furniture, which accompanied him every where in charge of his
valet. So often indeed did he allude to it that we all felt, like the
happy-thought man, inclined to chant out in chorus, to the tune of the
Mistletoe Bough,

    “Oh, his portable ba-ath!
     Oh, his por-ta-ble ba-ath!”

“You have, I am told, Mr. Mokes, the finest yacht in this country,” said
John Hoffman.

Well, it wasn’t a bad one, Mokes allowed.

“I don’t know which I would rather own,” pursued John, “your yacht or
your horses. Why, Sir, your horses are the pride of New York.”

I glanced at John; he was as grave as a judge. Mokes glowed with
satisfaction. Iris listened with downcast eyes, and Aunt Diana, who had
at last reached the top stair, gathered her remaining strength to smile
upon the scene. Mokes came out of his shell entirely, and graciously
offered his arm to Aunt Diana for the long descent.

But Aunt Di could--“excuse me, Mr. Mokes”--really hold on “better by the
railing;” but “perhaps Iris--”

Yes, Iris could, and did.

John looked after the three as they wound down the long spiral with a
smile of quiet amusement.

“All alike,” he said to me, with the “old-comrade” freedom that had
grown up between us. “La richesse est toujours des femmes le grand
amour, Miss Martha.”

“Don’t quote your pagan French at me,” I answered, retreating outside,
where on the little platform I had left Sara gazing out to sea. She was
looking down now, leaning over the railing as if measuring the dizzy
height.

“If I should throw myself over,” she said, as I came up, “my body would
go down; but where would my soul go, I wonder?”

“Don’t be morbid, Sara.”

“Morbid? Nonsense! That is a duty word, a red flag which timid people
always hang out the moment you near the dangerous ground of the great
hereafter. We must all die some time, mustn’t we? And if I should die
now, what difference would it make? The madam-aunt would think me highly
inconsiderate to break up the party in any such way; Iris would shed a
pretty tear or two; Mokes would really feel relieved; the Professor
would write an account of the accident for the Pith-and-Ponder
Journal, with a description of the coquina quarry thrown in; Miss Sharp
would read it and be ‘so interested;’ and even you, Martha, would
scarcely have the heart to wish me back again.” Tears stood in her eyes
as she spoke, her face had softened with the sad fancies she had woven,
and for the moment the child-look came back into her eyes, as it often
comes with tears.

“And John Hoffman,” I said, involuntarily. I knew he was still within
hearing.

“Oh, he would decorously take his prayer-book and act as chief mourner,
if there was no one else,” replied Sara, with a mocking little laugh.

“Come down!” called Aunt Di’s voice from below; “we are going to the
coquina quarry.”

I lingered a moment that John might have full time to make his escape,
but when at length we went inside, there he was, leaning on the railing;
he looked full at Sara as she passed, and bowed with cold hauteur.

“It is useless to try and make any body like her,” I thought as I went
down the long stairway. “Why is it that women who write generally manage
to make themselves disagreeable to all mankind?”

We found Miss Sharp seated on a stair, half-way down, loaded with
specimens, shells, and the vicious-looking roots of Fish Island.

“I am waiting for Professor Macquoid,” she explained, graciously. “He
came as far as this, and then remembering a rare plant he had forgotten
to take up, he went back for it, leaving the other specimens with me. I
have no doubt he will soon return; but pray do not wait.”



We did not; but left her on the stair.

Sara and I strolled over to the old light-house--a weather-beaten tower
standing almost in the water, regularly fortified with walls, angles,
and loop-holes--a lonely little stronghold down by the sea. It was a
picturesque old beacon, built by the Spaniards a long time ago as a
look-out; when the English came into possession of Florida, in 1763,
they raised the look-out sixty feet higher, and planted a cannon on the
top, to be fired as a signal when a vessel came in sight. The light
that we had so often watched flashing and fading in the twilight as we
walked on the sea-wall was put in still later by the United States
government; in old times a bonfire was lighted on top every night.



“I like this gray old beacon better than yonder tall, spying, brand-new
tower,” I said. “This is a drowsy old fellow, who sleeps all day and
only wakes at night, as a light-house should, whereas that wide-awake
striped Yankee over there is evidently keeping watch of all that goes on
in the little city. Iris must take care.”

“Do you think he can spy into the demi-lune?” said Sara, smiling.

At the coquina quarry we found the Professor, scintillating all over
with enthusiasm. “A most singular conglomerate of shells cemented by
carbonate of lime,” he said, putting on a stronger pair of glasses--“a
recent formation, evidently, of the post-tertiary period. You are aware,
I suppose, that it is found nowhere else in the world? It is soft, as
you see, when first taken out, but becomes hard by exposure to the air.”
Knee-deep in coquina, radiating information at every pore, he stood--a
happy man!

“And Miss Sharp?” I whispered.

“On the stair,” replied Sara.

Not until we were on our way back to the sail-boat was the governess
relieved from her vigil; then she heard us passing, and came out of her
own accord, loaded with the relics.

“Why, Miss Sharp, have you been in the light-house all this time?” asked
Aunt Diana.

The governess murmured something about a “cool and shady place for
meditation,” but bravely she held on to her relics, and was ready to
hear every thing about coquina and the post-tertiary, as well as a
little raid into the glacial theory, with which the Professor
entertained us on the way to the landing.

“Do you hear the drum-fish drumming down below?” said John, as the
Osceola sailed merrily homeward. We listened, and caught distinctly
the muffled tattoo--the marine band, as Iris said.

“I came across an old dilapidated book, written, I suppose, fifty years
ago,” said John. “Here is an extract about the old light-house and the
drum-fish, which I copied from the coverless pages: ‘We landed on
Anastasia Island, and walked to the old light-house. Here a Spaniard
lives with his family, the eldest, a beautiful dark-eyed little muchacha
(young girl), just budding into her fourteenth year. Here, in this
little fortified castle, Señor Andro defies alike the tempests and the
Indians. Having spent an hour or two in the hospitable tower, and made a
delicious repast on the dried fish which garnishes his hall from end to
end, eked out with cheese and crackers and a bottle or two of
Frontignac, besides fruit and brandy, we bade farewell to the pretty
Catalina and the old tower, for it was time to go drumming. Fair
Anastasia, how delightful thy sunny beach and the blue sea that kisses
buxomly thy lonely shore! Before me rolls the eternal ocean, mighty
architect of the curious masonry on which I stand, the animal rock which
supports the vegetable soil. How many millions upon millions of these
shell-fish must have been destroyed to form a substratum for one rood of
land! But it was time for drumming, the magic hour (between the fall of
the ebb and the rise of the flood) for this delightful sport, whose
superior enchantment over all others in the Walton line I had so often
heard described with rapture--the noble nature of the fish, his size and
strength, the slow approach which he makes at first to the hook, like a
crab; then the sudden overwhelming transport that comes over you when
you feel him dashing boldly off with the line is comparable to nothing
save pulling along a buxom lass through a Virginia reel.’ What do you
say to that, Mokes? That part about the Virginia reel, now, is not to be
despised.”

But Mokes had never danced the Virginia reel--had seen it once at a
servants’ ball, he believed.

“What are you doing, Sara?” I said, sleepily, from the majestic old
bed, with its high carved posts and net curtains. “It is after eleven;
do put up that pencil, at least for to-night.”

“I am amusing myself writing up the sail this afternoon. Do you want to
hear it?”

“If it isn’t historical.”

“Historical! As though I could amuse myself historically!”

“It mustn’t be tragedy either: harrowing up the emotions so late at
night is as bad as mince-pie.”

“It is light comedy, I think--possibly farce. Now listen: it begins with
an ‘Oh’ on a high note, sliding down this way: ‘Oh-o-o-o-o-h!’


“MATANZAS RIVER.

      “Oh! rocking on the little blue waves,
      While, flocking over Huguenot graves,
    Come the sickle-bill curlews, the wild laughing loons,
    The heavy old pelicans flying in platoons
    Low down on the water with their feet out behind,
    Looking for a sand-bar which is just to their mind,
      Eying us scornfully, for very great fools,
      In which view the porpoises, coming up in schools,
              Agree, and wonder why
              We neither swim nor fly.

      “Oh! sailing on away to the south,
      There, hailing us at the river’s mouth,
    Stands the old Spanish look-out, where ages ago
    A watch was kept, day and night, for the evil foe--
    Simple-minded Huguenots fleeing here from France,
    All carefully massacred by the Spaniard’s lance
      For the glory of God; we look o’er the side,
      As if to see their white bones lying ’neath the tide
              Of the river whose name
              Is reddened with the shame.

      “Oh! beating past Anastasia Isle,
      Where, greeting us, the light-houses smile,
    The old coquina beacon, with its wave-washed walls,
    Where the spray of the breakers ’gainst the low door falls,
    The new mighty watch-tower all striped in black and white,
    That looks out to sea every minute of the night,
      And by day, for a change, doth lazily stand
      With its eye on the green of the Florida land,
              And every thing doth spy--
              E’en us, as we sail by.

      “Oh! scudding up before wind and tide,
      Where, studding all the coast alongside,
    Miles of oysters bristling stand, their edges like knives,
    Million million fiddler-crabs, walking with their wives,
    At the shadow of our sail climb helter-skelter down
    In their holes, which are houses of the fiddler-crab town;
      While the bald-headed eagle, coming in from the sea,
      Swoops down upon the fish-hawk, fishing patiently,
              And carries off his spoil,
              With kingly scorn of toil.

      “Oh! floating on the sea-river’s brine,
      Where, noting each ripple of the line,
    The old Minorcan fishermen, swarthy and slow,
    Sit watching for the drum-fish, drumming down below;
    Now and then along shore their dusky dug-outs pass,
    Coming home laden down with clams and marsh grass;
      One paddles, one rows, in their outlandish way,
      But they pause to salute us, and give us good-day
              In soft Minorcan speech,
              As they pass, near the beach.

      “Oh! sweeping home, where dark, in the north,
      See, keeping watch, San Marco looms forth,
    With its gray ruined towers in the red sunset glow,
    Mounting guard o’er the tide as it ebbs to and fro;
    We hear the evening gun as we reach the sea-wall,
    But soft on our ears the water-murmurs fall,
      Voices of the river, calling ‘Stay! stay! stay!
      Children of the Northland, why flee so soon away?’
              Though we go, dear river,
              Thou art ours forever.”

After I had fallen asleep, haunted by the marching time of Sara’s verse,
I dreamed that there was a hand tapping at my chamber door, and, half
roused, I said to myself that it was only dreams, and nothing more. But
it kept on, and finally, wide awake, I recognized the touch of mortal
fingers, and withdrew the bolt. Aunt Diana rushed in, pale and
disheveled in the moonlight.

“What is the matter?” I exclaimed.

“Niece Martha,” replied Aunt Di, sinking into a chair, “Iris has
disappeared!”

Grand tableau, in which Sara took part from the majestic bed.

“She went to her room an hour ago,” pursued Aunt Di; “it is next to
mine, you know, and I went in there just now for some camphor, and found
her gone!”

“Dear, dear! Where can the child have gone to?”

“An elopement,” said Aunt Di, in a sepulchral tone.

“Not Mokes?”

“No. If it had been Mokes, I should not have--that is to say, it would
have been highly reprehensible in Iris, but--However, it is not Mokes;
he is sound asleep in his room; I sent there to see.” And Aunt Diana
betook herself to her handkerchief.

“Can it be John Hoffman?” I mused, half to myself.

“Mr. Hoffman went up to his room some time ago,” said Sara.

“And pray how do you know, Miss St. John?” asked Aunt Di, coming out
stiffly from behind her handkerchief. “Mr. Hoffman would have been very
glad to--and, as it happens, he is not in his room at all.”

“Then of course--Oh, irretrievable folly!” I exclaimed, in dismay.

“But it isn’t John Hoffman, I tell you,” said Aunt Diana, relapsing into
dejection again. “He has gone out sailing with the Van Andens; I heard
them asking him--a moonlight excursion.”

Then the three of us united:

  MYSELF (doubtfully). “Can it be--   }
                                        }
  SARA (decidedly). “It must be--     } the Captain!”
                                        }
  AUNT DI (dejectedly). “Yes, it is-- }
                                        }




                           THE ANCIENT CITY.

                        IN TWO PARTS.--PART II.

    “The tide comes in; the birds fly low,
       As if to catch our speech:
     Ah, Destiny! why must we ever go
       Away from the Florida Beach?”


Aunt Diana declared that I must go with her back to the hotel, and I in
my turn declared that if I went Sara must accompany me; so it ended in
our taking the key of the house from the sleepy Sabre-boy and all three
going back together through the moon-lighted street across the plaza to
the hotel. Although it was approaching midnight, the Ancient City had
yet no thought of sleep. Its idle inhabitants believed in taking the
best of life, and so on moonlight nights they roamed about, two and two,
or leaned over their balconies chatting with friends across the way in
an easy-going, irregular fashion, which would have distracted an
orthodox New England village, where the lights are out at ten o’clock,
or they know the reason why. When near the hotel we saw John Hoffman
coming from the Basin.



“We had better tell him,” I suggested.

“Oh no,” said Aunt Di, holding me back.

“But we must have somebody with us if we are going any farther to-night,
aunt, and he is the best person.--Mr. Hoffman, did you enjoy the sail?”

“I did not go,” answered John, looking somewhat surprised to see us
confronting him at that hour, like the three witches of Macbeth. Aunt
Di was disheveled, and so was I, while Sara’s golden hair was tumbling
about her shoulders under the hat she had hastily tied on.

“Have you been out all the evening?” asked Aunt Di, suspiciously.

“I went to my room an hour ago, but the night was so beautiful I slipped
down the back stairs, so as to not disturb the household, and came out
again to walk on the sea-wall.”

“Sara did hear him go up to his room: she knows his step, then,” I
thought. But I could not stop to ponder over this discovery. “Mr.
Hoffman,” I said, “you find us in some perplexity. Miss Carew is out
loitering somewhere, in the moonlight, and, like the heedless child she
is, has forgotten the hour. We are looking for her, but have no idea
where she has gone.”

“Probably the demi-lune,” suggested John. Then, catching the ominous
expression of Aunt Diana’s face, he added, “They have all gone out to
the Rose Garden by moonlight, I think.”

“All?”

“Miss Sharp and the Professor.”

ALL THREE OF US. “Miss Sharp and the Professor?”

JOHN (carelessly). “The Captain too, of course.”

ALL THREE OF US. “The Captain too, of course!”

JOHN. “Suppose we stroll out that way and join them?”

MYSELF. “The very thing--it is such a lovely evening!” Then to Aunt Di,
under my breath, “You see, it is only one of Iris’s wild escapades,
aunt; we must make light of it as a child’s freak. We had better stroll
out that way, and all walk back together, as though it was a matter of
course.”

AUNT DI. “Miss Sharp and the Professor!”

SARA. “What a madcap freak!”

AUNT DI. “Not at all, not at all, Miss St. John. I am at a loss to know
what you mean by madcap. My niece is simply taking a moonlight walk in
company with her governess and Professor Macquoid, one of the most
distinguished scientific men in the country, as I presume you are
aware.”

Brave Aunt Di! The first stupor over, how she rallied like a Trojan to
the fight!

We went out narrow little Charlotte Street--the business avenue of the
town.

“A few years ago there was not a sign in St. Augustine,” said John.
“People kept a few things for sale in a room on the ground-floor of
their dwellings, and you must find them out as best you could. They
seemed to consider it a favor that they allowed you to come in and buy.
They tolerated you, nothing more.”

“It is beyond any thing, their ideas of business,” said Aunt Diana. “The
other day we went into one of the shops to look at some palmetto hats.
The mistress sat in a rocking-chair slowly fanning herself. ‘We wish to
look at some hats,’ I said. ‘There they are,’ she replied, pointing
toward the table. She did not rise, but continued rocking and fanning
with an air that said, ‘Yes, I sell hats, but under protest, mind you.’
After an unaided search I found a hat which might have suited me with a
slight alteration--five minutes’ work, perhaps. I mentioned what changes
I desired, but the mistress interrupted me with, ‘We never alter
trimmings.’ ‘But this will not take five minutes,’ I began; ‘just take
your scissors and--’ ‘Oh, I never do the work myself,’ replied
Majestic, breaking in again with a languid smile; ‘and really I do not
know of any one who could do it at present. Now you Northern ladies are
different, I suppose.’ ‘I should think we were,’ I said, laying down the
hat and walking out of the little six-by-nine parlor.”

“I wonder if the people still cherish any dislike, against the
Northerners?” I said, when Aunt Di had finished her story with a general
complaint against the manners of her own sex when they undertake to keep
shop, North or South.

“Some of the Minorcans do, I think,” said John; “and many of the people
regret the incursion of rich winter residents, who buy up the land for
their grand mansions, raise the prices of every thing, and eventually
will crowd all the poorer houses beyond the gates. But there are very
few of the old leading families left here now. The ancien régime has
passed away, the new order of things is distasteful to them, and they
have gone, never to return.”

Turning into St. George Street, we found at the northern end of the town
the old City Gates, the most picturesque ruin of picturesque St.
Augustine. The two pillars are moresque, surmounted by a carved
pomegranate, and attached are portions of the wall, which, together with
an outer ditch, once extended from the Castle of San Marco, a short
distance to the east, across the peninsula to the San Sebastian, on the
west, thus fortifying the town against all approaches by land. The
position of St. Augustine is almost insular. Tide-water sweeps up around
and behind it, and to this and the ever-present sea-breeze must be
attributed the wonderful health of the town, which not only exists, but
is pre-eminent, in spite of a neglect of sanitary regulations which
would not be endured one day in the villages of the North.

Passing through the old gateway, we came out upon the Shell Road, the
grand boulevard of the future, as yet but a few yards in length.

“They make about ten feet a year,” said John; “and when they are at
work, all I can say unto you is, ‘Beware!’ You suppose it is a load of
empty shells they are throwing down; but no. Have they time, forsooth,
to take out the oysters, these hard-pressed workmen of St. Augustine? By
no means; and so down they go, oysters and all, and the road makes known
its extension on the evening breezes.”

The soft moonlight lay on the green waste beyond the gates, lighting up
the North River and its silver sand-hills. The old fort loomed up dark
and frowning, but the moonlight shone through its ruined turrets, and
only the birds of the night kept watch on its desolate battlements. The
city lay behind us. It had never dared to stretch much beyond the old
gates, and the few people who did live outside were spoken of as very
far off--a sort of Bedouins of the desert encamping temporarily on the
green. As we went on the moonlight lighted up the white head-stones of a
little cemetery on the left side of the road.

“This is one of the disappointing cemeteries that was ‘nothing to speak
of,’ I suppose,” said Sara.

“It is the Protestant cemetery,” replied John, “remarkable only for its
ugliness and the number of inscriptions telling the same sad story of
strangers in a strange land--persons brought here in quest of health
from all parts of the country, only to die far away from home.”

“Where is the old Huguenot burying-ground?” asked Aunt Di.

“The Huguenots, poor fellows, never had a burying-ground, nor so much
even as a burying, as far as I can learn,” said Sara.

“But there is one somewhere,” pursued Aunt Di. “I have heard it
described as a spot of much interest.”

“That has been a standing item for years in all the Florida
guide-books,” said John, “systematically repeated in the latest
editions. They will give up a good deal, but that cherished Huguenot
cemetery they must and will retain. The Huguenots, poor fellows, as Miss
St. John says, never had a cemetery here, and it is only within
comparatively modern times that there has been any Protestant cemetery
whatever. Formerly the bodies of all persons not Romanists were sent
across to the island for sepulture.”

The Shell Road having come to an end, we walked on in the moonlight, now
on little grass patches, now in the deep sand, passing a ruined stone
wall, all that was left of a pleasant home, destroyed, like many other
outlying residences, during the war. The myrtle thickets along the
road-side were covered with the clambering curling sprays of the yellow
jasmine, the lovely wild flower that brings the spring to Florida. We
stopped to gather the wreaths of golden blossoms, and decked ourselves
with them, Southern fashion. Every one wears the jasmine. When it first
appears every one says, “Have you seen it? It has come!” And out they go
to gather it, and bring it home in triumph.

Passing through the odd little wicket, which, with the old-fashioned
turnstile, is used in Florida instead of a latched gate, we found
ourselves in a green lane bordered at the far end with cedars. Here,
down on the North River, was the Rose Garden, now standing with its
silent house fast asleep in the moonlight.

“I do not see Iris,” said Aunt Diana, anxiously.

“There is somebody over on the other side of the hedge,” said Sara.

We looked, and beheld two figures bending down and apparently scratching
in the earth with sticks.

“What in the world are they doing?” said Aunt Diana. “They can not be
sowing seed in the middle of the night, can they?”

“They look like two ghouls,” said Sara, “and one of them has--yes, I am
sure one of them has a bone.”

“It is Miss Sharp and the Professor,” said John.

It was. We streamed over in a body and confronted them. “So
interesting!” began Miss Sharp, in explanatory haste. “At various times
the fragments of no less than eight skeletons have been discovered here,
it seems, and we have been so fortunate as to secure a relic, a valuable
Huguenot relic;” and with pride she displayed her bone.

“Of course,” said Sara, “a massacre! What did I tell you, Martha, about
their arising from the past and glaring at me?”

“Miss Sharp,” began Aunt Diana, grimly, “where is Iris?”

“Oh, she is right here, the dear child. Iris! Iris!”

But no Iris appeared.

“I assure you she has not left my side until--until now,” said the
negligent shepherdess, peering about the shadowy garden. “Iris! Iris!”

“And pray, Miss Sharp, how long may be your ‘now?’” demanded Aunt Diana,
with cutting emphasis.

This feminine colloquy had taken place at one side. The Professor dug on
meanwhile with eager enthusiasm, only stopping to hand John another
relic which he had just unearthed.

“Thank you,” said John, gravely; “but I could not think of depriving
you.”

“Oh, I only meant you to hold it a while for me,” replied the Professor.

On the front steps leading to the piazza of the sleeping house we found
the two delinquents. They rose as we came solemnly up the path.

“Why, Aunt Di, is that you? Who would have thought of your coming out
here at this time of night?” began Iris, in her most innocent voice. The
Captain stood twirling his blonde mustache with the air of a
disinterested outsider.

“Don’t make a fuss, Aunt Di,” I whispered, warningly, under my breath.
“It can’t be helped now. Take it easy; it’s the only way.”

Poor Aunt Di--take it easy! She gave a sort of gulp, and then came up
equal to the occasion. “You may well be surprised, my dear,” she said,
in a brisk tone, “but I have long wished to see the Rose Garden, and by
moonlight the effect, of course, is much finer; quite--quite sylph-like,
I should say,” she continued, looking around at the shadowy bushes. “We
were out for a little stroll, Niece Martha, Miss St. John, and myself,
and meeting Mr. Hoffman, he mentioned that you were out here, and so we
thought we would stroll out and join you. Charming night, Captain?”

The Captain thought it was; and all the dangerous places having been
thus nicely coated over, we started homeward. The roses grew in ranks
between two high hedges, and blossomed all the year round. They were all
asleep now on their stems, the full-bosomed, creamy beauties, the
delicate white sylphs, and the gorgeous crimson sirens; but John woke up
a superb souvenir-de-Malmaison, and fastened it in Iris’s dark hair: her
hat, as usual, hung on her arm. Aunt Diana felt herself a little
comforted; evidently the undoubted Knickerbocker antecedents were not
frightened off by this midnight escapade, and Iris certainly looked
enchantingly lovely in the moonlight, with her white dress and the rose
in her hair. If Mokes were only here, and reconciled too. Happy thought!
why should Mokes know? Aunt Diana was a skillful general: Mokes never
knew.

“How large and still the house looks!” I said, as we turned toward the
wicket; “who lives there?”

“Only the Rose Gardener,” answered John; “an old bachelor who loves his
flowers and hates womankind. He lives all alone in his great airy house,
cooks his solitary meals, tends his roses, and no doubt enjoys himself
extremely.”

“Oh yes, extremely,” said Sara, in a sarcastic tone.

“You speak whereof you do know, I suppose, Miss St. John!”

“Precisely; I have tried the life, Mr. Hoffman.”

The Professor joined us at the gate, radiant and communicative. “All
this soil, you will observe, is mingled with oyster shells to the depth
of several feet,” he began. “This was done by the Spaniards for the
purpose of enriching the ground. Ah! Miss Iris, I did not at first
perceive you in the shadow. You have a rose, I see. Although--ahem--not
given to the quotation of poetry, nevertheless there is one verse which,
with your permission, I will now repeat as applicable to the present
occasion:

    “‘Fair Phillis walks the dewy green;
        A happy rose lies in her hair;
      But, ah! the roses in her cheeks
              Are yet more fair!’”

“Pray, Miss Sharp, can you not dispense with that horrible bone?” said
Aunt Diana, in an under-tone. “Really, it makes me quite nervous to see
it dangling.”

“Oh, certainly,” replied the governess, affably, dropping the relic into
her pocket. “I myself, however, am never nervous where science is
concerned.”

“Over there on the left,” began the Professor again, “is the site of a
little mission church built as long ago as 1592 on the banks of a
tide-water creek. A young Indian chieftain, a convert, conceiving
himself aggrieved by the rules of the new religion, incited his
followers to attack the missionary. They rushed in upon him, and
informed him of his fate. He reasoned with them, but in vain; and at
last, as a final request, he obtained permission to celebrate mass
before he died. The Indians sat down on the floor of the little chapel,
the father put on his robes and began. No doubt he hoped to soften their
hearts by the holy service, but in vain; the last word spoken, they fell
upon him and--”

“Massacred him,” concluded Sara. “You need not go on, Sir. I know all
about it. I was there.”

“You were there, Miss St. John!”

“Certainly,” replied Sara, calmly. “I am now convinced that in some
anterior state of existence I have assisted, as the French say, at all
the Florida massacres. Indian, Spanish, or Huguenot, it makes no
difference to me. I was there!”

“I trust our young friend is not tinged with Swedenborgianism,” said the
Professor aside to John Hoffman. “The errors of those doctrines have
been fully exposed. I trust she is orthodox.”

“Really, I do not know what she is,” replied John.

“Oh yes, you do,” said Sara, overhearing. “She is heterodox, you know;
decidedly heterodox.”

In the mean while Aunt Diana kept firmly by the side of the Captain. It
is safe to say that the young man was never before called upon to answer
so many questions in a given space of time. The entire history of the
late war, the organization of the army, the military condition of
Europe, and, indeed, of the whole world, were only a portion of the
subjects with which Aunt Di tackled him on the way home. Iris stood it a
while, and then, with the happy facility of youth, she slipped aside,
and joined John Hoffman. Iris was a charming little creature, but, so
far, for “staying” qualities she was not remarkable.

A second time we passed the cemetery. “I have not as yet investigated
the subject,” said the Professor, “but I suppose this to be the Huguenot
burying-ground.”

“Oh yes,” exclaimed Miss Sharp; “mentioned in my guide-book as a spot of
much interest. How thrilling to think that those early Huguenots, those
historical victims of Menendez, lie here--here in this quiet spot, so
near, you know, and yet--and yet so far!” she concluded, vaguely
conscious that she had heard that before somewhere, although she could
not place it. She had forgotten that eye which, mixed in some poetic way
with a star, has figured so often in the musical performances of the
female seminaries of our land.

“Very thrilling; especially when we remember that they must have
gathered up their own bones, swum up all the way from Matanzas, and
buried each other one by one,” said Sara.

“And even that don’t account for the last man,” added John.

Miss Sharp drew off her forces, and retired in good order.

“Iris,” I said, the next morning, “come here and give an account of
yourself. What do you mean, you gypsy, by such performances as that of
last night?”

“I only meant a moonlight walk, Cousin Martha. I knew I never could
persuade Aunt Di, so I took Miss Sharp.”

“I am surprised that she consented.”

“At first she did refuse; but when I told her that the Professor was
going, she said that under those circumstances, as we might expect much
valuable information on the way, she would give her consent.”

“And the Professor?”

“Oh, I asked him, of course; he is the most good-natured old gentleman
in the world; I can always make him do any thing I please. But poor Miss
Sharp--how Aunt Di has been talking to her this morning! ‘How you, at
your age,’ was part of it.”

A week later we were taken to see the old Buckingham Smith place, now
the property of a Northern gentleman, who has built a modern winter
residence on the site of the old house.

“This is her creek, Aunt Di,” I said, as the avenue leading to the house
crossed a small muddy ditch.

“Whose, Niece Martha?”

“Maria Sanchez, of course. Don’t you remember the mysterious watery
heroine who navigated these marshes several centuries ago? She perfectly
haunts me! Talk about Huguenots arising and glaring at you, Sara; they
are nothing to this Maria. The question is, Who was she?”

“I know,” answered Iris. “She is my old friend of the Dismal Swamp.
‘They made her a grave too cold and damp,’ you know, and she refused to
stay in it. ‘Her fire-fly lamp I soon shall see, her paddle I soon shall
hear--’”

“Well, if you do, let me know,” I said. “She must be a very muddy sort
of a ghost; there isn’t more than a spoonful of water in her creek as
far down as I can see.”

“But no doubt it was a deep tide-water stream in its day, Miss Martha,”
said John Hoffman; “deep enough for either romance or drowning.”

Beyond the house opened out the long orange-tree aisles--beautiful walks
arched in glossy green foliage--half a mile of dense leafy shade.

“This is the sour orange,” said our guide, “a tree extensively
cultivated in the old days for its hardy growth and pleasant shade. It
is supposed to be an exotic run wild, for the orange is not indigenous
here. When Florida was ceded to England in exchange for Cuba, most of
the Spanish residents left, and their gardens were then found well
stocked with oranges and lemons, figs, guavas, and pomegranates.”

“Poor Florida! nobody wanted her,” said John. “The English only kept her
twenty years, and then bartered her away again to Spain for the Bahamas,
and in 1819 Spain was glad to sell her to the United States. The latter
government, too, may have had its own thoughts as to the value of the
purchase, which, although cheap at five millions in the first place,
soon demanded nineteen more millions for its own little quarrel with
that ancient people, the Seminoles.”

“Headed, do not forget to mention, by Osceola,” added Sara.

“Beautiful fruit, at least in appearance,” I said, picking up one of the
large oranges that lay by the hundreds on the ground. “Are they of no
use?”

“The juice is occasionally sold in small quantities,” replied our guide.
“At one time it commanded a price of a dollar per gallon, and was used
in place of vinegar in the British navy. It makes a delicious acid drink
when fresh--better than lemonade.”

We lingered in the beautiful orange aisles, and heard the story of the
old place: how it had descended from father to son, and finally, upon
the death of the owner who was childless, it came into the possession of
a nephew. But among other papers was found one containing the owner’s
purpose to bequeath his property to the poor colored people of St.
Augustine. This will, if it could so be called, without witnesses, and
in other ways informal, was of no value in the eyes of the law. The
owner had died suddenly away from home, and there was no testimony to
prove that the paper expressed even a cherished intention. Nevertheless,
the heir at law, with rare disinterestedness, carried out the vague
wish; the place was sold, and all the proceeds invested for the benefit
of the colored people, the charity taking the form of a Home for their
aged and infirm, which is supported by the income from this money, the
building itself having been generously given for the purpose by another
prominent citizen of St. Augustine.

“You must see old Uncle Jack,” concluded the speaker. “Before the war
his master sent him several times to Boston with large sums of money,
and intrusted him with important business, which he never failed to
execute properly. By the terms of the will he has a certain portion of
the land for his lifetime. That is his old cabin. Let us go over there.”

Close down under the walls of the grand new mansion stood a low cabin,
shaded by the long drooping leaves of the banana; hens and chickens
walked in and out the open door, and most of the household furniture
seemed to be outside, in the comfortable Southern fashion. Uncle Jack
came to meet us--a venerable old man, with white hair, whose years
counted nearly a full century.

“The present owner of the place has ordered a new house built for Jack,
a picturesque porter’s lodge, near the entrance,” said our guide, “but
I doubt whether the old man will be as comfortable there as in this old
cabin where he has lived so long. The negroes, especially the old
people, have the strongest dislike to any elevation like a door-step or
a piazza; they like to be right on the ground; they like to cook when
they are hungry, and sleep when they are tired, and enjoy their pipes in
peace. Rules kill them, and they can not change: we must leave them
alone, and educate the younger generation.”



Returning down the arched walks, we crossed over into a modern
sweet-orange grove, the most beautiful in St. Augustine or its vicinity.
Some of the trees were loaded with blossoms, some studded with the full
closed buds which we of the North are accustomed to associate with the
satin of bridal robes, some had still their golden fruit, and others had
all three at once, after the perplexing fashion of the tropics.

“There are about eight hundred trees here,” said our guide, “and some of
them yield annually five thousand oranges each. There is a story extant,
one of the legends of St. Augustine, that formerly orange-trees covered
the Plaza, and that one of them yielded annually twelve thousand
oranges.”

“What an appalling mass of sweetness!” said Sara. “I am glad that tree
died; it was too good to live, like the phenomenal children of
Sunday-school literature.”



“In the old Spanish days,” said John, “this neighborhood was one vast
orange grove; ships loaded with the fruit sailed out of the harbor, and
