belong to you ? 
With that she gave a little hysterical laugh 
which ended with passionate crying. 
' I am a baby, there ! I am ashamed of my- 
 
self. Let me run and put away my toggery v 
and maybe I shall come to my senses." 
The children were washed and brushed. Stuart 
had just come in, and we sat down to the table. 
Fanny entered presently, but she neither ate nor 
drank, and seemed to be quite unlike herself. 
Indeed, I do not think she came to her senses 
until she and mamma had a good long talk, she 
lying in her fresh, cool bed. The friendly dusk 
hid her scarlet cheeks, but it could not keep 
her voice steady. All the naughtiness was con- 
fessed except the little that could not be told 
until long afterward, when events justified it. 
" My dear girl, I am extremely sorry, and yet 
I do not know how you could have avoided the 
trouble. You did quite right if you could not 
love Mr. Fairlie, and Mr. Ogden's haste was 
ungenerous and inexcusable. I am glad you had 
the good sense to see this. And now go to 
sleep my darling. If we have an}^ better thoughts 
to-morrow we will comfort one another with 
them." 
So she kissed her and left her alone. 
CHAPTER XI. 
were all pretty tired the next morn- 
ing. The children slept late, and Fan- 
ny was unusually languid for her. 
Stuart was the only one who did not appear to 
feel the effects of dissipation, for he was off 
bright and early on another excursion with the 
boys. 
It seemed so strange to think of Fan having 
had two offers of marriasre : at least, one we 
knew was made in good faith. The other mamma 
was not decided about. 
" Poor little girl ; ' said papa kissing her. 
"Your troubles are beginning early in life." 
" You think like the old lady in the couplet 
' Wires and briars, needles and pins, 
When you are married your trouble begins. ' 
and Fan laughed with a trifle of the old archness. 
Not exactly. Your mamma and I have been 
very happy." Still there was a perplexed expres- 
sion on papa's face as if he could not quite ex- 
plain the puzzle. 
" But then no one ever could be as good or as 
splendid or as lovely as you ! ' 
Any more adjectives, Fanny ! " and he smiled. 
Yes, a host of them, but I am generous and 
spare your blushes. Mamma in a sort of 
absent, thoughtful way, "there is one man who, 
I think, would make a royal husband." 
"Are you quite sure you understand the re- 
quisite qualities ? ' 
Fanny blushed. 
"It is Stephen Duncan. I don't know what 
put it in my mind. But he seems so tender and 
thoughtful and patient." 
" He must have taken all the family virtues," 
I made answer. 
" He was different in his boyhood from the 
others;" said papa. "He is a fine and noble 
man.' 
"But what troubles me most now," began 
Fanny with a certain funny lugubriouness, "is 
how I am to meet all these people again. What 
will the Churchills think? And oh, if Dick had 
not" 
 
"Such, matters have to settle themselves," re- 
turned mamma. " In all probability the Churchills 
will know nothing about it. Try and be a little 
careful in the future. You are no longer a 
child." 
"Must I wear a veil or enter a convent? 
Papa, suppose you lock me up in the study? 
Then they will all flock to Rose, and it will be 
the same trouble over again. What are we to 
do?" 
"Just now you had better find some employ- 
ment. I cut out half a dozen aprons for Daisy 
yesterday ; ' said mamma. 
" Then I will open my beloved machine, so 
good-bye to romance. Work and you are adver- 
saries.' 
I wondered how she could take events so 
coolly. She sang with her sewing as if her heart 
was as light as thistle-down. 
Nelly in the meanwhile was made ready and 
sent off to visit an old parishioner, living on 
a farm thirty miles away. One of the children 
went for awhile every summer. 
Louis improved rapidly. He had fretted some- 
what about accepting the Churchills' carriage, 
and begged papa to hire one for him, which had 
 
been clone. He went out nearly every morning 
now, or if It was too warm, late in the after- 
noon. I think he was getting a little human- 
ized, too. Occasionally he joined our circle and 
would often play with l)al>y Edith, who laughed 
and talked her fashion if you looked at her. 
She was just as good and sweet as she could 
be. 
Mr. Ogden did not come over, and went away 
on Saturday. That somehow stamped the epi- 
sode as pastime. With all her gayety Fan did 
feel badly over it- -a trifle mortified, I think, 
that he should have ventured upon such a free- 
dom. 
It was to make no change with the Churchills 
however. Indeed, we received quite a hand- 
some compliment from them the next week. 
Mr Churchill invited papa to go up in the 
mountains with him. He had some business 
with a tract of woodland that the railroad com- 
pany wanted to purchase, and thought it would 
be a nice trip. They were to start Tuesday 
night and return Saturday noon. 
The house always appeared so strange without 
him. Not but what mamma was quite capable 
of carrying it' on, yet we missed him sadly. 
 
Ann lamented Nelly's absence, and declared 
"there wasn't a childer to many". Fan and I 
sewed and had peculiar talks with Louis. I never 
could tell what he thought or what he believed, 
or whether he advanced these opinions for argu- 
ments' sake. He had a great deal of morbid 
pride, and a way of putting all the briary parts 
outside. Everybody was selfish, he averred. 
And he did have a fearful temper. Beside 
the quickness, it had in it a brooding vindictive- 
ness. He couldn't seem to forgive injuries or 
slights, and he was very jealous of Stuart, though 
he affected a lofty indifference to those bright 
engaging qualities. 
Stuart on the other hand did get into a good 
deal of mischief. He headed raids on the farmers' 
trees and melon-patches, and one night the water 
was let out of the dam, which caused a great 
commotion. Of course he was an immense 
favorite with the boys. 
When papa came home there was a letter from 
Stephen, answering the one announcing the ill- 
ness. He had been very much perplexed in the 
business and found it necessary to go to Paris. 
He would not be able to return until late in the 
Fall. As school began the tenth of September 
it would be best to send Stuart immediately. 
Would Mrs. Endicott see that his clothes were 
in order ? If Louis preferred, when he was well 
enough to resume his studies, to board in some 
quiet family and take the lessons he needed, 
Stephen considered it a better plan. 
" Not that I mean this to be construed into 
a desire for you to keep him, my dear friend," 
he wrote. " You have too much on your hands 
. 
already, and I feel as if I had added a great bur- 
then. But if he decides upon this course will 
you make some inquiries for him, and help him 
to find a suitable person ? I do not think him 
strong enough to be regularly in school. ' 
Louis made no comment for several days, then 
declared that he did not mean to be buried 
alive in a country village through a dreary win- 
ter. He would go back to Wilburton, but not 
enter the school. There were plenty of families 
who would take him to board, and he liked it 
there. 
Just at this juncture one of his cousins, a year 
or two older than himself, invited him to go to 
Canada to recruit his health. He was to start 
early in September and would call for him. 
He accepted the invitation at once, without 
even consulting papa. 
"I suppose it is as well, though," papa said 
thoughtfully. "He does need bracing up, and 
the change will be just the thing for him. we 
can hear meanwhile from Stephen about this 
Wilburton arrangement. ' ' 
The boys both went to Westburg with papa 
to get some new clothes. Mamma packed 
Stuart's trunk, and then he was frantic to return 
to the boys. Monday would be the tenth but 
he insisted upon starting on Friday. He wanted 
to get a good room, to see old friends and feel 
settled before school began. He had enjoyed 
himself splendidly, to be sure, and there were 
lots of jolly fellows in \Tachusett, to say noth- 
ing of the girls. He meant to come back some 
time and have it all over. But since he couldn't 
go to Canada, which he thought rather rough, 
he might as well march off at once. The 
sooner a thing was well over, the better. 
He spent a day and evening saying good-bye 
to his friends in the village. The stage was to 
come at eight Friday morn. He had his trunk 
strapped and out on the porch; ate his break- 
fast in a hurry > kissed the children and bade 
Ann a laughing farewell accompanied with a 
new calico gown, which she thought an immense 
favor. 
 
Papa gave him a little counsel iu a IOw tone 
of voice, .but I do not think he listened very 
attentively. He was a boy without a bit of 
sentiment or tender regard. He merely sang 
out "Good-bye, old chap," to Louis, and 
though he thanked us for our kindness, it was 
only from a gentlemanly instinct. Then he 
sprang into the stage and was off. 
"I do not know whether I should like to 
have such a son or not," mamma said slowly, 
as we entered papa's study. "He is bright and 
manly and entertaining, but he leaves you with 
a feeling that out of siorht is out of mind."  
"I have tried to sow a little good seed;' yet 
papa shook his head gravely. 
"But you are afraid it is in sandy ground;" 
Fan added, wiili u touch of comforting sweet- 
ness in her voice. " I haven't much faith in its 
bearing fruit, and yet I do believe he has come 
to have more consideration for Louis. He has 
not tormented him half as much lately. That 
would be one point gained." 
" Yes. After all, I have more hope of Louis. 
The struggle will be much harder, for his tem- 
perament and his health are against him, but 
he will be steadier in anything he undertakes. 
 
I have become deeply interested in both of 
them, and I do not feel as if it was going to end 
here/' 
It seemed as if the day was to be rendered 
memorable for us. In the midst of the talk 
came a sudden hard ring. I answered it and 
found Mr. Fairlie's man with a frightened look 
in his face. 
"If you please, Miss- -is your father in? : he 
asked. 
"Papa!" 
He came at the summons. 
"The master is very bad, sir. They want 
to see you right away. Mister Dick is taking 
it very hard." 
" Mr. Fairlie !" exclaimed papa in amaze. 
"Why, I saw him yesterday, and well.' 
" He's been rather queer in his head for two 
or three days. It was the sun or something. 
And about midnight he was taken. The Doctor 
has given him up now." 
"Yes," said papa, bewildered. "I'll be there 
directly." 
"I've the wagon here for you, sir." 
He just kissed mamma and went without 
another word. Such calls left no room for dis- 
cussions. 
 
"It cannot be possible!" ejaculated Fan. 
" Mrs. Fairlie and Kate away ! ' said mamma. 
" How very sad." 
We had not the heart to talk about it and 
separated for our morning's employment. School 
had begun again, so I made the children ready. 
Nelly had just entered the Seminary. Then I 
put my rooms in order while Fan assisted in 
the kitchen. Tabby came up stairs followed by 
her small gray and white kitten, who was a 
puffy ball of frolic. She glanced around the 
room in a curious, complacent fashion. 
"Yes, Tabby," I said, "the plague of your 
life has departed. Mrs. Whitcomb will be here 
next, and you know she is fond of you, so } T OUT 
troubles are ending. I don't believe we have 
learned to like boys so very much, after all." 
"No," returned Tabby, with a grave whisk 
of the tail, while the kitten made a vigorous 
attack on the bits of sunshine quivering through 
the great sycamore leaves. 
I went down stairs and sewed awhile in the 
nursery. Dinner came, but no papa. Louis had 
returned from his drive and looked very cheer- 
ful. We could not wait on account of the 
children, and unconsciously his prolonged absence 
gave us a little hope, 
 
It was dashed down presently. The church 
bell be<jan to toll. We glanced at each other 
in a startled way. 
" Poor Dick ! ' said Fan, turning her head, 
and I knew her eyes were full of tears. I 
could not help a curious thought. What if 
this sorrow should bring them together? 
Miss Churchill made us a nice long call in 
the afternoon, and before she had gone papa 
returned. Dick had begged him to stay and go 
to the station for Mrs. Faiiiie \vho had just 
come, and do several other special errands for 
him. The ladies had stopped on their home- 
ward way at the house of a cousin in Bridge- 
port, and were thus easily reached by telegraph. 
"What a terrible shock!' exclaimed Miss 
Churchill. "A man in almost perfect health, 
too ; though Dr. Hawley I believe mentioned 
his having some trouble with his heart. Was 
that the cause ? ' 
" I have no doubt it helped materially. He 
had complained of a dull, heavy headache for 
two or three days, and yesterday he was out in 
the sun which appeared to affect him a good 
deal. At midnight he was taken with paralysis. 
But brief as the time was it found him ready. 
He seemed to have gleams of consciousness and 
knew me at intervals. His trust was staid upon 
God, and there was no fear, no shrinking." 
" He has been a good, upright man. Kenton 
always esteemed him highly." 
" He was more than that, Miss Churchill, he 
was an earnest Christian. If the household had 
been of one mind, workers in the vineyard, he 
would have lived a fuller and more joyous 
Christian life. But we are to work our way 
through hindrances. God gave him grace and 
strength and perfected him in good deeds. I 
feel as if I had lost my mainstay in the church. 
He was not a man of many words, but you 
could rely upon, him to the uttermost. And 
though I shall grieve for a true and staunch 
friend, I shall also rejoice that he has gone to 
his reward, better far than any earthly happiness.' 
" You loved him very much," said Miss 
Churchill, deeply moved. 
" I did indeed." 
" The loss is dreadful to his family." . 
"My heart ached for Richard. He and his 
father were tender friends, and the watching 
through long hours, the not being able to give 
him up, was agonizing in the extreme. Mrs. 
Fairlie was stunned by the suddenness." 
"I wonder if I could Le any comfort to 
her ? ; Miss Churchill questioned slowly. 
"I wish you would call to-morrow," said papa. 
"I don't know but I shall have to come to you 
and your brother now." 
" I am sure I should be glad to give you any 
assistance in my power. I have been thinking 
lately that we live quite too much for our- 
selves." 
"For the night cometh in which no man can 
work," said papa solemnly. 
An awe fell over us all. One and another 
dropped in to wonder at the occurrence. Sud- 
den deaths always shock a community greatly. 
Even the children did not want to play but sat 
on the porch steps and looked into vacancy. 
Louis went up stairs directly after supper, but 
I heard him pacing his room restlessly. I had 
put the little ones to bed and was going down 
stairs when he called. 
" Did you want anything ? ' I inquired. 
' No that i.s are you busy ? ' 
"Not especially." 
''I am going away so soon;' he said apolo 
getically. 
 
"And if I can do anything for you, I shall 
be glad to," I made answer cheerfully. " Shall 
I come in and read ? ' 
"Thank you- -I don't care about that, I am 
in an odd, inconsequent mood to night. Sup- 
pose you talk to me ? I believe your voice has 
a soothing effect." 
"Let us go down on the porch. It is cooler." 
"Where are the others?' 
"Papa and Fanny have gone for a call. Mam- 
ma is in the nursery." 
"O, I wanted only you." 
"Come down then." 
I brought an easy chair out on the porch, and 
dropped into my own small rocker. Tabby came 
along and crawled in my lap, turning round 
three times and settling herself regardless of the 
welfare of her small child, though I dare say 
she was asleep in some one's slipper. The moon 
was nearly at its full and made silvery shadows 
through the interstices of the vines. The dewy 
air was fragrant and the ni^ht musical with 
chirp and hum of countless insects. 
"It is quite a relief to be rid of Stuart," he 
began presently. "And when I am gone you 
doubtless feel still more comfortable.' 
"I think you are quite comfortable to get on 
with now;' I said cheerfully. 
"Which implies there was a time. Miss 
Endicott, do you think I have improved any?' 
"I do not know as it would be hardly fair to 
judge you by the first week or two. You were 
on the eve of a severe illness, with your ner- 
vous system completely disorganized." 
" But since then be honest?' 
"I think you have been pleasanter, more con- 
siderate, not so easily ruffled ; ' I answered 
slowly. 
" Please don't fancy me fishing for compli- 
ments." 
" Compliments from me would not be so very 
flattering to one's vanity. They do not carry 
weight enough." 
"You believe that one could overcome any 
fault ? ' after a pause between the words. 
"With God's help yes." 
"Without God's help what then?" 
I was always so afraid of going astray in 
these talks. I could feel what I meant, but I 
could not explain it clearly. 
" ' Every good and perfect gift cometh from 
God,' I made answer. "And the desire to bo 
 
better or stronger, to overcome any fault, must 
proceed from Him." 
" Then why doesn't he make Christians per- 
fect?" 
" God gives us the work to do. He says, ' My 
grace shall be sufficient for thee.' Therefore we 
are to strive ourselves. He shows us the right 
way, but if we seek out other paths, or if we 
sink into indolence waiting for an angel to come 
and move our idle hands or stir up our languid 
wills, can we reasonably blame Him ? ' 
" I had not thought of that, I must confess. 
I had a fancy that - - religion did all these things 
for you." 
"What then is the Christian warfare? You 
know that errand old St. Paul had to fight to 
the last, that he might not be a cast-away. Yet 
I think no one ever doubted the genuineness of 
his conversion." 
"But if a man of his own determination, re- 
solved, he could do a great deal." 
"I should be weak to deny it. People have 
achieved heroic victories, suffered pain and shame 
and death bravely for pride, or some chosen 
idea. Only when it is done for the sake of 
Him who saved us, it becomes so much the 
more noble. It is obeying Him." 
"Is it an easy thing to be good, Miss Endi- 
cofct?" 
"Not for every one," I said. 
"You admit that natures are different?' 
" I do, cheerfully. Some people have very 
little self-control, others a great deal. But it is 
strengthened by use, like a limb." 
"I have very little?" 
"I did not say that." 
"But you know I have." 
"Papa said your temperament and your health 
were against you ! ' 
"Did he say that?" was the eager question. 
"Well there are a hundred things I sometimes 
have such headaches that I can hardly tell 
where I am, and if anything bothers me I feel 
as if I could stamp on it, crush it out of exist- 
ence. And if it is a person " 
"Oh," I cried, "don't please! That is mur- 
der in one's heart." 
"And when any one annoys Stuart he 
laughs at him, flings, jeers and exasperates. It 
is his way, yet every one thinks he has a lovely 
temper. He makes others angry. T have seen 
him get half a class by the ears, and in such a 
mess that no one knew what was the matter.  
 
I do not believe I ever in my life set about 
making another person angry. But I cannot 
stand such things. They stir up all the bad 
blood in me." 
" So you need patience, first of all." 
" But I can't stop to think." 
" Ah, that is just it. Stopping to think saves 
us. And when we have our great Captain to 
remember, and are endeavoring to walk in the 
path He marked out for us, it makes it easier. 
We are trying for the sake of one we love." 
" What else do I want?" 
" Don't ask me, please," I entreated. 
" Yes. I shall not let you evade me. Write 
me some copies to take with me. Patience 
what next ?" 
" Cheerfulness ; ' seeing that he compelled me 
to it. 4t Your nature is morbid and melancholy. 
Just try to think that people will like you." 
" But they do not.' 
"Then you must give them somthing to like. 
Suppose we all hid away our brightness?' 
He laughed. 
" It would be a rather blue world. But to 
try for admiration." 
" You don't try for admiration. You give 
 
freely of the very best you have. You remem- 
ber about the little boy who hid his cake away 
until it was mouldy and spoiled? 
"I believe you always give of the best here. 
And you never seem to have any lack." 
"Did you ever break off a sprig of lemon ver- 
bena ? Three new shoots come in its place. 
When I was a little girl mamma explained it to 
me, and said that if you nipped off one bit of 
pleasantness for a friend or neighbor, something 
grew instantly for the next one. You never 
give away all your joy and good feeling." 
He sighed a little, and said slowly 
" I believe I shall begin with my temper. I 
have always known that it was bad, and expected 
to keep it all my life, but if it could be made a 
little more reasonable ! ' 
"I am sure it can, if you will try. It is hard 
work to be fighting continually, to be on your 
guard against surprises, and sometimes to have 
your best efforts misunderstood, yet it seems to 
me a grand thing to gain a victory over one's 
self." 
" You make it so ; ' he replied in a half 
doubtful tone. 
" I wish you could be good friends with papa. 
He is so much wiser, and can explain the puzzles. 
When you came to know him well you 
would like him, you couldn't help it." 
"Sometime when I want such a friend ;' he 
answered a trifle coldly. 
The voices sounded on the walk just then, 
and in a few moments they came up. We had 
no special talk after that. 
Mamma went over to Mrs. Fairlie's the next 
day and met Miss Churchill there. Kate had 
been in violent hysterics all night. They ap- 
peared so utterly helpless. What should they do 
about black ? There wasn't any thing decent in 
Wachusett ! And could Mrs. Fairlie find a long 
widow's veil any where ? There would not be 
time to send to the city. 
"I am quite sure that Mrs. Silverthorne has 
one. Her's was very beautiful and she never 
wore it but a little ; and a plain bonnet will 
do." 
"Thank you. Miss Churchill. How kind you 
are. But I cannot understand why this grief 
should come upon me." 
" God's w;iys are not as our ways ; ' said 
mamma. 
" But Mr. Fairlie was needed so much. I 
don't know how I can live without him I ' 
 
Mamma and Miss Churchill soothed and tried 
to comfort. Each took a few orders on leaving. 
"My objection to mourning is jnst this," said 
Miss Churchill, when they were seated in her 
basket phaeton. "In the midst of your grief 
you have to stop and think wherewithal you 
shall be clothed. Dress-makers and milliners are 
your constant care for the first mouth." 
"The fashion of this world ;" mamma replied 
a little sadly. 
That afternoon Louis received a telegram from 
his cousin. He would meet him the next noon 
at the station in a through train, that there might 
be no lost time. He only packed a valise, as 
his trunk would be sent to Wilburton. We said 
our good-byes in quite a friendly fashion. He ap- 
peared really grateful and sorry to leave us. 
Papa went to the station with him and returned 
in an unusually grave mood. 
We kept up to the tense point of excitement 
until after Mr. Fairlie's funeral. It was largely 
attended, and very solemn and affecting. Indeed, 
nearly every heart ached for Kate and her 
mother. 
"But I do believe Dick suffers the most;' 
Fanny said. "I never saw any one so changed 
in a few days." 
 
Afterward the will was read. The farm was 
bequeathed to Richard. Stocks, bonds and mort- 
gages were divided between Mrs. Fairlie and 
Kate, who were thus made quite rich women. 
They could go to Europe now. 
I found myself wondering a little what Mr. 
Fairlie 's life would have been with different 
surroundings. The Fairlies in their way were 
as old and as good a family as the Churchills, 
only they did not happen to settle at the West 
Side, and had gone a little more into active 
business. But they did not lay claim to any 
special position or grandeur. This had always 
seemed to mortify Mrs. Fairlie somewhat. "Mr. 
Fairlie is so old-fashioned," she would say com- 
plainingly. "There was no getting him out of 
the one groove." She wanted to make a show, 
to have people admit that she was somebody. 
She went to church regularly and would have 
been much offended not to have been considered 
an important member. She gave to the Christ- 
mas and Easter feasts and adornings, but for 
the poor or the needy sick she rarely evinced 
any sympathy. Her duty stopped at a certain 
point, the rest of her time, money, and interest 
was distinctly her own. So the husband and 
wife lived separate lives, as it were. 
 
Would Richard's fate repeat the same con- 
fused and tangled story? No doubt his mother 
would desire him to marry well in worldly point 
of view. She might even object to Fan on 
the score of money. Would he have the 
courage to suit himself? For what he needed 
was a sweet, domestic woman with the culture 
that did not disdain every day matters. His 
tastes were simple and homelike, yet he was by 
no means dull. He wanted a woman to honor 
him, to put him in his true position as head 
of the family. 
Would Providence bring him happiness, or 
discipline only? 
CHAPTER XII. 
next thing that happened to us was 
though to be exact, it was two 
events. In the morning papa had a 
long, lovely letter from Stephen Duncan, enclos- 
ing a check for two hundred dollars on the 
boys' aqcount, and one for fifty to mamma, to 
fill up the chinks made by the sickness, he said. 
The Doctor's bill he would settle when he came 
home. Papa read most of it aloud, and I saw 
mamma's Sweet, dark eyes fill with tears. 
We were beginning a new week, and alone 
by ourselves. That always reminds me of the 
story papa used to tell of a traveler who passed 
a house where there were seven children sitting 
on the stoop, and seven on the fence, all crying 
as hard as they could cry, so he paused to ask 
what dreadful thing had happened. 
" Oh," said they with one voice, " our mother 
has gone away and left us all alone ! 
 
It was pretty much the same with us, only 
we did not cry for any one gone away. It was 
delightful to have our house by ourselves. - 
Though it seemed so queer that we lounged 
around and amused each other making wonder- 
ful plans. 
In the afternoon Mrs. Whitcomb arrived with 
her large basket. We all rushed out and kissed 
her, and almost distracted her with our avalanche 
of news. Fan untied her bonnet, I took her 
shawl and mamma turned one glove into the 
other after her own careful fashion. 
"The wear seems to have told most upon 
you, Mrs. Endicott," she said with sweet solici- 
tude. " First of ah, girls, your mother must 
have a holiday!" 
We looked at each other blankly, then laughed. 
" She shall have whatever is best ; ' returned 
Fan with much dignity. 
"Then she must go away. Let me see 
among the mountains somewhere, to an old 
farm-house where she can have milk, and sweet 
corn, and sleep eighteen hours out of the twen- 
ty-four. She must not take a stitch of sewing." 
"Splendid!  I declared, clapping my hands. 
Oh," exclaimed Nelly, " won't you go to 
 
Aiuitie Vandevere's, mamma? They want you 
to come so much." 
"Now there is a place provided," said Mrs. 
Whitcornb. "You know you were going all 
last summer and did not get started. It is just 
the season to enjoy yourself. The girls and I 
can keep house. We will have everything 
bright as a new gilt "button on your return. 
And Edith is so good, or you might take one 
of the children to mind her. Children come in 
so handy." 
"O mamma, me!' and Tim jumped up and 
down as incoherently as her sentence. 
"The house cleaning ' : protested mamma 
faintly, Tim's arms being around her neck in a 
strangling fashion by this time. 
We will clean house, mend the stockings, 
weed the flower beds, and keep matters straight. 
You will hardly know the place when you 
return." 
" Here, Tim, look after your village ! Baby 
has commenced to devour the cows, and I think 
them a rather heavy article of diet for her jusfc 
yet." 
"What is one little make-believe cow?' said 
Tim disdainfully. 
 
"Well, pick up the fragments. And here is 
Miss Dolly looking tired and sleepy. Then run 
out and play." 
"We don't want to;" cried the younger ones 
in chorus. 
" Well, have your own way ; ' and Fan sat 
down in mock despair. "I am determined to 
be obeyed in some respect." 
After we had them all snugly tucked in bed 
that evening, the elders discussed the plan again. 
Papa approved of it so strongly that he wrote 
the letter immediately. 
"But there is so much to do," declared mam- 
ma. "I intended to change the girls to the 
front chamber and put Nelly and Daisy in theirs. 
And we want a new carpet for the study, and 
oh, I don't believe I can go!' 
" There is always some path out of the 
woods ; ' said Mrs. Whitcomb when our laugh 
had subsided. "You need the rest that is the 
strongest argument. And I have come to help. 
You cannot make me company if you try." 
On the following day we had it all out straight. 
The three seniors were to go to Westburg on 
Thursday and buy everything they could lay 
their hands upon. Friday afternoon mamma was 
 
to take her journey. The next week on Wed- 
nesday or Thursday papa was to go up after 
her, the two to come home on Saturday. There 
it was all as plain and easy as " twice two ' in 
the multiplication table. 
They started bright and early in the morning. 
Fan and I went at the front chamber. There 
was not much to do, for the walls were papered. 
Ann cleaned the paint, we washed windows and 
rubbed the paper with a soft cloth, then she 
shook the carpet for us and we tacked it down. 
" It seems odd to move over to this side of the 
house," said Fan, "but I shall like it ever so 
much. And Nell will be so pleased. She hates to 
be packed like pins in a paper. But now comes 
the tug of war- -clothes, bureau drawers, odds 
and ends, and the plagues of Egypt." 
" O no ; ' I returned laughingly. 
"Well- -flies, anyhow. They are not all 
gone." 
There was a large old-fashioned chest of drawers 
in the room. We brought in our dainty bureau 
with its pretty glass, and I gave up all the 
drawers to Fan, taking the other. There was a 
nice wardrobe for our dresses and boxes. When 
Nelly returned from school she helped with our 
 
pictures and brackets, and we had ourselves 
as well as our room in order before the travel- 
ers returned. Baby had been good as an angel 
all day. I dressed her clean and put on one 
of the pretty bibs that Daisy had crocheted, and 
Ann had the supper table in readiness. 
They were all tired, enough, though we had 
bound them by solemn promises not to do any 
of our fall shopping. They had made a few 
calls, selected the carpet and made arrangements 
to have papa's study chair covered with Russia 
leather. So we kissed them and made them 
welcome, both ladies being somewhat surprised 
by our day's work. 
It was beautiful on Friday, and there was not 
the least shadow of an excuse for mamma to 
stay. Not that we were so very glad to have 
her go, after all, but we knew it would bring 
forth good fruit in the end. Tim was about 
half crazy and brought all her play-things to be 
packed up, but mamma compromised by taking 
her large rag doll, as the baby could play with 
that. 
"Girls," said Mrs. Whitcomb on Saturday 
morning, " suppose we begin at the other rooms. 
Nelly and Daisy can do a good deal in the way 
 
of helping. I want to get the house all in or del 
before your mother returns. And there will be 
the carpet to make the first of the week." 
" Agreed ; ' we all said, and went at it with 
a good will. Daisy declared " that it was almost 
as splendid as moving, and she hoped sometime 
we would move." She was too young to remem- 
ber the discomforts of our coming to Wachusett. 
This was a regular frolic. Mrs. Whit comb 
was so charming with her ways of quiet fun and 
odd bits of wisdom. Like mamma, she knew 
how to begin at the right end, and make mat- 
ters go on smoothly. There is such a difference 
in that. She kept the children good-natured 
and we were all as busy as bees. 
Just as we were hurrying our utmost, about 
mid-afternoon a carriage stopped. Daisy ran to 
the side window to reconnoitre. 
"It is the Maynards," she announced, "and 
a whole load of ladies." 
" Some one must go- -Rose ! ' 
" O, dear, no, not 
" For Joe, to be slangy," and Fan laughed. 
"But you have just finished the carpet, and you 
are the eldest, and you can brush up your hair 
so quickly. Here, wash your face and I'll get 
out your dress." 
 
I washed and brushed, or rather just ran the 
comb through my hair and twisted it in a great 
knot, put on some tidy slippers and a blue 
cambric with ruffles at the wrist and throat. 
While I was fastening my brooch Fan tied a 
pale blue ribbon in my hair. 
" There you look as sweet as a pink, only I 
never saw any blue pinks. Don't say you are 
just out of the soap-suds. Remember to uphold 
the family credit.'' 
It was "all of the Maynards," and a very 
elegant young gentleman. Mrs. Silverthorne and 
the Misses Maynards were going West next 
week, and had come to make a farewell call. 
They were very sorry to miss mamma - - how could 
we cret alone without her ? 
I said Mrs. Whitcomb was here taking charge 
of us. 
"There;" began Mrs. Silverthorne, "Matilda, 
I don't see why you can't get her to come and 
stay with grandma this winter, and you go to 
the City for two months or so. I am sure if 
Mrs. Eiidicott feels it safe to leave all of her 
children, you might leave just one person." 
"Mamma lias the baby and my youngest sis- 
ter with her," I returned. " And she only 
expects to stay a \veek." 
 
I could not see that the cases were at all 
parallel. 
" Well, this Mrs. Whitcomb is a nice, trusty 
sort of person, is she not ? Dosn't she take 
care of sick people ? ' 
" Yes ; she is very lovely." 
"That is only for your equals, my child;' 
she returned patronizingly. 
I flushed but made no answer. 
"Whose crayon drawing?' asked Miss May- 
nard, making a tour of inspection through the 
room. 
"My sister Fanny's." 
"O- -the one with that lovely golden hair 
is it not ? Miss Lucy Churchill raves about her. 
Why she has quite a talent. Does she think of 
studying ? ' 
"Not at present;' I replied. 
" She is very young ; ' said Mrs. Maynard. 
"If I were not going away I should be 
pleased to give her some lessons. I think one 
ought to foster talent when one is in a position 
to do it." 
" Thank you ; ' I returned with a little pride. 
" Miss Churchill intends to give her lessons." 
" Indeed ! Well, I have some friends con- 
 
nected with the School of Design in New York. 
I might do something for her there." 
I simply thanked her again. 
They left regrets and kind messages, and 
swept through the hall in a complacent fashion. 
I ran up stairs and took off my dress in a 
hurry. 
" It wasn't worth the trouble ; ' I declared 
with some disgust. " I really think I could find 
more intellectual enjoyment in tacking down 
carpets. I am sure I could in hanging pictures." 
" What a depraved taste! And West Side 
people, too ! ? 
"I can't help it, Miss Churchill would have 
"been charming! Then I repeated Miss May- 
nard's offers. 
"Very thoughtful of her;" said Fan dryly. 
*' People in her position can do many nice things 
if they try. I would not have hung that pic- 
ture in the parlor if it had not been for papa." 
"Our parlor is our own," replied I. 
"No, it belongs in part to the parish." 
Mrs. Whitcomb laughed at that. 
"Oh, won't this room be lovely," said Nelly. 
"Why, I could swing Tabby around in it with- 
out hitting the children ! * 
 
"Let me catcli you swinging Tabby! She 
has passed through purgatory." 
"And these book-shelves are just the thing. 
Daisy, they are mine, do you understand? If I 
find one of your books here I shall put it in 
the middle of the floor." 
"That will have one merit at least, I can see 
it there." 
We finished the two rooms by night, and 
then had callers all the evening. But Sunday 
without mamma seemed quite out of the order 
of things. I knew papa felt lost, though we all 
tried to do our best. Once it came into my 
mind what the house would be without her for- 
ever, and my e} T es filled with tears. We sat 
together an hour after church, talking about her. 
We went to work again the first of the week. 
The carpet had come and was very pretty. A 
mossy, fine figured vine in two shades of green, 
with a dash of crimson here and there. The 
lounge had been covered the year before with 
green reps and still looked bright. 
"How pretty it will be!' I said, "I am all 
impatience to see it down and the room in 
order. The carpet comes just like a present, 
doesn't it?" 
 
"We have forgotten the work and the worry." 
" Perhaps it was ,a good thing for us. And 
somehow I do believe it will prove good for 
Louis Duncan." 
 'When will we go at the study, Mrs. Whit- 
comb?" 
" Not until your father is out of the house." 
A rinsg at the bell startled us. 
" West Side again;' said Mrs. Whitcornb ;
"Miss Churchill." 
" O, please come in here;' exclaimed Fanny 
with a laugh. "It is only a step from dress- 
making to carpets." 
" Is it?'' and she smiled. " Who is going to 
be so pretty?' 
" Papa. Our study carpet was a thing of 
shreds and patches, rather than beauty. And 
we feel as if we had earned this money our- 
selves. When papa goes to the mountains we 
shall have a thorough renovating." 
" I wish I could add something," said Miss 
Churchill. "Let me take a peep, perhaps I can 
discover a new need." 
She glanced around. Fanny explained about 
the chair. 
" There is one thing girls, and I shall do it 
This paper is soiled and dingy, and a new one 
must be put on." 
"It is pretty nearly covered with the books 
and pictures," returned Fanny. 
"But it is not nice Wednesday, you said, 
Mr. Endicott was going. I will send you over 
some help to get the furniture and the books out, 
and on Thursday the man shall come to do it. 
It will not take long." 
"We can do the removing, please;' and Fan 
smiled archly. 
" If you are saucy I will come myself. Here 
is a basket of pears. I suppose I dare not ask 
you to visit me until you have all your fortune 
spent, and are bankrupt." 
" You will be very good to take us in then," 
I answered. 
"I can make allowance for the pernicious 
influence of wealth;' she returned gaily. 
She was as good as her word. The coach- 
man come over to help us lift, he said. One 
end of the room and one side of the chimney 
had been put in book-shelves. Mrs. Whitcomb 
thoughtfully made out a list so we could tell 
where they belonged. 
The paper and the man were according to 
 
promise. The first was a delicate French gray 
with quite wide, rich bordering that gave the 
room the effect of being frescoed. It was as 
pretty as a picture. When the carpet was 
down, and the chair came home, which it die] 
Saturday noon, we were happy as larks. 
But the best of all was mamma and the baby. 
We kissed them and cried over them a little 
out of pure joy. The old tired look had gone 
out of mamma's sweet face, and her voice was 
bright and cheery. And, oh, how surprised 
and pleased they both were ! Papa declared 
that it was as good as a Christmas feast. 
It was only a little after all. Some of the 
ladies in town spent as much on one dress and 
then were dissatisfied. I begdn to think it is a 
rare art to get a good deal of happiness out of 
a small amount of material. When you work 
for it yourself it does seem sweeter, if the work 
is not too hard. Hunger is a good thing if one 
does not pass the point of appetite, and faint. 
Mamma thought we had accomplished wonders. 
Truly the pictures did look better on the new 
paper, and the bright border gave a glow and 
