all over the seven hundred, when it is sold," suggested Leopold, who had
considerable knowledge of business.



"The house and land are worth just what I say; or, at least, they were a
year ago, though the war has knocked things higher than a kite just now.
Nobody except my loving grandpa has got the ready cash to pay down; and
mother thinks the place wouldn't fetch much, if anything, over the
mortgage. But in time it will be worth two thousand dollars."

The arrival of the old boat at the wharf, and the commencement of the
excitement in and around the fish market, terminated the conversation on
Stumpy's worldly affairs. As the dingy craft approached the pier, a
crowd gathered at the head of the landing-steps, for it had been noised
about the town that Leopold had brought in a fare of mackerel the day
before; and people were anxious to know whether he had repeated his good
luck.

A great many boats had gone out that morning after mackerel, but none of
them had yet returned. Foremost in the crowd on the wharf was Bangs, the
senior member of the firm that kept the fish market. He was excited and
anxious, though he struggled to be calm and indifferent when Leopold
fastened the painter of his boat to the steps.

"What luck to-day, Le?" shouted Bangs, who could not see the fish, for
the careful Leopold had covered them in order to keep them from injury
from the sun, and so that the extent of his good fortune might not at
once be seen by the idlers on the wharf.

"Pretty fair," replied Leopold, striving to be as calm and indifferent
as the dealer in fish on the pier.

"What have you got?" inquired Bangs.

"Mackerel," answered Leopold, as he seated himself in the stern-sheets
of the boat, with affected carelessness.

"Tinkers?"

"No; the same sort that I sold you yesterday."

"What do you ask for them?" inquired Bangs, looking up at the sky as
though nothing on the earth below concerned him.

"Ten cents," replied Leopold, looking up at the sky in turn, as though
nothing sublunary concerned him, either.

"All right," said the dealer, shaking his head, with a kind of smile,
which seemed to indicate that he thought the young fisherman was beside
himself to ask such a price, after apparently glutting the market the
day before. "That will do for once, Le; but they won't bring ten cents
at retail, after all I sold yesterday. I should have to salt them down."

"Very well," added Leopold; "that's my price; and I don't know of any
law that compels you to give it, if you don't want to, Mr. Bangs."

The dealer began to edge his way through the crowd towards the fish
market, and the idlers hastened to the conclusion that there would be no
trade.

"What do you ask apiece for two or three of them?" asked some one on the
wharf.

"Twenty cents," answered Leopold. "But I don't care to sell them at
retail."

"I will take three, if you will let me have them," added the inquirer.

This conversation startled the head of the fish firm, and he returned
once more to the cap-sill of the wharf. He saw that if the young man
attempted to sell out his fare at retail, the business of the market
would be ruined for that day.

"I will give you eight cents apiece for all you have," said Bangs.

"You can't buy them at that price. If you don't want them at ten cents
apiece, I shall take them over to Rockland," replied Leopold, who did
not wish to offend the members of the fish firm, for they had often
bought out his fare, and he wished to keep on the right side of them for
operations in the future.

Mr. Bangs considered, parleyed, and then offered nine cents; but
finally, when Leopold was found to be inflexible, he yielded the point,
and agreed to pay the ten cents. The mackerel were unloaded and conveyed
to the market, when the sale of them at retail commenced immediately.
The fish were so large and handsome that twenty cents did not appear to
be a very extravagant price for them, considering the scarcity of the
article in the market. In the settlement, Leopold received forty-six
dollars; Stumpy's share, according to a standing agreement, was one
quarter of the proceeds of the sale; and the eleven dollars and a half
which he put into his wallet was quite as satisfactory to him as the
thirty-four dollars and a half was to Leopold. Both of them felt that
they had been favored by fortune to an extraordinary degree, and they
were very happy. The old boat was sailed back to her usual moorings. The
tinkers were equally divided between the young fishermen, and they went
home.

By eleven o'clock Stumpy had poured into the lap of his astonished
mother the proceeds of his morning's work, and Leopold had informed his
father of the second big haul he had made that season. As before, Mr.
Bennington--but with some additional cautions--told his son to keep the
money he had made.

"The sick man is in a peck of trouble this morning," added the landlord
of the Cliff House, when the exciting business of the occasion had been
disposed of.

"What's the matter of him?" asked Leopold.

"He has lost his book, his record, or whatever it is," added Mr.
Bennington. "He has sent for everybody belonging in the house, including
many of the boarders. He wants to see you."

"I'm sure I don't know anything about it," replied Leopold, who,
judging by what the invalid had said about the book, realized that the
loss of it must distress him very much.

"No one seems to know anything about it; and the sick man will have it
that some one has stolen the book. I laughed at him, and told him no one
would steal such a thing, for it was worth nothing to anybody but
himself. But go up and see him, Leopold."

The young man hastened to the room of the sick man. Harvey Barth was
certainly very miserable on account of the loss of his diary. He spoke
of it as he would have done if it had been some dear friend who had been
taken away from him by death; but then he was sick and rather childish,
and the people about the hotel pitied and sympathized with him.

"Where did you put it?" asked Leopold, when he had heard all the
particulars the steward could give in relation to his loss.

"There isn't any cupboard in this room, and I hadn't any good place to
keep it; so I just tucked it into the flue of that fireplace," drawled
Harvey, with the frequent hacking which impeded his utterance.

"That was a queer place to put it," added Leopold.

"I know it was; but I hadn't any better one. I thought it would be safer
there than in any other place."

"Are you sure that you put it there?"

"Am I sure that I am a living man at this moment?" demanded Harvey.
"That diary is worth more to me than all the rest I have in the world,
and I shouldn't forget what I did with it."

But Leopold searched the room in every nook and corner, in spite of the
protest of the sick man that it was useless to do so, for he had looked
everywhere a dozen times himself. The young man was no more successful
than others had been who had looked for the diary.

"Though you value it very highly I suppose the diary is not really worth
very much," suggested Leopold.

"There are secrets written out in that book which might be worth a great
deal of money to a bad man," replied Harvey, in a confidential tone.

"Well, what do you suppose has become of it?"

"I'll tell you. I think some one stole it," added the sick man
impressively.

"Did any one know about the secrets written down in it?"

"Not that I know of. Some one may have taken it in order to get my
account of the wreck of the Waldo. It may affect the insurance on the
vessel, or something of that sort, for all I know. I think I know just
who stole it too;" and Harvey related all the particulars of the tipsy
man's visit to the chamber the night before. "He pretended to be drunk,
but I think he knew what he was about all the time, just as well as I
did. In my opinion he took that book."

"Why should he take it?" asked Leopold, who thought it was necessary to
prove the motive before the deed was charged upon him.

"I don't know but I think he sat at the window of the room over there,"
continued Harvey, pointing to one in the L of the house, which opened at
right angles with his own. "I believe he saw me put the diary in the
flue, and then came into my room in the night and took it, while he was
blundering about over the chairs and tables. I am sure that none of the
folks who came in to see me in the afternoon could have taken it without
my seeing them--not even the newspaper man. You may depend upon it, the
tipsy man--if he was tipsy--took it. What he did it for is more than I
can tell; but he may have thought it was money, or something else that
was valuable. I saw him at that window after I had hid the diary in the
flue."

Harvey Bath was entirely satisfied in regard to the guilt of the tipsy
man, and had already ascertained that the fellow was a "drummer"--in
Europe more politely called a "commercial traveller." He had also
obtained the name of the man, and the address of the firm in New York
city for which he travelled. With this information he hoped to obtain
his treasure again, by shrewd management, when he went to New York. But,
in spite of his grief over his loss, Harvey wrote the account of the
wreck of the Waldo for the newspaper, in the course of the next day, and
sent it off by mail.

After Leopold had done all he could to comfort the invalid,--though he
failed, as others had, to lessen the burden which weighed him down,--he
left the room, and walked down to the principal street of the village,
on which the Cliff House was located. A few rods from the hotel he came
to the smallest store in the place, in the window of which were
displayed a few silver watches and a rather meagre assortment of cheap
jewelry. On the shelves inside of the shop was a considerable variety of
wooden clocks, and, in a glass case on the counter, a quantity of
spoons, forks and dishes, some few of which were silver, while the
greater part were plated, or of block tin. Over the door was the sign
"LEOPOLD SCHLAGER, WATCH-MAKER." The proprietor of this establishment
was Leopold's uncle, his mother's only brother, which explains the
circumstance of our hero's having a foreign name.

Of course, if Leopold Schlager was a German, Mrs. Bennington was of the
same nationality, though any one meeting her about the hotel would
hardly have suspected that she was not a full-blooded American. Over
thirty years before, she had emigrated with her younger brother, when
the times were hard in Germany. Her father was dead, and her elder
brother, Leopold, was not yet out of his time, learning the trade of a
watch-maker. The younger brother went to the west, taking her with him,
and established himself on a farm. He was not very successful, and his
sister, at the age of twelve, went to live with an American family in
Chicago, the lady of which had taken a fancy to her. She was brought up
to work, though her education was not neglected. Before she was
twenty-one her brother in the west died. But by this time she was
abundantly able to take care of herself.

When the family in which she was so kindly cared for was broken up by
the death of the father, she went to work in the kitchen of a large
hotel, where she enlarged her knowledge and experience in the art of
cooking, till she was competent to take a situation as the cook of a
small public house. In this place she increased the reputation of the
establishment by her skill, till the proprietor was willing to pay her
any wages she demanded.

Peter Bennington, a native of Maine, was employed in the hotel; and he
was so well pleased with the looks of the German cook that he proposed
to her, and was accepted. Katharina Schlager spoke English then as well
as a native; and she was not only neat and skillful, but she was a
pretty and wholesome-looking woman. Peter married her, and, after a
while, bought out the hotel. But he was not successful in the venture;
and, with only a few hundred dollars in his pocket, he returned to
Rockhaven, his native place, where he soon opened the Cliff House.

Leopold was born in Chicago, and his mother had insisted upon naming him
after her brother in Germany.

Mr. Bennington had done very well in the hotel; but he was ambitious to
do business on a larger scale, and was revolving in his mind a plan to
make the Cliff House into a large establishment, which would attract
summer visitors in great numbers. He had bought the present hotel, and
paid for it from his profits; and he hoped soon to be able to rebuild it
on a larger scale.

His wife was faithful and devoted to him and the children. She had
always done the cooking for the Cliff House, which had given it an
excellent reputation. She was not only a good and true woman, but she
was an exceedingly useful one to a hotel-keeper. For years she had
tenderly thought of her absent brother in Germany. She often wrote to
him, and learned that he was doing a good business in a small city.
After years of persuasion, she induced him to join her in America. He
was met on the wharf in New York, when he landed, by Mr. Bennington and
his wife, and conducted to Rockhaven without delay. He could not speak a
word of English then; but for six months he devoted himself to the study
of it under the tuition of his sister and her children, till he was
competent to carry on his business in the town. He was a very skillful
workman, and all the watches in Rockhaven and on the island came to him
to be cleaned and repaired. Even the rich men of the place found that he
could be safely trusted with their valuable gold time-keepers, and he
became quite celebrated in his line. He sold a watch occasionally, and
had a small trade in clocks and other wares, so that he really made more
money than in his native land. He had brought with him a considerable
capital, and was enabled to stock his store without any aid from his
sister.

If Herr Schlager missed his "sauer kraut" and "bier," he enjoyed the
company of his sister and her children. Leopold was his favorite,
perhaps because he bore the watch-maker's name. They were fast friends;
and in the undertaking which Leopold was laboring to accomplish, he had
made his uncle his confidant.

When the young man entered the store, he bestowed his first glance upon
a small iron safe behind the counter, in which the watch-maker kept his
watches, silver ware, and other valuables at night. Leopold was
interested in that strong box, for the reason that it contained his own
savings. For six months he had been hoarding up every penny he earned
for a purpose, and he had placed his money in the hands of his uncle for
safe keeping. Perhaps Herr Schlager's iron safe was as much the occasion
of his confidence in his uncle as the fact of their relationship.
Leopold's present visit was made in order to dispose of the proceeds of
his morning's work, before he lost it or was tempted to spend any
portion of it.

"Ah, mine poy! you have come mit more money. I see him in your head,"
said Herr Schlager, as, with a cheerful smile, he left his work-table.

"Yes uncle, I have more money," replied Leopold; and his success had
covered his face with smiles. "Ich habe viel geld diesen morgen."

"Sehr gut!" laughed the watch-maker, who was delighted to hear his
nephew use the little German he had taught him. "Wie viel geld haben
sie?"

"Mehr als vier-und-dreisig thaler," replied Leopold, who had been
preparing himself, during his walk from the hotel to the store, to speak
what German he had thus far uttered.

"Viel geld!" cried the watch-maker.

"How much have I now?" asked Leopold, in plain English, forgetting for
the time all the rest of the German he knew.

"Sprechen Deutsch!" exclaimed the watch-maker.

"I don't remember any more German," laughed the young man. "How much
money have I now?"

Herr Schlager opened the iron safe and placed in one of its draws the
sum just given him by his nephew, and took therefrom a slip of paper.
Leopold added the sums he had deposited, and made the amount
eighty-seven dollars and some cents.

"Das is nicht enough, Leopold--eh?" asked the uncle.

"No, not yet."

"How many more you want of dollars?"

"I don't know exactly. They ask two hundred; but, as it is rather late
in the season, I think they will take one hundred and fifty," replied
Leopold, thoughtfully.

"You shall buy him now."

"Not this year, Uncle Leopold; and next spring they will put the price
up again. I haven't even a hundred and fifty dollars."

"I shall let you haf de rest of das geld."

This proposition produced an argument; but the nephew finally consented
to borrow the balance of the sum required, if one hundred and fifty
dollars would answer the purpose. Leopold left the shop with an anxious
heart; but in a couple of hours he returned for his own money and the
loan.




CHAPTER VI.

MISS SARAH LIVERAGE.


For several months the landlord's son had had his eye on a new
keel-boat, built during the preceding winter, which the owner did not
feel able to keep for his own use. With a sort of desperate
determination, Leopold had been saving every cent he earned about the
hotel, or in his boat, in order to purchase this new craft, or one like
it if she should be sold before his accumulations enabled him to buy
her. The owner asked two hundred dollars for her; but as the season
advanced, Leopold hoped to buy her for less. The matter had looked very
hopeless to him until his first lucky catch of mackerel; and the second
fortunate trip inspired him with confidence. His uncle had been his only
confidant, and they had often discussed the project together. But now
Herr Schlager had advanced the sum he needed to make the purchase, and
the boat was bought. For two hours the young man had haggled with the
owner about the price; but one hundred and fifty dollars, cash down, was
a temptation which the builder could not resist in the end, when he
thought of his unpaid grocery and provision bills.

No name had yet been given to the new boat, which was now the property
of Leopold, for when the owner decided to sell her, he thought it was
better to let the purchaser christen her to suit himself. The new craft
was a sloop twenty-two feet long, with quite a spacious cuddy forward.
She was a fast sailer, and her late owner declared that she was the
stiffest sea-boat on the coast. Of course Leopold was as happy as a
lord, and he wanted to hug Herr Schlager for his considerate loan of
sixty-two dollars; but his uncle was quite as happy, and after the
custom of his own country, he did actually hug and kiss his nephew,
though the young man was rather confounded by the demonstration,
especially as the passers-by in the street halted to observe the
spectacle.

As soon as the business of the purchase was finished, Leopold hastened
to the cottage of Mrs. Wormbury, where he found Stumpy digging the early
potatoes in the garden. He informed his friend of the great event of the
day, and invited him to take a sail in the sloop. On their way to the
boat they stopped at the hotel, where Leopold told his father of the
purchase. He did so with some misgivings, and took care to explain the
uses to which he intended to put the boat, before his father had time to
express an opinion. Mr. Bennington, to the great satisfaction of his
son, offered no objection to the purchase; on the contrary, he seemed to
be pleased with the transaction.

"There are two gentlemen in the house that want to go over to the Isle
of Holt (Isle-au-Haut) this afternoon," added the landlord. "I was just
looking for you to go and see whether Ben Chipman could take them over."

"I can take them over myself, father," said Leopold.

"So I was thinking. They want to go right off after dinner."

"I shall be ready. We will bring the boat down now.--Will you go with
me, Stumpy?" continued Leopold, turning to his friend.

"I should like to go, first rate," answered Stumpy.

They hastened to the wharf where the new boat lay, and in a few minutes
more they were standing down the river in her.

"She works tip-top," said the skipper, as soon as he began to feel the
boat bearing on the tiller. "She minds her helm as soon as I touch the
stick."

"She's as handsome as a picture, too. She don't look much like your old
boat," replied Stumpy, with a smile as he realized the contrast.

"Not much. She seems to go at railroad speed. We haven't been used to
going along at this rate."

"That's so. What's her name Le?"

"She hasn't any yet. We will think of something for her."

The skipper sailed the boat down to the mouth of the river, and came
about off the light-house, located on a projecting cliff which extended
out nearly half a mile from the southern shore. The trial-trip was
entirely satisfactory; and on her return the sloop was moored near the
old boat, which was now used as a tender for the new one. The young
boatmen went home to get their dinners and made preparations for the
trip to the Isle-au-Haut. Leopold saw the two gentlemen who were to be
his passengers, and agreed to take them over for five dollars. They did
not object to the price, as the island was over ten miles distant, and
there would not be any packet for several days.

Leopold filled the water-keg in the sloop, and laid in a stock of
provisions for the voyage. At two o'clock the party started; but we do
not intend to follow them in the details of the trip. The breeze was
fresh and the sloop was fast. At four o'clock Leopold had landed his
passengers; but it was eight in the evening when the boat reached
Rockhaven on her return, for the skipper was obliged to beat back. The
five dollars earned in the voyage was promptly handed over to the
watch-maker, reducing by this amount the debt due him. By nine o'clock
Leopold was fast asleep, for he and Stumpy had arranged to try the
mackerel again the next morning.

The skipper of the new boat was very tired for the day had been a long,
laborious, and exciting one. It was four o'clock when he awoke the next
morning. When he went out, he found Stumpy waiting on the piazza for
him. He had not stopped to eat his breakfast, but had provision enough
in the basket for both of them.

"We are late," said Stumpy, as Leopold joined him.

"I know it; but I was so tired I didn't wake up," replied the skipper.

"I have seen half a dozen boats go down the river since I stood here,
added Stumpy, ruefully.

"I don't expect we shall do much to-day. Folks have found out about the
mackerel."

They went down to the new boat, and were soon under way. At the point,
they saw that all the craft which came out of the river were headed in
the same direction--towards the reef off High Rock.

"What are you going to call this boat?" asked Stumpy, as the skipper
started the sheets, off the light-house. "I don't feel quite at home in
her without being able to call her by name."

"I haven't thought of any name yet," replied Leopold.

"We want something to call her by."

"She has no name."

"Then we will call her the No-Name, till you fix upon something,"
laughed Stumpy.

"All right."

The "No-Name" passed half a dozen of the boats bound to the reef; but
when she reached her destination, there were not less than twenty craft,
of all sorts and sizes, on the fishing-ground, huddled into a heap, near
the spot where the luckless Waldo had gone down. The secret was out. A
fisherman going off to the deep water, on the morning before, had seen
Leopold's boat near the reef; and when it was said that the young man
had obtained a large catch of mackerel, he knew where they came from.
But the vicinity of the reefs was the usual place for catching these
fish when they were to be had at all; and as soon as there were mackerel
in the market, the fishermen and others knew where to go for them. In a
few moments Leopold had joined the crowd, and the fish bit as smartly as
before. The No-Name was more fortunate than most of her companions, and
got about four hundred mackerel. She might have got twice as many if she
had remained longer on the ground; but Leopold reasoned that fish
without a market were not very valuable. His was the first boat to reach
Rockhaven; and he sold his fare at seven cents apiece. By half past
eight the No-Name was washed down, and ready for a party, if any
offered. Stumpy went home with seven dollars in his pocket, and Leopold
diminished his debt by twenty-one dollars.

There was no "job" for him at the hotel that day; but in the afternoon
Leopold took his father and mother and Herr Schlager out to sail in the
new boat; and he was quite as happy on this occasion as though he had
made five dollars by the trip. The next morning there were no mackerel
off the ledges, or if there were, they would not bite; and the No-Name
made a profitless trip. When she returned, Leopold found two gentlemen
at the hotel who wished to sail over to Rockland, as there was no
steamer that day. While the skipper was making his trade with them,
Harvey Barth entered the office. The sick man had finished his narrative
of the loss of the Waldo the day before, and sent it off by the mail in
the steamer. He looked sadder and more gloomy than usual.

"I should like to go over with you," said Harvey, after Leopold had
named the price for the trip. "I will pay my share of it."

The gentlemen looked at Harvey and did not seem to like the appearance
of him; and he certainly did not promise to be a very agreeable
companion for an excursion. They took no notice of him, and the steward
was mortified by their coldness.

"Are you going to leave us, Mr. Barth?" asked the landlord, who was
behind the counter.

"Yes; I thought I would be on my way to New York as soon as I could, for
I want to find that drummer," drawled Harvey, with his usual hacking
cough. "I feel better this morning, and I think I can stand it to move
towards home. Those men don't seem to want me to go with them, but I
suppose I can wait till to-morrow. If you will give me my bill, I will
pay it."

"Never mind that, Mr. Barth."

"But I can pay what I owe."

"You can't pay anything here," laughed the landlord. "We don't charge
shipwrecked people anything."

"But I have been here about ten days."

"You can stay ten or twenty more at the same rate, if you will," added
Mr. Bennington.

Harvey Barth remonstrated, but the landlord was firm. The physician who
had attended him also refused to take a cent from him, and so did all
who had done anything for him. He tried to give a dollar apiece to the
employes of the hotel who had been kind to him, but not one of them
would accept the gift. When Harvey left the room, the two passengers for
Rockland asked the landlord who he was; and when informed that he was
the only survivor of the Waldo, they changed their tone, and desired his
company. They sent for him, and politely offered him a passage with
them.

"I don't want to go where I am not wanted," replied Harvey.

"But we shall be delighted to have you go with us," said one of the
gentlemen, and the other heartily indorsed the remark.

"I'll pay my share of the expense, if you are really willing to let me
go with you."

"We are glad to have you go with us; and as to the expense, we will
arrange that when we get to Rockland."

Shortly after the No-Name departed, manned, by Leopold and Stumpy, with
the three passengers in the standing-room. On the passage, Harvey, at
the request of his new friends, told the whole story of the wreck of the
Waldo, and then dwelt with particular emotion upon the loss of his
diary. One of the gentlemen resided in New York city, and volunteered to
assist him in recovering the cherished volume. When they arrived at
their destination, Harvey was not permitted to pay any portion of the
expense of the trip; and the gentlemen insisted upon his accompanying
them to the best hotel in the city, where from the abundant sympathy of
the proprietor, he was not permitted to diminish his funds by a single
dollar. Having, a few days after, obtained the fifty copies of the
newspaper which contained his account of the loss of the brig, he
started in the steamer for Boston, with a free ticket in his pocket.

His first care after he got on board the boat, was to read the narrative
he had written. He was sorely grieved to find that the first half of the
account had been struck out by the remorseless editor; but it must be
added that this portion of the history was wholly irrelevant, being made
up of observations on the outward voyage of the Waldo, and remarks upon
the geography, climate, people and institutions of Cuba. Then, in the
description of the wreck, Harvey was indignant when he found that all
his finest passages had been eliminated from the manuscript. Adjectives
and fine phrases without number had been struck out, and the poor
steward felt that he might as well never have been a schoolmaster. The
truth was, that the editor had only three columns of his paper to spare,
and all he and his readers wanted were the facts in regard to the wreck.
A vivid description of a tempest at sea seemed to be lost upon them. But
Harvey felt that he should not realize half the pleasure he had
anticipated in distributing the fifty copies of the paper among his
friends at home.

It was late at night when the No-Name arrived at her moorings in the
river at Rockhaven; for on the return trip the wind was contrary and
very light. Leopold, after this "job," had reduced his indebtedness to
Herr Schlager to about thirty-two dollars. Our space does not permit us
to follow him in the process of extinguishing the debt, but it was all
wiped out by the first of October. All the summer visitors had left the
place, and it was a "dry time" at the Cliff House. The landlord counted
up his profits, and felt rich when he realized that he owned the hotel,
did not owe a dollar to any man, and had twenty-five hundred dollars in
the bank, or otherwise available for immediate use. He had a plan drawn
for the enlargement of the hotel which would give him fifty chambers,
besides a large dining-room and parlor. But it would cost eight thousand
dollars to complete the building and furnish the house; and being a
prudent man, he decided not to carry out the project till his funds were
considerably increased.

About the middle of October the steamer brought to Rockhaven a woman,
apparently about forty years of age, who registered her name at the
Cliff House as Miss Sarah Liverage. Though it was certain, from her own
confession, that she had never been there before, she seemed to know all
about the hotel, and all the persons connected with it. She was a
plain-looking woman, well, but not richly, dressed, and her speech
indicated that she was not a cultivated person. There was nothing
remarkable about her, except her knowledge of the hotel, and a certain
excitement in her manner, which indicated that she had come to Rockhaven
for a special purpose, which, however, she was not forward in revealing.
She followed the landlord into the office, though he insisted upon
showing her into the parlor. She wrote her name in the register, and
then astonished Mr. Bennington and Leopold by asking to have the room
which had formerly been occupied by Harvey Barth assigned to her.

"That is not one of the rooms we usually give to ladies, and we can do
better for you," replied the landlord.

"I'd rather have that room, if it don't make any difference to you,"
replied Miss Liverage.

"Certainly you can have it, if you want it, for it is not occupied."

"I shall be much obliged to you if you will let me have it."

"You knew Harvey Barth, I suppose," said the landlord, as Leopold, who
often conducted guests to their rooms, picked up the small valise, which
was her only baggage.

"Well, yes; I ought to know him. I took care of him in the hospital
three weeks before he died," replied Miss Liverage, confidently.

"Is he dead?" asked Mr. Bennington, startled by the announcement.

"Yes, sir; he died about a fortnight ago."

"It is only six weeks since he left here," added Leopold, who was even
more shocked than his father at the news.

"We didn't hear a word from him after he left Rockland," continued Mr.
Bennington. "I'm sure I didn't think he was so near his end, though I
saw that he couldn't live very long."

"I thought he would be able to get out again, till the very day he died.
He ate a hearty dinner, for a sick man, and then was taken with
bleeding at the lungs, and died right off. I went with his body to the
place he was brought up, and he was buried a week ago last Thursday,
from the house of his uncle. He had good care while he lived, if he was
in the hospital; and I believe everybody in the town turned out to go to
his funeral. But I guess I'll go to my room now."

Leopold conducted her to the chamber, placed her valise in a chair, and
saw that the wash-stand was provided with water and towels.

"Are you sure this is the room that Harvey Barth had?" asked Miss
Liverage, as Leopold was about to retire.

"Sure as I am of anything," replied the young man. "I used to stay with
him a good deal, when I wasn't busy. Was Harvey Barth a relation of
yours?"

"Well, no, not exactly; but I was a good deal interested in him. You are
Leopold, I suppose," added Miss Liverage, who appeared to be anxious to
change the direction the conversation had taken.

"That's my name."



"And this was Harvey's room," continued the woman glancing around the
chamber, and then bestowing especial attention upon the fireplace.

"This was his room," replied Leopold, as he moved towards the door. "Can
I do anything more for you?"

"No, nothing now. You are the boatman, I believe; and you have bought a
new boat."

"I bought one just before Harvey Barth left the house. Did he tell you
about her?"

"Well, nothing in particular, only he said you were a great boatman, and
a very good boy."

As the woman did not seem inclined to say anything more, Leopold left
the room, and returned to the office.

"Can you make out what she is, Leopold?" asked his father.

"No; she says she is no relation to Harvey, but she was a good deal
interested in him. She seems to know all about me; but I suppose Harvey
Barth told her."

"I wonder what she is driving at?" added the landlord, whose curiosity,
as well as that of his son, was raised to the highest pitch.

"I haven't any idea. If she is not a relation of Harvey, what is she,
and why did she want his room?"

"I can't tell."

"How old do you think she is, father?"

"About forty, I should say."

"Harvey couldn't have been engaged to her, or anything of that
sort--could he?" suggested Leopold.

"I should think not. She is ten years older than he was, I should say,"
replied Mr. Bennington.

No satisfactory solution presented itself, and Miss Sarah Liverage had
to remain a mystery for the time.




CHAPTER VII.

SOMETHING ABOUT THE HIDDEN TREASURE.


Miss Sarah Liverage had been three days at the Cliff House before the
mystery of her coming appeared to promise a solution. The landlord was
sure she had come for something, for all her speech and all her actions
indicated this. She had not visited the shore for recreation, and was
not idling away a vacation. One day she commenced a conversation with
Mr. Bennington, and the next with Leopold; and, though she evidently
desired to make some important revelation, or ask some startling
question, she always failed to carry out her purpose. She was nervous
and excitable; and on the second day of her stay at the hotel, the
chambermaid discovered her in her room, on her knees before the
fireplace, apparently investigating the course of the flue; but when the
girl asked her what she was doing, she answered that she was looking
for her shawl-pin, which she had dropped.

The weather was rather chilly, and the wind blew fresh and stormy on the
bay, so that Leopold seldom went out in the new boat, but did a man's
work about the hotel; for as the season advanced the "help" was reduced.
Miss Liverage, for some reason, seemed to be very desirous of
cultivating his acquaintance, and she talked with him much more than
with his father. On the second day of her stay she offered him a dollar,
when he brought her a pitcher of water to drink in the parlor, which the
young man was too proud to accept. The guest talked to him for half an
hour; and he noticed that she did not drink any of the water he had
brought. On the strength of this and other similar incidents, Leopold
declared that she was a very strange woman. She sent for him, or
procured his attendance by less direct means, as though she had
something to say; but she did not say it. She asked a multitude of
questions in regard to some of the localities in the vicinity, but she
did not connect her business at Rockhaven with any of them.

On the third day of her residence at the Cliff House a violent
north-east storm commenced, and the guest could not go out of the house
as she had been accustomed to do in the forenoon for a short time. From
the cliff near the house Leopold had explained to her the geography of
the vicinity; and when she inquired where the ledges were on which the
Waldo had been lost, he indicated the direction in which they were
situated, for the high land on the south shore of the river intercepted
the view of them. Miss Liverage appeared to become more desperate in her
purpose, whatever it was as the day passed away; and the storm seemed to
increase her excitement. On the fourth day after her arrival, she
vibrated between her chamber and the parlor all the forenoon,
occasionally visiting the dining-room and the office. The landlord said
she was "as uneasy as a fish out of water;" and he carried books and
newspapers to her, but these did not seem to occupy her attention. She
only glanced at them, and it was plain that her mind wandered when she
attempted to read them. After dinner, on this eventful day her
desperation appeared to culminate in a resolve to do something; and for
the twentieth time since her arrival she sent for Leopold.

When he entered the parlor, where she was nervously walking across the
floor, she closed the door after him, and looked out at the windows
which opened on the piazza, apparently to assure herself that no one was
within hearing distance of her. She labored under more than her usual
excitement of manner, and the landlord's son was impressed with a belief
that something was about to happen. Miss Liverage had evidently made up
her mind to say something, and Leopold promptly made up his mind, also,
to hear what it was.

"I didn't come down here for nothing," said she, and then paused to
observe the effect of this startling revelation upon her auditor.

"I didn't suppose you did," replied Leopold, judging from the pause that
he was expected to say something, though he was not very deeply
impressed by the guest's announcement.

"Leopold, Harvey Barth said you were a very nice young man," she added.

"Then I suppose I am, for I think Mr. Barth was a man of good judgment,"
laughed Leopold.

"He told me you owed some money for your new boat."

"He told the truth at that time; but I don't owe anything now. I was
very lucky with the mackerel, and I have had plenty of jobs for the
boat, so that I have paid up all I owed."

"Then you have paid your debt," added Miss Liverage, apparently "headed
off" by the young man's reply.

"I don't owe a cent to anybody."

"I didn't know but you might want to make some money."

"I do; I am always ready to make a dollar, though I don't owe anybody
anything," replied Leopold, willing to encourage the woman, while he did
not desire to make anything out of her.

"Five hundred dollars is a good deal of money," continued Miss Liverage,
watching the countenance of the young man very closely.

Leopold did not dispute the remark, and with a nod he admitted the truth
of it.

"I suppose you would not object to making five hundred dollars,
Leopold."

"I don't believe I should, if I could make it honestly, fairly, and
above-board; but I wouldn't steal five hundred dollars for the sake of
having it."

"Of course not. I wouldn't, either," protested Miss Liverage. "I never
did anything which was not honest, fair, and above-board, and I never
mean to. Now, Leopold, I can put you in the way of making five hundred
dollars."

"Can you? I am sure I shall not object. I suppose the money would do me
as much good as it would anybody."

"I have no doubt it would. Now, can you keep a secret?" demanded the
woman, more excited than ever; so much so that her manner began to be
decidedly melo-dramatic.

"That depends on circumstances," answered Leopold, who was not yet quite
clear in his own mind whether or not the woman was crazy. "If it is to
cheat anybody out of a cent, even, I wouldn't keep a secret any more
than I would the itch, if I could get rid of it."

"Nonsense, Leopold! I am not going to cheat or wrong anybody. I wouldn't
do such a thing for all the money in the world."

"I can keep a secret that won't harm anybody," added the young man.

"Will you promise me solemnly not to tell any one, not even your father,
what I say to you?" asked Miss Liverage, in a low tone, and in a very
impressive manner.

"If the matter don't concern my father, I won't tell him of it, or
anybody else. But I don't want you to tell me anything that concerns any
person--that is, in a way to do any injury."

"It don't concern any living soul," interposed Miss Liverage,
impatiently. "I know where there is some money."

The last remark was whispered, after a glance at the door and all the
windows of the parlor.

"Where is it?" asked Leopold, now for the first time manifesting a real
interest in the conversation.

"In the ground."

"Buried?"

"Yes."

Miss Liverage was very much agitated for a few moments, for she had now
actually entered upon the business which had brought her to Rockhaven.
Of course this important revelation was in some manner to involve Harvey
Barth; but Leopold was not willing to believe that the sick man had
buried any considerable sum of money, unless his speech and his life
while at the hotel were both a lie.

"Will you promise to keep the secret?" demanded the woman, as soon as
she had overcome in a measure her agitation.

"On the condition I said, I will," replied Leopold. "But after you have
told me, if I find that anybody is to be wronged by my keeping still, I
shall tell all I know."

"I'm satisfied. I hope you don't think I came down here, all the way
from New York, to cheat or wrong anybody."

"I hope not. If you did, I can't do anything for you."

"You shall judge for yourself. It is just as Harvey Barth said: you are
a good young man, and you will be as honest by me as you mean to be by
other folks."

"Of course I will be."

"Your share of the money will be five hundred dollars. Shall you be
satisfied with this?"

"I think I shall be," laughed Leopold, to whom the amount seemed like a
fortune.

"You agree to take this as your share?"

"Yes; I agree to it."

"And to keep the secret?"

"On the conditions I named."

"I am satisfied with the conditions. If you and I don't get this money,
somebody else will, who has no more right to it than we have."

"But who owns the money?" asked Leopold, whose views of an honest policy
required him to settle this question first.

"Nobody."

"Nobody!" exclaimed the young man. "It must belong to somebody."

"No it don't."

"How can that be?"

"The owner is dead and gone."

"Then it belongs to his heirs."

"He has no heirs."

"Who is he, anyhow?"

"He isn't anybody now. Didn't I say he was dead and gone?" demanded Miss
Liverage, impatiently.

"Well, who was he, then?"

"I don't know."

"It's very strange," mused Leopold.

"I know it's strange. I am the only person living who knows anything
about this money. If I don't take it, somebody else will, or it will
stay in the ground till the end of the world," said the woman. "It's a
plain case; and I think the money belongs to me as much as it does to
anybody else."

"Where is it buried?"

Before she would answer this question, Miss Liverage satisfied herself
that Leopold understood the bargain they had made, and was ready to
abide by all its conditions. With the proviso he had before insisted
upon, the young man agreed to the arrangement.

"I don't know exactly where the money was buried," continued the owner
of the great secret.

"O, you don't!" exclaimed Leopold, rising from his chair, and bursting
into a laugh. "Then this is a 'wild goose chase.'"

"No, it isn't. But now you have agreed to the terms, I will tell you all
about it. Sit down; for I don't want to scream out what I have to say.
Will any one hear us?"

"No; I think not."

"Won't your father?"

"No, he has gone up to Squire Wormbury's."

Miss Liverage drew her chair up to the cheerful wood fire that blazed in
the Franklin stove, and Leopold seated himself in the corner nearly
opposite her, with his curiosity intensely excited by what he had
already heard.

"In the first place do you know whatever became of Harvey Barth's
diary?" Miss Liverage began.

"I haven't the least idea; but he said it was stolen from him, and he
was going to get it when he went to New York," replied Leopold, deeply
interested even in this matter.

"But he never found it, and I don't believe anybody stole it. I think it
is in this house now. Our first business is to find it."

"We couldn't find it in the time of it, and I don't believe we can now."

"We must find it, for that diary will tell us just where the money is
buried."

"You never will find the diary or the money."

"Don't be too fast. Harvey told me where the money was buried. It was
under the cliffs at High Rock," added Miss Liverage.
