Race-course, and lots of other property of his which I 
cannot now call to mind. 

The town of Grand Tower was evidently a busier 
place than it had been in old times, but it seemed to 
need some repairs here and there, and a new coat of 
whitewash all over. Still, it was pleasant to me to see 
the old coat once more. “Uncle” Mumford, our 
second officer, said the place had been suffering from 
high water and consequently was not looking its best 
now. But he said it was not strange that it didn't 
waste whitewash on itself, for more lime was made 
there, and of a better quality, than anywhere in the 
West; and added, “On a dairy farm you never can 
get any milk for your coffee, nor any sugar for it on a 
sugar plantation ; and it is against sense to go to a 
lime town to hunt for whitewash.’ ’ In my own ex- 
perience I knew the first two items to be true: and 
also that people who sell candy don’t care for candy; 
therefore there was plausibility in Uncle MumforcLs 
final observation that “people who make lime run 
more to religion than whitewash.” Uncle Mumford 
said, further, that Grand Tower was a great coaling 
center and a prospering place. 

Cape Girardeau is situated on a hillside, and makes 
a handsome appearance. There is a great Jesuit 
school for boys at the foot of the town by the river. 
Uncle Mumford said it had as high a reputation for 
thoroughness as any similar institution in Missouri. 
There was another college higher up on an airy sum- 
mit — a bright new edifice, picturesquely and peculiarly 
towered and pinnacled — a sort of gigantic casters, 
with the cruets all complete. Uncle Mumford said 
that Cape Girardeau was the Athens of Missouri, and 
contained several colleges besides those already men- 
tioned; and all of them on a religious basis of one 
kind or another. He directed my attention to what he 

called the “ strong and pervasive religious look of the 
town,” but I could not see that it looked more religious 
than the other hill towns with the same slope and built 
of the same kind of bricks. Partialities often make 
people see more than really exists. 

Uncle Mumford has been thirty years a mate on the 
river. He is a man of practical sense and a level 
head; has observed; has had much experience of one 
sort and another; has opinions; has, also, just a per- 
ceptible dash of poetry in his composition, an easy 
gift of speech, a thick growl in his voice, and an oath 
or two where he can get at them when the exigencies 
of his office require a spiritual lift. He is a mate of 

the blessed old-time kind ; and goes gravely d ing 

around, when there is work to the fore, in a way to 
mellow the ex-steamboatman’s heart with sweet, soft 
longings for the vanished days that shall come no 

more. “ Git up, there, you ! Going to be 

all day? Why d’n’t you say you was petrified in your 
hind legs, before you shipped?** 

He is a steady man with his crew; kind and just, 
but firm; so they like him, and stay with him. He is 
still in the slouchy garb of the old generation of mates ; 
but next trip the Anchor Line will have him in uni- 
form — a natty blue naval uniform, with brass buttons, 
along with all the officers of the line — and then he 
will be a totally different style of scenery from what he 
is now. 

Uniforms on the Mississippi ! It beats all the other 
changes put together, for surprise. Still, there is 
another surprise — that it was not made fifty years 
ago* It is so manifestly sensible that it might have 
been thought of earlier, one would suppose. During 
fifty years, out there, the innocent passenger in need 
of help and information has been mistaking the mate 
for the cook, and the captain for the barber — and 

being roughly entertained for it, too. But his troubles 
are ended now. And the greatly improved aspect of 
the boat’s staff is another advantage achieved by the 
dress-reform period. 

Steered down the bend below Cape Girardeau. 
They used to call it “ Steersman's Bend ”; plain sail- 
ing and plenty of water in it, always ; about the only 
place in the Upper River that a new cub was allowed to 
take a boat through, in low water. 

Thebes, at the head of the Grand Chain, and Com- 
merce at the foot of it, were towns easily remember- 
able, as they had not undergone conspicuous altera- 
tion. Nor the Chain, either — in the nature of things; 
for it is a chain of sunken rocks admirably arranged to 
capture and kill steamboats on bad nights. A good 
many steamboat corpses lie buried there, out of sight; 
among the rest my first friend, the Paul Jones ; she 
knocked her bottom out, and went down like a pot, so 
the historian told me — Uncle Mumford. He said she 
had a gray mare aboard, and a preacher. To me, this 
sufficiently accounted for the disaster; as it did, of 
course, to Mumford, who added : 

'' But there are many ignorant people who would 
scoff at such a matter, and call it superstition. But 
you will always notice that they are people who have 
never traveled with a gray mare and a preacher. I 
went down the river in such company. We grounded 
at Bloody Island; we grounded at Hanging Dog; we 
grounded just below this same Commerce; we jolted 
Beaver Dam Rock ; we hit one of the worst breaks in 
the ‘Graveyard' behind Goose Island; we had a 
roustabout killed in a fight ; we burst a boiler ; broke 
a shaft ; collapsed a flue ; and went into Cairo with 
nine feet of water in the hold — may have been more, 
may have been less. I remember it as if it were 
yesterday. The men lost their heads with terror. 



They painted the mare blue, in sight of town, and 
threw the preacher overboard, or we should not have 
arrived at all. The preacher was fished out and saved. 
He acknowledged, himself, that he had been to blame. 
I remember it all, as if it were yesterday.’ * 

That this combination — of preacher and gray mare 

— should breed calamity seems strange, and at first 
glance unbelievable; but the fact is fortified by so 
much unassailable proof that to doubt is to dishonor 
reason. I myself remember a case where a captain 
was warned by numerous friends against taking a gray 
mare and a preacher with him, but persisted in his 
purpose in spite of all that could be said; and the 
same day — it may have been the next, and some say 
it was, though I think it was the same day — he got 
drunk and fell down the hatchway and was borne to 
his home a corpse. This is literally true. 

No vestige of Hat Island is left now; every shred of 
it is washed away. I do not even remember what part 
of the river it used to be in, except that it was between 
St. Louis and Cairo somewhere. It was a bad region 

— all around and about Hat Island, in early days. A 
farmer, who lived on the Illinois shore there, said that 
twenty-nine steamboats had left their bones strung 
along within sight from his house. Between St. Louis 
and Cairo the steamboat wrecks average one to the 
mile — two hundred wrecks, altogether. 

I could recognize big changes from Commerce down. 
Beaver Dam Rock was out in the middle of the river 
now, and throwing a prodigious “break” ; it used to 
be. close to the shore, and boats went down outside of 
it. A big island that used to be away out in mid-river 
has retired to the Missouri shore, and boats do not go 
near it any more. The island called Jacket Pattern is 
whittled down to a wedge now, and is booked for early 
destruction. Goose Island is all gone but a little dab. 
the size of a steamboat. The perilous 4 Graveyard,” 
among whose numberless wrecks we used to pick our 
way so slowly and gingerly, is far away from the 
channel now, and a terror to nobody. One of the 
islands formerly called the Two Sisters is gone en- 
tirely ; the other, which used to lie close to the Illinois 
shore, is now on the Missouri side, a mile away; it is 
joined solidly to the shore, and it takes a sharp eye to 
see where the seam is — but it is Illinois ground yet, 
and the people who live on it have to ferry themselves 
over and work the Illinois roads and pay Illinois taxes: 
singular state of things ! 

Near the mouth of the river several islands were 
missing — washed away. Cairo was still there — easily 
visible across the long, flat point upon whose further 
verge it stands; but we had to steam a long way 
around to get to it. Night fell as we were going out 
of the " Upper River ” and meeting the floods of the 
Ohio. We dashed along without anxiety; for the 
hidden rock which used to lie right in the way has 
moved up stream a long distance out of the channel ; 
or rather, about one county has gone into the river 
from the Missouri point, and the Cairo point has 
"made down ” and added to its long tongue of terri- 
tory correspondingly. The Mississippi is a just and 
equitable river; it never tumbles one man’s farm over- 
board without building a new farm just like it for that 
man’s neighbor. This keeps down hard feelings. 

Going into Cairo, we came near killing a steamboat 
which paid no attention to our whistle and then tried 
to cross our bows. By doing some strong backing, 
we saved him; which was a great loss, for he would 
have made good literature. 

Cairo is a brisk town now; and is substantially 
built, and has a city look about it which is in noticeable 
contrast to its former estate, as per Mr. Dickens’ 
portrait of it. However, it was already building with 
bricks when I had seen it last — which was when 
Colonel (now General) Grant was drilling his first 
command there. Uncle Mumford says the libraries 
and Sunday-schools have done a good work in Cairo, 
as well as the brick masons. Cairo has a heavy rail- 
road and river trade, and her situation at the junction 
of the two great rivers is so advantageous that she 
cannot well help prospering. 

When I turned out in the morning, we had passed 
Columbus, Ky., and were approaching Hickman, a 
pretty town perched on a handsome hill. Hickman is 
in a rich tobacco region, and formerly enjoyed a great 
and lucrative trade in that staple, collecting it there in 
her warehouses from a large area of country and ship- 
ping it by boat; but Uncle Mumford says she built a 
railway to facilitate this commerce a little more, and he 
thinks it facilitated it the wrong way — took the bulk 
of the trade out of her hands by “ collaring it along 
the line without gathering it at her doors.’  



CHAPTER XXVI. 


UNDER FIRE 

TALK began to run upon the war now, for we were 
getting down into the upper edge of the former 
battle-stretch by this time. Columbus was just behind 
us, so there was a good deal said about the famous 
battle of Belmont. Several of the boat’s officers had 
seen active service in the Mississippi war-fleet. I 
gathered that they found themselves sadly out of their 
element in that kind of business at first, but afterward 
got accustomed to it, reconciled to it, and more or less 
at home in it. One of our pilots had his first war ex- 
perience in the Belmont fight, as a pilot on a boat in 
the Confederate service. I had often had a curiosity 
to know how a green hand might feel, in his maiden 
battle, perched all solitary and alone on high in a pilot- 
house, a target for Tom, Dick, and Harry, and nobody 
at his elbow to shame him from showing the white 
feather when matters grew hot and perilous around him ; 
so to me his story was valuable — it filled a gap for me 
which all histories had left till that time empty. 

He said : 

“ It was the 7th of November. The fight began at 
seven in the morning. I was on the jR. H. W. Hill . 
Took over a load of troops from Columbus. Came 
back, and took over a battery of artillery. My partner 

said he was going to see the fight ; wanted me to go 
along. I said, No, I wasn't anxious, I would look at 
it from the pilot-house. He said I was a coward, and 
left. 

“ That fight was an awful sight. General Cheatham 
made his men strip their coats off and .throw them in a 

pile, and said, ‘ Now follow me to our victory ! ’ 

I heard him say that from the pilot-house ; and then he 
galloped in, at the head of his troops. Old General 
Pillow, with his white hair, mounted on a white horse, 
sailed in, too; leading his troops as lively as a boy. 
By and by the Federals chased the rebels back, and 
here they came ! tearing along, everybody for himself 
and Devil take the hindmost ! and down under the bank 
they scrambled, and took shelter. I was sitting with 
my legs hanging out of the pilot-house window. All 
at once I noticed a whizzing sound passing my ear. 
Judged it was a bullet. I didn't stop to think about 
anything, I just tilted over backward and landed on the 
floor, and stayed there. The balls came booming 
around. Three cannon balls went through the chim- 
ney ; one ball took off the corner of the pilot-house ; 
shells were screaming and bursting all around. Mighty 
warm times — I wished I hadn't come. I lay there on 
the pilot-house floor, while the shots came faster and 
faster. I crept in behind the big stove, in the middle 
of the pilot-house. Presently a minie-ball came through 
the stove, and just grazed my head and cut my hat. 
I judged it was time to go away from there. The cap- 
tain was on the roof with a red-headed major from 
Memphis — a fine looking man. I heard him say he 
wanted to leave here, but ‘ that pilot is killed.' I crept 
over to the starboard side to pull the bell to set her 
back; raised up and took a look, and I saw about 
fifteen shot-holes through the window-panes ; had come 
so lively I hadn’t noticed them. I glanced out on the 
water, and the spattering shot were like a hail-storm. 
I thought best to get out of that place. I went down 
the pilot-house guy head first — not feet first but head 
first — slid down — before I struck the deck, the cap- 
tain said we must leave there. So I climbed up the 
guy and got on the floor again. About that time they 
collared my partner and were bringing him up to the 
pilot-house between two soldiers. Somebody had said 
I was killed. He put his head in and saw me on the 
floor reaching for the backing-bells. He said, ‘ Oh, 

h 1! he ain’t shot,' and jerked away from the men 

who had him by the collar, and ran below. We were 
there until three o'clock in the afternoon, and then got 
away all right. 

“The next time I saw my partner, I said, ‘Now, 
come out; be honest, and tell me the truth. Where 
did you go when you went to see that battle ? * He 
says, ‘ I went down in the hold.* 

“All through that fight I was scared nearly to death. 
I hardly knew anything, I was so frightened ; but you 
see, nobody knew that but me. Next day General Polk 
sent for me, and praised me for my bravery and gallant 
conduct. 

“ I never said anything, I let it go at that. I judged 
it wasn't so, but it was not for me to contradict a 
general officer. 

“ Pretty soon after that I was sick, and used up, and 
had to go off to the Hot Springs. When there, I got 
a good many letters from commanders 'saying they 
wanted me to come back. I declined, because I wasn't 
well enough or strong enough; but I kept still, and 
kept the reputation I had made." 

A plain story, straightforwardly told ; but Mumford 
told me that that pilot had ‘ * gilded that scare of his, in 
spots"; that his subsequent career in the war was 
proof of it.



We struck down through the chute of Island No. 8, 
and I went below and fell into conversation with a 
passenger, a handsome man, with easy carriage and an 
intelligent face. We were approaching Island No. io, 
a place so celebrated during the war. This gentleman’s 
home was on the main shore in its neighborhood. I 
had some talk with him about the war times; but 
presently the discourse fell upon “feuds,” for in no 
part of the South has the vendetta flourished more 
briskly, or held out longer between warring families, 
than in this particular region. This gentleman said: 

“ There’s been more than one feud around here, in 
old times, but I reckon the first one was between the 
Darnells and the Watsons. Nobody don’t know now 
what the first quarrel was about, it’s so long ago; the 
Darnells and the Watsons don’t know, if there’s any of 
them living, which I don’t think there is. Some says 
it was about a horse or a cow — anyway, it was a little 
matter; the money in it wasn’t of no consequence — 
none in the world — both families was rich. The 
thing could have been fixed up, easy enough; but no, 
that wouldn’t do. Rough words had been passed; 
and so, nothing but blood could fix it up after that. 
That horse or cow, whichever it was, cost sixty years 
of killing or crippling ! Every year or so somebody 
was shot, on one side or the other ; and as fast as one 
generation was laid out, their sons took up the feud 
and kept it a-going. And it’s just as I say; they went 
on shooting each other, year in and year out — making 
a kind of a religion of it, you see — till they’d done 
forgot, long ago, what it was all about. Wherever a 
Darnell caught a Watson, or a Watson caught a 
Darnell, one of ’em was going to get hurt — only 
question was, which of them got the drop on the other. 
They’d shoot one another down, right in the presence 
of the family. They didn’t hunt for each other, but 
when they happened to meet, they pulled and begun. 
Men would shoot boys, boys would shoot men. A 
man shot a boy twelve years old — happened on him 
in the woods, and didn’t give him no chance. If he 
had ’a’ given him a chance, the boy’d ’a’ shot him . 
Both families belonged to the same church (everybody 
around here is religious) ; through all this fifty or sixty 
years’ fuss, both tribes was there eveiy Sunday, to wor- 
ship. They lived each side of the line, and the church 
was at a landing called Compromise. Half the church 
and half the aisle was in Kentucky, the other half 
in Tennessee. Sundays you’d see the families drive 
up, all in their Sunday clothes — men, women, and 
children — and file up the aisle, and set down, quiet and 
orderly, one lot on the Tennessee side of the chufch 
and the other on the Kentucky side ; and the men and 
boys would lean their guns up against the wall, handy, 
and then all hands would join in with the prayer and 
praise; though they say the man next the aisle didn’t 
kneel down, along with the rest of the family; kind 
of stood guard. I don’t know; never was at that 
church in my life; but I remember that that’s what 
used to be said. 

“ Twenty or twenty-five years ago one of the feud 
families caught a young man of nineteen out and killed 
him. Don’t remember whether it was the Darnells 
and Watsons, or one of the other feuds; but anyway, 
this young man rode up — steamboat laying there at 
the time — and the first thing he saw was a whole gang 
of the enemy. He jumped down behind a wood-pile, 
but they rode around and begun on him, he firing back, 
and they galloping and cavorting and yelling and bang- 
ing away with all their might. Think he wounded a 
couple of them ; but they closed in on him and chased 
him into the river; and as he swum along down 
stream, they followed along the bank and kept on 
shooting at him, and when he struck shore he was 
dead. Windy Marshall told me about it. He saw it. 
He was captain of the boat. 

“Years ago, the Darnells was so thinned out that 
the old man and his two sons concluded they’d leave 
the country. They started to take steamboat just above 
No. io; but the Watsons got wind of it; and they 
arrived just as the two young Darnells was walking up 
the companionway with their wives on their arms. 
The fight begun then, and they never got no further — 
both of them killed. After that, old Darnell got into 
trouble with the man that run the ferry, and the ferry- 
man got the worst of it — and died. But his friends 
shot old Darnell through and through — filled him full 
of bullets, and ended him.” 

The country gentleman who told me these things 
had been reared in ease and comfort, was a man of 
good parts, and was college-bred. His loose grammar 
was the fruit of careless habit, not ignorance. This 
habit among educated men in the West is not universal, 
but it is prevalent — prevalent in the towns, certainly, 
if not in the cities ; and to a degree which one cannot 
help noticing, and marveling at. I heard a Westerner, 
who would be accounted a highly educated man in any 
country, say, “ Never mind, it don't make no difference , 
anyway.” A life-long resident who was present heard 
it, but it made no impression upon her. She was able 
to recall the fact afterward, when reminded of it; but 
she confessed that the words had not grated upon her 
ear at the time — a confession which suggests that if 
educated people can hear such blasphemous grammar, 
from such a source, and be unconscious of the deed, 
the crime must be tolerably common — so common 
that the general ear has become dulled by familiarity 
mth it, and is no longer alert, no longer sensitive to 
such affronts. 



No one in the world speaks blemishless grammar; 
no one has ever written it — no one, either in the world 
or out of it (taking the Scriptures for evidence on the 
latter point) ; therefore it would not be fair to exact 
grammatical perfection from the peoples of the Valley; 
but they and all other peoples may justly be required 
to refrain from knowingly and purposely debauching 
their grammar. 

I found the river greatly changed at Island No. io. 
The island which I remembered was some three miles 
long and a quarter of a mile wide, heavily timbered, 
and lay near the Kentucky shore — within two hundred 
yards of it, I should say. Now, however, one had to 
hunt for it with a spy-glass. Nothing was left of it but 
an insignificant little tuft, and this was no longer near 
the Kentucky shore; it was clear over against the 
opposite shore, a mile away. In war times the island 
had been an important place, for it commanded the 
situation; and, being heavily fortified, there was no 
getting by it. It lay between the upper and lower 
divisions of the Union forces, and kept them separate, 
until a junction was finally effected across the Missouri 
neck of land ; but the island being itself joined to that 
neck now, the wide river is without obstruction. 

In this region the river passes from Kentucky into 
Tennessee, back into Missouri, then back into Kentucky, 
and thence into Tennessee again. So a mile or two of 
Missouri sticks over into Tennessee. 

The town of New Madrid was looking very unwell; 
but otherwise unchanged from its former condition and 
aspect. Its blocks of frame houses were still grouped 
in the same old flat plain, and environed by the same 
old forests. It was as tranquil as formerly, and appar- 
ently had neither grown nor diminished in size. It was 
said that the recent high water had invaded it and 
damaged its looks. This was surprising news; for in 
low water the river bank is very high there (fifty feet), 
and in my day an overflow had always been considered 
an impossibility. This present flood of 1882 will 
doubtless be celebrated in the river's history for 
several generations before a deluge of like magnitude 
shall be seen. It put all the unprotected low lands 
under water, from Cairo to the mouth ; it broke down 
the levees in a great many places, on both sides of the 
river; and in some regions south, when the flood was 
at its highest, the Mississippi was seventy miles wide ! 
a number of lives were lost, and the destruction of 
property was fearful. The crops were destroyed, 
houses washed away, and shelterless men and cattle 
forced to take refuge on scattering elevations here and 
there in field and forest, and wait in peril and suffering 
until the boats put in commission by the national and 
local governments, and by newspaper enterprise, could 
come and rescue them. The properties of multitudes 
of people were under water for months, and the poorer 
ones must have starved by the hundred if succor had 
not been promptly afforded.* The water had been 
falling during a considerable time now, yet as a rule we 
found the banks still under water. 

 For a detailed and interesting description of the great flood, written on 
board of the New Orleans Times-Dcmorrafs relief boat, see Appendix A. 



CHAPTER XXVII. 

SOME IMPORTED ARTICLES 

W E met two steamboats at New Madrid. Two 
steamboats in sight at once ! An infrequent 
spectacle now in the lonesome Mississippi. The lone- 
liness of this solemn, stupendous flood is impressive — 
and depressing. League after league, and still league 
after league, it pours its chocolate tide along, between 
its solid forest walls, its almost untenanted shores, with 
seldom a sail or a moving object of any kind to disturb 
the surface and break the monotony of the blank, 
watery solitude; and so the day goes, the night comes, 
and again the day — and still the same, night after 
night and day after day, — majestic, unchanging same- 
ness of serenity, repose, tranquillity, lethargy, vacancy, 
— symbol of eternity, realization of the heaven pictured 
by priest and prophet, and longed for by the good and 
thoughtless ! 

Immediately after the war of 1812 tourists began to 
come to America, from England ; scattering ones at first, 
then a sort of procession of them — a procession which 
kept up its plodding, patient march through the land dur- 
ing many, many years. Each tourist took notes, and went 
home and published a book — a book which was usually 
calm, truthful, reasonable, kind; but which seemed just 
the reverse to our tender-footed progenitors. A glance 
at these tourist-books shows us that in certain of its 
aspects the Mississippi has undergone no change since 
those strangers visited it, but remains to-day about as 
it was then. The emotions produced in those foreign 
breasts by these aspects were not ail formed on one 
pattern, of course; they had to be various, along at 
first, because the earlier tourists were obliged to origi- 
nate their emotions, whereas in older countries one can 
always borrow emotions from one's predecessors. And, 
mind you, emotions are among the toughest things in 
the world to manufacture out of whole cloth; it is 
easier to manufacture seven facts than one emotion. 
Captain Basil Hall, R. N., writing fifty-five years ago, 
says: 

Here I caught the first glimpse of the object I had so long wished to be- 
hold, and felt myself amply repaid at that moment for all the trouble I had 
experienced in coming so far; and stood looking at the river flowing past 
till it was too dark to distinguish anything. But it was not until I had 
lisited the same spot a dozen times that I came to a right comprehension of 
The grandeur of the scene. 

Following are Mrsl Trollope’s emotions. She is 
writing a few months later in the same year, 1827, and 
is coming in at the mouth of the Mississippi : 

The first indication of our approach to land was the appearance of this 
mighty river pouring forth its muddy mass of waters, and mingling with the 
deep blue of the Mexican Gulf. I never beheld a scene so utterly desolate 
as this entrance of the Mississippi. Had Dante seen it, he might have 
drawn images of another Bolgia from its horrors. One only object rears 
itself above the eddying waters; this is the mast of a vessel long since 
wrecked in attempting to cross the bar, and it still stands, a dismal witness of 
the destruction that has been, and a boding prophet of that which is to come. 

Emotions of Hon. Charles Augustus Murray (near 
St. Louis), seven years later: 

It is only when you ascend the mighty current for fifty or a hundred 
miles, and use the eye of imagination as well as that of nature, that you 
begin to understand all his might and majesty. You see him fertilizing a 
boundless valley, bearing along in bis course tbe trophies of his thousand 
victories over the shattered forest — here carrying away large masses of soil 
with all their growth, and there forming islands destined at some future 
period to be the residence of man; and while indulging in this prospect, it 
is then time for reflection to suggest that the current before you has flowed 
through two or three thousand miles, and has yet to travel one thousand 
three hundred more before reaching its ocean destination. 

Receive, now, the emotions of Captain Marryat, 
R. N., author of the sea tales, writing in 1837, three 
years after Mr. Murray : 

Never, perhaps, in the records of nations, was there an instance of a 
century of such unvarying and unmitigated crime as is to be collected from 
the history of the turbulent and blood-stained Mississippi. The stream itself 
appears as if appropriate for the deeds which have been committed. It is not 
like most rivers, beautiful to the sight, bestowing fertility in its course; not one 
that the eye loves to dwell upon as it sweeps along, nor can you wander upon 
its bank, or trust yourself without danger to its stream. It is a furious, rapid, 
deso rating torrent, loaded with alluvial soil ; and few of those who are 
received into its waters ever rise again,* or can support themselves long 
upon its surface without assistance from some friendly log. It contains the 
coarsest and most uneatable of fish, such as catfish and such genus, and, as 
you descend, its banks are occupied with the fetid alligator, while the 
panther basks at its edge in the cane-brakes, almost impervious to man. 
Pouring its impetuous waters through wild tracts covered with trees of little 
value except for firewood, it sweeps down whole forests in its course, 
which disappear in tumultuous confusion, whirled away by the stream 
now loaded with the masses of soil which nourished their roots, 
often blocking up and changing for a time the channel of the river, 
which, as if in anger at its being opposed, inundates and devastates the 
whole country round; and as soon as it forces its way through its former 
channel, plants in every direction the uprooted monarchs of the forest 
(upon whose branches the bird will never again perch, or the raccoon, the 
opossum, or the squirrel climb) as traps to the adventurous navigators of its 
waters by steam, who, borne down by these concealed dangers which pierce 


through the planks, very often have not time to steer for and gain the shore 
before they sink to the bottom. There are no pleasing associations con- 
nected with the great common sewer of the Western America, which pours 
out its mud into the Mexican Gulf, polluting the clear blue sea for many 
miles beyond its mouth. It is a river of desolation; and instead of remind- 
ing you, like other beautiful rivers, of an angel which has descended for the 
benefit of man, you imagine it a devil, whose energies have been only over- 
come by the wonderful power of steam. 
 There was a foolish superstition of some little prevalence in that day 
that the Mississippi would neither buoy up a swimmer nor permit a drowned 
person’s body to rise to the surface. 

It is pretty crude literature for a man accustomed to 
handling a pen; still, as a panorama of the emotions 
sent weltering through this noted visitor’s breast by 
the aspect and traditions of the 1 4 great common 
sewer,” it has a value. A value, though marred in the 
matter of statistics by inaccuracies ; for the catfish is a 
plenty good enough fish for anybody, and there are no 
panthers that are ” impervious to man.” 

Later still comes Alexander Mackay, of the Middle 
Temple, Barrister at Law, with a better digestion, and 
no catfish dinner aboard, and feels as follows: 

The Mississippi ! It was with indescribable emotions that I first felt 
myself afloat upon its waters. How often in my schoolboy dreams, and in 
my waking visions afterward, had my imagination pictured to itself 
the lordly stream, rolling with tumultuous current through the boundless 
region to which it has given its name, and gathering into itself, in its course 
to the ocean, the tributary waters of almost every latitude in the temperate 
zone . Here it was then in its reality, and I, at length, steaming against its 
tide. I looked upon it with that reverence with which every one must re- 
gard a great feature of external nature. 

So much for the emotions. The tourists, one and 
all, remark upon the deep, brooding loneliness and 
desolation of the vast river. Captain Basil Hall, who 
saw it at flood-stage, says : 

Sometimes we passed along distances of twenty or thirty miles without 
seeing a single habitation. An artist, in search of hints for a painting of 
the deluge, would here have found them in abundance. 

The first shall be last, etc. Just two hundred years 
ago, the old original first and gallantest of all the foreign 
tourists, pioneer, head of the procession, ended his 
weary and tedious discovery voyage down the solemn 
stretches of the great river — La Salle, whose name will 
last as long as the river itself shall last. We quote 
from Mr. Parkman : 

And now they neared their journey’s end. On the 6th of April, the river 
divided itself into three broad channels. La Salle followed that of the west, 
and D’Autray that of the east; while Tonty took the middle passage. As 
he drifted down the turbid current, between the low and marshy shores, the 
brackish water changed to brine, and the breeze grew fresh with the salt 
breath of the sea. Then the broad bosom of the great Gulf opened on his 
sight, tossing its restless billows, limitless, voiceless, lonely as when born of 
chaos, without a sail, without a sign of life. 

Then, on a spot of solid ground, La Salle reared a 
column “bearing the arms of France; the Frenchmen 
were mustered under arms ; and while the New England 
Indians and their squaws looked on in wondering 
silence, they chanted the Te Deum y the Exandiat> and 
the D online y salvum fac regem” 

Then, while the musketry volleyed and rejoicing 
shouts burst forth, the victorious discoverer planted 
the column, and made proclamation in a loud voice, 
taking formal possession of the river and the vast 
countries watered by it, in the name of the King. 
The column bore this inscription : 

LOUIS LE GRAND, ROY DE FRANCE ET DE NAVARRE, 
REGNE; LE NEUVIEME AVRIL, 1682. 

New Orleans intended to fittingly celebrate, this 
present year, the bicentennial anniversary of this illus- 
trious event; but when the time came, all her energies 
and surplus money were required in other directions, 
for the flood was upon the land then, making havoc 
and devastation everywhere. 



CHAPTER XXVIII. 


UNCLE MUMFORD UNLOADS 

A LL day we swung along down the river, and had 
the stream almost wholly to ourselves. Form- 
erly, at such a stage . of the water, we should have 
passed acres of lumber rafts, and dozens of big coal 
barges; also occasional little trading-scows, peddling 
along from farm to farm, with the peddler’s family on 
board; possibly a random scow, bearing a humble 
Hamlet and Co. on an itinerant dramatic trip. But 
these were all absent. Far along in the day we saw 
one steamboat; just one, and no more. She was lying 
at rest in the shade, within the wooded mouth of the 
Obion River. The spyglass revealed the fact that she 
was named for me — or he was named for me, which- 
ever you prefer. As this was the first time I had ever 
encountered this species of honor, it seems excusable 
to mention it, and at the same time call the attention 
of the authorities to the tardiness of my recognition 
of it. 

Noted a big change in the river at Island 21. It was 
a very large island, and used to lie out toward mid- 
stream; but it is joined fast to the main shore now, 
and has retired from business as an island. 

As we approached famous and formidable Plum 
Point darkness fell, but that was nothing to shudder 
about — in these modem times. For now the national 
Government has turned the Mississippi into a sort of 
two-thousand-mile torchlight procession. In the head 
of every crossing, and in the foot of every crossing, 
the Government has set lip a clear-burning lamp. You 
are never entirely in the dark, now ; there is always a 
beacon in sight, either before you, or behind you, or 
abreast. One might almost say that lamps have been 
squandered there. Dozens of crossings are lighted 
which were not shoal when they were created, and 
have never been shoal since; crossings so plain, too, 
and also so straight, that a steamboat can take herself 
through them without any help, after she has been 
through once. Lamps in such places are of course 
* not wasted ; it is much more convenient and comfort- 
able for a pilot to hold on them than on a spread of 
formless blackness that won’t stay still; and money is 
saved to the boat, at the same time, for she can of 
course make more miles with her rudder amidships 
than she can with it squared across her stern and 
holding her back. 

But this thing has knocked the romance out of pilot- 
ing, to a large extent. It and some other things 
together have knocked all the romance out of it. For 
instance, the peril from snags is not now what it once 
was. The Government’s snag-boats go patrolling up 
and down, in these matter-of-fact days, pulling the 
river’s teeth; they have rooted out all the old clusters 
which made many localities so formidable ; and they 
allow no new ones to collect. Formerly, if your boat 
got away from you, on a black night, and broke for 
the woods, it was an anxious time with you; so was 
it, also, when you were groping your way through 
solidified darkness in a narrow chute, but all that is 
changed now — you flash out your electric light, trans- 
form night into day in the twinkling of an eye, and 
your perils and anxieties are at an end. Horace Bixby 
and George Ritchie have charted the crossings and laid 
out the courses by compass; they have invented a 
lamp to go with the chart, and have patented the 
whole. With these helps, one may run in the fog 
now, with considerable security, and with a confidence 
unknown in the old days. 

With these abundant beacons, and the banishment 
of snags, plenty of daylight in a box and ready to be 
turned on whenever needed, and a chart compass to 
fight the fog with, piloting, at a good stage of water, 
is now nearly as safe and simple as driving stage, and 
is hardly more than three times as romantic. 

And now, in these new days of infinite change, the 
Anchor Line have raised the captain above the pilot 
by giving him the bigger wages of the two. This was 
going far, but they have not stopped there. They 
have decreed that the pilot shall remain at his post, 
and stand his watch clear through, whether the boat be 
under way or tied up to the shore. We, that were 
once the aristocrats of the river, can’t go to bed now, 
as we used to do, and sleep while a hundred tons of 
freight are lugged aboard ; no, we must sit in the pilot- 
house; and keep awake, too. Verily we are being' 
treated like a parcel of mates and engineers. The 
Government has taken away the romance of our call- 
ing ; the Company has taken away its state and dignity. 

Plum Point looked as it had always looked by night, 
with the exception that now there were beacons to 
mark the crossings, and also a lot of other lights on 
the Point and along its shore; these latter glinting 
from the fleet of the United States River Commission, 
and from a village which the officials have built on the 
land for offices and for the employes of the service. 
The military engineers of the Commission have taken 
upon their shoulders the job of making the Mississippi 
over again — a job transcended in size by only the 
original job of creating it. They are building wing- 
dams here and there, to deflect the current; and dikes 
to confine it in narrower bounds ; and other dikes to 
make it stay there ;- and for unnumbered miles along 
the Mississippi they are felling the timber-front for 
fifty yards back, with the purpose of shaving the bank 
down to low-water mark with the slant of a house-roof, 
and ballasting it with stones ; and in many places they 
have protected the wasting shores with rows of piles. 
One who knows the Mississippi will promptly aver — 
not aloud but to himself — that ten thousand River 
Commissions, with the mines of the world at their 
back, cannot tame that lawless stream, cannot curb it 
or confine it, cannot say to it, “Go here,” or “Go 
there,” and make it obey; cannot save a shore which 
it has sentenced ; cannot bar its path with an obstruc- 
tion which it will not tear down, dance over, and laugh 
at. But a discreet man will not put these things into 
spoken words ; for the West Point engineers have not 
their superiors anywhere ; they know all that can be 
known of their abstruse science; and so, since they 
conceive that they can fetter and handcuff that river 
and boss him, it is but wisdom for the unscientific man 
to keep still, lie low, and wait till they do it. Captain 
Eads, with his jetties, has done a work at the mouth of 
the Mississippi which seemed clearly impossible; so 
we do not feel full confidence now to prophesy against 
like impossibilities. Otherwise one would pipe out 
and say the Commission might as well bully the comets 
in their courses and undertake to make them behave, 
as try to bully the Mississippi into right and reasonable 
conduct. 

I consulted Uncle Mumford concerning this and 
cognate matters; and I give here the result, steno- 
graphically reported, and therefore to be relied on as 
being full and correct; except that I have here and 
there left out remarks which were addressed to the 
men, such as 4 4 Where in blazes are you going with 
that barrel now?’ * and which seemed to me to break 
the flow of the written statement, without compen- 
sating by adding to its information or its clearness. 
Not that I have ventured to strike out all such inter- 
jections ; I have removed only those which were obvi- 
ously irrelevant; wherever one occurred which I felt 
any question about, I have judged it safest to let it 
remain. 

Uncle Mumford said : 

“As long as I have been mate of a steamboat — 
thirty years — I have watched this river and studied it. 
Maybe I could have learned more about it at West 
Point, but if I believe it I wish I may beWHAT are 
you sucking your fingers there for ? — Collar that kag 
of nails ! Four years at West Point, and plenty of 
books and schooling, will learn a man a good deal, I 
reckon, but it won't learn him the river. You turn 
one of those little European rivers over to this Com- 
mission, with its hard bottom and clear water, and it 
would just be a holiday job for them to wall it, and 
pile it, and dike it, and tame it down, and boss it 
around, and make it go wherever they wanted it to, 
and stay where they put it, and do just as they said, 
every time. But this ain't that kind of a river. They 
have started in here with big confidence, and the best 
intentions in the world ; but they are going to get left. 
What does Ecclesiastes vii. 13 say? Says enough to 
knock their little game galley-west, don't it? Now 
you look at their methods once. There at .Devil's 
Island, in the Upper River, they wanted the water to 
go one way, the water wanted to go another. So they 
put up a stone wall. But what does the river care for 

a stone wall? When it got ready, it just bulged 
through it. Maybe they can build another that will 
stay ; that is, up there — but not down here s they 
can't. Down here in the Lower River, they drive 
some pegs to turn the water away from the shore and 
stop it from slicing off the bank; very well, don't it go 
straight over and cut somebody else's bank? Cer- 
tainly. Are they going to peg all the banks? Why, 
they could buy ground and build a new Mississippi 
cheaper. They are pegging Bulletin Tow-head now. 
It won't do any good. If the river has got a mortgage 
on that island, it will foreclose, sure; pegs or no pegs. 
Away down yonder, they have driven two rows of 
piles straight through the middle of a dry bar half a 
mile long, which is forty foot out of the water when 
the river is low. What do you reckon that is for? If 
I know, I wish I may land inHUMP yourself you son 
of an undertaker ! — out with that coal-oily now , lively , 
LIVELY ! And just look at what they are trying to 
do down there at Milliken's Bend. There's been a 
cut-off in that section, and Vicksburg is left out in the 
cold. It's a country town now. The river strikes in 
below it; and a boat can't go up to the town except in 
high water. Well, they are going to build wing-dams 
in the bend opposite the foot of 103, and throw the 
water over and cut off the foot of the island and plow 
down into an old ditch where the river used to be in 
ancient times; and they think they can persuade the 
water around that way, and get it to strike in above 
Vicksburg, as it used to do, and fetch the town back 
into the world again. That is, they are going to take 
this whole Mississippi, and twist it around and make it 
run several miles up stream . Well, you've got to 
admire men that deal in ideas of that size and can tote 
them around without crutches; but you haven't got to 
believe they can do such miracles, have you? And 
yet you ain’t absolutely obliged to believe they can’t. 
I reckon the safe way, where a man can afford it, is to 
copper the operation, and at the same time buy enough 
property in Vicksburg to square you up in case they 
win. Government is doing a deal for the Mississippi, 
now — spending loads of money on her. When there 
used to be four thousand steamboats and ten thousand 
acres of coal-barges, and rafts, and trading-scows, 
there wasn’t a lantern from St. Paul to New Orleans, 
and the snags were thicker than bristles on a hog’s 
back; and now, when there’s three dozen steamboats 
and nary barge or raft, Government has snatched out 
all the snags, and lit up the shores like Broadway, and 
a boat’s as safe on the river as she’d be in heaven. 
And I reckon that by the time there ain’t any boats 
left at all, the Commission will have the old thing all 
reorganized, and dredged out, and fenced in, and tidied 
up, to a degree that will make navigation just simply 
perfect, and absolutely safe and profitable; and all 
the days will be Sundays, and all the mates will be 
Sunday-school suWHAT - in - the - nation - you* fooling- 
around-there-for , you sons of unrighteousness r heirs oj 
perdition ! Going to be a YEAR getting that hogshead 
ashore ?’ ’ 

During our trip to New Orleans and back, we had 
many conversations with river men, planters, journalists, 
and officers of the River Commission — with conflicting 
and confusing results. To wit: 

1. Some believed in the Commission’s scheme to 
arbitrarily and permanently confine (and thus deepen) 
the channel, preserve threatened shores, etc. 

2. Some believed that the Commission’s money 
ought to be spent only on building and repairing the 
great system of levees. 

3. Some believed that the higher you build your 

levee, the higher the river's bottom will rise; and that 
consequently the levee system is a mistake. 

4. Some believed in the scheme to relieve the river, 
in flood-time, by turning its surplus waters off into 
Lake Borgne, etc. 

5 . Some believed in the scheme of northern lake-reser- 
voirs to replenish the Mississippi in low-water seasons. 

Whenever you find a man down there who believes 
in one of these theories you may turn to the next man 
and frame your talk upon the hypothesis that he does 
not believe in that theory; and after you have had 
experience, you do not take this course doubtfully or 
hesitatingly, but with the confidence of a dying mur- 
derer — converted one, I mean. For you will have 
come to know, with a deep and restful certainty, that 
