of becoming a teacher. She was ambitious, and desired some kind of a
position that would be ladylike.
"It's pretty hard work at first," he answered with a smile.
"But how long would I have to study?"
"Let me see--you are fourteen now: in three years you might be able
to take a situation. Public schools in the city are always better for
girls, for they can begin earlier in the primary department. A country
school, you see, may have some troublesome urchins in it."
Florence sighed. Three years would be a long while to wait.
"I will give you all the assistance in my power," Mr. Fielder said
kindly. "And I may be able to hear of something that will be to your
advantage."
Florence thanked him, but somehow the prospect did not look brilliant.
Then she thought of dressmaking. Miss Brown had a pretty cottage,
furnished very nicely indeed; and it was her boast that she did it all
with her own hands. She kept a servant, and dressed quite elegantly;
and all the ladies round went to her in their carriages. Then she had
such beautiful pieces for cushions and wonderful bedquilts,--"Though
I never take but the least snip of a dress," she would say with a
virtuous sniff. "I have heard of people who kept a yard or two, but to
my mind it's downright stealing."
There was a drawback to this picture of serene contentment. Miss Brown
was an old maid, and Florence hoped devoutly that would never be her
fate. And then Miss Skinner, who went out by the day, was single also.
Was it the natural result of the employment?
CHAPTER IV.
  THE IDENTICAL SHOE.
They did pretty well through the fall. Joe came across odd jobs,
gathered stores of hickory-nuts and chestnuts; and now and then of an
evening they had what he called a rousing good boil; and certainly
chestnuts never tasted better. They sat round the fire, and told
riddles or stories, and laughed as only healthy, happy children can.
What if they were poor, and had to live in a little tumble-down shanty!
Sometimes Joe would surprise them with a somerset in the middle of the
floor, or a good stand on his head in one corner.
"Joe," Granny would say solemnly, "I once knowed a man who fell that
way on his head off a load of hay, and broke his back."
"Granny dear, 'knowed' is bad grammar. When you go to see Florence in
her palace, you must say knew, to rhyme with blew. But your old man's
back must have grown cranky with rheumatism, while mine is limber as an
eel."
"He wasn't old, Joe. And in my day they never learned grammar."
"Oh, tell us about the good old times!" and Hal's head was laid in
Granny's lap.
The children were never tired of hearing these tales. Days when
Granny was young were like enchantment. She remembered some real
witch stories, that she was sure were true; and weddings, quiltings,
husking-bees, and apple-parings were full of interest. How they went
out sleigh-riding, and had a dance; and how once Granny and her lover,
sitting on the back seat, were jolted out, seat and all, while the
horses went skimming along at a pace equal to Tam O'Shanter's. And how
they had to go to a neighboring cottage, and stay ever so long before
they were missed.
"There'll never be such times again," Joe would declare solemnly.
Florence would breath a little sigh, and wonder if she could ever
attain to beaux and merriment, and if any one would ever quarrel about
dancing with her. How happy Granny must have been!
Dot had a dreadful cold, and Granny an attack of rheumatism; but they
both recovered before Christmas. Every one counted so much on this
holiday. All were making mysterious preparations. Joe and Hal and
Florence had their heads together; and then it was Granny and Florence,
or Granny and Hal.
"I don't dare to stir out," said Joe lugubriously, "lest you may say
something that I shall not hear."
Hal killed three fine young geese. Two were disposed of for a dollar
apiece, and the third he brought to the kitchen in triumph.
"There's our Christmas dinner, and a beauty too!" he announced.
Hal had sold turkeys and chickens enough to buy himself a good warm
winter coat.
Granny had a little extra luck. In fact, it was rather a prosperous
winter with them; and there was nothing like starvation, in spite of
Mrs. Van Wyck's prediction.
They all coaxed Granny to make doughnuts. Joe dropped them in the
kettle, and Hal took them out with the skimmer. How good they did smell!
Kit and Charlie tumbled about on the floor, and were under everybody's
feet; while Dot sat in her high chair, looking wondrous wise.
"How'll we get the stockings filled?" propounded Joe, when the
supper-table had been cleared away.
They all glanced at each other in consternation.
"But where'll you hang 'em?" asked Kit after a moment or two of
profound study.
"Some on the andirons, some on the door-knob, some on the kettle-spout,
and the rest up chimney."
"I say, can't we have two?" was Charlie's anxious question.
"Lucky if you get one full. What a host of youngsters! O Granny! did
you know that last summer I discovered that you were the old woman who
lived in a shoe?"
"O Joe! don't;" and Hal raised his soft eyes reproachfully.
Granny laughed, not understanding Hal's anxiety.
"Because I had so many children?"
"Exactly; but I think you are better tempered than your namesake."
Granny's eyes twinkled at this compliment.
"It was an awful hot day, and Dot was cross enough to kill a cat with
nine lives."
"But she's a little darling now," said Hal, kissing her. "I think the
sand-man has been around;" and he smiled into the little face with its
soft drooping eyes.
"Yes, she ought to be in bed, and Kit and Charlie. Come, children."
"I want to see what's going to be put in my stocking," whined Charlie
in a very sleepy tone.
"No, you can't. March off, you small snipes, or you will find a whip
there to-morrow morning."
That was Joe's peremptory order.
They had a doughnut apiece, and then went reluctantly. Charlie was very
sure that she was wider awake than ever before in her life, and could
not get asleep if she tried all night. Kit didn't believe that morning
would ever come. Hal put on Dot's nightgown, and heard her say, "Now I
lay me down to sleep;" while Joe picked up the cat, and irreverently
whispered,--
    "Now I lay me down to sleep,
    All curled up in a little heap.
    If I should wake before 'tis day,
    What do you s'pose the doctor'd say?"
"O Joe!" remonstrated Granny.
"That's Tabby's prayers. Tabby is a high principled, moral, and
intellectual cat. Now go to sleep, and dream of a mouse."
Tabby winked her eyes solemnly, as if she understood every word; and
it's my firm belief that she did.
Then Granny, Florence, Joe, and Hal sat in profound thought until the
old high clock in the corner struck nine.
"Well," said Joe, "what are we waiting for?"
Hal laughed and answered,--
"For some one to go to bed."
"What is to be done about it?"
Florence looked wise, and said presently,--
"We'll all have to go in the other room except the one who is to put
something in the stockings."
"That's it. Who will begin?"
"Not I," rejoined Joe. "I don't want to be poked down into the toe."
"And I can't have my gifts crushed," declared Florence.
"Hal, you begin."
Hal was very cheerful and obliging. Granny lighted another candle, and
the three retired. He disposed of his gifts, and then called Joe.
Joe made a great scrambling around. One would think he had Santa Claus
himself, and was squeezing him into the small stocking, sleigh, ponies,
and all.
"Now, Granny, it's your turn."
Granny fumbled about a long while, until the children grew impatient.
Afterward Florence found herself sorely straitened for room; but she
had a bright brain, and what she could not put inside she did up
in papers and pinned to the outside, giving the stockings a rather
grotesque appearance, it must be confessed. There they hung in a row,
swelled to dropsical proportions, and looking not unlike stumpy little
Dutchmen who had been beheaded at the knees.
"Now, Granny, you must go to bed," said Joe with an air of importance.
"And you must promise to lie there until you are called to-morrow
morning,--honor bright!"
Granny smiled, and bobbed her flaxen curls.
"Now," exclaimed Florence, bolting the middle door so they would be
sure of no interruption.
Joe went out to the wood-shed, and dragged in a huge shoe. The toe was
painted red, and around the top a strip of bright yellow, ending with
an immense buckle cut out of wood.
"Oh, isn't it splendid!" exclaimed Florence, holding her breath.
"That was Hal's idea, and it's too funny for any thing. Granny could
crawl into it head first. If we haven't worked and conjured to keep Kit
and Charlie out of the secret, then no one ever had a bit of trouble
in this world."
Joe laughed until he held his sides. It was a sort of safety
escape-valve with him.
"H-u-s-h!" whispered Hal. "Now, Flossy."
Florence brought a large bundle out of the closet. There were some
suppressed titters, and "O's," and "Isn't it jolly?"
"Now you must tie your garters round the bedpost, put the toe of your
shoes toward the door, and go to bed backward. That'll make every thing
come out just right," declared Joe.
"Oh, dear! I wish it was morning!" said Hal. "I want to see the fun."
"So don't this child. I must put in some tall snoring between this and
daylight."
They said good-night softly to each other, and went off to bed. Joe was
so full of mischief, that he kept digging his elbows into Hal's ribs,
and rolling himself in the bedclothes, until it was a relief to have
him commence the promised snoring.
With the first gray streak of dawn there was a stir.
"Merry Christmas!" sang out Joe with a shout that might have been heard
a mile. "Hal and Kit"--
"Can't you let a body sleep in peace?" asked Kit in an injured tone,
the sound coming from vasty deeps of bedclothes.
Joe declared they always had to fish him out of bed, and that buckwheat
cakes was the best bait that could be used.
"Why, it's Christmas. Hurrah! We're going to have a jolly time. What do
you suppose is in your stocking?"
That roused Kit. He came out of bed on his head, and commenced putting
his foot through his jacket sleeve.
"I can't find my stockings! Who's got 'em?"
"The fellow who gets up first always takes the best clothes," said Joe
solemnly.
With that he made a dive into his. It was the funniest thing in the
world to see Joe dress. His clothes always seemed joined together in
some curious fashion; for he flung his arms and legs into them at one
bound.
"Oh, dear! Don't look in my stocking, Joe. You might wait. I know
you've hidden away my shoe on purpose."
With this Kit sat in the middle of the floor like a heap of rains, and
began to cry.
Hal came to the rescue, and helped his little brother dress. But Joe
was down long before them. He gave a whoop at the door.
"Merry Christmas!" exclaimed Florence with a laugh, glad to think she
had distanced him.
"Merry Christmas! The top o' the mornin' to you, Granny! Long life and
plenty of 'praties and pint.' Santa Claus has been here. My eyes!"
Hal and Kit came tumbling along; but the younger stood at the door in
amaze, his mouth wide open.
"Hush for your life!"
But Kit had to make a tour regardless of his own stocking, while Joe
brandished the tongs above his head as if to enforce silence.
Hal began to kindle the fire. Charlie crept out in her nightgown, with
an old shawl about her, and stood transfixed with astonishment.
"Oh, my! Isn't that jolly? Doesn't Granny know a bit?"
"Not a word."
"Mrs. McFinnegan," said Joe through the chink of the door, "I have to
announce that the highly esteemed and venerable Mr. Santa Claus, a
great traveller and a remarkably generous man, has made a call upon you
during the night. As he feared to disturb your slumbers, he left a ball
of cord, a paper of pins, and a good warm night-cap."
Florence was laughing so that she could hardly use buttons or hooks.
Dot gave a neglected whine from the cradle.
"Is Granny ready?" Hal asked as she came out.
"She's just putting on her cap."
Hal went in for a Christmas kiss. Granny held him to her heart in a
fond embrace, and wished the best of every thing over him.
"Merry Christmas to you all!" she said as Hal escorted her out to the
middle of the room.
Joe went over on his head, and then perched himself on the back of a
chair. The rest all looked at Granny.
"Is this really for me?" she asked in surprise, though the great
placard stared her in the face.
The children set up a shout. Kit and Charlie paused, open-mouthed, in
the act of demolishing something.
"Why, I never"--
"Tumble it out," said Joe.
"This great shoe full"--
Florence handed the first package to Granny. She opened it in amaze, as
if she really could not decide whether it belonged to her or not.
There was a paper pinned on it, "A Merry Christmas from Mrs. Kinsey."
A nice dark calico dress-pattern, at which Granny was so overcome that
she dropped into the nearest chair.
Next a pair of gloves from Joe; a pretty, warm hood from Mrs. Howard,
the clergyman's wife; a bowl of elegant cranberry sauce from another
neighbor; a crocheted collar from Florence, and then with a big tug--
"Oh!" exclaimed Granny, "is it a comfortable, or what?"
A good thick plaid shawl. Just bright enough to be handsome and not
too gay, and as soft as the back of a lamb.
"Where did it come from?"
Granny's voice trembled in her excitement.
"From all of us," said Florence. "I mean, Joe and Hal and me. We've
been saving our money this ever so long, and Mrs. Kinsey bought it for
us. O Granny!"--
But Granny had her arms around them, and was crying over heads golden
and brown and black; and Hal, little chicken-heart, was sobbing and
smiling together. Joe picked a big tear or two out of his eye, and
began with some nonsense.
"And to keep it a secret all this time! and to make this great shoe!
There never was such a Christmas before. Oh, children, I'm happier than
a queen!"
"What makes you cry then, Granny?" asked Charlie.
"But oh! wasn't it funny? And if it only had runners
it would make a sleigh. Look at the red toe."
They kissed dozens of times, and inspected each other's gifts. Florence
had made each of the boys two dainty little neckties, having begged
the silk from Miss Brown. Charlie and Kit had a pair of new mittens,
Joe and Hal a new shirt with a real plaited bosom, and a host of small
articles devised by love, with a scarce purse. But I doubt if there was
a happier household in richer homes.
It was a long while before they had tried every thing,
[Illustration]
tasted of all their "goodies," and expressed sufficient delight and
surprise. Dot was taken up and dressed, and Kit found that she fitted
into the shoe exact. Her tiny stocking was not empty. They all laughed
and talked; and it was nine o'clock before their simple breakfast was
ready.
Joe had to take a turn out to see some of the boys; Florence made the
beds, and put the room in order; and Hal kept a roaring fire to warm
it up, so that they might have a parlor. Kit and Charlie were deeply
interested in the shoe; and Granny had to break out every now and then
in surprise and thankfulness.
"A shawl and hood and gloves and a dress! Why, I never had so many
things at once, I believe; and how hard you must all have worked! I
don't see how you could save so much money!"
"It's better than living with Mrs. Van Wyck," returned Florence with
pardonable pride. "Embroidering is real pretty work, and it pays well.
Mrs. Howard has asked me to do some for a friend of hers."
"You're a wonder, Florence, to be sure. I can't see how you do 'em all
so nice. But my fingers are old and clumsy."
"They know how to make pies and doughnuts," said Kit, as if that was
the main thing, after all.
They went to work at the dinner. It was to be a grand feast. Joe kept
the fire brisk; while Hal waited upon Granny, and remembered the
ingredients that went to make "tip-top" dressing.
"It is a pity you were not a Frenchman," said Florence. "You would
make such a handy cook."
Hal laughed, his cheeks as red as roses.
"I couldn't keep house without him," appended Granny.
There was a savory smell of roasting goose, the flavor of thyme and
onions, which the children loved dearly. Charlie and Kit went out to
have a good run, and came back hungry as bears, they declared. Joe went
off to see some of the boys, and compare gifts. Though more than one
new sled or nice warm overcoat gave his heart a little twinge, he was
too gay and happy to feel sad very long; and, when he had a royal ride
down hill on the bright sleds that flashed along like reindeers, he
returned very well content.
Florence sighed a little as she arranged the table. Three kinds of
dishes, and some of them showing their age considerably. If they were
all white it wouldn't be so bad. She did so love beauty!
But when the goose, browned in the most delicious manner, graced the
middle dish, the golden squash and snowy mound of potatoes, and the
deep wine color of the cranberries lent their contrast, it was quite
a picture, after all. And when the host of eager faces had clustered
round it, one would hardly have noticed any lack. They were all in the
gayest possible mood.
Hal did the carving. The goose was young and tender, and he disappeared
with marvellous celerity.
Wings, drumsticks, great juicy slices with crisp skin, dressing in
abundance; and how they did eat! For a second helping they had to
demolish the rack; and Charlie wasn't sure but picking bones was the
most fun of all.
"Hal, you had better go into the poultry business," said Joe, stopping
in the midst of a spoonful of cranberry.
"I've been thinking of it," was the reply.
"I should think he was in it," said Charlie slyly.
Joe laughed.
"Good for you, Charlie. They must feed you on knives at your house,
you're so sharp. But I have heard of people being too smart to live
long, so take warning."
Charlie gave her head a toss.
"Why wouldn't it be good?" pursued Joe. "People do make money by it;
and I suppose, before very long, we must begin to think about money."
"Don't to-day" said Granny.
"No, we will not worry ourselves," rejoined Hal.
One after another drew long breaths, as if their appetites were
diminishing. Dot sat back in her high chair, her hands and face showing
signs of the vigorous contest, but wonderfully content.
"Now the pie!" exclaimed Joe.
Florence gathered up the bones and the plates, giving Tabby, who sat in
the corner washing her face, a nice feast. Then came on the Christmas
pie, which was pronounced as great a success as the goose.
"Oh, dear!" sighed Joe. "One unfortunate thing about eating is, that it
takes away your appetite."
"It is high time!" added Florence.
They wouldn't allow Granny to wash a dish, but made her sit in state
while they brought about order and cleanliness once more. A laughable
time they had; for Joe wiped some dishes, and Charlie scoured one knife.
Afterward they had a game at blind-man's-buff. Such scampering and such
screams would have half frightened any passer-by. They coaxed Granny to
get up and join; and at last, to please Hal, she consented.
If Joe fancied he could catch her easily, he was much mistaken. She had
played blind-man's-buff too many times in her young days. Such turning
and doubling and slipping away was fine to see; and Charlie laughed so,
that Joe, much chagrined, took her prisoner instead.
"Granny, you beat every thing!" he said. "Now, Charlie."
Charlie made a dive at the cupboard, and then started for the window,
spinning round in such a fashion that they all had to run; but even she
was not fleet enough.
After that, Kit and Florence essayed; and Joe, manoeuvring in their
behalf, fell into the trap himself, at which they all set up a shout.
"I'm bound to have Granny this time," he declared.
Sure enough, though he confessed afterwards that he peeped a little;
but Granny was tired with so much running: and, as the short afternoon
drew to a close, they gathered round the fire, and cracked nuts,
washing them down with apples, as they had no cider.
"It's been a splendid Christmas!" said Charlie, with such a yawn that
she nearly made the top of her head an island.
"I wonder if we'll all be here next year?" said Joe, rather more
solemnly than his wont.
"I hope so," responded Granny, glancing over the clustering faces. Dot
sat on Hal's knee, looking bright as a new penny. She, too, had enjoyed
herself amazingly.
But presently the spirit of fun seemed to die out, and they began to
sing some hymns and carols. The tears came into Granny's eyes, as the
sweet, untrained voices blended so musically. Ah, if they could always
stay children! Foolish wish; and yet Granny would have toiled for them
to her latest breath.
"Here's long life and happiness!" exclaimed Joe, with a flourish of the
old cocoanut dipper. "A merry Christmas next year, and may we all be
there to see!"
Ah, Joe, it will be many a Christmas before you are all there again.
CHAPTER V.
  GOOD LUCK FOR JOE.
"Hooray!" said Joe, swinging the molasses jug over his head as if it
had been a feather, or the stars and stripes on Fourth of July morning.
"O Joe!"
"Flossy, my darling, you are a poet sure; only poetry, like an
alligator, must have feet, or it will lose its reputation. Here's your
'lasses, Granny; and what do you think? Something has actually happened
to me! Oh, my! do guess quick!"
"You've been taken with the 'lirium"--and there Charlie paused, having
been wrecked on a big word.
"Delirium tremenjous. Remember to say it right hereafter, Charlie."
Charlie looked very uncertain.
"Maybe it's the small-pox," said Kit, glancing up in amazement.
"Good for you!" and Joe applauded with two rather blue thumb-nails.
"But it's a fact. Guess, Granny. I'm on the high road to fortune.
Hooray!"
With that, Joe executed his usual double-shuffle, and a revolution on
his axis hardly laid down in the planetary system. He would have said
that it was because he was not a heavenly body.
"O Joe, if you were like any other boy!"
"Jim Fisher, for instance,--red-headed, squint-eyed, and freckled."
"He can't help it," said Hal mildly. "He is real nice too."
"You're not going"--began Granny with a gasp.
"Yes, I'm going"--was the solemn rejoinder.
"Not to sea!" and there came a quick blur in Hal's eyes.
"Oh, bother, no! You're all splendid at guessing, and ought to have
a prize leather medal. It's in Mr. Terry's store; and I shall have a
dollar and a half a week! Good by, Mr. Fielder. Adieu, beloved grammar;
and farewell, most fragrant extract of cube-root, as well as birch-oil.
O Granny! I'm happy as a big sunflower. On the high road to fame and
fortune,--think of it!"
"Is it really true?" asked Florence.
"Then, I won't need to go for any thing," appended Charlie.
"No; but you'll have to draw water, and split kindlings, and hunt up
Mrs. Green's cows."
"In Mr. Terry's store! What wonderful luck, Joe!"
Granny's delight was overwhelming. All along she had experienced a sad
misgiving, lest Joe should take a fancy to the sea in real earnest.
"Yes. It's just splendid. Steve Anthony's going to the city to learn
a trade. He had a letter from his uncle to-day, saying that he might
start right away. I thought a minute: then said I, 'Steve, who's coming
here?' 'I don't know,' said he. 'Mr. Terry'll have to look round.' 'I'm
your boy,' said I, 'and no mistake.' And with that I rushed in to Mr.
Terry, and asked him. He gave me some columns of figures to add up,
and questioned me a little, and finally told me that I might come on
Monday, and we'd try for a week."
"There's Joe's fortune," said Hal, "and a good one too. You will not
need to go to sea."
There was an odd and knowing twinkle in Joe's merry hazel eye, which
showed to an observing person that he was not quite sound on the
question.
"Tate Dotty;" and two little hands were outstretched.
"O Dot! you're a fraud, and more trouble to me than all my money."
With that, Joe sat her up on his shoulder, and she laughed gleefully.
Granny lighted a candle, and began to prepare for supper. While Charlie
set the table, Granny brought out the griddle, and commenced frying
some Indian cakes in a most tempting manner. Joe dropped on an old
stool, and delighted Dot with a vigorous ride to Banbury Cross.
Kit stood beside him, inhaling the fragrance of the cakes, and
wondering at the dexterity with which Granny turned them on a slender
knife.
"I don't see how you do it. Suppose you should let 'em fall?"
"Ho!" said Charlie, with a sniff of disdain. "Women always know how."
"But they can't come up to the miners," suggested Joe. "They keep house
for themselves; and their flapjacks are turned,--as big as Granny's
griddle here."
"One cake?"
"Yes. That's where the art comes in."
"They must take a shovel," said Charlie.
"No, nor a knife, nor any thing."
With that Joe shook his head mysteriously.
"With their fingers," announced Kit triumphantly.
"My mother used to bake them in a frying-pan," said Granny. "Then she'd
twirl it round and round, and suddenly throw the cake over."
"There!"
Kit gave a nod as much as to say, "Beat that if you can."
"That isn't a circumstance," was Joe's solemn comment.
"But how then?" asked Charlie, who was wound up to a pitch of
curiosity.
"Why, they bake them in a pan too, and twirl it round and round, and
then throw it up and run out of doors. The cake goes up chimney, and
comes down on the raw side, all right, you see, and drops into the pan
before you can count six black beans."
"Oh, I don't believe it!" declared Charlie. "Do you, Granny?"
"They'd have to be pretty quick," was the response.
"You see, a woman never could do it, Charlie," Joe continued in a
tormenting manner.
"But, Charlie, a miner's cabin is not very high; and the chimney is
just a great hole in the roof," explained Hal.
"'Tory, 'tory," said Dot, who was not interested in the culinary art.
"O Dotty! you'll have a piece worn off the end of my tongue, some day.
It's high time you were storing your mind with useful facts; so, if you
please, we will have a little English history."
"What nonsense, Joe! As if she could understand;" and Florence looked
up from her pretty worsted crocheting.
"To be sure she can. Dot comes of a smart family. Now, Midget;" and
with that he perched her up on his knee.
Charlie and Kit began to listen.
    "'When good King Arthur ruled the land,
        He was a goodly king:
     He stole three pecks of barley-meal
      To make a bag pudding.'"
"I don't believe it," burst out Charlie. "I was reading about King
Arthur"--
"And he was a splendid cook. Hear his experience,--
    'A bag pudding the king did make,
      And stuffed it well with plums;
    And in it put great lumps of fat,
      As big as my two thumbs.'"
Dot thought the laugh came in here, and threw back her head, showing
her little white teeth.
"It really wasn't King Arthur," persisted Charlie.
"It is a fact handed down to posterity. No wonder England became great
under so wise and economical a rule; for listen--
    'The king and queen did eat thereof,
      And noblemen beside;
    And what they could not eat that night,
      The queen next morning fried,'--
as we do sometimes. Isn't it wonderful?"
"Hunnerful," ejaculated Dot, wide-eyed.
"I hope you'll take a lesson, and"--
"Come to supper," said Granny.
Irrepressible Charlie giggled at the ending.
They did not need a second invitation, but clustered around eagerly.
"I'm afraid there won't be any left to fry up in the morning," said Joe
solemnly.
After the youngsters were off to bed that evening, Joe began to talk
about his good fortune again.
"And a dollar and a half a week, regularly, is a good deal," he said.
"Why, I can get a spick and span new suit of clothes for twelve
dollars,--two months, that would be; and made at a tailor's too."
"The two months?" asked Florence.
"Oh! you know what I mean."
"You will get into worse habits than ever," she said with a wise
elder-sister air.
"I don't ever expect to be a grand gentleman."
"But you might be a little careful."
"Flo acts as if she thought we were to have a great fortune left us by
and by, and wouldn't be polished enough to live in state."
"The only fortune we shall ever have will come from five-finger land,"
laughed Hal good-naturedly.
"And I'm going to make a beginning. I do think it was a streak of luck.
I am old enough to do something for myself."
"I wish I could find such a chance," said Hal, with a soft sigh.
"Your turn will come presently," Granny answered, smiling tenderly.
Joe went on with his air-castles. The sum of money looked so large in
his eyes. He bought out half of Mr. Terry's store, and they were to
live like princes,--all on a dollar and a half a week.
Granny smiled, and felt proud enough of him. If he would only keep to
business, and not go off to sea.
So on Friday Joe piled up his books, and turned a somerset over them,
and took a farewell race with the boys. They were all sorry enough to
lose him. Mr. Fielder wished him good luck.
"You will find that work is not play," he said by way of caution.
Early Monday morning Joe presented himself bright as a new button.
He had insisted upon wearing his best suit,--didn't he mean to have
another soon? for the school clothes were all patches. He had given his
hair a Sunday combing, which meant that he used a comb instead of his
fingers. Mr. Terry was much pleased with his promptness.
A regular country store, with groceries on one side and dry goods on
the other, a little sashed cubby for a post-office, and a corner for
garden and farm implements. There was no liquor kept on the premises;
for the mild ginger and root beer sold in summer could hardly be placed
in that category.
Joe was pretty quick, and by noon had mastered many of the intricacies.
Old Mr. Terry was in the store part of the time,--"father" as everybody
called him. He was growing rather childish and careless, so his son
instructed Joe to keep a little watch over him. Then he showed him how
to harness the horse, and drove off with some bulky groceries that he
was to take home.
"All things work together for good, sonny," said Father Terry with a
sleepy nod, as he sat down by the stove.
"What things?"
"All things," with a sagacious shake of the head.
This was Father Terry's favorite quotation, and he used it in season
and out of season.
The door opened, and Mrs. Van Wyck entered. She gave Joe a sharp look.
"So you're here?" with a kind of indignant sniff.
"Yes. What will you have?"
There was a twinkle in Joe's eye, and an odd little pucker to his lips,
as if he were remembering something.
"You needn't be so impudent."
"I?" and Joe flushed in surprise.
"Yes. You're a saucy lot, the whole of you."
With that Mrs. Van Wyck began to saunter round.
"What's the price of these cranberries?"
"Eighteen cents," in his most respectful tone.
"They're dear, dreadful dear. Over to Windsor you can get as many as
you can carry for a shillin' a quart."
Joe was silent.
"Say sixteen."
"I couldn't," replied Joe. "If Mr. Terry were here"--
"There's Father Terry." She raised her voice a little. "Father Terry,
come and look at these cranberries. They're a poor lot, and you'll do
well to get a shillin' a quart."
Joe ran his fingers through them. Plump and crimson, very nice he
thought for so late in the season.
"I don't s'pose I'd get more'n two good quarts out of three. They'll
spile on your hands. Come now, be reasonable."
Father Terry looked undecided. Joe watched him, thinking in his heart
that he ought not fall a penny.
"Say a shillin'."
The old man shook his head.
"Well, fifteen cents. I want three quarts, and I won't give a penny
more."
The old gentleman studied Joe's face, which was full of perplexity.
"Well," he said with some reluctance.
Joe measured them. Mrs. Van Wyck gave each quart a "settle" by shaking
it pretty hard, and Joe had to put in another large handful.
"Now I want some cheese."
The pound weighed two ounces over.
"You can throw that in. Mr. Terry always does."
"How much?"
"Twenty-three cents."
"No: you can't fool me, youngster. I never pay more than twenty cents."
"I'm sure Mr. Terry told me that it was twenty-three."
Father was appealed to again, and of course went over to the
domineering enemy.
Then two pounds of butter passed through the same process of
cheapening. Joe began to lose his temper. Afterward a broom, some tape
and cotton, and finally a calico dress.
"Now, here's three dozen eggs for part pay. They're twenty-four cents a
dozen."
"Why, that's what we sell them for," said astonished Joe, mentally
calculating profit and loss.
"Oh! they've gone up. Hetty Collins was paid twenty-five over to
Windsor. I'd gone there myself if I'd had a little more time."
"I wish you had," ejaculated Joe inwardly.
She haggled until she got her price, and the settlement was made.
"She's a regular old screwer," said Joe rather crossly. "I don't
believe it was right to let her have those things in that fashion."
"All things work together for good."
"For her good, it seems."
Father Terry went back to his post by the stove. Joe breathed a little
thanksgiving that Flossy was not Mrs. Van Wyck's maid-of-all-work.
Joe's next customer was Dave Downs, as the boys called him. He shuffled
up to the counter.
"Got any reel good cheese?"
"Yes," said Joe briskly.
"Let's see."
Joe raised the cover. Dave took up the knife, and helped himself to a
bountiful slice.
"Got any crackers?"
"Yes," wondering what Dave meant.
"Nice and fresh?"
"I guess so."
"I'll take three or four."
"That will be a penny's worth."
When Dave had the crackers in his hand he said, raising his shaggy
brows in a careless manner,--
"Oh! you needn't be so perticelar."
Then he took a seat beside Father Terry, and munched crackers and
cheese. "Cool enough," thought Joe.
Old Mrs. Skittles came next. She was very deaf, and talked in a high,
shrill key, as if she thought all the world in the same affliction.
She looked at every thing, priced it, beat down a cent or two, and
then concluded she'd rather wait until Mr. Terry came in. At last she
purchased a penny's worth of snuff, and begged Joe to give her good
measure.
After that two customers and the mail. Father Terry bestirred himself,
and waited upon a little girl with a jug.
Joe was rather glad to see Mr. Terry enter, for he had an uncomfortable
sense of responsibility.
"Trade been pretty good, Joe?" with a smile.
"I've put it all down on the slate, as you told me."
"Hillo! What's this!"
A slow stream of something dark was running over the floor back of the
lower counter.
"Oh, molasses!" and with a spring Joe shut off the current, but there
was an ominous pool.
"I did not get that: it was"--and Joe turned crimson.
"Father. We never let him go for molasses, vinegar, oil, or burning
fluid. He is sure to deluge us. Run round in the kitchen, and get a
pail and a mop."
"It's my opinion that this doesn't work together for good," said Joe to
himself as he was cleaning up the mess.
"So you had Mrs. Skittles?" exclaimed Mr. Terry with a laugh. "And Mrs.
Van Wyck. Why, Joe!"
"She beat down awfully!" said Joe; "and she wanted every thing thrown
in. Mr. Terry"--
"She called on father, I'll be bound. But she has taken off all the
profits; and then to make you pay twenty-four cents for the eggs."
"I'd just like to have had my own way. If you'll give me leave"--
"You will have to look out a little for father. He's getting old, you
know; and these sharp customers are rather too much for him."
"I'll never fall a penny again;" and Joe shook his head defiantly.
"You will learn by degrees. But it is never necessary to indulge such
people. There's the dinner-bell."
Dave Downs had finished his crackers and cheese, and now settled
himself to a comfortable nap. Joe busied himself by clearing up
a little, giving out mail, and once weighing some flour. Then he
discovered that he had scattered it over his trousers, and that with
the molasses dabs it made a not very delightful mixture. So he took
a seat on a barrel-head and began to scrub it off; but he found it
something like Aunt Jemima's plaster.
"Run in and get some dinner, Joe," said Mr. Terry after his return to
the store.
"But I was going home," replied Joe bashfully.
"Oh! never mind. We will throw in the dinner."
So Joe ran around, but hesitated at the door of Mrs. Terry's clean
kitchen. She was motherly and cordial, however, and gave him a bright
smile.
"I told Mr. Terry that you might as well come in here for your dinner.
It is quite a long run home."
"You are very kind," stammered Joe, feeling that he must say something,
in spite of his usual readiness of speech deserting him.
"You ought to have an apron, Joe, or a pair of overalls," she said
kindly. "You will find grocery business rather dirty work sometimes."
"And my best clothes!" thought Joe with a sigh.
But the coffee was so delightful, and the cold roast beef tender as a
chicken. And Joe began to think it was possible for a few things to
work together for good, if they were only the right kind of things.
Altogether he went home at night in very good spirits.
"But my trousers will have to go in the wash-tub, Granny," he
exclaimed. "I believe I wasn't cut out for a gentleman, after all."
"O Joe, what a sight! How could you?"
"It was all easy enough. If you'd had molasses to scrub up, and flour
to get before it was dry, you would have found the sticking process not
at all difficult. And oh! Mrs. Van Wyck came in."
Florence flushed a little at this.
"Yes, wait till I show you." With that, Joe sprang up, and wrapped
Granny's old shawl about him, and began in his most comical fashion. In
a moment or two the children were in roars of laughter.
"I don't know as it is quite right, Joe dear," interposed Granny
mildly, "to make fun of any one."
"My conscience don't trouble me a bit;" for now he was in a high glee.
"I owe her a grudge for making me pay twenty-four cents for eggs. And,
Granny, when you come to the store, don't beat me down a penny on any
thing; nor ask me to throw in a spool of cotton nor a piece of tape,
nor squeeze down the measure. I wonder how people can be so mean!"
"Rich people too," added Florence in an injured tone of voice, still
thinking of Mrs. Van Wyck's overture.
"There's lots of funny folks in the world," said Joe with a grave air.
"But I like Mr. Terry, and I mean to do my very best."
"That's right;" and Granny smiled tenderly over the boy's resolve.
"And I'll put on my old clothes to-morrow. Who knows but I may fall
into the mackerel-barrel before to-morrow night?"
Kit laughed at this. "They'll have to fish you out with a harpoon,
then."
"Oh! I might swim ashore."
The next day Joe improved rapidly. To be sure, he met with a mishap or
two; but Mr. Terry excused him, and only charged him to be more careful
in future. And Father Terry administered his unfailing consolation on
every occasion.
But on Saturday night Joe came home in triumph.
"There's the beginning of my fortune," he said, displaying his dollar
and a half all in hard cash. For that was a long while ago, when the
eagle, emblem of freedom, used to perch on silver half-dollars.
CHAPTER VI.
  FORTUNES AND MISFORTUNES.
"I think I'll go into business," said Hal one evening, as he and Granny
and Florence sat together.
They missed Joe so much! He seldom came home until eight o'clock; and
there was no one to stir up the children, and keep the house in a
racket.
"What?" asked Granny.
"I am trying to decide. I wonder how chickens would do?"
"It takes a good deal to feed 'em," said Granny.
"But they could run about, you know. And buckwheat is such a splendid
thing for them. Then we can raise ever so much corn."
"But where would you get your buckwheat?" asked Florence.
"I was thinking. Mr. Peters never does any thing with his lot down
here, and the old apple-trees in it are not worth much. If he'd let me
have it ploughed up! And then we'd plant all of our ground in corn,
except the little garden that we want."
"What a master hand you are to plan, Hal!"
Granny's face was one immense beam of admiration.
"I want to do something. It's too hard, Granny, that you should have to
go out washing, and all that."
Hal's soft brown eyes were full of tender pity.
"Oh! I don't mind. I'm good for a many day's work yet, Hal."
"I hope some of us will get rich at last."
Florence sighed softly.
"I thought you were going to have a green-house," she said.
"I'm afraid I can't manage the green-house now, though I mean to try
some day. And I noticed old Speckly clucking this morning."
"But we haven't any eggs," said Granny.
"I could get some."
"How many chickens would you raise?" asked Florence.
"Well, if we should set the five hens,--out of say sixty-four eggs we
ought to raise fifty chickens; oughtn't we, Granny?"
"With good luck; but so many things happen to 'em."
"And if I could clear thirty dollars. Then there's quite a good deal of
work to do in the summer."
"I shall soon be a fine lady, and ride in my carriage," Granny
commented with a cheerful chirrup of a laugh.
"Mrs. Kinsey's chickens are splendid," said Florence.
"Yes. Shall I get some eggs, and set Speckly?"
"It's rather airly to begin."
"But I'll make a nice coop. And eggs are not twenty-four cents a dozen."
Hal finished off with a quiet smile at the thought of Mrs. Van Wyck.
So he went to Mrs. Kinsey's the next morning, and asked her for a dozen
of eggs, promising to come over the first Saturday there was any thing
to do, and work it out.
"I'll give you the eggs," she said; "but we will be glad to have you
some Saturday, all the same."
So old Speckly was allowed to indulge her motherly inclinations to
her great satisfaction. Hal watched her with the utmost solicitude.
In the course of time a tiny bill pecked against white prison walls;
and one morning Hal found the cunningest ball of soft, yellow down,
trying to balance itself on two slender legs, but finding that the
point of gravity as often centred in its head. But the little fellow
winked oddly, as much as to say, "I know what I'm about. I'll soon find
whether it is the fashion to stand on your head or your feet in this
queer world."
One by one the rest came out. Hal had a nice coop prepared, and set
Mrs. Speckly up at housekeeping. Dot caught one little "birdie," as she
called it, and, in running to show Granny, fell down. And although Dot
wasn't very heavy, it was an avalanche on poor "birdie." He gave two
or three slow kicks with his yellow legs, and then was stiff for all
time.
"Hal's boofer birdie," said Dot. "See, Danny!"
"O Dot! what have you done?"
"Him 'oont 'alk;" and Dot stood him down on the doorstep, only to see
him tumble over.
"Oh, you've killed Hal's birdie! What will he say?"
"I 'ell down. Why 'oont him run, Danny?"
What could Granny do? Scolding Dot was out of the question. And just
then Hal came flying up the road.
Granny had seen the fall, and explained the matter.
"But she mustn't catch them! You're a naughty little Dot!"
Dot began to cry.
"Poor little girl!" said Hal, taking her in his arms. "It is wrong to
catch them. See, now, the little fellow is dead, and can never run
about any more. Isn't Dot sorry? She won't ever touch Hal's birdies
again, will she?"
So Dot promised, and Hal kissed her. But she carried the dead birdie
about, petting it with softest touches, and insisting upon taking it to
bed with her.
One more of the brood met with a mishap, but the other ten throve and
grew rapidly. By the time the next hen wanted to set, Hal had a dozen
eggs saved.
He asked Farmer Peters about the lot. It was just below their house,
between that and the creek, a strip of an acre and a half perhaps.
The old trees were not worth much, to be sure; and Mr. Peters never
troubled himself to cultivate the plot, as it was accounted very poor.
"Yes, you may have it in welcome; but you won't git enough off of it to
pay for the ploughin'?"
"I'm going to raise chickens; and I thought it would be nice to sow
buckwheat, and let them run in it."
"Turnin' farmer, hey? 'Pears to me you're makin' an airly beginnin'."
Hal smiled pleasantly.
"You'll find chickens an awful sight o' bother."
"I thought I'd try them."
"Goin' to garden any?"
"A little."
"Hens and gardens are about like fox an' geese. One's death on the
other. But you kin have the lot."
So Hal asked Abel Kinsey to come over and plough. In return he helped
plant potatoes and drop corn for two Saturdays. By this time there was
a third hen setting.
House-cleaning had come on, and Granny was pretty busy. But she and
Hal were up early in the morning garden-making. The plot belonging to
the cottage was about two acres. Hal removed his chicken-coops to the
lot, and covered his young vegetables with brush to protect them from
incursions,--pease, beans, lettuce, beets, and sweet-corn; and the
rest was given over to the chickens.
"I am going to keep an account of all that is spent for them," he said;
"and we will see if we can make it pay."
When Joe had saved three dollars, he teased Granny to let him order his
clothes.
"I don't like running in debt, Joe," she said with a grave shake of the
head.
"But this is very sure. Mr. Terry likes me, and I shall go on staying.
There will be four dollars and a half to pay down by the time they are
done, and in five weeks I can earn the rest."
"How nice it seems!" said Hal. "You and Flo earn a deal of money."
Flo gave a small sniff. She wanted some new clothes also. And Kit and
Charlie were going to shreds and patches. Charlie, indeed, was shooting
up like Jack's bean-stalk, Joe declared, being nearly as tall as Hal.
She was wild as a colt, climbed trees, jumped fences, and wouldn't be
dared by any of the boys.
"I'm sure I don't know what you'll come to," Granny would say with a
sigh.
Joe carried his point, and ordered his clothes; for he insisted that
he could not think of going to Sunday school until he had them. It was
quite an era in his life to have real store clothes. He felt very grand
one day when he went to Mr. Briggs the tailor, and selected the cloth.
There were several different patterns and colors; but he had made up
his mind that it should be gray, just like Archie Palmer's.
He was so dreadfully afraid of being disappointed, that he dropped in
on Friday to see if they were progressing. There was the jacket in the
highest state of perfection.
"But the pants?" he questioned.
"Never you mind. Them pants'll be done as sure as my name's Peter
Briggs."
"All right," said Joe; and he ran on his way whistling.
"Kit," he announced that evening, "I've just found out a good business
for you."
"What?" and Kit roused himself.
"You shall be a tailor. I was thinking to-day how you would look on the
board, with your scalp-lock nodding to every stitch."
"I won't," said Kit stoutly; and he gave a kick towards Joe's leg.
"It's a good business. You will always have plenty of cabbage."
"You better stop!" declared Kit.
"It will be handy to have him in the house, Granny. He can do the
ironing by odd spells. And on the subject of mending old clothes he
will be lovely."
With that Kit made another dive.
Granny gave a sudden spring, and rescued the earthen jar that held the
cakes she had just mixed and set upon the stove-hearth.
"O Kit! Those precious pancakes! We are not anxious to have them
flavored with extract of old shoes."
"Nor to go wandering over the floor."
Kit looked sober and but half-awake.
"Never mind," said Granny cheerily. "You mustn't tease him so much,
Joe."
"Why, I was only setting before him the peculiar advantages of this
romantic and delightful employment;" and with that, Joe executed a
superior double-shuffle quickstep, accompanied by slapping a tune on
his knee.
"You'd do for a minstrel," said Kit.
Joe cleared his voice with a flourish, and sang out,--
    "I'd be a tailor,
      Jolly and free,
    With plenty of cabbage,
      And a goose on my knee.
    Monday would be blue,
      Tuesday would be shady,
    Wednesday I'd set out
      To find a pretty lady."
"Much work you would do in that case," commented Florence.
"It's time to go to bed, children," said Granny.
"Yes," Joe went on gravely. "For a rising young man, who must take
time by the fore-lock, or scalp-lock, and who longs to distinguish
himself by some great and wonderful discovery, there's nothing like,--
    'Early to bed, and early to rise,
    To make a man healthy, wealthy, and wise.'"
With that Joe was up stairs with a bound.
"Joe!" Charlie called in great earnest.
"Well?"
"You better take a mouthful of Granny's rising before you go."
"Good for you, Charlie; but smart children always die young. Granny,
won't you put a stone on Charlie's head for fear?"
Hal said his good-night in a tenderer manner.
They were all wonderfully interested in Joe's clothes; and, though it
was always later on Saturday night when he reached home, they begged to
sit up, but Kit took a nap by the chimney-corner with Tabby. Granny sat
nodding when they heard the gay whistle without.
"Hurrah! The country's safe!" exclaimed Joe. "Get out your spectacles,
all hands."
"You act as if you never had any thing before, Joe," said Florence,
with an air of extreme dignity.
"But these are real 'boughten' clothes," said Joe, "and gilt buttons
down the jacket. I shall feel like a soldier-boy. Just look now."
The bundle came open with a flourish of the jack-knife. All the heads
crowded round, though the one candle gave a rather dim light.
Such exclamations as sounded through the little room, from every voice,
and in almost every key.
"But where are the trousers?" asked Hal.
"The trousers?--why"--
Granny held up the beautiful jacket. There was nothing else in the
paper.
"Why--he's made a mistake. He never put them in, I am sure."
"You couldn't have lost 'em?" asked Granny mildly.
"Lost them--and the bundle tied with this strong twine! Now, that's
mean! I'll have to run right back."
Off went Joe like a flash. He hardly drew a breath until his hand was
on Mr. Brigg's door-knob.
"Well, what now, Joe?" asked the astonished Mr. Briggs.
"You didn't put in the trousers!"
"Didn't? Dan done 'em up. Dan!"
Dan emerged from a pile of rags under the counter, where he was taking
a snooze.
"You didn't put in Joe's trousers."
"Yes I did."
"No you didn't," said Joe, with more promptness than politeness.
Dan began to search. A sleepy-looking, red-headed boy, to whom
Saturday night was an abomination, because his father was always in the
drag, and cross.
"I'm sure I put 'em in. Every thing's gone, and they ain't here."
"Look sharp, you young rascal!"
"He has lost 'em out."
"Lost your grandmother!" said Joe contemptuously; "or the liberty pole
out on the square! Why, the bundle was not untied until after I was in
the house."
"Dan, if you don't find them trousers, I'll larrup you!"
Poor Dan. Fairly wide awake now, he went tumbling over every thing
piled on the counter, searched the shelves, and every available nook.
"Somebody's stole 'em."
Dan made this announcement with a very blank face.
"I know better!" said his father.
"You are sure you made them, Mr. Briggs," asked Joe.
"Sure!" in a tone that almost annihilated both boys.
"If you don't find 'em!" shaking his fist at Dan.
Dan began to blubber.
Joe couldn't help laughing. "Let me help you look," he said.
Down went a box of odd buttons, scattering far and wide.
"You Dan!" shouted his father, with some buttons in his mouth, that
rendered his voice rather thick. "Just wait till I get at you. I have
only six buttons to sew on."
"They're not here, Mr. Briggs," exclaimed Joe.
"Well, I declare! If that ain't the strangest thing! Dan, you've taken
them trousers to the wrong place!"
A new and overwhelming light burst in upon Dan's benighted brain.
"That's it," said Joe. "Now, where have you taken them?"
"I swow!" ejaculated the youth, rubbing his eyes.
"None o' your swearin' in this place!" interrupted his father sternly.
"I'm a strictly moral man, and don't allow such talk in my family."
"Tain't swearin'," mumbled Dan.
Mr. Briggs jumped briskly down from the board, with a pair of
pantaloons in one hand, and a needle and thread in the other. Dan
dodged round behind Joe.
"You took 'em over to Squire Powell's, I'll be bound!"
Another light was thrown in upon Dan's mental vision.
"There! I'll bet I did."
"Of course you did, you numskull! Start this minute and see how quick
you can be gone."
"I will go with him," said Joe.
So the two boys started; and a run of ten minutes--a rather reluctant
performance on Dan's part, it must be confessed--brought them to Squire
Powell's. There was no light in the kitchen; but Joe beat a double
tattoo on the door in the most scientific manner.
"Who's there?" asked a voice from the second story window.
"Dan Briggs!" shouted Joe.
"Guess not," said the squire. The sound was so unlike Dan's sleepy,
mumbling tone.
"There was a mistake made in some clothes," began Joe, nothing daunted.
"Oh, that's it! I will be down in a minute."
Pretty soon the kitchen-door was unlocked, and the boys stepped inside.
"I didn't know but you sent these over for one of my girls," said the
squire laughingly. "They were a leetle too small for me. So they
belong to you, Joe?"
