“They are worth only six thousand or so.”

“But will be worth more than eight in a few days; you shall have your
bills back to-morrow morning, without fail.”

I gave him my certificates and he handed me the money; but he gnashed
his teeth as he did so. If I fell, I should drag him down with me.

“Is everything right in your drawer?” asked Heavyside, the cashier,
slyly, of me, when I returned.

“Certainly it is,” I replied. “Why do you ask?”

“Bristlebach is going to look over our accounts and cash this
afternoon.”

“All right,” I answered, carelessly.

I deposited the eight thousand in my drawer, balanced my cash, and put
the trunk into the safe. Paying no attention to any one, and especially
not to my uncle, I sauntered leisurely out of the bank.




CHAPTER XVIII.

BUSTUMUPS AT FIFTY.


BY the ruse in which Cormorin had instructed me, and for which he had
furnished the funds, I had provided against any exposure. By this time
I was fully satisfied that my uncle was working against me; not that he
intended to ruin me, but only to maintain his own power and influence
over me. There are men of this stamp in the world, who will punish
their best friends when they refuse to be guided by them. Captain
Halliard was as jealous of his influence as he was of his money.

As my account with the bank was now square, I had no fear of the
investigation which was in progress. Mr. Heavyside, who had never been
suspected of even an irregularity, had been so kind as to inform me of
the proposed examination. I had in him a good friend, and a mortgage on
his future fidelity to me. I should defeat my uncle this time, as I had
before, but it was annoying to be subjected to his espionage, though I
could not afford to have a serious quarrel with him.

I went home at about the usual hour. My Bustumups had done so well
that I was tolerably light-hearted. Lilian was as joyous as a dream
in June. Bertha had been with her all the forenoon, and I heard much
in praise of Tom Flynn. We dined, and then I proposed to Lilian that
we should ride out into the country. She was glad to go, and we went.
On my return home at six o’clock, Biddy handed me a note from Mr.
Bristlebach. I recognized his heavy hand-writing, and my blood ceased
to flow in its channels. I tore open the envelope. It was simply a
request to appear at the bank immediately.

What could it mean? My cash was all right. They could not have
discovered the truth. That was simply impossible. If there was any
trouble at the present time, Cormorin, and not myself, would be the
sufferer. If there had been a discovery of the whole truth, Mr.
Bristlebach was not the man to have sent a note to me; he would have
sent a constable. I decided to go at once to the bank, for I was
satisfied, from the manner in which the message had come, and by the
assurance that my cash was all right, that nothing very serious could
be charged upon me. I told Lilian I was going down town for an hour,
and she did not bother me with any troublesome questions.

On my arrival at the bank I found the president and my uncle in the
directors’ room. Both of them looked severe, but Captain Halliard did
not seem to be so much at his ease as usual. I knew him well enough to
be able to read his thoughts, and whatever mischief was brewing he was
at the bottom of it.

“Mr. Glasswood, of course you are aware that There is a deficiency in
your account?” said Mr. Bristlebach.

“No, sir, I am not aware of it,” I replied; and as I spoke the literal
truth, I answered with confidence.

“You are not?”

“No, sir.”

“Did you balance your cash to-day?”

“I did, sir; and at half-past two it was all right.”

“You put a bold face on the matter.”

“Certainly I do, sir. I am innocent of the charge, and I can afford to
speak the truth.”

“Nevertheless, your cash is short.”

“It was not short at half-past two to-day,” I replied, glancing at my
uncle.

He was uneasy, and did not confront me when I gazed at him.

“It is not a large deficiency,” added Mr. Bristlebach, “but large
enough to demand inquiry.”

“May I ask how much you found it short,” I inquired.

“Only three hundred dollars.”

“There may be some mistake—I hope there is,” suggested my uncle.

“Who counted the cash?” I asked.

“We counted it together,” replied the president. “I wish to add that I
do not regard you as a defaulter or any thing of that sort. I sent for
you to enable you to explain the matter.”

“I have no further explanation to make. I left my cash all right
to-day,” I added, confidently.

“He is so sure, that I rather think some mistake has been made,” added
Captain Halliard.

“Probably there has been. Mr. Glasswood, I have had the utmost
confidence in you. When I suspected you before, a second examination
convinced me of your integrity. I have no doubt it will be so this
time.”

“I cannot undertake to keep my cash right, if other persons are allowed
to go to my drawer,” I continued, rather savagely.

“What!” exclaimed my uncle, springing to his feet.

“I said what I meant to say,” I replied.

The remark hit just where I intended it should. Mr. Bristlebach and
my uncle had been counting my cash. I had left it all right. If the
deficiency was insignificant, it was still enough to ruin me. I had
already made up my mind how my cash happened to be short. If the
president had made the examination himself there would have been no
deficiency. Of course I mean to say that Captain Halliard himself had
been the author of the mischief. In other words, he had either taken
three hundred dollars from my cash, or had falsely reported his count.

Before I ventured to make this violent statement, I put my uncle fairly
on trial, and called up all the circumstances of our present relations
to testify against him. He was determined to maintain his influence
over me, and to prevent me from saying any thing to Aunt Rachel about
him. I had refused to give up my house at his bidding, and prevented
him from obliging his friend, Mr. Brentbone. I had roundly reproached
him for his conduct to me, and used language which he could not
tolerate in any one. I was satisfied that he had a strong motive for
desiring to obtain a hold upon me.

A strong motive, however, is not sufficient to explain so dastardly
an act as that in which I had dared to implicate my uncle. A man of
integrity, simply an honest man, would not be guilty of so vile a deed.
Was my uncle capable of such an act? He had procured my situation for
me by bringing up a charge against Tom Flynn which both he and I knew
was false—one which he himself had disproved as soon as his purpose
was accomplished. If he would do one mean thing, he would not halt at
another.

He had compelled me to pay the thousand dollars I owed Aunt Rachel,
out of sheer malice, and only to put me in a position where he could
control me. The mild speech of the president of the bank assured me
that I was not to be harshly dealt with; and my uncle gently suggested
that there might be a mistake.

“Be careful what you say, Mr. Glasswood,” said the president. “Now
I’m going out to get a cup of tea; when I come back we will ascertain
whether there is a mistake or not.”

Mr. Bristlebach left the room. My uncle looked embarrassed, thrust his
fingers into his vest pockets, and seemed to be feeling for something.
I was tempted to spring upon him, and throw out the contents of those
pockets, for I was satisfied that the deficiency in my cash could be
accounted for only in that way.

“Paley, you have been speculating in coppers,” said he.

“I have; but that is my business,” I replied, roughly.

“I propose to pay the bank the amount your cash is short, and to hush
the matter up where it is.”

“I don’t ask you to do any thing of the sort.”

“I am on your bond, and I must do it. No matter about that. I expected,
after you told me what you were doing in coppers, to find a deficit of
thousands. I was prepared to pay even that, for you are of my own flesh
and blood.”

“You are very affectionate!”

“I have succeeded in quieting Mr. Bristlebach.”

“I see you have.”

“You talk to me as though I had done you an injury instead of a
kindness,” added he, reproachfully.

“That is what you have done.”

“Your cash is three hundred short,” said he, putting his hands into his
vest pockets again.

Perhaps I was insane under the pressure of his implied charge; at any
rate, under the impulse of the moment, without consciously determining
to do it, I sprung upon him like a tiger; and having no warning of
my purpose myself, I gave him none. I thrust my hands into his vest
pockets, and drew from them whatever they contained. I retreated into
the farther corner of the room to examine my capture. The deed was done
so quick that Captain Halliard had no time to resist, though he seized
me by the shoulders. I was furious, and shook him off like a child.

“What do you mean, you villain?” gasped he.

I paid no attention to him, but proceeded to examine my prize. Among
other things I found three bills, of one hundred dollars each.

“Do you mean to rob me, Paley?” demanded he; but, like Hamlet’s ghost,
he appeared to be “more in sorrow than in anger;” and more in fear than
in sorrow.

“Do you carry your money in your vest pockets, sir?” I demanded.

“Sometimes I do.”

“You took these bills from my trunk when you counted my cash.”

“Nonsense, Paley!”

“I can swear to one of them, at least,” I replied, holding up one of
the bills, on the face of which some clown had written a sentence about
depreciated currency, that had attracted my attention. “I left this
bill in my trunk in the vault at half-past two to-day; at half-past six
I find it in your pocket.”

“Do you think—”

“I know!” I interrupted, him, in the most savage manner. “If I can find
a policeman, I will put you on the track to the State Prison.”

“Don’t be absurd, Paley,” interposed my uncle; but I saw that there
was no heart in the remark. “There must have been a mistake in the
counting.”

“You stole this money from my trunk to get me into trouble.”

“Didn’t I tell the president that I would pay the deficit?” asked my
uncle. “Hush up! There comes Mr. Bristlebach! Not a word of this to
him.”

“You confess, then, that you took this money from my trunk?”

“By-and-by we will talk about it,” he replied, with much agitation.

I had proved my case. My uncle was a villain. He had taken three
hundred dollars from my cash—not enough to make me look like a
defaulter—for the purpose of maintaining his influence over me, and to
keep me from telling bad stories about him to Aunt Rachel. Guilty as I
was, I made myself believe that I was an innocent man, because I was
not guilty in the direction he accused me. Mr. Bristlebach returned to
the room.

“I am satisfied, from what Mr. Glasswood says, that there must have
been a mistake in our count,” said my uncle. “As I told you, I was
confident my nephew was honest, but I was fearful, when I learned that
he had been speculating in coppers. I thought, as I was on his bond, we
had better look into the matter. I am perfectly satisfied now.”

This very consistent statement was assented to by the president, but
my cash was counted again, at the request of Captain Halliard. I was
in doubt whether to restore the three hundred I had wrested from the
conspirator, but I concluded that I could not afford to expose him. We
counted the cash, which was mostly in large bills, and of course I was
fully vindicated. The president was profuse in his apologies, and my
uncle was kind enough to take the burden of the blunder on himself. He
could even see where he had made the mistake. I left the bank with him,
and we walked up the street together.

“That was an awkward mistake of mine,” said he.

“Very,” I replied, with a sneer.

“But I think I can explain it.”

“I don’t think you can.”

“You seem to have taken it into your head that I mean to injure you.”

“I have.”

“You are mistaken. I am on your bond. Money is so plenty with you, that
I was afraid I might be called upon to pay the bond. Bristlebach is
so intimate with me that I could satisfy myself without doing you any
harm. That was all I intended.”

“And that’s the reason why you took three hundred dollars out of my
trunk, I suppose?”

“Mr. Bristlebach handed me that money himself. I wanted to pay out that
amount to-night, and I drew a check for it. I entirely forgot it when
we counted the cash, and that was the deficit. Here is the check; as
you put the money back, I took the check from your drawer. That’s the
whole story.”

“Why didn’t you explain it to Mr. Bristlebach, then?” I asked,
believing not a word he said.

“Because it was so stupid of me to forget that the check had been paid
out of your cash.”

“Very stupid, indeed!”

“I will tell him about it to-morrow,” added my uncle.

As I have said before, a man in my situation could not afford to
quarrel with one so powerful as Captain Halliard. I kept my own
counsel, not wholly certain that he would not yet be called upon to pay
the amount of his bond on my account. We parted in peace, and I was
abundantly pleased that I had been able to fight off the charge.

The next morning, when I went to the bank, I took the eight thousand
from the cash, which Cormorin had lent me, and returned it to him. He
was a happy man then. I doubt whether he slept a wink the night before,
for the idea of being responsible for my deficit, as well as his own,
could not have been very comforting to him.

I was all right at the bank, and my uncle treated me with
“distinguished consideration.” On several occasions he assured me he
should use his influence in my favor with Aunt Rachel. If I wished for
the money he had compelled me to pay—solely for my own good—he would
let me have it again. Indeed, if I was short at any time, he would lend
me a thousand dollars. I thought I might have occasion to avail myself
of his offer, and I was pleasant and pliable. I said nothing more about
the three hundred dollars.

For a week all was well with me. Ballyhacks went up to seventy-five;
but Bustumups were slower, and had only touched forty in the same time.
This figure satisfied me, inasmuch as it enabled me to pay my debt at
the bank. Yet I believed, with the utmost confidence, that there was
five or ten thousand more in the stock for me, and as long as things
were easy at the bank, I did not think of realizing.

Then I was sick for ten days, and was obliged to stay in the house,
but even while my brain was on fire with fever I went down town one
day. I dared not leave my deficit to be discovered by my substitute.
I compelled poor Cormorin to lend me the eight thousand again, on the
security of my Bustumups. They were worth nearly this sum in the
market by this time, and he did not object very strenuously.

As soon as I was able to get out, I hastened back to the bank, and
took my place at the counter. Cormorin had sold his stock at eighty.
Bustumups were quoted at fifty, with a prospect of a further advance.
My friend had made thirteen thousand dollars. When I had made him
whole, he instantly resigned his place, fearful, I think, of getting
into trouble through my agency. He went to New York, to go into
business there. I did not care. My stocks at fifty paid my debt, and
left me forty-five hundred surplus. I was excited over the prospect. I
should be a rich man in a few weeks.

But everything did not turn out just as I anticipated.




CHAPTER XIX.

A CRASH IN COPPERS.


I WAS worth forty-five hundred dollars while Bustumups were quoted at
fifty. Every day, while they hung at about this figure, I debated with
myself the policy of selling, paying my debt, and investing my surplus
in some other concern. Perhaps I should have done so, if I had known of
a company in which I could place entire confidence. I missed Cormorin
very much, for I needed his advice; and I had come to regard him as an
oracle in the matter of coppers.

It looked like madness to sacrifice a stock which might go up to eighty
or a hundred, as the Ballyhack had, and though my debt worried me, I
could not make up my mind to let it go. If I could put ten thousand
dollars in my pocket, my fortune would be made, for with this sum
I could operate on a large scale. There was no danger of another
examination of my cash at present, and I was secure. But Bustumups did
not advance as rapidly as I wished. They hung at about fifty. I was
told that parties were investigating the condition of the mine, and
that as soon as they reported, the stock would go up as rapidly as
Ballyhack had done. I was willing to wait patiently for a week or two,
while the stock about held its own. Its trifling fluctuations up and
down troubled me, but the parties who worked it convinced me that these
were only accidental changes.

Though I saw my uncle every day, he did not allude to his own villainy,
and I was prudent enough to wait until I was out of the woods before
I did so. In the course of a couple of weeks, when I had made my ten
thousand dollars, I intended to resign my position, and then I could
afford to express my mind very freely to Captain Halliard. With ten
thousand dollars in my exchequer, I could go into any business that
suited me, and make money enough to support me in a style becoming my
abilities.

I still had strong hopes that the fortune of Aunt Rachel would be mine.
She was now apparently rapidly regaining her health, and I determined
to improve my chances as soon as I could. On the following Saturday
afternoon I took Lilian down to Springhaven with me, and we both used
our best efforts to win her regard. I took her out to ride, I read to
her, and the old lady seemed as fond of me as when I was a boy. I was
her only nephew, and it had been often reported that I was to be her
heir, though on what authority I did not know. I invited her to spend
a week or a month at my house in Boston, and she promised to do so as
soon as she was able.

A rumor that the parties who were investigating the condition of the
mine intended to make a favorable report sent Bustumups to fifty-five,
and I was very happy. I was worth nearly six thousand dollars. At the
end of another week the stock went up to sixty, and the balance of
worldly wealth in my favor was seven thousand dollars. The game was
becoming intensely exciting. Another week or so would realize all my
hopes. I should be free and safe.

While every thing was in this cheerful condition Aunt Rachel sent for
me, and I hastened to Springhaven, for I could not afford to neglect
her summons. She was ready to go home with me, and she accompanied me
to my house in Needham street. The old lady was a little surprised to
find that I lived in elegant style, as she was pleased to express it;
but then she regarded the salary I received, which was double what her
minister had, as princely in itself. Simple as were her views of social
economy, she did not accuse me of extravagance. Lilian understood the
matter perfectly, and was all tenderness and devotion.

One morning, after she had been at our house three days, Aunt Rachel
asked me if I knew a certain Squire Townsend, a lawyer, whom the old
lady had been acquainted with in the early years of her life. I had
heard of him. He was an attorney of the old school, and I hoped she
intended to make her will while she was thus kindly disposed towards
me. She begged me to see the old gentleman, and ask him to call upon
her during the forenoon.

“Do you see much of Captain Halliard, Paley?” asked my aunt, as I was
going out.

“I see him nearly every day.”

“I wonder he has not been up to see me yet,” added the old lady.

I did not wonder. I had not taken the trouble to tell him that Aunt
Rachel was at my house.

“Do you wish to see him?” I asked.

“Not particularly. He has done considerable business for me.”

“I know it. He did some for you while you were sick.”

“Did he?”

“He made me pay the thousand dollars I borrowed of you.”

“What, Captain Halliard!” exclaimed the old lady.

“He did.”

“Why, I didn’t tell him to do that.”

“I know you didn’t, but he showed me a power of attorney from you, and
I couldn’t have helped myself if I had wished to do so; but I paid it,
and it’s of no consequence now.”

“I didn’t mean you should pay that money. I shouldn’t have cried if you
had never paid it. I’ll talk with Squire Townsend about it. Couldn’t
you take care of my property for me just as well as your uncle?”

“Well, I suppose I could,” I replied, rather indifferently.

“I never liked your uncle very well. He is too sharp for me. I’ll see
what can be done.”

“I wouldn’t say anything about meddling with Captain Halliard, at
present,” I suggested, for I was somewhat afraid of him myself.

“I’ll see about it; but I didn’t mean he should trouble you about that
money. He’d no business to do it, and I shall tell him so when I see
him.”

I did not intend she should see him at present. I went to the office
of Squire Townsend, on my way down town, and left a message for him
to call upon my aunt. I was fully persuaded in my own mind that she
intended to make a will, and that she had come up to Boston in order to
have the instrument drawn up by her old friend. Every thing looked rosy
to me, for the old lady would certainly leave me the larger portion, if
not the whole, of her worldly wealth.

When I went home in the afternoon I learned that Squire Townsend had
spent a couple of hours with Aunt Rachel, but Lilian had not heard a
word that passed between them. Then the squire had called a carriage,
and they had gone off together. I was not very anxious to know where
they had gone, though I concluded that it was only to the office of
her old friend for the purpose of having the will properly signed and
witnessed. Now, as always before, Aunt Rachel kept her own counsel. She
never told how much she was worth, or what she intended to do with her
property. She was true to her antecedents, and during the remainder of
her stay she never mentioned the nature of her business with Squire
Townsend, as she invariably called him. She said a good deal about the
worthy lawyer’s history, and told stories about him at school. She was
glad to meet him once more before she left the world, but she did not
hint that she had special business with him.

The old lady staid her week out, and then said she must go home. She
did not think the city agreed with her. She did not sleep as well
nights as at Springhaven. Both Lilian and I pressed her to remain
longer, and promised to do every thing we could to make her happy, but
she was resolute, and I attended her home, a week to a day from the
time she arrived.

I never saw her again.

During the week that Aunt Rachel was with me, Bustumups began to look a
little shaky. From sixty the stock went down to fifty-five in one day,
but it immediately rallied, and those who managed it assured me it was
only because money was a little tight, and a considerable portion of
the stock had been forced upon the market. I proposed to sell, as I had
promised myself that I would on the first appearance of a decline.

“Don’t do it,” said the operator. “Wait three days, and you can take
sixty, if not sixty-five, for your stock. If you crowd it upon the
market at once, you will drive it down, and cheat yourself out of
twelve hundred dollars.”

But it looks shaky,” I pleaded.

“The best stocks on the street go up and down by turns. Wait till day
after to-morrow, at least.”

I did wait, because I did not like to have twenty-five hundred dollars
taken out of my pocket at one swoop. Two days after, I was in a fever
of anxiety about my Bustumups. They had gone up and down under the
influence of various rumors, good and bad, and no one could foresee the
end. At noon Tom Flynn went out for his lunch.

“The coppers are in a bad way,” said he, taking his place at the
counter on his return.

“What is the matter with them?” I inquired, with my heart in my throat,
for my very reputation rested upon the prosperity of the coppers.

“Ballyhacks have dropped down from eighty to fifty,” added Tom.

“What?” I exclaimed.

“That’s what they say. Did you own any?”

“No, no; no Ballyhacks,” I replied, struggling to conceal my emotion.

I had not told Tom I was speculating in coppers, and I think he knew
nothing about it, though he might have heard something of the kind.

“Did you own any coppers?” he inquired, with a tone and look that
indicated the sympathy he felt for me.

“None of any consequence,” I replied.

I dared not talk with him about the matter lest I should expose my
emotion. With the stunning intelligence he had communicated to me on
my mind, it was simply impossible for me to discharge my duties in the
bank. I could hardly tell a hundred-dollar bill from a thousand. I told
the cashier that I was sick, and was fearful that I should faint again
if I did not get out in the air. He took my place, and I staggered out
into the street. There were people on the sidewalk, but I could not
see them. Every thing seemed to be without form or shape. I was in a
fearful agony of mind, and dreaded lest I should drop senseless upon
the pavement.

I went into a saloon and drank a glass of brandy. I sat down at one
of the little tables to gather up my shattered senses. Ruin stared
me in the face. If Ballyhacks had fallen from eighty to fifty, what
hope could there be for Bustumups? After all, the mischief might be
confined to this particular stock, and mine might be still on the top
of the wave. The brandy I had drank seemed to have no effect upon
me. I took another glass, and my courage began to rise a little. The
saloon was nearly filled with people, and there was a confused jabber
of tongues all around me. Men spoke to me, and called me by name. I
replied mechanically, but I could not have told a minute later who had
spoken to me.

“But they are a fraud,” said a gentleman, seating himself at the table
next to mine.

“Certainly they are,” replied the other. “The Ballyhack mine has
produced some copper; but they say there is not a particle of metal on
the Bustumup track—not an ounce! The managers of this affair ought to
be indicted and sent to the State Prison.”

“Merciful Heavens!” I ejaculated to myself, “I am ruined!”

“Ballyhack has gone down to forty within half an hour,” added one of
the gentlemen.

“I heard a man offer Bustumups just now for twenty, and people laughed
at him,” added the other. “I don’t believe they will bring ten.”

“Probably not. There is not a dollar of value in them. The thing is an
unmitigated swindle.”

The whole of the savage truth was poured into my ears. A moment later,
I heard some one say that the managers of the Bustumup Company had
found it convenient to disappear. I was almost a maniac. I cursed my
folly because I had not sold my stock when it began to look shaky. The
villains who had comforted me and made promises that I should sell at
sixty were simply designing knaves, who had fraudulently worked this
stock up to sixty, while there was not a penny of real value in it.

The first shock bore heavily upon me, but I soon recovered in some
measure from its effect. I went into the street, and inquired for
myself, in regard to the coppers. There were two or three substantial
companies which were actually producing metal and paying handsome
dividends. The other companies were swindles; and Bustumup was the most
egregious humbug of the whole. I tried to get an offer for my stock,
and found it would not bring a dollar a share. Indeed, it could not be
sold at any price. In a word, the five thousand dollars I had borrowed
from the bank was a total loss.

I will not attempt to describe the misery into which I was so suddenly
plunged. If I had sold my stock a week before, I might have paid my
debt and had five thousand dollars left. Now I was a defaulter in the
sum of eight thousand dollars. It was horrible to think of. There was
no possible way, that I could see, to escape the consequences. What
should I do?

I went back to the bank and told Mr. Heavyside that I was better. I
resumed my place at the counter, and did my work till the bank closed,
sustained by the brandy I had drank. I tried to devise some plan by
which I could conceal my deficit for a time. I could think of nothing
satisfactory. An examination of the affairs of the bank was sure to
betray me. I was tempted to commit suicide, as others have done under
the same pressure of guilt.

I thought of my wife, and my eyes filled with tears, as I pictured the
fall to which she would be subjected. It was ruin to her as well as to
me. What would she do, while I was thinking of her in my narrow cell
in the State Prison? The thought was madness to me. I swore that this
should never be. She should not be the widow of a living man, who could
not support her, who could give her nothing but a legacy of disgrace.

My pride rebelled as I thought of being confined in the prisoners’
dock, with all my former friends and enemies staring at me. I thought
of facing my uncle after he had been called upon to pay the bond;
of meeting Buckleton, Shaytop, and others to whom I had talked so
magnificently. I could not survive the crash. I could not live in
dread of the calamity that impended. While I was thinking what to do,
my uncle came into the bank. He was a cold-blooded wretch, but he was
afraid of me.

He began to talk of coppers, as, of course, I expected he would.




CHAPTER XX.

THE LAST STEP.


“I HOPE you are not in very deep, Paley,” said Captain Halliard, after
he had stated the question in regard to the copper stocks.

“Not very, but I am bitten somewhat,” I replied, trying to look
cheerful, for I could not think of exhibiting to the enemy the state of
my affairs. “Did you own any coppers, uncle?”

“No; not a copper. I had some, but I got rid of them,” replied the wily
man of the world, rubbing his hands to indicate that he was too shrewd
to be involved in any speculation that could possibly miscarry.

“You are fortunate.”

“Speculation is just as much a trade as any other branch of human
industry. It requires brains, forethought, coolness. Novices should be
cautious how they venture beyond their depth, for they are almost sure
to be bitten. I am sorry you have been trapped, Paley.”

“I’m not badly hurt, though of course the small loss I have
experienced must make some difference in my future arrangements. And,
by the way, I should like to avail myself of your kind offer.”

“What was that?” he asked, rather blankly.

“You offered to lend me money if I was short.”

“Just so.”

“I want a thousand dollars.”

“Of course you mean of your aunt’s money?”

“It won’t make much difference to me whose money it is, if I only get
it.”

“You shall have the thousand you paid me on her account.”

“Very well, sir.”

He gave me his check for the amount, and I wrote a note for it, payable
to my aunt. The captain wished to ascertain how much I had lost by the
copper explosion, but I evaded a definite answer, and intimated that
I was bitten to the extent of only a few hundred dollars. I had now a
thousand dollars in my pocket, besides about a hundred in my possession
before. I felt a little easier, though the terrible pressure of my load
still rested heavily upon me. I am not disposed to moralize in this
place upon the guilt of my conduct, for really the guilt at that time
did not trouble me half so much as the fear of detection.

I owed the bank eight thousand dollars. I had “tinkered” the books so
as to account for the deficiency, but the record would not bear a very
close examination. The fact that I was mixed up in these miserable
copper stock speculations was quite enough to excite suspicion, for I
could not hope that the fact was unknown to the directors, as long as
my uncle knew it. I felt as though I was living on a powder magazine
which might explode at any instant. The slightest accident might reveal
the whole truth to Mr. Bristlebach.

If I should happen to be sick a day, so that I could not go to the
bank, my false entries might be detected. Even while I was in the daily
discharge of my duties, the president or the cashier might be tempted
to examine my accounts. On the other hand, I might go a year or more
without discovery, though the chances were apparently all against me.
If I ran the risk of the future, I should live in constant terror of
an explosion. The death of Aunt Rachel, I confidently believed, would
enable me to pay off my debt; and the question was whether or not I
should take the chances of detection until the possession of her money
enabled me to set myself right with the bank.

My aunt’s health was so much improved that I could not reasonably
expect to have her money for some time. In a week, a month, a year—but
be it sooner or later, it was sure to come—my deficit would be
exposed. It might be discovered while I was at home, or at least before
I had any suspicion that I was in peril. I should have no time to
provide for my own safety. I was liable to be arrested in my own house,
without any warning, and then nothing could save me from a term in the
State Prison.

The cold sweat dropped from my brow as I thought of this fearful
contingency. I should not have a moment for preparation; an opportunity
to take the first train departing from the city; or even to hide
myself in the dark places of the city. Cold irons on my wrists, a
gloomy dungeon for, my resting-place, with the loathing and contempt
of my fellow-men, were all that would be left to me then. Lilian,
whom I loved with all my soul, would be reduced to despair. My savage
mother-in-law would not cease to reproach her, as long as my wife was a
burden in the maternal home.

I could not face the emergency. I was determined to place myself
beyond the possibility of such an awful crash. I was resolved that
Lilian, whatever she might think of me, should never be compelled to
look in upon her husband through the bars of a prison cell. Before
the discovery of the deficit, I could make such arrangements as I
pleased. Afterwards, I could do nothing. It seemed to me then that I
had not a day or an hour to spare. I had decided to save myself from
the consequences of one tremendous error, by plunging into another. Of
course I could not flee from Boston with only a thousand dollars in
my pocket. I am surprised now when I consider how easy it was for me
to think of taking from the bank no less a sum than thirty thousand
dollars. I did not now flatter myself that I intended only to borrow
the money, though it did occur to me that Aunt Rachel’s fortune would
in part pay my debt. Before I left the bank that day, I put in my
pocket ten thousand dollars, so that if my errors were immediately
discovered, I should not be wholly unprovided for.

I went to a broker where I was not known, and bought a thousand pounds
in gold, which I carried home in a small valise I purchased for
future use. I concealed the gold in my chamber ready for the final
move when I should be required to make it. I was intensely excited
by the resolution I had taken, and my thoughts seemed to move with
tremendous rapidity. I had decided upon the precise plan I intended to
follow; but of course it was necessary for me to move with the utmost
circumspection.

I had only a day to spare, for we must leave Boston the next evening.
I must prepare Lilian for a great change in her future. I must lay my
plans so as not to excite a breath of suspicion in any one, especially
at the bank. I had hardly twenty-four hours left to complete my
arrangements. I composed myself as well as I could, and went down to
dinner. Lilian was as cheerful as she always was when I came into the
house, and it almost started the tears in my eyes when I thought what
she would be if the world knew the whole truth in regard to my affairs.

“Lilian, I have been unfortunate to-day,” I began, as a suitable
introduction to the plan I had to propose.

“Unfortunate! Dear me! What has happened?” she asked, dropping her
pretty chin and her knife and fork at the same time.

“I have lost a good deal of money.”

“Lost a good deal of money?”

“Yes, a large amount.”

“Why, Paley!”

“Don’t look so sad, Lilian. It won’t kill me; and while I have you, I
need not complain.”

“But how did you lose it, Paley?”

“By the fall of stocks.”

I showed her one of the evening papers, in which the bursting of the
copper bubble was fully detailed. She looked at the article, but she
could not understand it, and I explained the matter to her.

“You haven’t lost all—have you, Paley?”

“No, not all, my dear. But I have something else to tell you. How would
you like to live in Paris for a year or two?”

“In Paris!” exclaimed she, her face lighting up with pleasure.

“In Paris, Lilian; and perhaps we may go to other parts of Europe.”

“O, I should like it above all things! I have always thought if I could
ever go to Europe, I should be the happiest woman in the world. But
what do you mean, Paley? You surely do not intend to go to Paris?”

“I am thinking of it.”

“Are you, really?” she continued, opening her bright eyes so wide that
her whole soul seemed to shine out through them.

“I am, truly; but I was thinking you would not be able to go so soon as
I should be obliged to leave.”

“O, I would go to-night, if I could only go!” she replied, with
enthusiasm.

“I have an offer, or a partial offer, from a concern in New York to act
as its financial agent in Paris.”

“Accept it, Paley—do accept it. I shall be so happy if I can only go
to Paris!”

“I don’t know certainly that I can have the position, but I am pretty
confident that I can.”

“Don’t refuse it, Paley. As you love me, don’t!”

“But there are a great many difficulties in the way,” I suggested.

“O, never mind the difficulties!”

“But we must mind them.”

“Well, what are they?”

“In the first place we must go to New York to-morrow night.”

“We can do that well enough. I am ready to go to-night.”

“I can’t go and leave this house, and all the furniture, paying the
rent while I am gone.”

“Leave it in the hands of Tom Flynn. He will sell the furniture and let
the house. There are enough who will want it.”

“That is not even the principal trouble. The bank will not let me off
without my giving some notice, so that the officers can get another
person in my place.”

“It would be mean in them to keep you when you have a good chance to
better your condition.”

“I think I can manage it somehow, Lilian; and I feel almost sure that
we shall go.”

“O, I am so glad!”

“But, Lilian, you must not tell a single soul where you are going, or,
indeed, that you are going at all.”

“Not tell any one! Why not?” she asked, as if it would be a great
hardship to deprive herself of the pleasure of telling her friends that
she was going to Paris.

“I will tell you why, Lilian. It is difficult and dangerous business. I
am not sure of the position yet. Suppose I should go to New York, and
then, after I had thrown up my situation in the bank, find that the
firm who made the partial offer did not want me? I should have lost my
present place without having obtained another.”

“That’s very true. I understand you, perfectly.”

“If I find in New York that I can have the position, it will be time
enough for me to resign my place in the bank. If I am disappointed, I
have only to return to my present place. If it should get to the ears
of Mr. Bristlebach that I am doing anything of this kind, he might fill
my place in my absence—don’t you see?”

“I do; it is plain enough.”

“You can tell your mother that you are going away to-morrow night, and
that possibly I may accept a position in New Orleans.”

“In New Orleans?”

“Yes; it won’t do to say any thing about Paris yet.”

“I am sorry we have to go off in this way; but I would rather do it
than not go at all.”

I am willing to confess that my conscience reproached me for thus
deceiving my loving wife; but I believed that I was doing it for her
good—to save her from a fate so terrible that neither of us could
comprehend it. We discussed the details of the plan in full, and
she promised to be as circumspect as I could desire. We had two
traveling trunks which we had used upon our bridal tour, and these
were immediately brought into requisition. Leaving Lilian to commence
packing, I left the house with the intention of seeing Mr. Brentbone,
who had so long been anxious to have my house. I found him at his
lodgings. I stated my business, and inquired if he still wished to
obtain the dwelling.

“I am still open to a trade. I offered your uncle three hundred bonus
for the house,” said he.

“But I wish to sell my furniture.”

“Very well; if it suits my wife, I will buy it.”

“I lost a good deal of money to-day by the coppers, and I must change
my plans.”

“Ah! I am sorry for you; but I see you are a prudent young man.”

“I am in a hurry to dispose of the matter, for I have a good chance to
board now. If you and Mrs. Brentbone will walk over to the house, we
can show you what there is in it.”

The gentleman and the lady were willing, and I accompanied them to
Needham Street. Mrs. Brentbone found some fault with the furniture,
and rather objected to purchasing it. I intimated that I should not
dispose of my lease unless I could sell the furniture.

“What do you ask for the furniture?” he inquired.

“Twenty-two hundred dollars, including the piano, or seventeen hundred
without. I can show you bills for fifteen hundred; and a hundred small
things not included in them.”

“You ask too much. I must pay twenty-five hundred to get possession, at
this rate,” said Mr. Brentbone. He made me various offers, but I was
satisfied that he would give my price, and I did not abate a dollar.
The trade was closed, and he agreed to see me at the bank the next day,
where we were to pass the papers. My landlord consented to endorse the
lease over to the new tenant. Mrs. Brentbone had a talk with Bridget,
and engaged her to remain in the place. Everything was going as well
as I could expect. Lilian and I staid up till midnight packing our
clothes, and preparing for our abrupt departure.

I went to the bank as usual, the next morning. On my way I stopped at
the pianoforte warerooms, and bought the piano in my house which I had
only hired, for however guilty I had been, and intended to be, I still
had a certain sense of worldly honor, which would not permit me to do
what I regarded as a mean action, though I acknowledge that I did not
discriminate very nicely in some portions of my conduct. But I settled
the bill for four hundred dollars.

Mr. Brentbone came according to his promise. I gave him the lease, and
the bill of sale of the furniture for his check. My uncle happened to
come in while we were doing the business. I told him that my losses the
day before had induced me to accept Mr. Brentbone’s offer for my house.
He commended me for my prudence. Mr. Bristlebach also expressed his
approbation of the economical step I had taken, and declared that he
had more confidence in me than before. He liked to see a young man take
counsel of prudence.

I took advantage of his good-nature to put in my request for leave of
absence for a single day, to enable me to visit a friend in Albany
who was sick. The permission was promptly granted. I balanced my cash
for the last time, leaving it thirty-eight thousand dollars short,
to account for which I altered various charges and credits, and made
several fictitious entries. The account was left square, and if no
particular investigation was instituted, my deficit might remain
concealed for some time. With the twenty thousand dollars which I had
just appropriated I left the bank—for the last time.




CHAPTER XXI.

AN EXILE FROM HOME.


I WAS astonished to find that I could commit a crime of such magnitude
with so little remorse. It is true, the sin had become, in a measure,
necessary to my salvation, and that of my wife; but I was only excited,
not burdened with guilt, when I did the deed. I had been traveling
very rapidly on the downward road, and in a few weeks I had acquired
a facility in crime which enabled me to rob the bank of thirty
thousand dollars without considering any thing but the peril of being
discovered. Fatal facility, which can only be avoided by those who
