a crossstreet. They went straight ahead, then, until they came to the
path that led up Cardiff Hill; this they took. They passed by the old
Welshman’s house, halfway up the hill, without hesitating, and still
climbed upward. Good, thought Huck, they will bury it in the old quarry.
But they never stopped at the quarry. They passed on, up the summit.
They plunged into the narrow path between the tall sumach bushes, and
were at once hidden in the gloom. Huck closed up and shortened his
distance, now, for they would never be able to see him. He trotted along
awhile; then slackened his pace, fearing he was gaining too fast; moved
on a piece, then stopped altogether; listened; no sound; none, save that
he seemed to hear the beating of his own heart. The hooting of an
owl came over the hill--ominous sound! But no footsteps. Heavens, was
everything lost! He was about to spring with winged feet, when a man
cleared his throat not four feet from him! Huck’s heart shot into his
throat, but he swallowed it again; and then he stood there shaking as
if a dozen agues had taken charge of him at once, and so weak that he
thought he must surely fall to the ground. He knew where he was. He
knew he was within five steps of the stile leading into Widow Douglas’
grounds. Very well, he thought, let them bury it there; it won’t be hard
to find.
Now there was a voice--a very low voice--Injun Joe’s:
“Damn her, maybe she’s got company--there’s lights, late as it is.”
“I can’t see any.”
This was that stranger’s voice--the stranger of the haunted house. A
deadly chill went to Huck’s heart--this, then, was the “revenge” job! His
thought was, to fly. Then he remembered that the Widow Douglas had been
kind to him more than once, and maybe these men were going to murder
her. He wished he dared venture to warn her; but he knew he didn’t
dare--they might come and catch him. He thought all this and more in
the moment that elapsed between the stranger’s remark and Injun Joe’s
next--which was--
“Because the bush is in your way. Now--this way--now you see, don’t you?”
“Yes. Well, there  is  company there, I reckon. Better give it up.”
“Give it up, and I just leaving this country forever! Give it up and
maybe never have another chance. I tell you again, as I’ve told you
before, I don’t care for her swag--you may have it. But her husband was
rough on me--many times he was rough on me--and mainly he was the justice
of the peace that jugged me for a vagrant. And that ain’t all. It ain’t
a millionth part of it! He had me  horsewhipped !--horsewhipped in
front of the jail, like a nigger!--with all the town looking on!
 Horsewhipped !--do you understand? He took advantage of me and died. But
I’ll take it out of  her .”
“Oh, don’t kill her! Don’t do that!”
“Kill? Who said anything about killing? I would kill  him  if he was
here; but not her. When you want to get revenge on a woman you don’t
kill her--bosh! you go for her looks. You slit her nostrils--you notch her
ears like a sow!”
“By God, that’s--”
“Keep your opinion to yourself! It will be safest for you. I’ll tie her
to the bed. If she bleeds to death, is that my fault? I’ll not cry, if
she does. My friend, you’ll help me in this thing--for  my  sake--that’s
why you’re here--I mightn’t be able alone. If you flinch, I’ll kill you.
Do you understand that? And if I have to kill you, I’ll kill her--and
then I reckon nobody’ll ever know much about who done this business.”
“Well, if it’s got to be done, let’s get at it. The quicker the
better--I’m all in a shiver.”
“Do it  now ? And company there? Look here--I’ll get suspicious of you,
first thing you know. No--we’ll wait till the lights are out--there’s no
hurry.”
Huck felt that a silence was going to ensue--a thing still more awful
than any amount of murderous talk; so he held his breath and stepped
gingerly back; planted his foot carefully and firmly, after balancing,
one-legged, in a precarious way and almost toppling over, first on one
side and then on the other. He took another step back, with the same
elaboration and the same risks; then another and another, and--a twig
snapped under his foot! His breath stopped and he listened. There was no
sound--the stillness was perfect. His gratitude was measureless. Now he
turned in his tracks, between the walls of sumach bushes--turned
himself as carefully as if he were a ship--and then stepped quickly but
cautiously along. When he emerged at the quarry he felt secure, and
so he picked up his nimble heels and flew. Down, down he sped, till he
reached the Welshman’s. He banged at the door, and presently the heads
of the old man and his two stalwart sons were thrust from windows.
“What’s the row there? Who’s banging? What do you want?”
“Let me in--quick! I’ll tell everything.”
“Why, who are you?”
“Huckleberry Finn--quick, let me in!”
“Huckleberry Finn, indeed! It ain’t a name to open many doors, I judge!
But let him in, lads, and let’s see what’s the trouble.”
“Please don’t ever tell I told you,” were Huck’s first words when he got
in. “Please don’t--I’d be killed, sure--but the widow’s been good friends
to me sometimes, and I want to tell--I  will  tell if you’ll promise you
won’t ever say it was me.”
“By George, he  has  got something to tell, or he wouldn’t act so!”
 exclaimed the old man; “out with it and nobody here’ll ever tell, lad.”
Three minutes later the old man and his sons, well armed, were up the
hill, and just entering the sumach path on tiptoe, their weapons in
their hands. Huck accompanied them no further. He hid behind a great
bowlder and fell to listening. There was a lagging, anxious silence, and
then all of a sudden there was an explosion of firearms and a cry.
Huck waited for no particulars. He sprang away and sped down the hill as
fast as his legs could carry him.
CHAPTER XXX
AS the earliest suspicion of dawn appeared on Sunday morning, Huck came
groping up the hill and rapped gently at the old Welshman’s door. The
inmates were asleep, but it was a sleep that was set on a hair-trigger,
on account of the exciting episode of the night. A call came from a
window:
“Who’s there!”
Huck’s scared voice answered in a low tone:
“Please let me in! It’s only Huck Finn!”
“It’s a name that can open this door night or day, lad!--and welcome!”
These were strange words to the vagabond boy’s ears, and the pleasantest
he had ever heard. He could not recollect that the closing word had ever
been applied in his case before. The door was quickly unlocked, and he
entered. Huck was given a seat and the old man and his brace of tall
sons speedily dressed themselves.
“Now, my boy, I hope you’re good and hungry, because breakfast will be
ready as soon as the sun’s up, and we’ll have a piping hot one, too--make
yourself easy about that! I and the boys hoped you’d turn up and stop
here last night.”
“I was awful scared,” said Huck, “and I run. I took out when the pistols
went off, and I didn’t stop for three mile. I’ve come now becuz I wanted
to know about it, you know; and I come before daylight becuz I didn’t
want to run across them devils, even if they was dead.”
“Well, poor chap, you do look as if you’d had a hard night of it--but
there’s a bed here for you when you’ve had your breakfast. No, they
ain’t dead, lad--we are sorry enough for that. You see we knew right
where to put our hands on them, by your description; so we crept along
on tiptoe till we got within fifteen feet of them--dark as a cellar that
sumach path was--and just then I found I was going to sneeze. It was the
meanest kind of luck! I tried to keep it back, but no use--‘twas bound to
come, and it did come! I was in the lead with my pistol raised, and when
the sneeze started those scoundrels a-rustling to get out of the path,
I sung out, ‘Fire boys!’ and blazed away at the place where the rustling
was. So did the boys. But they were off in a jiffy, those villains, and
we after them, down through the woods. I judge we never touched them.
They fired a shot apiece as they started, but their bullets whizzed by
and didn’t do us any harm. As soon as we lost the sound of their feet
we quit chasing, and went down and stirred up the constables. They got a
posse together, and went off to guard the river bank, and as soon as it
is light the sheriff and a gang are going to beat up the woods. My boys
will be with them presently. I wish we had some sort of description of
those rascals--‘twould help a good deal. But you couldn’t see what they
were like, in the dark, lad, I suppose?”
“Oh yes; I saw them downtown and follered them.”
“Splendid! Describe them--describe them, my boy!”
“One’s the old deaf and dumb Spaniard that’s ben around here once or
twice, and t’other’s a mean-looking, ragged--”
“That’s enough, lad, we know the men! Happened on them in the woods back
of the widow’s one day, and they slunk away. Off with you, boys, and
tell the sheriff--get your breakfast tomorrow morning!”
The Welshman’s sons departed at once. As they were leaving the room Huck
sprang up and exclaimed:
“Oh, please don’t tell  any body it was me that blowed on them! Oh,
please!”
“All right if you say it, Huck, but you ought to have the credit of what
you did.”
“Oh no, no! Please don’t tell!”
When the young men were gone, the old Welshman said:
“They won’t tell--and I won’t. But why don’t you want it known?”
Huck would not explain, further than to say that he already knew too
much about one of those men and would not have the man know that he knew
anything against him for the whole world--he would be killed for knowing
it, sure.
The old man promised secrecy once more, and said:
“How did you come to follow these fellows, lad? Were they looking
suspicious?”
Huck was silent while he framed a duly cautious reply. Then he said:
“Well, you see, I’m a kind of a hard lot,--least everybody says so, and
I don’t see nothing agin it--and sometimes I can’t sleep much, on account
of thinking about it and sort of trying to strike out a new way of
doing. That was the way of it last night. I couldn’t sleep, and so I
come along upstreet ‘bout midnight, a-turning it all over, and when I
got to that old shackly brick store by the Temperance Tavern, I backed
up agin the wall to have another think. Well, just then along comes
these two chaps slipping along close by me, with something under their
arm, and I reckoned they’d stole it. One was a-smoking, and t’other one
wanted a light; so they stopped right before me and the cigars lit up
their faces and I see that the big one was the deaf and dumb Spaniard,
by his white whiskers and the patch on his eye, and t’other one was a
rusty, ragged-looking devil.”
“Could you see the rags by the light of the cigars?”
This staggered Huck for a moment. Then he said:
“Well, I don’t know--but somehow it seems as if I did.”
“Then they went on, and you--”
“Follered ‘em--yes. That was it. I wanted to see what was up--they sneaked
along so. I dogged ‘em to the widder’s stile, and stood in the dark and
heard the ragged one beg for the widder, and the Spaniard swear he’d
spile her looks just as I told you and your two--”
“What! The  deaf and dumb  man said all that!”
Huck had made another terrible mistake! He was trying his best to keep
the old man from getting the faintest hint of who the Spaniard might be,
and yet his tongue seemed determined to get him into trouble in spite of
all he could do. He made several efforts to creep out of his scrape,
but the old man’s eye was upon him and he made blunder after blunder.
Presently the Welshman said:
“My boy, don’t be afraid of me. I wouldn’t hurt a hair of your head for
all the world. No--I’d protect you--I’d protect you. This Spaniard is
not deaf and dumb; you’ve let that slip without intending it; you can’t
cover that up now. You know something about that Spaniard that you want
to keep dark. Now trust me--tell me what it is, and trust me--I won’t
betray you.”
Huck looked into the old man’s honest eyes a moment, then bent over and
whispered in his ear:
“‘Tain’t a Spaniard--it’s Injun Joe!”
The Welshman almost jumped out of his chair. In a moment he said:
“It’s all plain enough, now. When you talked about notching ears and
slitting noses I judged that that was your own embellishment, because
white men don’t take that sort of revenge. But an Injun! That’s a
different matter altogether.”
During breakfast the talk went on, and in the course of it the old man
said that the last thing which he and his sons had done, before going
to bed, was to get a lantern and examine the stile and its vicinity for
marks of blood. They found none, but captured a bulky bundle of--
“Of  what ?”
If the words had been lightning they could not have leaped with a more
stunning suddenness from Huck’s blanched lips. His eyes were staring
wide, now, and his breath suspended--waiting for the answer. The Welshman
started--stared in return--three seconds--five seconds--ten--then replied:
“Of burglar’s tools. Why, what’s the  matter  with you?”
Huck sank back, panting gently, but deeply, unutterably grateful. The
Welshman eyed him gravely, curiously--and presently said:
“Yes, burglar’s tools. That appears to relieve you a good deal. But what
did give you that turn? What were  you  expecting we’d found?”
Huck was in a close place--the inquiring eye was upon him--he would have
given anything for material for a plausible answer--nothing suggested
itself--the inquiring eye was boring deeper and deeper--a senseless
reply offered--there was no time to weigh it, so at a venture he uttered
it--feebly:
“Sunday-school books, maybe.”
Poor Huck was too distressed to smile, but the old man laughed loud and
joyously, shook up the details of his anatomy from head to foot, and
ended by saying that such a laugh was money in a-man’s pocket, because
it cut down the doctor’s bill like everything. Then he added:
“Poor old chap, you’re white and jaded--you ain’t well a bit--no wonder
you’re a little flighty and off your balance. But you’ll come out of it.
Rest and sleep will fetch you out all right, I hope.”
Huck was irritated to think he had been such a goose and betrayed such
a suspicious excitement, for he had dropped the idea that the parcel
brought from the tavern was the treasure, as soon as he had heard the
talk at the widow’s stile. He had only thought it was not the treasure,
however--he had not known that it wasn’t--and so the suggestion of a
captured bundle was too much for his self-possession. But on the whole
he felt glad the little episode had happened, for now he knew beyond all
question that that bundle was not  the  bundle, and so his mind was
at rest and exceedingly comfortable. In fact, everything seemed to be
drifting just in the right direction, now; the treasure must be still
in No. 2, the men would be captured and jailed that day, and he and
Tom could seize the gold that night without any trouble or any fear of
interruption.
Just as breakfast was completed there was a knock at the door. Huck
jumped for a hiding-place, for he had no mind to be connected even
remotely with the late event. The Welshman admitted several ladies and
gentlemen, among them the Widow Douglas, and noticed that groups of
citizens were climbing up the hill--to stare at the stile. So the news
had spread. The Welshman had to tell the story of the night to the
visitors. The widow’s gratitude for her preservation was outspoken.
“Don’t say a word about it, madam. There’s another that you’re more
beholden to than you are to me and my boys, maybe, but he don’t allow me
to tell his name. We wouldn’t have been there but for him.”
Of course this excited a curiosity so vast that it almost belittled the
main matter--but the Welshman allowed it to eat into the vitals of his
visitors, and through them be transmitted to the whole town, for he
refused to part with his secret. When all else had been learned, the
widow said:
“I went to sleep reading in bed and slept straight through all that
noise. Why didn’t you come and wake me?”
“We judged it warn’t worth while. Those fellows warn’t likely to come
again--they hadn’t any tools left to work with, and what was the use of
waking you up and scaring you to death? My three negro men stood guard
at your house all the rest of the night. They’ve just come back.”
More visitors came, and the story had to be told and retold for a couple
of hours more.
There was no Sabbath-school during day-school vacation, but everybody
was early at church. The stirring event was well canvassed. News came
that not a sign of the two villains had been yet discovered. When the
sermon was finished, Judge Thatcher’s wife dropped alongside of Mrs.
Harper as she moved down the aisle with the crowd and said:
“Is my Becky going to sleep all day? I just expected she would be tired
to death.”
“Your Becky?”
“Yes,” with a startled look--“didn’t she stay with you last night?”
“Why, no.”
Mrs. Thatcher turned pale, and sank into a pew, just as Aunt Polly,
talking briskly with a friend, passed by. Aunt Polly said:
“Goodmorning, Mrs. Thatcher. Goodmorning, Mrs. Harper. I’ve got a boy
that’s turned up missing. I reckon my Tom stayed at your house last
night--one of you. And now he’s afraid to come to church. I’ve got to
settle with him.”
Mrs. Thatcher shook her head feebly and turned paler than ever.
“He didn’t stay with us,” said Mrs. Harper, beginning to look uneasy. A
marked anxiety came into Aunt Polly’s face.
“Joe Harper, have you seen my Tom this morning?”
“No’m.”
“When did you see him last?”
Joe tried to remember, but was not sure he could say. The people had
stopped moving out of church. Whispers passed along, and a boding
uneasiness took possession of every countenance. Children were anxiously
questioned, and young teachers. They all said they had not noticed
whether Tom and Becky were on board the ferryboat on the homeward trip;
it was dark; no one thought of inquiring if any one was missing. One
young man finally blurted out his fear that they were still in the cave!
Mrs. Thatcher swooned away. Aunt Polly fell to crying and wringing her
hands.
The alarm swept from lip to lip, from group to group, from street to
street, and within five minutes the bells were wildly clanging and
the whole town was up! The Cardiff Hill episode sank into instant
insignificance, the burglars were forgotten, horses were saddled, skiffs
were manned, the ferryboat ordered out, and before the horror was half
an hour old, two hundred men were pouring down highroad and river toward
the cave.
All the long afternoon the village seemed empty and dead. Many women
visited Aunt Polly and Mrs. Thatcher and tried to comfort them. They
cried with them, too, and that was still better than words. All the
tedious night the town waited for news; but when the morning dawned at
last, all the word that came was, “Send more candles--and send food.”
 Mrs. Thatcher was almost crazed; and Aunt Polly, also. Judge Thatcher
sent messages of hope and encouragement from the cave, but they conveyed
no real cheer.
The old Welshman came home toward daylight, spattered with
candle-grease, smeared with clay, and almost worn out. He found Huck
still in the bed that had been provided for him, and delirious with
fever. The physicians were all at the cave, so the Widow Douglas came
and took charge of the patient. She said she would do her best by him,
because, whether he was good, bad, or indifferent, he was the Lord’s,
and nothing that was the Lord’s was a thing to be neglected. The
Welshman said Huck had good spots in him, and the widow said:
“You can depend on it. That’s the Lord’s mark. He don’t leave it off.
He never does. Puts it somewhere on every creature that comes from his
hands.”
Early in the forenoon parties of jaded men began to straggle into the
village, but the strongest of the citizens continued searching. All the
news that could be gained was that remotenesses of the cavern were being
ransacked that had never been visited before; that every corner and
crevice was going to be thoroughly searched; that wherever one wandered
through the maze of passages, lights were to be seen flitting hither
and thither in the distance, and shoutings and pistol-shots sent their
hollow reverberations to the ear down the sombre aisles. In one place,
far from the section usually traversed by tourists, the names “BECKY &
TOM” had been found traced upon the rocky wall with candle-smoke, and
near at hand a grease-soiled bit of ribbon. Mrs. Thatcher recognized the
ribbon and cried over it. She said it was the last relic she should ever
have of her child; and that no other memorial of her could ever be so
precious, because this one parted latest from the living body before the
awful death came. Some said that now and then, in the cave, a far-away
speck of light would glimmer, and then a glorious shout would burst
forth and a score of men go trooping down the echoing aisle--and then a
sickening disappointment always followed; the children were not there;
it was only a searcher’s light.
Three dreadful days and nights dragged their tedious hours along, and
the village sank into a hopeless stupor. No one had heart for anything.
The accidental discovery, just made, that the proprietor of the
Temperance Tavern kept liquor on his premises, scarcely fluttered the
public pulse, tremendous as the fact was. In a lucid interval, Huck
feebly led up to the subject of taverns, and finally asked--dimly
dreading the worst--if anything had been discovered at the Temperance
Tavern since he had been ill.
“Yes,” said the widow.
Huck started up in bed, wildeyed:
“What? What was it?”
“Liquor!--and the place has been shut up. Lie down, child--what a turn you
did give me!”
“Only tell me just one thing--only just one--please! Was it Tom Sawyer
that found it?”
The widow burst into tears. “Hush, hush, child, hush! I’ve told you
before, you must  not  talk. You are very, very sick!”
Then nothing but liquor had been found; there would have been a great
powwow if it had been the gold. So the treasure was gone forever--gone
forever! But what could she be crying about? Curious that she should
cry.
These thoughts worked their dim way through Huck’s mind, and under the
weariness they gave him he fell asleep. The widow said to herself:
“There--he’s asleep, poor wreck. Tom Sawyer find it! Pity but somebody
could find Tom Sawyer! Ah, there ain’t many left, now, that’s got hope
enough, or strength enough, either, to go on searching.”
CHAPTER XXXI
NOW to return to Tom and Becky’s share in the picnic. They tripped along
the murky aisles with the rest of the company, visiting the familiar
wonders of the cave--wonders dubbed with rather over-descriptive names,
such as “The Drawing-Room,” “The Cathedral,” “Aladdin’s Palace,” and
so on. Presently the hide-and-seek frolicking began, and Tom and Becky
engaged in it with zeal until the exertion began to grow a trifle
wearisome; then they wandered down a sinuous avenue holding their
candles aloft and reading the tangled webwork of names, dates,
postoffice addresses, and mottoes with which the rocky walls had been
frescoed (in candle-smoke). Still drifting along and talking, they
scarcely noticed that they were now in a part of the cave whose walls
were not frescoed. They smoked their own names under an overhanging
shelf and moved on. Presently they came to a place where a little stream
of water, trickling over a ledge and carrying a limestone sediment with
it, had, in the slow-dragging ages, formed a laced and ruffled Niagara
in gleaming and imperishable stone. Tom squeezed his small body behind
it in order to illuminate it for Becky’s gratification. He found that
it curtained a sort of steep natural stairway which was enclosed between
narrow walls, and at once the ambition to be a discoverer seized him.
Becky responded to his call, and they made a smoke-mark for future
guidance, and started upon their quest. They wound this way and that,
far down into the secret depths of the cave, made another mark, and
branched off in search of novelties to tell the upper world about. In
one place they found a spacious cavern, from whose ceiling depended a
multitude of shining stalactites of the length and circumference of
a man’s leg; they walked all about it, wondering and admiring, and
presently left it by one of the numerous passages that opened into
it. This shortly brought them to a bewitching spring, whose basin was
incrusted with a frostwork of glittering crystals; it was in the midst
of a cavern whose walls were supported by many fantastic pillars which
had been formed by the joining of great stalactites and stalagmites
together, the result of the ceaseless water-drip of centuries. Under the
roof vast knots of bats had packed themselves together, thousands in a
bunch; the lights disturbed the creatures and they came flocking down by
hundreds, squeaking and darting furiously at the candles. Tom knew their
ways and the danger of this sort of conduct. He seized Becky’s hand and
hurried her into the first corridor that offered; and none too soon, for
a bat struck Becky’s light out with its wing while she was passing out
of the cavern. The bats chased the children a good distance; but the
fugitives plunged into every new passage that offered, and at last got
rid of the perilous things. Tom found a subterranean lake, shortly,
which stretched its dim length away until its shape was lost in the
shadows. He wanted to explore its borders, but concluded that it would
be best to sit down and rest awhile, first. Now, for the first time, the
deep stillness of the place laid a clammy hand upon the spirits of the
children. Becky said:
“Why, I didn’t notice, but it seems ever so long since I heard any of
the others.”
“Come to think, Becky, we are away down below them--and I don’t know how
far away north, or south, or east, or whichever it is. We couldn’t hear
them here.”
Becky grew apprehensive.
“I wonder how long we’ve been down here, Tom? We better start back.”
“Yes, I reckon we better. P’raps we better.”
“Can you find the way, Tom? It’s all a mixed-up crookedness to me.”
“I reckon I could find it--but then the bats. If they put our candles
out it will be an awful fix. Let’s try some other way, so as not to go
through there.”
“Well. But I hope we won’t get lost. It would be so awful!” and the girl
shuddered at the thought of the dreadful possibilities.
They started through a corridor, and traversed it in silence a long
way, glancing at each new opening, to see if there was anything familiar
about the look of it; but they were all strange. Every time Tom made an
examination, Becky would watch his face for an encouraging sign, and he
would say cheerily:
“Oh, it’s all right. This ain’t the one, but we’ll come to it right
away!”
But he felt less and less hopeful with each failure, and presently began
to turn off into diverging avenues at sheer random, in desperate hope of
finding the one that was wanted. He still said it was “all right,” but
there was such a leaden dread at his heart that the words had lost their
ring and sounded just as if he had said, “All is lost!” Becky clung to
his side in an anguish of fear, and tried hard to keep back the tears,
but they would come. At last she said:
“Oh, Tom, never mind the bats, let’s go back that way! We seem to get
worse and worse off all the time.”
“Listen!” said he.
Profound silence; silence so deep that even their breathings were
conspicuous in the hush. Tom shouted. The call went echoing down
the empty aisles and died out in the distance in a faint sound that
resembled a ripple of mocking laughter.
“Oh, don’t do it again, Tom, it is too horrid,” said Becky.
“It is horrid, but I better, Becky; they might hear us, you know,” and
he shouted again.
The “might” was even a chillier horror than the ghostly laughter, it so
confessed a perishing hope. The children stood still and listened; but
there was no result. Tom turned upon the back track at once, and hurried
his steps. It was but a little while before a certain indecision in his
manner revealed another fearful fact to Becky--he could not find his way
back!
“Oh, Tom, you didn’t make any marks!”
“Becky, I was such a fool! Such a fool! I never thought we might want to
come back! No--I can’t find the way. It’s all mixed up.”
“Tom, Tom, we’re lost! we’re lost! We never can get out of this awful
place! Oh, why  did  we ever leave the others!”
She sank to the ground and burst into such a frenzy of crying that Tom
was appalled with the idea that she might die, or lose her reason. He
sat down by her and put his arms around her; she buried her face in
his bosom, she clung to him, she poured out her terrors, her unavailing
regrets, and the far echoes turned them all to jeering laughter. Tom
begged her to pluck up hope again, and she said she could not. He fell
to blaming and abusing himself for getting her into this miserable
situation; this had a better effect. She said she would try to hope
again, she would get up and follow wherever he might lead if only he
would not talk like that any more. For he was no more to blame than she,
she said.
So they moved on again--aimlessly--simply at random--all they could do
was to move, keep moving. For a little while, hope made a show of
reviving--not with any reason to back it, but only because it is its
nature to revive when the spring has not been taken out of it by age and
familiarity with failure.
By-and-by Tom took Becky’s candle and blew it out. This economy meant so
much! Words were not needed. Becky understood, and her hope died again.
She knew that Tom had a whole candle and three or four pieces in his
pockets--yet he must economize.
By-and-by, fatigue began to assert its claims; the children tried to pay
attention, for it was dreadful to think of sitting down when time was
grown to be so precious, moving, in some direction, in any direction,
was at least progress and might bear fruit; but to sit down was to
invite death and shorten its pursuit.
At last Becky’s frail limbs refused to carry her farther. She sat down.
Tom rested with her, and they talked of home, and the friends there,
and the comfortable beds and, above all, the light! Becky cried, and Tom
tried to think of some way of comforting her, but all his encouragements
were grown thread-bare with use, and sounded like sarcasms. Fatigue bore
so heavily upon Becky that she drowsed off to sleep. Tom was grateful.
He sat looking into her drawn face and saw it grow smooth and natural
under the influence of pleasant dreams; and by-and-by a smile dawned and
rested there. The peaceful face reflected somewhat of peace and healing
into his own spirit, and his thoughts wandered away to bygone times and
dreamy memories. While he was deep in his musings, Becky woke up with a
breezy little laugh--but it was stricken dead upon her lips, and a groan
followed it.
“Oh, how  could  I sleep! I wish I never, never had waked! No! No, I
don’t, Tom! Don’t look so! I won’t say it again.”
“I’m glad you’ve slept, Becky; you’ll feel rested, now, and we’ll find
the way out.”
“We can try, Tom; but I’ve seen such a beautiful country in my dream. I
reckon we are going there.”
“Maybe not, maybe not. Cheer up, Becky, and let’s go on trying.”
They rose up and wandered along, hand in hand and hopeless. They tried
to estimate how long they had been in the cave, but all they knew was
that it seemed days and weeks, and yet it was plain that this could not
be, for their candles were not gone yet. A long time after this--they
could not tell how long--Tom said they must go softly and listen for
dripping water--they must find a spring. They found one presently, and
Tom said it was time to rest again. Both were cruelly tired, yet Becky
said she thought she could go a little farther. She was surprised to
hear Tom dissent. She could not understand it. They sat down, and Tom
fastened his candle to the wall in front of them with some clay. Thought
was soon busy; nothing was said for some time. Then Becky broke the
silence:
“Tom, I am so hungry!”
Tom took something out of his pocket.
“Do you remember this?” said he.
Becky almost smiled.
“It’s our wedding-cake, Tom.”
“Yes--I wish it was as big as a barrel, for it’s all we’ve got.”
“I saved it from the picnic for us to dream on, Tom, the way grownup
people do with wedding-cake--but it’ll be our--”
She dropped the sentence where it was. Tom divided the cake and Becky
ate with good appetite, while Tom nibbled at his moiety. There was
abundance of cold water to finish the feast with. By-and-by Becky
suggested that they move on again. Tom was silent a moment. Then he
said:
“Becky, can you bear it if I tell you something?”
Becky’s face paled, but she thought she could.
“Well, then, Becky, we must stay here, where there’s water to drink.
That little piece is our last candle!”
Becky gave loose to tears and wailings. Tom did what he could to comfort
her, but with little effect. At length Becky said:
“Tom!”
“Well, Becky?”
“They’ll miss us and hunt for us!”
“Yes, they will! Certainly they will!”
“Maybe they’re hunting for us now, Tom.”
“Why, I reckon maybe they are. I hope they are.”
“When would they miss us, Tom?”
“When they get back to the boat, I reckon.”
“Tom, it might be dark then--would they notice we hadn’t come?”
“I don’t know. But anyway, your mother would miss you as soon as they
got home.”
A frightened look in Becky’s face brought Tom to his senses and he saw
that he had made a blunder. Becky was not to have gone home that night!
The children became silent and thoughtful. In a moment a new burst of
grief from Becky showed Tom that the thing in his mind had struck hers
also--that the Sabbath morning might be half spent before Mrs. Thatcher
discovered that Becky was not at Mrs. Harper’s.
The children fastened their eyes upon their bit of candle and watched it
melt slowly and pitilessly away; saw the half inch of wick stand alone
at last; saw the feeble flame rise and fall, climb the thin column of
smoke, linger at its top a moment, and then--the horror of utter darkness
reigned!
How long afterward it was that Becky came to a slow consciousness that
she was crying in Tom’s arms, neither could tell. All that they knew
was, that after what seemed a mighty stretch of time, both awoke out of
a dead stupor of sleep and resumed their miseries once more. Tom said
it might be Sunday, now--maybe Monday. He tried to get Becky to talk, but
her sorrows were too oppressive, all her hopes were gone. Tom said that
they must have been missed long ago, and no doubt the search was going
on. He would shout and maybe some one would come. He tried it; but in
the darkness the distant echoes sounded so hideously that he tried it no
more.
The hours wasted away, and hunger came to torment the captives again. A
portion of Tom’s half of the cake was left; they divided and ate it. But
they seemed hungrier than before. The poor morsel of food only whetted
desire.
By-and-by Tom said:
“SH! Did you hear that?”
Both held their breath and listened. There was a sound like the
faintest, far-off shout. Instantly Tom answered it, and leading Becky by
the hand, started groping down the corridor in its direction. Presently
he listened again; again the sound was heard, and apparently a little
nearer.
“It’s them!” said Tom; “they’re coming! Come along, Becky--we’re all
right now!”
The joy of the prisoners was almost overwhelming. Their speed was slow,
however, because pitfalls were somewhat common, and had to be guarded
against. They shortly came to one and had to stop. It might be three
feet deep, it might be a hundred--there was no passing it at any rate.
Tom got down on his breast and reached as far down as he could. No
bottom. They must stay there and wait until the searchers came. They
listened; evidently the distant shoutings were growing more distant!
a moment or two more and they had gone altogether. The heart-sinking
misery of it! Tom whooped until he was hoarse, but it was of no use. He
talked hopefully to Becky; but an age of anxious waiting passed and no
sounds came again.
The children groped their way back to the spring. The weary time dragged
on; they slept again, and awoke famished and woe-stricken. Tom believed
it must be Tuesday by this time.
Now an idea struck him. There were some side passages near at hand. It
would be better to explore some of these than bear the weight of the
heavy time in idleness. He took a kite-line from his pocket, tied it to
a projection, and he and Becky started, Tom in the lead, unwinding the
line as he groped along. At the end of twenty steps the corridor ended
in a “jumping-off place.” Tom got down on his knees and felt below,
and then as far around the corner as he could reach with his hands
conveniently; he made an effort to stretch yet a little farther to the
right, and at that moment, not twenty yards away, a human hand, holding
a candle, appeared from behind a rock! Tom lifted up a glorious shout,
and instantly that hand was followed by the body it belonged to--Injun
Joe’s! Tom was paralyzed; he could not move. He was vastly gratified the
next moment, to see the “Spaniard” take to his heels and get himself out
of sight. Tom wondered that Joe had not recognized his voice and come
over and killed him for testifying in court. But the echoes must have
disguised the voice. Without doubt, that was it, he reasoned. Tom’s
fright weakened every muscle in his body. He said to himself that if he
had strength enough to get back to the spring he would stay there, and
nothing should tempt him to run the risk of meeting Injun Joe again. He
was careful to keep from Becky what it was he had seen. He told her he
had only shouted “for luck.”
But hunger and wretchedness rise superior to fears in the long run.
Another tedious wait at the spring and another long sleep brought
changes. The children awoke tortured with a raging hunger. Tom believed
that it must be Wednesday or Thursday or even Friday or Saturday, now,
and that the search had been given over. He proposed to explore another
passage. He felt willing to risk Injun Joe and all other terrors. But
Becky was very weak. She had sunk into a dreary apathy and would not be
roused. She said she would wait, now, where she was, and die--it would
not be long. She told Tom to go with the kite-line and explore if he
chose; but she implored him to come back every little while and speak
to her; and she made him promise that when the awful time came, he would
stay by her and hold her hand until all was over.
Tom kissed her, with a choking sensation in his throat, and made a show
of being confident of finding the searchers or an escape from the cave;
then he took the kite-line in his hand and went groping down one of the
passages on his hands and knees, distressed with hunger and sick with
bodings of coming doom.
CHAPTER XXXII
TUESDAY afternoon came, and waned to the twilight. The village of St.
Petersburg still mourned. The lost children had not been found. Public
prayers had been offered up for them, and many and many a private prayer
that had the petitioner’s whole heart in it; but still no good news came
from the cave. The majority of the searchers had given up the quest
and gone back to their daily avocations, saying that it was plain the
children could never be found. Mrs. Thatcher was very ill, and a great
part of the time delirious. People said it was heartbreaking to hear her
call her child, and raise her head and listen a whole minute at a time,
then lay it wearily down again with a moan. Aunt Polly had drooped into
a settled melancholy, and her gray hair had grown almost white. The
village went to its rest on Tuesday night, sad and forlorn.
Away in the middle of the night a wild peal burst from the village
bells, and in a moment the streets were swarming with frantic half-clad
people, who shouted, “Turn out! turn out! they’re found! they’re found!”
 Tin pans and horns were added to the din, the population massed itself
and moved toward the river, met the children coming in an open carriage
drawn by shouting citizens, thronged around it, joined its homeward
march, and swept magnificently up the main street roaring huzzah after
huzzah!
The village was illuminated; nobody went to bed again; it was the
greatest night the little town had ever seen. During the first half-hour
a procession of villagers filed through Judge Thatcher’s house, seized
the saved ones and kissed them, squeezed Mrs. Thatcher’s hand, tried to
speak but couldn’t--and drifted out raining tears all over the place.
Aunt Polly’s happiness was complete, and Mrs. Thatcher’s nearly so. It
would be complete, however, as soon as the messenger dispatched with the
great news to the cave should get the word to her husband. Tom lay upon
a sofa with an eager auditory about him and told the history of the
wonderful adventure, putting in many striking additions to adorn it
withal; and closed with a description of how he left Becky and went
on an exploring expedition; how he followed two avenues as far as his
kite-line would reach; how he followed a third to the fullest stretch
of the kite-line, and was about to turn back when he glimpsed a far-off
speck that looked like daylight; dropped the line and groped toward it,
pushed his head and shoulders through a small hole, and saw the broad
Mississippi rolling by!
And if it had only happened to be night he would not have seen that
speck of daylight and would not have explored that passage any more! He
told how he went back for Becky and broke the good news and she told
him not to fret her with such stuff, for she was tired, and knew she was
going to die, and wanted to. He described how he labored with her and
convinced her; and how she almost died for joy when she had groped to
where she actually saw the blue speck of daylight; how he pushed his way
out at the hole and then helped her out; how they sat there and cried
for gladness; how some men came along in a skiff and Tom hailed them
and told them their situation and their famished condition; how the men
didn’t believe the wild tale at first, “because,” said they, “you are
five miles down the river below the valley the cave is in”--then took
them aboard, rowed to a house, gave them supper, made them rest till two
or three hours after dark and then brought them home.
Before day-dawn, Judge Thatcher and the handful of searchers with him
were tracked out, in the cave, by the twine clews they had strung behind
them, and informed of the great news.
Three days and nights of toil and hunger in the cave were not to
be shaken off at once, as Tom and Becky soon discovered. They were
bedridden all of Wednesday and Thursday, and seemed to grow more and
more tired and worn, all the time. Tom got about, a little, on Thursday,
was downtown Friday, and nearly as whole as ever Saturday; but Becky
did not leave her room until Sunday, and then she looked as if she had
passed through a wasting illness.
Tom learned of Huck’s sickness and went to see him on Friday, but could
not be admitted to the bedroom; neither could he on Saturday or Sunday.
He was admitted daily after that, but was warned to keep still about his
adventure and introduce no exciting topic. The Widow Douglas stayed by
to see that he obeyed. At home Tom learned of the Cardiff Hill event;
also that the “ragged man’s” body had eventually been found in the river
near the ferry-landing; he had been drowned while trying to escape,
perhaps.
About a fortnight after Tom’s rescue from the cave, he started off to
visit Huck, who had grown plenty strong enough, now, to hear exciting
talk, and Tom had some that would interest him, he thought. Judge
Thatcher’s house was on Tom’s way, and he stopped to see Becky. The
Judge and some friends set Tom to talking, and some one asked him
ironically if he wouldn’t like to go to the cave again. Tom said he
thought he wouldn’t mind it. The Judge said:
“Well, there are others just like you, Tom, I’ve not the least doubt.
But we have taken care of that. Nobody will get lost in that cave any
more.”
“Why?”
“Because I had its big door sheathed with boiler iron two weeks ago, and
triple-locked--and I’ve got the keys.”
Tom turned as white as a sheet.
“What’s the matter, boy! Here, run, somebody! Fetch a glass of water!”
The water was brought and thrown into Tom’s face.
“Ah, now you’re all right. What was the matter with you, Tom?”
“Oh, Judge, Injun Joe’s in the cave!”
CHAPTER XXXIII
WITHIN a few minutes the news had spread, and a dozen skiff-loads of
men were on their way to McDougal’s cave, and the ferryboat, well filled
with passengers, soon followed. Tom Sawyer was in the skiff that bore
Judge Thatcher.
When the cave door was unlocked, a sorrowful sight presented itself in
the dim twilight of the place. Injun Joe lay stretched upon the ground,
dead, with his face close to the crack of the door, as if his longing
eyes had been fixed, to the latest moment, upon the light and the cheer
of the free world outside. Tom was touched, for he knew by his own
experience how this wretch had suffered. His pity was moved, but
nevertheless he felt an abounding sense of relief and security, now,
which revealed to him in a degree which he had not fully appreciated
before how vast a weight of dread had been lying upon him since the day
he lifted his voice against this bloody-minded outcast.
Injun Joe’s bowie-knife lay close by, its blade broken in two. The great
foundation-beam of the door had been chipped and hacked through, with
tedious labor; useless labor, too, it was, for the native rock formed a
sill outside it, and upon that stubborn material the knife had wrought
no effect; the only damage done was to the knife itself. But if there
had been no stony obstruction there the labor would have been useless
still, for if the beam had been wholly cut away Injun Joe could not have
squeezed his body under the door, and he knew it. So he had only hacked
that place in order to be doing something--in order to pass the weary
time--in order to employ his tortured faculties. Ordinarily one could
find half a dozen bits of candle stuck around in the crevices of this
vestibule, left there by tourists; but there were none now. The prisoner
had searched them out and eaten them. He had also contrived to catch a
few bats, and these, also, he had eaten, leaving only their claws. The
poor unfortunate had starved to death. In one place, near at hand, a
stalagmite had been slowly growing up from the ground for ages, builded
by the water-drip from a stalactite overhead. The captive had broken off
the stalagmite, and upon the stump had placed a stone, wherein he had
scooped a shallow hollow to catch the precious drop that fell once
in every three minutes with the dreary regularity of a clock-tick--a
dessertspoonful once in four and twenty hours. That drop was falling
when the Pyramids were new; when Troy fell; when the foundations of Rome
were laid; when Christ was crucified; when the Conqueror created the
British empire; when Columbus sailed; when the massacre at Lexington was
“news.”
It is falling now; it will still be falling when all these things shall
have sunk down the afternoon of history, and the twilight of tradition,
and been swallowed up in the thick night of oblivion. Has everything a
purpose and a mission? Did this drop fall patiently during five thousand
years to be ready for this flitting human insect’s need? and has it
another important object to accomplish ten thousand years to come? No
matter. It is many and many a year since the hapless half-breed scooped
out the stone to catch the priceless drops, but to this day the tourist
stares longest at that pathetic stone and that slow-dropping water when
he comes to see the wonders of McDougal’s cave. Injun Joe’s cup stands
first in the list of the cavern’s marvels; even “Aladdin’s Palace”
 cannot rival it.
Injun Joe was buried near the mouth of the cave; and people flocked
there in boats and wagons from the towns and from all the farms and
hamlets for seven miles around; they brought their children, and
all sorts of provisions, and confessed that they had had almost as
satisfactory a time at the funeral as they could have had at the
hanging.
This funeral stopped the further growth of one thing--the petition to the
governor for Injun Joe’s pardon. The petition had been largely signed;
many tearful and eloquent meetings had been held, and a committee of
sappy women been appointed to go in deep mourning and wail around the
governor, and implore him to be a merciful ass and trample his duty
under foot. Injun Joe was believed to have killed five citizens of the
village, but what of that? If he had been Satan himself there would
have been plenty of weaklings ready to scribble their names to a
pardon-petition, and drip a tear on it from their permanently impaired
and leaky water-works.
The morning after the funeral Tom took Huck to a private place to have
an important talk. Huck had learned all about Tom’s adventure from the
Welshman and the Widow Douglas, by this time, but Tom said he reckoned
there was one thing they had not told him; that thing was what he wanted
to talk about now. Huck’s face saddened. He said:
“I know what it is. You got into No. 2 and never found anything but
whiskey. Nobody told me it was you; but I just knowed it must ‘a’ ben
you, soon as I heard ‘bout that whiskey business; and I knowed you
hadn’t got the money becuz you’d ‘a’ got at me some way or other and
told me even if you was mum to everybody else. Tom, something’s always
told me we’d never get holt of that swag.”
“Why, Huck, I never told on that tavern-keeper.  You  know his tavern
was all right the Saturday I went to the picnic. Don’t you remember you
was to watch there that night?”
“Oh yes! Why, it seems ‘bout a year ago. It was that very night that I
follered Injun Joe to the widder’s.”
“ You  followed him?”
“Yes--but you keep mum. I reckon Injun Joe’s left friends behind him, and
I don’t want ‘em souring on me and doing me mean tricks. If it hadn’t
ben for me he’d be down in Texas now, all right.”
Then Huck told his entire adventure in confidence to Tom, who had only
heard of the Welshman’s part of it before.
“Well,” said Huck, presently, coming back to the main question, “whoever
nipped the whiskey in No. 2, nipped the money, too, I reckon--anyways
it’s a goner for us, Tom.”
“Huck, that money wasn’t ever in No. 2!”
“What!” Huck searched his comrade’s face keenly. “Tom, have you got on
the track of that money again?”
“Huck, it’s in the cave!”
Huck’s eyes blazed.
“Say it again, Tom.”
“The money’s in the cave!”
“Tom--honest injun, now--is it fun, or earnest?”
“Earnest, Huck--just as earnest as ever I was in my life. Will you go in
there with me and help get it out?”
“I bet I will! I will if it’s where we can blaze our way to it and not
get lost.”
“Huck, we can do that without the least little bit of trouble in the
world.”
“Good as wheat! What makes you think the money’s--”
“Huck, you just wait till we get in there. If we don’t find it I’ll
agree to give you my drum and every thing I’ve got in the world. I will,
by jings.”
“All right--it’s a whiz. When do you say?”
“Right now, if you say it. Are you strong enough?”
“Is it far in the cave? I ben on my pins a little, three or four days,
now, but I can’t walk more’n a mile, Tom--least I don’t think I could.”
“It’s about five mile into there the way anybody but me would go, Huck,
but there’s a mighty short cut that they don’t anybody but me know
about. Huck, I’ll take you right to it in a skiff. I’ll float the skiff
down there, and I’ll pull it back again all by myself. You needn’t ever
turn your hand over.”
“Less start right off, Tom.”
“All right. We want some bread and meat, and our pipes, and a little
bag or two, and two or three kite-strings, and some of these new-fangled
things they call lucifer matches. I tell you, many’s the time I wished I
had some when I was in there before.”
A trifle after noon the boys borrowed a small skiff from a citizen who
was absent, and got under way at once. When they were several miles
below “Cave Hollow,” Tom said:
“Now you see this bluff here looks all alike all the way down from the
cave hollow--no houses, no wood-yards, bushes all alike. But do you see
that white place up yonder where there’s been a landslide? Well, that’s
one of my marks. We’ll get ashore, now.”
They landed.
“Now, Huck, where we’re a-standing you could touch that hole I got out
of with a fishing-pole. See if you can find it.”
Huck searched all the place about, and found nothing. Tom proudly
marched into a thick clump of sumach bushes and said:
“Here you are! Look at it, Huck; it’s the snuggest hole in this country.
You just keep mum about it. All along I’ve been wanting to be a robber,
but I knew I’d got to have a thing like this, and where to run across
it was the bother. We’ve got it now, and we’ll keep it quiet, only we’ll
let Joe Harper and Ben Rogers in--because of course there’s got to be a
Gang, or else there wouldn’t be any style about it. Tom Sawyer’s Gang--it
sounds splendid, don’t it, Huck?”
“Well, it just does, Tom. And who’ll we rob?”
“Oh, most anybody. Waylay people--that’s mostly the way.”
“And kill them?”
“No, not always. Hive them in the cave till they raise a ransom.”
“What’s a ransom?”
“Money. You make them raise all they can, off’n their friends; and after
you’ve kept them a year, if it ain’t raised then you kill them. That’s
the general way. Only you don’t kill the women. You shut up the women,
but you don’t kill them. They’re always beautiful and rich, and awfully
scared. You take their watches and things, but you always take your hat
off and talk polite. They ain’t anybody as polite as robbers--you’ll see
that in any book. Well, the women get to loving you, and after they’ve
been in the cave a week or two weeks they stop crying and after that
you couldn’t get them to leave. If you drove them out they’d turn right
around and come back. It’s so in all the books.”
“Why, it’s real bully, Tom. I believe it’s better’n to be a pirate.”
“Yes, it’s better in some ways, because it’s close to home and circuses
and all that.”
By this time everything was ready and the boys entered the hole, Tom in
the lead. They toiled their way to the farther end of the tunnel, then
made their spliced kite-strings fast and moved on. A few steps brought
them to the spring, and Tom felt a shudder quiver all through him.
He showed Huck the fragment of candle-wick perched on a lump of clay
against the wall, and described how he and Becky had watched the flame
struggle and expire.
The boys began to quiet down to whispers, now, for the stillness and
gloom of the place oppressed their spirits. They went on, and presently
entered and followed Tom’s other corridor until they reached the
“jumping-off place.” The candles revealed the fact that it was not
really a precipice, but only a steep clay hill twenty or thirty feet
high. Tom whispered:
“Now I’ll show you something, Huck.”
He held his candle aloft and said:
“Look as far around the corner as you can. Do you see that? There--on the
big rock over yonder--done with candle-smoke.”
“Tom, it’s a  cross !”
“ Now  where’s your Number Two? ‘ under the cross,’ hey? Right yonder’s
where I saw Injun Joe poke up his candle, Huck!”
Huck stared at the mystic sign awhile, and then said with a shaky voice:
“Tom, less git out of here!”
“What! and leave the treasure?”
“Yes--leave it. Injun Joe’s ghost is round about there, certain.”
“No it ain’t, Huck, no it ain’t. It would ha’nt the place where he
died--away out at the mouth of the cave--five mile from here.”
“No, Tom, it wouldn’t. It would hang round the money. I know the ways of
ghosts, and so do you.”
Tom began to fear that Huck was right. Mis-givings gathered in his mind.
But presently an idea occurred to him--
“Lookyhere, Huck, what fools we’re making of ourselves! Injun Joe’s
ghost ain’t a going to come around where there’s a cross!”
The point was well taken. It had its effect.
“Tom, I didn’t think of that. But that’s so. It’s luck for us, that
cross is. I reckon we’ll climb down there and have a hunt for that box.”
Tom went first, cutting rude steps in the clay hill as he descended.
Huck followed. Four avenues opened out of the small cavern which the
great rock stood in. The boys examined three of them with no result.
They found a small recess in the one nearest the base of the rock, with
a pallet of blankets spread down in it; also an old suspender, some
bacon rind, and the well-gnawed bones of two or three fowls. But there
was no moneybox. The lads searched and researched this place, but in
vain. Tom said:
“He said  under  the cross. Well, this comes nearest to being under the
cross. It can’t be under the rock itself, because that sets solid on the
ground.”
They searched everywhere once more, and then sat down discouraged. Huck
could suggest nothing. By-and-by Tom said:
“Lookyhere, Huck, there’s footprints and some candle-grease on the clay
about one side of this rock, but not on the other sides. Now, what’s
that for? I bet you the money  is  under the rock. I’m going to dig in
the clay.”
“That ain’t no bad notion, Tom!” said Huck with animation.
Tom’s “real Barlow” was out at once, and he had not dug four inches
before he struck wood.
“Hey, Huck!--you hear that?”
Huck began to dig and scratch now. Some boards were soon uncovered and
removed. They had concealed a natural chasm which led under the rock.
Tom got into this and held his candle as far under the rock as he
could, but said he could not see to the end of the rift. He proposed
to explore. He stooped and passed under; the narrow way descended
gradually. He followed its winding course, first to the right, then to
the left, Huck at his heels. Tom turned a short curve, by-and-by, and
exclaimed:
“My goodness, Huck, lookyhere!”
It was the treasure-box, sure enough, occupying a snug little cavern,
along with an empty powder-keg, a couple of guns in leather cases, two
or three pairs of old moccasins, a leather belt, and some other rubbish
well soaked with the water-drip.
“Got it at last!” said Huck, ploughing among the tarnished coins with
his hand. “My, but we’re rich, Tom!”
“Huck, I always reckoned we’d get it. It’s just too good to believe, but
we  have  got it, sure! Say--let’s not fool around here. Let’s snake it
out. Lemme see if I can lift the box.”
It weighed about fifty pounds. Tom could lift it, after an awkward
fashion, but could not carry it conveniently.
“I thought so,” he said; “ They  carried it like it was heavy, that day
at the ha’nted house. I noticed that. I reckon I was right to think of
fetching the little bags along.”
The money was soon in the bags and the boys took it up to the cross
rock.
“Now less fetch the guns and things,” said Huck.
“No, Huck--leave them there. They’re just the tricks to have when we
go to robbing. We’ll keep them there all the time, and we’ll hold our
orgies there, too. It’s an awful snug place for orgies.”
“What orgies?”
“I dono. But robbers always have orgies, and of course we’ve got to
have them, too. Come along, Huck, we’ve been in here a long time. It’s
getting late, I reckon. I’m hungry, too. We’ll eat and smoke when we get
to the skiff.”
They presently emerged into the clump of sumach bushes, looked warily
out, found the coast clear, and were soon lunching and smoking in the
skiff. As the sun dipped toward the horizon they pushed out and got
under way. Tom skimmed up the shore through the long twilight, chatting
cheerily with Huck, and landed shortly after dark.
“Now, Huck,” said Tom, “we’ll hide the money in the loft of the widow’s
woodshed, and I’ll come up in the morning and we’ll count it and divide,
and then we’ll hunt up a place out in the woods for it where it will be
safe. Just you lay quiet here and watch the stuff till I run and hook
Benny Taylor’s little wagon; I won’t be gone a minute.”
He disappeared, and presently returned with the wagon, put the two small
sacks into it, threw some old rags on top of them, and started off,
dragging his cargo behind him. When the boys reached the Welshman’s
house, they stopped to rest. Just as they were about to move on, the
Welshman stepped out and said:
“Hallo, who’s that?”
“Huck and Tom Sawyer.”
“Good! Come along with me, boys, you are keeping everybody waiting.
Here--hurry up, trot ahead--I’ll haul the wagon for you. Why, it’s not as
light as it might be. Got bricks in it?--or old metal?”
“Old metal,” said Tom.
“I judged so; the boys in this town will take more trouble and fool away
more time hunting up six bits’ worth of old iron to sell to the foundry
than they would to make twice the money at regular work. But that’s
human nature--hurry along, hurry along!”
