untrained and unpruned,and then, upon all that I have hung 
every pretty thing I could get together. And I don't know what will 
be left of me when I am made over all new. Olaf,' she went on 
gravely, 'I do understand your harmony,I see how perfect it is, 
taking in all the lowest notes as well as the highest, whereas mine 
covered only the poor little octave of my own life. I do see that 
every part of one's life ought to be in tone with every bit of outside 
work and life-need and life-demand that can ever come. And I 
know that only unfixedness of heart can make any discord. But 
there my knowledge ends!' And Hazel leaned her cheek softly 
against his arm, and looked up wistfully.

'How much more knowledge do you want just now?'

'Where to begin.'

'We will begin with one of those trunks to-morrow. I have a 
presentiment, that if you do not fill it, I shall.'

Hazel shook her head.

'I fancy I have enough extravagance now on hand to last me some 
time,' she said. 'Unless you prefer that I should come downor 
come up!gradually, and not with a jump.'

'Neither come down nor come up. Only go forward keeping the 
harmony we have chosen to walk in. I am so ignorant of all but 
men's dress! or perhaps I could speak more intelligibly. But in 
general, seek your old ends, of beauty and fitnessonly looking to 
see that things more precious are not pushed out of the way by 
them, or for them.'


CHAPTER XXVI.

AN ACCOUNT AT THE BANK.


'Duchess,' said Rollo the next morning at breakfast, 'which cabinet 
maker is to have the honour of your patronage?'

'I suppose it is not fair to do people good against their will,' said 
Hazel. 'If Prim would like the common oneand the money
best, she must have that. But I shall let her know she chose it.'

'You would not like to be suspected of having practised economy?'

'Not unjustly.'

'How is that an unjust suspicion, which is founded on fact?'

'I am not practising economy a bit. Prim wants a secretaryand 
you say she would like that best.'

'Excuse me! I said she would like that and the hundred and fifty 
dollars best; and you will practise economy to give them to her. 
Nicht?'

'Not at all. Only self-denial. I never did buy ugly things, and I don't 
like it.'

'Self-denial is almost as good as economy, and one step towards it. 
But I would remark, that economy and ugly things have no 
necessary connection.'

'No,' said Hazel'my alternative would be destitution.'

'Economy has no connection whatever with destitution.'

'O there you are mistaken,' said the girl arching her brows. 'But for 
destitution, it need not exist. But I wish I could think of the right 
explosive materials to put in Prim's trunk! She wants waking up, 
Olaf,and you have just stroked her down for a nap.'

Dane's eyes snapped at the speaker across the table; and then he 
asked in a quiet business tone, 'what sort of lethargy Prim had 
fallen into?'

'I said nothing about lethargy. I must get a ream of paper initialed 
in blue and gold, and another in crimson, to help line the secretary. 
And three journal books in green bevelled antique, and fifty note-
books in yellow Turkey morocco. Andhow many gold pens does 
Prim wear out in a year?'

'You made a profound remark just now on the origin of economy; I 
should like to have your definition of the thing. Would you favour 
me?'

'Mind,' said Hazel, laughing a little, 'it is an unproved definition, 
the word itself being but lately introduced; but at present it seems 
to me, the doing without what you want yourself, to give it to 
somebody who wants it more.'

A line of white made itself visible between Rollo's lips, and the 
curves of his mouth were unsteady. When they were reduced to 
order again, he asked,

'What more shall we do for New Year in the Hollow?'

Certain cloaks and dresses for women and children, it may be 
remarked, had already been sent up. Wych Hazel considered.

'Would it be possiblebut we shall not be at home to give them a 
night Festival. There went no books nor pictures into the 
Christmas work?'

'BooksI am afraidthey are not ready for. Picturespictures 
are harmonizing; I am going to get you some; I would like to put a 
picture in every house. What sort? I have thought about it and 
failed to decide.'

'Do I want harmonizing in that sense?' Hazel asked with a laugh.

'You want all sorts of things. Go on.'

'Wellfor the picturesI would not get them all alike. It destroys 
one's sense of possession.' 

'True. But the more the variety, the greater the difficulty.'

'What are your nations?'

'Swedes and Germans, a few Irish, a sprinkling of Americans and 
English.'

'Good pictures of animals, I should think,' said Hazel, going deep 
into the matter; 'and of ships,and of children. Englishmen would 
like King Alfred burning the cakes, and Canute at the sea, and I 
suppose the queen in her royal robes, and the battle of Trafalgar. 
Then there are bits of the Rhine, and Cathedrals, and Martin 
Luther, and a Madonna or two, for your Vaterland people,and 
mountains and ice and reindeer' Hazel broke off with a blush. 
'How I run on!'

'We will have them all, for future use,' said Rollo smiling. 'The 
time will come, but I believe it is not yet. The people are hardly 
ready. It wouldn't be good economy. You do not understand that 
subject, I know, but you will excuse me for alluding to it. Now for 
business.'

Drawing Wych Hazel away from the breakfast table to another 
table which stood in the room, he opened a bank cheque book 
which lay there.

'Do you know what this is?'

'I see.'

'This is for your use and behoof. And this other little book 
containsor will containyour account with the bank. They will 
keep the account, and all you have to do is to send it to the bank 
every quarter to be written up. There, in your cheque book, 
opposite each cheque, you register the amount drawn by that 
cheque; so as to know where you are. Verstanden?'

'Yes,' said Wych Hazel, 'I have watched Mr. Falkirk often over 
his.'

'The capital which is represented by ten thousand a year,' Dane 
went on with business quietness, 'I have settled, absolutely and 
without reserve, upon you. That amount will be yearly paid in to 
your account, to be drawn out at your pleasure.'

'Why do you let me have more than I used to have?' she said 
quickly.

Rollo's lips played a little as he answered,'I think it is good for 
your health to be duchess in your own right somewhere.'

'What makes you say that?'

'Conviction.'

'Ah hush!I am talking business. Did Mr. Falkirk talk to you 
about it?'

'No. But Mr. Falkirk did go to Dr. Maryland; and urged that he 
should prevail with me, before I married you, to settle your 
fortuneor as much of it as possibleupon yourself. Dr. 
Maryland refused to urge me, and would do no more than 
represent to me Mr. Falkirk's wishes. So then Mr. Falkirk wrote to 
me himself, though as he said, with very little hope of doing any 
good. And I don't think he did any good'added Dane demurely.

'He did his best to vex me first.'

She stood looking down at the cheque book, her face a study of 
changing colours. No,this would have been done, though Mr. 
Falkirk had held his peace. 'Thank you!' she said, suddenly and 
softly.

'Thank me for what?' said Rollo gayly. 'For giving you back a little 
piece of your power, after you had lodged it all with me? How did 
Mr. Falkirk vex you?'

'I suppose really he wanted to vex you,' said Hazel. 'And he knew 
how to choose his words. Olaf'the soft intonation coming back 
again'you are very good! But what makes you think I want 
power?'

'Habit is said to be second nature.'

'Are you afraid of my missing what I used to have?'

'How should you miss it?' said he laughing. 'Are you less of a 
witch than you used to be?'

She shook her head thoughtfully. 'I do not quite know what I am. 
Do you expect me to spend all this money wisely?'

'I shall never ask how you spend it, Wych. Only this I would 
say,spend it. We have far too much now to go on accumulating.'

'Ah,' she said with a breath of satisfaction, 'you are beginning to 
understand me!'

'What new token have I given of such sagacity?'

'So long as you and Mr. Falkirk had a monopoly of the wisdom, 
there was no use for my small supply,' said Wych Hazel. 'You 
never gave me an inch of line. And how you dare suddenly let so 
much out at once!'she laughed a little, breaking off.

There was infinite grave fondness in the way Dane drew her up to 
him and putting his hand under her chin, lifted the changeable face 
to study it. Then kissing her and letting her go, he remarked,

'The rest we hold together, subject to your demands, whenever this 
stock happens to be insufficient.'

'Yes,'she said, not looking at him,'the first demands, I think, 
will be to make myself into a business woman. How much of the 
time are you going to let me work with you in the Hollow?'

'Let you?There is unlimited room for work. I have bought the 
Charteris mills, Hazel.'

'Have you!I thought he would not be willing.'

'He had stopped work, you know; the people were in terrible 
distress; the times might not encourage him to go on for some 
time; and he concluded to accept my offer. I got his answer only 
last night. I shall telegraph Arthur to-day to let the mills run again.'

'They will keep New Year,' was Hazel's comment.

'One of my new mills is a small one, doing very fine work in 
cottons, and employs only tow hundred and fifty hands; the 
woollen mills have eight hundred more. So you see, we have the 
whole community now to manage and nobody to interfere with us.'

'How many people?'

'Altogetherover two thousand five hundred. And everything to 
be done for them.'

'Then I can go over every day and busy myself with small matters 
while you attend to the great.'

'There is enough to do!' Rollo repeated with a smile, but a 
thoughtful one. 'How do you propose to manage on Sundays?'

'I do not know. As you manage.'

'I must be in the Hollow.'

'All day?'

'All day. I shall hold a service in the morning for the children, in 
the afternoon for the grown people. My schoolhouse is nearly 
finished now, quite enough for use. By and by we will have a 
church there, if all goes as I hope;or two, perhaps; but the 
people are not ready for that. They are half heathen, and will be 
less prejudiced against my preaching than any other. So I must 
give it to them for the present. I have sent up a load of Bibles and 
hymnbooks.'

Hazel sat thinking.

'I could not preach,' she said. 'I do not know what I could do. Only 
where there is so muchI suppose I could feel my way and do 
something.'

'I would be glad of your help in the Sunday-school. Arthur will be 
there; Prim has her own school at Crocus. Then we could lunch 
with Gyda, and you could drive back in time for Dr. Maryland's 
afternoon service. Hey?'

'Why should I drive back?' said Hazel.

'What a question! To go to church.'

'I can go to church in the Hollow.'

'Pardon me. There is no church there, visible or invisible.'

'There will be preachingand you know you always did like to 
preach to me,' said Hazel with a gleam.

'Dr. Maryland would like to preach to you too.'

'He will find other opportunities.'

'He would, I think, with reason, if you were absent from both 
services on Sundays. Speaking of work to doHow would you 
like to send one of the carriages several times a week to take Mrs. 
Coles to drive?'

'Whenever you likeif she can drive without me. But are you in 
earnest about Sunday afternoon?' said Hazel with a look that was 
certainly earnest.

'I am in earnest at present,' said Rollo. 'But we will see. It is 
something for you to sacrifice, and something for me! but whoever 
would follow the Lord "fully," Hazel, will find himself called to 
lay down his own will at every step.'

'So I must economize in you, first of all!' she said. The words 
slipped out rather too quick, and were followed by a shy blush 
which did not court notice.

Rollo half laughed and told her that 'economy always enhances 
enjoyment.'


CHAPTER XXVII.

THE WORLD AND HIS WIFE.


The purchases for Chickaree and the Hollow, the various packages 
that found their destination in Dr. Maryland's house, had all been 
sent straight off where they were to go. There were however many 
things bought during those two days of New York's work, which 
had no destination; at least, none as yet known. Such articles had 
been ordered to the hotel. And it followed, that in the course of a 
day or two thereafter, the rooms of the suite occupied by Mr. and 
Mrs. Rollo presented the appearance of a house from which the 
inhabitants are meditating an immediate journey with all their 
effects. Packages of all sizes and descriptions had accumulated, to 
a number which became intrusive upon the notice of said 
inhabitants.

'What shall we do to make a clearance?' Rollo had said, laughing, 
as his eyes went round the parlour. 'I wish, Hazel, you would look 
at these things, and see what use you can find for them. Take 
Byrom to open packages and do them up again, and let him ticket 
them according to your orders. Will you? and when I come home I 
will help. It is a most ridiculous assortment!'

Accordingly, after luncheon, Hazel put on an apron and summoned 
Byrom, whom she could not have earlier; she was not afraid of 
interruptions, not being supposed, as she thought, to be in town. 
The task set her was an amusing piece of work enough, 
remembering as she did how and where and why many of the 
articles had come to be bought. Here were baskets, what an array 
of baskets! which had been purchased from a poor little 
discouraged seller of wickerware. A large order had first gone off 
to Morton Hollow; then as Rollo walked round the store he had 
picked up this and that and bade the woman send it to the hotel; till 
the dim eyes had brightened up and the hopeless face had taken 
quite another expression. Here was a package of stationery. Hazel 
remembered the sickly-looking man who had sold it, in a little 
shop, far down Broadway; she recollected Rollo's cheery talk to 
the man and some counsel he had given him about his health; 
which counsel, coming from so free a purchaser, who paid cash 
with so ready a hand, stood a fair chance of being followed. Here 
were books, and there were books; here were pictures; there was a 
package of hardware. Well Hazel remembered a little corner shop 
into which her husband had turned to get a dog-chain; and where, 
finding a slim girl keeping shop, and learning that she was doing it 
for her father who was ill, he had gone on to buy a bewildering 
variety of things, which he would not order sent to Chickaree, 
there being perhaps no one in the shop to pack them. Hazel smiled 
as she recollected how Rollo found out that he wanted all sorts of 
things from that little establishment, and how the little girl had 
looked at him and sprung to serve him before he got through.

Byrom was busy unpacking and Hazel examining; the room was in 
a confusion of papers and twines and ropes; when the door opened, 
and there entered upon the scene no less a person than Josephine 
Charteris, née Powder. The lady's look, on taking the effect of 
things, it is impossible to describe. Hazel was gloved in dainty buff 
gauntlets, the folds of her scarlet dress half smothered in the great 
white apron, ruffled and fluted and spotless,and looked 
indescribably busy.

'Josephine Powder!I am not receiving company!' she exclaimed.

'Nonsense! I am glad of it. I want to see you, and I don't want to 
see other people. How you do look, Hazel! Wellhave you really 
gone and got married, and told nobody? Is it true?'

'Telling people is not one of my strong points,' said Hazel. 'Phoebe, 
bring a duster to this chair for Mrs. Charteris.'

'It is one your weak points, I think,' said Josephine. 'Never mind 
the chair. What made you do things in that way?'

Wych Hazel dismissed her attendants, and went back to her foot-
cushion among the packages. 'What makes one do anything?' she 
asked, beginning upon a series of troublesome knots.

'Hm!' said Josephine.'Not being able to help yourself.'

'O is that it?' said Hazel. 'Therehappily for you, I have found 
some sugarplums. Do you buy so many now-a-days that you have 
no taste for more?'

'What on earth are you about?'

'Hard at work on chaos!'

'What sort of chaos?'

'Don't you see?' said Wych Hazel. 'Here are six brackets together, 
for instance, which should be one in a place; and I am puzzled in 
what light to hang these pictures;and these books have no place 
where to be. And if you want needles, Josephine, or a thimbleor 
a sewing-bird, or any little trifle like notepaper or a clotheshamper, 
help yourself!'And her sweet laugh rung out, half for 
nervousness and half for fun.

'How long have you been married?' was the other lady's impetuous 
question.

'Since some time last year,' said Hazel, dragging up another 
package.

'Don't be wicked, Hazel! Were you married at Christmas? Kitty 
Fisher says so, and I didn't believe it. Were you really?'

'I suppose Dr. Maryland does such things "really," when he does 
them at all.'

'Yes!' said Josephine, after a moment's pause and with a half 
groan, 'that's the worst of it. I wish I could know it was a sham. I 
think marriages ought to be broken, if people want them broken. 
The law ought to be so.'

Hazel was silent.

'Don't you think, that when people are tired of each other, they 
ought not to be bound to live together?'

'But you were tired to begin with.'

'No, I wasn't; not so. I thought I could get along with John 
Charteris. He wasn't a beauty, nor a distinguished speaker, but I 
thought I could get along with him. Hazel, I hated him before I had 
been married a week. Men are at your feet till you are tied to them, 
fast; and thenit's very hard, Hazel!the man is the master, and 
he likes it.'

'Is that Mr. Charteris?' said Hazel.

'It is every man!'

'Some flourish their sceptres with a difference,' said Hazel, her lips 
at play. 'Take another bonbon?'

'It's nothing to laugh at!' said the girl bitterly. 'I know you will tell 
me you warned me,but what could I do? They were all at me; 
mamma said I must be married some time; and I thought it didn't 
make much difference; and nowI think I'll run away. Do you 
like your husband?'

'No,' said Hazel with indescribable arch of her brows, which was 
however extremely stately. But as she spoke, the very flush of the 
morningall light and joy and promisestirred and mantled and 
covered her face. It was unmistakeable; words could not have been 
clearer. She bent down over her parcels. And Josephine, watching 
her keenly, saw and read. It was very bitter to her.

'Why,' she said incredulously, though she was not incredulous, 
'you used to hate him a year ago. Do you remember when he 
would not let you ride home with us from the Seatons' one night, 
and how furious you were? Has he changed?'

'As I never remember hating anybody in my life,' said Wych hazel, 
'it is perhaps useless to discuss the question. Do you spend the 
winter here?'

'He had money enough of his own,' Josephine went on,'he had 
no business to marry you. Wellmarriage is a lottery, they say; 
and I have drawn John Charteris. I suppose I must wear him out. If 
I could wear him out!If it was only Jack Charteris!but he is 
the sort of man you couldn't say "Jack" to. Spend the winter here? 
No, I think not. I shall go to Washington by and by. But I don't see 
that it signifies much where one is; life is flat when one can't flirt; 
and John won't let me do that any more, unless I do it on the sly. 
Do you expect to have anything in the world your own way, with 
Dane Rollo?'

Hazel felt herself (privately) getting rather "furious" now. Yet the 
girl at her side stirred her pity, too.

'What sort of man can you say "Jack" to?' she enquired, as if she 
had heard no question.

'You know. A fellow that's anyhow jolly. What are all these things 
here for?'

'If I were you,' said Hazel, 'I would make Mr. Charteris so "jolly" 
(lend me your word for once) that he would be delighted to have 
me say "Jack." '

'I don't want him to be delighted,' said Josephine, 'nor to call him 
Jack. And a man that smokes all the time can't be made jolly. He 
didn't use to let me see it, you know; and now he don't care. He 
ought to live in a house by himself, that's all chimney!'

'Counter attractions would work a cure,' said Wych Hazel, ready to 
laugh at her own suddenly developed wisdom. 'If you make 
yourself disagreeable, Josephine, I should think he would smoke, 
and hide you in a haze.'

'I don't!' said the girl indignantly. 'And nothing on earth will cure a 
man who smokes. He likes it better than anything except money; 
far better than me. Try to get your husband'

Josephine broke suddenly off. The door had opened noiselessly, 
and Mrs. Powder entered, followed immediately by Miss Molly 
Seaton.

Greetings and congratulations passed of course, according to form.

'Dane is not at home, my dear?' said the elder lady.

'Husbands are not gallant in these days, mamma,' said Josephine.

'But Mr. Rollo is!' said Molly rashly.

'So it seems,' said Josephine laughing. 'Left his lady-love to put his 
affairs in order; while he is having a good sleighride somewhere, 
you bet! But you see, she is busy, like a good child.'

'And what are you doing, my dear?' said Mrs. Powder.

Juts then the set of Hazel's head would have told keen eyes what 
she was doing mentally. She was still in her camelshair morning 
robe; the scarlet folds and the white apron, and herself, making a 
brilliant spot down among the packages.

'I am putting Mr. Rollo's affairs in order,' she said composedly.

'My dear,' said Mrs. Powder benevolently, 'I am sure he does not 
want you to open his packages for him.'

'I should think you were going to open a shop, if I didn't know 
better,' remarked Molly in evident great curiosity.

'She won't tell,' said Josephine. 'I suppose she is keeping her own 
secret. She wants me to believe that she don't feel the chains of 
wedlock a bit.'

'Maybe it is too soon for that,' said Molly.

'O is it!' said Mrs. Charteris. 'I should like to see that. Just as soon 
as the minister has done, and said, "I pronounce you man and 
wife,"from that minute a man is changed. He is your very 
obedient servant when he walks up the aisle; dear me, when he 
comes down!'

'But you are joking, Mrs. Charteris,' said Molly, half alarmed.

'After that, he has the power, and you are queen no longer, but 
must follow him round the world if he beckons; and he knows it, 
and he lets you know it too.'

'That is a foolish way of talking, Josephine,' said her mother. 'Of 
course, there is a certain truth in it, and there ought to be. A man is 
the head of his house. The only thing to be desired is, that he 
should rule it well.'

'I don't care whether it is well or ill,' rejoined Josephine. 'What I 
object to is being ruled at all. It is horrid! You can't talk, mamma, 
because you know you always held the reins yourself. It's 
intolerable to have to ask a man for money, unless he is your own 
father; and to have him put his nose into your affairs and say this 
must be and that mustn't be. Women know just as well as men how 
things ought to be.'

'I think they do,' said Molly.

'And better,' added Josephine.

But at this point Hazel gave way and laughed. Such a ring of 
appreciation and merriment and gladness of heart, as was good to 
hear. The soft notes made Mrs. Powder smile; but poor Josephine, 
who could not laugh so, turned aside quick to hide the very 
different change which came over her face. Before anything 
further could be said, the door opened again and Rollo came in. He 
came in with a look upon his face which changed when he saw the 
three people he had not expected to see. It did not grow less bright, 
but it changed; the look that was for his wife was for no other upon 
earth; nor even for her in the presence of others. He went through 
the necessary greetings and congratulations with a manner of 
courtly carelessness, which involuntarily made Hazel think of 
those first days when she knew him at Catskill.

'Do you want to buy anything, ladies?' said he then, setting on the 
table a bronze standish which Hazel had just freed from its 
wrappings.

'Will you tell us what all this means, Dane?' said Mrs. Powder.

'Santa Claus's spillings out of his sleigh.'

'Spillings!' echoed the lady. 'What must the sleigh load have been!'

'O that's the way these people do things,' said Josephine. 'What I 
should like to know, is where the sleigh load went to.'

'Down various chimneys, of course,' said Dane.

'Do you know,' the lady went on, 'it is very mean of you, Dane 
Rollo, to have gone and married the only rich woman in our part of 
the country. You ought to have left her for somebody else.'

'If you would like a basket,' said Rollo coolly, pulling some of his 
wickerware into line, 'you may have one. I can afford it.'

'May I have one too?' queried Molly.

'Help yourself.Mrs. Powder, you are a housekeeperare there 
none among all these varieties that would serve a purpose for you? 
Mrs. Charteris, aren't you fond of flowers? I will bestow upon you 
this big flower-holder.'

It was one of the best specimens of the poor basket-maker's work, 
being a delicate wicker stand, pretty enough for the drawing-room 
or a boudoir. Josephine silently accepted the gift, looking at it with 
strange eyes; while Molly set about a search for what might serve 
her turn. Mrs. Powder sat as a spectator, curious, and at the same 
time amused.

'We have got more than baskets here,' Rollo went on, pulling off 
twine and paper. 'Here is a tea-kettle. Who wants this article?
Here is an hour-glass.'

'O let me have that!' quoth Molly Seaton. 'I never saw an hour-
glass before. What's this in it?'

'Minutes and seconds,' said Josephine.

'No, but really. It would be dreadful to see one's minutes and 
seconds running away in this manner. What is this in the glass?'

'Did you never hear of the sands of life, child?' said Mrs. Powder.

'They were brought from the shores of time, too,' added Josephine, 
'by an adventurous traveller.'

'What is it?' cried a lively voice from the again opening door. 'A 
reception at the opening of spring goods? I come in, because I hear 
sounds' And Miss Kitty Fisher presented herself, stopping just 
inside the door. 'I do vow!' she said. 'What is it?"All for Love"? 
or "She stoops to Conquer"? Katharine and Petruchio seems to be 
played out. Well, if I were a turtledove in a big cage!'

'You would coo, I suppose,' said Josephine scornfully. 'Turtledoves 
always do, and they are a great humbug.'

'I should doubtless bob my head to the other turtledove,' said Kitty, 
making a profound reverence to the gentleman present.

Rollo came forward and offered the lady his arm; then gravely led 
her across the big room among baskets and packages to where 
Wych Hazel was seated on her low cushion.

'Duchess,' said he with stately form, 'Primrose's cousin Kitty 
desires to be recommended to your grace.'

'No, I don't,' said Kitty. 'That's a fib. The duchess and I were well 
"acquaint" when Duke did not stand quite so high in favour. But I 
am thankful for my part, you two people have given up mischief 
and settled down. Sit still among your baskets, child; they become 
you.'

'Perhaps you will sit down among the baskets too,' said Dane. 
'Don't you want one?'

'It's only to look and choose, Kitty,' said Molly Seaton. 'Such 
another chance you won't have again.'

'If you have one large enough to hold her valentines,' said Hazel 
with a glance at "Duke,"'that might do.'

'Valentines!' echoed Kitty Fisher,'you'd better! Richard is going 
into a decline, madam, I suppose you know. And the major is 
drowning careand himself with it. And Lancaster's pining for 
war and a stray bullet;and Stuart Nightingale Then in town 
here there's a list of killed, wounded and missing as long as my 
arm. O I must tell you the best joke. There was a parcel of men 
dining at the club the other day, and toasting Miss Kennedy, witch, 
sorceress, etc.till they couldn't see. Then in rushes Tom 
McIntyre, out of breath, and says, "Miss Kennedy is extinct!"I'd 
rather have seen their faces,' said Kitty, stopping to laugh, 'than get 
Stuart's best philopoena!'

'It really is unkind,' said Josephine, 'to take people so by surprise, 
without letting them get accustomed to the idea. Of course they are 
liable to fall into all sorts of ridiculous situations.'

'You have undertaken a great deal, Dane,' said Mrs. Powder, 'in 
venturing to marry a lady accustomed to so much admiration.'

'I like whatever I have to be admired,' said Rollo coolly.

'But how do you expect she will do without it in future?'

Dane lifted his eyes for a second to the lady with a certain hidden 
sparkle in their gravity, and asked her, so seriously that she was 
entrapped by it, 'If she thought admiration was bad for people in 
general?' Mrs. Powder fell into the snare, and before she knew it 
was involved in a deep philosophical and moral discussion, as far 
as heaven from earth removed from all personalities. The younger 
ladies however found this tiresome.

'Do leave that mamma!' said Josephine. 'The question is, whether 
he and Hazel are going to give us a grand reception, and challenge 
the admiration of the world by something the like of which was 
never seen before. A scene out of the Arabian Nights, with 
enchantment, flowers, fruits and singing birds. They ought, for 
they can. What's the use of having money?'

'I dare say they will do something of that sort,' said the elder lady 
smiling. 'It really is Society's due, I think; especially as they have 
cheated the world with a private wedding.'

'I like to pay my dues,' said Dane carelessly, turning over and 
unpacking things all the while. 'Mrs. Powder, there is a paper knife 
for you.'

'But you don't do it,' the lady went on, smiling at the same time 
over the paper knife, which was very pretty. 'Now will you and 
Hazel hold a reception, as you ought to do, and let people see her 
as your wife?'

'No fear they won't see her,' put in Kitty Fisher. 'I know some 
people who mean to have a good time when he's away at the mills. 
Where are your presents, child? I came to see you on purpose to 
see them. I suppose they are the ninth wonder. You have seen 
them, Mrs. Powder?'

'I have seen nothing,' said that lady blandly, for however she 
disapproved of Kitty's style of application, I have no doubt she 
would have liked it to be successful.'I have seen nothing, except 
baskets.'

'There is a good deal here besides,' said Rollo. 'Mrs. Charteris, 
don't you want a bread trencher? Or a rocking chair? And here are 
pens.'

'Thank you. Are you going to set up a shop?'

'That is what I was going to ask him,' said Molly Seaton.

'When I do, you will not be able to buy it,' said Rollo; 'so make the 
most of your advantage now.'

It was a very silent young duchess that sat there, all this while, 
amid the medley of people and things. The colour sometimes 
coming, and sometimes going; a smile ditto; the little fingers busy 
with packages, the head of brown curls bent over them. Well she 
knew how Rollo was shielding her by his play, amusing her 
inquisitive visiters, at the same time attending to her slightest 
movement; for his fingers came to help hers whenever a knot was 
too hard, or a paper wrap too obstinate, or an article too heavy for 
them.

'Well,' Kitty repeated, eyeing her, 'where are the presents?'

'Not on exhibition,' said Wych Hazel. 'Except in detail.'

'Don't see the details yet,' said Miss Fisher examining her. 'I have 
seen that opal pin beforebewildering thing! Josephine, haven't 
you seen them either?'

'Kitty, you are very impudent!' said Mrs. Powder laughing.

'Presents are good for nothing but to be shewn,' remarked Mrs. 
Charteris.

'My present is worth more than that,' said Rollo. 'It has "Waste not, 
want not," carved on it, if you will notice. That may be very useful 
to you and Mr. Charteris.'

'I wonder who is impudent now!' said Josephine.

'Well what did you wear, child?' pursued Miss Fisher. 'Stephen 
Kingsland fell back in a swoon when he found he had missed your 
wedding dress.'

'Well, I think people have duties to society,' uttered Molly Seaton.

'And society's bound to make 'em pay,' said Miss Fisher. 'I won't 
rest till I have seen those presents, you may be sure.'

'Use your eyes, then,' said Wych Hazel with a warning flush which 
Kitty remembered. 'Because they are not labelledand never will 
be.'

Kitty winked at Mrs. Powder.

'Stupid!' she cried,'use my eyes, to be sure! Why there's the big 
apron! Of course that's a present, only she don't like to say so. The 
child's turned economical. Nobody ever saw Miss Kennedy protect 
her dress, I'll warrant. Pretty pattern, isn't it? I wonder if I could 
get itagainst my moonso-calledof honey?'

'The apron would be no use without the economy,' said Rollo.

'What have people so rich as you to do with economy?'

'Nobody needs it more.'

'Hear him! Then I don't know what economy means,' cried Kitty.

'I doubt if you do, my dear,' said Mrs. Powder.

'What it means?' echoed Josephine. 'Economy is being mean and 
pinching.'

'Economy is saving,' added Molly.

'Looks awfully proper and matronly,' said Kitty, going back to the 
apron. 'When will you give your first ball, Hazel? It might be a 
calico ball, you know,and then all the dresses would help out 
with the mill hands.'

'The first ball I give,' said Hazel, gravely examining a pasteboard 
box filled with the article, 'will probably be one of soap,but just 
when it will be, I do not know.'

'And do you mean your first cards issued to be wool cards, my 
dear?' said Kitty with secret delight.

'Kitty,' said Rollo, 'suppose you take a sugarplumand behave 
yourself.'

'O I can't stay,' said Kitty giving way a little. 'I only came just to
'

'That's what I came for too,' said Josephine; 'and now I am going.'

'We have all got more than we came for, then,' said Molly; 'but I 
have staid too long, too. Will you take me home Phinney.'

The ladies swept away; the room was full of rustling silks for a 
moment, and then was clear. Rollo came back from putting them 
into their respective carriages, and stood and smiled at Hazel.

'It has come at last!' he said.


CHAPTER XXVIII.

PLEASURE BY EXPRESS.


'It was to be expected,' Dane went on resignedly. 'I told Arthur to 
send proper notices to the papers; and I suppose he had done it, 
and this is the consequence. Never mind; we will run away as soon 
as we can. Now, Hazel, what shall we do with all this lumber?'

'Lumber is something out of place, according to Byo,' said Hazel 
contemplatively. 'Now one of these two foot rests would be in 
place in Dr. Maryland's study;is there another tired minister 
somewhere else?'

'Tired minister?' said Dane. I suppose there are hundreds of tired 
ministers scattered all over the land, out west, and on the 
frontiers.If one knew where!'

'Somebody must know.'

'I suppose somebody must.'

'Well cannot you find out?'

'I suppose I can!'

'They may want some of these books, too. Dr. Maryland always 
wants books, although he has so many. And if the ministers are 
tired, their wives must be,' said Hazel with a new fit of 
contemplation settling over her face. Rollo stood in the middle of 
the floor, looking at her, and at the same time considering the 
confusion.

'I will make a bargain with you.'

'Well?'

'These things must go somewhere, that is clear. I will find out the 
names and addresses of a hundred, say, who are in need of help. 
We will send off so many boxes; and you shall arrange what is to 
go in them.'

Wych Hazel folded her hands and looked up at him.

'OlafI never was tired in my life!At least, but once.'

'I thought I was tired five minutes ago,' said Rollo, 'but I have got 
over it.'

'I could think of pretty things enough to send,' Hazel went on. 'Do 
they want pretty things out there, I wonder? Good people here do 
not always like them, I think. But I never saw a missionaryor his 
wife.'

'Perhaps you did not look in the right place. You make your list, 
and I will get mine. We might send off a couple of hundred boxes, 
and put fifty dollars' worth of comfort in each. These things will all 
find a place somewhere.'

'Fifty dollars!' said Hazel opening her eyes. 'My dear friend, have 
you any idea how much one dress costs? Fifty dollars will not do 
much for two people.'

'I will shew you what can be done with fifty dollars. And give you 
your second lesson in economy. Where did you get that name for 
me?'

'Picked it up, one day when you ceased to be an enemy.'

'In some place where worn-out were lying about. Worn-out things 
are shabby.'

Hazel drew a protesting breath. 'There is nothing shabby or worn-
out about it! It is entirely new,spick and span. Please, is my next 
lesson to go deeper than Prim's trunk, and take off all the globe 
buttons?'

'For people who have no gloves, Hazel?'

Hazel looked startled for a minute, but then she looked 
incredulous.

'Go and find out all about it,' she said; 'and then we shall know 
what to do. I am talking of clergymen's wives.'

Dane left that point uncombated. The next evening he came in 
with his hands full of pamphlets. And after dinner, when the room 
was clear, and the gas burners lighted up the warm, luxurious 
comfort and seclusion, glowing and rich, around them, Dane took 
his papers and sat down by Wych Hazel's side.

'I have found out several things about your clergymen's wives,' he 
began. 'Here, as you see, is a bundle of Reports. They concern 
certain funds of relief, established in various churches, for the help 
of disabled or superannuated ministers and their families. And, 
without going into details,there are hundreds of such cases. 
Some of them are sick and old ministers, worn out in the service; 
others are widows of such men; others again, orphan families, 
whose mother and father are both gone. I have been told of the sort 
of destitution that is found among them. What do you think of a 
delicate child, for whom a bit of flannel could not be afforded? 
What do you think of a family of women and girls getting their 
own firing out of the woods, cutting it and backing it home, and 
that by the year together? What do you think of an old minister 
supported by the handiwork of an infirm and herself not young 
daughter? And I could tell you of living without books, without 
paper for writing, in want of calico for dresses, and muslin for 
underclothing, without pocket-handkerchiefs, without yarn to knit 
stockings or a penny to buy any, living on the coarsest food And 
I am talking of clergymen's wives, Hazel.'

Hazel looked up at him with wide-open eyes while he spoke, then 
down at herself, taking a sort of inventory of her own belongings. 
What stores of embroidery and lace were there, even hidden away 
and out of sight! And what sort of relation did these costly silken 
folds bear to those needed calicoes? Her note-paper was 
monogrammed and edged to double its first cost;that shawl, 
tossed carelessly on a chair, would have clothed in flannel a whole 
hospital of sick children. Point by point she went over it all past 
the thirty dollar buckle at her belt down toI dare not say how 
many dollars' worth of shoes that covered the little feet.

And these people were life-long workers for goodor children of 
such men and women, who had hazarded their lives for the Lord 
Jesus,and she, an idler all her life! Hazel put her head down in 
her hands, and answered not a word.

Dane waited awhile; then he ventured a gentle query.

'I cannot bear myself!' Hazel broke out. 'I feel as if I had been 
stealing, and defrauding, and embezzling, and every other 
dishonest word in the dictionary! O do you think the cry of such 
labourers has been going up against me, all my life?'

'What shall we put in our boxes?' said Dane smiling.

Hazel caught up a bit of paper and ran off a list long enough to call 
for good packing,then she stopped suddenly.

'Olafwe cannot send in the dark. One man may have ten 
children, and another may have no wife. And people in Florida 
don't want thick shawls, and Oregon can do without thin muslins.'
