on her head.

“I wish you wouldn’t look at me in that way it fidgets me,” she said a
little petulantly, for she had been out riding, and knew that she did
not present a “spiritual” appearance after the frosty air had reddened
nose as well as cheeks.

“I’ll try to remember. It does itself before I know it. Perhaps this may
mend matters.” And, taking out the blue glasses he sometimes wore in the
wind, he gravely put them on.

Rose could not help laughing, but his obedience only aggravated her, for
she knew he could observe her all the better behind his ugly screen.

“No, it won’t they are not becoming, and I don’t want to look blue when
I do not feel so,” she said, finding it impossible to guess what he
would do next or to help enjoying his peculiarities.

“But you don’t to me, for in spite of the goggles everything is
rose-colored now.” And he pocketed the glasses without a murmur at the
charming inconsistency of his idol.

“Really, Mac, I’m tired of this nonsense, it worries me and wastes your
time.”

“Never worked harder. But does it really trouble you to know I love
you?” he asked anxiously.

“Don’t you see how cross it makes me?” And she walked away, feeling that
things were not going as she intended to have them at all.

“I don’t mind the thorns if I get the rose at last, and I still hope I
may, some ten years hence,” said this persistent suitor, quite undaunted
by the prospect of a “long wait.”

“I think it is rather hard to be loved whether I like it or not,”
 objected Rose, at a loss how to make any headway against such
indomitable hopefulness.

“But you can’t help it, nor can I so I must go on doing it with all my
heart till you marry, and then well, then I’m afraid I may hate somebody
instead,” and Mac spoilt the pen by an involuntary slash of his knife.

“Please don’t, Mac!”

“Do which, love or hate?”

“Don’t do either go and care for someone else; there are plenty of nice
girls who will be glad to make you happy,” said Rose, intent upon ending
her disquiet in some way.

“That is too easy. I enjoy working for my blessings, and the harder I
have to work, the more I value them when they come.”

“Then if I suddenly grew very kind, would you stop caring about me?”
 asked Rose, wondering if that treatment would free her from a passion
which both touched and tormented her.

“Try and see.” But there was a traitorous glimmer in Mac’s eyes which
plainly showed what a failure it would be.

“No, I’ll get something to do, so absorbing I shall forget all about
you.”

“Don’t think about me if it troubles you,” he said tenderly.

“I can’t help it.” Rose tried to catch back the words, but it was too
late, and she added hastily, “That is, I cannot help wishing you would
forget me. It is a great disappointment to find I was mistaken when I
hoped such fine things of you.”

“Yes, you were very sure that it was love when it was poetry, and now
you want poetry when I’ve nothing on hand but love. Will both together
please you?”

“Try and see.”

“I’ll do my best. Anything else?” he asked, forgetting the small task
she had given him in his eagerness to attempt the greater.

“Tell me one thing. I’ve often wanted to know, and now you speak of it
I’ll venture to ask. Did you care about me when you read Keats to me
last summer?”

“No.”

“When did you begin?” asked Rose, smiling in spite of herself at his
unflattering honesty.

“How can I tell? Perhaps it did begin up there, though, for that talk
set us writing, and the letters showed me what a beautiful soul you had.
I loved that first it was so quick to recognize good things, to use them
when they came, and give them out again as unconsciously as a flower
does its breath. I longed for you to come home, and wanted you to find
me altered for the better in some way as I had found you. And when you
came it was very easy to see why I needed you to love you entirely, and
to tell you so. That’s all, Rose.”

A short story, but it was enough the voice that told it with such simple
truth made the few words so eloquent, Rose felt strongly tempted to add
the sequel Mac desired. But her eyes had fallen as he spoke, for she
knew his were fixed upon her, dark and dilated, with the same repressed
emotion that put such fervor into his quiet tones, and just as she was
about to look up, they fell on a shabby little footstool. Trifles affect
women curiously, and often most irresistibly when some agitation sways
them. The sight of the old hassock vividly recalled Charlie, for he
had kicked it on the night she never liked to remember. Like a spark it
fired a long train of recollections, and the thought went through her
mind: “I fancied I loved him, and let him see it, but I deceived myself,
and he reproached me for a single look that said too much. This feeling
is very different, but too new and sudden to be trusted. I’ll neither
look nor speak till I am quite sure, for Mac’s love is far deeper than
poor Charlie’s, and I must be very true.”

Not in words did the resolve shape itself, but in a quick impulse, which
she obeyed certain that it was right, since it was hard to yield to it.
Only an instant’s silence followed Mac’s answer as she stood looking
down with fingers intertwined and color varying in her cheeks. A foolish
attitude, but Mac thought it a sweet picture of maiden hesitation and
began to hope that a month’s wooing was about to end in winning for a
lifetime. He deceived himself, however, and cold water fell upon his
flame, subduing but by no means quenching it, when Rose looked up with
an air of determination which could not escape eyes that were growing
wonderfully farsighted lately.

“I came in here to beg Uncle to advise you to go away soon. You are very
patient and forbearing, and I feel it more than I can tell. But it
is not good for you to depend on anyone so much for your happiness, I
think, and I know it is bad for me to feel that I have so much power
over a fellow creature. Go away, Mac, and see if this isn’t all a
mistake. Don’t let a fancy for me change or delay your work, because
it may end as suddenly as it began, and then we should both reproach
ourselves and each other. Please do! I respect and care for you so much,
I can’t be happy to take all and give nothing. I try to, but I’m not
sure I want to think it is too soon to know yet.”

Rose began bravely, but ended in a fluttered sort of way as she moved
toward the door, for Mac’s face though it fell at first, brightened
as she went on, and at the last word, uttered almost involuntarily, he
actually laughed low to himself, as if this order into exile pleased him
much.

“Don’t say that you give nothing, when you’ve just shown me that I’m
getting on. I’ll go; I’ll go at once, and see if absence won’t help
you ‘to think, to know, and to be sure’ as it did me. I wish I could do
something more for you. As I can’t, good-bye.”

“Are you going now?” And Rose paused in her retreat to look back with a
startled face as he offered her a badly made pen and opened the door
for her just as Dr. Alec always did; for, in spite of himself, Mac did
resemble the best of uncles.

“Not yet, but you seem to be.”

Rose turned as red as a poppy, snatched the pen, and flew upstairs, to
call herself hard names as she industriously spoiled all Aunt Plenty’s
new pocket handkerchiefs by marking them “A.M.C.”

Three days later Mac said “good-bye” in earnest, and no one was
surprised that he left somewhat abruptly, such being his way, and a
course of lectures by a famous physician the ostensible reason for a
trip to L----. Uncle Alec deserted most shamefully at the last moment
by sending word that he would be at the station to see the traveler
off, Aunt Plenty was still in her room, so when Mac came down from his
farewell to her, Rose met him in the hall, as if anxious not to delay
him. She was a little afraid of another tete-a-tete, as she fared so
badly at the last, and had assumed a calm and cousinly air which she
flattered herself would plainly show on what terms she wished to part.

Mac apparently understood, and not only took the hint, but surpassed her
in cheerful composure, for, merely saying “Good-bye, Cousin; write
when you feel like it,” he shook hands and walked out of the house as
tranquilly as if only a day instead of three months were to pass before
they met again. Rose felt as if a sudden shower bath had chilled her
and was about to retire, saying to herself with disdainful decision:
“There’s no love about it after all, only one of the eccentricities of
genius,” when a rush of cold air made her turn to find herself in what
appeared to be the embrace of an impetuous overcoat, which wrapped her
close for an instant, then vanished as suddenly as it had come, leaving
her to hide in the sanctum and confide to Psyche with a tender sort of
triumph in her breathless voice: “No, no, it isn’t genius that must be
love!”




Chapter 19 BEHIND THE FOUNTAIN

Two days after Christmas a young man of serious aspect might have been
seen entering one of the large churches at L----. Being shown to a seat,
he joined in the services with praiseworthy devotion, especially the
music, to which he listened with such evident pleasure that a gentleman
who sat nearby felt moved to address this appreciative stranger after
church.

“Fine sermon today. Ever heard our minister before, sir?” he began, as
they went down the aisle together among the last, for the young man had
lingered as if admiring the ancient building.

“Very fine. No, sir, I have never had that pleasure. I’ve often wished
to see this old place, and am not at all disappointed. Your choir,
too, is unusually good,” answered the stranger, glancing up at several
bonnets bobbing about behind the half-drawn curtains above.

“Finest in the city, sir. We pride ourselves on our music, and always
have the best. People often come for that alone.” And the old gentleman
looked as satisfied as if a choir of cherubim and seraphim “continually
did cry” in his organ loft.

“Who is the contralto? That solo was beautifully sung,” observed the
younger man, pausing to read a tablet on the wall.

“That is Miss Moore. Been here about a year, and is universally
admired. Excellent young lady couldn’t do without her. Sings superbly in
oratorios. Ever heard her?”

“Never. She came from X, I believe?

“Yes, highly recommended. She was brought up by one of the first
families there. Campbell is the name. If you come from X, you doubtless
know them.”

“I have met them. Good morning.” And with bows the gentlemen parted, for
at that instant the young man caught sight of a tall lady going down the
church steps with a devout expression in her fine eyes and a prayer-book
in her hand.

Hastening after her, the serious-minded young man accosted her just as
she turned into a quiet street.

“Phebe!”

Only a word, but it wrought a marvelous change, for the devout
expression vanished in the drawing of a breath, and the quiet face
blossomed suddenly with color, warmth, and “the light that never was on
sea or land” as she turned to meet her lover with an answering word as
eloquent as his.

“Archie!”

“The year is out today. I told you I should come. Have you forgotten?”

“No I knew you’d come.”

“And are you glad?”

“How can I help it?”

“You can’t don’t try. Come into this little park and let us talk.” And
drawing her hand through his arm, Archie led her into what to other
eyes was a very dismal square, with a boarded-up fountain in the middle,
sodden grass plots, and dead leaves dancing in the wintry wind.

But to them it was a summery Paradise, and they walked to and fro in the
pale sunshine, quite unconscious that they were objects of interest
to several ladies and gentlemen waiting anxiously for their dinner or
yawning over the dull books kept for Sunday reading. “Are you ready
to come home now, Phebe?” asked Archie tenderly as he looked at the
downcast face beside him and wondered why all women did not wear
delightful little black velvet bonnets with one deep red flower against
their hair.

“Not yet. I haven’t done enough,” began Phebe, finding it very hard to
keep the resolution made a year ago.

“You have proved that you can support yourself, make friends, and earn a
name, if you choose. No one can deny that, and we are all getting proud
of you. What more can you ask, my dearest?”

“I don’t quite know, but I am very ambitious. I want to be famous, to do
something for you all, to make some sacrifice for Rose, and, if I can,
to have something to give up for your sake. Let me wait and work longer
I know I haven’t earned my welcome yet,” pleaded Phebe so earnestly
that her lover knew it would be in vain to try and turn her, so wisely
contented himself with half, since he could not have the whole.

“Such a proud woman! Yet I love you all the better for it, and
understand your feeling. Rose made me see how it seems to you, and I
don’t wonder that you cannot forget the unkind things that were looked,
if not said, by some of my amiable aunts. I’ll try to be patient on one
condition, Phebe.”

“And what is that?”

“You are to let me come sometimes while I wait, and wear this lest you
should forget me,” he said, pulling a ring from his pocket and gently
drawing a warm, bare hand out of the muff where it lay hidden.

“Yes, Archie, but not here not now!” cried Phebe, glancing about her as
if suddenly aware that they were not alone.

“No one can see us here I thought of that. Give me one happy minute,
after this long, long year of waiting,” answered Archie, pausing just
where the fountain hid them from all eyes, for there were houses only on
one side.

Phebe submitted and never did a plain gold ring slip more easily to its
place than the one he put on in such a hurry that cold December day.
Then one hand went back into the muff red with the grasp he gave it, and
the other to its old place on his arm with a confiding gesture, as if it
had a right there.

“Now I feel sure of you,” said Archie as they went on again, and no one
the wiser for that tender transaction behind the ugly pyramid of boards.
“Mac wrote me that you were much admired by your church people, and that
certain wealthy bachelors evidently had designs on the retiring Miss
Moore. I was horribly jealous, but now I defy every man of them.”

Phebe smiled with the air of proud humility that was so becoming and
answered briefly: “There was no danger kings could not change me,
whether you ever came or not. But Mac should not have told you.”

“You shall be revenged on him, then, for, as he told secrets about you,
I’ll tell you one about him. Phebe, he loves Rose!” And Archie looked as
if he expected to make a great sensation with his news.

“I know it.” And Phebe laughed at his sudden change of countenance as he
added inquiringly, “She told you, then?”

“Not a word. I guessed it from her letters, for lately she says nothing
about Mac, and before there was a good deal, so I suspected what the
silence meant and asked no questions.”

“Wise girl! Then you think she does care for the dear old fellow?”

“Of course she does. Didn’t he tell you so?”

“No, he only said when he went away, ‘Take care of my Rose, and I’ll
take care of your Phebe,’ and not another thing could I get out of him,
for I did ask questions. He stood by me like a hero, and kept Aunt Jane
from driving me stark mad with her ‘advice.’ I don’t forget that, and
burned to lend him a hand somewhere, but he begged me to let him manage
his wooing in his own way. And from what I see, I should say he knew how
to do it,” added Archie, finding it very delightful to gossip about love
affairs with his sweetheart.

“Dear little mistress! How does she behave?” asked Phebe, longing
for news, but too grateful to ask at headquarters, remembering how
generously Rose had tried to help her, even by silence, the greatest
sacrifice a woman can make at such interesting periods.

“Very sweet and shy and charming. I try not to watch but upon my word I
cannot help it sometimes, she is so ‘cunning,’ as you girls say. When I
carry her a letter from Mac she tries so hard not to show how glad she
is that I want to laugh and tell her I know all about it. But I look as
sober as a judge and as stupid as an owl by daylight, and she enjoys her
letters in peace and thinks I’m so absorbed in my own passion that I’m
blind to hers.”

“But why did Mac come away? He says lectures brought him, and he goes,
but I am sure something else is in his mind, he looks so happy at times.
I don’t see him very often, but when I do I’m conscious that he isn’t
the Mac I left a year ago,” said Phebe, leading Archie away, for
inexorable propriety forbade a longer stay, even if prudence and duty
had not given her a reminding nudge, as it was very cold, and afternoon
church came in an hour.

“Well, you see Mac was always peculiar, and he cannot even grow up like
other fellows. I don’t understand him yet, and am sure he’s got some
plan in his head that no one suspects, unless it is Uncle Alec. Love
makes us all cut queer capers, and I’ve an idea that the Don will
distinguish himself in some uncommon way. So be prepared to applaud
whatever it is. We owe him that, you know.”

“Indeed we do! If Rose ever speaks of him to you, tell her I shall see
that he comes to no harm, and she must do the same for my Archie.”

That unusual demonstration of tenderness from reserved Phebe very
naturally turned the conversation into a more personal channel, and
Archie devoted himself to building castles in the air so successfully
that they passed the material mansion without either being aware of it.

“Will you come in?” asked Phebe when the mistake was rectified and she
stood on her own steps looking down at her escort, who had discreetly
released her before a pull at the bell caused five heads to pop up at
five different windows.

“No, thanks. I shall be at church this afternoon, and the oratorio this
evening. I must be off early in the morning, so let me make the most of
precious time and come home with you tonight as I did before,” answered
Archie, making his best bow, and quite sure of consent.

“You may.” And Phebe vanished, closing the door softly, as if she found
it hard to shut out so much love and happiness as that in the heart of
the sedate young gentleman who went briskly down the street humming a
verse of old “Clyde” like a tuneful bass viol:

    “Oh, let our mingling voices rise
    In grateful rapture to the skies,
    Where love has had its birth.

    Let songs of joy this day declare
    That spirits come their bliss to share
    With all the sons of earth.”

That afternoon Miss Moore sang remarkably well, and that evening quite
electrified even her best friends by the skill and power with which she
rendered “Inflammatus” in the oratorio.

“If that is not genius, I should like to know what it is?” said one
young man to another as they went out just before the general crush at
the end.

“Some genius and a great deal of love. They are a grand team, and,
when well driven, astonish the world by the time they make in the great
race,” answered the second young man with the look of one inclined to
try his hand at driving that immortal span.

“Daresay you are right. Can’t stop now she’s waiting for me. Don’t sit
up, Mac.”

“The gods go with you, Archie.”

And the cousins separated one to write till midnight, the other to bid
his Phebe good-bye, little dreaming how unexpectedly and successfully
she was to earn her welcome home.




Chapter 20 WHAT MAC DID

Rose, meantime, was trying to find out what the sentiment was with
which she regarded her cousin Mac. She could not seem to reconcile the
character she had known so long with the new one lately shown her, and
the idea of loving the droll, bookish, absentminded Mac of former times
appeared quite impossible and absurd, but the new Mac, wide awake, full
of talent, ardent and high-handed, was such a surprise to her, she felt
as if her heart was being won by a stranger, and it became her to study
him well before yielding to a charm which she could not deny.

Affection came naturally, and had always been strong for the boy; regard
for the studious youth easily deepened to respect for the integrity of
the young man, and now something warmer was growing up within her; but
at first she could not decide whether it was admiration for the rapid
unfolding of talent of some sort or love answering to love.

As if to settle that point, Mac sent her on New Year’s Day a little book
plainly bound and modestly entitled Songs and Sonnets. After reading
this with ever-growing surprise and delight, Rose never had another
doubt about the writer’s being a poet, for though she was no critic, she
had read the best authors and knew what was good. Unpretentious as it
was, this had the true ring, and its very simplicity showed conscious
power for, unlike so many first attempts, the book was not full of “My
Lady,” neither did it indulge in Swinburnian convulsions about

    “The lilies and languors of peace,
    The roses and raptures of love.”;

or contain any of the highly colored medieval word pictures so much
in vogue. “My book should smell of pines, and resound with the hum of
insects,” might have been its motto, so sweet and wholesome was it with
a springlike sort of freshness which plainly betrayed that the author
had learned some of Nature’s deepest secrets and possessed the skill to
tell them in tuneful words. The songs went ringing through one’s memory
long after they were read, and the sonnets were full of the subtle
beauty, insight, and half-unconscious wisdom, which seem to prove that
“genius is divine when young.”

Many faults it had, but was so full of promise that it was evident Mac
had not “kept good company, read good books, loved good things, and
cultivated soul and body as faithfully as he could” in vain. It all
told now, for truth and virtue had blossomed into character and had a
language of their own more eloquent than the poetry to which they were
what the fragrance is to the flower. Wiser critics than Rose felt and
admired this; less partial ones could not deny their praise to a first
effort, which seemed as spontaneous and aspiring as a lark’s song; and,
when one or two of these Jupiters had given a nod of approval, Mac found
himself, not exactly famous, but much talked about. One set abused, the
other set praised, and the little book was sadly mauled among them, for
it was too original to be ignored, and too robust to be killed by hard
usage, so it came out of the fray none the worse but rather brighter, if
anything, for the friction which proved the gold genuine.

This took time, however, and Rose could only sit at home reading all the
notices she could get, as well as the literary gossip Phebe sent
her, for Mac seldom wrote, and never a word about himself, so Phebe
skillfully extracted from him in their occasional meetings all the
personal news her feminine wit could collect and faithfully reported it.

It was a little singular that without a word of inquiry on either side,
the letters of the girls were principally filled with tidings of their
respective lovers. Phebe wrote about Mac; Rose answered with minute
particulars about Archie; and both added hasty items concerning their
own affairs, as if these were of little consequence.

Phebe got the most satisfaction out of the correspondence, for soon
after the book appeared Rose began to want Mac home again and to be
rather jealous of the new duties and delights that kept him. She was
immensely proud of her poet, and had little jubilees over the beautiful
fulfillment of her prophecies, for even Aunt Plenty owned now with
contrition that “the boy was not a fool.” Every word of praise was
read aloud on the housetops, so to speak, by happy Rose; every adverse
criticism was hotly disputed; and the whole family was in a great state
of pleasant excitement over this unexpectedly successful first flight of
the Ugly Duckling, now generally considered by his relatives as the most
promising young swan of the flock.

Aunt Jane was particularly funny in her new position of mother to a
callow poet and conducted herself like a proud but bewildered hen when
one of her brood takes to the water. She pored over the poems, trying
to appreciate them but quite failing to do so, for life was all prose to
her, and she vainly tried to discover where Mac got his talent from. It
was pretty to see the new respect with which she treated his possessions
now; the old books were dusted with a sort of reverence; scraps of paper
were laid carefully by lest some immortal verse be lost; and a certain
shabby velvet jacket fondly smoothed when no one was by to smile at
the maternal pride with filled her heart and caused her once severe
countenance to shine with unwonted benignity.

Uncle Mac talked about “my son” with ill-concealed satisfaction, and
evidently began to feel as if his boy was going to confer distinction
upon the whole race of Campbell, which had already possessed one poet.
Steve exulted with irrepressible delight and went about quoting Songs
and Sonnets till he bored his friends dreadfully by his fraternal
raptures.

Archie took it more quietly, and even suggested that it was too soon to
crow yet, for the dear old fellow’s first burst might be his last, since
it was impossible to predict what he would do next. Having proved that
he could write poetry, he might drop it for some new world to conquer,
quoting his favorite Thoreau, who, having made a perfect pencil, gave
up the business and took to writing books with the sort of indelible ink
which grows clearer with time.

The aunts of course had their “views,” and enjoyed much prophetic gossip
as they wagged their caps over many social cups of tea. The younger boys
thought it “very jolly,” and hoped the Don would “go ahead and come
to glory as soon as possible,” which was all that could by expected of
“Young America,” with whom poetry is not usually a passion.

But Dr. Alec was a sight for “sair een,” so full of concentrated
contentment was he. No one but Rose, perhaps, knew how proud and pleased
the good man felt at this first small success of his godson, for he had
always had high hopes of the boy, because in spite of his oddities he
had such an upright nature, and promising little, did much, with the
quiet persistence which foretells a manly character. All the romance
of the doctor’s heart was stirred by this poetic bud of promise and
the love that made it bloom so early, for Mac had confided his hopes to
Uncle, finding great consolation and support in his sympathy and advice.
Like a wise man, Dr. Alec left the young people to learn the great
lesson in their own way, counseling Mac to work and Rose to wait till
both were quite certain that their love was built on a surer foundation
than admiration or youthful romance.

Meantime he went about with a well-worn little book in his pocket,
humming bits from a new set of songs and repeating with great fervor
certain sonnets which seemed to him quite equal, if not superior, to
any that Shakespeare ever wrote. As Rose was doing the same thing, they
often met for a private “read and warble,” as they called it, and while
discussing the safe subject of Mac’s poetry, both arrived at a pretty
clear idea of what Mac’s reward was to be when he came home.

He seemed in no hurry to do this, however, and continued to astonish his
family by going into society and coming out brilliantly in that line.
It takes very little to make a lion, as everyone knows who has seen what
poor specimens are patted and petted every year, in spite of their bad
manners, foolish vagaries, and very feeble roaring. Mac did not want to
be lionized and took it rather scornfully, which only added to the charm
that people suddenly discovered about the nineteenth cousin of Thomas
Campbell, the poet. He desired to be distinguished in the best sense
of the word, as well as to look so, and thought a little of the polish
society gives would not be amiss, remembering Rose’s efforts in that
line. For her sake he came out of his shell and went about seeing and
testing all sorts of people with those observing eyes of his, which saw
so much in spite of their nearsightedness. What use he meant to make of
these new experiences no one knew, for he wrote short letters and,
when questioned, answered with imperturbable patience: “Wait till I get
through; then I’ll come home and talk about it.”

So everyone waited for the poet, till something happened which
produced a greater sensation in the family than if all the boys had
simultaneously taken to rhyming.

Dr. Alec got very impatient and suddenly announced that he was going to
L to see after those young people, for Phebe was rapidly singing herself
into public favor with the sweet old ballads which she rendered so
beautifully that hearers were touched as well as ears delighted, and her
prospects brightened every month.

“Will you come with me, Rose, and surprise this ambitious pair who are
getting famous so fast they’ll forget their homekeeping friends if we
don’t remind them of us now and then?” he said when he proposed the trip
one wild March morning.

“No, thank you, sir I’ll stay with Aunty; that is all I’m fit for and
I should only be in the way among those fine people,” answered Rose,
snipping away at the plants blooming in the study window.

There was a slight bitterness in her voice and a cloud on her face,
which her uncle heard and saw at once, half guessed the meaning of, and
could not rest till he had found out.

“Do you think Phebe and Mac would not care to see you?” he asked,
putting down a letter in which Mac gave a glowing account of a concert
at which Phebe surpassed herself.

“No, but they must be very busy,” began Rose, wishing she had held her
tongue.

“Then what is the matter?” persisted Dr. Alec.

Rose did not speak for a moment, and decapitated two fine geraniums with
a reckless slash of her scissors, as if pent-up vexation of some kind
must find a vent. It did in words also, for, as if quite against her
will, she exclaimed impetuously: “The truth is, I’m jealous of them
both!”

“Bless my soul! What now?” ejaculated the doctor in great surprise.

Rose put down her water pot and shears, came and stood before him with
her hands nervously twisted together, and said, just as she used to do
when she was a little girl confessing some misdeed: “Uncle, I must tell
you, for I’ve been getting very envious, discontented, and bad lately.
No, don’t be good to me yet, for you don’t know how little I deserve it.
Scold me well, and make me see how wicked I am.”

“I will as soon as I know what I am to scold about. Unburden yourself,
child, and let me see all your iniquity, for if you begin by being
jealous of Mac and Phebe, I’m prepared for anything,” said Dr. Alec,
leaning back as if nothing could surprise him now.

“But I am not jealous in that way, sir. I mean I want to be or do
something splendid as well as they. I can’t write poetry or sing like a
bird, but I should think I might have my share of glory in some way. I
thought perhaps I could paint, and I’ve tried, but I can only copy I’ve
no power to invent lovely things, and I’m so discouraged, for that is
my one accomplishment. Do you think I have any gift that could be
cultivated and do me credit like theirs?” she asked so wistfully that
her uncle felt for a moment as if he never could forgive the fairies who
endow babies in their cradles for being so niggardly to his girl. But
one look into the sweet, open face before him reminded him that the good
elves had been very generous and he answered cheerfully: “Yes, I do, for
you have one of the best and noblest gifts a woman can possess. Music
and poetry are fine things, and I don’t wonder you want them, or that
you envy the pleasant fame they bring. I’ve felt just so, and been ready
to ask why it didn’t please heaven to be more generous to some people,
so you needn’t be ashamed to tell me all about it.”

“I know I ought to be contented, but I’m not. My life is very
comfortable, but so quiet and uneventful, I get tired of it and want to
launch out as the others have, and do something, or at least try. I’m
glad you think it isn’t very bad of me, and I’d like to know what my
gift is,” said Rose, looking less despondent already.

“The art of living for others so patiently and sweetly that we enjoy it
as we do the sunshine, and are not half grateful enough for the great
blessing.”

“It is very kind of you to say so, but I think I’d like a little fun and
fame nevertheless.” And Rose did not look as thankful as she ought.

“Very natural, dear, but the fun and the fame do not last, while the
memory of a real helper is kept green long after poetry is forgotten and
music silent. Can’t you believe that, and be happy?”

“But I do so little, nobody sees or cares, and I don’t feel as if I was
really of any use,” sighed Rose, thinking of the long, dull winter, full
of efforts that seemed fruitless.

“Sit here, and let us see if you really do very little and if no one
cares.” And, drawing her to his knee, Dr. Alec went on, telling off each
item on one of the fingers of the soft hand he held.

“First, an infirm old aunt is kept very happy by the patient, cheerful
care of this good-for-nothing niece. Secondly, a crotchety uncle, for
whom she reads, runs, writes, and sews so willingly that he cannot get
on without her. Thirdly, various relations who are helped in various
ways. Fourthly, one dear friend never forgotten, and a certain cousin
cheered by praise which is more to him than the loudest blast Fame could
blow. Fifthly, several young girls find her an example of many good
works and ways. Sixthly, a motherless baby is cared for as tenderly as
if she were a little sister. Seventhly, half a dozen poor ladies made
comfortable; and, lastly, some struggling boys and girls with artistic
longings are put into a pleasant room furnished with casts, studies,
easels, and all manner of helpful things, not to mention free lessons
given by this same idle girl, who now sits upon my knee owning to
herself that her gift is worth having after all.”

“Indeed, I am! Uncle, I’d no idea I had done so many things to please
you, or that anyone guessed how hard I try to fill my place usefully.
I’ve learned to do without gratitude now I’ll learn not to care for
praise, but to be contented to do my best, and have only God know.”

“He knows, and He rewards in His own good time. I think a quiet life
like this often makes itself felt in better ways than one that the world
sees and applauds, and some of the noblest are never known till they
end, leaving a void in many hearts. Yours may be one of these if you
choose to make it so, and no one will be prouder of this success than I,
unless it be Mac.”

The clouds were quite gone now, and Rose was looking straight into her
uncle’s face with a much happier expression when that last word made
it color brightly and the eyes glance away for a second. Then they came
back full of a tender sort of resolution as she said: “That will be
the reward I work for,” and rose, as if ready to be up and doing with
renewed courage.

But her uncle held her long enough to ask quite soberly, though his eyes
laughed: “Shall I tell him that?”

“No, sir, please don’t! When he is tired of other people’s praise, he
will come home, and then I’ll see what I can do for him,” answered Rose,
slipping away to her work with the shy, happy look that sometimes came
to give to her face the charm it needed.

“He is such a thorough fellow, he never is in a hurry to go from one
thing to another. An excellent habit, but a trifle trying to impatient
people like me,” said the doctor and, picking up Dulce, who sat upon
the rug with her dolly, he composed his feelings by tossing her till she
crowed with delight.

Rose heartily echoed that last remark, but said nothing aloud, only
helped her uncle off with dutiful alacrity and, when he was gone, began
to count the days till his return, wishing she had decided to go too.

He wrote often, giving excellent accounts of the “great creatures,” as
Steve called Phebe and Mac, and seemed to find so much to do in various
ways that the second week of absence was nearly over before he set a
day for his return, promising to astonish them with the account of his
adventures.

Rose felt as if something splendid was going to happen and set her
affairs in order so that the approaching crisis might find her fully
prepared. She had “found out” now, was quite sure, and put away all
doubts and fears to be ready to welcome home the cousin whom she was
sure Uncle would bring as her reward. She was thinking of this one day
as she got out her paper to write a long letter to poor Aunt Clara, who
pined for news far away there in Calcutta.

Something in the task reminded her of that other lover whose wooing
ended so tragically, and opening a little drawer of keepsakes, she took
out the blue bracelet, feeling that she owed Charlie a tender thought in
the midst of her new happiness, for of late she had forgotten him.

She had worn the trinket hidden under her black sleeve for a long time
after his death, with the regretful constancy one sometimes shows in
doing some little kindness all too late. But her arm had grown too round
to hide the ornament, the forget-me-nots had fallen one by one,
the clasp had broken, and that autumn she laid the bracelet away,
acknowledging that she had outgrown the souvenir as well as the
sentiment that gave it.

She looked at it in silence for a moment, then put it softly back and,
shutting the drawer, took up the little gray book which was her pride,
thinking as she contrasted the two men and their influence on her life
the one sad and disturbing, the other sweet and inspiring “Charlie’s was
passion Mac’s is love.”

“Rose! Rose!” called a shrill voice, rudely breaking the pensive
reverie, and with a start, she shut the desk, exclaiming as she ran to
the door: “They have come! They have come!”




Chapter 21 HOW PHEBE EARNED HER WELCOME

Dr. Alec had not arrived, but bad tidings had, as Rose guessed the
instant her eyes fell upon Aunt Plenty, hobbling downstairs with her
cap awry, her face pale, and a letter flapping wildly in her hand as she
cried distractedly: “Oh, my boy! My boy! Sick, and I not there to nurse
him! Malignant fever, so far away. What can those children do? Why did I
let Alec go?”

Rose got her into the parlor, and while the poor old lady lamented, she
read the letter which Phebe had sent to her that she might “break the
news carefully to Rose.”

DEAR MISS PLENTY, Please read this to yourself first, and tell my little
mistress as you think best. The dear doctor is very ill, but I am with
him, and shall not leave him day or night till he is safe. So trust me,
and do not be anxious, for everything shall be done that care and skill
and entire devotion can do. He would not let us tell you before, fearing
you would try to come at the risk of your health. Indeed it would be
useless, for only one nurse is needed, and I came first, so do not let
Rose or anybody else rob me of my right to the danger and the duty. Mac
has written to his father, for Dr. Alec is now too ill to know what we
do, and we both felt that you ought to be told without further delay. He
has a bad malignant fever, caught no one can tell how, unless among some
poor emigrants whom he met wandering about quite forlorn in a strange
city. He understood Portuguese and sent them to a proper place when they
had told their story. But I fear he has suffered for his kindness, for
this fever came on rapidly, and before he knew what it was I was there,
and it was too late to send me away.

Now I can show you how grateful I am, and if need be give my life so
gladly for this friend who has been a father to me. Tell Rose his last
conscious word and thought were for her. “Don’t let her come; keep my
darling safe.” Oh, do obey him! Stay safely at home and, God helping me,
I’ll bring Uncle Alec back in time. Mac does all I will let him. We have
the best physicians, and everything is going as well as can be hoped
till the fever turns.

Dear Miss Plenty, pray for him and for me, that I may do this one happy
thing for those who have done so much for Your ever dutiful and loving

PHEBE

As Rose looked up from the letter, half stunned by the sudden news
and the great danger, she found that the old lady had already stopped
useless bewailing and was praying heartily, like one who knew well where
help was to be found. Rose went and knelt down at her knee, laying her
face on the clasped hands in her lap, and for a few minutes neither
wept nor spoke. Then a stifled sob broke from the girl, and Aunt Plenty
gathered the young head in her arms, saying, with the slow tears of age
trickling down her own withered cheeks: “Bear up, my lamb, bear up. The
good Lord won’t take him from us I am sure and that brave child will be
allowed to pay her debt to him. I feel she will.”

“But I want to help. I must go, Aunty, I must no matter what the danger
is,” cried Rose, full of a tender jealousy of Phebe for being first to
brave peril for the sake of him who had been a father to them both.

“You can’t go, dear, it’s no use now, and she is right to say, ‘Keep
away.’ I know those fevers, and the ones who nurse often take it, and
fare worse for the strain they’ve been through. Good girl to stand by so
bravely, to be so sensible, and not let Mac go too near! She’s a grand
nurse Alec couldn’t have a better, and she’ll never leave him till he’s
safe,” said Miss Plenty excitedly.

“Ah, you begin to know her now, and value her as you ought. I think few
would have done as she has, and if she does get ill and die, it will be
our fault partly, because she’d go through fire and water to make us
do her justice and receive her as we ought,” cried Rose, proud of an
example which she longed to follow.

“If she brings my boy home, I’ll never say another word. She may marry
every nephew I’ve got, if she likes, and I’ll give her my blessing,”
 exclaimed Aunt Plenty, feeling that no price would be too much to pay
for such a deed.

Rose was going to clap her hands, but wrung them instead, remembering
with a sudden pang that the battle was not over yet, and it was much too
soon to award the honors.

Before she could speak Uncle Mac and Aunt Jane hurried in, for Mac’s
letter had come with the other, and dismay fell upon the family at the
thought of danger to the well-beloved Uncle Alec. His brother decided
to go at once, and Aunt Jane insisted on accompanying him, though all
agreed that nothing could be done but wait, and leave Phebe at her post
as long as she held out, since it was too late to save her from danger
now and Mac reported her quite equal to the task.

Great was the hurry and confusion till the relief party was off. Aunt
Plenty was heartbroken that she could not go with them, but felt that
she was too infirm to be useful and, like a sensible old soul, tried to
content herself with preparing all sorts of comforts for the invalid.
Rose was less patient, and at first had wild ideas of setting off alone
and forcing her way to the spot where all her thoughts now centered. But
before she could carry out any rash project, Aunt Myra’s palpitations
set in so alarmingly that they did good service for once and kept Rose
busy taking her last directions and trying to soothe her dying bed, for
each attack was declared fatal till the patient demanded toast and tea,
when hope was again allowable and the rally began.

The news flew fast, as such tidings always do, and Aunt Plenty was
constantly employed in answering inquiries, for her knocker kept up a
steady tattoo for several days. All sorts of people came: gentlefolk
and paupers, children with anxious little faces, old people full of
sympathy, pretty girls sobbing as they went away, and young men who
relieved their feelings by swearing at all emigrants in general and
Portuguese in particular. It was touching and comforting to see how many
loved the good man who was known only by his benefactions and now lay
suffering far away, quite unconscious how many unsuspected charities
were brought to light by this grateful solicitude as hidden flowers
spring up when warm rains fall.

If Rose had ever felt that the gift of living for others was a poor one,
she saw now how beautiful and blessed it was how rich the returns, how
wide the influence, how much more precious the tender tie which knit so
many hearts together than any breath of fame or brilliant talent that
dazzled but did not win and warm. In after years she found how true her
uncle’s words had been and, listening to eulogies of great men, felt
less moved and inspired by praises of their splendid gifts than by the
sight of some good man’s patient labor for the poorest of his kind. Her
heroes ceased to be the world’s favorites and became such as Garrison
fighting for his chosen people; Howe restoring lost senses to the deaf,
the dumb, and blind; Sumner unbribable, when other men were bought and
sold and many a large-hearted woman working as quietly as Abby Gibbons,
who for thirty years had made Christmas merry for two hundred little
paupers in a city almshouse, besides saving Magdalens and teaching
convicts.

The lesson came to Rose when she was ready for it, and showed her what
a noble profession philanthropy is, made her glad of her choice, and
helped fit her for a long life full of the loving labor and sweet
satisfaction unostentatious charity brings to those who ask no reward
and are content if “only God knows.”

Several anxious weeks went by with wearing fluctuations of hope and
fear, for Life and Death fought over the prize each wanted, and more
than once Death seemed to have won. But Phebe stood at her post, defying
both danger and Death with the courage and devotion women often show.
All her soul and strength were in her work, and when it seemed most
hopeless, she cried out with the passionate energy which seems to send
such appeals straight up to heaven: “Grant me this one boon, dear Lord,
and I will never ask another for myself!”

Such prayers avail much, and such entire devotion often seems to work
miracles when other aids are in vain. Phebe’s cry was answered, her
self-forgetful task accomplished, and her long vigil rewarded with a
happy dawn. Dr. Alec always said that she kept him alive by the force of
her will, and that, during the hours when he seemed to lie unconscious,
he felt a strong, warm hand holding his, as if keeping him away from
the swift current trying to sweep him away. The happiest hour of all her
life was that in which he knew her, looked up with the shadow of a smile
in his hollow eyes, and tried to say in his old cheery way: “Tell Rose
I’ve turned the corner, thanks to you, my child.”

She answered very quietly, smoothed the pillow, and saw him drop asleep
again before she stole away into the other room, meaning to write the
good news, but could only throw herself down and find relief for a full
heart in the first tears she had shed for weeks. Mac found her there,
and took such care of her that she was ready to go back to her place now
indeed a post of honor while he ran off to send home a telegram which
made many hearts sing for joy and caused Jamie, in his first burst of
delight, to propose to ring all the city bells and order out the cannon:
“Saved thanks to God and Phebe.”

That was all, but everyone was satisfied, and everyone fell a-crying,
as if hope needed much salty water to strengthen it. That was soon over,
however, and then people went about smiling and saying to one another,
with handshakes or embraces, “He is better no doubt of it now!” A
general desire to rush away and assure themselves of the truth pervaded
the family for some days, and nothing but awful threats from Mac, stern
mandates from the doctor, and entreaties from Phebe not to undo her work
kept Miss Plenty, Rose, and Aunt Jessie at home.

As the only way in which they could ease their minds and bear the delay,
they set about spring cleaning with an energy which scared the spiders
and drove charwomen distracted. If the old house had been infected with
smallpox, it could not have been more vigorously scrubbed, aired, and
refreshed. Early as it was, every carpet was routed up, curtains pulled
down, cushions banged, and glory holes turned out till not a speck of
dust, a last year’s fly, or stray straw could be found. Then they all
sat down and rested in such an immaculate mansion that one hardly dared
to move for fear of destroying the shining order everywhere visible.

It was late in April before this was accomplished, and the necessary
quarantine of the absentees well over. The first mild days seemed to
come early, so that Dr. Alec might return with safety from the journey
which had so nearly been his last. It was perfectly impossible to keep
any member of the family away on that great occasion. They came from all
quarters in spite of express directions to the contrary, for the invalid
was still very feeble and no excitement must be allowed. As if the wind
carried the glad news, Uncle Jem came into port the night before; Will
and Geordie got a leave on their own responsibility; Steve would have
defied the entire faculty, had it been necessary; and Uncle Mac and
Archie said simultaneously, “Business be hanged today.”

Of course the aunts arrived in all their best, all cautioning everybody
else to keep quiet and all gabbling excitedly at the least provocation.
Jamie suffered the most during that day, so divided was he between the
desire to behave well and the frantic impulse to shout at the top of his
voice, turn somersaults, and race all over the house. Occasional bolts
into the barn, where he let off steam by roaring and dancing jigs, to
the great dismay of the fat old horses and two sedate cows, helped him
to get through that trying period.

But the heart that was fullest beat and fluttered in Rose’s bosom as
she went about putting spring flowers everywhere; very silent, but so
radiant with happiness that the aunts watched her, saying softly to one
another, “Could an angel look sweeter?”

If angels ever wore pale green gowns and snowdrops in their hair, had
countenances full of serenest joy, and large eyes shining with an inward
light that made them very lovely, then Rose did look like one. But she
felt like a woman and well she might, for was not life very rich that
day, when Uncle, friend, and lover were coming back to her together?
Could she ask anything more, except the power to be to all of them the
creature they believed her, and to return the love they gave her with
one as faithful, pure, and deep? Among the portraits in the hall hung
one of Dr. Alec, done soon after his return by Charlie in one of his
brief fits of inspiration. Only a crayon, but wonderfully lifelike and
carefully finished, as few of the others were. This had been handsomely
framed and now held the place of honor, garlanded with green wreaths,
while the great Indian jar below blazed with a pyramid of hothouse
flowers sent by Kitty. Rose was giving these a last touch, with Dulce
close by, cooing over a handful of sweet “daffydowndillies,” when the
sound of wheels sent her flying to the door. She meant to have spoken
the first welcome and had the first embrace, but when she saw the
altered face in the carriage, the feeble figure being borne up the steps
by all the boys, she stood motionless till Phebe caught her in her arms,
whispering with a laugh and a cry struggling in her voice: “I did it for
you, my darling, all for you!”

“Oh, Phebe, never say again you owe me anything! I never can repay you
for this,” was all Rose had time to answer as they stood one instant
cheek to cheek, heart to heart, both too full of happiness for many
words.

Aunt Plenty had heard the wheels also and, as everybody rose en masse,
had said as impressively as extreme agitation would allow, while she
put her glasses on upside down and seized a lace tidy instead of her
handkerchief: “Stop! All stay here, and let me receive Alec. Remember
his weak state, and be calm, quite calm, as I am.’

“Yes, Aunt, certainly,” was the general murmur of assent, but it was
as impossible to obey as it would have been to keep feathers still in
