
 

me, and a standing at a distance, of persons who 
were once familiar and friendly. The cause of 
this, right or wrong, I have laid at her door. 
Not that I believe her capable of trying to injure 
me through indulgence of any vindictive spirit 
for I think better of her Christianity than that ; 
but, not having forgiven me in her heart, she 
finds it impossible to think of me as being in any 
essential degree changed from what I was ten or 
fifteen years ago, and so not only retains her old 
dislike, but infuses something of its quality into 
the minds of her intimate friends." 

Now I understood Mrs. Olney 's case better. 
At our next meeting, I so managed the conversa 
tion, that it drifted towards herself and her un 
happy state of mind. Shadows gathered over her 
face ; all cheerfulness died away from her tone?. 

" I have thought of you a great deal, since our 
last conversation," said I. 

This expression of interest naturally opened 
her mind to anything I'm ight say. 



 

" The hindrance," I added, " must be in your 
self; for it cannot be in God." 

" If I knew the hindrance !" she sighed heavily. 

" Is it not possible," I suggested, " that some 
where in your heart, hidden away from distinct 
consciousness, dwells an unforgiving spirit ?" 

Her eyes were cast down as I spoke ; but, she 
raised them instantly from the floor, in a half 
startled way, fixing upon me a look of inquiry. 

"It often happens," I continued, "that our 
ideas of God take the hue of interior states. We 
can only think of him as like-minded with our 
selves. Angry at sin, because we are angry when 
the laws we make are violated ; unforgiving, be 
cause we cannot forgive those who trespass against 
us." 

She dropped her startled eyes away from mine, 
a jd let them rest upon the floor again. 

"There may be much involved in what you 
say," she remarked, not long afterwards, in a sub 
dued voice. " Some things are hard to forgive," 
she added, like one thinking aloud. 



 

"And yet," I ventured to say, "only in the 
degree that we forgive men their trespasses, can 
we expect God to forgive our trespasses in other 
words, there must be a forgiving state in our 
own hearts, before we can have any realizing 
sense of the Lord 's infinite forgiveness." 

Evidently, thought with her was flowing in a 
new direction. I did not think it well to press 
the subject, but left her to continue, or change it, 
as she might feel inclined. 

" Do you really think," she asked, " that God 
only forgives us in the degree that we exercise 
forgiveness towards others?" 

" Literally, that is the teaching of Scripture," 
was my reply. " ( If ye forgive not men their 
trespasses, neither will your heavenly Father for 
give your trespasses. But, going past the literal 
sense of this law, let us go down to its spirit. A 
state of true religion is a state of love love to 
God and the neighbor. If we cannot forgive, we 
cannot love. God is not angry he does not de 
cline forgiveness but, because of our unforgiving 



 

states, he cannot dwell with us in love. Ever he 
stands at the door, knocking, and asking for en 
trance. It is for us to open the door, by removing the evil things set in it as bars and bolts ; 
and until we do this, he cannot enter." 

A window was opened in the mind of Mrs. Ol- 
ney, through which clearer light came in. What 
she had regarded as only a just displeasure to 
wards one who had injured her in past times, but 
whose life in the present was, to human eyes, 
blameless, she now saw to have in it the hai d 
qualities of an unforgiving spirit. It was for 
what had been done to her, that she retained dislike. Mrs. Olney belonged to that class of per 
sons, who, when clearly satisfied in regard to any 
course of action, move forward with resolute self- 
compulsion. First she decided, that, as a Chris 
tian woman, she could no longer hold towards 
the lady of whom I have spoken the attitude of 
a stranger. Next came the question as to how 
the lady was to be approached ^whether for 
mally, and with oral reference to the past ; or, by 



 

friendly advances, when next they happened to 
be thrown together in company. The latter me 
thod was chosen ; and the opportunity was not 
long delayed. I was present, and witnessed the 
unobtrusive scene. Perhaps no other person had 
any conception of what it involved. 

The lady referred to, as having given offence 
to Mrs. Olney years before, was sitting on one end 
of a sofa. She had been conversing with a friend 
who had just risen and crossed the room, leaving 
the place at her side vacant. At this moment, I 
saw Mrs. Olney quietly pass over, and occupy the 
seat, offering her hand as she sat down. The 
hand was taken and held not at once relin 
quished. Both faces were in full view. That 
of Mrs. Olney was considerably heightened in 
color ; but, its expression, though subdued, was 
frank and kind. Over the other face, light was 
leaping ; and I saw sudden tears almost brim 
ming the eyes. Only for a short time, the na 
tural embarrassment of this meeting continued. 

The tender of forgiveness and Christian fellow- 


ship for all that was involved was so gladly 
accepted, that Mrs. Olney felt her heart begin 
ning to warm and glow, almost immediately, 
with new-born pleasures. 

For nearly the whole of that evening, these two 
old friends, between whom a gulf of years had, in 
a moment, been bridged over, kept close together. 
There was, in Mrs. Olney 's countenance, a new 
expression. All the clouds which had rested 
over it for so long a period were swept away, and 
peace dwelt there amid sunshine. The reconcili 
ation was complete. From that hour, they be 
came tenderly attached to each other ; and were 
inseparable co-workers in all the external things 
appertaining to their church membership. 

" You have come up from the valley of doubt," 
I said, in meeting her not long aftewards. 

" Yes," she answered. " I am not troubled as 
in former times. That strange, shadowed state 
of the soul no longer exists." 

" Were you conscious when and how it passed 



 

away? There is a lesson in your experience, 
from which others may profit." 

Mrs. Olney reflected for a little while. 

" It was all here," and she laid her hand over 
her heart. "God 's love was not withholdeu. 
The obstruction was in me. The memory of 
wrong was cherished, brooded over, held almost 
as a sweet morsel under my tongue. Not being 
able to forgive, I could not realize the possibility 
of forgiveness in God. The words of Scripture 
were plain enough ; and I tried to rest on them 
with confidence. But, external faith and interior 
conviction, are very different things. I was in 
darkness and doubt, and there seemed no hope 
for me. But, when the law of forgiveness ruled 
in my own soul, doubt and darkness fled away. 
It seemed as if I had passed from a narrow, suffo 
cating chamber, out into the free air, and under a 
cloudless sky. In the freedom of my new state, 
I am in wonder at the bondage from which I 
have been delivered. The process of cause and 
effect, I am unable to follow. I only know, that, 



 

whereas I was blind, now I see. God has not 
changed, for he is unchangeable. My own state 
has governed all." 

And so it is in very religious experience. 
Our own states determine our ideas of God. He 
is to us an angry God, because we are angry and 
vindictive towards others ; a hard exacter of legal 
penalties, because we will have the uttermost far 
thing ; slow to forgive, because there is a spirit 
of unforgiveness in our hearts. But, when love 
dwells with us, He is love. 




XII. 

IS IT WELL WITH YOU? 

" TS it well with you, my brother?" Such was 
 the preacher 's salutation. He was not a 
young man, standing erect in conscious strength, 
abounding in doctrine and clear in logic ; nor in 
the vigor of middle age, with full fruited boughs 
just beginning to droop from their proud erect- 
ness ; but an old man, in whom perception had 
taken the place of doctrine and logic wise be 
cause good. 

" Is it well with you, my brother ?" He had 
grasped the hand of one in whose house, for 
many "years, had been set apart a guest-chamber 
for the servant of God. 

" I trust that it is well with me," replied the 




 

host, as lie returned the old man 's greeting, and 
then led him into the house, giving him of the 
best he had to bestow. 

It was midday when the preacher arrived. In 
the evening, he sat alone with his brother in the 
church, talking on themes of immortal interest. 
At first, he was a listener ; and then the thought 
of his brother dwelt wholly in things of natural 
life. He spoke of his farm, his mill, his money 
at interest, and the prosperity with which God 
had blessed him. 

" He hath made my corn and wine to in 
crease," he said, with a confidence that was near 
to boastfulness. 

A faint sigh parted the old minister 's lips ; and 
a slight shadow veiled the sweet serenity of his 
countenance. 

" Have you never thought, my brother, that 
God 's increase of corn and wine, means something 
more than this ?" 

The question had a disturbing effect. 

" That there are corn and wine for the soul 's 



nourishment and growth, as well as corn and 
wine for the body ?" he added. 

" Doubtless it is so," replied the brother, with 
that marked falling of the voice which accompa 
nies the reluctant admission of truth in conflict 
with an existing state of mind. " We do not 
live by bread alone. And yet, God blesses us in 
our basket and store prospers us in our outgo 
ings and incomings." 

"His providence touches us in the minutest 
things of external life," answered the preacher. 
" When it is well with us, the blessing is from 
his hand. But, " well with us, has a higher sig 
nificance than you have expressed by the words 
basket and store. Is it well with you, my bro 
ther ? Let me put the question again. What is 
the state of your mind ?" 

" I trust in God," was returned, with unfalter 
ing speech. " I know in whom I have believed. 
Faith is the anchor of my soul." 

" Your acceptance is clear ?" 

" Yes." Not spoken with full confidence. 



 

There followed a brief silence. 

" It is the saddest of all sad things, a mistake 
in this, ray brother," the old man said, with an 
impressiveness that hurt his listener, for, both in 
language and tone was an intimation that he was 
building his immortal hopes on foundations that 
might not stand. 

" There are two elements that go to make up 
every state of mind," continued the preacher, 
after a pause in which there was no response, 
" thought and feeling. The thought is most ex 
terior, and in it we see reflected, as from a mirror, 
the feelings, the desires, the impulses that have 
in them the essential qualities of a man 's life. 
But, thought has wings, and the power to rise 
into higher and purer regions to separate itself, 
for brief periods, from its bondage to low and 
worldly desire ; and thence, the danger of self- 
deception of considering our states of ansient 
thought, and not our states of permanent feeling, 
as the just expression of the interior quality as it 


is seen by God. Do you apprehend me, my 
brother?" 

" In a degree," was answered. 

"As God sees us, so we are; and as we are, 
when death finds us, will be our state in the other 
life. Lovers of the Lord 's kingdom, or lovers of 
ourselves." 

"But, how can we see ourselves as God sees 
us ?" asked the brother, with a suddenly awaken 
ing concern. " He knows our hearts better than 
we can know them. Nay, He alone knows 
them." 

" True ; but He has given us the clearest in 
struction. His word is a lamp unto our feet and 
a light unto our path. It is full of heavenly 
teaching. Let us ponder a single passage, and 
bring onr individual lives to the standard therein 
proclaimed. Speaking of the godly, or regenerate 
man, the Psalmist says, His delight is in the law 
of the Lord. Mark the expression His delight. 
Now, feeling, of which delight is predicated, is 
interior to thought. When there is delight in 



 

the law, then there is meditation. First, the de 
light; then the medication not a mere transient 
uplifting of thought to purer regions, but a 
dwelling therein with love. Ah, my brother ! 
Do we not find a revelation in this brief passage, 
clear as noonday, and full of instruction ? Not 
one to discourage us, because our life falls far be 
low the state described; but one full of encou 
ragement, because it shows us that to which our 
heavenly Father wishes us to aspire. And now 
again, as one sent to you of God for I am his 
servant, and he has laid on me the duty of win 
ning souls let me ask, Is it well with you, my 
brother?" 

How very tenderly, in his seriousness, did the 
old man speak. There was nothing of ambassa 
dorial dignity ; nothing of conscious goodness ; 
nothing that said, "I am holier than thou." 
But such winning gentleness ; such pure concern ; 
such earnest solicitude, that the brother who had 
been losing his interest in spiritual things amid 
the absorbing life of natural good amid his 





farm, his mill, and his merchandise felt scales 
dropping away from the blinded eyes of his soul, 
and saw by that interior light which comes in 
from heaven. And seeing, he answered, with 
drooping head and falling voice 

" It is not well with me, I fear. My delight 
is not in the law of the Lord. I do not meditate 
thereon. Perpetually, my thought dwells in the 
things of this world. In my sowing and reaping; 
in my gathering and grinding; in my gaining and 
hoarding. Even as the rich husbandman in the 
gospel, whose harvests overflowed his barns, I 
have been planning to pull down mine and build 
greater, so as to lay up goods for many years. 
You have sent a tremor of fear through my 
heart ; and I hear a strange, solemn voice, ask 
ing, t What if thy soul be required of thee this 
night? " 

" Be wise, then, my brother. Yet do not take 
counsel of fear; for, in fear there is bondage. 
Love delight casteth out all fear. God 's true 
service is from love not fear. From aifection, not 



 

from constrained obedience. Is this clear to your 
mind?" 

"As noonday," was answered. 

" You did not see this a little while ago," said 
the preacher. 

" I knew that it was so ; knew it from 
thought but, until now, not from perception. 
Ah, my brother ! You have shown me a way to 
walk in that I did not see before; but it is a more 
difficult way, and I do not see the gate of en 
trance. I can think and do, by constraint ; can 
force my thought, for a time at least, up into 
heavenly regions, and compel myself to keep, in 
act, the law of God. But I cannot change my 
affections by any effort of will ; cannot enforce de 
light. If I do not love God 's law, what is to 
help me ? And soberly and sadly, T fear that I 
do not love it. I have said, often, among the 
brethren This is my assurance ; Whereas, once 
I was blind, now I see ; therefore, have I passed 
from death unto life ; but now, I have no assu 
rance, for I do not love ; and love is the fulfilling 



of the law. You have come to me as a disturber 
and not as a comforter. I believed myself one 
of God 's chosen ones ; now the light of his coun 
tenance is withdrawn." 

"It is never withdrawn," answered the 
preacher, "but always turned towards the chil 
dren of men. God 's love never fails. It is in 
love that he now troubles you, darkening false 
hopes that he may establish such as are true and 
abiding. Over the heart he alone has empire. 
He alone can change its quality; he alone can 
give that delight in his law which is felt by an 
gels, and without which we can never enjoy their 
companionship." 

" He changes the heart, I know." 

"And you believed, long ago, that he had 
changed yours !" 

"I did; but, alas! I am not changed. My 
delight is not in his law." 

" You left Him to do the work alone," said 
the preacher, "and all at once. To wash you 
every whit clean from inherited evils in a mo- 


 

ment of time. And in the belief that this had 
been done, you thought yourself fit to dwell with 
angels ; and thus secure, turned to your farm, and 
your mill, and gave up your life to the world. 
You forgot that regeneration must progress from 
the feebleness of a simple vivified germ of life, to 
birth ; and onward from tender infancy to the sta 
ture of a full man that you must cooperate with 
God, and work out your salvation with fear and 
trembling before him that while he stood with 
out, knocking, you must open the door. Behold 
I stand at the door and knock. If any man hear 
my voice and open the door, I will come in to 
him. The opening of the door is our work, my 
brother; and until that work is done, the Lord 
cannot enter and give delight in his law." 
" But how are we to open the door ?" 
" That question involves the all of a religious 
life," answered the preacher. "And until it is 
clearly answered and fully comprehended, we 
grope in the dark, and our feet stumble along 
uncertain ways. But here again, his word is a 


lamp unto our feet and a light unto our path. 
Note this remarkable feature in the Ten Com 
mandments, which are an epitome of the whole 
Divine Word, and contain, in a summary, all the 
laws of spiritual life. We are not required to do 
difficult or impossible things ; but, simply not to 
do evil things. Not to have idols ; nor take the 
name of God in vain ; nor profane the Sabbath 
day by worldly thoughts and employments; not 
to murder, or commit adultery, or steal, or bear 
false witness, or indulge a spirit of covetousness. 
I have often heard it said that these Divine laws 
could not be kept by man ; and that faith alone 
and not obedience must save him. But, herein 
lies a fatal error. Obedience is the essential of 
faith. A true faith in God, is vital with effort. 
Just look at these commandments. How plain 
and easy the way they point out. There is no 
requirement of good deeds; but a simple shun 
ning of what is wrong. Behold I stand at the 
door and knock. You hear the summons, but 
how shall the door be opened ? What will draw 



 

hack the bolt, and turn the rusty hinges? The 
answer is ready. Put away evil." 

" I do not break the Ten Commandments. 
So far as they go, I am blameless," said the 
brother. 

" His words are spirit and life," answered the 
preacher. " To the mere natural man, they speak 
of natural things, and bind him by external restraints ; to the rational man, they speak a higher 
language, and illustrate his reason ; to the spirit- 
aal man, they give divine laws for the govern 
ment of the thoughts and intents of the heart. 
The natural man sees in the precept, Thou shalt 
not steal only a prohibition of actual theft ; 
while the rational man understands it as binding 
him to upright dealing ; but, the spiritual man 
looks down into his heart, and in the very desire 
to appropriate to himself what is another 's goods, 
honor, or praise recognizes a broken command 
ment. Nay, my brethren ! We are all com 
mandment-breakers in some degree of their sig 
nificance. And it is in ceasing to break them, 



as we understand them, that we open the door at 
which the Lord stands knocking. At his en 
trance, the evil desires that ruled us are removed, 
and he implants good desires in their stead. 

"And now," continued the old preacher, in his 
tender, impressive way, " let me add this essential 
doctrine, which must ever be kept in mind. Sim 
ply of ourselves, we can do nothing. We are but 
finite created have in us no life that is not the 
perpetual gift of God and, therefore, cannot even 
open the door by the putting away of evil, except 
through strength from above; and so, in every 
effort of resistance to evil allurement, we must 
look to God for strength. If we so look, in ac 
knowledgment of our weakness, power will come, 
and we shall say effectually as he said, in the 
hour of temptation, Get thee behind me, Satan ! 
Now, if it be well with you, my brother if you 
have really begun to open the door of your heart 
then you are beginning to feel delight in the la\\ 
of the Lord ; are beginning to love the things of 
heaven more than the things of this world ; and 


 

to desire the riches of Divine love, more than 
gold and silver that perish ; for, just in the de 
gree that God enters into our hearts, does he 
bring in with him aifections opposite to those 
through the resistance of which the door was 
opened. But if there be none of this love and 
delight, it is not well with you, my brother." 

" It is not well with me, I fear," was answered 
in all sadness of spirit; "but, God helping me, I 
will open the door at which I hear him knocking, 
and may he give me delight in his law." 

On the morning of the third day, the white- 
haired preacher left his benediction, and passed 
onward. Many days afterwards, as his enter 
tainer stood at the door of the empty guest-cham 
ber and looked in, these few words fell softly 
from his lips, "An angel unawares." A short 
space he lingered with clasped hands, and eyes 
most earnestly glancing upwards. There had 
come, even as he stood there, an evil allurement, 
and with prayer to God for strength, he had resisted its power. Then flowed in through the 



open door of his heart a love of good, before 
which that evil enticement disappeared, as night 
when the day advances, and his soul was filled 
with blessedness and peace. 




 



XIII. 



" IF I were only in heaven !" 

 There are few mortal lips from which these 
words, or something equivalent to them, have not 
fallen in hours of pain, sorrow, or disappointment, 
when hope in the world grew faint, and the old 
foundations of happiness seemed crumbling into 
ruin. 

" If I were only in heaven !" 

The words came sighing through pale lips. 

"And you expect to go there?" 

The tone in which this was said expressed a 
doubt. 

" We all expect to reach heaven at last. God 
is merciful." 

" He is good to all, and kind even to the un 
thankful and evil. But what is heaven ? Three 




times, within a few days, I have heard you wish 
yourself there." 

" Heaven is a place of happiness ; there are no 
tears there ; no sorrow ; no pain ; no cruel disap 
pointments, nor heart-rending separations. Hea 
ven is heaven. The very word is full of signifi 
cation." 

" And you expect to go there ?" 

A second time was this uttered, and now the 
doubt it expressed quickened in the mind of the 
complainer a feeling that was rather more of earth 
than heaven. 

" You seem to question my fitness," she said, 
with just a shadow of indignation in her voice. 

" Far be it from me to judge the state of any one. 
God alone knoweth the hearts of his children." 

"And still, you ask, in a doubting way, if I 
expect to go to heaven when I die." 

" To a place of happiness, which lies in the far 
distance, and towards which we sail through life 
as mariners on a perilous voyage ?" 

" Yes ; the haven of felicity." 



 

"Where you trust to moor your time-worn 
bark when the stormy ocean is crossed ?" 

" Yes ; trusting in God 's mercy." 

" I'm  afraid you will be disappointed," said 
she who had assumed the office of monitor. 

The pale cheek of the complainer flushed, and 
her sad eyes threw out some rays of light that 
gleamed from an earth-enkindled fire. 

" Heaven is not in the far distance," continued 
her friend. " We do not reach it at the end of 
our earthly journey. We must enter long, long 
before that time, or its sweet rest and peace can 
never be ours. And we are in heaven when our 
souls are filled with heavenly affections. This 
infilling of the soul alone takes place on earth ; 
and thus we enter. We must have some of the 
joys of heaven here, or we cannot receive its 
fuller delights when mortal puts on immortality. 
The life of heaven must be born in us in time, or 
it cannot be developed in eternity. Your present 
state, my dear friend, is not one of preparation 
for that paradise towards which your eyes stretch 



 

so longingly, but one of self-affliction and vain re- 
pinings. You are closing your heart to heavenly 
influences, instead of opening it to their reception. 
I speak plainly, for you have all at stake." 

The flush faded from the complainer 's cheeks ; 
her eyes lost the sudden brightness which had 
gleamed out upon her friend ; and she sat silently 
pondering this strange language strange to her 
while a shade of fear crept into her heart. Were 
her hopes of heaven resting, indeed, on so sandy 
a foundation? Was she vainly looking beyond 
the darkness in which she sat to a world of 
brightness and beauty ? Would there be no hea 
ven for her to enter when the weary burden of 
life was laid down? The questions crowded 
upon her. 

"Come out from beneath the shadows with 
which you have surrounded yourself," said the 
friend, "and enjoy the cheerful sunlight. In 
stead of idly longing for a heaven that lies afar 
off, receive heaven in your heart, in the delight 
that flows in with all good deeds. Be a worker 



 

in the vineyard of your Lord, not a weak repiner j 
a faithful servant, not a talent-hider. They who 
are entering heaven grow more and more peaceful 
in spirit; more and more resigned to the Father 's 
will ; more and more willing to work and wait 
in patient hope. Instead of wishing themselves 
in heaven, as a place of rest afar off, they are 
daily tasting of its sweet felicity." 

" You take away the foundations on which my 
feet have rested. You scatter my hopes to the 
wind. I have looked to you for consolation, but 
you have none to offer." 

" If I have broken the foundations on which 
your feet rested, it is that you may plant them 
more surely on the Rock of Ages. If I have 
scattered vain hopes to the wind, it is in order 
that living hopes may spring up in your heart. 
If you have looked to me for consolation, and 
found it not, then, I pray you, look higher ; even 
unto Him who says, Come unto Me, all ye that 
labor and are heavy-laden, and I will give you 
rest. " 



"But my heart is crushed. I have no 
strength; no hope in life; all that I held dear 
nas departed ; and I have only wished to die and 
be at peace." 

"There are other crushed hearts; others wit lout 
hope ; others from whom all the dear ones have 
departed. Think of them, and of their loneliness 
and suffering instead of your own ; and as pity 
conies into your heart, think whether it is in your 
power or not to ease a pain; to send a ray of com 
fort into a mind sitting in darkness ; to speak a 
word that may reach the mourner with consola 
tion. God is the great Comforter, but he acts 
through angels and men in his ministrations of 
good, thus making his blessings double. They 
who act with him are partakers in the peace, joy, 
and consolation that flow through them, and are 
thus received into heaven, while, as to the body, 
they are still in the world of nature." 

For awhile after this plain-talking friend had 
left, the lady sat in her usual place in the dim, 
closely-curtained room, where most of her time 



 

was spent. But the truths which had been ut 
tered in her ears did not pass as the idle winds. 
She dwelt on them, pondering their scope and 
meaning, and seeing them in clearer and clearer 
light. But states of feeling soon turn our 
thoughts in their own direction. It was not long 
before she was musing on her unhappy condition, 
and in the weariness of life that came back upon 
her, she murmured the oft-repeated words 

" Oh, if I were only in heaven ! If I could 
only die and be at peace !" 

Then came back the suggestions of her friend ; 
and with such a force of conviction that she 
clasped her hands together, and rising up, moved 
in some agitation of mind about the room. As 
she did so, the thought of a poor sick woman in 
the neighborhood came into her mind. She had 
heard of her serious illness on the day before, but 
let the intelligence pass with only a word of pity. 
It did not once occur that she ought to go, or 
send to the woman 's relief. Now the thought of 



 

her came with a suggestion of duty, and acting 
upon that suggestion, she rang the bell. 

" Mary," she said, as a domestic came in to an 
swer to the bell, " have you heard from Mrs. Ellis 
to-day ?" 

" Yes, ma am," was replied. 

"How is she?" 

" Very sick, ma am, they say." 

"What ails her?" 

" Pleurisy, I think, ma am." 

" Have you been over to see her ?" 

" No, ma am." 

" I wish you would step in and see how she is, 
Mary. She may be suffering for want of proper 
attention. I would like to know." 

The girl left the room with a look of surprise 
on ner face that did not escape the lady 's notice. 
Its meaning was partly understood. 

" How did you find her, Mary ?" was asked 
when the girl returned. 

"I wish you could only see for yourself, 
ma am," said Mary. " It would make your 



 

heart-ache. If somebody don 't look after her 
she ll die, and then what will become of her poor 
little babies ?" 

There was a look of real distress in the girl 's 
face. 

" Is she is in want of anything ?" inquired the 
lady. 

" O ma am, won 't you just step over and see 
for yourself," was answered in an appealing way. 
" She is in want of everything ; I don 't believe 
her poor little children have had anything to eat 
this day !" 

" Mary !" 

" Indeed, ma am, and I shouldn 't wonder at 
all. To think of it, in a Christian neighbor 
hood !" 

"Somebody should have looked after her," said 
the lady, in a tone meant to blame every other 
person in the neighborhood except herself. 

" What 's everybody 's business is nobody 's busi 
ness," replied the girl. 

The sight that met tta lady 's eyes, when, under 



 

the force of a strong self-compulsion, she entered 
the room where this sick woman lay, gave her, 
too, the heart-ache. Alone, exhausted with pain, 
without fire or food for her children, or medicine 
for herself, she was stretched on a hard straw bed, 
which no hand had beaten up or smoothed for 
days. As the lady came in, a gleam lit up her 
dull eyes, which turned with an appealing look 
to the three little children who were sitting close 
together in silence on the floor. From the in 
stant that weary complainer entered this room, 
she forgot herself in an overpowering pity. A 
few questions were asked and answered then 
prompt hands and a prompt will changed the 
whole aspect of things. There were food, medi 
cine, warmth and comfort, in a room where, a 
little while before, all was cold, desolate, and 
exhausted. As the lady looked around, and 
thought of the change a few words and deeds had 
wrought as if by magic saw the look of peace, 
rest and hope which had settled over the sick wo 
man 's pale face, and followed her almost smiling 





 

eyes, as she looked after her cleanly dressed and 
now happy children she felt a deeply penetrating 
glow of satisfaction, and a sense of tranquility to 
which she had long been a stranger. She had 
forgotten herself in an earnest desire to help 
another, and the heavenly delight that always 
springs from good deeds done from right impulses 
was flowing into her soul. 

" How is it with you to-day ?" asked the friend 
who had spoken so plainly. It was a week after 
this first visit to the sick woman. She was hold 
ing the lady by the hand, and looking earnestly 
into her countenance, which had more light and 
hope in it than she had seen there for a long 
time. 

"As well as I could expect." A faint smile 
hovered around her sad lips, hiding the pain 
which lay there like a shadow from some moun 
tain of sorrow. 

"Ah, what little girl is this ?" 

A child had entered the room in a quiet, 



 

half-timid way, and not with the confidence of a 
genuine home feeling. 

" The child of a poor sick woman in the neigh 
borhood," was answered. " The mother was very 
ill, and there was no one to see after this little 
one. I brought her home. She has been here 
for several days." 

" You have been to see her mother, then ?" 

" Oh, yes ; I 've called over every day to see 
after her. She would have died, I believe, if I 
had not met her case promptly. It is shameful 
to think how, in the very midst of a rich neigh 
borhood of people calling themselves Christians, 
a sick woman may be left to suffer and die with 
out a hand being raised to help her. I wouldn 't 
have believed it, if this case had not come under 
my immediate notice." 

" I see," said the friend, still holding the lady 's 
hand, and smiling into her face, " why that old, 
sad, life-weary look has departed." 

An answering smile lit up suddenly the lady 's 
countenance. 



 

