and with a trembling lip. 

' I can take compliments from aunt Sutphen,' he said 
with a bit of his old dry humorous manner, ' but from you 
I don't know what to do with them. Come to supper, Di ; 
we must take the first boat for Clifton to-morrow morning, 
if we can, to let me get back on my way to Pleasant Valley.' 

The first boat was very early. The city however had 
long begun its accustomed roar, so that the change was 
noticeable and pleasant as soon as the breadth of a few 
furlongs was put between the boat and the wharf. Stillness fell, only excepting the noise made by the dash of the 
paddle wheels and the breathing and groaning of the engine ; and that seemed quietness to Diana in contrast with 
the restless hum and roar of the living multitude. The 
bay and its shores sparkled in the early sunlight ; the sultry 
heated atmosphere of the city was most refreshingly replaced by the cool air from the salt sea. Diana breathed 
it in, filling her lungs with it. 



 

' How good this is ! ' she said. ' Basil, I should think 
it was dreadful to live in such a place as that.' 

' Makes less difference than you would think, when you 
once get accustomed to it.' 

' O do you think so ! It seems to me there is nothing 
pleasant there to see or to hear.' 

' Ay, you are a true wood thrush,' said her husband. 
' But there is plenty to do in a city, Diana ; and that is the 
main thing.' 

' So there is in the country.' 

' I sometimes think I might do more, reach more people, I mean, if I were somewhere else. But yes, Di, I 
grant you, apart from that one consideration, there is no 
comparison. Green hills are a great deal better company 
than hot brick walls.' 

' And how wonderful, how beautiful, this water is ! ' 

' The water is a new feature to you. Well you will have 
plenty of it. Aunt Sutphen lives just on the edge of the 
shore. I am very sorry I cannot stay to see you domesticated. Do you mind it much ? beginning here alone ? ' 

' O no.' 

Diana did not mind that or anything else, in her content at having reached a safe harbour, a place where she 
would be both secure and free. Lesser things were of no 
account ; and alas, the presence of her husband just now 
with her was no pleasure. Diana felt at this time that if 
she were to live and keep her reason she must have breathing space. Above all things she desired to be quite alone ; 
to have leisure to think and pray and review her ground and 
set up her defences. Basil could not help her ; he was 
better out of sight. So when he had put her into the little 
carriage that was in waiting at the landing and with a last 
gesture of greeting turned back to the boat, while Diana's 





eyes filled with tears, she was, nevertheless, nothing but 
glad at heart. She gathered her baby closer in her arms 
and sat back in the carnage and waited. 

It was only a short drive and along the edge of the bay 
the whole distance. The smell of the salt water was strange 
and delicious. The morning was still cool. Now that she 
had le|(: the boat behind her, or rather the boat had left 
her, the stillness began to be like that of Pleasant Valley ; 
for the light wheels rolled softly over a smooth road. Then 
they stopped before a low plain-looking cottage. 

It was low and plain, yet it was light and pleasant. 
Windows opening like doors upon the piazza, and the piazza 
running all round the house, and the pillars of the piazza 
wreathed thick with honeysuckles, some of them, and some 
with climbing roses. The breath of the salt air was smothered in perfumes. Through one of the open window doors 
Diana went into a matted room, where everything gave her 
the instant impression of neatness and coolness and quiet 
and a certain sweet summer freshness, which suited her exactly. There was no attempt at richness of furnishing. Yet 
the old lady who stood there waiting to receive her was a 
stately lady enough, in a spotless morning dress of white, 
dainty and ruffled, and a little close embroidered cap above 
her clustering grey curls. The two looked at each other. 

' So you're his wife ! ' said the elder lady. ' I declare, 
you're handsomer than he is. Come in here, my dear ; if 
you are as good as he is, you are welcome.' She opened 
an inner door and led the way into a bedchamber adjoining, opening like the other room by window doors upon the 
piazza, matted and cool and furnished in white. All this 
Diana took in with the first step into the room. But she 
answered Mrs. Sutphen's peculiar welcome. 

' Did you ever know anybody so good as he is, ma'am ? 




' Breakfast will be on table as soon as you are 
ready,' Mrs. Sutphen went on without heeding her words. 
' It is half-past seven, and I always have it at seven. I 
waited for you, and now I want my cup of tea. How soon 
will you be ready ? ' 

' Immediately.' 

' What will you do with the baby ? ' 

' I will lay her down. She is asleep.' 

' You'll have to have somebody to look after her. Well, 
come then, my dear.' 

Diana followed the old lady, who was half imperative 
and half impatient. She never forgot that hour in all her 
life, everything was so new and strange. The windows 
open towards the water, the fresh salt air coming in, the 
India matting under her feet, made her feel as if she had got 
into a new world. The dishes were also in part strange to 
her, and her only companion fully strange. The good cup 
of tea she received was almost the only familiar thing, for 
the very bread was like no bread she had ever seen before. 
Diana sipped her tea gratefully ; all this novelty was the 
most welcome thing in the world to her overstrained nerves. 
She sipped her tea as in a dream ; the old lady studied her 
with eyes wide awake and practical. 

' Where did Basil pick you up, my dear ? ' 

Diana started a little, looked up and flushed. 

' Where did you come from ? ' 

' From the place where Mr. Masters has been settled 
these three or four years.' 

' In the mountains ! What sort of people have you got 
there ? More of your sort ? ' 

' They are all of my sort,' said Diana somewhat wonderingly. 

' Do you know what your sort is, my dear ? ' 



 

' I do not understand ' 

' I thought you did not. I'll change my question. What 
sort of work is Basil doing there ? ' 

' You know his profession ? ' Diana said, not knowing 
much better either how to take this question. 

' Yes, yes. I know his profession ; I ought to, for I 
wanted him to be a lawyer. But don't you know, my dear, 
there are all sorts of clergymen.. There are some make 
sermons as other men make bricks ; and some, more like 
the way children blow soap bubbles ; all they care for is, 
how big they are and how high they will fly and how long 
they will last. And I have heard people preach,' the old 
lady went on, ' who seemed most like as if they were laying 
out a Chinese puzzle, and you had to look sharp to see 
where the pieces fitted. And some again preach sermons 
as if they were a magistrate reading the riot act, only they 
don't want the people to disperse by any means. What is 
Basil's way ? ' 

' He has more ways than all these,' said Diana, who 
could not help smiling. 

' These among 'em ? ' 

' I think not.' 

' Go on then, and tell me. What's he like in the pulpit?' 

Diana considered how she should humour the old lady's 
wish. 

' Sometimes he is like a shepherd leading his flock to 
pasture,' she began. ' Sometimes he is like a life boat going 
out to pick up drowning people. Sometimes it is rather 
a surgeon in a hospital, going round to find out what is the 
matter with people and make them well. Sometimes he is 
just the messenger of the Lord Jesus Christ, and all his 
business is to deliver his message and get people to hear it.' 



 

Mrs. Stuphen looked at Diana over the table and evidently pricked up her ears ; but Diana spoke quite simply, 
rather slowly ; she was thinking how Basil had often seemed to her in his ministry, in and out of the pulpit. 

' My dear,' said the old lady, ' if your husband is like 
that, do you know you are married to quite a remarkable 
man ? ' 

' I thought as much a great while ago.' 

' And what sort of a pastor's wife do you make ? You 
are a very handsome woman to be a minister's wife.' 

' Am I ? Why should not a handsome woman be the 
wife of a minister ? ' 

' Why, she should, if she can make up her mind to 
it. Well, my dear, if you will have no more breakfast, perhaps you will like to go and rest. Do you enjoy bathing ? ' 

Diana did not take the bearing of the question. 

' I go into the water every morning,' the old lady ex 
plained. ' You had better do the same. It will strength- 
en you.' 

' Into the wa-ter ! You mean the salt water ? ' 

' Of course I mean the salt wa-ter. There isn't any 
fresh water to go into, and no good if there was.' 

' I never tried salt water. I never saw salt water before.' 

' Do you good,' said the old lady. ' Well, go and sleep, 
my dear. Basil says you want rest.' 

But that way of taking it was not Diana's need, or purpose. She withdrew into her cool green-shaded room, and 
as the baby still slept, set open the blind doors which made 
that pleasant green shade, and sat down on the threshold 
to be quiet and enjoy the view. The water was within a few 
rods of her window ; nothing but a narrow strip of grass 
and a little picket fence intervening between the house and 



 

the sandy bit of beach. The waves were rolling in from 
the Narrows, which here were but a short distance to the 
eastward ; and across the broad belt of waters she could 
see the low shore of Long Island on the other side. Diana 
put her head out of the door, and there, seven miles away 
to the west and north, she could see where a low hovering 
light smoke cloud told of the big city to which it owed its 
origin. Over the bay sails were flitting, not swiftly, for the 
air was only very gently stirring ; but they were many, near 
and far, of different sizes and forms ; and the mighty tide 
was rushing in with wonderful life and energy in its green 
waves. Diana's senses were like those of a person en- 
chanted. She drew in the salt, lively air ; she looked at 
the cool lights and shadows of the rushing water, over 
which here and there still hung bands of morning mist ; she 
heard the lap of the waves upon the shore as they went by ; 
and it was to her as if she had escaped from danger and 
perplexity into another world, where sorrow might be indeed, but from which confusion and fear were banished. 

The baby slept on, as if she had been broken of her 
rest by the novelties and inconveniences of travelling, and 
were making up for lost time ; and Diana sat on the threshold of her door and thought. The lull was inexpressibly 
sweet, after the storm that had tossed her hither. It gave 
her repose, just to remember that Evan could not find her 
out and that Basil would leave her alone. Yes, both 
thoughts came in for a share in the deep-drawn breaths of 
relief which from time to time wrung themselves from Diana's breast. She knew it ; she could not help it ; and she 
soon forgot her husband in thinking of her lover. It 
seemed to her she might allow herself that indulgence now ; 
now when she had put a gulf between them which he could 
not bridge over, and she would not ; now when she had 



 

brought a separation between them which must forever be 
final. For she would never see him again. Surely now 
she might think of him, and let fancy taste the sweet bitter 
drops that memory would distil for her. Diana went back 
to the old time and lived in it for hours, till the baby awoke 
and claimed her ; and even then she went on with her 
dream. She dreamed all day. 

Next morning early, before she was awake, there came 
a little imperative tap at her door. Diana sprang up and 
opened it. 

'I am going to take my bath,' said her hostess. 
' Here's a bathing dress put it on and come along.' 

' Now ? ' said Diana doubtfully. 

' Why of course now ! Now's the time. Nobody'll see 
you, child ; and if they do, it won't matter. Hundreds would 
see you if you were at Long Branch or Newport. Come 
along; you want bracing.' 

I wonder if I do ? thought Diana, as she clothed herself in the loose gown of brown mohair ; then slipped out 
after her hostess. If she did, she immediately confessed to 
herself, this was the thing to give it. The sun was not yet 
up ; the morning air crisp and fresh and delicious ; the 
water rolling gently in from the Narrows again, in a mighty 
tide, but with no wind, so sending up only little waves to 
the beach ; however they looked somewhat formidable to 
Diana. 

' How far do you go in ? ' she asked. 

' As far as I can. I can't swim, child, so I keep to 
shore. Come after me, here ! ' 

And she seized Diana's hand and marched in ahead of 
her and marched on, till Diana would have stopped, but 
the old lady's hand pulled her along. 

It was never to be forgotten, that first taste of salt 



 

water. When they were in the flood up to their necks, her 
companion made her duck her head under ; it filled Diana's mouth and eyes at the first gasp with salt water, but 
what a new freshness of life seemed at the same time to 
come into her ! How her brain cleared and her very heart 
seemed to grow strong and her eyesight true in that lavatory ! She came out of the water for the moment almost 
gay, and made her toilette with a vigour and energy she 
had not brought to it in many a day. Breakfast was better to her, and the old lady was contented with what she 
said about it. 

Yet Diana sat and dreamed again all day after that ; 
watching the rolling tide of waters and letting her thoughts 
run on in as uninterrupted a flow. She dreamed only about 
Evan ; she went over old times and new, old impressions 
and new ; she recalled words and looks and tones and 
gestures, of long ago and lately ; at Pleasant Valley she 
had not dared ; here she thought it was safe and she might 
take the indulgence. She recalled all Evan's looks. How 
he had improved ! More stately, more manly, more confident, (could that be ?) more graceful ; with the air of command replacing a comparative repression of manner, (only 
comparative) even as the full thick curly moustache replaced a velvety dark line which Diana well remembered. 
As he had been then she had fancied him perfect ; as he 
was now he was to the eye far finer yet. Basil could not 
compare with him. Ah why did fancy torture her by ever 
bringing forward the comparison ! Basil never pretended 
to wear a moustache, and the features of his face were not 
so regular, and his eye was not so brilliant, and the inde- 
scribable air of authority was not there, nor the regulated 
grace of movement. True, Basil could sit a horse, and 
ride him, she knew as well as anybody ; and true, Basil's 



 

face had a high grave sweetness which was utterly unknown 
to the countenance of that other ; and it was also true, that 
if Mr. Masters wore no air of command, he knew what the 
thing meant, especially command over himself. And there 
the comparison failed for Evan. In the contrast, Diana 
clown deep in the bottom of her heart was not satis- 
fied with him, not pleased, not contented. He might know 
how to give orders to his company, he had not left off himself being under orders ; he might be strong to enforce 
discipline among his men ; but alas, alas, he had left the 
reins loose upon the neck of his passions. Basil never did 
that, never. Basil never would in the like circumstances 
have sought a weak gratification at her expense. That 
was the word ; weak. Evan had been selfishly weak. Basil 
was always, so far as she had known him, unselfishly strong. 
And yet, and yet ! she loved the weak one ; although it 
pained her that he should have been weak. 

Days went by. Diana lived in dreams. 

' What is the matter with you ? ' her old friend asked 
her abruptly one evening. 

' Nothing, I think,' said Diana looking up from her sewing and answering in some surprise. 

' Nothing the matter ! Then what did you come here 
for?' 

' I thought ' Diana hesitated in confusion for the moment, 'my husband agreed with me in thinking, that it 
would be good for me to be away from home for awhile.' 

' Wanted change, eh ? ' Mrs. Sutphen said drily. Diana did not know what to add to her words. 

'Change and salt air ' the old lady went on. 

' Not salt air particularly,' Diana answered, feeling that 
she must answer. ' I did not think of salt air. Though 
no change could have been so good for me.' 



 

' Has it been good for you ? ' 

' I have enjoyed it more than I can tell,' Diana said, 
looking up again. 

' Yes, yes, but that isn't the thing. I know you enjoy 
it. But do you think it is making you fat ? ' 

' I don't need that,' said Diana smiling. ' I am fat 
enough.' 

' You won't be, if you go on losing as you have done 
since you came. Now I agree with you that I don't think 
that is Clifton air. What is it ? ' 

Diana could not reply. She was startled and troubled. 
She knew the fact was true. 

' Basil won't like it if I let this go on ; and I don't 
mean it shall. Is anything the matter between you and- 
him ? ' 

' What do you mean ? ' Diana asked, to gain time. 

'You know what I mean. I spoke plain. Have you 
and he had any sort of a quarrel or disagreement ? ' 

' Certainly not ! ' 

' Certainly not? then why aren't you happy ? ' 

' Why do you ask me ? ' said Diana. ' Why should you 
question my being happy?' 

' I've got eyes, child ; inconvenient things, for they see. 
You look and act like a marble woman ; only that you are 
not cold, and that you move about Now that isn't your 
nature. What spell has come over you ? ' 

' You know, Mrs. Sutphen,' Diana answered with calm- 
ness, ' there are many things that come up in the world to 
try one and trouble one ; things one cannot help, and that 
one must bear.' 

' I know that, as well as you do. But a woman with 
the husband you have got, ought never to be petrified by 
anything that comes to her. In the first place, she has no 
cause ; and in the second place, she has no right.' 



There was such an instant assent of Diana's inner nature 
to at least the latter of these assertions, that after a minute 
or two's pause she said very simply, 

' Thank you, That is true.' 

' He's rather fond of you, isn't he ? ' the old lady asked 
with a well-pleased look at her beautiful neighbour. 

' Yes. Too much,' said Diana sighing. 

' Can't be too much, as I see, if only you are equally 
fond of him ; it is bad to have inequality in that matter. 
But my dear, whatever you do, don't turn into marble. 
There's fire at the heart of the earth, folks say, but it don't 
do us much good in winter.' 

With this oracular statement Mrs. Sutphen closed her 
lecture. She had said enough. Diana spent half that 
night and all the next day in a quite new set of meditations. 

And more days than one. She waked up to see 
what she had been doing. What business had she to be 
thinking of Evan, when she was Basil's wife ? what right 
to, be even only in imagination, spending her life with him ? 
She knew, now that she was called to look at it, that Mrs. 
Sutphen had spoken true, and that a process had been going on in herself which might well be likened to the process of petrifying. Everything had been losing taste and 
colour lately ; even her baby was not the delight she had 
been formerly. Her mind had been warped from its 
healthy condition and was growing morbid. Conscience 
roused up now fully and bade Diana stop short where she 
was and take another course. But there she was met by a 
difficulty ; one that many a woman has had to meet, and 
that few have ever overcome. To take another course, 
meant that she should cease thinking of Evan ; cease thinking of him even at all ; for it was one of those things which 




you cannot do a little. She tried it ; and she found it to 
be impossible. Everything and anything would set her 
upon the track of thinking of him ; everything led to him ; 
everything was bound up with him, either by sympathy or 
contrast. She found that she must think of Evan, because 
she loved him. She said that to herself, and pleaded it. 
Then do not love him ! was the instant sharp answer o 
conscience. And Diana saw a battle set in array. 

That day, the day when she got to this point, was one 
of those which even in summer one may know on the 
sea shore. It was grey and cool, and a violent easterly 
wind was driving the waters in from the Narrows. The 
moment Diana got a sight of those battle forces opposed 
to each other in her spiritual nature, she threw on bonnet 
and shawl and went out. Baby was sleeping, and she left 
her safely in charge of a good-tempered servant who asked 
no better. 

She went along the shore in the face of the wind, meeting, breasting, overcoming it, though with the exertion of 
determined strength and energy. The gale was rather fierce. 
It was a sight to see, the rush of that tide of waters, mighty, 
sweeping, rolling and tumbling in from the great sea, rest 
less, endless. Diana did not stop to draw comparisons 
yet I think she felt them even then ; the wild accord of the 
unchained forces without and the unchained forces within. 
Who could stay them, the one or the other ? ' That is Nature,' said Diana to herself ; ' and this is Nature ; " the 
troubled sea that cannot rest." But that is spoken of the 
wicked ; am I wicked because I cannot help what I cannot 
help ? As well put out my tiny hand and sweep back that 
stormy flood of water to the ocean where it comes from ! 
as hopefully, as practicably. What am I, but a chip or a 
shingle tossed and chased along on the power of the waves 


The wicked are like the troubled sea when it cannot rest ; 
that is it. it cannot rest. Look at it, and think of bidding 
it rest ! ' 

She had walked a long way in the teeth of the storm, 
and yet unwilling even to turn her face homewards with her 
mind still at war, she had crouched down to rest under the 
lee of an old shed which stood near the edge of the water. 
Diana drew her shawl closer round her and watched the 
wild play of the waves, which grew wilder every moment ; 
taking a sort of gloomy comfort in the thought that they 
were not more irresistible or unopposable than the tempest 
in her own heart. Then came in the thought it stole in 
" There was One who could bid it be still and the sea 
heard him and was quiet. If he could do that, could he 
not still this other storm ? A worse storm, yes ; but could 
not the hand that did one thing do the other ? " Diana knew 
on the instant that it could ; but with that came another 
consciousness that she wished it could not. She did not 
want the storm laid. Better the raging forces than the 
calm that would follow the death of her love for Evan 
Knowlton. ' But it could never die ! ' was the impatient 
objection of her heart. And then came the whisper of conscience, ' It ought ; you know it ought ; and the Lord 
never bade you do a thing he would not help you to do, or 
do for you if you are willing.' And she remembered, " If 
ye shall say to this mountain, Be thou removed " Could 
she be willing ? that was all. Would she say it ? 

The Lord said, there are some sorts of devils that are 
only cast out by prayer and fasting : and I suppose that 
means, by very great and determinate laying hold of the 
offered strength and fullest surrender to all its dispositions. 

This was a battle before which Waterloo sinks to a 



 

play of fire crackers and Gravelotte to a great wrestling 
match. There was struggle on those fields, and bitter determination, and death faced and death met ; and yet the 
combatants there never went to the front with the agony 
which Diana's fight cost her. And if anybody thinks I am 
extravagant, I will remind him on what authority we have 
it, that " He that ruleth his spirit is greater than he that 
taketh a city." Let no one suppose the battle in Diana's 
instance was soon fought and over. It was death to give 
up Evan ; not the death of the body, which lived on and 
was strong though she grew visibly thin ; but the death of 
the will ; and that is a death harder by far than the other. 
Diana was in the struggle of that fight for many a day, and 
as I said, growing thin under it. She was not Mjtt|pg ; if 
she could be delivered from this passion which was like her 
life, she was not willing to be delivered. Yet duty was 
plain ; conscience was inexorable. Diana struggled and 
fought till she could fight no longer, and then she dragged 
herself as it were to the feet of the Stiller of the waves with 
the cry of the Syrophenician woman on her lips and in her 
heart ; ' Lord, help me ! ' But the help, Diana knew by this 
time, meant that he should do all the work himself, not come 
in aid of her efforts, which were like ropes of straw in a flame. 
Let no one think, either, that the first struggle to have faith 
was faith itself, or that the first endeavour to submit was 
surrender. There is a wide difference, and often a wide 
distance. But there came a time, it was slow in coming, 
but it came, when like a wearied child Diana ceased from 
her own efforts and like a helpless child threw herself upon 
strength that she knew. And then the work was done. 

Let no one say, either, that what I have described is 
an impossibility. " If ye have faith," the Master said, 
" nothing shall be impossible to you." And nothing is. 



 

" He is a Rock ; his work is perfect." And he who overcame all our enemies for us can overcome them in us. 
They are conquered foes. Only, the Lord will not do the 
work for those who are trusting in themselves. 



CHAPTER XXXIII. 

BUDS AND BLOSSOMS. 

IT was the end of September. Nearing a time of storms 
again in the air and on the sea ; but an absolute calm had 
settled clown upon Diana. Not at all the calm of death ; 
for after death, in this warfare, comes not only victory but 
new life. It was very strange, even to herself. She had 
ceased to think of Captain Knowlton ; if she thought of 
him it was with the recognition that his power over her was 
gone. She felt like a person delivered from helpless bondage. 
There was some lameness, there were some bruises yet from 
the fight gone by ; but Diana was every day recovering 
from these, and elasticity and warmth were coming back to 
the members that had been but lately rigid and cold. The 
sun shone again for her, and the sky was blue, and the arch 
of it grew every day loftier and brighter to her sense. At first 
coming to Clifton Diana had perceived the beauties and 
novelties of her new surroundings ; now she began to enjoy 
them. The salt air was delicious ; the light morning mist 
over the bay, as she saw it when she went to take her 
morning bath, held a whole day of sunlit promise within 
its mysterious folds ; the soft low hum of the distant city, 
which she could hear when the waves were still, made the 
solitude and the freshness and the purity of the island 
seem doubly rare and sweet. And her baby began to be 
now to Diana the most wonderful of delights ; more than 
ever it had been at any previous time. 



 

All this while she had had letters from Basil ; not very 
long letters, such as a man can write to a woman whose 
whole sympathy he knows he has ; but good letters, such 
as a man can write to a woman to whom his own heart and 
soul have given all they have. Not that he ever spoke of 
that fact or alluded to it. Basil was no maudlin, and no 
fool to ask for a gift which cannot be yielded by an effort of 
will ; and besides, he had never entirely lost hope ; so that, 
though things were dark enough for him certainly, he could 
write manly, strong, sensible letters, which in their very 
lack of all allusion to his own feelings spoke whole volumes 
to the woman who knew him and could interpret them. 
The thought of him grieved her ; it was getting to be now 
the only grief she had. Her own letters to him were brief 
and rare. Diana had a nervous fear of letting the Clifton 
postmark be seen on a letter of hers at home, knowing 
Avhat sort of play sometimes went on in the Pleasant Val- 
ley post office ; so she never sent a letter except when she 
had a chance to despatch it from New York. These epis. 
ties were very abstract ; they spoke of the baby, told of 
Mrs. Sutphen, gave details of things seen and experienced ; 
but of Diana's inner life, the fight and the victory, not a 
whit. She could not write about them to Basil ; for glad 
as he would be of what she could tell him, she could not 
say enough. In getting deliverance from a love it was 
wrong to indulge, in becoming able to forget Evan, she 
had not thereby come nearer to her husband or in the least 
fonder of thinking of him ; and so Diana shrank from the 
whole subject when she found herself with pen in hand and 
paper before her. 

When September was gone and October had begun its 
course, a letter came from Basil in which he desired to 
know about Diana's plans. There were no hindrances any 




longer in the way of her coming home, he told her. Diana 
had known that such a notification would come, must come, 
and yet it gave her an unwelcome start. Mrs. Sutphen had 
handed it to her as they came in from their morning dip 
in the salt water ; the coachman had brought it late last 
evening from the post office, she said. Diana had dressed 
before reading it ; and when she had read it, she sat down 
upon the threshold of her glass door to think and exam- 
ine herself. 

It was October, yet still and mild as June. Haze lay 
lingering about the horizon, softened the shore of Long 
Island, hid with a thick curtain the place of the busy city ; 
the roar of which Diana could plainly enough hear in the 
stillness, a strange, indistinct, mysterious, significant murmur of distant unrest. All before and around her was 
rest ; the flowing waters were too quiet to-day to suggest 
anything disquieting, only life, without which rest is nought. 
The air was inexpressibly sweet and fresh ; the young light 
of the day dancing as it were upon every cloud edge and 
sail edge, in jocund triumph beginning the work which the 
day would see done. Diana sat down and looked out into 
it all and tried to hold communion with herself. She was 
sorry to leave this place. Yes, why not ? She was sorry 
to exchange her present life for the old one. Quiet and 
solitary it had been, this life at Clifton, for Mrs. Sutphen 
scarcely made her feel less alone with her than without her ; 
and she had held herself back from society. Quiet and 
solitary, and lately healing ; and Pleasant Valley was full 
of painful memories and associations, her mother, and her 
husband. Diana felt as if she could have welcomed every- 
thing else, if only Basil had not been there. The sight of 
the lovely bay with its misty shores and its springing light 
hurt her at last, because she must leave it ; she sank her 



 

face in her hands and began to call herself to account. 
Duty was waiting before her ; was she not willing to take 
it up ? She had surrendered her will utterly to God in the 
matter of her love to Evan, and she had been delivered 
from the torture and the bondage of it ; quite delivered ; 
she could bear to live without Evan now, she could bear to 
live without thinking of him ; he would always be in a certain sense dear, but the spell of passion was broken for 
ever. That did not make her love her husband. No ; but 
would not the same strength that had freed her from temptation on the one hand, help her to go forward and do her 
duty on the other ? And in love and gratitude for the 
deliverance vouchsafed her, should she not do it ? 'I will 
do it, if I die ! ' was her inward conclusion. ' And I shall 
not die, but by the Lord's help I shall do it.' 

So she wrote to her husband that she was ready, and 
he came to fetch her. 

The Pleasant Valley maples were flaunting in orange 
and crimson when the home journey was made. The fairest 
month of the year was in the prime of its beauty ; the air 
had that wonderful clearness and calm which bids the 
spirit of the beholder be still and be glad, saying that there 
is peace and victory somewhere, and rest, when the harvest 
of life is gathered. Diana felt the speech, but thought 
nevertheless that for her peace and victory were a good 
way off. She believed they would come, when life was done ; 
the present thing was to live, and carry the burden and do 
the work. The great elms hung still green and sheltering 
over the lean-to door. The house was enlarged and im- 
proved ; and greatly beautified with a coat of paint. Diana 
saw it all ; and she saw the marvellous beauty of the mea- 
dows and their bordering hills ; she felt as if she were 
coming to her prison and place of hard labour. 




' How do you like the looks of things ? ' her husband 
asked. 

' Nice as can be.' 

'You like it?' 

' Very much. I am glad you did not make the house 
white.' 

' I remembered you said it ought to be brown.' 

' But would you have liked it white ? ' 

' I would have liked it no way but your way,' he said 
with a slight smile and look at her, which Diana could not 
answer, and which cut her sharply. She had noticed, she 
thought, that Basil was more sober than he used to be. 
She thought she knew why ; and she wanted to tell him part 
of what had gone on in her mind of late and how free she 
was of the feelings he supposed were troubling' her ; but a 
great shyness of the subject had seized Diana. She was 
afraid to broach it at all, lest going on from one thing to 
another Basil might ask a question she could not answer. 
She was very sorry for him, so much that she almost forgot 
to be sorry for herself, as she went into the house. 

Mrs. Flandin was sitting with Mrs. Starling in the lean
to kitchen. 

' So you made up your mind to come home,' was her 
mother's greeting. ' I almost wonder you did.' 

' If you knew how good the salt water was to me, you 
might wonder,' Diana answered cheerfully. 

' Well, I never could see what there was in salt water ! ' 
said Mrs. Flandin, ' that folks should be so crazy to go into 
it ! If I was drownin,' 'seems to me I'd rather have my 
mouth full o' sun'thin' sweet.' 

' But I was not drowning,' said Diana. 

' Well, I want to know what you've got by stayin' away 
from your place all summer ' her mother went on. 




' Her place was there,' said the minister, who followed 
Diana in. 

' Now dominie,' said Mrs. Flandin, 'you say that jes' 
'cause she's your wife. Hain't her place been empty all 
these months ? Where is a wife's place ? I should like to 
hear yo.u say.' 

' Don't you think it is where her husband wants her to 
be?' 

' And you wanted her to be away from you down there ? 
Do you mean that ? ' 

' If he had not, I should not have gone, Mrs. Flandin,' 
Diana said, and with a smile. 

'Well now, du tell ! what good did salt water do ye? 
The minister said you was gone to salt water somewheres.' 

' It did me more good than I could ever make you understand.' 

' I don't believe it ! ' said Mrs. Starling harshly. ' You 
mean it was a clever thing to play lady and sit with your 
hands before you all summer. It was good there was some? 
body at home to do the work.' 

' Not your work, Di,' said her husband good humour- 
edly, ' nor my work. I did that. Come along, and see 
what I have done.' 

He drew her off, into the little front hall or entry, from 
there through a side door into the new part of the building. 
There was a roomy, cool, bright room, lined with the minister's books ; curtained and furnished, not expensively indeed, yet with a thorough air of comfort. Taking the baby 
from her arms, Basil led the way from this room, up a short 
stairway, to chambers above which were charmingly neat, 
light and cheerful, all in order ; everything was done, everything was there that ought to be there. He laid the sleep- 
ing child down in its crib and turned to his wife with a serious face. 



 

' How will you stand it, Diana ? ' 

' Basil, I was just thinking, how will you I' 

' We can do what ought to be done ? ' said he, looking 
into her face. 

' I know you can. I think I can too, in this. And I 
think it is right to take care of mother. I am sure it is.' 

' Diana, by the Lord's help we can do right in everything.' 

' Yes, Basil ; I know it ! ' she said, meeting his eyes with 
a steady look. 

He turned away, very grave, but with a deep ejacula- 
tion of thankfulness. Diana's eyes filled; but she too 
turned away. She could add no more. It was not words 
but living, that must speak for her now. 

And it did. Even that same evening. Mrs. Flandin 
would not go away, it was too good an opportunity of gathering information about various points on which the " town " 
had been curious and divided. She kept her place till after 
supper. But all she could see was a fair, quiet demeanour ; 
an unruffled beautiful face ; and an unconscious dignity of 
carriage which was somewhat provokingly imposing. She 
saw that Diana was at home and likely to be mistress in her 
own sphere ; held in too much honour by her husband, and 
holding him in too much honour, for that a pin's point of 
malicious curiosity might find an entering place between 
them. She reported afterwards, that the minister was a 
fool and his wife another, and so they fitted. Mrs. Starling 
was inclined to be of the same opinion. 

The two most nearly concerned knew better. Fit they 
did not, though they were the only ones of all the world 
that knew it. While Diana had been away at Clifton, the 
minister had managed to make one of the company at Elmfield rather often, moved by various reasons. One effect 



 

however of this plan of action had been unfavourable to 
his own peace of mind. He saw Evan and came to know 
him ; he would know him, though the young man would 
much rather have kept aloof from contact with Diana's husband. Basil's simplicity of manner and straightforwardness 
were too much for him. And while an unwilling and enormous respect for the minister grew up in Captain Knowlton's 
mind, the minister on his part saw and felt, and perhaps exaggerated, the attractiveness of the young army officer. Basil 
was not at all given to self-depreciation ; in fact, he did not 
think of himself enough for such a mischievous mental transaction ; however he perceived the grace of figure and bear- 
ing, the air of command and the beauty of feature, which he 
thought might well take a woman's eye. ' My poor Diana ! ' 
he said to himself ; 'her fancy has caught the stamp of all 
this and will hold it. Naturally. She is not a woman to 
like and unlike. What chance for me ! ' 

Which meditations, unwholesome as they were, did not 
prevent Basil's attaching himself to Captain Knowlton's 
society, and making a friend of him, in spite of both their 
selves, as it were. The captain's mental nature, he suspected 
and found, was by no means in order to correspond with 
his physical ; and if a friend could help him, he would be 
that friend. And Basil did not see that the young officer's 
evident respect for himself and succumbing to his friendly 
advances, were a. very significant tribute to his own personal and other qualities. It was a little matter to him, indeed, such tribute, if he could not have it from his wife. 

He had everything else in her that a man's heart could 
desire ! He saw that, soon after her return from Clifton. 
Diana's demeanour had been gracious and sweet before, always, although with a shadow upon it. Now the shadow 
was gone, or changed ; he could not tell which ; she was 



. 

not gay-spirited as he had once known her ; but she wen 
about her house with a gentle grace which never failed. 
Mrs. Starling was at times exceedingly trying and irritating. 
Diana met and received it all as blandly as she would give 
her face to the west wind ; at the same time no rough wind 
could move her from the way of her duty. Mrs. Starling 
was able neither to provoke her nor prevail with her. She 
was the sweetest of ruling spirits within her house ; without 
it, she was the most indefatigable and tender of fellow- 
workers to her husband. Tender, not to him, that is, but 
to all those for whom he and she ministered. A nurse to 
the sick, a provider to the very poor, a counsellor to the 
vexed ; for such would come to her, especially among the 
younger women ; a comforter to those in trouble. Such a 
comforter ! " Lips of healing " her husband said of her 
once ; " wise, rare ; sweet as honey, but with the savour 
of the wind blowing over wild thyme." If a little of that 
sweetness could have come to him ! But while her life was 
full of observance for him, gentle and submissive as a child 
to every expressed wish of his, and watchful to meet his 
unexpressed wish, it was the grief of Diana's life that she 
did not love this man. In the reserve of her New England 
nature, I think what she felt for him was hidden even from 
herself. 

That is, I mean, as days and months went on. At 
Diana's first coming home from Clifton, no doubt her 
opinion of her own feelings, and Basil's opinion of them, 
was correct. If a change came, it came so imperceptibly 
that nobody knew it. 

Diana's beauty at this time had taken a new phasis. It 
had lost the marble rigidity and calm impassiveness which 
had characterized it during all the time of her married life 
hitherto ; and it had not regained the careless lightness of 




the days before she knew Evan. It was something lovelier 
than either ; so lovely that Basil wondered, and Mrs. Starling sometimes stared, and every lip " in town " came to 
have nothing but utterances of respect, more often utterances of devotion, for the minister's wife. I am afraid I 
cannot give you a just impression of it. For Diana's face 
had come curiously near the expression on the face of her 
own little child. Innocent, tender, pure, something like that. 
Grave, but with no clouds at all ; strong and purposeful, 
yet with an utter absence of self-will or self-consciousness. It had always been to a certain degree, innocent 
and pure, but that was negative ; and this was positive, 
the refined gold that had been through the fire. And no 
baby's face is sweeter than Diana's was now, all blossoming as it were with love and humility. If her husband had 
loved her before, the feeling of longing and despair that 
came over him when he looked at this rarefied beauty 
would be hard to tell. He had ruined her life, he reproached himself ; and she was lost to him forever. Yet, 
as I said, though Diana's face was grave, it was a gravity 
wholly without clouds ; the gravity of the summer dawn, 
when the stars are shining and the light in the East tells 
of the coming day. 

But mental changes work slowly and insensibly oft- 
times ; and day after day and week after week went by, 
each with its fulness of business and cares ; and no one in 
the little family knew exactly what forces were silently 
busy. So a year rolled round, and another year began its 
course, and ran it; and June came for the second time 
since Diana had returned from the seaside. Elmfield in 
all this time had not been revisited by its owners. 

June had come again. Windows were open, and the 
breath of roses filled the minister's study ; for Diana had 




developed lately a passion for flowers and for gardening, 
and her husband had given her with full hands all she 
wanted, and much more. Mrs. Starling had grumbled and 
been very sarcastic about it ; however, Basil had ordered 
