*nd Dell had the parlor now. We used to put on exti'a 
coughs and shuffles when we had to go in ; and somehow 
we could not refrain from teasing them. 
“ I can’t think of a marriage at present,” said mother 
to Roger. “We must have time to get over Theo’s 
sorrow ; and then Dell is so young ! ’ ’ 
“ I will not ask you for your ‘ wee birdie ’ }xt a while. 
I am going to look about, and make some money My 
opinion is, that there will be some pretty good chances in 
the next few years. I want a charming nest, and leis- 
ure to enjoy it. I’d like it to be a little in the country, 
a fancy farm, for instance ; ” and he laughed. “ A pony 
for Dell to drive about, a saddle-horse for myself, chickens 
and cows and flowers, and crops, I suppose, and mone}- in 
the bank to live on, — how will that suit you, Della? ” 
“Oh, I should like it above all things! ” and Dell is 
enchanted by the picture. 
“ The little goose I ” says Theo. “ She has no mind 
and no desires of her own. If he said a cottage in the 
moon, she would clap her hands, and begin to calculate 
the length of rope-ladder stairs to drop down to earth 
on the da vs wo wpre expected to tea*” 
Uncle Robert was quite proud of “ my nephew, Capt. 
Durant. ’ ’ Aunt Clara was very much taken up with stylish 
living and her fashionable friends. She was exceedingly 
sorry for Theo’s misfortunes ; she could hardly believe it 
of such a fine, honorable-looking man as Mr. Ross : and 
she sent Theo some elegant applique lace and a beautiful 
emerald ring. How much more sensible it would have 
been to have bought her a pretty summer silk, which 
would not have cost any more, and been of real service, 
or if she had asked Theo to go wdth her for a nice siun- 
mering ! She took so many pleasures ! 
I must not forget to mention that Jack Rutherford, 
Mollie Henderson’s hke noir was both distinguished and 
extinguished in the last of the Richmond encounters, — 
covered with glory, and buried with the honors of war. 
That he had been a brave soldier, no one could deny. 
His superior officer had said of him, he would rather have 
J ack Rutherford drunk than almost any other man sober : 
so poor Jack’s evil habit clung to him to the very last. 
He did his country good service ; and his wife needed not 
to blush for his death. 
She arrayed herself in the deepest of sables and the cost- 
liest of crape, and was a lovely widow in all the odor of 
sanctity ; no questionable divorce. Toodles ran about in 
broad black sashes : black stockings had not yet come in. 
We all went down one summer day to a “ tea ” — one 
of Mollie Henderson’s own — given in our honor, or in 
honor of the two captains. I should have called it a 
grand party. Mr. Henderson was present in spotless 
array, and princely of mien ; Mrs. Henderson in black 
silk, velvet, and lace ; Portia in crape and black lisse ; Jo 
and fairy nymphs in white ; Percy in pale pink ; and 
Mollie as nondescript as ever. She must have had taste, 
and she did understand the fine art of dressing ; but she 
was guiltless of its practice. 
There were literary, musical, and artistic people ; there 
 
was some delicious music from piano, flute, and \dolin ; 
there were jests and laughter. Kathleen Mavourneen, 
Robin Adair, and various old ballads, were sung as one 
rarely hears them. But the house was not “ tidied up” 
a bit. Books and music lay around on chairs or on the 
floor ; a neck-tie was folded in a book of photographs ; 
some rather disreputable light gloves seemed to have 
strayed around like lost kittens, curled themselves up, and 
gone to sleep complacently. What matter? There were 
flowers, music, jollity, the delicacies of the season to eat, 
and such a grand good time ! 
I believe I have omitted Reggy. This was the only 
time I ever saw all the family together ; and they were 
piquant to a degree. A charming widow had him in tow. 
That is a vulgarism ; but it just expresses it. He appeared 
to me to be one of those attractive, irresponsible sort of 
men, who are born without any strong characteristics of 
their own, and seem to slip easily and gracefully into any 
ready-made mental attire ; only the misfortune is, they slip 
out as easily, and require constant looking after. 
Mollie gave me a little insight into the affair. 
“ One of the rich Morgans,” she said, as we ran up 
stairs for a bit of rest and confidence, — “old Peter 
Morgan’s widow ; and there’s no end to the money ! 
Reggy will be so lucky, if her fancy only lasts ! We all 
think he ought to strike now. She is only twenty-four, and 
as sweet-tempered as an angel. I couldn’t bear to think 
of Reggy marrying a sharp, shrewish thing, he is so sensi- 
tive and gentle himself, and so pleasant to get along with. 
I don’t believe he ever gave any one a cross word. vShc 
has an elegant house at Newport ; and she's asked Portia 
and Reggy for the summer. I hope Portia will keep 
spurring him up, and that it will be settled by fall. 
Does not Portia look just angelic in black? I declare, I 
can forgive Jack Rutherford every thing for dying just as 
he did.” 
Mrs. Morgan assumed a new interest in my eyes. I
wislmd devoutly that Reggy would not notice Theo so 
much. She did finally take refuge under the wing of a 
ruddy, handsome young German, who talked very brokenly, 
blushed a great deal, and yet was so gayly good- 
humored over his blunders. What a contrast they were ! 
Twilight and sunshine, — she with her dusky, shadowy 
grace ; he with the broad, healthful, exuberant nature, the 
red blood shining through the fair skin, the golden tawny 
hair that was not red, but had the ghtter of spun silk, the 
frank light blue eyes, the dimpled chin and white throat, 
and the odd, waxed mustache. He escorted her to sup- 
per, and indeed hovered about her until it was time for us 
to say good- night, as we were to return in a midnight 
train. 
Mollie was to go off presently to do fashionable watering- 
places, in the interest of several newspapers ; Percy was 
to take another tour at canvassing ; Jo had been promoted 
to photograph-coloring ; and Ad was to keep house, and 
look after “ ma so they disposed around. 
“You don’t mean,” said Archie, “that, bright and 
smart and entertaining as Mollie Henderson is, she is 
engaged to that little chap McKnight? ” 
“ Isn’t it queer?” rejoined Theo. “And yet she is just 
the kind of girl to be always bringing up somebody. 
She wouldn’t know how to be taken care of ; but she can 
always be taking care. He is just as proud of her as he 
can be ; and she is more ambitious for him than for her- 
self.” 
“ Yes,” I said, “beside her own work, she goes over 
most of his. He gets discouraged sometimes, and thinks 
he has no genius ; and she stakes him up all round, as one 
does a flower, and talks him into believing he can do 
almost any thing. She has such boundless faith in any 
one’s possibilities, thai it is really inspiriting to be with 
her.” 
 
‘ ‘ And nothing can be more amusing than their scram- 
bling method of getting along,” laughed Theo. “I 
shouldn’t think they could ever find an}- thing. Adrienne 
was hunting the house over for a pair of bronze kid slip- 
pers ; and where do you suppose she found them ? She 
remembered suddenly that she had taken them off in the 
library, and stuck them behind a picture, so she wouldn’t 
forget where they were. Jo went down to get them ; and 
two gentlemen were studying that very picture. She 
could not wait for them to go away, but pulled out the 
slippers with the utmost sang froid. It is their utterly 
unconcerned manner of doing awkward things, and their 
triumphant indifference to consequences, that is so absurd- 
ly funny.” 
Archie and Roger had enjoyed them very much ; and, 
although Theo was so tired that she had to lie on the sofa 
all the next day, she kept rehearsing little bits of fun for 
mother’s entertainment. It was the first time she had 
been out in company since the early part of her mar- 
riage. 
Mr.' Chapman had found and sent the desired infonna- 
tion. Mr. Ross’s marriage had been a kind of irregular 
one, but sufficiently legal to satisfy Scottish laws. He 
sent home an attested copy of the record ; and, after much 
persuasion, Mrs. Ross was induced to give an affidavit. 
So, then, Theo was free beyond any doubt. A year or so 
afterward, we heard Mr. Ross had returned to England ; 
and from our hearts we wished him bon voyage. It was 
our last tidings of him. 
When matters were somewhat settled, we took a survey 
of our circumstances. Vacation had begun for Dell and 
myself. We were out of debt just now, and I had some 
thirty odd dollars ; but one or two new dresses were an 
urgent necessitj’. There was father’s nine dollars a week. 
“ It seems too bad that the business had to be given 
up,” declared Archie, “ and the house mortgaged ! What 
a brave little Trojan you have been, Chrissie, to stand in 
the breach ! I must take turn now, get a good situa- 
tion somewhere, and clear the house, first of all, for dear 
little mother. Then I shall look out for some business that 
father and I can manage together. He has broken a good 
deal, I can plainly see.” 
How he inspirited us all ! 
Father did not take a very hopeful \dew of the times. 
The country was terribly in debt, the currency inflated to 
an alarming extent, the South prostrate, the men of the 
country — the real bone and sinew — left buried in trenches, 
or maimed ajnd wounded in hospitals. Taxes must be 
high, and true prosperity he thought a long way off. We 
must be content for a good many years with small endeav- 
ors, and thank God that we had a country- left. 
Yet there was a decided stir in business-circles. Money 
appeared to be plenty. Some people were already very 
rich. There were inquiries for property, for business- 
chances ; and the streets began to be full of men again. 
Many of the officers had saved up a little, or made it some 
way, and were looking about for investments. 
We had a rather quiet but delightful summer. I decided 
not to go away anywhere : I could not afford it, when it 
came to that. The “boys,” Archie’s old schoohnates 
and friends, kept dropping in with talk and congratula- 
tion. A number had been in the army ; some were mar- 
ried ; and a few were still jolly lads. We used to take 
walks up to Melrose woods, with our dinners, in true 
picnic fashion, and ramble about, or lie on the grass in the 
half sun, half shade ; then we indulged in long rows on 
the river, and horse-car trips, that were nice, but not 
costly. We had simple little teas at home : we had learned 
not to make a great fuss over two or three old friends. 
We spent evenings on the porch, singing, and talking 
over old times. 
“ Chris, remember my priceless words of wisdom,” 
Archie would say : “ ‘ There’s no place like home.’ ” 
 
He used to lie on the bed a good deal in his room, with 
the door open between ; or sometimes come and stretch 
himself out on our floor while we sewed. 
“ I wonder if you will never get stout again,’’ I used 
to say. “ You are so dreadfully thin, Archie ! ” 
“ I gave my flesh, like my heroism, to the countrj", 
Chris. Could patriotism do more? ” and he would laugh 
gayly. 
He had a cough too, which he declared was nothing. 
A little rest, and the appliances of civilization, w'ould soon 
set him up straight. A chill foreboding used to wring my 
heart. What if all these bright plans for the future should 
come to nought ! 
MoUie and Jo Henderson ran over to spend three days ; 
and such gala-days as they were ! — those absurd, laugha- 
ble, inconsequent girls, who had a good tune to-day, no 
matter what happened to-morrow. They had been in so 
many amusingly “ tight places,” as Jo termed them, the 
heroines of so many funny adventures ! Jo would wipe 
dishes for mother, and then asked her in a very solemn 
fashion if she couldn’t have Archie. The two flirted 
desperately, in a frank, unabashed manner quite refreshing 
to behold. 
We heard another astounding bit of news this summer. 
Mrs. Dayton came over to tell us in great confidence that 
Alfred was engaged to a lovely young girl, the daughter 
of a missionary, whose sainted mother was dead, and her 
father married again. Alfred had met her at the house of 
the president of the theological seminary ; and Mrs. Day- 
ton had known her mother. It would be quite a long 
engagement ; but they were all so delighted with it ! In- 
deed, they already loved the swxet girl, and could take 
her at once to their hearts. 
Mrs. Dayton had been very cordial since Theo’s misfor- 
tune. It is astonishing how the misfortune of your neigh- 
bors does bring out your Chi'istian resignation. She 
treated us to a serene and amiable tolerance. We had been 
sinners above all men : at least Theo had ; and direful 
punishment had overtaken her, as Mrs. Dayton always 
knew it would. A fearful warning, that might be turned 
to excellent account ; a moral and instructive discipline, 
that Theo had needed very much, on account of her levity. 
She hoped to see Theo a bright example of truth and the 
meek and quiet spirit that so adorned womanhood. 
“ I am not aware that the falsehood or the wrong-doing 
was mine,” returned Theo spiritedly. “ The only lesson 
I see in it is, not to put your faith in men. If an angel 
from heaven made love to me now, I should doubt his pro- 
testations.” 
“ Theo, I am afraid you do not take your trials in a 
spirit of meekness,” with a severe and virtuous shake of 
the head. 
“ I do not see what call there is for meekness ; ’ ’ and 
Theo’s eyes flashed dangerously. “A man commits a 
crime against the laws of the land, — a cruel, bitter sin 
against a young girl. Would you have me gloss it over, 
and say it was right? Did Abel suffer for his own sin, or 
Cain’s?” 
Mrs. Dayion stared. Her theology was one of special 
judgments, not the innocent suffering for the guilty 
The missionaiy’s daughter came to visit her lover’s 
family ; and one evening Mrs. Dayion walked down to our 
porch with Miss Beulah Atkinson, and introduced her, — 
a soft, fair, languishing girl, with a die-away air, and a 
voice with an exasperating little drawl ; the kind of girl 
who clings, and kisses, and can never seem to stand alone. 
“Just the sort of woman I hate,” says Archie deci- 
sively. “The woman who will never meet you in a 
square, stand-up fight, but nags and cries, and makes a 
martyr of herself. ’ ’ 
“But her husband will be a minister, not a soldier,” 
says Theo. “ There is to be no fighting.” 
 
“Poor Alf! I’m not sure but he would have had a 
better show with you, Theo.” 
“ He has no backbone, no will: he is too delding, too 
anxious to please. He should have been a woman 
instead ; and one of the girls would have made a better 
man. But oh, I do hope he may be happy ! — happiness 
is such a blessed thing. Oh, I wonder if, beside forgiv- 
ing our neighbors, we ought not to pray that they may be 
happy.” 
CHAPTER XXI. 
" I cannot but remember such things were, 
That were most precious to me.” — Macbeth. 
The summer is over, and we are all hard at work. 
Archie has a position as book-keeper, at a thousand a year. 
Our united income is about foi%-three dollars a week. 
Coal has gone up a trifle : meat, flour, and butter hold their 
own wonderfully. Dry-goods of home manufacture are 
not quite as high : indeed, cotton goods are on the decline. 
We venture to treat ourselves to some muslin for house 
purposes, a few new gowns ; and they all insist I must 
have a new set of furs. Mine are very shabby. Shoes 
are terribly expensive ; the low-priced being like Jeremiah’s 
figs, — very poor indeed. We notice that there are so few 
nice middling-class articles. You must get good, and pay 
a high price ; for your poor fades, frays, turns shabby, and 
goes to pieces. It costs more to live, and you have less 
that is really satisfying. I cannot think of giving two 
dollars and a half for gloves : so I buy a pair for one dol- 
lar and a quarter. The first time I put them on, one tears 
out around the thumb, and splits down the back : the other 
remains aggravatingly whole. 
“ Never mind,” I say, much tried. “ I can carry one 
hand in my muff. Or I can put on my mittens, and pull 
one off ; and who is to know there is no glove under the 
other? ” With that I rear my head triumphantly. 
Then I indulge myself in a new, prettj" balmoral, at two 
dollars, — gray with a dainty scarlet border. In a month 
it looks suspicious ; in two months it drops to pieces. 
Shoddy, of course. A pair of stout winter boots crack, 
and come to grief. 
“I wouldn’t buy any more cheap things, Chris,” says 
Theo. “ They do cost more in the end.” 
But ought I to give seven dollars for a pair of boots, 
just as Mrs. James Miller does? 
Old Mr. Miller dies this winter. There are eight chil- 
dren, and quantities of real estate. That is looking up. 
Stephen and James, when affairs come to be settled, buy 
out the sisters’ portion at a fair valuation. 
“ Why not put their money in government bonds ! ” Qjy 
the wise-acres. “ Taxes are going to be enormous. And 
when we come back to specie payments ; when gold falls, 
as it must ’ ’ — 
But countries with a large national debt are always 
prosperous. You lend to the government, and it pays you 
good interest. The money keeps going back and forth ; 
and somehow — 
Ah ! nobody can see quite how. Promises to pay are so 
much more easily made than the payment itself. 
We do not seem to get very rich ; but we are thankful it 
is no worse. Archie has resolved to save at least thirty 
dollars a month. He insists that mother shall take seven 
dollars a week for his board. That leaves him twenty dol- 
lars a month for clothes and sundries. Mother will have 
none of Dell’s ; and it is being saved up for a nice silk. 
We economize in every w"ay ; use cheap, plain desserts, very 
little cake, and have come to buying inexpensive pieces of 
meat, so that they are fresh and good. Mother does man- 
age to make delightful stews and soups and roasts. About 
the holidays, father orders a great box of poultiy from the 
countiy. The cost of freight makes it only sixteen cents 
a pound, w"hile it is selling at twenty-five in the market. 
He looks out for bargains everywhere. If we only can 
get the house clear once more ! 
Not that we grow narrow and sordid. We have a Shak- 
speare Club ; we hold pleasant neighborhood sociables ; go 
to a few concerts and lectures. Archie is our beau. We 
love him so very much ! He is so old-fashioned, so 
quaintly tender! Koger is off “out West,” and writes 
often. Dell amuses us by her planning. 
‘ ‘ I am going to make up sheets and pillow-slips by de- 
grees,” she says, “ and buy towels and table-linen. 
Mother had so much when she was married.” 
She is such an industrious little thing ! She is making 
a cookery book, too, trying recipes floating round in news- 
papers ; and, when she gets them just to suit her, they are 
neatly written down, besides various useful hints and sug- 
gestions pertaining to household matters. 
“In two years I shall be twenty, and that will be plenty 
young enough to begin married life. O girls, how nice 
it will be to have you visit me ! Chris, I wonder if you 
are to teach school alwaj's.” 
“I dare say,” I repl}\ “Miss Newby is still at it; 
and she is handsome and noble and good.” 
“ But she lost her lover.” 
I could crj" out, “And I have lost mine.” I know 
now there are keener, harder trials than death, sad as it is. 
I must keep silent, always. 
Theo is bright, and in good spirits. A tint of her lovel}- 
color has come back ; but she looks taller, slenderer, and 
changed in some inexph cable waj\ “Quite well,” she 
says to everybody ; yet I know of the sleepless nights, of 
the sudden, agonizing gasps for breath, of a strange shiver 
that runs over her, and a mysterious sound in her throat, 
that makes me cold with fear lest the last time has come. 
One evening we attend some tableaux. A gentleman 
and two ladies take the seat behind us. I know who they 
are ; and my face flushes, my breath comes in bounds. 
A hand touches me gently. “ Miss Dm’ant, Mrs. 
Ross,” says the low, grave voice. 
 
We both turn. 
“ My wife Tvould like so to make your acquaintance," 
he continues ; and then he introduces Mrs. Sargent to us. 
I have seen her on the street and in a carriage, — a 
large, fair, gracious-looking woman, wdio gives you the 
idea of supreme satisfaction. She is in elegant black 
silk, India shawl, diamonds, thread-lace, and a priceless 
plume in her hat. Her gloves fit exquisitely. The lace 
around her throat is finest Valenciennes, and in attire she 
is rich and perfect. She bends over, and says in that 
low, exquisitely well-bred tone, which is not a whisper, — 
“ I am so glad to meet you, Mrs. Ross ! I have taken 
an extremely warm interest in you, beheve me. Why-, 
what a very child you are ! ’* 
Theo blushes and smiles. Occasionally during the 
evening, in the pauses, we have bits of talk. And when 
it is over, as we are walldug down the aisle, she inquires 
if she may call upon us. “ Mr. Sargent asked me to last 
winter,” she says; “but I could not endure any thing 
that savored of impertinent curiosity.” 
Theo answers that she may, without making any apology 
about the difference of station or style. Mr. Sargent 
talivs to Archie in a friendly manner. 
“ Shall you care, Chris? ” Theo asks earnestly. 
“ No,” I say honestly and truly.
She does call a few days after that. Theo is not feel- 
ing very well ; and Mrs. Sargent insists that she shall take 
a drive with her. A while after, she comes around and 
asks us to spend the evening. Theo is much better upon 
tliis occasion, and repays the hospitality in some most 
delightful music. I sit and think how strange it is, — his 
house, and I a guest therein. 
I know then, by an intuition natural to women, that he 
has never confessed the episode between us ; not from 
any fear, or desire to stand well with her, but because, 
when he retmiied to his duty and allegiance to her, he 
resolved that nothing should mar the harmony of their 
life together. He is a kind, courteous, gentlemanly hus- 
band, attending his wife with lover-like devotion ; and yet 
he never was, never will be, a lover to her. She could not 
comprehend the heats and passions and jealous longings 
of love. Mindful of every thing connected with her posi- 
tion as his wife, attentive to his comfort, divining indeed 
the little ways he enjoys about a house, watching that the 
servants keep his clothes in order, that his books are just 
where he likes them on the library- table, that, if he wants 
to write of an evening, he shall not be disturbed, no 
sooner by her, than any chance, intrusive visitor, — a life 
just mapped out flat, with no delicious, suggestive per- 
spective ; a curious living on the outside, no inward 
emotions and perplexities. She would never say sharp, 
cross things to him : he would never leave her in a huif, 
and come home by mid-afternoon to And her in a bewitch- 
ing fit of penitence, to kiss, and make friends, and go out 
for a stroll, buying some trifle to mark that particular day. 
He can live the grave, self-contained life ; but, oh ! what 
if his pulses had been quickened by the other to run 
through the octave of joy ! 
We had a pleasant evening, and promised to come again. 
She was not the kind of woman to feel that she let her- 
self down to a school-teacher ; and I honored her for that. 
She would have nodded to me out of her carriage if the 
queen had been driving with her. 
I thought this : Theo said it as we were going to bed. 
I knew then I could have taken him without breaking her 
heart. At first the knowledge would have rent my soul 
with a throe of anguish ; but now I simply accepted the 
fact. It was too late to alter any thing. 
We went on in a quietly happy way until the very last 
of March. It had been a wild, blustering week, inter- 
spersed with hail and rain, snow and rain, and very trying 
generally. Two nights Archie had coughed dreadfully. 
 
He laughed, and said he had ordered some “ grand Asiatic 
panticurial, life-prolonging cordial,” which was to restore 
to health even th© man “whose sands of life had run out.’ 
There was a carriage at the door when I came home. 
Strange voices were in the sitting-room. What had 
befallen Archie, lying there on the old sofa, pale as a 
ghost ! 
Dr. Sheldon came striding in. Everybody was sent 
to the right about, only mother remaining. 
‘ ‘ O Theo ! what has happened ? ’ ’ and I clutched her 
arm with a deathly sinking of soul. 
“Archie — he has had a hemorrhage. They brought 
him home.” 
Then we went up stairs, with our arms over each other’s 
shoulders, and, pausing at his door, wept passionately. 
“ Oh ! have we not had sorrows enough? ” I cried. 
Mother came up, opened his bed, brought a little table 
and a towel-rack beside it ; and presently some strong 
arms bore him carefully to his room, and laid him on the 
bed. Mother and the doctor were left alone with him. 
It had been terrible ; and he was very low. No one 
could tell yet. 
It remained that way for a week, life hanging by a 
thread. Then he rallied, improved, and began to talk a 
little. Oh, how wan and pale ! the hands shrunken and 
white enough now, though we had laughed at him last sum- 
mer because they were so brown. 
Everybody was very kind. Even Mr. Sargent insisted 
upon sitting up ; and Archie liked him so much. Flowers 
were sent in, and hot-house fruits. 
“ It was quite worth being sick,” he said in his weak, 
smiling way. 
A month afterward we listened with comparative calm- 
ness to the doctor’s fiat. 
His lungs had doubtless been affected some time : one 
was in a very critical state. Still a good deal could be 
done by change of air. If he were to go West, — Minne- 
sota, Colorado. 
“ Doctor,” he says solemnly, “ do you think any thing 
can make a well man of me once more ? ’ ’ 
Dr. Sheldon flushes, turns pale, and averts his eyes. 
Ah ! is there a doom in them ? 
“ I will talk candidly : mother and the girls shall judge. 
‘ All that a man hath will he give for his life ; ’ and mine is 
sweet to me. I am young to go out of the bright, joyous 
world ; and I am needed too. I ought to live to be fa- 
ther’s mainstay. If I could get well, I would not hesi- 
tate to exile myself, to spend every penny we have ; for, 
in the years to come, I could make it good. But I do 
doubt. The fatal seeds were sown too long ago, — on 
battle-flelds, in midnight watches and marches, in trenches, 
and elsewhere. I give my life as truly for my countiy as 
if a bullet had caused the hemorrhage. If it is true that I 
only have a few months more, I would rather spend them 
here than to go off alone. For four years, you know, I 
was shut out of home, of tenderness, of sisters’ faces, of 
mother’s voice. If we could all go ! ” 
Ah ! if one could be rich. If we could spend our money 
lavishly, like uncle Robert ; if we might all go and tiy, 
comfort our darling, if the worst came. Money seems 
such a blessed thing to me just now, and poverty such a 
hard, bitter trial ! 
“ But we cannot. Girls, is the chance worth taking? ” 
“ There, there ! ” says the doctor, blowing his nose for 
an excuse to use his handkerchief, “ you ’re all excited 
now. We will think it over.” 
It seems to me that we are all awfully, solemnly calm. 
It is such a terrible question. 
We do think it over. May comes in bland and beauti- 
ful. Archie walks about, comes down stairs, takes an 
interest in the garden and the flowers, and is strangety 
cheerful. Aunt Clara etynces a cordial interest, carries 
 
Archie home with her to see a physician in whom she has 
the greatest faith. His life might be prolonged years, 
perhaps, by care and travel, and an easy, untroubled ex- 
istence. Money again. 
While we are talking and considering, and counting the 
cost of this journey and that, without any apparent cause 
or over-exertion another attack comes on, not so severe 
as the first ; but it dashes down our fragile cup of hope. 
“ I shall stay at home for the summer,” says Archie 
calmly, “ If the prospect is bright, I will go to Florida in 
the fall. Will you mind waiting upon me, girls ? We had 
such a nice gay time last year, didn’t we ? Oh ! when have 
you heard from Mollie Henderson ? Why didn’t I think 
to call upon her when I was in New York? ” 
I write to Mollie to come out, if she can spare the time. 
Our last tidings of her were, that Reggy had had a pic- 
ture put in chromo, which was a wonderful success ; and 
that he really was going to marry the widow. 
She answered the letter in person, full of business and 
importance, and the old irresistible drollery. Reggy was 
married at last. The joke of the thing was going to 
church quietly, and being married without any fuss, and 
then giving a grand swell reception. And now they have 
gone to take the orthodox tour, — Europe. Reggy would 
paint something wonderful, and step into fame. But they 
missed him so much ! They had been together all their 
lives. And, oh ! Johnny McKnight had a fine position, 
was getting twenty-five dollars a week, and doing just 
splendidly. 
Then she sent Archie a great budget of books and pa- 
pers. Aunt Clara invited him to Newport. Why could 
she not as well have asked Theo or me ? 
I was so glad to have vacation ! 
Ah, the sweet, fair, lingering summer ! There were 
cooling showers that freshened the face of nature, tran- 
quil nights for sleeping, and a brooding quiet that was 
almost heaven itself. We gave up talking of what might 
be : we lived day by day. Archie was so fond of music ; 
and Theo played, and sang soft, tender songs through 
dreamy twilights. One and another called in. Mrs. 
Sargent used to come to take him to drive. We all 
thought it so good of her. And, when she went away, 
the carriage was placed at our disposal, Mr. Sargent mak- 
ing friendly calls. 
We felt there would be no Florida for our darling. He 
just grew weaker, thinner, coughing nights, and having a 
touch of hectic fever in the day. Yet he kept around, and 
enjoyed every little bit of fun. 
Especially one day we went down to New York to see 
some pictures, and by accident met Jo Henderson, who 
would take us home. Mrs. Rutherford was off on some 
gay jaunt. Jo, with the family frankness towards us, 
confessed that she had a lover, — a rich old bachelor, 
whom half New York had been tiying to catch. 
“Men are so queer !” declared Jo oracularly. “He 
sort of half asked her to marry him ; and she refused 
plump and plain, though she wanted him desperately all 
the while. He was so amazed, you see, that it stirred 
him all up, just as if a mild-faced lamb had suddenly 
given him a ferocious plump over the fence. He came 
down here to see her, and she made Percy stay in the 
room. It was as good as. a play. Then she started 
off to Saratoga, and he after her ; and I know it will 
make a match. I hate to have ’em all maiTying off so ! ” 
“ But does she really care for him? ” I asked. 
“ Oh ! he is one of the magnificent sort, after all. You 
know she married Jack for love ; and she never had an 
hour’s comfort with him. It’s nice to be rich, and not live 
in such a scrambly fashion as we do. I hope she’ll give 
me most of her traps. I fell heir to some when she went 
in mourning, — lucky for me, — or I might have played 
dEnid in a ragged gown. 
We were marched off home with the promise of an 
early tea. Mollie had not yet arrived ; but it was Johnny’s 
night, and she would be home early. The piano was in- 
vitingly open ; the easy-chairs were in groups, just as the 
last party had used them ; and there was a cool white 
pillow on the tete-a-tete. 
“ Now, Mr. Archie, you lie down,” insisted Jo, “ while 
the girls go wash a little dust off of their faces.” 
She took him a bottle of Florida-water and a handful 
of clean towels ; so that he mightn’t have the trouble 
of coming up stairs. 
A savory smell ascended from the region below. It 
was not one of the “ crumb ” days, e\ddentty, that Mollie 
sometimes talked about. 
Jo fumed a while after the bell rang. What did keep 
Mollie? But, just as we were forming a procession, there 
was a clatter at the hall-door, and the truant made her 
appearance. 
“ Come straight down, Mollie.” 
We took our places. There was a delicious broiled 
chicken, and a dish of creamed potatoes, beside some 
potato-salad ; tomatoes sliced to perfection ; and a plate 
of tempting tarts on the side-table, fluffy enough to melt 
in one’s mouth. 
The chicken was divided, and passed around, 
“ Where is the bread? ” asked Mollie, looking sharply, 
in her queer, near-sighted way. 
“There isn’t any,” answered Adiienne, with the air 
of a queen. 
“ Send Hebe out, then.” 
“ Have you any change? ” 
“ No, I haven’t. I spent my last sixpence for car-fare, 
and am dead broke.” 
“ And I,” said Jo sententiously, “ bought the ribbon I 
wanted at Parker’s. They’re awfully dear ; and it took 
all but enough for a plate of cream. Oh, there is Per- 
cy!y 
Percy was applied to. Hebe was despatched for a loaf 
of bread and a pound of butter, as Adrienne confessed to 
using up the last on the broiled chicken. 
“I’ll ask Bailey for some money to-morrow to pay up 
Cross & Gordon’s bill,” said MoUie. “ It may do to be 
without money ; but you can't live without credit.” 
Meanwhile Mrs. Henderson sat discussing the battle 
of Waterloo with Archie, in the most serene manner. 
There were so many contradictory accounts of it ! She 
wanted her history to be as nearly perfect as possible. 
How any one could sit down and rattle off a history as if 
it were a newspaper-leader or a magazine-story, that was 
read to-day and forgotten to-morrow, she could not see. 
Hers had been the work of her hfetime ; and she had read 
every thing on the subject that she could find, and dis- 
cussed knotty points with people who had given the mat- 
ter profound attention ; and so on. But I was more 
interested in the bread than in Napoleon. 
“Did you tell Chris about Portia?” inquired Mollie. 
“ I have a letter from her ; and they are actually engaged. 
Oh ! there will be weeping and wailing among the hon 
ton and mothers mad enough to scratch out Portia’s 
eyes. It is so funny ! And Portia will just go on in her 
regally-quiet way. They can’t put her down, or extin- 
guish her : that’s quite impossible.” 
“Why should any one seek to put her down?” said 
Mrs. Henderson loftily, leaving hv-j beloved Napoleon in 
the hands of the English for a moment. “Is there any 
better blood in New York than that of the Fairfax? Mol- 
lie, that is a very inconsequent remark.” 
We came to the tarts. Hebe had been privately in- 
structed to purchase some blackberries and cream-cake ; 
and the dessert was delightful, spiced with bits of wit and 
exhilarating laughter. 
“It was just too funny for any thing,” commented 
Theo afterward. “ Girls, what do you suppose aunt 
 
Hetty would say to such wild extravagance ? The idea 
of buying ribbons and creams, when you are hardly sure 
of your supper ! ’ ’ 
“ They set all the old frugal virtues at defiance, and yet 
prosper. I dare say the girls will maiTy well. But 
Mollie is a trump. I feel sometimes like cutting out 
‘Johnny,’ and taking her my’self. I never saw a girl in 
whom absolute plainness was so attractive, and general 
carelessness so captivating. Thcy are all so amusingly 
imbued with the philosophy of improvidence ! They seem 
to have no separate purse, but share aiiy thing, to the last 
pemiy, and are never embarrassed over incidents that 
would be awfully mortifying to most people. Well, it is 
very enjoyable to others.” And Archie leaned back 
against the car-cushions, laughing quietly. 
We do not imagine that is to be Archie’s last excur- 
sion. August comes in hot and sultiy. He is troubled 
about breathing, and cannot sleep at night. Often Theo 
and I rise to keep him company ; she fanning, I reading. 
And through those starry nights we talk of other and 
solemn subjects, for the world seems to fall away, and 
heaven let down a little, — how it will be in that wondrous 
land, what we shall do (for now the idea of roaming 
about with a golden harp in one’s hand seems puerile) , 
how he will wait, and remember, and be there to welcome 
us, as we come one by one. “ I think mother will look 
for little Joe first,” he says with loving-tenderness for 
mother’s firstborn, whom he has never seen. 
We read “ Pilgrim’s Progress ” a good deal, a bit here 
and there, and “ In Memoriam.” No poem ever seemed 
so sweet and comforting. 
“ When I am gone, I do not want you to have that awful 
sense of separation,” he says. “ You know I was away 
almost four years, and you thought then of my coming 
home : now you must think of coming to me, — the other 
home. You must talk of me, of the pleasant times we 
ha've had ; you must say, Archie did this or that, and 
was "with us at such a time. You can make it seem quite 
as if I had gone on a little journey. 
“ It would be so pleasant to live,” he says again 
cheerfully “I don’t suppose any well-regulated, healthy 
mind desires to go away to unknown worlds, when every 
thing seems fair and promising. I used to think of it 
when we went in battle, and hope, — yes, I actually did 
hope, cowardly as it seems, that I would not be killed. 
Not that I ever shirked a duty, thank God ! But I used 
to wish it could be in a hospital, rather than the trenches, 
or the field, so that some soft-handed woman might ease 
me with the gentle touches they have. And see, Theo, 
God answered that prayer, and more : he has given me 
two long, lovely summers with you all.” 
Then he rallies, goes out to walk and to ride. Twice I 
hire a great family-carriage, so that we can all go. Mol- 
lie Henderson runs over, and stays all night, bringing him 
a dainty basket of peaches and grapes, — real luscious 
Hamburgs, — and a nosegay, as she calls it, of spice- 
pinks, tea-roses, and heliotrope. Would we like to have 
Jo or Ad come over and stay ? They can do any thing. 
‘‘We are so well supplied with girls,” mother says 
smilingly. 
“ Do you never mean to have any life of your own, 
Mollie?” asks Archie. “Must you go on until every 
girl is married, and every bit of the work done? ” 
“ Why, no ! ” opening wide her nondescript eyes. “ I 
am only waiting until — well, you know I want matters 
nice and fair with Johnny before he takes any new 
cares upon him. He is doing so well too. He would 
not have believed he had any genius but for me ; and 
some day he will make a great newspaper man. That’s 
the height of n\y ambition for him ; ” and she laughs. 
“ And when you have trained him, and helped him up all 
the difficult steps, some girl will swoop down, and cany 
him off.” 
 
“ No, she won’t! ” Mollie leans back, and shows hei 
white, even teeth from “ear to ear,’’ as people say, in 
that infectious laugh. “We’re not sentimental lovers; 
but it is treu und fest forever and always, with us.” 
“ So I wouldn’t stand any chance, even if I had a 
hundred years ahead of me.” 
“ O Archie Durant ! ” And a strange, wavering blush 
makes Mollie radiant. “Girls, how I would like to be 
sister-in-law to you ! But when you came to take a good 
look at me — I’m not a bit pretty, you know, — and, as 
for Johnny", he thinks every freckle in my face beautiful. 
We SiXQjust suited, and we know it.” 
Archie brightens so much, that I ask the doctor if he 
thinks Florida would be quite useless. 
“ My dear girl,” he says kindty, “ home and love will 
keep him alive longer than a thousand Floridas.” 
“ He surely is improving,” I say to Theo. “ He does 
not cough as much ; and he sleeps better at night.” 
“ Yes, poor darling ! ” 
I go back to school, though I can hardly tear myself 
away from the household. Dell still has a holiday. 
I shall always remember that kingly September Sunday. 
There is a smell of da\"dilies, mignonette, and ripening 
grapes, in the air. The sweet church-bells clang out ; foot- 
steps go to and fro ; but we all stay at home, even to 
Ritchie. Theo plays now and then ; and we sing. Father 
reads aloud a bit here and there in his book. The meals 
are prepared, — all the glowing, delicious fruits we have 
been able to find. 
“ This supper-table ought to be painted: it is like a 
picture,” says Archie. 
“ Why, Dell, child ! ” and mother gives a little surprised 
laugh, — “ what made you think of getting out this old 
china ? ’ ’ 
It was great-grandmother Durant’s, rare and fine. 
“Because we had so many beautiful things to eat,” 
answers Dell. “ And I have made each of you a nose 
gay." 
Ai’chie pins his in his dressing-gown. 
Then we go back to the parlor, and sing, — 
Forever with the Lord. 
Here in this body pent, 
Absent from heaven, I roam, 
Yet nightly pitch my moving tent 
A day’s march nearer home.” 
Archie has been leaning his head on mother’s shoulder. 
He raises it a trifle, kisses the hand so near his cheek. A 
little quiver seems to run all over him. 
“ Good-night, mother.” 
The head droops. Mother clasps it close, shutting out 
the face with her arm. We all know that he has gone 
through the “ pass of death,” and is at home. 
Captain Archie Durant, in the very flower of manhood. 
CHAPTER XXII. 
It was as Archie desired. We did not shroud ourselves 
in the outward panoply of grief, wearing black to some 
extent, but not stiff crape, and mourning neck-ruches. 
We took him to the pretty country burying-ground at 
Medford, and then went on with our daily duties. People 
have to, in this world, if they cannot get others to take 
their places ; and we could not. All our little savings 
went to pay expenses ; but we 'were out of debt, 
Mrs. Palmer gave up her business, as she wms to marry 
at the holidays. Dell staid at home. We had some kind 
and pleasant friends, if we were not very prosperous. 
Yet it did seem to me as if the world was getting rich. 
The Sandborns sold, and went up on Park Avenue, the 
ridge of high ground above us. Mr, Mercer traded prop- 
erty, and left the neighborhood. New streets were cut 
through, rows of houses built and sold. Factories were 
running night as well as day. The croakers had croaked ; 
but good times were really coming in. High taxes and 
high prices made no difference when you had plenty of 
money. 
The Miller brothers sold their property, and were rich 
men at a bound. James Miller w'ent Into building-business ; 
and the two opened a lumber-yard. Stephen was elected 
alderman, to fill a vacancy. 
Just at this time, uncle Frank took a dreadful cold. 
Mother -was down spending the day with aunt Hetty. 
 
 
‘‘ Hetty,” she said, “ why do you not make Frank stay 
in, and be doctored? He looks so badly ; and that cough 
is terrible.” 
“How can he?” answered Hetty sharply. “Stephen 
must be away, there’s so much in his new place that needs 
oversight ; for the Millers are no hands to go off pleasur- 
ing, and leave every thing to clerks. And the Kinneys 
might a’ been doing a good trade here to-day, if they’d 
looked after it.” 
“But health seems of so much importance,” suggested 
mother mildly. 
“ Do you suppose he’d leave those Irishmen to ’tend to 
things, and take money? He’s had many a bad cold, and 
got over it. I never did beheve in cuddling people up in 
a chimney-corner. You can work a’most anything off, if 
you have a little spunk.” 
Uncle Frank’s cold did not seem to “ work off ; ” but he 
managed to get about. 
“ I wish Stephen would give me Ms chance in the busi- 
ness,” said father; “let me buy him out, on any kind 
of easy terms. They certainly ought to have a book- 
keeper.” 
Father sounded uncle Frank, but found that Stephen 
wasn’t afraid of “ having too many irons in the fire.” 
“ I have a chance to take up a new employment,” he 
announced one evening. “ We had a man to work for us 
once, — Woodford, a chair-maker by trade. He went to 
war when bounties were high, and on his return took up 
carpentering. He is in business now, with Dayid Brown, 
a kind of half-made architect. It doesn’t seem neces- 
sary to learn any thing thoroughly nowadays. They build 
cheap, showy houses, and sell them ; although they have 
done some pretty good work. I saw Woodford to-day, 
and he said they were pajdng from two dollars and a half to 
three and a half for men. He offered me work ; indeed, 
quite urged me to come. I certainly tliink I can do as 
 
well at house-building as Mark Woodford. Nine dollars 
a week isn’t much for a man to earn, though Hatfield can 
get plenty of young men to take the place at that price.” 
“ It is very little ; yet it has served you a good turn, 
and aided in re-establishing your health. But if you 
could earn more ” — 
There would be no Archie to count on in the future. I 
must be son and daughter both. 
Father looked after the opportunity, and found he could 
earn three dollars a day, after giving a little time to get 
an insight into the business. He had been so used to 
wood- work all his life. 
“Eighteen dollars a week,” said mother. “Do you 
remember, before you left New York, you had twenty dol- 
lars a week as foreman ? W e thought two hundred and 
fifty dollars a year a high rent ; and now Mr. Mercer’s 
house, not as pretty as ours, rents for five hundred. The 
Blairs are to pay twenty-eight dollars a month for a second 
floor ; and Mrs. Nichol was telling me, a few days ago, 
that they paid thirty dollars a month for the same cottage 
that cost them only twelve dollars five years ago. Rents 
have more than doubled. We used to give from fifteen to 
twenty-five cents for first-class butter : now it goes from 
thirty"-five to fifty cents. Excellent flour at seven dollars 
a barrel, and my last was twelve dollars and a half. A 
great many small articles have doubled in price ; and, if you 
attempt to get cheap things, they are so ver}- poor. When 
you have to use tw"ice as much of any thing to gain the 
same strength or flavor, it is not cheap : so I, for one, think 
it a rather odd sort of prosperity.” 
“Yet a good many people are getting rich,” said father. 
“ Now, here is Woodford. His family were almost starv- 
ing when he went to war : now they live in better style 
than we do.” 
‘ ‘ But he cannot have made all that money in such a 
little while,” said mother, surprised. 
I don’t quite understand. It seems to me people are 
running fearfully in debt, thinking or hoping to make 
money. But how will it be when everything shrinks back 
to its actual value? How pay indebtedness contracted 
with gold more than double its real value, with gold when 
it comes back to its normal state ? Will properly that is 
worth ten thousand now be worth ten thousand then? 
And }-et it is a great temptation to speculate. I suppose 
if I had money, I should do it too.” 
Father had an offer for our house, — fifty-six hundred 
dollars, cash down. He hunted up all the papers to see 
what it had cost. Twenty-four hundred in the beginning : 
the improvements — furnace, bath-room, the double bay- 
window, and kitchen, besides being twice painted — had 
cost nearly another thousand, to say nothing of the work 
father had done by odd spells. And then there was the 
interest and taxes. 
“We could go a little farther out,” said father. “ There 
are pretty houses at Meh’ose and Clinton and Westlands ; 
but the car-fare is eight and ten cents, and the street- 
improvements are all to be made. If Chrissie and I rode 
twice a day, and the others came in occasionally, car-fare 
would average ten dollars a month. Then here the grad- 
ing, curbing, paving, and sewering are done. It might 
cost a thousand or so in a new place. I do not see how 
we should be very much the gainers, after all, since we 
must have a house to live in.” 
Mother settled it. No house, she said, could ever 
be so dear to her. In case of great misfortune or posi- 
tive want, she would be willing to give it up, but for no 
other cause. 
So said Theo and I. 
“ You have made a great mistake, Durant,” commented 
some of the neighbors. 
Were sentiment, affection, and satisfaction nothing? 
Was the world to be completely given over to greed? 
 
Our next-door neighbor, Mr. Corbin, who was a life- 
insurance agent, used to come and visit father on the 
porch, as the evenings grew pleasant. I was very much 
interested in their talk. Mr. Corbin thought a national 
debt a supreme blessing, and argued that high taxation 
served to develop the resources of a country. “ Look at 
England,” he would cry, “mistress of the seas, and 
with the greatest commerce in the world. Every few 
years she has a war on hand. Her debt is immense. An 
Englishman’s tax begins in his cradle, and can hardly be 
said to end in his grave ; yet see how prosperous the 
country is! We ought to copy that stjde of doing busi- 
ness.” 
He was also very enthusiastic about the towns in the 
vicinity of New York. 
“ The people are swarming out every year. As a 
place increases in population, its value certainly does not 
diminish. Why, I suppose this place was once a farm, 
and fifty acres could be bought for less than you would 
take for your house. It’s going to double again and 
again.” 
Mr. Sargent used to come up sometimes, and join the 
smokers’ club, as he called it, 
“ Mr. Corbin,” he would say, “ are salaries and wages 
going to increase in like ratio? Just now there seems a 
plethora of employment ; but such seasons are often fol- 
lowed by depression. There have been other times of 
excitement, followed by financial ruin ; and it behooves us 
to go a little carefully.” 
“Well,” laughingly, “I find that I can pay my five 
year rent easily on an income of three thousand 
dollars than I could two hundred on that of eight or nine 
hundred. And there’s a little margin of speculation on 
stocks and bonds. Brains are beginning to rule the 
world, instead of mere stupid strength.” 
“ An yet brains have run into many foolish vagaries.” 
“ It seems to me,’ Mr. Sargent said after Mr. Corbin 
had gone, “that there is too much of this irresponsible 
work in the world, — agents and officers and middlemen, 
— and profits must be enormous to pay them all. The 
old steady six per cent must give way to the new pushing 
dividend of fifteen or twenty. Farms are cut up into 
cities ; business-men must have a clerk or two, while they 
ride around in carriages. A queer state of things, after 
such an exhausting war ! ” 
As for us, we found need for the strictest economy. 
We had begun to hope again that the mortgage might be 
paid, if father had good work and kept well, and no other 
misfortunes happened. 
We had lived very quietly since Archie’s death. Dell’s 
attention was occupied with her absent lover. Theo cared 
so little for company, indeed had not the strength for our 
old diversions ; and it seemed to me I was rather tired, 
