"Keep them where?" 
"Where they would be fed and sheltered and 
taught and taken care of." 
Olive was silent. 
"Which is best?" 
Olive hesitated again, and then said that at thai 
rate she did not see how anybody was to have any 
thing. 
"Except the poor children? " said Mr. Iredell. 
"Well, Olive, I would rather they had it than I. 
It is my Master, you know." 
Olive let the matter drop, and so did he. A little 
later, she and I were sitting over the fire in her 
dressing room, whither she had drawn me. 
"You see," she said, "what Mr. Iredell thinks 
about the carpet." 
 
"But Olive, Olive!" I cried; "would you not 
rather do the Lord's work than have a new carpet ? " 
" He does enough of that work besides. lie is 
always doing it. See these old fogies, or young 
ones, that he brings home to dinner every day. 
He could do all that, and let me have my carpet 
too." 
"Yet the carpet would do so mucli more; you 
cannot help that." 
" Where is one to stop, then ? " 
"0 where Mr. Iredell said; when you have done 
all you can. Olive, you are throwing happiness 
away; you are throwing happiness away! Why 
do you?" 
Olive did not answer, and I thought was not 
pleased. Nor was I. We sat still listening to the 
Christmas wind, which was charged now with all 
sorts of associations for me. Was this, I wondered, 
a happy Christmas to Mr. Iredell? Kembering 
those at his old home and with his mother and sis 
ter, did his wife make up to him for what he used 
to have and had no longer? And Olive how 
Olive was missing her chance, her rich chance of a 
noble and happy life. I sat still a while, and then 
I rose up and kissed her and went to my own room. 
And sadness overcame me there; and I did what 
I rarely do; gave way to tears. They were heavy 
and unrefreshing tears; and I went to sleep with 
them hardly dry. 
But the morning, Christmas morning, broke 
bright and sparkling upon me. The storm was 
 
past There was a white glory upon the world, 
and a crystal glitter upon every snow surface, brilliant and laughing in light. I remembered that it 
was Christmas Day, and that Christmas meant 
"peace on earth" ; and that the King of peace, 
whose own the day is, would surely not disown his 
name to any who trust in him. Therefore not to 
me. There came therewith a sort of peace into 
my heart, which was not without some brightness 
of its own, if the sparkle was wanting. What a 
sparkle the outward world was in! Snow lying, 
and snow flying in the wind, the floating separate 
crystals catching the sun rays and giving them 
back, so that at times the air seemed full of diamond dust. "Well, life was not like that to me 
any longer. No, but its brightness was from the 
sun direct, beholden to no reflections, sweet and 
golden. I watched at the window, fascinated with 
the beauty outside. The wind brought flurries of 
the light, dry snow, and all the air would be full of 
that diamond sparkle; then it would clear away, 
and the intense blue overhead shew itself without 
any sort of a veil. There were no snow fields be 
neath, and no hills, with their wooded sides shak 
ing off showers of snow at every such sweep of the 
wind over them. That would be fairer yet to look 
upon; yet as I thought of it, Chesterfield seemed 
to me to be a cold place, and I felt as if I were here 
in the very region of summer. 
I was half dressed, looking and thinking, when 
a knock came at my door. It was my sister's 
 
woman, for Olive has a maid now, bringing me a 
basket; with her mistress's love. I took in the 
basket, which had an odd way of being at once 
light and heavy; and lifted up some silk paper 
which covered it; warned already by a peculiar 
odour what I was going to see. Yes, I knew it, 
fur ! I lifted it up, as I could, for fold after fold fell 
away from my fingers, till I saw what I held; a 
great fur cape with long ends, big enough to cover 
me all up. Certainly I should never be cold again 
out of doors, whatever happened to me anywhere 
else. It was beautiful fur ; I could see that, with 
out being a connoisseur ; excellence in many things 
commends itself to the perception even of the unini 
tiated. Soft and lovely; I have all a woman's liking 
for pretty things, I believe; and I held the thing in 
my hands, with incredulous pleasure. Then there 
came another knock at the door. I opened. Martha again, with another object in her grasp, and 
"Mr. Iredell's Christmas good wishes." I took this 
also from her and came in to look at it. A picture, a beautiful photograph, in the neatest of delicate frames. This picture was quite large. I set 
it down in a good light, and sat down myself be 
fore it to study it; but I found I needed help. 
It was beautiful, and delighted me, but I could not 
read the story of it. So it occurred to me at last 
that I had better finish dressing and be ready to 
receive explanations. Mr. Iredell remembered then 
that I loved pictures. That was kind of him. 
When I was ready I went to Olive's room; who 
 
this time was up and dressing, intending to honour 
Christmas morning by taking breakfast with us. 
I thanked her warmly for her gift. 
" Does it please you ? " said she. Mr. Iredell 
would have it furs and nothing else." 
" But it is from you ? " said I. 
"0 yes; he said you would like it better so. 
But you know, making people warm is one of his 
hobbies. Did he give you anything?" 
I nodded. "A picture." 
"A picture!" cried Olive. "He gave me a picture. There it is. K 
"0 that is another," I said. "Mine is just the 
same size, and framed so, but different. How 
beautiful I I know what this is. I have seen it 
before." I got down on the floor to examine it. 
"What is it?" said Olive coldly. I do not know 
what it means." 
"Don't you? It is by Millais. It is the Eve of 
St. Bartholomew. This man is a Huguenot, and 
the lady is a Catholic, and she knows that the 
Catholics have agreed to recognize each other in 
the confusion that night by a white favour worn 
somehow; so she is trying to tie her handkerchief 
upon his arm." 
"To save his life " said Olive. 
" And he will not let her." 
" He does not know what it means ? " 
"0 yes, he knows, but he will not buy his life 
at the expense of his truth. He will not disown 
his religion." 
 
" He might consider her," remarked Olive. 
" And be false ? " said I looking up. 
" A white handkerchief is not a falsehood. He 
don't put it on ; he need not take it off. It would 
keep some one from committing murder. I think 
you and Mr. Iredell have very strained notions of 
right and wrong." 
"Would you like Mr. Iredell to be false to his 
principles, to be untrue to his religion, for the sake 
of doing you a pleasure ? " 
"Are you thinking of the drawing-room carpet? 
I wonder if he was thinking of it, and meant to 
give me a lesson this way ! What is your picture 
about ? " 
"It is another parting," said I, "but I do not 
understand it. I am going to ask Mr. Iredell to 
explain." 
"Go and fetch it, and let us see them to 
gether." 
I obeyed, but just then we were called to break 
fast. 
I do not think Olive's mood was genial; never 
theless, that was a bright, sweet, merry breakfast. 
Mr. Iredell made it so; nothing could resist the 
power of his brightness and sweetness. The talk 
was delightful. It was only near the end of the 
meal that Olive brought up the subject of the pictures and asked him to explain mine. 
" It is another couple bidding each other good 
bye," ho. answered; "you can see that at a glance; 
but the bitter drop in the cup is different. Did 
 
you notice the picture on the wall of the room 
where they are?" 
" No." 
"It is Napoleon crossing the Alps. The house 
where that picture hangs must be French, or in 
tensely French in its sympathies. The time is the 
time when Napoleon had Germany under his heel. 
Now the Black Brunswicker is going to the war to 
free his country, and the skull and cross bones on 
his cap shew that the regiment to which he be 
longs will give no quarter." 
" And she is trying to keep him from going ? " 
I said. 
"And honour, and patriotism, forbid him to yield 
to her." 
"As truth and religion forbid the Huguenot. 
Yes; now I want to compare them." 
"What made you give. that to Desire?" said 
Olive. 
"I knew she likes such things; and she could 
appreciate the struggle of passion with duty." 
" And you thought I could appreciate the other 
struggle, of interest with religion ? " 
"I hoped you could appreciate the victory. 
There is no struggle in the Huguenot's mind." 
"Do you never have struggles?" said Olive sud 
denly. But Mr. Iredell answered with impenetra 
ble calmness, 
" I have had them." 
" Which sort ? " 
He smiled at her in a little wonder. "I have 
 
never had an Eve of St. Bartholomew to try me/ 
he said. 
" I know ! " said Olive. "You would do exactly 
like that man, and refuse life for a punctilio." But 
there was a little red spot on each of her cheeks, 
which I wondered much to see there. Mr. Iredell 
made no answer, and as we rose to go up stairs, he 
went to the library. In Olive's room I threw my 
self down before the pictures, to study and compare. Olive took no part. I had a feeling that 
she was looking at me. 
"Well," said she at last; "what do you see 
there ? " 
"All Mr. Iredell said. They are beautiful in 
their different ways of telling the story. There is 
no struggle in the Huguenot's face; it is sad, but 
H is lofty and sweet; there is almost a smile. And 
the Black Brunswicker's brow is all knotted with 
pain." 
"He is going, though," said Olive. "There is 
no more struggle in this than in the other one." 
"The victory is less complete, then. His will 
triumphs ; but I am afraid feeling makes a terrible 
rebellion." 
"And in the Huguenot it does not? " 
"Certainly it does not. He is quiet and calm; 
quite ready to meet whatever comes." And as I
spoke, the lesson contained in my own words went 
through and through my own heart; at the same 
time a secret question, what had moved Mr. Iredell 
to assign that picture to Olive, this to me. He 
wanted her to learn that lesson, perhaps, and gave 
this to me just because it was the companion picture. But while I was delighted, Olive for some 
reason or other was out of humour." 
" Which do you like best?" said she. 
" I like the man best in yours." 
" I will change with you." 
" no," said I. " That would not do, since Mr. 
Iredell has given them. Besides, I like the womar 
best in mine." 
" Do you think she looks like you ? " 
"Like me! No; I was never so handsome as 
that." 
" You never wore a white satin gown, if that is 
what you mean," said Olive scornfully ; " but you 
are a great deal better looking than that girl. And 
she does look a little bit like you." 
Olive regarded me, as she said that, with so pe 
culiar an expression that she puzzled me. It was 
the look of an inquisitor. I sat back on the floor 
and gazed at her in my turn. 
"Are you searching perhaps for some hidden 
vanity in me ? " I asked. " If you are, you should 
not compare me with that beauty in white." 
"You can bear it," said Olive shortly; and she 
turned away. But when I was going off with my 
Black Brunswicker, she stopped me. 
" Leave it, cannot you ? I have not half seen 
it. I want to compare the two, as you have been 
doing." 
I left the picture of course, a little unwillingly 
 
How easily one falls into a selfish way of looking 
at tilings! I remembered now that I should have 
time enough to enjoy it, and might let Olive have 
this little bit of pleasure; and I sat down to read 
my Bible and bring myself into order. For the 
experiences of the morning had somewhat demor 
alized me. There was a stir in my heart, which 
whether it were most pain or pleasure I could not 
have told; but the stir was greater than I liked. 
I sat long over my Bible, pondering a word here 
and a word there ; trying to regulate the impatient 
beats of my pulses by its sweet, steady measure; 
and at last I arrived at this final conclusion, that 
Philadelphia is no place for me. I must be where 
such excitements and demoralization will be far 
from me. I must go home to Chesterfield, and 
make some excuse to go at once. If I cannot 
command my thoughts and feelings, the only next 
thing is to run away. 
I came to this conclusion, shed some tears over 
it, and went down to lunch. What a thin crust 
this outer life of society is! and what fires and 
seethings of hidden elements go on beneath it! 
So calmly we sat at table, and I as calm as any 
body, and talked, and talked, and all the while 
the lire burned, and I thought the smoke of the 
fire would put my eyes out. How good it is we 
cannot see into each other's hearts. 
 
Jan. 2. 
MY resolution was superseded. Mr. Iredell announced, the morning after Christmas day, 
that he had business in Florida, and was going 
thither for a few weeks. He said he would take 
the time while I am here, as being the best time 
for him to leave Olive ; and he would leave us two 
to carry on all we could of his work while he was 
gone. 
"Desiraand me!" Olive repeated. "That is a 
great compliment to Desire. I should have thought 
you would leave things to me." 
"All you can attend to," Mr. Iredell returned 
smiling; "but you are never visible till lunch 
time. I charge Desire with attending to all busi 
ness that comes before that." 
" What sort does come ? " I asked. 
" All sorts." 
"You honour me even more than Olive said," I 
replied. "How can you expect me to fulfil so 
broad a commission ? " 
" Or me, either ? " added Olive. 
" I will give you one easy rule, both of you. It 
answers a multitude of questions, and applies to 
the greatest variety of cases. Whatsoever ye 
would that men should do to you, do ye even so 
to them. " 
" You call that an easy rule to follow ? " cried 
i live. 
"I find it so." 
 
" If you were in my place, wouldn't you like to 
be taken along to Florida ? " 
No" said Mr. Iredell drily. 
"And how much money do you expect us to 
spend upon deserving objects?" 
" As much as you find necessary." 
"But we might like, putting ourselves in the 
place of such objects, we might like much more 
than would be necessary ? " 
" In that case you would cease to be deserving," 
said Mr. Iredell laughing. "It is supposed that 
the followers of this rule keep a clear conscience." 
So, and it was but two days longer that he 
waited to make his preparations, Mr. Iredell left 
us and set out upon his journey. He will be gone 
several weeks; and when he comes back, or before, 
if I can, I will take my departure for Chesterfield. 
I am in one sense relieved; for the life here was 
getting to be hard for me to bear; on the other 
hand, the house has lost its light. It is astonish 
ing what a difference it makes everywhere; from 
my solitary breakfast, which indeed has been often 
that before, to the evenings, which Ave now spend 
in the drawing room instead of the lovely old library. I sit and drink my -coffee and eat my roll, 
sorrowful and thankful at once. For it is not good 
that anybody with whom I have nothing to do 
should be so much to me; and it is not wholesome 
for me to be much in his society; but that very 
fact makes it hard to do without him. Olive, I 
think, likes our new dual life sufficiently well. 
 
I cannot get my "Black Brunswicker" out of her 
room ; she has never done with it when I propose 
to take it away. Perhaps that is as well for me 
too, to do without it. 
Jan. 13. 
"THIS morning, as I entered the breakfast room, 
Harry, Mr. Iredell's old major domo, stepped 
up to me and said there was somebody in the hall 
wanting to see Mr. Iredell. Harry is a grey-headed 
coloured man ; has always lived in the family, and 
knows all the ways of its master. 
"Didn't you tell the person that Mr. Iredell is 
away from home ? " 
Harry shook his head. " It's pecooliar business, 
Miss Desire; and Mr. Iredell never sends none o 
that away." 
" What sort of business do you mean v " 
"Trouble, ma arn; dat sort." 
" What kind of a person is this ? " 
" Dunno, Miss Desire ; speck he's a reel specta- 
ble man, but he's terrible bad off, some way." 
I went out into the hall. There rose to meet 
me the figure of a man, very barely clad, with no 
overcoat, and a haggard, thin, worn look upon 
his face which indeed justified Harry's specula 
tions. Otherwise the face was prepossessing, but 
the grey look of care was all that I could at first 
see in it. 
 
" Mr. Iredell is not at home," said I. " Can I do 
anything for you, sir ? " 
"Could I see Mrs. Iredell?" he said doubtfully, 
lingeringly. In an instant I knew what to do. It 
was one of the bitterest days we had had all winter; 
the cold was intense, pitiless; and I saw a tremble 
pass over the figure I was looking at. 
" I am just going to breakfast," said I. " Sit 
down, and let me send you a cup of coffee first 
the morning is so bitter; and afterwards I will see 
you again. You can spare the time ? " 
I went back to the breakfast room, charged 
Harry what to do, poured out a cup of coffee, 
had a little table set beside him there in the hall 
before the fire, and a hot breakfast served upon it. 
Porridge and rolls, cold beef and sausages, were 
supplied him in plenty, and he was waited upon, I 
know, as if he had been a king; for so I told Harry, 
and Harry was quite ready to do my bidding. 
When I went out to the hall again, the gentle 
man, for I could see he was a gentleman, was sit 
ting quietly looking into the fire; with an expres 
sion of grave anxiety indeed upon his face; but 
without that dreadful, sharp, pinched look which 
meant starving want. He was a changed being. 
I sat down on the other side of the fire, and lie 
told me his story. He said he had intended at first 
simply to ask for work; but my kindness had em 
boldened him and opened his heart to tell me all. 
Half an hour later I went up to Olive. She was 
awake, though in bed still. 
 
" How soon can you get up ? " I asked. 
" Why ? It is bitterly cold, isn't it ? " 
" Intense." 
"Those are days when I like to stay in bed." 
" Those are days when there is more than usual 
to do out of bed." 
"Not for me," said Olive lazily, and changing 
the comfortable position of* her head upon her 
pillows. 
" Olive, you are losing your good habits." 
" Good for Chesterfield." 
"Good for anywhere. Come, I have work her 
you. I wish you would get right up." 
"What sort of work?" said Olive without moving. 
" Mr. Iredell's work. Get up, and I will tell y*ou 
about it." 
" Mr. Iredell's work I don't do, child." 
"But I do, while he is away," said I; "as much 
of it as I can. This time I want your help." 
" Money ? " said Olive. 
" No, not money. I have money." 
"You have ? Where did you get it ? " 
" It is Mr. Iredell's money. He put some in my 
hands the morning he went away, to do his work 
with." 
"Very odd of him! He never put any in my 
hands." 
"You just said, you do not do his work. But 
do get up, Olive! I need your help, and time is 
precious." 
" It is very cold, isn't it?" 
 
" Tremendous. Like some of the days at Chesterfield." 
"What help do you want of me? I can talk 
here." 
" I do not want you to talk, not to me. I want 
you to go out. Come, Olive, get up, and I will 
tell you about it while you are dressing." 
Importunity will do a great deal with indolent 
people. Olive indolent! She had been wont to 
shew herself uiitirable, active, efficient, whenever 
there was any call for those qualities. Now she was 
turned into a fine lady. But she got up, an hour 
or more before her time. I rang for Martha, and 
the business of dressing began. 
"Now what is this all about? " said Olive. " Go 
out? I cannot go out in such weather." 
"Somebody came to see Mr. Iredell; and as I 
was the only member of the family visible, Harry 
brought the word to me." 
"When?" 
"Just at breakfast time. I found a man in the 
hall, whom I saw immediately to be a gentleman, 
but very poorly dressed and trembling with the 
cold. Literally, Olive; he had no overcoat." 
" My dear, a great many people have no overcoat." 
" What does the Bible say about that ? " 
" The Bible ? I am sure I don't know. I didn't 
know it said anything about overcoats. Eastern 
people do not wear them." 
" It says, Let him that hath two coats impart 
to him that hath none. " 
 
Is that what you want of me? to buy this 
man an overcoat ? " said Olive facing round upon 
me. 
"No. Do not interrupt Martha. I have not 
done my story. It was not only that he was ill-dressed, Olive; but his face was haggard, pinched, 
thin and worn and grey " 
" An old man ? " 
"Not at all; in the prime of life, and very pre 
possessing; but in his eyes there was the dreadful 
look of a man pursued and run down by a wild 
beast." 
" Where did you ever see a man run down by a 
wild beast ? " said Olive drily. 
" You have heard of keeping the wolf from the 
door, haven't you ? Well, this man had not been 
able to do that. The wolf was there." 
"Drink, very likely," said Olive. 
" Breakfast was just ready, and it flashed across 
me what to do. I told him to sit down, and I sent 
him out coffee and rolls and beef, and Harry served 
him as if he had been a prince." 
"You gave him breakfast!" 
"Certainly; there was nothing else to do. And 
when I went out again afterwards to speak to 
him, it was terrible, Olive, to see how his look had 
changed." 
"Terrible. Had it not changed for the better?" 
" Of course ! but so much changed, that it let one 
see what need there had been. Then he told me t 
he had meant only to ask for work; but my kindness (and I added mentally, my coffee) had heart 
ened him so much that he would venture to tell me 
his story. He is an Irishman ; his name is Kiley ; 
he can talk Irish ; and he was invited and engaged 
by some clergymen of the Episcopal Church here 
to come out and take charge of some mission work 
among his countrymen. It was supposed that his 
speaking Irish would give him special advantages 
for the work. So he came out, with his wife, and 
here they are. But somehow his papers, his credentials, you know, were handed in to Dr. Odenwalder ; Dr. Odenwalder has mislaid or overlooked 
them ; and Mr. Riley can consequently get neither 
employment nor recognition. Consequently, he and 
his wife are starving." 
"An unlikely story! "said Olive. "Why don't 
the man go to Dr. Odenwalder and ask him to hunt 
up the papers ? " 
" He has been, again and again, and cannot gain 
attention. He is regarded as a humbug." 
" Probably with great justice." 
" Olive, the man is starving." 
"Well, Desire; I hope he does not deserve it, 
but it looks likely." 
" Olive, the question must not go unsettled another day." 
" What do you propose to do ? " 
" I want you to go and see Dr. Odenwalder. You 
know him, and he knows Mr. Iredell. He will not 
refuse you. Make him find the papers and right 
Mr. Riley." 
 
" I do not believe there are any papers to find. 
If there had been, is it likely that a man like Dr. 
Odenwalder would have let them slip into his 
waste basket ? " 
" I hope they are not in his waste basket. But, 
Olive, you must go and see. Martha, bring Mrs. 
Fredell's breakfast as quickly as you can ; and the 
carriage when shall she order the carriage, Olive ? " 
" it is too cold ! " said Olive shrugging her 
shoulders and looking towards the window. 
" Say, Olive ! Tell Martha," I insisted. " Think 
of those two poor people without enough to eat, 
and such a day ! And I want the carriage after 
you have done with it. I am going to look them 
up." 
" I might write." 
"It would not do, Olive; you must go. A note 
might easily be thrown aside ; you would have to 
be attended to." 
" I cannot go out before luncheon," said Olive 
looking at her watch. " I cannot indeed. Martha, 
let Sam have the carriage at the door at eleven. 
You may take it and do what you like, Desire ; and 
go where you like; and after luncheon I will see 
how the weather is." 
I could move Olive to no more than this. I got 
ready, and at eleven o'clock drove to Caroline's 
and told her my story. Sandie Birkenstall was at 
home, as it happened, nursing a sore throat; and 
he heard the story too. Caroline took it up, and 
agreed to go out with me to see Mrs. Riley ; and 
 
Mr. Birkenstall, after laughing at me a little, 
gave me ten dollars to use for the people, if their 
story proved true. But he did better for me than 
that. 
"I know Dr. Odenwalder," said he; "and Dr. 
Odenwalder knows me, for I happen to be em 
ployed in a lawsuit of his. I will give you a note 
to him ; and you had better go to him first of all, 
and settle the question of fraud or honesty; and 
then you will know better how to handle the distress. You and Caroline go together; Dr. Oden 
walder will attend to you." 
lie wrote his note accordingly, and Caroline and 
I drove off. 
We were happy in our choice of time, and were 
admitted at once to the doctor's study. What a 
place of comfort it was! The fierce weather found 
no entrance there; a gentle spring temperature 
filled the room ; which was further filled with the 
most comfortable easy chairs and lounges, luxurious writing tables, books on tables and books 
around the walls, here a picture and there a marble 
bust. The doctor was in a very handsome dress 
ing gown, tied with a silken cord, and had an odd 
little close cap upon his head; which it could not 
have needed for warmth in that atmosphere. On 
and under his table were papers enough to bury 
almost Mr. Ililey himself, not to speak of Mr. liley's fate. 
He rose as we entered, alertly, as if expecting 
something to which he was accustomed; then his 
 
face changed. No doubt he had thought to meet 
the eyes of some of his dutiful parishioners, come 
to consult him or seek aid from him, as I suppose 
they are wont to do. Seeing two strange ladies in 
stead, ladies not known to him in his church, nor 
even in society, the doctor bowed slightly, thrust 
his hand behind him gathering up the tail of his 
dressing gown, and stood waiting. 
Caroline apologized for disturbing him. He gave 
a little deprecatory wave of his free hand, and 
begged somewhat curtly to know how he could 
serve us. Still he was standing, and we also. 
"We come to you, Dr. Odenwalder, about a some 
what curious affair," Caroline began. " It concerns 
a Mr. Riley." 
"And me?" said the doctor. 
" So he says. If his story is true, it concerns you 
certainly." 
"It is probably not true, ladies." 
"It is just our business, sir, to find out that. 
Caroline spoke with a little Chesterfield bluntness, 
I thought, though civilly enough. 
" Have I the honour ? " said the doctor, Mrs. 
Riley ? " 
"No, sir; Mrs. Birkenstall. My husband is, I be 
lieve known to you." 
" Birkenstall !" and the doctor's tone was differ 
ent; "ha, indeed! Yes, I know my good friend, 
Mr. Birkenstall; he, I hope will be my very good 
friend in a lawsuit which is pending. Ladies, will 
you do me the honour to be seated; and now we 
 
will investigate the subject of Mr. Biley. It is a 
common name enough; Irish, I think. What Kiley 
is this ? " 
" I do not know his first name. But he is Irish ; 
lately come over." 
" Ah ! I wish he had not come over ! We have 
too many of them now. How does this specimen 
gain his place in Mrs. Birkenstall's regards ? " 
The doctor was sitting comfortably back in his 
study chair now, eyeing us alternately, and wink 
ing his eyelids in a rather fast, peculiar fashion. 
Whether it were nervousness or impatience I was 
not decided. 
" I do not know the man," said Caroline, imprudently and rashly; "I have never seen him. But 
his story has interested me. So much, that I have 
ventured on this disturbing of Dr. Odenwalder's 
time." 
" My dear lady," said the doctor, " there is no 
end of the interesting stories that are told. If one 
will hear them all " 
" But one must hear some of them," Caroline 
put in. 
" If they are accredited if they are accredited," 
said the doctor. " I was about to remark, that if 
one will hear all the stories, there will be no time 
left to do anything else." 
" We want to accredit Mr. Riley's." 
" Ha ! then you haven't done it yet ? " 
" We come to Dr. Odenwalder for that." 
"Don't know the man, from Adam," said the 
 
doctor, without in the least changing his position, 
or his manner of winking at us. 
"No, Mr. Riley does not pretend that he is known 
to you. But he says you have his papers." 
" His papers ! What papers ? " 
" Letters from England, accrediting him." 
"As what, ladies? as what? Accrediting the 
man, to me, Dr. Odenwalder, as what ? " 
" To you and other clergymen of the Episco 
pal Church here, who have invited him to come 
over in the hope that his being able to speak 
to the Irish in their native language may make 
him a valuable help in your mission work among 
them." 
" New York is the place for him," said the doc 
tor. " We haven't half so many Irish here." 
" But do you know nothing of the business ? " 
" Something of the business, perhaps, but of Mr. 
Eiley nothing. I have received no papers never 
heard his name, except in connection with others 
of his countrymen, who had no story. " 
"Mr. Riley affirms that his letters are in your 
hands and must have been mislaid." 
"It is^ as easy to affirm that as anything," said 
the doctor. " Of course he has no proof. Ladies, 
a poor woman sent word to me last week that her 
husband was dead and she was in great distress; 
hadn't money to bury him. It was easy to affirm 
that, too. I sent one of our people to see after the 
case. It seemed all right; the place was a bare 
little place, the man in his coffin, the woman in 
 
tears. So the messenger, one of our good ladies, 
gave her money and promised more. She found, 
when she had gone a few yards from the house, 
that she had left her glove behind her; she went 
back. Ladies, the woman's tears were dried, and 
the man was sitting up in his coffin, counting the 
money ! " 
I was shocked, but Caroline after a polite " Is it 
possible! " went on to remark that one gets hard 
ened by such things. 
"Just so! one gets hardened. I am hardened. 
So hardened, that your Mr. Riley's story makes no 
impression on the crust of my heart." 
I saw we were not getting on. " Caroline," I 
said in a low tone, " you have not offered Sandie's 
note." 
"This young lady is ?" said the doctor, eyeing 
me, but without stirring. 
"My sister, Miss Burgoyne. It was she who 
saw Mr. Biley and heard his story." 
" And believed it," said the doctor, still eyeing 
me. " She is not hardened. She never will be. 
Mr. Riley saw his advantage. Where did you see 
Mr. Riley, Miss Burgoyne?" 
I was ready to laugh at the uncouth compliment, 
but answered with business gravity; that I was 
staying with my sister, Mrs. Iredell ; that Mr. Riley 
had come to consult my brother-in-law; and that 
in Mr. Iredell's absence and my sister being not at 
hand, it had fallen to my lot to meet and hear the 
applicant. 
 
" And all applicants ? " asked the doctor. " Is 
not Mr. Iredell's absence answer enough ? " 
" Mr. Iredell sends no one away unheard," I 
replied. 
"Don't see how he finds time, " muttered the 
doctor. 
"As his Master found it " I ventured to say. 
"It is not a question of personal ease." 
"I thought you would say that, or something 
like it," said the doctor, not at all ill-humouredly. 
" It is in your face, and all over you. Not hardened yet, as I said. Well, Miss Burgoyne, was 
it? you heard Mr. Riley? And he made a good 
story of it ? " 
" His face and manner did, sir. There was the 
eloquence of starvation, and the emphasis of de 
spair. His papers, he says, are and must be hid 
away and overlooked somewhere amid the confu 
sion of yours; he can consequently get no work, 
and he and his wife are reduced to an extremity 
of want." 
" A nice story," said the doctor, a little restlessly 
now. Indeed, ever since the bringing of Mr. Iredell's name into the business I had seen that its 
aspect had changed. " A nice story ! Tell for me, 
wouldn't it, that my papers are no better looked 
after than that. Well, ladies, I'll tell you what I 
will do; and I will do it before I dine, which se 
cures you, for I sei a good deal by my dinner, I 
will turn over every paper in, on and under my 
table, till I find, or dont find, Mr. Riley's name. 
 
It is proverbially hard to prove a negative but I 
will do my utmost. I don't want Mr. I red ell coming about my ears. I know him." 
Caroline presented her husband's note. 
"All very well all very well," said the doctor; 
"I am obliged to Mr. Birkenstall; but I'll do the 
thing anyhow and without his request. In mingled love and fear, I'll do it; fear of Mr. Iredell, 
and love for a fair face that is Dot hardened." 
And smiling a little, bowing a good deal the 
doctor bowed us out. 
"Now to Mr. Riley s!" said I, and I gave the 
coachman the order. 
"Desire," said Caroline, when we were in mo 
tion and fairly away, " I have done for you to-day 
what I will never do again, for anybody ! " 
" yes, you will," I answered. " If there is ever 
so good occasion again. Love seeks not her own, 
Caroline." 
" But there are limits " said Caroline. 
" Not to charity." 
" To patience, there are ! " 
"Never mind," said I. "I am sure I had the 
vorst of it. If he only finds those papers ! I am 
Certain they are there. Just see, Caroline, how 
one man's ease may be another man's ruin." 
"The story is not proved yet," was Caroline's 
answer. 
We were both intent upon that, and the silence 
was not broken till the carriage stopped. It was 
in a part of the city where Caroline and I had 
 
never before been; and the aspect of things was 
not pleasant. 
" Where in the world are we ? " said she, looking 
out. 
"This is where Mr. Kiley lives." 
"It is a poor lodging-house, I should judge." 
"Yes, he told me so." 
"You did not tell me so. How are we going in 
there, Desire ? I don't like it." 
" We can go as well as they can, I suppose," said 
I, getting out of the carriage and holding forth my 
hand to help Caroline. She emerged, casting an 
eye of doubt and dislike up and down the street, 
and at the row of buildings before one of which we 
stood. By the untidy entrance way, the open door, 
the soiled walls, the broken window panes here and 
there, the forlorn, unkept appearance everywhere, 
one could see only too plainly that it was a house 
that had no home in it, only a number of in dwellers. 
" I don't like to go in here, Desire ! " 
" People have to live here, Caroline," 
" That is just it ! I would not mind if it were 
empty. But people have fevers, and all sorts of 
things ; and it is so dirty ! 
"Come!" said I. "If people can live here, we 
can afford to look at it." 
I went in, and Caroline followed, doubtfully. We 
went up one flight of stairs, and knocked. I had 
expected a little bettering of the aspect of things 
when the door should open ; and within it was cer 
tainly broom clean ; but alas, it was also like a place 
 
swept bare. Besides the two human beings we had 
come to see, the room had hardly anything in it. 
A poor bed, on which no blankets could be sup 
posed, from the look of it and from the fact that 
one or two articles of wearing apparel lay across 
it, evidently doing duty as covering; a very few 
very poor chairs; an apology for a washstand; that 
was about all. One or two trunks were visible. 
Mrs. Kiley lay in the bed. 
Caroline was so much startled and confused at 
the sight of all this, and at the contrast it presented 
with the very well looking and well mannered man 
who received us there, that as she told me after 
wards she hardly knew which way to look. I left 
her to talk to him, while I went up to the bed. Ah 
me, what anxious eyes met mine ! what a worn, 
hungry face ! I could hardly keep from bursting 
into tears. 
"How do you do, Mrs. Riley?" I said, taking her 
hand. 
She a nswered that she was not very well; and 
as she spoke a shiver ran over her. 
"You are ill?" said I, "or is it the cold of this 
terrible day ? " And I saw there was no pretence 
of lire anywhere. I saw it with horror. 
" I am not ill, I think. I think it is the extreme 
weather," she answered. " Isn't the weather ex 
treme ? " 
" Fearfully cold ! I have come to bring you, I 
hope, good news. Dr. Odenwalder will at least 
look over his papers to find your husband's let 
 
ters; and if they are there he ivitt find them. 
But we will not wait for that, to make you more 
comfortable. Keep up a good heart, in the mean 
time. I am going to get something to warm 
you." 
I would not wait another minute, but drew Caroline away; first putting in Mr. Riley's hands Sandie Birkenstall's ten dollars and begging him to 
get coals and have a fire immediately and get out 
of pawn anything they might specially require. 
Then I ran down stairs, ordered the coachman, and 
in a minute we were driving off again. 
" What now ? " said my sister. " That was what 
I call a short visit ! But you hurried me so, I 
could not ask what you meant. What do you 
mean ? " 
" We are going back again ; we'll finish the visit 
then," I replied. 
" Back again ! " cried Caroline. " To that place ? " 
" Of course. We could not leave them so. Did 
you see that woman's face? I cannot get my 
breath freely till I see it with a different look 
upon it." 
"But we can do nothing till Dr. Odenwalder 
finds the papers." 
"Yes, we can. We can keep her from dying of 
cold and starvation." And a sob had like to have 
choked me. " You could not go home, Caroline, 
and eat your dinner, with the thought of those two 
hungry faces ? " 
" I suppose," Caroline said discontentedly, " if I 
 
knew all the hungry people there are and had the 
thought of their faces before me, I could not eat 
at all ! The only way is, not to see what you can't 
help. There is no use in it." 
" See all you can," said I shortly. 
" But I cannot help all, Desire." 
"You can do more than you think; if you want 
to do it." 
"And what are we stopping here for?" she said, 
as the carriage again stood still. It was before the 
door of a large restaurant. 
" Wait a moment and you shall see." 
"I will not wait in the carriage," said Caroline, following me out of it. " The weather is too 
bitter. Such a day for such work ! " 
"The very day for it," I answered joyously, 
pushing open the restaurant door; and I proceeded 
to give an order for coffee, bread, cold roast chicken 
and potatoes. 
"Are you going to take this down there?" said 
Caroline. I nodded. 
" Beefsteak would be better." 
"Couldn't have it hot. Cold beefsteak is no 
good." 
Caroline smiled, and seeing that she was as she 
expressed the matter, "in for it," she invested some 
quarters in cake and pies. I left a pledge for the 
return of the dishes, had all packed in a basket, 
and we set off again. But I stopped at a grocery 
and purchased also tea and sugar and one or two 
other little things; then we went on. 
 
Mr. Riley had minded his business, as I had 
minded mine; for he had got a fire kindled, and 
the place looked by so much more heartsome. Now 
Caroline and I spread napkins, which I had also 
provided, over the bed and upon a chair; I man 
aged to warm up the coffee; and then we had the 
joy of seeing it tasted by lips that, I am afraid, 
had tasted nothing before that day. Mr. Riley had 
had his breakfast, I knew; but to common men 
breakfast does not do away with the need of din 
ner ; and he was hungry again by this time. But 
I think, all the salt he took to his food was not in 
the shape of crystals. I think some tears went in. 
joy of ministry ! is there anything like it in all 
the wide world ? 
"Well," said Caroline, as we were at last driving 
away, " that will do for one day ! " 
"No," said I, "there is more yet." 
"What, pray?" 
"We must get those people into a decent lodging." 
" But, Desire, do you manage to keep warm ? " 
"I don't know," said I laughing. "I have not 
thought of it." 
"Have you no conscience about Mr. Iredell's 
horses and servant ? " 
" I sent Sam to get his dinner while we were at 
Mr. Riley's. Mr. Iredell never forgets his ser 
vants , I have learned that. He is muffled in furs, 
besides. Sam, I mean." 
" But won't you wait to hear whether Dr. Odenwalder finds the papers ? " 
 
"We cannot move the Rileys to-day. But I want 
to have things ready. Dr. Odenwalder will find 
the papers. Didn't you hear? he does not want 
Mr. Iredell after him. " 
"Desire," said my sister after a pause, "this is 
all very well, what you have done to-day; and I 
am not at all sorry to have been with you; if I 
don't catch a fearful cold, that is. But I go back 
to what I was saying. It seems to me, you and 
Mr. Iredell carry things to an extreme. I could 
not do this every day; and you could not." 
" I do not. I am not sure, perhaps lie does." 
"Well, it is too much." 
"What is too much?" 
" This trying to help everybody." 
"No, Caroline, it is not that. Only everybody 
you know." 
" But you cannot do it." 
"Why not?" 
"Without giving up your life to it, that is; and 
most of us have something else to do." 
" Nobody ought to do what he cannot," said I. 
"If you do what you can, Caroline that is enough." 
" But that is a very vague word," said Caroline 
uneasily. "How can one tell what one can?" 
" I don't know," said I seriously. " I am begin 
ning to think it is one of the most tremendous 
questions there are. She hath done what she 
could ! I should like that to be said of me." 
"I am sure it might be said of you to-day, " 
Caroline answered. 
 
"Not till I have found a decent lodging for those 
poor people to move into to-morrow morning." 
" Desire, if you take the words literally so, then 
nobody does what he could." 
"I am beginning to think it." With the exception perhaps of Mr. Iredell, I added in my 
thought. 
" Then the words must not be taken literally so, 
don't you see ? " 
" No, I don't see. How do you see it ? " 
"Why, Desire, at that rate, nobody does what he 
can. Nobody does what he ought." 
"You think the words must be accommodated 
to the people, not the people conformed to the 
words ? " 
" I do not think anything absurd. But you are 
simply requiring an impossibility." 
"Are not we to follow Christ if we are Christians?" 
"Yes." 
"Did he spare himself? Did he turn away any 
that applied? Did he stop for weariness, or even 
sometimes for necessary food ? Caroline, he 
pleased not himself  and that is what we are all 
bent on doing." 
"Don't you think there are duties to society, and 
to one's family ? " 
"These are our duties to society, I think. To 
lift the heavy burdens, how is it the words 
run? and let the oppressed go free; and that ye 
break every yoke; when thou seest the hungry, 
