big boys were firing stones from the street at a post in the yard. They
were ragged and dirty. I went in the house, and found the mother and the
two girls in the sitting-room. I do not believe there was a piece of
furniture whole, and every thing was dusty and shabby, with that close
smell some people always have in their houses. Mrs. Cole sat by the
window, in a listless manner, doing nothing. Martha had her baby on her
lap, asleep, in a soiled and ragged dress, while she was reading; the
little girl, who is about twelve, was cutting up some pretty pieces of
silk into nothing, that I could see, but a general litter over the
table. The kitchen looked dreadful. I had some baby-dresses for Martha,
that Mrs. Kent gave me: so I unrolled my bundle, and displayed them.
'Oh,' said she, 'they are long, aren't they! and I've just put my baby
in short dresses.' If you could have heard the kind of helpless,
dissatisfied tone in which it was uttered! I had half a mind to bundle
them up, and take them back. 'You can shorten them,' I answered, 'and
some of them will make two dresses.' 'Yes,' she answered reluctantly,
'only I should want something for yokes and sleeves.' Then her mother
came to inspect them, and she was rather more gracious. But I could not
help contrasting the two families. Mr. Cole is a carpenter, and has
earned very good wages. Martha ran a machine in the shoe-shop, bought a
melodeon, and took two or three quarters' music-lessons; purchased a
very handsome set of amethyst jewelry and two pretty silk dresses when
she was married. And in the two years of her married life, her husband
has done next to nothing, although he is a steady, pleasant fellow. Now
he is at Pittsburg, earning just enough to pay his own board. She has
her sewing-machine, but she doesn't know how to make any kind of garment
decently. When they had money they bought every thing ready-made. She
paid Miss Gilman twenty-two dollars to make her two silk dresses. If she
had put one of them in some plain, simple garments, how much more
serviceable it would have proved!"

"Such people are hardly worth helping," Miss Morgan said sharply.

"Isn't it a faulty system that makes them so?" asked Sylvie, drawing her
brows into a little, perplexed frown. "Martha worked for two years, and
earned a good deal of money. At one time she made ten dollars a week. It
was just one thing,--fine stitching on shoes,--yet one would think she
would understand a sewing-machine so completely that she could do any
thing with it. But she actually hired part of her baby's wardrobe made;
and the dresses she bought,--cheap coarse-trimmed things, I should have
been ashamed of. Christine Webber wants to study for a teacher; and, as
there is so little for girls to do, I think she will. She will make
wiser investments of her money than Martha Cole, and think of the kind
of wife her husband will get!"

"The era of prosperity was too much for some people," said Mrs. Darcy,
with her motherly smile. "I used to wonder six or seven years ago, how
it was that so many middle-class people could afford a servant, or fancy
they needed one. A little more time spent in household duties would not
have injured the women; and, if they had accustomed the children to take
a part, it would have been much better for them. Then so much sewing was
hired; and, although the income looked large, the expenditures swallowed
it all up, and no one was any better off. How few had any stock of
underclothing, bed-linen, or useful and durable articles!"

"Industry must come around in the fashion again. Even the despised
patchwork doubtless had its uses. It taught children to sew, and to
manage economically. I remember that I once had three quilts on hand at
one time. The larger pieces went into the first, and so on. My last one
was a very pretty little thing, and I saved all the scraps for it. Yet
we often hear people laugh about the folly of cutting calico into bits
to sew together again. Why should it not be considered honorable and
respectable to put every thing to the best use?" and Miss Morgan glanced
up with a confidence no one could gainsay.

"That is the grand secret," cried Sylvie,--"making economy honorable.
You never see the nice old families flaunting their best silk and their
point-laces on ordinary occasions. Something is kept sacred. And I do
think there is more real economy among them, than among those who
absolutely have a need for it. If wastefulness could once come to be
considered a sin of ostentation and low-breeding, it would not have so
many followers. Some people do it because they are afraid of being
thought mean; but if they could be trained to that bravery of spirit
that makes a work of beauty out of the poorest and smallest things
because they are well done, and fitting to the place and season"--

"Bravo!" said a laughing voice as the door opened. "Mrs. Darcy, when the
committee of ways and means have worn out your carpet by their frequent
meetings in your charmed temple, you must insist upon their buying you a
new one. Good-morning, ladies! Miss Barry, I set out to find you; and
your aunt fancied you would be here, the place of all waifs and strays.
I want you and Miss Morgan to go and inspect a room, or rather two
rooms, to see if they will answer our purpose. Mrs. Lane had a school
there."

"Oh, I know the place!" began Sylvie eagerly, buttoning up her sack
again, and looking smilingly in Dr. Maverick's face, that had a
sparkling wholesomeness born of the fresh air and brisk walk. And
whenever he caught her eye with this light in it, so friendly and
earnest, a thrill sped through his veins.

Miss Morgan was soon ready, and the three started. The place was only a
few squares away, in a block of buildings where the stores on the lower
floor stood empty; indeed, some of them had never been rented. Up-stairs
there was one large room with three front windows, and a smaller room at
the back with a fireplace, sink and water, and a large closet.

"I have had the offer of this place rent free until spring," began the
doctor. "I have also collected fifty dollars in money and
provisions,--imprimis, one barrel of flour, one box of miscellaneous
packages, rice, barley, corn-starch, &c.,--and a second-hand range that
will be put up as soon as you decide. In return for my arduous exertion
and great benevolence, I shall call upon you now and then for meals or
delicacies for my sick and famishing."

"You are just magnificent!" declared Sylvie, in breathless pleasure.

"I am desirous of getting this experiment started; and, since we shall
have to help the poor and needy this winter, I shall put my gifts into
this. Now you must consider what you want for furnishing. Biddy McKim is
to work out a doctor's bill cleaning the place; Ward Collins will let
you have ten dollars' worth of house-furnishing goods on another bill. I
am going to look up all my bad debts to start you two women in
business!" and he laughed gayly.

"Very good," said Miss Morgan, while Sylvie's face was still blending
pleasure and astonishment.

"We are going to reform Yerbury, you see. The parsons tried their hands
last winter; and, though there was need enough of spiritual food,
there's something else required as well, while we are here in the body.
You think the rooms will do? I want you to put a large table in that
one,"--indicating the larger with his head,--"and we'll get two or
three long benches, and have a tea-party now and then. Well, Miss
Morgan, now you may take the floor. I see a crowd of ideas in your
face."

"I am going to propose that when the place is cleaned, both floors shall
be painted to begin with. Then a simple mopping up will keep them bright
and fresh. Some idle half-grown boys can do it, I am sure; or I can do
it myself--it would not be the first time."

"I'll look over my accounts, and levy on some delinquent," said the
doctor. "I like that idea."

"Can we make out a list now?"

"Why, of course. Put down about all the things you will be likely to
need, and I will have them sent if they do over run the account. Biddy
will come to-morrow, and clean. Now, you can hardly have the school open
every day unless you get more assistance, so I think I should take it at
first two days in the week."

"A very good suggestion," replied Miss Morgan.

"It might not be sufficiently attended to warrant more than that. My
experience has been that nearly every housekeeper considers herself a
finished cook."

Maverick laughed.

They discussed necessary articles of kitchen paraphernalia, and finally
walked down to Collins's store, and made their selection. Early the next
morning Bridget McKim was on the spot: the place was cleaned, the stove
put in place, the floor given one good coat of paint. Two days after,
the second one was added. Sylvie drew up a code of regulations. The
school would be open Tuesday and Friday, all day. The dinner would be
cooked and eaten; the baking, and whatever was left over, divided among
the scholars to take home. Miss Morgan was elected president, Miss Barry
vice-president, a secretary, a treasurer, and two in an advisory board.
At each session two ladies were to be present, and give instruction.

Invitations were sent to all likely to be interested. Dr. Maverick used
his strong influence wisely. The idea amused some, others wondered how
ladies like Miss Barry knew about cooking and economy.

"Let her undertake to live on the money we common folk have, and she'll
see!" exclaimed Mrs. Stixon. "Our kind don't want to learn fussin' and
fixin' of puddens and pies and such like! Good for us if we can get a
mess of biled potatoes and bacon. My gals'll get along athout any such
larnin'."

They opened one Friday morning with seven pupils; a discouraging number,
Sylvie thought, when she saw the spacious room and the nice
preparations. The bashful girls sat in a little huddle, looking very
much as if they were afraid of being laughed at.

Miss Morgan was equal to the occasion. She made a short, sensible
address, and hoped the girls who were present would interest not only
their companions, but their mothers and friends. Then she questioned
them a little. Had they ever boiled potatoes?

At this they all laughed a little foolishly, and looked as if the art of
boiling potatoes was held in rather low esteem.

"The dinner for the day," announced Miss Morgan, "will be boiled
potatoes, broiled steak, and corn-muffins. Which of you girls would like
to try the muffins?"

"I never heerd of such a thing," said one girl timidly.

Sylvie pleasantly corrected the speaker.

"Well, you may try," said Miss Morgan. "First, read this recipe aloud."

Mary Moran stumbled through it, partly owing to ignorance, and the rest
to feeling very much abashed.

"Please go through it again, Mary," said Sylvie, in an encouraging tone.

This time she did much better.

"Now you may prepare the table and the dishes, and one of the girls may
measure the meal and the flour. Put the ingredients in this dish--so.
Keep your mind on the recipe. What comes next?"

Mary was quite awkward. Miss Morgan corrected the slightest mistake. The
other girls stood around in wondering amusement, and now and then a
little titter broke out. But Mary went on, gaining courage. The tins had
been set on the stove, now a bit of butter was put in each one, and
stirred around, then the dough dropped in. This was quite entertaining.

"What did I say about the oven?" queried Miss Morgan.

The class looked aghast a moment, then one girl said quickly, "That the
oven-door must be hot enough to hiss."

"Right. Try it and see."

It was in the proper condition. Mary slipped in the two trays of pans,
shutting up the door. "To look at them, and turn them around in twelve
minutes, and in twelve more to try them with a whisk," were the final
directions.

The potatoes were brought out next. Miss Morgan asked each girl to pare
one, which they did in various uncouth ways. One girl cut off the skin
in square bits, leaving a figure that would have distracted a
geometrician; another ran round it rapidly, leaving in all the eyes; and
out of the six potatoes there was but one neat and shapely. Miss Morgan
held it up.

"There is an art in so slight a thing as peeling a potato," said she.
"It is very wasteful to cut it away in this manner, or this, and
careless to leave in the eyes. Now each of you may pare another."

The second attempt was a great improvement. They were put on to boil;
one girl was detailed to watch them, another to prepare the steak, while
a third arranged the dinner-table in the kitchen, as the family was to
be so small. Mary looked after her corn-muffins. They had risen up like
little pound-cakes, and a glad smile illumined her rather stolid face.

Sylvie had brought a bit of tatting along, and now took it out.

"Oh, how beautiful, Miss Barry!" exclaimed Kitty Miles. "I can do just
the plain little scallop; but I never could get these other jiggers!"

Sylvie laughed, "I believe they have a name beside 'jiggers,'" in an
odd, half-inquiring tone.

"O Miss Barry, we girls can't talk nice like you!" and Kitty blushed.

"I don't see why you cannot with taking a little pains. All words that
are not names, and 'what-you-may-call-it,' and 'Mrs. Thingumby,' and
such expressions, are the result of carelessness. If any thing has a
name, that is the proper word to be used; and by being watchful one
comes presently to talk in a lady-like manner. Now I will show you about
these."

"Oh, my muffins!" cried Mary, rushing to the stove. They were quite
brown. She tried them with the whisk.

"Some stick a little bit, Miss Morgan."

"Push the pan back to the other side. Indian requires very thorough
cooking or baking, or it will be soggy, and have a moist and not
agreeable taste. Try your potatoes now."

In a few moments they were done, and Kitty Miles undertook the steak.
Mary let her muffins stand a moment or two, then turned them out. Two or
three stuck fast, and broke: the rest were a perfect success. She was
delighted beyond measure. They had no tea or coffee, but they gathered
around the table, and enjoyed the meal very heartily. Sylvie desired
them to ask any questions they liked; and by the time they were through,
their awe of Miss Morgan had quite vanished.

Afterward followed dish-washing. This was made quite a science, as well.
They had hardly finished when Mrs. Miles and a neighbor came in, and
through the course of the afternoon the numbers doubled. Mary begged
that they might make some muffins to take home: Miss Morgan assented,
and the girls had quite a gay time. But the oven was not precisely
right.

"Open the draughts a little. Although not so hot, the oven is very
steady now. Close the draughts in five minutes."

Mary forgot, and the result was that some at one end were a little
burned.

"Why, they're elegant!" exclaimed Mrs. Miles. "And what a cheap, hearty
supper they'd make, when one has three hungry boys to feed! Mrs. Stixon,
now, was thinking you'd go into all the fancy branches. I didn't know
ladies ever"--and Mrs. Miles paused suddenly, her face scarlet.

"Ever had occasion to practise economy!" cried Sylvie with her piquant
smile. "They do a great deal of it, Mrs. Miles. My aunt would no sooner
think of being wasteful in her kitchen than she would of wearing her
velvet dress out on a rainy day. There is a neat, pretty, tasteful
method about these things, that is as much of an art in its way as
painting a picture, and in some respects a more important one, for the
health of the body depends upon well-cooked food."

"Since Kitty's nothing much to do, I mean to have her come every time.
I'm sure you ladies are very good to take so much pains."

The other officers dropped in. The cost of the materials used was
ascertained, minutes of the session made, and a recipe for corn-muffins
given to each girl. It was decided to attempt biscuit on the following
Tuesday, and on the next meeting, bread. Then the fire was pretty well
poked out, the stove-lids raised, and the class went home in an
extremely interested spirit.

Just as Sylvie and Miss Morgan had turned the corner, they caught sight
of Dr. Maverick, who crossed the street to speak. Sylvie described their
day with a few graphic touches, interspersed with much genuine mirth.

"Some people were afraid to come," said he. "Before a month you will
have your hands full."

Sure enough, on Tuesday there were fifteen scholars. Miss Morgan and
Sylvie had hardly a moment to spare until the dinner was through. Then
the latter proposed that every scholar should bring some sewing,
garments they wished cut out, any thing that perplexed them, or whatever
they would like most to learn.

All days were not so fortunate. Occasionally some dish would be spoiled
by haste, carelessness, or want of attention. There were burned fingers
and divers cuts; but Miss Morgan patiently explained her deft, neat,
labor-saving methods. There began to be a great interest; some of the
mothers coming in for an hour, or bringing a special dish to cook.
Sylvie discussed the relative value and nourishment of different
articles, the many changes that could be made at slight expense, the
saving that a little carefulness brought about. She gave brief lectures
on cleanliness, order, taste, and neatness; the right way and the wrong
way of doing many things, the giving out and the taking in; the art of
making the best, not only in such times as these, but in all times; of
being brave and true in the lowest and smallest of life's duties; of
throwing out false pride and shams, and the desire to appear richer or
grander than one's means would allow.

Then the last half-hour they had what Miss Morgan called an
inquiry-meeting. Everybody was at liberty to ask one question, and those
who knew answered it to the best of their ability. New teachers were
pressed into the service. Dr. Maverick gave them a talk on health, and
another on preparing food for the sick, and the special care some
diseases required. And Jack Darcy proposed that Christmas Eve the
cooking-school should give a supper, the tickets being at the low price
of twenty-five cents. Every dish was to be cooked by the scholars.

It created a deal of excitement. Hard as times were, the tickets sold
rapidly. The large room had two long tables, with benches for seats. The
first table was to be served at eight o'clock, the second at nine.
Sylvie made a dozen of the girls pretty Suisse aprons and dainty caps,
and they waited on the guests. Dr. Maverick offered three prizes,--one
for the best loaf of bread, one for the best plain cake, and a third for
the nicest and cheapest invalid broth.

The room was full, and they had a very gay time. Indeed, it seemed as if
half Yerbury turned out, either from honor or curiosity. At nine o'clock
they ran short of provision, when they honorably decided to refund the
money for all tickets offered after that, and explain to new-comers the
state of affairs. But some of the young men proposed a dance; and they
went on for the next two hours in hearty, healthy jollity.

Out of ten loaves of bread offered, Mary Moran took the prize. That for
the cake was awarded to quite a new scholar; while Kitty Miles carried
off that for broth, three doctors concurring in the decision. And the
treasurer found they had cleared fifty dollars above expenses, so that
it proved a success in more ways than one. There had been a great dearth
of amusement for the poorer classes in Yerbury this winter.

"Sure, it was just splendid!" said Bridget McKim. "My boy Mike had a
week's wages in his pocket that night, and he was goin' off to the Ivy
Leaf to raffle for a turkey; an' ses I, 'Mike, ye niver took me out of a
Christmas, so do it now along o' the cookin' school party, an' ye'll get
the best bit o' turkey yes ever put in yer mouth.' An' so he did; an' he
said it was the best show he iver was to, and he wouldn't 'a' missed
seein' Mary Moran get the prize fur twice the money. An' so he went home
with me, ye see, as sober as an owl, and we bought our own turkey; but
if he'd gone to the tavern, not a cint would he had of his week's wages,
and been drunk beside! An' he used to be swate on Mary too, so there's
no knowin' what may happen!"

The school took a fortnight's vacation. Sylvie and Miss Morgan felt that
it was no longer an experiment. It would be put to wider uses, and
perhaps was the corner-stone of a great work, sorely needed in this
world; the same kind of work Jack Darcy had begun over in the mill
yonder,--planting beacon-lights on the path where so many had stumbled
and gone down for want of true and honest guidance.

"It will have to be remodelled somewhat," said Miss Morgan. "I can't
have you working like a slave, even if it is in a good cause. There is
something still higher for you."




CHAPTER XVIII.


AFTER the first of January it came off bitterly cold. Coal went up half
a dollar on a ton; and flour rose, more by the greed of speculators than
any scarcity, or any demand for it abroad. There was considerable
suffering, though not as much as the winter before. The men and women
and boys and girls at Hope Mills were thankful enough for their
seventy-five per cent, and did their very best. A spirit of economy and
emulation ran through the whole brotherhood. Every month Cameron
announced whatever saving had been made in different departments, and
the hands were proud enough of it. Those who had taken their whole
winter's coal out of the share were quite jubilant. Once a week the
workmen had a meeting, and discussed matters a little. Three men had
been reprimanded, but on the whole the morale was excellent. Winston
was on the alert continually, east, west, anywhere, buying here, selling
there, seeing in every thing the promise of better times.

"We've reached the last ditch as surely as they did in the war," he said
to Darcy, rubbing his hands in great glee. "I tell you, old chap, it was
a lucky thought of starting just as we did. You see, we shall come up
with the good times; for I do honestly believe the worst is over."

Jack smiled, but was not so sanguine. They had only gone such a little
way on the five-years' journey. But there were some very encouraging
rays right around them. Kit Connelly's coffee-house was working to a
charm. Jack began to think that drinking liquors was not so much a
besetting sin, as a natural sequence of having nothing else to drink
when you were cold or hot, or tired or hungry. The men fell into the
habit of going to Kit's for their midday lunch, and presently some of
the women went over. The room was so bright and pleasant; and, with Miss
Rose there, they were on their best behavior. In the evening Mrs.
Connelly brought her work, and sat by the desk. Some of the younger men,
who had no homes; as one may say, dropped in, and looked over the books.
Once two young chaps had come up from Keppler's to have a little fun, as
they said, and were rather noisy. Mrs. Connelly rose.

"Gentlemen," she said, "you forget yourselves. This is an orderly, quiet
house, not a tavern. If you cannot submit to the rules, you must leave
it."

"Leave it! Come, who'll put us out!" laughed the bully. "Let's see you
try," with an insolent leer at the lady.

Two men were sitting at a table just a little back of them. Their eyes
met. Both rose; and, each seizing a shoulder of the bully, he was
marched out before he could make the slightest resistance, his companion
looking on in amazement.

"Next time you insult a lady in her own house, you will not get off so
easily! Just bear that in mind."

The fellow uttered an oath, but the door was shut in his face.

"Thank you, John Kelly, and you, Ben Hay," said Mrs. Connelly, in a
brave voice, though her heart fluttered a little.

The other young ruffian rose, and walked out quietly.

"If you didn't mind, Ben Hay," she said, an hour or so after, as they
were shutting up for the night, "I'd like to have you drop in quite
often of an evening. The boys are hardly big enough if we should ever be
beset by such scamps as that, and you've always been so friendly-like."

"Yes," answered Ben, flushing, and casting a sheepish look at the desk,
where Rose's curly head was bent over her accounts. "Yes, I'm at your
service. It's enough sight cheerfuller here than in Mother Mitchell's
boarding-house. I'll be glad to come."

"Thank you."

Miss Barry heard of this, and told it over to Jack.

"Ben Hay is a good, plucky fellow. He used to go down at noon for beer,
but I do not think he has been since the coffee-house was opened.
Sylvie, do you know, I believe reformers in general would be more
successful if they put a good and pleasant thing in the place of the
evil they assail. Too often they leave their convert to pick his way
alone. Hay is very much interested in the plans of the mill. The
meetings have done this much already,--a spirit of inquiry has been
awakened in some of the men, and they are reading up what other people
have achieved in this line. I want them to get well grounded before
there comes any strain. We can't go on prospering forever. That would be
too much like fairy-land."

"But every one thinks the panic nearly at an end," and Sylvie studied
the grave face before her.

"I do not want to croak," and Jack gave a little laugh that sounded
forced, "but we have just begun to pay off our debts. Every city and
town, and nearly every individual, is in debt. If we could pay with
promises to pay, we might tide over a while longer; but when interest
reaches a certain point, it swallows capital. If we can meet our
indebtedness everywhere, as fast as it matures, well and good: if not,
then we have only nibbled at the crust of our bitter pie."

"Anyhow," cried Sylvie, with the woman's sanguine nature, "Yerbury is a
great deal better off than it was last winter. Every one admits there
is much less suffering."

"There is more employment, and no broken bank," with a cheerful smile.

"Do you know," said the young girl presently, while a faint color went
wandering over her fair face, "that they are doing a marvellous stroke
of business at Garafield's, even if the times are bad? Mrs. Garafield
was down to tea a few evenings since, and she was greatly encouraged.
There is such a rage about the new style of papering. Everybody has run
mad on dados and friezes, and fresco patterns, bordering, and harmonies
of color," laughingly. "And they have some wonderful new designs."

"Fred is in just the right place. If he has courage to fight through,"
and there came a curious, almost foreboding expression in the
sympathetic eyes.

"You care a good deal for him, Jack! And yet he did not use you nobly,"
with a peculiar regret in the tone. "It is the one thing"--

"Sylvie, if I forgave it, surely you can." Then he turned his eyes upon
her, and read or rather dreamed of something in a dim, dazed way, the
story of a bygone summer. Had it been more to her than any one thought?
Miss Barry had hinted to his mother that Sylvie's decision in the matter
was a great disappointment to her. There had been a decision, then, and
one adverse to Fred Lawrence.

"I hate a false and cowardly man!" her cheeks were flaming now. "And
when you were schoolboys together,--when Agatha and Gertrude were so
afraid he would lower himself if he looked at any boy below his own
social position,--he used to stand up for you,--yes, he did,--and fight;
of course not in a brutal way with fists," and she laughed at her own
conceit, "but in that higher, finer manner, with no shield or weapon
save his love for you. I used to like to see you together,--you so
sturdy and manful and true, and he delicate and handsome and adoring.
And then"--

"Sylvie, I wonder if a woman can understand a man's friendship. We never
had any quarrel. We just drifted apart. I don't believe we forgot each
other. Circumstances took him out of my sphere, into a new one. If I had
been there in college, going along with him step by step, don't you
suppose he would have stood up for me in the face of his fine friends,
just as he used to with his sisters?"

"I hope so: I would like to believe it."

"I am more just to him than you, Sylvie," said Jack, a little wounded.
"I know it. I don't doubt it any more than I doubt--well, myself. He
might have come--I was always sorry to see him avoid me, and I think he
was weak, but he never forgot."

"He was weak, he was worse, Jack." There was a curious cry of anguish
in her voice, and her shoulders swayed unconsciously, while her eyes
looked out on the summer night he could not see.

"Don't get so excited over it, Sylvie," and the pleasant, cheery laugh
seemed to bring healing on its wings. "Whatever it was, and we will let
all that go, he made the amende honorable the night we had tea
together up there in the great house. We took up our friendship just
where it had dropped. Men never go over those crooked and thorny steps
of the past, they have so much work to do in the present and the future.
I wanted then to make a position for him in the mill; but it was not
possible, and would not have been the part of wisdom under any
circumstances. Yet it seemed as if I had stepped in his place. I was
glad to hear of this other, though Fred would have been happier
elsewhere. Sylvie, I do not believe you realize what it cost him to come
back to Yerbury, to walk about, a working-man, where he had driven in
his carriage. So down at the bottom there is the temper of the real blue
steel, which can bend."

"How generous you are, Jack!" There was something more than admiration
in her tone, and yet she was wondering if she could ever forgive her
fallen hero.

"See here, Sylvie, I don't mean to question any one's religion, but I've
often thought about the rejoicing up above, over the one who went
astray. I do not believe we rejoice with a very full heart: maybe we are
not heavenly enough. We can never be sure of our own strength until some
far-reaching test is applied, and yet it may not be an entirely true
test. It may quiver about the weak spot in our souls; but, while there
is any feeling, one cannot be entirely lost. That is why I say he never
forgot. And you and I ought to rejoice that he did come back instead
of going off in that gloomy, diseased, Manfred style, and upbraiding the
world. 'Whatever his hand found to do'--that was one of grandmother's
texts, and he went bravely at it."

"I do believe you are a better Christian than I," she answered softly,
her eyes limpid with emotion.

"No. Perhaps not even a better friend;" and a smile played about his
mouth.

"A truer friend, a more generous one"--

"What were we talking of?" in a sudden change of tone. "Oh, the business
at Garafield's! Fred is a good deal of an artist, an intellectual artist
I should say; and, though he may not attain to fame by painting
pictures, there are many other points coming to be appreciated. He is in
the way for usefulness; and, if he wins the bays for beauty as well, I
am sure we shall all rejoice. I heard he had been designing."

"You hear every thing." Sylvie made a capricious little moue. Her nods
and gestures were so much a part of her, so piquant, decisive, and full
of expression, when she did not intrench herself behind a studied
dignity.

"I am glad you have heard it. I was wondering how best to tell you. I
thought Garafield's might be a stepping-stone, these hard times, but it
may prove the veritable ladder itself. Only"--

"Well!" with a trifle of impatience, as if she could not endure the
suggestiveness of the tone.

"I wonder if you understand the courage it took for Fred Lawrence to
make a home here in Yerbury, to bring his mother and sister; for you see
he must endure for them as well as himself. Mrs. Lawrence will always be
an invalid, I suppose. He thinks her quite changed and softened:
evidently she clings to him. They see none of their old friends. Miss
Lawrence never goes anywhere."

"As if one could help that!" almost passionately. "Auntie wrote a note
to Mrs. Lawrence, and it was merely answered. They do not desire to
receive any one. We can only let them alone, Jack."

"Even then we can hardly fail to appreciate what he is doing, possibly
suffering. I think he will come in time to win back all the regard his
friends ever gave him," Jack Darcy said in a steady tone.

Was he pleading for him? Sylvie was somewhat puzzled, the most so,
perhaps, about herself. How much had she cared for Fred in that old
time? If not at all, why did this feeling of shame over a fallen idol
continually haunt her? She compared the two men in every thing, and
sometimes was vexed to admit that Jack was the nobler.

Their walk had come to an end. They paused at the gate; and a third
person striding up Larch Avenue took in the drooping, attentive, and
pliant figure, the strong, protecting, powerful personality of the
other,--and wondered, as he had more than once before. Were they friends
merely? It was not possible for a woman to see so much of Jack Darcy's
noble, manly life, and not admire, not love, Dr. Maverick admitted. She
showed in many ways that she did care for him. Oddly enough she
sheltered herself under his friendly care when other admirers came too
near. Could not Darcy see! What a blind, stupid mole he must be in this
respect! and the doctor kicked a stone in his path with such force that
the two turned in the midst of their good-bys, and waited with smiling
faces for him to reach them. Not a shade of annoyance in look or tone at
the interruption.

"The queerest lovers," he thought to himself. "If I stood in that man's
place"--

Jack went homeward in a curiously speculative mood. He has always
fancied for Sylvie some handsome, spirited knight, whose mental
intuitions would be as delicate and refined as hers, whose enjoyment as
intense. Little as he knew of love, he understood their friendship too
thoroughly to be betrayed into any mistake. And he wondered now if he
held the key to Sylvie's spiritual enfranchisement of all other men? If
she had not loved Fred Lawrence, she had come too dangerously near it
ever to free herself entirely from whatever thrall his soul had thrown
over hers. She had been disappointed in him, he read that from her
tone; but surely, if he brought himself up to a finer and truer standard
than any known in that enervating atmosphere of luxury, would she still
be implacable? How could he best serve these two people, whom he loved
so entirety?

He had many other things to busy himself about beside love and
friendship. March came on apace, and the balance-sheet for the six
months had to be put in shape. The accounts had been systematically
kept: that he had insisted upon in the beginning. Cameron knew every
gallon of oil, every pound of wool, every penny spent for repairs and
stock; Hurd and Yardley had kept account of every yard of cloth, and
what quality, that had passed through their hands; Winston, of
travelling, advertising, commissions, &c.; and Jack went over every
thing. They had done wonderfully. There was actually a balance of profit
to every man, woman, and child. The forms were printed, and distributed
to every employee, and there was a great rejoicing time. They engaged
the Cooking Club to provide them a supper, and the young people had a
merry dance afterward.

"It's hardly safe to halloo until you are out of the woods," said some
of the solid old men of Yerbury, who were living snugly on the interest
of government-bonds. "Six months is no test at all. Wait until there is
a hard pull, and you will not be so jubilant."

"No," answered Jack with a humorous twinkle in his eye: "it's right to
have the rejoicing now, when we have fairly earned it. The man who
croaks when Providence has smiled upon him, deserves the frown; and he
who is unthankful for small successes hardly has a right to great ones.
I do not expect all fair sailing, but we will weather the storms
together."

"It is rather unfortunate," commented another wise-acre. "I have
observed these wonderful beginnings seldom end well. If you should have
a run of bad luck now, your men will be dissatisfied, and likely blame
you for not keeping up to that mark. I shouldn't have made such a great
effort, and then there would have been a chance for improvement."

"A new broom sweeps clean, but it will get worn out," with sundry
mysterious nods.

"I declare," said Jack to his friend and comforter, Maverick, "half the
town looks at me as if I must have robbed a bank, or falsified accounts,
told a lie, or cheated, or maybe murdered some rich old don, and made
merry on his money. Why can't people rejoice with you when there is any
thing to rejoice about,--an event which does not happen so often in
these evil days? I do believe Boyd, and a lot of the others, would be
glad to see the scheme fail; but I'll work night and day to make a
success of it. It shall not go down," and Jack set his lips together in
a way that spoke volumes for his resolve.

"I have observed before that some people are fond of disparaging plans
that they have no hand in," returned the doctor coolly.

"And philanthropy is a much-derided virtue. If the old Athenian had been
a stock-broker or a bank-director, he might not have been sent into
exile, eh?" and Darcy laughed good-humoredly. "If I have kept a few
people from starvation this winter, I ought surely to have as much
credit as to have dealt around alms. As for the success, we had the
reputation of Hope Mills in our favor, and every man had his own fortune
at stake, and brought out the best that was in him."

He sent Miss McLeod her half-yearly rent, a copy of the statement, and a
very temperate letter. He was quite proud to think he had no need of
accepting her proffered favor, but he thanked her again for it.

She answered promptly. She had shown the statement to Mr. Hildreth, and
he thought it remarkable. Wasn't it a trifle too rose-colored to last?
Count on her as a friend, if evil days came; and we none of us could
tell exactly what was in store. The financial horizon was by no means
clear.

A few others gave him words of heartfelt encouragement. The Rev. Mr.
Marlow spoke of him in very high terms, much to Sylvie's delight, and
said already there had been a great change in the mill-hands. The
coffee-house he considered an especially commendable thought.

There was a quiet change going on that was destined to bear more
abundant fruit in the future. Some of the men and women had begun to
think a little for themselves. The pupils of the cooking-school were
beginning the A B C of beauty and neatness. Their rooms were swept
cleaner; their clothes took on a more tidy aspect. With the opening
spring, gardens and court-yards were cleared of their rubbish, and
flower-beds flourished again. Sylvie gave her girls one very instructive
lecture on slips and flower-seeds, and one Saturday they went out to
the woods for ferns and wild flowers. It was only one little corner, to
be sure, but it was the leaven that was presently to do a wide-spread
work.

Hope Mills took up its steady march again. Half a dozen new hands were
added, though Jack wished that he could find employment for some of the
poor souls that besieged him daily. If times really were coming better,
if orders only would increase, and he could with safety enlarge his
borders! But "slow and steady" was his motto. He was not one to
disparage the present by exaggerating the advantages of the future.

There was one home that these cordial little excitements never entered.
The three souls in it, although they should have been very near and
dear, wrapped themselves in their own thoughts and sorrows, and took no
note of their fellows.

Mrs. Lawrence heeded the outward change least of the three. She had her
pretty room, her glowing fire in winter, her fur slippers, and zephyr
shawls; her late breakfast in bed, then her luxurious dressing-gown, and
her books. She had settled herself into the rôle of an invalid for the
remainder of her days. The loss and suffering had not taken her out of
herself, or raised her narrow, vapid nature. She was at once patient and
complaining,--even her affection for her son was combined with great
mental and moral weakness. She was profoundly grieved that he should
have been compelled to accept so unsuitable a position; but to her it
was only a temporary event. Something must happen. In some mysterious
way they would come back to their former grandeur,--not that she cared
especially, but for the sake of Fred and Irene. Then for days she would
lose herself in the joys and sorrows of her heroines. To such people
novel-reading is certainly a godsend. A readable book was as
exhilarating to her as a splendid morning drive or a good deed is to
many others. She had society without being bored. She had wit, poetry,
art, music, travels, dinners, and balls, with no worry, no late hours,
or fatigue.

Irene could not so yield up her personality. She brooded over her lot in
a haughty, bitter spirit. She uttered no complaint,--she was far too
proud for that,--but she took no interest in any thing. Like a
melancholy ghost she wandered up and down, or sat by the window for
hours in a listless attitude. There were moments when she wished herself
Lady Frodsham, times when the change and bustle of such a life as that
of Mr. Barringer would have been heaven itself.

Fred could never persuade her to go anywhere. She took no walks, except
to pace up and down the garden path when the quiet of the house drove
her well-nigh crazy. Once in a great while she opened the piano, and
played as if a demon had taken possession of her soul and her fingers.

Fred breakfasted early and alone. After a while he fell into the habit
of taking his lunch in his office, and coming home to a late dinner.
Martha was certainly the perfection of maids. The housekeeping went on
with the regularity of clockwork: there were no complaints even. Fred
used to sit in his mother's room until her bedtime, when he would go
down to the library, and work for an hour or two.

The utter dearth of interest would have been terrible to him but for his
business. At first he preserved a wide and punctilious distance between
himself and Mr. Garafield. He was the employer, to be sure; but then
Fred Lawrence had a dignity of his own to maintain. One day, however,
the dignity suffered a collapse. Mr. Garafield brought in some new
designs, and they lapsed into an exceedingly entertaining art
discussion. The employer had excellent taste, trained and shaped by
practical experience: Fred possessed the wider mental reach and
exquisite perception of harmony and color, the sentiment of genius.

"Why do you not take up the idea, Mr. Lawrence?" asked his employer.
"House finishing and furnishing is fast coming to be a fine art. An
intelligent, harmonious beauty is demanded. We are leaving behind the
complacency of mere money in our adornments, and asking for something
that evinces thought and refinement. I am sure you could succeed if you
once set about the work."

The compliment touched Fred profoundly, roused him to a new venture. He
practised his almost lost art of designing to some purpose: he wrote two
or three art essays that happened to find much more favor than his
abstruse philosophies. After all, he was young, and the whole world lay
before him. Surely he could carve out some kind of fortune. The light of
earnest endeavor shone in his eyes, the languid step quickened into one
of courageous elasticity. He had dawdled away years enough: he would put
a purpose into his manhood, that some distant eyes, seeing, might not
relegate him entirely to the regions of contempt.

"There's quite a good deal in that young Lawrence," declared Phil
Maverick decisively. "I was in at Garafield's the other evening, and, I
must confess, listened to a fine art lecture. All about wall-papering,
too!" with a genial laugh. "What an education that fellow has! Couldn't
he find any thing to do, that he must drop down upon a paper-factory? I
am sure I should have made a big fight out somewhere in the great
world."

"'Beyond the Alps lies Italy,'" quoted Jack. "Not on the top, you
observe, but perhaps in the valley. I wish you would be a little
friendly with him, Maverick: you couldn't help but like him."

"There is more in him than I gave him credit for. I thought at the time
of his father's death I had never seen so useless a fine gentleman,
with all the stamina educated out of him. I had half a mind to turn him
over to Aunt Jean and Miss Lothrop."

Darcy laughed absently, and Maverick saw that his mind had wandered
elsewhere. How odd that these two should be friends! Maverick could not
discern the fine bond uniting them.




CHAPTER XIX.


SUMMER came on apace. The Cooking Club took a vacation, or rather turned
into a gardening club, and studied the sensible part of botany and
floriculture. People began to look at the waste land lying about, with
envious eyes. Here and there some one started a garden, or indulged in a
flock of chickens. The Webbers traded their snug cottage for a place on
the outskirts of the town, with two acres of ground, which they improved
rapidly. Men who had sold farms, and spent the money in vain business
speculations, looked back regretfully, and in some instances hired where
they had been proprietors. There was no money to be realized in farming,
but if one could even make a living! No one was making money but those
lucky fellows at Hope Mills. Of course that was a bubble, and would
burst presently; but doubtless it was good while it lasted.

Miss Barry, Sylvie, and Mrs. Darcy went away to a pleasant, quiet
seaside resort. Miss Barry appeared to be ailing a little. Mrs. Minor so
far relented as to invite her mother and Irene to spend two months with
her at Long Branch. Mrs. Lawrence consented, Irene refused flatly. "She
had no money to spend for dress, and she would accept no one's charity,"
she declared in her haughty way. But she could not stay in the house
forever: so she took long walks over wild country ways, angry with the
world, herself, and every thing. A fierce-eyed, beautiful girl, clinging
desperately to her isolation, and yet eating out her very heart in
loneliness.

The time ran on rapidly. September came around. Hope Mills did not make
as good a report this time. Business had been very dull. Sales were next
to nothing. People did not need much in warm weather, and orders were
very light. However, several other branches of industry in Yerbury
improved a trifle. Railroads, stocks, and real estate were fast becoming
dead speculations: so men ventured to put their money warily into
business again.

But the bottom had not been reached. Early in October there was a
tremendous failure of an old and well-known firm of woollen-manufacturers.
The bankrupt stock was sold at auction. Then another, and various
smaller houses. The market was suddenly flooded. No one could sell. No
one seemed to need new garments of any kind. Men wore their old clothes,
and shrugged their shoulders in a sort of contemptuous content, as if
they had suddenly found a great charm in a half-worn, shabby overcoat.
Robert Winston went hither and yon. Not a piece or a yard would any one
take.

There was a great deal of discussion in various daily journals. The
business had been overdone again. Foreign markets must be found. We
could not compete with foreign manufacturers. Our wool was inferior, our
looms were inferior, our men knew so little, and demanded such high
wages. Then we never could do any thing under the present wretched
tariff and the skinning system of taxation. It took all a man could
make. Another sapient statesman declared nothing could be done without
more money. The contraction had been so great that not a man could do
business. Then came a long list of figures to prove what a very little
money was left in the country. Newspaper war raged, first on this side,
then on that. If we did this, we would surely be ruined: if we did not,
then ruin was inevitable.

Jack used to try for some light, no matter how faint. It seemed to him,
if the great men at the helm of the national ship would set to work
vigorously to widen and strengthen the commerce of the nation, instead
of discussing such frivolous issues, prosperity might dawn once more. He
went over his political economists again, and realized sadly that men
had always disputed these points, and that each writer or prophet was
sure his was the only creed that would ever save the world, while by
following any other they would surely go to ruin.

Winston and he took counsel together: then they called in Cameron, who
looked blue enough.

"Any ordinary factory would shut down for the winter," said Winston
ruefully; "but that would be to confess our scheme a failure. We are
piling up goods--but for what--a grand auction-sale by and by? And the
men have worked so cheerfully--no, we can't give up."

"Giving up is out of the question at present," Jack answered solemnly,
as if he was passing his word at the bar. "Our balance at the bank has
been expended, and we have some notes out that must be cared for in a
month's time. Wages are falling, and it seems to look now as if we were
coming back to the era of cheap living. The bargain was the ruling rate
of wages, you know. I think they will have to come down."

"I will not give up beaten," declared Winston. "I'll have one more try.
Keep up heart, shipmate."

With that Winston started West again. He talked, he plead, he offered
for the mere cost of production,--just to get the money back would be
something. The coal-venture of this winter had been much larger, though
coal was declining, and the profit somewhat less. Everybody pared the
margin to the mere skin. Winston had a little luck, however. Two sales
of some note were effected, and a barter, that only a man with a shrewd
eye for bargains, and a glib tongue, could have managed. Flour, apples,
and potatoes were the stock this time. The workmen took them gladly, at
a little less than store prices. They knew how full the wareroom kept
all the time.

The first of January, wages were lowered. There was a little grumbling
among some of the men, but the women took it in wiser part. The
half-loaf was much better than no bread at all. They remembered the
dismal year when there had been no employment, and stinted food
purchased on credit. One wouldn't starve with flour and potatoes, nor
freeze with a full coal-bin.

Hope Mills had exhausted every source,--had even paid a horrible
discount, being hard run,--when Darcy wrote to Miss McLeod a true
statement of affairs. If they could hold out until spring, times might
be better. They were economizing as they never had before: yet the time
had come when disaster really stared them in the face, unless they could
find a true friend.

Miss Barry had generously offered him her store and her credit. Though
there had been a time when she withheld Sylvie, and fancied Jack Darcy
not quite the equal of her pretty niece, that time had long gone by. She
knew now his genuine worth,--she had tested his integrity. Of course
Sylvie would drift that way; and so, by many delicate turns, she showed
Jack that she could trust him with any of her treasures.

"You are so good," said the honest fellow, with tears in his eyes,--for
he was touched beyond measure. "If I can't get through I will gladly
accept, unless the prospect is so bad that it would be sure to
jeopardize any one's money. But I hope it will not come to that."

How breathlessly he waited for Miss McLeod's answer! The morning's mail
did not bring it; night closed in without it. A chill drizzle had set
in, freezing as it fell, and the keen air fairly flayed one's skin. Yet
he dreaded to go in-doors, to hear his mother's pleasant voice. Cousin
Jane had been called away by the illness and possible death of a
relative, so they two were alone.

When Mrs. Darcy saw her son so grave and pre-occupied, his eyes sadly
pathetic with trouble, mother-like, she tried to comfort with the small
talk that women often offer, and that answers the purpose like bathing
one's brow with Florida-water in a severe headache. She never mentioned
business to him when in such moods. Now it was a bit of
newspaper-gossip, concerning some discoveries in Greece, that he and
Maverick had been quite eager about.

The poor fellow was distraught, and could not listen. He ate his supper,
choking down the food, for her dear sake, missing strangely Cousin
Jane's pungency and seasoning. Then he tried to interest himself in the
paper, but could not; he paced the floor softly; he whistled a tune, for
his mother's benefit also, but broke down in the middle.

"I must go out a little while," he declared in desperation.

"Not in this storm," said his mother pleadingly.

"Yes. I'll be back by--ten," looking at the clock. "It is too bad to
leave you alone," with sudden regret, kissing her tenderly.

"I shall not mind for a while. But this wretched storm"--

He laughed, a little strained and forced; then he put on his great-coat,
almost wishing that every man in the country was without, and had to buy
one to-morrow. He tramped up the street, drawing long respirations,
every one of which was nearly a sigh. Was this the way Mr. Lawrence felt
when times went bad? Was some such trouble the cause of that fatal
