
FRANK THROWS UP HIS SITUATION.


Frank found his friend on Park Row, and made known his errand.

"So old Mills wants you to sell papers for his benefit, does he?"

"Yes, but I'd rather do it than to stay with him."

"How much has he agreed to pay you?"

"That isn't settled yet."

"You'd better bring him to the point, or he won't pay you anything
except board and lodging, and mighty mean both of them will be."

"I won't say anything about it the first day," said Frank. "What papers
shall I buy?"

"It's rather late. You'd better try for Telegrams."

Frank did so, and succeeded in selling half a dozen, yielding a profit
of six cents. It was not a brilliant beginning, but he was late in the
field, and most had purchased their evening papers. His papers sold,
Frank went home and announced the result.

"Umph!" muttered the blind man. "Give me the money."

"Here it is, sir."

"Have you given me all?" sharply demanded Mills.

"Of course I have," said Frank, indignantly.

"Don't you be impudent, or I will give you a flogging," said the blind
man, roughly.

"I am not used to be talked to in that way," said Frank, independently.

"You've always had your own way, I suppose," snarled Mills.

"No, I haven't; but I have been treated kindly."

"You are only a boy, and I won't allow you to talk back to me. Do you
hear?"

"Yes."

"Then take care to remember."

"You've got a sweet disposition," thought Frank. "I won't stay with you
any longer than I am obliged to."

Several days passed without bringing any incidents worth recording.
Frank took a daily walk with the blind man, sometimes in the morning,
sometimes in the afternoon. These walks were very distasteful to him.
The companion of a beggar, he felt as if he himself were begging. He
liked better the time he spent in selling papers, though he reaped no
benefit himself. In fact, his wages were poor enough. Thus far his fare
had consisted of dry bread with an occasional bun. He was a healthy,
vigorous boy, and he felt the need of meat, or some other hearty food,
and ventured to intimate as much to his employer.

"So you want meat, do you?" snarled Mills.

"Yes, sir; I haven't tasted any for a week."

"Perhaps you'd like to take your meals at Delmonico's?" sneered the
blind man.

Frank was so new to the city that this well-known name did not convey
any special idea to him, and he answered "Yes."

"That's what I thought!" exclaimed Mills, angrily. "You want to eat me
out of house and home."

"No, I don't; I only want enough food to keep up my strength."

"Well, you are getting it. I give you all I can afford."

Frank was inclined to doubt this. He estimated that what he ate did not
cost his employer over six or eight cents a day, and he generally earned
for him twenty to thirty cents on the sale of papers, besides helping
him to collect about a dollar daily from those who pitied his blindness.

He mentioned his grievance to his friend, Dick Rafferty.

"I'll tell you what to do," said Dick.

"I wish you would."

"Keep some of the money you make by selling papers, and buy a square
meal at an eatin' house."

"I don't like to do that; it wouldn't be honest."

"Why wouldn't it?"

"I am carrying on the business for Mr. Mills. He supplies the capital."

"Then you'd better carry it on for yourself."

"I wish I could."

"Why don't you?"

"I haven't any money."

"Has he paid you any wages?"

"No."

"Then make him."

Frank thought this a good suggestion. He had been with Mills a week, and
it seemed fair enough that he should receive some pay besides a wretched
bed and a little dry bread. Accordingly, returning to the room, he
broached the subject.

"What do you want wages for?" demanded Mills, displeased.

"I think I earn them," said Frank, boldly.

"You get board and lodging. You are better off than a good many boys."

"I shall want some clothes, some time," said Frank.

"Perhaps you'd like to have me pay you a dollar a day," said Mills.

"I know you can't afford to pay me that. I will be satisfied if you will
pay me ten cents a day," replied Frank.

Frank reflected that, though this was a very small sum, in ten days it
would give him a dollar, and then he would feel justified in setting up
a business on his own account, as a newsboy. He anxiously awaited an
answer.

"I will think of it," said the blind man evasively, and Frank did not
venture to say more.

The next day, when Mills, led by Frank, was on his round, the two
entered a cigar-store. Frank was much surprised when the cigar-vender
handed him a fifty-cent currency note. He thought there was some
mistake.

"Thank you, sir," he said; "but did you mean to give me fifty cents?"

"Yes," said the cigar-vender, laughing; "but I wouldn't have done it, if
it had been good."

"Isn't it good?"

"No, it's a counterfeit, and a pretty bad one. I might pass it, but it
would cost me too much time and trouble."

Frank was confounded. He mechanically handed the money to Mills, but did
not again thank the giver. When they returned to the tenement-house,
Mills requested Frank to go to the baker's for a loaf of bread.

"Yes, sir."

"Here is the money."

"But that is the counterfeit note," said Frank, scrutinizing the bill
given him.

"What if it is?" demanded Mills, sharply.

"It won't pass."

"Yes, it will, if you are sharp."

"Do you want me to pass counterfeit money, Mr. Mills?"

"Yes, I do; I took it, and I mean to get rid of it."

"But you didn't give anything for it."

"That's neither here nor there. Take it, and offer it to the baker. If
he won't take it, go to another baker with it."

"I would rather not do it," said Frank, firmly.

"Rather not!" exclaimed Mills, angrily. "Do you pretend to dictate to
me?"

"No, I don't, but I don't mean to pass any counterfeit money for you or
any other man," said Frank, with spirit.

Mills half rose, with a threatening gesture, but thought better of it.

"You're a fool," said he. "I suppose you are afraid of being arrested;
but you have only to say that I gave it to you, and that I am blind, and
couldn't tell it from good money."

"But you know that it is bad money, Mr. Mills."

"What if I do? No one can prove it. Take the money, and come back as
quick as you can."

"You must excuse me," said Frank, quietly, but firmly.

"Do you refuse to do as I bid you?" demanded Mills, furiously.

"I refuse to pass counterfeit money."

"Then, by Heaven, I'll flog you!"

Mills rose and advanced directly towards Frank, with his eyes wide open.
Fortunately our hero was near the door, and, quickly opening it, darted
from the room, pursued by Mills, his face flaming with wrath. It
flashed upon Frank that no blind man could have done this. He decided
that the man was a humbug, and could see a little, at all events. His
blindness was no doubt assumed to enable him to appeal more effectively
to the sympathizing public. This revelation disgusted Frank. He could
not respect a man who lived by fraud. Counterfeit or no counterfeit, he
decided to withdraw at once and forever from the service of Mr. Mills.

His employer gave up the pursuit before he reached the street. Frank
found himself on the sidewalk, free and emancipated, no richer than when
he entered the service of the blind man, except in experience.

"I haven't got a cent," he said to himself, "but I'll get along
somehow."




CHAPTER VI.

FRANK GETS A JOB.


Though Frank was penniless he was not cast down. He was tolerably
familiar with the lower part of the city, and had greater reliance on
himself than he had a week ago. If he had only had capital to the extent
of fifty cents he would have felt quite at ease, for this would have set
him up as a newsboy.

"I wonder if I could borrow fifty cents of Dick Rafferty," considered
Frank. "I'll try, at any rate."

He ran across Dick in City-Hall Park. That young gentleman was engaged
in pitching pennies with a brother professional.

"I say, Dick, I want to speak to you a minute," said Frank.

"All right! Go ahead!"

"I've lost my place."

Dick whistled.

"Got sacked, have you?" he asked.

"Yes; but I might have stayed."

"Why didn't you?"

"Mills wanted me to pass a counterfeit note, and I wouldn't."

"Was it a bad-looking one?"

"Yes."

"Then you're right. You might have got nabbed."

"That wasn't the reason I refused. If I had been sure there'd have been
no trouble I wouldn't have done it."

"Why not?" asked Dick, who did not understand our hero's scruples.

"Because it's wrong."

Dick shrugged his shoulders.

"I guess you belong to the church," he said.

"No, I don't; what makes you think so?"

"Oh, 'cause you're so mighty particular. I wouldn't mind passing it if I
was sure I wouldn't be cotched."

"I think it's almost as bad as stealing to buy bread, or anything else,
and give what isn't worth anything for it. You might as well give a
piece of newspaper."

Though Frank was unquestionably right he did not succeed in making a
convert of Dick Rafferty. Dick was a pretty good boy, considering the
sort of training he had had; but passing bad money did not seem to him
objectionable, unless "a fellow was cotched," as he expressed it.

"Well, what are you going to do now?" asked Dick, after a pause.

"I guess I can get a living by selling papers."

"You can get as good a livin' as old Mills gave you. You'll get a better
bed at the lodgin'-house than that heap of rags you laid on up there."

"But there's one trouble," continued Frank, "I haven't any money to
start on. Can you lend me fifty cents?"

"Fifty cents!" repeated Dick. "What do you take me for? If I was
connected with Vanderbuilt or Astor I might set you up in business, but
now I can't."

"Twenty-five cents will do," said Frank.

"Look here, Frank," said Dick, plunging his hands into his pocket, and
drawing therefrom three pennies and a nickel, "do you see them?"

"Yes."

"Well, it's all the money I've got."

"I am afraid you have been extravagant, Dick," said Frank, in
disappointment.

"Last night I went to Tony Pastor's, and when I got through I went into
a saloon and got an ice-cream and a cigar. You couldn't expect a feller
to be very rich after that. I say, I'll lend you five cents if you want
it."

"No, thank you, Dick. I'll wait till you are richer."

"I tell you what, Frank, I'll save up my money, and by day after
to-morrow I guess I can set you up."

"Thank you, Dick. If I don't have the money by that time myself I'll
accept your offer."

There was no other boy with whom Frank felt sufficiently well acquainted
to request a loan, and he walked away, feeling rather disappointed. It
was certainly provoking to think that nothing but the lack of a small
sum stood between him and remunerative employment. Once started he
determined not to spend quite all his earnings, but to improve upon his
friend Dick's practice, and, if possible, get a little ahead.

When guiding the blind man he often walked up Broadway, and mechanically
he took the same direction, walking slowly along, occasionally stopping
to look in at a shop-window.

As he was sauntering along he found himself behind two gentlemen,--one
an old man, who wore gold spectacles; the other, a stout,
pleasant-looking man, of middle age. Frank would not have noticed them
particularly but for a sudden start and exclamation from the elder of
the two gentlemen.

"I declare, Thompson," he said, "I've left my umbrella down-town."

"Where do you think you left it?"

"In Peckham's office; that is, I think I left it there."

"Oh, well, he'll save it for you."

"I don't know about that. Some visitor may carry it away."

"Never mind, Mr. Bowen. You are rich enough to afford a new one."

"It isn't the value of the article, Thompson," said his friend, in some
emotion. "That umbrella was brought me from Paris by my son John, who
died. It is as a souvenir of him that I regard and value it. I would not
lose it for a hundred dollars, nay, five hundred."

"If you value it so much, sir, suppose we turn round and go back for
it."

Frank had listened to this conversation, and an idea struck him.
Pressing forward, he said respectfully, "Let me go for it, sir. I will
get it, and bring it to your house."

The two gentlemen fixed their eyes upon the bright, eager face of the
petitioner.

"Who are you, my boy?" asked Mr. Thompson.

"I am a poor boy, in want of work," answered our hero promptly.

"What is your name?"

"Frank Kavanagh."

"Where do you live?"

"I am trying to live in the city, sir."

"What have you been doing?"

"Leading a blind man, sir."

"Not a very pleasant employment, I should judge," said Thompson,
shrugging his shoulders. "Well, have you lost that job?"

"Yes, sir."

"So the blind man turned you off, did he?"

"Yes, sir."

"Your services were unsatisfactory, I suppose?"

"He wanted me to pass counterfeit money for him, and I refused."

"If that is true, it is to your credit."

"It is true, sir," said Frank, quietly.

"Come, Mr. Bowen, what do you say,--shall we accept this boy's services?
It will save you time and trouble."

"If I were sure he could be trusted," said Bowen, hesitating. "He might
pawn the umbrella. It is a valuable one."

"I hope, sir, you won't think so badly of me as that," said Frank, with
feeling. "If I were willing to steal anything, it would not be a gift
from your dead son."

"I'll trust you, my boy," said the old gentleman quickly. "Your tone
convinces me that you may be relied upon."

"Thank you, sir."

The old gentleman drew a card from his pocket, containing his name and
address, and on the reverse side wrote the name of the friend at whose
office he felt sure the umbrella had been left, with a brief note
directing that it be handed to the bearer.

"All right, sir."

"Stop a moment, my boy. Have you got money to ride?"

"No, sir."

"Here, take this, and go down at once in the next stage. The sooner you
get there the better."

Frank followed directions. He stopped the next stage, and got on board.
As he passed the City-Hall Park, Dick Rafferty espied him. Frank nodded
to him.

"How did he get money enough to ride in a 'bus?" Dick asked himself in
much wonderment. "A few minutes ago he wanted to borrow some money of
me, and now he's spending ten cents for a ride. Maybe he's found a
pocket-book."

Frank kept on his way, and got out at Wall street. He found Mr.
Peckham's office, and on presenting the card, much to his delight, the
umbrella was handed him.

"Mr. Bowen was afraid to trust me with it over night," said Mr. Peckham,
with a smile.

"He thought some visitor might carry it off," said Frank.

"Not unlikely. Umbrellas are considered common property."

Frank hailed another stage, and started on his way up-town. There was no
elevated railway then, and this was the readiest conveyance, as Mr.
Bowen lived on Madison avenue.




CHAPTER VII.

AN INVITATION TO DINNER.


"Mr. Bowen must be a rich man," thought Frank, as he paused on the steps
of a fine brown-stone mansion, corresponding to the number on his card.

He rang the bell, and asked, "Is Mr. Bowen at home?"

"Yes, but he is in his chamber. I don't think he will see you."

"I think he will," said Frank, who thought the servant was taking too
much upon herself, "as I come by his appointment."

"I suppose you can come into the hall," said the servant, reluctantly.
"Is your business important?"

"You may tell him that the boy he sent for his umbrella has brought it.
He was afraid he had lost it."

"He sets great store by that umbrella," said the girl, in a different
tone. "I'll go and tell him."

Mr. Bowen came downstairs almost immediately. There was a look of
extreme gratification upon his face.

"Bless my soul, how quick you were!" he exclaimed. "Why, I've only been
home a few minutes. Did you find the umbrella at Mr. Peckham's office?"

"Yes, sir; it had been found, and taken care of."

"Did Peckham say anything?"

"He said you were probably afraid to trust it with him over night, but
he smiled when he said it."

"Peckham will have his joke, but he is an excellent man. My boy, I am
much indebted to you."

"I was very glad to do the errand, sir," said Frank.

"I think you said you were poor," said the old man, thoughtfully.

"Yes, sir. When I met you I hadn't a cent in the world."

"Haven't you any way to make a living?"

"Yes, sir. I could sell papers if I had enough money to set me up in
business."

"Does it require a large capital?"

"Oh, no, sir," said Frank, smiling, "unless you consider fifty cents a
large sum."

"Fifty cents!" repeated the old gentleman, in surprise. "You don't mean
to say that this small sum would set you up in business?"

"Yes, sir; I could buy a small stock of papers, and buy more with what I
received for them."

"To be sure. I didn't think of that."

Mr. Bowen was not a man of business. He had an ample income, and his
tastes were literary and artistic. He knew more of books than of men,
and more of his study than of the world.

"Well, my boy," he said after a pause, "how much do I owe you for doing
this errand?"

"I leave that to you, sir. Whatever you think right will satisfy me."

"Let me see, you want fifty cents to buy papers, and you will require
something to pay for your bed."

"Fifty cents in all will be enough, sir."

"I think I had better give you a dollar," said the old gentleman,
opening his pocket-book.

Frank's eyes sparkled. A dollar would do him a great deal of good; with
a dollar he would feel quite independent.

"Thank you, sir," he said. "It is more than I earned, but it will be
very acceptable."

He put on his hat, and was about to leave the house, when Mr. Bowen
suddenly said, "Oh, I think you'd better stay to dinner. It will be on
the table directly. My niece is away, and if you don't stay I shall be
alone."

Frank did not know what to say. He was rather abashed by the invitation,
but, as the old gentleman was to be alone, it did not seem so
formidable.

"I am afraid I don't look fit," he said.

"You can go upstairs and wash your face and hands. You'll find a
clothes-brush there also. I'll ring for Susan to show you the way."

He rang the bell, and the girl who had admitted Frank made her
appearance.

"Susan," said her master, "you may show this young gentlemen into the
back chamber on the third floor, and see that he is supplied with towels
and all he needs. And you may lay an extra plate; he will dine with me."

Susan stared first at Mr. Bowen, and then at Frank, but did not venture
to make any remark.

"This way, young man," she said, and ascended the front stairs, Frank
following her closely.

She led the way into a handsomely furnished chamber, ejaculating, "Well,
I never!"

"I hope you'll find things to your satisfaction, sir," she said, dryly.
"If we'd known you were coming, we'd have made particular preparations
for you."

"Oh, I think this will do," said Frank, smiling for he thought it a good
joke.

"I am glad you think it'll do," continued Susan. "Things mayn't be as
nice as you're accustomed to at home."

"Not quite," said Frank, good-humoredly; "but I shan't complain."

"That's very kind and considerate of you, I'm sure," said Susan, tossing
her head. "Well, I never did!"

"Nor I either, Susan," said Frank, laughing. "I am a poor boy, and I am
not used to this way of living; so if you'll be kind enough to give me
any hints, so I may behave properly at the table, I'll be very much
obliged to you."

This frank acknowledgment quite appeased Susan, and she readily complied
with our hero's request.

"But I must be going downstairs, or dinner will be late," she said,
hurriedly. "You can come down when you hear the bell ring."

Frank had been well brought up, though not in the city, and he was aware
that perfect neatness was one of the first characteristics of a
gentleman. He therefore scrubbed his face and hands till they fairly
shone, and brushed his clothes with great care. Even then they certainly
did look rather shabby, and there was a small hole in the elbow of his
coat; but, on the whole, he looked quite passable when he entered the
dining-room.

"Take that seat, my boy," said his host.

Frank sat down and tried to look as if he was used to it.

"Take this soup to Mr. Kavanagh," said Mr. Bowen, in a dignified tone.

Frank started and smiled slightly, feeling more and more that it was an
excellent joke.

"I wonder what Dick Rafferty would say if he could see me now," passed
through his mind.

He acquitted himself very creditably, however, and certainly displayed
an excellent appetite, much to the satisfaction of his hospitable host.

After dinner was over, Mr. Bowen detained him and began to talk of his
dead son, telling anecdotes of his boyhood, to which Frank listened with
respectful attention, for the father's devotion was touching.

"I think my boy looked a little like you," said the old gentleman. "What
do you think, Susan?"

"Not a mite, sir," answered Susan, promptly.

"When he was a boy, I mean."

"I didn't know him when he was a boy, Mr. Bowen."

"No, to be sure not."

"But Mr. John was dark-complected, and this boy is light, and Mr. John's
hair was black, and his is brown."

"I suppose I am mistaken," sighed the old man; "but there was something
in the boy's face that reminded me of John."

"A little more, and he'll want to adopt him," thought Susan. "That
wouldn't do nohow, though he does really seem like a decent sort of a
boy."

At eight o'clock Frank rose, and wished Mr. Bowen good-night.

"Come and see me again, my boy," said the old gentleman, kindly. "You
have been a good deal of company for me to-night."

"I am glad of it, sir."

"I think you might find something better to do than selling papers."

"I wish I could, sir."

"Come and dine with me again this day week, and I may have something to
tell you."

"Thank you, sir."

Feeling in his pocket to see that his dollar was safe, Frank set out to
walk down-town, repairing to the lodging-house, where he met Dick, and
astonished that young man by the recital of his adventures.

"It takes you to get round, Frank," he said. "I wonder I don't get
invited to dine on Madison avenue."

"I give it up," said Frank.




CHAPTER VIII.

A NEWSBOY'S EXPERIENCES.


Frank slept that night at the lodging-house, and found a much better bed
than he had been provided with by his late employer. He was up bright
and early the next morning, and purchased a stock of morning papers.
These he succeeded in selling during the forenoon, netting a profit of
thirty cents. It was not much, but he was satisfied. At any rate he was
a good deal better off than when in the employ of Mr. Mills. Of course
he had to economize strictly, but the excellent arrangements of the
lodging-house helped him to do this. Twelve cents provided him with
lodging and breakfast. At noon, in company with his friend Dick, he went
to a cheap restaurant, then to be found in Ann street, near Park row,
and for fifteen cents enjoyed a dinner of two courses. The first
consisted of a plate of beef, with a potato and a wedge of bread,
costing ten cents, and the second, a piece of apple-pie.

"That's a good square meal," said Dick, in a tone of satisfaction. "I
oughter get one every day, but sometimes I don't have the money."

"I should think you could raise fifteen cents a day for that purpose,
Dick."

"Well, so I could; but then you see I save my money sometimes to go to
the Old Bowery, or Tony Pastor's, in the evenin'."

"I would like to go, too, but I wouldn't give up my dinner. A boy that's
growing needs enough to eat."

"I guess you're right," said Dick. "We'll go to dinner together every
day, if you say so."

"All right, Dick; I should like your company."

About two o'clock in the afternoon, as Frank was resting on a bench in
the City-Hall Park, a girl of ten approached him. Frank recognized her
as an inmate of the tenement-house where Mills, his late employer,
lived.

"Do you want to see me?" asked Frank, observing that she was looking
towards him.

"You're the boy that went round with the blind man, aint you?" she
asked.

"Yes."

"He wants you to come back."

Frank was rather surprised, but concluded that Mills had difficulty in
obtaining a boy to succeed him. This was not very remarkable,
considering the niggardly pay attached to the office.

"Did he send you to find me?" asked our hero.

"Yes; he says you needn't pass that money if you'll come back."

"Tell him that I don't want to come back," said Frank, promptly. "I can
do better working for myself."

"He wants to know what you are doing," continued the girl.

"Does he? You can tell him that I am a newsboy."

"He says if you don't come back he'll have you arrested for stealing
money from him. You mustn't be mad with me. That's what he told me to
say."

"I don't blame you," said Frank, hotly; "but you can tell him that he is
a liar."

"Oh, I wouldn't dare to tell him that; he would beat me."

"How can he do that, when he can't see where you are?"

"I don't know how it is, but he can go right up to where you are just as
well as if he could see."

"So he can. He's a humbug and a fraud. His eyes may not be very good,
but he can see for all that. He pretends to be blind so as to make
money."

"That's what mother and I think," said the girl. "So you won't come
back?"

"Not much. He can hire some other boy, and starve him. He won't get me."

"Aint you afraid he'll have you arrested for stealing?" asked the girl.

"If he tries that I'll expose him for wanting me to pass a counterfeit
note. I never took a cent from him."

"He'll be awful mad," said the little girl.

"Let him. If he had treated me decently I would have stayed with him.
Now I'm glad I left him."

Mills was indeed furious when, by degrees, he had drawn from his young
messenger what Frank had said. He was sorry to lose him, for he was the
most truthful and satisfactory guide he had ever employed, and he now
regretted that he had driven him away by his unreasonable exactions. He
considered whether it would be worth while to have Frank arrested on a
false charge of theft, but was restrained by the fear that he would
himself be implicated in passing counterfeit money, that is, in
intention. He succeeded in engaging another boy, who really stole from
him, and finally secured a girl, for whose services, however, he was
obliged to pay her mother twenty cents every time she went out with him.
Mean and miserly as he was, he agreed to this with reluctance, and only
as a measure of necessity.

As he became more accustomed to his new occupation Frank succeeded
better. He was a boy of considerable energy, and was on the alert for
customers. It was not long before his earnings exceeded those of Dick
Rafferty, who was inclined to take things easily.

One evening Dick was lamenting that he could not go to the Old Bowery.

"There's a bully play, Frank," he said. "There's a lot of fightin' in
it."

"What is it called, Dick?"

"'The Scalpers of the Plains.' There's five men murdered in the first
act. Oh, it's elegant!"

"Why don't you go, then, Dick?"

"Cause I'm dead-broke--busted. That's why. I aint had much luck this
week, and it took all my money to pay for my lodgin's and grub."

"Do you want very much to go to the theatre, Dick?"

"Of course I do; but it aint no use. My credit aint good, and I haint no
money in the bank."

"How much does it cost?"

"Fifteen cents, in the top gallery."

"Can you see there?"

"Yes, it's rather high up; but a feller with good eyes can see all he
wants to there."

"I'll tell you what I'll do, Dick. You have been a good friend to me,
and I'll take you at my expense."

"You will? To-night?"

"Yes."

"You're a reg'lar trump. We'll have a stavin' time. Sometime, when I'm
flush, I'll return the compliment."

So the two boys went. They were at the doors early, and secured a front
seat in the gallery. The performance was well adapted to please the
taste of a boy, and they enjoyed it exceedingly. Dick was uproarious in
his applause whenever a man was killed.

"Seems to me you like to see men killed, Dick," said his friend.

"Yes, it's kinder excitin'."

"I don't like that part so well as some others," said Frank.

"It's' a stavin' play, aint it?" asked Dick, greatly delighted.

Frank assented.

"I'll tell you what, Frank," said Dick; "I'd like to be a hunter and
roam round the plains, killin' bears and Injuns."

"Suppose they should kill you? That wouldn't suit you so well, would
it?"

"No, I guess not. But I'd like to be a hunter, wouldn't you?"

"No, I would rather live in New York. I would like to make a journey to
the West if I had money enough; but I would leave the hunting to other
men."

Dick, however, did not agree with his more sensible companion. Many boys
like him are charmed with the idea of a wild life in the forest, and
some have been foolish enough to leave good homes, and, providing
themselves with what they considered necessary, have set out on a
journey in quest of the romantic adventures which in stories had fired
their imaginations. If their wishes could be realized it would not be
long before the romance would fade out, and they would long for the good
homes, which they had never before fully appreciated.

When the week was over, Frank found that he had lived within his means,
as he had resolved to do; but he had not done much more. He began with
a dollar which he had received from Mr. Bowen, and now he had a dollar
and a quarter. There was a gain of twenty-five cents. There would have
been a little more if he had not gone to the theatre with Dick; but this
he did not regret. He felt that he needed some amusement, and he wished
to show his gratitude to his friend for various kind services. The time
had come to accept Mr. Bowen's second dinner invitation. As Frank looked
at his shabby clothes he wished there were a good pretext for declining,
but he reflected that this would not be polite, and that the old
gentleman would make allowances for his wardrobe. He brushed up his
clothes as well as he could, and obtained a "boss shine" from Dick.
Then he started for the house on Madison avenue.

"I'll lend you my clo'es if you want 'em," said Dick.

"There are too many spots of blacking on them, Dick. As I'm a newsboy,
it wouldn't look appropriate. I shall have to make mine answer."

"I'll shine up the blackin' spots if you want me to."

"Never mind, Dick. I'll wait till next time for your suit."




CHAPTER IX.

VICTOR DUPONT.


As Frank was walking on Madison avenue, a little before reaching the
house of Mr. Bowen he met a boy of his own age, whom he recognized.
Victor Dupont had spent the previous summer at the hotel in the country
village where Frank had lived until he came to the city. Victor was
proud of his social position, but time hung so heavily upon his hands in
the country that he was glad to keep company with the village boys.
Frank and he had frequently gone fishing together, and had been
associated in other amusements, so that they were for the time quite
intimate. The memories of home and past pleasures thronged upon our hero
as he met Victor, and his face flushed with pleasure.

"Why, Victor," he said, eagerly, extending his hand, "how glad I am to
see you!"

Frank forgot that intimacy in the country does not necessarily lead to
intimacy in the city, and he was considerably surprised when Victor, not
appearing to notice his offered hand, said coldly, "I don't think I
remember you."

"Don't remember me!" exclaimed Frank, amazed. "Why, I am Frank Kavanagh!
Don't you remember how much we were together last summer, and what good
times we had fishing and swimming together?"

"Yes, I believe I do remember you now," drawled Victor, still not
offering his hand, or expressing any pleasure at the meeting. "When did
you come to the city?"

"I have been here two or three weeks," replied Frank.

"Oh, indeed! Are you going to remain?"

"Yes, if I can earn a living."

Victor scanned Frank's clothes with a critical, and evidently rather
contemptuous, glance.

"What are you doing?" he asked. "Are you in a store?"

"No; I am selling papers."

"A newsboy!" said Victor, with a curve of the lip.

"Yes," answered Frank, his pleasure quite chilled by Victor's manner.

"Are you doing well?" asked Victor, more from curiosity than interest.

"I am making my expenses."

"How do you happen to be in this neighborhood? I suppose you sell papers
down-town."

"Yes, but I am invited to dinner."

"Not here--on the avenue!" ejaculated Victor.

"Yes," answered Frank, enjoying the other's surprise.

"Where?"

Frank mentioned the number.

"Why, that is next to my house. Mr. Bowen lives there."

"Yes."

"Perhaps you know some of the servants," suggested Victor.

"I know one," said Frank, smiling, for he read Victor's thoughts; "but
my invitation comes from Mr. Bowen."

"Did you ever dine there before?" asked Victor, puzzled.

"Yes, last week."

"You must excuse my mentioning it, but I should hardly think you would
like to sit down at a gentleman's table in that shabby suit."

"I don't," answered Frank; "but I have no better."

"Then you ought to decline the invitation."

"I would, but for appearing impolite."

"It seems very strange that Mr. Bowen should invite a newsboy to
dinner."

"Perhaps if you'd mention what you think of it," said Frank, somewhat
nettled, "he would recall the invitation."

"Oh, it's nothing to me," said Victor; "but I thought I'd mention it, as
I know more of etiquette than you do."

"You are very considerate," said Frank, with a slight tinge of sarcasm
