
" Ah, my dear Gordon ! " Bernard murmured. 

But still Gordon continued. 

" So intelligent, so reasonable, so sensible." 

"Have you discovered all that in two minutes' 
talk ? " 

"Yes, in two minutes' talk. I shouldn't hesitate 
about her now ! " 

" It 's better you shouldn 't say that," said Bernard. 

" Why shouldn 't I say it ? It seems to me it 's my 
duty to say it." 

"No — your duty lies elsewhere," said Bernard. 
"There are two reasons. One is that you have 
married another woman." 

" What difference does that make ? " cried Gordon. 

Bernard made no attempt to answer this inquiry ; 
he simply went on — 





" The other is — the other is — " 

But here he paused. 

" What is the other ? " Gordon asked. 

" That I am engaged to marry Miss Vivian." 

And with this Bernard took his hand off Gordon's 
shoulder. 

Gordon stood staring. 

" To marry Miss Vivian ? " 

Now that Bernard had heard himself say it, 
audibly, distinctly, loudly, the spell of his apprehen- 
sion seemed broken, and he went on bravely. 

" We are to be married very shortly. It has all come 
about within a few weeks. It will seem to you very 
strange — perhaps you won't like it. That 's why I 
have hesitated to tell you." 

Gordon turned pale ; it was the first time Bernard 
had ever seen him do so ; evidently he did not like it. 
He stood staring and frowning. 

" Why, I thought — I thought," he began at last — 
" I thought that you disliked her ! " 

" I supposed so, too," said Bernard. " But I have 
got over that." 

Gordon turned away, looking up the great avenue - 
into the crowd. Then turning back, he said — 

" I am very much surprised." 

" And you are not pleased ! " 

Gordon fixed his eyes on the ground a moment. 

" I congratulate you on your engagement," he said 





at last, looking up with a face that seemed to Ber- 
nard hard and unnatural. 

" It is very good of you to say that, but of course 
you can't like it! I was sure you wouldn't like it. 
But what could I do ? I fell in love with her, and I 
couldn't run away simply to spare you a surprise. 
My dear Gordon," Bernard added, " you will get used 
to it." 

" Very likely," said Gordon, dryly. " But you must 
give me time." 

" As long as you like ! " 

Gordon stood for a moment again staring down at 
the ground. 

" Very well, then, I will take my time," he said. 
"Good-bye!" 

And he turned away, as if to walk off alone. 

" Where are you going ? " asked Bernard, stopping 
him. 

"I don't know — to the hotel, anywhere. To try 
to get used to what you have told me." 

" Don't try too hard ; it will come of itself," said 
Bernard. 

" We shall see ! " 

And Gordon turned away again. 

" Do you prefer to go alone ? " 

" Very much — if you will excuse me 1 " 

"I have asked you to excuse a greater want of 
ceremony ! " said Bernard, smiling. 



Bernard watched him till he lost sight of him, and 
then, dropping into the first empty chair that he saw, 
he sat and reflected that his friend liked it quite as 
''little as he had feared. 



XXVI. 

Bernard sat thinking for a long time ; at first with 
a good deal of mortification — at last with a good deal 
of bitterness. He felt angry at last ; but he, was not 
angry with himself He was displeased with poor 
Gordon, and with Gordon's displeasure. , He was un- 
comfortable, and he was vexed at his discomfort. It 
formed, it seemed to him, no natural part of his situ- 
ation; he had had no glimpse of it-fn the book of fate 
where he registered on a fair blaW page his betrothal 
to a charming girl. That Gordon sljpuld be surprised, 
and even a little shocked and anncwed — this was his 
right and his privilege ; Bernard «iad been prepared 
for that, and had determined to make the best of 
it. But it must not go too far ; there were limits to 
the morsel of humble pie th£|t he was disposed to 
swallow. Something in Gordon's air and figure, as 
he went off in a huff, looking vicious and danger- 
ous — yes, that was positively his look — left a sin- 
ister impression on Bernard's mind, and, after a while, 
made him glad to take refuge in being angry. One 
would like to know what Gordon expected, "par ex- 
emple ! Did he expect Bernard to give up Angela 



simply to save him a shock ; or to back out of his en- 
gagement by way of an ideal reparation ? Xo, it was 
too absurd, and, if Gordon had a wife of his own, 
why in the name of justice should not Bernard have 
one ? 

Being angry was a relief, but it was not exactly a 
solution, and Bernard, at last, leaving his place, where 
for an hour or two he had been absolutely uncon- 
scious of everything that went on around him, wan- 
dered about for some time in deep restlessness and 
irritation. At one moment he thought of going back 
to Gordon's hotel, to see him, to explain. But then 
he became aware that he was too angry for that — to 
say nothing of Gordon's being too angry also ; and, 
moreover, that there was nothing to explain. He 
was to marry Angela Vivian ; that was a very simple 
fact — it needed no explanation. Was it so wonder- 
ful, so inconceivable, an incident so unlikely to hap- 
pen ? He went, as he always did on Sunday, to dine 
with Mrs. Vivian, and it seemed to him that he per- 
ceived in the two ladies some symptoms of a dis- 
composure which had the same origin as his own. 
Bernard, on this occasion, at dinner, failed to make 
himself particularly agreeable ; he ate fast — as if he 
had no idea what he was eating, and talked little ; 
every now and then his eyes rested for some time 
upon Angela, with a strange, eagerly excited expres- 
sion, as if he were looking her over and trying to 





make up his mind about her afresh. This young lady 
bore his inscrutable scrutiny with a deal of super- 
ficial composure ; but she was also silent, and she 
returned his gaze, from time to time, with an air of 
unusual anxiety. She was thinking, of course, of 
Gordon, Bernard said to himself ; and a woman's first 
meeting, in after years, with an ex-lover must always 
make a certain impression upon her. Gordon, how- 
ever, had never been a lover, and if Bernard noted 
Angela's gravity it was not because he felt jealous. 
"She is simply sorry for him," he said to himself; 
and by the time he had finished his dinner it began 
to come back to him that he was sorry, too. Mrs. 
Vivian was probably sorry as well, for she had a 
slightly confused and preoccupied look — a look from 
which, even in the midst of his chagrin, Bernard ex- 
tracted some entertainment. It was Mrs. Vivian's 
intermittent conscience that had been reminded of 
one of its lapses ; her meeting with Gordon Wright 
had recalled the least exemplary episode of her life 
— the time when she whispered mercenary counsel 
in the ear of a daughter who sat, grave and pale, 
looking at her with eyes that wondered. Mrs. Vivian 
blushed a little now, when she met Bernard's eyes ; 
and to remind herself that she was after all a virtuous 
woman, talked as much as possible about superior 
and harmless things — the beauty of the autumn 
weather, the pleasure of seeing French papas walking 





about on Sunday with their progeny in their hands, 
the peculiarities of the pulpit-oratory of the country 
as exemplified in the discourse of a Protestant pasteur 
whom she had been to hear in the morning. 

When they rose from table and went back into her 
little drawing-room, she left her daughter alone for 
awhile with Bernard. The two were standing together 
before the fire ; Bernard watched Mrs. Vivian close the 
door softly behind her. Then, looking for a moment 
at his companion — 

" He is furious ! " he announced at last. 

" Furious ? " said Angela. " Do you mean Mr. 
Wright?" 

"The amiable, reasonable Gordon. He takes it 
very hard." 

" Do you mean about me ? " asked Angela. 

" It 's not with you he 's furious, of course; it is with 
me. He won't let me oif easily." 

Angela looked for a moment at the fire. 

" I am very sorry for him," she said, at last. 

" It seems to me I am the one to be pitied," said 
Bernard ; " and I don't see what compassion you, of 
all people in the world, owe him." 

Angela again rested her eyes on the fire; then 
presently, looking iip — 

" He liked me very much," she remarked. 

" All the more shame to him ! " cried Bernard. 

" What do you mean ? " asked the girl, with her 
beautiful stare. 


" If he liked you, why did he give you up ?" 

" He didn' t give me up." 

"What do you mean, please?" asked Bernard, 
staring back at her. 

" I sent him away — I refused him," said Angela. 

"Yes; but you thought better of it, and your 
mother had persuaded you that if he should ask you 
again, you had better accept him. Then it was that 
he backed out — in consequence of what I said to him 
on his return from England." 

She shook her head slowly, with a strange smile. 

"My poor Bernard, you are talking very wildly. 
He did ask me again." 

" That night ? " cried Bernard. 

" The night he came back from England — the last 
time I saw him, until to-day." 

" After I had denounced you ? " our puzzled hero 
exclaimed, frowning portentously. 

" I am sorry to let you know the small effect of 
your words ! " 

Bernard folded his hands together — almost de- 
voutly — and stood gazing at her with a long, inartic- 
ulate murmur of satisfaction. 

" Ah ! then, I didn' t injure you — I didn' t de- 
prive you of a chance ? " 

"Oh, sir, the intention on your part was the 
same!" Angela exclaimed. 

"Then all my uneasiness, all my remorse, were 
wasted?" he went on. 





But she kept the same tone, and its tender arch- 
ness only gave a greater sweetness to his sense of 
relief. 

" It was a very small penance for you to pa,y." 

" You dismissed him definitely, and that was why 
he vanished ? " asked Bernard, wondering still. 

"He gave me another 'chance,' as you elegantly 
express it, and I declined to take advantage of it." 

" Ah, well, now," cried Bernard, " I am sorry for 
him ! " 

" I was very kind — very respectful," said Angela. 
" I thanked him from the bottom of my heart ; I 
begged his pardon very humbly for the wrong — if 
wrong it was — that I was doing him. I didn' t in 
the least require of him that he should leave Baden 
at seven o'clock the next morning. I had no idea 
that he would do so, and that was the reason that I 
insisted to my mother that we ourselves should go 
away. When we went I knew nothing about his 
having gone, and I supposed he was still there. I 
didn' t wish to meet him again." 

Angela gave this information slowly, softly, with 
pauses between the sentences, as if she were recalling 
the circumstances with a certain effort ; and mean- 
while Bernard, with his transfigured face and his 
eyes fixed upon her lips, was moving excitedly about 
the room. 

" Well, he can't accuse me, then ! " he broke out 





again. " If what I said had no more effect upon him 
than that, I certainly did him no wrong." 

" I think you are rather vexed he didn' t believe 
you," said Angela. 

" I confess I don't understand it. He had all the 
air of it. He certainly had not the air of a man who 
was going to rush off and give you the last proof of 
his confidence." 

" It was not a proof of confidence," said Angela. 
" It had nothing to do with me. It was as between 
himself and you; it was a proof of independence. 
He did believe you, more or less, and what you said 
fell in with his own impressions — strange impres- 
sions that they were, poor man ! At the same time, 
as I say, he liked me, too ; it was out of his liking me 
that all his trouble came ! He caught himself in the 
act of listening to you too credulously — and that 
seemed to him unmanly and dishonorable. The sen- 
sation brought with it a reaction, and to prove to 
himself that in such a matter he could be influenced 
by nobody, he marched away, an hour after he had 
talked with you, and, in the teeth of his perfect mis- 
trust, confirmed by your account of my irregularities 

— heaven forgive you both ! — again asked me to be 
his wife. But he hoped I would refuse ! " 

" Ah, " cried Bernard, " the recreant ! He deserved 

— he deserved — " 

" That I should accept him ? " Angela asked, smil- 
ing still. 





Bernard was so much affected by this revelation, it 
seemed to him to make such a difference in his own 
responsibility and to lift such a weight off his con- 
science, that he broke out again into the liveliest 
ejaculations of relief 

" Oh, I don't care for anything, now, and I can do 
what I please ! Gordon may hate me, and I shall be 
sorry for him ; but it 's not my fault, and I owe him 
no reparation. No, no ; I am free ! " 

" It 's only I who am not, I suppose," said Angela, 
"and the reparation must come from me! If he is 
unhappy, I must take the responsibility." 

" Ah yes, of course," said Bernard, kissing her. 

" But why should he be unhappy ? " asked Angela. 
If I refused him, it was what he wanted." 

" He is hard to please," Bernard rejoined. " He 
has got a wife of his own." 

"If Blanche doesn't please him, he is certainly 
difficult ; " and Angela mused a little. " But you 
told me the other day that they were getting on so 
well." 

"Yes, I believe I told you," Bernard answered, 
musing a little too. 

" You are not attending to what I say." 

" No, I am thinking of something else — I am 
thinking of what' it was that made you refuse him 
that way, at the last, after you had let your mother 
hope." And Bernard stood there, smiling at her. 





" Don't think any more ; you will not find out," the 
girl declared, turning away. 

" Ah, it was cruel of you to let me think I was 
wrong all these years," he went on ; " and, at the 
time, since you meant to refuse him, you might 
have been more frank with me." 

" I thought my fault had been that I was too 
frank." 

" I was densely stupid, and you might have made 
me understand better." 

"Ah," said Angela, "you ask a great deal of a 
girl ! " 

" Why have you let me go on so long thinking 
that my deluded words had had an effect upon Gordon 
— feeling that I had done you a brutal wrong ? It 
was real to me, the wrong — and I have told you of 
the pangs and the shame which, for so many months, 
it has cost me ! Why have you never undeceived me 
until to-day, and then only by accident ? " 

At this question Angela blushed a little ; then she 
answered, smiling — 

" It was my vengeance." 

Bernard shook his head. 

"That won't do — you don't mean it. You never 
cared — you were too proud to care; and when I 
spoke to you about my fault, you didn' t even know 
what I meant. You might have told me, therefore, 
that my remorse was idle, that what I said to Gordon 





had not been of the smallest consequence, and that 
the rupture had come from yourself" 

For some time Angela said nothing, then at last 
she gave him one of the deeply serious looks with 
which her face was occasionally ornamented. 

" If you want really to know, then — can't you see 
that your remorse seemed to me connected in a certain 
way with your affection ; a sort of guarantee of it ? 
You thought you had injured some one or other, and 
that seemed to be mixed up with your loving me, and 
therefore I let it alone." 

" Ah," said Bernard, " my remorse is all gone, and 
yet I think I love you about as much as ever ! So 
you see how wrong you were not to tell me." 

" The wrong to you I don't care about. It is very 
true I might have told you for Mr. Wright's sake. 
It would perhaps have made him look better. But 
as you never attacked him for deserting me, it seemed 
needless for me to defend him.'' 

" I confess," said Bernard, " I am quite at sea 
about Gordon's look in the matter. Is he looking 
better now — or is he looking worse ? You put it 
very well just now ; I was attending to you, thoiigh 
you said I was not. If he hoped you would refuse 
him, with whom is his quarrel at present ? And why 
was he so cool to me for months after we parted at 
Baden ? If that was his state of mind, why should 
he accuse me of inconsistency ? " 







" There is something in it, after all, that a woman 
can understand. I don't know whether a man can. 
He hoped I would refuse him, and yet when I had 
done so he was vexed. After a while his vexation 
subsided, and he married poor Blanche; hut, on 
learning to-day that I had accepted you, it flickered 
up again. I suppose that was natural enough ; but it 
won't be serious." 

" What will not be serious, my dear?" asked Mrs. 
Vivian, who had come back to the drawing-room, and 
who, apparently, could not hear that the attribute in 
question was wanting in any direction, without some 
alarm. 

" Shall I tell mamma, Bernard ? " said Angela. 

" Ah, my dear child, I hope it 's nothing tliat 
threatens your mutual happiness," mamma murmured, 
with gentle earnestness. 

" Does it threaten our mutual happiness, Bernard ? " 
the girl went on, smiling. 

" Let Mrs. Vivian decide whether we ought to let 
it make us miserable," said Bernard. "Dear Mrs. 
Vivian, you are a casuist, and this is a nice case." 

" Is it anything about poor Mr. Wright ? " the elder 
lady inquired. 

"Why do you say 'poor' Mr. Wright?" asked 
Bernard. 

" Because I am sadly afraid he is not Tiappy with 
Blanche." 



" Hdw did you discover that — without seeing 
them together ? " 

" Well, perhaps you will think me very fanciful," 
said Mrs. Vivian ; " but it was by the way he looked 
at Angela. He has such an expressive face." 

" He looked at me very kindly, mamma," Angela 
observed. 

" He regularly stared, my daughter. In any one else 
I should have said it was rude. But his situation is 
so peculiar ; and one could see that he admired you 
still." And Mrs. Vivian gave a little soft sigh. 

" Ah ! she is thinking of the thirty thousand a 
year," Bernard said to himself. 

" I am sure I hope he admires me still," the girl 
cried, laughing. " There is no great harm in that." 

'' He was comparing you with Blanche — and he was 
struck with the contrast." 

" It couldn 't have been in my favor. If it 's a 
question of being looked at, Blanche bears it better 
than I." 

" Poor little Blanche ! " murmured Mrs. Vivian, 
sweetly. 

" Why did you tell me he was so happy with her ? " 
Angela asked, turning to Bernard, abruptly. 

Bernard gazed at her a moment, with his eyebrows 
raised. 

" I never saw any one ask such sudden questions ! " 
he exclaimed. 





" You can answer me at your leisure," she rejoined, 
turning away. 

" It was because I adored you." 

" You wouldn 't say that at your leisure," said the 
girl. 

Mrs. Vivian stood watching them. 

"You, who are so happy together, you ought to 
think kindly of others who are less fortunate." 

" That is very true, Mrs. Vivian ; and I have never 
thought of any one so kindly as I have of Gordon for 
the last year." 

Angela turned round again. 

" Is Blanche so very bad, then ? " 

" You will see for yourself ! " 

" Ah, no," said Mrs. Vivian, " she is not bad ; she 
is only very light. I am so glad she is to be near us 
again. I think a great deal can be done by associa- 
tion. We must help her, Angela. I think we helped 
her before." 

" It is also very true that she is light, Mrs. Vivian," 
Bernard observed, "and if you could make her a 
little heavier, T should be tremendously grateful." 

Bernard's prospective mother-in-law looked at him 
a little. 

" I don't know whether you are laughing at me — 
I always think you are. But I shall not give up 
Blanche for that. I never give up any one that I have 
once tried to help. Blanche will come back to me." 





Mrs. Vivian had hardly spoken when the sharp 
little vibration of her door-bell was heard in the hall. 
Bernard stood for a moment looking at the door of 
the drawing-room. 

" It is poor Gordon come to make a scene ! " he 
announced.   - 

" Is that what you mean — that he opposed your 
marriage ?" asked Mrs. Vivian, with a frightened air. 

" I don't know what he proposes to do with 
Blanche," said Bernard, laughing. 

There were - voices in the hall. Angela had been 
listening. 

" You say she will come back to you, mamma," she 
exclaimed. " Here she is arrived ! " 



XXVII. 

At the same moment the door was thrown open, 
and Mrs. Gordon appeared on the threshold with a 
gentleman behind her. Blanche stood an instant 
looking into the lighted room and hesitating — flushed 
a little, smiling, extremely pretty. 

" May I come in ? " she said, " and may I bring in 
Captain Lovelock ? " 

The two ladies, of course, fluttering toward her 
with every demonstration of hospitality, drew her into 
the room, while Bernard proceeded to greet the 
Captain, who advanced with a certain awkward and 
bashful majesty, almost sweeping with his great 
stature Mrs. Vivian's humble ceiling. There was a 
tender exchange of embraces between Blanche and 
her friends, and the charming visitor, losing no time, 
began to chatter with her usual volubility. Mrs. 
Vivian and Angela made her companion graciously 
welcome ; but Blanche begged they wouldn 't mind 
him — she had only brought him as a watch-dog. 

"His place is on the rug," she said. "Captain 
Lovelock, go and lie down on the rug." 

" Upon my soul, there is nothing else but rugs in 





these French places ! " the Captain rejoined, look- 
ing round Mrs. Vivian's salon. " Which rug do you 
mean ? " 

Mrs. Vivian had remarked to Blanche that it was 
very kind of her to come first, and Blanche declared 
that she could not have laid her head on. her pillow 
before she had seen her dear Mrs. Vivian. 

" Do you suppose I would wait because I am mar- 
ried ? " she inquired, with a keen little smile in her 
charming eyes. " I am not so much married as that, 
I can tell you ! Do you think I look much as if I 
were married, with no one to bring me here to-night 
but Captain Lovelock ? " 

"I am sure Captain Lovelock is a very gallant 
escort," said Mrs. Vivian. 

" Oh, he was not afraid — that is, he was not afraid 
of the journey, though it lay all through those dread- 
ful wild Champs Elysdes. But when we arrived, he 
was afraid to come in — to come up here. Captain 
Lovelock is so modest, you know — in spite of all the 
success he had in America. He will tell you about 
the success he had in America; it quite makes up 
for the defeat of the British army in tlie Eevolution. 
They oere defeated in the Eevolution, the British, 
weren 't they ? I always told him so, but he insists 
they were not. ' How do we come to be free, then ? ' 
I always ask him ; ' I suppose you admit that we are 
free.' Then he becomes personal and says that I am 





free enough, certainly. But it's tiie general fact I 
mean ; I wish you would tell him about the general 
fact. I think he would believe you, because he 
knows you know a great deal about history and all 
that. I don't mean this evening, but some time when 
it is convenient. He didn't want to come in — he 
wanted to stay in the carriage and smoke a cigar ; he 
thought you wouldn't like it, his coming with me 
the first time. But I told him he needn 't mind that, 
for I would certainly explain. I would be very care- 
ful to let you know that I brought him only as a 
substitute. A substitute for whom ? A substitute 
for my husband, of course. My dear Mrs. Vivian, of 
course T ought to bring you some pretty message 
from Gordon — that he is dying to come and see you, 
only that he had nineteen letters to write and that he 
couldn 't possibly stir from his fireside. I suppose a 
good wife ought to invent excuses for her husband — 
ought to throw herself into the breach; isn't that 
what they call it ? But T am afraid I am not a good 
wife. Do you think I am a good wife, Mr. Longue- 
ville ? You once stayed three months with us, and 
you had a chance to see. I don't ask you that seri- 
ously, because you never tell the truth. I always 
do ; so I will say I am not a good wife. And then 
the breach is too big, and I am too little. Oh, I am 
too little, Mrs. Vivian; I know I am too little. I 
am the smallest woman living ; Gordon can scarcely 





Bee me with a microscope, and I believe he has the 
most powerful one iii America. He is going to get 
another here; that is one of the things he came 
abroad for ; perhaps it will do better. I do tell the 
truth, don't I, Mrs. Vivian ? I have that merit, if I 
haven 't any other. You once told me so at Baden ; 
you said you could say one thing for me, at any rate 
— that I didn' t tell fibs. You were very nice to me 
at Baden," Blanche went on, with her little intent 
smile, laying her hand in that of her hostess. " You 
see, I have never forgotten it. So, to keep up my 
reputation, I must tell the truth about Gordon. He 
simply said he wouldn 't come — voila ! He gave no 
reason and he didn' t send you "any pretty message. 
He simply declined, and he went out somewhere else. 
So you see he isn't writing letters. I don't know 
where he can have gone ; perhaps he has gone to the 
theatre. I know it isn 't proper to go to the theatre 
on Sunday evening; but they say charity begins at 
home, and as Gordon's doesn 't begin at home, per- 
haps it doesn 't begin anywhere. I told him that if 
he wouldn 't come with me I would come alone, and 
he said I might do as I chose — that he was not in 
a humor for making visits. I wanted to come to you 
very much ; I had been thinking about it all day ; 
and I am so fond of a visit like this in the evening, 
without being invited. Then I thought perhaps you 
had a salon — doesn 't , every one in Paris have a 





salon ? I tried to liave a salon in New York, only 
Gordon said it wouldn 't do. He said it wasn 't in our 
manners. Is this a salon to-night, Mrs. Vivian ? Oh, 
do say it is ; I should like so much to see Captain 
Lovelock in a salon ! By good fortune he happened 
to have been dining with us ; so I told him he must 
bring me here. I told you I would explain, Captain 
Lovelock," she added, " and I hope you think I have 
made it clear." 

The Captain had turned very red during this wan- 
dering discourse. He sat pulling his beard and 
shifting the position which, with his stalwart person, 
he had taken up on a little gilded chair — a piece of 
furniture which every now and then gave a delicate 
creak. 

"I always understand you well enough till you 
begin to explain," he rejoined, with a candid, even if 
embarrassed, laugh. "Then, by Jove, I'm quite in 
the woods. You see such a lot more in things than 
most people. Doesn 't she. Miss Vivian ? " 

"Blanche has a fine imagination," said Angela, 
smiling frankly at the charming visitor. 

When Blanche was fairly adrift upon the current 
of her articulate reflections, it was the habit of her 
companions — indeed, it was a sort of tacit agree- 
ment among them — simply to make a circle and 
admire. They sat about and looked at her — yawn- 
ing, perhaps, a little at times, but on the whole very 





well entertained, and often exchanging a smiling 
commentary with each other. She looked at them, 
smiled at them each, in succession. Every one had 
his turn, and this always helped to give Blanche an 
audience. Incoherent and aimless as much of her 
talk was, she never looked prettier than in the atti- 
tude of improvisation — or rather, I should say, than 
in the hundred attitudes which she assumed at such 
a time. Perpetually moving, she was yet constantly 
graceful, and while she twisted her body and turned 
her head, with charming hands that never ceased to 
gesticulate, and little, conscious, brilliant eyes that 
looked everywhere at once — eyes that seemed to 
chatter even faster than her lips- — she made you 
forget the nonsense she poured forth, or think of it 
only as a part of her personal picturescLueness. The 
thing was a regular performance ; the practice of un- 
limited chatter had made her perfect. She rested 
upon her audience and held it together, and the sight 
of half a dozen pairs of amused and fascinated faces 
led her from one piece of folly to another. On this 
occasion, her audience was far from failing her, for 
they were all greatly interested. Captain Lovelock's 
interest, as we know, was chronic, and our three other 
friends were much occupied with a matter with 
which Blanehe was intimately connected. Bernard, 
as he listened to her, smiling mechanically, was not 
encouraged. He remembered what Mrs. Vivian had 





said shortly before she came in, and it was not pleas- 
ant to hiQi to think that Gordon had been occupied 
half the day in contrasting the iinest girl in the 
world with this magnified butterfly. The contrast 
was sufficiently striking as Angela sat there near her, 
very still; bending her handsome head a little, with 
her hands crossed in her lap, and on her lips a kind 
but inscrutable smile. Mrs. Vivian was on the sofa 
next to Blanche, one of whose hands, when it was 
not otherwise occupied, she occasionally took into her 
own. 

" Dear little Blanche ! " she softly murmured, at 
intervals. 

These few remarks represent a longer pause than 
Mrs. Gordon often suffered to occur. She continued 
to deliver herself upon a hundred topics, and it 
hardly matters where we take her up. 

" I haven 't the least idea what we are going to do. 
I have nothing to say about it whatever. Gordon 
tells me every day I must decide, and then I ask 
Captain Lovelock what he thinks ; because, you see, 
he always thinks a great deal. Captain Lovelock says 
he doesn 't care a fig — that he will go wherever I go. 
So you see that doesn 't carry us very far. I want to 
settle on some place where Captain Lovelock won't 
go, but he won't help me at all. I think it will look 
better for him not to follow us ; don't you think it 
will look better, Mrs. Vivian ? Not that I care in 





the least where we go — or whether Captain Love- 
lock follows us, either. I don't take any interest in 
anything, Mrs. Vivian ; don't you think that is very 
sad? Gordon may go anywhere he likes — to St. 
Petersburg, or to Bombay." 

" You might go to a worse place than Bombay," 
said Captain Lovelock, speaking with the authority of 
an Anglo-Indian rich in reminiscences. 

Blanche gave him a little stare. 

" Ah well, that 's knocked on the head ! From the 
way you speak of it, I think you would come after 
us ; and the more I think of that, the more I see it 
wouldn 't do. But we have got to go to some south- 
ern place, because I am very unwell. I haven 't the 
least idea what's the matter with me, and neither has 
any one else ; but that doesn 't make any difference. 
It 's settled that I am out of health. One might as 
well be out of it as in it, for all the advantage it iS. 
If you are out of health, at auj rate you can come 
abroad. It was Gordon's discovery — he 's always 
making discoveries. You see it's because I'm so 
silly; he can always put it down to my being an 
invalid. What I should like to do, Mrs. Vivian, 
would be to spend the winter with you — just sitting 
on the sofa beside you and holding your hand. It 
would be rather tiresome for you ; but I really think 
it would be better for me than anything else. I have 
never forgotten how kind you were to me before my 





marriage — that summer at Baden. You were every- 
thing to me — you and Captain Lovelock. I am sure 
I should be happy if I never went out of this lovely 
room. You have got it so beautifully arranged — I 
mean to do my own room just like it when I go home. 
And you have got such lovely clothes. You never 
used to say anything about it, but you and Angela 
always had better clothes than I. Are you always 
so quiet and serious — never talking about chiffons — 
always reading some wonderful book ? I wish you 
would let me come and stay with you. If you only 
ask me, Gordon would be too delighted. He wouldn 't 
have to trouble about me any more. He could go and 
live over in the Latin Quarter — that's the desire of 
his heart — and think of nothii but old bottles. I 
know it isn 't very good manners to beg for an invita- 
tion," Blanche went on, smiling with a gentler radi- 
ance ; " but when it 's a question of one's health. 
One wants to keep ong's self alive — doesn 't one ? 
One wants to keep one's self going. It would be so 
good for me, Mrs. Vivian; it would really be very 
good for me ! " 

She had turned round more and more to her host- 
ess as she talked ; and at last she had given both her 
hands to Mrs. Vivian, and sat looking at her with a 
singular mixture of earnestness and jocosity. It was 
hard to know whether Blanche were expressing a real 
desire or a momentary caprice, and whether this 





abrupt little petition were to be taken seriously, or 
treated merely as a dramatic pose in a series of more 
or less effective attitudes. Her smile had become 
almost a grimace, she was flushed, she showed her 
pretty teeth ; but there was a little passionate quiver 
in her voice. 

" My dear child," said Mrs. Vivian, " we should be 
delighted to have you pay us a visit, and we should 
be so happy if we could do you any good. But I am 
afraid you would very soon get tired of us, and I 
ought to tell you, frankly, that our little home is to 
be — a — broken up. You know there is to be a — 
a change," the good lady continued, with a hesitation 
which apparently came from a sense of walking on 
