plainly there." It was not the work-room, but the bedroom. 
The work-room was not mentioned now, out of kindness to 
Bro. Lawrence threw himself down on the narrow bed, and 
dropped his straw hat on the floor. " The world's a miser 
able hole," he said, with unction. 
Bro sat down on a three-legged stool, the only approach 
to a chair in the room, and looked at him ; one hand, in the 
pocket of his old, shrunk linen coat, was touching a let 
ter. 
" Bah ! " said Lawrence, clasping his hands under his head 
and stretching himself out to his full length on the bed, " how 
in the world can I leave her, Bro ? Poor little thing ! " 
Now to Bro, to whom Marion had always seemed a cross 
between a heavenly goddess and an earthly queen, this epithet 
was startling ; however, it was, after all, but a part of the 
whole. 
" It is a pity that you should leave her," he replied slowly. 
" It would be much better to take her with you." 
" Yes, I know it would. I am a fickle sort of fellow, too, 
and have all sorts of old entanglements over there, besides. 
They might take hold of me again." 
Bro felt a new and strange misgiving, which went through 
three distinct phases, with the strength and depth of an ocean, 
in less than three seconds : first, bewilderment at the new 
idea that anybody could be false to Marion ; second, a wild, 
darting hope for himself ; third, the returning iron conviction 
that it could never be, and that, if Lawrence deserted Marion, 
she would die. 
" If you had money, what would you do ? " he asked, com 
ing back to the present heavily. 
" Depends upon how much it was." 
" Five thousand dollars ? " 
" Well I'd marry on that, but not very hilariously, old 
fellow." 
" Ten ? " 
" That would do better." 
Nothing has as yet been said of Lawrence Vickery's appearance. It will be described now, and will, perhaps, throw 
light backward over this narration. 
Imagine a young man, five feet eleven inches in height, 
straight, strong, but slender still, in spite of his broad shoulders ; imagine, in addition, a spirited head and face, bright, 
steel-blue eyes, a bold profile, and beautiful mouth, shaded by 
a golden mustache ; add to this, gleaming white teeth, a dimple in the cleft, strongly molded chin, a merry laugh, and a 
thoroughly manly air ; and you have Lawrence Broughton 
Vickery at twenty-eight. 
When at last he took himself off, and went over to see 
Marion and be more miserable still, Bro drew the letter from 
his pocket, and read it for the sixth or seventh time. During 
these months his screw had become known, having been 
pushed persistently by the enterprising young lawyer who as 
pired to patent business in the beginning, and having held its 
own since by sheer force of merit. The enterprising young 
lawyer had, however, recently forsaken law for politics ; he 
had gone out to one of the Territories with the intention of 
returning some day as senator when the Territory should be 
a State (it is but fair to add that his chance is excellent). But 
he had, of course, no further knowledge of the screw, and 
Bro now managed the business himself. This letter was from 
a firm largely engaged in the manufacture of machinery, and 
it contained an offer for the screw and patent outright ten 
thousand dollars. 
" I shall never invent anything more," thought Bro, the 
words of the letter writing themselves vacantly on his brain. 
" Something has gone wrong inside my head in some way, 
and the saw-mill will be all I shall ever attend to again." 
Then he paused. 
" It would be worth more money in the end if I could keep 
it," he said to himself. " But even a larger sum might not 
serve so well later, perhaps." It was all to be Marion's in 
either case which would be best ? Then he remembered 
her sudden pallor, and that decided him. " He shall have it 
now," he said. " How lucky that he was content with ten ! " 
Some men would have given the money also in the same 
circumstances ; but. they would have given it to Marion. It 
was characteristic of Bro's deep and minute knowledge of the 
girl, and what would be for her happiness, that he planned to 
give the money to the man, and thus weight down and steady 
the lighter nature. 
He dwelt a long time upon ways and means ; he was sev 
eral days in making up his mind. At last he decided what to 
do ; and did it. 
Three weeks afterward a letter came to Wilbarger, di 
rected in a clear handwriting to " Mr. Lawrence Broughton 
Vickery." It was from a Northern lawyer, acting for another 
party, and contained an offer for Vickery Island with its 
house, cotton-fields, and marsh ; price offered, ten thousand 
dollars. The lawyer seemed to be acquainted with the size 
of the island, the condition of the fields and out-buildings ; 
he mentioned that the purchase was made with the idea of 
reviving the cotton-culture immediately, similar attempts on 
the part of Rhode Island manufacturers, who wished to raise 
their own cotton, having succeeded on the sea-islands farther 
north. Lawrence, in a whirl of delight, read the letter aloud 
in a cottage-parlor, tossed it over gayly to Mrs. Manning, and 
clasped Marion in his arms. 
" Well, little wife," he said happily, stroking her soft hair, 
" we shall go over the ocean together now." 
And Bro looked on. 
The wedding took place in the early autumn. Although 
comparatively quiet, on account of old Mr. Vickery's death, 
all Wilbarger came to the church, and crowded into the cot 
tage afterward. By a happy chance, " the worm " was at the 
North, soliciting aid for his " fold," and Marion was married 
by a gentle little missionary, who traversed the watery coast- 
district in a boat instead of on horseback, visiting all the sea- 
islands, seeing many sad, closed little churches, and encoun 
tering not infrequently almost pure paganism and fetich-wor 
ship among the neglected blacks. Bro gave the bride away. 
It was the proudest moment of his life and the saddest. 
" Somebody must do it," Mrs. Manning had said ; " and 
why not Bro ? He has lived in our house for twelve years, 
and, after all, now that old Mr. Vickery is gone, he is in one 
way our nearest friend. Do let me ask him, Marion." 
" Very well," assented the bride, caring but little for any 
thing now but to be with Lawrence ever} instant. 
She did, however, notice Bro during the crowded although 
informal reception which followed the ceremony. In truth, 
he was noticeable. In honor of the occasion, he had ordered 
from Savannah a suit of black, and had sent the measure 
ments himself ; the result was remarkable, the coat and vest 
being as much too short for him as the pantaloons were too 
long. He wore a white cravat, white-cotton gloves so large 
that he looked all hands, and his button-hole was decked with 
flo\vers, as many as it could hold. In this garb he certainly 
was an extraordinary object, and his serious face appearing at 
the top made the effect all the more grotesque. Marion was 
too good-hearted to smile ; but she did say a word or two in 
an undertone to Lawrence, and the two young people had their 
own private amusement over his appearance. 
But Bro was unconscious of it, or of anything save the 
task he had set for himself. It was remarked afterward that 
" really Bro Cranch talked almost like other people, joked and 
laughed, too, if you will believe it, at that Manning wedding." 
Lawrence promised to bring his wife home at the end of a 
year to see her mother, and perhaps, if all went well, to take 
the mother back with them. Mrs. Manning, happy and sad 
together, cried and smiled in a breath. But Marion was ra 
diant as a diamond ; her gray eyes flashed light. Not even 
when saying good-by could she pretend to be anything but 
supremely happy, even for a moment. By chance Bro had 
her last look as the carriage rolled away ; he went over to the 
mill carrying it with him, and returned no more that night. 
Wilbarger began to wonder after a while when that Rhode 
Island capitalist would begin work in his cotton-fields ; they 
are wondering still. In course of time, and through the 
roundabout way he had chosen, Bro received the deeds of 
sale ; he made his will, and left them to Marion. Once Mrs. 
Manning asked him about the screw. 
" I have heard nothing of it for some time," he replied ; 
and she said no more, thinking it had also, like the valve, 
proved a failure. In the course of the winter the little work 
room was dismantled and the partitions taken down ; there is 
nothing there now but the plain wall of the mill. The red 
lights no longer shine across the marsh to Vickery Island, and 
there is no one there to see them. The new keeper lives in a 
cabin at the bridge, and plays no tricks on the superintendent, 
who, a man of spirit still, but not quite so sanguine as to the 
future of Wilbarger, still rolls by on his hand-car from north 
east to southeast. 
Bro has grown old ; he is very patient with everybody. 
Not that he ever was impatient, but that patience seems now 
his principal characteristic. He often asks to hear portions of 
Marion's letters read aloud, and always makes gently the final 
comment : " Yes, yes ; she is happy ! " 
It is whispered around Wilbarger that he "has had a 
stroke " ; Mrs. Manning herself thinks so. 
Well, in a certain sense, perhaps she is right. 
THE scholars were dismissed. Out they trooped big 
boys, little boys, and full-grown men. Then what antics 
what linked lines of scuffling ; what double shuffles, leaps, 
and somersaults ; what rolling laughter, interspersed with 
short yelps and guttural cries, as wild and free as the sounds 
the mustangs make, gamboling on the plains ! For King 
David's scholars were black black as the ace of spades. He 
did not say that ; he knew very little about the ace. He said 
simply that his scholars were " colored " ; and sometimes he 
called them " the Children of Ham." But so many mistakes 
were made over this title, in spite of his careful explanations 
(the Children having an undoubted taste for bacon), that he 
finally abandoned it, and fell back upon the national name of 
"freedmen," a title both good and true. He even tried to 
make it noble, speaking to them often of their wonderful lot 
as the emancipated teachers and helpers of their race ; laying 
before them their mission in the future, which was to go over 
to Africa, and wake out of their long sloth and slumber the 
thousands of souls there. But Cassius and Pompey had only 
a mythic idea of Africa ; they looked at the globe as it was 
turned around, they saw it there on the other side, and then 
 
their attention wandered off to an adventurous ant who was 
making the tour of Soodan and crossing the mountains of 
Kong as though they were nothing. 
Lessons over, the scholars went home. The schoolmaster 
went home too, wiping his forehead as he went. He was a 
grave young man, tall and thin, somewhat narrow-chested, 
with the diffident air of a country student. And yet this 
country student was here, far down in the South, hundreds of 
miles away from the New Hampshire village where he had 
thought to spend his life as teacher of the district school. 
Extreme near-sightedness and an inherited delicacy of con 
stitution which he bore silently had kept him out of the field 
during the days of the war. " I should be only an encum 
brance," he thought. But, when the war was over, the fire 
which had burned within burst forth in the thought, " The 
freedmen ! " There was work fitted to his hand ; that one 
thing he could do. " My turn has come at last," he said. 
" I feel the call to go." Nobody cared much because he was 
leaving. " Going down to teach the blacks ? " said the farm 
ers. " I don't see as you're  called, David. We 've paid dear 
enough to set em free, goodness knows, and now they ought 
to look out for themselves." 
" But they must first be taught," said the schoolmaster. 
" Our responsibility is great ; our task is only just begun." 
" Stuff ! " said the farmers. What with the graves down 
in the South, and the taxes up in the North, they were not 
prepared to hear any talk about beginning. Beginning, in 
deed ! They called it ending. The slaves were freed, and it 
was right they should be freed ; but Ethan and Abner were 
gone, and their households were left unto them desolate. Let 
the blacks take care of themselves. 
So, all alone, down came David King, with such aid and 
instruction as the Freedman's Bureau could give him, to this 
little settlement among the pines, where the freedmen had 
built some cabins in a careless way, and then seated them 
selves to wait for fortune. Freedmen ! Yes ; a glorious 
 
idea ! But how will it work its way out into practical life ? 
What are you going to do with tens of thousands of ignorant, 
childish, irresponsible souls thrown suddenly upon your hands ; 
souls that will not long stay childish, and that have in them 
also all the capacities for evil that you yourselves have you 
with your safeguards of generations of conscious responsibility 
and self-government, and yet so many lapses ! This is what 
David King thought. He did not see his way exactly ; no, 
nor the nation's way. But he said to himself : " I can at least 
begin ; if I am wrong, I shall find it out in time. But now it 
seems to me that our first duty is to educate them." So he 
began at " a, b, and c " ; " You must not steal " ; " You must 
not fight " ; " You must wash your faces " ; which may be 
called, I think, the first working out of the emancipation 
problem. 
Jubilee Town was the name of the settlement ; and when 
the schoolmaster announced his own, David King, the title 
struck the imitative minds of the scholars, and, turning it 
around, they made " King David " of it, and kept it so. De 
lighted with the novelty, the Jubilee freedmen came to school 
in such numbers that the master was obliged to classify them ; 
boys and men in the mornings and afternoons ; the old people 
in the evenings ; the young women and girls by themselves 
for an hour in the early morning. " I can not do full justice 
to all," he thought, " and in the men lies the danger, in the 
boys the hope ; the women can not vote. Would to God the 
men could not either, until they have learned to read and to 
write, and to maintain themselves respectably ! " For, aboli 
tionist as he was, David King would have given years of his 
life for the power to restrict the suffrage. Not having this 
power, however, he worked at the problem in the only way 
left open : " Take two apples from four apples, Julius how 
many will be left ? " " What is this I hear, Csesar, about 
stolen bacon ? " 
On this day the master went home, tired and dispirited ; 
the novelty was over on both sides. He had been five months 
 
at Jubilee, and his scholars were more of a puzzle to him than 
ever. They learned, some of them, readily ; but they forgot 
as readily. They had a vast capacity for parrot-like repeti 
tion, and caught his long words so quickly, and repeated them 
so volubly, with but slight comprehension of their meaning, 
that his sensitive conscience shrank from using them, and he 
was forced back upon a rude plainness of speech which was 
a pain to his pedagogic ears. Where he had once said, 
" Demean yourselves with sobriety," he now said, " Don't get 
drunk." He would have fared better if he had learned to 
say " uncle " and " aunty," or " maumer," in the familiar 
Southern fashion. But he had no knowledge of the customs ; 
how could he have ? He could only blunder on in his slow 
Northern way. 
His cabin stood in the pine forest, at a little distance from 
the settlement; he had allowed himself that grace. There 
was a garden around it, where Northern flowers came up 
after a while a little pale, perhaps, like English ladies in In 
dia, but doubly beautiful and dear to exiled eyes. The school 
master had cherished from the first a wish for a cotton-field 
a cotton-field of his own. To him a cotton-field repre 
sented the South a cotton-field in the hot sunshine, with a 
gang of slaves toiling under the lash of an overseer. This 
might have been a fancy picture, and it might not. At any 
rate, it was real to him. There was, however, no overseer 
now, and no lash ; no slaves and very little toil. The negroes 
would work only when they pleased, and that was generally 
not at all. There was no doubt but that they were almost 
hopelessly improvident and lazy. " Entirely so," said the 
planters. " Not quite," said the Northern schoolmaster. And 
therein lay the difference between them. 
David lighted his fire of pitch-pine, spread his little table, 
and began to cook his supper carefully. When it was nearly 
ready, he heard a knock at his gate. Two representative 
specimens of his scholars were waiting without Jim, a field- 
hand, and a woman named Esther, who had been a house- 
servant in planter's family. Jim had come " to berry an 
axe," and Esther to ask for medicine for a sick child. 
" Where is your own axe, Jim ? " said the schoolmaster. 
" Somehow et's rusty, sah. Dey gets rusty mighty 
quick." 
" Of course, because you always leave them out in the 
rain. When will you learn to take care of your axes ? " 
" Don know, mars. 
" I have told you not to call me master," said David. " I 
am not your master." 
" You's schoolmars, I reckon," answered Jim, grinning at 
his repartee. 
" Well, Jim," said the schoolmaster, relaxing into a smile, 
" you have the best of it this time ; but you know quite well 
what I mean. You can take the axe ; but bring it back to 
night. And you must see about getting a new one immedi 
ately ; there is something to begin with. Now, Esther, what 
is it ? Your boy sick ? Probably it is because you let him 
drink the water out of that swampy pool. I warned you." 
" Yes, sah," said the woman impassively. 
She was a slow, dull-witted creature, who had executed 
her tasks marvelously well in the planter's family, never vary 
ing by a hair's breadth either in time or method during long 
years. Freed, she was lost at once; if she had not been 
swept along by her companions, she would have sat down 
dumbly by the wayside, and died. The schoolmaster offered 
supper to both of his guests. Jim took a seat at the table at 
once, nothing loath, and ate and drank, talking all the time 
with occasional flashes of wit, and an unconscious suggestion 
of ferocity in the way he hacked and tore the meat with his 
clasp-knife and his strong white teeth. Esther stood ; no 
thing could induce her to sit in the master's presence. She 
ate and drank quietly, and dropped a courtesy whenever he 
spoke to her, not from any especial respect or gratitude, how 
ever, but from habit. " I may possibly teach the man some 
thing," thought the schoolmaster; " but what a terrible crea- 
 
ture to turn loose in the world, with power in his hand ! 
Hundreds of these men will die, nay, must die violent deaths 
before their people can learn what freedom means, and what 
it does not mean. As for the woman, it is hopeless ; she can 
not learn. But her child can. In truth, our hope is in the 
children." 
And then he threw away every atom of the food, washed 
his dishes, made up the fire, and went back to the beginning 
again and cooked a second supper. For he still shrank from 
personal contact with the other race. A Southerner would 
have found it impossible to comprehend the fortitude it required for the New-Englander to go through his daily rounds 
among them. He did his best ; but it was duty, not liking. 
Supper over, he went to the schoolhouse again : in the even 
ings he taught the old people. It was an odd sight to note 
them as they followed the letters with a big, crooked forefin 
ger, slowly spelling out words of three letters. They spelled 
with their whole bodies, stooping over the books which lay 
before them until their old grizzled heads and gay turbans 
looked as if they were set on the table by the chins in a 
long row. Patiently the master taught them ; they had gone 
no further then " cat " in five long months. He made the 
letters for them on the blackboard again and again, but the 
treat of the evening was the making of these letters on the 
board by the different scholars in turn. " Now, Dinah B." 
And old Dinah would hobble up proudly, and, with much 
screwing of her mouth and tongue, and many long hesita 
tions, produce something which looked like a figure eight 
gone mad. Joe had his turn next, and he would make, per 
haps, an H for a D. The master would go back and explain 
to him carefully the difference, only to find at the end of ten 
minutes that the whole class was hopelessly confused : Joe's 
mistake had routed them all. There was one pair of spec 
tacles among the old people : these were passed from hand 
to hand as the turn came v not from necessity always, but as 
an adjunct to the dignity of reading. 
"Never mind the glasses, Tom. Surely you can spell 
bag without them." 
"Dey helps, Mars King David," replied old Tom with 
solemn importance. He then adorned himself with the spec 
tacles, and spelled it " g, a, b." 
But the old people enjoyed their lesson immensely; no 
laughter, no joking broke the solemnity of the scene, and 
they never failed to make an especial toilet much shirt-col 
lar for the old men, and clean turbans for the old women. 
They seemed to be generally half-crippled, poor old crea 
tures ; slow in their movements as tortoises, and often un 
wieldy ; their shoes were curiosities of patches, rags, strings, 
and carpeting. But sometimes a fine old black face was 
lifted from the slow-moving bulk, and from under wrinkled 
eyelids keen sharp eyes met the master s, as intelligent as his 
own. 
There was no church proper in Jubilee. On Sundays, the 
people, who were generally Baptists, assembled in the school 
room, where services were conducted by a brother who had 
" de gif ob preachin ," and who poured forth a flood of Scrip 
ture phrases with a volubility, incoherence, and earnestness 
alike extraordinary. Presbyterian David attended these ser 
vices, not only for the sake of example, but also because he 
steadfastly believed in " the public assembling of ourselves 
together for the worship of Almighty God." 
" Perhaps they understand him," he thought, noting the 
rapt black faces, "and I, at least, have no right to judge 
them I, who, with all the lights I have had, still find myself 
unable to grasp the great doctrine of Election." For David 
had been bred in Calvinism, and many a night, when younger 
and more hopeful of arriving at finalities, had he wrestled 
with its problems. He was not so sure, now, of arriving at 
finalities either in belief or in daily life ; but he thought the 
fault lay with himself, and deplored it. 
The Yankee schoolmaster was, of course, debarred from 
intercourse with those of his own color in the neighborhood. 
There were no " poor whites " there ; he was spared the sight 
of their long, clay-colored faces, lank yellow hair, and half- 
open mouths ; he was not brought into contact with the igno 
rance and dense self-conceit of this singular class. The 
whites of the neighborhood were planters, and they regarded 
the schoolmaster as an interloper, a fanatic, a knave, or a 
fool, according to their various degrees of bitterness. The 
phantom of a cotton-field still haunted the master, and he 
often walked by the abandoned fields of these planters, and 
noted them carefully. In addition to his fancy, there was 
now another motive. Things were not going well at Jubilee, 
and he was anxious to try whether the men would not work 
for good wages, paid regularly, and for their Northern teacher 
and friend. Thus it happened that Harnett Ammerton, retired planter, one afternoon perceived a stranger walking up 
the avenue that led to his dilapidated mansion ; and as he 
was near-sighted, and as any visitor was, besides, a welcome 
interruption in his dull day, he went out upon the piazza to 
meet him ; and not until he had offered a chair did he rec 
ognize his guest. He said nothing ; for he was in his own 
house ; but a gentleman can freeze the atmosphere around 
him even in his own house, and this he did. The school 
master stated his errand simply : he wished to rent one of the 
abandoned cotton-fields for a year. The planter could have 
answered with satisfaction that his fields might lie for ever 
untilled before Yankee hands should touch them ; but he was 
a poor man now, and money was money. He endured his visit 
or, and he rented his field ; and, with the perplexed feelings of 
his class, he asked himself how it was, how it could be, that a 
man like that yes, like that had money, while he himself had 
none ! David had but little money a mere handful to throw 
away in a day, the planter would have thought in the lavish 
old times ; but David had the New England thrift. 
" I am hoping that the unemployed hands over at Jubilee 
will cultivate this field for me," he said " for fair wages, of 
course. I know nothing of cotton myself." 
 
" You will be disappointed," said the planter. 
" But they must live ; they must lay up something for the 
winter." 
" They do not know enough to live. They might exist, 
perhaps, in Africa, as the rest of their race exists ; but here, 
in this colder climate, they must be taken care of, worked, 
and fed, as we work and feed our horses precisely in the 
same way." 
" I can not agree with you," replied David, a color rising 
in his thin face. " They are idle and shiftless, I acknowledge 
that ; but is it not the natural result of generations of servi 
tude and ignorance ? " 
" They have not capacity for anything save ignorance." 
"You do not know then, perhaps, that I that I am try 
ing to educate those who are over at Jubilee," said David. 
There was no aggressive confidence in his voice ; he knew 
that he had accomplished little as yet. He looked wistfully 
at his host as he spoke. 
Harnett Ammerton was a born patrician. Poor, homely, 
awkward David felt this in every nerve as he sat there ; for 
he loved beauty in spite of himself, and in spite of his belief 
that it was a tendency of the old Adam. (Old Adam has 
such nice things to bother his descendants with ; almost a 
monopoly, if we are to believe some creeds.) So now David 
tried not to be influenced by the fine face before him, and 
steadfastly went on to sow a little seed, if possible, even upon 
this prejudiced ground. 
" I have a school over there," he said. 
" I have heard something of the kind, I believe," replied 
the old planter, as though Jubilee Town were a thousand 
miles away, instead of a blot upon his own border. " May I 
ask how you are succeeding ? " 
There was a fine irony in the question. David felt it, 
but replied courageously that success, he hoped, would come 
in time. 
" And I, young man, hope that it will never come ! The 
negro with power in his hand, which you have given him, 
with a little smattering of knowledge in his shallow, crafty 
brain a knowledge which you and your kind are now striv 
ing to give him will become an element of more danger in 
this land than it has ever known before. You Northerners 
do not understand the blacks. They are an inferior race by 
nature; God made them so. And God forgive those (al 
though I never can) who have placed them over us yes, 
virtually over us, their former masters poor ignorant crea 
tures ! " 
At this instant an old negro came up the steps with an 
armful of wood, and the eye of the Northerner noted (was 
forced to note) the contrast. There sat the planter, his head 
crowned with silver hair, his finely chiseled face glowfng with 
the warmth of his indignant words ; and there passed the old 
slave, bent and black, his low forehead and broad animal fea 
tures seeming to typify scarcely more intelligence than that 
of the dog that followed him. The planter spoke to the ser 
vant in his kindly way as he passed, and the old black face 
lighted with pleasure. This, too, the schoolmaster's sensitive 
mind noted : none of his pupils looked at him with anything 
like that affection. " But it is right they should be freed it 
is right," he said to himself as he walked back to Jubilee ; 
" and to that belief will I cling as long as I have my being. 
It is right." And then he came into Jubilee, and found three 
of his freedmen drunk and quarreling in the street. 
Heretofore the settlement, poor and forlorn as it was, had 
escaped the curse of drunkenness. No liquor was sold in the 
vicinity, and David had succeeded in keeping his scholars 
from wandering aimlessly about the country from place to 
place often the first use the blacks made of their freedom. 
Jubilee did not go to the liquor ; but, at last, the liquor had 
come to Jubilee. Shall they not have all rights and privileges, 
these new-born citizens of ours ? The bringer of these doc 
trines, and of the fluids to moisten them, was a white man, 
one of that class which has gone down on the page of Ameri- 
 
can history, knighted with the initials C. B. " The Captain " 
the negroes called him ; and he was highly popular already, 
three hours of the Captain being worth three weeks of Da 
vid, as far as familiarity went. The man was a glib-tongued, 
smartly dressed fellow, well supplied with money ; and his 
errand was, of course, to influence the votes at the next elec 
tion. David, meanwhile, had so carefully kept all talk of 
politics from his scholars that they hardly knew that an elec 
tion was near. It became now a contest between the two 
higher intelligences. If the schoolmaster had but won the 
easily won and strong affections of his pupils ! But, in all 
those months, he had gained only a dutiful attention. They 
did not even respect him as they had respected their old mas 
ters, and the cause (poor David !) was that very thrift and in 
dustry which he relied upon an an example. 
"Ole Mars Ammerton wouldn't wash his dishes ef dey 
was nebber washed," confided Maum June to Elsy, as they 
caught sight of David's shining pans. 
The schoolmaster could have had a retinue of servants 
for a small price, or no price at all ; but, to tell a truth which 
he never told, he could not endure them about him. 
" I must have one spot to myself," he said feverishly, after 
he had labored all day among them, teaching, correcting un 
tidy ways, administering simple medicines, or binding up a 
bruised foot. But he never dreamed that this very isolation 
of his personality, this very thrift, were daily robbing him of 
the influence which he so earnestly longed to possess. In 
New England every man's house was his castle, and every 
man's hands were thrifty. He forgot the easy familiarity, the 
lordly ways, the crowded households, and the royal careless 
ness to which the slaves had always been accustomed in their 
old masters homes. 
At first the Captain attempted intimacy. 
" No reason why you and me shouldn't work together," 
he said with a confidential wink. " This thing's being done 
all over the South, and easy done, too. Now's the time for 
 
smart chaps like us transition, you know. The old South 
erners are mad, and won't come forward, so we'll just sail in 
and have a few years of it. When they're  ready to come 
back why, we'll give em up the place again, of course, if 
our pockets are well lined. Come, now, just acknowledge 
that the negroes have got to have somebody to lead em." 
" It shall not be such as you," said David indignantly. 
" See those two men quarreling ; that is the work of the liquor 
you have given them ! " 
" They 've as good a right to their liquor as other men 
have," replied the Captain carelessly ; " and that's what I tell 
em ; they ain't slaves now they're  free. Well, boss, sorry 
you don't like my idees, but can't help it ; must go ahead. 
Remember, I offered you a chance, and you would not take it. 
Morning." 
The five months had grown into six and seven, and Jubi 
lee Town was known far and wide as a dangerous and disor 
derly neighborhood. The old people and the children still 
came to school, but the young men and boys had deserted in 
a body. The schoolmaster's cotton-field was neglected ; he 
did a little there himself every day, but the work was novel, 
and his attempts were awkward and slow. One afternoon 
Harnett Ammerton rode by on horseback; the road passed 
near the angle of the field where the schoolmaster was at 
work. 
" How is your experiment succeeding ? " said the planter, 
with a little smile of amused scorn as he saw the lonely- 
figure. 
" Not very well," replied David. 
He paused and looked up earnestly into the planter's face. 
Here was a man who had lived among the blacks all his life, 
and knew them : if he would but give honest advice ! The 
schoolmaster was sorely troubled that afternoon. Should he 
speak ? He would at least try. 
" Mr. Ammerton," he said, " do you intend to vote at the 
approaching election ? " 
" No," replied the planter ; " nor any person of my ac 
quaintance." 
" Then incompetent, and, I fear, evil-minded men will be 
put into office." 
" Of course the certain result of negro voting." 
" But if you, sir, and the class to which you belong, would 
exert yourselves, I am inclined to think much might be done. 
The breach will only grow broader every year; act now, 
while you have still influence left." 
" Then you think that we have influence ? " said the 
planter. 
He was curious concerning the ideas of this man, who, 
although not like the typical Yankee exactly, was yet plainly a 
fanatic ; while as to. dress and air why, Zip, his old valet, had 
more polish. 
" I know at least that I have none," said David. Then he 
came a step nearer. " Do you think, sir," he began slowly, 
"that I have gone to work in the wrong way? Would it 
have been wiser to have obtained some post of authority over 
them the office of justice of the peace, for instance, with 
power of arrest ? " 
" I know nothing about it," said the planter curtly, touch 
ing his horse with his whip and riding on. He had no inten 
tion of stopping to discuss ways and means with an abolition 
schoolmaster ! 
Things grew from bad to worse at Jubilee. Most of the 
men had been field-hands; there was but little intelligence 
among them. The few bright minds among David's pupils 
caught the specious arguments of the Captain, and repeated 
them to the others. The Captain explained how much power 
they held ; the Captain laid before them glittering plans ; the 
Captain said that by good rights each family ought to have a 
plantation to repay them for their years of enforced labor ; the 
Captain promised them a four-story brick college for their 
boys, which was more than King David had ever promised, 
teacher though he was. They found out that they were tired 
 
of King David and his narrow talk ; and they went over to 
Hildore Corners, where a new store had been opened, which 
contained, among other novelties, a bar. This was one of 
the Captain's benefactions. " If you pay your money for it, 
you 've as good a right to your liquor as any one, I guess," he 
observed. " Not that it's anything to me, of course ; but I 
allow I like to see fair play ! " 
It was something to him, however : the new store had a 
silent partner ; and this was but one of many small and silent 
enterprises in which he was engaged throughout the neigh 
borhood. 
The women of Jubilee, more faithful than the men, still 
sent their children to school ; but they did it with discouraged 
hearts, poor things ! Often now they were seen with band 
aged heads and bruised bodies, the result of drunken blows 
from husband or brother ; and, left alone, they were obliged 
to labor all day to get the poor food they ate, and to keep 
clothes on their children. Patient by nature, they lived along 
as best they could, and toiled in their small fields like horses ; 
but the little prides, the vague, grotesque aspirations and 
hopes that had come to them with their freedom, gradually 
faded away. " A blue-painted front do ," " a black-silk apron 
with red ribbons," "to make a minister of little Job," and "a 
real crock ry pitcher," were wishes unspoken now. The thing 
was only how to live from day to day, and keep the patched 
clothes together. In the mean while trashy finery was sold 
at the new store, and the younger girls wore gilt ear-rings. 
The master, toiling on at his vain task, was at his wit's 
end. " They will not w T ork ; before long they must steal," he 
said. He brooded and thought, and at last one morning he 
came to a decision. The same day in the afternoon he set 
out for Hildore Corners. He had thought of a plan. As he 
was walking rapidly through the pine-woods Harnett Ammer- 
ton on horseback passed him. This time the Northerner 
had no questions to ask nay, he almost hung his head, so 
ashamed was he of the reputation that had attached itself to 
the field of his labors. But the planter reined in his horse 
when he saw who it was : he was the questioner now. 
" Schoolmaster," he began, " in the name of all the white 
families about here, I really must ask if you can do nothing to 
keep in order those miserable, drinking, ruffianly negroes of 
yours over at Jubilee ? Why, we shall all be murdered in our 
beds before long ! Are you aware of the dangerous spirit 
they have manifested lately? " 
" Only too well," said David. 
" What are you going to do ? How will it end ? " 
" God knows." 
" God knows ! Is that all you have to say ? Of course 
he knows ; but the question is, Do you know ? You have 
brought the whole trouble down upon our heads by your con 
founded insurrectionary school ! Just as I told you, your ne 
groes, with the little smattering of knowledge you have given 
them, are now the most dangerous, riotous, thieving, murder 
ing rascals in the district." 
" They are bad ; but it is not the work of the school, I 
hope." 
" Yes, it is," said the planter angrily. 
" They have been led astray lately, Mr. Ammerton ; a per 
son has come among them " 
" Another Northerner." 
"Yes," said David, a flush rising in his cheek; "but not 
all Northerners are like this man, I trust." 
" Pretty much all we see are. Look at the State." 
" Yes, I know it ; I suppose time alone can help matters," 
said the troubled teacher. 
" Give up your school, and come and join us," said the 
planter abruptly. " You, at least, are honest in your mis 
takes. We are going to form an association for our own pro 
tection ; join with us. You can teach my grandsons if you 
like, provided you do not put any of your your fanaticism 
into them." 
This was an enormous concession for Harnett Ammerton 
 
to make; something in the schoolmaster's worn face had 
drawn it out. 
" Thank you," said David slowly ; " it is kindly meant, 
sir. But I can not give up my work. I came down to help 
the freedmen, and 
" Then stay with them," said the planter, doubly angry 
for the very kindness of the moment before. " I thought you 
were a decent-living white man, according to your fashion, 
but I see I was mistaken. Dark days are coming, and you 
turn your back upon those of your own color and side with 
the slaves ! Go and herd with your negroes. But, look you, 
sir, we are prepared. We will shoot down any one found 
upon our premises after dark shoot him down like a dog. 
It has come to that, and, by Heaven ! we shall protect ourselves." 
He rode on. David sat down on a fallen tree for a mo 
ment, and leaned his head upon his hand. Dark days were 
coming, as the planter had said ; nay, were already there. 
Was he in any way responsible for them ? He tried to think. 
" I know not," he said at last ; " but I must still go on and 
do the best I can. I must carry out my plan." He rose and 
went forward to the Corners. 
A number of Jubilee men were lounging near the new 
store, and one of them was reading aloud from a newspaper 
which the Captain had given him. He had been David's 
brightest scholar, and he could read readily ; but what he 
read was inflammable matter of the worst kind, a speech 
which had been written for just such purposes, and which 
was now being circulated through the district. Mephisto- 
pheles in the form of Harnett Ammerton seemed to whisper 
in the schoolmaster's ears, " Do you take pride to yourself 
that you taught that man to read ? " 
The reader stopped ; he had discovered the new auditor. 
The men stared ; they had never seen the master at the Corners before. They drew together and waited. He approached 
them, and paused a moment ; then he began to speak. 
" I have come, friends," he said, " to make a proposition 
to you. You, on your side, have nothing laid up for the winter, and I, on my side, am anxious to have your work. I 
have a field, you know, a cotton-field ; what do you say to 
going to work there, all of you, for a month ? I will agree to 
pay you more than any man about here pays, and you shall 
have the cash every Monday morning regularly. We will 
hold a meeting over at Jubilee, and you shall choose your 
own overseer ; for I am very ignorant about cotton-fields ; I 
must trust to you. What do you say? " 
The men looked at each other, but no one spoke. 
" Think of your little children without clothes." 
Still silence. 
" I have not succeeded among you," continued the teacher, 
as well as I hoped to succeed. You do not come to school 
any more, and I suppose it is because you do not like me." 
Something like a murmur of dissent came from the group. 
The voice went on : 
" I have thought of something I can do, however. I can 
write to the North for another teacher to take my place, and 
he shall be a man of your own race ; one who is educated, 
and, if possible, also a clergyman of your own faith. You 
can have a little church then, and Sabbath services. As soon 
as he comes, I will yield my place to him ; but, in the mean 
time, will you not cultivate that field for me ? I ask it as a 
favor. It will be but for a little while, for, when the new 
teacher comes, I shall go unless, indeed," he added, looking 
around with a smile that was almost pathetic in its appeal, 
" you should wish me to stay." 
There was no answer. He had thrown out this last little 
test question suddenly. It had failed. 
" I am sorry I have not succeeded better at Jubilee," he 
said after a short pause and his voice had altered in spite of 
his self-control " but at least you will believe, I hope, that I 
have tried." 
" Dat's so ; " Dat's de trouf," said one or two; the rest 
 
stood irresolute. But at this moment a new speaker came 
forward ; it was the Captain, who had been listening in am 
bush. 
" All gammon, boys, all gammon," he began, seating himself familiarly among them on the fence-rail. " The season 
for planting's over, and your work would be thrown away in 
that field of his. He knows it, too ; he only wants to see you 
marching around to his whistling. And he pays you double 
wages, does he ? Double wages for perfectly useless work ! 
Doesn't that show, clear as daylight, what he's up to ? If he 
hankers so after your future your next winter, and all that 
why don't he give yer the money right out, if he's so flush ? 
But no ; he wants to put you to work, and that's all there is 
of it. He can't deny a word I 've said, either." 
" I do not deny that I wish you to work, friends," began 
David 
"There! he tells yer so himself," said the Captain; "he 
wants yer back in yer old places again. I seen him talking 
to old Ammerton the other day. Give em a chance, them 
two classes, and they'll have you slaves a second time before 
you know it." 
" Never ! " cried David. " Friends, it is not possible that 
you can believe this man ! We have given our lives to make 
you free," he added passionately; "we came down among 
you, bearing your freedom in our hands " 
" Come, now I'm a Northerner too, ain't I ? " interrupted 
the Captain. " There's two kinds of Northerners, boys. I
was in the army, and that's more than he can say. Much 
freedom he brought down in his hands, safe at home in his 
narrer-minded, penny-scraping village ! He wasn't in the 
army at all, boys, and he can't tell you he was." 
This was true ; the schoolmaster could not. Neither could 
he tell them what was also true, namely, that the Captain had 
been an attach^ of a sutler's tent, and nothing more. But the 
sharp-witted Captain had the whole history of his opponent 
at his fingers ends. 
 
" Come along, boys," said this jovial leader; "we'll have 
suthin to drink the health of this tremenjous soldier in this 
fellow as fought so hard for you and for your freedom. I al 
ways thought he looked like a fighting man, with them fine 
broad shoulders of his ! " He laughed loudly, and the men 
trooped into the store after him. The schoolmaster, alone 
outside, knew that his chance was gone. lie turned away 
and took the homeward road. One of his plans had failed ; 
there remained now nothing save to carry out the other. 
Prompt as usual, he wrote his letter as soon as he reached 
his cabin, asking that another teacher, a colored man if pos 
sible, should be sent down to take his place. 
" I fear I am not fitted for the work," he wrote. " I take 
shame to myself that this is so ; yet, being so, I must not hinder by any disappointed strivings the progress of the great 
mission. I will go back among my own kind ; it may be that 
some whom I shall teach may yet succeed where I have failed." 
The letter could not go until the next morning. He went out 
and walked up and down in the forest. A sudden impulse 
came to him ; he crossed over to the schoolhouse and rang 
the little tinkling belfry-bell. His evening class had disbanded 
some time before ; the poor old aunties and uncles crept off 
to bed very early now, in order to be safely out of the way 
when their disorderly sons and grandsons came home. But 
something moved the master to see them all together once 
more. They came across the green, wondering, and entered 
the schoolroom ; some of the younger wives came too, and 
the children. The master waited, letter in hand. When they 
were all seated 
" Friends," he said, " I have called you together to speak 
to you of a matter which lies very near my own heart. Things 
are not going on well at Jubilee. The men drink ; the children 
go in rags. Is this true ? " 
Groans and slow assenting nods answered him. One old 
woman shrieked out shrilly, " It is de Lord's will," and rocked 
her body to and fro. 
 
" No, it is not the Lord's will," answered the schoolmaster 
gently ; " you must not think so. You must strive to reclaim 
those who have gone astray ; you must endeavor to inspire 
them with renewed aspirations toward a higher plane of life ; 
you must I mean," he said, correcting himself, " you must 
try to keep the men from going over to the Corners and get 
ting drunk." 
" But dey will do it, sah ; what can we do ? " said Uncle 
Scipio, who sat leaning his chin upon his crutch and peering 
at the teacher with sharp intelligence in his old eyes. " If 
dey won't stay fo you, sah, will dey stay fo us ? " 
" That is what I was coming to," said the master. (They 
had opened the subject even before he could get to it ! They 
saw it too, then his utter lack of influence.) " I have not 
succeeded here as I hoped to succeed, friends ; I have not the 
influence I ought to have." Then he paused. " Perhaps the 
best thing I can do will be to go away," he added, looking 
quickly from face to face to catch the expression. But there 
was nothing visible. The children stared stolidly back, and 
the old people sat unmoved ; he even fancied that he could 
detect relief in the eyes of one or two, quickly suppressed, 
however, by the innate politeness of the race. A sudden mist 
came over his eyes ; he had thought that perhaps some of 
them would care a little. He hurried on : "I have written to 
the North for a new teacher for you, a man of your own people, who will not only teach you, but also, as a minister, hold 
services on the Sabbath ; you can have a little church of your 
own then. Such a man will do better for you than I have 
done, and I hope you will like him " he was going to say, 
" better than you have liked me," but putting down all thought 
of self, he added, " and that his work among you will be abun 
dantly blessed." 
" Glory ! glory ! " cried an old aunty. " A color'd preacher 
ob our own ! Glory ! glory ! " 
Then Uncle Scipio rose slowly, with the aid of his crutches, 
and, as orator of the occasion, addressed the master. 
" You see, sah, how it is ; you see, Mars King David," he 
said, waving his hand apologetically, " a color'd man will unnerstan us, specially ef he hab Hb'd at de Souf; we don't 
want no Nordern free niggahs hyar. But a spectable color'd 
preacher, now, would be de makin ob Jubilee, fo dis worl 
ande nex ." 
" Fo dis worl and de nex ," echoed the old woman. 
" Our service to you, sah, all de same," continued Scipio, 
with a grand bow of ceremony ; " but you hab nebber quite 
unnerstan us, sah, nebber quite ; an you can nebber do much 
fo us, sah, on count ob dat fack ef you'll scuse my saying 
so. But it is de trouf. We give you our t anks and our con- 
gratturrurlations, an we hopes you'll go j yful back to your 
own people, an be a shining light to em for ebbermore." 
" A shinin light for ebbermore," echoed the rest. One 
old woman, inspired apparently by the similarity of words, 
began a hymn about " the shining shore," and the whole as 
sembly, thinking no doubt that it was an appropriate and 
complimentary termination to the proceedings, joined in with 
all their might, and sang the whole six verses through with 
fervor. 
" I should like to shake hands with you all as you go out, 
said the master, when at last the song was ended, " and and 
I wish, my friends, that you would all remember me in your 
prayers to-night before you sleep." 
What a sight was that when the pale Caucasian, with the 
intelligence of generations on his brow, asked for the prayers 
of these sons of Africa, and gently, nay, almost humbly, received the pressure of their black, toil-hardened hands as they 
passed out ! They had taught him a great lesson, the lesson 
of a failure. 
The schoolmaster went home, and sat far into the night, 
with his head bowed upon his hands. " Poor worm ! " he 
thought " poor worm ! who even went so far as to dream of 
saying, Here am I, Lord, and these brethren whom thou 
hast given me ! " 
 
The day came for him to go ; he shouldered his bag and 
started away. At a turn in the road, some one was waiting 
for him ; it was dull-faced Esther with a bunch of flowers, 
the common flowers of her small garden-bed. " Good-by, 
Esther," said the master, touched almost to tears by the sight 
of the solitary little offering. 
" Good-by, mars," said Esther. But she was not moved ; 
she had come out into the woods from a sort of instinct, as a 
dog follows a little way down the road to look after a depart 
ing carriage. 
" David King has come back home again, and taken the 
district school," said one village gossip to another. 
" Has he, now ? Didn't find the blacks what he expected, 
I guess." 
 
" INSTEAD of going through the whole book, you can read 
this abstract, Miss Honor." 
The speaker drew forth five or six sheets of paper, closely 
covered with fine, small handwriting. The letters were not 
in the least beautiful, or even straight, if you examined them 
closely, for they carried themselves crookedly, and never twice 
alike ; but, owing to their extreme smallness, and the careful 
w : ay in which they stood on the line, rigidly particular as to 
their feet, although their spines were misshapen, they looked 
not unlike a regiment of little humpbacked men, marching 
with extreme precision, and daring you to say that they were 
crooked. Stephen Wainwright had partly taught himself this 
hand, and partly it was due to temperament. He despised a 
clerkly script ; yet he could not wander down a page, or blur 
his words, any more than he could wander down a street, or 
blur his chance remarks ; in spite of himself, he always knew 
exactly where he was going, and what he intended to say. 
He was not a man who attracted attention in any way. He 
was small, yet not so small as to be noticed for smallness ; he 
was what is called plain-looking, yet without that marked ugliness which, in a man, sometimes amounts to distinction. As 
to his dress, he was too exact for carelessness ; you felt that 
the smallest spot on his loose flannel coat would trouble him ; 
and yet he was entirely without that trim, fresh, spring-morning appearance which sometimes gives a small man an advantage over his larger brethren, as the great coach-dogs seem 
suddenly coarse and dirty when the shining little black-and- 
tan terrier bounds into the yard beside them. Stephen was a 
man born into the world with an over-weight of caution and 
doubt. They made the top of his head so broad and square 
that Reverence, who likes a rounded curve, found herself displaced ; she clung on desperately through his schoolboy days, 
but was obliged at last to let go as the youth began to try his 
muscles, shake off extraneous substances, and find out what 
he really was himself, after the long succession of tutors and 
masters had done with him. 
The conceit of small men is proverbial, and Stephen was 
considered a living etching of the proverb, without color, but 
sharply outlined. He had a large fortune ; he had a good in 
tellect ; he had no vices sufficient reasons, the world said, why 
he had become, at forty, unendurably conceited. His life, the 
world considered, was but a succession of conquests : and the 
quiet manner with which he entered a drawing-room crowded 
with people, or stood apart and looked on, was but another in 
dication of that vanity of his which never faltered, even in the 
presence of the most beautiful women or the most brilliant men. 
The world had no patience with him. If he had not gone out 
in society at all, if he had belonged to that large class of men 
who persistently refuse to attire themselves in dress-coats and 
struggle through the dance, the world would have understood 
it ; but, on the contrary, Stephen went everywhere, looking 
smaller and plainer than usual in his evening-dress, asked ev 
erybody tc dance, and fulfilled every social obligation with 
painstaking exactitude. The world had no patience with him ; 
he was like a golden apple hanging low ; but nobody could 
pull him off the branch. 
Stephen's conversation - friend (every unmarried man, 
though an octogenarian, has his conversation-friend) was Ade 
laide Kellinger, the widow of his cousin and favorite boyhood- 
companion, Ralph Kellinger. Adelaide was now thirty-five 
years of age, an agreeable woman, tall, slender, and exquisitely 
dressed a woman who made people forget that an arm 
should be round, or a cheek red, when her slim, amber- 
colored gracefulness was present with them. Adelaide's 
house was Stephen's one lounging-place. Here he came to 
hear her talk over last evening's party, and here he delivered 
fewer of those concise apropos remarks for which he was 
celebrated, and which had been the despair of a long series of 
young ladies in turn ; for what can you do with a man who, 
on every occasion, even the most unexpected, has calmly ready 
for you a neat sentence, politely delivered, like the charmingly 
folded small parcels which the suave dry-goods clerk hands to 
you across the counter? Stephen was never in a hurry to 
bring out these remarks of his ; on the contrary, he always 
left every pause unbroken for a perceptible half moment or 
two, as if waiting for some one else to speak. The unwary, 
therefore, were often entrapped into the idea that he was slow 
or unprepared ; and the unwary made a mistake, as the more 
observing among them soon discovered. 
