had thrown up around its base. 

" What now ? " said Lawrence. 

" This is a good place to stay. Father wishes to 
be left to himself." 

" But aren't you going any further ? " 

"There is nothing to be gained by going any 
further. It is as pretty here as anywhere in the 
wood." 

" We might go on and see the pheasantry. Have 
you seen the pheasantry ? " 

"No." 

"That does not depend on the housekeeper's 
pleasure ; and the people on the place are not all 
Methodists. I fancy we should have no trouble in 
getting to see that. Come ! It is really very fine, 
and worth a walk to see. I am not much of a 
place hunter, but the Brierley pheasantry is something by itself." 

" Not to-day," said Dolly. 

" Why not to-day ? I can get the gate opened." 

" You forget, it is Sunday, Mr. St. Leger." 

" I do not forget it," said he, throwing himself 
down on the bank beside her. " I came here to 
have the day with you. It's a holiday. Mr. Copley keeps a fellow awfully busy, other days, if one 
has the good fortune to be his secretary. I re- 
member particularly well that it is Sunday. What 
about it? Can't a fellow have it, now he has 
got it?" 

The blue eyes were looking with a surprised sort 
of complaint in them, yet not wholly discontented, 
at Dolly. How could they be discontented ? So 
fair an object to rest upon and so curiosity-provoking too, as she was. Dolly's advantages were not 
decked out at all; she was dressed in a simple 
white gown ; and there were none of the formalities of fine ladyism about her; a very plain little 
girl ; and yet, Lawrence was not far wrong when 
he thought her the fairest thing his eyes had ever 
seen. Her eyes had such a mingling of the child-like and the wise; her hair curled in such an artless, elegant way about her temples and in her 
neck; the neck itself had such a pretty set and 
carriage, the figure was so graceful in its girlish 
outlines; and above all, her manner had such an 
inexplicable combination of the utterly free and 
the utterly unapproachable. Lawrence lay thinking all this, or part of it; Dolly was thinking how 
she should dispose of him. She could not well say 
anything that would directly seem to condemn 
her father. And while she was thinking what 
answer she should make, Lawrence had forgot 
his question. 

" Do you like this park ? " he began on another 
tack. 



 

" more than I can tell you ! It is perfect. It 
is magnificent. There is nothing like it in all 
America. At least, I  never saw anything like it 
there." 

" Why not ? " said Lawrence. " I mean, why is 
there not anything like this there ? " 

Then Dolly's face dimpled all up in one of its expressions of extreme sense of fun. 

"We are not old enough," she said. "You know 
when these trees were young, our land was filled 
with the red men, and overgrown with forests." 

" Well, those forests were old." 

" Yes, but in a forest trees do not grow like this. 
They cannot. And then the forest had to be cut 
down." 

"Then you like England better than America?" 

" I never saw in my life anything half so beautiful as Brierley Park." 

"You would be contented with such a home, 
wherever it might be ? " 

"As far as the trees went, " said Dolly, with 
another ripple of fun breaking over her face. 

"Tell me," said Lawrence, "are all American 
girls like you ? " 

" In what way ? We do not all look alike." 

"No, no; I do not mean looks; they are no more 
like you in that, than you say America resembles 
Brierley Park. But you are not like an English 
girl." 

" I am afraid that is not an equal compliment to 
me. But why should Americans be different from 



 

English people? We went over from England 
only a little while ago." 

" Institutions ? " Lawrence ventured. 

"What, because we have a President, and you 
have a King? What difference should that make ? " 

"Then you see no difference? Am I like an 
American, now ? " 

" You are not like my father, certainly. But I 
do not know any American young men except 
one. And I don't know him." 

" That sounds very much like a riddle. Won't 
you be so good as to explain ? " 

" There is no riddle," said Dolly. " I knew him 
when I was at school a little girl and I have 
never seen him since." 

" Then you don't know him now, I should say." 

"No. And yet I feel as if I knew him. I 
should know him, if we saw each other again." 

"Seems to have made a good deal of an impression ! " 

"Yes, I think he did. I liked him." 

"Before you see him again, you will have for- 
gotten him," said Lawrence comfortably. " Do you 
not think you could forget America, if somebody 
would make you mistress of such a place as this ? " 

"And if everybody I loved was here? Perhaps," 
said Dolly, looking round her at the soft swelling 
green turf over which the trees stretched their 
great branches. 

"But," said Lawrence, lying on his elbow and 
watching her, "would you want everybody you 



 

love? The Bible says that a woman shall leave 
father and mother and cleave to her husband." 

" No ; the Bible says that is what the man shall 
do; leave father and mother and cleave unto his 
wife." 

" They work it the other way," said Lawrence. 
" With us, it is the woman who leaves her family 
to go with the man." 

"Mr. St. Leger," said Dolly suddenly, "father 
does not look well. What do you think is the 
matter with him ? " 

" Oh aw yes ! Do you think he doesn't look 
well ? " Lawrence answered vaguely. 

" Not ill but not just like himself either. What 
is it?" 

"I well, I have thought that myself sometimes," 
replied the young man. 

"What is the matter with him?" Dolly repeated 
anxiously. 

" Oh, not much, he spends too much time at at 
his office, you know ! " 

" He has no need to do that. He does not want 
the office not for the money's sake." 

" Most men want money," said Lawrence. 

" But do you think he does ? " 

"0 why not? Why, my father wants money, 
always wants money; and yet you would say he 
has enough, too. Dolly " She interrupted him. 

" But what did you mean ? You meant to say 
he spends too much time at at what ? Say what 
you were going to say." 



 

Lawrence rolled himself over on the bank so that 
he could look up straight into her face. It was a 
good look of his blue eyes. "Dolly," said he, "if 
you will leave father and mother for my sake, figuratively, I mean, of course, figuratively, I will 
take care that neither of them ever wants anything 
for the rest of their lives. And you shall have a 
place as good as Brierley Park." 

Dolly's spirits must have taken one or two quick 
leaps, for her colour changed so ; but happily Lawrence's speech was long enough to let her get possession of herself again. She answered with an 
a plomb which, born of necessity as it was, and 
natural, equalled that of the most practised fine 
lady which should shew her artificial habit or skill. 
Like an instinct of self-preservation, I suppose; 
swift in action, correct in adjustment, taking its 
measures with unpremeditated good aim. She answered with absolute seeming calmness, 

"You evade my question, I observe." 

" I am sure you evade mine ! " said the young 
man, much more hotly. 

" Perhaps I do. Naturally, I want mine answered first." 

" And then will you give me the answer to my 
question ? " said he eagerly. 

"That would seem to be no more than good 
manners." 

" What do you want to know, Dolly ? I am 
sure I can't tell what to say to you." 

"Tell me what makes my father look unlike 



 

himself," said Dolly quietly. She spoke quietly; 
not as if she were greatly concerned to know the 
answer; yet if Lawrence had guessed how her 
heart beat he would have had still more difficulty 
with his reply. He had some, as it was; so much 
that he tried to turn the matter off. 

"You are imagining things," 'he said. "Mr. 
Copley seems to me very much what I have 
always known him." 

" He does not seem to me as I have always 
known him," said Dolly. " And you are not 
saying what you are thinking, Mr. St. Leger." 

" You are terribly sharp ! " said he, to gain 
time. 

"That's quite common among American wom- 
en. Go on, Mr. St. Leger, if you please." 

" I declare, it's uncanny. I feel as if you could 
see through me, too. And no one will bear such 
looking into." 

" Go on, Mr. St. Leger," Dolly repeated with an 
air of superiority. Poor child, she felt very weak 
at the time. 

" I don't know what to say, 'pon my honour," the 
young man averred. " I have nothing to say, re- 
ally. And I am afraid of troubling you, besides." 

Dolly could not speak now. She preserved her 
calm air of attention; that was all. 

" It's really nothing," St. Leger went on ; " but 
I suppose, really, Mr. Copley may have lost some 
money. That's nothing, you know. Every man 
does, now and then. He loses, and then he gains." 



 

" How ? " said Dolly gravely. 

" well, there are various ways. Betting, you 
know, and cards. Everybody bets; and of course 
he can't always win, or betting would stop. That's 
nothing, Miss Copley." 

" Have you any idea how much he has lost? " 

" Haven't an idea. People don't tell, naturally, 
how hard they are hit. I am sure it is nothing you 
need be concerned about." 

"Are not people often ruined in that way?" 
Dolly asked, still preserving her outside calm. 

" Well, that does happen, of course, now and 
then, with careless people. Mr. Copley is not one 
of that sort. Not that kind of man." 

"Do not people grow careless, in the interest 
and excitement of the play ? " 

St. Leger hesitated, and laughed a little, casting 
up his blue eyes at Dolly as if she were a very peculiar specimen of young womanhood and he were 
not quite sure how to answer her. 

"I assure you," he said, "there is nothing that you 
need be concerned about. I am certain there is not." 

" Not if my father is concerned about it already ? " 

" He is not concerned, I am sure.. well ! there 
may be a little temporary embarrassment that can 
happen to any man, who is not made of gold but 
it will be all right. Now, Miss Copley 

She put out her hand to stop him. 

"Mr. St. Leger, can you do nothing to help? 
You are kind, I know; you have always been 
kind to us ; can you do nothing to help now ? " 



 

The young man rather opened his eyes. Was 
this asking him for an advance? It was a very 
cool proceeding in that case. " Help ? " he repeated 
doubtfully. " What sort ? " 

"There is only one way that you could help," 
said Dolly. 

He saw she meant what she meant, if he could 
know what that was; her cheeks had even grown 
pale; the sweet, clear brown eyes sought his face 
as if they would reach his heart, which they did ; 
but then, to assume any of Mr. Copley's respon- 
sibilities 

" I'll assume all Mr. Copley's responsibilities, Dolly," he said with rash decision "if you'll smile 
upon me." 

" Assume ? did you think I meant that ? " 
cried Dolly, while a furious flush came up into 
her face. "What a notion you must have of 
Americans, Mr. St. Leger! Do you think father 
would make over his responsibilities to another 
man? I did not mean anything so impossible 
as that." 

" Forgive me Then what did you mean ? " 

"Perhaps something as impossible," said Dolly 
sadly, while the flush slowly paled. " I meant 
couldn't you could you I don't know but it is 
just as impossible! " 

" Could I, what ? I could do most things, if you 
wished it, Dolly." 

" Then you must not call me that till I give you 
leave. I was going to say, could you perhaps do 



 

anything to get my father away from this habit, or 
pleasure 

"Of betting?" 

"Betting and cards it's all the same. He 
never used to do it. Can you help, Mr. St. Leger ? " 

Dolly's face was a sort of a marvel. It was so 
childlike, it was so womanly; it was so innocent, 
and it was so forceful. Lawrence looked, and 
would have liked to do the impossible; but what 
could he? It was specially at his own father's 
card table, he knew, that Mr. Copley had lost 
money; it was wholly in his father's society that 
he had been initiated into the fascination of wagers 
and of something else. Could he go against his 
own father ? and how could he ? and himself a 
player, though a very cautious one, how should he 
influence another man not to play ? 

"Miss Copley I am younger than your father " 
Lawrence began. 

" I know. But you might speak where I cannot. 
Or you might do something." 

"Mr. Copley only does what my father does, and 
what everybody does." 

" If you were to tell your father, could not he 
perhaps stop it ? bring my father off the notion ? " 
Dolly had reached the very core of the subject now 
and touched what she wanted to touch; for she 
had a certain assurance in her own mind that her 
father's intercourse with the banker and his circle of friends had led to all this trouble. Lawrence pondered, looked serious; and finally prom- 



 

ised that he would " see what he could do." He 
would have urged his own question then ; but to 
Dolly's great relief Mr. Copley found by this time 
that he had had enough of his own company; 
and called to them. However she could not escape entirely. 

" I have answered your question, Miss Copley," 
Lawrence said as they were going down the slope 
towards the yet unseen caller. " Hallo ! yes, we're 
coming. Now am I not to have the promised an- 
swer to mine ? " 

" How did you put it? the question? " said Dolly, 
standing still and facing her difficulties. 

"You know. I don't know how I put it," St. 
Leger said with a half laugh. " But I meant, Dol- 
ly, that you are more to me than everything and 
everybody in the world; and I wanted to know 
what I am to you ? " 

" Not tliat, Mr. St. Leger." Dolly was quiet, and 
did not shun his eyes; and though she did grow 
rosy, there were some suspicious dimples in her fair 
little face; very unencouraging, but absolutely irresistible at the same time. 

" What then ? " said the young man. " Of course, 
I could not be to you what you are to me, Dolly. 
Naturally. But I can take care of your father and 
mother, and I will; and I will put you in a place 
as good as Brierley Park. I am my father's only 
son, and his heir, and I can do pretty much what 
I like to do. But I care for nothing if you will not 
share it with me." 



 

" I am not going to leave my father and mother 
at present," said Dolly, shaking her head. 

" No, not at present," said he eagerly, catching at 
her words. " Not at present. But you do not love 
anybody else, Dolly ? " 

" Certainly not ! " 

" Then you will let me hope ? You will let me 
hold myself your best friend, after them ? " 

" I believe you are that," said Dolly, giving him 
her hand; "except my old Methodist acquaint- 
ance, Mrs. Jersey." Which addition was a little 
like a dash of cold water ; but Lawrence was tolerably contented after all; and pondered seriously 
what he could do in the matter of Mr. Copley's 
gaming tendencies. Dolly was right; but it is 
awkward to preach against what you practise 
yourself. 



CHAPTER XIV. 

DIFFICULTIES. 

DOLLY on her part had not much comfort in the 
review of this afternoon. " It was no good," 
she said to herself; " I am afraid it has encouraged Lawrence St. Leger in nonsense. I did not 
mean that but I am afraid he took it for encouragement. So much for, going walking Sunday. 
I'll never do it again." 

Lawrence had taken leave very cheerfully; that 
was certain. As much could not be said for his 
principal. Dolly had privately asked her father to 
send her down the money for the servants' wages; 
and Mr. Copley had given an offhand promise ; but 
Dolly saw that same want of the usual ready ease 
in his manner, and was not surprised when days 
passed and the money did not come. The ques- 
tion recurred, what was she to do? She wrote to 
remind her father; and she took a fixed resolve 
that she would buy no more, of anything, that she 
could not on the spot pay for. This however was 
not a resolve immediately taken; it ensued when 
after several weeks the women again pressed for 
their money, and again in vain. Dolly started 



 

back then from the precipice she saw she might 
be nearing, and determined to owe no more debts. 
She wrote to her father once more, begging for a 
supply. And a supply came; but so meagre that 
Dolly could but partially pay her two servants and 
keep a little in hand to go to market with. Mr. 
Copley had not come down to Brierley in the mean 
while. Lawrence had. 

Her unaccustomed burden of care Dolly had kept 
to herself; therefore it startled her when one day 
her mother began upon the subject. 

"What's this about Margaret's wages, Dolly?" 

" She asked me for some money the other day," 
Dolly answered as easily as she could. 

" You didn't give it to her ? " 

" I have given her part; I had not the whole." 

" Haven't you any ? " 

" Yes, mother, but not enough to give Margaret 
all she wants." 

" Let her have what you've got, and write your 
father to send you some. I never like to keep ser- 
vants waiting. What's theirs, isn't yours; and be- 
sides, they never serve you so well, and you're in 
their power." 

"Mother, I want to keep a little in the house, 
for every day calls; till I get some more." 

"Your father will send it immediately. Why 
he don't come himself, I don't see. J'm not gain- 
ing, all alone in this wilderness, with nothing but 
the trees of Brierley Park to look at. I can't think 
what your father is dreaming about ! " 



 

Dolly was silent, and hoped the subject had 
blown over. Yet it could not blow over for ever, 
she reflected. What was she to do? Then her 
mother startled her again. 

"Dolly have you told your father that you 
want money ? " 

Dolly hesitated ; had to say yes. 

" And he did not give it to you ? " 

"Yes, mother; he sent me some." 

"When?" 

" It was it must have been three weeks ago." 

" How much ? " 

"Not enough to pay all that is due to Margaret." 

Mrs. Copley laid down her face in her hands. 
A terrible pain went through Dolly's heart; but 
what could she say. It seemed as if pain pricked 
her like a shower of arrows, first on this side and 
then on that. She thought her mother had gained 
somewhat in the past weeks; how would it, or 
could it, be now ? Presently Mrs. Copley lifted 
up her head with a further question. 

" Is Sarah paid ? " 

"No, mother; not yet," said poor Dolly. 

" Has Peter been paid anything ? " 

"Not by us. We do not pay Peter at all," replied Dolly, feeling as if the words were stabbing 
her.'

" Who does ? " said her mother quickly. 

" Mr. St. Leger sent him here. He is their servant really, and they take care of him." 

" I don't see how your father can content himself with that," said Mrs. Copley. " But I suppose, 
that is one of the debts that you will pay, Dolly." 

Dolly forced herself to speak very quietly, though 
every nerve and fibre was trembling and quivering. She said, " How, mother ? " 

"I suppose you know. Mr. St. Leger knows, 
at any rate; and your father too, it seems." 

" Mother," said Dolly, sitting up a little straighter, "do you think I will pay debts in tJiat way ? " 

"What other way will you pay them then, 
child? what do you and your father expect? 
What can you do, if you have not the money?" 
Mrs. Copley spoke bitterly. Dolly waited a little, 
perhaps to bite down or swallow down some 
feeling. 

"Mother," she said, somewhat lower, "do you 
think father would want me to pay his debts 
so?" 

" Want to ? " echoed Mrs. Copley. " I tell you, 
Dolly, when people get into difficulties the question 
is not what they want to do. They have to pocket 
their likings, and eat humble pie. But how has 
your father got into difficulties?" she burst out 
with an expression of frightened distress. "He 
always had plenty. Dolly ! tell me ! what do 
you know about it ? what is it ? How could he 
get into difficulties ! if we had staid at home ! 
Dolly, how is it possible ? We have always had 
plenty money running like water all my life; 
and now, how could your father have got into 
difficulties?" 



 

Perhaps the difficulty was but transient and 
would soon pass over, Dolly faintly suggested. 

" It don't look like it," said Mrs. Copley miserably, " and your father don't look like it. Here 
we are down in this desert, you and I, to keep us 
out of the way, and where we will cost as near 
nothing as can be ; and we can't pay that ! Do 
you know nothing about it, Dolly? how it has 
come about ? " 

" I couldn't ask father such a question, mother, 
you know." 

" And what is to become of me ! " Mrs. Copley 
went on; "when travelling is the thing I need. 
And what is to become of you, Dolly? Nobody 
to be seen, or to see you, but St. Leger. Have 
you made up your mind to be content with him ? 
Will you have him, Dolly? and is that the way 
your father is going to take care of you ? " 

Poor Mrs. Copley, having so long swallowed her 
troubles in secret, dreading to give pain to Dolly, 
now that her mouth was once opened poured them 
forth relentlessly. Why not? the subject was 
broached at last, and having spoken, she might 
go on to speak. And poor Dolly, full of her own 
anxieties, did not know where to begin, to quiet 
those of her mother. 

" Mr. St. Leger is nothing to me," she said however, in answer to Mrs. Copley's last suggestions. 

"He thinks he is." 

" Then he is very foolish," said Dolly reddening. 

"It is you that are foolish, and you just do not 



 

know any better. I don't think, Dolly, that it 
would be at all a bad thing for you ; perhaps it 
would be the very best; though I'd rather have 
you marry one of our own people; but St. Leger 
is rich, very rich, I suppose; and your father has 
got mixed up with them somehow, and I suppose 
that would settle everything. St. Leger is handsome, too; he has a nice face; he has beautiful 
eyes; and he is a gentleman." 

" His face wants strength." 

"That's no matter. I begin to believe, Dolly, 
that you have wit enough for two." 

" I am not speaking of wit; I mean strength; and 
I should never like any man that hadn't it; not 
like him in the way you mean, mother." 

" Strength ? what sort of strength ? " 

"I mean manliness; power to do right; power 
over himself and others ; power over the wrong, to 
put it down, and over the right, to lift it up and 
give it play. I don't know that I can tell you what 
I mean, mother; but that is my notion of a mati." 

"You are romantic, I am afraid, Dolly. You 
have been reading novels too much." 

"What novels, mother? I have not read any, 
except Scott's and Miss Austen's and ' The Scottish 
Chiefs.'" 

"Well, you have got romantic ideas, I am afraid. 
Your talk sounds romantic. You won't find that 
sort of man." 

" I don't care," said Dolly. " But if I don't, I'll 
never marry any other sort." 



 

"And that is a delusion too," said Mrs. Copley. 
" You will do just as other girls do. Nobody 
marries her fancy. And besides, St. Leger thinks 
he has got you; and I don't know but he and 
your father will manage it so. He don't ask my 
advice." 

Now this was not quite true; for the subject of 
Mr. St. Leger had been discussed more than once 
between Dolly's parents; though certainly Mrs. 
Copley did see that matters were out of her hand 
and beyond her guidance now. Dolly was glad to 
have the conversation turn to something else; but 
the several subjects of it hardly left her head any 
more. 

It is blessedly true, that at seventeen there is a 
powerful spring of elasticity in the mind, and an 
inexhaustible treasury of hope ; also it is true that 
Mrs. Copley was not wrong in her estimate of 
Dolly when she adjudged her to have plenty of 
"wit"; otherwise speaking, resources and acuteness. That was all true; nevertheless Dolly's seventeen-year-old heart and head were greatly burdened with what they had to carry just now. 
Experience gave her no help, and the circumstances forbade her to depend upon the experience 
of her mother. Mrs. Copley's nerves must not be 
excited. So Dolly carried her burden alone, and 
found it very heavy; and debated her questions 
with herself, and could find an answer to never a 
one of them. How should she give her mother 
the rest and distraction of travelling ? The doctor 



 

said, and Dolly believed, that it would be the best 
thing for her. But she could not even get speech 
of her father to consult over the matter with him 
Mr. Copley was caught in embarrassments of his 
own, worse than nervous ones. What could Dolly 
do, to break him off from his present habits, those 
she knew and those she dimly feared ? Then 
when, as was inevitable, the image of Mr. St. 
Leger presented itself, as affording the readiest 
solution of all these problems, Dolly bounded back. 
Not iliat, of all possible outcomes of the present 
state of things. Dolly would neither be bought 
nor sold; would not in that way even be her 
parents' deliverer. She was sure she could not 
do that. What else could she do ? 

She carried these questions about with her, out 
into the garden, and up into her room; and many 
a hot tear she shed over them, when she could be 
long enough away from her mother to let the tears 
dry and the signs of them disappear before she 
met Mrs. Copley's eyes again. To her eyes Dolly 
was unfailingly bright and merry; a most sweet 
companion and most entertaining society; lively, 
talkative, and busy with endless plans for her 
mother's amusement. Meanwhile she wrote to 
her father, begging him to come down to Brierley; she said she wanted to talk to him. 

Three days after that letter came Lawrence St. 
Leger. Mr. Copley could not spare the time, he 
reported. 

"Spare the time from what?" Dolly asked. 



 

" business, of course. It is always business." 

" What sort? Not consul business." 

"All sorts," said Lawrence. "He couldn't come. 
So he sent me. What is the thing, Miss Dolly? 
He said something was up." 

" I wanted to talk to my father," Dolly said 
coldly. 

"Won't I do?" 

" Not at all. I had business to discuss." 

" The journey, eh ? " 

"That was one thing " Dolly was obliged to 
allow. 

" Well, look here. About that, I've a plan. I 
think I can arrange it with Mr. Copley, if you and 
your mother would be willing to set off with me, 
and let Mr. Copley join us somewhere say at 
Baden Baden, or Venice, or where you like. He 
could come as soon as he was ready, you know." 

" But you know," said Dolly quietly, " I specially 
want him. Himself." 

"But then your mother wants the journey. She 
really does. The doctor says so, you know, and I 
think he's right. And Mr. Copley won't leave 
London just now. He could send his secretary, 
you know. That's all right." 

" I must see father, before I can do anything," 
said Dolly evasively. " I will write a letter for you 
to carry back to him. And I will go do it at once." 

" And I will take a look at what Peter is doing," 
said the young man. " Such fellows always want 
looking after." 



 

Dolly had looked after Peter herself. She paused 
before an upper window in her way to her room, 
'to cast a glance down into the garden. Old Peter 
was there, at some work she had set him ; and before him stood Lawrence, watching him, and she 
supposed making remarks ; but at any rate, his air 
was the air of a master and of one very much at 
home. Dolly saw it, read it, stood still to read it, 
and turned from the window with her heart too 
full of vexation and perturbation to write her letter 
then. She felt a longing for somebody to talk to, 
even though she could by no means lay open all 
her case for counsel; the air of the house was too 
close for her; her breath could not be drawn free 
in that neighbourhood. She must see somebody; 
and no one had poor Dolly to go to but the house- 
keeper, Mrs. Jersey. Nobody, near or far. So she 
slipped out of the house and took a roundabout 
way to the great mansion. She dared not take a 
straight way and cross the bridge, lest she should 
be seen and followed; so she made a circuit, and 
got into the park woods only after some time of 
warm walking through lanes and over fields. Till 
then she had hurried; now, safe from interruption, 
she went slowly, and pondered what she was going 
to do or say. Pondered everything, and could not 
with all her thinking make the confusion less confusion. It was a warm, still, sultry day ; the turf 
was dry, the air was spicy under the great trees; 
shadow. and sunshine alternately crossed her path, 
or more correctly her path crossed them. A certain 



 

sense of contrast smote her as she went. Around 
her were the tokens of a broad security, sheltering 
protection, quiet and immoveable possession, careless wealth ; and within her a tumult of fear, uncertainty, exposure, and craving need. Life seemed a 
very unequal thing to the little American girl. Her 
step became slower. What was she going to say 
to Mrs. Jersey ? It was impossible to determine , 
nevertheless Dolly felt that she must see her and 
speak to her. That was a necessity. 

Through the trees she caught at last sight of the 
grand old house. The dog knew her by this time 
and she did not fear him. She found the house- 
keeper busy with some sewing and glad to welcome 
her. Mrs. Jersey was that always. To-day she 
looked a little closer than usual at her visiter, discerning that Dolly's mind was not jiist in its wonted 
poise. And besides, she loved to look at her. 

Yet it is not easy to describe that for which our 
eyes seek and dwell upon a face or form. It is 
easy to say brown eyes and lightly curled, waving, 
beautiful hair; but hair is beautiful in different 
ways, and so faces. Can we put Dolly's charm 
into words ? Mrs. Jersey saw a delicate, graceful, 
active figure, to begin with; delicate without any 
suspicion of weakness; active in little quick, gracious movements, which it was fascinating to watch ; 
and when not in motion, lovely in its childlike unconsciousness of repose. Her hair was exceedingly 
beautiful, not on account of its mass or colour so 
much as for the great elegance of its growth and 



 

curly arrangement or disarrangement around the 
face and neck; and the face was a blending of 
womanly and childlike. It could seem by turns 
most of the one or most of the other; but the clear 
eyes had at all times a certain deep inwardness, 
along with their bright, intelligent answer to the 
moment's impression, and also a certain innocent 
outlook, which was very captivating. And then, 
at a moment's notice, Dolly's face from being grave 
and thoughtful, would dimple all up with some 
flash of fun, and make you watch its change back 
to gravity again, with an intensified sense both of 
its merry and of its serious charm. She smiled at 
Mrs. Jersey now as she came in, but the house- 
keeper saw that the eyes had more care in their 
thoughtfulness than she was accustomed to see in 
them. 

" And how is the mother, dear ? " she asked, when 
Dolly had drawn up a chair and sat down ; for they 
were grown familiar friends by this time. 

" She is not getting on much, Mrs. Jersey. I 
wanted to talk to you about her. The doctor says 
travelling would be the best thing." 

" And you will go and travel ? Where will you 
go?" 

" I don't know yet whether we can go anywhere. 
Mother wants to go." Dolly looked out hard into the 
tree groups on the lawn. They barred the vision. 

" That is one sign then that the doctor is right," 
said Mrs. Jersey. " It is good for sick folks to have 
what they like." 



 

" Isn't it good for people that are not sick ? " 

"Sometimes," said Mrs. Jersey smiling. "But 
sometimes not; or else the good Lord would let 
them have it, when he does not let them. What 
are you wanting, Miss Dolly ? " 

" I want everything different from what it is just 
now ! " said Dolly, the tears starting to her eyes. 
The housekeeper was moved with a great sympathy ; sympathy that was silent at first. 

" Can I help ? " she asked. 

" Maybe you can help with your counsel," said 
Dolly, brushing her hand over her eyes; "that is 
what I came here for to-day. I wanted to speak 
to somebody; and I have nobody but you, Mrs. 
Jersey." 

" Your mother, my dear ? " 

"I can't worry mother." 

" True. You are right. Well, my dear ? What 
do you want counsel about ? " 

"It is very difficult to tell you. I don't know if 
I can. I will try. One thing. Mrs. Jersey, is it 
right sometimes, is it a girl's duty ever, to sacrifice herself for her parents ? ". 

The housekeeper had not expected this form of 
dilemma, and hesitated a few minutes. 

" Sacrifice herself how, Miss Dolly ? " 

"Marrying, for instance." 

" Marrying somebody she does not care for ? " 

