from them, gray in the face as her dress, and sup 
pressing a passion which had turned her as rigid as 
stone. 

" Now, Marcia," said her father, kindly, " better go 
into the house. That 's all there is of it." 

" No, that isn 't all," she answered. " Give me my 
ring, Bartley. Here 's yours." She slipped it off her 
finger, and put it into his mechanically extended 
hand. 

" Marcia ! " he implored, confronting her. 

" Give me my ring, please." 

He obeyed, and put it into her hand. She slipped 
it back on the finger from which she had so fondly 
suffered him to take it yesterday, and replace it with 
his own. 

" I 'll  go into the house now, father. Good by, 
Bartley." Her eyes were perfectly clear and dry, and 
her voice controlled ; and as he stood passive before 
her, she took him round the neck, and pressed against 
his face, once, and twice, and thrice, her own gray 
face, in which all love, and unrelenting, and despair, 
were painted. Once and again she held him, and 
looked him in the eyes, as if to be sure it was he. 



 

Then, with a last pressure of her i ace to his, she 're 
leased him, and passed out of the door. 

" She 's been talking about you, here, all the morn 
ing," said the Squire, with a sort of quiet absence, as 
if nothing in particular had happened, and he were 
commenting on a little fact that might possibly inter 
est Bartley. He ruminated upon the fragment of 
wood in his mouth awhile before he added : " I guess 
she won 't want to talk about you any more. I drew 
you out a little on that Hannah Morrison business, 
because I wanted her to understand just what kind of 
fellow you were. You see it isn 't the trouble you 've 
got into with Henry Bird that 's killed her ; it 's the 
cause of the trouble. I guess if it had been any 
thing else, she d have stood by you. But you see 
that 's the one thing she couldn 't bear, and I 'm glad 
it 's happened now instead of afterwards : I guess 
you 're one of that kind, Mr. Hubbard." 

" Squire Gaylord ! " cried Bartley, " upon my sacred 
word of honor, there isn 't any more of this tiling than 
I 've told you. And I think it 's pretty hard to be 
thrown over for for 

" Fooling with a pretty girl, when you get a chance, 
and the girl seems to like it ? Yes, it is rather hard. 
And I suppose you haven 't even seen her since you 
were engaged to Marcia ? " 

"Of course not ! That is " 

" It 's a kind of retroactive legislation on Marcia 's 
part," said the Squire, rubbing his chin, " and that 's 
against one of the first principles of law. But women 
don 't seem to be able to grasp that idea. They 're 
queer about some things. They appear to think they 
marry a man 's whole life, his past as well as his 
future, and that makes em particular. And they 
distinguish between different kinds of men. You 'll  
find em pinning their faith to a fellow who 's been 
through pretty much everything, and swearing by him 



A MODERN INSTANCE. 



from the word go ; and another chap, who 's never 
done anything very bad, they won 't trust half a 
minute out of their sight. Well, I guess Marcia is of 
rather a jealous disposition," he concluded, as if Bart- 
ley had urged this point. 

"She 's very unjust to me," Bartley began. 
" Oh, yes, she 's unjust" said her father. " I don 't 
deny that. But it wouldn 't be any use talking to her. 
She d probably turn round with some excuse about 
what she had suffered, and that would be the end of 
it. She would say that she couldn 't go through it 
again. Well, it ought to be a comfort to you to think 
you don 't care a great deal about it." 

" But I do care ! " exclaimed Bartley. " I care all 
the world for it. I 

" Since when ? " interrupted the Squire. " Do you 
mean to say that you didn 't know till you asked her 
yesterday that Marcia was in love with you ? " 
Bartley was silent. 

" I guess you knew it as much as a year ago, didn 't 
you ? Everybody else did. But you d just as soon 
it had been Hannah Morrison, or any other pretty girl. 
You didn 't care ! But Marcia did, you see. She 
wasn 't one of the kind that let any good-looking fel 
low make love to them. It was because it was you ; 
and you knew it. We 're plain men, Mr. Hubbard ; 
and I guess you 'll  get over this, in time. I shouldn 't 
wonder if you began to mend, right away." 

Bartley found himself helpless in the face of this 
passionless sarcasm. He could have met stormy in 
dignation or any sort of invective in kind ; but the 
contemptuous irony with which his pretensions were 
treated, the cold scrutiny with which his motives were 
searched, was something he could not meet. He tried 
to pull himself together for some sort of protest, but 
he ended by hanging his head in silence. He always 
believed that Squire Gaylord had liked him, and here 



 

he was treating him like his bitterest enemy, and 
seeming to enjoy his misery. He could not under 
stand it ; he thought it extremely unjust, and past all 
the measure of his offence. This was true, perhaps ; 
but it is doubtful if Bartley would have accepted any 
sufferiug, no matter how nicely proportioned, in pun 
ishment of his wrong-doing. He sat hanging his head, 
and taking his pain in rebellious silence, with a gath 
ering hate in his heart for the -old man. 

" M-well ! " said the Squire, at last, rising from his 
chair, " I guess I must be going." 

Bartley sprang to his feet aghast. " You 're not 
going to leave me in the lurch, are you ? You 're 
not" 

" Oh, I shall take care of you, young man, don 't 
be afraid. I 've stood your friend too long, and your 
name 's been mixed up too much with my girl s, for 
me to let you corne to shame openly, if I can help 
it. I 'm going to see Dr. Wills about you, and I'm 
going to see Mrs. Bird, and try to patch it up some 
how." 

" And and where shall I go ? " gasped Bartley. 

" You might go to the Devil, for all I cared for you," 
said the old man, with the contempt which he no 
longer cared to make ironical. " But I guess you 
better go back to your office, and go to work as if 
nothing had happened till something does happen. 
I shall close the paper out as soon as I can. I was 
thinking of doing that just before you came in. I 
was thinking of taking you into the law business 
with me. Marcia and I were talking about it here. 
But I guess you wouldn 't like the idea now." 

He seemed to get a bitter satisfaction out of these 
mockeries, from which, indeed, he must have suffered 
quite as much as Bartley. But he ended, sadly and 
almost compassionately, with, " Come, come ! You 
must start some time." And Bartley dragged his 



 

leaden weight out of the door. The Squire closed it 
after him ; but he did not accompany him down the 
street. It was plain that he did not wish to be any 
longer alone with Bartley, and the young man sus 
pected, with a sting of shame, that lie scorned to be 
seen with him. 



 



VIII. 

THE more Bartley dwelt upon his hard case, during 
the week that followed, the more it appeared to him 
that he was punished out of all proportion to his of 
fence. He was in no mood to consider such mercies 
as that he had been spared from seriously hurting 
Bird ; and that Squire Gaylord and Doctor Wills had 
united with Henry 's mother in saving him from open 
disgrace. The physician, indeed, had perhaps in 
dulged a professional passion for hushing the matter 
up, rather than any pity for Bartley. He probably 
had the scientific way of looking at such questions ; 
and saw much physical cause for moral effects. He 
refrained, with the physician 's reticence, from inquir 
ing into the affair ; but he would not have thought 
Bartley without excuse under the circumstances. In 
regard to the relative culpability in matters of the 
kind, his knowledge of women enabled him to take 
much the view of "the woman 's share that other wo 
men take. 

But Bartley was ignorant of the doctor 's leniency, 
and associated him with Squire Gaylord in the feel 
ing that made his last week in Equity a period of 
social outlawry. There were moments in which he 
could not himself escape the same point of view, 
could rebel against the severity of the condemnation 
he had fallen under in the eyes of Marcia and her 
father ; he could, in the light of example and usage, 
\n\vr\i at the notion of harm in his behavior to Han 
nah Morrison ; yet he found himself looking at it as 



 

a treachery to Marcia. Certainly, she had no right 
to question his conduct before his engagement. Yet, 
if he knew that Marcia loved him, and was waiting 
with life-and-death anxiety for some word of love from 
him, it was cruelly false to play with another at the 
passion which was such a tragedy to her. This was 
the point that, put aside however often, still present 
ed itself, and its recurrence, if he could have known 
it, was mercy and reprieve from the only source out 
of which these could come. 

Hannah Morrison did not return to the printing- 
office, and Bird was still sick, though it was now only 
a question of time when he should be out again. 
Bartley visited him some hours every day, and sat 
and suffered under the quiet condemnation of his 
mother 's eyes. She had kept Bartley 's secret with 
the same hardness with which she had refused him 
her forgiveness, and the village had settled down into 
an ostensible acceptance of the theory of a faint as 
the beginning of Bird 's sickness, with such other con 
jectures as the doctor freely permitted each to form. 
Bartley found his chief consolation in the work which 
kept him out of the way of a great deal of question. 
He worked far into the night, as he must, to make up 
for the force that was withdrawn from the office. At 
the same time he wrote more than ever in the paper, 
and lie discovered in himself that dual life of which 
every one who sins or sorrows is sooner or later 
aware : that strange separation of the intellectual 
activity from the suffering of the soul, by which the 
mind toils on in a sort of ironical indifference to the 
pangs that wring the heart ; the realization that, in 
some ways, his brain can get on perfectly well with 
out his conscience. 

There was a great deal of sympathy felt for Bart 
ley at this time, and his popularity in Equity was 
never greater than now when his life there was draw- 



 

ing to a close. The spectacle of his diligence was so 
impressive that when, on the following Sunday, the 
young minister who had succeeded to the pulpit of 
the orthodox church preached a sermon on the beauty 
of industry from the text " Consider the lilies," there 
were many who said that they thought of Bartley the 
whole while, and one a lady asked Mr. Savin if 
lie did not have Mr. Hubbard in mind in the picture 
he drew of the Heroic Worker. They wished that 
Bartley could have heard that sermon. 

Marcia had gone away early in the week to visit in 
the town where she used to go to school, and Bartley 
took her going away as a sign that she wished to put 
herself wholly beyond his reach, or any danger of 're 
lenting at sight of him. He talked with no one about 
her ; and going and coming irregularly to his meals, 
and keeping himself shut up in his room when he was 
not at work, he left people very little chance to talk 
with him. But they conjectured that he and Marcia 
had an understanding ; and some of the ladies used, 
such scant opportunity as he gave them to make sly 
allusions to her absence and his desolate condition. 
They were confirmed in their surmise by the fact, 
known from actual observation, that Bartley had not 
spoken a word to any other young lady since Marcia 
went away. 

" Look here, my friend," said the philosopher from 
the logging-camp, when he came in for his paper on 
the Tuesday afternoon following, " seems to me from 
what I hear tell around here, you 're tryin to kill 
yourself on this newspaper. Now, it won 't do ; I tell 
you it won 't do." 

Bartley was addressing for the mail the papers 
which one of the girls was folding. " What are you 
going to do about it ? " he demanded of his sympa 
thizer with whimsical sullenness, not troubling him 
self to look up at him. 



 

" Well, I haint exactly settled yet," replied the phi 
losopher, who was of a tall, lank figure, and of a 
mighty brown beard. " But I 've been around pretty 
much everywhere, and I find that about the poorest 
use you can put a man to is to kill him." 

" It depends a good deal on the man," said Bart- 
ley. " But that 's stale, Kinney. It 's the old formula 
of the auti-capital-punishment fellows. Try some 
thing else. They 're not talking of hanging me yet." 
He kept on writing, and the philosopher stood over 
him with a humorous twinkle of enjoyment at 
Bartley 's readiness. 

"Well, I ll allow it 's old," he admitted. "So 's 
Homer." 

" Yes ; but you don 't pretend that you wrote Ho 
mer." 

Kinney laughed mightily ; then he leaned forward, 
and slapped Bartley on the shoulder with his news 
paper. " Look here ! " he exclaimed, " I like you ! " 

" Oh, try some other tack ! Lots of fellows like 
me." Bartley kept on writing. "I gave you your 
paper, didn 't I, Kinney ? " 

" You mean that you want me to get out ? " 

" Far be it from rne to say so." 

This delighted Kinney as much as the last refine 
ment of hospitality would have pleased another man. 
" Look here ! " he said, " I want you should come out 
and see our camp. I can 't fool away any more time 
on you here ; but I want you should come out and see 
us. Give you something to write about. Hey ? " 

" The invitation comes at a time when circumstan - 
ces over winch I have no control oblige me to decline 
it. I admire your prudence, Kinney." 

" No, honest Injian, now," protested Kinney. 
"Take a day off , and fill up with dead advertise 
ments. That 's the way they used to do out in Alkali 
City when they got short of help on the Eagle, and 
we liked it just as well." 



 

" Now you are talking sense," said Bartley, looking 
up at him. " How far is it to your settlement ? " 

" Two miles, if you 're goin ; three and a half, if 
you aint." 

" When are you coming in ? " 

"I 'm in, now." 

" I can 't go with you to-day." 

" Well, how 'll  to-morrow morning suit ? " 

" To-morrow morning will suit," said Bartley. 

" All right. If anybody comes to see the editor 
to-morrow morning, Marilla, " said Kinney to the 
girl, " you tell em he 's sick, and gone a-loggin , and 
won 't be back till Saturday. Say," lie added, laying 
his hand on Hartley 's shoulder, " you aint foolin ? " 

" If I am," replied Bartley, "just mention it." 

" Good ! " said Kinney. " To-morrow it is, then." 

Bartley finished addressing the newspapers, and 
then he put them up in wrappers and packages for 
the mail. " You can go, now, Marilla," he said to the 
girl. " I 'll  leave some copy for you and Kitty ; you 'll  
find it on my table in the morning." 

" All right," answered the girl. 

Bartley went to his supper, which he ate with 
more relish than he had felt for his meals since his 
troubles began, and he took part in the supper-table 
talk with something of his old audacity. The change 
interested the lady boarders, and they agreed that he 
must have had a letter. He returned to his office, 
and worked till nine o clock, writing and selecting 
matter out of his exchanges. He spent most of the 
time in preparing the funny column, which was a 
favorite feature in the Free Press. Then he put the 
copy where the girls would find it in the morning, 
and, leaving the door unlocked, took his way up the 
street toward Squire Gaylord s. 

He knew that he should find the lawyer in his 
office, and he opened the office door without knock- 



 

ing, and went in. He had not met Squire Gaylord 
since the morning of his dismissal, and the old man 
had left him for the past eight days without any sign 
as to what he expected of Bartley, or of what he 
intended to do in his affair. 

They looked at each other, but exchanged no sort 
of greeting, as Hartley, unbidden, took a chair on the 
opposite side of the stove ; the Squire did not put 
down the book he had been reading. 

" I 've come to see what you 're going to do about 
the Free Press," said Bartley. 

The old man rubbed his bristling jaw, that seemed 
even lanker than when Bartley saw it last. He 
waited almost a minute before he replied, " I don 't 
know as I 've got any call to tell you." 

" Then I 'll  tell you what I'm going to do about 
it," retorted Bartley. " I 'm going to leave it. I 've 
done my last day 's work on that paper. Do you 
think," he cried, angrily, " that I 'm going to keep on 
in the dark, and let you consult your pleasure as to 
my future ? No, sir ! You don 't know your man 
quite, Mr. Gaylord ! " 

" You Ve got over your scare," said the lawyer. 

" I 've got over my scare," Bartley retorted. 

"And you think, because you 're not afraid any 
longer, that you 're out of danger. I know my man 
as well as you do, I guess." 

" If you think I care for the danger, I don t. You 
may do what you please. Whatever you do, I shall 
know it isn 't out of kindness for me. I didn 't 
believe from the first that the law could touch me, 
and I wasn 't uneasy on that account. But I didn 't 
want to involve myself in a public scandal, for Miss 
Gaylord 's sake. Miss Gaylord has released me from 
any obligations to her; and now you may go ahead 
and do what you like." Each of the men knew how 
much truth there was in this ; but for the moment, 



 

in his anger, Bartley believed himself sincere, and 
there is no question but his defiance was so. Squire 
Gaylord made him no answer, and after a minute of 
expectation Bartley added, " At any rate, I 've done 
with the Free Press. I advise you to stop the paper, 
and hand the office over to Henry Bird, when he gets 
about. I 'm going out to Willett 's logging-camp to 
morrow, and I 'm corning back to Equity on Saturday. 
You 'll  know where to find me till then, and after that 
you may look me up if you want me." 

He rose to go, but stopped with his hand on the 
door-knob, at a sound, preliminary to speaking, which 
the old man made in his throat. Bartley stopped, 
hoping for a further pretext of quarrel, but the law 
yer merely asked, " Where 's the key ? " 

" It 's in the office door." 

The old man now looked at him as if he no longer 
saw him, and Bartley went out, balked of his pur 
pose in part, and in that degree so much the more 
embittered. 

Squire Gaylord remained an hour longer ; then he 
blew out his lamp, and left the little office for the 
night. A light was burning in the kitchen, and he 
made his way round to the back door of the house, 
and let himself in. His wife was there, sitting before 
the stove, in those last delicious moments before 
going to bed, when all the house is mellowed to such 
a warmth that it seems hard to leave it to the cold 
and dark. In this poor lady, who had so long 
denied herself spiritual comfort, there was a certain 
obscure luxury : she liked little dainties of the table ; 
she liked soft warmth, an easy cushion. It was 
doubtless in the disintegration of the finer qualities 
of her nature, that, as they grew older together, she 
threw more and more the burden of acute feeling 
upon her husband, to whose doctrine of life she had 
submitted, but had never been reconciled. Marriage 



 

is, with all its disparities, a much more equal thing 
than appears, and the meek little wife, who has all 
the advantage of public sympathy, knows her power 
over her oppressor, and at some tender spot in his 
affections or his nerves can inflict an anguish that 
will avenge her for years of coarser aggression. 
Thrown in upon herself in so vital a matter as her 
religion, Mrs. Gaylord had involuntarily come to 
live largely for herself, though her talk wag always 
of her husband. She gave up for him, as she be 
lieved, her soul 's salvation, but she held him to 
account for the uttermost farthing of the price; She 
padded herself round at every point where she could 
have suffered through her sensibilities, and lived 
soft and snug in the shelter of his iron will and 
indomitable courage. It was not apathy that she 
had felt when their children died one after another, 
but an obscure and formless exultation that Mr. 
Gaylord would suffer enough for both. 

Marcia was the youngest, and her mother left her 
training almost wholly to her father ; she sometimes 
said that she never supposed the child would live. 
She did not actually urge this in excuse, but she had 
the appearance of doing so ; and she held aloof from 
them both in their mutual relations, with mildly crit 
ical reserves. They spoiled each other, as father and 
daughter are apt to do when left to themselves. 
What was good in the child certainly received no 
harm from his indulgence ; and what was naughty 
was after all not so very naughty. She was pas 
sionate, but she was generous ; and if she showed a 
jealous temperament that must hereafter make her 
unhappy, for the time being it charmed and flattered 
her father to have her so fond of him that she could 
not endure any rivalry in his affection. 

Her education proceeded fitfully. He would not 
let her be forced to household tasks that she disliked ; 



 

and as a little girl she went to school chiefly because 
she liked to go, and not because she would have been 
obliged to it if she had not chosen. When she grew 
older, she wished to go away to school, and her father 
allowed her; he had no great respect for boarding- 
schools, but if Marcia wanted to try it, he was willing 
to humor the joke. 

AY hat resulted was a great proficiency in the things 
that pleased her, and ignorance of the other things. 
Her father bought her a piano, on which she did not 
play much, and he bought her whatever dresses she 
fancied. He never came home from a journey with 
out bringing her something; and he liked to take her 
with him when he .went away to other places. She 
had been several times at Portland, and once at Mont 
real ; he was very proud of her ; he could not see that 
any one was better-looking, or dressed any better than 
his girl. 

He came into the kitchen, and sat down with his 
hat on, and, taking his chin between his fingers, moved 
uneasily about on his chair. 

" What 's brought you in so early ? " asked his 
wife. 

"Well, I got through," he briefly explained. Af 
ter a while he said, " Bartley Hubbard 's been out 
there." 

" You don 't mean 't he knew she " 

" No, he didn 't know anything about that. He 
came to tell me he was going away." 

" Well v I don 't know what you 're going to do, Mr. 
Gaylord," said his wife, shifting the responsibility 
wholly upon him. " he seem to want to make 
it up ? " 

" M-no ! " said the Squire, " he was on his high 
horse. He knows he aint in any danger now." 

" Aint you afraid she 'll  carry on dreadfully, when 
she finds out t he 's gone for good ? " asked Mrs. Gay- 



 

lord, with a sort of implied satisfaction that the carry 
ing on was not to affect her. 

" M-yes," said the Squire, " I suppose she 'll  carry 
on. But I don 't know what to do about it. Some 
times I almost wish I d tried to make it up between 
em that day ; but I thought she d better see, once 
for all, what sort of man she was going in for, if she 
married him. It 's too late now to do anything. The 
fellow came in to-night for a quarrel, and nothing 
else ; I could see that ; and I didn 't give him any 
chance." 

" You feel sure," asked Mrs. Gaylord, impartially, 
" that Marcia wan 't too particular ? " 

" No, Miranda, I don 't feel sure of anything, except 
that it 's past your bed-time. You better go. I 'll  
sit up awhile yet. I came in because I couldn 't 
settle my mind to anything out there." 

He took off his hat in token of his intending to 
spend the rest of the evening at home, and put it on 
the table at his elbow. 

His wife sewed at the mending in her lap, without 
offering to act upon his suggestion. " It 's plain to be 
seen that she can 't get along without him." 

" She 'll  have to, now," replied the Squire. 

" I 'm afraid," said Mrs. Gaylord, softly, " that she 'll  
be down sick. She don 't look as if she d slept any 
great deal since she 's been gone. I d know as I like 
very much to see her looking the way she does. I 
guess you 've got to take her off somewheres." 

" Why, she 's just been off, and couldn 't stay ! " 

" That 's because she thought he was here yet. But 
if he 's gone, it won 't be the same thing." 

" Well, we 've got to fight it out, some way," said 
the Squire. " It wouldn 't do to give in to it now. 
It always was too much of a one-sided thing, at the 
best ; and if we tried now to mend it up, it would be 
ridiculous. I don 't believe he would come back at 



 

all, now, and if he did, he wouldn 't come back on any 
equal terms. He d want to have everything his own 
way. M-no ! " said the Squire, as if confirming him 
self in a conclusion often reached already in his own 
mind, " I saw by the way he began to-night that there 
wasn 't anything to be done with him. It was fight 
from the word go." 

" Well," said Mrs. Gaylord, with gentle, sceptical 
interest in the outcome, " if you 've made up your 
mind to that, I hope you 'll  be able to carry it 
through." 

" That 's what I 've made up my mind to," said her 
husband. 

Mrs. Gaylord rolled up the sewing in her work- 
basket, and packed it away against the side, bracing 
it with several pairs of newly darned socks and stock 
ings neatly folded one into the other. She took her 
time for this, and when she rose at last to go out, with 
her basket in her hand, the door opened in her face, 
and Marcia entered. Mrs. Gaylord shrank back, and 
then slipped round behind her daughter and vanished. 
The girl took no notice of her mother, but went and 
sat down on her father 's knee, throwing her arms 
round his neck, and dropping her haggard face on his 
shoulder. She had arrived at home a few hours 
earlier, having driven over from a station ten miles 
distant, on a road that did not pass near Equity. Af 
ter giving as much of a shock to her mother 's mild 
nature as it was capable of receiving by her unex 
pected return, she had gone to her own room, and 're 
mained ever since without seeing her father. He put 
up his thin old hand and passed it over her hair, but 
it was long before either of them spoke. 

At last Marcia lifted her head, and looked her 
father in the face with a smile so pitiful that he could 
not bear to meet it. " Well, father ? " she said. 

" Well, Marsh," he answered huskily. 


 

" What do you think of me now ? " 

" I in glad to have you back again," he replied. 

" You know why I came ? " 

" Yes, I guess I know." 

She put down her head again, and moaned and 
cried, " Father ! Father ! " with dry sobs. When she 
looked up, confronting him with her tearless eyes, 
" What shall I do ? What shall I do ? " she demanded 
desolately. 

He tried to clear his throat to speak, but it 're 
quired more than one effort to bring the words. " I 
guess you better go along with me up to Boston. I 'm
going up the first of the week." 

" No," she said quietly. 

" The change would do you good. It 's a long 
while since you 've been away from home," her 
father urged. 

She looked at him in sad reproach of his uncandor. 
" You know there 's nothing the matter with me, 
father. You know what the trouble is." He was 
silent. He could not face the trouble. " I 've heard 
people talk of a heartache," she went on. " I never 
believed there was really such a thing. But I know 
there is, now. There 's a pain here? She pressed 
her hand against her breast. " It 's sore with aching. 
What shall I do ? I shall have to live through it 
somehow." 

" If you don 't feel exactly well," said her father, 
" I guess you better see the doctor." 

" What shall I tell him is the matter with me ? 
That I want Bartley Hubbard ? " He winced at the 
words, but she did not. " He knows that already. 
Everybody in town does. It 's never been any secret. 
I couldn 't hide it, from the first day I saw him. I d 
just as lief as not they should say I was dying for 
him. I shall not care what they say when I in 
dead." 



 

"You d ought n t, you d oughtn 't to talk that 
way, Marcia," said her father, gently. 

" What difference ? " she demanded, scornfully. 
There was truly no difference, so far as concerned any 
creed of his, and he was too honest to make further 
pretence. "What shall I do?" she went on again. 
" I 've thought of praying ; but what would be the 
use ? " 

" I 've never denied that there was a God, Marcia," 
said her father. 

" Oh, I know. That kind of God ! Well, well ! I 
know that I talk like a crazy person ! Do you suppose 
it was providential, my being with you in the office 
that morning when Bartley came in ? " 

" No" said her father, " I don t. I think it was an 
accident." 

" Mother said it was providential, my finding him 
out before it was too late." 

" I think it was a good tiling. The fellow has the 
making of a first-class scoundrel in him." 

" Do you think he 's a scoundrel now ? " she asked 
quietly. 

" He hasn 't had any great opportunity yet," said 
the old man, conscientiously sparing him. 

" Well, then, I 'm sorry I found him out. Yes ! If 
I had n t, I might have married him, and perhaps if I 
had died soon I might never have found him out. 
He could have been good to me a year or two, and 
then, if I died, I should have been safe. Yes, I wish 
lie could have deceived me till after we were married. 
Then I could nt have borne to give him up, may 
be." 

" You would have given him up, even then. And 
that 's the only thing that reconciles me to it now. 
I 'm sorry for you, my girl ; but you d have made me 
sorrier then. Sooner or later he d have broken your 
heart." 



 

" He 's broken it now," said the girl, calmly. 

" Oh, no, he has n t," replied her father, with a false 
cheerfulness that did not deceive her. " You 're young, 
and you 'll  get over it. I mean to take you away 
from here for a while. I mean to take you up to 
Boston, and on to New York. I shouldn 't care if we 
went as far as Washington. I guess, when you 've 
seen a little more of the world, you won 't think Bart- 
ley Hubbard 's the only one in it." 

She looked at him so intently that he thought she 
must be pleased at his proposal. " Do you think I 
could get him back ? " she asked. 

Her father lost his patience ; it was a relief to be 
angry. " No, I don 't think so. I know you could n t. 
And you ought to be ashamed of mentioning such a 
thing ! " 

" Oh, ashamed ! No, I 've got past that. I have 
no shame any more where he 's concerned. Oh, I 'd 
give the world if I could call him back, if I could 
only undo what I did ! I was wild ; I wasn 't reason 
able ; I wouldn 't listen to him. I drove him away 
without giving him a chance to say a word ! Of 
course, he must hate me now. What makes you think 
he wouldn 't come back ? " she asked. 

" I know he would n t," answered her father, with a 
sort of groan. " He 's going to leave Equity for one 
thing, and " 

"Going to leave Equity," she repeated, absently. 
Then he felt her tremble. " How do you know he 's 
going ? " She turned upon her father, and fixed him 
sternly with her eyes. 

" Do you suppose he would stay, after what 's hap 
pened, any longer than he could help ? " 

" How do you know he 's going ? " she repeated. 

" He told me." 

She stood up. " He told you ? When ? " 

"To-night." 



 

" Why, where where did you see him ? " she 
whispered. 

" In the office." 

" Since since -^ I came ? Bartley been here ! 
And you didn 't tell me, you didn 't let me know ? " 
They looked at each other in silence. At last, 
" When is he going ? " she asked. 

" To-morrow morning." 

She sat down in the chair which her mother had 
left, and clutched the back of another, on which her 
fingers opened and closed convulsively, while she 
caught her breath in irregular gasps. She broke into 
a low moaning, at last, the expression of abject defeat 
in the struggle she had waged with herself. Her 
father watched her with dumb compassion. " Better 
go to bed, Marcia," he said, with the same dry calm 
as if he had been sending her away after some pleas 
ant evening which she had suffered to run too far into 
the night. 

" Don 't you think don 't you think he 'll  have 
to see you again before he goes ? " she made out to 
ask. 

" No ; he 's finished up with me," said the old 
man. 

" Well, then," she cried, desperately, " you ll have 
to go to him, father, and get him to come ! I can 't 
help it ! I can 't give him up ! You Ve got to go to 
him, now, father, yes, yes, you have ! You 've got 
to go and tell him. Go and get him to come, for 
mercy 's sake ! Tell him that I 'm sorry, that I beg 
his pardon, that I didn 't think I didn 't under 
stand, that I knew he didn 't do anything wrong 
She rose, and, placing her hand on her father 's 
shoulder, accented each entreaty with a little push. 

He looked up into her face with a haggard smile of 
sympathy. " You 're crazy, Marcia," he said, gently. 

" Don 't laugh ! " she cried. " I 'm not crazy now. 



 

But I was, then, yes, stark, staring crazy. Look 
here, father ! I want to tell you, I want to explain 
to you ! " She dropped upon his knee again, and 
tremblingly passed her arm row id his neck. "You 
see, I had just told him the day before that I should 
n 't care for anything that happened before we were 
engaged, and then at the very first thing I went and 
threw him off! And I had no right to do it. He 
knows that, and that 's what makes him so hard 
towards me. But if you go and tell him that I see 
now I was all wrong, and that I beg his pardon, and 
then ask him to give me one more trial, just one more 
You can do as much as that for me, can 't you ? " 

" Oh, you poor, crazy girl ! " groaned her father. 
" Don 't you see that the trouble is in what the fellow 
is, and not in any particular thing that he 's done ? 
He 's a scamp, through and through ; and he 's all the 
more a scamp when he doesn 't know it. He hasn 't 
got the first idea of anything but selfishness." 

" No, no ! Now, I 'll  tell you, now, I 'll  prove it 
to you. That very Sunday when we were out riding 
together ; and we met her and her mother, and their 
sleigh upset, and he had to lift her back ; and it made 
me wild to see him, and I wouldn 't hardly touch him 
or speak to him afterwards, he didn 't say one angry 
word to me. He just pulled me up to him, and 
wouldn 't let me be mad ; and he said that night he 
didn 't mind it a bit because it showed how much I 
liked him. Now, doesn 't that prove he 's good, a 
good deal better than I am, and that he 'll  forgive me, 
if you 'll  go and ask him ? I know he isn 't in bed 
yet; he always sits up late, he told me so; and 
you 'll  find him there in his room. Go straight to his 
room, father ; don 't let anybody see you down in the 
office ; I couldn 't bear it ; and slip out with him as 
quietly as you can. But, oh, do hurry now ! Don 't 
lose another minute ! " 



A MODERN INSTANCE. Ill 

The wild joy sprang into her face, as her father 
rose ; a joy that it was terrible to him to see die out 
of it as he spoke : " I tell you it 's no use, Marcia ! 
He wouldn 't come if I went to him 

"Oh, yes, yes, he would! I know he would! 
If " 

" He wouldn 't ! You 're mistaken ! I should have 
to get down in the dust for nothing. He 's a bad fel 
low, I tell you ; and you 've got to give him up." 

" You hate me ! " cried the girl. The old man 
walked to and fro, clutching his hands. Their lives 
had always been in such intimate sympathy, his life 
had so long had her happiness for its sole pleasure, 
that the pang in her heart racked his with as sharp 
an agony. "Well, I shall die; and then I .hope you 
will be satisfied." 

" Marcia, Marcia ! " pleaded her father. " You don 't 
know what you 're saying." 

" You 're letting him go away from me, you 're 
letting me lose him, you 're killing me ! " 

" He wouldn 't come, my girl. It would be perfectly 
useless to go to him. You must you must try to 
control yourself, Marcia. There 's no other way, 
there 's no other hope. You 're disgraceful. You ought 
to be ashamed. You ought to have some pride about 
you. I don 't know what 's come over you since you 've 
been with that fellow. You seem to be out of your 
senses. But try, try, my girl, to get over it. If 
