influence over a woman's soul than all the ignoble host of
society.



 



 



CHAPTER XV. 

THIS IS HT LOTEB. 

Fond as Miss Ormiston is of liberty, she by no means 
despises the regulations of society. Since there are laws 
to govern spiritual, mental, and industrial worlds, she rec- 
ognizes the conventionalities that keep society together 
and prevent license or anarchy. She has a reception day, 
of great service to her in the summer when visitors are 
numerous ; and as the day following is devoted to this pur- 
pose, bethinking herself of some necessary errands, she goes 
down to her coffee and rolls while Dolly is still soundly 
asleep, and drives away in her inconspicuous attire. The 
last call is at the factory, and she hopes with all her heart 
to find Mr. Donaldson alone. 

Fortune favors her here. St. George is sitting over his 
late breakfast with Mrs. Donaldson, discussing a curious 
magazine story that has been thrown like a bombshell into 
the world of literature. 

Philip Donaldson greets her gayly, gladly. 

" Well," he says, " did our travelled truant surprise you 
yesterday ? He is  bearded like a pard,' and has lost that 
air of fastidious and exclusive over-civilization. On the 
whole, I think him improved. He is coming up to the 
height of his years. Grave as St. George has been since 
his father's death, he has seemed in many ways extremely 
young to me." 

" He is changed in some mysterious manner," Miss Or- 
miston responds absently, as if she had not quite assimi- 
lated the whole truth about him. " And I have changed, 
too," she goes on frankly. " I wonder if I have not 
made myself intensely disagreeable at times? I shall 



 



 



 

have to admit you were right in this as in many other 
things. I have been holding fast to an nnreasoning and 
I fear, unreasonable prejudice ; but henceforward we shall 
be friends." 

Donaldson laughs softly, but magnanimously forbears 
to triumph. 

" It is partly about him that I have come. I wanted to 
ask you — I spoke inadvertently last evening about the trus- 
teeship of the estate — " And she pauses in some embar- 
rassment. " I thought of this before, but should have 
consulted you first. Could you, wotUd you take it? " 

Donaldson is greatly surprised. Has she any deep rea- 
son that she does not wish to confess? 

'' But it would seem so curt to push him out ; just as 
if, knowing we could get along without him, we turn the 
cold shoulder, offer him thanks and a dismissal.'' 

Her face is in a flush of distressful scarlet. 

" It is nothing like that," she exclaims hurriedly. * ' But 
he may settle himself elsewhere ; he may want to devote 
his time to art, and he has been most generous ; while you 
are here, and the little more, — oh, am I aeMng too much 
from you?" 

"Not too much," with a gesture of the hand. "If 
there were any real need, I would gladly take all the re- 
sponsibility ; and as it is, I am honored by the trust you 
repose in me. But it doesn't seem quite kind, friendly, 
unless he suggested it." 

" I spoke to him about it," she says with a cool reserve 
in her tone. "I fancied it wovM relieve him. Then I 
wanted you to know it before he came to explain." 

Is there something beneath all this? Would she rather 
feel free from all bonds to Leighton St. George, because 
she has a dim shadow of some crisis impending? 

" Well," he replies rather reluctantly, " I will do what- 
ever you two think best. If he really desires to give it up 
—but there maybe some legal aspects that we have not con* 



 



 





Bidered. The trustee, you know, is a continual check upon 
me, that I may not have the opportunity to walk in Mr. 
Treverton's footsteps." 

She faces him indignantly at this, and looks most su- 
perb in her anger. 

" You see," he says rather gayly, " the law does try to 
keep men out of temptation by various safeguards. We 
are all quite certain of our own honesty, but we cannot be 
sure until temptation has touched us with her 'electric fin- 
ger in some weak spot, and it may prove us too weak for 
the task set before us. But if you like, we will consider 
the point." 

She evidently feels annoyed, disappointed. She fan- 
cied it a matter so easily settled, and now her good sense 
shows her that it is hardly possible. 

"Well," she makes answer, "I wanted you to know 
why I came to speak of it." 

She turns then. He does not know the why, but affects 
to treat it as a thing of not much moment, after all. Then 
with a little smile he says, — 

" While you are so considerate here. Miss Ormiston, 
extend your kindly care a little further. Do not let that 
pretty siren, Miss Allaire, make big eyes at our friend and 
turn his brain." 

A vivid scarlet flashes up in her face. Are his half- 
suspicions correct? 

Christmas goes home much disquieted. There is but one 
thing to do, make Dolly announce her engagement ; and 
oddly enough, this comes about before she even has an 
opportunity to try persuasion. 

Dolly comes down in a ravishing toilet of the most 
xnginue simplicity. The morning has been warm, but the 
sun grows more intense in its rays. The two ladies choose 
the shady porch where there is a breeze, and the light is 
filtered tiirough leaves of coolest green. Bamboo chairs 
in white and red, or brown and gilt, some with cushions 



 



 



 

of ease, others inyitingly without, make it a second edi« 
tion of the drawing-room seen through the vista of French 
windows with the draperies drawn aside. 

Carriages and dainty carts go leisurely along. Evi- 
dently there are people who brave a midsummer heat; 
but the great trees of the country road were preserved on 
one side when it was made into a more pretentious 
avenue, and there is some shade. One of the carts, 
very handsome in its way, stops at the drive a moment, 
then winds leisurely up. 

The owner and occupant is a fair young woman, sty* 
lishly dressed, a Mrs. Brundage, who made Miss Ormistoi"s 
acquaintance the summer before, and is settled again at 
the Cliff House. She ties her pony and entreats that they 
will not disturb themselves, for it is delightful out here. 
Surely Miss Ormiston is to be envied in the summer, but 
she cannot imagine one braving the dreariness of the 
winter. 

Mrs. Brundage has some business beyond the mere 
compliment of a call, and she presently unfolds it. The 
ladies at Cliff House have resolved upon a somewhat 
grand undertaking, amateur theatricals, with a play of 
some merit, not merely a show of elegant gowns and 
jewels. And' to give it the real flavor, tickets must be 
sold and the proceeds put to some useful purpose. 

"AU this is sort of siib rosa"' she explains, with a 
discreet nod of her head in its dainty chip hat, nearly 
covered with white silk mull and two brilliant poppies. 
"We want a charitable object, and knowing you were 
interested in the new Orphans' Home, we thought of that. 
Do you suppose the committee would not only accept the 
money, but allow us to state the object? It gives a kind 
of eclat, you know." 

" I am not on the committee, but I see no reasonable 
objection," returns Miss Ormiston, thoughtfully. 

" Some people are so queer about such tilings ! " and a 



 



 





toacb of contempt curls the pretty mouth. " In the city, 
you know, we should choose our own audience ; but we do 
not want to act to empty chairs " ; and she laughs lightly. 
"We may be of some real service, if the people are not 
too straitlaced. And if you wovM be kind enough to 
learn whether they would be pleased to accept the pro- 
ceeds of our united talent ! " she entreats. 

" With pleasure," Miss Ormiston replies, most cordially. 

Dolly meanwhile has been growing interested and ea- 
ger-eyed. Mrs. Bmndage has given her several glances 
of curiosity. 

" Ton must come over, Miss Allaire," she says brightly. 
"We have a sort of dancing party every Thursday 
evening ; there is one to-night. We hardly dignify them 
by the name of hops, but they are really delightful for 
those who love to dance. Tou look as if you might do 
some acting as well. Are you fond of it ? " 

" Extravagantly I " cries Dolly, with enthusiasm. 

"I wonder if I have not met you before?" inquires 
Mrs. Brundage, in a suave manner. " I had a summer at 
Newport just before I was married, and there was a Miss 
Allaire at her sister's, Mrs. Stannard's. It was — " 

"A century ago," laughs Dolly, reddening a little. 
" And my only excuse for living until this time as Miss 
Allaire is that my lover has been exploring Fartiier India, 
so far, indeed, that he has but just returned to America." 

They both laugh at this sally. 

" IVe been trying to think every moment of the time 
where I had seen you, your very voice was so familiar. 
And I'm sure you need not apologize for being Miss 
Allaire, for you hardly look more than a school-girl yet. 
How have you managed to keep your juvenescence? Take 
my advice and put off matrimony as long as possible. 
Why are we all such idiots as to rush into marriage the 
moment a man asks us ? What a gay summer that was I 
Oh ! do you remember that handsome young Jeffries who 



 



 



 

used to follow 700 like a shadow? Wasn't he with an 
English party. Is he the fortonate man, after all this 
waiting?" 

"No," says Dolly, in a curiously hollow tone; "I 
have gone by contrasts, and chosen some one much older 
and wiser and better every way, who I dare say will end 
by making quite a saint of me, — a model wife in every re- 
spect. But I've stipulated for this summer of freedom." 

" Then we shall not see him," says Mrs. Brundage, dis- 
appointedly. 

" Oh, yes ! He came yesterday, and business will keep 
him in Camley, — how long, Christmas? and devotion 
the remainder of the summer." 

Dolly gives a short laugh, which, if it is meant for 
amusement, is a rather ghostly attempt. 

A servant brings a plate of cake and some iced wine. 
There is a little more desultory gossiping, and Mrs. Brun- 
dage goes, after making Dolly promise that she will be 
sure to come this evening, and begging Miss Ormiston to 
do the same. 

St. George comes up late in the afternoon, and aa 
Dolly insists they shall keep their word, they drive over 
to Cliff House about nine in the evening, since her lover 
resolves they shall be at home by eleven. The guests are 
all of the higher class, and there is some exquisite music 
from the band, to say nothing of the elegant dressing. 
St. George does not dance ; but Dolly has two very agree- 
able partners, and then she is so tired she is content to 
sit still awhile, especially as she meets some old friends. 

" I hope Helen will come up," she says, as she sinks 
languidly back in the carriage. " She will like it, I know. 
The parts are cast for the play, and I am to go to the re- 
hearsal next Tuesday evening. Leslie Bennett is to come 
up and set them straight, and then he is to take the last 
rehearsal. They mean to acquit themselves with honor." 

It has not been a tiresome evening for Christmas. She 



 



 





has danced once more than Dolly ; she found in it all her 
olden delight. What with business troubles and society 
of a more solid kind, she has not been much addicted to 
gayeties for the last two years. 

St. George accepts an invitation for the night. 

" You can have the guest-chamber par experience" says 
Miss Ormiston with a smile, " or your old room. It is 
the one in which fewest changes have been made." 

"I will try that, then," the visitor returns. 

Dolly goes straight to her room and locks her door,— a 
rather unusual proceeding. Miss Ormiston lays aside her 
white grenadine with its pretty lace garniture, and array* 
ing herself in a dressing-sacque, takes down the great 
coil of hair and brushes it with an irregularity quite un- 
usual for her. Now and then she pauses altogether, for 
she is studying this strange, incongruous engagement. 
She takes a broader view of marriage in general, and won- 
ders how many are of high spiritual election ; how many 
are fitted for each other and for happiness together. Of 
all who have come under her especial notice, Uie Donald- 
sons, perhaps ; but her experience has not been wide or 
intimate, and there may be many others. She has liked 
Mr. Brundage extremely this evening; he has some of 
the higher intellectual points. He and Mr. St. Geoige 
seem to assimilate readily, but his wife is merely a 
bright, fashionable woman. Are her ideals formed amid 
too much solitude and grand communings with the eternal 
harmonies of nature? She is a little doubtful of herself, 
and tacitly admits that the love she dreams of may be 
quite impossible in this flawed and imperfect world. 
Dolly surely has degenerated. There is a kind of elfish 
inconsequence, almost maliciousness, in her nature, and 
yet she can be wondrously, pathetically sweet; but her 
sense of honor is at a low ebb, and though she might not 
tell absolute falsehoods, she is not true in word and deed, 
as Miss Ormiston has trained her own soul to be. Mr* 



 



 



 

St. Greorge has this high, exceeding honesty. She sees 
now that she might have fallen into less scrapulous hands 
and never emerged from the wreck. She has been in a 
degree thankless ; she has not paid him the high respect 
due the steady manful virtae he has shown all these years. 
In her heart a strange pity springs up for him, a sympa- 
thy that is at once yearning and intense. Can she do 
anything to raise Dolly to purer heights of womanhood, to 
make her more companionable for such a man? Yet why 
did he choose her? And Miss Ormiston's brow knits in 
unwonted perplexity. He had always kno¥m her, he 
could not have been blinded or led astray. But she is cer- 
tain there is no deep, vital love between them. 

Lehton St. George is in unknown secret sympathy 
with her. Here in the old room where he has studied 
out problems, planned and discussed with Donaldson, 
dreamed his own elusive, delightful visions of some fame 
and much enjoyment, he sits pondering the great blunder 
he has made against his own better judgment ; the devas- 
tation he has brought into his life by an act of unwonted 
momentary sympathy. If Dolly had not come to Glen 
Ormiston, if he had always seen her in the worid to which 
she belonged, he might not have been so positively con- 
fronted with it. But beside this pure, delicate woman- 
hood, whose very independence has always been a curious 
bugbear, she drops down into a narrow, self-willed, vapid, 
unreasonable child, a burden, nay, worse, for a simple 
burden might be bravely borne ; but to have the continual 
fret of a frivolous and insignificant nature, that can have 
no access to higher things, is terrible. 

And then to be misunderstood or uncomprehended by 
this larger, broader soul, with its serene strength for the 
great duties of life, its keen and perfect appreciation for 
all that is graceful and gracious, along with its just con- 
ception of duty and virtue that, now he admits to himself, 
make her none the less womanly. Indeed, her noble 



 



 





tenderness for Dolly was the first thing that had given 
him the key to her nature ; that delicate way of humoring 
her as one does a captious child, and making her appear 
at her best estate. But the reflected virtues do not de- 
ceive him. Dolly's selfish nature defeats Miss Ormiston's 
good intent, for she pays her friend back in coin of a 
base, counterfeit kind. The ingratitude stings him, since 
it has its root in that utter failure to comprehend anything 
nobler than herself. 

Leighton St. George paces the floor softly. He has 
made that greatest and saddest of mistakes that must 
entail years, perhaps a lifetime, of misery. He has not 
studied his nature and its wants ; his perceptions have 
been confused ; he has not considered the powerful laws 
from which a man's love springs ; he has put something 
baser, lower, and untrue in its place, and now he must 
suffer all the wrongs of an outraged being. He can do 
this in silence, so far as the world is concerned ; but this 
other woman, with the soul shaped to generous uses, must 
come to know that it was circumstances and not pure 
election on his part. He recognizes now that a man of 
the world would have been more wary ; indeed, he could 
have seen for another ; he did see in that curious, intan- 
gible way, when Ward Allaire proposed to marry Miss 
Ormiston. Ah, well, he had let other sympathies and 
respects blind him, and after this one confession of weak- 
ness he must be blind again forever. 

Dolly is not down to breakfast the next morning. The 
three sit at the table, St. George opposite Miss Ormiston. 

They discuss the previous evening, the guests at Cliff 
House, and they both agree to admire Mr. Brundage. 
Something in her clear discrimination, in her delicate 
shades of analysis, seems to catch and hold him with a 
subtile fascination. It leaves a sense of elegance and 
perfectness that is most grateful to his distracted mind. 
Her Toioe, too, has those sensitive but not weak intonation
; She can be enthusiastic, but she does not clond the 
fine atmosphere about her by exaggerations ; she is truth 
in its most attractive guise, that is not made a foil for any 
hidden malice or selfishness or ambitions. 

They are lingering over the last sips of coffee when 
Dolly flits in with a gay greeting, looking fresh and girl- 
ish in her white morning-dress that is elaborate enough 
for a party, with its laces and ribbons. She is more than 
pretty, — bewitching, dainty, and just now intensely good- 
humored. 

The question suddenly comes home to him, can he, in 
honor to the woman he is to marry, discuss his mistake 
with another? 

For an instant he is amazed at himself. Surely he has 
forgotten his  fine code. No; he might come and 
confess some bitter sin of his own to her ; but even if he 
ventured upon the other, her strict rectitude would soon 
lead him back. 

"What are your plans for the morning?'' he asks, 
turning to Dolly. 

''Oh!" with a little laugh, '«am / to be considered? 
Then it is not business and business." And she shrugs 
her shoulders with Parisian grace. 

'' Not until eleven, when I have an engagement with 
Donaldson," he answers quietly. 

" Let me see then :' we might drive," with a question- 
ing look at Christmas. 

" You are entirely welcome to the ponies, if that is 
what you mean." And a smile that deepens the flush 
illumines her face, giving her a moment's illusive beauty 
that is like a revelation to St. George. 

"We might have the carriage," begins Dolly. "It 
would be stupid, just us two alone. You see," with a 
rather awkward little laugh, " we are lovers of the present 
period. We do not need to shut out the world in order to 
have the exquisite pleasure of studying each other's per« 



 



 





fections. We knew them all beforehand. Mamma, yon 
know, trained me into an implicit belief, and Leighton 
is the embodiment of knightly chivalry that can see no 
faults, even if I had them. So, if we can aU go, and 
yon have neither books to look over nor orders to give 
nor paper to inspect, — oh, how can yon bother yonr 
brains with snch matters ! " 

"You wonld hardly imagine it," replies Christmas in a 
bright, cordial tone ; " but I can even add to all this the 
delicate task of learning whether the committee of the 
Orphans' Home will have any objection to their name 
being used on the tickets of the Cliff House Dramatic 
Association. That was my errand this morning." 

" Then let Leighton drive us about, and you shall be 
carefully handed out somewhere to undertake this quest. 
While you are talking within doors, we will be saying 
spicy and ill-natured things to each other." 

" But why ill-natured ? " queries Christmas with a pretty 
incredulity. 

"To keep us from growing too sentimental. It is not 
good form." 

" I am at your service" ; and St. George bows gravely. 

There is nothing for her to do but consent, though she 
would rather send the lovers off by themselves. The 
carriage is ordered, and Christmas reappears in a soft 
grayish silk, while Dolly envelops herself in a thin, fleecy 
Parisian wrap that allows the white glimpses here and 
there to form a contrast with the olive in deep russet 
flecks. Her hat is the perfection of coquetry, and the 
peach-bloom on her cheeks a marvel. Indeed, she puzzles 
Christmas, for now she is all archness and vivacity. 

They take the ravine road first, while they are fresh and 
the morning is at its loveliest. For some distance the sun 
scarcely pierces it, but grains like gold quiver here and 
there. All the air is sweet with resinous odors, and every 
few seconds some bird-call or happy warble pierces it. 
IS 

zed by VjOOQ IC 



 

Overhead the trees nearly shut oat the blue. The spell 
would be exquisite, St. George thinks, with a woman who 
could comprehend it ; but this unceasing volatile chatter 
drives him half distracted. In vain Christmas makes nn- 
perceived efforts, as she thinks, to moderate the senseless 
gayety, since she reads the secret distress in the brows a 
trifle drawn, and the set, resolute eyes, the compressed 
lips, and infrequent replies. Every moment this unwise 
choice becomes more of a mystery to her, and her sym- 
pathy deepens. 

Out through the woods they go, touching at the river- 
side, then a turn is made townward. Christmas stops at 
Mrs. Longford's, who fortunately is in, and does her er- 
rand satisfactorily. 

"Of course," says Dolly triumphantly, as if she had 
been arguing the case, "they could not have made any 
objection. It is not like a church." 

" Still you would have had no right to use their name 
without their consent," remarks St. George in a gently 
corrective tone. 

" Oh," says Dolly, " or do you mean Christmas? As we 
are neither of us going to act — : but oh, I wish I were ! " 
and her tone changes instantaneously. "I suppose the 
play is all cast," regretfully. 

" The asking is a matter of formal politeness," returns 
Christmas quietly. 

" You never played, did you? " asks Dolly, whose vola- 
tile mind has left the question of proprieties far behind. 

Christmas gives a slow negative with her head. 

" It is just delightful. I was in the prethest little vau- 
deville once at Paris, and I have been in no end of acting 
charades. English people have a passion for them, too. 
We had a play Christmas eve, at Lucia's. Her husband's 
uncle was ill, and they were all so dreadfully afraid he 
would die before we could get through. It was just ele- 
gant. Do you remember that cousin Walter Staular, 



 



 





Leighton? He had a part, and I was the heroine, — a 
pretty Irish girl whom another lover tried to carry oflP. 
There was lots of fun in it." 

" If you did not mind," says Christmas, " we might call 
at Cliff House, and then our part of the affair will be done 
with promptness and success." 

" How business-y I " laughs Dolly, with a flavor of irony. 

No one objects, however, and they take the right-hand 
torn in the road. The front of Cliff House is north- 
easterly, and now it is in the shade and presents a most 
picturesque appearance. It really seems to hang in the 
air amid the hills as they wind around. The broad ve- 
randa is full of easy-chairs, with two hammocks enviously 
interspersed, and groups of guests in white and gay cos- 
tumes are rocking and chatting or lounging. Some one 
within is playing on the piano, accompanied by a flute, 
and the delicious sounds down here in the drive seem a 
component part of the summer. 

Mr. St. George springs out and goes in search of Mrs. 
Brundage, who comes down to the carriage under an azure- 
lined parasol, and expresses her heartiest thanks to Miss 
Ormiston. The gentlemen are to have the tickets printed 
immediately, and there are to be no complimentaries in 
this laudable undertaking. " If we are very much ad- 
mired, we may do something for our friends later in the 
season," declares Mrs. Brundage ; " but we shall rate our 
success by the money we make. That is one of the essen- 
tials of business, is it not?" 

If the inquiry is for Miss Ormiston, Mr. St. Greorge 
intercepts it. 

'' So we men generally think," he replies cordially. 

" And now," when Mrs. Brundage has turned and he is 
stiU standing, " if you will not mind driving home ; for I 
am late, I find." And he glances at his watch. 

" We will go down to the factory for the morning's 
mail," answers Christmas gravely; and he springs in 
again. 



 



 



CHAPTEB XVI. 

WOMEN AKD WOMEN. 

A LONG foreign letter from abroad, and a brief note 
from Mrs. Stannard, are Dolly's portion. 

" Helen is coming to Cliff House for a fortnight," she 
announces, " and I am quite certain it will lengthen out 
indefinitely. She brings up her hcnrses, and that will be 
delightful, and she sends regards to you ; what an im- 
pertinence, she hopes St. Greorge is not really living with 
us." 

A faint flush stains Miss Ormiston's fair brow. 

"Of course," she says, "Mr. St. Greorge is better 
versed in the proprieties." 

" I don't see," begins Dolly in a spirit of contrariety, 
" why there should be anything terrible in your guardian 
making you a visit now and then." 

'' He is not my guardian," is the brief answer. 

" Well, he is something. And he does have to come 
on business. I won't have Helen ordering about. It 
is not her lover." 

Chnstmas makes no comment. 

If Dolly has been childishly amiable during the mcnn- 
ing, she rises from her siesta in a most perverse mood. 
For a wonder no one drops in, and the moments begin to 
hang heavily on the poor butterfly's hands, now that she 
feels well enough to enjoy having incense offered at her 
shrine and finds no one to do it. Even Mrs. Byrne has 
gone to spend the day with her sister. Christmas has 
been reading and dreaming strange troubled dreams for 
her that she tries to dismiss, but that recur with painful 



 



 





persistency. How do women spend whole lives dawdling 
over trifles, she wonders, with no strong vital interest, no 
sympathetic purpose or endeavor for their fellow-crea- 
tures! 

" Is Leighton coming up again this evening?'' DoUy in- 
quires with a ya¥m. 

" You should have asked him," replies Christmas point- 
edly. " He is always a welcome guest." 

" But not a very devoted — lover," says Dolly with a 
touch of asperity. " I really do not care when tiiere are 
other people about ; indeed, too much devotion is nauseating 
in the man you are to marry ; but when one is all alone — 
Christmas," irrelevantly, " did you ever have a lover?" 

" No," is the decisive answer, and a flush stains the 
averted face. 

" Of course I know Ward wanted to marry you : ridic- 
ulous, was it not? But I don't see how you can go on 
this way, with no prospect of marrying, and no one mak- 
ing love, even in fun." 

There is no response, so presently Dolly continues : — 

"And I have had such loads of them. Why, I had 
two oflPers before we left Meadowcrof t to spend that win- 
ter in New York, and I don't remember how many there. 
Men who can't marry, poor men I mean, are always pro- 
posing. I suppose they go from one girl to another, and 
like the fun as well as we do." 

" But, Dolly, what can such a regard be worth?" asks 
Christmas rather severely. 

"Well," and the answer is rather warm, "some of 
them do make love deliciously. There is a great deal of 
humbug talked about first love, and I think it rather poor, 
unpractised stuff, quite lacking in flavor and vim and 
daring intensity. A desperate lover is such a source of 
interest." 

"Why did you not choose a desperate one ? " says Miss 
Ormiston in a tone of repressed indignation. 



 



 



 

" Because I didn't want a desperate husband," replies 
Dolly with a sense of amusement. " You are such an 
innocent about men, Christmas. And just then I was in 
awful trouble. There were two desperate ones, one was 
Lord Clenholm's cousin — the Mr. Staniar I spoke of this 
morning. He was very rich by his mother's second mar- 
riage, and she doted on him as he was her only son. How 
it did vex her that an American girl should $o completely 
bewitch him, and I enjoyed it to the full I Lu wanted to 
make it an engagement ; but Staniar was one of those 
small, blond Englishmen that look like boys, and he was 
past thirty. There was another, a handsome guardsman, 
and between the two they drove me nearly distracted. It 
wouldn't have done to go on, and I didn't want to marry 
Staniar, and the other was too poor. Just then St. George 
made his appearance, and in a little while began to think 
of joining this party for some Indian explorations. 
There were two artists and two or three literary men. It 
was such a good chance ! " And Dolly laughs elfishly. 

Christmas looks at her in surprise, indeed there is a 
deeper feeling compounded of indignation and disgust. 

" I suppose I shock your Ormiston prinmess." And a 
mischievous glow shines in the eyes that now have amber 
lights in them. 

" Do you mean it was a good chance for him to go 
away?" she inquires coldly. 

" The chance was for me, innocent. To be engaged 
and have my lover away, left me comparative freedom 
again ; do you not see ? So, I made him propose ; at least, 
I compelled him to say he loved me — he did love me, you 
know, but not in that way. He never knew the differ- 
ence." And Dolly laughs again with a keen sense of 
amusement. 

"Dolly!" and now her anger, for it is that, finds a 
voice ; " how can jou, how can any woman do such a 
thing?" 



 



 





"But I do love him," remonstrates Dolly. "I shall 
never love any one any better. He is patient and restful ; 
he has an interest of his own ; he can spend days and days 
Gvet his pictures, and he liked it because I did not want 
to keep him from going to India. It isn't every girl who 
would give up her lover for a year and a half the very 
week after she was engaged. It was generous," in a tone 
of self -admiration. "And you see mamma and Lu had 
nothing further to say, for he was rich enough, and mam- 
ma always had a hankering fondness for him. If he had 
been ten years older, I do believe she would have married 
him herself. And so I was very sweet, I could afford to 
be that a little while. I had my liberty and he had his, and 
we just wrote letters. I can write delicious letters," she 
says naively. " Since one has to be married and can have 
a choice, the least objectionable is the best, to my fancy. 
I have seen so many of them," with that world-weary air 
as if the admiration of men surfeited her. 

" And you mean to marry with just this neutral sort of 
preference?" Christmas says, amazed. 

" O Chris, if you could look that way you might be 
quite dangerous as a rival ! It would be an excitement ; 
but it would hardly pay, between you and me. And you 
see I trust you — one always could. You care so little 
for admiration, and I thrive on it. Excitements wear me, 
though. I 'm not real strong any more," she says plain- 
tively, " and he will take good care of me. There will 
be no violent alternations ; I could not stand it. And 
though I tease him a little just to keep my hand in, we 
shall make a comfortable couple in the main. I shall 
never take Helen's worry about society and gauge the 
blue blood one has in one's veins. There, my dear, you 
have all of this strange moving history." 

Dolly rises from her chair and crosses to the hammock, 
arranging herself with languid grace and the perfect self- 
possession of egotistical ease. She has settled her life 



 



 



 

and can drink leisurely of her cup in which no bitter will 
be mingled. For a moment Miss Ormiston's strong sense 
of right and womanly honor make a protest against the 
manifest injustice of so coolly taking possession of a 
man's life and making no return. It is not simply be- 
cause it is Leighton St. Greorge ; but any man would have 
her sympathies. Can she meet him and keep this wretched 
knowledge out of her face. 

As for Dolly, she feels the utter hopelessness of rous- 
ing her to any sense of womanly responsibility. She re- 
members when she first went to Meadowcroft that the 
sort of infantine sweetness was eminently attractive, and 
seemed the exponent of the most charming simplicity. 
She understands how alluring it is to people who have 
not learned to look under the surface and discriminate. 
These pretty baby ways and petulances sit admirably 
upon the girl, who is always posing to the best advantage, 
as if the whole of life was a theatrical show. She sur- 
rounds herself with flowers and goes into a sort of rapt 
ecstasy when there is any one to listen ; but she has no 
deep passion for them ; indeed, would be apt to pronounce 
them a litter under some circumstances. It is the same 
with music. The long evenings Christmas spends at the 
piano for her own solace would bore Dolly dreadfully. 
She must have an audience whom she can move and effect, 
or there is no interest in anything. 

Christmas Ormiston thinks she has seen men whose 
greatest desire appears to be that outside, worldly admi- 
ration for their wives. Why did not Dolly select such a 
one, since, it seems, she can bring any man to the point 
of making love to her. Why choose this one, capable of 
appreciating a higher kind of woman and a higher kind of 
happiness? 

Mrs. Byrne comes home and there is tea. There are 
no calls in the evening. Dolly yawns and frets awhile, 
then curls herself on the sofa and goes fast asleep ; Christ- 



 



 





mas takes up a magazine and reads an article aloud to her 
friend, to distract her thoughts from St. George. She 
cannot resolve the endless tangle ; it is their lives they 
have marred, and she tells herself that it really can be 
nothing to her. But is there some kind of occult fate that 
brings people around to you and gives you a work to do 
for them, whether you will or not? 

St. George spends the evening. in the Donaldsons' pretty 
drawing-room. Of all the people he has known, Miss 
Ormiston and Mrs. Donaldson have developed with more 
fineness and simplicity, have added more largely to that 
spiritual and intellectual grace which is not severity or 
self-complacency. Mrs. Donaldson, with returning health, 
has bloomed into a most admirable mother. She has the 
quality that always attracted him so strongly in Mrs. 
