by the death of an elder brother. He had served in the army for many
years, and had attained the rank of major. He was better pleased to be
called by his military than by his family title, in this republican
land. But he was too proud to allow me to continue in the employ of my
cousin, though he did not object to his nephew as a passenger when I
desired it. He left everything to me to manage as I pleased after he
had cancelled the charter agreement. With this abstract of previous
events my readers will be prepared to understand what is to follow.

Captain Boomsby's saloon was on Bay Street. He had a bar for the white
and respectable customers on that street, and another in the rear for
negroes. I was never even tempted to drink any intoxicating beverages;
and when he became a rumseller, I thought my tyrant had found his
proper level. His son Nick tended the front bar, while he waited upon
the negroes, who imbibed the cheapest corn-whiskey and apple-brandy by
the tumbler-full at a dram.

When I went into the saloon Captain Boomsby was seated in the rear of
the room, where he had a view of both bars. He was at least half "full"
himself. He was badly bloated, and his face was red and almost
honeycombed with toddy-blossoms.

"Well, Sandy, what do you want now?" demanded the saloon-keeper, when I
came into his presence. He did not call me "Alick," as others did, but
still used the name by which I had been known when he took me from the
poor-house in the State of Maine.

"Nothing, Captain Boomsby; only we sail to-morrow, and I thought I
would say good-by to you, for I may never see you again," I replied.

"I never want to see you no more," growled he. "You've always behaved
bad ever since I fust knowed you, and you will come to some bad end
yet."

"I hope not," I said, seating myself.

"You sartin will. I took care on you when you was little, and done
everything I could for you; but you have worked agin me from the fust."

As I seated myself I saw a customer come up to the front bar. He had a
package, which he laid upon the counter while he poured out his dram.

"I don't think it's any use for you and me to talk over these things,"
I added, turning my eyes from the counter to the bloated face of my
former tyrant. "We shall not be likely to agree in regard to matters in
the past."

"You know just as well as I do that the steam-yacht you sail in
rightfully belongs to me," he added.

"I think not. If she belongs to anybody besides myself, it must be to
my father."

"That man ain't your father any more'n I am."

At that moment a rather rough-looking man came into the saloon, walked
far enough back to look into the negro bar, and then retreated.

"I think it has been fully proved that Major Garningham is my father,"
I replied.

I had scarcely spoken the words, as the rough-looking visitor was
retreating without any dram, when Nick made a flying leap over the
counter, and rushed out at the street door. The gentleman with the
package had his eyes upturned to the ceiling, in the act of draining
the tumbler in which he had elaborately stirred up the fiery mixture.



When Nick went over the counter the customer was startled. He saw, at
the same moment I discovered the fact, that the package he had laid
upon the counter was missing. He rushed out of the saloon like a crazy
man.




CHAPTER II.

FOUR THOUSAND DOLLARS.


"What on airth does all that mean?" said Captain Boomsby, rising with
difficulty from his chair, and walking towards the front door.

"I'm sure I don't know," I replied. "I saw Nick leap over the counter
as though he had found a mocassin-snake behind it."

"Don't say nothin' about mocassins here, for you scart my wife out of
her seven senses once afore," said the captain, savagely, as he stopped
and looked at me.

He had set a trap to have such a snake bite me in his house; but I was
not thinking of that when I named the venomous reptile. This event, and
the quantity of his own vile fluids he consumed, made him sensitive on
the subject of snakes. I was afraid he would soon see more of them than
he could manage.

"What made Nick run out so quick, and what did Peverell follow him for,
without payin' for his liquor?" continued Captain Boomsby, when he had
properly admonished me in regard to the snakes.

"I don't know, sir," I replied. "Who was the man that followed Nick?"

"That was Peverell."

"Who is Peverell?" I asked. "What does he do?"

"He is the messenger, I believe they call him, of the First National
Bank of Florida."

"That explains it all, then," I added, beginning to understand the
situation.

"I don't see nothin'. What explains it all?" demanded the captain,
testily.

"Peverell had a package when he came in. He put it on the counter
before he poured out his dram," I explained. "When Nick went over the
counter the package was gone. If Peverell is the messenger of a bank, I
have no doubt the bundle contained money in bank notes."

"Creation! You don't! But what made Nick go over the bar so like a
hoppergrass?" exclaimed the saloon-keeper.

"I don't know. I can only understand what I saw."

"If Nick's got that bundle of money, he's smart," added Captain
Boomsby.

"Do you think it was smart to steal it, captain?" I asked, mildly.

"How big a package was it, Sandy?" replied my tyrant, turning away from
the moral question.

"It was at least two inches thick."

"Creation! Then there ain't less than a thousand dollars in it!"

"Let us hope that Nick did not take it," I added.

"Well, you go out, Sandy, and see where Nick's gone. I can't leave both
bars without anybody to look out for 'em, for them niggers will come in
and steal the liquor as quick as they will chickens."

I was interested to know the meaning of what I had seen in the saloon,
and I went out into Bay Street. A crowd of men were rushing towards a
narrow street leading down to the river. I followed them, and, near the
landing-place of the Charleston steamers, I saw a colored policeman lay
violent hands on the rough-looking person who had walked into the
saloon, looked into the negro bar, and then retreated.

Nick was on the spot, hatless and coatless, almost as soon as the
policeman had grabbed his victim. Mr. Peverell was only a moment
behind. By this time I had framed an explanation of what had transpired
in the saloon which satisfied me for the moment, whether it was correct
or not. While Peverell was concocting his beverage--and he had seemed
to me to be very dainty and particular in the preparation of it--he had
almost turned his back upon the package on the counter.

I was not bestowing any particular attention upon the rough-looking
visitor, but I had seen him pass close by the bank messenger. I
concluded that he had snatched up the package on the counter, and
retreated with it from the saloon. Nick had either seen the man take
the bundle, or had discovered that it was missing. No one could have
taken it but the person who was passing out of the door. On the impulse
of the moment the young bar-tender had leaped over the counter to
pursue the thief.

Of course a crowd quickly collected around the robber and the
policeman, with Nick and the messenger in the inner circle. The bank
official was very much excited, and I judged that the package contained
a considerable sum of money. Nick was hardly less disturbed. I was
interested enough to run all the way to the pier, and work myself into
the centre of the crowd before it had become very compact.

"Dat's jes like you, Buckner," said the policeman, as soon as he could
obtain breath enough to speak,--and he had not quite enough when he did
speak. "I done cotch you doin' dat same ting before."

"Doing what thing, you black spider?" demanded Buckner, who appeared to
be greatly astonished at his arrest.

"You done stole someting," protested the guardian of the peace. "What
did you run for if you don't steal someting?"

"I didn't steal anything! I run because the rest of you did, to find
out what the matter was," replied Buckner, stoutly. "What did I steal,
you black Lazarus?"

"Donno what you 'tole. I 'pose dis gemman can told what you 'tole,"
replied the policeman, turning to Peverell.

"He stole a package of bank bills I laid on the counter; that is what
he stole! And there was four thousand dollars in the package, too,"
gasped the messenger.

"Did you see me take the package?" demanded Buckner, indignantly.

"I did not; but you were the only person that came into the saloon and
left it while I was there," replied Peverell, sharply; and it was
evident that he had no doubt at all in regard to the guilty person.

"I didn't touch your package! I didn't see any package! I didn't go
near you, or even know you were in the saloon!" protested Buckner,
vehemently. "I'm a poor man, I know, and it is hard enough for me to
get a living; but I never stole the value of a penny in my life."

"But I saw him take it!" broke in Nick, with almost as much earnestness
as Buckner or Peverell, though he had no special interest in the
animated discussion. "The moment he tried to get out of the saloon, I
jumped over the counter and went for him."

"That's so!" added Peverell, with increasing energy. "But we are
wasting time. Why don't you search your prisoner, and get the package?
If he stole it, he has the package now."

"Search me as much as you like!" replied Buckner, warmly.

"Search him!" "Overhaul him!" "Clean him out!" shouted the crowd, who
were working themselves up to a fever-heat over the case.

"He's thrown it away before this time," suggested Nick.

"He couldn't have thrown it away without some one seeing him do it,"
replied Peverell. "Did any one see him throw it away?"

"No! no!" shouted the bystanders.

I had seen Buckner running down the middle of the narrow street, with
the officer, Nick, Peverell, and others, within a few feet of him. It
would have been almost impossible for him to get rid of the bundle in
any way without being observed.

"He might have thrown it into the river," again suggested Nick.

"He done don't go widin twenty yards ob de riber; and he done don't
frow no package in de riber when I don't see him. Dis chile hab his
four eyes open all de time," added the policeman.

"Search him!" "Turn him inside out!" shouted the crowd again.

"Search me all you like!" cried Buckner, pulling out both the pockets
of his pants, and throwing up his arms in readiness to submit to the
operation. "I haven't got the package, and I never saw it."

"How big was de package, Mr. Peverell?" asked the officer, as he
proceeded to examine the clothing of the prisoner.

"It was the size of a bank-bill, and about two inches thick," replied
the messenger, very anxiously.

"I don't find noffin like dat on dis yere prisonder," said the officer,
when he had felt his man all over.

"You won't find nothing if you search me all day and all night,"
protested Buckner; and there was something like a proud dignity in his
manner, though he was not a good-looking man.

But it is possible to be honest without being handsome; and rogues
assume virtues they do not possess. Certainly, the valuable package was
not concealed upon the person of Buckner. The only alternative was,
that he had thrown it away,--cast it into some hole, or pitched it into
the river.

"There can be no doubt this is the man that took the package from the
counter, for no one else came near me while I was in the saloon,"
reasoned Peverell, whose vehemence had calmed down, and given place to
a deep anxiety.

"I've said all I have to say, and you can do what you like with me; but
I will make it hot for some of you before you see the end of this
business," said Buckner, doggedly. "I'm a poor man, but I'm not to be
trodden on, any more than a nigger is!"

By this time the crowd had scattered to make a search in the holes and
in the water for the missing package.

"What were you doing in the saloon?" asked the messenger, in a mild
tone.

"I went in there to see if I could find a man to help me take up a
couple of trunks to the St. James," replied Buckner. "I looked into the
nigger bar, and then came out. I saw there was a man at the front bar;
but I took no notice of him, and didn't see any package."

"Before you had reached the door, this young man had jumped over the
counter, and was chasing you. He was sure you had taken the package;
and no one else could have taken it," added Peverell, warming up again.

"But I didn't take it, and that's all I have to say about it," answered
Buckner, decidedly.

"I saw him take it!" repeated Nick, with emphasis. "He must have thrown
it into the river."

The policeman led his prisoner away to the lockup, while all the rest
of us followed up the search for half an hour. The messenger said the
bills were done up between two tin slabs of the size of the notes, and
inclosed in brown paper. Some searched on the pier, and some went out
in boats,--but no package could be found. The search was given up, and
I went back to the saloon with Nick and Peverell.

Captain Boomsby's son told his father all about the affair from
beginning to end. He was putting the whiskey-bottle back into its place
under the counter, when he heard Buckner's step as he approached the
front door. He looked up, saw that the package was gone, and that the
departing visitor had it. "That was all he knew about it."

"But you said you saw Buckner take it," said Peverell.

"I saw him take it out of the saloon," replied Nick.

The circumstances pointed very strongly, to say the least, to Buckner
as the guilty one. I had learned all I wanted to know, and was trying
to say good-by to Captain Boomsby, when Peeks, the steward of the
Sylvania, came into the saloon with a telegraphic dispatch in his hand.




CHAPTER III.

ADIEU TO THE BOOMSBYS.


Mr. Peverell, the bank messenger, called at the saloon on his way back.
Doubtless he was not a little concerned about meeting the officers of
the bank, after the loss of so large a sum of money. By this time they
had heard the news, for it was flying all over the city. He looked very
much troubled, as well he might.

"It seems very strange to me," said Peverell, after he had discussed
the robbery for a while. "Nobody came into the saloon while I was there
but Buckner. I saw him come in, but I took no further notice of him;
and I hadn't the least idea that anything was wrong till I saw Nick
leap over the counter. I can't see how anybody else could have taken
the package; and it is just as hard to tell what became of it."

"I haven't the least doubt but what he threw it into the river," added
Nick Boomsby.

"I don't see how he could have done it without anybody seeing him,"
replied the messenger. "There were plenty of men standing about the
pier."

"There seems to be something the matter here," interposed Peeks, coming
up to me at this moment with the telegraphic despatch in his hand. "I
am sorry to disturb you, Captain Alick."

"It is none of my affairs," I added, hoping the despatch contained no
bad news from home.

"I have a message from Detroit informing me that my father is very
sick," added Peeks, opening the despatch. "My mother wants me to come
home as quick as I can."

"I am sorry your news is so bad, Mr. Peeks; but there is only one thing
for a son to do in such a case," I replied, full of sympathy for our
steward. "I hardly know how I shall get along without you; but I cannot
ask you to remain under such circumstances."

"I am sorry to leave, Captain Alick, especially for such a reason. My
health has been entirely restored by this cruise, and I would not leave
you if I didn't get a cent for my work, though I have been well and
promptly paid. My father has considerable property, and my mother is
old and feeble. I am afraid I shall not be able to join you again, for
if my father dies, as the doctors say he must, I shall have to look out
for his affairs at home. But I have no time to lose, for I must take
the train for the North this afternoon."

I paid him the balance of wages due him, and we parted with a hearty
shake of hands. His going disturbed me not a little, for he was both
skilful and faithful, and his services had been invaluable, when I had
so many passengers on board the Sylvania. He left the saloon, and for
some minutes I forgot the exciting events of the day.

If we were to sail on our next cruise, as had been arranged, the next
morning, I must look up a competent steward. But the Florida season was
over, and I anticipated no trouble in finding one.

By this time there was quite a crowd collected in the saloon, and for
half an hour longer the robbery was talked over. Nothing new was
brought out. Buckner had taken the package from the counter, Nick had
pursued him, and the money was not found. They could not get beyond
these facts, or beyond these apparent facts, for things are not always
as they seem.

Peverell left when he found he could get no further in his
investigation, and then for a time there was a lively business done at
both bars of the saloon. The negroes had come into the front room to
hear what was said, and they could not leave till each of them had
imbibed all the cheap whiskey he could get into one of Captain
Boomsby's thick-bottomed tumblers. Nick was just as busy at the front
bar. I could not help looking at him as he dealt out the dangerous
fluids--doubly dangerous after passing through Captain Boomsby's hands.
I doubted whether he had any ambition to become anything better than a
bartender. He was about my age, but not half so robust, for, being an
only son, his father and mother humored him, and never compelled him to
do anything like hard work, as they had me.

Nick was dressed in rather cheap, but flashy, clothes, and wore an
enormous glass diamond in his shirt front. At the present time he
seemed to be doing his dirty work in a very mechanical manner, as
though he were thinking of something else. He had to ask every customer
twice over what he wanted, and even then gave him the wrong bottle.

But the rush of business was soon over. Captain Boomsby came out of the
negro bar, and Nick joined him in the rear of the front saloon. The
father looked at the son, and the son looked at the father, and then
both of them looked at me, as though they did not care to say anything
in my presence.

"I suppose I shall have to go to court, father," said Nick, "and I
guess I had better go up stairs and slick up a little."

"You look well enough as you be," replied the elder Boomsby.

"If I am going into the court, I want my best clothes on. Besides,
father, you said I might go out this afternoon," replied Nick, who
evidently had other views in his head than the court. "Mother had just
as lief tend bar this afternoon as not."

"I s'pose she had, but I don't want her in the bar when I can help it,"
added the captain, whose marital relations had become decidedly
unpleasant, as I had learned from observation.

"Well, Captain Boomsby, I must say good-bye to you again," I
interposed, not caring to wait for the father and son to settle the
question between them.

I offered my hand and he took it; but I don't think he was inclined to
weep at my departure. I thought that Nick looked at me with more than
usual interest, and when I took him by the hand to say good-bye to him,
he pressed my hand warmly. Before, when I had met him, he was hardly
disposed to speak to me at all. He and his mother kept the old sores
open.

"I have never been on board of your steamer yet, Captain Alick," said
he, with a sort of ghastly grin, which I could not understand. "I
wanted to get out this afternoon to make a visit to her."

"She can be seen by everybody who chooses to visit her, and I shall be
glad to see you on board of her," I replied. "All hands are on shore
now, except Cobbington, who is acting as ship-keeper. He will show you
all over the Sylvania, if I am not on board."

"Where are you going from here in her?" asked Nick.

"We shall run down the coast of Florida, then across the Gulf of
Mexico, and then up the Mississippi," I replied.

"I wish I was going with you," added Nick.

I did not wish he was going with me, and so I said nothing. I had taken
leave of the captain and his son, and was about to depart when Mrs.
Boomsby came into the saloon from the front entry.

"You here, Sandy," said she, bestowing a look of disgust upon me.

"I leave early to-morrow morning, and I dropped in to say good-bye. I
will say the same to you, Mrs. Boomsby," I added, moving towards the
door.

"You needn't trouble yourself to say good-bye to me, for sakes knows I
don't keer whether I ever see you again or not," replied the amiable
lady, with a frown on her countenance which was enough to prevent me
from saying anything more. I bowed and moved towards the door.

"I s'pose you think you are mighty grand, sailin' about in a steam
yacht; but you'll come to a bad end yet," continued Mrs. Boomsby.

That was just what her husband had said to me, and I concluded they had
talked the matter over again. I did not wait to hear any more. I
entered the saloon on a friendly mission; I had forgiven my worst
enemies,--I could conceive of none worse than the Boomsbys,--and I was
not willing to have any words with the most virulent one of the family.
I walked out of the saloon. I heard some further uncomplimentary
allusions to myself as I closed the door behind me; but I believed that
was the last I should ever see of any of the Boomsby family.

I walked up to Colonel Shepard's house, and found all the family, as
well as Owen there. They were evidently engaged in the discussion of
some topic of interest when I entered. I had come up to press their
acceptance of the invitation I had given them to continue the yachting
excursion with me up the Mississippi; but before I had time to say
anything about it, Owen told me the Shepards had concluded to decline
the invitation. I was rather taken aback by this announcement, for the
party were exceedingly pleasant company, and I knew that Margie Tiffany
would enjoy being with her friend, Edith Shepard.

"You have treated us exceedingly well, Captain Alick, on board of the
Sylvania, and we shall all be grateful to you as long as we live, for
all the pleasure you have afforded us," said Colonel Shepard.

"I shall be greatly disappointed, sir, if your family do not go with
us," I answered, wondering at his decision. "We can accommodate you
very well, and the more the merrier, you know."

"You forget that I am the owner of a steam yacht like the Sylvania,"
continued Colonel Shepard, smiling. "I expected to send her to New
York, but I concluded not to do so until we were ready to go
ourselves."

"I knew that the Islander was still here, and she can take you anywhere
you wish to go as comfortably as the Sylvania; but I should be very
glad to have you continue to be our passengers."

"As you have your father with you now, I think you will get along very
well without us," laughed the colonel. "I only wish I had you and your
crew to run the Islander for me."

"Thank you; you are very kind, sir. I am afraid we shall not be able to
leave the Sylvania. But where are you going?"

"It is still an open question whether we proceed directly to New York,
cruise awhile in the vicinity of Florida, or go with you. I am not
quite willing to leave the State until I have pulled in a few more
red-fish, black bass, and other fish such as we caught in Indian
River."

"I suppose you don't propose to take Captain Boomsby with you as
captain of the Islander. You remember that he came to Florida in
command of her," I added.

"I don't propose to take any such person. I retain the captain and crew
I engaged to take the Islander to New York," replied Colonel Shepard.
"Captain Blastblow has seen service in a yacht, and has commanded a
steamer."

"I have no doubt he is entirely competent."

"I think he is, or I would not trust my family to his care. While we
were up the St. Johns, he put the Islander in first-rate condition. He
has had her boiler and machinery overhauled, and declares she has the
best engine he ever saw in a steamer. I went down to see her as soon as
we arrived. He has engaged a steward, waiters, and others, and I think
we shall be ready to sail as soon as you are," continued the colonel.

"We are off early to-morrow morning," I added.

"Captain Blastblow told me at noon he should be ready to sail to-night.
I expect a letter to-day from New York, and that will enable me to
decide where we go."

I soon took my leave, for I had to engage a steward before night. I was
amazed at the decision of Colonel Shepard, and I could not help
thinking he had some motive for his course which did not appear on the
surface. I decided to call upon my father on my way to the wharf, for
he was staying at the Carlton with the Tiffanys. I had gone but a few
steps before Owen caught up with me.

"I want you to understand, Alick, that I am not concerned in this
business," said he, in a deprecatory tone. "I had no idea what the
colonel intended to do until I went to his house this afternoon."

"O, I don't blame you for it, Owen," I replied.

"But I think they would have gone with us if I had held the charter of
the vessel as before," he added.

"I think that need make no difference. I suppose you will go in the
Islander now," I continued, laughing, for I did not think he would be
able to break away from Miss Edith.

"I don't know, Alick. To tell the truth, I have had no invitation to go
in the Islander; and without one I surely shall not go in her."

This seemed to me to be a little odd, and I was thinking of it when we
came to the Carlton, where I found my father on the piazza. We told him
the whole story. To my astonishment, he said he was glad to hear it. I
told him Owen had no invitation to go in the Islander.

"And he will have none," added my father, bluntly. "Owen, if you accept
any such invitation, should one be given, the Sylvania will part
company with the Islander as soon as we get out of the river."

"That is very odd, uncle Bent," answered Owen.

"I have a very great respect for Colonel and Mrs. Shepard; and what he
has done, probably by the counsel of his wife, removes the only doubt I
had of him. Owen, you are a perfect spoon! It is not quite proper that
you and Miss Edith should be spooning all the time, night and day; and
to my mind, Colonel Shepard has decided to go in his own yacht to
prevent this thing, as well as to retain his own self-respect. I dare
say he is no longer willing to be the guests, with his whole family, of
Alick or yourself. That's the whole of it. It is better for you to
visit the young lady occasionally than to spend weeks or months with
her in a little steam-yacht."

I thought my father was rather severe upon my cousin, and I determined
to speak to him about the matter when we were alone. I told my father
that Peeks had been obliged to leave, and that I must look up a steward
at once.

He told me I need not go far to find one, and recommended me to give
the place to Cobbington. I had not thought of such a thing, and I
hastened on board to consider the matter.




CHAPTER IV.

NICK BOOMSBY HAS ASPIRATIONS.


When I reached Market Wharf I found that the Islander had hauled out
into the stream from the wharf where she had been undergoing repairs.
Captain Blastblow had certainly done his work well. The twin sister of
the Sylvania had been painted, and she looked as though she had just
come out of the ship-yard for the first time. She was moored off the
yacht-club house, and the American flag was flying at her peak, as
though she had just gone into commission.

I earnestly hoped that Colonel Shepard would conclude to make the trip
up the Mississippi, for I was very confident we should enjoy yachting
on the great river much more in company with the Islander, and the
pleasant party on board of her, than we could alone.

I took a shore boat to board the Sylvania, for as this was our last
chance on shore for the present, all hands had been allowed to spend
the day in the city. Cobbington declared that he did not care to see
any more of the city, where he had passed so many miserable days, and
had volunteered to remain on board as ship-keeper.

Miles Cobbington had come to the south as an invalid, and having no
means, he had picked up a precarious living by hunting, fishing, and
doing such odd jobs of work as he could find. When I came across him he
was hungry, and without a place to lay his head. With good living on
board the Sylvania, and with his mind relieved of all anxiety about his
daily food and shelter, he had picked up wonderfully during the month
of our trip up the river.

"Well, Miles, how do you get on?" I asked as I ascended the gangway.

"First-rate, Captain Garningham. I haven't been so happy for years as I
am now," he replied with a cheerful smile. "I begin to think I may live
for some years yet."

"I hope you will live for many years yet," I replied. "Mr. Peeks has
been on board this afternoon, has he not?"

"Yes, sir; and I am very sorry to have him leave for such a reason,"
said Cobbington, with a look of genuine sympathy.

"I believe he attended to putting all our provisions and stores on
board."

"Yes, captain; we stowed away everything last night, and we are ready
to leave as soon as you give the word."

"We can't go without a steward," I added, glancing at Cobbington to see
if I could find any suggestion in his face. But he looked entirely
blank.

"The steamers here are hauling off, now, and I should say you would
have no difficulty in finding one," he replied.

"Do you think you can readily find another good waiter?" I asked.

"I could find a hundred of them in half an hour," he replied.

"Then I wish you to find one as soon as the crew come on board. I want
one to take your place in the fore-cabin."

"To take my place!" exclaimed Cobbington, looking aghast at me. "Then
you are going to discharge me. What have I done?"

"You have done lots of things, and done them well. You will take Mr.
Peeks's place as steward, at the same wages he received," I replied,
unwilling to hurt his feeling a moment longer.

"Thank you, Captain Garningham," added Cobbington, his thin face
suddenly wreathed in smiles. "I suppose you understand what you are
doing, captain."

"I think I do; but I will add that it was my father who suggested your
name for the position."

"I am very grateful to him for doing so, and to you for giving me the
place. I think I can do the work to your satisfaction, for I have had
considerable experience in this sort of business."

I gave him such directions as he needed, and then called a shore boat.
As the Islander was likely to be our consort during the whole, or a
part, of the cruise up the Mississippi, I thought I would pay her a
visit, and become better acquainted with her officers. My uniform
procured me a ready recognition on her deck. Captain Blastblow was a
man of forty, with a bald head and red whiskers. He treated me very
politely, though I thought I could see something like contempt in his
manner, possibly at the idea of a young fellow like me presuming to
hold a position equal to his own.

The captain took considerable pains to bring it into the conversation
that he had been a seaman all his life, that he had come on board
through the hawse hole, and had not crawled in at the cabin window. He
made a slurring remark about fresh-water sailors, and informed me that
he had been around Cape Horn and the Cape of Good Hope. He had been an
ensign in the navy during "the late unpleasantness," and had served in
the Gulf of Mexico in the blockade fleet.

"When do you sail, Captain Blastblow?" I inquired.

"I don't know: but I have my orders to be ready to go at a moment's
warning at any time after daylight to-morrow morning," replied the
captain of the Islander.

These instructions seemed to be entirely consistent with what Colonel
Shepard had said, that his departure and destination depended upon the
letters he expected to receive by the afternoon mail. I looked over the
steamer, and found her as neat as a new pin in every part. The officers
and crew had put on a new uniform, and I found that they had steam up
on board.

I found no one that I knew on her deck, and the captain introduced me
to the mate, the engineers, and the steward. I thought there was a
little irony in his words as he did so; but I took no notice of this
circumstance. I could see that he believed he was a thoroughly
competent captain, and that he had some doubts in regard to my ability
to fill the position I occupied on board of the Sylvania. I was willing
that the future should settle all such questions; but I had the vanity
to believe, though I did not say so, that I could handle the Sylvania
as well as he could the Islander.

We parted as the best of friends should part, and when I had seated
myself in the boat, I could not help thinking I should like to see him
handle his vessel in such a storm as I had seen on Lake Superior. In a
few moments I was landed on Market Wharf, and walked up to the
post-office to inquire if there were any letters for me. I learned that
the northern mail had not arrived. It was often several hours behind
time, for the railroads in Florida were in very bad condition.

Colonel Shepard was there, very impatient at the non-arrival of his
letters. He told me, if he had to go to New York, he should sail in the
Islander on the next tide. If his business did not call him north at
once, he should sail with us the next morning.

The colonel went over to the Carlton, and I was about to go with him,
when Nick Boomsby came up to me. He was dressed in his best clothes,
and he was as good a representative of the idiotic swell as I had ever
met.

"When do you sail, Captain Alick?" he asked, as though the question was
one of vital importance to him personally.

"To-morrow morning, about seven o'clock, unless some change is made in
the arrangements," I replied, wondering what possible interest he could
have in the sailing of the steamer.

"Alick, you and I were always good friends," he continued.

"Not always, though I don't mind that now," I added, not willing that
the exact truth should be sacrificed, even by my silence.

"I am getting a little tired of this place, and I want to be out of it.
I know we didn't always agree when we were little children; but I don't
believe you think of these things now."

"I have not the least ill-will towards you, Nick."

"I am right glad to hear you say so. The old man never will let up on
you, I suppose. But I told him he was a fool, and that he had better
let you alone."

Perhaps it was good advice, but I did not believe he ever gave it to
his father, though he was capable of any disrespect. I waited to learn
what he was driving at, though the fact that he had said he wished he
was going with me on the cruise came to my mind in this connection.

"I am tired of the sort of life I am leading," continued Nick.

"I don't blame you," I added, with the utmost sincerity, though I had
not supposed he had any soarings above the sphere of a bar-tender.

"What can I do? The old man won't let me do anything else beside tend
bar. It is mean business, and I'm bound to get out of it."

I thought Nick's view of the situation was very commendable, though I
did not see how he was to break away from his father, if the latter was
not willing he should do so.

"The only way I can do it is to run away," added Nick.

"I can't advise you to do that," I replied.

"I am eighteen years old, and I am able to take care of myself. The old
man don't give me any wages, and it's hard work for me to get a suit of
clothes out of him when I need it. Which would you rather do if you
were in my place,--sell whiskey, and very likely become a drunkard
yourself, or run away, and become an honest and respectable man?"

It was a hard question, and I declined to answer it, for I was
unwilling to be responsible to any degree for anything that Nick
Boomsby might do. I knew him too well.

"If you will take me to New Orleans on your steamer, I will work my
passage, and be everlastingly obliged to you besides," persisted Nick,
coming all at once to the point.

"No, Nick, I shall not do anything to provoke your father, or give him
just cause to complain of me. So far as your leaving your present
business is concerned, you must settle that for yourself," I replied,
firmly.

I refused all his entreaties to be allowed to go in the Sylvania. I
told him that the relation between his father and myself would not
permit me to do anything to assist him. He seemed to be reconciled to
my decision, and was as pleasant as possible. He asked me about the
Islander, and I told him all I knew about her. I inquired what had been
done about the robbery. Nothing more had been done, but everybody was
satisfied that Buckner was the guilty person, and the police were still
searching for the missing package. Nick was going on board of the
Sylvania next, and I wrote on a card a request to Cobbington to show
him over the vessel.

While we were talking the mail arrived. Colonel Shepard rushed to the
post-office, and I was talking to him while the mail was in process of
sorting and distribution. Nick stood by me all the time, and listened
to all that we were saying. At last Colonel Shepard received his
letters. He opened one of them with feverish haste.

"All right! I go with you, Captain Alick!" exclaimed the colonel,
evidently as much delighted as a child would have been. "I will follow
you up the Mississippi. What time do you sail, Captain Alick?"

"At seven; that will bring us to the bar at about the right time," I
replied.

"I must send word on board to Captain Blastblow to be ready at that
time."

The colonel appeared to be searching his pockets for a piece of paper,
and I handed him one of my blank cards. He wrote something on it, and
intimated that he wanted to find some one by whom he could send it on
board of the Islander.

"I am just going on board of the Sylvania, and I will leave it on board
of the Islander as I pass her," interposed Nick.

Colonel Shepard asked me if I knew the young man, and I told him I did.
He gave him the card, and Nick hastened off in the direction of the
boat-club building. I wondered if he was not intending to look for a
passage to New Orleans in the Islander. It was not impossible, and I
determined that my late passengers should not be burdened with his
company.

I went to the Carlton, and found that my passengers had decided not to
go on board of the Sylvania till the next morning, and had ordered an
early breakfast. There was to be some sort of a social occasion in the
parlors that evening, and my father and his friends wished to be
present. I went on board of the steamer. On my way I looked in at the
window of Captain Boomsby's saloon, and saw that Nick was there
peddling out whiskey to thirsty customers. He had not concealed himself
on board of the Islander; and I had told Colonel Shepard to be on the
lookout in the morning, to assure himself that he had no more
passengers than he wanted. I was quite sure I had blocked Nick's
wheels, so far as running away in either of the steam-yachts was
concerned.




CHAPTER V.

THE STRANGE MOVEMENT OF THE ISLANDER.


Cobbington had engaged the additional waiter. His name was Reel
Bendick, as he spelled it out to me; and he seemed to be an intelligent
and docile man. He was to wait on the table in the fore-cabin, while
Tom Sands was to continue in the after-cabin, where he had always been
assisted by the steward, and on great occasions by Washington Gopher,
the accomplished cook who had come all the way from Detroit.

With these exceptions our crew remained the same as before.

Since our return from up the St. Johns, everything about the Sylvania
had been put in perfect order for sea. Moses Brickland, the engineer,
had overhauled the machinery and the boiler, and we had a full supply
of coal in the bunkers. I went all over the vessel, and assured myself
that everything was in order.

"I suppose there is no doubt about our leaving in the morning, is
there, Captain Alick?" asked Bob Washburn, the mate, as we seated
ourselves in the captain's cabin, after we had both been all over the
deck and the cabins.

"Of course I don't know anything more about that than you do, but I
think there cannot be much doubt of it," I replied. "We shall have no
passengers but my father, the Tiffanys, and my cousin."

"Does Owen Garningham go with us, Alick?" asked Washburn, with
astonishment.

"He told me this afternoon he had no invitation to go in the Islander,
and my father said he would have none," I replied.

"Then your father thinks there has been too much spooning on board,"
added Washburn, laughing.

"Probably Colonel Shepard thinks so too, and that may be the reason why
he decided to go in the Islander instead of in the Sylvania."

"I should think it would be better to separate Owen and Miss Edith
until each shall have a chance to make up his mind."

"Owen seems to be very much attached to Miss Edith, and their being
together all the time may result in something very serious. He is a
young fellow of twenty, and I doubt if he knows his own mind; he is
fascinated by a pretty face."

"There is no doubt of that; and the face is as pretty a one as I ever
saw," added Washburn, with emphasis.

"My father says Owen's mother is very rich, and that she is more afraid
he will fall into some entangling alliance of this sort, than she is of
his becoming a drunkard, or becoming a bad man," I continued, recalling
some of the conversations my father had had with me.

"They say Colonel Shepard is rich enough to satisfy even an English
nabob," suggested the mate.

"I suppose Owen's mother expects him to marry a duchess," I replied. "I
saw her when I was in England; but she had no love for me, and I have
no doubt she wished I had never turned up."

"I should say that Edith Shepard was good enough for any fellow, even
if he were an earl or a duke," said Washburn, shrugging his shoulders.

"Luckily it is none of our affair, though my sympathies are all with
Owen," I added. "I wonder if Nick Boomsby came on board this
afternoon," I continued, willing to change the subject.

I called Cobbington into our room, and was informed that Nick had been
on board, and had been treated with distinguished consideration.

"Did he say anything about going with us, Cobbington?" I asked.

"He only said he should like to go with us, but you would not allow him
to do so, and he had given up all thought about it," replied the new
steward. "Besides, he said he was the important witness in a law-case
that would come up to-morrow morning."

"I don't believe he would stay for the law-case if I would give him a
berth on board," I added.

I related the particulars of the robbery of the messenger, and
Cobbington commented on them at some length. I found that he knew the
messenger, and had not a very high respect for him. He had his doubts
whether there was any four thousand dollars in the transaction. It
looked more to him as though the messenger had arranged the affair so
that he could appropriate the money to his own use. Cobbington had
worked with Buckner, who was a poor man, and had come to Florida, like
himself, to save his life.

"Why did Nick jump over the counter, and chase Buckner, then? Nick says
he saw Buckner take the package from the counter, and run out at the
front door," I added.

"I don't know anything about the matter, except that I would trust
Buckner farther than I would Peverell," persisted the steward. "A bank
messenger that means to be honest don't go into a bar-room and put four
thousand dollars down on the counter; not every day in the week, at
least. I don't believe Buckner took the package; if he had it would
have been found on him when the policeman caught him."

We could not get ahead any further than those on shore had in solving
the mysterious disappearance of the treasure. At an early hour I turned
in, and Washburn soon followed me. After dark I cautioned the
anchor-watch not to let any person come on board. I was afraid that
Nick Boomsby would try to become a stowaway on board of the steamer,
and thus give his father an additional grudge against me. But I soon
went to sleep and forgot all about Nick.

I was up at five in the morning. Before I washed my face and made my
toilet, I went on deck to take a look at the weather, as I generally
did at sea, or when we were on the point of sailing. It was cloudy and
thick; but I thought it probable that it would clear off as the day
advanced. The smoke was pouring out of the smoke-stack of the Islander,
as well as of the Sylvania. If the weather was not bad enough to make
me think of delaying our departure, it was still not so pleasant as I
desired for a start.

I dressed myself, and looked the vessel over again. Our party would
breakfast before they came on board, and we had nothing to do yet but
look after ourselves. At six o'clock we took our morning meal. As soon
as it was cleared away, I ordered the anchor up, and we ran in to
Market Wharf to take on board our passengers.

Before we reached the wharf I saw a boat board the Islander; but she
was too far off for me to determine who was in the craft. It was still
only half-past-six, and I did not expect our passengers for half an
hour or more. I went on shore to walk through the market. It seemed
very odd to me to find all sorts of green things, such as green peas,
cucumbers, spinach, new turnips, carrots, and most other vegetables,
which I had not been in the habit of seeing till July and August. But
we had been eating such things, including strawberries, for a month,
and many of them all winter in the West Indies.

