A little pleasant giddiness, as if the lightness of her heart had
mounted to her head, made her glad of his arm up these steps and up the
wharf; and she kept it as they climbed the sloping elm-shaded village
street to the main thoroughfare, with its brick sidewalks, its shops and
awnings, and its cheerful stir and traffic.
The telegraph office fronted the head of the street which they had
ascended. “You can sit here in the apothecary’s till I come down,” he
said.
“Do you think that will be professionally appropriate? I am only a nurse
now.”
“No, I wasn’t thinking of that. But I saw a chair in there. And we can
make a pretense of wanting some soda. It is the proper thing to treat
young ladies to soda when one brings them in from the country.”
“It does have that appearance,” she assented, with a smile. She kept
him waiting with what would have looked like coquettish hesitation in
another, while she glanced at the windows overhead, pierced by a skein
of converging wires. “Suppose I go up with you?”
“I should like that better,” he said; and she followed him lightly up
the stairs that led to the telegraph office. A young man stood at the
machine with a cigar in his mouth, and his eyes intent upon the ribbon
of paper unreeling itself before him.
“Just hold on,” he said to Libby, without turning his head. “I’ve got
something here for you.” He read: “Despatch received yesterday. Coming
right through. George Maynard.”
“Good!” cried Libby.
“Dated Council Bluffs. Want it written out?”
“No. What ‘s to pay?”
“Paid,” said the operator.
The laconically transacted business ended with this, the wire began
to cluck again like the anxious hen whose manner the most awful and
mysterious of the elements assumes in becoming articulate, and nothing
remained for them but to come away.
“That was what I was afraid of,” said Libby. “Maynard was at his ranch,
and it must have been a good way out. They’re fifty or sixty miles out,
sometimes. That would account for the delay. Well, Mrs. Maynard doesn’t
know how long it takes to come from Cheyenne, and we can tell her he’s
on the way, and has telegraphed.” They were walking rapidly down the
street to the wharf where his boat lay. “Oh!” he exclaimed, halting
abruptly. “I promised to send you back by land, if you preferred.”
“Has the wind fallen?”
“Oh, no. We shall have a good breeze:”
“I won’t put you to the trouble of getting a horse. I can go back
perfectly well in the boat.”
“Well, that’s what I think,” he said cheerily.
She did not respond, and he could not be aware that any change had come
over her mood. But when they were once more seated in the boat, and the
sail was pulling in the fresh breeze, she turned to him with a scarcely
concealed indignation. “Have you a fancy for experimenting upon people,
Mr. Libby?”
“Experimenting? I? I don’t know in the least what you mean!”
“Why did you tell me that the operator was a woman?”
“Because the other operator is,” he answered.
“Oh!” she said, and fell blankly silent.
“There is a good deal of business there. They have to have two
operators,” he explained, after a pause.
“Why, of course,” she murmured in deep humiliation. If he had suffered
her to be silent as long as she would, she might have offered him some
reparation; but he spoke.
“Why did you think I had been experimenting on you?” he asked.
“Why?” she repeated. The sense of having put herself in the wrong
exasperated her with him. “Oh, I dare say you were curious. Don’t you
suppose I have noticed that men are puzzled at me? What did you mean by
saying that you thought I would be equal to anything?”
“I meant--I thought you would like to be treated frankly.”
“And you would n’t treat everybody so?”
“I wouldn’t treat Mrs. Maynard so.”
“Oh!” she said. “You treat me upon a theory.”
“Don’t you like that? We treat everybody upon a theory”--
“Yes, I know”
“And I should tell you the worst of anything at once, because I think
you are one of the kind that don’t like to have their conclusions made
for them.”
“And you would really let women make their own conclusions,” she said.
“You are very peculiar!” She waited a while, and then she asked, “And
what is your theory of me?”
“That you are very peculiar.”
“How?”
“You are proud.”
“And is pride so very peculiar?”
“Yes; in women.”
“Indeed! You set up for a connoisseur of female character. That’s very
common, nowadays. Why don’t you tell me something more about Yourself?
We’re always talking about me.”
He might well have been doubtful of her humor. He seemed to decide that
she was jesting, for he answered lightly, “Why, you began it.”
“I know I did, this time. But now I wish to stop it, too.”
He looked down at the tiller in his hands. “Well,” he said, “I should
like to tell you about myself. I should like to know what you think of
the kind of man I am. Will you be honest if I will?”
“That’s a very strange condition,” she answered, meeting and then
avoiding the gaze he lifted to her face.
“What? Being honest?”
“Well, no--Or, yes!”
“It is n’t for you.”
“Thank you. But I’m not under discussion now.”
“Well, in the first place,” he began, “I was afraid of you when we met.”
“Afraid of me?”
“That is n’t the word, perhaps. We’ll say ashamed of myself. Mrs.
Maynard told me about you, and I thought you would despise me for not
doing or being anything in particular. I thought you must.”
“Indeed!”
He hesitated, as if still uncertain of her mood from this intonation,
and then he went on: “But I had some little hope you would tolerate
me, after all. You looked like a friend I used to have.--Do you mind my
telling you?”
“Oh, no. Though I can’t say that it’s ever very comfortable to be told
that you look like some one else.”
“I don’t suppose any one else would have been struck by the
resemblance,” said Libby, with a laugh of reminiscence. “He was huge.
But he had eyes like a girl,--I beg your pardon,--like yours.”
“You mean that I have eyes like a man.”
He laughed, and said, “No,” and then turned grave. “As long as he
lived”--
“Oh, is he dead?” she asked more gently than she had yet spoken.
“Yes, he died just before I went abroad. I went out on business for my
father,--he’s an importer and jobber,--and bought goods for him. Do you
despise business?”
“I don’t know anything about it.”
“I did it to please my father, and he said I was a very good buyer.
He thinks there’s nothing like buying--except selling. He used to sell
things himself, over the counter, and not so long ago, either.
“I fancied it made a difference for me when I was in college, and that
the yardstick came between me and society. I was an ass for thinking
anything about it. Though I did n’t really care, much. I never liked
society, and I did like boats and horses. I thought of a profession,
once. But it would n’t work. I’ve been round the world twice, and I’ve
done nothing but enjoy myself since I left college,--or try to. When I
first saw you I was hesitating about letting my father make me of use.
He wants me to become one of the most respectable members of society,
he wants me to be a cotton-spinner. You know there ‘s nothing so
irreproachable as cotton, for a business?”
“No. I don’t know about those things.”
“Well, there is n’t. When I was abroad, buying and selling, I made a
little discovery: I found that there were goods we could make and sell
in the European market cheaper than the English, and that gave my father
the notion of buying a mill to make them. I’m boring you!”
“No.”
“Well, he bought it; and he wants me to take charge of it.”
“And shall you?”
“Do you think I’m fit for it?”
“I? How should I know?”
“You don’t know cotton; but you know me a little. Do I strike you as fit
for anything?” She made no reply to this, and he laughed. “I assure you
I felt small enough when I heard what you had done, and thought--what
I had done. It gave me a start; and I wrote my father that night that I
would go in for it.”
“I once thought of going to a factory town,” she answered, without
wilful evasion, “to begin my practice there among the operatives’
children. I should have done it if it had not been for coming here with
Mrs. Maynard. It would have been better.”
“Come to my factory town, Miss Breen! There ought to be fevers there
in the autumn, with all the low lands that I’m allowed to flood Mrs.
Maynard told me about your plan.”
“Pray, what else did Mrs. Maynard tell you about me?”
“About your taking up a profession, in the way you did, when you
needn’t, and when you did n’t particularly like it.”
“Oh!” she said. Then she added, “And because I was n’t obliged to it,
and did n’t like it, you tolerated me?”
“Tolerated?” he echoed.
This vexed her. “Yes, tolerate! Everybody, interested or not, has to
make up his mind whether to tolerate me as soon as he hears what I am.
What excuse did you make for me?”
“I did n’t make any,” said Libby.
“But you had your misgiving, your surprise.”
“I thought if you could stand it, other people might. I thought it was
your affair.”
“Just as if I had been a young man?”
“No! That wasn’t possible.”
She was silent. Then, “The conversation has got back into the old
quarter,” she said. “You are talking about me again. Have you heard from
your friends since they went away?”
“What friends?”
“Those you were camping with.”
“No.”
“What did they say when they heard that you had found a young doctress
at Jocelyn’s? How did you break the fact to them? What jokes did they
make? You need n’t be afraid to tell me!” she cried. “Give me Mr.
Johnson’s comments.”
He looked at her in surprise that incensed her still more, and rendered
her incapable of regarding the pain with which he answered her. “I ‘m
afraid,” he said, “that I have done something to offend you.”
“Oh no! What could you have done?”
“Then you really mean to ask me whether I would let any one make a joke
of you in my presence?”
“Yes; why not?”
“Because it was impossible,” he answered.
“Why was it impossible?” she pursued.
“Because--I love you.”
She had been looking him defiantly in the eyes, and she could not
withdraw her gaze. For the endless moment that ensued, her breath was
taken away. Then she asked in a low, steady voice, “Did you mean to say
that?”
“No.”
“I believe you, and I forgive you. No, no!” she cried, at a
demonstration of protest from him, “don’t speak again!”
He obeyed, instantly, implicitly. With the tiller in his hand he looked
past her and guided the boat’s course. It became intolerable.
“Have I ever done anything that gave you the right to--to--say that?”
 she asked, without the self-command which she might have wished to show.
“No,” he said, “you were only the most beautiful”--
“I am not beautiful! And if I were”--
“It wasn’t to be helped! I saw from the first how good and noble you
were, and”--
“This is absurd!” she exclaimed. “I am neither good nor noble; and if I
were”--
“It wouldn’t make any difference. Whatever you are, you are the one
woman in the world to me; and you always will be.”
“Mr. Libby!”
“Oh, I must speak now! You were always thinking, because you had studied
a man’s profession, that no one would think of you as a woman, as if
that could make any difference to a man that had the soul of a man in
him!”
“No, no!” she protested. “I did n’t think that. I always expected to be
considered as a woman.”
“But not as a woman to fall in love with. I understood. And that somehow
made you all the dearer to me. If you had been a girl like other girls,
I should n’t have cared for you.”
“Oh!”
“I did n’t mean to speak to you to-day. But sometime I did mean to
speak; because, whatever I was, I loved you; and I thought you did n’t
dislike me.”
“I did like you,” she murmured, “very much. And I respected you. But you
can’t say that I ever gave you any hope in this--this--way.” She almost
asked him if she had.
“No,--not purposely. And if you did, it ‘s over now. You have rejected
me. I understand that. There’s no reason why you shouldn’t. And I can
hold my tongue.” He did not turn, but looked steadily past her at the
boat’s head.
An emotion stirred in her breast which took the form of a reproach. “Was
it fair, then, to say this when neither of us could escape afterwards?”
“I did n’t mean to speak,” he said, without looking up, “and I never
meant to place you where you could n’t escape.”
It was true that she had proposed to go with him in the boat, and that
she had chosen to come back with him, when he had offered to have her
driven home from Leyden. “No, you are not to blame,” she said, at last.
“I asked to some with you. Shall I tell you why?” Her voice began to
break. In her pity for him and her shame for herself the tears started
to her eyes. She did not press her question, but, “Thank you for
reminding me that I invited myself to go with you,” she said, with
feeble bitterness.
He looked up at her in silent wonder, and she broke into a sob. He said
gently, “I don’t suppose you expect me to deny that. You don’t think me
such a poor dog as that.”
“Why, of course not,” she answered, with quivering lips, while she
pressed her handkerchief to her eyes.
“I was only too glad to have you come. I always meant to tell you--what
I have told; but not when I should seem to trap you into listening.”
“No,” she murmured, “I can believe that of you. I do believe it. I take
back what I said. Don’t let us speak of it any more now,” she continued,
struggling for her lost composure, with what success appeared in the
fresh outburst with which she recognized his forbearance to hint at any
painfulness to himself in the situation.
“I don’t mind it so much on my account, but oh! how could you for your
own sake? Do let us get home as fast as we can!”
“I am doing everything I can to release you,” he said. “If you will
sit here,” he added, indicating the place beside him in the stern, “you
won’t have to change so much when I want to tack.”
She took the other seat, and for the first time she noticed that the
wind had grown very light. She watched him with a piteous impatience
while he shifted the sail from side to side, keeping the sheet in his
hand for convenience in the frequent changes. He scanned the sky, and
turned every current of the ebbing tide to account. It was useless; the
boat crept, and presently it scarcely moved.
“The wind is down,” he said, making the sheet fast, and relaxing his
hold on the tiller.
“And--And the tide is going out!” she exclaimed.
“The tide is going out,” he admitted.
“If we should get caught on these flats,” she began, with rising
indignation.
“We should have to stay till the tide turned.”
She looked wildly about for aid. If there were a row-boat anywhere
within hail, she could be taken to Jocelyn’s in that. But they were
quite alone on those lifeless waters.
Libby got out a pair of heavy oars from the bottom of the boat, and,
setting the rowlocks on either side, tugged silently at them.
The futile effort suggested an idea to her which doubtless she would not
have expressed if she had not been lacking, as she once said, in a sense
of humor.
“Why don’t you whistle for a wind?”
He stared at her in sad astonishment to make sure that she was in
earnest, and then, “Whistle!” he echoed forlornly, and broke into a
joyless laugh.
“You knew the chances of delay that I took in asking to come with you,”
 she cried, “and you should have warned me. It was ungenerous--it was
ungentlemanly!”
“It was whatever you like. I must be to blame. I suppose I was too glad
to have you come. If I thought anything, I thought you must have some
particular errand at Leyden. You seemed anxious to go, even if it
stormed.”
“If it had stormed,” she retorted, “I should not have cared! I hoped it
would storm. Then at least I should have run the same danger,--I hoped
it would be dangerous.”
“I don’t understand what you mean,” he said.
“I forced that wretched creature to go with you that day when you said
it was going to be rough; and I shall have her blood upon my hands if
she dies.”
“Is it possible,” cried Libby, pulling in his useless oars, and leaning
forward upon them, “that she has gone on letting you think I believed
there was going to be a storm? She knew perfectly well that I didn’t
mind what Adams said; he was always croaking.” She sat looking at him in
a daze, but she could not speak, and he continued. “I see: it happened
by one chance in a million to turn out as he said; and she has been
making you pay for it. Why, I suppose,” he added, with a melancholy
smile of intelligence, “she’s had so much satisfaction in holding you
responsible for what’s happened, that she’s almost glad of it!”
“She has tortured me!” cried the girl. “But you--you, when you saw that
I did n’t believe there was going to be any storm, why did you--why
didn’t--you”--
“I did n’t believe it either! It was Mrs. Maynard that proposed the
sail, but when I saw that you did n’t like it I was glad of any excuse
for putting it off. I could n’t help wanting to please you, and I
couldn’t see why you urged us afterwards; but I supposed you had some
reason.”
She passed her hand over her forehead, as if to clear away the confusion
in which all this involved her. “But why--why did you let me go on
thinking myself to blame”--
“How could I know what you were thinking? Heaven knows I didn’t dream of
such a thing! Though I remember, now, your saying”--
“Oh, I see!” she cried. “You are a man! But I can’t forgive it,--no,
I can’t forgive it! You wished to deceive her if you did n’t wish to
deceive me. How can you excuse yourself for repeating what you did n’t
believe?”
“I was willing she should think Adams was right.”
“And that was deceit. What can you say to it?”
“There is only one thing I could say,” he murmured, looking hopelessly
into her eyes, “and that’s of no use.”
She turned her head away. Her tragedy had fallen to nothing; or rather
it had never been. All her remorse, all her suffering, was mere farce
now; but his guilt in the matter was the greater. A fierce resentment
burned in her heart; she longed to make him feel something of the
anguish she had needlessly undergone.
He sat watching her averted face. “Miss Breen,” he said huskily, “will
you let me speak to you?”
“Oh, you have me in your power,” she answered cruelly. “Say what you
like.”
He did not speak, nor make any motion to do so.
A foolish, idle curiosity to know what, after all that had happened,
he could possibly have to say, stirred within her, but she disdainfully
stifled it. They were both so still that a company of seals found it
safe to put their heads above water, and approach near enough to examine
her with their round soft eyes. She turned from the silly things in
contempt that they should even have interested her. She felt that from
time to time her companion lifted an anxious glance to the dull heavens.
At last the limp sail faintly stirred; it flapped; it filled shallowly;
the boat moved. The sail seemed to have had a prescience of the wind
before it passed over the smooth water like a shadow.
When a woman says she never will forgive a man, she always has a
condition of forgiveness in her heart. Now that the wind had risen
again, “I have no right to forbid you to speak,” she said, as if no
silence had elapsed, and she turned round and quietly confronted him;
she no longer felt so impatient to escape.
He did not meet her eye at once, and he seemed in no haste to avail
himself of the leave granted him. A heavy sadness blotted the gayety of
a face whose sunny sympathy had been her only cheer for many days. She
fancied a bewilderment in its hopelessness which smote her with still
sharper pathos. “Of course,” she said, “I appreciate your wish to do
what I wanted, about Mrs. Maynard. I remember my telling you that she
ought n’t to go out, that day. But that was not the way to do it”--
“There was no other,” he said.
“No,” she assented, upon reflection. “Then it ought n’t to have been
done.”
He showed no sign of intending to continue, and after a moment of
restlessness, she began again.
“If I have been rude or hasty in refusing to hear you, Mr. Libby, I am
very wrong. I must hear anything you have to say.”
“Oh, not unless you wish.”
“I wish whatever you wish.”
“I’m not sure that I wish that now. I have thought it over; I should
only distress you for nothing. You are letting me say why sentence
shouldn’t be passed upon me. Sentence is going to be passed any way. I
should only repeat what I have said. You would pity me, but you couldn’t
help me. And that would give you pain for nothing. No, it would be
useless.”
“It would be useless to talk to me about--loving.” She took the word on
her lips with a certain effect of adopting it for convenience’ sake in
her vocabulary. “All that was ended for me long ago,--ten years ago. And
my whole life since then has been shaped to do without it. I will tell
you my story if you like. Perhaps it’s your due. I wish to be just. You
may have a right to know.”
“No, I haven’t. But--perhaps I ought to say that Mrs. Maynard told me
something.”
“Well, I am glad of that, though she had no right to do it. Then you can
understand.”
“Oh, yes, I can understand. I don’t pretend that I had any reason in
it.”
He forbore again to urge any plea for himself, and once more she was
obliged to interfere in his behalf. “Mr. Libby, I have never confessed
that I once wronged you in a way that I’m very sorry for.”
“About Mrs. Maynard? Yes, I know. I won’t try to whitewash myself; but
it didn’t occur to me how it would look. I wanted to talk with her about
you.”
“You ought to have considered her, though,” she said gently.
“She ought to have considered herself,” he retorted, with his unfailing
bitterness for Mrs. Maynard. “But it doesn’t matter whose fault it was.
I’m sufficiently punished; for I know that it injured me with you.”
“It did at first. But now I can see that I was wrong. I wished to tell
you that. It isn’t creditable to me that I thought you intended to flirt
with her. If I had been better myself”--
“You!” He could not say more.
That utter faith in her was very charming. It softened her more and
more; it made her wish to reason with him, and try gently to show him
how impossible his hope was. “And you know,” she said, recurring to
something that had gone before, “that even if I had cared for you in
the way you wish, it could n’t be. You would n’t want to have people
laughing and saying I had been a doctress.”
“I shouldn’t have minded. I know how much people’s talk is worth.”
“Yes,” she said, “I know you would be generous and brave about
that--about anything. But what--what if I could n’t give up my
career--my hopes of being useful in the way I have planned? You would
n’t have liked me to go on practising medicine?”
“I thought of that,” he answered simply. “I didn’t see how it could
be done. But if you saw any way, I was willing--No, that was my great
trouble! I knew that it was selfish in me, and very conceited, to
suppose you would give up your whole life for me; and whenever I thought
of that, I determined not to ask you. But I tried not to think of that.”
“Well, don’t you see? But if I could have answered you as you wish, it
wouldn’t have been anything to give up everything for you. A woman
isn’t something else first, and a woman afterwards. I understand how
unselfishly you meant, and indeed, indeed, I thank you. But don’t let’s
talk of it any more. It couldn’t have been, and there is nothing
but misery in thinking of it. Come,” she said, with a struggle for
cheerfulness, “let us forget it. Let it be just as if you hadn’t spoken
to me; I know you did n’t intend to do it; and let us go on as if
nothing had happened.”
“Oh, we can’t go on,” he answered. “I shall get away, as soon as Maynard
comes, and rid you of the sight of me.”
“Are you going away?” she softly asked. “Why need you? I know that
people always seem to think they can’t be friends after--such a thing as
this. But why shouldn’t we? I respect you, and I like you very much. You
have shown me more regard and more kindness than any other friend”--
“But I wasn’t your friend,” he interrupted. “I loved you.”
“Well,” she sighed, in gentle perplexity, “then you can’t be my friend?”
“Never. But I shall always love you. If it would do any good, I would
stay, as you ask it. I should n’t mind myself. But I should be a
nuisance to you.”
“No, no!” she exclaimed. “I will take the risk of that. I need your
advice, your--sympathy, your--You won’t trouble me, indeed you won’t.
Perhaps you have mistaken your--feeling about me. It’s such a very
little time since we met,” she pleaded.
“That makes no difference,--the time. And I’m not mistaken.”
“Well, stay at least till Mrs. Maynard is well, and we can all go away
together. Promise me that!” She instinctively put out her hand toward
him in entreaty. He took it, and pressing it to his lips covered it with
kisses.
“Oh!” she grieved in reproachful surprise.
“There!” he cried. “You see that I must go!”
“Yes,” she sighed in assent, “you must go.”
They did not look at each other again, but remained in a lamentable
silence while the boat pushed swiftly before the freshening breeze; and
when they reached the place where the dory lay, he dropped the sail and
threw out the anchor without a word.
He was haggard to the glance she stole at him, when they had taken their
places in the dory, and he confronted her, pulling hard at the oars. He
did not lift his eyes to hers, but from time to time he looked over his
shoulder at the boat’s prow, and he rowed from one point to another for
a good landing. A dreamy pity for him filled her; through the memories
of her own suffering, she divined the soreness of his heart.
She started from her reverie as the bottom of the dory struck the sand.
The shoal water stretched twenty feet beyond. He pulled in the oars and
rose desperately. “It’s of no use: I shall have to carry you ashore.”
She sat staring up into his face, and longing to ask him something, to
accuse him of having done this purposely. But she had erred in so many
doubts, her suspicions of him had all recoiled so pitilessly upon her,
that she had no longer the courage to question or reproach him. “Oh, no,
thank you,” she said weakly. “I won’t trouble you. I--I will wait till
the tide is out.”
“The tide’s out now,” he answered with coldness, “and you can’t wade.”
She rose desperately. “Why, of course!” she cried in self-contempt,
glancing at the water, into which he promptly stepped to his boot-tops.
“A woman must n’t get her feet wet.”
VIII.
Grace went to her own room to lay aside her shawl and hat, before going
to Mrs. Maynard, and found her mother sewing there.
“Why, who is with Mrs. Maynard?” she asked.
“Miss Gleason is reading to her,” said Mrs. Breen. “If she had any sort
of active treatment, she could get well at once. I couldn’t take the
responsibility of doing anything for her, and it was such a worry to
stay and see everything going wrong, that when Miss Gleason came in
I was glad to get away. Miss Gleason seems to believe in your Dr.
Mulbridge.”
“My Dr. Mulbridge!” echoed Grace.
“She talked of him as if he were yours. I don’t know what you’ve been
saying to her about him; but you had better be careful. The woman is a
fool.” She now looked up at her daughter for the first time. “Why, what
is the matter with you what kept you so long? You look perfectly wild.”
“I feel wild,” said Grace calmly. “The wind went down.”
“Was that all? I don’t see why that should make you feel wild,” said her
mother, dropping her spectacles to her sewing again.
“It was n’t all,” answered the girl, sinking provisionally upon the side
of a chair, with her shawl still on her arm, and her hat in her hand.
“Mother, have you noticed anything peculiar about Mr. Libby?”
“He’s the only person who seems to be of the slightest use about here;
I’ve noticed that,” said Mrs. Breen. “He’s always going and coming for
you and Mrs. Maynard. Where is that worthless husband of hers? Has n’t
he had time to come from Cheyenne yet?”
“He’s on the way. He was out at his ranch when Mr. Libby telegraphed
first, and had to be sent for. We found a despatch from him at Leyden,
saying he had started,” Grace explained.
“What business had he to be so far away at all?” demanded her mother. It
was plain that Mrs. Breen was in her most censorious temper, which had
probably acquired a sharper edge towards Maynard from her reconciliation
with his wife.
Grace seized her chance to meet the worst. “Do you think that I have
done anything to encourage Mr. Libby?” she asked, looking bravely at her
mother.
“Encourage him to do what?” asked Mrs. Breen, without lifting her eyes
from her work.
“Encouraged him to--think I cared for him; to--to be in love with me.”
Mrs. Breen lifted her head now, and pushed her spectacles up on her
forehead, while she regarded her daughter in silence. “Has he been
making love to you?”
“Yes.”
Her mother pushed her spectacles down again; and, turning the seam which
she had been sewing, flattened it with her thumb-nail. She made this
action expressive of having foreseen such a result, and of having
struggled against it, neglected and alone. “Very well, then. I hope you
accepted him?” she asked quietly.
“Mother!”
“Why not? You must like him,” she continued in the same tone. “You have
been with him every moment the last week that you have n’t been with
Mrs. Maynard. At least I’ve seen nothing of you, except when you came
to tell me you were going to walk or to drive with him. You seem to have
asked him to take you most of the time.”
“How can you say such a thing, mother?” cried the girl.
“Did n’t you ask him to let you go with him this afternoon? You told me
you did.”
“Yes, I did. I did it for a purpose.”
“Ah! for a purpose,” said Mrs. Breen, taking a survey of the new seam,
which she pulled from her knee, where one end of it was pinned, towards
her chin. She left the word to her daughter, who was obliged to take it.
“I asked him to let me go with him because Louise had tortured me about
making her go out in his boat, till I could n’t bear it any longer. It
seemed to me that if I took the same risk myself, it would be something;
and I hoped there would be a storm.”
“I should think you had taken leave of your senses,” Mrs. Breen
observed, with her spectacles intent upon her seam. “Did you think it
would be any consolation to him if you were drowned, or to her? And if,”
 she added, her conscience rising equal to the vicarious demand upon it,
“you hoped there would be danger, had you any right to expose him to it?
Even if you chose to risk your own life, you had no right to risk his.”
 She lifted her spectacles again, and turned their austere glitter upon
her daughter.
“Yes, it all seems very silly now,” said the girl, with a hopeless sigh.
“Silly!” cried her mother. “I’m glad you can call it silly.”
“And it seemed worse still when he told me that he had never believed
it was going to storm that day, when he took Louise out. His man said it
was, and he repeated it because he saw I did n’t want her to go.”
“Perhaps,” suggested Mrs. Breen, “if he was willing to deceive her then,
he is willing to deceive you now.”
“He didn’t deceive her. He said what he had heard. And he said it
because he--I wished it.”
“I call it deceiving. Truth is truth. That is what I was taught; and
that’s what I supposed I had taught you.”
“I would trust Mr. Libby in anything,” returned the daughter. “He is
perfectly frank about himself. He confessed that he had done it to
please me. He said that nothing else could excuse it.”
“Oh, then you have accepted him!”
“No, mother, I haven’t. I have refused him, and he is going away as
soon as Mr. Maynard comes.” She sat looking at the window, and the tears
stole into her eyes, and blurred the sea and sky together where she saw
their meeting at the horizon line.
“Well,” said her mother, “their that is the end of it, I presume.”
“Yes, that’s the end,” said Grace. “But--I felt sorry for him, mother.
Once,” she went on, “I thought I had everything clear before me; but now
I seem only to have made confusion of my life. Yes,” she added drearily,
“it was foolish and wicked, and it was perfectly useless, too. I can’t
escape from the consequences of what I did. It makes no difference what
he believed or any one believed. I drove them on to risk their lives
because I thought myself so much better than they; because I was
self-righteous and suspicious and stubborn. Well, I must bear the
penalty: and oh, if I could only bear it alone!” With a long sigh she
took back the burden which she had been struggling to cast off, and from
which for a time she had actually seemed to escape. She put away her hat
and shawl, and stood before the glass, smoothing her hair. “When will
it ever end?” she moaned to the reflection there, rather than to her
mother, who did not interrupt this spiritual ordeal. In another age,
such a New England girl would have tortured herself with inquisition
as to some neglected duty to God;--in ours, when religion is so largely
humanified, this Puritan soul could only wreak itself in a sense of
irreparable wrong to her fellow-creature.
When she went out she met Miss Gleason half-way down the corridor to
Mrs. Maynard’s door. The latter had a book in her hand, and came forward
whispering. “She’s asleep,” she said very sibilantly. “I have read her
to sleep, and she’s sleeping beautifully. Have you ever read it?” she
asked, with hoarse breaks from her undertone, as she held up one of
those cheap library-editions of a novel toward Grace.
“Jane Eyre? Why, of course. Long ago.”
“So have I,” said Miss Gleason. “But I sent and got it again, to refresh
my impressions of Rochester. We all think Dr. Mulbridge is just like
him. Rochester is my ideal character,--a perfect conception of a man:
so abrupt, so rough, so savage. Oh, I like those men! Don’t you?” she
fluted. “Mrs. Maynard sees the resemblance, as well as the rest of us.
But I know! You don’t approve of them. I suppose they can’t be defended
on some grounds; but I can see how, even in such a case as this, the
perfect mastery of the man-physician constitutes the highest usefulness
of the woman-physician. The advancement of women must be as women. ‘Male
and female created he them,’ and it is only in remembering this that
we are helping Gawd, whether as an anthropomorphic conception or a
universally pervading instinct of love, don’t you think?”
With her novel clapped against her breast, she leaned winningly over
toward Grace, and fixed her with her wide eyes, which had rings of white
round the pupils.
“Do tell me!” she ran on without waiting an answer. “Didn’t you go with
Mr. Libby because you hoped it might storm, and wished to take the same
risk as Mrs. Maynard? I told Mrs. Alger you did!”
Grace flushed guiltily, and Miss Gleason cowered a little, perhaps
interpreting the color as resentment. “I should consider that a very
silly motive,” she said, helplessly ashamed that she was leaving the
weight of the blow upon Miss Gleason’s shoulders instead of her own.
“Of course,” said Miss Gleason enthusiastically, “you can’t confess
it. But I know you are capable of such a thing--of anything heroic!
Do forgive me,” she said, seizing Grace’s hand. She held it a moment,
gazing with a devouring fondness into her face, which she stooped a
little sidewise to peer up into. Then she quickly dropped her hand, and,
whirling away, glided slimly out of the corridor.
Grace softly opened Mrs. Maynard’s door, and the sick woman opened her
eyes. “I was n’t asleep,” she said hoarsely, “but I had to pretend to
be, or that woman would have killed me.”
Grace went to her and felt her hands and her flushed forehead.
“I am worse this evening,” said Mrs. Maynard.
“Oh, no,” sighed the girl, dropping into a chair at the bedside, with
her eyes fixed in a sort of fascination on the lurid face of the sick
woman.
“After getting me here,” continued Mrs. Maynard, in the same low, hoarse
murmur, “you might at least stay with me a little. What kept you so
long?”
“The wind fell. We were becalmed.”
“We were not becalmed the day I went out with Mr. Libby. But perhaps
nobody forced you to go.”
Having launched this dart, she closed her eyes again with something more
like content than she had yet shown: it had an aim of which she could
always be sure.
“We have heard from Mr. Maynard,” said Grace humbly. “There was a
despatch waiting for Mr. Libby at Leyden. He is on his way.”
Mrs. Maynard betrayed no immediate effect of this other than to say, “He
had better hurry,” and did not open her eyes.
Grace went about the room with a leaden weight in every fibre, putting
the place in order, and Mrs. Maynard did not speak again till she
had finished. Then she said, “I want you to tell me just how bad Dr.
Mulbridge thinks I am.”
“He has never expressed any anxiety,” Grace began, with her inaptness at
evasion.
“Of course he has n’t,” murmured the sick woman. “He isn’t a fool! What
does he say?”
This passed the sufferance even of remorse. “He says you mustn’t talk,”
 the girl flashed out. “And if you insist upon doing so, I will leave
you, and send some one else to take care of you.”
“Very well, then. I know what that means. When a doctor tells you not to
talk, it’s because he knows he can’t do you any good. As soon as George
Maynard gets here I will have some one that can cure me, or I will know
the reason why.” The conception of her husband as a champion seemed to
commend him to her in novel degree. She shed some tears, and after a
little reflection she asked, “How soon will he be here?”
“I don’t know,” said Grace. “He seems to have started yesterday
morning.”
“He can be here by day after to-morrow,” Mrs. Maynard computed. “There
will be some one to look after poor little Bella then,” she added, as
if, during her sickness, Bella must have been wholly neglected. “Don’t
let the child be all dirt when her father comes.”
“Mother will look after Bella,” Grace replied, too meek again to resent
the implication. After a pause, “Oh, Louise,” she added beseechingly,
“I’ve suffered so much from my own wrong-headedness and obstinacy that I
couldn’t bear to see you taking the same risk, and I’m so glad that you
are going to meet your husband in the right spirit.”
“What right spirit?” croaked Mrs. Maynard.
“The wish to please him, to”--
“I don’t choose to have him say that his child disgraces him,” replied
Mrs. Maynard, in the low, husky, monotonous murmur in which she was
obliged to utter everything.
“But, dear Louise!” cried the other, “you choose something else too,
don’t you? You wish to meet him as if no unkindness had parted you, and
as if you were to be always together after this? I hope you do! Then I
should feel that all this suffering and, trouble was a mercy.”
“Other people’s misery is always a mercy to them,” hoarsely suggested
Mrs. Maynard.
“Yes, I know that,” Grace submitted, with meek conviction. “But,
Louise,” she pleaded, “you will make up with your husband, won’t you?
Whatever he has done, that will surely be best. I know that you love
him, and that he must love you, yet. It’s the only way. If you were
finally separated from him, and you and he could be happy apart, what
would become of that poor child? Who will take a father’s place with
her? That’s the worst about it. Oh, Louise, I feel so badly for you--for
what you have lost, and may lose. Marriage must change people so that
unless they live to each other, their lives will be maimed and useless.
It ought to be so much easier to forgive any wrong your husband does you
than to punish it; for that perpetuates the wrong, and forgiveness ends
it, and it’s the only thing that can end a wrong. I am sure that
your husband will be ready to do or say anything you wish; but if he
shouldn’t, Louise, you will receive him forgivingly, and make the first
advance? It’s a woman’s right to make the advances in forgiving.”
Mrs. Maynard lay with her hands stretched at her side under the
covering, and only her face visible above it. She now turned her head a
little, so as to pierce the earnest speaker with a gleam from her dull
eye. “Have you accepted Walter Libby?” she asked.
“Louise!” cried Grace, with a blush that burned like fire.
“That’s the way I used to talk when I was first engaged. Wait till
you’re married a while. I want Bella to have on her pique, and her pink
sash,--not the cherry one. I should think you would have studied to be
a minister instead of a doctor. But you need n’t preach to me; I shall
know how to behave to George Maynard when he comes,--if he ever does
come. And now I should think you had made me talk enough!”
“Yes, Yes,” said Grace, recalled to her more immediate duty in alarm.
All her helpfulness was soon to be needed. The disease, which had
lingered more than usual in the early stages, suddenly approached a
crisis. That night Mrs. Maynard grew so much worse that Grace sent Libby
at daybreak for Dr. Mulbridge; and the young man, after leading out his
own mare to see if her lameness had abated, ruefully put her back in the
stable, and set off to Corbitant with the splay-foot at a rate of speed
unparalleled, probably, in the animal’s recollection of a long and
useful life. In the two anxious days that followed, Libby and Grace were
associated in the freedom of a common interest outside of themselves;
she went to him for help and suggestion, and he gave them, as if nothing
had passed to restrict or embarrass their relations. There was that, in
fact, in the awe of the time and an involuntary disoccupation of hers
that threw them together even more constantly than before. Dr. Mulbridge
remained with his patient well into the forenoon; in the afternoon he
came again, and that night he did not go away. He superseded Grace as
a nurse no less completely than he had displaced her as a physician. He
let her relieve him when he flung himself down for a few minutes’ sleep,
or when he went out for the huge meals which he devoured, preferring
the unwholesome things with a depravity shocking to the tender physical
consciences of the ladies who looked on; but when he returned to his
charge, he showed himself jealous of all that Grace had done involving
the exercise of more than a servile discretion. When she asked him once
if there were nothing else that she could do, he said, “fires, keep
those women and children quiet,” in a tone that classed her with both.
She longed to ask him what he thought of Mrs. May nard’s condition; but
she had not the courage to invoke the intelligence that ignored her
so completely, and she struggled in silence with such disheartening
auguries as her theoretical science enabled her to make.
The next day was a Sunday, and the Sabbath hush which always hung over
Jocelyn’s was intensified to the sense of those who ached between hope
and fear for the life that seemed to waver and flicker in that still
air. Dr. Mulbridge watched beside his patient, noting every change with
a wary intelligence which no fact escaped and no anxiety clouded; alert,
gentle, prompt; suffering no question, and absolutely silent as to all
impressions. He allowed Grace to remain with him when she liked, and
let her do his bidding in minor matters; but when from time to time she
escaped from the intolerable tension in which his reticence and her own
fear held her, he did not seem to see whether she went or came. Toward
nightfall she met him coming out of Mrs. Maynard’s room, as she drew
near in the narrow corridor.
“Where is your friend--the young man--the one who smokes?” he asked, as
if nothing unusual had occupied him. “I want him to give me a cigar.”
“Dr. Mulbridge,” she said, “I will not bear this any longer. I must know
the worst--you have no right to treat me in this way. Tell me now--tell
me instantly: will she live?”
He looked at her with an imaginable apprehension of hysterics, but as
she continued firm, and placed herself resolutely in his way, he relaxed
his scrutiny, and said, with a smile, “Oh, I think so. What made you
think she would n’t?”
She drew herself aside, and made way far him.
“Go!” she cried. She would have said more, but her indignation choked
her.
He did not pass at once, and he did not seem troubled at her anger.
“Dr. Breen,” he said, “I saw a good deal of pneumonia in the army, and
I don’t remember a single case that was saved by the anxiety of the
surgeon.”
He went now, as people do when they fancy themselves to have made a
good point; and she heard him asking Barlow for Libby, outside, and then
walking over the gravel toward the stable. At that moment she doubted
and hated him so much that she world have been glad to keep Libby from
talking or even smoking with him. But she relented a little toward him
afterwards, when he returned and resumed the charge of his patient with
the gentle, vigilant cheerfulness which she had admired in him from the
first, omitting no care and betraying none. He appeared to take it for
granted that Grace saw an improvement, but he recognized it by nothing
explicit till he rose and said, “I think I will leave Mrs. Maynard with
you to-night, Dr. Breen.”
The sick woman’s eyes turned to him imploringly from her pillow,
and Grace spoke the terror of both when she faltered in return, “Are
you--you are not going home?”
“I shall sleep in the house.”
“Oh, thank you!” she cried fervently.
“And you can call me if you wish. But there won’t be any occasion.
Mrs. Maynard is very much better.” He waited to give, in a sort of
absent-minded way, certain directions. Then he went out, and Grace sank
back into the chair from which she had started at his rising, and wept
long and silently with a hidden face. When she took away her hands and
dried her tears, she saw Mrs. Maynard beckoning to her. She went to the
bedside.
“What is it, dear?” she asked tenderly.
“Stoop down,” whispered the other; and as Grace bowed her ear Mrs.
Maynard touched her cheek with her dry lips. In this kiss doubtless
she forgave the wrong which she had hoarded in her heart, and there
perverted into a deadly injury. But they both knew upon what terms the
pardon was accorded, and that if Mrs. Maynard had died, she would have
died holding Grace answerable for her undoing.
IX.
In the morning Dr. Mulbridge drove back to Corbitant, and in the evening
Libby came over from New Leyden with Maynard, in a hired wagon. He was
a day later than his wife had computed, but as she appeared to have
reflected, she had left the intervening Sunday out of her calculation;
this was one of the few things she taxed herself to say. For the rest,
she seemed to be hoarding her strength against his coming.
Grace met him at a little distance from the house, whither she had
walked with Bella, for a breath of the fresh air after her long day in
the sick-room, and did not find him the boisterous and jovial Hoosier
she had imagined him. It was, in fact, hardly the moment for the
expression of Western humor. He arrived a sleep-broken, travel-creased
figure, with more than the Western man’s usual indifference to dress;
with sad, dull eyes, and an untrimmed beard that hung in points and
tags, and thinly hid the corners of a large mouth. He took her hand
laxly in his, and bowing over her from his lank height listened to her
report of his wife’s state, while he held his little girl on his left
arm, and the child fondly pressed her cheek against his bearded face,
to which he had quietly lifted her as soon as he alighted from Libby’s
buggy.
Libby introduced Grace as Dr. Breen, and drove on, and Maynard gave
her the title whenever he addressed her, with a perfect effect of
single-mindedness in his gravity, as if it were an every-day thing
with him to meet young ladies who were physicians. He had a certain
neighborly manner of having known her a long time, and of being on good
terms with her; and somewhere there resided in his loosely knit organism
a powerful energy. She had almost to run in keeping at his side, as
he walked on to the house, carrying his little girl on his arm, and
glancing about him; and she was not sure at last that she had succeeded
in making him understand how serious the case had been.
“I don’t know whether I ought to let you go in,” she said, “without
preparing her.”
“She’s been expecting me, has n’t she?” he asked.
“Yes, but”--
“And she’s awake?”
“Then I’ll just go in and prepare her myself. I’m a pretty good hand
at preparing people to meet me. You’ve a beautiful location here, Dr.
Breen; and your town has a chance to grow. I like to see a town have
some chance,” he added, with a sadness past tears in his melancholy
eyes. “Bella can show me the way to the room, I reckon,” he said,
setting the little one down on the piazza, and following her indoors;
and when Grace ventured, later, to knock at the door, Maynard’s voice
bade her come in.
He sat beside his wife’s pillow, with her hand in his left; on his right
arm perched the little girl, and rested her head on his shoulder. They
did not seem to have been talking, and they did not move when Grace
entered the room. But, apparently, Mrs. Maynard had known how to behave
to George Maynard, and peace was visibly between them.
“Now, you tell me about the medicines, Dr. Breen, and then you go and
get some rest,” said Maynard in his mild, soothing voice. “I used to
understand Mrs. Maynard’s ways pretty well, and I can take care of her.
Libby told me all about you and your doings, and I know you must feel as
pale as you look.”
“But you can’t have had any sleep on the way,” Grace began.
“Sleep?” Maynard repeated, looking wanly at her. “I never sleep. I’d as
soon think of digesting.”
After she had given him the needed instructions he rose from the
rocking-chair in-which he had been softly swinging to and fro, and
followed her out into the corridor, caressing with his large hand the
child that lay on his shoulder. “Of course,” she said, “Mrs. Maynard is
still very sick, and needs the greatest care and attention.”
“Yes, I understand that. But I reckon it will come out all right in the
end,” he said, with the optimistic fatalism which is the real religion
of our orientalizing West. “Good-night, doctor.”
She went away, feeling suddenly alone in this exclusion from the
cares that had absorbed her. There was no one on the piazza, which the
moonlight printed with the shadows of the posts and the fanciful jigsaw
work of the arches between them. She heard a step on the sandy walk
round the corner, and waited wistfully.
It was Barlow who came in sight, as she knew at once, but she asked,
“Mr. Barlow?”
“Yes’m,” said Barlow. “What can I do for you?”
“Nothing. I thought it might be Mr. Libby at first. Do you know where he
is?”
“Well, I know where he ain’t,” said Barlow; and having ineffectually
waited to be questioned further, he added, “He ain’t here, for one
place. He’s gone back to Leyden. He had to take that horse back.”
“Oh!” she said.
“N’ I guess he’s goin’ to stay.”
“To stay? Where?”
“Well, there you’ve got me again. All I know is I’ve got to drive that
mare of his’n over to-morrow, if I can git off, and next day if I can’t.
Did n’t you know he was goin’?” asked Barlow, willing to recompense
himself for the information he had given.
“Well!” he added sympathetically, at a little hesitation of hers:
Then she said, “I knew he must go. Good-night, Mr. Barlow,” and went
indoors. She remembered that he had said he would go as soon as Maynard
came, and that she had consented that this would be best. But his going
now seemed abrupt, though she approved it. She thought that she had
something more to say to him, which might console him or reconcile him;
she could not think what this was, but it left an indefinite longing,
an unsatisfied purpose in her heart; and there was somewhere a tremulous
sense of support withdrawn. Perhaps this was a mechanical effect of the
cessation of her anxiety for Mrs. Maynard, which had been a support as
well as a burden. The house was strangely quiet, as if some great noise
had just been hushed, and it seemed empty. She felt timid in her room,
but she dreaded the next day more than the dark. Her life was changed,
and the future, which she had once planned so clearly, and had felt
so strong to encounter, had fallen to a ruin, in which she vainly
endeavored to find some clew or motive of the past. She felt remanded
to the conditions of the girlhood that she fancied she had altogether
outlived; she turned her face upon her pillow in a grief of bewildered
aspiration and broken pride, and shed tears scarcely predicable of a
doctor of medicine.
But there is no lapse or aberration of character which can be half so
surprising to others as it is to one’s self. She had resented Libby’s
treating her upon a theory, but she treated herself upon a theory, and
we all treat ourselves upon a theory. We proceed each of us upon the
theory that he is very brave, or generous, or gentle, or liberal, or
truthful, or loyal, or just. We may have the defects of our virtues, but
nothing is more certain than that we have our virtues, till there comes
a fatal juncture, not at all like the juncture in which we had often
imagined ourselves triumphing against temptation. It passes, and the
hero finds, to his dismay and horror, that he has run away; the generous
man has been niggard; the gentleman has behaved like a ruffian, and the
liberal like a bigot; the champion of truth has foolishly and vainly
lied; the steadfast friend has betrayed his neighbor, the just person
has oppressed him. This is the fruitful moment, apparently so sterile,
in which character may spring and flower anew; but the mood of abject
humility in which the theorist of his own character is plunged and
struggles for his lost self-respect is full of deceit for others. It
cannot last: it may end in disowning and retrieving the error, or it may
end in justifying it, and building it into the reconstructed character,
as something upon the whole unexpectedly fine; but it must end, for
after all it is only a mood. In such a mood, in the anguish of her
disappointment at herself, a woman clings to whatever support offers,
and it is at his own risk that the man who chances to be this support
accepts the weight with which she casts herself upon him as the measure
of her dependence, though he may make himself necessary to her, if he
has the grace or strength to do it.
Without being able to understand fully the causes of the dejection
in which this girl seemed to appeal to him, Mulbridge might well
have believed himself the man to turn it in his favor. If he did not
sympathize with her distress, or even clearly divine it, still his bold
generalizations, he found, always had their effect with women, whose
natures are often to themselves such unknown territory that a man who
assumes to know them has gone far to master them. He saw that a rude
moral force alone seemed to have a charm with his lady patients,--women
who had been bred to ease and wealth, and who had cultivated, if not
very disciplined, minds. Their intellectual dissipation had apparently
made them a different race from the simpler-hearted womenkind of his
neighbors, apt to judge men in a sharp ignorance of what is fascinating
in heroes; and it would not be strange if he included Grace in the sort
of contemptuous amusement with which he regarded these-flatteringly
dependent and submissive invalids. He at least did not conceive of her
as she conceived of herself; but this may be impossible to any man with
regard to any woman.
With his experience of other women’s explicit and even eager obedience,
the resistance which he had at first encountered in Grace gave zest
to her final submission. Since he had demolished the position she had
attempted to hold against him, he liked her for having imagined she
could hold it; and she had continued to pique and interest him. He
relished all her scruples and misgivings, and the remorse she had tried
to confide to him; and if his enjoyment of these foibles of hers took
too little account of her pain, it was never his characteristic to be
tender of people in good health. He was, indeed, as alien to her Puritan
spirit as if he had been born in Naples instead of Corbitant. He came
of one of those families which one finds in nearly every New England
community, as thoroughly New England in race as the rest, but
flourishing in a hardy scepticism and contempt of the general sense.
Whatever relation such people held to the old Puritan commonwealth when
Puritanism was absolute, they must later have taken an active part in
its disintegration, and were probably always a destructive force at its
heart.
Mulbridge’s grandfather was one of the last captains who sailed a slaver
from Corbitant. When this commerce became precarious, he retired from
the seas, took a young wife in second marriage, and passed his declining
days in robust inebriety. He lived to cast a dying vote for General
Jackson, and his son, the first Dr. Mulbridge, survived to illustrate
the magnanimity of his fellow-townsmen during the first year of the
civil war, as a tolerated Copperhead. Then he died, and his son, who was
in the West, looking up a location for practice, was known to have gone
out as surgeon with one of the regiments there. It was not supposed that
he went from patriotism; but when he came back, a year before the end of
the struggle, and settled in his native place, his service in the army
was accepted among his old neighbors as evidence of a better disposition
of some sort than had hitherto been attributable to any of his name.
In fact, the lazy, good-natured boy, whom they chiefly remembered before
his college days, had always been well enough liked among those who had
since grown to be first mates and ship captains in the little port where
he was born and grew up. They had now all retired from the sea, and,
having survived its manifold perils, were patiently waiting to be
drowned in sail-boats on the bay. They were of the second generation of
ships’ captains still living in Corbitant; but they would be the last.
The commerce of the little port had changed into the whaling trade in
their time; this had ceased in turn, and the wharves had rotted away.
Dr. Mulbridge found little practice among them; while attending their
appointed fate, they were so thoroughly salted against decay as to
preserve even their families. But he gradually gathered into his hands,
from the clairvoyant and the Indian doctor, the business which they had
shared between them since his father’s death. There was here and there a
tragical case of consumption among the farming families along the coast,
and now and then a frightful accident among the fishermen; the spring
and autumn brought their typhoid; the city people who came down to the
neighboring hotels were mostly sick, or fell sick; and with the small
property his father had left, he and his mother contrived to live.
They dwelt very harmoniously together; for his mother, who had passed
more than a quarter of a century in strong resistance to her husband’s
will, had succumbed, as not uncommonly happens with such women, to the
authority of her son, whom she had no particular pleasure or advantage
in thwarting. In the phrase and belief of his neighbors, he took after
her, rather than his father; but there was something ironical and
baffling in him, which the local experts could not trace to either the
Mulbridges or the Gardiners. They had a quiet, indifferent faith in his
ability to make himself a position and name anywhere; but they were
not surprised that he had come back to live in Corbitant, which was so
manifestly the best place in the world, and which, if somewhat lacking
in opportunity, was ample in the leisure they believed more congenial to
him than success. Some of his lady patients at the hotels, who felt at
times that they could not live without him, would have carried him back
to the city with them by a gentle violence; but there was nothing in
anything he said or did that betrayed ambition on his part. He liked to
