"I would rather be drowned in some other medium," he allowed. 
"Well, we heard right? The decisions were in your favour, and 
triumphantly?" 
"They were in my favour, and unconditionally. I did not feel that there 
was much to triumph about, or can be, in a family lawsuit." 
"No; they are very sad things. I am very glad you are out of them, and so 
well out of them." 
"Thank you. How are my young friends in the family?" 
"The girls? Quite well, thank you, They are unluckily neither of them at 
home." 
"Not at home! I am sorry for that. How has my child developed?" he  
asked with a slight smile. 
"She has grown into a young woman," Mrs. Busby answered, with one of 
those utterly imperceptible, yet thoroughly perceived, changes of manner 
which speak of a mental check received or a mental protest made. It was 
not a change of manner either; nothing so tangible; I cannot tell what it 
was in her expression that Mr. Southwode instantly saw and felt, and that 
put him upon his guard and upon his mettle at once. Mrs. Busby had drawn 
her shawl closer round her; that was all the outward gesture. She always 
wore a shawl. In winter it was thick and in summer it was gossamer; but 
one way or another a shawl seemed essential to Mrs. Busby's well-being. 
What Mr. Southwode gathered from her words was a covert rebuke and 
rebuff. He was informed that Rotha was grown up. 
"It is hard to realize that," he said lightly. "It seems but the other 
day that I left her; and since then, nothing else has changed!" 
"She has changed," said Mrs. Busby drily. 
"May I ask, how?--besides the physical difference, which to be sure was 
to be looked for?" 
"I do not know that there is any other particular change." 
"That would disappoint me," said Mr. Southwode. "I hoped to find a good 
deal of mental growth and improvement as the fruit of these three years. 
She has been at school all the time?" 
"Yes." 
"What is her school record?" 
"Very fairly good," said Mrs. Busby, turning her eyes now upon the young 
man, whom for the last few minutes they had avoided. "I did not know you 
were so much interested in Rotha, Mr. Southwode." 
"She was my charge, you are aware. Her mother left her to my care." 
"Until she was placed in mine," said Mrs. Busby with dignity. "I hope you 
believe that I am able to take good care of her?" 
"I should be very sorry to doubt that, and no one who knows Mrs. Busby 
could question it for a moment. But a charge is a charge, you know. To 
resign it or delegate it is not optional. I regard myself as Rotha's 
guardian always, and it was as her guardian that I entrusted her to you." 
Mrs. Busby did not answer this, and did not change a muscle in face or 
figure. 
"And so," Mr. Southwode went on, smiling,--he was amused, and he 
appreciated Mrs. Busby,--"it is as her guardian that I am asking an 
account of her now." 
"I have given it," said Mrs. Busby; and she moved her lips as if they 
were dry, which however her utterance was not. It was pleasant. 
"The young ladies can hardly be expected home early, I suppose?" said Mr. 
Southwode, looking at his watch.
"Hardly"--returned Mrs. Busby in the same way. 
"When can I see Rotha to-morrow?" 
"To-morrow," said Mrs. Busby, speaking leisurely, "you will hardly see 
her. She is not at home. I said that before, but you understood me to 
speak of the evening merely." 
"Where is she then? I can go to her." 
"No, you cannot," said Mrs. Busby half smiling, but it was not a smile 
Mr. Southwode liked. "She is at a friend's house in the country." 
"Not in New York! How long do you expect her to be absent?"
"That I cannot possibly tell. It depends on circumstances that I do not 
know." 
Mr. Southwode pondered. "Will you favour me with her address?" he asked, 
taking out his notebook. 
"It is not worth the while," said the lady quietly. "She is at a 
considerable distance from New York, too far for you to go to her; and 
she may be home any day. It depends, as I said, on what I do not now 
know." 
"And may be delayed yet for some time, then?" 
"Possibly." 
"Will you give me her address, Mrs. Busby." 
Mr. Southwode's pencil was ready, but instead of giving him something to 
do with it, Mrs. Busby rang the bell. Pencil and notebook waited. 
"Lesbia, go up to my dressing room and bring me a little green book with 
a clasp lying on my table there." 
A few minutes of silence and waiting; then Lesbia returned with the 
announcement, "There aint no sort o' little book there, Mis' Busby. 
There's a heap o' big ones, but they aint green." 
"Go again and look in the left hand drawer." 
Lesbia came again. "Aint nothin' there but papers." 
"That will do. Mr. Southwode, I have not my address book, and without 
that I cannot give you what you want. The name of the post-office town is 
very peculiar, and I always forget it. But I can write to Rotha to-morrow 
and summon her, if you think it necessary." 
"Would that be an inexpedient measure?" 
"You must judge. I have not thought best to do it; but if it is necessary 
I can do it now." 
"I will not give you so much trouble. If you will allow me, I will come 
again to morrow evening, and get the address." 
"To-morrow evening!" said the lady slowly. "I am very sorry, I have an 
engagement; I shall not be at home to-morrow evening." 
Why did it not occur to Mrs. Busby to say that she would leave the 
address for him, if he would call for it? Mr. Southwode quietly put up 
his pencil, and remarked that another time would do; and passed on easily 
to make inquiries about what New York had been doing since he went away? 
Mrs. Busby told him of certain buildings and plans for buildings here and 
there, and then suddenly asked, 
"When did you come, Mr. Southwode?" 
"I landed to-day." 
"To-day! Rotha would be very much flattered if she knew how prompt you 
have been to seek her out." 
It was said with a manner meant to be smoothly insinuating, but which 
somehow had missed the smoothness. Mrs. Busby for that moment had lost 
the hold she usually kept of herself. 
"Rotha would expect no less of me," Mr. Southwode answered calmly. 
"Then you and she must have been great friends before you went away? 
greater then I knew." 
"Did Rotha not credit me with so much?" he asked with a smile, which 
covered a sharp observation of the lady, examining him. 
"To tell you the truth," said Mrs. Busby, with a manner which was 
intended to be gracious, "I did not encourage her. Knowing what 
gentlemen, and young gentlemen, generally are, I thought it unlikely that 
you would much remember Rotha amid the pressure of your business in 
England, and very likely that things might turn out so that she would 
never see you again. I expected every day to hear that you were married; 
and of course that would have been an end of your interest in her." 
"Why do you think so, may I ask?" 
"Why? Every woman knows," said Mrs. Busby in amused fashion. 
"I will not marry till I find a woman that does not know," said Mr. 
Southwode shaking his head. 
"Now that is unreasonable, Mr. Southwode." 
"I do not think so. Prove it." 
"I cannot prove it to a man. I have only a woman's knowledge, of what he 
does not understand. And besides, Mr. Southwode, it is quite right and 
proper that it should be so. A man shall leave his father and mother and 
cleave to his wife; and if his father and mother, surely everybody else." 
"As I am not married, the case does not come under consideration," said 
the gentleman carelessly. And after a pause he went on--"I have written 
several letters to Rotha during the time of my absence, and addressed 
them to your care. Did you receive them safe?" 
"I received several--I do not at this moment recollect just how many." 
"Do you know why they were never answered?" 
"I suppose I do," said Mrs. Busby composedly. "Rotha has been exceedingly 
engrossed with her studies." 
"She had vacations?" 
"O certainly. She had vacations." 
"Then can you tell me, Mrs. Busby, why Rotha never wrote to me?" 
"I am afraid I cannot tell you," the lady answered slowly, looking into 
the fire. 
"Do you think Rotha has forgotten me?" 
"It is not like her, I should say, to forget. I never hear her mention 
you. But then, I see her little except in the vacations, and not always 
then; she was often carried off from me." 
"By whom, may I ask?" 
"O by her school teacher." 
"And that was--? Pardon me, but it concerns me to know all about Rotha I 
can." 
"I am not sure if I am justified in telling you." 
"Why not?" 
"I think," said Mrs. Busby with an appearance of candour, "my 
guardianship is the proper one for her. How can you be her guardian, 
while she lives in my house, Mr. Southwode? Or how can you be her 
guardian out of it?" 
"I promised her mother," he said. "How a promise shall be fulfilled, may 
admit of question; but not whether it shall be fulfilled." 
"I know of but one way," Mrs. Busby went on, eyeing him now intently. "If 
you tell me you are intending to take that way,--then I have no more to 
say, of course. But I know of but one way in which it can be done." 
Mr. Southwode laughed a little, a low, soft laugh, that in him always 
meant amusement. "I did not promise that to her mother," he said, "and  
I cannot promise it to you. It might be convenient, but I do not 
contemplate it." 
"Then, Mr. Southwode, I feel it my duty to request that you fulfil your 
promise by acting through me." 
It was well enough said; it was not without some ground of reason. If he 
could have felt sure of Mrs. Busby, it might have received, partially at 
least, his concurrence. But he was as far as possible from feeling sure 
of Mrs. Busby; and rather gave her credit for playing a clever mask. Upon 
a little pause which followed the last words, there came a ring at the 
door and the entrance of the young lady of the house. Antoinette was 
grown up excessively pretty, and was dressed to set off her prettiness. 
Her mother might be pardoned for viewing her with secret pride and 
exultation, if not for the thrill of jealous fear which accompanied the 
proud joy. That anybody should stand in this beauty's way! 
"Mr. Southwode!" exclaimed the young lady. "It is Mr. Southwode come 
back. Why, Mr. Southwode, what has kept you so long? We heard you were 
coming five months ago. Why didn't you come then?" 
Mrs. Busby wished her daughter had not said that. 
"There were reasons--not interesting enough to occupy your ear with 
them." 
"'Occupy my ear'!" repeated the girl. "That is something new. Mamma, 
isn't that deliciously polite! Well, what made you stay away so long, Mr. 
Southwode? I like to have my ear occupied." 
"Should not people stay where they belong?" 
"And do you belong in England?" 
"I suppose, in a measure, I may say I do." 
"You talk foolishly, Antoinette," her mother put in. "Don't you know that 
Mr. Southwode's home is in England?" 
"People can change their homes, mamma. Then, you are not going to stay 
long, Mr. Southwode?" 
"I do not know how long. That is an undecided point." 
"And what have you come over for now?" 
"Antoinette!" said her mother again. "I do not know if you can excuse 
her, Mr. Southwode; she is entirely too out-spoken. That is a question 
you have nothing to do with, Nettie." 
"Why not, mamma? He has come for something; and if it is business, or 
travelling, or hunting, I would like to know." 
"Hunting, at this time of year!" said Mrs. Busby. 
"I might say it is business," said Mr. Southwode. "In one part of my 
business, perhaps you can help me." 
Antoinette pricked up her ears delightedly, and eagerly asked how? and 
what? 
"I made it part of my business to inquire about a little girl that I left 
three years ago under your mother's care." 
"Rotha!" exclaimed Antoinette; and a cloudy shadow of displeasure and 
suspicion forthwith fell over her face; not tinder such good control as 
her mother's. "A little girl! She was not so very little." 
"What sort of a girl has she turned out to be?" 
"Not little now, I can tell you. She is a great deal bigger than I am. So 
you came to see about Rotha?" 
"What can you tell me about her?" 
"What do you want to know?" 
"Nothing but the truth," said Mr. Southwode gravely. 
"But the truth about what? Rotha is just what she used to be." 
"Not changed except in inches?" 
"Inches! Feet!--" said Antoinette. "We don't think about inches when we 
look at her. I don't know about anything else. If you want an account of 
her studies you must ask somebody at school." 
"Her teacher was yours?" 
"O yes. Lately, you know, we were both in the upper class; and of course 
we were together in Mrs. Mowbray's lessons; but then in other things we 
were apart." 
"How was that?" 
"Studied different things," said Antoinette shortly. "Had different 
masters. I can't tell you about Rotha's lessons, if you want to know 
that." She was pulling off her gloves as she spoke, and tugged at them 
with an appearance of vexation, which might be due to their excellent fit 
and consequent difficulty of removal. 
"Has she proved herself a pleasant inmate of the family?" 
"She has been rather an inmate of Mrs. Mowbray's family," said 
Antoinette. "Mrs. Mowbray has swallowed her up and carried her off from 
us. We don't see much of her." 
"Antoinette," said her mother here, "Mr. Southwode wants to know Rotha's 
address; and I cannot give him the name of the place. Can you help me 
recollect it?" 
"Never knew it, mamma. I didn't know the place had a name. I can't 
recollect what I never heard." 
"There must be a post-office," Mr. Southwode remarked. 
"Must there? O I suppose there must, somewhere; but I don't know it." 
"Lesbia could not find my address book," Mrs. Busby added. 
"It is a matter of no consequence," Mr. Southwode rejoined. And he 
presently after took his leave. A moment's silence followed his 
departure. 
"There was no need to tell him you did not know the post-office town," 
said Mrs. Busby. "That was as much as to say, you never write." 
"What should I write for?" returned Antoinette defiantly. "Mamma! was 
that all he came for? to ask about Rotha?" 
"All that he came here for," said Mrs. Busby, with lines in her brow and 
a compressed mouth. "I wish you had not told him where Rotha went to 
school, either." 
"Why?" 
"Just as well not to say it." 
"But what harm? He could ask, if he wanted to know; and then you would 
have to tell. What does he want her address for?" 
"I don't know; but I can manage that, well enough. He knows nothing about 
Tanfield." 
"Mamma! I wish Rotha had never come to us!" cried Antoinette with tears 
in her eyes. 
"Don't be foolish, Antoinette. Mr. Southwode will be here again in a day 
or two; and then leave things to me." 
Mr. Southwode meantime walked slowly and thoughtfully to the corner of 
the street. By that time his manner changed; and he hailed a horse car 
and sprang into it like a man who was suffering from no indecision in 
either his views or purposes. Oddly enough, the very name which 
Antoinette had comforted herself with thinking he did not know, had 
suddenly occurred to him, together with a long-ago proposition of Mrs. 
Busby to her sister in the latter's time of need. He had pretty well made 
up his mind. 
Half an hour later Mr. Southwode was announced to Mrs. Mowbray. 
Mrs. Mowbray recollected him; she never forgot anybody, or failed to 
catalogue anybody rightly in the vast collections and stores of her 
memory. She received Mr. Southwode therefore with the gracious courtesy 
and dignity which was habitual with her, and with the full measure also 
of her usual reserve and quick observation. 
After a few commonplaces respecting his absence and his return, Mr. 
Southwode begged to ask if Mrs. Busby's niece, Miss Carpenter, were in 
her house or school? 
"Miss Carpenter is not with me," Mrs. Mowbray answered guardedly. 
"But she has been with you, if I understand aright?" 
"She has been with me until lately." 
"Are you informed that she will not return?" 
"By no means! I am expecting to see her or hear from her every day. O by 
no means. Miss Carpenter ought to remain with me several years yet. I 
shall be much disappointed if she do not. It is one great mistake of 
parents now-a-days, that they do not give me time enough. The first two 
or three years can but lay a foundation, on which to build afterwards." 
"May I ask, if the foundation has been successfully laid in Miss 
Carpenter's case? I am interested to know; because Mrs. Carpenter when 
she died left her child to my care; and I hold myself responsible for 
what concerns her." 
Mrs. Mowbray hesitated slightly. "Where was Mrs. Busby?" she asked then. 
"Here; but there was no intercourse between the sisters." 
"Was it not by her mother's wish that Miss Carpenter was placed with her 
aunt?" 
"No. I acted on no authority but my own." 
"What sort of a woman was Mrs. Carpenter?" 
"A very admirable woman. A sweet, sound, noble nature, with a great deal 
of quiet strength." 
"Is her daughter like her?" 
"Not in the least. I do not mean that she lacks some of her mother's good 
qualities; but they are developed differently, and with a wholly 
different background of temperament." 
"Was there a feud between the sisters, or anything like it?" 
Mr. Southwode hesitated. "I know the story," he said. "Mrs. Carpenter 
never complained; but I think another woman would, in her place." 
"Will you allow me to ask, how she came to entrust her child to you?" 
"I was the only friend at hand. And now," Mr. Southwode went on smiling, 
"may I be permitted to ask another question or two? When have you heard 
from Miss Carpenter?" 
"Not a word all summer. In the spring my school was broken up, on account 
of sickness in the house; I sent Rotha home to her aunt; and since then I 
have heard nothing from her. Not a word." 
"You do not know then of course where she is?" 
"With her aunt, I suppose, of course. Is she not with Mrs. Busby?" 
"She is making a visit somewhere, Mrs. Busby tells me." And he hesitated. 
"Has Rotha's home been happy with her aunt?" 
"That is a question I never ask. Rotha does not complain." 
"I need not ask whether her abode has been happy here," said the 
gentleman smiling again; "but, has she been a satisfactory member of your 
school?" 
"Perfectly so! Of my school and family." 
"You are satisfied with her studies, her progress in them, I mean?" 
"Perfectly. I never taught any one with more pleasure or better results." 
"I am very glad to hear that," said Mr. Southwode. And he took his leave. 
The very next train for Tanfield carried him northward. 
CHAPTER XXVIII. 
DISCOVERIES. 
The next day, which was the 24th of October, passed as other days of less 
significance had done. At dinner Mrs. Purcell complained of Rotha's 
failure of appetite. Rotha had been down-hearted all the morning. Seven 
days more, and November would begin! 
"You don't eat worth a red cent!" said Mrs. Purcell. "Aint that a good 
pot pie?" 
"Excellent! The queen of England couldn't have a better." 
"If she hasn't a better appetite she won't be queen long. Why don't ye 
eat?" 
"Sometimes I can't, Prissy." 
"What ails you?" 
"Nothing. I get thinking; that's all." 
"Joe," said his wife, "what's Mis' Busby doin'?" 
"Couldn't say." 
"Where is she? Why don't she come after Miss Rotha?" 
"I s'pose she's busy with her own affairs. If she' had consulted me, I 
could ha' told you more." 
"If she ever consults you, I hope you'll give her some good advice. She 
wants it bad!"  
"I guess I will," said Mr. Purcell, lounging out. "If I don't, you kin." 
Rotha wished to escape further remark or enquiry, and went out too. She 
would divert herself with gathering a great bunch of the fall flowers and 
dress some dishes. She often refreshed herself and refined the tea-table 
with a nosegay dressed in the middle of it, especially as it seemed to 
give not less pleasure to her entertainers than to her. She went now 
slowly down the gravelled drive, filling her hands as she went with 
asters, chrysanthemums, late honeysuckles, and bits of green from box and 
cedar and feathery larches. She went slowly, thinking hard all the way, 
and feeling very blue indeed. She saw no opening out of her troubles, and 
she strongly suspected that her aunt meant there should be none. What was 
to become of her? True, it flashed into her mind, "The Lord is my 
Shepherd";--but the sheep was taking it into her head to think for 
herself, and could not see that the path she was following would end in 
anything but disaster and famishing. If she could but get out of this 
path----
Ah, silly sheep! 
Rotha found herself at the gate leading into the high road; the gate by 
which she had been admitted so many months ago, and which she had never 
passed through since. She did not open it now; she stood still, resting 
one hand on the bars of it and gazing off along the road that led to 
Tanfield. It was quite empty; there was little passing along that road in 
the best of times, and very little at this season. It looked hopeless and 
desolate, the long straight lines of fences, and the gray, empty space 
between running off into nothing. Anything moving upon it would have been 
a relief to the eye and the mind; it looked like Rotha's own life at 
present, unchanging, Monotonous, solitary, barren, endless. Yet very 
precious flowers had been lately blossoming upon her path, and fragrant 
plants springing; but this, if she partly knew, at this moment she wholly 
ignored or forgot. She stood in a dream reverie, looking forward with her 
bodily eye, but with the eye of her mind back, and far back; to her 
mother, to her father, to Mr. Digby, and the times at Medwayville when 
she was a happy child. Nothing regular or consecutive; a maze of dream 
images in which she lost herself, and under the power of which her tears 
slowly gathered and began to run down her cheeks. Standing so, looking 
down the long empty road, and in the very depths of disheartened 
foreboding and dismay, a step startled her. Nobody was in sight on the 
road towards Tanfield; it was a quick business step coming in the other 
direction. Rotha turned her head hurriedly, and then was more in a maze 
than ever, though of a different kind. Close by the gate somebody was 
standing. A stranger? And why did he look so little strange? Rotha's eyes 
grew big unconsciously, while she likewise utterly forgot that they were 
framed in a setting of wet eyelashes; and then there came flashing 
changes in her face. I cannot describe how all the lines of it altered; 
and fire leapt to her eye, not without an alternating shadow however, a 
sort of shadow of doubt; her lips parted, but she could not bring out a 
word. The stranger stood still likewise, and looked, and I am not sure 
but his eyes opened a little; light came into them too, and a smile. 
"Have I found you?" he said. "Perhaps you will let me come in." 
And while Rotha remained in stupid bewilderment and uncertainty of 
everything except the identity of the person before her, he laid hold of 
the latch of the gate and made his own words good; Rotha giving way just 
enough to allow of it. I think the new-comer was a little uncertain as 
well; nevertheless he was not the sort of man to shew uncertainty. 
"Is this my little Rotha?" he said as he came up to her; and then, taking 
her hand, he began just where he left off, by stooping and kissing her. 
That roused Rotha, as much as ever the kiss of the prince in the fairy 
tale woke the sleeping beauty. The blood flushed all over her face, she 
pulled her hand away, and flung herself as it were upon the gate again; 
laying hold of the bars of it and bending down her face upon her arms. 
What did he do that for? and had he a right? After leaving her unthought 
of for so many years, was he entitled to speak to her and look at her 
and--kiss her, just as he could do once when she was a child? Rotha's 
mind was in terrible tumult, for notwithstanding this protest of reason, 
or of feeling, that touch of his lips upon her lips had waked up all the 
old past; it was just like the kiss with which he had bid her good bye 
three years ago; but whether to forgive him or not, and whether there was 
anything or not, Rotha did not yet know. Yet the old power of his 
presence was asserting itself already. All she could do was to keep 
silent, and the silence was of some little duration; for Mr. Digby, as 
his old fashion was, waited.
"I see you have not forgotten me," he said at length. "Or--should I 
say--" 
"I thought you had forgotten me, Mr. Southwode," said Rotha. She said  
it with some dignity, removing her arms from the gate and standing before 
him. Yet she could not raise her eyes to him. Her manner was entirely 
unexceptionable and graceful. 
"What made you think that?" 
"I had some reason. It is three years, just three years, since you went 
away; and I have never heard a word from you in all the time." 
"You have not heard from me? How comes that?" 
"I do not know how it comes. I have never heard."
"And so, you thought I had never written?" 
"Did you write?" said Rotha, flashing the question now at him with her 
eyes. It was exactly one of the old looks, that he remembered, bright, 
deep, eager. Yet how the girl had changed! 
"I wrote a number of times." 
"To me?" 
"Yea. I got no answer." 
"How could I answer letters that I never had?" cried Rotha. 
"Could you not, possibly, have written to me a letter that was not an 
answer?" 
"Yes, and I would; O how I wanted to write, many a time!--but I did not 
know where to send it. I had not your address." 
"I left it with your aunt for you; or rather, I believe I left it in a 
note for you, when I went away." 
"She never let me know as much," said Rotha a little bitterly. 
"You might have guessed she had my address. Did you ever ask her? You 
know, I promised to give it to you?"
"There was no use in my asking her any such thing,"' said Rotha. "She 
never let me hear a word from you or about you. I only learned by chance, 
as it were, that you had gone back to England." 
"And so you thought I had forgotten you?" 
"What could I think? I did not want to think that," said Rotha, feeling 
somewhat put in the wrong.
"I did not want you to think that. The least you can do to a friend, if 
you have got him, is to trust him." 
"But then, I thought--they said--I thought, maybe, after you had put me 
in aunt Serena's care, you had done--or thought you had done--the best 
you could for me." 
"The best I could just at the moment. I never promised to leave you with 
Mrs. Busby always, did I?" 
"But you were in England, and busy," said Rotha. "It seemed--No, it 
didn't seem very natural that you should forget all about me, for I  
did not think it was at all like you; but that was what people said." 
"And Rotha believed?" 
"I almost believed it at last," said Rotha, very sorry to confess the 
fact. 
"What do you think now?" 
"I think I was mistaken. But, Mr. Digby, three years is a long time; and 
after all, why should you remember me? I was nothing to you; only a child 
that you had been very kind to." 
He was silent. What was she to him indeed? And what sort of relations was 
he to maintain between them now? She was not a child any longer. Here was 
a tall, graceful girl, albeit dressed in exceedingly plain garments; the 
garments could not hide and even rather emphasized the fact, for she was 
graceful in spite of them. And the promise of the child's face was 
abundantly fulfilled in the woman. Features very fine, eyes of changing 
and flashing power, all the indications that he well remembered of a 
nature passionate, tender, sensitive and strong; while there was also a 
certain veil of sweetness and patience over them all, which he did not 
remember. Mr. Southwode began dimly to perceive that he could not take up 
things just where he left them; what he left was not in existence. In 
place of the passionate, variable, wilful child, here was a developed, 
sensitive, and withal very beautiful woman. What was he to do with her? 
or what could he do for her? 
Unconsciously, the two had begun slowly pacing towards the house, and 
Rotha was the one to break the silence. Happily, her companion's scruples 
did not enter her head. 
"What brought you here, Mr. Digby? How ever came you to Tanfield?" 
"To look after that little girl you thought I had forgotten," he said 
with a slight smile. 
"But what made you come here? Did you know I was here?" 
"Not at all. I could not find out anything of your whereabouts; except 
indeed that you were 'in the country.' So much I learned." 
"From whom?" 
"From Mrs. Busby." 
"From my aunt! You have seen her! When did you see her?" 
"Yesterday; immediately upon my arrival." 
"Then you have only just come? From England, I mean." 
"Only just come." 
Rotha paused. This statement was delightfully soothing.
"And you saw aunt Serena? And what did she say?" 
"She said nothing. I could get nothing out of her, of what I wanted to 
hear. She said you were quite well, making a visit at a friend's house in 
the country." 
"That--is--not--true!" said Rotha slowly and indignantly. "Did she tell 
you that?" 
"Are you not making a visit here?" 
"What is a 'visit'? No, I am not. And, it is not a friend's house, 
either." 
"How came you here? and when? and what for, then?" said he now in his 
turn. 
"I came--some time in last May; near the end, I believe." 
"Why?" 
Rotha lifted her eyes to his. "I do not know," she said. 
"What was the alleged reason for your coming?" 
"Aunt Serena was going, she said, to Chicago, on a visit, and my presence 
would not be convenient. I could not stay in the house in New York alone. 
So I was sent here. That is all I know." 
"Sent?" 
Rotha nodded. "Yes." 
"Not brought?" 
"O no!" 
"Did you come alone?" 
A sudden spasm seemed to catch the girl's heart; she stopped and covered 
her face with her hands; and for a minute or two there came a rush of hot 
tears, irrepressible and unmanageable. Why they came Rotha did not know, 
and was surprised at them; but there was a quiver and a glitter in her 
face when she took her hands down, which shewed to her companion that the 
clouds and the sunshine were at strife somewhere. They walked on a few 
paces more, and then, coming full in sight of the house, Rotha's steps 
stayed. 
"Where are we going?" she said. "I have no place to take you to, in 
there." 
Mr. Digby's eyes made a survey of the building before him. 
"O it is large enough--there is room, and rooms, enough," said Rotha; 
"but it is all unused and unopened. I have one corner, at the top of the 
house; and down in another corner Mr. and Mrs. Purcell have their kitchen 
and a little sleeping place off it; all the rest is desert." 
"Who are Mr. and Mrs. Purcell?" 
"Aunt Serena's tenants--farmers--I do not know what to call them. They 
might be servants, but they are not that exactly." 
"Do you mean that there is no other person in the house?" 
"No other person." 
Mr. Southwode began to go forward again, slowly, looking at everything as 
he went. 
"What do you hear from your aunt?" 
"Nothing. O yes, I have had one scrap of a note from her; some time ago; 
but it told me nothing:" 
"Have you written to her?" 
"Over and over; till I was tired." 
"Have you written to no one else?" 
"Why of course! I wrote to Mrs. Mowbray, again and again; and to one or 
two of the girls; but I never got an answer. The whole world has seemed 
dead, and been dead, for me." 
They slowly paced by the house, and began to go down the sweep towards 
the other gate. 
"Alone with these two servants for five months!" Mr. Southwode said. 
"Rotha, what sort of a life have you been living all this while?" 
"I do not know," said the girl catching her breath. "Rather queer. I 
suppose it has been good for me." 
"What makes you suppose that?" 
"I think I can feel that it has."--But Rotha added no more. 
"Is confidence between us not fully reestablished?" he asked with a 
smile. 
"O yes--if you care to know," Rotha answered hesitatingly, at the same 
time finding herself ready to slide back into the old habit of being very 
open with him. 
"I care to know--if you like to tell me." 
"It has been a queer life," she repeated. "I have been living between two 
things, my Bible, and the garden. There was an interval of some weeks not 
long ago, when Mrs. Purcell was sick; and then I lived largely in the 
kitchen." 
"Go on, and tell me--But how can you go on!" Mr. Southwode found himself 
approaching the gate and road again, and suddenly broke off. "I cannot 
keep you standing here by the hour, and a little time will not do for us. 
Pray, if you have no place to take me to, where do you yourself live?" 
The laughing glance that came to him now was precisely another of the 
child's looks that he remembered; a look that recognized his sympathy, 
and answered it out of a fund of heart treasure. 
"I live between my corner at the top of the house, and Mrs. Purcell's 
corner at the bottom. I have no place but my room and her kitchen." 
"Where can I see you? We have a great deal to talk about. Rotha, suppose 
you go for a drive with me?" 
Rotha's eyes sparkled. "It would not be the first time," she said. 
"No. Then the next question is, when can we go?" He looked at his watch. 
"It is too late for this afternoon," Rotha opined. 
"I am afraid it is. I do not think we can manage it. Then--Rotha, will 
you be ready to-morrow morning? How early can you be ready?" 
"We have breakfast about half past six." 
"We?" 
"Yes," said Rotha half laughing. "We. That is, Mr. Purcell, and his wife, 
and myself." 
"Do you take your meals with these people?" 
Rotha nodded. "And in their kitchen. It is the only place." 
"But they are not--What are they?" 
"Not what you would call refined persons," said Rotha, while again the 
laugh of amusement and pleasure in her eyes shone through an iris of 
sudden tears. "No--they have been kind to me, though, in their way." 
"As kind as their allegiance to Mrs. Busby permitted," said Mr. Southwode 
drily, recognizing at the same time the full beauty of this look I have 
tried to describe. "Well! That is over. How early to-morrow will you be 
ready to come away?" 
"To come away?" repeated Rotha. "For a drive, you mean?" 
"For a drive from this place. It is not my purpose ever to bring you back 
again." 
The colour darted vividly into Rotha's cheeks, and a corresponding flash 
came to her eye. Yet she stood still and silent, while the colour went 
and came. Never here again? Then whither? and under what guardianship? 
His own? There came a great heart leap of joy at this suggestion, but 
with it came also a vague pull-back of doubt; the origin of which 
probably lay in words she had heard long ago and never forgotten, the 
tendency of which was to throw scruples in the way of such an arrangement 
or to cast some slur upon it. Was there an echo of them in Rotha's young 
consciousness? She did feel that she was a child no longer; that there 
was a difference since the old time. Yet she was still as simple, nearly, 
as a child; and of that sort of truth in her own heart which readily 
believes truth in others. Mr. Digby's truth she knew. Altogether there 
was a confusion of thoughts within her, which he saw, though he did not 
read. 
"Do you owe anything to these people here?" he asked, a sudden question 
rising in his mind. 
"Owe? To Mr. Purcell and his wife? No. I owe them for a good deal of 
kindness. O! you mean--Yes, in one sense I owe them. I have never paid 
them anything." 
"For your board, and their care of you?" 
"No.--I do not owe them for much care," said Rotha smiling. "I have  
taken care of myself since I have been here." 
"Do I understand you? Has nobody paid them anything for your stay here?" 
"Nobody." 
"Upon what footing were you here, then?" 
"It has no name," said Rotha contentedly. She could be gay now over this 
anomalous past. "I do not know what to call it." 
"Has your aunt allowed you to depend upon these people?" 
"Yes. I have not really depended upon them, Mr. Southwode. I promised 
myself, and I promised Mrs. Purcell, that some day, if I ever could do 
it, I would live to pay her. If I could have got any work to do, I would 
have taken it, and paid her before now; but I had no chance. I could see 
nobody." 
"How literally is that to be taken?" 
"With absolute literalness. I have seen nobody but Mr. and Mrs. Purcell 
since I came here. Began almost to think I never should." 
"But Sundays?" 
"What of Sundays?" 
"Did you not go to church somewhere?" 
"Yes," said Rotha smiling; "in my pleasant corner room at the top of the 
house. Nowhere else." 
"Why not?" 
"It is not the habit of the people. And their habit, I found, I could not 
change." 
"What did you do with your Sundays?" 
"Spent them alone with my Bible. And often they were very, very pleasant; 
though I found it difficult to keep up such study all alone, through the 
long days." 
"I must not let you stand here any longer! Will you be ready for me at 
eleven o'clock to-morrow?" 
"Yes. There is no difficulty in that." 
"Then I will be here at eleven. Good bye!" 
He gave her his hand, looked at her a little steadily, but Rotha could 
not tell what he was thinking of; then as he let go her hand he lifted 
his hat and turned away. 
A flush of colour came over Rotha's face, and she was glad to turn too; 
to hide it. Walking up to the house, she tried to think what Mr. 
Southwode meant by that last gesture. She was half pleased, and half not 
pleased. It was the manner of a gentleman to a stranger; she was no 
stranger. But it was also the manner of a gentleman towards a lady. Did 
he recognize her then for one? for a grown-up woman? a child no longer? 
and was he going to take on distance in his behaviour to her? She did not 
like the idea. That thought however, and all thoughts, soon merged in a 
feeling of exceeding joy. In the surprise and strangeness of the first 
meeting, Rotha had hardly had time to know how she felt; no Aurora 
Borealis is more splendid than the rosy rays of light which began now to 
stream up into her sky. She knew and began to realize that she was 
overwhelmingly happy. There were questions unsolved and not easy to 
solve; there were uncertainties and perplexities in her future; she half 
discerned that; but she could not give attention to it, in the present 
she was so exceedingly glad. And she need not; for did not Mr. Digby 
always know what to do with perplexities? She belonged to him again, and 
he, not her aunt any more, had the disposal of her; it was the old time 
come back. She was no longer alone and forlorn; no longer divided from 
her best friend; what of very hard or very evil could come to her now? 
She felt she was too much excited to bear the sight of Mrs. Purcell just 
yet; she turned into the old garden to gather some pears. For the last 
time! It rang in Rotha's heart like a peal of bells. The glint of the 
October sun, warm and mellow on yellow leaves and on leaves yet green, on 
tree branches and even garden palings, was like a reflection from the 
inner sunshine which even so shone upon everything. The world had not 
looked so when she came out of the house that afternoon; everything was 
changed. No more under the dominion of her aunt Busby! how Rotha's heart 
leapt at the thought. No longer to be shut up here with the two Purcell 
people, and having an indefinite prospect of dull isolation and hopeless 
imprisonment before her. What was before her, Rotha did not indeed know; 
only Mr. Digby was in it, and that was enough, and security for all the 
rest. 
She was thinking this, when it suddenly occurred to her, that she had 
known all along that the love and power of a heavenly friend had been in 
her future; and yet the knowledge had never given her the rest and the 
content that the certainty of the human friend gave. Rotha stopped 
picking pears and stood still, sorry and ashamed. It was true; she could 
not deny it; and it grieved her. So this was all her faith amounted to, 
her faith in the Friend who is better and surer immeasurably than all 
other friends! She could trust Mr. Digby with a trust that made her 
absolutely careless and happy; she could not trust Christ so. It grieved 
Rotha keenly; it made her ashamed with a genuine and wholesome shame; but 
the fact stood. 
CHAPTER XXIX. 
PERPLEXITIES. 
She went in with a lapful of pears. By the way she had made up her mind 
not to speak of what had happened. She had been considering. Joe and 
Prissy were certainly kind to her, and kindly disposed; yet, what had 
become of her letters? They had all been intrusted to Mr. Purcell, to 
mail or have mailed in Tanfield. Did that fact stand in connection with 
the other fact, that no answers ever came? It was plain now that Mrs. 
Busby had been playing a deep game; plain that it had been her purpose to 
keep Rotha hidden away at least from one person. Rotha was the least in. 
the world of a suspicious nature; nevertheless she felt uncertain what 
course Joe and Prissy might see fit to take if they knew of what was 
planning; she resolved they should not know. If only they had not seen 
Mr. Southwode already! he would stand so in sight of the house. But 
Prissy looked very unsuspicious. 
"Well, I do think!" she began. "I should say, you wanted some pears. What 
ever did you s'pose was goin' to be done with 'em?" 
"Eat them!" said Rotha cheerily, emptying her apronful upon the table. 
"The boards is just scoured! And them aint the kind." 
"The kind for what? They are ripe, are they not?" 
"Ripe enough for doin' up. I can make pear honey of 'em. They'd ha' been 
good done with molasses, if I'd ha' had 'em in time. You can't do nothin' 
with 'em as they be. They'd draw your mouth all up." 
Rotha looked at her pears and laughed. "Shews how much I know!" she said. 
"Folks as lives in the City o' Pride don't know much o' things!" remarked 
Prissy. 
"The City of Pride. Why do you call New York that?" 
"Aint it?" 
"I do not know that there is more pride there than in other places. Pride 
is in people--not in the places where people live. I think you are  
pretty proud, Prissy." 
"That's all us has got to keep us up," rejoined Mrs. Purcell. "Do you 
think pride's wrong?" 
"Yes, and so do you, if you believe your little book up there on the 
mantelpiece." 
"What's in it about pride?" inquired Prissy quickly. 
"Do you not recollect? The Lord said, 'How can ye believe, which receive 
honour one of another.' Here it is." She took the little volume from the 
mantel shelf and found the place. Prissy looked at it. 
"What's the harm?" she said. 
"Never mind, if you don't understand. The Lord said it; and he knows." 
"What's come to you?" Prissy asked suddenly. "You're twice as much of a 
girl as you was this mornin'." 
"Am I?" 
"Somethin's done you a heap o' good. Your face is fired up; and your eyes 
is two colours, and there's somethin' shinin' out o' 'em." 
"I do feel better," said Rotha soberly. And after that she was careful to 
be sober as long as supper lasted. 
When she went up to her room she sat down to think at leisure. The light 
was fading out of the depths of the tulip tree; the stars were twinkling 
in the dark blue; the still air was a little frosty. Yes, the year had 
sped on a good part of its course, since that May evening when Rotha had 
first made friends with the big tulip tree. Near five months ago it was, 
and now the days were growing short again. O was it possible that her 
release had come? And not the release she had hoped for, but this? so 
much better! Only five months; and her little imprisonment was ended, and 
its lessons all--were they all--learned? With her heart filling and 
swelling, Rotha sat by her window and thought everything over, one thing 
after another. She had trusted; she might have trusted better! 
Her aunt's sending her to this place had separated her from nothing, not 
even from Mr. Digby. Here he was, and had her again under his protection; 
and it was he henceforth who would say what she should do and where she 
should go. Not Mrs. Busby henceforth. Rotha's heart thrilled and throbbed 
with inexpressible joy. Not without queer other thrills also, of what 
might be described as an instinct of scruple; a certain inner 
consciousness that in this condition of things there was somewhat 
anomalous and difficult to adjust. Yet I am by no means sure that this 
consciousness did in any wise abate the joy. Rotha went over now in 
imagination all her interview with Mr. Southwode; recalled all he said, 
and remembered how he looked at each turn of the conversation. And the 
more she mused, the more her heart bounded. Till at last she recollected 
that there was something else to be' done before eleven o'clock to-
morrow; and she went from reverie to very busy activity. 
It was all done, all she had to do, before breakfast time next day. After 
breakfast Rotha was in great doubt how to manage. If she dressed for her 
departure, Mr. and Mrs. Purcell would find out that something was going 
to happen, and perhaps try to hinder it. If she waited in her room until 
called for, she did not know but they would deny her being in the house 
at all and bar access to her. Doubtless Mr. Digby would not be 
permanently barred out, or thwarted in what he meant to do; but Rotha 
could not endure the thought of delay or disappointment. She would have 
gone out to meet him; but she was no longer a child, and a feeling of 
maidenly reserve forbade her. She made everything ready; knew she could 
change her dress in five minutes; and went down to the kitchen about ten 
o'clock; she could not stay any longer away from the scene of action. She 
took a knife and helped Mrs. Purcell pare the pears for stewing. 
"You have been very kind to me, Prissy," she said, after some time of 
busy silence. 
"'Cause I warnt no more put out about the pears, you mean? Well, I'll 
tell you. I was fit to bite a tenpenny nail off, when I see you come in 
with that lapful last night. But I knowed you didn't know no better. If 
Joe warn't so set I'd make him pick the pears; but he always says and 
sticks to it, the fruits o' the earth what grows on trees aint no good. 
He'll eat 'em fast enough, I tells him, and so he will; as long as I'll 
stand to cook 'em; but he won't lift never a hand to get 'em off the 
trees. No thin' but corn and oats, and them things, is work for a man, he 
thinks." 
"Unreasonable--" said Rotha. 
"When isn't men unreasonable?--What do you want, sir? This aint the front 
o' the house." 
And Rotha came round with a start, for there, at the door of the kitchen, 
at the top of the steps leading up from the scullery, stood Mr. 
Southwode; and Prissy's question had been put with a strong displeased 
emphasis. 
"I know it," said the intruder in answer, "and I beg your pardon; but--
Does anybody live at the front of the house? 
"Them as tries, finds out," said Mrs. Purcell, with a fierce knitting of 
her brows. 
"That is also true, as I have learned by experience. I found that nobody 
lived there." 
"Who did you think lived there? Who do you want?" asked Prissy, 
ungrammatically, but pointedly. 
"Am I speaking to Mrs. Purcell?" And then the new-comer smiled at Rotha 
and shook hands with her. 
"That is my name," said Prissy. "It aint her'n." 
"I am aware of that too," said the stranger composedly, "and my present 
business is with Mrs. Purcell. I wish to know, in the first place, how 
many weeks Miss Carpenter has been in your house?" 
"What do you want to know for?" said Prissy. "Is it any business o' 
yourn?" 
"Yes. I may say it is nobody else's business. You have a right to ask; 
and that is my answer." 
"What do you want to know for?" 
"I wish to discharge your account. Miss Carpenter promised that you 
should be honestly paid, when the time came; and the time is come now." 
"Be you come from Mis' Busby?" 
"I saw Mrs. Busby a few days ago." 
"And she sent you?" 
"I am not honoured with any commission from Mrs. Busby. As I told you, 
this business is mine, not hers." 
"Mis' Busby put her here in us's care; and us is bound to take care of 
her, Joe and me. Us can't take no orders but from Mis' Busby." 
"No; but you can take money? Mrs. Busby, I think, will not pay you. I 
will. But I must do it now. I am going away, and may probably never come 
this way again." 
"I don't see what you have to do, a payin' Miss Carpenter's o win's," 
said Prissy, eyeing him suspiciously from head to foot. 
"The best reason in the world.--Rotha, will you go and get ready?"--and 
then as the door closed upon Rotha Mr. Southwode went on.--"Miss 
Carpenter has been under my care ever since she lost her mother. I placed 
her with her aunt when I was obliged to go abroad, to England; and now I 
am come to take her away." 
"To take Rotha away?" cried Prissy. 
"To take Miss Carpenter away." 
"Maybe Mis' Busby don't want her to go." 
"Maybe not. But that is of no consequence. Let me have your account, 
please." 
"Be you goin' to many her?" Prissy asked suddenly. 
"That is not a question you have any need to ask." 
"I asks it though,"--returned Prissy sturdily. "Be you?" 
"No." 
"Then I wish you'd go and talk to Mr. Purcell, 'cos I don' know nothin' 
about it. If you was goin' to marry her, stands to reason everything else 
gives way; folks must get married, if they has a mind to; but if you 
aint, I don't see into it, and don't see no sense in it. Mr. Purcell's at 
the barn. I wish you'd just go and talk to him." 
"I have had trouble enough to find you," said the gentleman; "I shall not 
try to find Mr. Purcell. If you wish me to see him, I will wait here till 
you bring him." 
And so saying, Mr. Southwode deposited his hat on the table and himself 
sat down. Prissy gave him glance after glance, unsatisfied and uneasy. 
She did long to refer things to Joe; and she saw she could not manage her 
unwelcome visiter; so finally she took off her apron and threw it over 
her head and set off on a run for the barn. Meanwhile Rotha came down, 
all ready for the drive. 
"Where are they all?" she exclaimed. 
"One gone after the other. I think, Rotha, it will be the pleasantest way 
for you, to go out at once to the carriage and wait there for me; if you 
will let me be so discourteous. You may as well escape the discussion I 
must hold with these people. Where is your luggage?" 
"I have only one little trunk, up stairs at the top of the house. The 
rest of my things are at aunt Busby's." 
"We will not ask her for them. I will take care of your box and bring it 
along. And give me this." 
He took Rotha's handbag from her hand as he spoke and dismissed her with 
a smile; and Rotha, feeling as if all sorts of burdens were lifted from 
her at once, went out and went round to where a phaeton was waiting at 
the front of the house. And there she stood, with her heart beating; 
remembering her sad coming five months before: (but the five months 
seemed five years;) thinking of all sorts of incongruous things; 
uncertain, curious as what was to be done with her; congratulating 
herself that she had one nice dress, her travelling dress, which she 
had carefully saved until now; and wondering what she should do for 
others, her calicos being a good deal worn and only working dresses at 
the best. So she stood waiting; doubtful, yet on the whole most glad; 
questioning, yet unable to be anxious; while five minutes after five 
minutes passed away. At last came the procession; Prissy in front, her 
husband following with Rotha's trunk on his shoulders, Mr. Southwode 
bringing up the rear. 
"I never thought you'd go like that," said Prissy reproachfully. "If  
us is poor folks, us has hands clean enough to shake." 
"I never meant to go without bidding you good bye, Prissy,"  said Rotha, 
grasping her hand heartily, 
"Looks awful like it--" rejoined Mrs. Purcell. 
"I shall always remember your kindness to me," Rotha went on. 
"Pay and forget!" said Prissy. "It's all paid for now; and it's us as 
must give thanks." Then she added in a lower tone, "Where be you goin' 
now?" 
"To Tanfield first, I suppose." 
Prissy looked significantly at Mr. Southwode, who was ordering the 
disposition of the trunk, and had evidently more in her thoughts than she 
chose to utter. Then Joe came with his hand outstretched for a parting 
grasp, his face smiling with satisfaction. 
"Well," he said, "we've all done the best we could; and nobody has 
anything to be sorry for. But we shall miss you, bad!" 
"All he cares for 's the pears!" said his wife. "Come along, Joe; if you 
are good, I'll get you some." 
The wagon drove off before Rotha could hear Joe's answer. She was gone! 
The weary months of imprisonment were done and passed. What was to follow 
now? 
Rotha could not think, could not care. The phaeton was rolling smoothly 
along; she was traversing easily the long stretch of highway she had 
looked at so often; her old best friend was in charge of her; Rotha gave 
up care. Yet questions would come up in her mind, though she dismissed 
them as fast; and her heart kept singing for joy. She did not even ask 
whither she was driven. 
She was going to the hotel at Tanfield, the same where she had once put 
up alone. Here her box was ordered to a room which seemed to have been 
made ready for her; and Mr. Southwode remarked that lunch would be ready 
presently. Rotha took off her hat and joined him in the private room 
where it was prepared. A wood fire was burning, and a table was set, and 
the October sun shone in, and Mr. Digby was there reading a paper. Rotha 
put her hand upon her eyes; it seemed too much brightness all at once. 
Mr. Southwode on his part laid down his paper and looked at her; he was 
noticing with fresh surprise the changes that three years had made. 
Truly, this was not what he left in Mrs. Busby's care. And there is no 
doubt Mr. Southwode as well as Rotha had something to think of; and 
questions he had been debating with himself since yesterday came up with 
new emphasis and urgency. Nothing of all this shewed. He laid down his 
paper, stirred up the fire, gave Rotha an easier chair than the one she 
had first chosen, and took a seat opposite her. 
"We have got to begin all over again," he smilingly remarked. 
"Oh no!" said Rotha. "I do not think so." 
"Why? We cannot be said to know one another now, can we?" 
"I know you--" said Rotha a little lower. 
"Do you? But I do not know you." 
"I am just what I used to be," the girl said briskly, raising her head. 
"By your own shewing, not. The bird I left would have beat its wings 
lame against the bars of the cage I found it in." 
"I did beat my wings pretty lame at first," said Rotha; "but not in this 
cage." 
"In what one then?" he asked quickly. 
"Oh--after you went away. I mean that time." 
"What made the cage at that time?" 
"Aunt Serena--and aunt Serena's house." 
"I was a little afraid of it. But I could not help myself. What did she 
do?" 
Rotha hesitated a little. 
"I do not think it is any use to go back to it now," she said. "It was 
partly my own fault. I had meant fully to do just as you said, and be 
polite and quiet and pleasant;--and I could not!" 
"And so--?" 
"And so, we had bad times. After aunt Serena kept me from seeing you and 
bidding you good bye, or even knowing that you were gone, I could not 
forgive her. And she knew she had wronged me. And that people do not 
forget." 
"You thought I had too, eh?" 
"No," said Rotha; "not then. I knew it was her doing." 
"It was wholly her doing. Whenever I came and asked for you, I was always 
told that you were out, or sick in bed, or in some way quite unable to 
see me. And my going was extremely sudden, so that I had no time to take 
measures; other than to write to you and enclose my address." 
"I never got it. And all those times I was always at home, and perfectly 
well, and sometimes--" 
"Well--what?" 
"Sometimes I was standing in the hall up stairs, leaning over the 
balusters and listening to your steps in the hall." 
Colour rose in Rotha's cheek, and her voice took a tone which told tales; 
and Mr. Southwode thought he did begin to recognize his little friend of 
old time. 
"And then--" Rotha went on, "you know what I used to be, and can guess 
that I was not very patient." 
"I can guess that. And what are you now?" 
She flashed one of her quick looks at him, smiled and blushed. "I have 
grown a little older--" she said. 
Mr. Southwode quite perceived that. He was inclined to believe that what 
he had before him was the ripened fruit which in its green state he had 
tried so hard to bring into the sun; grown sweet and rich beyond his 
hopes. He turned the conversation however, took up his paper again and 
read to Rotha a paragraph concerning some late events in Europe; from 
which they went off into a talk leading far from personal affairs, to the 
affairs of nations past and present, and branching off into questions of 
history and literature. And Mr. Southwode found again the Rotha of old, 
only with the change I have above indicated. The talk was lively for an 
hour, until lunch was served. It was served for them alone, in the room 
where they were. As they took their places at table and the meal began, 
for a few minutes there was silence. 
"This is like--and not like--the old time," Mr. Southwode remarked 
smiling. 
"I think it is more 'not like,'" said Rotha. 
"Why, pray?" 
Rotha hesitated. "I said just now I had not changed; but in some things I 
have." 
"Grown a little taller." 
"A good deal, Mr. Southwode! And that is the least of the changes, I 
suppose." 
