"Yes, miss. And yet perhaps he ain't, you know. I thought mebbe you'd
ask the surgeon for me. I'm only a straggler here, anyway; the others
don't belong to my regiment. Heathcote was the name; Captain Ward
Heathcote. A city feller he was, but wuth a heap, for all that."
What was the matter with the nurse that she turned so pale? And now she
was gone! And without leaving the fan too. However, he could hardly have
held it. He found his little shred of lemon, lifted it to his dry lips,
and closed his eyes patiently, hardly remembering even what he had said.
Meanwhile Anne, still very pale, had drawn the surgeon outside the door,
and was questioning him. Yes, he knew that an officer had been left at
a farm-house over in the next valley; he had been asked to ride over and
see him. But how could he! As nothing had been heard from him since,
however, he was probably well by this time, and back with his regiment
again.
"Probably"--the very word she had herself used when answering the
soldier. How inactive and cowardly it seemed now! "I must go across to
this next valley," she said.
"My dear Miss Douglas!" said Dr. Flower, a grave, portly man, whose
ideas moved as slowly as his small fat-encircled eyes.
"I know a Mr. Heathcote; this may be the same person. The Mr. Heathcote
I know is engaged to a friend of mine, a lady to whom I am much
indebted. I must learn whether this officer in the next valley is he."
"But even if it is the same man, no doubt he is doing well over there.
Otherwise we should have heard from them before this time," said the
surgeon, sensibly.
But Anne did not stop at sense. "It is probable, but not certain. There
must be no room for doubt. If you will ride over, I will stay.
Otherwise I must go."
"I can not leave; it is impossible."
"Where can I procure a horse, then?"
"I do not think I ought to allow it, Miss Douglas. It is nearly fifteen
miles to the next valley; of course you can not go alone, and I can not
spare Mary Crane to go with you." The surgeon spoke decidedly; he had
daughters of his own at home, and felt himself responsible for this
young nurse.
Anne looked at him. "Oh, do help me!" she cried, with an outburst of
sudden emotion. "I must go; even if I go alone, and walk every step of
the way, I must, must go!"
Dr. Caleb Flower was a slow man; but anything he had once learned he
remembered. He now recognized the presence of what he called "one of
those intense impulses which make even timid women for the time being
inflexible as adamant."
"You will have to pay largely for horses and a guide," he said, in
order to gain time, inwardly regretting meanwhile that he had not the
power to tie this nurse to her chair.
"I have a little money with me."
"But even if horses are found, you can not go alone; and, as I said
before, I can not spare Mary."
"Why would not Diana do?" said Anne.
"Diana!" exclaimed Dr. Flower, his lips puckering as if to form a long
whistle.
Diana was a middle-aged negro woman, who, with her husband, July, lived
in a cabin near the mill, acting as laundress for the hospital. She was
a silent, austere woman; in her there was little of the
light-heartedness and plenitude of person which generally belong to her
race. A devout Baptist, quoting more texts to the sick soldiers than
they liked when she was employed in the hospital, chanting hymns in a
low voice while hanging out the clothes, Diana had need of her
austerity, industry, and leanness to balance July, who was the most
light-hearted, lazy, and rotund negro in the mountains.
"But you know that Mary Crane has orders not to leave you?" said Dr.
Flower.
"I did not know it."
"Yes; so she tells me. The ladies of the Aid Society who sent her
arranged it. And I wish with all my heart that our other young nurses
were as well taken care of!" added the surgeon, a comical expression
coming into his small eyes.
"On ordinary occasions I would not, of course, interfere with these
orders," said Anne, "but on this I must. You must trust me with Diana,
doctor--Diana and July. They will take good care of me."
"I suppose I shall have to yield, Miss Douglas. But I regret, regret
exceedingly, that I have not full authority over you. I feel it
necessary to say formally that your going is against my wishes and my
advice. And now, since you will have your own way in any case, I must
do what I can for you."
An hour later, two mules were ascending the mountain-side, following an
old trail; Anne was on one, the tall grave Diana on the other. July
walked in front, with his gun over his shoulder.
"No danjah hyah," he assured them volubly; "soldiers doan' come up dis
yer way at all. Dey go draggin' 'long in de mud below always; seem to
like 'em."
But Anne was not thinking of danger. "Could we not go faster by the
road?" she asked.
"'Spec's we could, miss. But wudn't darst to, ef I was you."
"No, no, miss," said Diana. "Best keep along in dese yere woods; dey's
safe."
The hours were endless. At last it seemed to Anne as if they were not
moving at all, but merely sitting still in their saddles, while a
continuous procession of low trees and high bushes filed slowly past
them, now pointing upward, now slanting downward, according to the
nature of the ground. In reality they were moving forward, crossing a
spur of the mountain, but so dense was the foliage of the thicket, and
so winding the path, that they could not see three feet in any
direction, and all sense of advance was therefore lost. Anne fell into a
mental lethargy, which was troubled every now and then by that strange
sense of having seen particular objects before which occasionally haunts
the brain. Now it was a tree, now a bird; or was it that she had known
July in some far-off anterior existence, and that he had kicked a stone
from his path in precisely that same way?
It was late twilight when, after a long descent still shrouded in the
interminable thicket, the path came out suddenly upon a road, and Anne's
eyes seemed to herself to expand as the view expanded. She saw a valley,
the gray smoothness of water, and here and there roofs. July had stopped
the mules in the shadow.
"Can you tell me which house it mought be, miss?" he asked, in a low,
cautious tone.
"No," replied Anne. "But the person I am trying to find is named
Heathcote--Captain Heathcote. We must make inquiries."
[Illustration: "JULY WALKED IN FRONT, WITH HIS GUN OVER HIS
SHOULDER."]
"Now do be keerful, miss," urged July, keeping Anne's mule back.
"I'll jes' go and peer roun' a bit. But you stay hyar with Di."
"Yes, miss," said Diana. "We'll go back in de woods a piece, and wait.
July'll fin' out all about 'em."
Whether willingly or unwillingly, Anne was obliged to yield; the two
women rode back into the woods, and July stole away cautiously upon his
errand.
It was ten o'clock before he returned; Anne had dismounted, and was
walking impatiently to and fro in the warm darkness.
"Found 'em, miss," said July. "But it's cl'ar 'cross de valley.
Howsomever, valley's safe, dey say, and you can ride right along ober."
"Was it Mr. Heathcote?" said Anne, as the mules trotted down a
cross-road and over a bridge, July keeping up with a long loping run.
"Yes, miss; Heathcote's de name. I saw him, and moughty sick he looked."
"What did he say?"
"Fever's in him head, miss, and didn't say nothing. Senses clean done
gone."
Anne had not thought of this, it changed her task at once. He would not
know her; she could do all that was necessary in safety, and then go
unrecognized away. "What will he say?" she had asked herself a thousand
times. Now, he would say nothing, and all would be simple and easy.
"Dis yere's de place," said July, pausing.
It was a low farm-house with a slanting roof; there was a light in the
window, and the door stood open. Anne, springing from her saddle, and
followed by Diana, hastened up the little garden path. At first there
seemed to be no one in the room into which the house door opened; then a
slight sound behind a curtain in one corner attracted her attention, and
going across, she drew aside the drapery. The head moving restlessly to
and fro on the pillow, with closed eyes and drawn mouth, was that of
Ward Heathcote.
She spoke his name; the eyes opened and rested upon her, but there was
no recognition in the glance.
"Bless you! his senses has been gone for days," said the farmer's wife,
coming up behind her and looking at her patient impartially. "He don't
know nobody no more'n a day-old baby!"
CHAPTER XXV.
                          "Love is not love
    Which alters when it alteration finds,
    Or tends with the remover to remove:
    Love's not Time's fool, though rosy lips and cheeks
    Within his bending sickle's compass come:
    Love alters not with his brief hours and weeks,
    But bears it out even to the edge of doom."
    --SHAKSPEARE.
"Why did you not send across to the hospital at the mill?" said Anne.
"Dr. Flower, receiving no second message, supposed that Captain
Heathcote had recovered."
"Well, you see, I reckon I know as much about this yer fever as the
doctors do as never had it," replied Mrs. Redd. "The captain couldn't be
moved; that was plain as day. And we hadn't a horse, nuther. Our horse
and mules have all been run off and stole."
Mrs. Redd was a clay-colored woman, with a figure which, cavernous in
front, was yet so rounded out behind that if she could have turned her
head round she would have been very well shaped. Her knowledge of the
fever was plainly derived from personal experience; she explained that
she had it "by spells," and that "Redd he has it too," and their
daughter Nancy as well. "Redd he isn't to home now, nor Nancy nuther.
But Redd he'll be back by to-morrow night, I reckon. If you want to
stay, I can accommodate you. You can have the loft, and the niggers can
sleep in the barn. But they'll have to cook for themselves. I shall be
mighty glad to have some help in tending on the captain; I'm about wore
out."
Mrs. Redd did not mention that she had confiscated the sick man's money,
and hidden it safely away in an old tea-pot, and that all her knowledge
of arithmetic was at work keeping a daily account of expenses which
should in the end exactly balance the sum. She had no intention of
stealing the money--certainly not. But of course her "just account" must
be paid. She could still work at this problem, she thought, and earn
something as well from the new-comers, who would also relieve her from
all care of the sick man: it was clearly a providence. In the glow of
this expected gain she even prepared supper. Fortunately in summer her
kitchen was in the open air, and the room where Heathcote lay was left
undisturbed.
Anne had brought the hospital medicines with her, and careful
instructions from Mary Crane. If she had come upon Heathcote before her
late experiences, she would have felt little hope, but men whose
strength had been far more reduced than his had recovered under her
eyes. Diana was a careful nurse; July filled the place of valet,
sleeping on straw on the floor. She ordered down the bed-curtains and
opened all the windows; martial law regarding air, quiet, and medicines
was proclaimed. The sick man lay quietly, save for the continued
restless motion of his head.
"If we could only stop his slipping his head across and back in that
everlasting way, I believe he'd be better right off," said Mrs. Redd.
"It done him good, 'pears to me," said July, who already felt a strong
affection in his capacious vagabondizing heart for the stranger
committed to his care. "Yo' see, it kinder rests his mind like."
"Much mind he's got to rest with!" said Mrs. Redd, contemptuously.
With her two assistants, it was not necessary that Anne should remain in
the room at night, and she did not, at least in personal presence; but
every half-hour she was at the top of the stairway, silently watching to
see if Diana fulfilled her duties. On the third day the new medicines
and the vigilance conquered. On the fifth day the sick man fell into his
first natural slumber. The house was very still. Bees droned serenely.
There was no breeze. Anne was sitting on the door-steps. "Ought I to go
now before he wakens?" she was thinking. "But I can not until the
danger is surely over. He may not recognize me even now." She said to
herself that she would stay a short time longer, but without entering
the room where he was; Diana could come to her for orders, and the
others must not allude to her presence. Then, as soon as she was
satisfied that his recovery was certain, she could slip away unseen. She
went round to the back of the house to warn the others; it was all to go
on as though she was not there.
Heathcote wakened at last, weak but conscious. He had accepted without
speech the presence of Diana and July, and had soon fallen asleep again,
"like a chile." He ate some breakfast the next morning, and the day
passed without fever. Mrs. Redd pronounced him convalescent, and
declared decisively that all he needed was to "eat hearty." The best
medicine now would be "a plenty of vittals." In accordance with this
opinion she prepared a meal of might, carried it in with her own hands,
and in two minutes, forgetting all about the instructions she had
received, betrayed Anne's secret. Diana, who was present, looked at her
reproachfully: the black skin covered more faithfulness than the white.
"Well, I do declare to Jerusalem I forgot!" said the hostess, laughing.
"However, now you know it, Miss Douglas might as well come in, and make
you eat if she can. For eat you must, captain. Why, man alive, if you
could see yourself! You're just skin and rattling bones."
And thus it all happened. Anne, afraid to lay so much as a finger's
weight of excitement of any kind upon him in his weak state, hearing his
voice faintly calling her name, and understanding at once that her
presence had been disclosed, came quietly in with a calm face, as though
her being there was quite commonplace and natural, and taking the plate
from Diana, sat down by the bedside and began to feed him with the bits
of chicken, which was all of the meal of might that he would touch. She
paid no attention to the expression which grew gradually in his feeble
eyes as they rested upon her and followed her motions, at first vaguely,
then with more and more of insistence and recollection.
"Anne?" he murmured, after a while, as if questioning with himself. "It
is Anne?"
She lifted her hand authoritatively. "Yes," she said; "but you must not
talk. Eat."
He obeyed; but he still gazed at her, and then slowly he smiled. "You
will not run away again?" he whispered.
"Not immediately."
"Promise that you will not go to-night or to-morrow."
"I promise."
And then, as if satisfied, he fell asleep.
He slept all night peacefully. But Anne did not once lose consciousness.
At dawn she left her sleepless couch, and dressed herself, moving about
the room cautiously, so as not to awaken the sleeper below. When she was
ready to go down, she paused a moment, thinking. Raising her eyes, she
found herself standing by chance opposite the small mirror, and her gaze
rested half unconsciously upon her own reflected image. She drew nearer,
and leaning with folded arms upon the chest of drawers, looked at
herself, as if striving to see something hitherto hidden.
We think we know our own faces, yet they are in reality less known to us
than the countenances of our acquaintances, of our servants, even of our
dogs. If any one will stand alone close to a mirror, and look intently
at his own reflection for several minutes or longer, the impression
produced on his mind will be extraordinary. At first it is nothing but
his own well-known, perhaps well-worn, face that confronts him. Whatever
there may be of novelty in the faces of others, there is certainly
nothing of it here. So at least he believes. But after a while it grows
strange. What do those eyes mean, meeting his so mysteriously and
silently? Whose mouth is that? Whose brow? What vague suggestions of
something stronger than he is, some dormant force which laughs him to
scorn, are lurking behind that mask? In the outline of the features, the
curve of the jaw and chin, perhaps he notes a suggested likeness to this
or that animal of the lower class--a sign of some trait which he was not
conscious he possessed. And then--those strange eyes! They are his own;
nothing new; yet in their depths all sorts of mocking meanings seem to
rise. The world, with all its associations, even his own history also,
drops from him like a garment, and he is left alone, facing the problem
of his own existence. It is the old riddle of the Sphinx.
Something of this passed through Anne's mind at that moment. She was too
young to accept misery, to generalize on sorrow, to place herself among
the large percentage of women to whom, in the great balance of
population, a happy love is denied. She felt her own wretchedness
acutely, unceasingly, while the man she loved was so near. She knew that
she would leave him, that he would go back to Helen; that she would
return to her hospital work and to Weston, and that that would be the
end. There was not in her mind a thought of anything else. Yet this
certainty did not prevent the two large slow tears that rose and welled
over as she watched the eyes in the glass, watched them as though they
were the eyes of some one else.
Diana's head now appeared, giving the morning bulletin: the captain had
slept "like a cherrb," and was already "'mos' well." Anne went down by
the outside stairway, and ate her breakfast under the trees not far from
Mrs. Redd's out-door hearth. She told July that she should return to the
hospital during the coming night, or, if the mountain path could not be
traversed in the darkness, they must start at dawn.
"I don't think it's quite fair of you to quit so soon," objected Mrs.
Redd, loath to lose her profit.
"If you can find any one to escort me, I will leave you Diana and July,"
answered Anne. "For myself, I can not stay longer."
July went in with the sick man's breakfast, but came forth again
immediately. "He wants yo' to come, miss."
"I can not come now. If he eats his breakfast obediently, I will come in
and see him later," said the nurse.
"Isn't much trouble 'bout eating," said July, grinning. "Cap'n he eats
like he 'mos' starved."
Anne remained sitting under the trees, while the two black servants
attended to her patient. At ten o'clock he was reported as "sittin' up
in bed, and powerful smart." This bulletin was soon followed by another,
"Him all tired out now, and gone to sleep."
Leaving directions for the next hour, she strolled into the woods behind
the house. She had intended to go but a short distance, but, led on by
her own restlessness and the dull pain in her heart, she wandered
farther than she knew.
Jacob Redd's little farm was on the northern edge of the valley; its
fields and wood-lot ascended the side of the mountain. Anne, reaching
the end of the wood-lot, opened the gate, and went on up the hill. She
followed a little trail. The trees were larger than those through which
she had travelled on the opposite side of the valley; it was a wood, not
a thicket; the sunshine was hot, the green silent shade pleasant. She
went on, although now the trail was climbing upward steeply, and rocks
appeared. She had been ascending for half an hour, when she came
suddenly upon a narrow, deep ravine, crossing from left to right; the
trail turned and followed its edge; but as its depths looked cool and
inviting, and as she thought she heard the sound of a brook below, she
left the little path, and went downward into the glen. When she reached
the bottom she found herself beside a brook, flowing along over white
pebbles; it was not more than a foot wide, but full of life and
merriment, going no one knew whither, and in a great hurry about it. A
little brook is a fascinating object to persons unaccustomed to its
coaxing, vagrant witcheries. There were no brooks on the island, only
springs that trickled down from the cliffs into the lake in tiny silver
water-falls. Anne followed the brook. Absorbed in her own thoughts, and
naturally fearless, it did not occur to her that there might be danger
even in this quiet forest. She went round a curve, then round another,
when--what was that? She paused. Could he have seen her? Was he asleep?
Or--dead?
It was a common sight enough, a dead soldier in the uniform of the
United States infantry. He was young, and his face, turned toward her,
was as peaceful as if he was sleeping; there was almost a smile on his
cold lips. With beating heart she looked around. There were twisted
broken branches above on the steep side of the ravine; he had either
fallen over, or else had dragged himself down to be out of danger, or
perhaps to get water from the brook. The death-wound was in his breast;
she could see traces of blood. But he could not have been long dead. It
had been said that there was no danger in that neighborhood at present;
then what was this? Only one of the chances of war, and a common one in
that region: an isolated soldier taken off by a bullet from behind a
tree. She stood looking sorrowfully down upon the prostrate form; then a
thought came to her. She stooped to see if she could discover the
identity of the slain man from anything his pockets contained. There was
no money, but various little possessions, a soldier's wealth--a puzzle
carved in wood and neatly fitted together, a pocket-knife, a ball of
twine, a pipe, and a ragged song-book. At last she came upon what she
had hoped to find--a letter. It was from the soldier's mother, full of
love and little items of neighborhood news, and ending, "May God bless
you, my dear and only son!" The postmark was that of a small village in
Michigan, and the mother's name was signed in full.
One page of the letter was blank; with the poor soldier's own pencil
Anne drew upon this half sheet a sketch of his figure, lying there
peacefully beside the little brook. Then she severed a lock of his hair,
and went sadly away. July should come up and bury him; but the mother,
far away in Michigan, should have something more than the silence and
heart-breaking suspense of that terrible word "missing." The lock of
hair, the picture, and the poor little articles taken from his pockets
would be her greatest earthly treasures. For the girl forgets her lover,
and the wife forgets her husband; but the mother never forgets her dear
and only son.
When Anne reached the farm-house it was nearly four o'clock. July's
black anxious face met hers as she glanced through the open door of the
main room; he was sitting near the bed waving a long plume of feathers
backward and forward to keep the flies from the sleeping face below. The
negro came out on tiptoe, his enormous patched old shoes looking like
caricatures, yet making no more sound, as he stole along, than the small
slippers of a woman. "Cap'en he orful disappointed 'cause you worn't
yere at dinner-time," he whispered. "An' Mars' Redd, Mis' Redd's
husband, you know, him jess come home, and they's bote gone 'cross de
valley to see some pusson they know that's sick; but they'll he back
'fore long. And Di she's gone to look fer you, 'cause she was moughty
oneasy 'bout yer. An' she's been gone so long that I'm moughty oneasy
'bout Di. P'r'aps you seen her, miss?"
No, Anne had not seen her. July looked toward the mountain-side
anxiously. "Cap'en he's had 'em broth, and taken 'em medicine, and has
jess settled down to a good long sleep; reckon he won't wake up till
sunset. If you'll allow, miss, I'll run up and look for Di."
Anne saw that he intended to go, whether she wished it or not: the lazy
fellow was fond of his wife. She gave her consent, therefore, on the
condition that he would return speedily, and telling him of the dead
soldier, suggested that when Farmer Redd returned the two men should go
up the mountain together and bury him. Was there a burial-ground or
church-yard in the neighborhood?
No; July knew of none; each family buried its dead on its own ground,
"in a corner of a meddar." He went away, and Anne sat down to keep the
watch.
She moved the long plume to and fro, refraining from even looking at the
sleeper, lest by some occult influence he might feel the gaze and waken.
Mrs. Redd's clock in another room struck five. The atmosphere grew
breathless; the flies became tenacious, almost adhesive; the heat was
intense. She knew that a thunder-storm must be near, but from where she
sat she could not see the sky, and she was afraid to stop the motion of
the waving fan. Each moment she hoped to hear the sound of July's
returning footsteps, or those of the Redds, but none came. Then at last
with a gust and a whirl of hot sand the stillness was broken, and the
storm was upon them. She ran to close the doors, but happily the sleeper
was not awakened. The flies retreated to the ceiling, and she stood
looking at the black rushing rain. The thunder was not loud, but the
lightning was almost incessant. She now hoped that in the cooler air his
sleep would be even deeper than before.
But when the storm had sobered down into steady soft gray rain, so that
she could open the doors again, she heard a voice speaking her name:
"Anne."
She turned. Heathcote was awake, and gazing at her, almost as he had
gazed in health.
Summoning all her self-possession, yet feeling drearily, unshakenly
sure, even during the short instant of crossing the floor, that no
matter what he might say (and perhaps he would say nothing), she should
not swerve, and that this little moment, with all its pain and all its
sweetness, would, for all its pain and all its sweetness, soon be gone,
she sat down by the bedside, and taking up the fan, said, quietly:
"I am glad you are so much better. As the fever has not returned, in a
week or two you may hope to be quite strong again. Do not try to talk,
please. I will fan you to sleep."
"Very well," replied Heathcote, but reaching out as he spoke, and taking
hold of the edge of her sleeve, which was near him.
"Why do you do that?" said his nurse, smiling, like one who humors the
fancies of a child.
"To keep you from going away. You said you would be here at dinner, and
you were not."
"I was detained. I intended to be here, but--"
She stopped, for Heathcote had closed his eyes, and she thought he was
falling asleep. But no.
"It is raining," he said presently, still with closed eyes.
"Yes; a summer shower."
"Do you remember that thunder-storm when we were in the little cave? You
are changed since then."
She made no answer.
"Your face has grown grave. No one would take you for a child now, but
that day in the cave you were hardly more than one."
"You too are changed," she answered, turning the conversation from
herself; "you are thin and pale. You must sleep and eat. Surrender
yourself to that duty for the time being." She spoke with matter-of-fact
cheerfulness, but her ears were strained to catch the sound of
footsteps. None came, and the rain fell steadily. She began to dread
rain.
Heathcote in his turn did not reply, but she was conscious that his eyes
were open, and that he was looking at her. At last he said, gently,
"I should have placed it there, Anne."
She turned; his gaze was fixed upon her left hand, and the gold ring
given by the school-girls.
"He is kind to you? And you--are happy?" he continued, still gazing at
the circlet.
She did not speak; she was startled and confused. He supposed, then,
that she was married. Would it not be best to leave the error
uncorrected? But--could she succeed in this?
"You do not answer," said Heathcote, lifting his eyes to her face. "Are
you not happy, then?"
"Yes, I am happy," she answered, trying to smile. "But please do not
talk; you are not strong enough for talking."
"I hope he is not here, or expected. Do not let him come in here,
Anne: promise me."
"He is not coming."
"He is in the army, I suppose, somewhere in the neighborhood; and you
are here to be near him?"
"No."
"Then how is it that you are here?"
"I have been in the hospitals for a short time as nurse. But if you
persist in talking, I shall certainly leave you. Why not try to sleep?"
"He must be a pretty sort of fellow to let you go into the hospitals,"
said Heathcote, paying no heed to her threat. "I have your fatal
marriage notice, Anne; I have always kept it."
"You have my marriage notice?" she repeated, startled out of her
caution.
"Yes. Put your hand under my pillow and you will find my wallet; the
woman of the house has skillfully abstracted the money, but fortunately
she has not considered a newspaper slip as of any value." He took the
case from her hand, opened it, and gave her a folded square paper, cut
from the columns of a New York journal. Anne opened it, and read the
notice of the marriage of "Erastus Pronando, son of the late John
Pronando, Esquire, of Philadelphia, and Angélique, daughter of the late
William Douglas, surgeon, United States Army."
The slip dropped from her hand. "Père Michaux must have sent it," she
thought.
"It was in all the New York and Philadelphia papers for several days,"
said Heathcote. "There seemed to be a kind of insistence about it."
And there was. Père Michaux had hoped that the Eastern Pronandos would
see the name, and, moved by some awakening of memory or affection, would
make inquiry for this son of the lost brother, and assist him on his
journey through the crowded world.
"I did not know that 'Anne' was a shortening of 'Angélique'; I thought
yours was the plain old English name. But Helen knew; I showed the
notice to her."
Anne's face altered; she could not control the tremor that seized her,
and he noticed it.
"Are you not married then, after all? Tell me, Anne, tell me. You can
not deceive; you never could, poor child; I remember that well."
She tried to rise, but he held her arm with both hands, and she could
not bring herself to use force against that feeble hold.
"Why should you not tell me what all the world is free to know?" he
continued. "What difference does it make?"
[Illustration: "SHE TRIED TO RISE, BUT HE HELD HER ARM WITH BOTH
HANDS."]
"You are right; it makes no difference," she answered, seating herself,
and taking up the fan again. "It is of no especial consequence. No, I
am not married, Mr. Heathcote. Angélique is the name of my little sister
Tita, of whom you have heard me speak; we first called her Petite, then
Tita. Mr. Pronando and Tita are married."
"The same Pronando to whom you were engaged?"
"Yes. He is--"
"Oh, I do not care to hear anything about him. Give me your hand,
Anne. Take off that ring."
"No; it was a present from my pupils," she said, drawing back with a
smile, but at the same time an inward sigh of relief that the disclosure
was over. "They--"
"If you knew what I suffered when I read that notice!" pursued
Heathcote, without heeding her. "The world seemed all wrong then
forever. For there was something about you, Anne, which brought out what
small good there was in my worthless self, and young as you were, you
yet in one way ruled me. I might have borne the separation itself, but
the thought that any other man should call you wife was intolerable to
me. I had--I still have it--a peculiar feeling about you. In some
mysterious way you had come to be the one real faith of my life. I was
bitterly hurt and angry when you ran away from me; but angry as I was, I
still searched for you, and would have searched again if Helen had
not--But never mind that now. If I have loved you, Anne, you have loved
me just as dearly. And now you are here, and I am here, let us ask no
more questions, but just--be happy."
"But," said the girl, breathlessly, "Helen--?" Then she stopped.
Heathcote was watching her. She tried to be calm, but her lips trembled.
A little skill in deception now, poor Anne, would have been of saving
help. Heathcote still watched her in silence--watched her until at last
she turned toward him.
"Did you not know," he said, slowly meeting her eyes--"did you not know
that Helen was--married?"
"Married? And not to you?"
There was a perceptible pause. Then he answered. "Not to me."
A silence followed. A whirl of conflicting feelings filled Anne's heart;
she turned her face away, blushing deeply, and conscious of it. "I hope
she is happy," she murmured at last, striving to speak naturally.
"I think she is." Then he stretched out his hands and took hers. "Turn
this way, so that I can see you," he said, beseechingly.
She turned, and it seemed to him that eyes never beheld so exquisite a
face.
"My darling, do you love me? Tell me so. If I was not a poor sick
fellow, I should take you in my arms and draw your sweet face down upon
my shoulder. But, as it is--" He moved nearer, and tried to lift himself
upon his elbow.
There was a feebleness in the effort which went to Anne's heart. She
loved him so deeply! They were both free now, and he was weak and ill.
With a sudden impulse she drew nearer, so that his head could rest on
her shoulder. He silently put out his hand; she took it in hers; then he
closed his eyes as if content.
As for Anne, she felt an outburst of happiness almost too great to bear;
her breath came and went so quickly that Heathcote perceived it, and
raising her hand he pressed it to his lips. Still he did not open his
eyes, or speak one word further to the blushing, beautiful woman whose
arm was supporting him, and whose eyes, timid yet loving, were resting
upon his face. If he had been strong, she would never have yielded so
far. But nothing appeals so powerfully to a woman's heart as the sudden
feebleness of a strong man--the man she loves. It is so new and
perilously sweet that he should be dependent upon her, that her arm
should be needed to support him, that his weak voice should call her
name with childish loneliness and impatience if she is not there. And so
Anne at last no longer turned her eyes away, but looked down upon the
face lying upon her shoulder--a face worn by illness and bronzed by
exposure, but the same face still, the face of the summer idler at
Caryl's, the face she had seen during those long hours in the sunset
arbor in the garden that morning, the face of the man who had followed
her westward, and who now, after long hopeless loneliness and pain, was
with her again, and her own forever. A rush of tenderest pity came over
her as she noted the hollows at the temples, and the dark shadows under
the closed eyes. She bent her head, and touched his closely cut hair
with her lips.
"Do not," said Heathcote.
She had not thought that he would perceive the girlish little caress;
she drew back quickly. Then he opened his eyes. It seemed almost as if
he had been trying to keep them shut.
"It is of no use," he murmured, looking at her. "Kiss me, Anne. Kiss me
once. Oh, my darling! my darling!" And with more strength than she
supposed him to possess, he threw his arms round her, drew her lovely
face down to his and kissed her fondly, not once, but many times.
And she, at first resisting love's sweet violence, at last yielded to
it; for, she loved him.
The rain still fell; it was growing toward twilight. Footsteps were
approaching.
"It is Diana," said Anne.
But Heathcote still held her.
"Please let me go," she said, smiling happily.
"Then tell me you love me."
"You know I do, Ward," she answered, blushing deeply, yet with all the
old honesty in her sincere eyes.
"Will you come and say good-night to me if I let you go now?"
"Yes."
Her beautiful lips were near his; he could not help kissing her once
more. Then he released her.
The room was dim. Opening the door, she saw Diana and July coming
through the shed toward her, their clothes wet and streaked with red
clay. Diana explained their long absence gravely. July had not been able
to restrain his curiosity about the dead soldier, and when he finally
found his wife, where she was searching for "miss," they were both so
far up the mountain that he announced his intention of going to "find
the pore fellow anyway," and that she might go with him or return
homeward as she pleased.
"Sence he would go, it was better fo' me to go too, miss," said the
black wife, glancing at her husband with some severity. "An' while we
was about it, we jess buried him."
The sternly honest principles of Diana countenanced no rifling of
pockets, no thefts of clothing; she would not trust July alone with the
dead man. Who knew what temptation there might be in the shape of a
pocket-knife? Without putting her fears into words, however--for she
always carefully guarded her husband's dignity--she accompanied him,
stood by while he made his examination, and then waited alone in the
ravine while he went to a farm-house a mile or two distant and returned
with two other blacks, who assisted in digging the grave. The rain
pattered down upon the leaves overhead, and at last reached her and the
dead, whose face she had reverently covered with her clean white apron.
When all was ready, they carefully lowered the body to its last
resting-place, first lining the hollow with fresh green leaves,
according to the rude unconscious poetry which the negroes, left to
themselves, often display. Diana had then kneeled down and "offered a
powerfu' prayer," so July said. Then, having made a "firs'-rate moun'
ober him," they had come away, leaving him to his long repose.
Half an hour later the Redds returned also. By contrast with the
preceding stillness, the little house seemed full to overflowing. Anne
busied herself in household tasks, and let the others wait upon the
patient. But she did not deny herself the pleasure of looking at him
from the other side of the room now and then, and she smiled brightly
whenever his eyes met hers and gave back her mute salutation.
Heathcote was so much better that only July was to watch that night;
Diana was to enjoy an unbroken night's rest, with a pillow and a blanket
upon the hay in the barn. July went out to arrange this bed for his
wife, and then, as the patient was for the moment left alone, Anne stole
down from her loft to keep her promise.
"Good-night," she murmured, bending over him. "Do not keep me,
good-night."
He drew her toward him, but, laughing lightly and happily, she slipped
from his grasp and was gone.
When July returned, there was no one there but his patient, who did not
have so quiet a night as they had anticipated, being restless, tormented
apparently by troubled dreams.
CHAPTER XXVI.
     "My only wickedness is that I love you; my only goodness, the
     same."--ANONYMOUS.
     "A Durwaish in his prayer said: 'O God, show kindness toward the
     wicked; for on the good Thou hast already bestowed kindness enough
     by having created them virtuous.'"--SAADI.
Anne passed the next day in the same state of vivid happiness. The mere
joy of the present was enough for her; she thought not as yet of the
future, of next month, next week, or even to-morrow. It sufficed that
they were there together, and free without wrong to love each other.
During the morning there came no second chance for their being alone,
and Heathcote grew irritated as the slow hours passed. Farmer Redd
esteemed it his duty, now that he was at home again, to entertain his
guest whenever, from his open eyes, he judged him ready for
conversation; and Mrs. Redd, July, and Diana seemed to have grown into
six persons at least, from their continuous appearances at the door. At
last, about five o'clock, Anne was left alone in the room, and his
impatient eyes immediately summoned her. Smiling at his irritation, she
sat down by the bedside and took up the fan.
"You need not do that," he said; "or rather, yes, do. It will keep you
here, at any rate. Where have you been all day?"
They could talk in low tones unheard; but through the open door Mrs.
Redd and Diana were visible, taking down clothes from the line.
Heathcote watched them for a moment, and then looked at his nurse with
silent wistfulness.
"But it is a great happiness merely to be together," said Anne,
answering the look in words.
"Yes, I know it; but yet-- Tell me, Anne, do you love me?"
"You know I do; in truth, you have told me you knew it more times than
was generous," she answered, almost gayly. She was fairly light-hearted
now with happiness.
"That is not what I want. Look at me and tell me; do, dear." He spoke
urgently, almost feverishly; a sombre restless light burned in his eyes.
And then she bent forward and looked at him with so much love that his
inmost heart was stirred. "I love you with all my heart, all my being,"
she murmured, even the fair young beauty of her face eclipsed by the
light from the soul within. He saw then what he had seen before--how
deep was her love for him. But this time there was in it no fear; only
perfect trust.
He turned his head away as if struggling with some hidden emotion. But
Anne, recovering herself, fell back into her former content, and began
to talk with the child-like ease of happiness. She told him of her life,
all that had happened since their parting. Once or twice, when her story
approached their past, and she made some chance inquiry, he stopped her.
"Do not ask questions," he said; "let us rest content with what we
have;" and she, willing to follow his fancy, smiled and refrained. He
lay silently watching her as she talked. Her faith in him was absolute;
it was part of her nature, and he knew her nature. It was because she
was what she was that he had loved her, when all the habits and purposes
of his life were directly opposed to it.
"Anne," he said, "when will you marry me?"
"Whenever you wish," she answered, with what was to him the sweetest
expression of obedience that a girl's pure eyes ever held.
"Will you go with me, as soon as I am able, and let some clergyman in
the nearest village marry us?"
"I would rather have Miss Lois come, and little André; still, Ward, it
shall be as you wish."
He took her hand, and laid his hot cheek upon it; a moisture gathered in
his eyes. "You trust me entirely. You would put your hand in mine
to-night and go out into the world with me unquestioning?"
"Yes."
"Kiss me once, love--just once more." His face was altering; its faint
color had faded, and a brown pallor was taking its place.
"You are tired," said Anne, regretfully; "I have talked to you too
long." What he had said made no especial impression upon her; of course
she trusted him.
"Kiss me," he said again; "only once more, love." There was a strange
dulled look in his eyes; she missed the expression which had lain there
since the avowal of the day before. She turned; there was no one in
sight--the women had gone to the end of the garden. She bent over and
kissed him with timid tenderness, and as her lips touched his cheek,
tears stole from his eyes under the closed lashes. Then, as steps were
approaching, he turned his face toward the wall, and covered his eyes
with his hand. She thought that he was tired, that he had been overtaxed
by all that had happened, and going out softly she cautioned the others.
"Do not go in at present; I think he is falling asleep."
"Well, then, I'll jest take this time to run across to Miss Pendleton's
and git some of that yere fine meal; I reckon the captain will like a
cake of it for supper," said Mrs. Redd. "And, Di, you go down to
Dawson's and git a young chicken for briling. No one need say as how the
captain don't have enough to eat yere."
July was left in charge. Anne took her straw hat, passed through the
garden, and into the wood-lot behind, where she strolled to and fro,
looking at the hues of the sunset through the trees, although not in
reality conscious of the colors at all, save as part of the great
boundless joy of the day.
She had been there some time, when a sound roused her; she lifted her
eyes. Was it a ghost approaching?
Weak, holding on by the trees, a shadow of his former self, it was Ward
Heathcote who was coming toward her as well as he could, swerving a
little now and then, and moving unsteadily, yet walking. July had
deserted his post, and the patient, left alone, had risen, dressed
himself unaided, and was coming to find her.
With a cry she went to meet him, and drew him down upon a fallen tree
trunk. "What can you mean?" she said, kneeling down to support him.
"Do not," he answered (and the voice was unlike Heathcote's). "I will
move along so that I can lean against this tree. Come where I can see
you, Anne; I have something to say."
"Let us first go back to the house. Then you can say it."
But he only made a motion of refusal, and, startled by his manner, she
came and stood before him as he desired. He began to speak at once, and
rapidly.
"Anne, I have deceived you. Helen is married; but I--am her husband."
She gazed at him. Not a muscle or feature had stirred, yet her whole
face was altered.
"I did not mean to deceive you; there was no plan. It was a wild
temptation that swept over me suddenly when I found that you were
free--not married as I had thought; that you still loved me, and that
you--did not know. I said to myself, let me have the sweetness of her
love for one short day, one short day only, and then I will tell her
all. Yet I might have let it go on for a while longer, Anne, if it had
not been for your own words this afternoon: you would go with me
anywhere, at any time, trusting me utterly, loving me as you only can
love. Your faith has humiliated me; your unquestioning trust has made me
ashamed. And so I have come to tell you the deception, and to tell you
also that I love you so that I will no longer trust myself. I do not say
that I can not, but that I will not. And I feel the strongest
self-reproach of my life that I took advantage of your innocent faith to
draw out, even for that short time, the proof which I did not need; for
ever since that morning in the garden, Anne, I have known that you loved
me. It was that which hurt me in your marriage. But you are so sweet,
so dangerously sweet to me, and I--have not been accustomed to deny
myself. This is no excuse; I do not offer it as such. But remember what
kind of a man I have been; remember that I love you, and--forgive me."
For the first time he now looked at her. Still and white as a snow
statue, she met his gaze mutely.
"I can say no more, Anne, unless you tell me you forgive me."
She did not answer. He moved as if to rise and come to her, but she
stretched out her hand to keep him back.
"You are too weak," she murmured, hurriedly. "Yes, yes, I forgive you."
"You will wish to know how it all happened," he began again, and his
voice showed his increasing exhaustion.
"No; I do not care to hear."
"I will write it, then."
There was a momentary pause; he closed his eyes. The girl, noting, amid
her own suffering, the deathly look upon his face, came to his side.
"You must go back to the house," she said. "Will my arm be enough? Or
shall I call July?"
He looked at her; a light came back into his eyes. "Anne," he whispered,
"would not the whole world be well lost to us if we could have but love
and each other?"
She returned his gaze. "Yes," she said, "it would--if happiness were
all."
"Then you would be happy with me, darling?"
"Yes."
"Alone with me, and--in banishment?"
"In banishment, in disgrace, in poverty, pain, and death," she answered,
steadily.
"Then you will go with me, trusting to me only?" He was holding her
hands now, and she did not withdraw them.
"No," she answered; "never. If happiness were all, I said. But it is not
all. There is something nearer, higher than happiness." She paused. Then
rapidly and passionately these words broke from her: "Ward, Ward, you
are far more than my life to me. Do not kill me, kill my love for you,
my faith in you, by trying to tempt me more. You could not succeed; I
tell you plainly you could never succeed; but it is not on that account
I speak. It is because it would kill me to lose my belief in you, my
love, my only, only love!"
"But I am not so good as you think," murmured Heathcote, leaning his
head against her. His hands, still holding hers, were growing cold.
"But you are brave. And you shall be true. Go back to Helen, and try
to do what is right, as I also shall try."
"But you--that is different. You do not care."
"Not care!" she repeated, and her voice quivered and broke. "You know
that is false."
"It is. Forgive me."
"Promise me that you will go back; promise for my sake, Ward. Light
words are often spoken about a broken heart; but I think, if you fail me
now, my heart will break indeed."
"What must I do?"
"Go back to Helen--to your life, whatever it is."
"And shall I see you again?"
"No."
"It is too hard, too hard," he whispered, putting his arms round her.
But she unclasped them. "I have your promise?" she said.
"No."
"Then I take it." And lightly touching his forehead with her lips, she
turned and was gone.
When July and Diana came to bring back their foolhardy patient, they
found him lying on the earth so still and cold that it seemed as if he
were dead. That night the fever appeared again. But there was only Diana
to nurse him now; Anne was gone.
Farmer Redd acted as guide and escort back to Peterson's Mill; but the
pale young nurse would not stop, begging Dr. Flower to send her onward
immediately to Number Two. She was so worn and changed that the surgeon
feared that fever had already attacked her, and he sent a private note
to the surgeon of Number Two, recommending that Miss Douglas should at
once be returned to Number One, and, if possible, sent northward to her
home. But when Anne arrived at Number One, and saw again the sweet face
of Mrs. Barstow, when she felt herself safely surrounded by the old
work, she said that she would stay for a few days longer. While her
hands were busy, she could think; as she could not sleep, she would
watch. She felt that she had now to learn life entirely anew; not only
herself, but the very sky, sunshine, and air. The world was altered.
On the seventh morning a letter came; it was from Heathcote, and had
been forwarded from Peterson's Mill. She kept it until she had a
half-hour to herself, and then, going to the bank of the river, she sat
down under the trees and opened it. Slowly; for it might be for good, or
it might be for evil; but, in any case, it was her last. She would not
allow herself to receive or read another.
It was a long letter, written with pencil upon coarse blue-lined paper.
After saying that the fever had disappeared, and that before long he
should try to rejoin his regiment, the words went on as follows:
"I said that I would write and tell you all. When you ran away from me
last year, I was deeply hurt; I searched for you, but could find no
clew. Then I went back eastward, joined the camping party, and after a
day or two returned with them to Caryl's. No one suspected where I had
been. From Caryl's we all went down to the city together, and the winter
began.
"I was, in a certain way, engaged to Helen; yet I was not bound. Nor was
she. I liked her: she had known how to adapt herself to me always. But I
had never been in any haste; and I wondered sometimes why she held to
me, when there were other men, worth more in every way than Ward
Heathcote, who admired her as much as I did. But I did not then know
that she loved me. I know it now.
"After our return to the city, I never spoke of you; but now and then
she mentioned your name of her own accord, and I--listened. She was much
surprised that you did not write to her; she knew no more where you
were than I did, and hoped every day for a letter; so did I. But you
did not write.
"All this time--I do not like to say it, yet it is part of the
story--she made herself my slave. There was nothing I could say or do,
no matter how arbitrary, to which she did not yield, in which she did
not acquiesce. No word concerning marriage was spoken, even our former
vague lovers' talk had ceased; for, after you hurt me so deeply, Anne, I
had not the heart for it. My temper was anything but pleasant. The
winter moved on; I had no plan; I let things take their course. But I
always expected to find you in some way, to see you again, until--that
marriage notice appeared. I took it to Helen. 'It is Anne, I suppose?' I
said. She read it, and answered, 'Yes.' She was deceived, just as I
was."
Here Anne put down the letter, and looked off over the river. Helen knew
that Tita's name was Angélique, and that the sister's was plain Anne. It
was a lie direct. But Heathcote did not know it. "He shall never know
through me," she thought, with stern sadness.
The letter went on: "I think she had not suspected me before, Anne--I
mean in connection with you: she was always thinking of Rachel. But she
did then, and I saw it. I was so cut up about it that I concealed
nothing. About a week after that she was thrown from her carriage. They
thought she was dying, and sent for me. Miss Teller was in the hall
waiting; she took me into the library, and said that the doctors thought
Helen might live if they could only rouse her, but that she seemed to be
sinking into a stupor. With tears rolling down her cheeks, she said,
'Ward, I know you love her, and she has long loved you. But you have
said nothing, and it has worn upon her. Go to her and save her life.
You can.'
"She took me into the room, and went out, closing the door. Helen was
lying on a couch; I thought she was already dead. But when I bent over
her and spoke her name, she opened her eyes, and knew me immediately. I
was shocked by her death-like face. It was all so sudden. I had left her
the night before, dressed for a ball. She whispered to me to lift her
in my arms, so that she might die there; but I was afraid to move her,
lest her suffering should increase. She begged with so much earnestness,
however, that at last, gently as I could, I lifted and held her. 'I am
going to die,' she whispered, 'so I need not care any more, or try. I
have always loved you, Ward. I loved you even when I married Richard.' I
thought her mind was wandering; and she must have seen that I did,
because she spoke again, and this time aloud. 'I am perfectly myself. I
tell you that I have always loved you; you shall know it before I
die.' Miss Teller said, 'And he loves you also, my darling child; he has
told me so. Now, for his sake you will try to recover and be his
wife.'
"We were married two days later. The doctors advised it, because when I
was not there Helen sank rapidly. I took care of the poor girl for
weeks; she ate only from my hand. As she grew stronger, I taught her to
walk again, and carried her in my arms up and down stairs. When at last
she began to improve, she gained strength rapidly; she is now well, save
that she will never be able to walk far or dance. I think she is happy.
It seems a feeble thing to say, and yet it is something--I am always
kind to Helen.
"As for you--it was all a wild, sudden temptation.
"I will go back to my regiment (as to my being in the army, after that
attack on Sumter it seemed to me the only thing to do). I will make no
attempt to follow you. In short, I will do--as well as I can. It may not
be very well.
W. H."
     
That was all. Anne, miserable, lonely, broken-hearted, as she was, felt
that she had in one way conquered. She leaned her head against the tree
trunk, and sat for some time with her eyes closed. Then she tore the
letter into fragments, threw them into the river, and watched the slow
current bear them away. When the last one had disappeared, she rose and
went back to the hospital.
"The clean clothes have been brought in, Miss Douglas," said the
surgeon's assistant. "Can you sort them?"
"Yes," she replied. And dull life moved on again.
CHAPTER XXVII.
     "O Toil, O Loneliness, O Poverty, doing the right makes ye no
     easier."
The next morning the new nurses, long delayed, sent by the Weston Aid
Society, arrived at Number One, and Mary Crane, Mrs. Barstow, and Anne
were relieved from duty, and returned to their Northern home. During the
journey Anne decided that she must not remain in Weston. It was a hard
decision, but it seemed to her inevitable. This man whom she loved knew
that her home was there. He had said that he would not follow her; but
could she depend upon his promise? Even in saying that he would try to
do as well as he could, he had distinctly added that it might "not be
very well." She must leave no temptation in his path, or her own. She
must put it out of his power to find her, out of hers to meet him. She
must go away, leaving no trace behind.
She felt deeply thankful that at the present moment her movements were
not cramped by the wants of the children; for if they had been in
pressing need, she must have staid--have staid and faced the fear and
the danger. Now she could go. But whither? It would be hard to go out
into the broad world again, this time more solitary than before. After
much thought, she decided to go eastward to the half-house,
Jeanne-Armande having given her permission to use it. It would be at
least a shelter over her head, and probably old Nora would be glad to
come and stay with her. With this little home as background, she hoped
to be able to obtain pupils in the city, little girls to whom she could
be day governess, giving lessons in music and French. But the pupils:
how could she obtain them? Whose influence could she hope for? She could
not go to Tante, lest Helen should hear of her presence. At first it
seemed as if there were no one; she went over and over in vain her
meagre list of friends. Suddenly a remembrance of the little German
music-master, who had taught classical music, and hated Belzini, came to
her; he was no longer at the Moreau school, and she had his address. He
had been especially kind. She summoned her courage and wrote to him.
Herr Scheffel's reply came promptly and cordially. "I have your letter
received, and I remember you entirely. I know not now all I can promise,
as my season of lessons is not yet begun, but two little girls you can
have at once for scales, though much they will not pay. But with your
voice, honored Fräulein, a place in a church choir is the best, and for
that I will do my very best endeavor. But while you make a beginning,
honored Fräulein, take my wife and I for friends. Our loaf and our cup,
and our hearts too, are all yours."
The little German had liked Anne: this pupil, and this one only, had
cheered the dull hours he had spent in the little third-story room,
where he, the piano, and the screen had their cramped abode. Anne smiled
as she gratefully read his warm-hearted letter, his offer of his cup and
his loaf; she could hear him saying it--his "gup" and his "loave," and
"two liddle girls for sgales, though moche they will not bay." She had
written to old Nora also, and the answer (a niece acting as scribe)
declared, with Hibernian effusiveness, and a curious assemblage of
negatives, that she would be glad to return to the half-house on
Jeanne-Armande's old terms, namely, her living, but no wages. She did
not add that, owing to rheumatism, she was unable to obtain work where
she was; she left Anne to find that out for herself. But even old Nora,
bandaged in red flannel, her gait reduced to a limp, was a companion
worth having when one is companionless. During the interval, Anne had
received several letters from Miss Lois. Little André was better, but
the doctors advised that he should remain where he was through the
winter. Miss Lois wrote that she was willing to remain, in the hope of
benefit to the suffering boy, and how great a concession this was from
the careful housekeeper and home-lover only Anne could know. (But she
did not know how close the child had grown to Miss Lois's heart.) This
new plan would prevent their coming to Weston at present. Thankful now
for what would have been, under other circumstances, a great
disappointment, Anne resigned her position in the Weston school, and
went away, at the last suddenly, and evading all inquiries. Mrs. Green
was absent, the woman in temporary charge of the lodgings was not
curious, and the lonely young teacher was able to carry out her design.
She left Weston alone in the cold dawn of a dark morning, her face
turned eastward.
It was a courageous journey; only Herr Scheffel to rely upon, and the
great stony-hearted city to encounter in the hard struggle for daily
bread. Yet she felt that she must not linger in Weston; and she felt,
too, that she must not add herself to Miss Lois's cares, but rather make
a strong effort to secure a new position as soon as possible, in order
to send money to André. She thought that she would be safely hidden at
the half-house. Heathcote knew that Jeanne-Armande was in Europe, and
therefore he would not think of her in connection with Lancaster, but
would suppose that she was still in Weston, or, if not there, then at
home on her Northern island. In addition, one is never so well hidden as
in the crowds of a large city. But when she saw the spires, as the train
swept over the salt marshes, her heart began to beat: the blur of roofs
