“I don’t care whether you like it or not. It is plain enough that we
ought to do something when a man is trying to kill another. Bring out
the tiller!”

Mr. Millweed obeyed the order this time. Dory took the tiller, and
placed it at his side, where it would be ready for use if the occasion
should require.

“There is a round stick by the centre-board casing. You had better
have that in your hand, for you may want to defend yourself before we
get through with this business. I don’t know what the quarrel is
about; but we are likely to find out very soon,” added Dory.

“Help! Help! Murder!”

“There it is again!” exclaimed the skipper, not a little excited by
this time.

“It’s awful, isn’t it, Dory?” added Bolingbroke, his teeth chattering
with terror at the terrible sounds that were borne over the dark
waters.

“Juniper, ahoy!” screamed Dory, forming a speaking-trumpet with his
two hands. “What’s the matter?”

No reply came back in answer to the question. Just then Dory began to
wonder whether or not these cries were not a trick to call the
Goldwing out from her hiding-place. The wind had just breezed up; and
Tim Lingerwell might fear that the fugitive would escape him, after
all his labor and pains to capture him.

He thought enough of the idea to mention it to his passenger.
Bolingbroke was ready to adopt the opinion that it was a trick: he was
ready to adopt any thing rather than go near the Juniper, whether
there was a fight or not on board of her.

“Of course it is a ruse to get you out of your hiding-place,” said he
with energy. “I thought of that myself.”

“If the wind hadn’t just breezed up, I should not have thought of
such a thing,” added Dory, still musing upon the point; for he did not
like the idea of having his passenger taken from the Goldwing by a
trick.

On the other hand, it was possible, perhaps probable, that the two men
had fallen out, and come to blows. Dory knew that Lingerwell was a bad
man, and it is always easy for such men to make trouble. Strange as it
may seem, the skipper did not connect the large sum of money in his
hip-pocket with the quarrel on board of the Juniper. He did not even
think of the bills he had taken from the steam-launch in the absence
of her crew.

“I wouldn’t go near her, Dory,” argued Bolingbroke. “I hope you won’t
step into the trap Tim has set for you to fall into.”

“I am not afraid of Tim Lingerwell, and I am going over there to see
if any thing is the matter. We will be a little cautious about
approaching the steamer.”

“But you can’t run away from her if you find it is only a trick,”
reasoned Bolingbroke.

“We must take our chances,” replied Dory.

By this time the Goldwing was entering the passage between Cedar and
Garden Islands. The Juniper was close to the shore, and the islands
were about the eighth of a mile apart. The wind was freshening every
minute; and Dory decided to run by the steamer, going as near as it
was prudent to go.

He could still hear the voices of the two men, though their tone had
greatly changed. The skipper saw that the steamer was still at anchor,
for she had swung around with her head to the wind. He was satisfied,
by this fact, that the call for help was not a trick: if it had been,
the Juniper would have been under way by this time.

“Juniper, ahoy!” called Dory, as the Goldwing came up with the launch.
“What is the matter on board?”

“Nothing is the matter. Greeze has had the nightmare, and shouted
murder in his sleep,” replied Lingerwell, trying to laugh it off,
though the effort was a very sickly one.

“Help! help!” shouted the engineer from the other end of the boat.

“He don’t seem to have got over his nightmare yet,” added Dory.--“What
is the matter there? What ails you?” demanded the skipper.

“Lingerwell has nearly killed me: he says I stole his money while he
was after the Millweed fellow,” replied Greeze.

“Shut up, you stupid blockhead! Silence! Don’t say another word about
it, and we will fix up the matter,” said Lingerwell in a wheedling
tone, as though he would have given something handsome to have sealed
the lips of the engineer.

“I won’t shut up! I have been insulted and abused; and I will have
satisfaction if it costs me my life. I didn’t take your money. I
didn’t know you had any,” growled Greeze, moving aft.

This explanation on the part of the engineer enabled Dory to
understand the nature of the quarrel between the two men. When the
Juniper had anchored, Lingerwell had evidently taken the pocket-book
from its hiding-place, and found that worthless paper had been put in
the place of the four hundred and fifty dollars. As he was not aware
that Dory, or any other person, had been on board, he naturally
concluded that the engineer must have robbed him of his ill-gotten
money.

Dory had come up into the wind under the lee of the Juniper. The
lantern hung on a stanchion in the after part of the steamer, so that
the skipper of the Goldwing and his passenger could see what took
place on board of her. The engineer had no sooner reached the place
where Lingerwell stood, than he leaped upon him with the fury of a
tiger.




CHAPTER VI.

THE IMPULSIVE ASSAULT OF THE ENGINEER.


The engineer was evidently suffering under the humiliation of his
former defeat; and now he was seeking to satisfy his revengeful
feelings rather than gain any point, for Lingerwell had offered to
“fix up the matter.” His onslaught was so sudden and unexpected that
Lingerwell was borne down beneath him.

Dory was wise enough to see, on the instant, that the impulsive attack
of the engineer was a great mistake; but it was too late to correct
it. In this case his sympathies were not “with the bottom dog;” for
the engineer had the right on his side, in spite of his blunder.

The skipper of the Goldwing felt called upon to take a hand in the
conflict; and, when Lingerwell was about to shake off his opponent, he
went to the assistance of the latter. The engineer had thrown his man
upon his face, and he was in the act of turning over when Dory put his
knees on the back of the fallen one.

“Put your foot on his back, and grab one of his hands!” exclaimed
Dory, as he grasped an arm.

“I can hold him! He tried to kill me, and I will get even with him!”
gasped Greeze.

“Don’t hurt him,” added Dory.

“I will pay him off for what he did to me!” cried the engineer.

“If you strike him, or kick him, I will leave at once!” added Dory
decidedly. “We can hold him, and keep him from harming you again.”

“He abused me, and I will get even with him,” replied Greeze, a little
mollified by the threat of Dory; for he saw that he could not manage
the steamer alone.

“Don’t harm him: the law will punish him,” continued Dory. “Bolly.”

The passenger in the Goldwing had been looking on with no little
surprise and terror, and had not ventured upon the deck of the
Juniper. Possibly he was too much alarmed to realize that the tables
had been turned.

“What is it, Dory?” he responded to the call.

“Bring me the rope that lies under the tiller.”

Bolingbroke found the line, and carried it to the skipper; but he was
careful not to go too near the fallen tiger, for such he had proved to
be to him. Dory took the line, and succeeded in making it fast to the
arm of Lingerwell.

“What are you about, you young villain? Do you mean to tie my hands?”
demanded the fallen man.

“That’s the idea exactly,” replied Dory, as he attempted to pass the
line around the arm held by the engineer.

Lingerwell had been quiet for a minute after Dory took hold of him,
but the idea of being captured and tied up like a felon was too much
for him. With a series of heavy oaths, he made a desperate effort to
shake off his assailants. The engineer meant business, though the
direction of the assault had been taken out of his hands by the
new-comer. He lay down upon his victim, and jammed his knees into the
small of his back, so that escape was impossible. Dory passed the line
around the other wrist of the conspirator, and the two were securely
bound together behind him.

“He is all right now, and cannot harm anybody,” said Dory. “Get
another line, and we will secure his feet.” Bolingbroke brought the
rope, for by this time he could see that his great enemy was
powerless.

Dory fastened the feet of Lingerwell together, and then turned him on
his side, so that he could be more comfortable. Again the victim
struggled to loose himself; but Dory had done his work well, and he
could produce no impression upon the rope.

“This is an outrage!” yelled he, furious with passion.

“I suppose it isn’t an outrage to try to kill a man,” replied Dory, as
he took the lantern and examined the fastenings he had put on the
prisoner.

“I didn’t try to kill him! That is all nonsense!” replied Lingerwell,
suspending his struggles.

“We won’t argue the matter now,” replied Dory, walking to the forward
part of the boat.

He was followed by the engineer, who seemed to be desirous to explain
the affair. Doubtless he was grateful for the service the boy had
rendered to him, and looked upon the skipper of the Goldwing as his
friend.

“You are a plucky boy, Dory,” said Greeze, when they reached the
wheel, near the bow of the boat. “But I think I could have handled
that fellow alone.”

“It is very strange that you should get into a quarrel out here in the
middle of the night,” added Dory.

“It wasn’t a quarrel of my making; and, if he hadn’t taken me when I
was not thinking of such a thing, the boot would have been on the
other leg. He’s bigger than I am, but I can handle him if I have fair
play.”

“How did you happen to get into such a row?”

“I stopped the boat when we reached this place, and then let go the
anchor, at Lingerwell’s order. When I went forward, I found him on the
floor, feeling about under the ceiling. I didn’t know what he was
doing; and he didn’t care to have me know, for he told me to go aft
and bank the fire in the furnace. I did so, and when I got through I
went forward again. Lingerwell was at the lantern, looking over what
was in a big pocket-book he had in his hands.”

“Had he said any thing about a pocket-book before?” asked Dory.

“Not a word. When I got to him, he looked as though he was very
nervous and excited. He poked the pocket-book over, and then fished
his pockets all through. I asked him what the matter was. He said he
had dropped his pocket-book on the floor, some time during the day; he
didn’t know when. He had just found it; but the money had all been
taken out, and a piece of newspaper put in its place to swell it out.”

“Did he say how much money was in it?” inquired Dory.

“He said there was a good deal in it, but he didn’t tell me how much.”

“Did he say there was a hundred dollars or more?”

“He didn’t say a word about it. He kept getting more excited, and at
last he said I must have taken the money from the pocket-book. I
answered, that I didn’t do it: I hadn’t seen his pocket-book, and
didn’t know he had any money with him. On that he got mad, and I was
as mad as he was.

“We had a long jaw about it, and then he pitched into me. He got me by
the throat before I knew what he was about. He put me down, and then
tried to fish my pockets. I yelled for help, for I thought he would
kill me. I hardly knew what I did; but I shook him off, and we had
another savage jaw about it. Then he pitched into me again. He had a
club in his hand; and I think he would have used it on me, if he
hadn’t heard you yell just at this time.”

“I hoped my hail would let him know there was some one at hand, though
it was only a boy,” added Dory.

“That was what made him let up on me. Then he tried to smooth it over;
but I never was treated like that before, and I meant to have it out
with him.”

“Well, here we are; and what is to be done next?” asked Dory.

“We were waiting down here to catch that Millweed fellow that stole
the money from the safe,” replied Greeze.

“He says he didn’t take the money from the safe, and he is going back
to Burlington to face the music.”

“We might as well go along then: we haven’t any more business up here.
You can steer the Juniper, and we will tow the Goldwing,” suggested
the engineer. “I don’t know how this thing is coming out, but I am
ready to go to Burlington. I suppose Lingerwell will have me
discharged after this, but I don’t care for that. You have tied him
hand and foot, and I don’t know what you mean by that. I meant to take
what I owed him out of his hide.”

“I tied him to keep him from pitching into you again. I want to see
Mr. Longbrook as soon as we get to Burlington; and he can do what he
likes with him,” replied Dory. “We will start for Burlington as soon
as you are ready.”

When the excitement was over, Bolingbroke Millweed had returned to the
Goldwing, and to his berth in the cabin, where he was now fast asleep.
The engineer replenished his fire, and in half an hour the Juniper was
under way. At four o’clock in the morning she was at her wharf in
Burlington. The Goldwing was made fast alongside of her. It was nearly
daylight, and it would be quite by the time Dory could reach the
residence of Mr. Longbrook.

Bolingbroke was roused from his slumbers in the cabin, but he objected
to calling upon the storekeeper at so early an hour in the morning.
Dory did not care for his opinion, and insisted upon going without any
delay. Greeze was to keep watch over Lingerwell until he heard from
Dory, and Mr. Longbrook was to decide what was to be done with the
prisoner.

The house of the storekeeper was easily found. It was about five by
this time, and the early visitors saw that the people were up. To
Dory’s inquiry for the head of the family, the servant said he had
gone to the store. He had staid there till midnight the night before,
and had left the house as soon as it was light.

Dory was not a little astonished at this severe devotion to business;
but he hastened to the store, and found Mr. Longbrook was busy over
his books. He had locked himself in, but he opened the door in answer
to the skipper’s vigorous knocks.

“I am too busy to see any one now,” said the storekeeper impatiently.
“Come at nine o’clock, and I will see you.”

“This young man wants to see you at once,” added Dory, pulling
Bolingbroke into the doorway.

“What, Millweed! So you have come back, young man,” added Mr. Longbrook,
as he recognized his late assistant.

“I have come back to tell you, sir, that I did not take the money from
your safe,” stammered Bolingbroke.

“What did you run away for, then?” demanded the merchant severely.

“Because I was a fool and was frightened. I found that Mr. Lingerwell
was determined to convict me, guilty or innocent; and I had not the
courage to stay and see it out,” replied Bolingbroke honestly.

“You lost four hundred and fifty dollars from your safe, Mr.
Longbrook,” interposed Dory.

“That was just the amount taken, and this young fellow took it. It
looks as though he came to work here at this time for the purpose of
getting it, and he left as soon as he had the money,” said the
merchant angrily. “What have you done with the money, you young
rascal?”

“I have not had it, I have not seen it,” protested Bolingbroke.

“Don’t tell me that! No one else could have taken it. You and
Lingerwell were the only two persons who went to the safe.”

“Possibly Mr. Lingerwell took it himself,” suggested Dory.

Mr. Longbrook knit his brows into a frown, and turned away as though
he was thinking of something. Doubtless he was considering whether or
not it was possible that his trusted head man could have done such a
deed.

“At any rate here is the money,” added Dory, pulling the roll of bills
from his pocket.

The merchant opened his eyes very wide, and so did Mr. Bolingbroke
Millweed.




CHAPTER VII.

BOLINGBROKE MILLWEED OUT OF A PLACE.


Mr. Longbrook took the bills, and a smile of satisfaction overspread
his troubled face. He looked at Dory with astonishment, and then
glanced from him to Bolingbroke. The latter was quite as much
surprised as the owner of the four hundred and fifty dollars.

Dory had not given a hint to his companion or to the engineer that he
had the money. He had concealed the fact from prudential motives. He
had told his mother all about it, but he was not inclined to lead
either of his associates in the boat into temptation.

“I see,” said Mr. Longbrook, nodding his head at Dory. “Your friend
has concluded to give up the money, and expects me to say nothing more
about it.”

“I never saw the money before; and I didn’t know till this minute that
Dory had it,” protested Bolingbroke earnestly.

“He tells the exact truth,” added Dory. “Neither he nor any one but my
mother, who is at Genverres, knew that I had the money. I think you
had better hear the whole story, and then you can judge for yourself.”

Mr. Longbrook was quite willing to hear the story, for he was deeply
interested by this time. He asked Dory and his companion into the
store, and locked the door again. Bolingbroke gave his part of the
narrative first, and Dory finished it out.

“I believed Bolingbroke told me the truth; and I accepted Mr.
Lingerwell’s statement that one of the two must have stolen the
money,” said Dory. “When the skipper and engineer left the Juniper to
catch my passenger, I looked the steamer over, and found the
pocket-book. I put the piece of newspaper into the place where I took
out the bills, hoping that Mr. Lingerwell would suppose he had the
bills until he got to Burlington.”

Then followed the skipper’s account of the quarrel on board of the
Juniper, which confirmed Dory’s statement. It was as clear to the
merchant as it was to Dory, that the head man had stolen the money.

“Where is Lingerwell now?” asked Mr. Longbrook.

“He is on board of the Juniper, tied hand and foot; and the engineer
is keeping guard over him. He did not know I had been on board of the
Juniper in his absence; and he was sure that Greeze must have taken
the money from the pocket-book, and put the newspaper in its place.
You can do what you like with him.”

“I knew that man was a villain!” exclaimed Bolingbroke when Dory had
finished his explanation. “I saw why I was sent to the safe for the
cash-book, when it was almost within reach of his hands; and that was
one of my reasons for running away. I was a fool, but I was
frightened.”

“I wish I had known that Lingerwell was a rascal a little sooner.
Since he went after this young man yesterday, I have been examining my
books. I am satisfied that he has robbed me of hundreds, if not
thousands, of dollars. I can see just how he has done it. Now we will
go down and see him, and we will have a warrant for his arrest.”

By this time it was seven o’clock, and the merchant departed for the
warrant and the officer to serve it. Dory and Bolingbroke went with
him. As they passed the Van Ness House, Dory was not a little surprised
to see his uncle standing at the entrance of the hotel with quite a
little crowd of boys. The skipper counted ten of them, and he wondered
if they were to be pupils in the Beech-Hill Industrial School.

“You are here in good time, Theodore,” demanded Captain Gildrock, as
he recognized his nephew.

“I came up on a little business, uncle,” replied Dory.

“Very important business it was to me, Captain Gildrock,” added Mr.
Longbrook. “I am under very great obligations to him.”

The breakfast-bell rang, and the boys were sent in to obtain the
morning meal. The merchant gave an outline of the loss and recovery of
his money. The captain asked a great many questions, which were all
answered to his satisfaction. Then he insisted that the party should
breakfast with him.

Mr. Longbrook accepted the invitation, and they entered the hotel. In
the vestibule the merchant met the justice to whom he intended to
apply for the warrant. He stated his case to him, and the gentleman
promised to have the warrant ready by the time he had finished his
breakfast. The party seated themselves at the table.

“A telegram for you, Captain Gildrock,” said one of the clerks,
bringing the message to him.

“‘Dory away; no pilot; cannot go up the lake.--JEPSON,’” read the
captain from the despatch in his hand. “Then you did not come down in
the Sylph, Theodore. Of course you did not. I have heard the story of
your movements during the night. I telegraphed to you last night from
here to come down in the steamer, and take the new scholars to Beech
Hill.”

“I have the Goldwing here, and I can take them home in her,” replied
Dory.

“But I have ten boys with me: there they are at the other table. They
are about as wild and harum-scarum a set of youngsters as I ever saw
in my life. But we will take all that out of them in a few days, when
I get them to Beech Hill,” replied the captain confidently.

“I can take the crowd up in the Goldwing.”

“We will see about that when we have done breakfast, and you have
disposed of your prisoner.”

“The Juniper is at your service, Captain Gildrock.”

“Thank you: perhaps we may want to use her.”

Mr. Longbrook inquired in regard to the sloop that had been sunk. It
was not likely that Lingerwell would be able to pay for the mischief
he had done; and the merchant said he had a sloop, not a very fine
one, which he was willing to give as a substitute for the one lost.
Bolingbroke was delighted with this offer, and promptly accepted it.

After breakfast the party proceeded to the wharf where the Juniper
lay, the recruits for the Industrial School being required to report
at the hotel at ten o’clock. Mr. Longbrook found things on board of
his steam-launch precisely as represented to him by Dory. Lingerwell
still lay on the floor in the after part of the steamer. Greeze sat
near him, and apparently had not taken his eye off him since the
departure of Dory early in the morning.

The officer with the warrant had not yet put in an appearance. The
merchant, before he showed himself to his delinquent head man, called
the engineer up the wharf, and questioned him in regard to the events
of the night. His statement did not vary from that of Dory and
Bolingbroke, though Greeze as yet had no suspicion that the money he
had been charged with stealing had been taken from the safe of his
employer.

“I think there are enough of us to handle this man,” said Mr.
Longbrook, as he returned to the steam-launch. “You may untie his
hands, Greeze.”

“With fair play I can handle him alone,” replied the engineer, as he
proceeded to release the wrists of the culprit on the floor. Greeze
helped him to get upon his feet, and then gave him a seat opposite the
merchant.

“Well, Lingerwell, I find you did not capture the thief,” said the
storekeeper.

“I did not: he found an accomplice in Dory Dornwood, who helped him to
escape,” replied the prisoner doggedly; and, as he had no knowledge of
what had transpired at the store, he was not prepared to admit any
thing.

“But how does it happen that I find you a prisoner, bound hand and
foot?” asked the merchant.

“I am the victim of an outrage. I had some difficulty with the
engineer in the night, and he joined forces with Dory against me. By
taking me unawares, they succeeded in making me a prisoner. I had some
money with me, and dropped my pocket-book on the floor near the wheel.
When I found it, the money was taken out, and its place filled with a
piece of newspaper.” This statement also confirmed that of Dory.

“How much money did you happen to have with you?” inquired his
employer.

“About a hundred dollars. Of course I knew that the engineer had done
this, for no one but Greeze and myself had been on board of the
steamer.”

“Are you sure of that?”

“As sure as I can be of any thing in this world,” persisted
Lingerwell.

“Are you correct about the amount of money in your pocket-book?”

“I would not say there was just a hundred dollars in it, but about
that amount.”

“Wasn’t there four hundred and fifty dollars in the pocket-book?”
demanded the merchant sharply.

“I am sure there was not,” the culprit persisted.

“The pocket-book was not taken by the thief: do you happen to have it
about you, Lingerwell?”

“After I found it was empty, I laid it on the rail for a minute, and
it fell overboard. It was so dark I could not recover it,” replied the
prisoner.

While Lingerwell was inventing and uttering this falsehood, Mr.
Longbrook picked up a piece of newspaper, folded in the shape of a
bank-bill, which he found lying on the floor of the steamer.

“I suppose this is the piece of paper you found in the pocket-book in
place of the money?”

“That is the piece of paper.”

“Here is the rest of the paper,” added Dory, taking a newspaper from
his pocket.

The merchant put the two pieces of paper together, and found they were
part of the same sheet.

“Then it was this Dory that robbed me of my money!” exclaimed the
prisoner savagely.

“Robbed you of my money, you mean, Lingerwell. Dory has returned to me
the money he took from the pocket-book you hid under the ceiling of
the launch. Lingerwell, to the crime of robbery you add the meanness
and the baseness of charging it upon an innocent person,” said the
merchant sternly. “Yesterday I would have trusted you with all I had
in the world. To-day I find you are a thief and a villain. Here comes
the officer with a warrant for you.”

Lingerwell subsided at once; in fact, he broke down like a child, and
cried like a baby. He had not supposed he could be discovered so
readily, but rogues are very apt to make blunders. The officer marched
him to the lockup; and we may as well add here, that he was sentenced,
in due time, to the State prison for three years.

“I suppose I shall be wanted in the store, Mr. Longbrook?” asked
Bolingbroke, when the culprit had been marched off.

“If you had not run away, you would have been all right, young man,”
replied the merchant. “Yesterday I engaged two experienced men at very
low wages, and they were to come this morning. I shall not need you.”

“If it is a fair question, Mr. Longbrook, how much do you pay the two
men?” asked Captain Gildrock.

“One five, and the other six, dollars a week.”

The captain nodded his head, but made no reply.

“The fact is, there are three times as many clerks as there are
places,” added the storekeeper.

Bolingbroke was terribly disappointed to lose even a temporary place.




CHAPTER VIII.

PUPILS FOR THE BEECH-HILL INDUSTRIAL SCHOOL.


Mr. Longbrook conducted Bolingbroke to another part of the wharf, and
pointed out to him an old sloop, about the size of the one sunk in the
deep water.

“I am sorry you are out of a place, young man; but you are welcome to
that boat in place of the one you lost, though I don’t feel under any
obligations to replace it. It was your misfortune that you were
accused of a crime. If you had not run away, I should have had a
chance to investigate the matter. I went out for a moment, and when I
returned you had gone. When I want another clerk, I will try to think
of you,” said the merchant, as he walked away towards the store.

Bolingbroke could hardly keep from crying at his disappointment in
losing the place, which he had expected would be a permanent one. The
salary was only four dollars a week; but he could board with a relative
for two, and he could at least relieve his father of one mouth to
feed.

“What’s the matter, my lad?” asked Captain Gildrock, as he and Dory
walked up the wharf. “You look as though you had not a friend in the
world.”

“I have lost the place I expected to have, and my father is very
poor,” replied Bolingbroke with due humility.

“What sort of a place was it?” asked the captain.

“It was a situation in Mr. Longbrook’s store. I have been looking for
a place for a year; but I am afraid I shall never find one,” replied
Bolingbroke, hoping the rich man would interest himself in his favor.

“There are ten clerks for every vacancy. Can’t you find any thing else
to do?”

“I don’t know: I never looked for any other kind of a place.”

“I should think you might find a place to work on a farm,” added the
captain in perfect good faith.

“On a farm!” exclaimed Bolingbroke, actually stopping in his walk in
his astonishment.

“I hear that there is a scarcity of help on the farms in the State,”
continued Captain Gildrock. “I should say you might earn four or five
dollars a week, or at least fifteen dollars a month, on a farm,
besides your board; and that is better pay than you can get in a
store.”

“I never worked on a farm,” added Bolingbroke, who possibly knew that
the rich man of Beech Hill had some peculiar notions.

“Where do you live?”

“I live in Genverres, on the north side, where my father has a farm.”

“Does your father carry on a farm?”

“Yes, sir: he has always been a farmer.”

“I should think you could find enough to do at home. Don’t your father
need any help on his place?”

“He hires all the help he wants. I never did any thing on the farm.”

“You look like a stout fellow; and I should think you could do a man’s
work for him,” added the captain, surprised in his turn.

“Perhaps I could, if I had been brought up to it,” replied Bolingbroke
rather sheepishly.

“Have you any brothers and sisters?”

“One brother and two sisters.”

“I should not think your father ought to be very poor, if he has a
farm, and two stout boys to help him. What does your brother do?”

“He has been looking for a place in a store for the last three years.
He has tried in Burlington, Rutland, and Brattleboro’; and he thinks
of going to New York or Boston.”

“Don’t your brother work on the farm when he is out of work?” asked
Captain Gildrock, who was beginning to get an inkling of the
situation.

“Neither of us ever did any thing on the farm. Mother has never been
willing that we should work on a farm,” replied Bolingbroke. “Father
wants us to do something else.”

“Do your two sisters do any thing? How old are they?”

“Elinora is twenty, and Fatima is twenty-two. They have never done any
thing.”

“I dare say they are both engaged, and their future is marked out,”
suggested the captain with a smile.

“Neither of them is engaged, and there is nothing to indicate their
future.”

“I suppose you have all been to school?”

“We are all graduates of the Genverres high-school.”

“Indeed!” exclaimed Captain Gildrock significantly, as though the last
item of information explained the situation fully to him. “Why don’t
you learn a trade?”

“Learn a trade!” ejaculated Bolingbroke. “I never thought of such a
thing.”

“It is a good time to think of it now then. You are not more than
sixteen or seventeen,” suggested the captain. “If you like, I will
receive you as a pupil in the Beech-Hill Industrial School, where you
can become a carpenter or a machinist, or learn to run an engine. You
can stay for a year or longer, and it will cost you nothing. I think
you said your father was very poor, and no other member of the family
seems to be earning any thing.”

“My father has hard work to get along. His farm is mortgaged for about
all it is worth, and it takes all the money he can raise to pay the
interest; and he is afraid he will lose all his property.”

“If you will come to my school, I will put you in the way of saving
money enough from your wages another year to pay your father’s
interest. If I don’t I will pay it myself.”

“I think a word from you would get me a place in some store in
Burlington. If you would recommend me”--

“How can I recommend you when I never saw you before in my life? I
don’t do things in that way,” interposed Captain Gildrock. “If you
join the school, I will see that you are in a position to earn fair
wages another year. One of our last year’s boys gets thirty dollars a
month besides his board. All of them get twenty or more. After they
have had experience they will command from fifty to a hundred dollars
a month. You can think of it, and let me know your decision in a few
days; for the school opens on the 1st of September.”

The party reached the hotel by this time. Dory and Bolingbroke were
summoned to appear as witnesses in the case of Lingerwell the next
day. Captain Gildrock found the ten recruits for the school at the
hotel. He had picked them up among his friends in Montpelier, St.
Albans, and St. Johnsbury. If he did not know it before, he had
ascertained on his trip to Burlington with them, that they were a set
of wild boys.

He was in a hurry to get them to Beech Hill before they tore any
houses down, or did any other mischief. At least five out of the ten
had been expelled from private schools or academies, because the
instructors could not manage them; three of them were the sons of
wealthy men; and all of them were supposed to have a liking for
mechanical pursuits. The captain was confident that he could manage
them after he got them to his estate.

Dory was satisfied that he could seat them all in the Goldwing, for he
had often taken out twenty in her on pleasure-excursions. But his
uncle was afraid they would “cut up,” as he expressed himself, and
make trouble on the passage. He spoke to them about going in the
schooner, and they were delighted with the idea. Most of them had
never been on the lake in any sort of a craft, and some had never even
seen a steamboat or a sailboat.

Captain Gildrock consented to the arrangement after he had charged the
recruits to behave with propriety in the boat, and to obey the orders
of the skipper. They promised to do these things, and they were
marched down to the wharf. Bolingbroke followed the party, evidently
because he did not know what else to do with himself.

“Couldn’t you say a word to your uncle in my favor, Dory?” said he on
the way to the lake. “He knows all the storekeepers, and a word from
him would make a place for me.”

“He won’t recommend you, because he knows nothing at all about you,”
replied Dory. “Why don’t you join the school, as he asked you to do?”

“I should make nothing for my father by doing that,” added
Bolingbroke. “I want to help him pay his interest-money.”

“How much can you do for him when you get only four dollars a week?”
asked Dory. “You would have to pay three for your board, and that
would leave you about fifty to pay for your clothes, washing, and all
other expenses. You would be just as well off at the end of the year,
and so would your father, if you went to the school.”

“But the idea of becoming a carpenter or a greasy machinist!”
exclaimed Bolingbroke with a curl upon his lip.

“I thought you wanted to earn money to help your father. A little oil
on your hands won’t hurt you,” replied Dory, rather disgusted with his
companion.

“I am sure my mother won’t let me become a mechanic, but I will speak
to her about it tonight. I suppose I can go down with you in the
Goldwing: I have no other way to get home.”

“Certainly, I have room enough. But how will you get the sloop Mr.
Longbrook gave you up to Genverres?”

“I will write to Sim Green, and he can go up in her when he is ready
to return.”

When the party arrived at the wharf, and the Goldwing was pointed out
to them, they were delighted with her. Some of them wondered if it
were safe to go in her, though most of the ten were afraid of nothing.
Captain Gildrock had business in Burlington which would detain him
till the next day, and it was arranged that Dory should come down in
the Sylph to attend court. His uncle would return in the steamer.

“But what are we to do with all these fellows before you come, uncle
Royal?” asked Dory. “They will tear the house down, and dry up the
lake.”

“Jepson and Brookbine are there; and, as they are to instruct the
pupils, they ought to be able to manage them,” replied the captain;
but his looks indicated that he had some anxiety about the matter.
“Tell Mr. Brookbine to assign the rooms to the boys, one to each, in
the dormitory. The rogues will not think of doing any mischief until
they are better acquainted.”

Captain Gildrock gave Dory a paper on which were written the names of
the new pupils. He called them off, one at a time, and gave to each
one his place in the boat. They behaved very well under the eye of the
captain. They were seated five on each side of the standing-room,
leaving room for the skipper to go forward and aft.

“I suppose you know all about a boat, fellows,” said Dory, as he went
forward to hoist the jib.

“Never saw a sailboat before!” exclaimed Ben Ludlow.

“Nor I!” shouted half a dozen others.

“Where have you been all your lives?” laughed Dory, as he paused on
his way.

“In the woods,” replied Ben.

The skipper shoved off, and the Goldwing stood across the lake.




CHAPTER IX.

THE VOLUNTEER HELMSMAN AND HIS MOVEMENTS.


The wind was strong from the south-west; and, after passing the
breakwater, the Goldwing struck into a smart little sea for a
fresh-water pond. The motion was so strange, not to say exciting, to
the passengers from the interior, that they kept very still for a
time. The water slopped over the bow, and occasionally a bucketful
pounded pretty hard on the forward deck.

Some of the boys were evidently a little startled, though they did not
like to show that they were moved by this new experience. Others tried
to look and act as though they had been on the waves all the days of
their lives.

“It’s all right, fellows,” said Dory, when about half a barrel of
water slapped on the boards forward. “We intend to keep on the top of
the water.”

“Does a boat always do like that, and take the water in?” asked Ben
Ludlow, who had never seen a sheet of water bigger than a pond a mile
in diameter.

“No: sometimes the boat don’t throw the water at all, but sometimes it
does ten times as bad as now. I have been out in this boat when one
hand had to keep baling all the time. We call this a quiet sail.”

“Of course it’s a quiet sail,” added Oscar Chester, who had once been
on a steamer. “There isn’t any thing to be afraid of.”

“I can stand it as long as the rest of you,” replied Ben Ludlow, who
thought the last speaker had cast an imputation upon his courage.
“When Dory is frightened, it will be time enough for the rest of us to
get scared.”

“I had no idea that a boat made such a fuss in going along,” said Dave
Windsor.

“It don’t always; but we are sailing against the wind as near as we
can go,” Dory explained. “I suppose all you fellows are going to learn
how to sail a boat, and you might as well begin now.”

The skipper of the Goldwing proceeded to show in what manner the mouth
of Beaver River was to be reached. When he had gone far enough to
weather Willsborough Point, he could lay his course to Thompson’s
Point; and from there he must beat about dead to windward. Most of the
new pupils were interested, and asked a great many questions. Dory
explained every thing very minutely; and it was not his fault if they
did not understand, at least the theory of sailing a boat against the
wind.

“But I can’t see what makes the boat go ahead when the wind is against
her,” suggested John Brattle. “I can understand how the wind pushes
the boat along when it is blowing from behind her, but not when it
comes from the way it does now.”

“It is the friction of the wind against the sails. Did you ever see a
ferry-boat cross a river by the force of the current?”

John Brattle happened to be the only one of the party who had seen a
current-boat. He had crossed the Androscoggin River, in Maine, in a
stage on such a craft.

“If the ferry-boat were headed square across the river, the current
would not move her any way but down the river,” added Dory.

“There was a big wire rope stretched across the river, which did not
let her go down the stream,” replied John Brattle. “Then the boat was
turned to an angle half-way between the direction of the current and
the wire rope.”

“Precisely as our sails are set at an angle with the course of the
boat. In this position the friction of the water against the boat
forces it across the river.”

“But you have no wire rope.”

“We have a centre-board instead.” Dory pointed out the centre-board of
the Goldwing, and showed how it worked. “This boat would slide off
sideways if it were not for that.”

“But we have to go a great deal farther when beating,” said Ned
Bellows.

“Of course we do,” replied Dory. “Sometimes we have to go two miles to
make one when the wind is dead ahead.”

“Captain Gildrock said it was twenty miles from Burlington to Beech
Hill. Must we go forty miles to get there?” asked Ben Ludlow.

“Not at all: the wind isn’t dead ahead. Here we are, just north of
Willsborough Point. I am coming about now. Look out for your heads
when the boom goes over.”

Dory put the helm down, and all the sails began to flap and bang. But
in a moment the Goldwing took the wind on the starboard tack, the
sails went over, and the schooner began to gather headway on her new
course.

“That’s what we call tacking,” said the skipper. “We shall go about
eleven miles on this tack.”

“I say, Dory, let me steer her a while now,” added Oscar Chester,
rising from his seat, and moving aft.

“Keep your seat!” replied the skipper rather sharply. “You mustn’t
move about in the boat.”

“But I want to steer her,” persisted Oscar, resuming his seat.

“Did you ever steer a boat?” asked Dory.

“I never steered a sailboat; but I can do it as well as you can,”
added the new pupil. “I have seen just how it is done. When you want
the boat to go to the right, you put the stick in your hand to the
left.”

“I don’t believe in running any risks in a boat, and I must keep the
helm myself,” answered Dory. “There is wind enough to upset the boat
if you don’t know how to handle her.”

“But I do know how to handle her. I have kept my eyes open, and I know
all about it. It don’t take me a month to learn any thing.”

“If we were alone I would let you try it, just to enable you to see
how easy it is to be mistaken,” said Dory, laughing.

“It’s nothing to steer a boat! You needn’t make such a big thing of
it.”

“Well, it is a big thing!” exclaimed Bolingbroke. “I thought I knew
