
"It is perfectly clear, my dear sir," insisted Mr. Bellingham. "You go
to St. Petersburg; you get an audience--you can do that by means of the
letters; you lay the matter before the Czar, and request justice. Either
you get it or you do not. That is the beauty of an autocratic country."

"How about a free country?" asked Claudius.

"You don't get it," replied his host grimly. Claudius laughed a cloud of
smoke into the air.

"Why is that?" he asked idly, hoping to launch Mr. Bellingham into
further aphorisms and paradoxes.

"Men are everywhere born free, but they--"

"Oh," said Claudius, "I want to know your own opinion about it."

"I have no opinion; I only have experience," answered the other. "At any
rate in an autocratic country there is a visible, tangible repository of
power to whom you can apply. If the repository is in the humour you will
get whatever you want done, in the way of justice or injustice. Now in a
free country justice is absorbed into the great cosmic forces, and it is
apt to be an expensive incantation that wakes the lost elementary
spirit. In Russia justice shines by contrast with the surrounding
corruption, but there is no mistake about it when you get it. In America
it is taken for granted everywhere, and the consequence is that, like
most things that are taken for granted, it is a myth. Rousseau thought
that in a republic like ours there would be no more of the 'chains' he
was so fond of talking about. He did not anticipate a stagnation of the
national moral sense. An Englishman who has made a study of these things
said lately that the Americans had retained the forms of freedom, but
that the substance had suffered considerably."

"Who said that?" asked Claudius.

"Mr. Herbert Spencer. He said it to a newspaper reporter in New York,
and so it was put into the papers. It is the truest thing he ever said,
but no one took any more notice of it than if he had told the reporter
it was a very fine day. They don't care. Tell the first man you meet
down town that he is a liar; he will tell you he knows it. He will
probably tell you you are another. We are all alike here. I'm a liar
myself in a small way--there's a club of us, two Americans and one
Englishman."

"You are the frankest person I ever met, Mr. Bellingham," said Claudius,
laughing.

"Some day I will write a book," said Mr. Bellingham, rising and
beginning to tramp round the room. "I will call it--by the way, we were
talking about Petersburg. You had better be off."

"I am going, but tell me the name of the book before I go."

"No, I won't; you would go and write it yourself, and steal my thunder."
Uncle Horace's eyes twinkled, and a corruscation of laugh-wrinkles shot
like sheet-lightning over his face. He disappeared into a neighbouring
room, leaving a trail of white smoke in his wake, like a locomotive.
Presently he returned with a Bullinger Guide in his hand.

"You can sail on Wednesday at two o'clock by the Cunarder," he said.
"You can go to Newport to-day, and come back by the boat on Tuesday
night, and be ready to start in the morning." Mr. Bellingham prided
himself greatly on his faculty for making combinations of times and
places.

"How about those letters, Mr. Bellingham?" inquired Claudius, who had no
idea of going upon his expedition without proper preparations.

"I will write them," said Uncle Horace, "I will write them at once," and
he dived into an address-book and set to work. His pen was that of the
traditional ready-writer, for he wrote endless letters, and his
correspondence was typical of himself--the scholar, the wanderer, and
the Priest of Buddha by turns, and sometimes all at once. For Mr.
Bellingham was a professed Buddhist and a profound student of Eastern
moralities, and he was a thorough scholar in certain branches of the
classics. The combination of these qualities, with the tact and
versatile fluency of a man of the world, was a rare one, and was a
source of unceasing surprise to his intimates. At the present moment he
was a diplomatist, since he could not be a diplomat, and to his
energetic suggestion and furtherance of the plan he had devised the
results which this tale will set forth are mainly due.

Claudius sat upon the sofa watching the old gentleman, and wondering how
it was that a stranger should so soon have assumed the position of an
adviser, and with an energy and good sense, too, which not only disarmed
resistance, but assubjugated the consent of the advised. Life is full of
such things. Man lives quietly like a fattening carp in some old pond
for years, until some idle disturber comes and pokes up the mud with a
stick, and the poor fish is in the dark. Presently comes another
destroyer of peace, less idle and more enterprising, and drains away
the water, carp and all, and makes a potato-garden of his old haunts. So
the carp makes a new study of life under altered circumstances in other
waters; and to pass the time he wonders about it all. It happens even to
men of masterful character, accustomed to directing events. An illness
takes such a man out of his sphere for a few months. He comes back and
finds his pond turned into a vegetable-garden and his ploughed field
into a swamp; and then for a time he is fain to ask advice and take it,
like any other mortal. So Claudius, who felt himself in an atmosphere
new to him, and had tumbled into a very burning bush of complications,
had fallen in with Mr. Horace Bellingham, a kind of professional
bone-setter, whose province was the reduction of society fractures,
speaking medically. And Mr. Bellingham, scenting a patient, and moreover
being strongly attracted to him on his own merits, had immediately
broached the subject of the Nihilist Nicholas, drawing the conclusion
that the man of the emergency was Claudius, and Claudius only. And the
bold Doctor weighed the old gentleman's words, and by the light of what
he felt he knew that Uncle Horace was right. That if he loved Margaret
his first duty was to her, and that first duty was her welfare. No
messenger could or would be so active in her interests as himself; and
in his anxiety to serve her he had not thought it strange that Mr.
Bellingham should take it for granted he was ready to embark on the
expedition. He thought of that later, and wondered at the boldness of
the stranger's assumption, no less than at the keenness of his wit. Poor
Claudius! anybody might see he was in love.

"There; I think that will draw sparks," said Mr. Bellingham, as he
folded the last of his letters and put them all in a great square
envelope. "Put those in your pocket and keep your powder dry."

"I am really very grateful to you," said Claudius. Uncle Horace began to
tramp round the room again, emitting smoky ejaculations of satisfaction.
Presently he stopped in front of his guest and turned his eyes up to
Claudius's face without raising his head. It gave him a peculiar
expression.

"It is a very strange thing," he said, "but I knew at once that you had
a destiny, the first time I saw you. I am very superstitious; I believe
in destiny."

"So would I if I thought one could know anything about it. I mean in a
general way," answered Claudius, smiling.

"Is generalisation everything?" asked Mr. Bellingham sharply, still
looking at the young man. "Is experience to be dismissed as empiricism,
with a sneer, because the wider rule is lacking?"

"No. But so long as only a few occupy themselves in reducing empiric
knowledge to a scientific shape they will not succeed, at least in this
department. To begin with, they have not enough experience among them to
make rules from."

"But they contribute. One man will come who will find the rule. Was
Tycho Brahé a nonentity because he was not Kepler? Was Van Helmont
nothing because he was not Lavoisier? Yet Tycho Brahé was an empiric--he
was the last of the observers of the concrete, if you will allow me the
phrase. He was scientifically the father of Kepler."

"That is very well put," said Claudius. "But we were talking of destiny.
You are an observer."

"I have very fine senses," replied Mr. Bellingham. "I always know when
anybody I meet is going to do something out of the common run. You are."

"I hope so," said Claudius, laughing. "Indeed I think I am beginning
already."

"Well, good luck to you," said Mr. Bellingham, remembering that he had
missed one engagement, and was on the point of missing another. He
suddenly felt that he must send Claudius away, and he held out his hand.
There was nothing rough in his abruptness. He would have liked to talk
with Claudius for an hour longer had his time permitted. Claudius
understood perfectly. He put the letters in his pocket, and with a
parting shake of the hand he bade Mr. Horace Bellingham good-morning,
and good-bye; he would not trouble him again, he said, before sailing.
But Mr. Bellingham went to the door with him.

"Come and see me before you go--Wednesday morning; I am up at six, you
know. I shall be very glad to see you. I am like the Mexican donkey that
died of congojas ajenas--died of other people's troubles. People
always come to me when they are in difficulties." The old gentleman
stood looking after Claudius as he strode away. Then he screwed up his
eyes at the sun, sneezed with evident satisfaction, and disappeared
within, closing the street door behind him.

"Some day I will write my memoirs," he said to himself, as he sat down.

Claudius was in a frame of mind which he would have found it hard to
describe. The long conversation with Mr. Bellingham had been the first
intimation he had received of Margaret's disaster, and the same
interview had decided him to act at once in her behalf--in other words,
to return to Europe immediately, after a week's stay in New York,
leaving behind all that was most dear to him. This resolution had
formed itself instantaneously in his mind, and it never occurred to him,
either then or later, that he could have done anything else in the
world. It certainly did not occur to him that he was doing anything
especially praiseworthy in sacrificing his love to its object, in
leaving Margaret for a couple of months, and enduring all that such a
separation meant, in order to serve her interests more effectually. He
knew well enough what he was undertaking--the sleepless nights, the
endless days, the soul-compelling heaviness of solitude, and the deadly
sinking at the heart, all which he should endure daily for sixty
days--he could not be back before that. He knew it all, for he had
suffered it all, during those four and twenty hours on the yacht that
followed his first wild speech of love. But Claudius's was a knightly
soul, and when he served he served wholly, without reservation. Had the
dark-browed Countess guessed half the nobleness of purpose her tall
lover carried in his breast, who knows but she might have been sooner
moved herself. But how could she know? She suspected, indeed, that he
was above his fellows, and she never attributed bad motives to his
actions, as she would unhesitatingly have done with most men; for she
had learned lessons of caution in her life. Who steals hearts steals
souls, wherefore it behoves woman to look that the lock be strong and
the key hung high. Claudius thought so too, and he showed it in every
action, though unconsciously enough, for it was a knowledge natural and
not acquired, an instinctive determination to honour where honour was
due. Call it Quixotism if need be. There is nothing ridiculous in the
word, for there breathes no truer knight or gentler soul than
Cervantes's hero in all the pages of history or romance. Why cannot all
men see it? Why must an infamous world be ever sneering at the sight,
and smacking its filthy lips over some fresh gorge of martyrs? Society
has non-suited hell to-day, lest peradventure it should not sleep o'
nights.

Thomas Carlyle, late of Chelsea, knew that. How he hit and hammered and
churned in his wrath, with his great cast-iron words. How the world
shrieked when he wound his tenacious fingers in the glory of her golden
hair and twisted and wrenched and twisted till she yelled for mercy,
promising to be good, like a whipped child. There is a story told of him
which might be true.

It was at a dinner-party, and Carlyle sat silent, listening to the talk
of lesser men, the snow on his hair and the fire in his amber eyes. A
young Liberal was talking theory to a beefy old Conservative, who
despised youth and reason in an equal degree.

"The British people, sir," said he of the beef, "can afford to laugh at
theories."

"Sir," said Carlyle, speaking for the first time during dinner, "the
French nobility of a hundred years ago said they could afford to laugh
at theories. Then came a man and wrote a book called the Social
Contract. The man was called Jean-Jacques Rousseau, and his book was a
theory, and nothing but a theory. The nobles could laugh at his theory;
but their skins went to bind the second edition of his book[1]."

[Footnote 1: There was a tannery of human skins at Meudon during the
Revolution.]

Look to your skin, world, lest it be dressed to morocco and cunningly
tooled with gold. There is much binding yet to be done.

Claudius thought neither of the world nor of Mr. Carlyle as he walked
back to the hotel; for he was thinking of the Countess Margaret, to the
exclusion of every other earthly or unearthly consideration. But his
thoughts were sad, for he knew that he was to leave her, and he knew
also that he must tell her so. It was no easy matter, and his walk
slackened, till, at the corner of the great thoroughfare, he stood
still, looking at a poor woman who ground a tuneless hand-organ. The
instrument of tympanum torture was on wheels, and to the back of it was
attached a cradle. In the cradle was a dirty little baby, licking its
fist and listening with conscientious attention to the perpetual
trangle-tringle-jangle of the maternal music. In truth the little thing
could not well listen to anything else, considering the position in
which it was placed. Claudius stood staring at the little caravan,
halted at the corner of the most aristocratic street in New York, and
his attention was gradually roused to comprehend what he saw. He
reflected that next to being bound on the back of a wild horse, like
Mazeppa, the most horrible fate conceivable must be that of this dirty
baby, put to bed in perpetuity on the back of a crazy grind-organ. He
smiled at the idea, and the woman held out a battered tin dish with one
hand, while the other in its revolution ground out the final palpitating
squeaks of "Ah, che la morte ognora." Claudius put his hand into his
pocket and gave the poor creature a coin.

"You are encouraging a public nuisance," said a thin gentlemanly voice
at his elbow. Claudius looked down and saw Mr. Barker.

"Yes," said the Doctor, "I remember a remark you once made to me about
the deserving poor in New York--it was the day before yesterday, I
think. You said they went to the West."

"Talking of the West, I suppose you will be going there yourself one of
these days to take a look at our 'park'--eh?"

"No, I am going East."

"To Boston, I suppose?" inquired the inquisitive Barker. "You will be
very much amused with Boston. It is the largest village in the United
States."

"I am not going to Boston," said Claudius calmly.

"Oh! I thought when you said you were going East you meant--"

"I am going to sail for Europe on Wednesday," said the Doctor, who had
had time to reflect that he might as well inform Barker of his
intention. Mr. Barker smiled grimly under his moustache.

"You don't mean that?" he said, trying to feign astonishment and
disguise his satisfaction. It seemed too good to be true. "Going so
soon? Why, I thought you meant to spend some time."

"Yes, I am going immediately," and Claudius looked Barker straight in
the face. "I find it is necessary that I should procure certain papers
connected with my inheritance."

"Well," said Barker turning his eyes another way, for he did not like
the Doctor's look, "I am very sorry, any way. I suppose you mean to come
back soon?"

"Very soon," answered Claudius. "Good-morning, Barker."

"Good morning. I will call and see you before you sail. You have quite
taken my breath away with this news." Mr. Barker walked quickly away in
the direction of Elevated Road. He was evidently going down town.

"Strange," thought Claudius, "that Barker should take the news so
quietly. I think it ought to have astonished him more." Leaving the
organ-grinder, the dirty baby, and the horse-cars to their fate,
Claudius entered the hotel. He found the Duke over a late breakfast,
eating cantelopes voraciously. Cantelopes are American melons, small and
of sickly appearance, but of good vitality and unearthly freshness
within, a joy to the hot-stomached foreigner. Behold also, his Grace
eateth the cantelope and hath a cheerful countenance. Claudius sat down
at the table, looking rather gloomy.

"I want you to give me an introduction to the English Ambassador in
Petersburg. Lord Fitzdoggin, I believe he is."

"Good gracious!" exclaimed the peer; "what for?"

"I am going there," answered Claudius with his habitual calm, "and I
want to know somebody in power."

"Oh! are you going?" asked the Duke, suddenly grasping the situation.
He afterwards took some credit to himself for having been so quick to
catch Claudius's meaning.

"Yes. I sail on Wednesday."

"Tell me all about it," said the Duke, who recovered his equanimity, and
plunged a knife into a fresh cantelope at the same moment.

"Very well. I saw your friend, Mr. Horace Bellingham, this morning, and
he told me all about the Countess's troubles. In fact, they are in the
newspapers by this time, but I had not read about them. He suggested
that some personal friend of the Countess had better proceed to
headquarters at once, and see about it; so I said I would go; and he
gave me some introductions. They are probably good ones; but he advised
me to come to you and get one for your ambassador."

"Anything Uncle Horace advises is right, you know," said his Grace,
speaking with his mouth full. "He knows no end of people everywhere," he
added pensively, when he had swallowed.

"Very well, I will go; but I am glad you approve."

"But what the deuce are you going to do about that fortune of yours?"
asked the other suddenly. "Don't you think we had better go down and
swear to you at once? I may not be here when you get back, you know."

"No; that would not suit my arrangements," answered Claudius. "I would
rather not let it be known for what purpose I had gone. Do you
understand? I am going ostensibly to Heidelberg to get my papers from
the University, and so, with all thanks, I need not trouble you." The
Duke looked at him for a moment.

"What a queer fellow you are, Claudius," he said at last. "I should
think you would like her to know."

"Why? Suppose that I failed, what a figure I should cut, to be sure."
Claudius preferred to attribute to his vanity an action which was the
natural outcome of his love.

"Well, that is true," said the Duke; "but I think you are pretty safe
for all that. Have some breakfast--I forgot all about it."

"No, thanks. Are you going to Newport to-day? I would like to see
something outside of New York before I go back."

"By all means. Better go at once--all of us in a body. I know the
Countess is ready, and I am sure I am."

"Very good. I will get my things together. One word--please do not tell
them I am going; I will do it myself.

"All right," answered the Duke; and Claudius vanished. "He says 'them,'"
soliloquised the Englishman, "but he means 'her.'"

Claudius found on his table a note from Mr. Screw. This missive was
couched in formal terms, and emitted a kind of phosphorescent wrath. Mr.
Screw's dignity was seriously offended by the summary ejectment he had
suffered at the Doctor's hands on the previous day. He gave the Doctor
formal notice that his drafts would not be honoured until the executors
were satisfied concerning his identity; and he solemnly and legally
"regretted the position Dr. Claudius had assumed towards those whose
sacred duty it was to protect the interests of Dr. Claudius." The
cunning repetition of name conveyed the idea of two personages, the
claimant and the real heir, in a manner that did not escape the Doctor.
Since yesterday he had half regretted having lost his temper; and had he
known that Screw had been completely duped by Mr. Barker, Claudius would
probably have apologised to the lawyer. Indeed, he had a vague
suspicion, as the shadow of a distant event, that Barker was not
altogether clear of the business; and the fact that the latter had shown
so little surprise on hearing of his friend's sudden return to Europe
had aroused the Doctor's imagination, so that he found himself piecing
together everything he could remember to show that Barker had an
interest of some kind in removing him from the scene. Nevertheless, the
burden of responsibility for the annoyance he was now suffering seemed
to rest with Screw, and Screw should be taught a great lesson; and to
that end Claudius would write a letter. It was clear he was still angry.

The Doctor sat down to write; and his strong, white fingers held the pen
with unrelenting determination to be disagreeable. His face was set like
a mask, and ever and anon his blue eyes gleamed scornfully. And this is
what he said--

     "SIR--Having enjoyed the advantage of your society, somewhat longer
     than I could have wished, during yesterday afternoon, I had
     certainly not hoped for so early a mark of your favour and interest
     as a letter from you of to-day's date. As for your formal notice to
     me that my drafts will not be honoured in future, I regard it as a
     deliberate repetition of the insulting insinuation conveyed to me
     by your remarks during your visit. You are well aware that I have
     not drawn upon the estate in spite of your written authorisation to
     do so. I consider your conduct in this matter unworthy of a person
     professing the law, and your impertinence is in my opinion only
     second to the phenomenal clumsiness you have displayed throughout.
     As I fear that your ignorance of your profession may lead you into
     some act of folly disastrous to yourself, I will go so far as to
     inform you that on my return from Europe, two months hence, your
     proceedings as executor for the estate of the late Gustavus
     Lindstrand will be subjected to the severest scrutiny. In the
     meantime, I desire no further communications from you.

     CLAUDIUS."

This remarkable epistle was immediately despatched by messenger to Pine
Street; and if Mr. Screw had felt himself injured before, he was on the
verge of desperation when he read Claudius's polemic. He repeated to
himself the several sentences, which seemed to breathe war and carnage
in their trenchant brevity; and he thought that even if he had been
guilty of any breach of trust, he could hardly have felt worse. He ran
his fingers through his thick yellow-gray hair, and hooked his legs in
and out of each other as he sat, and bullied his clerks within an inch
of their lives. Then, to get consolation, he said to himself that
Claudius was certainly an impostor, or he would not be so angry, or go
to Europe, or refuse any more communications. In the midst of his rage,
Mr. Barker the younger opportunely appeared in the office of Messrs.
Screw and Scratch, prepared to throw any amount of oil upon the flames.

"Well?" said Mr. Barker interrogatively, as he settled the flower in his
gray coat, and let the paper ribband of the "ticker" run through his
other hand, with its tale of the tide of stocks. Yellow Mr. Screw shot a
lurid glance from his brassy little eyes.

"You're right, sir--the man's a humbug."

"Who?" asked Barker, in well-feigned innocence.

"Claudius. It's my belief he's a liar and a thief and a damned impostor,
sir. That's my belief, sir." He waxed warm as he vented his anger.

"Well, I only suggested taking precautions. I never said any of these
things," answered Barker, who had no idea of playing a prominent part in
his own plot. "Don't give me any credit, Mr. Screw."

"Now, see here, Mr. Barker; I'm talking to you. You're as clever a young
man as there is in New York. Now, listen to me; I'm talking to you,"
said Mr. Screw excitedly. "That man turned me out of his house--turned
me out of doors, sir, yesterday afternoon; and now he writes me this
letter; look here, look at it; read it for yourself, can't you? And so
he makes tracks for Europe, and leaves no address behind. An honest man
isn't going to act like that, sir--is he, now?"

"Not much," said Barker, as he took the letter. He read it through
twice, and gave it back. "Not much," he repeated. "Is it true that he
has drawn no money?"

"Well, yes, I suppose it is," answered Screw reluctantly, for this was
the weak point in his argument. "However, it would be just like such a
leg to make everything sure in playing a big game. You see he has left
himself the rear platform, so he can jump off when his car is boarded."

"However," said Barker sententiously, "I must say it is in his favour.
What we want are facts, you know, Mr. Screw. Besides, if he had taken
anything, I should have been responsible, because I accepted him abroad
as the right man."

"Well, as you say, there is nothing gone--not a red. So if he likes to
get away, he can; I'm well rid of him."

"Now that's the way to look at it. Don't be so down in the mouth, sir;
it will all come straight enough." Barker smiled benignly, knowing it
was all crooked enough at present.

"Well, I'm damned anyhow," said Mr. Screw, which was not fair to
himself, for he was an honest man, acting very properly according to his
lights. It was not his fault if Barker deceived him, and if that
hot-livered Swede was angry.

"Never mind," answered Barker, rather irrelevantly; "I will see him
before he sails, and tell you what I think about it. He is dead sure to
give himself away, somehow, before he gets off."

"Well, sail in, young man," said Screw, biting off the end of a cigar.
"I don't want to see him again, you can take your oath."

"All right; that settles it. I came about something else, though. I know
you can tell me all about this suit against the Western Union, can't
you?"

So the two men sat in their arm-chairs and talked steadily, as only
Americans can talk, without showing any more signs of fatigue than if
they were snoring; and it cost them nothing. If the Greeks of the time
of Pericles could be brought to life in America, they would be very like
modern Americans in respect of their love of talking and of their
politics. Terrible chatterers in the market-place, and great wranglers
in the council--the greatest talkers living, but also on occasion the
greatest orators, with a redundant vivacity of public life in their
political veins, that magnifies and inflames the diseases of the parts,
even while it gives an unparalleled harmony to the whole. The Greeks had
more, for their activity, hampered by the narrow limits of their
political sphere, broke out in every variety of intellectual effort,
carried into every branch of science and art. In spite of the whole
modern school of impressionists, æsthetes, and aphrodisiac poets, the
most prominent features of Greek art are its intellectuality, its
well-reasoned science, and its accurate conception of the ideal. The
resemblance between Americans of to-day and Greeks of the age of
Pericles does not extend to matters of art as yet, though America bids
fair to surpass all earlier and contemporary nations in the progressive
departments of science. But as talkers they are pre-eminent, these rapid
business men with their quick tongues and their sharp eyes and their
millions.

When Barker left Screw he had learned a great deal about the suit of
which he inquired, but Screw had learned nothing whatever about
Claudius.

As for the Doctor, as soon as he had despatched his letter he sent to
secure a passage in Wednesday's steamer, and set himself to prepare his
effects for the voyage, as he only intended returning from Newport in
time to go on board. He was provided with money enough, for before
leaving Germany he had realised the whole of his own little fortune, not
wishing to draw upon his larger inheritance until he should feel some
necessity for doing so. He now felt no small satisfaction in the thought
that he was independent of Mr. Screw and of every one else. It would
have been an easy matter, he knew, to clear up the whole difficulty in
twenty-four hours, by simply asking the Duke to vouch for him; and
before hearing of Margaret's trouble he had had every intention of
pursuing that course. But now that he was determined to go to Russia in
her behalf, his own difficulty, if he did not take steps for removing
it, furnished him with an excellent excuse for the journey, without
telling the Countess that he was going for the sole purpose of
recovering her fortune, as he otherwise must have told her. Had he known
the full extent of Barker's intentions he might have acted differently,
but as yet his instinct against that ingenious young gentleman was
undefined and vague.




CHAPTER XV.


The cliff at Newport--the long winding path that follows it from the
great beach to the point of the island, always just above the sea,
hardly once descending to it, as the evenly-gravelled path, too narrow
for three, though far too broad for two, winds by easy curves through
the grounds, and skirts the lawns of the million-getters who have their
tents and their houses therein--it is a pretty place. There the rich men
come and seethe in their gold all summer; and Lazarus comes to see
whether he cannot marry Dives's daughter. And the choleric architect,
dissatisfied with the face of Nature, strikes her many a dread blow, and
produces an unhealthy eruption wherever he strikes, and calls the things
he makes houses. Here also, on Sunday afternoon, young gentlemen and
younger ladies patrol in pairs, and discourse of the most saccharine
inanities, not knowing what they shall say, and taking no thought, for
obvious reasons. And gardeners sally forth in the morning and trim the
paths with strange-looking instruments--the earth-barbers, who lather
and shave and clip Nature into patterns, and the world into a quincunx.

It is a pretty place. There is nothing grand, not even anything natural
in Newport, but it is very pretty for all that. For an artificial place,
destined to house the most artificial people in the world during three
months of the year, it is as pleasing as it can be in a
light-comedy-scenery style. Besides, the scenery in Newport is very
expensive, and it is impossible to spend so much money without producing
some result. It cost a hundred thousand to level that lawn there, and
Dives paid the money cheerfully. Then there is Croesus, his neighbour,
who can draw a cheque for a hundred millions if he likes. His house cost
him a pot of money. And so they build themselves a landscape, and pare
off the rough edges of the island, and construct elegant landing-stages,
and keep yachts, and make to themselves a fashionable watering-place;
until by dint of putting money into it, they have made it remarkable
among the watering-places of the world, perhaps the most remarkable of
all.

But there are times when the cliff at Newport is not an altogether
flippant bit of expensive scene-painting, laid out for the sole purpose
of "effect." Sometimes in the warm summer nights the venerable moon
rises stately and white out of the water; the old moon, that is the
hoariest sinner of us all, with her spells and enchantments and her
breathing love-beams, that look so gently on such evil works. And the
artist-spirits of the night sky take of her silver as much as they will,
and coat with it many things of most humble composition, so that they
are fair to look upon. And they play strange pranks with faces of living
and dead. So when the ruler of the darkness shines over poor,
commonplace Newport, the aspect of it is changed, and the gingerbread
abominations wherein the people dwell are magnified into lofty palaces
of silver, and the close-trimmed lawns are great carpets of soft dark
velvet; and the smug-faced philistine sea, that the ocean would be
ashamed to own for a relation by day, breaks out into broken flashes of
silver and long paths of light. All this the moonlight does, rejoicing
in its deception.

There is another time, too, when Newport is no longer commonplace, when
that same sea, which never seems to have any life of its own, disgorges
its foggy soul over the land. There is an ugly odour as of musty
salt-water in men's nostrils, and the mist is heavy and thick to the
touch. It creeps up to the edge of the cliff, and greedily clings to the
wet grass, and climbs higher and over the lawns, and in at the windows
of Dives's dining-room, and of Croesus's library, with its burden of
insiduous mould. The pair of trim-built flirtlings, walking so daintily
down the gravel path, becomes indistinct, and their forms are seen but
as the shadows of things dead--treading on air, between three worlds.
The few feet of bank above the sea, dignified by the name of cliff, fall
back to a gaping chasm, a sheer horror of depths, misty and
unfathomable. Onward slides the thick cloud, and soon the deep-mouthed
monotone of the fog-horns in the distance tells it is in the bay. There
is nothing commonplace about the Newport cliff in a fog; it is wild
enough and dreary enough then, for the scene of a bad deed. You might
meet the souls of the lost in such a fog, hiding before the wrath to
come.

Late on Tuesday afternoon Claudius and Margaret had taken their way
towards the cliff, a solitary couple at that hour on a week-day. Even at
a distance there was something about their appearance that distinguished
them from ordinary couples. Claudius's great height seemed still more
imposing now that he affected the garb of civilisation, and Margaret had
the air of a woman of the great world in every movement of her graceful
body, and in every fold of her perfect dress. American women, when they
dress well, dress better than any other women in the world; but an
American woman who has lived at the foreign courts is unapproachable. If
there had been any one to see these two together on Tuesday afternoon,
there would have been words of envy, malice, and hatred. As it was, they
were quite alone on the cliff walk.

Margaret was happy; there was light in her eyes, and a faint warm flush
on her dark cheek. A closed parasol hung from her hand, having an ivory
handle carved with an "M" and a crown--the very one that three months
ago had struck the first spark of their acquaintance from the stones of
the old Schloss at Heidelberg--perhaps she had brought it on purpose.
She was happy still, for she did not know that Claudius was going away,
though he had brought her out here, away from every one, that he might
tell her. But they had reached the cliff and had walked some distance in
the direction of the point, and yet he spoke not. Something tied his
tongue, and he would have spoken if he could, but his words seemed too
big to come out. At last they came to a place where a quick descent
leads from the path down to the sea. A little sheltered nook of sand and
stones is there, all irregular and rough, like the lumps in brown sugar,
and the lazy sea splashed a little against some old pebbles it had known
for a long time, never having found the energy to wash them away. The
rocks above overhung the spot, so that it was entirely shielded from the
path, and the rocks below spread themselves into a kind of seat. Here
they sat them down, facing the water--towards evening--not too near to
each other, not too far,--Margaret on the right, Claudius on the left.
And Claudius punched the little pebbles with his stick after he had sat
down, wondering how he should begin. Indeed it did not seem easy. It
would have been easier if he had been less advanced, or further
advanced, in his suit. Most people never jump without feeling, at the
moment of jumping, that they could leap a little better if they could
"take off" an inch nearer or further away.

"Countess," said the Doctor at last, turning towards her with a very
grave look in his face, "I have something to tell you, and I do not know
how to say it." He paused, and Margaret looked at the sea, without
noticing him, for she half fancied he was on the point of repeating his
former indiscretion and saying he loved her. Would it be an indiscretion
now? She wondered what she should say, what she would say, if he
did--venture. Would she say "it was not right" of him now? In a moment
Claudius had resolved to plunge boldly at the truth.

"I am obliged to go away very suddenly," he said; and his voice trembled
violently.

Margaret's face lost colour in answer, and she resisted an impulse to
turn and meet his eyes. She would have liked to, but she felt his look
on her, and she feared lest, looking once, she should look too long.

"Must you go away?" she asked with a good deal of self-possession.

"Yes, I fear I must. I know I must, if I mean to remain here afterwards.
I would rather go at once and be done with it." He still spoke
uncertainly, as if struggling with some violent hoarseness in his
throat.

"Tell me why you must go," she said imperiously. Claudius hesitated a
moment.

"I will tell you one of the principal reasons of my going," he said.
"You know I came here to take possession of my fortune, and I very
naturally relied upon doing so. Obviously, if I do not obtain it I
cannot continue to live in the way I am now doing, on the slender
resources which have been enough for me until now."

"Et puis?" said the Countess, raising her eyebrows a little.

"Et puis," continued the Doctor, "these legal gentlemen find difficulty
in persuading themselves that I am myself--that I am really the nephew
of Gustavus Lindstrand, deceased."

"What nonsense!" exclaimed Margaret. "And so to please them you are
going away. And who will get your money, pray?"

"I will get it," answered Claudius, "for I will come back as soon as I
have obtained the necessary proofs of my identity from Heidelberg."

"I never heard of anything so ridiculous," said Margaret hotly. "To go
all that distance for a few papers. As if we did not all know you! If
you are not Dr. Claudius, who are you? Why, Mr. Barker went to
Heidelberg on purpose to find you."

"Nevertheless, Messrs. Screw and Scratch doubt me. Here is their
letter--the last one. Will you look at it?" and Claudius took an
envelope from his pocket-book. He was glad to have come over to the
argumentative tack, for his heart was very sore, and he knew what the
end must be.

"No." The Countess turned to him for the first time, with an
indescribable look in her face, between anger and pain. "No, I will not
read it."

"I wish you would," said Claudius, "you would understand better."
Something in his voice touched a sympathetic chord.

"I think I understand," said the Countess, looking back at the sea,
which was growing dim and indistinct before her. "I think you ought to
go."

The indistinctness of her vision was not due to any defect in her sight.
The wet fog was rising like a shapeless evil genius out of the sluggish
sea, rolling heavily across the little bay to the lovers' beach, with
its swollen arms full of blight and mildew. Margaret shivered at the
sight of it, and drew the lace thing she wore closer to her throat. But
she did not rise, or make any sign that she would go.

"What is the other reason for your going?" she asked at length.

"What other reason?"

"You said your inheritance, or the evidence you require in order to
obtain it, was one of the principal reasons for your going. I suppose
there is another?"

"Yes, Countess, there is another reason, but I cannot tell you now what
it is."

"I have no right to ask, of course," said Margaret,--"unless I can help
you," she added, in her soft, deep voice.

"You have more right than you think, far more right," answered Claudius.
"And I thank you for the kind thought of help. It is very good of you."
He turned towards her, and leaned upon his hand as he sat. Still the fog
rolled up, and the lifeless sea seemed overshed with an unctuous calm.
They were almost in the dark on their strip of beach, and the moisture
was already clinging in great, thick drops to their clothes, and to the
rocks where they sat. Still Claudius looked at Margaret, and Margaret
looked at the narrow band of oily water still uncovered by the mist.

"When are you going?" she asked slowly, as if hating to meet the answer.

"To-night," said Claudius, still looking earnestly at her. The light was
gone from her eyes, and the flush had long sunk away to the heart whence
it had come.

"To-night?" she repeated, a little vaguely.

"Yes," he said, and waited; then after a moment, "Shall you mind when I
am gone?" He leaned towards her, earnestly looking into her face.

"Yes," said Margaret, "I shall be sorry." Her voice was kind, and very
gentle. Still she did not look at him. Claudius held out his right hand,
palm upward, to meet hers.

"Shall you mind much?" he asked earnestly, with intent eyes. She met his
hand and took it.

"Yes, I shall be very sorry." Claudius slipped from the rock where he
was sitting, and fell upon one knee before her, kissing the hand she
gave as though it had been the holy cross. He looked up, his face near
hers, and at last he met her eyes, burning with a startled light under
the black brows, contrasting with the white of her forehead, and face,
and throat. He looked one moment.

"Shall you really mind very much?" he asked a third time, in a strange,
lost voice. There was no answer, only the wet fog all around, and those
two beautiful faces ashy pale in the mist, and very near together. One
instant so--and then--ah, God! they have cast the die at last, for he
has wound his mighty arms about her, and is passionately kissing the
marble of her cheek.

"My beloved, my beloved, I love you--with all my heart, and with all my
soul, and with all my strength"--but she speaks no word, only her arms
pass his and hang about his neck, and her dark head lies on his breast;
and could you but see her eyes, you would see also the fair pearls that
the little god has formed deep down in the ocean of love--the lashes
thereof are wet with sudden weeping. And all around them the deep, deaf
fog, thick and muffled as darkness, and yet not dark.

"Ugh!" muttered the evil genius of the sea, "I hate lovers; an' they
drown not, they shall have a wet wooing." And he came and touched them
all over with the clamminess of his deathly hand, and breathed upon them
the thick, cold breath of his damp old soul. But he could do nothing
against such love as that, and the lovers burned him and laughed him to
scorn.

She was very silent as she kissed him and laid her head on his breast.
And he could only repeat what was nearest, the credo of his love, and
while his arms were about her they were strong, but when he tried to
take them away, they were as tremulous as the veriest aspen.

The great tidal wave comes rolling in, once in every lifetime that
deserves to be called a lifetime, and sweeps away every one of our
landmarks, and changes all our coast-line. But though the waters do not
subside, yet the crest of them falls rippling away into smoothness after
the first mad rush, else should we all be but shipwrecked mariners in
the sea of love. And so, after a time, Margaret drew away from Claudius
gently, finding his hands with hers as she moved, and holding them.

"Come," said she, "let us go." They were her first words, and Claudius
thought the deep voice had never sounded so musical before. But the
words, the word "go," sounded like a knell on his heart. He had
forgotten that he must sail on the morrow. He had forgotten that it was
so soon over.

They went away, out of the drizzling fog and the mist, and the evil
sea-breath, up to the cliff walk and so by the wet lanes homewards, two
loving, sorrowing hearts, not realising what had come to them, nor
knowing what should come hereafter, but only big with love fresh spoken,
and hot with tears half shed.

"Beloved," said Claudius as they stood together for the last time in the
desolation of the great, dreary, hotel drawing-room--for Claudius was
going--"beloved, will you promise me something?"

Margaret looked down as she stood with her clasped hands on his arm.

"What is it I should promise you--Claudius?" she asked, half hesitating.

Claudius laid his hand tenderly--tenderly, as giants only can be tender,
on the thick black hair, as hardly daring, yet loving, to let it linger
there.

"Will you promise that if you doubt me when I am gone, you will ask of
the Duke the 'other reason' of my going?"

"I shall not doubt you," answered Margaret, looking proudly up.

"God bless you, my beloved!"--and so he went to sea again.




CHAPTER XVI.


When Mr. Barker, who had followed the party to Newport, called on the
Countess the following morning, she was not visible, so he was fain to
content himself with scribbling a very pressing invitation to drive in
the afternoon, which he sent up with some flowers, not waiting for an
answer. The fact was that Margaret had sent for the Duke at an early
hour--for her--and was talking with him on matters of importance at the
time Barker called. Otherwise she would very likely not have refused to
see the latter.

"I want you to explain to me what they are trying to do to make Dr.
Claudius give up his property," said Margaret, who looked pale and
beautiful in a morning garment of nondescript shape and of white silken
material. The Duke was sitting by the window, watching a couple of men
preparing to get into a trim dogcart. To tell the truth, the dogcart and
the horse were the objects of interest. His Grace was not aware that the
young men were no less personages than young Mr. Hannibal Q. Sniggins
and young Mr. Orlando Van Sueindell, both of New York, sons of the
"great roads." Either of these young gentlemen could have bought out his
Grace; either of them would have joyfully licked his boots; and either
of them would have protested, within the sacred precincts of their
gorgeous club in New York, that he was a conceited ass of an Englishman.
But his Grace did not know this, or he would certainly have regarded
them with more interest. He was profoundly indifferent to the character
of the people with whom he had to do, whether they were catalogued in
the "book of snobs" or not. It is generally people who are themselves
snobs who call their intimates by that offensive epithet, attributing to
them the sin they fall into themselves. The Duke distinguished between
gentlemen and cads, when it was a question of dining at the same table,
but in matters of business he believed the distinction of no importance.
He came to America for business purposes, and he took Americans as he
found them. He thought they were very good men of business, and when it
came to associating with them on any other footing, he thought some of
them were gentlemen and some were not--pretty much as it is everywhere
else. So he watched the young men getting into their dogcart, and he
thought the whole turn-out looked "very fit."

"Really," he began, in answer to the Countess's question, "--upon my
word, I don't know much about it. At least, I suppose not."

"Oh, I thought you did," said Margaret, taking up a book and a
paper-cutter. "I thought it must be something rather serious, or he
would not have been obliged to go abroad to get papers about it."

"Well, you know, after all, he--aw--" the Duke reddened--"he--well yes,
exactly so."

"Yes?" said Margaret interrogatively, expecting something more.

"Exactly," said the Duke, still red, but determined not to say anything.
He had not promised Claudius not to say he could have vouched for him,
had the Doctor stayed; but he feared that in telling Margaret this, he
might be risking the betrayal of Claudius's actual destination. It would
not do, however.

"I really do not understand just what you said," said Margaret, looking
at him.

"Ah! well, no. I daresay I did not express myself very clearly. What was
your question, Countess?"

"I asked who it was who was making so much trouble for the Doctor;" said
Margaret calmly.

"Oh, I was sure I could not have understood you. It's the executors and
lawyer people, who are not satisfied about his identity. It's all right,
though."

"Of course. But could no one here save him the trouble of going all the
way back to Germany?"

The Duke grew desperate. He was in a corner where he must either tell a
lie of some sort or let the cat out of the bag. The Duke was a cynical
and worldly man enough, perhaps, as the times go, but he did not tell
lies. He plunged.

"My dear Countess," he said, facing towards her and stroking his
whiskers, "I really know something about Dr. Claudius, and I will tell
you all I am at liberty to tell; please do not ask me anything else.
Claudius is really gone to obtain papers from Heidelberg as well as for
another purpose which I cannot divulge. The papers might have been
dispensed with, for I could have sworn to him."

"Then the other object is the important one," said the Countess
pensively. The Duke was silent. "I am greatly obliged to you," Margaret
continued, "for what you have told me."

"I will tell you what I can do," said the Englishman after a pause,
during which an unusual expression in his face seemed to betoken
thought. "I am going to the West for a couple of months to look after
things, and of course accidents may happen. Claudius may have difficulty
in getting what he wants, and I am the only man here who knows all about
him. He satisfied me of his identity. I will, if you like, sign a
statement vouching for him, and leave it in your hands in case of need.
It is all I can do."

"In my hands?" exclaimed Margaret, drawing herself up a little. "And why
in my hands, Duke?" The Duke got very red indeed this time, and
hesitated. He had put his foot into it through sheer goodness of heart
and a desire to help everybody.

"Aw--a--the--the fact is, Countess," he got out at last, "the fact is,
you know, Claudius has not many friends here, and I thought you were one
of them. My only desire is--a--to serve him."

Margaret had quickly grasped the advantage to Claudius, if such a
voucher as the Duke offered were kept in pickle as a rod for his
enemies.

"You are right," said she, "I am a good friend of Dr. Claudius, and I
will keep the paper in case of need."

The Duke recovered his equanimity.

"Thank you," said he. "I am a very good friend of his, and I thank you
on his behalf, as I am sure he will himself. There's one of our Foreign
Office clerks here for his holiday; I will get him to draw up the paper
as he is an old friend of mine--in fact, some relation, I believe. By
Jove! there goes Barker." The latter exclamation was caused by the
sudden appearance of the man he named on the opposite side of the
avenue, in conversation with the two young gentlemen whom the Duke had
already noticed as preparing to mount their dogcart.

"Oh," said Margaret indifferently, in response to the exclamation.

"Yes," said the Duke, "it is he. I thought he was in New York."

"No," said the Countess, "he has just called. It was his card they
brought me just as you came. He wants me to drive with him this
afternoon."

"Indeed. Shall you go?"

"I think so--yes," said she.

"Very well. I will take my sister with me," said the Duke. "I have got
something very decent to drive in." Margaret laughed at the implied
invitation.

"How you take things for granted," said she. "Did you really think I
would have gone with you?"

"Such things have happened," said the Duke good-humouredly, and went
