He does not wish to pursue the subject.
"I am so sorry Eugene is not at home. You go to-morrow?"
There is not the slightest inhospitable inflection to this, but if he
had said, "Why do you go?" or "You had better wait," her heart would
have throbbed with pleasure. One could announce a delay so easily by
telegram.
"I meant to see you started on your journey," he begins, and there is a
curious something in his tone. "Briggs had better go and see to your
luggage, and if you will accept my mother's company----"
"You cannot go?" There is a soft pleading, a regret that touches him,
and makes him feel that he is playing false, and yet he surely is not.
There is no reason why he should tell her of the coming step when he
has hardly decided himself.
"No," he answers, briefly. "I ought not leave St. Vincent an hour. My
impression is that he will die at midnight or dawn. I have no one to
whom I can depute any of the arrangements."
It does not enter her mind that a little girl who plays with dolls or
dishes can have anything in common with him. Possibly he may be made
her guardian. She wants to stay, and yet there is no real excuse.
He arranges everything for her journey, but will not bid her good by. A
note can do that more easily, he thinks. Cecil cries and begs to go
with him. Why not take her and Jane? He can send them home again if
need be. Cecil is wild with delight, and madame really envies her.
Violet receives her guest with tears and tender kisses. She has been
sitting with her father, and now he is asleep. Denise has insisted upon
her taking a little walk, and she is so glad to have Cecil, though the
child is awed by the sad face.
St. Vincent's breath is short and comes with difficulty. Whatever
Grandon does must be done quickly. When the dying man stirs he asks him
a question.
"If you would----" with a long, feeble sigh, but the eyes fill and
overflow with a peaceful light.
"Violet," Grandon says, an hour later, "your father wishes for the
marriage now. My child, are you--quite willing?"
She gives him her hand. For a moment he rebels at the sacrifice. She
knows nothing of her own soul, of love. Then he recalls the miserable
ending of more than one love marriage. Was Laura's love to be preferred
to this ignorance?
"Come," he says; "Cecil, too."
"She must be dressed!" cries Denise. "Oh, my lamb, I hope it may not be
ill fortune to have no wedding dress, but you must be fresh and clean."
Cecil looks on in wide-eyed wonder.
"Is she going to be married as Aunt Laura was?" she asks, gravely.
Grandon wonders how she will take it. If it should give her sweet,
childish love a wrench!
They assemble in the sick-room. The two stand close beside the bed, so
near that St. Vincent can take his daughter's hand and give her away.
The vows are uttered solemnly, the bond pronounced, "What God hath
joined together let no man put asunder."
"Cecil," her father says, "I have married Miss Violet. She is to be
your mamma and live with us. I hope you will love her."
Cecil studies her father with the utmost gravity, her eyes growing
larger and more lustrous. Her breath comes with a sigh. "Papa," as if
revolving something in her small mind, "madame cannot be my mamma now?"
"Madame----"
"Grandmamma said when I was just a little naughty this morning that I
could not do so when madame was my mamma, that I would have to obey
her."
"No, she never would have been that," he returns, with a touch of
anger.
"You will love me!" Violet kneels before her and clasps her arms about
the child, gives her the first kisses of her bridehood; and Cecil, awed
by emotions she does not understand, draws a long, sobbing breath, and
cries, "I do love you! I do love you!" hiding her face on Violet's
shoulder.
Floyd Grandon has given his child something else to love. A quick,
sharp pang pierces him.
There is a little momentary confusion, then Violet goes to her own
father and lies many moments with his feeble arms about her, until a
slight spasm stirs the worn frame.
It is as the doctor has predicted. A terrible restlessness ensues, a
pressure for breath, the precursors of the fatal struggle. He begs that
Violet will go out in the air again, she is so pale, but he does not
want her to witness this agony. They have had some brief, fond talks,
and she is safe. All the rest he will meet bravely.
The hours pass on and night comes. Violet kisses him and then takes
Cecil to her own little room, where they fall asleep in each other's
arms. The child is so sweet. She can never be quite forlorn with her.
So much of her life has been passed apart from her father that it seems
now as if he was going on a journey and would come back presently.
But in the morning he goes on the last journey, holding Floyd Grandon's
warm hand in his nerveless grasp. "My son," he sighs, and gives his
fond, fond love to Violet.
They let her go in the room with Denise; she pleads to have it so.
Floyd paces the hall with Cecil in his arms. He cannot explain the
mystery to her and does not attempt it, but she is quite content in the
promise that Miss Violet is to come and live with them.
Jane goes over with a note, and instructions to mention nothing beside
the fact of the death, Mrs. Grandon and madame get off to New York, and
Floyd fortifies himself for the evening's explanation.
Violet is not noisy in her grief. She would like to sit all day and
hold the dead hand in hers, watch the countenance that looks no paler
now, and much more tranquil than it has for days. She is utterly
incredulous in the face of this great mystery. He is asleep. He will
come back.
"Violet," Grandon says, at length. Is he going to love and cherish her
as some irksome duty? He has never proffered love. In that old time all
was demanded and given. Violet will demand nothing and be content. He
draws her to him, the round, quivering chin rests in the palm of his
hand, the eyes are tearful, entreating. He kisses the red, tremulous
lips, not with a man's passionate fervor, but he feels them quiver
beneath his, and he sees a pale pink tint creep up to the brow. She is
very sweet, and she is his, not his ward, but his wife.
"I hope we shall be happy," he says. "I shall try to do everything----"
"You have been so good, so kind. Denise worships you," she says,
simply.
He wonders if she will ever worship him? He thought he should not care
about it, but some feeling stirs within him now that makes cold
possession seem a mockery.
If they two could go away somewhere with Cecil, and live a quiet,
comfortable life, with no thought of what any one will say. But
explanations rise mountain high. It looks now as though he must give an
account to everybody of what he has done.
A brief note announces it to Wilmarth. There was no friendship before,
but he knows there will be bitter enmity now. As business is dull, he
suggests that the factory be closed for the whole week. After Mr.
Vincent's burial, he, Grandon would like to have a business interview
at the office of Mr. Ralph Sherburne, who has all the important papers.
That is done. Cecil is quite willing to stay with Violet, and is really
enchanted with Denise, so he goes home, where dinner is served in its
usual lavish manner. His mother is tired, Gertrude ennuied, of course.
The atmosphere is trying in the extreme.
"I have something to tell you," he says, cutting the Gordian knot at a
clean stroke. "I could not make the proper explanation this morning,
but now, you must pardon what has been done in haste." And he tells the
story briefly, leaving out whatever he deems advisable.
"Married!" Mrs. Grandon almost shrieks.
Gertrude looks at him in amaze. In her secret heart she is glad that
madame is not to reign here in all her state and beauty, shining every
one down, but she wonders how he has escaped the fascination.
"Married!" his mother says again. "I did think, Floyd, you had more
sense! A child like that,--a silly little thing who plays with dolls!
If you wanted a wife," with withering contempt, "there was one of
whom we should all have been proud! And you have behaved shamefully,
after leading her to think----"
"I never gave Madame Lepelletier the slightest reason to think that I
cared for her beyond mere friendliness," he says, his face flushing
scarlet. "I doubt if she would wish to share the kind of life I shall
elect when I get through with this business. She is an elegant society
woman, and I shall always admire her, as I have done. I doubt if she
would care for me," he adds, but his conscience gives a little twinge.
"When is this new mistress to come home?" asks his mother, in a bitter
tone.
"I shall bring her in a few days, and I hope she will be made welcome.
This----"
"I am aware this house is yours," she interrupts.
Floyd is shocked. "I was not going to say that: it was the furthest
from my thoughts," he answers, indignantly. "Do not let us quarrel or
have any words. You are all welcome to a home."
"It is so pleasant to be reminded of one's dependence." And Mrs.
Grandon begins to weep.
"Mother," Floyd says, deliberately, "I am going to bend every energy to
make the business the success that my father hoped it would be, and to
provide an independence for you all, as he would have done had his life
been spared. In this I shall have very little help from Eugene, and
trouble with Wilmarth, but I shall do my whole duty."
"I wish your father had never taken up with that St. Vincent; there has
been nothing but annoyance, there never will be."
"If there is trouble with my wife I hope I shall have the courage and
manliness to endure it," he returns, resolutely. "But I trust no one
will try to bring it about," he says, in a tone that implies it would
not be a safe undertaking.
Mrs. Grandon rises and sails out of the room. Floyd goes on with his
dessert, though he does not want a mouthful.
"Floyd," Gertrude says, timidly, "you must not mind mother. She will
come around right after a while. I don't believe she would have been
happy if you had married madame, and I am glad, yes, positively glad.
Cecil cannot endure her. I will try to like your wife. Is she such a
mere child?"
Floyd is really grateful. "She is seventeen," he answers, "and quite
pretty, but small. She has been educated at a convent, and knows very
little about the world, but Cecil loves her. I hope we shall all get
along well," and he sighs. Life is so much harder than he could have
imagined it three months ago. He is so weary, so troubled, that he
feels like throwing up everything and going abroad, but, ah, he cannot.
He is chained fast in the interest of others. "Talk to mother a
little," he adds, "and try to make her comfortable. You see I couldn't
have done any differently. I never could have endured all the talk
beforehand."
When he returns to the eyrie he finds Denise holding Cecil and telling
her some marvellous story. Violet is in the room with her father. "She
would go," Denise says. "It is only such a little while that she can
see him."
Cecil and Jane are sent home the following day. There is a very quiet
funeral, but the few mourners are sincere. Violet begs to stay with
Denise in the cottage, and Floyd cannot refuse. Lindmeyer returns to
town and is shocked by the tidings. Grandon appoints a meeting with him
the next morning at Sherburne's office. Briggs and the nurse are at the
cottage, so Floyd goes home to arrange matters for the advent of
Violet.
His mother has settled to a mood of sullen indignation. Why could not
Floyd have become guardian for this girl, and between them all they
might have brought about a marriage with Eugene, who needs the fortune?
If the patent should prove a success, the interest of these two young
people would become identical. Floyd has made himself his brother's
greatest rival, instead of best friend. Through Violet he has a
quarter-share of the business and control of the patent. She is sure
this must have been the deciding weight in the scale, for he is not
romantic, and not easily caught by woman's wiles. She understands
self-interest, but a generous denial of self for another person is
quite beyond her appreciation.
Yet she knows in her secret heart that if Floyd gave up, they would go
to ruin, and Wilmarth would be possessor of all. She does not fly out
in a temper now, but makes the interview unpleasant to her son, though
she is really afraid to confess her true view of the matter, little
imagining how soon he could have resolved her doubts. She hints at
other steps which might have been taken, and he supposes it refers to
his marriage with Madame Lepelletier. Tired at length of skirmishing
about with no decisive result, Floyd boldly makes a proposal. It is
best perhaps that he should be master in his own house, since of course
he must provide for all expenses. The furniture he would like to keep
as it is, if his mother chooses to sell it to him, and the money would
be better for her. He would like her to remain and take charge, since
Violet is so young, and he wants her to feel that her home is always
here, that he considers her and his sisters a part of the heritage
bequeathed by his father, and that independent of the business he shall
have enough for all. "Do not forget," he cries, "that I am your son!"
He is her son, but she would like to be entirely independent. The most
bitter thing, she tells herself, is to ask favors of children. And yet
she cannot say that Floyd has taken the family substance; he has cost
his father nothing since early boyhood. They have had his beautiful
house, and since his return he has spent his own money freely. She
wishes, or thinks she does, that she could pay back every penny of it,
and yet she is not willing to give of that which costs her
nothing,--tenderness, appreciation. She takes because she must, and
nurses her defiant pride which has been aroused by no fault of his.
"I shall expect the girls to make their home with me until they are
married," he continues. "I think that old English custom of having one
home centre is right, and as I am the elder it is my place to provide
it. I do not know as I shall be able to keep up the lavish scale of my
father's day," and he sighs.
Mrs. Grandon remembers well that there was a great complaint of bills
in her husband's time, and that Eugene has been frightfully extravagant
since. He is off pleasuring, and the other is here planning and
toiling. There is a small sense of injustice, but she salves her
conscience with the idea that it is an executor's bounden duty, and
that Floyd has had nothing but pleasure and idleness in his time.
It is late when he goes to his room to toss and tumble about
restlessly, and feel dissatisfied with the result of his work. Has he
been unfilial, unbrotherly? Surely every man has some rights in his own
life, his own aims. But has he done the best with his? Was it wise to
marry Violet? In a certain way she is dear to him; she has saved his
child for him,--his whole heart swells in gratitude. As for the love,
the love that is talked of and written about, or the overmastering
passion a man might experience for Madame Lepelletier, neither tempts
him. A quiet, friendly regard that will allow him to go his own way,
choose his own pursuits, command his own time, if a man must have a
wife; and he knows in his secret heart of hearts that he really does
not care to have a wife, that it will not materially add to his
happiness.
"I ought not to have married her," he admits to himself in a
conscience-stricken way, "but there was nothing else to do. And I
surely can make her happy, she is satisfied with such a little."
His conscience pricks him there. Is he to turn niggard and dole out to
her a few crumbs of regard and tenderness? to let her take from the
child what the husband ought to give? If there were no contrasting
memory, no secret sense of weariness amid kisses and caresses and
caprices pretty enough for occasional use, the dessert of love's
feasts, but never really touching the man's deeper life.
"It must be that some important elements have been left out of my
composition," he ruminates, grimly. Could even madame have moved him to
a headlong passion? Would there not come satiety even with her?
Certainly Cecil's welfare was to be considered in a second marriage,
and he has done that. If he has blundered again for himself he will
make the best of it in the certainty that there is now another and
absorbing interest to his life.
CHAPTER X.
I cannot argue, I can only feel.--GOETHE.
Grandon runs carelessly over his mail before the morning meeting at Mr.
Sherburne's. Two letters interest him especially and he lays them
aside. One is from Eugene. That improvident young man is out of money.
He is tired of Lake George and desires to go to Newport. He is sorry
that Floyd is getting himself into such a mess with the business, and
is quite sure the best thing would be to sell out to Wilmarth. He has
had a letter from him in which he, Wilmarth, confesses that matters are
in a very serious strait unless Mr. Floyd Grandon is willing to risk
his private fortune. "Don't do it," counsels the younger. "The new
machinery is a confounded humbug, but if any one can make it work,
Wilmarth is the man. If St. Vincent wants to get his daughter a
husband, why does he not offer her to Wilmarth? If she is as pretty as
you say, she ought not go begging for a mate, but when I marry for a
fortune I want the money in hand, not locked up in a lot of useless
trumpery."
A pang goes through Floyd's soul. If he never had offered her to
Eugene! It seems almost as if he had stabbed her to the heart. He can
see her soft, entreating, velvet eyes, and he covers his face with his
hands to hide the blush of shame. He will make it all up to her a
thousand times. Ah, can mere money ever take out such a sting?
The other letter is from a German professor and dear friend that he
left behind in Egypt, who expects to reach America early in September,
and find that Herr Grandon has improved his time and transcribed and
arranged all the notes, as he has so many more. There will be little
enough time, so the good comrade must not idle. They will have a good
long vacation afterward, when they can climb mountains and shoot
buffaloes, and explore the New World together, but now every day is of
value!
Floyd Grandon gives a smile of dismay. The precious days are flying so
rapidly. And everything has changed, the most important of all, his own
life. How could he?
He is a little late at the lawyer's, and they are all assembled. He
gives a quick glance toward Wilmarth. The impassible face has its usual
half-sneer and the covert politeness so baffling. Lindmeyer has been
explaining something, and stops short with an eager countenance.
The provisions of the will are gone over again. Floyd Grandon is now an
interested party in behalf of his wife. There are the books with a very
bad showing for the six months. They have not paid expenses, and there
is no reserve capital to fall back upon. It looks wonderfully like a
failure. Wilmarth watches Grandon closely. He is aware now that he has
underrated the vigor of his opponent, who by a lucky turn of fate holds
the trump cards. That Floyd Grandon could or would have married Miss
St. Vincent passes him. He knows nothing, of course, of the episode
with Cecil, and thinks the only motive is the chance to get back the
money he has been advancing on every hand. If he only had signed a
marriage contract there in Canada! He could almost subject himself to
the tortures of the rack for his blunder.
"Gentlemen," says Lindmeyer, who is a frank, energetic man of about
Grandon's age, with a keen eye and a resolute way of shutting his
mouth, "I see no reason at present why this should not succeed.
It has been badly handled, not understood. Mr. St. Vincent was not able
to make the workmen see with his eyes, and in his state of health he
was so excitable, confused, and worried that I don't wonder, indeed, I
have this plan to propose. If either of you gentlemen," glancing at
Wilmarth and Grandon, "will advance me sufficient means, and allow me
to choose my own foreman, perhaps a head man in every department, I
will prove to you in a month that the thing is a success, that there is
a fortune in it."
The steady, confident ring in the man's voice inspires them all. He is
no wild enthusiast. They glance at Wilmarth, as being in some sense
head of the business.
He knows, no one better, of all the obstacles that have been placed in
the way, so cunningly that no man could put a finger on the motive. It
has been his persistent resolve to let everything run down, to bring
the business to the very verge of bankruptcy. He did not count on Floyd
Grandon being so ready to part with his money to save it, or of ever
having any personal interest in it, and he did count on his being
disgusted with his brother's selfishness, indolence, and lack of
business capacity; all of which he has sedulously fostered, while
attaching the young man to him by many indulgences. This part of the
game is surely at an end.
Floyd sits silent. How much money will it take? What if he is swallowed
down the throat of the great factory! His father's instructions were to
the effect that if he could not save it without endangering his
private fortune, to let it go. There is still ground that he can sell.
There might be a new vein opened in the quarry. He must risk it.
"If Mr. Grandon," says Mr. Wilmarth, with a slow, irritating intonation
that hardly conceals insolence, "feels able to advance for the three
quarters, I can look after my share. I must confess that I am not an
expert in mechanics, and may have been mistaken in some of my views. My
late partner was very sanguine, while my temperament is of the doubting
order. I am apt to go slowly, but I try to go surely. I am not a rich
man," dryly.
"Let it be done, then," returns Grandon. He has no more faith in
Wilmarth to-day than he had last week, but he will not work against his
own interest, surely!
There are many points to discuss and settle. Lindmeyer will proceed to
the factory and get everything in good running order for next week, and
hunt up one man who understands this business, an Englishman who is
looking around for a permanent position, whom he has known for some
years.
"Our superintendent holds his engagement by the year," says Wilmarth,
with provoking suavity. "What can we do with him?"
"It is distinctly understood that I am not to be hampered in any way!"
protests Lindmeyer.
"Give your man a holiday," says Connery. "Two lords can never agree to
rule one household."
"The best thing," decides Grandon.
Then they go to the factory, where an explanation is made to the men.
Mr. Brent receives a check for a month's wages in advance, and a
vacation. Mr. Wilmarth looks on with a sardonic suavity, saying little,
and betraying surprise rather than ill-humor, but he hates Floyd
Grandon to the last thread. The man has come between him and all his
plans. No mere money can ever make up to him for being thus baffled.
Floyd Grandon takes his way along to the little eyrie. Down in the
garden there is a glimpse of a white gown, and now he need pause for no
propriety. Violet starts at the step, turns, and colors, but stands
quite still. Denise has been giving her some instructions as to her new
position and its duties, but has only succeeded in confusing her, in
taking away her friend with whom she felt at ease, and giving her a tie
that alarms and perplexes.
She is very pale and her deep eyes are filled with a curious,
deprecating light. A broad black ribbon is fastened about her waist,
and a knot at her throat. She looks so small, so lovely, that he
gathers her in his arms.
"My little darling," he begins, in a voice of infinite tenderness, "I
seem to neglect you sadly, but there are so many things."
"Do not mind," she answers, softly. "I am quite used to being alone. I
missed Cecil very much, though," and her sweet lip quivers. "Oh, are
you quite sure, quite satisfied that I can do my duty toward her? I
never had a mother of my own to remember, but I will be very good and
kind. I love children, and she is so sweet."
"My little girl, you are a child yourself. As the years go on you and
Cecil will be more like sisters, companions; and I hope you will always
be friends. I must take you home," he continues, abruptly. "My mother
and one sister are there; all the rest are away."
She shivers a little. "Am I to live there?" she asks, timidly. She has
been thinking how altogether lovely it would be to have him and Cecil
here.
"Why, of course. You belong to me now."
He means it for a touch of pleasant intimacy, but she seems to shrink
away. In that old time--the brief year--caresses and attention were
continually demanded. This new wife does not even meet him half way,
and he feels awkward. He can be fond enough of Cecil, and is never at a
loss, but this ground is so new that he is inclined to pick his way
carefully, with a feeling that she is not at all like any one he has
ever known.
They are walking back to the house, and when Denise comes to greet them
she sees that the husband has his arm around his young wife's waist.
Her Old World idea is that the wife should respect the husband to a
point of wholesome fear. They are certainly doing very well. She feels
so proud of this great, grave man, with his broad shoulders, his
flowing brown beard, his decisive eye, and general air of command.
"Have you had any dinner or lunch?" Violet says, suddenly, moved with a
new sense of care.
"Yes. But I think we will have a glass of wine and--Have you eaten
anything?"
She colors a little. "No," says Denise. "She doesn't eat enough to keep
a cricket alive."
"Then we must have some dinner. Denise will get it. Would you like to
come up-stairs with me?"
He has brought home a few papers to put in her father's desk. On the
threshold he pauses. The room is in perfect order. The snowy bed, the
spotless toilet-table, the clean towels on the rack, with their curious
monogram in Denise's needle-work, the table, with an orderly litter of
papers, arranged by a woman's hand, and a white saucer filled with
purple heliotrope. The arm-chair is a trifle pushed aside, as if some
one has just risen, and another chair, as if for a guest, stands there.
He understands that she has been busy here. She gives a long sigh.
"My poor darling!"
She is weeping very softly in his arms.
"It is all so sad," she says, "and yet I know he is in heaven with
mamma. He loved her very much. Denise told me so. He would not wish to
come back even if he could, and it would be selfish to want him. He had
to suffer so much, poor papa! But I would like to keep this room just
so, and come now and then, if I might."
"You shall. I must talk to Denise." He wonders now how Lindmeyer would
like to be here for a month. There are so many things to go over.
"Yes," he continues, "this room shall be sacred. No one shall come here
but Denise and you."
"Thank you."
They go through to the study. He remembers the picture he saw here one
day. Then they continue their walk past her plain little nun's room,
with Denise's opening out of it. The house being built on a side-hill
makes this just above the kitchen. Down-stairs there are four more
rooms.
Never was man more at a loss for some of the kindly commonplaces of
society. She seems sacred in her grief, and he cannot offer the stern
comfort wherewith a man solaces himself; he is too new for the little
nothings of love, and so they walk gravely on, down the stairs again,
and out on the porch that hangs over the slope. But she likes him the
better for his silence, and the air of strength seems to stir her
languid pulses.
Denise summons them to their meal. He pours a trifle of wine for her in
the daintiest, thinnest glass, she pours tea for him in a cup that
would make a hunter of rare old china thrill to the finger-ends. He
puts a bit of the cold chicken on her plate, and insists that she shall
try the toast and the creamed potatoes. She has such a meek little
habit of obedience that he almost smiles.
When the dessert has been eaten and they rise, Denise says, with kindly
authority, "Go take a walk in the garden, Miss Violet, while I talk to
Mr. Grandon. Pardon me; madame, I mean."
Grandon smiles, and Violet, looking at him, smiles also, but goes with
her light movement, so full of grace.
"It is about the child's clothes, monsieur," Denise begins, her
wrinkled face flushing. "She has no trousseau, there has been no time,
and I am an old woman, but it is all mourning, and she does not like
black. It is too gloomy for the child, but what is to be done?"
Floyd Grandon is much puzzled. If madame,--but no, he would not want
madame's wisdom in this case, even if he could have it. There is his
mother; well, he cannot ask her. Gertrude would not feel able to
bother.
"She wore a dress to the funeral," he says, with the vaguest idea of
what it was.
"Her father would have her buy some pretty light things when she was in
the city, but her other dresses are what she had at school, gray and
black. They are not suitable for madame. Some are still short----"
"You will have to go with her," Grandon says. "I can take you both into
the city some day."
"But I do not know----"
"I will find out what is wanted. Yes, you will go with her; she would
feel more at home with you," he says, in his authoritative manner.
Denise courtesies meekly.
"I am going to keep the house just as it is," announces Grandon. "She
will like to come every day until she gets a little settled in her new
home. I hope she will be happy."
"She could not fail to be happy with you and your little girl." Denise
answers, with confident simplicity.
Floyd bethinks himself. Mrs. Grandon must be taken home in the
carriage. He will begin by paying her all honor. There is no one to
send, so he must e'en but go himself. He finds Violet in the garden and
tells her to make herself ready against his coming.
She would like to go in her white dress, just as she is, but Denise
overrules so great a blunder, and when Grandon returns he finds a pale
little nun in black, with a close bonnet and long veil. Cecil has come
with him, and is shocked at this strange metamorphosis. She draws back
in dismay.
"Cecil!" The voice is so longingly, so entreatingly sweet that Floyd
Grandon stands transfixed. "You have not forgotten that you loved me!"
"But--you are not pretty in that bonnet. It is just like grandmamma's,
and the long veil----"
"Never mind, my dear," says her father, and inwardly he anathematizes
fashion. Violet is not as pretty as she was an hour ago. The black
makes her sunshiny hair look almost red, and her face is so very grave.
They have a nice long ride first. Cecil presently thaws into the
mistress of ceremonies in a very amusing manner.
"My doll is not as large as yours," she confesses, "but I will let you
play with it. Can't you bring yours, too, and then we will each have
one. You are going to live always at papa's house, you know, and you
can tell me stories. Jane said I would have to learn lessons, will I?"
"Oh, I should so like to teach you," says Violet, flushing.
"But you must not scold me! Papa never lets any one scold me," she
announces, with a positive air.
"I never should," and Violet wipes away some tears. "I shall always
love you."
"Oh, don't cry!" Cecil is deeply moved now, and her own lovely eyes
fill. Grandon winks his hard and turns his face aside. They are two
children comforting one another.
Violet is quite amazed as they drive around the wide sweep of gravelled
way. Floyd hands her out. "This is your home henceforth," he says. "You
and Cecil are the two treasures I have brought to it, and I hope
neither of you will take wings and fly away. I shall look for you both
to make me very happy."
He has touched the right chord. She glances up and smiles, and is
transfigured in spite of the dismal mourning gear. If she can do
anything for him! If the benefits will not always lie on his side!
He takes her straight through to the elegant drawing-room. She shall be
paid the honors in her own proper sphere. While he is waiting he unties
the ugly little bonnet and takes her out of her crape shroud, as it
looks to him.
"Mrs. Grandon has gone out to drive," announces Mary, who has been
instructed to say just this, without a bit of apology.
Gertrude stands in the doorway. She nearly always wears long white
woollen wrappers that cling to her figure and trail on the ground, and
intensify the appearance of attenuation. A pale lavender Shetland shawl
is wrapped about her. She has had quite a discussion with her mother,
in which she had evinced unwonted spirit. Floyd has been good to them,
and it will be dreadfully ungenerous to begin by treating his wife
badly.
Her brother's face is flashed with indignation. "I am glad you had the
grace to come, Gertrude," he exclaims, pointedly, and takes her over to
Violet, who looks up entreatingly at the tall figure.
"Oh," she says, confusedly, "what a little dot you are! And Violet is
such a pretty name for you."
"I hope you will like me. I hope----"
"If you can put up with me," is the rejoinder. "I am in wretched health
and scarcely stir from my sofa, but I am sure I shall like you"; and
Gertrude resolves bravely that she will be on the side of the new wife,
if it does not cost her too much exertion.
"What a lovely house!" and Violet draws a long, satisfied breath. "And
the river is so near."
"You must never go without Jane," annotates Cecil; "must she, papa?"
They all smile at this. "I should not like to have her lost," says
papa, gravely.
"Do you ever go out rowing or sailing?"
"I never do," and Gertrude shudders. "I cannot bear the heat of the sun
or the chill of evening. But we have boats."
"And I am a crack oarsman," says Grandon. "I shall practise up for a
match."
They begin to ramble about presently. It really is better than if Mrs.
Grandon was at home. Out on the wide porches, through the library, up
the tower, and Violet is in ecstasies with the view. Then they come
down through the chambers, and the young wife feels as if she had been
inspecting a palace. How very rich Mr. Grandon must be! If papa had
lived he might have made the fortune he used to study over.
Violet is quite bright and flushed when the dinner-bell rings, and is
introduced to her husband's mother at the head of the elegantly
appointed table. She is in rich black silk, with crape folds, and very
handsome jet ornaments, and Violet shrinks into herself as the sharp
eyes glance her over. Why should they be so unfriendly? All
conversation languishes, as Cecil is trained not to talk at the table.
Violet returns to the drawing-room and walks wistfully about the grand
piano. Floyd opens it for her and begs her to amuse herself whenever
she feels so inclined. "Is he quite certain no one will be annoyed?"
"Quite." Then she seats herself. She has had no piano at the eyrie.
This is delicious. She runs her fingers lightly over the keys and
evokes the softest magic music, the sweetest, saddest strains. They
stir Floyd's very soul as he sits with Cecil on his knee, who is
large-eyed and wondering.
Mrs. Grandon saunters in presently. "How close it is," she exclaims,
"and I have such an excruciating headache!"
"Ah," says Violet, sympathetically. "I had better not continue playing,
it might distress you."
"Oh, no, you need not mind." The tone is that of a martyr, and Violet
stops with a last tender strain. Floyd Grandon is so angry that he dare
not trust his voice to speak. Violet stands for a moment undecided,
then he stretches out his hand, and she is so glad of the warm clasp in
that great lonely room.
"Let us go out to walk. It is not quite dark yet. Cecil, ask Jane to
bring some shawls."
Cecil slips down. Floyd draws his wife nearer. He would like to hold
the slight little thing, but his mother is opposite, and he must not
make Violet seem a baby.
"I have put an end to that!" exclaims Mrs. Grandon, vindictively, going
back to Gertrude. "That is Laura's piano, and it shall not be drummed
on by school-girls. What Floyd could see in that silly little
red-haired thing to bring her to a place like this, when he could have
had a lady----"
"After all, if he is satisfied," begins Gertrude, deprecatingly.
"He wanted her fortune! He doesn't care a sixpence for her. It was to
get the business in his hands, and now we can all tramp as soon as we
please."
"Mother, you are unjust."
"And you are a poor, spiritless fool, who can never see anything beyond
the page of a novel!" is the stinging retort.
She goes to her own room, and the morning's mail carries the news to
Eugene and Laura.
Floyd has letters to write this evening, and when Cecil's bedtime
comes, Violet goes up with her. They have a pretty romp that quite
scandalizes Jane, who is not at all sure how much respect she owes this
new mistress.
"O you sweet little darling!" Violet cries for the twentieth time. "You
are the one thing I can have for mine."
"I am papa's first," says Cecil, with great dignity. "He loves me best
of anything in the wide world,--he has told me so, oh, a hundred times!
And I love him best, and then you. Oh, what makes you cry so often,
because your papa is dead?"
No one but poor old Denise will ever love her "best of all." She has
had her day of being first. Even in heaven papa has found the one he so
long lost and is happy. She can never be first with him again. He
hardly misses her, Violet; he has had her only at such long intervals,
such brief whiles.
In the silence she cries herself to sleep the first night in her new
home.
CHAPTER XI.
Men, like bullets, go farthest when they are smoothest.--JEAN PAUL.
Floyd Grandon begins the next morning by treating his wife as if she
were a princess born. His fine breeding stands in stead of husbandly
love. Briggs has orders to take her and Miss Cecil out in the carriage
every day. Jane is to wait on her. Even Cecil is not allowed to tease,
and instructed to call her mamma. He escorts her in to the table, and
at a glance the servant pays her outward deference at least.
"Violet," he says, after breakfast, "will you drive over with me to see
Denise on a little business? No, Cecil, my darling, you cannot go now,
and I shall bring your mamma back very soon. Be a cheerful little girl,
and you shall have her afterward."
Cecil knows that tone means obedience. She is not exactly cheerful, but
neither is she cross. They drive in Marcia's pony phaeton.
"Nothing in the world is too good for us," Mrs. Grandon says, with a
sneer. "There will be open war between her and Marcia."
"She will be likely to have a pony carriage of her own," observes
Gertrude, who resolves to mention this project to Floyd.
"Oh, yes. I suppose the economy for others, means extravagance here.
We can afford it."
Gertrude makes no further comment.
Violet glances timidly at her husband's face, and sees a determination
that she is to misinterpret many times before she can read it aright.
She is not exactly happy. All this state and attention render her
nervous, it is so unlike her simple life.
"Violet," he begins, "Denise was speaking yesterday of--of----" How
shall he get to it. "There was no time to provide you any clothes,
any--You see I am not much of a lady's man. I have been out in India
and Egypt, and where they keep women shut up in harems, and never had
occasion to think much about it. I want to take you and Denise to the
city; perhaps you would go to-day?" with a man's promptness.
Violet is puzzled, alarmed, and some notion of delicacy almost leads
her to protest.
"I am too abrupt, I suppose," he says, ruefully, looking almost as
distressed as she. "But you see it is necessary."
"Then if Denise----"
He is thinking the sooner they go the better. He will not have his
mother saying she came destitute and penniless, or considering her
attire out of the way. He went once to the city with Laura, and left
her at a modiste's, and he can find it again, so he will take them
there and order all that any lady in Violet's station will require. No
one need know they have gone. It all flashes over him in an instant. He
had meant merely to make arrangements, but now he plans the trip. They
can go to Westbrook station, they can return without being seen of
prying eyes. He feels a little more sensitive on the subject because he
has so lately seen all of Laura's wedding paraphernalia. There will be
Laura, and perhaps madame to inspect her, and she must stand the test
well for her own sake. He would like to see her always in a white gown;
even that gray one was pretty the day she saved his darling.
"Yes," he says, rousing suddenly. "Denise understands all about these
matters. You are still so young." Laura he remembers was but a year
older, but, oh, how much wiser in worldly lore! No, he would never care
to have Violet wise in that way. "And if it had been otherwise,--my
child, it was a sad bridal. Some time we will make amends for all
that."
Her eyes fill with tears. She is still looking very grave when Denise
takes her in the fond, motherly arms. While she is gone upstairs to
papa's room, Grandon explains and convinces Denise that the journey is
absolutely necessary, and that no one can serve her young mistress as
well as she.
He sends a carriage for them while he takes Marcia's phaeton home, and
explains to Cecil that her mamma has some important business with
Denise, and tells his mother neither of them will be home to luncheon.
Denise looks the neat old serving-woman to perfection, and once started
on their journey Violet's face brightens. They find the modiste, who
inspects her new customers and is all suavity. Grandon makes a brief
explanation, and questions if all toilets must be black.
"It is extremely sad," and Madame Vauban looks sympathetic. "And she is
so young, so petite! Crapes seem to weigh her down, yet there must be
some for street use. If madame was not purposing to wear it very long,
it might be lightened the sooner. Just now there could be only black
and white."
"Put plenty of white in it, then," orders Mr. Grandon, and samples are
brought out for his inspection. He thinks after this sorrowful time is
over she shall dress like a little queen. There are so many lovely
gowns and laces, so much that is daintily pretty, appropriate for her.
He can hardly refrain from buying her trinkets and nonsense, but he
will not have her subjected to hostile criticisms, and he is not sure
his judgment is to be trusted. He would doubtless flounder among the
proprieties.
"And now," he says, when they are in the street again, "would you like
to go anywhere? There is the park, and there must be pictures
somewhere. I wish there was a matinee, only it might not be right to
go"; and he secretly anathematizes his own ignorance of polite and
well-bred circles. But he learns the whereabouts of two galleries, and
they stumble over some bric-à-brac that is quite enchanting. Violet has
been trained on correct principles. She knows the names and eras of
china, and has discrimination. Her little bit of French is well
pronounced. She is not so well posted in modern painters, but she has
the o'd ones, with their virgins and saints and crucifixions, all by
heart.
They are sitting on a sofa resting, and glancing at some pictures
opposite. Denise is busy with a homely farm scene that recalls her
girlhood, and no one is in their vicinity. One small, white, ungloved
hand rests on Violet's lap. Her face is sweet and serious, without the
sad gravity that shadows it so often. Indeed, she is very happy. She
has not been so much at ease with Floyd Grandon since her marriage,
neither has he devoted himself to her entertainment with such a cordial
purpose as now. He certainly is a fascinating man to the most of
womenkind, even when he is indifferent to them, but he is not
indifferent at this juncture. There is a curious quality in Floyd
Grandon's nature that is often despised by enthusiastic people. When it
is his bounden duty to take certain steps in life, he resolutely bends
his will and pleasure to them. He means honestly to love this wife that
circumstances or his own sympathetic weakness has brought him. Just now
it seems an easy matter. He has a horror of pronounced freedoms; they
look silly and vulgar, yet he cannot resist clasping the little bare
hand. The warm touch thrills her. She turns just enough to let him
catch the shy, pleased, irresistible light in her eye; no finished
coquette could have done it better, but with her it is such simple
earnest.
"Are you happy?" he asks, not because he is ignorant, but he wants an
admission.
"Oh!" It is just a soft, low sigh, and though her cheek flushes that
delicious rose pink, her face is still. The light comes over it like a
lustrous wave.
"Why, this is a bit of wedding journey," he says. "I did not think of
it before. I wish I could take you away for a week or two, but there is
so much on my mind that maybe I should not be an entertaining
companion. It will come presently, and it will be ever so much better
not to be shaded by grief."
She is quite glad that they are not away from all the old things. She
knows so little about him, she feels so strange when she comes very
near to him in any matter, as if she longed to run away to Denise or
Cecil. Just sitting here is extremely sweet and safe, and does not
alarm her.
There is a clock striking four. Can it be they have idled away nearly
all day? He rises and draws the bare hand through his arm, he is even
gallant enough to take her parasol, while she carries a pretty satin
satchel-like box of bonbons for Cecil. Denise comes at his nod; she has
two or three of her mistress's parcels, and they take up their homeward
journey. He carries her parasol so high that the sun shines in her
eyes; but the distance is short, and she says nothing.
Fortunately they reach home just in time for dinner. Cecil is out on
the porch, in the last stages of desolation.
"Come up with me and get this pretty box," cries Violet, holding it out
temptingly. "And to-morrow we will both spend with Denise, who will
make us tarts and chocolate cream."
"You stayed such a long, long while," groans Cecil, not quite pacified.
"But I shall not do it again," she promises. She is so bright that the
child feels unconsciously aggrieved.
Mrs. Grandon is very stately, and wears an air of injured dignity that
really vexes her son, who cannot see how she has been hurt by his
marriage, so long as he does not make Violet the real mistress of the
house. He has proposed that she affix her own valuation on the
furniture she is willing to part with; he will pay her income every six
months, and she will be at liberty to go and come as she pleases. What
more can he do?
He explains to Violet a day or two afterward, that between the factory
and his own writing he will hardly have an hour to spare, and that she
must not feel hurt at his absence. Lindmeyer has come, and with Joseph
Rising they are going over all with the utmost exactness. There are
sullen looks and short answers on the part of the workmen. It has been
gently hinted to them that other vacations may be given without any
advance wages. Wilmarth is quietly sympathetic. It is necessary, of
course, that the best should be done for Mr. Grandon, who has managed
to get everything in his own hands and entangle his private fortune.
And though Wilmarth never has been a thorough favorite as old Mr.
Grandon, and Mr. Eugene, with his bonhomie, yet now the men question
him in a furtive way.
"I have very little voice in the matter," explains Jasper Wilmarth,
with an affected cautiousness. "I have tried to understand Mr. St.
Vincent's views about the working of his patent, but machinery is not
my forte. I can only hope----"
"We did well enough before the humbugging thing was put in," says one
of the workmen, sullenly. "Mr. Grandon made money. We had decent wages
and decent wool, and we weren't stopping continually to get this thing
changed and that thing altered. Now you're thrown out half a day here
and half a day there, and the new men are nosing round as if they
suspected you would make way with something and meant to catch you at
it."
"We must have patience," says Wilmarth, in that extremely irritating,
hopeless tone. "Mr. Grandon is interested in his wife's behalf,
though it is said he has a fortune of his own, and the new method must
be made to pay him, if every one else suffers. I am not a rich man, and
should be sorry to lose what I thought was so sure in this concern."
Rising finds his position an extremely disagreeable one. The men are
not only curt, but evince a distrust of him, are unwilling to follow
his suggestions, and will keep on in their old ways. Lindmeyer finds
himself curiously foiled everywhere. It seems as if some unknown agency
was at work. What he puts in order to-day is not quite right to-morrow.
All the nice adjustment he can theorize about will not work
harmoniously, economically. So passes away a fortnight.
"Mr. Grandon," he says, honestly, "I seldom make a decided blunder
about these matters, but I can't get down to the very soul of this.
There is a little miss somewhere. I said I could tell you in a month,
but I am afraid I shall have to ask a further fortnight's grace. I
never was so puzzled in my life. It is making an expensive experiment
for you, but I do think it best to go on. I don't say this to
lengthen out the job. There is plenty of work for me to go at."
Grandon sighs. He finds it very expensive. It is money on the right
hand and the left, and with a costly house and large family the income
that was double his bachelor wants melts away like dew. He is not
parsimonious, but his instincts and habits have been prudent. He is
making inroads upon his capital, and if he should never get it back?
His father, it is true, has advised against entangling his private
fortune, but it cannot be helped now. To retreat with honor is
impossible and would be extremely mortifying. He will not do that, he
resolves. But how if he has to retreat with failure?
All these things trouble him greatly and distract his attention. He
sits up far into the night poring over his own work that was such
pleasure a few months ago, and he can hardly keep his mind on what so
delighted him then. There is quite too much on every hand, and he must
add to it family complications. His beautiful home is full of jarring
elements. Even Cecil grows naughty with the superabundant vitality of
childhood, and is inclined to tyrannize over Violet, who often submits
for very lack of spirit, and desire of love.
They are always together, these two. They take long drives in the
carriage, and Mrs. Grandon complains that everything must be given over
to that silly, red-haired thing! Gertrude does battle for the hair one
morning.
"I do not call it red," she says, with a decision good to hear from the
languid woman. "It is a kind of bright brown, chestnut. Mrs. McLeod's
is red."
"Auburn, my dear," retorts Mrs. Grandon mockingly. "If you are
sensitively polite in the one instance, you might be so in the other.
One is light red, the other dark red."
"One is an ugly bricky red," persists Gertrude, "and no one would call
the other red at all."
"I call it red," very positively.
"Very well," says the daughter, angrily, "you cannot make it other than
the very handsome tint it is, no matter what you call it."
"There has been a very foolish enthusiasm about red hair, I know, but
that has mostly died out," replies the mother, contemptuously, and
keeps the last word.
Gertrude actually allows herself to be persuaded into a drive with "the
children" that afternoon. She and Violet happen to stumble upon a book
they have both read, a lovely and touching German story, and they
discuss it thoroughly. Violet is fond of German poems.
"Then you read German?" Gertrude says. "I did a little once, but it was
such a bore. I haven't the strength for anything but the very lightest
amusement."
"Oh," Violet exclaims, "it must be dreadful always to be ill and weak!
Papa was ill a good deal, but he used to get well again, and he was
nearly always going about!"
"I haven't the strength to go about much."
"I wonder," Violet says, "if you were to take a little drive every day;
Cecil and I would be so glad."
Gertrude glances into the bright, eager face, with its velvety eyes and
shining hair. It is beautiful hair, soft and fine as spun silk, and
curling a little about the low, broad forehead, rippling on the top,
and gathered into a careless coil at the back that seems almost too
large for the head. Why are they all going to hate her? she wonders.
She is more comfortable in the house than madame would be as a
mistress, and she will never object to anything Floyd chooses to do for
his mother and sisters. One couldn't feel dependent on Violet, but
dependence on madame might be made a bitter draught. And if the
business goes to ruin, there will be no one save Floyd.
Violet reaches over and takes Gertrude's hand. She feels as well as
sees a certain delicate sympathy in the faded face.
"If you would let me do anything for you," she entreats, in that
persuasive tone. "I seem of so little use. You know I was kept so busy
at school."
Gertrude feels that, fascinating as Cecil is with her bright,
enchanting ways, Violet may be capable of higher enjoyments. For a
moment she wishes she had some strength and energy, that she might join
hands with her in the coming struggle.
Indeed, now, the child and Denise are Violet's only companions. Floyd
is away nearly all day, and writes, it would seem, pretty nearly all
night. His mind is on other matters, she sees plainly. She has been
used to her father's abstraction, and does not construe it into any
slight. But in the great house, large as it is, Mrs. Grandon seems to
trench everywhere, except in their own apartments. Floyd installed
Violet in the elegant guest-chamber, but Mrs. Grandon always speaks of
it as the spare room, or madame's room.
Violet's heart had thrilled at the thought of the exquisite-toned
piano. She had tried it a day or two after her advent and found it
locked.
"Do you know who keeps the key?" she had asked timidly of Jane.
"It is Miss Laura's piano," is the concise answer, and no more is said.
But one morning Mr. Grandon asks if Violet can go over to the cottage
with him. Her lovely eyes are all alight.
"Get your hat, then," he says, as if he were speaking to the child.
Violet starts eagerly. Cecil rises and follows.
"Oh, she may go, too?" the pretty mamma asks.
Floyd nods over his paper. Mrs. Grandon bridles her head loftily.
"Denise has something for us, I know," cries Violet. "We were not there
yesterday. Poor Denise, she must have missed us, but I did want to
finish Maysie's dress." Maysie is Cecil's doll, and has had numerous
accessions to her wardrobe of late.
Grandon has an odd little smile on his face as he looks up. Violet and
he are friends again when they are not Mr. and Mrs. Grandon. The little
episode of the wedding journey has faded, or at least has borne no
further fruit. Yet as the days go on she feels more at home in the
friendship.
"Oh," she begins, in joyous accents, "you have a surprise for us!" She
has such a pretty way of bringing in Cecil.
"Perhaps it is Denise."
"It is cream, I know," announces Cecil. Denise's variety of creams is
inexhaustible.
Grandon smiles again, a sort of good-humored, noncommittal smile.
It is something that pleases him very much, Violet decides, and a
delicious interest brightens every feature.
Denise welcomes them gladly. Lindmeyer has taken up his lodgings at the
cottage, but the upper rooms are kept just the same. Grandon leads the
way and Violet stares at the boxes in the hall. Her room is in a lovely
tumult of disorder. Bed and chairs are strewn with feminine belongings.
"Oh," she says, uttering a soft, grateful cry. "They have come!
But--there is so much!" And she looks at him in amazement.
"It is not so bad, after all," he answers, touching the soft garments
with his fingers, and studying her. There is a lovely dead silk, with
only a very slight garniture of crape; there is the tenderest gray,
that looks like a pathetic sigh, and two or three in black, that have
the air of youth, an indescribable style that only an artist could
give. But the white ones are marvels. One has deep heliotrope ribbons,
and another crapy material seems almost alive. There are plain mulls,
with wide hems, there are gloves and sashes and wraith-like plaitings
of tulle; a pretty, dainty bonnet and a black chip hat, simple and
graceful. Madame Vauban has certainly taken into account youth,
bridehood, and the husband's wishes. Plain they are, perhaps their
chief beauty lies in their not being overloaded with trimming and
ornament.
"Oh," she says, "whenever am I to wear them all?" Her black dress has
done mourning duty so far, but the summer heats have rendered white
much more comfortable. "They are so very, very lovely!"
Her eyes glisten and her breath comes rapidly. He can see her very
heart beat, and a faint scarlet flies up in her face, growing deeper
and deeper, as the sweet red lips tremble.
"You bought them?" she falters, in an agony of shame.
"Should you hate to owe that much to me?" he questions.
"I----"
"My dear girl--Tell her, Denise, that she is quite an heiress, and that
if all goes well she will one day be very rich. It is your father's
gift to you, Violet, not mine."
The troublesome scarlet dies away. She comes to him and takes his hand
in her soft palms. "I would be willing to owe anything to you," she
says, "but----"
"I owe you the greatest of all; a debt I never can repay, remember
that, always." And drawing her to him he kisses her gently. "And
now I have about fifteen minutes to spare; try on some of this white
gear and let me see how you look."
She puts on the white and purple. It has a demi-train, and seems
fashioned exactly for her figure. He is awaiting her in her father's
room and looks her over with a critical eye. She is very pretty. She
can stand comparison now with madame or Laura or any of them. She knows
he is quite satisfied with her.
"Now," he continues, "Denise must pack them up again and I will send
them down home. After a week or so there will be visitors. Some day you
will find yourself Mrs. Grandon. I do not believe you at all realize it
yet."
She colors vividly. In the great house she is seldom honored by any
name. Even the servants are not quite determined what respect shall be
paid her.
Grandon kisses them both and is off. What a pretty, dainty pride the
girl has! Yet yesterday he sent the check without a thought of demur,
though Madame Vauban has made the trousseau as costly as circumstances
and her own reputation will permit. If she is never the heiress he
hopes she will be, he must be more than thankful then that she is wife
instead of ward.
Violet spends nearly all the morning arraying herself, to Cecil's
intense delight. Denise looks on with glistening eyes. She is as
anxious as Grandon that her young mistress shall hold up her head with
the best of them.
"But you have a prince for a husband, ma'm'selle," she says.
The prince meanwhile finds matters not so pleasant at the factory. His
bright mood is confronted with an evident cloud looming up much larger
than a man's hand. The main hall is filled with workmen standing about
in groups, with lowering brows and lips set in unflinching resolution,
as if their wills were strongly centred upon some object to be fought
for if not gained. Grandon glances at them in surprise, then walks
firmly through them with no interruption, pauses at the entrance and
faces them, assured that he is the one they desire to see.
One of the men, sturdy and dark-browed, steps forward, clears his
throat, and with a half-surly inclination of the head begins, "Mr.
Grandon," and then something intangible awes him a trifle. They may
grumble among themselves, and lately they have found it easy to
complain to Mr. Wilmarth, but the unconscious air of authority, the
superior breeding, and fine, questioning eyes disconcert the man, who
pulls himself together with the certainty that this gentleman,
aristocrat as he is, has no right to set himself at the head of the
business and tie every one's hands.
"Mr. Grandon," with a sort of rough, sullen courage, "me and my mates
here are tired of the way things are going on. We can't work under the
new man. We never had a day's trouble with Mr. Brent, who understood
his business. We want to know if he is coming back at the end of the
month; if not----"
"Well, if he is not, what then?" The words ring out clear and incisive.
"Then," angrily, "we'll quit! We've resolved not to work under the new
